# Apparatus and method for electroless plating.

## Abstract
An electroless plating solution for plating metals such as nickel is controlled by replenishing the nickel or other metal to maintain the metal concentration substantially constant and by replenishing hypophosphite or other reducing agent, generally in a fixed relationship to the amount of metal, and by observing the content of dissolved solids and diluting the solution auto matically generally with water, in response to the observed property thereby maintaining phosphite concentration sub stantially constant. The invention also includes apparatus sui table for use in this process.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An electroless plating process in which a succession of articles are plated by a plating metal selected from nickel, cobalt, alloys of nickel and alloys of cobalt by contact with a plating solution containing plating metal and reducing agent and the solution is maintained for prolonged use by replenishing with plating metal as salt to maintain the plating metal concentration substantially constant, and by replenishing with reducing agent to maintain the reducing agent concentration substantially constant, characterised in that the content of dissolved solids is observed and, upon observing an increase in content of dissolved solids, the solution is diluted and the concentration of oxidation products formed from the reducing agent is thereby maintained substantially constant. 2. A process according to Claim 1 characterised in that the dilution of solution is effected by automatically removing the solution in response to an increase in dissolved solids content of plating solution, and the removed solution is automatically replaced with diluent selected from water and aqueous solutions containing at least one ingredient selected from plating metal as salt reducing agent, the diluent preferably being water. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 characterised in that the plating metal and hypophosphite concentrations are maintained substantially constant by adding plating metal as salt and a substantially stoichiometric amount of hypophosphite in response to utilisation of plating metal. 4. A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 characterised in that the dilution is effected by the addition of Water and the reducing agent and the plating metal concentrations are maintained substantially constant by observing the plating metal content of the solution, adding plating metal salt to maintain the plating metal content substantially constant, and adding reducing agent in a substantially stoichiometric amount based on the amount of plating metal this is added, and in which the plating metal and the reducing agent are added as a solution, or as solutions, having concentrations of plating metal and reducing agent greater than the corresponding concentrationS in the plating solution. 5. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the plating metal concentration is maintained substantially constant by observing the plating metal content of the solution, perferably by light absorption at a wavelength of 660 to 720 nm when the plating metal comprises nickel, and automatically adding plating metal as salt to maintain the plating metal content substantially constant. 6. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the plating metal comprises nickel and the reducing agent is hypophosphite and the oxidation product comprises phosphite. 7. An electroless plating process in which a succession of articles are plated by a plating metal selected from nickel, cobalt, alloys of nickel, alloys of cobalt by contact with a plating solution containing plating metal as salt and hypophosphite and the solution is maintained for prolonged use by observing the dissolved solids content of the solution and, upon observing any increase in dissolved solids content, automatically removing solution and automatically replenishing the removed solution with water, and thereby maintaining the phosphite concentration substantially constant, observing the concentration of plating metal in the solution by light absorption and, upon observing a decrease in the concentration, automatically replenishing the solution with plating metal salt and a substantially stoichiometric amount of phosphite, thereby maintaining the concentrations of plating metal salt and hypophosphite substantially constant. 8. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that the plating solution throughout the process contains 50 to 275 g l phosphite, 1 to 10 gll, preferably 2 to 8 g l, plating metal and 5 to 70 g 1 hypophosphite and has a specific gravity between 1100 and 1200 and after start up the plating solution preferably contains 200 to 250 g l phosphite and the amount of hypophosphite is preferably from 4 to 8 times the amount of plating metal. 9. A process according to any preceding claim characterised in that which the replenishment with coating metal and hypophosphite is effected by adding a replenishment that is an aqueous solution containing 10 to 20 g l plating metal and hypophosphite in an amount of from 4 to 6.5 times plating metal by weight, the concentration in the replenishment solution or solutions being greater than in the plating solution. 10. A process according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the content of solids is observed by observing a property selected from density, conductivity and re active index of the plating solution, and is preferably observed by observing the density by a float switch that is utilised to dilute the solution when the density exceeds a selected value in the range of specific gravity 1100 to 1200, preferably in the range 1130 to 1170. 11. A process according to any preceding Claim characterised in that the plating metal is selected from nickel and blends of nickel with chromium and nickel with tungsten. 12. A process accord .g to any preceding Claim characterised in that it is conducted by immersion of the articles into a tank provided with means for pumping solution from the tank in response to an increase in the content of dissolved solids and means for flowing water into the tank in response to a decrease in the volume of solution in the tank. 13. Apparatus for the control of an electroless plating solution suitable for plating a plating metal selected from nickel, cobalt, alloys of nickel and alloys of cobalt characterised in that it comprises means for observing the dissolved solids content of the plating solution and for automatically diluting the solution in response to an increase in the dissolved solids content and preferably including a tank provided with means for pumping solution from the tank in response to an increase in the content of dissolved solids and means for flowing water into the tank in response to an increase in the volume of solution in the tank. 14. Apparatus according to Claim 13 characterised in that it includes means, preferably light absorption means, for observing the plating metal content of the solution and for automatically adding plating metal solution in response to a decrease in the concentration, thereby maintaining the concentration of plating metal in the solution substantially constant. 15. Apparatus according to Claim 13 or Claim 14 characterised in that the means for observing the dissolved solids content of the solution comprising a float switch for causing automatic dilution of the solution when the specific gravity of the solution rises above a predetermined value between 1100 and 1200.

## Description
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ELECTROLESS PLATING This invention relates to the electroless plating if articles by nickel, cobalt or alloys containing nickel or cobalt. The invention is particularly of use in the plating of nickel or nickel alloys and so will primarily be discussed with reference to nickel. Nickel can be plated onto an article, either by electroplating or by electroless plating. In electroplating the article is immersed in a solution containing a dissolved nickel compound and an electric potential is applied that is sufficient to cause electrolysis and the deposition of nickel inraccordance with FaradaysLaws. In electroplating the thickness of the coating tends to vary according to the radius of curvature of the surface. In electroless plating the article is immersed in a solution of a nickel salt and a reducing agent and coating occurs primarily as a result of chemical reduction of the nickel, as compared to electrochemical deposition in accordance with Faradays Laws. Some electric potential may be applied in the apparatus during the electroless process, but the potential does not result in deposition in accordance with Faradays Laws and instead may be present, for instance, to prevent unwanted plating on the apparatus being used. The reducing agent is often hypophosphite. During electroless nickel plating there is a decrease in the concentration of nickel and in the concentration of hypophosphite and increase in the concentration of phosphite.Generally this increase is also accompanied by an increase in the concentration of alkali metal salt. For instance if the nickel is introduced as nickel sulphate and hypophosphite as sodium hypophosphite the increase in the phosphite content will be accompanied by an increase in the content of sodium sulphate. When, for instance, boran based reducing agents are used, they lead to an increase in the concentration of borate. A typical plating solution initially contains 7.5 g l nickel as salt ,30 g l hypophosphite and 0 g l phosphite and has a specific gravity of about 1060. This will typically give a plating rate of about 30 micranz per hour and will consume hypophosphite at the rate of about 4.12 grams per gram nickel. After consumption of 1 gram of nickel the bath will therefore contain about 6.5 g l nickel, 25 to 26 gel hypophosphite and 4 to 5 g l phosphite. If no replenishment of nickel and hypophosphite is made, the bath will rapidly become exhausted. It is therefore standard practice to replenish nickel and hypophosphite during use. For instance, the nickel content of the solution may be monitored by observing the light absorption of the solution and the solution automatically replenished with nickel, and possibly also hypophosphite, in accordance with the recorded absorption.Such a process is described in, for instance, U.S. PatentSpecification 4229218 and in an article by Nuzzi published in Metal Finishing, May, t983, page 31, after the priority date of this Application. Initially replenishment in this manner is satisfactory, but after prolonged usage the phosphite and other unwanted by products increase to such an extent that the process has to be discontinued. For instance as the phosphite concentration increases, the quality of the plating deteriorates, the consumption of hypophosphite increases to about 6 grams per gram nickel and so the cost increases, and the rate of plating decreases down to, for instance, 4 microns per hour. It is generally accepted that the solution has to be totally rejected once the phosphite level has increased to more than 150 g l. In preprint published in 1980 by Gardner PublicationsInc. of a report by Mark Jankowski to the Electroless NickelConference a process is described in which there is repeated transfer of รก et percentage e.g. 20 of the operating bath and its replacement by an equal volume of a more dilute solution, so as to reduce specific gravity. Frequent analysis and additions of hypophosphite and nickel are required. This process does not permit prolonged automatic operation and results in large volumes df, effulent. Accordingly, all known processes for electroless nickel plating that involves replenishment are not truly continuous processes but instead are prolonged batch processes in which the quality and effectiveness gradually deteriorates throughout each batch, and in which the entire plating solution has to be rejected when the effectiveness has fallen below an acceptable level.Accordingly they create a very large effluent problem. It has been our objective to devise a process and apparatus for plating nickel, cobalt and alloys of nickel or of cobalt, that avoid these disadvantages and that are capable of plating to an uniform quality over prolonged periods and that minimises the amount of effluent that is rejected. In the invention a succession of articles are plated by.a plating metal selected from nickel, cobalt, alloys of nickel and alloys of cobalt by contact with a plating solution containing plating metal as salt and reducing agent and the solution is maintained for prolonged use by replenishing with plating metal to maintain the plating metal concentration substantially constant, and by replenishing with reducing agent to maintain the reducing agent concentration substantially constant, and by observing the content of dissolved solids and, upon observing an increase in the content of dissolved solids, automatically diluting the solution and thereby maintaining substantially constant the concentration of oxidation products formed from the reducing agent. The reducing agent is preferably hypophosphite, in which event the oxidation product whose concentration is held constant by the invention is phosphite. Boronbased reducing agents, for instance dimethyl or diethyl amine borane or BHd may be used, in whiS event the product whose concentration is held constant is one or more borates tetra or meta borate and possibly amines. Hydrazine or other reducing agents may also be used. By the invention it is possible to operate the process at a substantially uniform and high plating rate and plating quality for periods that are very much longer than are possible with all known electroless nickel or cobalt plating processes. For instance, the process can be continued, with appropriate replenishment, and maintenance of a constant volume of plating solution, during the formation of more than 250 grams phosphite per litre of plating solution and generally during formation of more than 1,000 and often more than 5,000 grams phosphite per litre plating solution or during the formation of equivalent amounts of other oxidation products . Prior to the invention it was generally accepted that optimum plating quality necessitated that the ratio of nickel or other plating metal to reducing agent should be within about 10 of the stoichiometric amount, typically about 7.5 nickel 40 hypophosphite. A surprising advantage of the invention is that we find the plating is not adversely affected even though the proportions may vary widely and the concentration may be very low. For instance very satisfactory results are still obtainable even when the solution contains 2 g l nickel or other plating metal and 15 g l hy osFhite or 1 g l nickel and 5 g l Aypophosphite Thus the amount of solution that has to be rejected is greatly reduced because unacceptable increase in oxidation products such as phosphite or borate is avoided, because the bath is operable at very low concentrations and because the bath is operable at widely varying concentrations. The dilution ofthe solution is normally effected by automatically removing solution in response to an increase in the observed content of dissolved solids of the plating solution, and automatically replacing the removed solution with diluent selected from water and aqueous solutions containing plating metal as salt and or reducing agent. The diluent is preferably water, since this minimises the amount of solution that has to be rejected. Replenishment of nickel and reducing agent to maintain those concentrations constant is then preferably made using a solution, or solutions, having a higher concentration of nickel and reducing agent than the working bath. Alternatively, and less satisfactorily, the diluent can be a solution, or solutions, containing nickel and reducing agent, generally more diluent than the working bath. The process is generally conducted at an elevated temperature in the range of 60 to 950C, for instance around 900C, and this results in evaporation of water during the process Increase in dissolved solids content due to evaporation should be compensated for by adding water since other replacement of evaporated water by replenishment may result in an increase in the concentration of plating metal and hypophosphite even though it may have the desired effect of reducing dissolved solids. It is necessary to maintain the plating metal and hypophosphite concentration substantially constant by replenishment during the process and this necessitates observation of the consumption of nickel or reducing agent. For most accurate results it may be desirable to observe the consumption of reducing agent, for instance, by analysis1 and to replenish this in response to the observed consumption, and to observe the consumption of plating metal, for instance, by analysis or by light absoption, and to replenish this in response to the observed consumption.However, we find that it is satisfactory in the invention to observe the consumption of plating metal and then replenish plating metal to maintain its concentration substantially constant and to replenish reducing agent with a substantially stoichiometric amount of reducing agent based on the amount of plating metal that is being added.The preferred reducing agent is hypophosphite and so, for simplicity, the remainder of the description refers primarily tofthis. However, this is not limiting and equivalent amount of other suitable reducing agents may, less preferably, be used. Generally the amount of hypophosphite that is replenished is from 4 to 6.5, preferably 5 to 5.5, grams hypophosphite per gram plating metal. Generally the replenishment is provided as a single solution containing both the plating metal as salt and hypophosphitef and generally has a concentration of from 5 to 30, preferably 10 to 20 l g of the plating metal introd ced as salt and the replenishment is normally free of phosphite. Thus the replenishment is generally much more dilute then the replenishment conventionally used in electroless nickel plating which typically contained 67 g l nickel and 400 g l hypophosphite. The observation of the plating metal content may be conducted by calculation from the throughput of articles or, more usally, by occasional titration of the solution. For instance every few hours e.g. every morning the plating solution may be analysed for its plating metal content, and the dissolved solids content rrecorded and water, plating metal and hypophosphite added to produce a solution having the desired plating metal and dissolved solids content. The solution may then be operated for, for instance, 2 to 10 hours with replenishmentsof plating metal and hypophosphite in accordance with the calculated consumption based on throughput of surfaces and with frequent or continuous observation of the dissolved solids content, and consequential removal of solution and replenishment with water whenever necessary to effect dilution. Preferably, however, the plating metal content of the solution is observed automatically and plating metal as salt is added to the solution automatically in response to the observed value so as to maintain the value substantially constant. Preferably the content of plating metal is observed by light absorption. A colorimeter may be used to observe the concentration of plating metal and for generating a signal in response to a predetermined decrease in concentration. For instance the apparatus may include a light source and a photocell or other light receiver positioned a predetermined distance from the source, whereby the electrical signal generated by the light receiver will vary according to the plating metal content of the solution. When the content falls below a predetermined value the signal will be such as to activate a pump for adding plating metal salt solution and generally hypophosphite to the bath. The colorimeter must be designed so that it records the concentration of the plating metal and not of other components in the bath. For instance, although nickel is often observed using light of wave length 390nmthis wave length also records the concentration of other components in the bath and so in the invention the wave length should preferably be in the range 660 to 720nm.unless the apparatus includes conventional comparative means for eliminating interference by other components in the solution. The preferred process therefore comprises observing the content of plating metal in the solution by light absorption and, in response to a decrease in the concentration, automatically replenishing the solution with plating metal as salt ,and a substantially stoichiometric amount of hypophosphite and thereby maintaining the concentrations of plating metal and hypophosphite substantially constant, and observing the dissolved solids content of the solution and in response to a decrease in the observed dissolved solids content, automatically removing solution and automatically replacing the removed solution with water, and thereby maintaining the phosphite concentration substantially constant. Although it is normally accepted in known replenishment processes that the phosphite concentration must be below 150 g l and the nickel and hypophosphite concentrations should be maintained around 7.5 and 40 g l respectively, in the invention we deliberately aim at keeping the phosphite level, for best results, at 200 to 250 g l. At initial startup it may be lower, for instance, as low as 50 g l and occasionally it may rise to about 275 g l, but during prolonged use it is preferably held in the range 200 to 250 g l, by the removal and dilution technique described above. The content of plating metal is generally in the range 1 to 10 preferably 2 to 8 g l, and the content of hypophosphite is generally from 5 to 70, g l, typically being present in an amount of from 4 to 8 times the amount of plating metal. The content of dissolved solids may be observed by observing any meaningful property which in practice means observing the density, conductivity or retractive index of the solution. Apparatus for observing these physical properties in a solution, and for utilising the observed value to control a pump, is well known. The preferred property is specific gravity or density and this is preferably observed by an adjustable float whereby, when the density increases above a predetermined value, the float operates a switch that causes dilution of the solution in the bath when the specific gravity exceeds the desired value, which is generally in the range 1100 to 1200, preferably being in the range 1130 to 1170.. The bath is usually equipped for automatic addition of deionised water through a constant level device whenever the solution level in the bath falls, and so preferably the dilution is effected by the switch activating a pump to remove solution from the bath and by the addition of deionised water to the bath through the constant level device. The invention is of particular value for processes in which the plating metal is nickel or a blend of nickel with chromium or tungsten and the quantities quoted above are calculated for processes when nickel is the sole coating metal, but are also applicable with the other coating metals and combinations. The process can also be used for other alloys of nickel and also for cobalt or alloys of cobalt. The plating solution will normally have a conventional acidic pH, generally in the range of 3 to 6, and preferably in the range of 4 to 5, but alkaline pH is operable, for instance at values up to 10. The The plating solution can include a dispersion of metallic or non metallic particles that are to be incorporated into the metal plate coating. The invention includes also apparatus for the control of an electroless plating solution for such processes and comprises means for observing the dissolved solids content of the solution and for automatically diluting the solution in response to an increase in the dissolved solids content. The apparatus generally includes a tank in which the articles to be plated are immersed, and is provided with means for pumping the solution from the tank in response to an increase in the content of dissolved solids and means for flowing water into the tank in response to a decrease in the volume of solution in the tank. The apparatus of the invention is preferably provided as a monitoring unit through which plating solution from the tank is pumped continuou2slY o r or It is generally necessary to record dissolved solids content, and especially specific gravity, at constant temperatures and so the plating solution is preferably brought to a standard temperature, generally around 15 to 250C, before it is monitored. It is necessary that these should be excluded from means for determining specific gravity or light absorption or otherwise it will distort the values.Accordingly an appropriate filter should be included. The invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 diagrammatically illustravtes a monitoring unit according to the invention and Figure 2 diagrammatically illustrates a coating plant according to the invention. The monitoring unit in Figure 1 comprises a vessel 1, a pipe 2 leading to an inlet 3 for receiving solution from the bath and an outlet 4 for returning the solution to the bath. The total apparatus will also include a pump for adding nickel salt solution to the bath, a pump for adding hypophosphite solution to the bath, and a pump for removing plating solution from the bath, and a constant level apparatus for adding a volume of deionised water that is the same as the volume of plating solution that is removed. The monitor apparatus includes a colorimeter 6a and 6b, and a float 7. The colorimetric nickel measuring device 6a and 6b includes a light source 6a and a receiver 6b and is provided with appropriate electrical connections 9 leading through an amplifier to the pump for nickel salt solution, whereby nickel salt is added to the plating solution only when the nickel concentration in the vessel 1 falls below a predetermined value. Hypophosphite is added with nickel salt. The float 7 is connected to a switch 10 provided with appropriate electrical connections 11 which lead through an amplifier to the pump for removing solutionfrom the bath, whereby the pump is operated only when the density is above a predetermind value, such that the float rises. The float 7 may be provided with an adjustment nut 12 such that it is possible easily to adjust the density at which the float rises sufficiently to operate the switch 10 and hence the pump for removing solution from the bath. It is desirable that the density measurement should always be conducted at a constant tf mperature and a heat exchanger 13 may be provided in the inlet pipe 2 for bringing the solution to a constant temperature, typically about 500C. The heat exchanger may be provided with inlet 14 and outlet 15 for circulating cooling fluid. It is necessary to prevent the density measurement being distorted by dynamic effects caused by fluid flow adjacent the float 7 and so a sheet 16 or other suitable baffle may be provided over the inlet 3 so as to minimise upward fluid flow velocity adjacent the float. To calibrate the apparatus initially a standard solution of known nickel, hypophosphite and phosphite content may be introduced from pipe 17 through valve 18 into the inlet 3. The apparatus in Figure 2 comprises a plating tank 20 provided with a conventional conveyor 21 for immersing articles 22 in solution 23 in the tank for the duration necessary for appropriate plating of them.A pump 24 is provided to withdraw solution from outlet 25 continuously or intermittently and through a cooling vessel 26 containing a coil 27 through which is Passed tap water at adbbent tar perature. The cooled plating solution is then forced by the pump 24 through a device 28 in which its specific gravity is continuously monitored, for instance including the parts 7, 10, 11 and 12 in Figure 1.It then passes through a device 29 in which the concentration of plating solution is determined optically, for instance including the parts 6a, 6b and 9 of Figure 1. The parts 28 and 29 may be combined into a single monitoring unit, as in Figure 1. if the plating solution contains dispersed solids filters will be provided in the devices 28 and 29 to divert solids away from the apparatus for observing specific gravity and optical absorption. The monitored liquid is returned to the plating solution via line 30. When the specific gravity recording device 28 records that the specific gravity has risen above a predetermined value, generally around 1150, ie activates a pump 31 that draws plating solution from the apparatus and runs it to reject via pipe 32. This rejected solution may be drawn from the tank 20 as shown, or from elsewhere. This results in the level of solution 23 in the tank 20 dropping and level sensor 33 records this and automatically activates a pump 34 by which water, generally deionised water, is added to the plating solution via pipe 35 in order to replace the volume of solution withdrawn by pump 31. When the device 29 records that the concentration of plating metal has fallen below its desired value, this activates pump 36 by which a solution of plating metal, as salt, is added to the bath by line 37. Activation of pump 36 simultaneously activates pump 38 by which hypophosphite is added to the bath by line 39 in an amount proportion to the amount of plating metal. Instead of measuring specific gravity in the device 28, this device can be replaced by conventional devices for recording refractiveindex or electrical conductivity. In a typical process the bath is initially made up with a solution having ER 4 to 5, specific gravity 1150 and containing 7.5 gl nickel as nickel sulphate 40 g l hypophosphite and 150 g l phosphite. The temperature is abowlJ 900C. Plating proceeds in conventional manner and plating liquid is continuously withdrawn by pump 24 at about 1 litre per minute Air bubbles in the solution are removed by the pump, and the specific gravity device 28 is set to activate the pump 31 when the specific gravity exceeds 1150 and the optical device 29 is set to activate the pump 36 when the nickel content falls below 7.5 g l. Pump 38 is related to pump 36 so as to replenish at the rate of about 5.3 grams hypoposphite per gram nickel. Instead of using separate pumps 36 and 38 a single replenishment solution of 15 g l nickel as sulphate and 80 g l hypophosphite can be used. As solution is rejected by pump 31 it is replenished by water through pump 34 and after several hours operation will be found to have a phosphite content between 200 and 250 g l. The process can continue for several days or weeks. It may be desirable to analyse for hypophosphite from time to time, and activate the replenishment pump 38 if the ratio nickel hypophosphite is deviating too far from the optimum, but generally this is unnecessary. Solution rejected by pump 31,or plating solution 23 rejected when it has been used for so long that it is no longer convenient or possible to maintain concentrations constant, may be dumped after appropriate effluent treatment but when the surface being plated is aluminium it is convenient to pretreat it with a dilute plating bath, termed a nickel strike process, and preferably the rejected solution is used for making up the nickel strike solution. The overall plating process typically involves 3 to 5 minutes immersion in this or some other strike solution followed by 1 hour in the plating solution 23, followed by a first rinse in water and then a second rinse in water. The water for replenishment of the tank by pump 34 may be drawn from the first rinse.