# Improved process for preparing alkanolamines.

## Abstract
A process is provided for preparing alkanolamines having a high yield of monoalkanolamine which comprises reacting an alkylene oxide having from two to four carbon atoms with ammonia in a molar ratio of ammonia to alkylene oxide within the range from about 15 1 to about 50 1 at temperatures at which the reaction proceeds and at press ures high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid phase.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for preparing alkanolamines having a high yield of monoalkanolamine which comprises reacting an alkylene oxide having from two to four carbon atoms with ammonia in a molar ratio of ammonia to alkylene oxide within the range from about 15 1 to about 50 1 at temperatures at which the reaction proceeds above about 1000C., and at pressures high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid phase to form a product mixture containing predominantly monoalkanolamine. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the density of the reaction mixture is above 15 lbs. cu. ft., preferably in the range from about 21 to about 28 lbs. cu. ft. 3. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reaction is carried out in the presence of a small1 catalytically effective amount of water, preferably in the presence of from about 0.5 to 5 percent by weight of water based on the weight of the reaction mixture. 4. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reaction temperature is up to about 200 C, preferably in the range from about the critical temperature of the reaction mixture to about 180C 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reaction is carried out at pressures in the range from about 170 to 240 atmospheres. 6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the process is carried out adiabatically. 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims wherein unreacted ammonia is separated from the product mixture. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein a product mixture containing predominately monoalkanolamine is recovered.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a process for the preparation of alkanolamines and, more particularly, to a process for preparing alkanolamines with high yields of monoalkanolamine that may be run continuously by the reaction of alkylene oxides with a large excess of ammonia wherein the reaction mixture is maintained in a single phase as a supercritical fluid. It is known that alkanolamines which are used in a variety of commercial applications such as emulsification agents for soaps and cosmetics and as a starting material for the production of raw materials for detergents, wetting agents, emulsifiers, textile auxiliaries and the like can be obtained by the reaction of alkylene oxides with ammonia or amines, the yield of alkanolamines being a mixture of mono di and trialkanolamaines with, generally equal relative proportions of the three alkanolamines being frequently obtained.The relative proportions of these three alkanolamines in the product mixture, however, are known to depend on the relative quantities of alkylene oxide and ammonia that are reacted and methods have been used or suggested for achieving higher yields of one or more of the alkanolamines in the mixture by varying the proportion of reactants, such as by increasing the amount of ammonia relative to the alkylene oxide to obtain increased yields of monoalkanolamine, as well as by other process changes. There is disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent o. 2,196,554 to H. M. Guinot a process for preparing mono hydroxylalkylamines with yields of 90 95 by reacting at least 30 parts by weight of ammonia with one part of alkylene oxide. Relatively dilute aqueous ammonia solutions are employed and the patent discloses that steam generated during concentration of the reaction mixture is used for heating subsequent reaction mixtures of aqueous ammonia and alkylene oxide to reduce the heat energy requirements for the process. Another process for preparing alkanolamines with extremely high yields of monoalkanolamines and only small amounts of the di and trialkanolamines by reacting alkylene oxide with large excess amounts of ammonia in a liquid phase reaction system is disclosed in U.S. Patent No.3,697,598 to Weibull et al. The molar ratio of ammonia relative to alkylene oxide used in the process is within the range of 10 1 to 80 1 and the reaction is carried out in the presence of a cation exchange resin catalyst. The process of the patent is described as being a continuous process which is capable of being run isothermally or, preferably, adiabatically at temperatures in the range of from 20 C. to 250 C. when pressures are employed that are high enough to keep the reactants and reaction products in the liquid phase throughout the reaction.There is, however, no disclosure either in the description or in the examples of the patent which show that high yields of alkanolamines of any type are obtained when the process is carried out either adiabatically or isothermally without the use of cation exchange resin catalysts, and patentees state that without a cation exchange catalyst it is not possible to realize an adiabatic reaction because it is too slow. Further, in U.S. Patent No.3,723,530 to Goetze et al., there is also disclosed a process for preparing a mixture of alkanolamines by the liquid phase reaction of ethylene oxide and a large excess of ammonia, that is mole ratios of ammonia to ethylene oxide of from 14 to 40 to one. The patent teaches that when the reaction is carried out in the presence of up to 1 mole of diethanolamine per mole of ethylene oxide, the product obtained will be a mixture of only monoethanolamine and triethanolamine with little or no diethanolamine being present.While the process of the invention is described as being capable of being run continuously either isothermally or adiabatically, the ammonia is usually employed in the form of an aqueous solution, the reaction is carried out in the liquid phase at temperatures in the range of from 60 to 150 and pressures of from 20 to 120 atmospheres, and the monoethanolamine content of the product mixture generally does not exceed 70 percent by weight. While the processes heretofore disclosed suggest that they are suitable for use in preparing monoethanolamines in high yields by reacting alkylene oxides with excess amounts of ammonia, their usefulness in either batch or continuous operations depends on the presence of catalysts or supplemental process steps. It would be highly desirable, however, if a process was available which could be used to readily prepare monoalkanolamines at practical reaction rates that did not involve the potential additional problems associated with catalysts or costs due to complicated or supplemental process steps. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with tne present invention, there is provided a process for preparing alkanolamines with high yields of monoalkanolamine which comprises reacting an alkylene oxide having from two to four carbon atoms with ammonia in a molar ratio of ammonia to alkylene oxide within the range from about 15 1 to about 50 1 at temperatures at which the reaction proceeds above about 100 C. and at pressures high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid pnase to form a product mixture containing predominantly monoalkanolamine. Unreacted ammonia, wnich is separatea from the reaction mixture, may be recycled if desirea. The temperatures employed for carrying out tne reaction are preferably as high as possible so that the reaction will proceed at a suitable rate, and temperatures above the critical temperature of the reaction mixture may be advantageously used. Tne pressure should be high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single nomogenous supercritical fluid phase at any point during the process. The density of the reaction mixture, which is dependent upon the pressure employed at the reaction temperature and is an important consideration as to the rate at wnich the reaction proceeds, should be maintained as high as possible and generally should be at least about 15 lbs. cu. ft. 240 kg cu.m. .The reaction can be carried out batchwise or continuously under isothermal or adiabatic conditions and, while no catalyst is required, the presence of a small amount of water in the reaction mixture has an advantageous catalytic effect. The term zsupercriticalss fluid as used herein is defined as the physical state of the reaction mixture wherein either the pressure or both the temperature and pressure conditions are above the critical values therefor. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of the invention comprises reacting an alkylene oxide having from two to four carbon atoms with ammonia in a molar ratio of ammonia to alkylene oxide within the range from about 15 1 to about 50 1 at a temperature at which the reaction proceeds above about lOO C. and at pressures high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid phase for the time necessary to form a product mixture composed predominately of monoalkanolamine generally about 75 and small amounts of di and trialkanolamine and separating unreacted ammonia therefrom. The monodi , and trialkanolamines can also be separated if desired. The alkylene oxides to which the process of the present invention is applicable is any 1,2 alkylene oxide having from two to four carbon atoms, including ethylene oxide propylene oxide, 1,2 butylene oxide, 2,3 butylene oxide, and isobutylene oxide. In accordance with the present invention, it is essential that a large excess of ammonia is used in the reaction to obtain yields of monoalkanolamines of at leas 65 weight percent. It is advantageous to use about 15 to about 50 moles, and preferably from about 20 to about 35 moles, of ammonia for each mole of alkylene oxide to obtain yields in many cases of from about 70 to 80 weight percent. The ammonia should be added to the reaction mixture in a liquid state, generally in a substantially anhydrous condition. The liquid ammonia and alkylene oxide may be premixed just prior to feeding into the reaction vessel or each may be added separately to the reactor. In accordance with the practice of the invention, it is important that the reaction of alkylene oxide and ammonia be carried out with the reaction mixture in a homogenous, single supercritical fluid phase so that the reaction will proceed at a suitable rate. The reaction can be carried out under isothermal or adiabatic conditions. The temperature at which the reaction should be carried out is within the range from about lOO C. to about 200 C., though the upper limit of the temperature is not critical.Preferably, the reaction temperature is within the range from about the critical temperature of the reaction mixture generally from about 1300C. to about 1800C. Under isothermal conditions, since the reaction is strongly exothermic, it is necessary to withdraw heat from the reaction mixture to keep the temperature approximately constant. In the case when the reaction is to be carried out under adiabatic or nearly adiabatic conditions, the reactants are preheated to from about 1000C. to 1300C. before they are introduced into the reactor. Because of the reaction heat involved, any selected initial reaction temperature is rapidly increased and the initial reaction temperatures should be chosen so that the maximum desired temperature will be obtained during the period of residence of the reaction mixture within the reactor. The preferred maximum temperature is between about 1700C. and 1800C. though the higher the reaction temperature, the higher the pressure that is necessary to maintain the density of the reaction mixture as high as possible. At such reaction temperatures, it is essential that the pressures imposed on the system are high enough to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid phase. In any case, the reaction pressure should be at least as high as the critical pressure of the reaction mixture at any point encountered during the process. Preferably, the pressures imposed on the system are within the range from about 170 to about 240 atmospheres. The litter is a practical upper limit and is not critical. As pointed out hereinabove, it is important that the reaction mixture is maintained in a single phase as a supercritical fluid and that the density thereof is as high as possible so that the reaction will proceed at a suitable rate. The density of the reaction mixture should be above the critical density and, in general, at least 15 lbs cu. ft. 240 kg cu.m. .Preferably, the density of the reaction mixture should be maintained in the range of from about 21 to about 28 lbs cu. ft. or even higher if practical. The mole ratio of ammonia and alkylene oxide reactants and the reaction temperature have a significant effect on the density of the reaction mixture. It is important, therefore, that the reaction pressures are maintained as high as is practical so that the reaction mixture is not only maintained in a single supercritical fluid phase but that the density of said mixture is as high as possible so that the reaction will proceed at a practical rate. While it is not essential that the process of the invention be carried out in the presence of any catalyst, advantageous embodiments of the process of the invention may be carried out with a small amount of water incorporated in the reaction mixture along with the alkylene oxide and ammonia reactants. It has been found that the presence of small amounts of water in the reaction mixture has an advantageous catalytic effect on the reaction rate for forming alkanolamines though it does not appear to affect the yield of monoalkanolamine in the product mixture. The amount of water that is present is not critical, and only small amounts of water may achieve the catalytic affect that is desired. Ir. general, from about 0.5 percent up to about 5 percent by weight of water based on the weight of the reaction mixture need be present. Amounts of water greatly i excess of that which may be catalytically useful, however, should be avoided to limit the energy requirements needed to separate water from the product mixture. After conclusion of the reaction, substantitlly all of the alkylene oxide has been reacted and the unreacted ammonia may be separated from the product mixture by any means known in the art, such as by reducing the pressure to below that at whicn tne ammonia is in a gaseous phase, so that the ammonia can be separated as a gas. Tne ammonia can then be recycled, if desired, by repressurizing to a liquid phase before mixing with alkylene oxide. Tne unreacted ammonia may also be separated from the product mixture by distilling under pressure. The alKanolamine analogues in the product mixture may also be separated by known distillation methods or the product mixture may be usea as a starting material for the preparation of other organic anilines. As pointed out hereinabove, tne process of tne invention may be carried out batchwise or continuously, either under isothermal or adiabatic conditions. In an alternate embodiment of the process of the invention which is run continuously, tne ammonia and alKlene oxide reactants in the molar ratios hereinabove described are continuously fed, eitner separately or, preferably, as a mixture, to a tubular reactor which is capable of operating as efficiently as possible as a plug flow reactor having means for providing the pressures needed to maintain the reaction mixture in a single supercritical fluid phase.Tne reactor may be carried out isothermally in a tubular reactor having cooling means or, advantageously, under adiabatic conditions where tne reactants are preneated to a temperature, for example, between about 100 C. to 13O0C. Small amounts of water may also be added to the reaction mixture, if desired. The residence time of the single phase supercritical fluid reaction mixture in said adiabatic reactor should be sufficiently high to permit the reaction to proceed to completion, generally in less than about 1 2 hour. At the completion of the reaction, that is generally when all the alkylene oxide nas been reacted, the unreacted ammonia is separated from tne product mixture as nereinabove described and recycled to the reactor. The recycled ammonia is pressurized to a liquid state prior to mixing within tne alkyiene oxide and fresh make up ammonia. The product mixture which is obtained can be separated into alkanolamine components by distillation methods known in the art or can be used as a starting material for the production of materials such a organic polyamines. This invention will Decome more clear when considered together with the following examples which are set forth as being merely illustrative or the invention and which are not intended in any manner, to be limitative thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all parts and percentages are by weight. Example 1 A 2 liter 1984 ml. stainless steel autoclave having a high speed agitator and equippea with charging, sampling, and temperature control means was used in carrying out the reaction runs of this example. A series of reactions were run using liquid anhydrous ammonia, water, and ethylene oxide in the proportions reported in Table I. The ammonia and water were charged to the autoclave which was evacuated to a pressure of about 1 mm Hg absolute and then witn vigorous agitation were heated to 1700C. The etnylene oxide was then charged to the autoclave and, with vigorous agitation, the reaction temperature was maintained at 1700C. for 30 minutes. A sample of tne reaction mixture was taKen after the time indicated in Table I during each of the reaction runs of tnis example.After 30 minutes, the reaction mixture was cooled to below 500C. and unreacted ammonia was vented from the autoclave until tne pressure in the autoclave indicated essentially complete removal of gas. The liquid product mixture was then drained from the autoclave and the composition thereof was determined by gas chromatographic analysis. The amount of ammonia and ethylene oxide reactants used were intended to obtain an average ammonia to ethylene oxide mole ratio of 25 1 for each of the reaction runs of tnis example. The average density of the reaction mixture during each of the reaction runs of this example was 24 lbs. cu. ft. A summary of the proportion of ingredients, reaction conditions and composition of tne product mixtures for each of the reaction runs of this example are reported in Table I. It is apparent from results shown in Table I that an alkanolamine mixture was prepared with a hig yield of monoalkanolamine during each of tne runs of this example. TABLE I Run Sample Ammonia Ethylene Oxide Water Time Press. Ethylene Oxide Product Distribution Wt a Moles Grams Moles Grams Moles Grams Min PSIG Residual Mol MEA DEA TEA 1 39.81 678 1.57 69.1 0.754 13.57 0 3250 15 2850 0.012 73.21 22.04 4.74 2 39.81 678 1.57 69.1 0.754 13.57 0 3310 15 2800 0.012 75.53 20.20 4.27 3 39.81 678 1.62 71.4 0.754 13.57 0 3300 12 2800 0.041 75.24 20.34 4.42 4 39.81 678 1.62 71.3 0.754 13.57 0 3210 12 2800 0.025 74.54 20.90 4.55 5 39.81 678 1.59 70.0 0.754 13.57 0 3500 9 2820 0.096 75.36 20.17 4.47 6 39.81 678 1.57 69.1 0.754 13.57 0 3500 9 2950 0.14 76.12 19.96 3.89 7 39.81 678 1.58 69.5 0.754 13.57 0 3410 6 2800 0.55 74.68 21.04 4.28 8 39.81 678 1.62 71.3 0.754 13.57 0 3450 3 2900 1.74 76.03 19.96 3.99 9 39.81 678 1.62 71.3 0.754 13.67 0 3250 3 3050 1.96 75.08 20.44 4.45 10 39.81 678 1.59 70.1 0.754 13.57 0 3300 25 2700 73.21 22.04 4.74 a After a total reaction time of 30 minutes. Example 2 Using the apparatus and procedure of Example 1, a series of reaction runs were carried out to demonstrate tne effect of reaction product density and ammonia to ethylene oxide mole ratio on the reaction rate and distribution of alkanolamines in the product mixture. Runs 1 to 8 were carried out with an average ammonia to etnylene oxide mole ratio of 30 to 1 ana runs 9 to 12 use a mole ratio of 25 to 1. Runs 1 to 4 and 9 to 12 were carried out at an average density of 22 lbs cu. ft and Runs 5 to 8 were carried out at an average density of 24 lbs cu. ft. A sample of the reaction mixture was taken from the reactor during each reaction run. The proportion of ingredients, temperature and pressure condition s and analysis results used analytical procedures described in example 1 for eacn of the reaction runs of this Example are summarized inTable II. It is apparent from the results shown in TableII that an alliauolamine product mixture containing high yields of morroethanolamine was prepared during eacn reaction run of this example. The reaction rate for each of the runs would be suitable but the results snow that the reaction rate for runs 1 to 4 which were maintained at an average density of 22 1Ds cu. ft. was somewhat slower than the reaction rate for runs 5 to 8 which were maintained at an average density of 24 lbs cu. ft. TABLE II Ammonia Ethylene Oxide Water Density Time Temp. Press. E. O. R. Product Distribution Wt a Run Moles Grams Moles Grams Moles Grams lbs ft Min C PSIG Mol MEA DEA TEA 1 37.05 631 1.20 52.8 0.70 12.6 21.89 0 169 2900 4 170 2800 1.59 75.97 19.37 4.66 2 37.05 631 1.23 54.4 0.70 12.6 21.94 0 170 3020 8 173 2860 0.53 76.01 19.30 4.69 3 37.05 631 1.26 55.44 0.70 12.6 21.98 0 171 3050 14 170 2600 0.11 4 37.05 631 1.23 54.4 0.70 12.6 21.94 0 170 2800 18 170 2560 0.07 81.02 15.57 3.4 5 40.42 688 1.36 59.8 0.74 13.7 23.95 0 170 3100 4 172 3100 1.14 76.12 19.24 4.64 6 40.16 684 1.40 61.6 0.74 13.7 23.87 0 170 3300 8 172.5 2940 0.16 7 40.98 698 1.32 58.1 0.74 13.7 24 2 0 170 3450 12 171 3240 0.03 82.67 14.56 2.76 8 40.42 688.4 1.35 59.4 0.74 13.7 23.94 0 170 3350 14 171 3000 0.015 76.97 18.94 4.09 9 36.41 620 1.45 63.8 0.69 12.4 21.89 0 181 3700 4 180 3000 0.61 73.32 21.24 5.44 10 36.41 620 1.45 63.7 0.69 12.4 21.88 0 179 3400 8 179 2950 0.13 11 36.76 626 1.46 64.2 0.69 12.4 22.09 0 184 3700 4 178 2980 0.015 74.91 20.2 4.89 12 36.41 620 1.45 64.0 0.69 12.4 21.89 0 180 3625 16 179.5 3010 0.01 74.07 20.78 5.15 a After a total reaction time of 30 minutes Ethylene Oxide Residual Example 3 A mixture of 786.4 grams 46.2 moles of ammonia and 15.7 grams of water was cnarged to tne stirred autoclave described in Example 1 which had previously been vacuated to about one millimeter of Hg vacuum. The mixture was heated to 1700C. and 3900 psig with stirring and 54.1 grams 1.23 moles of ethylene oxide were injected into the stirred mixture. The density of the reaction mixture was maintained at an average of 27 lbs. cu. ft. Small samples of the reaction mixture were periodically removed from the autoclave and analyzed by mass spectrometry for residual ethylene oxide and tne sample times and conversion of ethylene oxide are shown below in Table III. TABLE III Time, Minutes ConversionSample Number from EO Injection Based on Residual EO 1 3 74.9 2 6 77.2 3 9 92.3 4 24 100.0 After 30 minutes from the time ethylene oxide was added, the mixture in the autoclave was cooled to below 500C. and the unreacted ammonia was separated from the product mixture. The liquid product mixture was discharged from the autoclave and analyzed for alkanolamine composition by gas chromatography. The product mixture was determined to contain 84.03 percent monoethanolamine, 14.36 percent diethanolamine, and 1.60 percent triethanolamine. For comparison purposes, tne following reaction run was carried out in the autoclave reactor described in Example 1. In this control, a mixture of 678 grams 39.81 moles of ammonia and 13.57 grams of water was charged to the evacuated, stirred autoclave of Example 1 and heated to 1200C. Nitrogen gas was added to the autoclave until a pressure of 2000 psig was obtained. Ethylene oxide 72.98 grams, 1.659 moles was injected into the stirred mixture in the autoclave and tne temperature was maintained at 1200C. during the entire run The reaction mixture in the autoclave was a single phase liquid. Small samples were periodically removed from the autoclave reactor and analyzed by mass spectrometry for residual ethylene oxide and the results are summarized in Table V, below. TABLE V Time, Minutes ConversionSample Number from EO Injection Based on Residual EO 1 5 16.25 2 10 33.00 3 15 35.25 4 20 56.00 5 25 73.00 6 30 82.75 7 40 92.50 The reaction was continued at 1200C. for an additional 138 minutes after which the mixture was cooled, unreacted ammonia was separated tnerefrom, and the liquid product mixture was recovered and analyzed by gas chromatography. The product mixture was determined to contain 74.44 percent of monoethanolamine, 21.17 percent diethanolamine, and 4.38 percent triethanolamine. While the liquid phase reaction resulted in nigh yields of monoethanolamine, the reaction rate was determined slow to be suitable.