# Semiconductor device having a conductive layer consisting of a high melting point metal silicide and a method for manufacturing such a semiconductor device.

## Abstract
There is proposed a semiconductive device comprising a conductive layer 4 consisting of a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MSi

## Claims
Claims 1. A semiconductor device which comprises a conductive layer consisting of a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MSix where M is a high melting point metal and x is a value within the range of 2.0 x 4.0 , and having a sheet resistance of not more than 5 Q O. 2. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the high melting point metal silicide film comprises molybdenum silicide. 3. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the high melting point metal silicide film comprises tungsten silicide. 4. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the high melting point metal silicide film comprises tantalum silicide. 5. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the high melting point metal silicide film comprises titanium silicide 6. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the high melting point metal silicide film comprises at least two members selected from the group consisting of molybdenum silicide, tungsten silicide, titanium silicide and tantalum silicide. 7. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the conductive layer is used as a gate electrode of a field effect transistor. 8. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the conductive layer is used as a capacitor electrode. 9. A semiconductor device according to claim 1, characterized in that the conductive layer is used as a wiring electrode. 10. A method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, comprising the steps of depositing a high melting point metal silicide film on a semiconductor substrate through an insulating film, the high melting point metal silicide film having a formulaMSix where M is a high melting point metal and x is a value within a range of 2 x 4.0 and annealing the high melting point metal silicide film.

## Description
Semiconductor device having a conductive layer consisting of a high melting point metal silicideand a method for manufacturing such a semiconductor device The present invention relates to a semiconductor device which uses a film of a high melting point metal silicide which is suitable as a low resistance electrode or wiring to be referred to as a conductive material hereinafter . Polysilicon has widely been used as a conductive material for forming electrodes or wiring layers.However, it is very difficult to obtain a polysilicon layer having a sheet resistance of 20 D D or less even if an impurity is diffused to a high concentration even with a film thickness of 3,000 to 4,000 A .Meanwhile, demand for higher performance semiconductor devices is strong today. In order to achieve this, it is considered necessary to decrease the sheet resistance of an electrode material to at least 5 Q a or less and preferably to about 1 10 of that of polysilicon. In an attempt to find a substance which satisfies this requirement, many studies are being made on silicide films of high melting point metals, in particular, a molybdenum silicide film. Molybdenum silicides having three different formulae are known MoSi2, Mo3Si, and Mo5Si3. MoSi2 is regarded to be most stable against heat. For this reason, it has been general practice to use a molybdenum silicide film consisting of MoSi2 as an electrode material. However, when a molybdenum silicide film having a formula of MoSi2 is exposed to an oxidizing atmosphere at a high temperature such as l,0000c, an SiO2 film is formed on the surface of the molybdenum silicide film. However, anomalous oxidation locally occurs at times to form holes or cracks in the MoSi2 In some cases, separation of the film is caused due to stress.Furthermore, although the reasons are not clear, the characteristics of a resultant MOS transistor change unexpectedly. Accordingly, the use of a molybdenum silicide film having a formula of MoSi2 has not been necessarily suitable for the manufacture of a semiconductor device. The present invention has been made in consideration of this and has for its object to provide a semiconductor device having a high melting point metal silicide film which is stable after a high temperature oxidizing process and which is suitable as a conductive material, and to a method for manufacturing such a semiconductor device. In order to achieve the above object, there is provided according to the present invention a semiconductor device which comprises a conductive layer consisting of a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MS where M is a high melting point metal and x is a value within the range of 2 x 4.0 and having a sheet resistance of not more than 5 fl D. The present invention also provides a method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, comprising the steps of depositing a high melting point metal silicide film on a semiconductor substrate through an insulating layer, the high melting point metal silicide film consisting of a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MSix where M is a high melting point metal and x is a value within the range of 2 x 4.0 and annealing the high melting point metal silicide film. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a sectional view showing a MOS transistor according to the present invention Fig. 2 is a sectional view of an apparatus for forming a high melting point metal silicide film according to the present invention Fig. 3 is a graph showing the sheet resistances as a function of the value of x of MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film according to the present invention Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relative probability of occurrence of anomalous oxidation as a function of the value of x of MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film according to the present invention Fig. 5 is a graph showing the thermal stress as a function of the value of x of MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film according to the present invention Fig. 6 is a graph showing a flat band voltage VFB as a function of the value of x of MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film according to the present invention Fig. 7 is a graph showing a sheet resistance as a function of the value of x of WSix of a tungsten silicide film according to the present invention and Fig. 8 is a graph showing thermal stress as a function of the value of x of WSix of a tungsten silicide film according to the present invention. In a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MSix where M is a high melting point metal , when the value of x is kept within the range of 2 x 4.0, the sheet resistance may be kept at 5 Q O or less, anomalous oxidation and generation of thermal stress may be prevented, and variations in the threshold voltage of a transistor may be suppressed to the minimum. The high melting point metal silicide as described above is suitable as a conductive material for a semiconductor device. The present invention has been established based on this finding. A method for forming a high melting point metal silicide film comprising such a high melting point metal silicide will now be described with reference to a case wherein a gate electrode of a MOS transistor as shown in Fig. 1 is formed. Fig. 1 shows a state wherein an impurity diffusion layer source drain region 3 is formed in a surface layer of a semiconductor substrate 1. A gate electrode 4 comprising a high melting point metal film such as a molybdenum silicide film is formed on the semiconductor substrate 1 through a gate insulating film 2. Fig. 2 shows a method for forming such a gate electrode 4. A semiconductor substrate 1 is first placed in a vacuum chamber 20.High purity molybdenum 22 and silicon 24 are arranged next to each other at a distance of about 60 mm from the semiconductor substrate 1 in the vacuum chamber 20. After the vacuum chamber 20 is evacuated to about 1 x 10 7 Torr, argon gas Ar is introduced into the vacuum chamber 20 to a pressure of 2 x 10 3 Torr through a variable valve 26 so as to perform sputtering for 3 to 4 minutes, thereby forming a molybdenum silicide film 28 on the semiconductor substrate 1 through the gate insulating film 2. The thickness of the resultant molybdenum silicide film 28 may be controlled by controlling the sputtering time. The composition of the molybdenum silicide film formed on the semiconductor substrate 1 may be freely selected by suitably changing the amounts of the molybdenum 22 and silicon 24 placed in the vacuum chamber 20. Alternatively, the composition of the molybdenum silicide film formed on the semiconductor substrate 1 may also be selected by separately controlling power applied to the molybdenum 22 and silicon 24.In the next step, annealing is performed in an oxidizing atmosphere of about l,0000C. Annealing is performed to cause crystallization of a high melting point metal. Annealing may alternatively be performed in a nitrogen atmosphere or may be replaced by irradiation with a laser beam or the like. In the above description, silicon and molybdenum are used as the targets and a molybdenum silicide film is formed by simultaneous sputtering using these targets. However, it is also possible to form a molybdenum silicide film by performing a sputtering of a multi layered structure consisting of alternative layers of Mo and Si and a subsequent annealing treatment or by using a target which is obtained by hot pressing a silicide powder. In this case, the composition of the resultant film may be changed by changing the mixing ratio of the MoSi2 powder and the Si powder. Silicon and molybdenum may be simultaneously deposited using separate heaters or electron guns. Chemical vapor deposition may also be used. The composition and various characteristics of the high melting point metal silicide film formed in this manner will now be described. The characteristics of a film when x in the formula MoSi of molybdenum silicide will be described below. Fig. 3 shows the sheet resistance n n as a function of the value of x of a MoSix film having a thickness of 3,000 A. As may be seen from the graph shown in Fig. 3, the sheet resistance increases with an increase in the amount of silicon. With recent trends for larger LSIs, the wiring layer is becoming thinner, and the resistance is increasing. Since such an increase in the resistance increases delay time through such a wiring layer, the wiring resistance must be lowered. Thus, the resistance, that is, the sheet resistance of the wiring layer is preferably small. Thus, from the graph shown in Fig. 3, when a molybdenum silicide film is to be formed, the value of x of the formula MoSix must be about 4.0 or less so as to obtain a sheet resistance of 5 Q or less. Fig. 4 shows the relative probability of occurrence of anomalous oxidation as a function of the value of x in the formula MoSi when a molybdenum silicide film having this formula is oxidized at l,0000C. It is seen from the graph shown in Fig. 4 that the relative probability significantly changes before and after x 2 the relative probability decreases abruptly when x becomes larger than 2. Fig. 5 shows the thermal stress as a function of the value x of the formula MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film. Dotted curve A corresponds to a molybdenum silicide film formed by annealing in a dry O2 gas atmosphere at 1,000 C for 30 minutes, and solid curve B corresponds to a molybdenum silicide film formed by annealing in N2 gas atmosphere at l,0000C for 30 minutes. It is seen from the graph shown in Fig. 5 that the stress abruptly decreases when the value x is 2 or less. Since the thermal stress may be decreased significantly in this manner, peeling, separation or the like of gate electrodes or capacitor electrodes formed by conventional MoSi can be prevented.Furthermore, the effective channel length may be designed with high precision. Fig. 6 shows the flat band voltage VFB, i.e., the threshold voltage VTH of a transistor, as a function of the value of x of the formula MoSi of a molybdenum silicide film. As may be seen from Fig. 6, when the value of x is within the range of 2.0 x 4.0, variations in the voltage VFB are small and stable.Accordingly, MoSix with x falling within this range may be suitably used for a semiconductor device for channel control below a gate film of a MOS transistor or the like. It is concluded from the measurements shown in the respective graphs described above that a molybdenum silicide having a formula MoSi with x falling within the range of 2.0 x 4.0 may be suitably used for manufacturing a semiconductor device. It is also found out that a molybdenum silicide having a formula MoSix with x falling within the range between 2.2 and 3.5 is particularly preferable for manufacturing a semiconductor device. Although the above description has been made with reference to a case wherein molybdenum is used as a high melting point metal, similar results were found to be obtainable with other high melting point metals such as tungsten W , tantalum Ta , or titanium Ti . The relationship between the sheet resistance and the value of x of a formula WSix of a tungsten silicide film and the relationship between the thermal stress and the value of x were examined. The obtained results are shown in Figs. 7 and 8. It is seen from the graphs shown in Figs. 7 and 8 that a tungsten silicide film having a formula WSi with x falling within the range of 2.0 x 4.0 may be suitably used for manufacturing a semiconductor device. The experimenting conditions for obtaining the results shown in Figs. 7 and 8 were the same as those for Figs. 3 and 5.Referring toFig. 8, dotted curve C corresponds to a tungsten silicide film annealed in a dry x gas atmosphere at l,0000C for 30 minutes and solid curve D corresponds to a tungsten silicide film annealed in a N2 gas atmosphere at l,0000C for 30 minutes. As can be seen from the above description, according to the present invention, a high melting point metal silicide is used for a conductive layer.This facilitates process design since the manufacturing process for polysilicon may be used. Furthermore, the metal silicide according to the present invention has a resistance which is about 1 10 of that of polysilicon. Accordingly, when such a metal silicide is used for wiring or electrodes, a high speed semiconductor device may be manufactured. When a high melting point metal silicide film having the composition as defined above is used for a dynamic memory, micropatterning and low resistance for high operating speed required for a dynamic memory may be satisfied. Furthermore, the film according to the present invention may be useful as a stable conductive film even in a high temperature oxidizing atmosphere and serves as a mask for ion implantation. The film of the present invention thus allows self aligned formation of an impurity diffusion region. A high melting point metal silicide used in the present invention allows good adhesion withSiO2 and may therefore be used for gate electrodes or capacitive electrodes. According to the present invention, a high melting point metal M of a high melting point metal silicide having a formula MS x may be a combination of at least two members selected from Mo, W, Ta, and Ti.