# High speed field effect transistor employing heterojunction.

## Abstract
A high speed FET having a heterojunction is disclosed. The FET is operable with a small dynamic or internal resistance and a high applied voltage and comprises at least three semiconductor layers so that the depletion layer formed into the second semi conductor layer 23 by the third semiconductor layer 24 functioning as a gate elec trode extends over the total thickness or a part of the second semiconductor layer 23 when said gate electrode is not biased and changes its thickness when said gate electrode is biased.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A field effect transistor comprising a first semiconductor layer which is intrinsic or, of a first conductivity type having a low impurity density a second semiconductor layer of a second conductivity type formed on said first semiconductor layer, said second semiconductor layer inducing an inversion region of said second conductivity type at the interface with said first semicdnductor layer as a result of the contact therebetween a third semiconductor layer of said first conductivity type formed on said second semiconductor layer and forming a depletion layer in said second semiconductor layer over the total thickness of second semiconductor layer means for functioning said third semiconductor layer as a gate electrode and a drain electrode and a source electrode separately and electrically connected to said inversion region. 2. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said field effect transistor further comprises regions of said second conductivity type formed between said inversion region and said source and drain electrodes. 3. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the impurity density of said third semiconductor layer is higher than the impurity density of said second semiconductor layer. 4. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the impurity contained in said third semiconductor layer is diffused into said second semiconductor layer from said third semiconductor layer. 5. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said first conductivity type is p type, and said second semiconductor layer is of a semiconductor which has a lower electron affinity than said first semiconductor layer. 6. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said first semiconductor layer is of GaAs, and said second and third semiconductor layers are of GaAÀs. 7. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 5, wherein said first and third semiconductor layers are of GaAs, and said second semiconductor layer is of GaAQAs. 8. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said first conductivity type is n type, and said second semiconductor layer is of a semiconductor which has a larger sum of electron affinity and energy band gap than said first semiconductor layer. 9. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 8, wherein said first semiconductor layer is of Ge, and said second and third semiconductor layers are of GaAs. 10. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said first semiconductor layer is a layer selected from a group consisting of GaAs andInGaAs, and said second and third semiconductor layers are layers selected from a group of GaAQAs, InP and AÌnAs. 11. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said depletion laye r extends over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode is unbiased. 12. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said depletion layer does not extend over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode is unbiased but extends over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode is biased. 13. The field effect transistor as claimed in Claim 1 further comprising a fourth semiconductor layer of second on second saidEMI27.1 conductivity type formedEMI27.2 saidEMI27.3 semiconductor layer and forming a barrier preventing second oxidation and deterioration of saidEMI27.4 semiconductor layer while maintaining a low surface second potential of saidEMI27.5 semiconductor layer. 14. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 13, wherein said first conductivity type is p type, and said second semiconductor layer is of a semiconductor which has a lower electron affinity than said first semiconductor layer. 15. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 14, wherein said first and fourth semiconductor layers are of GaAs, and said second and third semiconductor layers are of GaAQAs. 16. The field effect transistor as claimed in , third Claim 14, wherein said first and fourth semiconductor layers are of GaAs, and sa secbnd semiconductor layer is of GaAÀs. 17. The field effect transistor .as claimed inClaim 13, wherein said first conductivity type is n type, and said second semiconductor layer is of a semiconductor which has a larger sum of electron affinity and energy band gap than said first semiconductor layer. 18. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 17, wherein said first semiconductor layer is of Ge, and said second and fourth semiconductor layers are of GaAs. 19. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 13, wherein said first semiconductor layer is a layer selected from a group consisting ofGaAs and InGaAs, and said second and third semiconductor layers are layers selected from a group of GaAB As, InP and AÌnAs. 20. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 13, wherein said depletion layer extends over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode is unbiased. 21. The field effect transistor as claimed inClaim 13, wherein said depletion layer does not extend over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode is unbiased but extends over the total thickness of said second semiconductor layer when said gate electrode ts biased.

## Description
BIGH SPEED FIELD EFFECT TRANSISTOR EMPLOYING HETEROJUNCTION BACKGROUND OF TBE INVENTIONField of the Invention This invention relates to a high speed fieldeffect transistor FET provided with a heterojunction using compound semiconductors.Prior Art A heterojunction of n GakAs and high purity GaAs layers formed by molecular beam epitaxy, a so called modulation doped structure, has an extremely high electron mobility at low temperatures such as that of liquid nitrogen. Therefore, the application of such a modulation doped structure to FETs has been studied.For example, in Applied Physics Letter, Vol. 40, No.6, Pages 530 532, an FET is proposed which comprises a layer of high purity p type GaAs grown on a semiinsulating substrate, a thin n type undoped GaAÀs layer grown thereon, an Si doped GaAQAs layer grown on the undoped GaAQAs layer, a gate electrode forming aSchottky junction with the Si doped GaAQAs layer and source and drain electrodes contacting ohmically with the Si doped GaMAs layer. The Si doped and undoped GaMAs layers under the gate electrode are completely depleted to form a normally off type FET by a built in potential of the Schottky barrier formed by the gate electrode.Electron density is increased to formN type conductive layers at the interface of the GaAs layer and the undoped GaAÀs layer on portions where the gate electrode does not exist. An N type conductive channel is formed at the interface of the GaAs layer and the undoped GaMAs layer under the gate electrode by an electrical potential applied to theSchottky gate electrode by capacitive coupling with the depleted GaMAs layers. Consequently, the transistor is actuated. High speed operation can be obtained in such a transistor having a Hall mobility of 38,000 cm2V lsec 1 at 770K. However, this transistor exhibits drawbacks based on the Schottky junction type gate electrode. That is, to form a Schottky Si doped junction, theEMI2.1 GaAÀs layer must have low impurity denisty and reduced thickness. If not present, the depletion layer formed by the Schottky junction will be broken or it expands to an unfavorable extent. This results in a considerably high dynamic or internal resistance of the transistor.Further, becuase the breakdown voltage of the Schottky junction is essentially low, the voltage applicable to the gate is limited to a low voltage. Furthermore, the n type conductive channel at the interface of the GaAs and undoped GaAÀs layers is very sensitive to the surface state of the Si doped potential is high, GaMAs layer. If the surfaceEMI3.1 the conductivity of the conductive channel becomes low or infinite. This adverse effect caused by the surface state can be removed by enlarging the thickness of theSi doped GaMAs layer except for the portion under the gate electrode or depositing an type GaAs layer on the Si doped GaABAs layer except for the gate electrode portion.However, this additional structure adversely affects the planarity at the surface of the upper most GaMAs layer, resüting in an increased number of manufacturing steps, a difficulty in shaping the uppermost GaA As layer and a difficulty in obtaining a reliable surface passivation. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of this invention is to obtain an FET operable at high speed with a small dynamic or internal resistance and a high voltage applicable to the gate electrode. According to one aspect of this invention, there is provided an FET which comprises a first semiconductor layer of an intrinsic semiconductor or of a first conductivity type having a low impurity density a second semiconductor layer of a second conductivity type formed on the first semiconductor layer, the second semiconductor layer being a semiconductor allowing the formation of an inversion region of the second conductivity type at the interface of the first and second semiconductor layers a third semiconductor layer of the first conductivity type formed on a part of the second semiconductor layer, the third semiconductor layer having an impurity concentration allowing the formation of a depletion layer over the total thickness of the second semiconductor layer means for applying a gate potential to the third semiconductor layer and means positioned on both sides of the third semiconductor layer for applying a source potential and a drain potential to the inversion region at the interface of the first and second semiconductor layers. For an n channel FET the first conductivity type is p type and the second conductivity type is n type.The second semiconductor layer is a semiconductor which has a lower electron affinity than the first semiconductor layer. To the contrary, for the p channel FET, the first conductivity type is n type and the second conductivity type is p type.The second semiconductor layer is a semiconductor which has a larger sum of electron affinity and energy band gap than the first semiconductor layer. Further, in the case of a normally off type FET, the impurity concentration of the third semiconductor layer should be selected to a value which extends the depletion layer over the total thickness of the second semiconductor layer when the third semiconductor is unbiased. For the normally on type FET, the impurity concentration of the third semiconductor layer should be selected at a value which extends the depletion of the p n junction layer over the total thickness of the second semi negatively conductor layer when the third semiconductor layer is biased.EMI5.1 According to this inventibn, a p n junction gate is formed by the second semiconductor layer and the third semiconductor layer. The thickness of the depletion layer due to the p n junction is generally larger than the depletion layer due to the Schottky junction and can be widely controlled by adjusting a difference in impurity density between the second semiconductor layer and the third semiconductor layer. That is, for obtaining the same depletion layer as theSchottky junction in the prior art, the impurity density of the second semiconductor layer may therefore be increased to correspondingly increase the carrier density of an inversion layer formed at the interface of the first and second semiconductor layers can be kept high accordingly. Thus an FET with a small dynamic or internal resistance can be obtained. Furthermore, because the thickness of the depletion layer due to the p n junction is essentially larger than the depletion layer due to the Schottky junction, the thickness of the second semiconductor layer may be increased. If the thickness of the second semiconductor layer is large, the inversion layer formed at the interface of the first and second semiconductor layer becomes free from the surface state of the second semiconductor layer. Thus a stable and highly conductive inversion layer is obtained at the interface of the first and second semiconductor layers. The thickness of the second semiconductor layer under the third semiconductor gate layer may be increased by controlling the impurity density of the second and or third semiconductor layer.Therefore, the present invention enables the realization of an FET having stable electrical characteristics obtained without affecting the surface pliinarity, so that the achievement of an easy manufacturieg process having a decreased number of manufacturing steps, the easy shaping of the second semiconductor layer, and the easy making of a surface passivation are made possible. Another advantage of the invention is that a high voltage may be applied to the gate electrode.The barrier height and the reverse breakdown voltage of the p n junction is exceptionally high compared to those of the Schottky junction. Therefore, the FET of this invention operates as a normal transistor even when an input signal with a large voltage is applied thereto. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS The above and other features and objects of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a cross sectional view of one example of a conventional FET Fig. 2 is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium, taken along the line A A of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium, taken along the line B B of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view of another example of a conventional FET Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view of a still other example of a conventional FET Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view of a first embodiment of the present invention Fig. 7 a is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium, taken along the line C C of Fig. 6 Fig. 7 b is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium, taken along the line D D of Fig. 6 Fig. 8 is an energy band diagram when a positive voltage is applied to the gate electrode of the first embodiment, taken along line C C of Fig. 6 Fig. 9 a to Fig. 9 e are cross sectional views of each stage of the process of manufacturing the first embodiment of the invention Fig. 10 is a cross sectional view of a modification of the first embodiment of the invention Fig. 11 is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium, taken along the line E E of Fig. 10 Fig. 12 is a cross sectional view of a second embodiment of the invention Fig. 13 is a cross sectional view of a third embodiment of the invention and Fig. 14 is an energy band diagram in a thermal equilibrium at the section of the gate region of a fifth embodiment of the invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION 0F TEE INVENTION Referring to Fig. 1, an FET with a conventional modulation doped structure includes a high purityGaAs layer 12 free from impurities and formed on aGaAs substrate 11 semi insulated by Cr doped therein.An n type GÅa As layer 13 in which an impurity of Si or the like is doped is provided on the layer 12.Source and drain electrodes 15 and 16 are formed by depositing a metal on the layer 13 and diffusing the metal into the GaMAs layer 13 to reach the layer 12.A gate electrode 14 isolated from but located between the source and drain electrodes 15 and 16 is formed to make a Schottky junction with the layer 13. In a state of thermal equilibrium, the energy band diagram at a portion between the gate electrode 14 and the source or drain electrode 15 or 16 B B in Fig. 1 is shown in Fig. 3. In Figs. 2 and 3, EF denotes the Fermi level, EC the level of the lower edge of the conduction band, and EV the level of the upper edge of the valence band. The surface potential of the n type GaMAs layer 13 is so small that the surface depletion layer due to the surface potential is thinner than the total thickness of the layer 13, and consequently, the. surface depletion layer never reaches the high purity GaAs layer 12.A quantity of electrons corresponding to the charge due to an ionized donor impurities in the layer 13 form electron layers 17 at the interface of lhe GaMAs layer 13 and the GaAs layer 12. The electron layers 17 are connected in ohmic contact to the source and drain regions. On the other hand, the energy band diagram at a portion under the gate electrode A A in Fig. 1 is shown in Fig. 2 as a case of a normally off type FET. The thickness and impurity density of the n type GaMAs layer 13 are established so that layer 13 is depleted over the total thickness thereof by the built in potential of the Schottky barrier due to the contact with the gate electrode 14. Therefore, no electron layer is formed at the interface of the layers 12 and 13 under the electrode 14. Conse gently, in the absence of any potential applied to the gate electrode 14, no conductive channel is formed between the source and drain electrodes 15 and 16, with the result that no current flows.By the application of a positive voltage to the electrode 14, electrons are generated at the interface of theGaAs layer 12 and the GaMAs layer 13 by capacitive coupling with the layer 13 to form an n type conductive channel between the electron layers 17.Thus, current flows between the source and drain electrodes 15 and 16. As described herein, the semiconductor device shown in Fig. 1 operates as an FET which amplifies an input signal applied to the gate electrode 14. For the semiconductor device of Fig. 1, to operate as an FET with a small internal resistance, the layers 17 must be kept at a sufficiently low specific resistance. This may be achieved by sufficiently increasing the impurity density of the n type GaMAs layer 13 to cause the gate electrode to be brought into ohmic contact with the layer 13. Another method for keeping the layers 17 at a sufficiently low specific resistance without adjusting the impurity density of the layer 13, is to keep the surface potential of the layer 13 sufficiently small.However, the surface control of Group III V compound semiconductors is not an easy task. If the surface potentialEMI10.1 of the GaMAs layer 13 is high, the surface depletion layer extends to decrease the number of carrier in the electron layers 17, resulting in an increase in a specific resistance of the layers 17. In particular, when the surface potential increases to a value the same as the surface potential under the gate electrode 14, the electron layers 17 disappear. Conceivable structures for eliminating these influences exerted by the surface potential have been proposed. Fig. 4 shows one of these proposals wherein an n type GaMAs layer 13 is formed thick except at the portion under the gate electrode 14. The depletion layer extended by the surface potential stays removed from the GaAs tayer 12 in the thick GaAQAs layer 13 . Accordingly, the influence of the surface potential to the electron layers 17 is minimized. Fig. 5 shows another proposal wherein an n type GaAs layer 18 having a high impurity density is provided over the n type GaMAs layer 13 except where the gate electrode 14 exists.Similar to the thick GaMAs layer 13 , the depletion layer due to the surface potential of the GaAs layer 18 is maintained away from the GaAs layer 12 to minimize the influence of the surface potential to the electron layers 17.However, the structures of Figs. 4 and 5 adversely affect the flatness of the GaMAs layer 13 which makes it difficult to manufacture the FET. This is attributed to an increased number of manufacturing steps, difficult formation of the GaMAs layer 13 and the GaAs layer 18, and unreliable passivation of the device surface due to fine unevenness. It is also difficult to form the FET in a monolithic integrated circuit. Another disadvantage of the conventional FET is that, as will be apparent from Fig. 2, the height of the barrier between the gate electrode 14 and the electrons to be prodkrced at the interface of theGaAs layer 12 and the GaMAs layer 13 under the gate electrode 14 is nearly the same as the usual metalsemiconductor junction and is only 0.8 eV. Accordingly, a large positive voltage cannot be applied to the gate electrode 14. In other words, the possible input signals are limited to small voltages. Referring now to Fig. 6, a first embodiment of the invention comprises a p type GaAs layer 22 with an effective acceptor density of approximately 1 X 1014 cam 3, which is formed to have a thickness of several microns over a semi insulating GaAs substrate 21 with Cr doped therein. A lower acceptor density would be preferable for making the p typeGaAs layer 22. An acceptor density of about 1 x 1014 cam 3 does not affect the device operation, but it should be less than 1 x 1016 cm 3, to main As tain high mobility. An n type Ga0 7ABo 3 layer 23 with an effective density of 5 X 1017 cm 3 and a thickness of about 600 A is provided on the GaAs layer 22.The donor density of the GaMAs layer 23 is preferably selected in a range of 1 x 1017 cm 3 and As As for 1 x 1017 cm J. A p type GaO 7AQo 3 EMI13.1 layer 24 to have an effective acceptor density of 1 x 1019 am 3, a thickness of about 100 and a width of about 0.5 jjm is provided on the GaMAs layer 23 at its center to form a p n junction therewith. A metallic gate electrode 25 of AQ, for example, is formed in ohmic contact with the p type GaMAs layer 24.The impurity density of the layer 24 should be higher than that of the GaMAs layer 23 and selected to be a value high enough to allow the depletion layer to extend in the n type GaMAs layer 23 to reach the p type GaAs layer 22 when unbiased. Source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 are formed in the following steps. An alloy of Au and Ge is evaporated on the GaMAs layer 23 at the portion where the electrodes 26 and 27 are formed, followed by the evaporation of Ni onto the alloy of Au and Ge. Thereafter, by alloying the Ni and the alloy of Au and Ge with the GaAQAs layer 23 and the GaAs layer 22 in an annealing procedure, the metallic alloy thereof is grown downwardly to reach the interface of the layers 22 and 23. The formed metallic alloy is used as the source electrode 26 and the drain electrode 27.Therefore, the metallic alloy must have a property to ohmic contact with carrier electron in this case layers 28 at the interface of the layers 22 and 23. As alternative materials, a semi insulativeInP may be used for the semi insulative GaAs 21. Similarly, a high purity InGaAs may be substituted for the high purity GaAs layer 22, n type InP or n type AQInAs for the n type GaAQAs 23 and p type InP orP type AQInAs for the P type GaMAs 24. It will be appreciated that the conductivity type of all the semiconductor layers 22, 23, and 24 may be reversed to obtain a p channel type FET. For such p channel donor transistor, the upper limit of theEMI14.1 density should be 1 x 1016 cm 3 to maintain a high mobility. Next is shown a mode wherein the FET constituted as above operates as a normally off transistor.Figs. 7 a and 7 b are energy band diagrams in thermal equilibrium, wherein Fig. 7 a is a section view taken along the line C C gate region ofFig. 6 and Fig. 7 b is taken along the line D between gate and source regions of Fig. 6. Fig. 8 is an energy band diagram taken along the line C C of Fig. 6 when an n channel 29 is formed at the interface of the GaAs layer 22 and the GaMAs layer 23 under the GaMAs layer 24 by applying a positive voltage to the gate electrode 25. In the drawing, EF denotes the quisi Fermi level. Namely, in the thermal equilibrium, the layer 23 under the layer 24 is completely depleted only by the diffusion potential difference of the p n junction with the layer 24. Accordingly, electrons are not stored at the interface of the n type GaMAs layer 23 and the p type GaAs layer 22, with the result that no electron layer is formed. This mode is illustrated in Fig. 7 a .On the other hand, electron layers 28 are formed at the interface of the layers 23 and 22 except for the portion under the p type GaMAs layer 24, as shown inFig. 7 b . The electron layers 28 are in ohmic contact with the source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 and operate essentially as a source region and a drain region. By applying a positive voltage to the gate electrode 25, electrons are jirodu ed at the hetero interface of the n type GaMAs layer 23 and the p type GaAs layer 22 in the gate region by capacitive coupling with the depleted layer 23 so as to form an electron layer 29 shown in Fig. 8. A current flows between the source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 through the layer 29 and the electron layers 28, thus producing the transistor operation. With the embodiment of Fig. 6, since the diffusion potential of the p n junction is larger than the built in potential of the Schottky barrier, theFET of Fig. 6 may have a thick n type GaMAs layer 23 and or a high donor density of the layer 23. In order to extend the depletion layer due to the junction of the GaAQAs layers 23 and 24 into only the n type GaMAs layer 23, the impurity doping level of the p type GaAQAs layer 24 should be made larger than the impurity doping level of the layer 23.Thus, the electron storage in the electron layers 28 at the interfaceEMI16.1 of the p type GaAs layer 22 and the n type GaMAs layer 23 can be made larger by increasing the thickness and or the impurity doping level of the layer 23 to minimize the internal resistance of the FET. It is preferable that the p type GaMAs layer 24 is somewhat thicker than the depletion layer due to junction between the layers 23 and 24 extending to the layer 24. However, when the impurity is doped at a high density as in thisi embodiment above, any extension of the depletion layer is limited. As a result, the p type GaAQAs layer 24 can be made thin, so that the unevenness of the surface can be suppressed to a degree almost similar to that of a planerEMI16.2 FET. The first embodiment of Fig. 6 will now be compared with conventional examples. A p type GaAs layer which is 1 x 1014 cm 3 in effective acceptor density is used for the GaAs layer 12, and an n type As Ga0.7A b.3 EMI16.3 layer with an effective donor density of 5 X 1017 cm 3 is used for the n type GaMAs layer 13.The barrier height of the Schottky gate is given at 0.8 eV, and the surface potential of the layer 13 other than the portion under the gate electrode is 0.4V, given atEMI16.4 the same as the surface potential of the n type GaMAs layer 23 of this invention.Further, it is assumed that the interfaces between each of the semiconductor layers 11, 12 and 13 are formed abruptly to perfection. In the conventional examples, the thickness of the n type GaAlAs layer 13 a in the normally off FET is about 350 A, the surface GaAQAs 13 0.4V, potential of theEMI17.1 layer 1 isEMI17.2 and the sheet density of electrons in the electron layers 17 at the interface of the layers 12 and 13 is about 7 x 1011 cm ê. On the other hand, in this invention, the same as the the normally off FET havingEMI17.3 threshold voltageEMI17.4 conventional examplesEMI17.5 can have the thickness of the n type GaAÀs layer 23 increased to about 600 , and hence the surface density of electrons in the electron layers 28 at the interface of the GaAs layer 22 and the GaMAs layer 23 may grow very high to about 1.4 1.4 X 1012 Cm when compared with the conventional examples. In the first embodiment of Fig. 6, the thickness of the n type GaMAs layer 23 can be maintained at about 400 even after increasing the effective donor density of the n type GaMAs layer 23 to 1 x 1018 cm 3. In this case, the surface density of electrons in the electron layers 28 at the interface of the GaAs layer 22 and the GaMAs layer 23 becomes about 2 x 1012 cm 2, and the internal resistance of the transistor can be further decreased. Furthermore, in the conventional examples, if the surface potential of the n type GaMAs layer 13 increases and thus becomes the same as that of the part under the gate electrode 14, the electron layers 17 will not be formed, therefore source and drain resistances become infinite.In this invention, however, if the surface potential of the n type GaMAs layer 23 is the same as the surface potential under the gate electrode of the conventional examples, there is still a density of about 1 x 1012 cm 3 electrons in the electron layers 28. As described, in this invention, the internal resistance of the transistor is not influenced much by the surface potential of the n type GaAQAs layer 23. Further, in this invention, the height of the barrier of the gate electrode against electrons in the channel to be formed between the electron layers 28 is about 1.8 eV, which is so very high it is at least twice that of a conventional Schottky gate. Therefore, the range of input signal voltage to be applied is much higher than that for the conventional examples. Next, the fundamental manufacturing process of anFET according to the above first embodiment will be described with reference to Figs. 9 a to 9 d . The high purity GaAs layer 22, n type GaMAs layer 23 and p type GaMAs layer 24 are grown consecutively onto the semi insulating GaAs substrate 21 by, for example, molecular beam e itaxy Fig. 9 a . An AQ film, for example, is disposed over the whole surface of the p type GaMAs layer 24, and then etched selectively to form the gate electrode 25 Fig. 9 b .Alternatively, the gate electrode 25 is formed by covering the unwanted parts of the p type GaAQAs layer 24 with a film of photoresist, depositing AQ film over the entire surface, and then removing the M film on the photoresist together with the photoresist. The source electrode 26 and the drain ëectrode 27 are formed by, for example, plating an alloy of Au and Ge and a film of Ni consecutively on the GaMAs layer 24 and alloying the metals with the semiconductors of the layers 24, 23 and 22 Fig. 9 c . Next, the p type GaMAs layer 24 between the gate electrode 25 and the source electrode 26, and between the gate electrode 25 and the drain electrode 27 is removed by etching Fig. 9 d . The process shown in Fig. 9 c of forming the source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 is not necessarily limited to where they are formed after the gate electrode 25 is formed they can be formed at any time after all the semiconductor layers 22, 23 and 24 have been grown. For etching the p type GaAQAs layer 24 in the process of Fig. 9 d , the gate electrode 25 can be used as a mask for etching.The etching of the GaMAs layer 24 can also be done while measuring the current voltage characteristics of two or three of the gate, source and drain electrodes 25, 26 and 27. The timing for stopping etching for minimizing the source resistance can easily be determined by measuring the current voltage characteristics at the same time of etching. Furthermore, the semiconductor device of the invention is capable of controlling its threshold voltages by the diffusion of an acceptor impurity from the p type GaMAs layer 24 by heat treatment into the n type GaMAs layer 23. Spicifically, when Be, Zn, etc., are used as acceptor impurities in the p type GaAQAs layer 24, these acceptor impurities can be diffused at temperature 600 C, for example, much lower than that at which the donor impurities Si, for example of the n type GaMAs layer 23 diffuse, therefore the position of the p n junction between the p type GaMAs layer 24 and the n type GaMAs layer 23 can be shifted to the layer 23 side without affecting heterol unction theEMI20.1 of the layer 23 and the highpurity GaAs layer 22. The threshold voltage can accordingly be shifted to the positive side. The above heat treatment can be done at any time during the process shown in Fig. 9 a to Fig. 9 d . When it is carried out after the processing level shown inFig. 9 d , the sectional structure of the transistor is shown in Fig. 9 e . The heat treatment carried out after the process of Fig. 9 d allows the diffusion to be caused while measuring the characteristics, which is convenient for controlling the threshold voltage. Other semiconductors can be used in the first embodiment of this invention. For example, a p typeGaAs layer 34 can be employed, as shown in Fig. 10, instead of the p type GaMAs layer 24. When a p type GaAs layer 34 is employed, an etchant which does not etch the n type GaMAs layer 23 or which has an extremely small etching rate for n type GaMAs can be selected as the etchant for selectively etching the p type GaAs layer 34 . By using such an etchant, not only can the etching accuracy be improved but also an FET with a short effective gate length can be obtained by etching the p type GaAs layer 34 to a given shape with the gate electrode 25 acting as an etching mask, and then further side etching the layer 34.Alkaline KI3, KI and KOH aqueous solutions can be used as the etchant in this case. According to this modification, the thermal equilibrium energy band diagram of the gate electrode portion at the section E E of Fig. 10 is shown inFig. 11. The height of the gate barrier is somewhat the decreased as compared with the case whereinEMI21.1 As p type Gag 7Ae0.3 EMI21.2 surface density of electrons in the electron layers at the interface of the p type GaAs layer 22 and the n type GaMAs layer 23 remains almost unchanged. Other embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to Figs. 12 and 13. InFigs. 12 and 13, like reference numerals refer to parts similar to those in the first embodiment ofFig. 6, accordingly no further description will be given therefor. According to a second embodiment shown in Fig. 12, N regions 30 and 31 are formed near the source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 so that electrons are smoothly supplied and efficiently collected to and from the electron layers 28 at the interface of p type GaAs layer 22 and the n type GaAÀs layer 23. According to this embodiment, since the electrons are supplied from the N regions 30 and 31, not only can the internal resistance of the field effect transistor be decreased, but also the ohmic contacts of the source and drain electrodes 26 and 27 can be improved. Referring to Fig. 13, a third embodiment of the invention has an n type GaAs layer 32 provided over the n type GaAÀs layer 23 and the p type GaAs layer 24 provided over the layer 32. Oxidation and deterioration with time of the n type GaAQAs layer 23 can be prevented by the n type GaAs layer 32.Further, the surface potential of the n type GaAÀs layer 23 can be maintained low by the n type GaAs layer 32, thus increasing the sheet density of electrons in the electron layers 28. It is not necessary for the layer 32 to form a definite layer.The layer 32 may be in any state that will allow the n type GaAÀs layer 23 to change from GaAÀs to GaAs gradually toward the surface. Modifications of this invention may also be practised. For example, in one modification the device is fundamentally the same in structure as that of Fig. 6 except that high purity GaMAs in which no impurity is doped is applied over the portion wherein the n type GaAÀs layer 23 abuts the p type GaAs layer 22. The electron mobility at the interface between the p type GaAs layer 22 and the GaMAs layer 23 can be further increased. According to another modification of this invention, a p channel FET can be obtained. The fundamental structure is the same as that of Fig. 6.The energy band structure will be described with reference to Fig. 14 showing the energy band diagram in the region of the gate electrode. A first semiconductor layer 22 of high purity or n type low impurity density is provided on a high resistance substrate. A second semiconductor layer 23 which is p typeEMI23.1 with a larger sum öf electron affinity and band gap than that of the first semiconductor layer 22 is provided over the first layer 22 . A gate electrode 25 is provided on the p type layer 23 over an n type layer 24 . The source and drain electrodes are disposed on either side of the gate electrode 25 . The thermal equilibrium energy band diagram of the gate region is shown in Fig. 14. As is apparent from Fig. 14, the p type layer 23 is completely depleted in the gate region, and the transistor action is effected by capacitive coupling with the depleted semiconductor layer. Ge can be used for the first semiconductor layer 22 and GaAs can be used for the layer 23 and the layer 24 . Many other alternatives and modifications to the above described embodiments can be easily made within the scope of the invention defined by the appended claims.