# Dialkyl malonates as organic suncreen adjuvants.

## Abstract
Compositions containing an organic sunscreen and substituted dialkyl malonate adjuvants therefor are very effective in providing broad spectrum sunscreen protection.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A composition adapted for application to the human skin comprising a cosmetic oil carrier containing distributed therein an organic sunscreen such as 2 ethylhexyl p methoxy cinnamate, homomenthyl salicylate, p aminobenzoic acid or one of its esters, p dimethylaminobenzoic acid or one of its. esters, hydroxy or dihydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone, or a benzalphthalide, characterised in that it further comprises, as an adjuvant for the organic sunscreen, a substituted dialkyl malonate. 2 A composition according to claim 1, characterised in that the adjuyant is a substituted dialkyl malonate of the general formulaEMI9.1 in which Rb is an optionally substituted aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic group, n is 0 or 1, R is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and R is an alkyl group. 3. A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the substituted dialkyl malonate is selected from the group consisting of methoxy benzal diethyl malonate, p methoxy benzal di iso butyl malonate, cinnamal diethyl malonate, indolal diethyl malonate, fural diethyl malonate, 3,4,5 trimethoxy benzal diethyl malonate, and diethyl methyl cinnamal malonate. 4. A coynosition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the adjuvant is p methoxy benzal diisobutyl malonate, cinnamal diethyl ma onate, or diethyl i methyl cinnamal malonate. 5. A composition according to any one of claims, 1 to 4, characterised in that the organic sunscreen is A pentoxybenzalphthalide. 6. A method of protecting the human skin from the effects of erythema and tanning radiation in sunlight which comprises applying to said skin an effective sunscreening amount of an organic sunscreen, such as 2 ethylhexyl p methoxy cinnamate, homomenthyl salicylate, p amino benzoic acid or one of its esters, p dimethylamino benzoic acid or one of its esters, hydroxy or dihydroxy 4 methoxy benzophenone, or a benzalphthalide, characterised in that there is further applied to said skin, as an adjuvant for the organic sunscreen, a substituted dialkyl malonate. 7. A method according to claim 6, characterised in that the adjuvant is a substituted dialkyl malonate of the general formula I given in claim 2. 8. A method according to claim 6 or claim 7, characterised in that the substituted dialkyl malonate is selected from the group consisting of p methoxy benzal diethyl malonate, p methoxy benzal di iso butyl malonate, cinnamal diethyl malonate, indolal diethyl malonate, fural diethyl malonate, 3,4,5 tri methoxy benzal diethyl malonate, and diethyl i methyl cinnamal malonate. 9. A method according to any one of claims 6 to 8, characterised in that the adjuvant is p methoxy benzal di iso butyl malonate or cinnamal diethyl malonate, or diethyl methyl cinnamal malonate. 10. A method according to any one of claims 6 to 9, characterised in that the organic sunscreen is 4 pentoxybenzalphthalide.

## Description
DIALKYL MALONATES AS ORGANIC SUE SCREEN ADJUVANTS Extensive studies have been made of the ultraviolet radiation of sunlight and skylight reaching the surface of the earth and the effects of such radiation on the human skin. It has been established that the radiation between 290 nanometres and 315 nanometres produces substantially all of the burning, or erythemal energy, and a substantial portion of the tanning energy, while the radiation between 315 nanometres and 4.00 nanornetres prornotes incident tanning. The cosmetic industry has divided these spectra into respectively UV B, and UV A.The different intensities and the erythemal and tanning effectiveness of the various wave lengths within these ranges have been established and methods have been determined for calculating accurately their effects on normal untanned skin. Approximately 76 of the physiological tanning potential of sunlight is found in the ultraviolet range between 290 nanometres and 315 nanornetres, the so called UV B or erythemal area the balance is found in the range between 315 nanometres and 400 nanometres, the so called UV A or tanning area Typical organic sunscreens such as 2 ethylhexyl p methoxy cinnamate, homomenthyl salicylate, arnino benzoates, and hydroxy and dihydroxy 4 methoxy benzophenones, provide protection in the erythernal UV B area, but lesser protection in the tanning area. It is becoming increasingly apparent that ultraviolet in the tanning UV A area can also have detrimental effects on skin health, e.g. causing premature ageing as well as skin cancer. Accordingly the need has developed for more effective broad spectrum sun screens to filter out the entire radiation. This need can mean disrupting established formulation procedures, with the usual cosmetic oil carriers. Some malonates have been disclosed as UV absorbers for industrial uses. Typically they are completely unsuitable for cosmetic purpose in human application, e.g. German Patent 1,087,902. A malonate, diethyl p dimethyl amino benzalmalonate has been disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,895,104 as a conventional UV absorber in a polyamide resin film, but actually provides substantially no protection, even in the burning range. It has now been found that certain dialkyl substituted malonates, i.e. dialkyl esters of certain substituted malonic acids, provide surprising protection in the tanning area, particularly around 370 nanometres, and are compatible with, and adjuvants for, organic sunscreens. This permits of utilizing established formulation procedures. According to the present invention there is provided a composition adapted for application to the human skin comprising a cosmetic oil carrier containing distributed therein an organic sunscreen, such as 2 ethylhexyl p methoxy cinnamate , homomenthyl salicylate, p aminobenzoic acid or one of its esters, p dimethylaminobenzoic acid or one of its esters, a hydroxy or dihydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone, or a benzalphthalide, characterised in that it further comprises, as an adjuvant for the organic sunscreen, a substituted dialkyl nalonate. Preferably the adjuvant is a substituted dialkyl malonate of the general formula EMI3.1 in which R is an optionally substituted aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic group, n is O or 1, R is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group, and R is an alkyl group. in another aspect the invention provides a method of protecting the human skin from the effects of erythema and tanning radiation in sunlight which comprises applying to said skin an organic sunscreen, such as 2 ethylhexyl E methoxy cinnamate , homomenthyl salicylate, p amino benzolc acid or one of its esters, 2 dimethylamino benzoic acid or one of its esters, a hydroxy or dihydroxy 4 methoxybenzophenone, or a benzalphthalide, characterised in that there is further applied to said skin, as an adjuvant for the organic sunscreen, a substituted dialkyl malonate, preferably a substituted dialkyl malonate of the general formula 1 given above.Preferably the dialkyl malonate of the general formula I is selected from the group consisting of methoxy benzal diethyl malonate, p methoxy benzal di iso butyl malonate, cinnamal diethyl malonate, indolal diethyl malonate, fural diethyl malonate, 3,4,5 trimethoxy benzal diethyl malonate, and diethyl methyl cinnamal malonate0 The adjuvants useful in this invention are substituted dialkyl malonates in which the R alkyl group preferably has from 1 to 5 carbon atoms as illustrated in the following moiety EMI3.2 Typical groups R include methyl, ethyl, n and so iiojql, n and iso butyl, and n and iso amyl groups. As noted above n may be O or 1 in formula I whilst R is a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group containing preferably from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl or ethyl. The efficacy of the dialkyl malonates as adjuvants are determined in an empiric manner. Thus the particularly preferred compounds are methoxy benzal diethyl malonate diethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl prop 1 en 1,1 dioate of the formula p CH30 C6H4 CH C COOC2H5 2 p methoxy benzal di iso butyl malonate di i butyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl prop 1 en 1,1 dioate of the formula p CH3O C6 H4 CH C CC0 i C4Hg 2 cinnamal diethyl malonate Idiethyl 4 phenyl butadienl,l dioate of the formula C6H5 CH CH CH C COO C2H5 2 indolal diethyl malonate diethyl 3 indol 2 yl prop l en l,l dioate of the formula EMI4.1 fural diethyl malonate diethyl 3 fur 2 yl prop l en l,l dioate of the formula EMI5.1 3, 4, 5 trinethoxy benzal diethyl malonate diethyl 3 3 4 ,5 trimethoxyphenyl prop 1 en 1,1 dioate of the formula EMI5.2 and diethyl alpha niethyl cinnamal malonate diethyl 4 phenyl 3 methyl butadien 1,1 dioate of the formula C6H5 CH C CH3 CH C COOC2H5 2 . The cinnamal compound is especially effective. The adjuvants of this invention can .be prepared by a typical Knoevenagel reaction.EMI5.3 where R n and R are as defined above. The solids can be crystallized from e.g. iso propanol and the liquids can be fractionally distilled off under vacuum. The organic sunscreens with which the adjuvants of this invention are employed are discussed above. A benzalphthalide may also be used, Patent 4,333,920, particularly 4 pentoxybenzalphthalide The overall composition adapted for application to the human skin thus comprises a cosmetic oil carrier known to the trade, e.g. a carrier selected from mineral, vegetable and animal oils and iso propyl myristate, with an organic sunscreen, and an adjuvant of this invention. The sunscreen and the adjuvant are utilized in an amount sufficient to provide the desired protection for the skin, more particularly in an effective amount to provide substantial protection against erythemal and tanning radiation. Typical total amounts of sunscreens and adjuvants comprise up to about 10 wt. of the composition. This invention, product workup and properties of the composition will be better understood by reference to the following examples.Example 1 A mixture containing 35 2,2 dihydroxy4 methoxy benzophenone and 65 cinnamal diethyl malonate produced a total block when used in an otherwise conventional formulation based upon a cosmetic oil carrier at a concentration of between 5 and 10 in the final composition.Example 2 Between 5 6 of a mixture containing 50 2 ethylhexyl p dimethylamino benzoate and 50t diethyl cinnamal malonate produced a total block when incorporated in an otherwise conventional formulation based upon a cosmetic oil carrier.Example 3 Between 5 5.5 of a mixture containing 50 2 e thy Ihexyl p me thoxy cinnamate and 50 diethyl cinnamal malonate produced a total block when incorporated in an otherwise conventional formulation based upon a cosmetic oil carrier.Example 4 Between 4 58 5t of a mixture containing 25 4 pcntoxy benzalphthalide and 75 diethyl p methoxy benzal malonate produced a total block in an otherwise conventional formulation based upon a cosmetic oil carrier. Example 5 Between S 6 of a mixture containing 30 di iso butyl p methoxy benzal malonate and 70 4 pentoxy henzalphthalide produced a total block when incorporated into an otherwise conventional formulation based upon a cosmetic oil carrier.Example 6 Between 38 48 of a mixture containing 50 diethyl fural malonate produced a total block when incorporated in a formulation that was based upon a cosmetic oil carrier and that was otherwise conventional. Other formulations according to this invention provide similar results. Substituted derivatives of the adjuvants of this invention can be employed, particularly of the cinnamal diethyl malonate. Such substituted derivatives include, for example, diethyl ethyl cinnamal malonateO These examples demonstrate that the materials of this invention in even small quantities are extremely effective adjuvants for organic sunscreens and remedy the shortcomings of the latter. As can be seen5 mixtures of the materials of this invention, and also the organic sunscreens5 can be employed where desired. The advantages of this invention will be apparent to the skilled in the art. Improved, highly effective, novel broad spectrum sunscreen compositions are made available, utilizing a dialkyl malonate. It will be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific examples which have been offered as particular embodiments, and that modifications can be made without departing from the spirit thereof.