# Agent and method for influencing plant growth containing phosphonous acid peptides.

## Abstract
An agent for inhibiting plant growth, in particular a herbicide and plant growth inhibiting agent comprises, in addition to carriers and or other additives, at least one compound of formula CHEM or the corresponding zwitterion form in which R and R1 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, deuterium or an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring, a lower alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower akyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above, or R and R1 together form a polymethylene chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms, or R1 represents, together with the C R N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms or R2 and R3, independently, together with the C H N residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof.

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. An agent for influencing plant growth comprising, in addition to carriers and or other additives, at least one compound of formula EMI39.1 or the corresponding zwitterion form in which R and R may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, deuterium or an optionally substituted lower alkyl group lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring, a lover alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above, or R and R1 together form.a polymethylene chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen, nitrogen , or sulphur atoms, orl represents, together with the C R residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms a heterocyclic ra aw containing one or more nitrogen atoms or R2 and R3, independently, together with the C H N residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and n is 0, 1, 2, or 3 as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof. 2. An agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein R and R1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, deuter u optionally substituted lower alkyl, or lower alkyl substituted by cycloalkyl, aryl or by a mono or bicyclic monoaza or diazacyclic radicals, optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups or R1 represents, together with the CR N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, or lower alkyl substituted b cycloalkyl, aryl, or b a mono or bicylic monoaza or diazacyclic radical optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups or R2 or R3 each represents together with the CH N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete the 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 as sell as the esters and salts with physiologically acceptable alcohols, or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. 3. An agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein R and R1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen deuterium. methyl, ethyl1 n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, secondary butyl, tertiary butyl, optionally substituted b imidazolyl, indolyl, benzyl groups optionally substituted b one to three hydroxy groups, lower alkoxy lower alkylthio, amino or carbon groups or R1 represents together with the C R N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group R2 and R may be the same or different and each can be 3 hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, benzyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl, 1 hydroxyethyl, 2 methylthioethyl, imidazolymethyl, or indolylmethyl, or R2 or R3, respectivela, together with the CH N residue to which it is attached, represents the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is 0,1,2 or 3 as well as the esters and salts with physiologically acceptable alcohols, or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. 4 Ar a,et as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is hydrogen R1 is methyl R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl hydroxyethyl, 2 methylthioethyl, imidazolyl methyl or indolylmethyl, benzyl or R2 or R3 respectively, together with the CR N or CH N residue to which it is attached represents the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 and the esters anh salts thereof with physiologically acceptable alcohols or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. 5. An agent as claimed in claim 1 wherein the agent is in the form of a solid processing form, an active compound concentrate which is dispersible in water or a liquid processing form. 6. An agent as claimed in claims 1 and 5, wherein the content of the compound of formula I is between 0. o 95 . 7. An agent as claimed in claims land 5 where the content of the compound of formula I is between 1 and 80 . 8. An agent for influencing plant growth containing as active ingredient l D alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. 9. An agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient l L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. 10. An agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient l glycylamino ethanephosphonous acid. 11. An agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient 1 L valylamino ethanephosphonous acid. 12. An agent according to claim 1 containing as active ingredient l L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. 13. A method for influencing plant growth, comprising applying to the plants at least one compound of the formula I as defined in claim 1. 14. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the plant is a monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous plant and the agent is applied by post emergent treatment of the sown areas or of the plants. 15. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the plant is a grass, cereal crop, tobacco, soya or an ornamental plant. 16. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the amount applied of the compound of formula I is between 0.1 and 5 kg of active compound per hectare,for the treatment of existing crops. 17. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the amount applied of the compound of formula I is up to 4 kg of active compound, per hectare. 18. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein a herbicide of the diphenyl ether, phenylurea or triazine series is also used on cereal crops, maize, sugar cane, fruit or in viticulture.

## Description
Agent and method for influencing plant growth containing phosphonous acid peptides The present invention relates to a novel agent for influencing plant growth, in particular to a herbicidal and plant growth regulating agent, and to a process for inhibiting and suppressing plant growth in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, especially grasses, cereal crops, soya, tobacco and ornamental plants. According to the present invention, there is provided an agent for influencing plant growth, in particular a herbicide and plant growth inhibiting agent comprising, in addition. to carriers and or other additives, at least one compound of formulaEMI2.1 or the corresponding zwitterion form in which R and R1 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, deuterium or an optionally substituted lower alkyl groups lower alkenyl, lower alkynyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or heterocyclic radical containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms and which may be fused to an aromatic ring1 a lower alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by an aryl radical, a lower alkyl group substituted by a heterocyclic radical as defined above, or R and R1 together form a polymethylene chain optionally interrupted by an oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms,or R1 represents, together with the C R residue to which it is attached,the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and 22 and R3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, optionally substituted lower alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl or lower alkyl substituted by a cycloalkyl radical, lower alkyl substituted by a hetero cyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms a heterocyclic radical containing one or more nitrogen atoms or R2 and R3, independently, together with the C H N residue to which each is attached, may each represent the atoms required to complete a heterocyclic radical and n i 0, 1, 2, or 3 as well as the esters and salts thereof and all optical isomers thereof. The a amino acid residues or esters occurring in the peptides defined above may have theD,L L or D configuration. The term lower referred to above and hereinafter in connection with organic radicals or compounds respectively, defines such with up to 6, preferably up to 3 carbon atoms. The above listed radicals R, R1, R2 and R3 optionally may be substituted by one or more functional groups, as for example, free or etherified hydroxy or mercapto groups, optionally converted carboxyl groups, S substituted dithio groups, optionally substituted amino groups NR 4R5 in whichR4 and R5 may be the same or different and can be hydrogen or lower alkyl or optionally substituted guanidiono and or optionally substituted aryl groups or heterocyclic residues. Moreover R and R1 as lower alkyl group, aryl group or heterocyclic radical or an aryl group or heterocyclic radical as substituent of R or R1 as lower alkyl group may be substituted by one or more halogen atoms, NR4R5 groups in which R4 and R5 together form a polymethylene chain containing up to 6 carbon atoms which may optionally be interrupted by oxygen or nitrogen or an aryloxy group optionally substituted by hydroxy or an halogen atom as for example iodine. The substituents R, R1, R2 and R3 as lower alkyl group may be a straight or branched chain alkyl group of 1 to 6 carbon atoms and may be for example, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, isobutyl,secondary butyl, tertiary butyl, n amyl, isoamyl or n hexyl. Preferred are lower alkyl groups of 1 to 3 carbon atoms as for example methyl, ethyl, n propyl or isopropyl. When R, R1, R2 or R3 is a cycloalkyl group this may be a cycloalkyl group with 3 to 7 carbon atoms as for example a cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl or cycloheptyl group. lcve alkyl group substituted by a cycloalkyl radical may be for example cyclopropyl methyl, cyclopropylethyl, cyclopropyl n propyl, cyclobutyl methyl, cyclobutylethyl, cyclobutyl n propyl, cyclopentyl methyl, cyclopentylethyl, cyclopentyl n propyl, cyclohexyl methyl, cyclohexylethyl, cyclohexyl n propyl, cycloheptyl methyl, cycloheptyl ethyl or cycloheptyl n propyl. The term aryl preferably comprises mononuclear groups such as phenyl, which may be substituted in one or more positions by substituents such as lower alkyl, hydroxy, lower alkoxy or halogen. Moreover in addition to the meaning above when R and R1 or the substituent of a lower alkyl group thereof Th an aryl group, this aryl group comprises 6 to 10 carbon atoms and may be for example as mononuclear group a phenyl, eclytl, xylyl, ethylphenyl, propylphenyl, isopropylphenyl, butylphenyl, isobutylphenyl, sec. butylphenyl, tert. butylphenyl or naphthyl group. If the substituents R1, R2 or R3 can also represent together with the C R N residue, or CH N residue respectively, a heterocyclic radical, it is preferably a 5 membered nitrogen containing ring such as pyrrolidine in proline and 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine in hydroxy proline, and pyroglutamic acid. A heterocyclic residue as substituent of an optional substituted radical R, R1, R2 and R3 may be a mono or bicyclic, a monoaza or diazacyclic radical of aromatic character such as imidazolyl, as for example 4 imidazolyl, or indolyl, as or Example 3 indolyl radical. Moreover in addition when R or R1 or the substituent of a lower alkyl group thereof is a heterocyclic ring containing one or more oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur atoms this may be, for example, aziridine, oxetane, thiophene, furan, pyridine, azepine, isoxazole, thiazole, pyrimidine, diazepine, thiadiazol, triazol, triazine, or imidazole or indole as mentioned above. When R or R1 is a lower alkenyl group this may be a straight or branched chain alkenyl group with 2 to 5 carbon atoms, and may be, for example, an ethenyl, allyl, crotyl, methallyl, pentenyl or hexenyl group. When R or R1 represents a lower alkynyl group this may be straight or branched chain alkynyl growth with 2 to 6 carbon atoms, and may be, for example, an ethynyl propynyl, butyl, pentynyl or hexynyl group. When R and R1 together form a polymethylene chain, comprising a residue of 2 to 7 carbon atoms, this may be for example CH2 2 , CH2 3 , CH2 4 , CH2 5 , CH2 6 , CH2 7 , CH2 2CHCH3 CH2 2 or CH2 2NH CH2 2 . The term etherified hydroxy is preferably lower alkoxy, such as methoxy, ethoxy, n propyloxy, isopropyloxy or n butyloxy and etherified mercapto is preferably lower alkylthio as for example methylthio, ethylthio, propylthio or isopropylthio. The compounds containing S substituted dithio groups are symmetrical or unsymmetrical residues of a compound of formula I bound to the other residue of a compound of formula I by a S S bridge, i.e. A S S B wherein A and B are the same or different and each is a residue of a compound of formula I formed by the loss of a hydrogen atom from a carbon atom in one of the substituentsR, R1, R2 or R3 Examples of such compounds are those having the formulaeIa and IbEMI7.1 EMI8.1 Functionally modified carboxy is, e.g. esterified carbon, especially lower alkoxycarbonyl, also phenyl lower alkoxycarbonyl or carbamoyl. When R, R1, R2 or R3 is a group substituted by in in which one or both the R4 and R5 groups are lower alkyl, these groups may be lower alkyl groups as defined above. The NR4R5 group including the different meanings enumerated above may be for example, methylamino, dimethyl amino, methyl ethylamino, ethylamino, diethylamino, propyl amino, isopropylamino, dipropylamino or diisopropylamino. The m4R5 groups in which R4 and R5 together form a polymethylene chain containing up to 6 carbon atoms which may optionally be interrupted by oxygen or nitrogen as instance as substituent of R and Rj and are referably the morpholino or piperidino group. Furthermore when R or R1 is a group substituted by aryloxy, the aryloxy group may be phenoxy, tolyloxy, xylyloxy, diiodo hydroxy phenoxy. The term halogen may be bromine or iodine but is preferably fluorine or chlorine. Esters of the compounds of formula I are preferably the esters of the compounds of formula I with low alkyl alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol, n propanol and n butanol, aralkyl alcohols e.g. benzyl alcohol and phenols e.g. phenol.Other alcohols which may be used to form the corresponding ester of the compound of formula I are alkanoyloxymethanols e.g. acetoxymethanol or pivaloyloxymethanol amino lower alkanoyloxymethanols e. g. a amino c omino lower alkanoyloxymethanols such as glycyloxy methanol, L valyloxymethanol or L leucyl oxymethanol and also 3 hydroxy phthalide and 5 indanol. Salts of the compounds of formula I are salts with either strong monobasic or polybasic or with inorganic or organic bases. Strong acids include all those strong acids e.g. hydrogen halide acids or aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic and sulphonic acids which are capable of forming and which are salts with the amino group of the molecule physiologically acceptable to plants. Inorganic and organic bases are those bases e.g. alkali metal and alkaline earth metal hydroxides or alkylamines which are capable of forming salts with the acidic hydroxyl group of the molecule and which are physiologically acceptable to plants. Particularly useful are compounds of formula I wherein R and R1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, deuterium, optionally substituted lower alkyl,or lox alkyl substituted by cycloalkyl, aryl or by a mono or bicyclic monoaza or diazacyclic radicals, optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups or R1 represents, together with the CR N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group R2 and R3 may be the sameor different and each is hydrogen, 3 optionally substituted lower alkyl, or lower alkyl substituted by cycloalkyl, aryl, or by a mono or bicylic monoaza or diazacylic radical optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy or lower alkoxy groups or R2 or R each represents 3 together with the CH N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete the 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is 0, 1, 2 or 3 as well as the esters and salts with physiologically acceptable alcohols, or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. Preferred are compounds of formula I wherein R and R1 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen deuterium.methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, secondary butyl, tertiary butyl, optionally substituted by imidazolyl, indolyl, benzyl groups optionally substituted by one to three hydroxy groups, lower alkoxy, lower alkylthio.amino or carboxy groups or R1 represents together with the C R N residue to which it is attached, the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each can be hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, benzyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl, 1 hydroxyethyl, 2 methylthioethyl, imidazolymethyl, or indolylmethyl, or R2 or R3, respectively, together with the CH residue to which it is attached, represents the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is 0,1,2 or 3 as well as the esters and salts vith pharmaceutically acceptable alcohols, or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. Especially valuable and suitable for said utility are compounds of formula I, wherein R is hydrogen R1 is methyl R2 and R3 may be the same or different and each is hydrogen, methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, aminobutyl, hydroxymethyl, l hydroxyethyl, 2 methylthioethyl, imidazolylmethyl or indolylmethyl, benzyl or R2 or R3 respectively together with the CR N or CH N residue to which it is attached represents the atoms required to complete a 2 pyrrolidinyl group and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 and the esters and salts thereof with physiologically acceptable alcohols or acids or bases, respectively and all optical isomers thereof. The production of the compounds of formula I is fully described in our copending British Patent ApplicationNo. 48264 77. The agents according to the invention are prepared in a manner which is in itself known by intimate mixing and grinding of active compounds of the formula I with suitable carriers, if desired with addition of dispersing agents or solvents which are inert towards the active compounds. The active compounds may exist, and be used, in the following processing forms Solid processing forms dusting agents, sprinkling agents, granules, coated granules, impregnated granules and homogeneous granules Active compound concentrates which are dispersible in water wettable powders, pastes and emulsions Liquid processing forms solutions. In order to prepare solid processing forms dusting agents, sprinkling agents and granules , the active compounds are mixed with solid carriers. Examples of carriers which can be used are kaolin, talc, bolus, loess, chalk, limestone, lime grits, attapulgite, dolomite, diatomaceous earth, precipitated silica, alkaline earth metal silicates, sodium and potassium aluminosilicates feldspars and micas , calcium and magnesium sulphates, magnesium oxide, ground plastics, fertilisers, such as ammonium sulphate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium nitrate and urea, ground vegetable products, such as cereal flour, bark flour, wood flour, nutshell flour, cellulose powder, plant extract residues, active charcoal and the like, in each case on their own or as mixtures with one another. Granules can be prepared by, for example, dissolving the active compounds in an organic solvent, applying the solution thus obtained to a granulated material, for example attapuigite, SiO2, granicalcillm or bentonite, and then again evaporating the organic solvent. It is also possible to prepare polymer granules by, for example, impregnating finished, porous polymer granules such as u ea formaldehyde polymers, polyacrylonitrile and polyesters, having a specific surface area and an advantageous predetermined absorption desorption ratio, with the active compounds, for example in the form of their solutions in a low boiling solvent and removing the solvent. Such polymer granules can be applied in the form of micro granules with bulk densities of, preferably, 500 g litre to 600 g litre, also with the aid of atomizers Atomising can be effected over extensive treatment areas by means of aircraft. Granules can also be obtained by compacting the carrier with the active compounds and additives and then comminuting the mixture. Furthermore, it is possible to add to these agents additives which stabilise the active compound and or nonionic, clinic and cationic materials which, for example, improve the adhesion of the active compounds to plants and parts of plants adhesives and glues and or ensure better wettability wetting agents and dispersibility dispersing agents .It is possible to use, for example, the following materials as adhesives olein lime mixture, cellulose derivat ves methylcellulose and carboxymethylcellulose , hydroxyethylene glycol ethers of monoalkylphenols and dialkylphenols having 5 to 15 ethylene oxide residues per molecule and 8 to 9 carbon atoms in the alkyl radical, ligninsulphonic acid, its alkali metal salts and alkaline earth metal salts, polyethylene glycol ethers Carbowaxes , fatty alcohol polyglycol ethers having 5 to 20 ethylene oxide residues per molecule and 8 to 18 carbon atoms in the fatty alcohol part, concersation products of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, polyvinylpyrrolidones, polyvinyl alcohols, condensation products of urea formaldehyde and latex products. Water dispersible active compound concentrates, i.e.wettable powders, pastes and emulsion concentrates, are agents which can be diluted with water to any desired concentration.They consist of active compound, carrier, if desired additives which stabilise the active compound, surface.active sub t and anti foaming agents and, if desired, solvents. The wettable powders and pastes are obtained by mixing and grinding the active compounds with dispersing agents and pulverulent carriers in suitable devices until homogeneity is achieved. Examples of carriers are those mentioned above for the solid processing forms. In some cases it is advantageous to use mixtures of different carriers.Examples of dispersing agents which can be used are condensation products of sulphonated naphthalene and sulphonated naphthalene derivatives with.formaldehyde, condensation products of naphthalene or of naphthalenesulphonic acids with phenol and formaldehyde, and alkali metal salts, ammonium salts and alkaline earth metal salts of ligninsulphonic acid, as well as alkylarylsulphonates, alkali metal salts and alkaline earth metal salts of dibutylnaphthalenesulphonic acid, fatty alcohol sulphates, such as salts of sulphated hexadecanols and heptadecanols, and salts of sulphated fatty alcohol po yethylene glycol ethers, the sodium salt of oleyl methyl tauride, di tertiary acetyle glycols, dialkyldilaurylammonium chloride and alkali metal salts and alkaline earth metal salts of fatty acids. Examples of anti foaming agents which can be used are silicones. The active compounds are mixed, ground, sieved and strained with the abovementioned additives, in such a way that the particle size of the solid component does not exceed 0.02 to 0.04 mm in the case of wettable powders and 0.03 mm in the case of pastes. To prepare emulsion concentrates and pastes, dispersing agents, such as have been listed in the preceding sections, organic solvents and water are used.Examples of suitable solvents are the following alcohols, benzene, xylenes, toluene, dimethylsulphoxide, N,N diWlky lated amides and trialkylamines. The solvents must be virtually odourless and inert towards the active compounds and should not be readily combustible. Furthermore, the agents according to the invention can be used in the form of solutions. For this purpose, the active compound or several active compounds of the formulaI is are dissolved in suitable organic solvents, solvent mixtures, water or mixtures of organic solvents with water. The content of active compound in the agents described above is between 0.1 and 9596, preferably between 1 and 80 . Use forms can be diluted down to 0.001 . The amounts used are as a rule 0.1 to 10 kg of active substance hectare, preferably 0.25 to 5 kg of active substance hectare. The active compounds of the formula I can be formulated, for example, as follows parts are parts by weight Dusting agents The following substances are used for the preparation of a a 5 strength dusting agent and b a 2 strength dusting agent a 5 parts of 1 RS 1 L alanylamini ethanephosphonous acid and 95 parts of talc, b . 2 parts of 1 RS 1 L alanylamino 2 methylpropane phosphonous acid 1 part of highly disperse silica and 97 parts of talc. The active compounds are mixed and ground with the carriers. Granules The following substances are used for the preparation of 5 strength granules 5 parts of 1 R 1 L alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, 0.25 part of epichlorohydrin, 0.25 part of cetylpolyethylene glycol ether containing 8 mols of ethylene oxide, 3.50 Tarts of polyethylene glycol and 91 parts of kaolin particle size 0.3 to 0.8mm 2Se active substance is mixed with the epichlorohydrin and dissolved in acetone, . after which polyethylene glycol and cetyl polyethylene glycol ether are added.The solution thus obtained is sprayed onto kaolin and the acetone is subsequently evaporated off in vacuo Wettable powders The following constituents are used for the prepara tion of a a 50 strength wettable powder, b a 25 strength wettable powder and c a 10 strength wettable powder a 50 parts of l RS l L valylamino ethaephosphonous acid, 5 parts of sodium dibutylnaphthylsulphonate, 3 parts of a naphthalenesulphonic acids phenol sulphonic acids formaldehyde condensate, 3 2 1, 20 parts of kaolin and 22 parts of Champagne chalk b 25 parts of the diethanolamine salt of the above active compound, 5 parts of the sodium salt of oleylmethyltauride, 2.5 parts of a naphthalenesulphonic acids formalde hyde condensate, 0.5 part of carboxymethylcellulose, 5 parts of neutral potassium aluminium silicate and 62 parts of kaolin c 10 parts of l R l L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, 3 parts of a mixture of the sodium salts of saturated fatty alcohol sulphates, 5 parts of a naphthalenesulphonic acids formal dehyde condensate and 82 parts of kaolin. The active compound indicated is absorbed onto the appropriate carriers kaolin and chalk and is then mixed and ground. Wettable powders of excellent wettability and suspensibility are obtained. Suspensions of any desired active compound concentration can be obtained from such wettable powders by dilution with water. Suspensions of this type are used for combatting weeds and wild grasses in crops of plants by the pre entergence process, and for the treatment of lawns. Paste The follo.wing substances are used for the preparation of a 45 strength paste 45 parts of l R l L alanyl L alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid 5 parts of sodium aluminium silicate, 14 parts of cetyl polyethylene glycol ether containing 8 mols of ethylene oxide, 1 part of oleyl polyethylene glycol ether containing 5 mols of ethylene oxide, 2 parts of spindle oil, 23 parts of water and 10 parts of polyethylene glycol. The active compound is intimately mixed and ground with the additives in apparatus which is suitable for this purpose. A paste is obtained, from which suspensions of any desired concentration can be prepared by dilution with water.The suspensions are suitable for the treatment of lawns.Emulsion concentrate For the preparation of a 25 strength emulsion concentrate. 25 parts of 1 R 1 L alanyl L alanylamino ethane phosphonous acid, 5 parts of a mixture of nonylphenol polyoxyethylene and calcium dodecylbenzenesulphonate, 35 parts of 3,5,5 trimethyl 2 cyclohexen l one and 35 parts o dimethylformamide are mixed wita one another. This concentrate can be diluted with water to give emulsions of suitable concentrations. Instead of the particular active compound indicated in the above formulation examples, it is also possible to use other compounds from amongst those included in the formula I. The ac.tive compounds contained in the agents according to the invention influence the plant growth in various ways. Thus they inhibit, delay or suppress, in particular, the growth and germination. They theretre have a postemergent herbicidal action as well as a growth inhibiting action. Agents according to.the invention, which contain at least one compound of the formula I as the active cs.n oneníJ are suitable, in particular, for inhibiting and suppressing plant growth in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants by post emergent treatment of the sown areas or of the plants, such as shrubs, trees, leguminous crops, sugar cane, onion and potato tubers, fruit trees and vines and, in particular,grasses, cereal crops, tobacco, soya and ornamental plants. The action achieved, in particular, by the active oom pounds of the formula I is the desired reduction in plant size, especially the height of growth. In general, a certain change in the form of the plant is associated with this. In direct association with the reduction of the height of growth, the plant is strengthened. The leaves and stem develop more strongly. The resistance to kinking of monocotyledonous plants is increased by shortening the internodal distances Crop losses due to a thunderstorm, continuous rain and the like, which usually lead to lodging of cereal crops and leguminous crops, can be largely prevented in this manner and harvesting can thus be made easier. As a side effect, reduced height of growth of useful plants leads to a saving of fertilisers. This also applies, in the same way, to ornamental plants, ornamental lawns, sports fields or other grassed areas. However, one of the most important problems of pure grass plantings is the actual cutting of the grass, whether in public parks in urban areas, on industrial sites, on playing fields or alongside motor roads, aircraft landing strips, railway embankments or the sloping banks of waterways. In all these cases it is necessary to mow the lawn or cut the growth of grass periodically. This is not only very expensive in terms of labour and machinery, but, in the transport sector, also involves considerable dangers for the personnel concerned and for the occupants of vehicles. There is therefore, particularly in areas dith large traffic networks, an urgent need on the one hand to maintain and care for the greensward which is necessary to strengthen road verges and embaniments on traffic routes and, on the other hand, to keep it at a medium height of growth during the whole vegetation period, using simple measures. This need is met in a very favourable manner by applying active compounds of the formula I. By treating trees, shrubs and hedges, in particular in urban and industrial areas, with compounds of the formula I, the labour intensive mowing work can be reduced in analogous manner. The growth of shoots and or the fertility of fruit trees and vines can also be advantageously influenced by using the active compounds of the formula I. Ornamental plants with pronounced longitudinal growth can be grown as compact pot plants by treatment with the active compounds mentioned. The active compounds of the formula I are also used for inhibiting the growth of undesired side shoots, for example in tobacco and ornamental plants, whereby the labour intensive manual breaking off of these shoots is avoided, and furthermore for the inhibition of sprouting in the case of stored tubers, for example in the case of tubers of ornamental plants and in the case of onions and potatoes, and finally for increasing the yield in the case of crop plants having an intense vegetative growth, such as soya and sugar cane, by accelerating the transition from the vegetative growth phase to the generative growth phase through application of active compounds of the formula I. The active compounds of the formula I are preferably employed for inhibiting the growth of weeds, including perennial weeds, grasses, especially perennial grasses, such as Cyperus species and the like, and of cereal crops, tobacco, soya and ornamental plants. The amounts used vary and depend on tetime czf application. In general, they are between. 0.1 and a kg of active compound per hectare for the treatment of existing crops, preferably up to 4 kg per hectare. The action of the active compounds according to the definition is directed towards the germinating seed preemergent action but is preferably directed towards the parts of the plant which are above ground contact action in particular the leaves. The action as a powerful growth inhibitor is shown by the fact that most of the species of plants treated in a post emergent manner stop growing after an experimental period of three weeks, the parts of the plant treated assuming a darkgreen coloration. However, the leaves do not fall In the case of some species of plants, this growth inhibition already occurs at a dosage of 0.5 kg hectare and less and within several days after treatment. Since not all species of plants are equally powerfully inhibited, it is possible to use the active compounds selectively when a particular low dosage is chosen. t t active compounds of the formula I are also interestirg combination partners for a number of herbicides of the diphenyl ether, phenylurea and triazine series for use on cereal crops, maize and sugar cane and in fruit growing and viticulture. In areas with an increased danger of erosion, the active compounds of the formula I can be used as growth inhibitors cn the most diverse crops. In this case, the weed cover is not removed but only inhibited to such an extent that it can no longer compete with the crop plants. The following Examples further illustrate the present invention.Use Examples 1 and 2 The following test methods were used to demonstrate the usefulness of the active compounds as herbicides post emergent and as growth inhibitors Post emergent herbicidal action contact herbic de The plants of 7 weeds and crop plants, both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous, were sprayed after emergence in the 4 leaf to 6 leaf stage with an aqueous active compound emulsion in a dosage of 4 kg of active substance per hectare, and the plants were kept at 24 260C and a relative atmospheric humidity of 45 60 . The test was evaluated 5 days and 15 days after treatment and the result is given in the following Table I. TABLE 1 POST EMERGENT HERBICIDAL ACTIONEMI25.1 tb U SEP W tb SEP u SEP a, tb SEP zits tb SEP a tb SEP 4J SEP OH tb SEP Plant SEP H SEP a SEP H SEP tb SEP H SEP U tb SEP Plant SEP H SEP 0 tb SEP m SEP rd SEP H tb SEP H SEP a, tb SEP rd SEP U SEP ,1 SEP H SEP SEP . SEP tb SEP a SEP 4J SEP H SEP H SEP U SEP rl SEP cn SEP H tb Compound SEP 3 SEP uz SEP 3 SEP u SEP SEP vz tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb H2NCHCONHCHP SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 2 SEP 22 tb SEP L SEP R tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 tb H2NHC0 NHHC02NHHP02H2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP tb SEP L SEP L SEP R SEP SEP SEP R tb 9 plants undamaged as untreated control 1 plants completely dead 8 2 intermediate stages of damage The results demonstrate that the compounds according to the present invention which were tested exhibited a pronounced contact herbicidal action on some plants and, as a symptom of the growth inhibiting properties, halted the growth of many plants. Growth inhibition in grasses Seeds of the grasses Lolium perenne, Poa pratensis,Festuca ovina and Dactylis glomerata were sown in plastic bowls contacting an earth peat sand mixture 6 3 1 and were watered normally. Every week the emergent grasses were cut back to a height of 4 cm and, 40 days after being sown and 1 day after the last cutting, were sprayed with aqueous spray liquors of an active compound of the formula I. The amount of active compound corresponded to 5 kg of active substance per hectare.. The growth of the grasses was evaluated 10 and 21 days after application. Growth inhibition in cereals Spring wheat Triticum aestivum , spring barley Hordeum vulgar and rye Secale were sown in sterilised earth in plastic beakers and the plants were grown in a greenhouse. 5 days after being sown, the cereal shoots were treated with a spray liquor of the active compound. The application to the leaves corresponded to 6 kg of active compound per hectare. Evaluation is carried out after 21 days. The compounds of Examples 3 6, 8, 17 and 18 caused a pronounced inhibition of growth of grasses, the compounds of Examples 8, 13 and 4 were most active inhibiting the growth of cereals. Inhibition of the growth of side shoots of tobacco plants. Eight weeks after sowing, tobacco Nicotiana tabacum variety Xanthi are transplanted to pots in a greenhouse, normally watered and treated weekly with nutrient solution.Two weeks after potting, there are chosen per treatment three plants, of these plants one remains untopped and from the two others the growth tip is removed five days before treatment. Per plant there is then sprayed, laterally from above onto the leading shoot and the upper leaf axils, 10 ml of liquor containing active substance concentrations 2.6 1.3 and 0.6 corresponding to 6.3 and 1.5 kg per hectare in the open . A part of the liquor consequently runs down the petioles and into the remaining lower leaf axils contact with side shoot buds . After setting up of the tests in the greenhouse and watering, the tests are evaluated 4 and 14 days after application of the test liquor. Contact effect and systemic effect are evaluated separately. Contact effect Assessment of the 6 uppermost side shoots Syternic effect Assessment of the uppermost side shoots. Excellent results are obtained in these tests with the active substances of the invention, such as in particular with those of the Example 7. Example 3 a R 1 Aminoethanephosphonous acid 8.25g.7 0.075M was dissolved in water 375 ml. and ethanol 190 ml. and the solution was cooled tp 100. Sodium bicarbonate A.R. grade, 12.75g., 0.15M was added portionwise with stirring and the resulting solution was cooled to 0 .A solution of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of Nbenzyloxycarbonyl L alanine 24g., 0.075M in hot ethanol 260 ml. was added over a period of 10 minutes maintaining the internal temperature at 0 . The heterogeneous mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 0 and then 24 hours at room temperature. The clear solution was evaporated at room temperature to give a white gummy solid. Treatment of this residue with cold dilute hydrochloric acid 2N., 150 ml. gave a whit powdery solid which was allowed. to stand 2 hours at m temperature.The mixture was diluted with an equal volum c water and allowed to stand 24 hours at 0 . Filtration gave a mixture of the 1 S and 1 R diastereomers of 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid 12.2g., m.p. 175 6 , alpha D20 45.7 2 in glacial acetic acid . b This mixture of diastereomers of 1 N benzyloxy carbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid 12g. was added to a solution of hydrogen bromide in glacial acetic acid 50 ml., 45 w w at 0 and the mixture was stirred for thirty minutes. The solution was allowed to warm up to room temperature and then evaporated to an oily residue. This residue was dissolved in dry methanol 60 ml. and propylene oxide was carefully added with cooling. The mixture was stirred for two hours at room temperature and allowed to rystallise at 00.It gave a mixture of diastereomers of 1 L alanylamino ethane phosphonous acid Em.p. 2760 decomp., alpha D20 75.60 2 in water Example 4 The procedure described in Example3a was repeated using sir l aminoethanephosphonous acid instead ofRS 1 aminoethanephosphonous acid to give IR 1 N benzyloxycarbony L alanyl amino ethanephosphonus acid. m.p. 180 2 decomp., 20 600 2 in glacial acetic acid . The a methylbenzylamine salt of this compound had m.p. 206 7 decomp. and alpha D20 44.7 2 in methanol by the .same procedure described in Example 3b, tnis compound was converted to 1R 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. m.p. 276 decomp., alpha D20 80.1 2 in water . Example 5 a IS 1 Aminoethanephosphonous acid 3.4g, 0.031M was dissolved in water 155 ml. and ethanol 186 ml. and the solution was cooled to 100. Sodium bicarbonate A.R.grade, 5.25g., 0.062M was added portionwise with stirring and the resulting solution was cooled to 00.A solution of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyloxy carbonyl L alanine 9.9g., 0.031M in hot ethanol 44 ml. was added over a period of 10 minutes maintaining the internal temperature of 0 . This mixture was stirred for 2 hours at 0 and 24 hours at room temperature. The clear solution was evaporated at room temperature to give a gummy solid. This material was stirred with ethanol 50 ml. and the insoluble material was removed by filtration The filtrate was evaporated to dryness, redissolved in absolute ethanol and made just acid with a solution of hydrogen chloride in ethanol. The cloudy solution was diluted with ether 75 ml. and a white solid was obtained which was dissolved in 75 ml. ethanol and clarified with filter aid.Evaporation of the filtrate gave 1S N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 143 5 decomp., 20 33.8 2 in glacial acetic acid. The alpha methylbenzylamine salt of this compound had m.p. 205 6 decomp., and alpha D20 19.8 2Z in methanol J. b By the same procedure described in Example 2b this compound was converted to 1 S l L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 274 decomp., alpha D20 115 2 in water . Example 6. a The procedure described in Example 3a was repeated to give a mixture of the 1S and 1R diastereomers of 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 175 6 , alpha D20 45.7 2 in glacial acetic acid the filtration liquors from which it was obtained being set aside for use in Example 6b . This solid was converted to its alpha methylbenzylamine salt in ethanol solvent and recrystalised from ethanol to constant melting point and constant specific rotation, identical to that described inExample 4a, namely, m.p. 206 7 decomp., and alpha D20 44.7 2 in methanol . By, the procedure described in Example 8b this salt was converted to 1R 1 L alamnylamino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 276 decomp., alpha 20 80.10 2X in water .b The filtration iiquors obtained in Example 6a were evaporated to an oil which was dissolved in ethano l and the solid which formed was collected by filtration. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness and the oil so obtained was stirred with acetone. The waxy solid which formed was collected by filtration and the filtrate again evaporated to dryness. The resultant oil was dissolved in water, extracted successively with ether, propylene oxide, and finally petroleum ether. .Evaporation of the aqueous portion gave an oil which on treatment with inethyl benzylamine in isopropanol solvent gave the alpha methyl benzylamine salt of 1S 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 205 6 decomp., alpha D20 19.5 2 in methanol , identical to that described in Example 3a. By the procedure described in Example 3b this salt was converted to 1S 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid m.p. 275 decomp. ,tQ320 115 2 in water identical to that obtained in Example 3b.Example 7 a 1R 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid 1.8g., O.O1M was dissolved in a mixture of water 50 ml. and ethanol 25 ml. and the solution Was cooled to 10 sodium bicarbonate A.R. grade 1.7g., 0.02M was added portionwise and the solution was cooled to 0 .A solution of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyl oxycarbonyl L alanine 3.2g., 0.01M in hot ethanol 35 ml. was added over a period of 10 minutes maintaining the internal temperature at 0 . The heterogeneous mixture0 was stirred for 2 hours at 0 and then 24 hours at room temperature. The resulting clear solution was evaporated at room temperature to give a white gummy solid. This residue was stirred with dilute hydrochloric acid 2N.25 ml 2 2 hours at room temperature and allowed to crystallise at 0 . Filtration gave 1R 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid, having melting point 221 , alpha D20 73.6 1 glacial acetic acid . b By the same procedure as described in Example 3b 1R 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid was converted to 1 R 1 L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. having melting point 263 264 , alpha 20 112.70 1 in water . Example 8 The procedure described in Example 71 was repeated using IR 1 I alanyl L alanylamino ethanophosphonous acid instead of 1R l L alanylamino ethanephosphonous. acid to give 1R 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, of melting point 242 20 D20 114.30 1 in 2N NaOH . By the same procedure described in Example 3b, this compound was converted to 1R 1 1 alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, of melting point 266 267 , alpha D20 136.3 1 in water .Example 9 The procedure described in Example 7a was repeated using 1R 1 L alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid instead of 1R 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid to give 1R 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl Lalanyl L alanyl L alanyl L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, of melting point 274 275 , alpha D20 133 0.4 in 2N NaOH . By the same procedure described in Example 3b this compound was converted to 1R 1 L alanyl L alanyl L alanyl t alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, of melting point 288 289 , alpha D20 154.2 0.6 in water . Example 10 a The procedure described in Example 3a was repeated using RS l amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid instead ofRS l aminoethanephosphonous acid to give a mixture of the 1Rand lS diastereomers of l N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid as a viscous pale yellow oil, ta 23 170 2 in ethanol . D b By the same procedure described in Example 3b, this product was converted to a mixture of the diastereomers of 1 L alanylamino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid, m.p. 260 decomp., alpha D22 40 1 in water .Example 11 a The procedure described in Example 3a was repeated using 1 1 amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid instead of RS l aminoethanephosphonous acid to give 1 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid m.p. 174 5 , alpha D20 70 , 1 in glacial acetic acid . The a methylbenzylamine salt of this compound had m.p. 183 5 and alpha D20 43.9 2 in methanol b of the procedure as described in Example 3b, this compound was converted to l I 1 t alanylamino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid m.p. 271 2 decomp., alpha D20 54 1 in water DExample 12 The The procedure described in Example Sa was repeated wising 1 1 amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid instead of 1 S 1 aminomethanephosphonous acid to give 1 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanyl amino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid as an oil. The a methylbenzyl amine salt of this compound had m.p. 184 5 and alpha D20 15.7 2 in methanol b By the same procedure as described in Example 3b, this compound was converted to 1 1 L alanylamino 2 methyl propanephosphonous acid m.p. 263 4 decomp. alpha D20 70.6 1 8 in water Example 13 a The procedure described in Example 3a was repeated using the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyloxycarbonyl Lvaline instead of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester Or N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanine. A mixture of the 1S 1Rdiastereomers of 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl L valyl amino ethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 202 , alpha D20 38.5 2 in glacial acetic acid was obtained. By BY the same procedure described in Example 3b this product was converted to a mixture of diastereomers of 1 L valylamino ethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 2600, alpha D25 30 1 in water DExample 14 The procedure described in Example 3a was reapeated r the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyloxycarbonyl D alanine instead of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester ofN benzyloxycarbonyl L alanine.A mixture of the 1 S and 1 R diastereomers of 1 N benzyloxycarbonyl D alanyl amino ethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 175 176 , 22 51.5 2 in glacial acetic acid was obtained alpha D Py By the same procedure described in Example 3b this product was converted to a mixture of diastereomers of 1 D alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 260 , alpha D24 65.5 2 in water Example 15 a The procedure described in Example 3a was repeated using the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyloxycarbonylglycine instead of the N hydroxysuccinimide ester of N benzyloxycarbonyl L alanine. A racemic mixture of the S andR enantiomers of 1 N benzyloxycarbonylglycyl aminoethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 86 87 was obtained. b By the same procedure described in Example 3b this pro duct was converted to the racemate of l glycylaminoethane phosphonous acid, m.p. 254 2550. Example 16 1RS 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid 1.8014g 0.OlM was dissolved in a solution of cold water 10 ml and sodium hydroxide 0.40g., O.O1M and the mixture was stirred or five minutes. The mixture was evaporated to dryness, stirred with absolute ethanol, and filtered to give the sodium salt of 1RS 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid. Example 17 1RS 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid lg. was dissolved in a solution of absolute ethanol saturated with dry hydrogen chloride 50 ml . The mixture was evaporated to dryness to give the hydrochloride of 1RS 1 L alanylamino ethanephosphonous acid.Example 18 In a way analogous to the foregoing examples, the following compounds have been obtained as well. I glycylamino anisyl phosphonous acid m.p. 2550 decomposition 1 glycylamino 2 methylpropanephosphonous acid, m.p. 2530 1 L phenylalanylamino ethanephosphonous acid, m.p. 172 glycylaminomethylphosphonous acid.