# Variable pitch pulley with continuous adjustment of the pitch circle diameter.

## Abstract
The variable pitch pulley is of the type having two opposed flanges 1,2 defining a groove 3 with inclined sides for receiving a V belt. A flange 1 has an axial hub 4 provided with external thread 5 intended to receive the other flange 2 through an axial center 14 bore provided with internal thread 15 . At least one of these threads 5, 15 is provided on two separate pieces 2, 6 , thereby forming a small axial gap 13 therebetween and forcing means 9, 17 are provided for forcing said two pieces 2, 6 once said other flange 2 has been screwed on the first flange 1 in the axial desired position, which axially act on said threads 5, 15 so as to lock the two flanges 1, 2 in their desired mutual position, both under tension and under push forces.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Variable pitch pulley of the type having a pair of opposite flanges defining with their inclined sides a groove for receiving a Ylbclt, of which a flange is fixed and has an axial hub provided with external thread and the conventional bore for receiving a driving or driven shaft and the other flange is movable and screwed on the fixed flange hub through an axial bore provided with internal thread, characterized in that at least one of the threads is provided on two separate pieces intended to be spread apart or approached so as to forii a gap therebetween, thread forcing means being provided for mutually loading said pair of separate pieces once the movable flange has been screwed on the fixed flange hub up to the predetermined axial position, which axially act on the threads in opposite directions so as to lock the two flanges in the desired mutual positions. 2. Variable pitch pulley according to claim 1, characterized in that said two pieces are comprised of the movable flange and a movable ring inserted in a recess of said movable flange, provided around the axial center bore receiving the hub. 3. Variable pitch pulley according to claim 2, characterized in that said ring receiving recess is provided on the inner side surface of the movable flange. 4. Variable pitch pulley according to claim 2, characterized in that said ring receiving recess is provided on the outer side surface of the movable flange. 5. Variable pitch pulley according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said thread forcing means are formed of at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding through holes provided at equal spaced locations on the movable flange and into corresponding axial threaded holes provided in the movable ring. 6. Variable pitch pully according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said thread forcing means comprise at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding threaded axial holes provided at equal spaced locations in the movable flange and into corresponding axial blind holes provided in the movable ring. 7. Variable pitch pulley according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that said thread forcing means comprise at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding axial threaded holes provided at equal spaced locations in the movable flange and intended to exert a push action against the movable ring, each of the confronting surfaces of movable ring and flange being provided of a small blind hole intended to receive a pin preventing the rotation of one piece with respect to the other piece. 8. Variable pitch pulley according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said thread on the two pieces forming it is provided by connecting to each other such pieces and then threading the axial bore of tile movable flange with these pieces in close abutting relationship to each other so as to have an uninterrupted thread. 9. Method of locking for the first time said mova ble flange to the fixed flange of a pulley according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that said forcing of the threads occurs by screwing the movable flange together with the ring on the hub up to the desired location, then loosening the screws and causing the ring or the movable flange to angularly rotate along the hub thread until the corresponding screw receiving holes are again in register with each other, thereby forming a gap between the inner rillg surface and the inner recess surface having the same wide as the thread pitch fraction the ring has rotated, screwing again the screw into the corresponding holes now in register and tightening them in order to lock the movable flange in the desired position by axially forcing the threads. 10. Method of locking for the second and subsequent times the movable flange to the fixed flange of a pulley according to claims 1 8, characterized by loosening the forcing screws until the retaining action and between said threads is releasedaby rotating said mo vable flange together with the so positioned ring to the screws.

## Description
VARIABLE PITCH PULLEY WiTH CONTINUOUS ADJUS1XENT OF THE PITCH CIRCLE DIAMETER The present invention relates to variable pitch pulleys and more particularly a pulley of this kind, which is capable of giving a continuous adjustment of the axial position of the two flanges forming part thereof. These pulleys generally are comprised of two opposed flanges with inclined sides defining a groove therebetween, one of the flanges being fixed and having an axial hub provided with external thread and the conventional bore for coupling this flange to a driving shaft, whereas the other flange is movable and screwed on the fixed flange hub through an axial bore provided with internal thread. The movable flange is provided with threaded holes for receiving a dowel intended to lock it in the desired position.The threaded hub is provided with a pair of opposite flats or keyways so as to permit the movable flange to be locked in the desired position by means of dowels or keys.However, such pulleys have the drawback that the adjustment of their pitch diameters is necessarily effected by angular movements of 180, so that there is not the possibility to have a positioning of the movable flange in any desired location along the hub of the fixed flange continuous adjustment . Furthervore, as another drawback, these pulleys require time consuming and accurate chinning operations in order to provide the keyways or the threaded holes or the flats for locking the movable flange to the fixed flange. A variable pitch pulley has been also proposed Austrian Patent No.346,139 wherein the movable flange can be locked to the fixed flange hub by means of screws screwed into threaded holes extending parallel to the pulley axis, each hole being formed of two halves of which the one is located in the movable flange and the other in the fixed flange hub. Since at most three axial holes are provided, which are spaced to each other of 1209, in order to not excessively lighten the flanges, which would adversely affect the strenght thereof, also in this case an adjustment of the pulley pitch diameter by angular movement of 1200 would result and therefore it would be impossible to have a conti nuous and fine adjustment of the pulley. In order to avoid the above mentioned drawbacks, namely the movable flange adjustments by angular movements of 180e or IZOs, the present invention proposes a variable pitch pulley of the above mentioned kind, which is characterized in that at least one of the threads is provided on two 8F parate pieces intended to be spread apart or approached so as to form a gap therebetween, thread forcing means being provided for mutually loading said pair of separate pieces once the nov able flange has been screwed on the fixed flange hub up to the predetermined axial position, which axially act on the threads in opposite directions so as to lock the two flanges in the desired mutual positions. Advantageously, these two pieces are comprised of the movable flange and a movable ring inserted in a recess of said movable flange, provided around the axial center bore, receiving the hub. Preferably, the thread forcing means are formed of at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding through holes provided at equal spaced locations on the movable flange and into corresponding axial threaded holes provided in the movable ring. Alternatively the thread forcing means comprise at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding threaded axial holes provided at equal spaced locations in the movable flange and into corresponding axial blind holes provided in the movable ring. Furthermore, the thread forcing means comprise at least two screws to be engaged into corresponding axial threaded holes provided at equal spaced locations in the movable flange and intended to exert a push action against the movable ring, each of the confronting surfaces of mosable ring and flange being provided of a small blind hole intended to receive a pin preventing the rotation of one piece with respect to the other piece. Advantageously, the thread on the two pieces forming it is provided by connecting to each other such pieces and then threading the axial bore of the movable flange with abutting these pieces in close relationship to each other so as to have an uninterrupted thread. Suitably, the forcing of the threads occurs by screwing the movable flange together with the ring on the hub up to the desired location, then loosening the screws and causing the ring or the movable flange to angularly rotate along the hub thread until the corresponding screw receiving holes are again in register with each other, thereby forming a gap between the inner ring surface and the inner recess surface having the same wide as the thread pitch fraction the ring has rotated, screwing again the screw into the corresponding holes now in register and tighte ning thom in order to lock the lovable flange in the desired position by axially forcing the threads. The present invention will be now described in more detail in connection with some preferred embodiments thereof, given merely by way of example and therefore not intended in a limiting sense, illustrated in the accompa nying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a front half sectioned view of a first embodiment of the variable pitch pulley according to the invention Fig. 2 is a front exploded view of the pulley of Fig.1 Fig. 3 is a partial section taken along the line IIIIII of Fig.1 Fig. 4 is a view similar to Fig.1, showing a second embodiment of the pulley according to the invention Fig. 5 is a view similar to Fige showing a third embodiment of the pulley according to the invention Fig. 6 is a view similar to Fig. 1, showing a fourth embodiment of the pulley according to this invention. As can be seen from Fig. 1 to 3, the variable pitch pulley includes a fixed flange 1 having an inclined side and a hub 4 perpendicularly extending from its center portion and provided with an external thread 5 and a bore 16 for receiving a conventional driving shaft. Screwed on this hub 4 in a movable flange 2 having also an inclined side which cooperates with the inclined side of fixed flange 1 so as to define a groove 3 for receiving a V belt not shown . The movable flange 2 has an axial center bore 14 provided with internal thread 15 and is secured on the hub 4 of the fixed flange so as to obtain the axial distance between the flanges necessary for the desired transmission ratio. For this purpose the movable flange 2 must be secured and locked on the hub 4 as firmly as possible to avoid loosening dangers. To lock the movable flange 2 of the thread 5 of the hub 4, this flange 2 7 is provided on its inner side with a recessoopening at the axial bore 14 having an internal thread and intended to receive the threaded hub 4. Placed in the recess is a ring 6 having the same inner diameter as that of the bore 14 and extending along all the inner circumference of recess 7 and the inner surface of which is provided with a thread 15 having the same pitch as the thread 15 of bore 14, and intended to form the continuation thereof. The ring 6 has three axial threaded holes 1, each hole 8 being intended to receive the threaded stem of a screw 10. Each screw 10 extends through a corresponding axial through hole 11 provided in the movable flange 2. The three axial threaded holes 8 of ring 6 and the three axial through holes ll of the aovable flange 2 are spaced apart 1200, whereas the head of screw 10 is inserted in a suitable seat 12 provided in the external side surf ace of the movable flange 2. In order to obtain a continuous internal thread in the axial center bore 14 formed partially by the movable flange 2 and partially by the ring 6, the latter is first tightened into the recess 7 in direct contact with the movable flange 2 by means of screws 10 and then the axial bore no formed is tapped so as to obtain the threads 15,15 continuously provided on the movable flange 2 and the ring 6. In this condition the movable flange is screwed on the hub 4 up to the desired position. Then, the screws are roved and the ring 6 is rotated of 120 by means of a tool fitted into the through hole 11, i c until the next holes 8 of ring 6 are again in register with the corresponding through holes 11 of the movable flange 2. At this point between the ring 6 and the inner surface of recess 7 a gap 13 will be formed having a wide corresponding to one third of the thread pitch. Once this operation is terminated, the screws 10 are again inserted into the holes 11 of the movable flange and are tightened into the threaded holes 8 of the ring 6.In this tanner the ring 6 will be in a tension relationship with the movable flange 2, resulting in a forcing action between the threads 15,15 g of the axial bore 14 formed of the flange 2 ring 6 assembly and the threads 5 of hub 4, so that the movable flange will remain locked in the desired position. When this locking operation of the movable flange 2 to the ring 6 has been performed for the first time, each further adjustment of the distance between fixed flange 1 and movable flange 2 is of extreme simplicity.It will be sufficient to loosen the screws 10 so as to remove the forced restrain between the threads and then to rotate clockwise or counterclockwise the mova ble flange 2 together with the ring 6 secured thereto until the now desired position has reached and then to tighten again the screws 10 in order that the movable flange 2 is firmly locked in this new position. In this manner there is an affidable lock of the movable flange 2 in any desired position along the thread 5 of hub 4, thereby resulting in a continuous adjustment of the flange spacing which therefore is not bound to a stepwise rotation of the movable flange 2. Fig. 4 illustrates another embodiment of the pulley according to the invention in which the recess 7 receiving the movable ring 6 is provided on the outer side surface of the movable flange 2, which is provided with the three equally spaced threaded holes 8 receiving the stems 9 of the tightening screws 10, the heads of which are enclosed into the movable ring 6, which is provided with three equally spaced through holes. In this embodiment there is again a forcing action between the threads 5, 15, originated by an axial tension between ring 6 and movable flange 2, 50 that the locking action occurs as in th bodi1ent of Figs. 1 3. Fig.5 illustrates another embodiment, in which the ring 6 is placed in the recess 7 provided on the inner surface of the movable flange 2 and is provided with three blind holes 18 while the movable flange 2 is provided with three threaded holes in which threaded dowels 17 are screwed. In this embodiment the forcing action between the threads 5, 15 occurs by the axial push force exerted by the dowels 17 against the bottoms of the blind holes 18 of the movable ring 6, during the screwing thereof. Fig. 6 illustrates a further embodiment wherein the ring 6 is placed in the recess 7 provided on the inner surface of the movable flange 2 and has an axial hole 20 of small dimensions, intended to partially rereive a pin 19, which is partially inserted in a corre sponging small hole axially provided in the movable flange 2 so that these holes are confronting when the ring 6 is positioned with respect to the fixed flange with the small gap 13 therebetween. The movable ring 6 does not present other axial holes while the movable flange 2 is provided with the three axial threaded holes 8 in which the dowels 17 are screwed. The forcing action of the threads 5, 15 occurs in this case by the axial push action exerted by the dowels 17 against the ring. Since, when the dowels 17 are loosened to be able of positioning the movable flange 2 relative to the fixed flange 1 they are no longer in engagement with the ring 6 the above mentioned pin 19 is provided for the purpose to rotate the ring 6 and the movable flange 2 together HiAb naintaining the axial gap 13 therebetween unchanged. While the invention has been only illustrated and described in c onnection with several preferred embodi ments thereof, it is apparent that various changes and modifications can be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention.