# Improvement on a farming implement.

## Abstract
The combination implement consists of a float, a spring lined harrow and a ribbed roller. The harrow frame is rigidly attached to the float frame, the roller being attached to the rearward end of an arm which is pivoted to the harrow frame. A compressed spring acts between the harrow frame and arm to load the latter downwardly. The fastening for the spring is pref. adjustable to obtain the desired height and pressure against the ground of the roller. The spring can be a curved blade spring. The implement allows one pass seed bed preparations after ploughing. The tines are mounted to be linearly adjustable, the working depth of all the tool combinations being totally controllable.

## Claims
Patent Cheims 1. An improvement on a farming implement, comprising the combination of a float, an S tine harrow and a ribbed roller, characterizecj in that the frame 7 for the S tine harrow is rigidly attached to the float frame 2 , that the ribbed roller is attached to the rearrd end of an arm 15 whose forward end is attached so as to be pivotable in a vertical plane to the rear portion of the harrow frame 7 , and that the arm 15 for the ribbed roller 17 is loaded in a downward direction by means of a corinressed spring 19 which is provided between the harrow frame t7 and the ann 15 . 2. An improved farming implement according, to claim 1, characterized in that the fastening for the spring 19 is adjustable for obtaining the desired height and pressure against the ground for the roller. 3. An improved farming implement according to claims 1 and 5 characterized in that the spring is a curved blide spring 19 . 4. An improved farming implement according to one or more of the preceding claims, characterized in that blades or knives 6 are arranged on the underside of the float beams 3, 4 , extending obliquely in relation to the direction of work. 5. An improved farming implement according to one or more of the preceding claims, where the S teeth on the harrow are arranged in transverse rows, characterized in that each row is suspended from a lever which is rotatably supported on the frame, and that all of the lever arms are connected to a common adjustment member 13 .

## Description
The present invention perains to t improvement on farming implement comprising a combination of a float, an S tine harrow and i rihbed roller. After plowing, he ground must t e work rid such that. the sowing fielci will lie as even as possible, wit few clods j possible. The most common method is to work the ground in several operations, fist driving over the newly plowed earth with a float, then with a harrow, and possibly following with i ribbed roller. Combination implements are known, however, consisting of a float, harrow and ribbed roller, where these implerrènts, as one unit, are drawn behind a tractor. In the previously known implements of this type, the harrow frame has been hinged to the float frime, and the ribbed roller has been rigidly fastened to the rear end of the harrow frame, for example, by gleans of an arm. The object of the present invention is to simplify nd improve the above combination implement. This is obtained accord ing to the invention in that the frame for the S tine harrow is rigidly attached to the float frame, that the ribbed roller is attached to the rearward end of in arm whose forward end is attached so as to be pivotable in the vertical plane to the reur of the harrow frame, and that the arm for the roller drum is loaded in the downward direction by means of a compressed spring arranged between the harrow frame and the nrm. A practical embodiment is characterized in that the fastening of the spring is adjustable, permitting one to regulate the desired height and pressure against the round of the rib roller A suitable spring for the purpose is a curved ade spring. A further development of the invention is characterized in that blades or knives ure arranged on the undersides ofti float heams, shid blades or knives extending obliquely in reiation to the working direction of the float. A further feature of the invention is that the S tines on the harrow, in a manner known per se, ere arranged in trans verse rows each row is suspended in a two armed lever whicb rotatably supported on the frame, and all of the arms are con nected to a common adjustment member. The implement of the invention is very simple in struction, and is therefore inexpensive to produce. Owiag rigid coupling betwaen the float frame and harrow frame, e special height adjusting means for the S tines and the springs loaded ribbed roller, one will heve full control crar the warit depth of all of the tool comhinations.In addition, the spacis suspension of the S tines on the harrow permits a practicmtig lim au djustment of the tines, as opposed to evious embodi in which the tines, as they moved, described a relstively ircle such that the angle of engagement of the teeth the herrow movod along The invention will be explained in greater debail is this following with reference to the drawing, which shows one embod ment of the farming implement of the invention, seen from side. The combination implement consists of a float l with a fr nue 2 and trausverse float beams 3 and 4 which are attached to the frame by musuns of arms 5. The beams 3 and 4, in the emboeiment example illustrated herein, are angle beams of steel to the lower edges of the beams 3 and A are knives or C bl These consist of steel plates which are mounted at a slight augl in relution to the working direction of the implement. These knives or blades, therefore, will cut up the mounds of earth turned over by the plow and the beams 3 aud 4 will level out ground. Rigidly attached to the rearward end of the flest frar is s a harrow frame 7 which supports three rows of S teeth 8. row could for example consist of six teeth which are attachau a common transverse support. A lever 9 is attached to th . tra verse support Via a coupling plate 10. The lever arm 9 rotatably fastened to the frame 7, This rotatable connection can consist of . pipe 11 extending along a transverse shaftAnother arm 12 is attached to the pipe ll, she arm 12 being rotatably attached to a common adjustment rod 13 which can be moved by means of a handle 14.. Owing to the relatively great length of the arm y, the S teeth d will obtain an approximately linear movement up and down. Attached to the rearward end of the harrow frame 7 are arms 15, pivotable in a vertical plane in lugs 16. A ribbed roller 17 is attached to the rearward, free end of the arms 15. Also itLachecI to the rear end of the harrow frame 7 are rigidly fastened, upwardly projecting arms 18, which form a fastener for one end of a curved blade spring 19 whose other end is fastened to the outer end of the frame 15. The fastening of the rearward end of the spring 13 is adjustable, because the spring can be fastened in one of several holes 20 in an adjustment plate 21 which is attached to the arm 15. By means of. this adjustment, the pressure on the ribbed roller can be regul ted, and the height of the roller will also determine the working depth of the Steeth 8. The implement of the invention can with advantage be produced as a module of a specified width and arranged such thot several such modules can be combined to the desired width. The implement can be drawn by a Dulling vehicle such as a tractor, for example not shown here , being attached to the vehicle by means of chains fastened both to the pulling arms an to the top stay, such that when the implement is in use it will be drawn easily and freely behind the tractor, but when being transported can be lifted off the ground by means of this three . point suspension.