# Ethylene hexene 1 copolymer and process to produce ethylene monoolefin copolymers

## Claims
Ethylen Hexen l Copolymerisat mit einem Gehalt an 1 Hexen von 1 bis 6 Molprozent und mit einer relativen Comonomer Dispersität von 99 oder darüber, wobei das Copolymerisat eine maximale relative Comonomer Dispersität aufweist, die gleich der Summe aus 100 plus der Konzentration an 1 Hexen in Molprozent ist.

## Description
This invention relates to a process to produce copolymers of ethylene and a minor amount of other 1 olefins. Another aspect of this invention relates to novel ethylene 1 hexene copolymers. Polyethylene is commercially produced in a variety of ways. Catalyst based on chromium and related polymerization processes are described in US A 2,825,721. The chromium catalysts and the corresponding polymerization processes have wide spread acceptance in the polymerization and copolymerization of ethylene. Slurry processes in which the catalyst, the monomer or monomers and a diluent are subjected to polymerization conditions for the monomers are known in the art. Many homopolymers of ethylene and copolymers of ethylene and other olefins have been described, produced and sold. In recent years, so called linear low density polyethylenes have been marketed. While the original low density polyethylenes were characterized by long chain branching as well as short chain branches and thus were not linear, the modern low density polyethylenes are linear polymers, i.e. they have essentially no long chain branching but contain short chain branching introduced into the molecule by a comonomer such as 1 butene which produces ethyl branches. The quantity and kind of such short side chains have influence on the physical properties of the polymers produced. One process for the production of linear low density polyethylene is through copolymerization of ethylene and other 1 olefins such as 1 butene in a gas phase polymerization utilizing a catalyst which comprises a silica support containing chromium, titanium and fluorine deposited thereon as described in US A 4,011,382. 1 Hexene is mentioned in this patent as a possible comonomer. Efficient production of linear low density polyethylene and improving the respective processes are remaining goals in the industry. It is one object of this invention to provide a new process for the production of polyethylene. Another object of this invention is to provide a process which allows a high efficiency of comonomer incorporation into the chain for the polymerization of ethylene. A still further object of this invention is to provide a highly efficient process for ethylene polymerization. Yet another object of this invention is to provide a process for ethylene polymerization in which a significant amount of the polymerization reaction cooling is achieved by using a cold feedstream. A yet further object of this invention is to provide a new ethylene 1 hexene copolymer. These and other objects, details, features, embodiments and advantages of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following cetailed description and appended claims. In accordance with this invention it has been found that a gas phase polymerization of ethylene in contact with a catalyst based on coprecipitated silica and titania and which also contains chromium constitutes an unusual process with unique and unexpected features. Surprisingly, it has been found flat the process described herein allows the incorporation of comonomer in the polymer chain in a super random fashion, in which the comonomer units are very well isolated by ethylene units in the polymer chain. It has also been found that it is possible to incorporate higher concentrations of 1 olefin comonomers into the polymer chain of ethylene units in even higher concentrations than that of the comonomer in the gas phase of the polymerization zone. This latter observation is a particularly surprising feature and is of significance for commercial application of the process because 1 olefin comonomers normally require a higher feed temperature to prevent their condensation. On the other hand, a low feed temperature is desirable to provide cooling of the polymerization reaction. In accordance with this invention ethylene hexene copolymers as defined in the claims are provided, and a polymerization process for copolymerizing ethylene and some monoolefins as defined in the claims is also provided. The process of this invention allows one the use of low concentrations of the comonomer in the gas phase and thus to use cooler feedstreams, while at the same time a relatively high concentration of the comonomer in the copolymer is achieved. Furthermore, it has been discovered that the process of this invention produces copolymers of ethylene and other 1 olefins which contain the comonomer units separated from one another the comonomer units are not to any significant extent present as clusters or blocks. In some instances the dispersity of the comonomer units in the polymer chain has been found to be higher than the ideally random distribution. This result is an entirely unexpected result. Thus in accordance with this invention the claimed novel ethylene 1 hexene copolymer has a relative comonomer dispersity of 99 or higher. Most preferably the copolymer has a relative comonomer dispersity of 100 or more. The process of this invention comprises as its main step a gas phase polymerization of ethylene, this step is a copolymerization of ethylene and one or more 1 olefin comonomers. The polymerization is carried out in contact with a catalyst containing cogelled silica and titania and further containing chromium. Such catalysts are described for instance in US A 3,887,494. The catalyst used in this invention is either a silica titania cogel containing chromium oxide or it is a silica titania chromium oxide tergel obtained by simultaneously gelling silica, titania and chromium oxide. The catalyst used in the process of this invention can be characterized by the following ranges of properties or respective ingredients The catalyst used in accordance with this invention is activated by contacting the catalyst with free oxygen at 177 to 1093 C. Catalyst poisons or deactivators such as water or other hydroxyl containing compounds should be kept away from the activated catalyst. For this procedure, too, standard techniques such as a protection of the catalyst with nitrogen gas can be utilized. In the process of this invention the other 1 olefins used together with ethylene are also valuable in activating the catalyst and increasing the reaction rate. Thus, the process of this invention actually involves two activation steps. The first activation step is the regular activation with high temperature and free oxygen. The second activation step is the initial contacting of the catalyst with the olefins which cause the activation of the catalyst and increase in the reaction rate. This step is then followed by polymerization. It is within the scope of this invention to use a promoter or adjuvant Examples of such adjuvants are trialkylaluminum, e.g. triethylaluminum, trialkylboranes, e.g. triethylborane, magnesium alkyls. e.g. dibutyl magnesium or mixtures thereof. Many of these adjuvants are known in the art as adjuvants for slurry and solution polymerizations of olefins. The adjuvant may be added by impregnating the catalyst with a solution of the adjuvant and evaporating the solvent. The impregnation can also be done in a fluidized bed by spraying the adjuvant solution onto the fluidized catalyst at a temperature preferably above the boiling point of the solvent. The adjuvant when used is added to the catalyst after the high temperature activation, generally at a temperature in the range of 50 to 200 C. The adjuvant is generally used in a concentration of 1 to 5 weight based on total catalyst. The monomer feedstreams used in the process of this invention are in gas phase and contain ethylene and the comonomer or comonomers. The comonomers are 1 olefins. The comonomers are employed in a ratio of ethylene comonomer in a range of 1000 1 to 11 1. In accordance with this invention it is possible to operate with relatively low concentrations of the comonomer in the gas phase surrounding the catalyst. Specifically, a molar concentration of comonomer is used, which is in contact with the catalyst in the gas phase as defined by the following relationship CP is the concentration of the comonomer units in the polymer chain based on total molar units of ethylene and comonomer units in the polymer as 100 . k is a factor in the range of 1 8 to 3 2. In several circumstances it has been found in accordance with this invention that a higher comonomer concentration was achieved in the polymer than was present in the gas phase of the catalytic polymerization zone. This effect appears to be more pronounced with increasing molecular weight of the comonomer. Therefore, the lower end of the range for the factor k above is associated with higher molecular weight comonomers such as octenes, while the higher range for the factor k is associated with comonomers having a lower molecular weight, i.e. butenes and pentenes. The concentration of the comonomer mole of all olefins in the process of this invention can be described for the individual comonomers in the gas phase of the polymerization zone relative to the concentration of this comonomer in the copolymer by the formulae CGB mole concentration 1 butene in gas phase. CPB mole concentration 1 butene in copolymer. CGH mole concentration 1 hexene in gas phase. CPH mole concentration 1 hexene in copolymer. CGO mole concentration 1 octene in gas phase. CPO mole concentration 1 octene in copolymer. CGF mole concentration of 4 methyl 1 pentene in gas phase. CPF mole concentration of 4 methyl 1 pentene in copolymer. The 1 olefin comonomers used are 1 butene, 1 hexene, 4 methyl 1 pentene and 1 octene. Combinations of two or more of these comonomers can be used in the process of this invention. The gas phase used in the polymerization step can contain other components. Diluent gases such as nitrogen or noble gases can be utilized. It is presently preferred, however, to carry out the polymerization step in the catalytic polymerization zone using a gas phase consisting essentially of the 1 olefins defined above, i.e. ethylene and the comonomer or comonomers, and hydrogen when employed. For melt index and molecular weight control it is presently preferred to carry out the polymerization step in the presence of hydrogen. In addition to increasing the melt index of the polymer added hydrogen also functions to increase the reaction rate of polymerization in the process of this invention. The gas phase polymerization step of this invention is usually conducted at significant ethylene pressures which are above atmospheric pressure. Usually the pressure in the catalytic polymerization zone is in the range of 50 to 1000 psig 10.347 6.9 MPa gauge preferably in the range of 100 to 500 psig 0.69 3.47 MPa gauge . Ethylene partial pressure is generally in the range of 50 to 1000 psig 0.347 6.9 MPa gauge , and preferably in the range of 100 to 500 psig 0.69 3.47 MPa gauge . If hydrogen is used for molecular weight control the partial pressure of the hydrogen will be in the range of 10 to 150 psig 0.069 1.04 MPa gauge . The polymerization is carried out at a temperature which can vary widely. An upper limit for the temperature in the polymerization zone is set only by the temperature at which the polymer begins to fuse, causing agglomeration of the polymer particles and loss of catalyst fluidization. The upper temperature limit varies from about 120 C for ethylene homopolymer to about 90 C for copolymers of 0.920 g cm The cooling of the catalytic reaction zone can be accomplished by various means including indirect heat exchange or evaporation of a hydrocarbon spray. It is presently preferred to use the ambient feedstream temperature created as the gas stream nows into the catalytic polymerization zone. In view of the fact that the concentration of the comonomer in accordance with this invention can be low, it is possible to operate with relatively low feedstream temperatures. Generally the feed temperature will be in a range of 25 to 60 C and the outlet temperature, i.e., the temperature of the gas leaving the catalytic polymerization zone, will be in a range of 70 to 120 C. For copolymers in particular, the outlet temperatures will be generally below 100 C. It is presently preferred that the temperature difference between the inlet and the outlet temperature of the catalytic reaction zone be in a range of 20 to 60 C. The gas phase polymerization step of this invention is preferably carried out in a fluidized bed reactor. The catalyst can be fluidized by the gas passing upwardly through a distribution plate and into the catalytic polymerization zone containing the catalyst and the polymer formed. The actual linear velocity of the gas can range from 0.5 to 5 ft s 15.2 153 cm s as measured at the reaction conditions employed. It is, however, equally effective to achieve the fluidization by mechanical means. Thus powdered catalyst and finely divided polymer can be fluidized by a stirring or agitating mechanism such as a marine type propeller or an anchor type mixer. When ethylene gas flow is used for the fluidization, the conversion per pass is usually kept low and the gas carries most of the heat of reaction from the reaction zone. This gas is cooled before recycle. It is also possible in accordance with this invention to use mechanical agitation in an autoclave and to actually internally circulate ethylene, and to remove the heat of reaction by transferring this heat to internal walls or cooling plates or coils. If required the polymer can be separated from the catalyst particles bv standard techniques such as by dissolution in a hot solvent such as cyclohexane and filtration or centrifugation of the solution to remove catalyst. The polymer is then recovered by removal of the solvent such as by evaporation or steam stripping as known in the art if the productivity of the catalyst utilized is sufficiently high, e.g., at least 2000 g polymer per g catalyst, it is also within the scope of this invention to recover and utilize the polymer without separating catalyst residues. In a specific embodiment the process to produce ethylenemonoolefin copolymers comprises contacting a gas mixture containing ethylene and another monoolefin with a silica titania chromium oxide catalyst, said silica and titania being coprecipitated, under gas phase polymerization conditions in a polymerization zone such as to produce an ethylene monoolefin copolymer, and recovering said ethylene monoolefin copolymer. In a further specific embodiment the aforesaid process is characterized in that said catalyst is selected from one or more of a silica titania chromium oxide tergels and b chromium oxide supported on silica titania cogels. In a further specific embodiment the polymerization is carried out at a pressure of 345 to 690 kPa gauge and at a temperature below 120 C, preferably in the range of 70 to 95 C. In a further specific embodiment the process is carried out for producing a copolymer having a density in the range of 0.915 to 0.935 g ml, wherein the higher value of the range of K4 or respectively K6 or respectively K8 or respectively K51 is associated with the lower density of 0.915 g ml and wherein the lower value of these values K4, K6, K8 and K51 relates to the higher density of the copolymer to be made. Another embodiment of this invention resides in a new ethylene 1 hexene copolymer as defined in claim 1. This copolymer is characterized by a relative dispersity of the hexene units of 99 or more. The most preferred copolymers of ethylene and 1 hexene have a relative comonomer dispersity of over 100 . These relative dispersities are based on the ideally random distribution as a reference point Some of the novel copolymers have a dispersion of the comonomers which is better less clustering than that of an ideally random dispersed copolymer. The copolymer is characterized by a content of 1 to 6 mole percent 1 hexene and 99 to 94 mole percent ethylene, said copolymer having a maximum relative comonomer dispersity which is the sum of 100 plus the concentration of 1 hexene in mole percent. The most preferred copolymer of this invention is characterized in addition to the relative dispersity of the comonomer by the following properties. The relative dispersity of the comonomer in the polymer chain, RMD, is defined by the following formula and determined as described below The absolute comonomer dispersity is determined by the following procedure. The absolute comonomer dispersity is defined as the ratio of the number N of clusters of comonomers per average molecule divided by the number X of comonomer units per average polymer chain. If n The ideally random or Bernoullian distribution, BMD, is determined by the following formula The absolute monomer dispersity AMD is determined by NMR methods as follows An NMR spectrum is taken of the polymer. The peaks in accordance with standard NMR practice can be determined and characterized by their position in ppm relative to tetramethylsilane. In view of higher operating temperatures the actual calibration is done relative to hexamethyldisiloxane having its peak at 2.03 ppm relative to tetramethylsilane. The peaks listed in the following table for the polymer of this invention are given in ppm relative to tetramethylsilane. The spectrum of the ethylene 1 hexene copolymer will show peaks which have the following assignments In this table the abbreviations α, β, γ, δ , 1B The triad distribution is determined. Although this represents only one of several possibilities, it is presently preferred to use the triad distribution to determine the absolute monomer dispersity. Other methods developed analogously to the triad distribution would be to use either a dyad or tetrad distribution. These other methods do not have as many of the advantages with respect to accuracy or ease of calculation as does the triad distribution. The triad distribution in essence determines the relative concentration of EXE, EXX, XXX contiguous sequences in the polymer molecule where E stands for ethylene and X stands for the comonomer units, here in particular 1 hexene. For more details reference is specifically made to Eric T. Hsieh and James C. Randall, Ethylene 1 Butene Copolymers 1. Comonomer Sequence Distribution, Since every cluster of two or more X units will contribute to two EXX units, the following relationships exist The individual concentrations of EXE, EXX and XXX being determined from the peak heights or peak areas. In this instance H represents 1 hexene replacing X of the above generic description. From the so determined value AMD for the absolute monomer dispersity, the relative monomer dispersity is determined in accordance with the above formula. In the ensuing discussions the relative and absolute monomer dispersities shown have been determined as described above. The following examples are intended to further illustrate preferred embodiment of this invention without undue limitation of its scope as claimed. The catalyst used in each run was prepared in the general method disclosed in US A 3,887,494 where titanyl sulfate and chromic nitrate were added to an aqueous sulfuric acid solution and the mixture was treated with an aqueous sodium silicate solution to form a tergel hydrogel containing about 8 to 10 weight per cent solids. The resulting hydrogel was aged and washed as described in the reference. Water was removed from the hydrogel by azeotrope distillation with 1 hexanol as noted in US A 4,081,407. The dried composition was activated calcined in a fluidized bed in an oxygen containing ambient at an elevated temperature, e.g., 5 hours at 870 C or the temperature specified, to form an active catalyst for ethylene co polymerization. Such a tergel catalyst typically contains 1 weight percent Cr present as chromium oxide, 2.5 weight percent Ti present as TiO Polymerization was conducted in a 2 liter stainless steel jacketed autoclave equipped with a marine type propeller rotating at 350 RPM using the specified reactor temperature, ethylene pressure, hydrogen pressure, if used, and 1 butene concentration. As ethylene was consumed, it was supplied automatically to the reactor through a calibrated rotameter from a pressurized reservoir. The comonomer concentration in the reactor was maintained at a relatively constant amount by frequently analyzing a sample of the reactor contents by gas chromatography and supplying additional comonomer as required. During start up and with the reactor preheated, a small amount of weighed catalyst usually 0.02 to 0.04 g was charged to the reactor before ethylene gas was brought in to provide the desired pressure. When hydrogen was employed, the ethylene flow was temporarily interrupted at a pressure lower than the desired pressure. Hydrogen was then charged at a specified pressure and the system was then pressured up with ethylene to provide the final desired pressure. 1 butene or other comonomer was then pumped in to give the desired concentration in the reactor with the actual concentration determined by gas chromatography on a reactor sample. After an induction period of a few minutes polymerization began, as evidenced by ethylene flow through the rotameter. The heat of polymerization was removed by running a cooling liquid through the jacketed autoclave at a rate sufficient to maintain the desired reaction temperature. Polymerization was conducted until the polymer content in the reactor reached the desired level, usually about 4,000 g polymer per g catalyst as calculated from ethylene and comonomer consumption. At that time, gaseous reactor contents were vented, heating was discontinued, and the reaction stopped. The uniform granular polymer was removed by opening the autoclave. The reactor conditions employed and the results obtained are presented in Tables IA, IB, IC and ID. Polymer yield is expressed in terms of g polymer per g catalyst g g and average g polymer per g catalyst per hour ave g g h . The results in Tables IA, IB, IC and ID demonstrate that copolymers having a wide range of melt indexes, e.g. from 0.6 to 7 and densities ranging from 0.915 to 0.955 can be made by manipulating the reactor temperature from 81 to 106 C, the reactor pressure total ethylene hydrogen, if employed , from 150 to 400 psig 1.03 2.76 MPa and concentration of comonomer from 0.1 to 6 mole percent in the gaseous feed. The hydrogen employed varied from 0 to 150 psi 0 1.03 MPa . The data in Table IA show that the presence of hydrogen increases copolymer melt index, increases reaction rate catalyst activity as reflected by g polymer per g catalyst per hour, and decreases incorporation of 1 butene into the copolymer structure. The results also show that increasing catalyst activation temperature increases catalyst activity as well as increasing polymer melt index and generally improves incorporation of 1 butene. A series of catalysts was prepared as described below, each catalyst containing 1 weight percent Cr present as chromium oxide based on the weight of the calcined activated catalyst. Catalyst A, invention tergel catalyst prepared as previously described in Example I and activated for 5 hours as shown in Example I. Catalyst B, control, large pore silica prepared as disclosed in US A 3,900,457. Titanium was absent from this catalyst Catalyst C, control. Same catalyst as B except that it was impregnated with a hydrocarbon solution of titanium isopropoxide sufficient to provide about 2.5 weight percent titanium as TiO Catalyst D, control. Commercially available microspheroidal intermediate density silica Davison 952 MSID silica having a pore volume of 1.6 cm Each catalyst was employed in the gas phase polymerization of ethylene and 1 hexene in the manner previously detailed. Catalyst A was employed also in the gas phase polymerization of ethylene and 1 butene as before. The conditions employed and results obtained are given in Tables IIA and IIB. The concentration of 1 butene or 1 hexene in the copolymers mole 1 butene or 1 hexene and the isolated C Inspection of the data in Table IIA reveals that catalyst A tergel catalyst used in the invention runs 1, 2 provides the best balance of desirable properties. Thus it combines acceptable polymer yields, polymer melt indexes and relatively low polymer densities showing that the 1 hexene is being efficiently incorporated into the polymer structure. Control catalyst B large pore silica base, no titanium has low activity in the process and the resulting copolymers exhibit low melt index values relative to the invention runs. The titanated large pore silica base control catalyst C exhibits an even lower polymerization activity than control catalyst B. However, a high melt index polymer is formed. The titanated MSID silica base control catalyst D possesses acceptable polymerization activity but the resulting polymes are low in melt index and high in density relative to the invention runs. This catalyst does not incorporate 1 butene into the polymer structure as efficiently as does tergel catalyst A. All the catalyst were about equally effective in the dispersion of C The date in Table IIB demonstrate that the dispersion of C A series of ethylene 1 hexene copolymers and ethylene 4 methyl 1 pentene copolymers were prepared with the tergel catalyst as previously described. The density and percent branches present in the copolymer structure branching dispersity was determined for each copolymer. The calculated isolated percent of the branches of random, according to the Bernouillian statistical method are also presented. The results obtained with the ethylene 1 hexene copolymers are given in Table IIIA. The results obtained with the ethylene 4 methyl 1 pentene copolymers are given in Table IIIB. In Table IIIC the branching dispersities for several commercial and experimental ethylene 1 olefin copolymers are presented for comparison. A series of ethylene 1 olefin coplymers was prepared as described before employing the tergel catalyst in gas phase copolymerization at a reactor temperature in the range of 81 85 C, ethylene pressure in the range of 150 to 200 psig 1.03 to 1.38 MPa gauge and in the presence of 25 50 psi 0.173 0.345 MPa hydrogen. The comonomers used and the relative amounts of each to obtain copolymers having about the same density are given in Table IV. The data in Table IV demonstrate that the concentration of 1 olefin comonomer in the reactor diminishes significantly from about 5.5 mole percent for 1 butene to about 0.6 mole percent for 1 octene in preparing copolymer having about the same density, 0.924 g cm