# Apparatus for reproducing various tone and line originals and methods of operation thereof.

## Abstract
A document scanner 10 scans a document to be reproduced and the serial output data PEL s is provided to a system controller 30 and to an input buffer means 14. The controller 30 provides control signals on line 50 to a print decision multiplexor 48 which can receive inputs on lines 44, 46, 54. The input on 54 is selected when a line copy algorithm is to be used to control printing, the input on line 44 when a continuous tone print algorithm is to be used to control printing and the input on line 46 is to be used when a third algorithm is to be used suitable for areas of an original not clearly continuous tone or line tone. The appropriate line 44, 46, 54 is selected in accordance with the sequence of data representing the original. For this purpose gradient logic means 26 is connected by busses 16, 18, 20, 22, 24 to selected storage positions of the buffer means 14 and generates a gradient signal on line 28 for each PEL. Similarly look ahead logic means 32 are connected by busses 20 , 22 , 24 to selected storage positions of the buffer means 14. The look ahead means 32 provide signals on lines 34, 36 indicative of whether any selected storage position respec tively hold a white valued or black valued PEL. In addition hysteresis counters 40 provide signals on lines 58 thro 96 indicative of the preceding operational mode and or preced ing PEL values. Latches 104, 106, 108, 110 provide respective ly reference signals indicative of a white threshold level, a black threshold level, a threshold level usable for line copy and a datum gradient value. The system controlled 30 is a data processor and is operative to correlate the signals supplied to it and to generate control signals for the multiplexor block 48. In a second apparatus the scanner output is supplied to a discriminator 154 which processes the signal it receives and determines whether a PEL represents line or non line copy information. The discriminator 154 controls switch 160 via line 156 in accordance with the determination. For line copy the original signal on line 162 is routed to discriminator 166 and for non line copy the processed signal on line 158 is routed to discriminator 166. Discriminator 166 descriminates between line copy and continuous tone copy and supplies the decisions to discriminator 170. The discriminator 170 forms a map of all the decisions and if the decision for a particular PEL is different from its surrounding PEL s, the decision is changed to match that of its surroundings. The output of discriminator 170 controls switch 180 which routes the original PEL data on line 176 to fixed thresholder 180 for line copy and to thresholder 184 for continuous tone copy.