# POLYMER COATED REINFORCEMENTS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer Masse, umfassend

## Description
The invention relates to reinforcements for use in plastics such as, for example, poly arylene sulfide compositions. This invention also relates to the improvement of properties, such as strength, stiffness and fatigue life, of plastics such as, for example, poly arylene sulfide compositions. Reinforcements are used in plastics to improve many properties of the compositions. These reinforcements are usually in the form of fibers but can be in other forms such as, for example, powders and beads. The incorporation of carbon fibers, for example, into a poly arylene sulfide composition, improves strength, stiffness and fatigue life. In view of the value and utility of reinforcements, persons of skill in the art of plastic compositions seek to discover and use new and improved reinforcements. US 4,026,863 discloses a composite comprising a fluorocarbon polymer and a filler whose surface is treated with polyphenylene sulfide. US 4,328,151 discloses a composition comprising a poly vinylidene fluoride resin mixed with carbon fibers which have been precoated with poly vinylidene fluoride . It is also known, for example, that the reinforcement utility of carbon fibers can be improved by sizing the fibers with polyvinylpyrrolidone. We also seek to improve the reinforcements in plastic compositions and our invention represents such a contribution to the art. An object of this invention is to improve the utility of reinforcement fibers employed in plastic compositions. Other objects and advantages will be apparent to those of skill in the art who study this disclosure and the appended claims. In accordance with our invention a method for producing a composition is provided as defined in the claims. Reinforcements are sized or treated with a curable poly arylene sulfide , PAS and subjected to conditions sufficient to cure the polymer. The cured polymer treated reinforcements can be incorporated into a PAS plastic. The plastic is then a polymer characterized by the same type of polymeric repeating units that characterize the curable polymer with which the reinforcement was sized or treated. In accordance with the method of our invention, reinforcements are treated with a curable PAS polymer such as, for example, poly phenylene sulfide and then subjected to conditions sufficient to cure the polymer. The reinforcements produced in this manner can be incorporated into PAS plastic to improve strength, stiffness, fatigue life and other properties of the PAS The reinforcements contemplated to be within the scope of our invention include, but are not limited to, those reinforcements presently known in the art such as, for example, carbon, glass, boron, silica, quartz, asbestos, mica and organic material e.g. nylon, polyester, etc. . It is desirable to select a reinforcement to which the curable polymer readily adheres. It is also desirable to select a reinforcement that will not be significantly damaged by the curing agent or temperature. Carbon is preferred because poly arylene sulfide adheres well to carbon and it has excellent reinforcement properties. Fibers are generally best suited for most applications and give the best results. The fibers can be long or continuous The fibers can range in length, for example, from a fraction of an inch to many yards. There is no limitation on the length of the fiber. The reinforcements can be treated with the curable PAS polymer in any of many ways. It is presently preferred, because of ease and completeness of application, to pass the reinforcements through an aqueous slurry of the curable polymer. Examples of other suitable methods include coating the reinforcements with molten polymer or with a solution containing the polymer. In the presently preferred embodiment of this invention carbon fibers are sized by passing a continuous carbon filament through an aqueous slurry of poly phenylene sulfide . Fibers are produced by cutting the continuous filament to the desired length. The flow rate of the PAS polymer used to treat the reinforcement should not be so low that a good coating of the reinforcement cannot be obtained. The flow rate of the poly arylene sulfide used for this purpose is measured in accordance with ASTM Test Method D1238, Procedure B modified to use a 5 kg weight and a temperature of 600 F 316 C . The poly arylene sulfide such as, for example, poly phenylene sulfide has a flow rate ranging from about 2,000 to about 6,000 grams 10 min. measured as described above because within this range the material is fluid enough to flow well and make an even coating yet sufficiently viscous to maintain its integrity during the curing operation. The curable polymer used to treat the reinforcement is poly arylene sulfide . Suitable poly arylene sulfide polymers include, but are not limited to, those polymers disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,354,129. Poly phenylene sulfide is the preferred polymer because our own experiments have demonstrated its substantial utility. Poly phenylene sulfide is also preferred because of its availability and desirable properties such as high chemical resistance, nonflammability and high strength and hardness. The PAS polymer treated continuous reinforcements are subjected according to the method to conditions sufficient to cure the polymer coating. For the purposes of our disclosure and claims, the word curing is intended to mean any process whereby the molecular weight of the polymer is increased by either lengthening of a molecular chain or by crosslinking or by combination of both by, for example, supplying to the polymer a curing agent and or sufficient energy such as, for example, heat . The PAS cure is necessary because the reinforcements are likely to later be subjected to high temperatures that could otherwise cause the polymer coating to flow off of the reinforcements. For example, high temperatures can be encountered when incorporating the polymer treated reinforcements into the PAS to form the composition or subsequently when the plastic is molded, extruded or otherwise processed. The PAS coating should be cured to the extent necessary to substantially maintain the coating on the reinforcement. It is important to note that a complete cure i.e. no more lengthening or crosslinking possible is not usually necessary. Any set of conditions sufficient to effect a suitable cure can be employed. With respect to poly arylene sulfide we recommend curing by subjecting the polymer to a temperature of at least about 450 F in air. The higher the curing temperature the shorter the curing time need be. The amount of polymer coating on the reinforcement after curing can vary widely. The weight percentage of polymer coating will range from about 0.1 to about 10 weight percent. The presently preferred range, especially for fibers, is about 6 to about 8 weight percent. The above weight percentages are based upon the total weight of the polymer coating and the reinforcement. After a satisfactory cure has been effected the reinforcements can be incorporated into PAS. The reinforcements of our invention are for plastics that are polymers characterized by the same type of polymeric repeating units which characterize the curable polymers used to treat those reinforcements. For example, reinforcements that are treated with poly phenylene sulfide are best suited for incorporation into poly phenylene sulfide compositions. The continuous reinforcements of our invention, i.e. those treated with a poly arylene sulfide which most preferably is poly phenylene sulfide , are well suited for reinforcement of poly arylene sulfide compositions. The poly arylene sulfide into which the reinforcements can be incorporated include any uncured or partially cured poly arylene sulfide whether homopolymer, copolymer, terpolymer, and the like, or a blend of such polymers. This uncured or partially cured polymer is a polymer, the molecular weight of which can be increased by either lengthening of a molecular chain or by crosslinking or by combination of both by supplying thereto sufficient energy, such as heat. Suitable poly arylene sulfide polymers include, but are not limited to, those described in U.S. 3,354,129. The reinforcements of our invention are especially well suited for the reinforcement of a poly arylene sulfide having a melt flow not exceeding about 1000 grams 10 min. as measured in accordance with ASTM Test Method D1238, Procedure B modified to use a 5 kg weight and a temperature of 600 F 316 C . Examples of poly arylene sulfide compositions suitable for receiving the treated reinforcements of our invention include poly 2,4 tolylene sulfide , poly 4,4 biphenylene sulfide and poly phenylene sulfide . Because of its availability and desirable properties such as high chemical resistance, nonflammability, and high strength and hardness poly phenylene sulfide is the presently preferred poly arylene sulfide for this purpose. The weight percentage of the coated reinforcements incorporated into the plastic will depend in great part upon the intended use of the plastic. Generally the weight percentage of the coated reinforcements will range from about 2 to about 75 weight percent and more usually between about 10 and about 65 weight percent. The above weight percentages are based upon the total weight of the coated reinforcements and the plastic. The coated reinforcements can be incorporated into the PAS material in accordance with any method that will yield a good mixture. Many suitable mixing techniques are well known in the art. By way of non limiting example, the treated reinforcements and the plastic can be mixed in a conventional metal drum and then extruded at a temperature in excess of about the melting point of the PAS plastic. The following example is given to facilitate the disclosure of our invention and should not be interpreted to unduly limit the scope of our invention. This example illustrates the method of our invention used to prepare and evaluate one of the compositions and a control composition. A mixture of 1500 grams poly phenylene sulfide , 3500 grams distilled water and 52.5 grams of an ethoxylated castor oil wetting agent was ball milled overnight at ambient room temperature. The poly phenylene sulfide had a melt flow of about 2000 to 6000 grams 10 min. as measured according to ASTM Test Method D1238, Procedure B modified to use a 5 kg weight and a 316 C 600 F temperature. Carbon fibers were passed through this poly phenylene sulfide slurry for complete immersion and wetting. The poly phenylene sulfide treated fibers were heated at about 550 F 287 C to evaporate water and to melt the poly phenylene sulfide for better fiber wetting. The treated fibers were then heated in an air circulating oven at 700 F 371 C for 45 minutes to effect the desired cure of the poly phenylene sulfide coating. The weight percentage of poly phenylene sulfide coating was about 7 weight percent based upon the total amount of poly phenylene sulfide coating and carbon fiber. 200 grams of poly phenylene sulfide sized carbon fibers and 800 grams of poly phenylene sulfide flow rate of about 120 20 grams 10 min. measured as described above were mixed together in a plastic lined metal drum and extruded at 600 F 316 C through a Davis Standard 1.5 inch extruder having a mixing screw used at a speed of 100 rpm. The mixture was ground to a granular or coarse powder, dried in an oven at 350 F 177 C for 3 hours and molded into bar specimens using a New Britain molding machine barrel 316 C 600 F , mold 135 C 275 F . The bars were standard ASTM specimens. The above described compounding procedure was repeated using, in place of our poly phenylene sulfide sized carbon fibers, commercial PVP polyvinylpyrrolidone sized carbon fibers known in the trade as Celion from the Celanese Corporation of Summit, New Jersey. The bars prepared from this composition were similarly evaluated. The results of our evaluation of the bars are listed in Table I. Note that the poly phenylene sulfide sized carbon fiber outperformed the polyvinylpyrrolidone sized carbon fibers in most areas. The polyvinylpyrrolidine sized fibers achieved better results only in the flexural modulus test.