# Stabilized prostaglandine E composition.

## Abstract
The degradation of prostaglandins E is prevented or minimized by combining prostaglandins E with methylhes peridin.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A stabilized prostaglandin E composition comprising a prostaglandin E having incorporated therein a stabilizing amount of methylhesperidin. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the ratio by weight of methylhesperidin to the prostaglandin E is in the range of from 0.1 to 10,000. 3. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the ratio by weight of methylhesperidin to the prostaglandin E is in the range of from 1 to 1,000. 4. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the prostaglandin E is at least one compound selected from the group consisting of prostaglandin E2 prostaglandin E1 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E1 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E2 15 methylprostaglandin E2 15 methylprostaglandin E1, 15 methyl 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E1, 16 methylprostaglandin E2 16 methylprostaglandin E1 16 methyl 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E1 16,16 dimethylprostaglandin E2, 16,16 dimethylprostaglandin E1 16,16 dimethyl 13,14 dihydro prostaglandin E1 16,16 propanoprostaglandin E 2, 16,16 propanoprostaglandin E1, 16,16 propano 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E1 16 cyclohexyl tetranorprostaglandin E2 16 phenyl tetranorprostaglandin E2 17 phenyl t tri norprostaglandin E2 16 phenoxy W tetranorprostaglandin E2 16 m chlorophenoxy tetranorprostaglandin E2 and their alkyl esters the alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms and aralkyl esters the aralkyl group having from 7 to 15 carbon atoms , and prostaglandins E represented by the general formula EMI12.1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R4 and R5 may be the same or different, and each ofR4 and R5 represents independently a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a fluorine atom R2 and R3 may be the same or different, and each of R2 and R3 represents independently a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a protective group for the hydroxyl group R6 represents an alkyl group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, a substituted alkyl group having from 1 to 15 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, a substituted cycloalkyl group the cycloalkyl group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms , an aryl group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms, or a substituted aryl group the aryl group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms Z represents a single bond, a sulfur atom or an oxygen atom A represents CH2CH2 or cis CH CH B represents CH2CH2 , CC or trans CH CH X represents an alkylene group having from 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a substituted alkylene group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and Y represents a carboxyl group, an alkoxycarbonyl group having from 2 to 13 carbon atoms, a hydroxymethyl group or an unsubstituted or substituted alkoxymethyl group the alkoxymethyl group having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms . 5. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the methylhesperidin is a product obtained by methylating hesperidin. 6. A composition according to claim 1 which has a water content of less than about 5 by weight.

## Description
STABILIZED PROSTAGLANDIN E COMPOSITION This invention relates to a stabilized prostaglandin E composition. Prostaglandins E exhibit various pharmacological activities and, when used in minor amounts, are useful in, for example, bronchodilatation, control of uterine contraction, suppression of acid secretion, treatment of and prevention against peptic ulcer, lowering of blood pressure, suppression of blood platelet aggregation and control of lipid metabolism. Prostaglandins E are generally liable to be degraded by acid, base and or heat, and cause some problems in prescription and dosage of the medicines thereof. When prostaglandins E are maintained at room temperature, degraded products can be detected several weeks later. At a higher temperature, for example, 100 C, a substantial part of prostaglandins E is degraded within a few hours. Even when they are maintained in a refrigerator, it is recognized that degradation proceeds, although slowly. Some proposals have been heretofore made to stabilize prostaglandins E. For example, it is described inK.C. Srivastava and J. Clausen Lipids, 8, P 592 594 1973 that prostaglandins E can be stabilized by dissolving them in an acid ester such as ethyl acetate, an alcohol such as ethyl alcohol, or chloroform. It now has been found, however, that methylhesperidin prevents or minimizes the degradation of prostaglandins E to a great extent. Therefore, in accordance with the present invention there is provided a stabilized prostaglandin E composition comprising a prostaglandin E having incorporated therein a stabilizing amount of methylhesperidin. Prostaglandins E to be stabilized by methylhesperidin include, for example, prostaglandin E2 hereinafter abbreviated as PGE2 , prostaglandin E1 hereinafter abbreviated as PGE1 , 13,14 dihydroprostaglandin E1 hereinafter abbreviated as PGE0 , 13,14 dihydro PGE2, 15 methyl PGE2, 15 methyl PGE1 15 methyl PGE0, l6 methyl PGE2, 16 methyl PGE1, 16 methyl PGE0, 16,16 dimethyl PGE2, 16,16 dimethyl PGE1, 16,16 dimethyl PGE0, 16,16 propano PGE2, 16,16 propano PGE1, 16, l6 propano PGE0, i6 cyclohexyl W tetranor PGE2, 16 phenyl tetranor PGE2, 17 phenyl trinor PGE2, 16 phenoxy W tetranor PGE2 and l6 m chlorophenoxy p tetranor PGE2 Alkyl esters the alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon atoms , such as methyl ester, ethyl ester and decyl ester, of these compounds and aralkyl esters thereof the aralkyl group having from 7 to 15 carbon atoms are also included in the prostaglandins E used in the present invention. Furthermore, the prostaglandins E used in the present invention include compounds represented by the general formula EMI2.1 wherein R1 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms R4 and R5 may be the same or different, and each of R4 and R5 represents independently a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a fluorine atom R2 and R3 may be the same or different, and each of R2 and R3 represents independently a hydrogen atom, an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms or a protective group for the hydroxyl group R6 represents an alkyl group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, a substituted alkyl group having from 1 to 15 carbon atoms, a cycloalkyl group having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms, a substituted cycloalkyl group the cycloalkyl group having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms , such as methyl cyclohexyl group or 3,4 dimethyl cyclopentyl group, an aryl group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms, such as a phenyl group or a naphthyl group, or a substituted aryl group the aryl group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms , such as a phenyl or naphthyl group having from 1 to 3 substituents selected from, for example, an alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, a halogen atom C1, Br or F and a trifluoromethyl group Z represents a single bond, a sulfur atom or an oxygen atom A represents CH2CH2 or cis CH CH B represents CH2CH2 , C C or trans CH CH X represents an alkylene group having from 1 to 5 carbon atoms or a substituted alkylene group having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and Y represents a carboxyl group, an alkoxycarbonyl group having from 2 to 13 carbon atoms, a hydroxymethyl group, an alkoxymethyl group having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms or a substituted alkoxymethyl group the alkoxymethyl group having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms . The prostaglandins E listed above and their preparative methods are disclosed, for example, in E.J. Corey et al J. Am. Chem. Soc., 91, P 5675 5677 1969 , ibid, 92,P 397 398 1970 Japanese Patent Publications 10,236 1973 and 24,599 1971, and Japanese Laid open patent applications 128,492 1976, 115,991 1976, 43,749 1976, 43,744 1976, 35,413 1976, 14,150 1976, 52,745 1973, 38,320 1972, 34,355 1972, 30,641 1972 and 6,264 1972. The prostaglandin E s liability of being readily degraded is due to the presence of a readily eliminatable hydroxyl, acyloxy or alkoxy group in the five membered ring portion. It is usually recognized that, due to the elimination of such a readily eliminatable group, prostaglandins E are converted to prostaglandins A. The prostaglandins A are further converted to prostaglandins B and prostaglandins C, and occasionally otherwise degraded. Methylhesperidin prevents or minimizes all of such type degradations to a great extent as hereinafter explained in detail. Thus, the prostaglandins E used in the present invention should be interpreted in a broad sense as meaning all of the prostaglandins E which possess the five membered ring portion of the general formula hereinbefore mentioned. Methylhesperidin is popularly known as a soluble vitamine P and a food additive, and is not injurious to the health. Methylhesperidin is produced by methylating hesperidin. The methylation of hesperidin is described in, for example, C. V7. Wilson s U.S. Patent 2,425,291 1947 I. Sakieki Nippon Kagaku Zasshi 79, 733 736, 736 740 and 1103 1107 1958 Ibid, 80, 419 423, 423 426 1959 , and Japanese Patent Publication 23,091 1961 see also Chem. Abstr., 54, 4557i and 5632f, 55, 5481e and 58, P6918d .The methylation may be effected, for example, as follows.Dimethyl sulfate is incorporated in an alkaline solution of hesperidin, and then, sulfuric acid is added thereto to adjust the pH of the reaction mixture to a value between 4 and 5. The reaction product is extracted with n butyl alcohol and, after n butyl alcohol is distilled off under reduced pressure, the residue is recrystallized from isopropanol thereby to obtain a yellow powder. The methylation of hesperidin may also be effected by using diazomethane or methyl iodide, instead of dimethyl sulfate, for example, as described in F. F. Ring and A. Robertson J. Chem. Soc., 1931, P1704, and G. Zemplen and A. K.Tettamanti Chem. Ber., 71, P2511 1938 . Methylhesperidin products produced by methylation of hesperidin are usually a mixture of various methylated hesperidins and hesperidin chalcones, the composition of which mixture varies depending upon the purification degree of hesperidin used as raw material and the methylation conditions. For example, the methylhesperidin products are comprised of 3 methylhesperidin, 3 methyl 7 rhamnosyl 2 methylglucosyl hesperetin, 3,6 dimethylhesperidin chalcone, 3,6 dimethyl 4 rhamnosyl 2 methylglucosyl hesperetin chalcone and other methylated derivatives.Such methylhesperidin products, which are generally commercially available as they are, can be used without special purification in the present invention. The manner in which methylhesperidin is incorporated in prostaglandins E is not particularly limited. For example, a prostaglandin E and methylhesperidin are mixed together in an aqueous solution form, followed by lyophilization of the aqueous solution. When a prostaglandin E used is difficult to dissolve in water, the prostaglandin E may be dissolved in a small amount of methyl alcohol or ethyl alcohol and mixed with an aqueous methylhesperidin solution, and then, the mixture may be lyophilized.Instead of the lyophilization, a mixed solution of a prostaglandin E and methylhesperidin may be evaporated into dryness under a reduced pressure. The water content in these products dried by lyophylization or evaporation should preferably be as small as possible, i.e., less than about 5 by weight. Instead of the above mentioned procedure ulitizing water, only a prostaglandin E may be dissolved in an organic solvent such as alcohol and ethyl acetate, and then, the solution so obtained may be mixed well with a methylhesperidin powder, followed by the removal of the organic solvent. Alternatively, a prostaglandin E and methylhesperidin may be mixed together both in a powder form by using, for example, a mortar. The proportion of methylhesperidin to the prostaglandin E may be varied in a broad range. Usually, the ratio of methylhesperidin to the prostaglandin r is from 0.1 to 10,000 by weight, more preperably from 1 to 1,000 by weight. When the relative amount of mothylhesperidin is too small, the stability of the prostaglandin E is not satisfactory. In contrast, the use of an excessive amount of methylhesperidin causes some problems in that the medical preparations become voluminous. Various additives may be incorporated in the stabi lized prostaglandin E composition of the present invention, provided that the additives do not exert a harmful influence to a salient degree on the stability of the composition.Suitable additives are those which are conventionally used as medical additives, for example, cellulose and its derivatives such as hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose and methylcellulose polysaccharides and their derivatives such as starch, dextrin, dextran and cyclodextrin mono and disaccharides such as sucrose, lactose, maltose, glucose, D fructose, mannitol and sorbitol biological substances such as protein, nucleic acid and bile acid vitamines and their derivatives such as ascorbic acid, tocopherol and hesperidin and inorganic substances such as bentonite and talc, food additives may be incorporated, such as anti oxidants, other stabilizers, emulsifiers and sourness imparting agents. The composition of the present invention can be used in any medical preparation form such as injection, aerosol, suppository and peroral preparation. These medical preparations may be prepared in a conventional manner. The stabilized prostaglandin E composition of the present invention is useful in, similarly to conventional prostaglandin E preparations, for example, bronchodilatation, control of uterine contraction, suppression of acid secretion, treatment of and prevention against peptic ulcer, lowering of blood pressure, suppression of blood platelet aggregation and control of lipid metabolism. The following examples are included to further illustrate the present invention, but are not intended to be limiting. In the examples, the percentage of retention of prostaglandins E was determined as follows. After a specimen of the prostaglandin E composition was left to stand at a stated temperature and for a stated period of time, water was added to the specimen to obtain an aqueous slurry. The aqueous slurry was subjected to extraction by using as an extractant an organic solvent such as ethyl acetate and chloroform. A predetermined amount of the extract solution was subjected to a thin layer chromatography, wherein a developing solution comprised of ethyl acetate, iso octane, acetic acid and water the ratio by weight 110 40 20 100 was used. An aqueous diluted ammonium sulfate sulfuric acid solution was sprayed on the developed area, followed by heating at a temperature of 1800C for one hour to develope a color in said developed area.The density of the color developed area was determined by using a recording densitometer SHIMAZU CS 900 . The amount of the retained prostaglandin E was calculated from a comparison of the determined density with the calibration curve of a standard prostaglandin E. The percent of retention of prostaglandin E could be expressed by the formula Retention A Ao x 100, wherein A and Ao are the amount of the retained prostaglandin E and the amount of the initial prostaglandin E used, respectively. Example 1 Fifty mg of methylhesperidin were dissolved in 1 milli liter of distilled water. A solution of 500 micro gPGE2 in 50 micro liters of methanol was added to the aqueous methylhesperidin solution, and the mixture was stirred to obtain a uniform solution. The solution was lyophilized t obtain a yellow powder. The powder was maintained at a temperature of 100 C open thermostatic chamber for a predetermined period of time, and then, the retention of prostaglandin E was determined. The results are shown in Table I, below. In the following Examples 2 through 24 and Comparative examples 1 trug 4, the thermal degradation test of each prostaglandin E E compositIon powder was carried out in a anne similar to to that mentioned above, unless otherwise specified. Th t results obtained in Examples 2 through 10 and Comparative Examples 1 through 4 are shown in Table I, Lelow. Example 2 The preparation procedure mentioned in Exemple 1 was repeated, except that the amount of methylhesperidin was changed to 20 milli g, to obtain a yellow powder. Example Twenty milli g of methylhesperidine and 174 milli g ot dextrin were dissolved in 1.2 milli liter of distilled water. A solution of 500 micro g PGE2 in 50 micro liters of methanol was added to the aqueous methylhesperidin solution, and the mixture was stirred to obtain a uniform solution The solution was lyophilized to obtain a light yellow powder Example 4 Five hundred micro g of PGE were dissolved In 1 milli liter of ethyl acetate, and then 20 milli g of methylhesperidin were added to the solution while it was stirred. The resultant solution was distilled under a reduced pressure to remove ethyl acetate, thereby to obtain a yellow powder. Example 5 The preparation procedure mentioned in Example 4 was repeated. except that ethyl alcohol was used instead of ethyl acetate, thereby to obtain a yellow powder. ar The dure mentioned in Example was repeated, except that PGE1 was used instead of PGE2 Example 7 The preparation procedure mentioned in Example 1 was repeated, except that 13,14 dihydro PGE1 was used instead of PGE2 Example 8 The preparation procedure mentioned in Example 1 was repeated, except that 16,16 dimethyl PGE2 was used instead of PGE2 Example 9 The preparation procedure mentioned in Example 1 was repeated, except that 16,16 dimethyl PGEl was used instead of PGE2 Example 10 The preparation procedure mentioned in Example 1 was repeated, except that wherein 16 m chlorophenoxy 17,18,19,20 tetranor PGE2 was used instead of PGE2 Comparative Example 1 Five hundred micro g of PGE2 were placed in a glass ampule. The ampule was flushed with argon and then sealed. Comparative Example 2 Bata cyclodextrin dlathrate inclusion compound containing 500 micro g of PGE2 was combined with P cyclo dextrin to obtain 200 milli g of a PGE2 composition. Comparative Example 3 The PGE2 composition obtained in Comparative Example 2 was placed in a glass ampule. The ampule was flushed with and and then sealed. Comparative Example 4 One hundred and seventy four milli g of dextrin were dissolved in 1.2 milli liter of distilled water. A solution of 500 micro g PGE2 in 50 micro liters of methanol was added to the aqueous dextrin solution, and the mixture was stirred to obtain a uniform solution. The solution was lyophilized to obtain a white powder. Table IExample Additive Powder Retention of PGE average Prostangladin weight ratio to PGE Preparation 100 C 100 C 100 CNo. 3 hours 7 hours 24 hoursExample 1 PGE2 methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 97 92 89 2 PGE2 methylhesperidin x 40 lyophilization 97 88 3 PGE2 methylhesperidin x 40 lyophilization 80 dextrin x 348 4 PGE2 methylhesperidin x 40 distillation 42 of solution in ethyl acetate 5 PGE2 methylhesperidin x 40 distillation 40 of solution in ethyl acetate 6 PGE1 methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 102 88 7 13,14 dihydro PGE1 methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 90 8 16,16 dimethyl PGE2 methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 99 95 87 9 16,16 dimethyl PGE1 methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 95 90 10 16 m chlorophenoxy methylhesperidin x100 lyophilization 92 86 17,18,19,20 tetranor PGE2ComparativeExample 1 PGE2 lyophilization 5 0 2 PGE2 ss cyclodextrin x400 lyophilization 55 50 3 PGE2 ss cyclodextrin x400 lyophilization 64 45 4 PGE2 dextrin 78 68 Tested in argon sealed ampule Examples 11 through 24 Methylhesperidin PGE2 compositions were prepared in a manner similar to that mentioned in Example 1, except that the proportions of methylhesperidin to PGE2 were varied as shown in Table II, below. Furthermore, the thermal degradation tests were carried out at 370C and 500C for a period of 30 days. The test results are shown in Table II, below. Table II Retention of Example Temperature PGE2 average No. PGE2 Methylhesperidin PGE2 C 11 500 gamma 2 50 18 12 500 4 50 67 13 500 10 50 89 14 500 gamma 20 50 95 15 500 gamma 40 50 97 16 500 100 50 91 17 500 r 200 50 103 18 500 gamma 2 37 74 19 500 gamma 4 37 97 20 500 gamma 10 37 94 21 500 21 20 37 98 22 500 gamma 40 37 96 23 500 gamma 100 37 96 24 500 gamma 200 37 100