# Vertical interval signal encoding under SMPTE control.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a method and means for inserting code signals at certain line positions within the vertical interval of a video program signal. In prior art systems, insertion of such code signals is accomplished by manually routing the program signal through a summing amplifier, a second input to the summing amplifier being the code signal occurring in its proper time relationship to the program signal. One problem associated with the prior art attempts at synchronizing a code signal with program material arises from the inability to begin or end placement of the vertical interval code at precise locations in the program material. A technique which offered improvement over the manual method of inserting vertical interval codes in existing video program material, utilized the location and tracking principles involved in video editing. Such a procedure, however, is extremely time consuming both in delay of processing and in accumulated operator labor hours. Additionally, this procedure ties up an expensive editing system for considerable time. The present invention overcomes the deficiencies of the prior art noted above by providing a method and means for vertical interval encoding of a program signal having at least a video program portion with sequential fields separated by vertical intervals, the program signal having associated therewith sequential field related identification code signals. According to the invention, a desired field related identification code at which encoding of the program signal is to commence is selected. Continously recurring vertical interval code signals are generated at predetermined intervals corresponding to like intervals between groups of fields, for example two or three, of the program signal. The identification code associated with the program signal is then compared with the selected identification code, and upon the occurrence of a match of identification codes, the composite video program signal is signal mixed with the vertical interval code signal in timed relationship so as to insert the vertical interval code signal in corresponding vertical intervals of the program signal.