# Use of a benzoisothiazoline derivative for the manufacture of a medicament against thrombosis and platelet aggregation.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical and namely antithrombotic agent comprising as an active ingredient a benzoisothiazoline derivative of the general formula I

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical agent comprising as an active ingredient a benzoisothiazoliiederivative of general formula I EMI14.1 wherein R represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having not more than 10 carbon atoms and X is a halogen atom, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 2. The agent according to claim 1 for use against thrombosis and platelet aggregation.

## Description
Pharmaceutical agent The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical agent and particularly to an anti thrombotic agent. Thrombi are blood clots and their formation can cause thrombosis. It is generally agreed that thrombi are formed primarily due to the coagulation of blood and various functions of platelets such as adhesion, aggregation, and release of adenosine diphosphate ADP see, for example,Ketsueki to Myakukan Blood and Vessels , 1, 4, pp. 13 24,June 1970 . Based on the observation that these functions of platelets participate directly in the formation of thrombi, attempts have already been made to prevent formation of thrombi by inhibiting the functions of platelets.Among the drugs that are currently under review as potential antithrombotic agents are adenosine derivatives, dextran, dipyridamole derivatives, aspirin, and the like anti inflainmatories, but as far as is known none of them have been reported to have a significant efficacy. As a result of various studies to develop an effective anti thrombotic agent, it has unexpectedly been found that some benzoisothiazoline derivatives are capable of inhibiting the aggregationXof platelets, that they are more effective than known antithrombotic agents against platelet aggregation induced by ADP, and that they have higher LD50 levels than known antithrombotic agents in acute toxicity tests. The present invention has been accomplished based on the above findings. Therefore, the present invention provides an antithrombotic agent comprising as an active ingredient a benzoisothiazoline derivative represented by general formula I EMI2.1 wherein R represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having not more than 10 carbon atoms and X represents a halogen atom, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The alkyl group represented by R can be any of straight chain or branched chain alkyl groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. Suitable examples of the alkyl group represented by R include methyl, ethyl, n propyl, iso propyl, n butyl, iso butyl, tert butyl, n pentyl, n hexyl, n heptyl, n octyl, n nonyl and n decyl, with n propyl being particularly preferred. Examples of the halogen atom represented by X include chlorine, bromine, etc. Among the compounds of general formula I here after referred to as BIT 1 for brevity , that in which R represents a hydrogen atom and X represents a chlorine atom is described in British Patent No. 848,130 and W.German Patent No. 1,135,468 and is known to have a microorganism controlling activity. The rest BIT 1 are novel and these compounds are therefore also included in the invention. Illustrative examples of BIT 1 compounds which can be used in the pharmaceutical and namely the antithrombotic agent of the present invention include 6 chloro 2 npropyl 1,2 benzoisothiazolin 3 one, 6 chloro 2 n hexyl 1 ,2 benzoisothiazolin 3 one, 6 chloro 2 n decyl l,2 benzoiso thiazolin 3 one, etc.. The BIT 1 of the present invention can be prepared by one of the following two methods. Method 1 The first method comprises reacting a compound of formula II EMI3.1 wherein X is the same as defined in general formula I or a reactive derivative thereof e.g. acid halide such as acid chloride with a compound of general formula III R NH2 III wherein R is the same as defined in general formula I to form a compound of general formula IV EMI3.2 wherein X and R are the same as defined in formula I , and cyclizing this compound IV after it is optionally isolated from the reaction mixture. In Method 1, the reaction between the compound of general formula II and the compound of the general formula III is effected in the presence of an inert organic solvent such as benzene, carbon tetrachloride or dioxane. The reaction temperature generally ranges from 20 to 100 C, preferably from 30 to 700 C, and more preferably from 40 to 60or. Compound of general formula IV may be cyclized by first adding a halogen atom e.g. chlorine or bromine to said compound and heating the addition product. The addition of a halogen atom can be performed by a known method. which comprises ad ing a halogen. solution preferably a bromine solution to compound IV in the presence of an organic solvent such as carbon tetrachloride.This addition reaction can be carried out at room temperature 10 to 300 C under stirring. The heat treatment following the addition of halogen atom is effected at an elevated temperature between 70c and 1500 C, for example heating can usually be performed under refluxing in the presence of an organic solvent such as acetic acid. The refluxing period of about 30 minutes will serve the purpose. Method 2 The second method comprises reacting a compound of general formula V EMI5.1 wherein X is the same as defined in formula I or a reactive derivative thereof the same as defined for compound II with a compound of general formula III to form a compound of general formula VI EMI5.2 wherein X and R are each the same as defined in formula I , oxidizing a compound of general formula VI after optional isolation to obtain a compound of general formula VII EMI5.3 wherein X and R are each the same as defined in formula I , and cyclizing this compound after optional isolation from the reaction mixture. In Method 2, the reaction between the compound of general formula V and the compound of general formula III is effected in the presence of an inert organic solvent such as benzene, carbon tetrchloride, dioxane or chloroform. The reaction temperature generally ranges from 20 to 1000 C, preferably from 30 to 700C, and more preferably from 40 to 60 C. Compound of general formula VI can be oxidized with a suitable oxidizing agent such as periodic acid, hypohalogenous acid ester or hydrogen peroxide. Compound of general formula CVI I can be cyclized by heating at a temperature usually ranging between 50 and 1000 C. The heating can generally be effected in a warm bath in the presence of 2N NaOH. The BIT 1 thus obtained can be isolated and purified by a known method such as recrystallization from ethanol or petroleum ether or silica gel chromatography using an eluting solution composed of benzene, dioxane and acetic acid 90 20 2 . Preparation of 6 chloro 2 n propyl l,2 benzoisothiazoline one To a suspension of 37.5 g 0.1 mol of bis 5 chloro2 carboxy phenyl disulfide in benzene 100 ml , 35.7 g 0.3 mol of thionyl chloride was added, and the mixture was heated for 12 hours under reflux. The benzene and excess thionyl chloride were removed under vacuum, and the residue was dissolved in 600 ml of dioxane. The solution was added dropwise to a solution of 30 g 0.5 mol of n propylamine in 50 ml of dioxane at 40 to 600C with stirring. As the reaction proceeded, the reaction mixture turned into a suspension. The suspension was agitated at 40 to 600C for 30 minutes and thereafter it was cooled.The cooled suspension was poured into 6 liters of ice water, and mixed with about 60 ml of 2N HC1 to adjust its pH to 3.The resulting crystal was filtered out and dried. The dried product 4.1 g was suspended in 400 ml of carbon tetrachloride, and to the suspension, a solution of 18 g 0.23 mol of bromine in 50 ml of carbon tetrachloride was added dropwise at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes, and the resulting orange yellow crystal was filtered out, and suspended in 400 ml of glacial acetic acid. The suspension is stirred at 120 to 1400C to form a solution. The solution was heated at 120 to 1400C for 30 minutes with stirring and was thereafter cooled. The cooled solution was poured into 4 liters of ice water. The resulting crystal was filtered out and washed, three times with 200 ml portions of water. A pale brown acicular crystal 32.3 g yield 86.1 of the titled compound having m.p. 76 to 78 C was obtained.Two recrystallizations from water ethanol 1 2 gave a colorless acicular crystal having m.p. 78 to 790C. An elemental analysis of the crystal is given in Table 2 below. Table 2 Elemental analysis for C oHIoNOSCl C H S 8 Cl Calculated 52.72 4.43 6.15 14.08 15.57 Found 52.79 4.51 6.22 14.11 15.55 Experiments to confirm the pharmacological effects, effective dose, route of administration and toxicity ofBIT 1 compounds were conducted. The procedures and results of these tests are described below. 1 Inhibition of Platelet Aggregation a Effectiveness against ADP induced aggregation The inhibitory activity of BIT l compounds against platelet aggregation initiated by promoter ADP was determined for various amounts of the BIT 1 compounds. Platelet aggregation was observed with Aggregometer of Bryston Corp. and the degree of aggregation was measured by nephelometry in terms of the change in absorbance Rinsho Kensa Journal of MedicalTechnology , 17, 11, Supplement, pp. 187 190, November 19633. Silicon coated cuvettes on the Aggregometer were filled with 0.8 ml of diluted platelet rich plasma Ccontaining 300,000 to 400,000 platelets per cmm and 0.1 ml of solutions of theBIT I compounds listed in Table I having different concentration 0.3 y ml, 1.0 y ml and 3.0 y ml as dissolved in 100 alcohol , as well as adenosine 20 y ml and 100 y ml and aspirin 500 y ml were added. Following 2 minute incubation,ADP was added to give a final concentration of lO 5 M. The final volume of each sample was 1 ml. The process of platelet aggregation was monitored with the recorder pen which traced aggregation curves. The percent inhibition of aggregation was calculated M D by the following formula M D x 100 wherein M represents light transmittance for maximum aggregation in 100 ethanol Control D represents light transmittance for maximum aggregation in the specific sample. The test results are shown in Table 1 below. Table 1 Inhibition of Antithrombotic Amount platelet Melting agent final conc. aggregation pointBIT R n C3H7 0.3 y ml 18 X Cl 1.0 gamma y ml 43 78 .79 C 5.0 y ml 100 BIT R H 10.0 y ml 100 273 2760C X Cl ,BIT Rnn C6H13 3.0 y ml 100 86 870C X C1 BIT R n C10H21 3.0 y ml 100 85 870C X C1 Adenosine 2 y ml 47 8 10 y ml 62 Aspirin 50 y ml O 100 Ethanol 0 Control As the above data shows, the BIT 1 compounds of the present invention are highly effective in suppressing the ADPinduced aggregation of platelets.Having this feature, the BIT 1 compounds will prove useful as an antithrombotic agent to prevent the formation of thrombi that are thought to be closely related to the functions of factors making up human platelets. 2 Acceleration of Platelet Disaggregation ADP was added to platelet rich plasma as used in 1 above, and when maximum aggregation was reached, BIT 1 compound R n C3H7, X Cl was added to check its ability to accelerate the disaggregation of platelets. In this expert ment, the procedure of experiment 1 was repeated except that the BIT 1 was added after the aggregation of platelets occurreÅa. To give final concentrations of 1.0 y ml, 3.0 y ml an.d 6.0 y ml as dissolved in 100 5 ethanol, 0.1 ml of solutions containing 10 y ml, 30 y ml and 60 y ml of BIT 1 were added after maximum platelet aggregation took place. As a control, 100 t ethanol was added instead of the BIT 1 .The degree of disaggregation was determined by measuring the absorbance of the test samples 5 minuts after the addition of the BIT 1 as against the absorbance for maximum aggregation in that sample. The control had a disaggrgation level of about 12 , but the test samples containing BIT 1 achieved higher disaggregation levels final BIT l concentrations of 1.0 y ml, 3.0 y ml and 6.0 y ml gave disaggregation levels of 25 t, 47 and 64 . 3 Acute Toxicity Test A group of 10 male ddy mice each weighing 200 g were subject to an acute toxicity test with BIT 1 R n C3H7, X C1 which was administered to the mice orally as suspensions in distilled water for injection that contained 0.5 of carboxymethyl cellulose. The LD50 of the BIT 1 as determined by the Litchfield wilcoxon method was 6,500 mg kg, and this demonstrates the very low toxicity of the BIT 1 . 4 Effective dose and route of administration As demonstrated in the acute toxicity test, the BIT 1 of the present invention is a highly safe compound and there is no particular upper limit to the dose of the compound. Generally, it is administered daily in an amount of 10 mg to,40 mg kg per adult, either in a single dose our several doses. The antithrombotic agent containing the BIT 1 of the present invention can be administered either as an injection or as an oral preparation. A suitable injection may be prepared from an emulsion in oil, or by dissolving the BIT 1 in a nonionic surfactant such as polyethylene glycol av. mol. wt. 400 600 , Tween 8t or Pluronic F 68.Illustrative examples of oral preparations include capsules, tablets, powders, and oral liquid formulations. Specific injections and oral preparations may be produced by conventional pharmaceutical techniques described, for example, in the Japanese Pharmacopeia. The BIT i incorporated as the effective ingredient in the antithrombotic agent of the present invention has a very low toxicity and yet exhibits significant antithrombotic effects in the human body, The BIT 1 not only inhibits the aggregation of platelets but also accelerates their disaggregation. This suggests that a drug containing BIT I is useful for preventing and treating thrombosis. The BIT 1 may be used with a thrombolytic agent and because of their different modes of action, the combination of these two drugs will prove very effective in treating thrombosis. Two typical examples of the pharmaceutical preparation incorporating the BIT 1 are described hereunder.Basic Pormulation 1 Tablets BIT 1 500 g Lactose 500 g Potato starch 315 g Polyvinyl alcohol 20 g Magnesium stearate 15 g Total 1,350 g The measured amounts of BIT, lactose and potato starch are mixed uniformly. The resulting mix is further blended with a solution of the polyvinyl alcohol in water 450 ml , and granules are prepared from the blend by the wet granulation method. The granules are mixed with the magnesium stearate and compressed into tablets 3.4 mm thick and weighing 270 mg each with flat faced and beveledged punches having a diameter of 9 mm. Basic Formulation 2 Capsules BIT 1 125 g Lactose 860 g Magnesium stearate 15 g Total 1,000 g The measured amounts of the above listed ingredients are uniformly mixed. The resulting mix is distributed among 5,000 No. 3 hard gelatin capsules. Basic Formfllation 3 5 Powders BIT 1 50 g Lactose 950 g Total 1,000 g The measured amounts of the two ingredients are uniformly mixed and powders are prepared from the mix. The BIT 1 compounds used in the above three for mulations can be selected from among those listed in Table 1, While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.