# Olefin polymerization.

## Abstract
A novel olefin polymerization catalyst is disclosed prepared by 1 forming a solution of a metal halide such as magnesium dichloride with a titanium compound such as titanium tetraethoxide, 2 reacting that solution with a dihydrocarbyl magnesium and a hydrocarbylaluminum halide to obtain a solid precipitate, and then 3 treating the solid precipitate with a transition metal halide.

## Claims
Claims 1. A catalyst suitable for the polymerization of olefins obtained by 1 forming a solution of a first catalyst component by reacting a metal halide selected from metal dihalides and metal hydroxyhalides of Group IIA or IIB metals with a titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide, then 2 contacting said solution of said first catalyst com ponent with a dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound and a hydrocarbylaluminum halide to obtain at least one solid precipitate, and then 3 treating said solid precipitate with a halide ion exchanging source selected from halides of transi tion metals. 2. The catalyst of claim 1 characterized in that said titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide is of the formula Ti OR 4 wherein each R is individually selected from an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkaryl, or aralkyl hydrocarbon radi cal containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms. 3. The catalyst of claim 1 or 2 characterized in that said dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound is selected from dialkyl magnesium compounds in which each alkyl group has 1 to 6 carbon atoms. 4. The catalyst of any of claims 1 to 3 characterized in that said hydrocarbylaluminum halide is selected from those of the formulas RA1X 2 R2A1X, and R3A12X3 wherein each R is individually selected from alkyl radi cals containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms per radical and X is a halogen atom. 5. The catalyst of any of claims 1 to 4 characterized in that said metal halide is magnesium dichloride, said titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide is titanium tetraethoxide, and said hydrocarbylaluminum halide is ethyl aluminum sesguichloride. 6. The catalyst of any of claims 1 to 5 characterized in that said transition metal halide is titanium tetrachlo ride. 7. The catalyst of any of claims 1 to 6 characterized in that said dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound is n butyl sec butyl magnesium. 8. The catalyst of any of claims 1 to 7 characterized in that said solution of said first catalyst component is contacted with said dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound and said hydrocarbylaluminum halide simultaneously or wherein said solution of said first catalyst component is first contacted with said hydrocarbylaluminum halide and then the resulting reaction mixture is contacted with said dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound. 9. Use of the catalyst of any of claims 1 to 8 for the poly merization of olefins, preferably in the presence of an organoaluminum cocatalyst. 10. The embodiment of claim 9 characterized in that said ole fin is ethylene and said cocatalyst is triisobutylaluminum ar diethylaluminum chloride.

## Description
OLEFIN POLYMERIZATION Background of the Invention The invention relates to a composition of matter, a method of preparing same, catalyst, a method of producing a catalyst and a process of using the catalyst. In another aspect, this invention relates to a particularly effective ethylene polymerization catalyst and process. In the production of polyolefins such as, for example, polyethylene, propylene, ethylene butene copolymers, etc., an important aspect of the various processes and catalysts used to produce such polymers is the productivity. By productivity is meant the amount or yield of solid polymer that is obtained by employing a given quantity of catalysts. If the productivity is high enough, then the amount of catalyst residues contained in the polymer is low enough that the presence of the catalyst residues does not significantly affect the properties of the polymer and the polymer does not require additional processing to remove the catalyst residues. As those skilled in the art are aware, removal of catalyst residues from polymer is an expensive process and it is very desirable to employ a catalyst which provides sufficient productivity so that catalyst residue removal is not necessary. In addition, high productivities are desirable in order to minimize catalyst costs. Therefore, it is desirable to develop new and improved catalysts and polymerization processes which provide improved polymer productivities. Th US Satent 4 363746Charles E. Capshew discloses a new process for pre paring a high productivity olefin polymerization catalyst by 1 forming a solution of a first catalyst component by reacting a metal halide such as magnesium dichloride with a titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide, and then 2 reacting the solution of said first catalyst component with a hydrocarbylaluminum halide to obtain a solid, and then 3 treating that solid with a halide ion exchanging source such as titanium tetrachloride. The disclosure of US Patent 4 363 746 is incorporated herein by reference. The present invention is based in part on the observation that generally after step 2 of the Capshew process there is additional titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide and hydrocarbylaluminum halide remaining in the mother liquor of the reaction. One object of the present invention is to increase the amount of catalyst that can be obtained from a given amount of titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide and hydrocarbylaluminu halide. Accordingly, an object of the present invention is to provide a catalyst for the polymerization of olefins. Still another object of the present invention is to provide catalyst systems which provides higher productivity in polymerization than other closely related catalyst systems. Other objects, aspects, and the several advantages of this invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon a study of this disclosre and the appended claims. Sunnary of the Invention The novel catalysts of the present invention are prepared by 1 forming a solution of a first catalyst component by reacting a metal halide selected from the group consisting of the metal dihalides and metal hydroxyhalide compounds of Groups IIA and IIB with a titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide, and then 2 contacting the solution of said first catalyst component with a dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound and a hydrocarbylaluminum halide to obtain at least one solid precipitate, and then 3 treating said solid precipitate with a halide ion exchanging source selected from the group consisting of the halides of transition metals. Detailed Description of the Invention Suitable titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide compounds for employment in step 1 include those of the type specified in the aforementioned Capshew application, viz. those of the formula Ti OR 4 wherein each R is individually selected from an alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkaryl, or aralkyl hydrocarbon radicals containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms.Titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxides in which the hydrocarbyl groups contain 1 to 10 atoms are more readily available and thus more preferred. Examples of compounds of that formula are titanium tetramethoxide, titanium dimethoxydiethoxide, titanium, tetraethoxide, titanium tetra n butoxide, bitanium tetrahexyloxide, titanium tetracyclohexyloxide, and titanium tetraphenoxide. Tetraalkyl oxides are currently the most preferred. The metal halides that can be reacted with the titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide also include those set forth for that reaction in the aforementioned Capshew disclosure, viz. the metal dihalides and metal hydroxyhalides of metals of Groups IIA and IIB of the Periodic Table.Examples of such metal halides include beryllium dichloride, beryllium dibromide, magnesium hydroxyiodide, magnesium dichloride, magnesium hydroxychloride, calcium dichloride, zinc dichloride, and ziRc hydroxychloride. Nagnesium dichloride is currently preferred. The molar ratio of the titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide and the metal halide can vary over a broad range in preparing the solution of the first catalyst component. The present invention is however particularly useful for those situations in which magnesium dichloride is employed and the molar ratio of titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide is greater than 2 1 since in those situations the solvent generally contains significant amounts of unreacted titanium reactant. Typically the molar ratio of titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide to metal halide is no greater than 10 1. The conditions employed in producing the soluble titanium and magnesium complex are as set forth in the aforementioned Capshef Patent. In step 2 of the present invention, the solution from step 1 is contacted with the hydrocarbylaluminuni halide and the dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound in any order. In an especially preferred embodiment, the product of step 1 is contacted with the two precipitating agents simultaneously. In yet another embodiment of the present invention, one can employ a complex of the two named precipitating agents. Although generally not the most active, catalysts can be formed by reacting the solution of step 1 with the hydrocarbylaluminum halide, separating the resulting solid from the reaction mixture, and then reacting the remaining reaction mixture with dihydrocarbyl magnesium. This technique allows one to obtain two catalysts, the one resulting from the first precipitation being more active than the one resulting from the second precipitation. The hydrocarbylaluminum halides that can be employed in this invention are the same as those set forth in the Capshew Patent.Generally, this includes those halides of the formulas RAIS2, R2A1X, and R3A12X3 wherein each R is individually selected from alkyl radicals containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms per radical and X is a halogen. Examples of such compounds include methylaluminum dibromide, ethylaluminum dichloride, ethylaluminum diiodide, isobutylaluminum dichloride, methyl n propyl aluminum bromide, diethylaluminum chloride, and ethylaluminum sesquichloride. The dihydrocarbyl magnesium compounds can be expressed by the formula MgR2 in which each R is individually selected from the group consisting of hydrocarbyl radicals having I to 12 carbon atoms.The presently preferred compounds are the diallyl magnesium compounds in which each alkyl group contains 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Specific examples of such magnesium compounds include dimethyl magnesium, diethyl magnesium, n butyl sec butyl magnesium, didodecyl magnesium, diphenyl magnesium, dicyclohexyl magnesium and the like. Commercial trialkylaluminum dialkyl magnesium solutions can be used as well i,e., magala . The amount of hydrocarbylaluminum halide employed can vary widely. Typically, the molar ratio of the hydrocarbylaluminum compound to the titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide is in the range of 10 1 to 1 10, preferably 1 3 to 1 6. The amount of dihydrocarbyl magnesium employed can also vary widely. Typically the molar ratio of the dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound to the titanium tetrahydrocarbyl oxide is in the range of about 10 1 to about 1 10. The dihydrocarbyl magnesium compound is preferably used in an amount sufficient to react with substantially all of the titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide that has not reacted with magnesium dihalide to form a soluble complex in step 1 . Typically, it is thus preferred to use about 0.5 to 2 moles of dihydrocarbyl magnesium for each mole of titanium tetrahydrocarbyloxide that was not complexed with magnesium dihalide in step 1 . The temperature employed in step 2 can be selected over a broad range. Typically temperatures in the range of 1000C to 1000C would be employed, temperatures in the range of 100C to 300C being most convenient. The halide ion exchanging source employed in step 3 is a transition metal halide. Examples of such halides include titanium tetrachloride, vanadium oxychloride, and zirconium tetrahalide. The temperature needed for conducting step 3 can be selected over a relatively broad range. Temperatures in the range of OOC to 2000C are typical. It is generally desirable to use a hydrocarbon diluent in step 3 , although the halogen ion exchanging source alone can be used when it is in a liquid state. The treating time can likewise vary over a broad range and generally is in the range of about 10 minutes to about 10 hours. The extent of contacting time can readily be determined by observing the extent to which the catalyst activity is promoted by the treatment of step 3 . The weight ratio of the halide ion exchanging source to the precipitate can vary over a wide range, typically it is in the range of about 10 1 to 1 10, more generally about 7 1 to 1 4. Following step 3 excess treating agent is preferably washed off the catalyst with dry substantially anhydrous liquids such as n hexane, n pentane, or xylene. The inventive catalyst is most preferably used in combination with a cocatalyst in the polymerization of olefins. The preferred cocatalysts are those typically used in polymerizations using titanium based catalysts. Examples include organoaluminum compounds of the formulas R3A1, R2A1X, RAlX2, and R3A12X3 wherein each R is individually selected from linear and branched chain alkyl radicals containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms and X is a halogen atom.Typical examples include triethylaluminum, diethylaluminum chloride, triisobutylaluminum chloride, ethylaluminum dichloride, and ethyl aluminum sesquichloride. A variety of polymerizable compounds are suitable for use in the process of the present invention. Olefins which can be homopolymerized or copolymerized with the invention catalysts include aliphatic mono l olefins. While the invention would appear to be suitable for use with any aliphatic mono 1 olefin, those olefins having 2 to 18 carbon atoms are most often used. The nono l olefins can be polymerized according to the present invention employing either a particle form process or a solution form process.Aliphatic mono l olefins can be copolymerized with other l olefins and or with other smaller amounts of other ethylenically unsaturated monomers, such as 1,3 butadiene, isoprene, 1,3 pentadiene, styrene, alpha methylstyrene, and similar ethylenically unsaturated monomers which do not impair the catalyst. In one aspect of the present invention, the inventive catalysts are particularly useful for the polymerization of ethylene homopolymers. If desired the inventive catalyst can before use have prepolymer deposited thereon. Such has in some cases resulted in catalysts capable of producing polymers of reduced fines. A further understanding of the present invention and its advantages will be provided by the following examples. Example I About 10.7 milliters of titanium tetraethoxide was added to a 500 milliter flask containing 2.5 grams of magnesium chloride.The mixture was heated to 1000C and stirred for 30 minutes then cooled. The resulting solution and 35 milliters of 25.0 weight percent ethyl aluminum sesquichloride in n heptane density 0.762 gm cc and 20 milliters of 0.637 molar n butyl sec butyl magnesium were combined in a vessel simultaneously over a time period of about twenty minutes. The solid product was washed twice with hydrocarbon and then in the presence of hydrocarbon combined with 20 milliters of TiC14 and stirred for 1 hour at room temperature.The resulting solid was recovered by decanting off the liquid and then the solid was washed twice with n hexane and twice with n pentane. It was then dried over a hot water bath. The amount of dry solid recovered was 10.6 grams. This compares to a yield of about 6.25 to 7.5 grams of solid that would typically be obtained from the same quantities of reactants in the absence of the alkyl magnesium. Example II The catalyst of Example I was evaluated for activity in the polymerization of ethylene using various aluminum alkyl cocatalysts.The polymerizations were carried out in an autoclave reactor for 1 hour at 1000C in the presence of hydrogen with 200 psi of ethylene using isobutane as solvent. The conditions and results are summarized in the following table. Table 1Polymerization Cocatalyst Catalyst H2 Yield Product HLMI No. Type mmole gm psi gm Xg g hr MI 1 TEA 0.5 .0040 50 380 95 31 2 TIBA 0.42 .0062 60 450 73 27 3 DEAC 1.52 .0042 80 306 77 29 The reaction with the triethylaluminum TEA cocatalyst gave activity within the range that is normally obtained when TEA is used with a catalyst prepared without the use of the alkyl magnesium. The activities using triisobutylaluminum TIBA and diethylaluminum chloride DEAC were much higher than that obtained when such cocatalysts are employed using a catalyst prepared without the use of the alkyl magnesium. Such prior art catalysts generally have shown activities of about 42 kg of polymer gx of catalyst hour for TIBA and no more than about 1.5 kg gm hr for DEAC. Thus the catalyst of this invention is particularly advantageous in that it permits the use of a wider range of cocatalysts without as significant an adverse effect upon the activity.