# Vehicle stopping position detecting system.

## Abstract
A ground antenna 24 is located at a desired stopping position of a vehicle 21 along a vehicle track and extending over a predetermined distance L₁ , and the ground antenna 24 radiates a radio wave in a direction perpendicular to the vehicle track. The vehicle 21 has a plurality of receiving antennas 25, 26 mounted thereon along the direction of vehicle movement with an interval L₂ less than the predetermined distance L₁ . Since each of the receiving antennas 25, 26 can receive the radio wave only when each receiving antennas 25, 26 is positioned within the range of the predetermined distance L₁ , a stopping position of the vehicle 21 is determined by discliminating which of the receiving antennas 25, 26 received the radio wave.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vehicle stopping position detecting system for detecting a stopping position to be stopped at by a vehicle 21 adapted to travel and stop as desired along a vehicle track and for stopping said vehicle at said stopping position, said system comprising a ground antenna 24 , undivided or divided into a plurality of antenna sections 81, 82 , located extending over a predetermined distance L1 along a direction of travel 28 of said vehicle 21 in correspondence to said stopping position, said ground antenna 24 radiating a radio wave in a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel of said vehicle 21 a plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 mounted on said vehicle 21 for receiving said radio wave, said vehicle antennas heing arranged along the direction of travel of said vehicle with an interval between adjacent ones thereof in said travel direction 28 being at most less than said predetermined distance all , each of said plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 being capable of receiving said radio wave from said ground antenna 24 only when said antennas being positioned within the region of said predetermined distance all means 31 for discriminating a stopped position of said vehicle 21 by discriminating which of said plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 received said radio wave from said ground antenna 24 . 2. A vehicle stopping position detecting system for detecting a stopping position to be stopped at by a vehicle 21 adapted to travel and stop as desired along a vehicle track and stopping said vehicle 21 at said stopping position, said system comprising a ground antenna 24 , undivided or divided into a plurality of antenna section 81, 82 located extending over a predetermined distance L1 along a direction of travel 28 of said vehicle 21 in correspondence to said stopping position a plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 mounted on said vehicle 21 for respectively radiating defferent radio waves in a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel of said vehicle 21 , said plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 being arranged along the direction of travel of said vehicle 21 said ground antenna 24 being capable of receiving each of said different radio waves only when each of said plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 is positioned within the range of said predetermined distance L1 means 88 for discriminating a stopped position of said vehicle 21 by discriminating which of said different radio waves representing respectively corresponding said plurality of vehicle antennas 25, 26, 61 is received by said ground antenna 24 .

## Description
VEHICLE STOPPING POSITION DETECTING SYSTEM The present invention relates to a vehicle stopping position detecting system and more particularly to a vehicle stopping position detecting system for detecting the stopping position of a vehicle capable of travelling and stopping as desired along a vehicle track as in the case of a new traffic system which allows the unattended operation of vehicles. By the prior technology of the vehicle stopping position detecting systems, the stopping position of a vehicle can be detected in accordance with the number of times a point signal is received and this prior technology is shown in Fig. 1. In the Figure, a vehicle 1 is moved in the direction of an arrow A. As the vehicle 1 is moved, a vehicle antenna 2 passes through the respective points where ground elements P1, P2, P3 and P4 are arranged and consequently a point signal is applied from each of the ground elements P1, P2, P3 and P4 to a receiver 3 of the vehicle 1. Regions LS, S, J, O and LO respectively represent long short stopping region, short stopping region, just fixed position stopping region, overrun stopping region and longoverrun stopping region and they are preliminarily determined.The following Table 1 shows the number of times a point signal is received by the vehicle antenna 2 in the regions LS, S, J, 0 and LO, respectively, the discrimination of stopping positions, etc. Note that l represents the presence of a reception and 0 represents the absence of a reception in the reception of point signals. Table 1EMI2.1 tb Location SEP Point SEP signal SEP No.. SEP of SEP Stopped SEP posi tb of SEP vehicle SEP SEP receptions SEP tion SEP dis tb antenna SEP 2 SEP P1 SEP P2 SEP P3 SEP P4 SEP of SEP point SEP crimination tb SEP signal tb SEP LS SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Long short tb SEP stopping tb SEP S SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP Just SEP fixed tb J SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP position tb SEP stopping tb SEP o SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP Overrun tb SEP stopping tb SEP Lo SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP Long overrun tb SEP stopping tb For instance, the vehicle 1 is in a stopped condition and the number of point signal receptions is 2, it can be discriminated that the stopped position of the vehicle 1 is in the region J and then the vehicle 1 is stopped at the just fixed position.However, since the stopped position is discriminated in accordance with the number of point signal receptions, the erroneous reception of any point signal results in an erroneous count and this in turn results in an erroneous discrimination. The erroneous count is either an over count or a short count. The short count occurs when, for example, the vehicle 1 moves over the ground elements P1 to P4 at a relatively high speed and thus the level of signals changes too rapid to detect them as point signals. When the short count is caused, the stopped position of the vehicle 1 is discriminated erroneously to be upstream than the actual stopped position in the direction of movement.The over count occurs when, for example, the vehicle 1 comes to a stop in such a manner that the vehicle antenna 2 is located in the vicinity of the ground element P1, P2, P3 or P4 and then the vehicle 1 is rocked or due to the characteristics of the electric circuit of the receiver 3.When the over count occurs, the stopped position of the vehicle 1 is discriminated erroneously to be downstream than the actual stopped position in the direction of movement. Also, if the vehicle 1 is at stopped condition and then power supply foils with no power failure countermeasure, the stopped position of the vehicle 1 will not be able to discriminate after the recovery of the power supply and the operation of the vehicle 1 will be impeded. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a vehicle stopping position detecting system which overcomes the foregoing deficiencies and which is capable of accurately detecting the stopping position at which a vehicle is to be stopped and is so designed that even when power supply fails the stopping position can be accurately detected after the recovery of the power supply. In accordance with the present invention there is thus provided a vehicle stopping position detecting system wherein the intended stopping position of a vehicle travelling and stopping as desired along a vehicle track is detected and the vehicle is stopped at the intended stopping position, the system featuring in that a ground antenna including a single section or divided into a plurality of sections is arranged over a predetermined distance to extend along the direction of travel of the vehicle in correspondence to the stopping position, that a plurality of vehicle antennas are mounted on the vehicle such that the interval between the adjacent ones is at most less than the predetermined distance, that the radio wave from the ground antenna is received by the vehicle antennas only within the area which is less than the predetermined distance, and that the stopped position is discriminated in accordance with the reception condition of the vehicle antennas or only the different waves from the vehicle antennas within the area less than the predetermined distance are received by the ground antenna so as to discriminate the stopped position in accordance with the reception condition of the ground antenna. Thus, due to the discrimination of a stopping position in accordance with the reception condition of vehicle antennas or a ground antenna during the stopping or travelling of a vehicle instead of the number of times of reception, there are features that even in the event of a disturbance such as a rocking motion of the vehicle during the stopping the reception condition is not changed and no erroneous discrimination is caused and that there is no need to device a countermeasure against the power failure thus making it possible to accurately effect the stopping position detection in accordance with the reception condition after the recovery of the power supply. In the description, the system of detecting the vehicle stopping position in accordance with the reception condition of the radio wave from a ground antenna through vehicle antennas is referred to as a on vehicle stopping position detecting system and the system of detecting the vehicle stopping position in accordance with the reception condition of the waves from the vehicle antennas through the ground antenna is referred to as a ground stopping position detecting system. Fig. 1 is a simplified side view showing an example of a prior technology stopping position detecting system. Fig. 2 is a simplified side view showing an embodiment of an on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Figs. 3 and 4 are specific circuit diagrams of a discriminating circuit 31. Figs. 5A to 5C are diagrams for explaining the discriminating operation. Fig. 6 is a simplified side view showing an embodiment of a ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Fig. 7 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Fig. 8 is a specific circuit diagram of a discriminating circuit 63. Figs. 9A to 9E are diagrams for explaining the discriminating operation. Fig. 10 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Fig. 11 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Fig. 12 is a specific circuit diagram of a discriminating circuit 88. Figs. 13A to 13E are diagrams for explaining the discriminating operation. Fig. 14 is a simplified side view showing still another embodiment of the ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention. Fig. 15 is a simplified side view showing still another embodiment of the invention. Fig. 16 is a simplified side view showing still another embodiment of the invention. Fig. 17 is a specific circuit diagram of a discriminating circuit 100. Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the drawings. Fig.2 is a simplified side view showing an embodiment of an on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention. The stopping position detecting system for a vehicle 21 includes a transmitter 23, a single ground antenna 24, a plurality two in the Figure of vehicle antennas 25 and 26, and a receiver 27. The ground antenna 24 has a ground antenna length L1 extending along a travel direction 28 of the vehicle 21 which travels along a vehicle track not shown and the ground antenna 24 is disposed in correspondence to a stopping position where the vehicle 21 makes a stop at a station or the like. The ground antenna 24 is connected to the transmitter 23. The transmitter 23 applies a stopping position indicative signal to the ground antenna 24. Thus, the ground antenna 24 generates a radio wave indicative of the stopping position in a circumferential direction 29 which is perpendicular to the travel direction 28. The vehicle antennas 25 and 26 are mounted on the vehicle 21 so as to provide a mounting intervalL2 in the travel direction 28. In this case, the mounting interval L2 is selected L1 L2 The vehicle antennas 25 and 26 are connected to the receiver 27.Thus, the receiver 27 can receive the radio wave from the ground antenna 24 only when the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The output generated in dependence on the presence or absence of reception of the radio wave through the ground antenna 24 and the vehicle antenna 25 is applied to a discriminating circuit 31 from the receiver 27 via a line 30. The output corresponding to the presence or absence of reception of the radio wave through the ground antenna 24 and the vehicle antenna 26 is applied to the discriminating circuit 31 from the receiver 27 via a line 32. The discriminating circuit 31 makes a discrimination in accordance with the outputs from the receiver 27 through the lines 30 and 32 and the discrimination output is applied to a processing circuit 36 via a lines 33, 34 or 35. Fig. 3 shows a specific circuit diagram of the discriminating circuit 31. The line 30, which receives an input signal SF, is connected to one input of AND gates 41 and 42, respectively, and it is also connected to one input of an AND gate 44 through an inverter circuit 43. The line 32, which receives an input signal SR, is connected to the other input of theAND gates 42 and 44, respectively, and it is also connected to the other input of the AND gate 41 through an inverter circuit 45. The output of the AND gate 41 is connected to the line 33 which delivers an output signal SS. The output of the AND gate 42 is connected to the line 34 which delivers an output signal SJ.The output of the AND gate 44 is connected to the line 35 which delivers an output signal SO. The following Table 2 shows the Boolean algebraic expressions and function tables for the outputs of the inverter circuits 45 and 43 and theAND gates 41, 42 and 44. Table 2EMI10.1 tb SEP Output SEP Boolean SEP Input SEP signal tb SEP signal SEP algebraic tb SEP expression SEP SF SEP SEP 1 SEP SF SEP SEP 1 SEP SF SEP SEP 0 SEP SF SEP SEP 0 tb SEP SR SEP SEP 1 SEP SR SEP SEP 0 SEP SR SEP SEP 1 SEP SR SEP SEP 0 tb SEP Inverter SEP SEP SR SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP tb SEP circuit SEP 45 tb SEP Inverter SEP SF SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP tb SEP circuit SEP 43 tb AND SEP gate SEP SF SR tb 41 SEP SEP SS tb SEP AND SEP gate SEP SF SR SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 42 SEP SEP SJ tb SEP AND SEP gate SEP SF SR SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP 44 tb SEP 44 SEP SEP SEP SO tb Fig. 4 is another specific circuit diagram of the discriminating circuit 31. The line 30, which receives the input signal SF, is connected to one input of an AND gate 46 and one input of an AND gate 47, respectively. The line 32, which receives the input signal SR, is connected to the other input of theAND gate 47 and one input of an AND gate 48. The output of the AND gate 46 is connected to the line 33 which delivers the output signal SS. The output of theAND gate 47 is connected to the line 34 which delivers the output signal SJ and it is also connected to the other input of the AND gate 46 and the other input of the AND gate 48 through an inverter circuit 49.The output of the AND gate 48 is connected to the line 35 which delivers the output signal SO. The followingTable 3 shows the Boolean algebraic expressions and function tables for the outputs of the inverter circuit 49 and the AND gates 46, 47 and 48. Table 3EMI11.1 tb Output SEP Boolean SEP Input SEP signal tb SEP signal SEP algebraic SEP SF SEP SEP 1 SEP SF SEP SEP 1 SEP SF SEP O SEP SF SEP SEP 0 SEP tb SEP S SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP S SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP S SEP SEP SEP SEP 0 SEP S SEP SEP SEP 0 tb expression tb SEP SR SEP SEP 1 SEP SR SEP SEP 0 SEP SR SEP SEP 1 SEP SR SEP SEP 0 tb SEP Inverter SEP SF SR SEP SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 49 tb AND SEP gate SEP SF.SFSR SEP RTI ID 11.11 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 46 SEP SEP SS SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP SF SR SEP SEP SEP SJ SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 47 SEP S SEP SEP S SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP AND SEP gate SEP SR SF SR tb 48 SEP SEP SO tb Thus seen from Tables 2 and 3 the discriminating circuit 31 shown in Fig. 3 and the discriminating circuit 31 shown in Fig. 4 make the same discriminations. The processing circuit 36 is responsive to the discrimination output applied through the line 33, 34 or 35 to apply to a driving motor 37 the control signal for stopping the vehicle 21, moving the vehicle 21 in the travel direction 28 and then stopping it or moving the vehicle 21 in the opposite direction to the travel direction 28 and then stopping it. Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped at the just fixed position. Namely, assume a case where the vehicle 21 is stopped such that the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1 as shown in Fig. 5A. The receiver 27 receives the radio wave from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antenna 25 and generates a high level 1 signal on the line 32. Also the receiver 27 receives the radio wave from the ground antenna 24 via the vehicle antenna 26 and generates a high level 1 signal on the line 32. Since the lines 30 and 31 are both at the high level 1 , the discriminating circuit 31 makes a discrimination of just fixed position stopping and only the line 34 is caused to to to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped to overrun the fixed position. Namely, assume a case where the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1 as shown in Fig. 5B.The receiver 27 does not receive the wave from the ground antenna 24 via the vehicle antenna 25 and it generates a low level l10 n signal on the line 30. Also, the receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus it generates a high level 1 signal on the line 32. Thus, since the line 30 is at the low level 0 11 and the line 32 is at the high level 1 , the discriminating circuit 31 makes a discrimination of overrun stopping and only the line 35 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Then, assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped short of the fixed position. Namely, assume a case where the vehicle 21 is stopped so that only the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1 as shown in Fig. 5C. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antenna 25 and thus a high level 1 signal is generated on the line 30. Also, the receiver 27 does not receive the wave from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus a low level 0 signal is generated on the line 32. Thus, since the line 30 is at the high level 1 and the line 32 is at the low level, the discriminating circuit 31 makes a discrimination of short stopping and consequently only the line 33 is caused to go to the high level 1 . The following Table 4 shows the presence and absence of reception of radio waves of the receiver 27 from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 or the reception conditions and the discriminations of the discriminting circuits 31 in the cases shown in Figs. 5A to 5C. Table 4EMI14.1 tb SEP Reception SEP condition tb SEP Discrimination tb Vehicle SEP Vehicle tb antenna SEP 25 SEP antenna SEP 26 tb SEP Just SEP fixed tb SEP position SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP O SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP Overrun SEP stopping tb The following Table 5 shows the fixed stopping position, the overrun stopping position and the short stopping position and their region lengths which are determined in accordance with the ground antenna lengthL1 and the mounting interval L2 of the vehicle antennas 25 and 26. Table 5EMI14.2 tb Stopping SEP position SEP region SEP Region SEP length tb Just SEP fixed SEP stopping SEP position SEP L1 SEP SEP L2 tb Overrun SEP stopping SEP position SEP L2 tb Short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L2 tb Note that the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting interval L2 can be selected arbitrarily within the range of L12 tl . L2. Therefore, by changing the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting interval L2, it is possible to arbitrarily select the just fixed stopping position region, the overrun stopping position region and the short stopping position region.While, in Figs. 2 and 5, the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 are shown as arranged at near the ends of the vehicle 21 in the travel direction, it is possible to mount them at any other place such as near the central portion of the vehicle 21. Fig. 6 is a simplified side view showing an embodiment of a ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those of the embodiment shown in Fig. 2 are designated by the same reference numerals.A transmitter 51 applies to the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 signals which are different from each other, e.g., signals of different carriers. The ground antenna 24 is connected to a receiver 52. In accordance with the different carriers, the receiver 52 discriminates whether the received radio wave is one from the vehicle antenna 25 or 26. Also, the receiver 52 generates an output on the line 30 in accordance with the presence or absence of the radio wave from the vehicle antenna 25 and it also generates an output on the line 32 in accordance with the presence or absence of the radio wave from the vehicle antenna 26. The output generated from the processing circuit 36 to control the driving motor 37 is delivered through a transmitter 53 and an antenna 54. The radio wave from the antenna 54 is applied to the motor 37 through an antenna 55, a receiver 56 and a processing circuit 57. As a result, the same discriminations as the embodiment shown in Fig. 2 are made and the motor 37 is controlled correspondingly. The following Table 6 shows the reception conditions of the receiver 52 from the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 through the ground antenna 24 and the discriminations of the discriminating circuit 31. Table 6EMI16.1 tb SEP Reception SEP condition tb Signal SEP from SEP Signal SEP from SEP Discrimination tb vehicle SEP vehicle tb antenna SEP 25 SEP antenna SEP 26 tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP Just SEP fixed SEP posi SEP tion SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP SEP 1 SEP Overrun SEP SEP stopping tb The settings of the ground antenna length Ll and the mounting interval L2 are the same a those mentioned in connection with the embodiment of Fig. 2. Fig. 7 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those in the embodiments of Figs. 2 and 6 are designated by the same reference numerals Another vehicle antenna 61 is arranged between the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 of the vehicle 21. The mounting interval between the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 is selected L3 and the mounting interval between the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 is selected L4 L3 4 2 These mounting intervals between the adjoining vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26 are at most less than the ground antenna length L1 L1 L3, t1 L4 .While two cases may be conceived in which the mounting interval L2 is greater L2 L1 and smaller L2 L1 than the ground antenna length L1, a description will be made with reference to the case where L2 L1, although there are slight differences in logical decision and region length between the two cases. The receiver 27 applies a high level 1 signal or low level 0 signal to a precessing circuit 63 through a line 62 depending on whether or not the radio wave from the ground antenna 24 is received through the vehicle antenna 61. Fig. 8 shows a specific circuit diagram of the discriminating circuit 63. The line 30, which receives an input signal SF, is connected to an input of AND gates 64, 65 and 66, respectively, and to an input of AND gates 68 and 69, respectively, through an inverter circuit 67. The line 62, which receives an input signal SM, is connected to another input of the AND gates 65, 66 and 68, respectively, and it is also connected to another input of the AND gates 64 and 69, respectively, through an inverter circuit 70.The line 32, which receives an input signal SR, is connected to the other input of the AND gates 66, 68 and 69, respectively, and it is also connected to the other input of the AND gates 64 and 65, respectively, through an inverter circuit 71. The output of the AND gate 64 is connected to a line 72 which delivers an output signal SLS. The output of the AND gate 65 is connected to the line 33 which delivers an output signalSS. The output of the AND gate 66 is connected to the line 34 which delivers an output signal SJ. The output of the AND gate 68 is connected to the line 35 which delivers an output signal SO. The output of the AND gate 69 is connected to a line 73 which delivers an output signal SLO. The lines 33, 34, 35, 72 and 73 are all connected to the processing circuit 36. The following Table 7 shows the Boolean algebraic expressions and function tables for the outputs of the inverter circuits 67, 70 and 71 and the AND gates 64, 65, 66, 68 and 69. The discrimination is effected in accordance with Table 7. Table 7 EMI19.1 Input SEP signal tb Output SEP Boolean tb signal SEP algebraic tb SF 1 SEP SR SM 1 SEP SF SM 1 SEP SF 0 SEP SF SM 0 tb expression tb SM SR 0 SEP SR 0 SEP SR 1 SEP SM SR 1 SEP SR 1 tb Inverter tb SF SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 67 tb Inverter tb SM SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 70 tb Inverter tb SR SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb circuit SEP 71 tb SF SM SR tb AND SEP gate SEP 64 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SLS tb SF SM SR tb AND SEP gate SEP 65 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SS tb SF SM SR tb AND SEP gate SEP 66 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP SJ tb SF SM SR tb AND SEP gate SEP 68 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SO tb SF SM SR tb AND SEP gate SEP 69 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SLO tb Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped at the just fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig. 9A, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that the vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The receiver 27 receives the radio wave from the ground antennas 24 through the vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26 and thus the lines 30, 62 and 32 all go to the high level 1 .As a result, the discriminating circuit 63 makes a discrimination of just fixed position stopping and only the line 34 is caused to go to the high level Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped to overrun greatly. In this case, as shown in Fig. 9B, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length Ll. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus only the line 32 is caused to go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 63 makes a discrimination of long overrun stopping and only the line 73 is caused to go to the high level 1 , Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped to overrun the fixed position.In this case, as shown inFig. 9C, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length Ll. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 and thus only the lines 62 and 32 are caused to go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 63 makes a discrimination of overrun stopping and only the line 35 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped short of the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig.9D, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The receiver 27 receives the radio wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 and thus only the lines 30 and 62 are caused to go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 63 makes a discrimination of short stopping and only the line 33 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped greatly short of the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig. 9E, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antenna 25 and thus only the line 30 goes to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 63 makes a discrimination of long short stopping and only the line 72 goes to the high level 1 . The following Table 8 shows the reception conditions of the receiver 27 through the vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26 and the discriminations of discriminating circuit 63 in the cases shown in Figs.9A to 9E. Table 8EMI22.1 tb SEP Reception SEP condition tb SEP Signal SEP from SEP Signal SEP from SEP Signal SEP from SEP Discrimination tb SEP vehicle SEP vehicle SEP vehicle tb SEP antenna SEP 25 SEP antenna SEP 61 SEP antenna SEP 26 tb SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Long short tb SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP Just SEP fixed tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP position tb SEP stopping tb SEP 0 SEP SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP Overrun tb SEP stopping tb SEP Long overrun tb 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP stopping tb The following Table 9 shows the long short stopping position, the short stopping position, the just fixed stopping position, the overrun stopping position and the long overrun stopping position and their region lengths in accordance with the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting intervals L3 and 4 Table 9EMI23.1 SEP Stopping SEP position SEP region SEP Region SEP length tb SEP Long short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L3 SEP tb SEP Short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L4 tb SEP Just SEP fixed SEP stopping tb SEP position tb SEP Overrun SEP stopping SEP position SEP L3 SEP tb SEP Long overrun SEP stopping tb SEP position SEP L4 tb Two additional stopping position information are provided for every additional vehicle antenna and a fine detailed setting of stopping position regions is ensured.Also, the ground antenna length L and the mounting intervals L3 and L4 can be selected as desired within the range of L1 L3 L4. Thus, by changing the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting intervals L3 and L4, it is possible to preset the long short stopping position region, the short stopping position region, the just fixed stopping position region, the overrun stopping position region and the long overrun stopping position region as desired. Fig. 10 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those of the embodiments shown in Figs. 2, 6 and 7 are designated by the same reference numerals. The mounting interval between the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 and the mounting interval between the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 are respectively set to L3 and L4 as in the embodiment of Fig. 7.The mounting intervals L3 and L4 are at most less than the ground antenna length L1 L1 L3, L1 h L4 . While two cases are conceivable in which the mounting interval L2 is greater L2k L1 and smaller 12 L1 than the ground antenna length L1, a description will be made with reference to the latter case L2 L1 . The transmitter 51 applies to the vehicle antenna 61 a signal which is different from those applied to the vehicle antennas 25 and 26. The receiver 52 discriminates whether the received wave is one from the vehicle antenna 61 and an output is generated on the line 62 in dependence on the presence of the wave from the vehicle antenna 61. Thus, the waves from the vehicle antenna 25, 61 and 26 through the ground antenna 24 are discriminated and received by the receiver 52 so that the same discriminations as in the embodiment shown in Fig. 7 are made and the motor 37 is controlled through the processing circuit 36, the transmitter 53, the antennas 54 and 55, the receiver 56 and the processing circuit 57 in the same manner as the previeously mentioned embodiments. Fig. 11 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the on vehicle stopping position detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those of the embodiments shown in Figs. 2, 6, 7 and 10 are designated by the same reference numerals. The vehicle antennas 25 and 26 of the mounting interval L2 are mounted on the vehicle 21. The ground antenna 24 is divided into two sections, i.e., a ground antenna 81 of a ground antenna length L5 and a ground antenna 82 of a ground antenna length L6. There are relations L1 L5 L6, L2 L1, L5 L2 and L6 L2.Signals differing from each other are applied to the ground antennas 81 and 82 from the transmitter 51. A receiver 83 causes a line 84 to go to the high level 1 only when the wave from the ground antenna 81 is received through the vehicle antenna 25.Also, the receiver 83 causes a line 85 to go to the high level 1 only when the wave from the ground antenna 82 is received through the vehicle antenna 25. Also, the receiver 83 causes a line 86 to go to the high level 1 only when the wave from the ground antenna 81 is received through the vehicle antenna 26. Also, the receiver 83 causes a line 87 to go to the high level 1 only when the wave from the ground antenna 82 is received through the vehicle antenna 26. The lines 84, 85, 86 and 87 are all connected to a discriminting circuit 88. A specific circuit diagram of the discriminating circuit 88 is shown in Fig. 12. The line 84, which receives an input signal SFf, is connected to an input of AND gates 90 and 91, respectively, and it is also connected to an input of AND gates 89, 92 and 93, respectively, through an inverter circuit 94.The line 85, which receives an input signal SFr, is connected to another input of the AND gate 89 and to another input of the AND gates 90, 91, 92 and 93, respectively, through an inverter circuit 95. The line 86, which receives an input signal SRf, is connected to still another input of the AND gate 93 and to still another input of the AND gates 89, 90, 91 and 92, respectively, through an inverter circuit 96. The line 87, which receives an input signal SR , is connected to the other input of the AND gates 91 and 92, respectively, and it is also connected to the other input of the AND gates 90 and 93, respectively, through an inverter circuit 97. The output of the AND gate 89 is connected to the line 72 which delivers an output signal SLS.The output of the AND gate 90 is connected to the line 33 which delivers an output signal SS. The output of the AND gate 91 is connected to the line 34 which delivers an output signal SJ. The output of the AND gate 92 is connected to the line 35 which delivers an output signal SO. The output of the AND gate 93 is connected to the line 73 which delivers an output signal SLO. The following Table 10 shows the Boolean algebraic expressions and function tables for the outputs of the inverter circuits 94, 95, 96 and 97 and the AND gates 89, 90, 91, 92 and 93. The discrimination is effected in accordance with Table 10. Table 10 EMI28.1 Input SEP signal tb Output SEP Boolean tb SFf 0, SEP SFf 1, SEP SFf 1 SEP SFf SFr 0, SEP SFf SFr 0, tb signal SEP algebraic tb SFr 1, SEP SFr 0, SEP SFr 0, SEP SRf 0, SEP SRf 1, tb expression tb SRf SRr 0 SEP SRf SRr 0 SEP SRf 0, SEP SRr 1 SEP SRr 0 tb SRr 1 tb Inverter tb SFf SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 94 tb Inverter tb SFr SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 95 tb Inverter tb SRf SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb circuit SEP 96 tb Inverter tb SRr SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 97 tb AND SEP gate SEP 89 SEP SFf SFr SRf SRr SLS SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 90 SEP SFf SFr SRf SRr SS SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 91 SEP SFf SFr SRf SRr SJ SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 92 SEP SFf SFr SRf SRr SO SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 93 SEP SFf SFr SRf SRr SLO SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped at the just fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig.13A, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L5 and also the vehicle antenna 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L6. The receiver 83 receives the wave from the ground antenna 81 only through the vehicle antenna 25 and it also receives the wave from the ground antenna 82 only through the vehicle antenna 26, thus causing only the lines 84 and 87 to go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 88 makes a discrimination of just fixed position stopping and only the line 34 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped to greatly overrun the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig. 13B, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L5. The receiver 83 receives the wave from the ground antenna 81 only through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus only the line 86 is caused to go to the high level 1 .As a result, the discriminating circuit 88 makes a discrimination of long overrun stopping and only the line 73 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped to overrun the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig. 13C, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L6. The receiver 83 receives the wave from the ground antenna 82 only through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus only the line 87 is caused to go to the high level Nl . As a result, the discriminating circuit 88 makes a discrimination of overrun stopping and only the line 35 is caused to to to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is stopped short of the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig.13D, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L5. The receiver 83 receives the wave from the ground antenna 81 only through the vehicle antenna 25 and thus only the line 84 is caused to go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 88 makes a discrimination of short stopping and only the line 33 is caused to go to the high level 1 . Assume that the vehicle 21 is positioned greatly short of the fixed position. In this case, as shown in Fig. 13E, the vehicle 21 is stopped in such a manner that only the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna lengthL6. The receiver 83 receives the wave from the ground antenna 82 only through the vehicle antenna 25 and only the line 85 is caused to go to the high level l . As a result, the discriminating circuit 88 makes a discrimination of long short stopping and thus only the line 72 is caused to go to the high level 1 . The following Table 11 shows the reception conditions of the receiver 83 from the ground antennas 81 and 82 through the vehicle antennas 25 and 26 and the discriminations of the discriminating circuit 88. Table 11 EMI31.1 tb SEP Reception SEP condition tb SEP Vehicle SEP Vehicle tb SEP antenna SEP 25 SEP antenna SEP 26 tb SEP Discrimination tb SEP Signal SEP Signal SEP Signal SEP Signal tb SEP from SEP from SEP from SEP from tb SEP ground SEP ground SEP ground SEP ground tb SEP antenna SEP antenna SEP antenna SEP antenna tb SEP 81 SEP 82 SEP 81 SEP 82 tb SEP Long short tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP Just SEP fixed SEP posi tb 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb SEP tion SEP stopping tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP Overrun SEP stopping tb SEP Long overrun tb 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb SEP stopping tb The following Table 12 shows the long short stopping position, the short stopping position, the just fixed stopping position, the overrun stopping position and the long overrun stopping position and their region length in accordance with the ground antenna lengths L5 and L6 and the mounting interval La. Table 12EMI32.1 tb SEP Stopping SEP position SEP region SEP Region SEP length tb Long short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L6 tb Short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L2 SEP L6 SEP tb Just SEP fixed SEP stopping SEP SEP I SEP L SEP I SEP tb position SEP 562 SEP tb Overrun SEP stopping SEP position SEP L2 L5 SEP tb Long SEP overrun SEP stopping SEP I S tb position tb The stopping position information will be increased with an increase in the number of divisions of the ground antenna and a fine detailed setting of stopping position regions is ensured. Also, the ground antenna lengths L5 and L6 and the mounting interval L2 can be selected as desired within the previously mentioned ranges. Therefore, the long short stopping position region, the short stopping position region, the just fixed stopping position region, the overrun stopping position region and the long overrun stopping position region can be preset as desired by suitably changing the ground antenna lengths Ls and L6 and the mounting interval L2. In accordance with still another embodiment of the invention, the same signal may be applied to the ground antennas 81 and 82 from the transmitter 51.In this case, the ground antennas 81 and 82 become effectively equal to the single ground antenna 24.Therefore, it is only necessary to replace the receiver 83 and the discriminating circuit 88 with the receiver 27 and the discriminating circuit 31 as in the embodiment shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 14 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the ground stopping position detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those in the embodiments of Figs. 2, 6, 7, 10 and 11 are designated by the same reference numerals. This embodiment can be considered in correspondence to the on vehicle stopping position detecting system shown in Fig. 11 and therefore the discrimination is made in the same manner as the on vehicle stopping position detecting system of Fig.11 thereby controlling the motor 37. Fig. 15 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the invention and the component parts corresponding to those in the embodiments ofFigs. 2, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 14 are designated by the same reference numerals. What is to be noted with this embodiment is the use of the two divided ground antennas 81 and 82 and the three vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26.With this embodiment, both the on vehicle stopping position detecting system and the ground stopping position detecting system can be accomplished so as to perform the same discrimination and control as mentioned previosly. Fig. 16 is a simplified side view showing another embodiment of the on vehicle detecting system according to the invention and the component parts corresponding to those in the embodiments of Figs. 2, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14 and 15 are designated by the same reference numerals. What is tQ be noted with this embodiment is the fact that the ground antenna length of the ground antenna 24 is preset to L1 which is less than the mounting interval L2 and greater than the mounting intervals L3 and L4 L2 L3 L4, L2 L1,Bl L3, L1 I 4 . In this embodiment, a discriminating circuit 100 is constructed as shown in Fig. 17. The line 30, which receives an input signal SF, is connected to an input of AND gates 101 and 102, respectively, and it is also connected to an input of AND gates 103, 104 and 105, respectively, through an inverter circuit 106.The line 62, which receives an input signal SM, is connected to another input of the AND gates 102, 103 and 104, respectively, and it is also connected to another input of the AND gates 101 and 105, respectively, through an inverter circuit 107. The line 32, which receives an input signal SR, is connected to the other input of the AND gates 104 and 105, respectively, and it is also connected to the other input of the AND gates 101, 102 and 103, respectively, through an inverter circuit 108. The output of the AND gate 101 is connected to the line 72 which delivers an output signal SLS.The output of the AND gate 102 is connected to the line 33 which delivers an output signal SS. The output of the AND gate 103 is connected to the line 34 which delivers an output signal SJ. The output of the AND gate 104 is connected to the line 35 which delivers an output signal SO. The output of the AND gate 105 is connected to the line 73 which delivers an output signal SLO. The following Table 13 shows the Boolean algebraic expressions and function tables for the outputs of the inverter circuits 106, 107 and 108 and the AND gates 101, 102, 103, 104 and 105. The discrimination is effected in accordance with Table 13. Table 13 EMI36.1 Input SEP signal tb Boolean tb Output SEP signal tb algebraic tb SF 1, SEP SF SR 1, SEP SF SR 0, SEP SF 0, SEP SF SM 0, tb expression tb SM SR 0 SEP SR 0 SEP SM 1 SEP SM SR 1 SEP SR 1 tb Inverter tb SF SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 106 tb Inverter tb SM SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb circuit SEP 107 tb Inverter tb SR SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb circuit SEP 108 tb AND SEP gate SEP 101 SEP SF SM SR SLS SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 102 SEP SF SM SR SS SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 103 SEP SF SM SR SJ SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 104 SEP SF SM SR SO SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 tb AND SEP gate SEP 105 SEP SF SM SR SLO SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 tb Referring again to Fig. 16, let it be assumed that only the vehicle antenna 25 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antenna 25 and only the line 30 is caused to go to the high level l . As a result, the discriminating circuit 100 makes a discrimination of long short stopping and only the line 72 is caused to go to the high level l . Assume that only the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length Ll. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antennas 25 and 61 and thus only the lines 30 and 62 go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 100 makes a discrimination of short stopping and thus only the line 33 goes to the high level 1 . Assume that only the vehicle antenna 61 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length Ll. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antenna 61 and thus only the line 62 goes to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 100 makes a discrimination of just fixed position stopping and thus only the line 34 goes to the high level 1 . Assume that only the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 are positioned within the area of the ground antenna length L1. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antennas 61 and 26 and thus only the lines 62 and 32 go to the high level 1 . As a result, the discriminating circuit 100 makes a discrimination of overrun stopping and thus only the line 35 goes to the high level 1 . Assume that only the vehicle antenna 26 is positioned within the area of the ground antenna length Ill. The receiver 27 receives the wave from the ground antenna 24 only through the vehicle antenna 26 and thus only the line 32 goes to the high level R1 , As a result, the discriminating circuit 100 makes a discrimination of long overrun stopping and thus only the line 73 goes to the high level l . The following Table 14 shows the reception conditions of the receiver 27 from the ground antenna 24 through the vehicle antennas 25, 61 and 26 and the discriminations of the discriminating circuit 100 in the above mentioned cases. Table 14EMI39.1 tb SEP Reception SEP condition tb SEP Discrimination tb Vehicle SEP Vehicle SEP Vehicle tb antenna SEP 25 SEP antenna SEP 61 SEP antenna SEP 26 tb SEP LIong short SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP O SEP Short SEP stopping tb SEP Just SEP fixed tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP position tb SEP stopping tb SEP 1 SEP Overrun tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP stopping tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP l SEP Long overrun SEP tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP stopping SEP tb The following Table 15 shows the long short stopping position, the short stopping position, the just fixed stopping position, the overrun stopping position and the long overrun stopping position and their region lengths in accordance with the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting intervals L3 and L4. Table 15EMI40.1 tb SEP Region tb Stopping SEP position SEP region SEP length tb Long short SEP stopping SEP . tb position tb Short SEP stopping SEP position SEP L1 L3 SEP tb Just SEP fixed SEP stopping SEP SEP . SEP . tb position tb Overrun SEP stopping SEP position SEP L1 L4 SEP tb Long overrun SEP stopping SEP . tb position tb The ground antenna length L1 and the mounting intervals L2, L3 and L4 can be preset as desired within the above mentioned ranges. Thus, the long short stopping position region, the short stopping position region, the just fixed stopping position region, the overrun stopping position region and the long overrun stopping position region can be preset as desired by suitably changing the ground antenna length L1 and the mounting intervals L3 and L4. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, the ground detecting system can be performed with settings of L2 L1, L2 L3 L4, L1 L3 andL1 L4. While, in the embodiments described above, the discrimination is effected while the vehicle is at stopped condition, the discrimination can of course be effected while the vehicle is running. In accordance with another embodiment, the ground antenna may be divided into any other plurality of sections than previously. Also, any other plurality of vehicle antennas than previously may be mounted on the vehicle. Also, the output of the receiver may be applied to the processing circuit without passing through the discriminating circuit. Further, the ground antenna 24 may be arranged along the entire length of the vehicle track. From the foregoing description it will be seen that in accordance with the present invention, by virtue of the fact that a ground antenna, which is undivided or divided into a plurality of sections, is arranged over a predetermined distance to extend along the direction of travel of a vehicle in correspondence to a stopping position where the vehicle is to stop and a plurality of vehicle antennas are mounted on the vehicle such that the interval between the adjacent vehicle antennas in the travel direction is at most less than the predetermined distance whereby the radio waves from the ground antennas are received by the vehicle antennas or the waves from the vehicle antennas are received by the ground antennas within the area of the predetermined distance and the stopped position is discriminated in accordance with the manner of receiving, it is possible to prevent the occurrence of any erroneous discrimination due to the rocking or the like of the vehicle and to accurately detect the stopping position where the vehicle is to stop. Further, the discrimination is effected even during the time that the vehicle is at stopped condition and therefore the stopping position can be accurately detected even after the recovery of the power supply.