# Neutral topical sodium fluoride gel.

## Abstract
A neutral topical sodium fluoride gel is disclosed which comprises a thickened aqueous solution of sodium fluoride buffered to maintain a pH of from about 5 to 9.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thickened sodium fluoride aqueous composition com prising water, sodium fluoride in a proportion of fro about 1 to about 5 weight percent of the total composition, and thickener, wherein the pH of the composition is within the range of from about 5 to about 9. 2. The composition of Claim 1 wherein said composi io . contains a buffering agent. or Claim 2 3. The composition.of Claim 1 wherein said composition includes flavoring agents, preservatives, and coloring agents. or Claim 3 t. The composition of Claim 2 wherein the buffering agent is disodium phosphate, monosodium phosphate, or mixture thereof. 5. . The composition of Claim 1, 2, 3, or 4 wherein said composition has a viscosity of from about 40 to about 200 poisec tested by a Brookfield viscometer at 60 RPM and 250 C, and a viscosity of 500 to 4000 poises tested by aBrookfield viscometer at 1.5 RPM and 25 C. any one of 9 to 6. The composition of Claims 5 wherein the thickener is polyacrylic acid or sodium salt thereof, a natural gum, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, colloidal silica, starch, colloidal magnesium alulainu silicate, a hydrocolloid seaweed extract, or mixtures thereof any one of 1 to 7. The composition of any one of 1 to Claims wherein the pi is within the range of Erom about 6 to about 8. 8. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 for use in controlling dental caries. 9. A method of preparing a composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 8 comprising mixing said ingredients in the specified proportions and, if necessary, adjusting the pH to the specified range.

## Description
NEUTRAL TOPICAL SODIUM FLUORIDE CELThe invention relates to a neutral topical sodium fluoride gel composition useful for the control and prevention of dental caries when topically applied to erupted teeth.Background of the InventionNeutral aqueous solutions of sodium fluoride were first used in the prevention of dental caries about 40 years ago. The initial clinical studies using neutral sodium fluoride were carried out by Xnutson and Ar..strong 1 and by Bibby 2 . In the early 1960 s, acidulated phosphate fluoride APF appeared to be a preferred material in that some laboratory tests by Brudevaid et al. 3 indicated that the APF System gave a higher fluoride uptake than neutral sodium fluoride. Therefore, the predominant fluoride material used by dentists, hygienists, and other dental technicians since then has been the APF material. In the late 1960 s, the APF material was introduced in the form of a gel. One such formulation is described by Elbreder in U.S. PatentNo. 3,337,412.Another APF gel is described by Weitzri.an et al., in U.S. Patent No. 4,267,167.As far as is known to the inventor, since the initial use of neutral aqueous sodium fluoride in dental caries prophylaxis, no one has proposed the use of an operatorapplied topical gel or thickened aqueous solution thereof in dentistry. This is surprising, since, from the standpoint of clinical efficacy, it nmB is believed that 1 Public Health Rep. 52, 1701 1943 . 2 J. Am. Dent. Assoc. 31, 317 1944 . 3 Arch. Oral Biol. 2, 167 1963 . there is no difference between neutral sodium fluoride andAPF 4 , and yet there are some disadvantages to the use of the APF gel. For instance, APF has an acid etching potential for porcelain, polymer glass composite materi als, and for metal bridge work and orthodontic brackets.This could lead to staining, weakening, and reduction of polish.Up to now, most professional fluoride gel treatments have been carried out on pre teenage children. On these patients, the acid etching potential of APF gel is not a significant problem because they have a low incidence of porcelain, composites, metal bridgework, etc. However, the dental profession has come to. recognize that fluoride treatment would beteneficial to many more patients than pre teenagers. For instance fluoride treatment to control and or prevent caries is useful for those undergoing orthodontic treatment, children as well as adults.Because of improved preventive and treatment measures, more adults are retaining their natural teeth therefore, coronal and root dental caries is becoming a significant health problem in the adult population 5 . Adult patients suffering from gum disease such as gingivitis and periodontal disease would benefit from fluoride treatment to retard the formation of caries in the portions of te roots of teeth that are becoming exposed because of receding gum lincs. Also, people who are handicapped, people with impaired salivary flow caused hy head and neck radia tion, and hemophiliacs can benefit from fluoride treatmen to control dental caries. However, when fluoride gel treatment is extended to such patients, the acid etching potential of APF gel can become a significant concern. 4 For review, sec Ripa, Intl. Dent. J. 31, 105 1981 . 5 U.S. National Center for health Statistics data, 1971 1974. The present invention is based upon the discovery that a neutral sodium fluoride gel can be produced and used far caries prevention and control.Brief Summary of the InventionThe invention provides a thickened or viscous aqueous solution of sodium fluoride containing sufficient sof fluoride for prophylactic treatment of the teeth, said thickened solution having a pH within the range of fro about 5 to about 9.Detailed Description of The InventionThe neutral topical sodium fluoride gel of the invention is actually a thickened solution, and is not a true el. However, because the word gel is widely employed in the dental profession to refer to such materials, it will be used herein, with the understanding that the invention actually relates to a thickened solution and not to a true crosslinked gel .The gel of the invention includes water, sodium fluoride1 thickener, and a buffer to maintain the prl between about 5 and 9, and preferably between about 6 and 8. Optionally, the composition will also contain flavoring agents, sweeteners, preservatives, and coloring agents at levels necessary to achieve the desired effects.Thus, typical ranges of proportions of the ingredients are shown in the following Table I Table I Basic Formulation Ingredient wiz Water 75.2 96.1 Sodium Fluoride 1.0 5.0 Thickener 1.0 20.0 Buffer 0.5 1.5 Flavor Sweetener 0.1 0.3 Preservatives 0.15 0.35 Coloring . 0.05 0.15 The thickeners that are employed in the invention include water soluble thickening materials such as natural guns, cellulose derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl cellu lose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, and the like, polyacrylic acid polymers, inorganic thickeners such as colloidal silica medium molecular weight alkylene oxide polymers such as ethylene oxide propylene oxide polymers or polyethylene oxides, and modified starch. The thickeners must be safe for human ingestion FDA approved for internal use , must not bind fluoride ion or in any way significantly affect its bioavailability, and must provide the desired flow characteristics to the products of this invention. The thickener is added in a proportion sufficient to achieve a solution viscosity adequate to maintain a gel in an inverted mouthpiece tray applicator for up to about four minutes typical tine For a professionally applied fluoride treatment , and yet be fluid enough to have acceptable handling characteristics for the dental operator e.g., when dispensing into a gel tray applicator . The thickening agent, therefore, must impart a certain degrce of thixotropy to the neutral sodium fluoride formulation such that at rest the product has a thick, gel like consistency, but under a shearinj force, resulting perhaps from simple agitation, the sodium fluoride gel thins or undergoes a reversible transition to a more fluid condition.Routine experimentation will suffice to determine the exact proportion of thickener needed to impart the above characteristics. The Examples below illustrate typi l proportions for the particular thickeners used.The preferred formulation for use in the invention is shown below in Table II Table IIPreferred Formulation for the Neutral Sodium Fluorice Gel Composition Inqredient w w Water 87.7 Sodium Fluoride 2.0 Carbopol 934P Polyacrylic acid 1.2 Xanthan Gum 1.2 Sodium Hydroxide, 100 aqueous 6.5 Disodium Phosphate, Anhydrous 0.7 Flavor 0.3 Sodium Saccharin 0.1 Sodium Benzoate 0.2 Methyl Paraben 0.05 Coloring Solution 0.05 100.00 pH 7.0 VISCOSITY 85 poises at 60 RPM and 25 C. Carbopol 934P is polymerized acrylic acid. The aqueous sodiun hydroxide is added to neutralize this material to form the sodium salt thereof. The pH of the gel can be adjusted to the desired range by adding acids or bases such as phosphoric acid, hydroehlor ic acid, or sodium hydroxide, which form salts that are safe to ingest, or by the addition of ingestible buffering agents such as sodium phosphates. Disodium phosphate and monosodium phosphate are the preferred buffers. The buffer is preferred in order to maintain the pH within the desired neutral range, since absorption of carbon dioxide from air could reduce the pff of an unbuffered gel.The thickening agent, either alone or in combination, is employed in a proportion sufficient to impart a viscosity of from about 40 to about 200 poises to the solution tested by a Brookfield Viscometer at 60 rHn and 25 C., using Spindle No. 5. The degree of thixotropy of the gel is preferably such that the Brookfield viscosity measured at 1.5 rpm and 25 C., using Spindle No. 4, is within the range of from about 500 to about 4,000 poises.The following examples describe additional gels that can be enployed in accordance with the invention Example 1The following example represents a formulation using a modified cellulose thickener, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, though any other cellulose ether would apply, e.g., hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, or a combination thereof an ionic and nonionic cellulose flke sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose . The range for such thickeners would be about 1 to 5 tw w Ingredient w w Water 93.8Sodium Fluoride 2.0Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose 2.5Disodium Phosphate 0.95Monosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.05 100.00 pH 7.0VISCOSITY 130 poises at 60 RPM and 250C. Example 2This example illustrates the use of water soluble acrylic acid polymers carbomers, USP , e.g., Carbopol 934 ana 943 at 1 to 5 w w .Ingredient w w Water 81.1Sodium Fluoride 2.0Carbopol 934P 2.5Sodium Hydroxide, 10 13.0Disodium Phosphate 0.7Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2 ethyl Paraben 0.05Coloring Solution 0.05 100.00 pH 7.0VISCOSITY 85 poises at 60 RPM and 25 C. Example 3This example illustrates the use of a natural polysaccharide, i.e., xanthan gum, which can be used alone, as here, or in combination with another gun such as guar gum or a derivitive of alginic acid.Ingredient w w Water 93.8Sodium Fluoride 2.0Xanthan Gum 2.5Disodium Phosphate 0.95Monosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring Solution 0.05 100.00 7.0VISCOSITY 80 poises at 60 RPM and 250 C. Example 4This example illustrates the use of an inorganic thickener, i.e., magnesium aluminum silicate, in total concentration of 2 to 15 w w . Fumed silica can also be used as the inorganic thickener. Ingredient w 1 Water 86.3Sodium Fluoride 2.0Colloidal Magnesium Aluminum Silicate 10.0Phosphoric Acid 1.0Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.05 100.00 pH 6.5VISCOSITY 120 poises at 60 RPM and 25 C. Example 5This example illustrates the use of Guar Gun in the range of 1 to 5 w w .Ingredient w w Water 94.1Sodium Fluoride 2.0Guar Gum 2.2Disodium Phosphate 0.95 Monosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.05 100.00 pH VISCOSITY 100 poises at 60 RPM and 25 C. Example 6This example illustrates the use of a copolyner condensate of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide at 3 to 20 .Ingredient w w Water 78.3 Sodium Fluoride 2.0Pluronic F108 ethylene oxide propylene 18.0 oxide block copolymer Disodium Phosphate 0.95Monosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring O.CD 100.00 pH 7.1VISCOSITY 105 poises at SO RPM and 250C. Example 7This example illustrates the use of an ethylene oxide polymer, Polyox 301. Ingredient w w Water 93.3Sodiun Fluoride 2.0Polyox 301 3.0Disodiun Phosphate 0.8 Monosodiu Phosphate 0.2Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.05 100.00 pH 7.3VISCOSITY 90 poises at 60 RPM and 250 C. Example 8This exanple illustrates the use of a mixture of sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and finely divided magnesium aluminum silicate in a ratio of 1 2 to 1 9.Ingredient w w Water 86.6Sodium Fluoride 2.0 magnesium Aluminum Silicate 8.5 Sodium CMC 1.2Monosodium Phosphate 1.0 Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.0 PH 7.3 100.00VISCOSITY 110 poises at 60 RPM and 250 C. Example 9This example illustrates the use of an acid modified starch in the range of 2 to 158 w w .Ingredient w w Water 88.S Sodium Fluoride 2.0 Instant Clear Gel Starch from National 7.5 Starch and Chemical Company Disodium Phosphate 0.95Monosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3Sodium Saccharin 0.1Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring O.C 100.00 pH 6.9VISCOSITY 150 poises at 60 RPM and 25 C. Example 10This example illustrates the use of a hydrocolloid seaweed extract, carrageenan, at 0.5 to 4.0 w w . Ingredient w Water 94.1Sodium Fluoride 2.0Carrageenan 2.2Disodium Phosphate 0.95 ,onosodium Phosphate 0.05Flavor 0.3 sodium Saccharin 0.1 Sodium Benzoate 0.2Methyl Paraben 0.05Coloring 0.05 100.00 pH 7.1VISCOSITY 110 poises at 60 RPM and 250 C. The thickened neutral odium fluoride aqueous solutions of the invention are applied to the teeth by the dentist, hygienist, or technician in the conventional manner. This involves either a tray technique or a paint on technique. The tray technique is preferred becauseof the one venience and time saving aspects of the tray application. In this method, a gel application tray is filled approximately one third full with the gel product. After the teeth are thoroughly dried, the filled tray is inserted into the patient s mouth and is maintained there for four minutes. Tha tray is then removed and the patient expectorates any excess gel remaining in the mouth. For the paint on technique, the teeth are isolated with cotton rolls and dried thoroughly with air. A cotton applicator is then dipped into the gel and applied to the teeth, keeping the teeth covered with gel for four minutes. Once again, aEter the cotton rolls are removed, the patient expectorates excess gel.