# Electrical switch with a plurality of operation buttons.

## Abstract
A switch device which opens or closes a plurality of switch elements used when an electrically driven auto mobile mirror is remotely operated, or in a similar operation, by the use of a single or a divided actuating member, and which has for its object a reduction of the space occupied by such switches on an automobile control panel. For that purpose, stationary contact pairs 3a, 4a , ....., 3f, 4f are printed symmetrically around the periphery of a specific central position 7 on an insulated substrate 2 which constitutes a stationary contact structure. A movable contact 5 , which can electrically shortcircuit each of the contact pairs 3a, 4a , ....., 3f, 4f when pressed down, is provided on the surface of the structure. One or more actuating members 11 , each provided on the surface of the control panel, have a pressure surface for pressing together the corresponding switch elements comprising one of the stationary contact pairs 3a, 4a , ... 3f, 4f and the movable contact 5 , and means is provided for automatically resetting each of the elements when the surface is not pressing it.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A switch comprising an insulating board arranged in a housing, a plurality of stationary contact elements, each of said elements formed of a pair of film electrodes and arranged around a specific central position on said insulating board, a pressure conductive rubber sheet forming switch elements laminated on said stationary contact elements together with the elements, operation buttons having pressing surfaces for driving said each switch element and arranged tiltably to the rubber sheet at said specific central position as a tiltable fulcrum, and a ball and socket bearing having spheres arranged at the fulcra and sphere retainers corresponding to said spheres, each of said spheres having a pin projected toward the tilting direction of said button, each of said sphere retainers having split grooves having narrow width slightly smaller than the diameter of said pin corresponding to each said pin and resettable force, thereby providing a resettable trend at said button via said pin and grooves. 2. The switch as claimed in claim 1 wherein the pressing surfaces of said operation buttons are four, two each of said switch elements correspond to each of said pressing surfaces, and said switch elements form two sets of switch means for changing the polarity of an electric power supply. 3. A switch comprising a housing, an insulating board disposed in said housing, a plurality of stationary contact elements and a pressure conductive rubber sheet, a plurality of operation buttons, each of said operation buttons having a pair of film electrodes, arranged on said rubber sheet and having a constantly resettable trend imparted thereto and an engaging pawl projected toward said pressing surface and specific central position for driving said switch element, and a crown shaped interceptor formed with a sawtoothed cam surface made of number of teeth different from the number of said buttons corresponding to said engaging pawls on the end face rotatably arranged at said specific central position for operating said corresponding switch element when said pawl is press fitted into the deepest part of the concave on said sawtoothed cam surface, thereby preventing the simultaneous operations of said switch elements. 4. A switch as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the number of said buttons is 4, two each of said switch elements correspond to each of said buttons, and said switch elements form two sets of switch means for changing the polarity of an electric power supply. 5. A switch comprising a housing, an insulating board arranged in said housing, a plurality of stationary contact elements, each of said elements formed of a pair of film electrodes and arranged around a specific central position on said insulating board, an insulating sheet arranged on said insulating board, formed with cushions of crest shape in section expanding toward said stationary contact elements at the positions corresponding to the arranging positions of said elements, and secured with said elements and movable contacts forming said switch elements inside the top of said cushions, and operation buttons having pressing surfaces for driving said each switch element by pressing said cushions, arranged tiltably and each of said buttons having projections arranged at the positions corresponding to said specific central position and the position corresponding to the intermediate positions between the arranging position of said cushions for preventing the simultaneous operation of said switch elements. 6. The switch as claimed in claim 5 wherein the pressing surfaces of said buttons are 4, two each of said switch elements correspond to each of said pressing surfaces, and said switch elements form two sets of switch means for changing the polarity of an electric power supply.

## Description
DESCRIPTIONTITLE OF THE INVENTION SWITCH Dg 8cE TECHNICAL FIELD This invention relates to a switch adapted to be used as a remote controlling switch for a motor driven mirrors of a motor vehicle associated with a plurality of switch elements firming a switch for changing the polarity of a power supply.BACKGROUND ART Each of a pair of motor driven mirrors mounted on a door, a fender or the like, of a motor vehicle has two electric motors, etc. in its driving section, said electric motors, etc. being controlled by means of a switch inside the vehicle so as to adjust the direction of inclination, horizontal or vertical, of each mirror. The switch for controlling the motor driven mirrors is required to have the functions of actuating each of said two electric motors of each mirror independently, and changing the polarity of electric power supply thereto.Also, the switch must be easy to fix in the instrument panel, etc. To meet such requirements, the inventor has already invented a switch which, as disclosed in JapaneseUtility Model Application No. 56 71428. That is, this switch comprises a housing, an operation member disposed within said housing at a predetermined clearance from the inner walls of said housing, said operation member being adapted to rock from its neutral position in the directions meeting at right angles with one another, two switch elements disposed between a pair of plate shaped electrodes via a pressure conductive rubber sheet and arranged by two at the four interval positions, and a switch for changing the polarity of a power supply is formed of said switch elements. However, the prior art switch has a deep shape and cannot be made small because the operation member is rockably disposed within the housing and the switch elements are disposed between the operation member and the four inner walls of the housing. Also the switch is not very easy to fix in the instrument panel, etc.Furthermore, it does not provide sufficient assembling property and a good feeling of use because the operation member has almost no stroke and does not click at all.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a switch which has obviated the disadvantages of the prior art, and which comprises an insulating board arranged in a housing, a plurality of stationary contact elements, each of said elements formed of a pair of film electrodes and arranged around a specific central position on said insulating board, a pressure conductive rubber sheet forming switch elements laminated on said stationary contact elements together with the elements, operation buttons having pressing surfaces for driving said each switch element and arranged tiltably to the rubber sheet at said specific central position as a tiltable fulcrum, and a ball and socket bearing having spheres arranged at the fulcra and sphere retainers corresponding to said spheres, each of said spheres having a pin projected toward the tilting direction of said button, each of said sphere retainers having split grooves having narrow width slightly smaller than the diameter of said pin corresponding to each said pin and resettable force, thereby providing a resettable trend at said button via said pin and grooves. According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a switch which comprises an insulating board, a plurality of stationary contact elements and a pressure conductive rubber sheet similarly to the first aspect, further a plurality of operation buttons, each of said operation buttons arranged on said rubber sheet and having a constantly resettable trend imparted thereto and an engaging pawl projected toward said pressing surface and specific central position for driving said switch element, and a crown shaped interceptor formed with a sawtoothed cam surface made of number of teeth different from the number of said buttons corresponding to said engaging pawls on the end face rotatably arranged at said specific central position for operating said corresponding switch element when said pawl is press fitted into the deepest part of the concave on said sawtoothed cam surface, thereby preventing the simultaneous operations of said switch elements. According to still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a switch which comprises similarly to the stationary contact elements on said insulating board of the above switch, further cushions of crest shape in section expanded toward said elements at the position arranged with said elements, movable contacts secured to the inside of the top of said cushion, pressing surfaces for driving said each switch element by pressing said cushions, and push buttons arranged tiltably and each of said buttons having projections arranged at the positions corresponding to said specific central position and the position corresponding to the intermediate positions between the arranging position of said cushions for preventing the simultaneous operation of said switch elements. In the structure of the switch constructed as described above, a flat, thin and small profile can be readily secured in a relatively small space such as an instrument panel of a motor vehicle. Therefore, the switch according to the present invention can be adapted for use in the drive control of motor driven mirrors of a motor vehicle. In addition to the aforementioned advantages, each of the embodiments has its own advantages as follows According to the first embodiment in which the switch comprises a plurality of operation buttons and an interceptor in the specific central position for preventing the simultaneous closing of the switch elements, when the switch is used for controlling the mirrors of a motor vehicle each of the independent operation buttons definitely corresponds to each of the directions up, down, right and left in which the angle of the mirrors is adjusted. Therefore, the switch is ready to use and provide a good feeling of use. According to the second embodiment in which the switch comprises a crest shaped elastic portion disposed over the stationary contact elements, said elastic portions being respectively provided inside with movable contacts, and a tiltable operation button having projections for preventing the simultaneous closing of the switch elements, the operation button is inclined against the elastic force of the elastic portions and is returned to its original position thereby. Therefore, the operation button provides a more constant feeling of use and ensures smooth operation even after it is used for a long period of time. Also, the switch is inexpensive because the movable contacts do not have to be made of expensive pressure conductive rubber and even when they are they can be made smaller. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS In the accompanying drawings Figs. 1 to 11 show a first embodiments of a switch according to the present invention Fig. 1 is a plan view of a switch Fig.2 is a sectional view taken on line II II of Fig. 1 Fig.3 is a plan view of a supporting plate removed from Fig.2 Fig. 4 is a bottom view of an operation button Fig 5 is a sectional view taken on line V V of Fig. 1 Fig. 6 is a bottom view of a slide block removed from Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is an enlarged plan view of a printed board removed from Fig. 2 Fig. 8 is a schematic plan view showing the disposing relationship of switch elements on the printed board Fig. 9 is a circuit diagram showing the connection relationship for the switch elements Fig. 10 is an enlarged sectional view showing a ball and socket bearing removed from Fig. 2 Fig. 11 is a sectional view showing the operating state of the ball and socket bearing Figs.12 to 21 show is a second embodiments of a switch according to the present invention Fig. 12 is a plan view of a switch Fig. 13 is a sectional view taken on line XIII XIII in Fig. 12 Fig. 14 is a back view of a housing Fig. 15 is a plan view of a supporting plate removed from Fig. 13 Fig. 16 is a plan view of an operation button Fig. 17 is a view as seen from a direction of an arrow Y Fig. 18 is a bottom view of the operation button Fig. 19 is an enlarged perspective view of an interceptor removed from Fig. 13 Fig. 20 is a development view of the side of the interceptor and Figs.22 to 27 show a third embodiments of a switch according to the present invention Fig. 22 is a plan view of a switch Fig. 23 is an enlarged sectional view taken on lineXXIII XXIII in Fig. 22 Fig. 24 is a bottom view of an insulating sheet Fig. 25 is a bottom view of an operation button Fig. 26 is an enlarged plan view of an insulating board and Fig. 27 is a schematic plan view showing the disposing relationship of the switch elements on the insulating board. BEST MODE OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The present invention will now be described in detail, with reference to an embodiment illustrated inFigs. 1 to 10 in which the invention is applied to a switch for controlling a motor driven mirrors of a motor vehicle. Figs. 1 to 10 show the first embodiment of the switch according to the present invention. The constitution will be described, and numeral 1 in the drawings represents a housing, 2 a printed board an insulating board which operates also as the bottom plate of the housing 1 . Disposed within the housing 1 are a switch S1 forming a switch for changing the polarity of a power supply and another switch S2 for changing a motor driven mirror. First, the switch S1 will be described in detail. The switch S1 comprises, for example, eight switch elements illustrated by A to F1 as shown in Fig. 9.Each pair of film electrodes 3 a and 4 a to 3 f to 4 f , serving as stationary contact elements of the switch elements A to F , are printed around a specific central position 7 on the printed board 2 in a pectinated shape. The film electrodes 3 a and 4 a to 3 f and 4 f are disposed to occupy the substantially upper and lower, right and left areas of the printed board 2 as a whole Fig 8 . An insulating sheet 5 is laminated on said stational contact elements. This sheet 5 has cushions 6a to 6h of crest shaped in section corresponding to a plurality of stationary contact elements. The cushions are made of rubber integrally with the sheet 5 , or they may be made of a different insulating material separately from the sheet 5 . Movable contacts 7a to 7h are fixed inside the top of the cushions 6a to 6h . The movable contacts may be made of a composite material having pressure conductive rubber consisting of silicone rubber and metal particles or they may be metal plates, etc. Thus, according to the present invention, the eight switch elements A to F are disposed planely on the printed board 2 and these switch elements A to F are connected by printed conductors 8 so as to form two sets of power supply polarity changing switch as connected as required. That is, in Fig. 10, the four switch elementsA, B, E and F form one switch element for switch element for vertical adjustment to be described later and the four switch elements C, D, E and F form the other switch means switch means for horizontal adjustment . The arrangement of the switch elements A to F on the printed board 2 is illustrated in Fig. 9. Driving mechanism as follows are disposed over said switch elements A to F formed as described above. More particularly, a supporting plate 8 as shown in Fig. 3 is disposed on the rubber sheet 5 , and is fixed at its peripheral to the housing 1 . An operation button 11 is tiltably arranged substantially at the center of the plate 8 on the rubber sheet 5 via a ball and socket bearing 9 . The operation button 11 is formed in a square shape as an example as seen in a planar manner as shown in Fig. 1, and is respectively pressed at four positions of upper and lower, right and left sides by numerals ll a to ll d in Fig. 1. The rubber sheet 5 to the button 11 is correspondingly formed in a prism shaped conical state with the bearing 9 of a tiltable fulcrum as a vertex as shown in Figs. 2 and 4.Each of the four prism shaped conical surfaces ll e to ll h of the buttons 11 to 14 is provided on its side facing the rubber sheet 5 with two pressing surfaces 12 a, 12 b which project slightly as designated representatively of the buttons 11 in Figs. 2 to 4. One pressing surface 12 a of the two pressing surfaces corresponds to the switch element A, while the other pressing surface 12 b corresponds to the switch elementF. The operation button 11 is provided with an engagement pawl 12 c which corresponds to the switch element E, and 12 d corresponds to the switch element B.Thus, two switch elements correspond to the surfaces 11 e to ll h of the four prism shaped surfaces 11 e to ll h. Through holes 8 a,.. are opened at the supporting plate 8 corresponding to the pressing surfaces 12 a to 12 h. The ball and socket bearing 9 for supporting the button 11 consists of a sphere 10 provided at the side of the plate 8 and a sphere retainer 13 provided at the button 11 side. At the sphere 10 are projected pins 10 a in cross shape at the four prism shaped surfaces 11 e to ll h, and split grooves 13 a each having narrow width and elastic force and being slightly smaller than the diameter of the pin 10 a are formed at the side of the retainer 13 . Further, the button 11 has a resettable trend always to the neutral position by the split grooves 13 a, and the pin 10 a. Reference will now be made to the switch The switch S2 is for selectively connecting the above mentioned switch S1 with either the right hand mirror R or the left hand mirror L and is constructed as follows The switch S2 comprises two circuits and six contacts. Contact patterns , m and 16 a to 16 d, corresponding to the six contacts, are printed near one end upper portion in Fig. 7 of the board 2. A slide block 15 , slidable right and left in Fig. 5 or 7 , is disposed over the contact patterns t, m and 14 a and 14 d. The slide block 15 is provided with movable contacts 16 a and 16 b corresponding to the contact patterns P m and 14 a to 14 d.A pair of push buttons 17 a to 17 b respectively corresponding to the right hand mirror R and the left hand mirror L are disposed on both sides of the slide block 15 in the direction of its slide. The driving end of each push button is engaged with each of taper portions 15 a and 15 b formed on both ends of the slide block 15 .Numerals 18 a and 18 b represent balls for positioning the push buttons 17 a and 17 b. Thus, the embodiment illustrated in Figs. 1 to 10 is a hybrid switch comprising said switch S1 including the six switch elements A to F and said changeover switch S 2 Numeral 19 in Fig. 2 represents a connector for externally leading the contacts , m and 14 a to 164d in the changeover switch S2 to the exterior the mirrors R and L . Referring to Fig. 9, symbols M1, M2 represent electric motors for horizontally and vertically driving the right handed mirror R, and M3, M4 represent electric motors for vertically and horizontally driving the left handed mirror L. The operation of the switch will now be described with reference to Fig. 11. Reference will be made to the case of controlling the right handed mirror R by pushing the push button 17 a of the changeover switch S2. When the push button 17 a is pushed, the slide block 15 is slid toward the left in Fig. 5 and its movable contacts 16 a and 16 b respectively close the contacts t and 14 a together and the contacts m and 14 c together so that the switch S1 is connected with the right hand mirror R. See the state in Fig. 9. When the operation button 11 is pushed at the position ll a at the predetermined tiling stroke thereafter, and the switch elements A and F are closed.Then, the electric motor M1 rotates in such a direction as changes the angle of the right hand mirror R upward. The pin 10 a corresponding to the ball and socket bearing 9 is engaged within the split groove 13 a as shown in Fig.11 at this time. When the pressing force is released, the pin 10 a is elastically pushed out and is reset to the neutral position as shown in Fig. 10. The clicking feeling is produced at the operating time by the elastic operation of the bearing 9 in this manner. Similarly, when the positions ll b of the button 11 is pressed, the switch elements B, E, the switch elements B and E are closed and the electric motorM1 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right hand mirror R downward. When the position ll c is pushed, the switch elements C and F are closed and the electric motor M2 rotates in such a direction as changes the angle of the right handed mirror R toward the left. When the position l1 d is further is pushed, the switch elements D and E are closed in the same way as mentioned above. Then, the electric motor M2 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right hand mirror R toward the right. The operations of the bearing 9 when the positions ll b, ll c, ll d are pressed are similar to the pressing of the position l1 a. When the push button 17 b of the changeover switch S2 is pushed, the left handed mirror L is controlled in the same way as described above. Figs 12 to 21 show a second embodiment of a switch according to the present invention. The arrangement and connection of the switch elements of the first embodiment are substantially the same as the first embodiment, and only the operating mechanism is different from the first embodiment. That is, the operation buttons are divided into a plurality of segments, and an interceptor for preventing the simultaneous operation of the switch elements is arranged at the central position of the button. The different pints from the first embodiment will be mainly described. The members or positions which are the same as those in Figs. 1 to 10 will be designated by the same numerals and characters as described above, and duplicate description will be omitted. The constitution will be first described. A supporting plate 21 is disposed on the rubber sheet 5 .As compared with the plate 8 in the first embodiment, the supporting plate 8 is formed in slightly larger thickness, and is secured at the peripheral surface to the housing 1 . Openings 21 a into which pressing surfaces described later are loosely inserted are formed at the positions corresponding to the positions of said switch elements A to F at the supporting plate 21 . The housing 1 is provided at its portion corresponding to said specific central position 7 on the inside with a projecting axial pin l e as shown in Fig. 14, said housing 1 further having four trapezoidal openings l a to l d disposed with the axial pin l e as the center of symmetry.Operation buttons 22 to 25 are respectively inserted into the trapezoidal openings l a to l d so that each of the operation buttons can be pushed in and automatically returns to its original position. Each of the buttons 22 to 25 is provided on its side facing the rubber sheet 5 with two pressing surfaces 22 a, 22 b which project slightly as designated representatively of the buttons 22 in Figs. 16 to 18.One pressing surface 22 a of the two pressing surfaces corresponds to the switch element A, while the other pressing surface 22 b corresponds to the switch elementF. The operation button 22 is provided with an engagement pawl 22 c engaged toward the axial pin l e, having a triangular section with its vertex facing downward toward the rubber sheet side . The button 22 further has a spring hole 22 d at the intermediate between the two pressing surfaces 22 a and 22 b. A coiled spring 26 is disposed within the spring hole 22 a and is compressed between the operation button 22 and the supporting plate 21 so as to provide the operation button 22 a tendency to return to its original position. Usually the pressing surfaces 22 a and 22 b of the operation button 22 is partially inserted into the openings 21 a of the supporting plates 21 so that the pressing surfaces 22 a and 22 b are surely guided by the openings 8 a when the operation button 22 is pushed. The construction and arrangement of the other operation buttons 23 to 25 are the same as mentioned above. The operation button 23 corresponds to the switch elements B and E. The operation button 24 corresponds to the switch elements B and E. The operation button 24 corresponds to the switch elements F and C.The operation button 25 corresponds to the switch elements D and E. The operation button 24 corresponds to the switch elements D and E. In this way, each of the operation buttons 22 to 25 corresponds to two switch elements. A crown shaped interceptor 27 having a sawtoothed cam surface 27 a corresponding to the engagement pawls 22 c to 25 c is rotatably attached to to the axial pin l e in the specific central position 7 . As shown in Figs. 19 to 21, the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a has teeth, the number of which is different from the number four of the operation buttons 22 to 25 , that is, the number four of the engagement pawls 22 c to 25 c.The sectional crests forming the respective teeth is not formed at both sides in a symmetrical shape at the edge crest part , but the crests formed in the range of 720 of the opening angle planely as shown in Fig.20 are formed in an opening angle of 300 at the one around the edge and in an opening angle of 420 at the other. The number of the teeth of the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a is five in the illustrated example, but it is not limited thereto and may be three, seven, nine or any other number provided that the difference between the number of the teeth and the number of the operation button is an odd number. As shown in Fig. 21, when one 22 c of four engagement pawls is in a position corresponding to the deepest portion of a concave, the other engagement pawls 23 c to 25 c are in position corresponding to other portions of respective concaves. When any one of the engagement pawls 22 c to 25 c is pushed into the deepest portion of a concave, only two switch elements corresponding to the operation button pushed are exclusively closed, so that the other switch elements are prevented from being closed at the same time. The other members and elements such as a changeover switch S2 are constructed similar to those in the first embodiment. The operation of the switch will now be described. Reference will be made to the case of controlling the right handed mirror R. When the operation button 11 is pushed thereafter, the engagement pawl 22 .c of the button 11 enters the deepest portion of a concave on the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a See Fig. 21 and the switch elements A and F are closed. Then, the electric motor M1 rotates in such a direction as changes the angle of the right hand mirror R upward. Even if any of the other operation buttons 23 to 25 is pushed at this time, the C3 c X l2S o engagement pawl thereof is not allowed to enter the deepest portion of a concave on the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a and therefore no other switch elements are closed. When only the operation button 23 is pushed, the engagement pawl 23 c thereof contacts the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a and turns the interceptor 27 until it enters the deepest portion of a concave on the sawtoothed cam surface 27 a. As a result, the switch elements B andE are closed and the electric motor M1 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right hand mirror R downward. When only the operation button 24 is pushed, the engagement pawl 24 c thereof behaves in the same way as mentioned above. Then, the switch elements C and F are closed and the electric motor M2 rotates in such a direction as changes the angle of the right handed mirrorR toward the left. When only the operation button 25 is pushed, the switch elements D and E are closed in the same way as mentioned above. Then, the electric motor M2 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right hand mirror R toward the right. When the push button 17 b of the changeover switch S2 is pushed, the left handed mirror L is controlled in the same way as described above. Figs. 22 to 27 show a third embodiment of a switch according to the present invention. The third embodiment is mainly different from the aforesaid first and second embodiments in the construction of the movable contacts in switch elements. That is, cushions of a crest shaped section having elastic force are provided on the stationary contact elements and a movable contact is fixed inside the top of each of the cushions. Therefore, the movable contacts may be made of a metal unlike in the first and second embodiments. Connections between the switch elements are substantially the same as in the first and second embodiments. The third embodiment will now be described in detail with respect to the differences from the first and second embodiments. The structure of this embodiment will now be described. An insulating sheet 31 is laminated on said printed board insulating board 2 . This sheet 31 has cushions 32a to 32h of crest shaped in section corresponding to a plurality of stationary contact elements. The cushions are made of rubber integrally with the sheet 31 , or they may be made of a different insulating material separately from the sheet 31 .Movable contacts 32 s to 32 h are fixed inside the top of the cushions 6a to 6h . The movable contacts may be made of a composite material having pressure conductive rubber consisting of. silicone rubber and metal particles or they may be metal plates, etc. Thus, according to the present invention, the eight switch elements A to F are disposed planely on the printed board 2 and these switch elements A to F are connected by printed conductors 6 so as to form two sets of power supply polarity changing switch as connected as required. That is, in Fig. 10, the four switch elementsA, B, E and F form one switch element for switch element for vertical adjustment to be described later and the four switch elements C, D, E and F form the other switch means switch means for horizontal adjustment . The arrangement and connecting state of the switch elements A to F on the printed board 2 is illustrated in Figs. 26 and 27 substantially the same as the first embodiment. Driving mechanism as follows are disposed over said switch elements A to F formed as described above. More particularly, an operation button 34 is disposed over the eight cushions 32a to 32h of the insulating sheet 31 . The operation button 34 is square in its plan view, and the outside of its top is engaged with the corners between the inner walls of a housing 1 and the top plate la . Projecting push buttons 34a to 34d provided on the top of the operation button 34 protrude upward from openings la provided in the top late of the housing 1 . As shown inFig. 25, the operation buttion 34 is provided at its bottom with four pressing surfaces 34e to 34h so divided by two diagonals. Cushions 32a to 32h of crest sectional shape corresponding to a plurality of stationary contact elements are disposed on the sheet 31 .The operation button 32 is square in its plan view, and the outside of its top is engaged with the corners between the inner walls of a housing 1 and the top plate la . Projecting push buttons 34a to 34d provided on the top of the operation button 9 protrude upward from openings la provided in the top plate of the housing 1 . As shown in Fig. 25, the operation buttion 34 is provided at its bottom with four pressing surfaces 34e to 34h so divided by two diagonal lines, said pressing surfaces respectively lying on top of two cushions 32a and 32b , 32c and 32d , 32e and 32f , 32g and 32g and 32h .Therefore, the pressing surface 34e corresponds to the switch elements A and F, the pressing surface 34f corresponding to the switch elements B and E, the pressing surface 34g corresponding to the switch elements C and F , the pressing surface 34h corresponding to the switch elements D and E .Thus, the pressing surface 34e to 34h of the operation button 34 corresponds to two switch elements. The operation button 34 is provided in the center and four corners of its bottom with projections 34i and 34j to 34m for preventing the simultaneous operation of more than one pressing surface thereof. If two push buttons, for example, 34a and 34c or 34a and 34d , are pushed with the same force at the same time, the projection 34i passes through an opening 5a in the center of the insulating sheet 31 and contacts the board 2 while one of the projections 34j to 34m passes through one of notches 31b and contacts the board 2 , so that the switch elements corresponding to two pressing surface, for example, F and F , A and D or F and are arenot closed at the same time, thus the possibility of the oblique movement of the mirror or short circuit being eliminated.Therefore, the lengths of the projections 34i and 34j to 34m are designed such that the projections are out of contact with the board 2 when one of the push buttons 34a to 34d is properly pushed and corresponding switch elements are closed while the projections come into contact with the board 2 so as to prevent any switch elements from being closed when a plurality of push buttons are pushed at the same time. The other members and elements such as the switch S2 are constructed substantially in the same as those in the first and second embodiments. The operation of the switch of the above embodiment will now be described. Reference will be made to the case of controlling the right handed mirror R by pushing the push button 17 a of the changeover switch S2. When the push button 17 a is pushed, the cushions 32a , 32 b are contracted and its movable contacts 33 a and 33 b respectively close the stationary contacts 3f , 4f , and 3a , 4a together so that the switch elements A, F are closed, the motor M1 is rotated in a normal direction, thereby controlling to direct the angle of the right hand mirror R upward.When the position 34a of the operation button 34 is pushed thereafter in the predetermined inclining stroke, the cushions 32a , 32b are contracted, the movable contacts 33a , 33b are pressure contacted with the switch elements A, F, which are closed and the motor M1 rotates in the positive direction, thereby changing the angle of the right handed mirror R toward upward direction. When the pressing pressure is released, the operation button 34 returns to its neutral position as shown in Fig. 23 by the elasticity of the cushions 32a , 32b . Such elastic action of the cushions 32a , 32b provide a good feeling of clicking. When the position 34b of the operation button 34 is pressed, the switch elements B and E are closed and the electric motor M1 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right hand mirror R downward. When the position 34c of the operation button 34 is pressed, the switch elements C and F are closed and the electric motor M2 rotates in such a direction as changes the angle of the right handed mirrorR toward the left. When the projection 34d of the operation button 34 is pressed, the switch elements D land E are closed and the electric motor M2 rotates in a reverse direction so as to change the angle of the right handed mirror R toward the right. When the positions 34b , 34c , or 34d is pressed, the cushions 32c and 32d , 32e and 32f , or 32g and 32h behave in the same way as when the position 34a is pressed. When the push button 17b of the changeover switch S2 is pressed, the left hand mirror L is controlled in the same way as described above. INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY According to the present invention, a plurality of switch elements are mounted in a housing, and two sets of switches for changing the polarity of the power supply can be constructed. According to the present invention as described above, an insulating board in which stationary contact elements, each having a pair of film electrodes are arranged in a housing, and cushions provided corresponding to the elements, in which the insulating sheet provided with stationary contact elements and movable contacts forming switch elements and operation buttons for operating the switch elements are arranged, the operation buttons are tiltable and constantly resettable trend by utilizing the elastic force of the cushions. Accordingly, the profile may be formed in flat and thin structure, the number of parts can be reduced with ready assembling work in high reliability in the switch. Particularly in the present invention, it is not necessary to use the expensive pressure conductive rubber. Further, a pair of right and left side motor driven mirrors mounted in a fender of a vehicle contain two motors at the respective drive units, and the polarities of the applied voltage from the power supply to the motors are switched, thereby controlling to switch the angles of the mirrors between upward and downward or between the rightward and leftward. Accordingly, the two sets of the switches for changing the polarity of the power supply can correspond to the two motors for controlling to switch between the upward and the downward directions and between the rightward and the leftward directions, thereby facilitating the assembling of the switches to the instrument panel of the vehicle to be adapted for use in the industrial field.