# Distance sensing apparatus.

## Abstract
Distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance to an illuminated surface features an objective, for forming an image of the illuminated surface, and first and second photo electric converters respectively disposed at first and second image planes respectively corresponding to first and second object planes equivalent to maximum and minimum possible distances of the illuminated surface from the apparatus. The arrangement is such that the light falling on the first and second photo electric converters depends on the location of the illuminated surface between the maximum and minimum possible distances. Electronic processing circuitry is able to uniquely define this location from the outputs of the two photoelectric converters. The illuminated surface is preferably illuminated from a light source contained within the distance sensing apparatus and which uses the central portion of the objective lens to form a parallel illuminating beam. A mirror can conveniently be positioned between the first and second image planes to increase the effective distance therebetween, which results in a more compact construction. The processing circuitry conveniently includes either a difference forming stage or a quotient forming stage which respectively enable either a qualitative or quantitative determination of the location of the illuminated surface.

## Claims
We claim 1. Distance sensing apparatus 28 for determining the distance of an illuminated surface 27 from the apparatus,said apparatus comprising lens means 2O for forming an image of said illuminated surface and photoelectric detection means the apparatus being characterized by first and second photoelectric converters 14, 15 respectively disposed at first and second image planes 11 , 12 of said lens means, said first and second image planes 11 , 12 respectively corresponding to first and second object planes 11, 12 equivalent to near and remote possible locations of said illuminated surface from the apparatus, whereby the light falling on the first and second photoelectric converters 14, 15 depends on the location of the illuminated surface, and by processing means 16, 17 for processing the output signals from said first and second photoelectric converters 14, 15 to produce a single output signal 17 representative of the distance of said illuminated surface 27 from the apparatus 28 . 2. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 1 and characterized in that said near and remote locations correspond to maximum and minimum possible distances 11, 12 for the position of said illuminated surface from the apparatus. 3. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with either of the preceding claims and characterized in that said processing means 16, 17 comprises a difference forming stage 18 for producing a signal representative of the difference between the outputs of said first and second photoelectric detectors 14, 15 and a display device 17 Fig. 3 connected to said difference forming stage 16 for dis playing said difference signal. 4. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any preceding claim and characterized in that the display device 17 Fig. 3 solely indicates whether the difference signal is zero or smaller or larger than zero. 5. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with either of claims 1 or 2 and characterized in that said processing circuit 16, 17 comprises a quotient forming stage 19 for forming a quotient signal representative of the quotients of the outputs of said first and second photo electric converters 14, 15 and a display device 17 Fig. 4 for displaying said quotient signal. 6. A distance sensing apparatus according to claim 5 and characterized in that the quotient signal display device 17 Fig. 4 is calibrated to show the location of the illuminated surface with reference to a reference plane. 7. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding claims and characterized in that said lens means 20 comprises an objective. 8. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding claims and characterized in that there is further provided a central aperture stop 22 for restricting the usable aperture of said lens means 20 to a marginal region thereof. 9. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 8 and characterized in that said aperture stop 22 is arranged on the image side of said lens means 20 . 10. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 9 and characterized in that said aperture stop 20 is at a distance a from said lens means so that said first and second photoelectric converters receive substantially the same quantities of light from their associated first and second object planes when the same surface with the same illumination is located at those object planes. 11. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding claims and characterized in that the one 12 of said first and second image planes 11 t t 12 which lies closest to the lens means 20 is moved towards,the lens means 20 by means of a mirror 21 sized and positioned so as not to interrupt the ray path to the other 11 of said first and second image planes 11 , 12 when said illuminated surface is located at the corresponding one 11 of said first and second object planes 11, 12 . 12. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 11 and characterized in that said mirror 21 comprises a plane mirror. 13. Distance sensing apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 12 and characterized in that said aperture stop 22 is provided with a central opening 23 and a light source 25 is arranged behind said central opening. 14. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with claim 13 and characterized in that a further lens 24 is located within said central opening and cooperates with said lens means 20 . to form the light 26 leaving said light source 25 into a parallel light beam for illuminating said surface 27 . 15. Distance sensing apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding claims and characterized in that at least one of said first and second photoelectric converters 14, 15 is disposed on the optical axis 13 of said lens 20 .

## Description
Distance Sensing apparatusThe invention relates to a distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance of an illuminated surface from the apparatus and has particular reference to a distance sensing apparatus based on lens and photoelectric converter means.Distance sensing apparatus of this kind is for example required in automatic monitoring, regulation or control installations.Possible applications are.the monitoring of the heights of stacks and filling levels, the monitoring of the presence or absence of an object, the control of the sag of a band or the like, or the detection of the thickness of a material.Many of these tasks are carried out using mechanical distance sensors or boundary detection probes. The required mechanical contact with the material whose position is to be detected and also the limited speed of operation of these mechanical sensors is often very obstructive and in many cases prohibits the use of such sensors. Distance sensors which operate on inductive or capacitive principles are also already known but are however dependent on the characteristics of the material and are therefore not suitable for use in many situations.Distance sensors based on optical and electronic principles are also known which are able.to recognize the presence of objects within smaller or larger ranges. Sensors of this kind have however the disadvantage that they are strongly dependent on the surface of the material to be sensed and in particular from the reflective capability or characteristics of the surface. An object of good reflectivity will for example be recognized at a greater distance than an object with a lesser degree of reflectivity. Poorly reflecting objects are amongst other things, and in comparison with obstacles of good or better reflectivity, simply not recognized. The range within which monitoring can take place is moreover relatively small. This also holds true for so called V light barriers in which the axes of transmission and reception intersect at a specified angle. These light barriers do have a defined recognition range,the size of which depends on the angle of the two optical axes to one another and their cross section at right angles to the optical axis, there is however a direct relationship between the size of the recognition range and the tolerance or inaccuracy which depends on the degree of reflectivity of the object In contrast to these previous solutions the principal object underlying the present invention is to provide distance sensing apparatus based on optical and electronic principles and which delivers a pronouncement on the position of a surface within a specified sensing range from the distance sensing apparatus substantially independently of the characteristics of the surface.A further object underlying the present invention is to provide an apparatus of good performance but which is of simple and cost effective construction and which is also very reliable in operation.For accomplishing these objects there is provided., in accordance with the present invention, distance sensing apparatus for determining the distance of an illuminated surface from the apparatus said apparatus comprising lens means for forming an image of said illuminated surface, first and second photoelectric converters respectively disposed at first and second image planes of said lens means, said first and second image planes respectively corresponding to first and second object planes equivalent to near and remote possible locations of said illuminated surface from the apparatus, whereby the light falling on the first and second photoelectric converters depends on the location of the illuminated surface, and processing means for processing the output signals from said first and second photoelectric converters to produce tA gle output signal representative of the distance of s id illuminated surface from the apparatus.Thus in accordance with the invention light,which is preferably radiated from an internal light source, falls onto two photoelectric converters following reflection at the surface of an object located within a predetermined distance sensing range. It is of decisive significance that different respective distances are associated with each of the two photoelectric converters by virtue of the image forming lens means. In this way it is ensured, independently of the reflective characteristics of the surface of an object to be sensed,that the reflected light flux is distributed between the two photoelectric converters in dependence on the position at which the reflection of light takes place.The invention thus starts from the recognition of the fact that,when an object is located at a position in object space which is associated via the image forming optics with the first photoelectric converter, then this photoelectric converter will receive a greater light flux than the other photoelectric inverter which is associated with another position within the scanning range and vice versa.By suitably combining or processing the electrical signals from the two photoelectric converters it is possible to achieve,in very simple manner and substantially independently of the material,a pronouncement over the spatial relationship between the surface and the distance sensing apparatus. Of course the distance sensing apparatus operates as a primary reference datum and it will be readily appreciated that the position of the surface can readily be referred to any other desired datum. In accordance with a first advantageous embodiment the processing circuitry comprises a difference forming stage which forms a difference signal representative of the difference of the output signals from the first and second photoelectric converters and a display device connected to the difference forming stage for displaying this difference signal.This embodiment is particularly suitable for use in situations in which it is important that a specified desired distance from the distance sensing apparatus should be maintained.This desired distance preferably corresponds with the difference signal zero. In such cases it is thus sufficient for the display device solely to indicate whether the difference is zero,or smaller,or greater than zero. This enables the electronic circuitry to be of particularly simple construction.In accordance with a further embodiment the processing circuitry contains a quotient forming stage for forming a quotient signal representative of the quotient of the signals from the first and second photoelectric converters and which is connect d to a display device for displaying the quotient signal. The quotient display device is particularly suited. to an arrangement in which it is directly calibrated in distances, for example centimeters, from a reference plane. The distance is indeed not linearly proportional to the quotient signal however a unique and reproducable relationship does exist and this is sufficient. In ordertwhen sensing the smallest possible distance,to achieve a good separation of the radiation which falls on the photoelectric converter which is furthest away from the lens means from the other photoelectric converter a preferred embodiment features a central aperture stop which results in only a marginal region of the lens means or objective being used for image formation.The aperture t p is preferably located on the image side of the lens weans or objective In particular the aperture stop should hve a distance from the objective such that each of the Llotoelectric converters receives substantially the same quantity of light from its associated object plane when the same object with the same illumination is arranged at the associated object planes.In particular it is possible in this case for the image plane associated with the one of the first and second photoelectric converters which is located nearer the objective to be displaced towards the objective by means of a mirror, in particular a plane mirror, which is sized and positioned so that it does not hinder light from the illuminated surface reaching the second image plane associated with the other of said first and second photoelectric converters when the object is located at the corresponding image plane.This arrangement allows a particularly space saving and compact construction.The central region of the lens means or objective which is covered by the central aperture stop can be also be sensibly utilized if a central opening is provided in the central aperture stop and a light source is arranged behind the central opening so as to generate an illuminating beam for illuminating the surface via the objective. In particular it is also possible to locate a further lens in the central opening, or also in front of or behind the central opening, which cooperates with the objective in order to form the light leaving the light source into a parallel light beam for illuminating the surface the distance to which is to be determined. A specific embodiment of the invention will now be described in the following by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which are shown Fig. 1 a schematic partially sectioned side view of distance sensing apparatus in accordance with the invention and showing the surface of an object located at one end of the range of distances which can be sensed,Fig. 2 a view corresponding to Fig. 1 but in which the surface of the object is located at the other end of the range of distances which can be sensed,Fig. 3 a first advantageous embodiment of an electronic processing circuit for use with the distance sensing apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2,Fig. 4 a second advantageous embodiment of an electronic processing circuit for use with the distance sensing apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2, andFig. 5 a diagram showing the dependence of the light flux reaching the two converters of the distance scanning apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2 on the location of the surface of the object within the range which can be sensed.Referring firstly to Figs. 1 and 2 lens means in the form of an objective 20 with principal planes H and H is arranged in one wall of a housing 28. A central aperture stop 22 is provided on the optical axis of the objective 20 at a distance a inside the housing 28 with a further lens 24 located and fixed within the central opening 23. A light source 25 is provided within the housing behind the further lens 24 and on the optical axis 13 and the light from this light source is formed into a parallel transmitted light beam 26 by the 4 and the central region of the objective 20. e distance sensing apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2 is intended and suitable for detecting, at least qualitatively, distances within a range of distances 29. First and second object planes 11 and 12 are located at both ends of the range of distances 29. In Fig. 1 the surface 27 of an object 30 is reproduced at the first object plane 11. The surface 27 of the object 30 is located in Fig. 2 at the other end of the range 29 of distances which can be sensed i.e. in the second object plane 12.In addition to the illumination beam path 26 Fig. 1 also shows the envelope for the rays which image the surface 27 onto a first photoelectric converter 14. The photoelectric converter 14 is arranged on the optical axis 13 at a first image plane 11 which corresponds to the image of the object plane 11 formed by the objective 20. As can be seen from Fig. 1 only the marginal region of the objective 20 is used for this image formation and in particular the outer third of the lens radius. It will be noted that the arrows shown on the drawings do not indicate the paths of the individual image forming rays but rather the general directions of the light beam in image and object space. In particular the illustrated beam paths can be considered to be representative of the envelop within which the light rays are contained.The individual light rays have been omitted to avoid ,unnecessarily com ricating the drawings. The paths of such light rays will however be readily apparent to those skilled in the artAs seen in Fig. 2 the surface 27 which is located at the second object plane 12 of the other end of the range 29 is imaged at the image plane 12 . This image is indicated in broken lines in Fig. 2. For constructional reasons a plane mirror 21 is arranged on the optical axis at right angles thereto at a distance b in front of the second image plane 12 . In this way the image plane is folded back on itself to the position 12 which is closer to the objective. A further photoelectric converter 15 is located on the optical axis 13 at this image plane 12 .The radial extent of the circular plane mirror 21 i.e. its size and its position are chosen in accordance with Fig. 1 so that the mirror just avoids interrupting the light rays which are directed towards the photoelectric converter 14 from the surface of an object located at the first image plane 11.The outputs of the two photoelectric converters 14 and 15 are applied to an electronic processing circuit 16 which feeds a distance indicating display device 17.Referring now to Fig. 5 there can be seen two curves 14 and 15 which represent the output signals of the photoelectric converters 14 and 15. These curves also reproduce the dependence of the relative light fluxes as received by the photoelectric converters on the distance A of the surface from the distance sensing apparatus. The locations of the object planes 11 and 12 are indicated on the abscissa by the corresponding reference numerals.The spacing 31 of the centre of the range 29 from the distance sensing apparatus is also schematically illustrated.As can be seen from Fig. 5 the photoelectric converter 14 receives the largest light flux when the surface 27 of the object 30 is located at the object plane 11. If one continuously moves the surface 27 in the direction towards the object plane 12 then the falling plot 14 shown in Fig. 5 in chain dotted lines reproduces the light flux incident on the photoelectric converter 14. In reverse the photoelectric converter 15 receives the maximum light flux when the surface 27 is arranged in accordance with Fig. 2,in the object plane 12. If one now displaces the surface 27 in the direction towards the object plane 11 then the plot 15 for the light flux which falls on the converter 15 and which is shown in broken lines fallsi away to the left in the manner which can be seen from Fig. 5.The light fluxes falling on the photoelectric converters 14 and 15 are the same at substantially the midpoint between the object planes 11 and 12 i.e. at the distance 31.This equality of the light fluxes can be detected in particularly simple fashion using the processing circuit 16 of Fig. 3. In this arrangement the two photoelectric converters 14 and 15 are connected to a difference forming stage 18 the output signal of which is representative of the difference of the two signals from the photoelectric converters and feeds a display instrument 17. If the display instrument shows the value zero then the two light fluxes at the photoelectric converters 14 and 15 are the same and the surface 27 is located at the distance 31 from the distance sensing apparatus.If the instrument 17 deflects to the right or the left then, in simple manner, an indication is provided as to whether the surface 27 is located beyond or before the desired distance 31.A distance display calibrated for example in centimeters can be realized by the further circuit of Fig. 4. In this arrangement the processing circuit 16 contains a quotient forming stage 19 to the two inputs of which are passed the output signals of the photoelectric converters 14 and 15. The quotient forming stage thus forms a quotient signal which is representative of the quotients of the signals from the photoelectric converters 14 and 15. This quotient signal is passed to a display device 17 connected to the quotient forming stage which ca be directly calibrated in distances inside the range 29. At 1 the surface 27 is at t e distance 31 from the distance sensing apparatus of Figs. 1 and 2.It is thus important for the invention that the two photoelectric converters are associated with two different distances via the same objective 20 and thus via the same diameter objective. In this way the two photoelectric converters have two different receiving apertures. This applies both in front of and also after the objective. It is also important to ensure that all light reflected from the surface 27 and received from the objective 20 reaches the associated photoelectric converter from the location of the reflection by suitable use of only the marginal region of the objective.The invention thus provides a distribution of light to the two photoelectric converters which depends on the aperture for the received light. It is possible by the use of interchangeable objectives to modify the centre distance 31 and the range 29 within which distance sensing can be effected.In the same manner as the plane mirror 21 the central aperture stop 22 is also of circular form at its external periphery.The circular border of the mirror 21 and the aperture stop 22 extend concentrically about the optical axis 13.It is preferred for only a small region of the surface 27 to be illuminated around the optical axis 13. The extent of this illuminated region should not exceed the image forming marginal regions of the objective 20 and should preferably lie significantly within this marginal region Figs. 1 and 2 .Furthermore it is important that the illtuminating light bead on the surface 27 of the object 30 has the same size and form for every position within the range 29. Preferably the light bead is of circular form and is concentric to the optical axis 13. The production of this light bead by means of a parallel light beam concentric to the optical axis 13 is particularly advantageous.It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that further modifications can be made to the arrangements shown without departing in the scope of the present teaching. In particular it will be appreciated that other forms of processing circuitry can be used and that whilst the near and remote positions for the first and second object planes are preferably located at the maximum and minimum possible distances for the said illuminated surface from the apparatus that they can also be located at other positions to yield for example a narrower range or a slightly wider range. Additionally it will be appreciated that it is possible to modify the processing circuitry by the inclusion of preamplification stages for preamplifying the signals from the individual photoelectric converters and that the difference forming stage and quotient forming stage can themselves conveniently take the form of commercially available operational amplifiers with suitable characteristics.