# Novel polycyclic fused pyrazole compounds useful as antiinflammatory agents and preparation thereof.

## Abstract
The compounds of the formulas

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the Formula I or II herein wherein R and R are each lower alkyl. 2. 1,1 t8 4 Fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro lla methyl 8H phenanthrot2,3 c pyrazole 3,4 diyl bis ethanone , according to claim 1. 3. Diethyl 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro lla methyl 8H phenanthrol2,3 capyrazole 4,4 dicarboxylate, according to claim 1. 4. A process for preparing a compound according to claim 1, which comprises reacting l ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9,9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2,3 c pyrazole with a compound of the formula RCOCH CHCOR or CH2 C COOR1 2. 5. A process according to claim 4, for preparing the compound according to claim 2, which comprises reacting 1ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9, 9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2,3 c pyrazole with 3 hexene 2, 5 dione. 6. A process according to claim 4, for preparing the compound according to claim 3, which comprises reacting 1ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9,9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2,3 c pyrazole with diethyl methylenemalonate. 7. l Ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9, 9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2, 3 c pyrazole having the Formula III herein . 8. A pharmaceutical composition for treating inflammation in mammal which comprises an anti inflammatorily effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims 1 3, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

## Description
The present invention relates to novel polycyclic fused pyrazole compounds, useful as anti inflammatory agents, and the preparation thereof. Typical glucocorticoid activity is rarely found in structures which do not possess an intact steroid nucleus.Such activity is found in naturally occurring steroids such as cortisone, hydrocortisone and aldosterone, as well as numerous synthetic modifications thereof, all containing the intact steroid nucleus. An example of a synthetic cortical steroid having high activity is a fluorophenylpyrazole derivative reported by Fried et al.,J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85, 236 1963 , having the structureEMI1.1 The present invention relates to compounds having the formulas EMI2.1 wherein R and R are lower alkyl groups. Said compounds can be used in a pharmaceutical composition for treating inflammation in mammals which comprises an anti inflammatorily effective amount of said compound of Formula I or II and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.One can reduce inflammation in a mammal by administering to said mammal an anti inflammatorily effective amount of a compound ofFormula I or II. The invention also relates to an intermediate for use in the preparation of the compounds of Formulas I and II, said intermediate having the formula EMI2.2 One can prepare the compounds of Formulas I or II by reacting the compound of Formula III with a compound of the formula RCOCH CHCOR or CH2 CtCOOR 2, respectively. The novel intermediate of Formula III is prepared from a known starting material, 5 ethenyl 4,4a,7,8 tetrahydro 4a methyl 2 3H naphthalenone cf. Bell et al.U.S. Patent 4,157,349, June 5, 1979 in accordance with the following reactions EMI3.1 The trienone starting material is reacted with methyl formate in the presence of sodium methoxide in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran to afford 5 ethenyl 3 hydroxymethylene 4,4a,7,8 tetrahydro 4a methyl 2t3H naphthalenone, and the latter is then reacted with 4fluorophenylhydrazine or an acid addition salt thereof in the presence of acetic acid to give the compound ofFormula III. The preparation of a compound of Formula I by reacting the compound of Formula III with an unsaturated diketone of the formula RCOCE CHCOR takes place by heating the reactants in an inert solvent at a temperature between about 500 and 150 C. Similarly, a compound of Formula II is prepared by heating III with a di lower alkyl methylenemalonate C2 C COOR 2 . In order to suppress the tendency of the diene to polymerize, a small quantity of a free radical chain reaction inhibitor such as 1,2,3 benzenetriol pyrogallol , may be added. The lower alkyl groups R and R preferably have from one to four carbon atoms, including, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl and isobutyl. The compounds of Formulas I and II exhibit an endocrinological profile characteristic of compounds possessing glucocorticoid properties and systemic and or topical anti inflammatory activity cf. R.H. Silber,The Biology of Anti inflammatory Steroids, Annals of theNew York Academy of Sciences, Vol. 82, Art. 4. pp. 821 828. When the compounds of Formulas I and II are administered orally to rats they cause a significant depression in thymus weight, adrenal weight and body weight gain without a change in food consumption. The compound of Formula I where R is methyl has also been found to possess oral glucocorticoid activity by the liver glycogen deposition test and anti inflammatory activity by the a tocopherol pouch test in rats. The test procedures used to determine the biological activities of the compounds of the invention were carried out as follows Endocrine Profile Mature female rats with an average body weight of 202 g and a body weight range of 15 g or less were medicated orally with test compound for 2 weeks. The test compound was prepared as a solution or suspension in 1 gum tragacanth or 0.75 methyl cellulose. On the day following the last medication, the rats were killed and the thymus and adrenal of each rat were removed, cleaned, and weighed. Body weights and food consumptions were also recorded. Anti inflammatory Activity a tocopherol pouch test Male rats which weighed 120 g were selected for testing.A rapid subcutaneous injection of 25 mL of air was made babes the scapulae of each rat. This resulted in the establishment of an airfilled pouch into which 0.5 mL of dl tocopherol was injected. The test compound was administered in daily oral doses for 7 days beginning on the day of pouch formation. The compound to be tested was suspended in 1 gum tragacanth. Twenty four hours after the last medication, the pouches were dissected free, and the fluid volume was measured. The inhibition of liquid exudate is a measure of the anti inflammatory activity. Glycogenic Activity Mature male rats were bilaterally adrenalectomized 5 days prior to the test. These rats were medicated orally with the test compound for 5 days. Seven hours after the last medication, the rats which have been fasted overnight were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and a portion of one lobe of the liver was removed and frozen on dry ice for subsequent glycogen determination. The compounds of the invention can be formulated for topical application by solution of dispersion in a conventional pharmaceutically acceptable liquid, cream or ointment base. The effective ingredient is preferably present in a concentration of 0.01 to 5.0 by weight. The compounds of the invention can be formulated for oral administration in tablet or capsule form with conventional excipients. The active ingredient is preferably present in an amount of 1 mg to 100 mg per unit dosage form. The following examples will further illustrate the invention. Example 1 a 5 Ethenyl 3 bydroxymethylene 4 , 4a, 7, 8 tetrahydro 4a methyl 2 3H naphthalenone. A solution of 50.0 g 0.265 mol of 5 ethenyl 4, 4a,7,8 tetrahydro 4a methyl 2 3H naphthalenone in 350 mL of tetrahydrofuran was cooled to 5 C. in an ice methanol bath and stirred under nitrogen while 57.2 g 1.06 mol of sodium methoxide was added. The resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min at 50C. and then a solution of 114 mL 1.85 mol of methyl formate in 100 mL of tetrahydrofuran was added slowly. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and then poured onto a mixture of icewater 1500 mIs and 6N hydrochloric acid 265 mL . The product was extracted with ether and the combined extracts were washed with water. The dried extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford an oil.This oil was triturated with hexane 4 x 250 mL and the combined triturates were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to afford 55.37 g of a red oil, consisting essentially of the above entitled compound as established by proton NMR PMR spectral data. Cb l Ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9, 9a tetrahydrc 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2, 3 cjpyrazole III . 4 Fluorophenylhydrazine hydrochloride 45.85 g, 0.282 mol and sodium acetate 23.14 g, 0.282 mol were added to a solution of 55.37 g 0.256 mol of the product obtained in part a above in 225 mL of glacial acetic acid.The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and then concentrated in vacuo to afford a semi solid. This material was suspended in ether 1 L and filtered to remove sodium chloride. The ether filtrate was washed with water 4 x 250 mix , saturated sodium bicarbonate until weakly basic and saturated sodium chloride 100 mL . The extract was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, decolorized with charcoal and concentrated in vacuo to afford an oil.This oil was triturated with 1 2 ether hexane 3 x 750 mL to afford 69.58 g of a dark brown oil. An analytical sample was prepared by using high performance liquid chromatography with 1 3 ether hexane as solvent. The resulting yellow oil was triturated with pentane to afford l ethenyl 6 4 fluorophenyl 3,4,9, 9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphtho 2,3 c pyrazole as a yellow solid, m.p. 70 720C., with a consistent PMR spectrum. Example 2 1,1 18 4 Fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro lla methyl 8E phenanthro12,3 clpyrazole 3,4 diyl bislethanone CI R Cm3 . A solution of 20 g 0.065 mol of l ethenyl 6 4fluorophenyl 3,4,9,9a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H naphthol 2,3 c pyrazole in 200 mL benzene and 8.07 g 0.072 mol of 3 hexene 2,5 dione was stirred at reflux for 40 hours under nitrogen. The cooled reaction mixture was filtered through silica gel and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant oil was triturated with ether to afford 7.54 g of a gold solid as a mixture of isomers, m.p. 138 142 C., as determined by PMR spectroscopy. Five g of this mixture of isomers was separated using high performance liquid chromatography with 1 4 ethyl acetate hexane.The major isomer was recrystallized from CR2Cl2 isooctane to afford 3.0 g of 1,1 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro 11a methyl 8H phenanthro 2,3 c pyrazole 3,4 diyl bis ethanone , a white solid, m.p. 157 1590C., a single isomer as determined byPMR spectroscopy. In the endocrine profile determination, Compound I R CH3 at a dose level of 5 mg kg caused a 59 reduction in weight of the thymus, 40 reduction in adrenal weight and 80 reduction in body weight gain as compared with the controls. In the a tocopherol pouch test, Compound I R CR3 was active with ED50 23 mg kg. In the glycogenic activity test, Compound I R CH3 at dose levels of 9 and 27 mg kg day x 5 produced liver glycogen deposition values of 9.42 0.65 and 25.48 3.39 mg g of tissue, respectively, as compared to 1.75 0.04 mg g for the vehicle ethanol cottonseed oil 1 9 v v alone. By replacing the 3 hexene 2,5 dione in the procedure of Example 2 by a molar equivalent amount of 4 octene 3,6 dione, 5 decene 4,7 dione or 6 dodecene 5,8dione, it is contemplated that there can be obtained 1,1 8 C4 fluorophenyl 2, 3,4,4a, 5, 6,ll,lla octahydro lla methyl 8R phenanthro phenanthro 2,3 c pyrazole 3,4 diyl bis propanone I R CH2CE3 , 1,1 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11, lla octahydro lla methyl 8H phenanthro 2, 3 c pyrazole 3, 4 diyl bis butanone I R CH2CH2CH3 , or 1,1 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro 11a methyl 8R tenanthro 2,3 c pyrazole 3,4 diyl bis pentanone I R CH2CH2CH2CH3 , respectively. Example 3Diethyl 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4,4a,5,6,11,11a octahydro lla methyl 8H phenanthro 2, 3 c pyrazole 4 , 4 dicarboxylate II R CH2CH3 . A solution of 25.81 g 0.084 mol of l ethenyl 6 C4 fluorophenyl 3499a tetrahydro 9a methyl 6H napEtho 2,3 ci pyrazole, 18.1 g 0.105 mol of diethyl methylenemalonate and 500 mg of 1,2,3 benzenetriol in 200 mL of xylene was ref fluxed for 20 hours. The cooled reaction mixture was filtered through silica gel and concentrated in vacuo to afford 41.93 g of a brown oil. The oil was purified by using high performance liquid chromatography with 3.97 ethyl acetate CH2C12 followed by recrystallization from methanol to afford 10.98 g of diethyl 8 4 fluoro phenyl 2,3,4, 4a, 5,6,11, lIa octahydro lla inethyl 8R phenanthro 2,3 c pyrazole 4,4 dicarboxylate as a colorless solid, m.p. 133 1350C. The PMR spectrum was consistent with the assigned structure. In the endocrine profile determination, Compound IICR CH2CE3 at a dose level of 100 mg kg caused an 80 reduction in thymus weight, 47 reduction in adrenal weight and 186 reduction in body weight gain as compared with the controls. Compound II R CH2CH3 was inactive in the a tocopherol pouch test at 100 mg kg. By replacing the diethyl methylenemalonate in the procedure of Example 3 by a molar equivalent amount of dimethyl methylenemalonate, dipropyl methylenemalonate or dibutyl methylenemalonate, it is contemplated that there can be obtained dimethyl 8 4 fluorophenyl 2, 3,4,4a,5, 6, ll,lla octahydro lla methyl 8H phenanthrof2,3 cApyrazole 4,4 dicarboxylate Il R CR3 , dipropyl 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4, 4a, 5,6,11, lla octahydro lla methyl 8R phenanthro 2, 3 c pyrazole 4,4 dicarboxylate II R CH2CH2CH3 , or dibutyl 8 4 fluorophenyl 2,3,4, 4a, 5,6,11,11a octahydro 11a methyl 8H phenanthrol 2,3 c pyrazole 4,4 dicarboxylate II R CH2CH2CH2CH3 , respectively.