# Linear actuator of the rack and pinion type and method of minimizing friction and wear therein.

## Abstract
A pinion 10 carried by a motor housing 17 is resiliently pivoted by a bias spring 22 in one direction to mesh fully with the teeth 11 of a rack 12 when the reaction between them is small. A roller follower 30 normally spaced a preselectable slight distance X from a smooth opposite surface 34 of the rack 12 and carried by the housing 17 is rocked into contact with said smooth surface 34 in response to the reaction between the pinion 10 and rack 12 to define a position in which the pitch lines of pinion 10 and rack 12 substantially match in order to minimize friction and wear therebetween and yet achieve high resolu tion at the end of each actuator stroke.

## Claims
Claims 1. A linear actuator including a rack 12 having teeth 11 in one face, a pinion 10 that is resiliently pivoted by bias means 22 into engagement with the teeth 11 of the rack 12 , and follower means 30 supported in a constant spaced relationship relative to the pinion 10 characterized in that said follower means 30 is spaced a preselected distance X from a surface 34 of the rack 12 opposite the teeth 11 when the pinion 10 and the rack 12 are at rest, but pivotally movable into engagement with said surface 34 during relative movement of said pinion 10 and rack 12 , to a position in which the pitch lines of the pinion and rack substantially coincide. 2. A linear actuator according to claim 1, wherein the follower means 30 is rotatable and makes rolling contact with said surface 34 and said surface 34 is substantially smooth. 3. A linear actuator according to claim 1 or 2, including pivotally supported housing means 17 carrying said pinion 10 and follower means 30 . 4. A linear actuator according to claim 3, wherein said housing means 17 is resiliently pivoted by said bias means 22 5. A linear actuator according to claim 3 or 4,, wherein said housing means 17 carries a motor 16 for driving the pinion 10 relative to the rack 12 and supports said pinion 10 and follower means 30 with their axes in constant spaced parallel relationship. 6. A linear actuator according to any preceeding claim, including adjusting means 32, 33 for adjusting said preselected distance x . 7. A linear actuator according to claim 5, wherein said adjusting means 32, 33 includes an eccentrically adjustable shaft 32 . 8. A linear actuator according to claim 1, including means 23 for adjusting said bias means 22 to the loads and speeds required of the pinion 10 and rack 12 . 9. A method for minimizing friction and wear between a rack 12 and a pinion 10 , said method being characterized by the steps of supporting a follower 30 in a constant spaced relationship relative to the pinion 10 , resiliently pivoting the pinion 10 in one direction into engagement with the teeth 11 of the rack 12 and concurrently maintaining the follower 30 spaced from a surface 34 of the rack 12 opposite the teeth 11 , and permitting the follower 30 to move pivotally in the opposite direction into engagement with said surface 34 , during relative movement of the pinion 10 and rack 12 , to a position in which the pitch lines of said pinion 10 and rack 12 substantially coincide.

## Description
Linear actuator of the rack and pinion type and method of minimizing friction and wear thereinThis invention relates to a linear actuator of the rack and pinion type and a method of minimizing friction and wear therein.Various arrangements have heretofore been proposed for eliminating clearance and increasing traction between components in a mechanical drive system. In drive systems of the rack and pinion and the rail and roller types, it is known to spring bias the pinion into intimate contact with the rack or bias the roller into contact with the rail, as the case may be, for this stated purpose.One of suck known drive systems is shown in U.S. Patent 3,563,179 which discloses a drive wheel in contact with the upper surface of a smooth monorail, and a spring biased traction increasing pressure roll in contact with the smooth undersurface of the rail.Another known drive system is shown in U.S. Patent 3,176,628 which discloses a load, in the nature of a gondola, suspended from and supported by two rollers that contact the upper surface of a smooth monorail. A drive wheel carried by the load contacts a smooth undersurface of the monorail so that as the tractive effort applied to move the load along the monorail increases, the drive wheel will impose a bigger bite on said undersurface to increase the traction.A disadvantage of such known drive systems is that, as the amount of bias increases, friction and hence wear of the drive components progressively increase as they are moved relative to each other.The invention as claimed is intended to overcome the above disadvantage in drive systems of the rack and pinion type. It solves the problem of maintaining an adequate bias between rack and pinion while minimizing the friction when they move relative to each other. The invention allows precise positioning, high speed and low wear in linear actuators of the rack and pinion type. It is particularly useful in apparatus such as robotic devices and in other apparatus where speeds are high and accuracy is required at end of stroke.One way of carrying out the invention is described in detail below with reference to drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side elevational view, partly cut away for clarity, of a high resolution linear actuator embodying the invention, Figure 2 is a partial section taken along the line 2 2 ofFigure 1.As illustrated in Figure 1, a linear actuator embodying the invention comprises a pinion 10 that meshes with teeth 11 on a rack 12. Pinion 10 is carried by a shaft 13. Two shafts 14 and 15 are dispose d on opposite sides of the pinion 10 above teeth 11. Shaft 13 is the drive shaft of a motor 16 having a housing 17, part of which are lobes 18, 19 Shaft 14 extends through lobe 18 to form a pivot for housing 17. Shaft 15 is accommodated in a slot 20 in lobe 19. Shafts 14, 15 are supported by a fixed member 21 which also carries a linear bearing system not shown . A helical bias spring 22 pivots the housing 17 and hence pinion 10 counterclockwise, as viewed in figure 1, relative to shaft 14.The bias force of spring 22 is preferably adjustable by any suitable means, such as a screw 23 carried by fixed member 21 and acting through cup 24 on the spring in retainer cup 25. This adjustment allows the user to optimize and set the dynamic load which determines whether the pinion 10 and rack teeth 11 are fully meshed or running on the pitch line.A roller follower 30 is provided which is freely rotatable on a shaft 31.As best shown in Figure 2, shaft 31 projects into and is fixed to the bore of eccentric 32 which can be adjustably rotated in housing 17 and locked by screw 33. Correct adjustment is when the roller 30 is in contact with the back smooth face 34 of rack 12 and the pitch lines of the rack teeth 11 and pinion 10 are coincident. When pinion 10 and rack 12 are stationary, the actuator will assume the rest position in which it is shown in Fig. 1. In this position, housing 17 will be pivoted counterclockwise about shaft 14 by spring 22, causing pinion 10 to fully mesh with rack teeth 11, eliminating all clearance, and follower 30 will be spaced a preselected distance X from smooth surface 34. However, when pinion 10 is driven by motor 16, the reaction between the pinion and rack 12 will tend to force them apart. Except under conditions of light dynamic load, this reaction will be sufficient to cause the follower 30 to move through the distance X and make rolling contact with the smooth surface 34 of the rack, to define an operating position. This operating position is preselected to correspond to that at which the pitch lines of pinion 10 and rack 12 match, for thus desirably minimizing friction and wear. Note that, by rotation of eccentric member 32, the distance X may be very precisely adjusted to insure that these pitch lines match.It should be noted that the rack 12 need not be straight if desired, it may be curved provided the distance between the teeth 11 and smooth surface 34 is maintained constant. Also, in the actuator as illustrated, the pinion 10 is rotated to move the rack 12 linearly. If desired, however, the rack 12 and its supporting members not shown can be held stationary and member 21 complete with motor 16, housing 17, pinion 10, spring 22, etc. can move along the rack in either direction with the same advantages of high resolution and low wear and friction.Actuator positional information may be taken from a transducer attached to shaft 13 or a separate device which is not dependent upon rack tooth pitch accuracy.