# Edible composition comprising discrete fat bearing particles in a fat bearing matrix.

## Abstract
The present invention provides an edible, non pourable plastic or semi plastic composition comprising 0.1 to 80 by weight of discrete, fat bearing, plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles dispersed in a fat bearing plastic or semi plastic matrix, said matrix and said particles each comprising 10 to 100 by weight of fat, said particles having a size of about 0.04 to 4.8 mm and a Wiley melting point less than 100 F. The present invention also relates to a method for preparing a composition comprising discrete particles con taining 10 to 100 by weight of fat and having a particle size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm in a margarine matrix, comprising the steps of introducing 0 to 80 by weight of said particles into said matrix at a temperature below the melting point of the particles while the matrix is in a liquid supercooled state and cooling the composition.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An edible, non pourable plastic or semiplastic composition comprising 0.1 to 80 by weight of discrete, fat bearing, plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles dispersed in a fat bearing plastic or semiplastic matrix, said matrix and said particles each comprising 10 to 100 by weight of fat, said particles having a size of about 0.04 mm to 4.8 mm and a Wiley melting point less than 1000F. 2. An edible non pourable composition according to claim 1 wherein the particles are plastic or semiplastic. 3. An edible non pourable composition according to claim 2 wherein the plastic or semi plastic particles are in their natural crystalline state. 4. An edible composition comprising 0.1 to 808 by weight of discrete plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles of butter dispersed in margarine. 5. An edible composition comprising 0.1 to 808 by weight of discrete plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles of sour cream having a size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm dispersed in a plastic or semi plastic synthetic sour cream matrix. 6. An edible composition comprising 0.1 to 808 by weight of discrete plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles of cream cheese having a size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm dispersed in a plastic or semi plastic synthetic cream cheese matrix. 7. An edible composition comprising 0.1 to 80 by weight of discrete plastic, semi plastic or liquid par ticles of cheese having a size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm dispersed in a plastic or semi plastic cheese spread. 8. The edible composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 2 to 60 by weight of the particles. 9. The edible composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 40 by weight of the particles. 10. The edible composition according to claim 4 wherein the composition comprises 2 to 60 by weight of the particles. 11. The edible composition according to claim 4 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 40 by weight of the particles. 12. The edible composition according to claim 5 wherein the composition comprises 2 to 60 by weight of the particles. 13. The edible composition according to claim 5 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 40 by weight of the particles. 14. The edible composition according to claim 6 wherein the composition comprises 2 to 608 by weight of the particles. 15. The edible composition according to claim 6 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 40 by weight of the particles. 16. The edible composition according to claim 7 wherein the composition comprises 2 to 60 by weight of the particles. 17. The edible composition according to claim 7 wherein the composition comprises 5 to 50 by weight of the particles. 18. The edible composition according to claim 1 wherein the particles contain 30 to 97.5 by weight of fat. 19. The edible composition according to claim 1 wherein the particles contain 65 to 858 by weight of fat. 20. The edible composition according to claim 1 wherein the particles further comprise up to 90 by weight of water. 21. The edible composition according to claim 1, 4, 5, 6 or 7 wherein the particles have sizes of 0.07 to 2.4 mm. 22. The edible composition according to claim 1, 4, 5, 6 or 7 wherein the particles have sizes of 0.18 to 1.0 mm. 23. The edible composition according to claim 1, 4, 5, 6 or 7 wherein the particles consist essentially of natural materials. 24. A method for preparing a composition comprising discrete particles containing 10 to 1008 by weight of fat and having a particle size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm in a margarine, comprising the steps of introducing 0.1 to 808 by weight of said particles into said matrix at a temperature below the melting point of the particles while the matrix is in a liquid supercooled state and cooling the composition. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the discrete particles are in their natural crystalline state. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein said discrete particles are made by reducing the size of particles containing 20 to 45 by weight of fat to the desired size at temperatures below 35 F. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the temperature is below 0 F. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein the temperature is below 20 F. 29. The method of claim 24 wherein said discrete particles are made by reducing the size of particles containing 40 to 85 by weight of fat to the desired size at temperatures below OOF. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the temperature is below 10 F. 31. The method of claim 29 wherein the temperature is below 400F. 32. The method of claim 24 wherein the particles comprise butter and the butter is added to the margarine at temperatures below about 80 F. 33. An edible, liquid composition comprising 0.1 to 80 by weight of discrete particles of butter having a Wiley melting point less than 1000F and a particle size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm in a liquid margarine.

## Description
EDIBLE COMPOSITION COMPRISING DISCRETE FAT BEARING PARTICLES IN A FAT BEARING MATRIXThe present invention is directed to edible fatty compositions and more specifically to compositions comprising discrete fat bearing particles in a fat bearing matrix.Many fatty food products which are considered to be especially tasty and, therefore1 desirable by consumers are made of expensive and mostly natural materials.Such premium materials include butter, cheese, cream cheese and sour cream.In addition to taste, many premium ingredients have a characteristic feel in the mouth which is recognized and desired by consumers. For example, the melting of real butter in the mouth creates a characteristic cooling effect which is highly desired by consumers.In order to reduce costs, manufacturers have provided substitute, and often synthetic, materials which are less expensive to manufacture. Such substitutes include margarine, synthetic sour cream, synthetic cream cheese and various cheese spreads. Although these substitute materials are less expensive, they do not have the desired taste or mouth feel of the premium materials.In an attempt to combine taste and low cost, mixtures of premium ingredients and less costly ingredients have been provided. These prior art mixtures are, for the most part, homogeneous. A common example is a mixture of butter homogeneously dispersed in margarine. Such compositions do not, however, have the characteristic taste or cool melting feel of butter. Even the presence of up to 40 butter in margarine does not impart the genuine taste and mouth feel characteristics of butter to such homogeneous compositions.Compositions containing discrete particles of fat in a fat base are also known. For example, North et al.,U.S. Patent 2,997,396 to the Beatrice Food Company, disclose a body of plastic margarine fat having uniformly dispersed therethrough discrete particles of fat encased in non fat milk solids . This composition, however, is disadvantageous for the purposes of the present invention in that the fat particles have sizes between about 0.5 and 2.5 microns. Such particles would not be readily apparent to consumers.Similarly, Cermak, U.S. Patent 3,647,480 to the S.C.M.Corporation, discloses discrete particles of a condi ment attached to a fatty matrix particle for use in foodstuffs such as cakes, doughnuts, bread and the like. Such compositions would be disadvantageous for present purposes in that the fatty matrix particle has a Wiley melting point of at least 1000F. Such particles would be very hard and would impart to compositions containing them an undesirable gritty feel.Zachariassen et al., U.S. Patent 2,605,185, also disclose compositions containing two fatty components. The compositions are prepared by heating one fat component at a temperature somewhat above its solidification point or at a temperature below the solidification point while still maintaining a liquid state. The second component is added in a liquid state to the molten or supercooled first component. The second component may be, for example, an emulsion of a fat. So produced, the Zachariassen et al. compositions would contain globules of no more than 15 microns and probably much less. Such globules are considerably smaller than those contemplated by the invention described and claimed below. Commercial products containing discrete fat bearing particles are also known. Examples include chunky peanut butter, which contains pieces of peanuts in a peanut butter base, and salad dressings containing pieces of blue cheese in a liquid oil containing base. These compositions are disadvantageous in that the particles have a substantially different feel than the matrix.Therefore, it would be readily apparent to the consumer that a two phase system was involved.It is an object of the present invention to provide food compositions comprising a premium ingredient and a substitute ingredient having the taste and mouth feel characteristics of the premium ingredient.It is another object of the present invention to provide compositions comprising fat bearing discrete particles in a fat bearing matrix which avoid the disadvantages of prior art compositions.It is a further object of the present invention to provide compositions comprising fat bearing discrete particles in a fat bearing matrix wherein consumers perceive the composition as having at least some taste, feel and sight characteristics of the particles.It is an additional object of the present invention to provide a method for producing compositions comprising discrete fat bearing particles in a fat bearing matrix.These and other objects of the present invention as will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art have been achieved by providing an edible, nonpourable plastic or semi plastic composition comprising 0.1 to 80 by weight of discrete, fat bearing, plastic, semi plastic or liquid particles dispersed in a fatbearing plastic or semi plastic matrix, said matrix and said particles each comprising 10 to 100 by weight of fat, said particles having a size of about 0.04 mm to 4.8 mm and a Wiley melting point less than 100 F. The present invention also relates to a method for preparing a composition comprising discrete particles containing 10 to 100 by weight of fat and having a particle size of 0.04 to 4.8 mm in a margarine matrix, comprising the steps of introducing 0.1 to 80 by weight of said particles into said matrix at a temperature below the melting point of the particles while the matrix is in a liquid supercooled state and cooling the composition.It has now been discovered that compositions comprising a premium food ingredient and a substitute food ingredient can be made to assume the characteristics of the premium ingredient to an unexpected extent. This is achieved when the premium ingredient is present as discrete particles in a matrix of the substitute ingredient. This is especially true when the discrete particles are visible.It is not entirely certain why this is the case, and the present claims are not limited in anyway to a particular theory. It is believed, however, that the taste buds on the tongue sense whatever flavour elements they come in contact with at the concentration of those flavour elements in the specific contact area. When the taste buds sense the particles of the premium ingredient, messages are sent to the brain from the mouth that the premium ingredient is present in a concentration higher than it really is.The brain is, in a way, deceived into perceiving that the premium ingredient is relatively pure. This deception would be lost where the particles have a signifi cantly different feel from that of the matrix. For example, the feel of peanuts in a peanut butter matrix or of blue cheese particles in a liquid oil matrix does not give the sensation of eating peanuts or blue cheese.In the present invention, the particles and the matrix have substantially the same feel since the particles are liquid, plastic or semi plastic and the matrix is plastic or semi plastic. It is especially preferred that the particles be plastic or semi plastic.The taste deception described above would also not occur when the premium ingredient and the substitute ingredient are present in a homogeneous composition. In such compositions, the brain merely receives a message from the taste buds that the sensed composition contains a premium ingredient diluted in a substitute ingredient. The role that psychology plays in this effect is not certain but should not be underestimated. It is believed that the perception of the premium ingredient is enhanced when the consumer is able to see that the composition contains the premium ingredient. In this way, the consumer is alerted to, and expects, the taste and feel of the premium ingredient.The present compositions are edible compositions which may be used alone or in combination with any food product where fat is desirable. Such foods include, for example, pastries, crackers, rolls, breads, muffins, cookies and the like. In fact, any food which advantageously contains unmelted fat may benefit from the invention claimed herein.As the fat bearing particles of the claimed compo sitions are usually more costly than the matrix into which they are placed, it is advantageous for economic reasons to use as little of the fat bearing particles as possible. The lower limit is set by that amount which is visually and or organoleptically perceptible to the consumer. The compositions of this invention generally contain at least 0.18 by weight, preferably 2 by weight, and most preferably 5t by weight of the fat bearing particles in a matrix. All percentages in the specification and claims are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The maximum amount of particles in the matrix is determined by economic factors and the ability conveniently to disperse the particles in the matrix. Generally, larger amounts of the fat bearing particles lead to a greater perception of the particles by the consumer.The maximum amount of the fat bearing particles in the claimed compositions is 80 by weight, preferably 60 by weight, and most preferably 40 by weight.Particles suitable for use in the claimed compositions contain 10 to 100 by weight, preferably 30 to 97.5 by weight, and most preferably 65 to 85 by weight of fat.The fat may suitably comprise any edible fatty acid triglyceride. The fatty acids which are present in the triglyceride may be unsaturated or saturated and will generally contain a mixture of unsaturated and saturated fatty acids. Some suitable unsaturated fatty acids include oleic acid, palmitoleic acid, linoleic acid and linolenic acid. Some suitable saturated fatty acids include butyric acid, capric acid, caprylic acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid and stearic acid.In addition to the fat, the particles of the claimed compositions generally also include 0 to 90 by weight, preferably 2.5 to 70 by weight and most preferably 15 to 35 by weight of water. Optional ingredients such as colouring agents, preservatives, antioxidants, vitamins and flavours may also be present. Some suitable colouring agents include beta carotene, annato, carrot oil and tumeric. Some suitable preservatives and antioxidants include BHA, propyl gallate, TBHQ, EDTA, citric acid, sodium benzoate, potassium sorbate and mixtures thereof. Some suitable vitamins include vitamin D and vitamin A. These optional ingredients generally do not affect the essential character of the particle.The particles may be of natural or unnatural materials.Since natural materials enhance consumer acceptance of food products, the particles of the present invention preferably consist essentially of natural materials.Some sources of natural materials suitable for use in the particles include butter, sour cream, cream cheese and the like. Cheeses such as Cheddar cheese, blue cheese, Brie, Muenster, Gouda and the like also provide suitable sources of natural materials for use in the particles.The preferred natural materials are butter and butter oil. Butter, which is especially preferred, is a milk fat product which contains not less than 80 milk fat, 17.5 to 19.5 water and 0.4 to 1.08 non fat milk solids. It is important to distinguish butter from butter oil, which is obtained by melting butter and removing the separated water and non fat milk solids.Other natural products suitable for use in the present compositions are cream cheese, other cheeses, cheese products, cheese spreads and sour cream. According toU.S. Food and Drug Administration FDA standards, cream cheese contains not less than 33 milk fat, not less than 22 non fat milk solids, and not more than 55 water. Under the same FDA standards, sour cream contains not less than 14.48 milk fat. Similarly, a composition must contain at least 23 fat, 33 non fat milk solids and no more than 448 water to qualify as a cheese product and at least 20 fat and more than 44 but no more than 60 water to qualify as a processed cheese spread according to the FDA. These FDA standards do not apply to synthetic i.e. artificial cream cheese, cheese, sour cream, cheese products and cheese spreads.The size of the particles used in the claimed compositions is critical to the present invention. For example, in compositions comprising butter particles in margarine, the margarine generally melts sooner, and is, therefore, perceived earlier than the butter. The timing of the melting of the butter is affected by the particle size since smaller particles melt more rapidly than larger particles. Thus, the smaller the particle size of the butter, the earlier the taste sensation of butter is received by the brain of the consumer. With larger particles, the taste sensation occurs somewhat later, but lasts for a longer duration of time. The advantages of both the small and large particle sizes may be obtained by using particles with a fairly large range of sizes.The minimum particle size is that which can be produced by available equipment and is perceptible to consumers.Some minimum sizes for use in the particles of the invention include 0.04 mm, preferably 0.07 mm and most preferably 0.18 mm.The maximum size of the particles suitable for use in the claimed compositions is that which can conveniently be placed into the matrix and which imparts to the matrix the characteristics of the ingredients of the par tides. Some suitable maximum sizes include 4.8 mm, preferably 2.4 mm and most preferably 1.0 mm.It may be desirable or undesirable for the particles to be visible in the matrix. Visibility depends to some extent on the particle size and on the contrast in colour between the particles and the matrix.The particles are limited to those physical states which are not perceptively different from the plastic or semi plastic matrix. Accordingly, the particles can be, for example, plastic, semi plastic or liquid and are preferably plastic or semi plastic. The particles may also be a mixture of two or more physical states.In order to impart a desirable feel to the composition, the particles should have melting points sufficiently low so that the portion of the particles not already melted at room temperature melts in the consumer s mouth. Thus, the fat in the particles of the invention should have Wiley melting points of no more than 1000F, preferably 89 F and most preferably 86 F. It is preferable that the melting point of the particles be lower than that of the matrix in order that the taste of the particle last longer than that of the matrix. The particles described above are dispersed in a matrix as described below. Preferably, the.particles are dispersed substantially homogeneously in the matrix.The claimed compositions generally comprise 20 to 99.9 by weight, preferably 40 to 90 by weight and most preferably 60 to 80 by weight of a fat bearing matrix.The matrix generally comprises 10 to 100 by weight, preferably 40 to 85 by weight and most preferably 60 to 80 by weight of fat. Fats suitable for use in the matrix may be any fatty acid triglyceride. The matrix will generally contain a mixture of triglycerides. The triglycerides may comprise unsaturated or saturated fatty acids. Some suitable unsaturated fatty acids include oleic acid, linoleic, linolenic and palmitoleic acid. Some suitable saturated fatty acids include capric acid, caprylic acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid and stearic acid.The matrix may comprise natural or synthetic i.e. artificial fatty materials. Some suitable matrices include margarine, fatty spreads, butter, synthetic or natural cream cheese, synthetic or natural sour cream, and synthetic or natural cheese spreads.In order to constitute a margarine, a fatty composition must have at least 80 fat, although it may have as much as 100 fat. Fatty spreads may contain as little as 20 fat.The margarines or fatty spreads suitable for use as the matrix in the presently claimed compositions may comprise any one or more of the well known edible oils commonly used for this purpose. Some suitable oils include fish oil, beef tallow, rapeseed oil, cottonseed oil, soybean oil, lard, coconut oil, palm kernel oil, sunflower oil, palm oil, safflower oil, corn oil and the like. The oils, some or all of which may be hydrogenated, are present in amounts of 20 to 100 by weight, preferably 20 to 80 by weight and most preferably 40 to 80 by weight of the margarine or fatty spread.The margarines or fatty spreads may also include 0 to 58 by weight, preferably 22 to 38 by weight and most preferably 15 to 20 by weight of water. The margarines or fatty spreads may also contain 0.1 to 3 by weight, preferably 0.5 to 3 by weight and most preferably 0.75 to 2 by weight of dairy solids. Dairy solids include, for example, whey, non fat dry milk, casein and mixtures thereof.Synthetic sour creams suitable for use in the present invention suitably comprise 10 to 28 by weight, preferably 14 to 258 by weight and most preferably 15 to 20 by weight of fat. In order to thicken sour creams so that they constitute plastic or semi plastic materials, gums such as carragheenan, alginates, xanthan gum, guar gum, locust bean gum, carboxymethylcellulose and the like may also be added. A suitable amount of gums includes 0.05 to 1.08 by weight, preferably 0.1 to 0.75 by weight and most preferably 0.30 to 0.58 by weight.Synthetic cream cheese suitable for use as the matrix in the present invention will generally comprise 20 to 408 by weight, preferably 25 to 358 by weight and most preferably 33 to 35 by weight of fat. Some optional ingredients suitable for use in synthetic cream cheeses include guar gum and an emulsifier such as mono diglyceride.Synthetic cheese spread matrices will generally comprise 10 to 40 by weight, preferably 15 to 30 by weight and most preferably 18 to 20 by weight of fat.Some optional ingredients suitable for use in synthetic cheese spreads include cheese whey solids, disodium phosphate, xanthan gum and sorbic acid.In addition to fat, the matrix may contain one or more optional ingredients. Such optional ingredients include, for example, water and dairy solids. Dairy solids include, for example1 whey, non fat dry milk, casein and mixtures thereof. Colouring agents, flavouring agents, preservatives, antioxidants, salt and the like may also be present. The same colouring agents, flavouring agents, preservatives and antioxidants suitable for use in the particles are also suitable for use in the matrix of the claimed compositions.The presently disclosed compositions are plastic or semi plastic and comprise discrete particles in a matrix. For the purposes of this specification, plastic and semi plastic compositions are those solid compositions which under the action of external forces undergo permanent deformation without rupture.The plastic or semi plastic compositions contemplated are those which are normally spread on foods with a knife or are added to foods with a spoon. Some suitable examples include bar and tub margarines, butter, cream cheese, sour cream, cheese spreads, spoonable salad dressings, mayonnaise and the like.Generally, the components used in the particles will be related in some way to the components used in the matrix. Thus, some preferred compositions include butter in margarine, sour cream in synthetic sour cream, cream cheese in synthetic cream cheese and various other cheeses in cheese spreads. Each composition will have characteristic proportions of components and particle sizes.The preferred compositions comprise particles of butter in margarine. Suitable amounts of butter particles in margarine include 0.1 to 80 by weight, preferably 2 to 60 by weight and most preferably 5 to 40 by weight.Some suitable particle sizes of the butter include 0.04 to 4.8 mm, preferably 0.07 to 2.4 mm and most prefer ably 0.18 to 1.0 mm.Sour cream in synthetic sour cream compositions will generally contain 0.1 to 808 by weight, preferably 2 to 60 by weight and most preferably 5 to 40 by weight of sour cream particles. Some suitable sour cream particle sizes include 0.04 to 4.8 mm, preferably 0.07 to 2.4 mm and most preferably 0.18 to 1.0 mm. The sour cream particles will generally contain 10 to 28 by weight, preferably 14 to 25 by weight and most preferably 15 to 20 by weight of fat.Cream cheese in synthetic cream cheese compositions will generally contain 0.1 to 80 by weight, preferably 2 to 609 by weight and most preferably 5 to 40 by weight of cream cheese particles. Some suitable cream cheese particle sizes include 0.04 to 4.8 mm, preferably 0.07 to 2.4 mm and most preferably 0.18 to 1.0 mm. The cream cheese particles will generally contain 20 to 40 by weight, preferably 25 to 35 by weight and most preferably 33 to 35 by weight of fat.Cheese in cheese spread compositions will generally contain 0.1 to 80 by weight, preferably 2 to 60 by weight and most preferably 5 to 40 by weight of cheese particles. Some suitable cheese particle sizes include 0.04 to 4.8 mm, preferably 0.07 to 2.4 mm and most preferably 0.10 to 1.0 mm. The cheese particles will generally contain 10 to 408 by weight, preferably 15 to 30 by weight and most preferably 18 to 22 by weight of fat.The present invention is also directed to liquid margarine compositions which contain discrete particles of butter. In such liquid margarines, the particles comprise 0.1 to 80 by weight, preferably 2 to 60 by weight and most preferably 5 to 40 by weight of the composition. Some suitable butter particle sizes include 0.04 to 4.8 mm, preferably 0.07 to 2.4 mm and most preferably 0.18 to 1.0 mm.In order to prepare the margarine compositions of the present invention, the size of the fat bearing material which is to be used in the particles of the compositions must be reduced to the size desired. The size may be reduced using any of the known comminution methods and devices.Suitable devices for reducing the particle size include the hammermill, Hobart silent cutter, Fitzpatrick comminution mill, Stephan verticle cutter, Waring blender and Littleford mill. The preferred device is the Hobart silent cutter.The particles are preferably reduced in particle size under cryogenic conditions, generally by contacting the particles with cold carbon dioxide or nitrogen. When the particles contain 20 to 45 by weight of fat, it is preferable to reduce the size of the particles when the particles are at temperatures below about 35 F, preferably below about OeF and most preferably below about 200F.When the particles contain about 40 to 85 by weight of fat, it is preferable to reduce the size of the particles when the particles are at temperatures below about OOF, preferably less than about 10 F and most preferably less than about 40 F. The particles may be screened by permitting the particles to pass through a standard U.S. sieve having a low mesh and collecting the particles on a sieve having a high mesh. Some suitable mesh sizes include 8 to 80 mesh, preferably 6 to 70 mesh and most preferably 4 to 60 mesh.The particles are added to the margarine matrix while the margarine is in a liquid state. The particles must be incorporated in the margarine in such a manner so as not to interfere with the normal crystallization of the margarine as it solidifies during cooling. If the particles are added to the margarine after crystallization has been completed, the mixing process disrupts the crystallization of the margarine and promotes a product which is too soft.If, on the dther hand, the particles are added to the liquid margarine before it has been reduced sufficiently in temperature, the particles may melt. The melting of the particles is disadvantageous for at least two reasons. The melted particles may diffuse into the molten matrix so that the cooled composition would not contain discrete particles as desired. Moreover, the melting of particles appears to cause modifications in the crystalline structure of the particles. Thus, the properties of particles which have been altered through melting and re cooling may be different from particles which have never been melted and are, therefore, in their natural crystalline state. One of the advantages of the present process is that the particles are added to the matrix in a cooled rather than in a heated state.Compositions which are prepared in this way benefit in having the properties and flavour of the ingredients not altered.In order to prepare the claimed compositions, it has now been discovered that the particles are preferably added to the matrix during cooling when the matrix is in a liquid, supercooled state. The matrix is considered to be supercooled when it is at a temperature at which it normally crystallizes but, because of the rapidity with which the temperature is dropped, is still liquid. Most materials have some capacity to be supercooled. Oleaginous materials such as those used in the present compositions have a relatively large tendency to supercool. For example, butter is added to supercooled margarine when the margarine is at a temperature below about 80 F, preferably below about 650F and most preferably below about 50µF. The particles may be added to the supercooled matrix by any well known method such as, for example, the use of a Fruit feeder, ribbon blender, Hobart mixer andMargarine B unit. The preferred method is the use of aFruit feeder. A Fruit feeder is a machine developed byCherry Burrell Company for injecting particulate matter into flowing plastic or semi plastic compositions and especially into ice cream. Injection is accomplished by means of the action of four cam operated pistons which slide back and forth in four grooves of a revolving rotor inside a close fitting housing. This assembly is called the fruit pump. Materials to be fed fall into the grooves of the rotor from a cylindrical hopper directly above the fruit pump.An agitator and revolving pin wheel in the hopper keep materials loose and free so that they are able to fall into the exposed rotor grooves as they come under the hopper throat. The plastic or semi plastic matrix and charges of particulate matter flow from the fruit pump to the vertical mixing chamber where a multi blade agitator stirs the combination in order to distribute the particulate matter uniformly through the matrix. The uniform mixture discharges from the top of the mixing chamber into suitable packaging stock such as tubs, bottles, wrapping material, jars, cans and the like or to conventional print forming machines.After adding the particles to the matrix, the compo sition is cooled and further processed for use. The compositions may be packaged as such, or may be blended with other food ingredients before packaging. For example, if the composition comprises butter in margarine, the composition may be packaged in tubs or fashioned into bars.Having generally described the invention, a more complete understanding can be obtained by reference to certain specific examples, which are provided herein for purposes of illustrations only. It is not intended that the examples limit the claims in any way unless otherwise specified.EXAMPLE 1 Preparation of Particles of ButterThe butter used in this example was Armour Flavor upColor 9 butter, which is described by the following data Wiley Melting Point 30.8 31.8 C 87.4 to 89.20F Slip Point Mettler 32.2 32.3 C 89.9 to 90.1 F SFI 500F 30 700F 12 920F 3.2 1000F Iodine number 37.5 42.9 Saponification equiv. 247.7 252.8 Reichert Meissl Value 26.1 27.4 Polenske Value 1.78 1.85 Kirschner Value 21.8The butter was cut in a Hobart Model N 84181 D Food cutter. A convenient amount of dry ice chunks are placed in the revolving bowl of the Hobart cutter and allowed to be chopped by the rotating blades until the dry ice becomes a fine powder approx. 2 3 min . Large pieces of butter at 4 to 60C are then added on the bed of powdered dry ice in a ratio of 1 2 3. The butter is chopped by the rotating blades of the machine until the desired particle sizes are achieved.In Table 1, the fractions of the butter having various standard U.S. sieve numbers from 8 to 60 are reported.Separate experiments were conducted for operating the food cutter for one minute, two minutes, three minutes, four minutes and five minutes. TABLE 1 96 Butter on SieveTime of Chopping Sieve minutes Through 8 14 20 40 60 60 1 67.9 15.2 7.5 6.1 1.9 .4 2 43.3 25.2 14.2 10.0 5.0 1.4 3 22.4 30.0 20.0 17.6 7.0 2.9 4 16.2 31.8 23.2 18.6 7.2 2.9 5 8.5 29.9 27.6 25.1 5.8 3.1It does not appear that rigid classification of the butter is necessary if the larger particles are desired. A quick one minute chopping of the material yields 90.6 retained on screens 8, 14 and 20. Medium size particles are easily obtained by increasing the chopping time.EXAMPLE 2 Preparation of Butter Particles 10 lbs of coarse chunks of dry ice solid CO2 were placed in the bowl of a Hobart Silent Cutter and chopped until the dry ice particles were reduced to the size of snow chopping time approx. 2 3 min. . 4 lbs of butter in chunks at 4 6C were then added and chopped until their particle size was reduced to the range of 0.04 to 4.8 mm chopping time approx. 2 3 min. . The chopped dry ice butter combination was then sieved through a Ro Tap Sieving machine for two minutes using sieve sizes ranging from 2 mesh to 60 mesh Tyler to remove particles of butter larger than 4 mesh 4.8 mm .The particles of chopped butter that had passed through the 4 mesh sieve were pooled and placed at 300F until used for production of the final product.EXAMPLE 3 Preparation of Butter in Margarine Composition 10 lbs of frozen 10 F chopped butter particles 0.044.8 mm size were placed in the hopper of a Fruit Feeder.The Fruit Feeder was set by adjusting variable speed drive to inject 5 by weight of the chopped butter particles into the margarine matrix.The margarine matrix was prepared by conventional methods by making an emulsion of fat and aqueous phase in a margarine churn, then cooling the emulsion via conventional rotators to produce the plastic margarine matrix.The plastic margarine matrix was led to the Fruit Feeder which injected the desired amount of chopped butter into the margarine. The final product was collected in 1 2 lb margarine tubs and placed in 45 F storage.EXAMPLE 4 Preparation of Butter in MargarineThe Armour Flavor up Color 9 butter described in Example 1 is used in the present example.The margarines contain the following ingredients Print Margarine Formulation Oil Base stock 79.6410 Monoglyceridea 0.25 Lecithin 0.22 Water 16.272 Salt 2.0 Sodium benzoate 0.1 85 lactic acid 0.017 Vitamins and colour in an oil carrierb 0.003 FlavourC 0.025 a Emulsifier made from soybean oil hardened to an iodine value of 75 to 79 and having a 20 C dilatation value of 375 and a 20 C NMR value of 13.8.b Sufficient so that 3600 Ibs of margarine contains 41.40 million IU Vitamin A, 19.80 million IU beta carotene and 7.92 million IU Vitamin D2.c IFF butter flavour number 73528621. Soft Margarine Formulation Oil Base stock 79.5310 Monoglyceridea 0.36 Lecithin 0.22 Water 16.443 Whey solids . 1.514 Salt 1.75 Potassium sorbate 0.05 85 lactic acid 0.043 Vitamins and colour in an oil carrierb 0.030 FlavourC 0,059 a Cottonseed oil having an iodine value of 74 to 79 and a 20 C dilatation value of 375 and a 20 C NMR value of 13.8.b Sufficient so that 3600 Ibs of margarine contains 41.40 million IU Vitamin A, 19.80 million IU beta carotene and 7.92 million IU Vitamin D2.c IFF butter flavour number 73528621.The oil base stock is prepared from 374 lbs of a margarine oil and 26 lbs of a hardstock. The margarine oil, the hardstock and the mixture of margarine oil and hardstock have solids as measured by NMR of Temperature Margarine Oil Hardstock Final Mixture 00C 46 90.8 48.8 20 C 17.9 68.8 20.2 360C 0.40 6.2 0.4 420C 0 0 0The hardstock is prepared from 50 Ibs of cottonseed oil hardened to a refractive index of 47.1 and 750 lbs of soybean oil hardened to an iodine value of 75.7. Preparation of the MargarineThe water soluble ingredients are dissolved in the water phase. The vitamin concentrates, flavouring materials, emulsifiers and colour are added to the oil phase. The emulsifying tanks are equipped with efficient agitators. They are first charged with the oil phase at a temperature somewhat above that desired in the emulsion 115 1200F and the cold aqueous phase is then added with agitation to form a water in oil emulsion. The emulsion is then fed to a Votator which supercools the margarine.The butter particles are dispersed in the margarine matrix in accordance with Example 3 in the proportions indicated in Table 2. TABLE 2 BUTTER IN MARGARINE MATRIX Butter Particle Wiley M.P Fat Mar 96 Fat in Particles Size of parti in garine mar mm mm cles eF Butter Matrix garine A 2.5 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 97.5 80.0B 5.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 95.0 80.0C 10.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 90.0 80.0D 20.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 80.0 80.0E 30.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 70.0 80.0F 10.0 0.04 4.80 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0G 10.0 0.08 4.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0H 10.0 0.149 2.83 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0I 10.0 0.25 1.68 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0J 10.0 0.35 1.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0K 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 82.0 80.0 60.0L 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 84.0 80.0 60.0M 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 88.0 80.0 60.0N 20.0 RTI ID 22.10 0.177 3.36 99.0 90.0 80.0 60.0 0 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 100.0 80.0 60.0P 0.1 0.35 2.38 90.0 10.0 99.9 100.0Q 40.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 40.0 60.0 20.0R 80.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 60.0 20.0 10.0 TABLE 2 continued BUTTER IN MARGARINE MATRIX Optional Ingredients for Matrix Preserva tives , Na Colour Flavour Lactic Salt Whey Emulsi benzoate K Acid Solids fier sorbate 8 1 1 A 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05B 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05C 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05D 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05E 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05F 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05G 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05H 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05 1 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05J 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05K 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05L 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05M 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05N 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05 O 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05P 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05Q 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05R 0.003 0.0059 0.04 2.0 1.5 0.5 0.05 EXAMPLE 5 Cream Cheese in Synthetic Cream CheeseThe synthetic cream cheese contains the following in gredients VEGETABLE DAIRY CREAM CHEESE Acidified Ingredients Sodium Caseinate 2.0 24 D.E. Corn Syrup Solids 7.00 Salt 0.15 Stabilizera 2.40 Water 62.45 DURKEE S SAOMELb 25.00 DURKEE S DUR EM 117C 0.15 Flavoured lactic acid 0.85 Total 100.00 a Stabilac 3500 Base produced by Blanke Baer Food Products Corp mixture of starches, gums and emulsi fiers .b Partially hydrogenated soybean and cottonseed oil.c Mono diglycerides with citric acid Durkee Industrial Food Group SCM Corp.Procedure Dry mix sodium caseinate, corn syrup solids and salt with stabilizer and add to water. Mix to disperse solids. Add KAOMEL and DUR EM 117 and heat mixture to 175 F. Homogenize mix at 2500 pounds through a single stage homogenizer. Cool mix to 60 F and add acid slowly with light agitation. Cool to 400F and package.The cream cheese particles are dispersed in the synthetic cream cheese in the proportions indicated inTable 3. TABLE 3 CREAM CHEESE PARTICLES DISPERSED IN AN ARTIFICIAL CREAM CHEESE MATRIX Cream Particle Wiley Fat 8 Fat in Cheese Size M.P. of in Cream Cream Parti mm parti Cream Cheese Cheese cles cles Cheese Matrix MatrixA 2.5 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 97.5 80.0B 5.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 95.0 80.0C 10.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 90.0 80.0D 20.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 80.0 80.0E 30.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 70.0 80.0F 10.0 0.04 4.80 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0G 10.0 0.08 4.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0H 10.0 0.149 2.83 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0I 10.0 0.25 1.68 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0J 10.0 0.35 1.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0K 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 82.0 80.0 60.0L 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 84.0 80.0 60.0M 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 88.0 80.0 60.0N 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 90.0 80.0 60.0 0 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 100.0 80.0 60.0P 0.1 0.35 2.38 90.0 10.0 99.9 100.0Q 40.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 40.0 60.0 20.0R 80.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 60.0 20.0 10.0 TABLE 3 continued CREAM CHEESE PARTICLES DISPERSED IN AN ARTIFICIAL CREAM CHEESE MATRIX Optional Ingredients for Matrix Stabi lizer Non fat Guar Milk Emulsi Gum Solids fier Flavour SaltA 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5B 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5C 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5D 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5E 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5F 0o45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5G 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5H 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5I 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5J 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5K 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5L 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5M 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5N 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5 0 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5P 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5Q 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5R 0.45 10.0 0.5 0.1 0.5 EXAMPLE 6 Example of Thickening Sour Cream to Obtain Particles Which Will Hold Their ShapeOne pound 45.4 gm of Breakstone s cultured sour cream was placed in a Waring Blender jar and agitated at high speed. One percent by weight 4.54 gm of xanthan gum Keltral Kelco Co. was then added directly to the sour cream with vigorous agitation. After two minutes, a thickened sour cream matrix had formed which was plastic at 450F. The thickened sour cream was then frozen at 10 F and chopped and sieved in the same manner used for the butter.EXAMPLE 7 Sour Cream in Synthetic Sour CreamThe following formula shown illustrates a sour dressing that is to be cultured. Synthetic Sour Cream Sour Dressing Cultured Ingredients Non fat Milk Solids 9.00 DURKEE S SOUR CREAM ENHANCER 487a 0.10 Guar gum 0.4 Water 72.0 DURKEE S KAOMELb 18.00 DURKEE S DUR EM 117C 0.50 Total 100.00 a Flavour of Durkee Division of SCM Corporation.b Partially hydrogenated soybean and cottonseed oil.C Mono diglycerides with citric acid Durkee Industrial Foods Group SCM Corp.Procedure Dissolve non fat milk solids, SOUR CREAMENHANCER and sabilizer in cool water. Mix well to dissolve solids. Heat to ll00F and add DUR EM 117 and KAOMEL. Pasteurize at 165 F for 20 to 30 minutes. Homogenize mix at 2,000 and 500 pounds through a twostage homogenizer. Cool mix to 65F and add 2 to 5 culture. Incubate at 720F until desired acidity is obtained. Cool to 4O F and package.The sour cream particles are dispersed in the synthetic sour cream in the proportions indicated in Table 4 according to the same procedure as Example 3. TABLE 4SOUR CREAM PARTICLES DISPERSED IN AN ARTIFICIAL SOUR CREAM MATRIX Cream Particle Wiley Fat 8 Fat in Cheese Size M.P. of in Sour Sour Parti mm parti Sour Cream Cream cles cles Cream Matrix MatrixA 2.5 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 97.5 80.0B 5.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 95.0 80.0C 10.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 90.0 80.0D 20.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 80.0 80.0E 30.0 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 70.0 80.0F 10.0 0.04 4.80 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0G 10.0 0.08 4.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0H 10.0 0.149 2.83 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0I 10.0 0.25 1.68 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0J 10.0 0.35 1.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0K 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 82.0 80.0 60.0L 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 84.0 80.0 60.0M 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 88.0 80.0 60.0N 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 90.0 80.0 60.0 0 20.0 0.177 3.36 99.0 100.0 80.0 60.0P 0.1 0.35 2.38 90.0 10.0 99.9 100.0Q 40.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 40.0 60.0 20.0R 80.0 0.35 2.38 90.0 60.0 20.0 10.0 TABLE 4 continued SOUR CREAM PARTICLES DISPERSED IN AN ARTIFICIA SOUR CREAM MATRIX Optional Ingredients for Matrix Stabi lizer Non fat Guar Milk Emulsi Gum Solids fier FlavourA 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1B 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1C 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1D 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1E 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1F 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1G 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1H 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1I 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1J 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1K 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1L 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1M 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1N 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1O 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1P 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1 Q 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1R 0.4 9.0 0.5 0.1 EXAMPLE 8 Cheese in Cheese SpreadThe cheeses of this example are natural Colby cheese,Edam cheese, Swiss cheese, Cheddar cheese and Gouda cheese.The cheese particles are dispersed in the cheese spread matrix in the proportions indicated in Table 5.Having now fully described the invention, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many changes and modifications can be made hereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as set forth herein. TABLE 5 CHEESE PARTICLES DISPERSED IN A CHEESE SPREAD MATRIX Particle Wiley Fat Fat in Cheese Size M.P. of in Cheese Cheese Parti mm parti Cheese Matrix Matrix cles cles A 2.5a 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 97.5 80.0B 5.0b 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 95.0 80.0C 10.0C 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 90.0 80.0D 20.0d 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 80.0 80.0E 30.0e 0.35 2.38 87.8 80.0 70.0 80.0F 10.0a 0.04 4.80 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0G 10.0b 0.08 4.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0H 10.0C 0.149 2.83 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0I 10.0d 0.25 1.68 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0J 10.0e 0.35 1.00 88.0 80.0 90.0 70.0K 20.0a 0.177 3.36 99.0 82.0 80.0 60.0L 20.0b 0.177 3.36 99.0 84.0 80.0 60.0M 20.0C 0.177 3.36 99.0 88.0 80.0 60.0N 20.0d 0.177 3.36 99.0 90.0 80.0 60.0 0 20.0e 0.177 3.36 99.0 100.0 80.0 60.0P O.la 0.35 2.38 90.0 10.0 99.9 100.0Q 40.0b 0.35 2.38 90.0 40.0 60.0 20.0R 80.0C 0.35 2.38 90.0 60.0 20.0 10.0 a Colby cheese b Edam cheese Swiss cheese d Cheddar cheese e Gouda cheese TABLE 5 continued CHEESE PARTICLES DISPERSED IN A CHEESE SPREAD MATRIX Optional Ingredients for Matrix Cheese Non Disodium Salt Xan Sorbic Colour Flavour Whey Fat phos than Acid ing ing Solids Milk phate gum SolidsA 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 B 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1C 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1D 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1E 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1F 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1G 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1H 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1I 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1J 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1K 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1L 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1M 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1N 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1P 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 Q 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1R 10.0 6.5 2.0 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1