# A paper for RNA blotting a process for making same applications of the paper.

## Abstract
RNA blotting paper a process for making same, a process for blotting RNA, a process for releasing RNA from a blot, a process for converting mRNA into protein by transla tion, a process for converting RNA into DNA by reverse transcription, a process for analyzing a mixture of RNAs by applying electrophoresis and a process for detecting RNA in blots by hybridization, wherein the blotting paper can bind RNA through ion exchange groups in a reversible fashion by electrostatic interaction.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A paper for SNk blotting, characterized in that the paper contains ion exchange groups of such a nature and in such amounts per unit of area that RNA can be bound in a reversible fashion by electrostatic interaction. 2. A paper according to claim 1, characterized in that the ion exchange groups are introduced by treating paper or paper starting material with NaOH, triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin. 3. A paper according to claim 2, characterized in that it has been obtained by treating Whatman 1 MM paper or the starting material therefor. 4. A paper according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that in the treatment of the paper or paper starting material a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin is used having a volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin of 1 2.5 to 1 3.5. 5. A paper according to claim 4, characterized in that the volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin in the mixture is 1 2.8 to 1 3.3. 6. A process for making a paper for RNA blotting, characterized in that a paper or paper starting material is provided with ion exchange groups of such a nature and in such amounts per unit of area that RNA can be reversibly bound by electrostatic interaction. 7. A process according to claim 6, characterized in that the ion exchange groups are introduced by treating paper or paper starting material with NaOR, triethanolamine and epichlordhydrin. 8. A process according to claim 7, characterized in that the treatment is carried out at Whatman 1 MM paper or the starting material therefor. 9. A process according to claim 7 or 8, characterized in that in the treatment of the paper or paper starting material a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin is used having a volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin of 1 2.5 to 1 3.5. 10. A process according to claim 9, characterized in that the volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin in the mixture is 1 2.8 to 1 3.3. 11. A process according to claim 6, characterized by immersing Whatman 1 MM paper sheets in an aqueous NaOH solution, removing excess NaOH through a yield treatment, then immersing the sheets in a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin, in which the volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin is 1 2.5 to 1 3.5, preferably 1 2.8 to 1 3.3, removing excess mixture through a yield treatment, then immersing the sheets in an aqueous NaOH solution and heating same therein, and subsequently stopping the reaction, washing and finally drying the sheets. 12. A process according to claim 11, characterized in that the aqueous NaOH solution employed is an about 10 M NaOH solution. 13. A process according to claim 11 or 12, characterized in that the first treatment with NaOR is carried out for about 30 min. at about 0 C. 14. A process according to one or more of claims 1 13, characterized in that the second treatment with NaOH is carried out for about 2 hours at about 85 900C. 15. A process according to one or more of claims 11 14, characterized in that the treatment with a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin is carried out for about 15 min. at room temperature. 16. A process according to one or more of claims 11 15, characterized in that the reaction is stopped by placing the sheets in ice cold 3M KAc HAc buffer pa 7.4. 17. A process according to one or more of claims 11 16, characterized in that the sheets are washed in few times alternately with 1M HAc and 1M ROR, then with water until neutral and finally with absolute ethanol. 18. A process according to one or more of claims 11 17, characterized in that the sheets are air dried. 19. A process for blotting RNA, characterized in that the blotting paper employed is a paper according to one or more of claims 1 5 or a paper prepared by using the process according to one or more of claims 6 18. 20. A process according to claim 19, characterized by employing a transfer buffer having a moderate ionic strength and approximately neutral pa. 21. A process according to claim 20, characterized in that the transfer buffer employed is 100 mM KAc HAc pa 7.4. 22. A process for releasing RNA from paper to which it has been bound by blotting, characterized in that it is released by elution from an RNA blot obtained by using the process according. to one or more of claims 19 21. 23. A process according to claim 22, characterized by employing an eluting agent having a high ionic strength and basic pa. 24. A process according to claim 23, characterized in that the eluting agent employed is 30 triethylamnecarbonate pa 9.0. 25. A process for converting messenger RNA into protein by translation, characterized by employing messenger RNA which has been released from a messenger RNA blot by using the process according to one or more of claims 22 24. 26. A process for enzymatically converting RNA into DNA by reversed transcription, characterized by employing RNA which has been released from an RNA blot by using the process according to one or more of claims 22 24. 27. A process for converting messenger RNA into protein by translation, characterized in that the translation is carried out by incubating in a translation mixture a messenger RNA blot obtained by using the process according to one or more of claims 19 21. 28. A process for analyzing a mixture of messenger RNAs by applying electrophoresis, characterized by carrying out an analysis in two dimensions by electrophoresis of the mixture of messenger RNAs in one dimension, blotting of the separated messenger RNAs by using the process according to one or more of claims 19 21, translation of the messenger RNAs in protein by using the process according to claim 27, and electrophoresis of the resulting proteins in the second dimension. 29. A process according to claim 28, characterized by subject ing the mixture of messenger RNAs to agarose gel electrophoresis and the proteins to sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electropho resis. 30. A process for detecting RNA in blots by hybridization, characterized in that a blot obtained by using the process according to one or more of claims 19 21 is used after the binding of the RNA to the paper has been strengthened by introducing covalent bonds. 31. A process according to claim 30, characterized by introducing phosphodiester bonds between terminal phosphate groups of theRNA and hydroxyl groups of the paper by means of carbodiimide, after 5 phosphate groups have been formed with P1 nuclease.

## Description
Title A paper for RNA blotting a process for making same applications of the paper. The invention relates to a paper for RNA blotting, as well as to a process for making same and to various applications of the paper. For some years molecular biology has been enriched by a new technique enabling the transfer of nucleic acids contained in a gel to a solid carrier.This technique designated by blotting has been developed by E.M.Southern, J.Mol.Biol. 38 1975 , pp. 503 517, who employed a cellulose nitrate filter as a carrier and could transfer thereto DNA from a gel.J.C. Alwine et al., Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci. USA 74 1977 , pp. 53505354 and Methods in Enzymology 68, 1979 , pp. 220 242, realized the transfer of RNA from gels by using as a carrier a chemically reactive paper to which the RNA is bound in a covalent fashion. The reactive paper is made by diazotization of aminobenzyl oxymethyl paper, which itself is made from Whatman 540 paper. For a better understanding of the blotting technique and its meaning, reference is made to R.W. Old and S.B. Primrose, Principles of Gene Manipulation, rn Introduction to Genetic ingineering, second edition, Studies in Microbiology, Vol. 2,Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1981, chapter I, pp. 5 9. In the pricr art blotting procedures the characterization of the nucleic acids transferred to a solid carrier is limited to detection by hybridization with previously isolated radioactive nucleic acids radioactive probes . For hybridization it is required that the nucleic acids be firmly linked with the solid carrier by covalent bonds. Owing to these strong covalent bonds, which have been formed by reactions between the nucleic acids and the solid carrier, it is not possible to release the nucleic acids from the blot without destruction of the nucleic acids themselves. It is an object of the invention to present a paper for RNA blotting which is devoid of the above indicated problem of limited usability. According to the invention this object is achieved by means of a paper for RNA blotting, which is characterized in that the paper contains ion exchange groups of such a nature and in such amounts per unit of area that RNA can be bound in a reversible fashion by electrostatic interaction. By the term reversible is meant the possibility of releasing the bound RNA again from the paper without destruction of the RNA. ALthough, in principle, there is a wide selection from available types of paper and ion exchange groups, it has further been found that a very suitable paper for RNA blotting is characterized in that the ion exchange groups are introduced by treating paper or paper starting material with NaOS, triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin. The paper or paper starting material cellulose powder which is subjected to this treatment with NaOB, triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin, is preferably Whatman IMM paper or the starting material therefor. It is further preferred that in the treatment of the paper or paper starting material a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin is used having a volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin of 1 2.5 to 1 3.5. The best results are obtained if the volume ratio trietha nolamine epichlorohydrin in the mixture is 1 2.8 to 1 3.3. In the preceding paragraphs reference has been made to the treatment of paper or paper starting material. By this are meant the possibilities of subjecting, on the one hand, ready paper, i.e. which is already in the form of paper sheets, to the above treatment, and, on the other hand, paper starting material, i e. material which has not yet been brought into the form of paper sheets such as cellulose powder, to the relevant treatment and processing the resulting product to paper sheets, according to a known per se method. A treatment of cellulose powder with NaOH, triethanolamine and epichorohydrin, however, is known per se from E.A. Peterson and HA. Sober, J. Amer.Chem.Soc. 78 1956 , pp. 751 755.This publication deals with ion exchange groups containing adsorbents on the basis of cellulose which are useful for the chromatography of proteins. Among the tested celluloses provided with ion exchange groups there is no question of making paper is also the so calledECTEOLA cellulose, which is said to be suitable not so much in the protein adsorption as in the chromatography of nucleic acids. The name refers to the employed reaction components epichlorohydrin and triethanolamine because the structure of the ion exchange groups introduced into the cellulose is unknown. ECTEOLA paper made by using the method described in this pu blication proves to be unsuitable as a paper for RNA blotting because the binding of the RNA, larger than 10S, is much too strong so that it is impossible to release the RNA from the blot without destroying the A. The same drawback is also connected with commercially available ion exchange groups containing paper types such as DEAE cellulose and Servacel WB 2. By modifying the procedures according to which these paper types are made, however, the binding characteristics of the paper relative to RNA can be altered in the desired direction. The invention also relates to a process for making a paper for RNA blotting, which is characterized in that a paper or paper starting material is provided with ion exchange groups of such a nature and in such amounts per unit of area that RNA can be reversibly bound by electrostatic interaction. Although a wide range of types of paper and ion exchange groups is available, it is especially preferred that the ion exchange groups be introduced by treating paper or paper starting material with NaOB, triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin, as well as that the treat ment be carried out at Whatman 1MM paper or the starting material therefor. A very suitable paper for RNA blotting is obtained if in the treatment of the paper or paper starting material a mixture of triethanolamine and apichlorohydrin is used having a volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin of 1 2.5 to 1 3.5. The best results are obtained if the volume ratio triethanol amine epichlorohydrin in the mixture is 1 2.8 to 1 3.3. A more concrete preferred embodiment of the process for making paper for RNA blotting comprises the steps of immersing Whatman 1MM paper sheets in an aqueous NaOH solution, removing excess NaOH through a yield treatment, then immersing the sheets in a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin, in which the volume ratio triethanolamine epichlorohydrin is 1 2.5 to 1 3.5, preferably 1 2.8 to 1 3.3, removing excess mixture through a yield treatment, then immersing the sheets in an aqueous NaOH solution and heating the sheets therein, and subsequently stopping the reaction, washing and finally drying the sheets. In this process it is preferred that the aqueous NaOR solution employed is an about 10 M NaOH solution, and that the first treatment with NaOH is carried out for about 30 minutes at about OOC, that the second treatment with NaOB is carried out for about 2 hours at about 85 900C, that the treatment with a mixture of triethanolamine and epichlorohydrin is carried for about 15 minutes at room temperature that the reaction is stopped by placing the sheets in ice cold 3M KAc HAc buffer pa 7.4 ,that the sheets are washed a few times alternately with 1M HAc and 1M KOH, then with water until neutral and finally with absolute ethanol, and that the sheets are air dried. The invention also relates to various applications of the new paper according to the invention, as there is first of all its use as blotting paper for blotting RNA. The blotting technique is known per se from, inter alia, some earlier mentioned publications. When RNA is blotted by using the paper according to the invention as blotting paper i.e. as a solid carrier for the RNA , the transferring agent preferably used is a buffer liquid having a moderate ionic strength relatively low salt concentration and an approximately neutral pa. Very suitable as transferring liquid is the buffer 100 mM KAc HAc pa 7.4. In the presence of such a buffer having a relatively low salt concentration the RNk is firmly and quantitatively bound to the blotting paper by electrostatic interaction. A significant advantage of the blotting paper according to the invention is that the bound RNA may be released from the paper again by modifying the conditions so that it can be used for further procedures. The invention therefore also relates to a process for releasing RNA from paper to which it has been bound by blotting, which process is characterized in that it is released by elution from an.RNA blot obtained by using the new paper according to the invention. The eluting agent preferably employed is a liquid having high ionic strength and basic pa. Use is preferably made of a volatile liquid so that the RNA can be simply recovered therefrom by lyophilisation in a form suitable for further experiments. If a non volatile liquid is used, the RNA can be precipitated therefrom with ethanol indeed, but it has the disadvantage that relatively large amounts of carrier material must be added which could have a certain effect on further experiments. 30 Triethylamine carbonate TEC pa 9.0 has proved to be a very suitable eluting agent. The RNA recovered from the RNA blots can be used for various further procedures. In this connection special thought is given to in vitro cell free translation of messenger PNA in protein by means of a translation mixture which contains all the required components such as ribosomes and many other RNA and protein factors, as well as to reverse transcription of the RNA into DNA by means of the enzyme reverse transcriptase, after which the thus obtained cDNA copy DNA may serve as the starting point for genetic manipulations.Such applications rendered possible by the invention are also comprised. Surprisingly, it has appeared that messenger RNA blots according to the invention are also suitable for translation in protein, without the RNA being first released from the paper for that purpose. This is immediately connected with the fact that the RNA is bound to the paper only by relatively weak electrostatic interactions, allowing the translation mechanism,in which ribosomes and messengerRNA chain must be able to move along each other,to proceed freely.In such an in vitro translation of the paper bound RNA in situ translation also the translation products proteins are surprisingly bound to the paper in situ. This property opens the possibility of blotting proteins contained in gels with the paper according to the invention and then examinating, e.g., their enzymatic activity. This property also creates the possibility of a completely new two dimensional analysis of a mixture of messenger RNAs, which will be elucidated hereinafter. The invention therefore comprises a process for converting messenger RMIA into protein by translation, which is characterized in that the translation is carried out by incubating in a translation mixture a messenger RNA blot obtained by using the new paper according to the invention. It has been found that many incorrect translation products, substantially premature terminations, are obtained when the paperbound RNA is immersed and incubated in the translation mixture directly after transfer from the gel. After many unsuccessful attempts to improve the translation accuracy by altering the concentrations of individual constituents of the translation mixture, it has been found that the translation proceeds with great fidelity when the RNA blot is first saturated with translation mixture by immersing the blot in complete translation mixture without the radioactive amino acids.It seems that binding sites on the paper are first saturated with certain factors to prevent depletion of the translation mixture. The thus obtained paper bound proteins may then be released from the paper in a simple manner, e.g., by washing with anelectrophoresis sample buffer e.g., 10M urea, 62.5 mM Tris HCl pa 6.8, 3 SDS, 5 2 mercaptoethanol , after which they could be analyzed, e.g., by immunoprecipitation. The invention further comprises a process for analyzing a mixture of messenger RNAs by applying electrophoresis, which is characterized by carrying out an analysis in two dimensions by electrophoresis of the mixture of messenger RNAs in one dimension, blotting of the separated messenger RNAs by using the new paper according to the invention, in situ translation of the messenger RNAs in protein, and electrophoresis of the resulting proteins in the second dimension. The separation of the messenger RNAs is preferably effected by agarose gel electrophoresis, while the proteins are preferably separated by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE Just as the blots which have been obtained by using known blotting paper types, so can the RNA blots obtained by using the new paper according to the invention be subjected to a hybridisation.However, because the electrostatic interactions by which the RNA is bound to the paper according to the invention are not resistant to the conditions prevailing in hybridisation, the binding of the RNA to the paper must first be strengthened by introducing covalent bonds.It has been found that this can be simply effected by introducing phosphodiester bonds between terminal phosphate groups of the RNA and hydroxyl groups of the paper by means of carbodiimide, in accordance with the procedure described by P.T. Gilham, Biochem.7 1968 pp. 2809 2813. The problem of the formation in this reaction of 2 3 cyclic phosphate can be overcome by generating 5 phosphate groups, for which purpose a limited hydrolysis of the bound RNA to a limited number of fragments is carried out with P1 nuclease. It is also possible to effect a bond between the RNA and the paper sufficiently strong for hybridisation purposes by heating the blot in vacuo after it has been dried completely, e.g., for 10 minutes at 50 C. The hybridisation efficiency, however, is then clearly lower. These hybridisation applications of blots obtained by using the new paper according to the invention are likewise comprised here. Finally, it is speculated that besides in situ translation also reverse transcription and further reactions involved in cloning cDNA may be carried out in situ, i.e. at the RNA blot itself. The invention will be further elucidated by means of the examples given hereinbelow. Example IPreDaration of modified ECTEOLA paper The reaction protocol described here is based on the procedure of Peterson and Sober. Several adaptations, however, were needed to make the paper suitable for the specific purpose of blotting largeRNA molecules. Since blotting requires sheets of the Solid carrier instead of a suspension for which the published procedure is described , a number of problems connected with this aspect had to be solved.Firstly, a number of different types of paper was tested because the source of the cellulose wood or cotton strongly influences the reactivity. Of the paper types tested, Whatman tMM gave the best results.Furthermore, when using paper sheets, the reaction mixture does not remain homogeneous because it cannot be stirred vigorously as is the case with cellulose powder. This problem was overcome by altering the sequence in which the reactants were added. Finally, a large number of different ratios of the reactants were tested to yield a paper with the desired binding characteristics. Binding criteria were immobilisation of ribosomal RNA in 100 mM KAc BAc pa 7.4 and release in 30 TEC pa 9.0 The resulting protocol is as follows a sheet ofWhatman 1MM paper was immersed in 10 M NaOH in a Pyrex oven dish for 30 minutes at OOC. Excess NaOE was blotted by firmly pressing the sheet between two layers of Whatman 3MM paper.Pressure was applied with a rolling device, commonly used in the drying of photographic prints. The sheet was thenimmerse for 15 minutes at room temperature fume hood in a reaction mixture which typically consisted of 8.1 g about 7.2 ml triethanolamine Merck, Darmstadt, Federal Republic of Germany and 22.5 ml epichlorohydrin Merck . Excess reaction mixture was blotted as described before for NaOH,and the sheet was placed back in the Pyrex dish with 10 M NaOH. The dish was transferred to a waterbath and kept at 85 900C for 2 hours. Care was taken that the sheet remained fully submerged in NaOH during the reaction by placing glass weights along the edges. During the reaction the sheet should not turn yellowish which occasionally did happen when excess reaction mixture had not been blotted off sufficiently.Yellowish paper appeared to bind RNA too strongly. The reaction was stopped by placing the sheet in ice cold 3M KAc HAc pa 7.4, followed by three successive washings in 1M HAc and 1M KOH. Finally, the paper was washed until neutral and air dried after washing in absolute ethanol.Example IIBlotting Moloney murine leukemia virus MiMuLv 70S RNA was isolated from virions harvested at 2 hours orl2 hours intervals by ProteinaseK digestion and sucrose gradient centrifugation. Cytoplasmic RNA from virus infected tissue culture cells was isolated by magnesium precipitation according to the procedure of R.D. Palmiter, Biochem. 13, 1974 , pp. 3606 3615, followed by oligo dT cellulose Collaborative Research,T 3 grade chromatography. RNA was separated on 2 mm thick vertical 1 acid urea agarose gels according to the procedure described by J.M.Rosen et al., Biochem. 14, 1975 , pp. 69 78. After electrophoresis the RNA was blotted onto the paper made according to Example I by applying the procedure described by Southern using 100 mM KAc HAc pH 7.4 as transfer buffer. Transfer was used for 15 hours at 40C, although transfer is probably complete in a much shorter time. The resulting blots were washed in transfer buffer and stored until further use under 1 volume of transfer buffer and 2 volumes of ethanol at 200C.Example III Blot hybridisation For covalent binding of RNA to the paper the blot was first treated with P1 nuclease to generate 5 phosphates. The blots were washed in P1 buffer 10 mM NaAc EAc pa 5.3, 0.4 mM ZnSO4, 4 mg ml bovine serum albumin and incubated for 1 hour at 37 0C in 15,ul cm2 of P1 buffer containing 10 3 units P1 nuclease Boehringer, Mannheim and 33 ug ml rabbit tRNA.Subsequently, the blot was washed in 20 mM sodium 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonate MES pa 6.0, 5 mM EDTA, followed by extensive washing in water and complete drying in vacuo at room temperature. Then the blot was gently agitated for 24 hours at room temperature in excess carbodiimide reaction mixture, typically prepared by dissolving 150 mg N cyclohexyl N ss 4 methylmorpholinium ethyl carbodiimide p toluenesulfonate Merck in 0.3 ml 0.2 M MES pa 6.0 and 2.4 ml water. After the reaction the blot was briefly washed in, successively, dilute ammonia having a pa of 9.0 5 mM REPELS pa 7.5 and prehybridisation buffer.Hybridisation to 32P nick translation labelled probes see Old and Primrose, pp. 97 98 took place at 410C for 16 hours, essentially as described by B. Adkins et al., J. Virol.41, 1982 , pp. 767 780. Hybridisation to M MuLV specific cDNA prepared according to H. Van der Putten et al., Cell. 24 1981 , pp. 729 739 took place at 680C for 4.5 hours in 10 mM TES pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 1 M NaCl, 0.2S SDS, 2 ug ml polyvinylchloride, 1 mg ml denatured calf thymus DNA, 101ug ml poly A, 5x Denhardt solution, 20 mM phosphate, followed by successive washing in 50 formamide, 5x SSC, 1 SDS and 2x SSC, 1 SDS at 410C, and O.tx SSC, 0.1 SDS at 500C.Example lv Blot translation and SDS PAGE Strips or sections of blot were washed in 100 mM KAc HAc pH 7.4, blotted between Whatman 3MM paper and saturated 5 min. at OOC with excess complete translation mixture, only lacking,radioactive amino acid s . The blot was again firmly pressed between 2 layers of 3MM paper and incubated in 33ul atL2 of complete translation mixture for 2 hours at 300C. Small paper sections were incubated in 0.5 mlEppendorf vials, entire strips in sealed plastic bags. The in situ translation products were released from the paper in electrophoresis sample buffer 10 M urea, 62.5 mM Tris HCl pa 6.8, 3 SDS, 5 2 mer captoethanol and analyzed on 10 polyacrylamide slab gels according to the discontinuous system of U.K. Laemmli, Nature 227 1970 , pp.680 685. For SDS PAGE of entire strips, the strips were sealed in low melting agarose Sea plaque in the gel slot after washing in 62.5 mMTris HCl pH 6.8, 5 2 mercaptoethanol. The cell free translation system used was the mRNA dependent reticulocyte cell free system, prepared essentially as described by H.R.B. Pelham and R.J. Jackson, Fur J.Biochem. 67, 1976 , pp. 247 256, except that white blood cells were removed by chromatography over SP Sepharose according to the method of M. Perucho et al., Anal.Biochem. 98 1979 , pp. 464 471. The reticulocyte lysates were treated with micrococco nuclease in the presence of 2 mM DTT, IOpg ml hemin, 50,ug ml creatine kinase and stored at 700C Typical translation mixtures final volume 200 ul contained 120 ul of reticulocyte lysate and added final concentrations of 100 ug ml creatine kinase, 10 mM creatine phosphate, 0.3 mM spermidine aCl, 0.1 mM of each unlabeled amino acid always including glutamine , 50Zug ml rabbit tRNA, 1 mM MgAc2, 100 mM KAc, 1 mM ATP, 0.2 mM GTP in addition to one or more radioactive amino acids.Example V A comparison was made between the translation products of increasing concentrations of Moloney murine leukemia virus M MuLV 70 S virion RNA, which comparison took place between the translation products obtained by translation in solution, on the one hand, and the translation products obtained by translation in situ on paper according to the invention, on the other hand. For this comparison, reference is made to Fig. 1, in which lanes 1 4 show the result of translation in solution and lanes 5 8 show the result of translation in situ on the paper according to the invention.Fig. 1 shows an SDS PAGE analysis of cell free translation products ofM MuLV 70 S virion RNA. RNA dissolved in water in increasing concentrations was either added to a reticulocyte translation mixture or was spotted on 3x3 mm paper sections as made in Example I. The translation was performed in a final volume of 10 ul, of which 3 ul was applied to the gel after mixing with 20 pal of electrophoresis sample buffer.The paper sections according to the invention were washed in 100 mM KAc HAc pa 7.4 to remove unbound RNA, if any, and prepared for in situ translation as described in Example IV. Translation in 3 pal of complete mixture per 9 mm2 of paper according to the invention was stopped by addition of 20 pal sample buffer to elute immobilized translation products. The supernatant 23 ul , leaving behind the paper, was applied to the gel. The final RNA concentrations in ug ml are indicated at the bottom of each lane. Lanes 1 and 8 are longer exposures of lanes 3 and 6, respectively. The autoradiogram of the analytical SDS gel shows that the in situ translation yields a set of products which is virtually in distinguishable from the set synthesized in solution, but with a small reduction in the amount of high molecular weight poypeptides. It has been found that the small reduction in high molecular weight proteins is not due to the quality of the translation, but to their retention on the ion exchange paper. This problem can easily be over come by including the paper piece in the slot of the analytical SDS gel. It has also been found that the in situ translation efficiency can be slightly increased by applying the RNA to the paper according to the invention in a detanuring buffer the same buffer as used for the RNA gel electrophoresis instead of in water. The in situ transla tion of RNA bound to the paper according to the invention is there fore highly accurate and makes elution of the RNA from the paper for this purpose superfluous. Example VIBlot hybridization In order to show the detection of specific RNA by hybridization, purified M MuLV 35S virion RNA, poly A selected cytoplasmic RNA of Moloney sarcoma virus MAY transformed M MuLV infected cells, and 3 P labeledRNA from M13 infected E.coli cells were electrophoresed on acid urea agarose gels according to Rosen et al. and blotted onto paper according to the invention obtained according to Example I.After limited P1 nuclease digestion and carbodiimide coupling the blot was divided in two sections and autoradiographed t directly or after hybridization to 32P labeled M MuLV specific cDNA. The resulting autoradiograms are shown in Fig. 2, in which lane 1 shows the direct search and lanes 2 and 3 show the search after hybridization. The RNAs were P labeled RNA from M13 infected E. coli lane 1 sucrose gradient purified M MuLV 35S virion RNA isolated from virions harvested at 2 hours intervals lane 2 and poly A selected cytoplasmic RNA fromClone 124 MSV transformed M MuLV infected cells lane 3 . The bands at 355 M MuLV and at 30S MSV were detected specifically against a low background hybridization. The sharp marker bands in lane 1 indicate that no spreading of the RNA takes place during the P1 nuclease digestion and the carbodiimide reaction. The sensitivity of detection is comparable to what can be obtained with blotting onto nitrocellulose according to the procedure of P.S. Thomas,Proc.Ntal. Acad. Sci. USA 77, 1980 , pp. 5201 5205. Example VI I Correlation of translation and hSbridization profiles To demonstrate the possibility of accurately correlating in situ translation products with specific bands in the hybridization pattern, poly A selected cytoplasmic RNA from tissue culture cells and retroviral virion RNA were analyzed. The RNA was, separated on an acid urea agarose gel and transferred to two layers of paper according to the invention. The lower layer consisted of two separate lxii cm strips which were placed on top of and in direct contact with the gel, each covering the lengthwise centralsection of one 2 cm wide lane.The strips were notched along one side to allow accurate alignment of paper sections used for in situ translation with the hybridization profile of an upper layer of paper according to the invention 6x11 cm which covered the two strips and the rest of the gel. This way, RNA migrating within the central 1 cm of each lane was transferred to the lower layer of paper according to the invention the strips whereas material migrating along the edges 0.5 cm on either side was transferred to the upper layer. To prevent degradation of transferred RNA, the layers were stored until further use under 70 ethanol, 33 mM KAc at 200C, immediately after transfer. After treatment with P1 nuclease and carbodiimide, the upper layer was hybridized with a 32P nick translation labeled probe and autoradiographed. For the autogram reference is made to Fig. 3 left panel. The left panel of Fig. 3 shows a lane A and a lane B. M MuLV 70 S virion RNA isolated from virions harvested at 12 hours intervals lane A , and poly A selected cytoplasmic RNA from AbLV transformedM MuLV infected cells lane B were electrohoresed on a 18 acid urea agarose gel and transferred to. two layers of paper according to the invention. The upper layer was hybridized to 32.P nick translation labeled cloned M MuLV proviral DNA pMLV . Fig. 3 shows the autoradiogram in the left panel.The right panel shows an SDS PAGE analysis of in situ translation products. The lower layer strips of paper according to the invention were lengthwise cut in half and the notched half was subdivided in 4x4 mm sections spanning a single notch each . Sections indicated in the left panel were analyzed by SDS PAGE after in situ translation. The RNA in lane B had been isolated from Abelson leukemia virus AbLV transformed ANN cells which were productively infected with M MuLV. Although the AbLV genome contains sequences related toM MuLV, the probe cloned proviral M MuLV DNA pMLV does not clearly detect AbLV specific 30 S RNA. This is probably due to the relatively low concentrations of this RNA species and to the nature of the probe uLV specific instead of AbLV specific, and nick translation labeled cloned DNA instead of cDNA . In general cDNA probes as used in Fig. 2 gave better results than nick translation labeled probes. M MuLV specific RNA was detected as discrete bands at 35S genomic RNA, gag mRNA and gag pol mRNA and at 21S env mRNA . The faint background hybridization within the lane, starting at 35S, indicates that breakdown of RNA occurred prior to or during electrophoresis. The native M MuLV 70S virion RNA lane A is a dimer of 35S genomic RNA, complexed with some minor contaminants of both viral and cellular RNAs. As was to be expected for total RNA isolated from virions harvested at 12 hours intervals, the 35S RNA was highly fragmented. The absence of hybridization in the centre of both lanes A and B indicates that RNA from this part of each lane was quantitatively retained by the lower layer strips of paper according to the invention in the transfer procedure. These lower layer strips were cut in half lengthwise and translated in situ as described above for spotted RNA. The smooth edge half was translated entirely and the further analysis of it, which is shown in Fig. 4, will be discussed later. The notched half was subdivided as indicated in Fig. 3 left panel and individual sections, each spanning a single notch, were translated. Product analysis by SDS PAGE of sections surrounding the position of 35S is shown in Fig. 3, right panel. It is clear that the onset of the synthesis of 35S RNA encoded Pr65g g coincided with the position of 35S RNA in the hybridization profile. Thus it may be concluded therefrom that the blotting procedure according to the invention allows translation products to be accurately correlated with specific RNAs.Example VIII A two dimensional version of the blotting procedure is shown in Fig. 4, where translational products of the entire smooth edge half of the lower layer strip of lane B in Fig. 3, left panel, were analyzed by SDS PAGE. After translation incubation in a sealed plastic bag, the strip was washed and placed horizontally in a wide slot in the gel. To prevent horizontal spreading of protein by direct contact of the strip with electrophorescis sample buffer, the strip was first sealed in the slot with low melting agarose which, after solidifying, was overlayered with sample buffer and electrophoresis buffer.In separate small slots on either side of the wide slot, sections of paper according to the invention with in situ translational products were placed, onto which M MuLV virion RNA A and poly A RNA from AbLV M MuLV infected ANN cells B had been spotted. Fig. 4 shows the SDS PAGE analysis of in situ translational products of an entire top to bottom strip of the blot of which the hybridization profile is shown in Fig. 3, left panel, lane B, and which is again shown horizontally at the top of this figure. The smooth edge strip was cut from the lower layer notched strip and prepared for in situ translation and subsequent SDS PAGE analysis as described above. The RNA preparations which were analyzed by gel electrophoresis in the left panel of Fig. 3, lanes A and B, were also spotted on 4x4 mm sections of paper according to the invention and their in situ translational products were run alongside those of the horizontal strip in this figure. The autoradiogram was composed of different exposures of gel sections which are indicated at the bottom.The exposure was for 6 hours on slow X ray film section 1 and for 24 hours section 2 and 1 week section 3 on fast film. The autoradiogram, which therefore consists of sections with different exposure times, shows that the majority of translational activity migrates at the bottom of the RNA gel 15 20 S . The fact that the translational products of RNA in this size range appear as discrete spots, indicates that these RNAs migrated as discrete bands and that no horizontal spreading of protein occurred during in situ translation and subsequent analysis. In contrast, the products of the larger RNAs appear as horizontal bands. The set of bands starting at a discrete position in the SDS gel, which coincides with the position of 35S RNA in the hybridization profile shown at the top , is characteristic of translational products of M MuLV virion RNA lane A on the left . Apparently the high molecular weight RNA is predominant lyivirus specific. As was already evident from the hybridization profile, this RNA appears to be highly degraded. It is believed that the appearance of bands instead of spots in this region of theSDS gel is due not so much to horizontal spreading of protein during or after in situ translation as to translation of RNAs truncated at their 3 ends. It may therefore be concluded that the two dimensional blotting procedure according to the invention allows rapid analysis of translational products of a large number of individual RNAs separated on gels.