# Optical disk recording and reproducing method and optical disk used in the same.

## Abstract
An optical disk recording and reproducing method and an optical disk for the same. The disk is capable of being recorded on by irradiation of a light beam and is provided with grooves each having a V shape cross section in the radial direction and wobbling at a predetermined frequency. A signal with the wobbling frequency is extracted from the reflection beam from the disk, and the amplitude and phase of the signal is detected so that tracking on each slant of each V shape groove is carried out.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of recording and reproducing information on an optical disk capable of recording by irradiation of a light beam, said method comprising the steps of providing grooves each having a V shape cross section in the radial direction of said disk and wobbling at a predetermined frequency, extracting a signal component of said frequency from a reflection beam from said disk, and tracking on slant of said grooves by detecting amplitude and phase of said signal component. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein signal components S1 and S2 with said wobbling frequency are produced from reflection beams received in first and second regions provided symmetrically on both sides of a straight line which passes through the center of an objective lens for focusing a laser beam on said optical disk and is parallel to said optical disk, the difference of said signal components S and S2 being used as a tracking signal. 3. An optical disk capable of recording by irradiation of a light beam, said disk being provided with grooves each having a V shape cross section in the radial direction of said disk and wobbling at a predetermined frequency.

## Description
OPTICAL DISK RECORDING AND REPRODUCING METHOD AND OPTICAL DISK USED IN THE SAME The present invention relates to a method of recording and reproduction of information in double the recording density on a recording medium which is recorded by irradiation of a light beam i.e. optical disk , and also to an optical disk used in the recording and reproduction method. A laser is used to record and reproduce video and audio information by focusing a laser beam to form a fine spot on an optical disk. As a reproduction only unit, Video Disks are already available on the market, and there have been made advances of developing the method of recording and reproducing discrete information, which are expected to appear as Data Files and Recording Reproducing Video Files . In the method of forming an information surface on a plane, where the track pitch is 1.67 pm, it is difficult to increase the recording density. On this account, there has been proposed an information signal surface wherein the optical disk has approximate V shaped or inverse trapezoidal grooves in its radial cross section to provide slants for recording, thereby halving the track pitch, increasing the recording density, and reducing crosstalk between adjacent tracks. For example, Japanese Patent Laid open specification No. 56 58144 discloses a method of projecting a laser beam as normal as possible to the slant of a V shaped or inverse trapezoidal groove by conducting the laser beam obliquely to a lens. In general, a light beam entering obliquely to a high NA lens cannot be focused sufficiently due to aberration. Particularly, for a lens with an NA of around 0.5, when a laser beam enters the lens at an angle of 2 3 degrees or more with respect to the optical axis, the influence of aberration is too large to bring the above method into practice. The inventors of this invention have proposed a more practical method of increasing the recording density refer to Japanese Patent Laid open specification No. 57105828 . This method will be explained in brief hereinbelow taking an example of the case of an optical disk havingV shape grooves and using the reflection light from the optical disk for reproduction. Fig. 1 is an illustration explaining an example of the optical disk. In the figure, reference numeral 1 denotes the substrate of the disk, 2 is a layer of ultraviolet hardened resin W resin provided over the substrate with grooves having a V shape cross section formed therein, 3 is a thin film of recording material, and 4 is a signal dot written by irradiation of a laser beam onto the recording film 3. The dot has a refractivity and optical density varied by writing or it is recessed by vaporization. In the structure ofFig. 1, the laser beam is entered through the substrate 1 to record or reproduce informatoin. Accordingly, transparent materials are used for the substrate 1 andUV resin 2. A beam spot is projected on to a slant of theV shape groove along, for example, face C in Fig. 1 so as to record an information dot 4. With dimensions being determined such that 2P in Fig. 1 is equal to the track pitch of the conventional system, the signal on face C can be reproduced with less signal mixture crosstalk from faces A and E even with a reproduction optical system used in the conventional reproduction only video disk. However, signals are also recorded on facesB and D for the purpose of doubling the recording density, and the shape of the cross section of the V shape groove is determined so that crosstalk of signals from faces B and D to the reproduction of face C is small enough to ensure the quality of signal. The details of this new recording and reproduction method are disclosed in JapanesePatent Laid open specification No. 57 105828. With the V shape groove having a depth of A 4n, where n is the refraction index of the material adjacent to the groove at the entry of the laser beam, the diffraction beam of the 1st order includes only information on face C, and therefore by the reception of the laser beam centered at the 1st order diffraction for reproducing the face C, crosstalk from faces B and D can be reduced. For further reduction of crosstalk, it is advisable to avoid interference between the 1st diffraction beam and 0th order diffraction beam in receiving the laser beam centered at the 1st diffraction since the 0th order diffraction beam includes information on faces B and D. If an incident beam Io enters the entire surface of a lens 5, the whole reflective diffraction beam passing through the lens interferes with the 0th order diffraction beam because diffraction beams of each order have the same spread as that of the incident beam. Accordingly, if the incident beam does not enter the periphery of the lens, the 0th order diffraction beam does not pass through the peripheral portion, allowing the reception of the diffraction beam reflected on the periphery of the lens. The foregoing method can double the recoding density of the optical disk. For example, an optical video disk with a diameter of 30 cm can record and reproduce moving pictures on both sides for a duration of two hours in a constant angular velocity mode which allows trick reproduction or four hours in a constant linear velocity mode. A prerequisite for doubling the recording density using the slant sides of a V shape groove as a signal recording surface is that a laser spot must be projected along the slant of a groove, namely, the system must be capable of tracking. One object of the present invention is to provide a method of tracking for this purpose. The present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a sectional perspective view showing the structure of an optical disk provided with V shape grooves Fig. 2 is a diagram explaining amplitude distributions of an incident beam and reflection beam fromV shape groove slants Fig. 3 is a diagram showing the pattern of the reflective diffraction beams on the lens surface Fig. 4 is a diagram showing a deviation of theV shape groove Fig. 5 is a diagram showing the tracking signal Figs. 6, 8a and 8b are diagrams showing photosensor portions for detecting reflection beam on the lens surface Fig. 7, a is an explanatory plan view of a wobbling V shape groove of the present invention wherein wobbling thick lines indicate top and bottom portions of the grooves Fig. 7, b is a diagram showing a reference signal for the wobbling of the V shape groove Figs. 7, c and d are diagrams explaining the reflectoin beams which vary at the wobbling frequency and Fig. 9 is an illustration explaining a conventional pattern in which wobbling recording pits are formed. According to the present invention, the V shape groove is formed so as to wobble with a small amplitude e.g., 0.1 m in the disk radial direction at a frequency different from that of a video information signal.The disk reflection beam varies at a frequency which is composed of the signal frequency and the wobbling frequency. These frequencies are separated by an electric circuit so that tracking is performed using a reflection beam which varies at the wobbling frequency. Accordingly, it is not necessary to take the information signal into consideration to achieve the object of the present invention, and the following discussion is therefore based on the assumption that the entire slant face of theV shape groove has a uniform reflectivity. A light. beam entering a lens is focused on an optical disk which functions as a diffraction grating, and a reflection beam from or transmission beam through the disk is separated into many diffraction beams. The following describes the case of a reflection beam referring toFig. 2. On the plane of a lens 5, the x axis is defined in the radial direction of the disk, and the y axis is defined perpendicularly to the drawing, i.e., in the tangential direction to the circumference of the disk.A laser beam Io entering the lens 5 is assumed to have an amplitude distribution expressed by function A x, y .The incident laser beam has a spread with a radius of W, where x2 2 where x2 y2 w2. When defining a coordinate system by 5 axis and n axis on the disk plane in parallel to the x axis and y axis, respectively, the distribution of the complex reflectivity complex reflection coefficient on the disk surface with respect to the amplitude of the light beam is defined by R 5 , where the reflectivity distribution of the disk in the n direction can be considered uniform because the diameter of the laser spot is much smaller than the period of the wobbling of the V shape grooves, and the entire slant faces of theV shape grooves are assumed to have uniform reflectivity as mentioned above.As a coordinate system for the reflection beam on the lens plane, u axis and v axis are set in parallel with the x axis and y axis, respectively. The arrangement of grooves according to the present invention has a periodic interval of 2P as shown in Fig. 1, causing the complex reflectivity distributionR i to be periodic interval 2P along the 5 axis by the computation using Fourier expansionEMI7.1 the reflection beam on the uv plane, U u, v , is given as follows.EMI7.2 The introduction of these equations is described in detail in publication, J. Opt. Soc. Am., Vol. 69, No. l, p. 4, by H.H. Hopkins, though the coordinate systems are set differently in the publication. In Equation 2 , f denotes the focal length of the lens 5, and X is the wavelength of the laser. In this situation, the following can be said in general. The reflection beam is separated into many diffraction beams, and Eg where Q 0, 1, 2, ... represents the diffraction beam amplitude of the Qth order on the uv plane. Every diffraction beam amplitude Eg has the same radius W of spread as of the incident beam amplitude A x, y and an analogous intensity distribution. Diffraction beams are spaced from each other on the uv plane by f 2P as illustrated in Fig. 3.The intensity and phase of each reflective diffraction beam Eg are determined by complex coefficient Rg ofFourier expansion of R i with an periodic interval of 2P in the g axis direction. It is assumped that the center of the laser spot is set at the origin of the gn coordinate system.The disk is rotated and the V shape groove is wobbled periodically in the 5 axis direction, resulting in an amplitude variation in the time domain as expressed by sin wt. The amplitude of wobbling is, for example, around 2E 0.1 Vm e p , and the wobbling frequency is fo w 2 . The center of slant C is displaced by d from the origin which is the center of the laser spot. Fig. 4 shows the displacement of A d resin wt as a result of displacement of track and wobbling. In the state of Fig. 4, the complex reflectivity R g is expressed as R 5 R Rgexp 2 i 2P R g 6 resin wt 3 and using Equation 1 , it is reduced to Rl R exp i p resin will 4 p With slants of a groove having a uniform reflectivity of 1.0 and the groove having a depth d of A 4n, the coefficients Rl are given as EMI9.1 Using Equations 2 and 5 , the reflection beam amplitude U u, v on the uv plane can be obtained, and the intensity is given by squaring the absolute value ofU u, v . In general, the intensity of light at point u, v is given by the following equation and indicated as dashed curve in Fig. 2. I u, v a1 a2 cost a3 cos 6 p p where al, a2 and a3 are functions of the point u, v .The term for the tracking signal related to Esin wt is expressed by the following equation in consideration of p and by ignoring terms of second and higher orders of C p T u, v alpha 1sin T u, v x p sin wt 7 Integration of Equation 7 in a predetermined specified area on the uv plane represents the signal. Consideration is made on the first term ofEquation 7 T Tra sin sin wt 7 lp p The magnitude of displacement of the track can be evaluated by the magnitude of signal T . The polarity of T depends on the polarity of . Namely, the signalT has one of two phases departing from each other by 1800 depending on the polarity of 8, and the direction of track displacement can be known by checking if the signal T is in the same or opposite phase with a reference signal indicating the state of wobbling of theV shape groove. The variation of signal T with respect to the track displacement is shown by the dashed line in Fig. 5. Next, consideration is made on the second term of Equation 7 T 2wa2 E sin 2as sin ut 7 2p p This signal T becomes zero at 6 2, i.e., at the top 2 and bottom of each groove, making the tracking signalT unstable. Fig. 5 also shows the signal T by the dash dot line, and the signal T which is the sum of the signals T and T by the solid line. The signal T appears in the region where the lust order diffraction beam and 1st order diffraction beam interfere with each other and also in the region where the 2nd order diffraction beams and the 0th order diffraction beam interfere with each other regions c, d and e in Fig. 3 .However, these regions are small enough as shown inFig. 3, and the unstable tracking signal component is also small. Assuming that the amplitude distribution of the incident laser beam is uniform A 1.0 , terms dependent on resin wt for regions a through 2 in Fig. 3 are obtained as follows. EMI12.1 The unstable tracking signal component appears in regions c, d and e, as mentioned previously, and it is symmetric with respect to the v axis in Fig. 3. The stable tracking signal component is anti symmetric with respect to the v axis. The following describes the case where the laser beam is received in two regions Sl and S2 as shown in Fig. 6. The region Sl includes region c where the 0th order diffraction beam and 2nd order diffraction beam interfere with each other, and the region S2 includes region d where the 0th order diffraction beam and 2nd order diffraction beam interfere with each other. In these regions, the signal T of Equation 7 appears, and it is expressed for both the regions Sl and as follows p sin 2wp sin wt 9 3Tr p Accordingly, if the signal from region Sl is T1 and the signal from region S2 is T2, the term of T is eliminated by T1 T2.Although the central portion of the lens also includes region e where the lst order diffraction beam interferes with the 1st diffraction beam to produce signal T , the component of T can be eliminated by T 1 T2 when the regions S1 and S2 are placed symmetrically with respect to the lens center. Signals of other regions are anti symmetric with respect to the v axis in Fig. 3, so that a large amplitude of T1 T2 can be provided as a tracking signal, and tracking can be controlled stably.In general, the tracking signal T is given as follows T T1 T2 4 p sin p sin wt 10 p p Assumption is made that the reference signal with frequency fo w 2 provides the highest voltage when the wobbling V shape groove is displaced farthest to the outer side of the disk positive direction on the 5 axis .Namely, the reference signal is given as a sin ut a 0 .In tracking the slant c, if the tracking signal is inphase with the reference signal d 0 , the laser spot must be corrected to move outward on the disk, and if the tracking signal is out of phase, the spot must be carried to move inward on the disk. Fig. 7, a shows three traces of the laser spot for the correct tracking, tracking with displacement d, and tracking with displacement 8 on a wobbling V shape groove. Reference number 4 denotes an information pit. In a of Fig. 7, upper and lower portions correspond respectively to outside and inside portions of the disk, and the V shape groove wobbles with the peak to peak amplitude 2 in the vertical direction in the Figure corres to the radial direction of the disk . Fig. 7, b shows the reference signal a sin wt.If the track is displaced by d, the reflection light intensity for tracking varies as shown in Fig. 7, c in the opposite phase relationship to the reference signal, and if the track is displaced by d, the reflection light intensity varies as shown in Fig. 7, d in the inphase relationship with the reference signal. To carry out tracking on slants B and D by using the signal T, the polarity of tracking must be altered. Namely, if the signal T is in phase with the reference signal, the laser spot must be corrected to move inward on the disk, or if it is out of phase, the spot must be corrected to move outward. Figs. 8a and 8b show some examples of the sahpe of a photo detector. The photo detector shown in Fig. 8a is disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid open specificationNo. 57 105828, wherein region M is used for reproducing information signals on slant C, while region N is used for reproducing information signals on slants B and D.In addition, signals TM and TN with the frequency fo 2s are extracted from M and N, and the tracking signal TM TN can be produced. In another example shown in Fig. 8b, information signals are reproduced by regions M and N as in the case of the arrangement in Fig. 8a, while the tracking signal is produced using regions S3 and 54. Alternatively, the tracking signal can be produced by obtaining a sum signal derived from regions M and S3 and a sum signal derived from N and Sqr by extracting therefrom signals dependent on sin wt and by producing a subtraction signal between the extracted signals. It is known that tracking is possible for the conventional disk, where information pits are preformed on the same plane, by the arrangement of wobbling pits as shown in Fig. 9 refer to Japanese Patent Publication No. 57 21770 . This method, however, has a drawback that the pit alignment does not coincide with the trace of the laser spot, causing the amplitude of reproduced signal to vary at frequency 2fo. As can be seen from the foregoing description of the present invention, the wobbling type tracking is applicable to information tracks formed on the slants of V shape grooves. In addition, according to the invention, pits 4 are aligned in parallel to the trace of the laser spot as shown in Fig. 7, that eliminates the disadvantageous swing or fluctuation of the amplitude of reproduced signal. It will be apparent that the present invention can be applied to any of spiral groove disk and concentrical grooves disk. According to the present invention, as described above, V shape grooves are formed in a wobbling fashion at a specified frequency, and tracking on each slant of each V shape groove can be performed stably.