# PULSE OXIMETER

## Abstract
A pulse oximeter is disclosed of the type wherein light of two different wavelengths is passed through human or animal body tissue, such as a finger, an ear, the nasal septum or the scalp, so as to be modulated by the pulsatile component of arterial blood therein, and thereby allowing indication of oxygen saturation. The level of incident light is continually adjusted for optimal detection of the pulsatile component, while permitting accommodation to variable attenuations due to skin color, flesh thickness and other invariants. At significant slope reversal of the pulsatile component to negative indicating a wave maximum , wave form analysis of blood flow occurs. A quotient of the pulsatile component of light transmission over the constant component of light transmission is measured for each of two wave lengths by direct digital tracking. The respective quotients are thereafter converted to a ratio, which ratio may be thereafter fitted to a curve of independently derived of oxygen saturation. Calibration is disclosed by solving four unknowns at at least four differing saturations. An output of pulse rate, pulse flow and oxygen saturation is given. An incident light source duty cycle is chosen to be at least 1 in 4 so that noise, inevitably present in the signal, may be substantially eliminated and filtered. Provision is made for a local battery driven low power consumption instrument capable of being substantially independent of ambient light noise.