# DEMOUNTABLE PARTITIONING SYSTEM

## Claims
System für eine demontierbare Trennwand mit

## Description
This invention concerns improvements relating to demountable partitioning systems as widely used for example in office buildings to enable the arrangement of rooms within a determined floor space to be varied at the will of the occupier. Such systems are well known and generally comprise a multiplicity of sections of extruded aluminium for example each designed for one function only or, at best, for a dual function. One such known demountable partitioning system is the ULTRAWALL system manufactured by United States Gypsum and described in their 1980 systems folder and, as may be seen from the said folder, the ULTRAWALL system comprises a large number of sections designed for the most part to be utilized for specific individual functions. The ULTRAWALL system does however include a section identified as an AGL 445 H rail which can be used in a number of different ways in various combinations with snap on glazing stops, a SMR 400 snap in door frame header and an AGL 441 glazing rail cover. More particularly, the AGL 445 H rail comprises an elongate channel shaped member of constant, generally rectangular cross section throughout its length, the said member being open on one side and having formations associated with its side wall opposite to said open side such as to enable the SMR 400 snap in door frame header to be engaged therewith and adapted to enable glazing to be effected thereto by means of snap on glazing stops. The open side of the AGL 445 H rail can also accept the SMR 400 snap in door frame header and, for effecting glazing to the open side, the AGL 441 glazing rail cover can be snap fitted to the open side. Irrespective of the fact that the AGL 445 H rail can be used in a number of different ways, its different uses still require special co operating sections, and the ULTRAWALL system is typical of demountable partitioning systems having an excessive number of special sections. According to the present invention there is provided a demountable partitioning system comprising As compared to the ULTRAWALL system abovementioned, the present invention is advantageous in that it enables the same glazing elements to be used for glazing to the open side of the first section aforesaid as are used for glazing to the side wall thereof. Further economies in the number of partitioning sections that are required may be achieved in accordance with a preferred feature of the present invention by arranging that the at least one second section aforesaid can engage in a snap fit manner also with the open side of the first section by utilizing door frame sections and blank wall sections, for example, capable of being engaged in a snap fit manner to both the open and closed sides of the first section significant versatility in the design of demountable partitioning can be achieved with the minimum number of different structural sections. As will become apparent hereinafter the present invention provides a family of sections designed to interact with one another in multi functional manner which reduces the overall number of different sections required to instal a partition wall incorporating one or more doors, one or more wall panels, and one or more single and or double glazed windows as its major constituent parts. The invention centres on the provision of a first or universal section adapted to be used alone for certain operations, and coupleable for other applications to second sections such as a blank end infill or a door frame infill for example, and wherein the provision of a third, glazing infill section enables single or double glazing to be effected to different sides of the universal section by use of appropriate glazing elements. An exemplary universal section as described in detail hereinafter comprises an aluminium extrusion of generally rectangular cross section having a base wall, a pair of side walls and an open side, a glazing stool extending longitudinally of the channel shaped member on the outer side of the base wall intermediate the two side edges of the base, the said glazing stool being undercut on both sides facing the edges of the base, and a pair of formations being provided extending along the two side edges of the base wall externally of the channel shaped member, the said formations being undercut on their sides facing towards the undercut sides of the glazing stool, and formations being provided at the edges of the two side walls of the channel shaped member between which the open side of the channel shaped member is defined, the formations at the external edges of the base wall being spaced apart from one another a distance substantially equal to the spacing apart of the formations at either side of the open side of the channel shaped member and being similarly shaped thereto for enabling the attachment to the base wall and or to the open side of the channel shaped member of similarly configured further members having complementary formations. In an alternative universal section, the two side walls also have external formations the same as those on the base wall. In use of the above described exemplary universal section, the universal section is combined with one or more other sections having formations complementary to the formations on the elongate channel shaped member, said one or more other sections being engaged with one or more of the walls of the elongate channel shaped member and or with the open side thereof by snap fitting together of the complementary formations of the respective parts, said one or more other sections being selected from the following A demountable partition can thus be constructed which comprises one or more universal sections as above described which provide support, both horizontally and or vertically for partition sections selected from the following with the layout of such partitions being variable at the discretion of the layout designer. Such a demountable partition will comprise partition sections selected from single glazed glazing panels, double glazed glazing panels, solid wall panels, and doors, in combination with multiple function universal sections as above described constituting primary supports for the partition sections and interfacing with respective ones of the partition sections by means of interfacing sections clipped to respective side walls of the universal sections in snap fit manner, the interfacing sections being provided with complementary formations inter engageable with those on the universal sections for enabling such clipping together of the respective sections. The interfacing sections might for example comprise single glazing and double glazing glazing sections, blanking sections, door frame sections, and ducting sections. The invention extends furthermore to a method of erecting a demountable partition comprising partition sections selected from the group comprising single glazed glazing panels, double glazed glazing panels, solid wall panels, and doors, the said method comprising utilizing multiple function universal sections as hereinbefore described as primary supports for the partition sections and interfacing the respective partition sections with their supporting universal sections by clipping appropriate interfacing sections to the respective supporting universal sections, the universal sections and the interfacing sections being provided with complementary interengageable formations for enabling such clipping together of the respective sections, the interfacing sections being selected from the group comprising single glazing and double glazing glazing sections, blanking sections, door infill sections and glazing infill sections engageable with the open side of the universal section for enabling glazing to be effected thereto by means of the same glazing sections as are usable for effecting glazing to the base wall of the universal section. In erecting a demountable partition by the method above described, a butt joint between two solid wall panels extending generally in the same plane may advantageously be secured by means of clips knocked into the abutting edges of the panels, the clips associated with one of the panels being secured to a joint support member and the clips associated with the other panel having portions retained between the first panel and the support member. The clips secured to the joint support member can advantageously comprise spring clamping elements for clamping to the joint support member without need for secondary fixings. One form of clip which can be used for this purpose is formed for example of spring metal and comprises a generally flat body portion having a forwardly projecting nose portion and one or more rearwardly projecting teeth portions connected to the body portion with a spacing therefrom, the nose portion and teeth portions extending generally parallel to the body portion. To secure a butt joint using such clips a plurality of clips are attached to the edge of each of the two panels with the teeth portions of each clip embedded in the panel edge and the body portion closely adjacent the panel surface so that the nose portion projects from the panel edge generally in the plane of the panel surface. The nose portions of the clips attached to the edge of a first panel are then attached to a support member, and that edge of the second panel to which the clips are attached is then abutted with the corresponding edge of the first panel with the nose portions of the clips attached to the second panel introduced behind the first panel on the same side thereof as the support member. In accordance with a variation of the above method which avoids the necessity of using secondary fittings e.g. rivets, screws, bolts, etc. to secure the clips to the support member, metal clips of a first and a second type may be utilized, the first type metal clips comprising a generally flat body portion having a spring clip on one side thereof and one or more teeth portions connected to the body portion and extending generally parallel thereto with a spacing therefrom, and the second type metal clips comprising a generally flat body portion having a forwardly projecting nose portion and one or more rearwardly projecting teeth portions extending generally parallel to the body portion with a spacing therefrom, the method of use of such clips comprising attaching a plurality of said first type clips to the edge of a first one of said two panels with the teeth portions of each clip embedded in the panel edge, attaching said plurality of first type clips to a support member by engaging the support member with the spring clip portions, attaching a plurality of said second type clips to the edge of a second one of said two panels with the teeth portions of each clip embedded in the panel edge so that the nose portions of the clips project from the panel edge generally in the plane of the panel, and abutting the said edge of the second panel with the said edge of the first panel with the nose portions of the second type clips introduced behind the first panel on the same side thereof as the support member. Further features of the invention are as set forth in the appended claims and, together with advantages thereof, will best be appreciated from consideration of the following description given with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Referring to Fig. 1, the universal section FW1 comprises a generally rectangular section channel open at one side and comprising a major wall 1, minor walls 2 upstanding from the major wall 1, and formations 3, 4 and 5 as illustrated. Fig. 2 shows a glazing section FW2 adapted to be secured by means of bolts, screws or adhesive to the outer surface of one or other or both of minor walls 2 of the universal section FW1 of Fig. 1 to enable such minor walls 2 to be employed for glazing as will be described hereinafter and it will be seen that FW2 has undercut formations 4 and 5 akin to those of FW1. The glazing infill FW3 of Fig. 3 is adapted to be snap fitted into the open side of the universal section FW1 of Fig. 1 with the lugs 8 of FW3 engaged with formations 3 of FW1, and again it can be seen that FW3 has undercut formations 4 and 5 akin to those provided on the major wall 1 of universal section FW1. Fig. 4 shows a blank end infill FW4 which not only can be fitted into the open side of universal section FW1, but also can be fitted onto major wall 1 of FW1 with the lugs 8, which are dimensioned and located relative to the unit FW4 identically to the lugs 8 of glazing infill FW3, engaged with the formations 4 of FW1 and the optionally provided pair of facing lugs 9 engaged with the formation 5 of FW1. Fig. 5 shows a door frame infill FW5 shaped as shown and adapted to be snap fitted either to the open side of universal section FW1 of Fig. 1 or to the major side 1 thereof, the turned edges 10 of door infill FW5 engaging with formations 3 or 4 respectively of FW1. The door infill FW5 also has a retaining groove 11 for an elastomeric seal not shown . The door infill FW5 enables the universal section FW1 to be used as a door frame section. Fig. 6 shows a second embodiment of the universal section adapted for use inter alia as a four way post. As shown, the section FW11 is of generally square section with one open side and three sides which are functionally identical to major side 1 of the universal section FW1 of Fig. 1 though there are differences in the shape of the undercut corner formations 12 as compared with the corresponding formations of FW1. The sections above described with reference to Figs. 1 to 6 preferably are formed of extruded aluminium which is anodised to provide a satin surface finish or may be coloured as desired, but could be formed of other materials. Figs. 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 show glazing channels which may be formed of extruded aluminium or of extruded plastics material and are adapted for use with the sections FW1 of Fig. 1, FW2 of Fig. 2, FW3 of Fig. 3, and FW11 of Fig. 6. The glazing channel FW6 of Fig. 7.1 is a single glazing channel having a bead 13 along one edge adapted to be engaged with the formation 4 of universal section FW1, and a retaining groove 14 extending along its opposite edge for capturing one of the PVC glazing beads of Figs. 8.1, 8.2 or 8.3 selected in dependence upon the required glass thickness in use of single glazing channel FW6, for example with universal section FW1 of Fig. 1, two such oppositely directed channels FW6 are used so as to sandwich the edge of the glass between the respective glazing beads with the edge of the glass seated upon or otherwise located by formation 5 serving as a glazing stool. Fig. 7.2 shows a glazing channel FW7 similar to the glazing channel FW6 but of narrower dimensions to enable the glazing section FW2 to be single glazed, and glazing channel FW7 is also adapted for use with glazing channel FW8 of Fig. 7.3 to enable the universal section FW1 of Fig. 1 to be double glazed, the section FW8 engaging formation 5 of universal section FW1 with its pair of opposed lugs 15 and a pair of sections FW7 being engaged by their edge beads 13 with the undercut formations 4 at opposite sides of the major wall 1 of section FW1, the glass panes each being sandwiched as above described at their edges between selected glazing beads. Figs. 9.1 and 9.2 show differently sized extruded aluminium corner sections FW9 and FW10 for use to conceal the vertical butt joint between two wall panels extending perpendicularly one to the other, it being appreciated that the panels will be retained along their top and bottom horizontal edges by other means. The sections FW9 and FW10 have other uses as will hereinafter be described. Figs. 10.1 to 10.4 show two types of pressed steel panel clips useful in the construction of a demountable partition system according to the invention Figs. 10.1 and 10.3 show the respective clips in blank form before bending to shape and Figs. 10.2 and 10.4 show the formed clips. The clip FS1 of Figs. 10.1 and 10.2 has barbs 16 which are turned in under the body 17 of the clip and has a released tongue 18 which is bent as shown. The clip FS2 of Figs. 10.3 and 10.4 has similar barbs 16 which are bent in under, and has a tongue 18 which is however not bent out of the plane of the body of the clip and is provided with a fixing hole 19. Tangs 40 are released downwardly from body portion 17 of the clip FS2. Figs. 10.5 and 10.6 and Figs. 10.7 and 10.8 show two further clips which in essence are modified forms of the clips of Figs. 10.1 and 10.2 and Figs. 10.3 and 10.4 and comprise parts referenced in Figs. 10.5 to 10.8 with the same reference numerals as designate corresponding parts in Figs. 10.1 to 10.4. The mode of use of the illustrated clips will be described hereinafter. Referring now to Figs. 11.1 to 11.13 and Figs. 12.1 to 12.11, these illustrate the usefulness of the sections described above. It has to be understood that the system according to the invention proposes to employ standard lightweight steel sections studs as reinforcement within the universal sections FW1 and FW11 of Figs. 1 and 6 respectively and such studs are designated with the reference 20 in the Figs. Fig. 11.1 shows a double skinned wall panel comprising boards 21 and 22 secured at their edges by means of a universal section FW1 attached to a wall, ceiling or other surface for example by means of screws. Fig. 11.2 shows a universal section FW1 with a glazing infill FW3 fitted thereto and with single pane glazing fitted by means of two glazing channels FW6 fitted with appropriate glazing beads FG. A second similar combination of a universal section FW1 and two glazing channels FW6 might constitute the lower transom of the window, and might have two boards 21 and 22 extend downwardly therefrom in the manner shown in Fig. 11.1. Fig. 11.3 shows a door infill section FW5 secured in the open side of a universal section FW1 secured to a wall, ceiling or other surface, the formations 10 of FW5 being engaged with the formations 3 of FW1. A sealing strip FD engages in the channel 11 provided in door infill section FW5 for making a draught proof seal with a door 23. A reinforcing section 24 may as required be provided within the universal section FW1. Fig. 11.4 shows a solid glazed arrangement which might for example be utilized for the lower transom or for the mullion of a window. The window pane is received between glazing beads FG fitted to a pair of single glazing channels FW6 engaged with the major wall 1 of a universal section FW1, and a pair of boards 21, 22 engage with the open side of the universal section FW1. The arrangment shown is fire rated by the addition of steel angles 25 as shown in the region of the glazing beads FG. Fig. 11.5 shows a glazed glazed arrangement which might be employed in a window transom or mullion. The arrangement is similar to that of Fig. 11.4 except that in place of the panels 21, 22 there is a window pane glazed to a glazing infill FW3 received in the open side of universal section FW1 by means of a pair of glazing channels FW6 and associated glazing beads FG. The arrangement of Fig. 11.5 is fire rated similarly to that of Fig. 11.4. Fig. 11.6 shows a door glazed transom or mullion arrangement which comprises a universal section FW1, glazing channels FW6 and associated glazing beads FG, a door infill section FW5 with associated seal FD, and fire rating sections 25 and 26. Fig. 11.7 shows a door solid arrangement the construction whereof will be clear from the foregoing, Figs. 11.8 and 11.9 show the application of the blank end section FW4 of Fig. 4 in solid and glazed blank end arrangements respectively, and Fig. 11.10 illustrates the construction of a chair rail a horizontal rail in a partition wall at a height from the floor approximating to the height of a chair back in a single glazed partition wall using two opposed glazed solid arrangements as described with reference to Fig. 11.4. Fig. 11.11 shows a glazed corner constructed around a universal section FW1 provided on its major wall 1 with a blank end section FW4 of Fig. 4, provided on one of its minor walls 2 with a glazing section FW2 of Fig. 2, and having a glazing infill section FW3 of Fig. 3 clipped into its open face. A first glass pane 27 is glazed to the glazing section FW2 by means of glazing channels FW7 of Fig. 7.2 with associated glazing beads FG, and a second glass pane 28 is glazed to the glazing infill FW3 by means of glazing channels FW6 of Fig. 7.1 with associated glazing beads FG. Fig. 11.12 shows a three way glazed junction constructed similarly to the corner arrangement of Fig. 11.11 but with a third pane of glass 29 glazed to the major wall 1 of the universal section FW1. Fig. 11.13 shows a double glazed mullion or transom and illustrates how the major wall 1 of the universal section FW1, and correspondingly the glazing infill FW3, are designed for co operation either with glazing channels FW6 of Fig. 7.1 for single glazing applications or with double glazing outer channels FW7 of Fig. 7.2 and inner channel FW8 of Fig. 7.3. The simplicity and flexibility of the system according to the invention will readily be appreciated from Figs. 11.1 to 11.13. As compared with conventional sound and fire rated partition systems which all have one thing in common, namely the use of components which each perform a single or at most a dual function only, the system of the present invention uses a universal section FW1 which fulfills a wide variety of functions such as use as a head channel at ceiling level or as an abutment against a wall, solid partition or column. In other applications the section FW1 performs a function as a major component it may be used for example as a single or double sided glazing mullion or transom capable of being single or double glazed and with any combination of adjacent panels, i.e. glazed, door, or solid panel, whether vertically or horizontally. Similarly it can be used as a door frame member against any combination of adjacent panels. It can also be used in the construction of a corner post in glazed elevations, a three way post or a four way post either glazed or solid, or as a finishing post either on the termination of a partition or around a clear opening or at the top of a bank rail height partition. To fulfill these functions, the only other aluminium components that are necessary and which clip fix to the universal section FW1 are the glazing infill FW3 to form a double sided mullion or transom or to glaze direct to the head channel, the end infill FW4 to form a termination or clear opening or capping to a bank rail height partition, and the FW5 door frame infill. The plastics or aluminium glazing channels are clipped directly to FW1 or FW3 with FW6 being used for single glazing and FW7 and FW8 for double glazing, FW7 being usable also to glaze from FW2 three way and four way . The modified universal section FW11 of Fig. 6 is a universal four way post with multi functional usage. It can be used for example as a corner post, a three way post, a four way post in glazed elevations and also as a sill for fully glazed modules. It can also be used as a two way, three way or four way door post. Also with the use of infill types FW3, FW4, FW5 it becomes a multi functional glazed and door way post. It eliminates the need for a small solid module to be constructed to form a three way which is able to have two door modules, one either side. Referring more particularly to Figs. 12.1 to 12.11, some exemplary applications of the modified universal section FW11 are there illustrated. Figs. 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3 respectively show glazed, door and solid panel connections to the FW11 modified universal section, the FW11 being shown secured to a wall, ceiling or other surface and with respective other components clipped to it in a manner familiar from the foregoing descriptions of the usefulness of the FW1 section. Figs. 12.4, 12.5 and 12.6 illustrate deep transom arrangements respectively for glazing glazing, glazing door and glazing solid applications, Fig. 12.7 shows a four door post configuration wherein four door infill sections FW5 are clipped to the universal section FW11, and Fig. 12.8 shows a blank end to a double wall panel with opposed doors. Fig. 12.9 shows a mullion with four glazed sides, two double glazed and two single glazed, Fig. 12.10 shows a cill construction and Fig. 12.11 shows a double glazed corner. It is not considered that any further description is necessary of the various applications of the FW11 section. The fixing clips FS1 and FS2 of Figs. 10.1 to 10.4 and FS3 and FS4 of Figs. 10.5 to 10.8 enable panel sections to be butted at joints without gaps and avoids the requirement which commonly arises with conventional partitioning systems for cover strips to be provided in order to conceal such joints. Moreover, the use of such clips produces a sound and fire rateable system which can be erected quickly whilst remaining fully demountable. The clips FS2 and FS4 can be used on their own and, in such an arrangement, clips are provided at appropriately spaced locations along the respective panel edges constituting the opposed sides of a panel joint, the clips each being fixed to the respective panel edge simply by knocking the teeth 16 into the panel edge. One side of the joint is then fixed to a supporting metal stud by pop riveting the respective clip portions 18 to the stud, and the other side of the joint is butted with the first side with the portions 18 of its clips inserted behind the previously fixed panel and between the panel and the stud. Alternatively, and with the avoidance even of the necessity of riveting any of the clips to the supporting steel stud, the clips FS2 and FS4 can be used in conjunction with the clips FS1 and FS3, the last mentioned clips being knocked into the edge of one panel and then being clipped over the lip of the steel stud so as to hold the first panel in place, the lip of the stud being gripped by the spring portions 18 of the respective clips. The second panel fitted with the FS2 or FS4 type clips can then be butted with the first panel and retained as above described. The second method which makes use of the clips FS1 and FS3 is to be preferred in that it obviates the need for secondary fixings pop rivets, etc. . The present invention is, of course, not limited to the use of clips such as FS1 to FS4 and standard clamping and cover strips known in the art may be used to provide an acceptable finish at panel joints. Fig. 10.9 shows a sectional view of a joint made by use of clips FS3 and FS4 between panel edges 21 and 22 supported by metal stud 20. The sections FW9 and FW10 of Figs. 9.1 and 9.2 are aluminium sections for use as a corner or reducing section for different sized boards such as ½ and ¾ boards respectively 1 2.54cm . The conventional practice to finish a corner is to face fix both boards with edges overlapping to the steel studding and then use an aluminium angle which is counter sunk and then face fixed to cover the panel joint alternatively, with the use of a clamping strip fixed to the face, then a clip on corner section can be applied. A corner is constructed in the system of the invention by using FW9 or FW10 as shown in Fig. 13.1. One panel 21 is first fixed flush with the edge of the steel corner stud 20 with several screws. The FW9 FW10 is fixed with pop rivets to the exposed steel stud 20 through its centre tongue 30, with the leg 31 at right angles to this tongue in contact with the fixed board 21. The following board 22 is slid inside the lip 32 of the FW9 FW10 . No fixings are made on the surface at all. Fig. 13.1 illustrates the formation of a double panelled corner with a second steel stud 20 secured to panels 21 and 22 and an aluminium cover strip FW12 clipped over a steel section 33. Fig. 13.2 illustrates an alternative use for the sections FW9 or FW10 in providing a frame for a reduced width panel section. Figs. 14, 15 and 16 are sectional views of further extruded aluminium components which can be used in a demountable partitioning configuration constructed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention, particularly though not exclusively as ducts for wiring. Fig. 17.1 shows a double panelled wall provided with a wiring duct at dado height on both sides, the wiring ducts each comprising a section FW13 as illustrated in Fig. 14 closed by means of a blank section FW4 of Fig. 4. Fig. 17.2 shows a similar arrangement with the wiring duct at skirting level. As will be seen, the wiring duct FW13 is internally divided so as to enable telephone lines to be ducted separately from power lines. Fig. 18 shows the wiring duct FW13 enlarged to form a twin duct by addition of a section FW14 of Fig. 15, and Fig. 19 shows use of the section FW15 of Fig. 16 as a deep wiring duct for example at dado height. It will be noticed that the wiring duct FW14 of Fig. 15 is engageable directly with the universal sections FW1 and FW11 as may be desirable in certain situations. The system according to the invention has many advantages over previously known systems in which a standard glazing section has only one function which is either to form a single or double glazed elevation. To change from one to the other is a major operation which entails taking out all the glazing frames and replacing them with completely new glazing frames. It is also very difficult in such prior art systems to change from 4mm glass to 10mm glass and impossible to use 10mm glass in double glazed applications without modification to standard sections. In the system according to the invention, FW1 and FW3 double sided forms the main glazing frame, and to change from single to double glazing is accomplished by merely substituting FW7 and FW8 for FW6 and vice versa. Differences in glass thickness are accommodated by a change of glazing bead FG1 and FG2 which fits any glazing. The fire rating of glazed modules using standard known systems involves the removal of all complete glazing frames, the fixing of steel angle either side of the glass and then the replacement of the glazing frames. With the system of the invention, to fire rate glazed modules it is necessary simply to unclip FW6, FW7 or FW8 from FW1, fix the steel angle in position against the glazing stool 5, and then replace FG1 with FG3 before refixing FW6. In the whole procedure the main section FW1 and the infill FW3 where applicable is not removed at all. It is expected that the cost of the component parts of a system according to the invention will be no more and very probably less than those of comparable sound and fire rated systems, and that a substantial saving on installation time will be obtained. Furthermore, since secondary fixings bolts, screws, rivets etc. are to a great extent not used and the different constituent sections merely snap together, the reusability of demounted partition walling should be considerably enhanced with consequent substantial savings in cost. While specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed herein by way of example, it will be appreciated by those possessed of appropriate skills that the described embodiments are exemplary only and that variations and modifications could be made without departure from the scope of the invention as described in the appended claims.