# Method for coating ophthalmic devices.

## Abstract
An ophthalmic lens and a method for providing a thin coating thereon is disclosed. The coatings render the surfaces of the devices resistant to abrasion and have an SEB abrasion resistance of at least 20 psi. They are optically clear, aberration free, and provide essentially exactly an optical surface having the desired surface configuration. The coat ing compositions employed contain reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups and are applied to a mold face and partially reacted. The coated mold is then used to cast the ophthalmic device.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An ophthalmic lens having an SEB abrasion resistance of at least 20 psi comprising an optically clear, solid, room temperature stable substrate, and an optically clear, aberration free, abrasion resistant coating intimately bonded to said optical surface, said coating providing essentially exactly an optical surface of desired surface configuration, said coating comprising the polymerization product of a composition containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups. 2. A lens according to claim 1 wherein said material containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups are selected from the group consisting of acrylates, methacrylates, acrylic anhydrides, ethylenically unsaturated anhydrides, olefinic comounds, acrylamides, ethylenically unsaturated amides and urethanes, vinyl esters, vinyl ethers, vinyl halides, vinyl epoxy resins, vinyl silanes, vinyl siloxanes, vinyl heterocycles, melamines, poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl compounds, blends, polymers, and copolymers thereof. 3. A lens according to claim 2 wherein said material containing reactive ethylenically groups is a poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl compound ot the formula A1 Z A2 whereon a A1 and A2 are independently groups having terminal ethylenic unsaturation said groups having the formula EMI29.1 in which 1 R1 is selected from hydrogen or methyl 2 R 0 is a monovalent residue of an aliphatic terminally unsaturated primary alcohol, ROH, where R is selected from the formulaeEMI30.1 and E CH2 b m R5 CH2 c wherein E is selected from the formulaeEMI30.2 a and c are independently integers of from 1 to 6, b is zero or an integer of from 1 to 6, R4 is selected from hydrogen or methyl, R5 is an aliphatic group having 1 to 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted with up to two groups selected from the class consisting of ether oxygen orEMI30.3 groupsR5 having a valence of m l wherein m is an integer of 1 to 5, 2 R2 is selected from the group of hydrogen,EMI30.4 wherein R6 is selected from alkyl and alkenyl groups having up to 5 carbon atoms, R7 is an aliphatic group of up to 8 carbon atoms or an aromatic group of up to 8 carbon atoms, 4 R3 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and up to one catenary oxygen in the group, and b Z is a heterocyclic group of the formula EMI31.1 wherein X is a divalent group required to complete a 5 membered heterocyclic ring and is selected from the group ofEMI31.2 wherein R8, R9, R10, and R11 are independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl groups of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, and phenyl groups, and A3 is the same as A1. 4. A lens according to claim 2 wherein said composition further includes a reaction initiator. 5. A lens according to claim 2 wherein said composition further includes one or more materials selected from the group consisting of polymers, stabilizers, antioxidants, flexibilizers, colorants, fillers, surfactants, flow aids, and hardness enhancers. 6. A lens according to claim 1 wherein said ophthalmic lens comprises a spectacle lens. 7. A lens according to claim 6 wherein said spectable lens comprises a multifocal spectacle lens. 8. A lens according to claim 1 wherein said coating is chemically bonded to said substrate. 9. A method of providing a thin, optically clear coating to at least one optical surface of an ophthalmic device comprising the steps of applying a layer of a composition comprising a material containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups to at least a first face of a mold used to manufacture said ophthalmic device, wherein said face imparts a desired optical configuration to a first optical surface of said ophthalmic device reacting said cosposition to a degree that said composition forms a film that is dry, at least weakly adhered to said first face, and exactly replicates said first face in an aberration free manner filling said mold with an organic liquid material capable of hardening to a solid, room temperature stable state and hardening said organic liquid material so as to form said ophthalmic device, intimately bond said film to the hardened organic material, and adhere said film to said optical surface of said hardened organic material more firmly than it adheres to said face. 10. A method according to claim 9 including the further step of removing said device from said mold wherein said film adheres to said first optical surface and separates essentially completely from said mold face. 11. A method according to claim 9 wherein said composition is partially reacted by exposing it to a temperature in the range of from 350C to 100C for from 1 to 10 minutes. 12. A method according to claim 9 wherein said composition is partially reacted by exposure to activating radiation until said composition exhibits a degree of unsaturation in the range of from about 30 to 90 of the unsaturation it possessed prior to reaction. 13. A method according to claim 9 wherein said face of said mold is positioned at an angle of from the horizontal in the range of about 450 to 600 prior to applying said composition thereto. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said composition is applied to the top edge of said first face so that said composition covers an arc having a central angle in the range of from about 1400 to 1600, and allowed to flow across said face of said mold. 15. A method according to claim 12 wherein said composition is reacted by exposure to ultraviolet light. 16. A method according to claim 12 wherein said composition is reacted by exposure to electron beam radiation. 17. A method according to claim 12 wherein said coating is reacted until it exhibits a degree of unsaturation in the range of from 40 to 75 of the unsaturation it possessed prior to reaction. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said coating is reacted until it exhibits a degree of unsaturation in the range of from 55 to 708. 19. A method according to claim 9 comprising the further steps of applying a thin layer of said composition to a second face of said mold, wherein said second face forms a desired optical configuration on a second surface of said ophthalmic device, and partially reacting said composition on said second face. 20. A method according to claim 9 wherein said material containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated group is selected from the group consisting of acrylates, methacrylates, acrylic anhydrides, ethylenically unsaturated anhydrides, olefinic compounds, acrylamides, ethylenically unsaturated amides and urethanes, vinyl esters, vinyl ethers, vinyl halides, vinyl epoxy resins, vinyl silanes, vinyl siloxanes, vinyl heterocycles, melamines, poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl compounds, blends, polymers, and copolymers thereof. 21. A method according to claim 19 wherein said material containing reactive ethylenically groups is a poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl compound of the formula A1 Z A2 wherein a A1 and A2 are independently groups having terminal ethylenic unsaturation said groups having the formula EMI34.1 in which 1 R1 is selected from hydrogen or methyl 2 R 0 is a monovalent residue of an aliphatic terminally unsaturated primary alcohol, ROH, where R is selected from the formulaeEMI34.2 wherein E is selected from the formulaeEMI35.1 a and c are independently integers of from 1 to 6, b is zero or an integer of from 1 to 6, R4 is selected from hydrogen or methyl, R5 is an aliphatic group having 1 to 15 carbon atoms which may be interrupted with up to two groups selected from the class consisting of ether oxygen orEMI35.2 groups R5 having a valence of m l wherein m is an integer of 1 to 5, 3 R2 is selected from the group of hydrogen,EMI35.3 wherein R6 is selected from alkyl and alkenyl groups having up to 5 carbon atOms, R7 is an aliphatic group of up to 8 carbon atoms or an aromatic group of up to 8 carbon atoms, 4 R3 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and up to one catenary oxygen in the group, and b Z is a heterocyclic group of the formula EMI35.4 wherein X is a divalent group required to complete a 5 membered heterocyclic ring and is selected from the group ofEMI36.1 wherein R8, R9, R10, and R11 are independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl groups of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, and phenyl groups, and A3 is the same as A1. 22. A method according to claim 19 wherein said composition further includes a reaction initiator. 23. A method according to claim 19 wherein said composition further includes one or more materials selected from the group consisting of polymers, stabilizers, antioxidants, flexibilizers, colorants, fillers, surfactants, flow aids, and hardness enhancers. 24. A method according to claim 9 wherein said ophthalmic lens comprises a spectacle lens. 25. A method according to claim 23 wherein said ophthalmic lens comprises a multifocal spectacle lens. 26. A method according to claim 9 including the further step of post reacting said composition after said organic liquid has hardened. 27. A method of providing a thin, optically clear, abrasion resistant coating on at least one optical surface of an ophthalmic device comprising the steps of positioning a mold used to manufacture said ophthalmic device such that a first face thereof is at an angle of from about 45e to 6U from the horizontal, wherein said first face is capable of impartiny a desired optical configuration on a first optical surface of said device applying a quantity of a composition comprising a material containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups across the top edge. of said first face so that said composition covers an arc having a central angle in the range of from about 1400 to 1600 allowing said composition to flow across said first face and form a thin layer thereon covering said face reacting said composition to a degree that said composition forms a film that is dry, at least weakly adhered to said first face, and exactly replicates said first face in an aberration free manner. filling said mold with an organic liquid material capable of hardening to a solid, room temperature stable state and hardening said liquid material so as to form said ophthalmic device and adhere said dried film to the surface of said device more firmly than it adheres to said face.

## Description
COATE OPHTHALMIC LENSES ANTI, METHOD FOR COATING THE SAMETechnical Field This invention relates to coated ophthalmic lenses and to methods for applying coatings to such lenses.More particularly it relates to cast ophthalmic lenses, such as spectacle lenses, which have an optically clear, aberration free, abrasion resistant coating applied thereto and to the methods of applying a coating by the application of a thin layer of a composition containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups.Background Art The application of coatings to surfaces is known. tor example, U.S. Patents 4,073,967 and 4,084,021 disclose the application of abrasion resistant coatings to surfaces by spin coating, dip coating, spray coating, and flow coating techniques. while these techniques have been successful when used to coat smooth surfaces, such as tho optical surface of single vision spectacle lenses, they have not been entirely satisfactory. For example, such techniques result in a build up of a coating material at the outer edge of the lens which causes optical aberrations. Such techniques are even less satisfactory when they are used to coat irregular surfaces, such as those present on multivision ophthalmic devices, particularly those made from plastic.Such devices generally have segments which project abruptly away from e.g. project above or below at least one major optical surface of the device. Coating solutions applied to these optical surfaces by spin, dip, spray, or flow techniques must flow around and over these segments. The resulting coating generally exhibits flow marks around the projection and is thick at the intersections of the segment and the optical surface. This intersection is referred to hereinafter as the segment line. Vapor coating techniques may also be employed.However, the resulting coatings tend to be very thin, for example 0.5 micron thick, and consequently are not useful in providing significant abrasion resistance. U.S. Patent 4,081,578 discloses a molding method wherein parts are first cast in a mold after which the mold is opened to provide a space for the injection of a predetermined quantity of coating composition. The mold is closed to spread the coating composition over the surface of the cast part, the coating cured in the closed mold, and the coated part removed from the mold. This technique is complicated and does not provide good adhesion of the coating to the substrate surface. In yet another technique a gel coating material is applied to the surface of a mold and allowed to partially cure. See U.S. Patent 4,081,578 at col. 2, lines 15 22. A mixture of resin compound and glass fibers is applied to and rolled over the gel coat. The resulting composite structure is allowed to cure. The purpose of this technique is to fill in any defects on the surface of an article. U.S. Patent 4,338,269 discloses a technique for applying a coating to the surface of a molded article. In this technique a composition containing a pentaerythritol base polyacrylate or polymethacrylate and a cellulose ester or a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate containing polymer is applied to a mold and fully cured by exposure to actinic radiation. Subsequently a polymerizable composition is charged to the mold and polymerized. Such compositions exhibit only minimal abrasion resistance and have not been found to provide optically clear coatings. U.S. Patent 3,968,305 discloses a shaped article and a method for applying a mar resistant layer thereto. One method disclosed in this patent involves the steps of first, applying to a mold a polymerizable material selected from a a compound having a total of at least three acryloxy and or methacryloxy groups in the molecule which are linked with an aliphatic hydrocarbon residue having not more than 20 carbon atoms, b a monomer mixture comprising at least 20 by weight of said compound and at most 80 by weight of at least one other copolymerizable monomer, or c a partially polymerized product of said compound or said monomer mixture second, polymerizing the polymerizable material to ..Jrn an wivrasion resistant film on Lhe leldi third, charging a monomer to the mold and fourth, polymerizing the monomer. The article and method of the present invention do not require the formation of an abrasion resistant film on the mold prior to introduction of the monomer. To the contrary such a technique would not work in the invention as is shown below.Disclosure Of The Invention The present invention provides an ophthalmic lens having a thin, optically clear, aberration free, abrasionresistant coating on one or more of its optical surfaces.It further provides a method of applying a coating to ophthalmic devices such as spectacle lenses. The method is equally useful in applying a coating to single and multifocal lenses. The ophthalmic device of the invention comprises an optically clear, solid, room temperature stable substrate, prepared from a polymerized organic material.The device has at least one optical surface coated with a thin layer of an optically clear, aberration free, abrasion resistant coating. This coating comprises the polymerization product of a composition containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups and provides an SEB abrasion resistance of at least 20 pounds per square inch. As used throughout this specification, the following terms have the following meanings a Optically clear means free from haze or other interference which prevents an object on one side of a lens from being seen clearly by an observer on the other side of a lens. b Aberration free means that an object on one side of a layer of the coated lens does not appear to be bent, twisted or distorted to a viewer on the other side of the lens. c Reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups are those groups which polymerize, crosslink, or both when subjected to activating conditions described hereinafter. d Optical surface means one of the surfaces which provides optical correction. e SEB abrasion resistance is the abrasion resistance determined according to the technique described in U.S. Patent 4,084,021. The value reported for SEB abrasion resistance refers to the level of force necessary to cause visible scratching on the coated surface of the lens. The method of the invention comprises steps of applying a layer of a composition comprising a material containing reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups to at least a first face of a mold used to manufacture the ophthalmic device, wherein the first face is capable of imparting a desired optical configuration on a first optical surface of the ophthalmic device reacting the composition to a degree that it forms a dry film that is at least weakly adhered to the first face and exactly replicates the first face in an aberration free manner filling the mold with an organic liquid material capable of hardening to a solid, room temperature stable state and hardening the liquid material so as to form the ophthalmic device and adhere the dry film to the first optical surface. Coatings applied by the process of the invention are thin typically having a thickness of from about 0.5 to 50, and preferably of from about 2 to 10, and more preferably of from about 3 to 5, microns thick .Furthermore, the coatings are free from surface aberrations due to nonuniformity of the thickness of the coating solution, flow marks, coating buildup, particularly at the segment lines and edges of the ophthalmic devices.Additionally, they exactly replicate the mold surface f n which the ophthalmic device is made and consequently provide an optical surface having the desired surface configuration.Detailed Description Molds used in the manufacture of ophthalmic devices from organic materials are generally made from glass or metal and typically have first and second mold sections which form the front and back optical surfaces on the devices. At least one of these sections has a surface which forms a finished optical surface. The coating composition may be applied to one or more of the mold surfaces by a variety of techniques including spraying, dipping, brushing, flow coating, spin coating and the like. Flow coating has proven to be a very useful technique. In this technique a mold is preferably positioned such that the surface to be coated is oriented at an angle of from 450 to 600 from the horizontal. If the mold is designed for the production of multifocal devices having a straight segment line such as a flat top lens , the face containing the multi focal portion is positioned so that the straight segment line is parallel to the vertical. In this position the outline of the multifocal portion of a common flat top bifocal lens mold forms the letter D . The molds are then preferably cleaned of particulate material by, for example, directing a stream of filtered nitrogen gas across the surface to be coated. A predetermined quantity of the composition is then applied to the top edge of the first face of the mold, preferably across an arc having a central angle of from about 1400 to 1600. The composition is allowed to flow down to the bottom of the lens where any excess may be removed by an absorbent material placed in close proximity to the bottom of the die. If the composition includes a solvent, it may be, and preferably, is removed. This may be done by the use of infra red radiation or heat. The coating is then reacted to a degree that it forms a dry film on the mold which exactly replicates the mold face in an aberration free manner. This may be done by either heating the composition for a time sufficient to form the dry film or by exposing it to activating radiation for a time sufficient to form the dry film. Whichever technique is employed, it is essential that the coating be partially reacted within certain limits. For example, if the coating is underreacted, it provides a hazy film and may also exhibit poor abrasion resistance. If, however the coating is overreacted, it exhibits unacceptable adhesion. When thermal techniques are employed, the coating can be successfully partially reacted by exposing it to temperatures in the range of about 350 to 1000C for from about one to ten minutes. When activating radiation, such as ultraviolet light or electron beam radiation, is used, the coating is reacted until it exhibits a degree of unsaturation of from about 30 to 90 of the unsaturation it possessed prior to reaction. Preferably it is reacted until it exhibits a degree of unsaturation in the range of from about 40 to 75 , and most preferably from about 55 to 70 , of the unsaturation it possessed prior to reaction. Coatings which have a degree of unsaturation above about 90 provide a hazy film i.e., one which is not optically clear on the final device and may also exhibit poor abrasion resistance while those which have a degree of unsaturation below about 30 exhibit unacceptable adhesion to the final product. After being partially reacted, the coating is dry, although it may be tacky to the touch. Additionally, the coating will not flow by itself although it can be deformed by touching it with finger pressure. Furthermore, the coating is not abrasion resistant at this point. The specific technique used to briny about partial reaction may be selected to suit the nature of the coating composition. For example, when the reactive ethylenically unsaturated material contains acrylatefunctional groups, a satisfactory level of reaction can be achieved by exposing the coating composition to ultraviolet light. While the exact exposure conditions employed are dependent upon the intensity of the light, the distance of the coating from the light, and final degree of unsaturation desired, satisfactory partial reaction may be achieved by positioning the coating at a distance of from 1 to 90 cm from the light and exposing it to radiation from a 40 watt cm Hanovia lamp for from 0.02 sec to 40 min.Generally, the closer the coating is to the light source, the shorter the time of exposure. If the ethylenically unsaturated materials contain alkoxy silane, the coatings can be satisfactorily reacted by the thermal techniques described above. Other techniques suitable for reacting the coatings will be obvious to those skilled in the art. After the desired level of reaction is obtained, the mold is assembled and filled with liquid organic material to provide the substrate. A wide variety of thermosetting and thermoplastic organic materials can be employed. All that is necessary of such materials is that they be capable of solidifying to form a room temperature stable, optically clear ophthalmic device. Examples of useful thermosetting materials include allyl diglycol carbonate monomer, acrylate monomers, and acrylate oligomers. Examples of useful thermoplastic materials include polycarbonate, polymethylmethacrylate, polyvinyl chloride, and the like. Once the mold is filled, the organic liquid is hardened by any suitable technique. For example, allyl diglycol carbonate may be hardened by subjecting it to heat in the range of 350C to 850C for up to 16 hours in the presence of a suitable polymerization agent. As the organic liquid hardens, the film of coating composition forms an intimate bond to the substrate so that it adheres to the optical surface of the device more firmly than it adheres to the face of the mold. The coating is so intimately attached to the substrate that it can withstand repeated exposure to freeze thaw cycles without any loss of adhesion. This is characteristic of a chemical bond between the two materials. Additionally as the organic liquid hardens the coating is further reacted so that once hardening of the substrate is completed the coating has been rendered abrasion resistant. Once hardened the cast ophthalmic devices are removed from the mold. As the adhesion of the coating is greater to the surface of the ophthalmic device than it is to the face of the mold, it separates essentially completely from the mold. The resulting coating is thin and its exposed surface that is the surface that formerly contacted the mold provides exactly the optical surface desired on the ophthalmic device. Furthermore, it is free from aberrations such as would be caused by flow lines and buildup at segment lines which may be present. The coated device may be used as is or alternatively it may be post reacted. Post reaction may be accomplished by the same techniques utilized to initially react the coating. Typically the conditions employed during post curing are sufficient to assure essentially complete reaction of the coating. Suprisingly, post curing, even to a level such that there is essentially no available residual unsaturation remaining, does not adversely affect the adhesion of the coating to the cast article. While the previous discussion has been directed to the application of the coating to only one surface of a multi focal ophthalmic device, the process may also be used to apply the coating to single vision lenses, particularly those having a high curvature, and to two or more surfaces of an ophthalmic device. The articles of the invention exhibit a SEX abrasion resistance of at least 20 psi. This means that a force of at least 20 pounds per square inch must be applied to the coating to cause visible scratching. This level of abrasion resistance represents a substantial improvement over the abrasion resistance of uncoated lenses. For example lenses made from allyl diglycol carbonate monomer scratch visibly after the application of only 1 to 3 psi.Although an abrasion resistance of 20 psi represents a substantial improvement over this, it is only a fair or acceptable level of abrasion resistance in the context of the present invention. Thus, the lenses of the invention preferably exhibit an abrasion resistance of at least 40 psi a good level of abrasion resistance and more preferably exhibit an abrasion resistance of at least 60 psi an excellent level of abrasion resistance . The coating Compositions useful in the invention contain at least one material having reactive ethylenically unsaturated groups. Example of such materials are acrylates, methacrylates, acrylic anhydrides, ethylenically unsaturated anhydrides, olefinic compounds, acrylamides, ethylenically unsaturated amides and urethanes, vinyl esters, vinyl ethers, vinyl halides, vinyl epoxy resins, vinyl silanes and siloxanes, vinyl heterocycles, melamines, and prepolymers and polymers of these materials. These materials may be mono or polyfunctional. Specific examples of these materials include methyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, cyclohexyl acrylate, styrene, butadiene, 2 chlorostyrene, 2,4 dichlorostyrene, acrylic acid, acrylamide, acrylonitrile, t butyl acrylate, methyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, N vinyl pyrrolidone, 2 tN butylcarbamyl ethyl methacrylate, and 2 N ethylcarbamyl ethyl methacrylate.Examples of other useful materials include 1,4 butylene dimethacrylate or acrylate, ethylene dimethacrylate, hexanediol diacrylate or dimethacrylate, glyceryl diacrylate or methacrylate, tripropylene glycol diacrylate, glyceryl triacrylate or trimethacrylate, pentaerythritol triacrylate or trimethacrylate, trimethylolpropane tri urylatc, pentaerythritol tetraacrylate or tetramethacrylate, dimethlolpropane tetracrylate, diallyl phthalate, dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate, dipentaerythritol hydroxypentaacrylate, neopentylglycol triacrylate and 1,3,5 tri 2 methacryloxyethyl s triazine, hexamethoxymethyl melamine, poly acrylic acid , a poly methacrylic acid , poly methyl methacrylate , poly vinyl chloride , poly vinyl acetate, poly vinyl butyral and the like. A Specific class of useful materials comprises the polyacrylate functional hydrocarbons having at least two acrylate groups per molecule. A preferred subclass of these materials are the poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl heterocyclic compounds having the general formula A1 Z A2 in which a A1 and A2 independently are alkoxyalkyl groups having terminal ethylenic unsaturation and having the general formulaEMI10.1 in which 1 R1 is selected from hydrogen or methyl 2 R O is a monovalent residue formed by removal of the active hydrogen from an OH group of an aliphatic terminally unsaturated primary alcohol, ROH, R having the formulaEMI11.1 or preferablyEMI11.2 wherein E is selected fromEMI11.3 a and c are independently an integer of from 1 to 6, b is zero or an integer of 1 to 6, R4 is selected from hydrogen or methyl, H is an aliphatic group having 1 to 15 carbon atoms preferably alkylene of up to 15 carbon atoms and optionally one or two catenary i.e., backbone oxygen atoms orEMI11.4 groups,R5 having a valence of m l, and m is an integer of 1 to S, 3 R2 is preferably hydrogen but can beEMI11.5 wherein R6 is preferably alkenyl but can be alkyl each preferably having 2 to 5 carbon atoms and can be substituted by a phenyl or carboxyl group, and R7 is an aliphatic group ot up to eight carbon atoms, e.g., alkyl or aromatic group preferably having up to 8 carbon atoms and more preferably a phenyl group and R7 is most preferably an acryloyloxyalkyl or a methacryloyloxyalkyl group 4 R3 is an alkylene group having 1 to 6 carbon atoms and optionally one catenary oxygen atom and b Z is a heterocyclic group of the formula EMI12.1 wherein X is a divalent group which is required to complete a 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic ring. Preferably X isEMI12.2 but X can beEMI12.3 EMI12.4 wherein R8, R9, R10, and R11 are independently hydrogen or lower alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , cycloalkyl of 3 to 6 carbon atoms or phenyl group of 6 to 12 carbon atoms , and A3 is an alkoxyalkyl group as defined above for A1 andA2. A specific heterocyclic compound of the generic formula isEMI12.5 EMI13.1 Materials of the formula A1 Z A2 are disclosed inU.S. Patent 4,306,954 incorporated herein by reference. Other polyacrylate functional materials useful in the coating compositions include Sartomer 295 pentaerythritol tetraacrylate and Sartomerw 399 dipentaerythritol monohydroxy pentaacrylate both commercially available from Sartomer Company. These materials respectively have the formulaeEMI13.2 Other specific classes of useful ethylenically unsaturated materials include vinyl silane and siloxane materials and acryloxysilanes and siloxanes. Examples of such materials may be represented by the formula R13 n Si R14 4 n wherein R13 is selected from a vinyl group, e.g., CH2 CH or a methacryloxy group, e.g.,EMI14.1 wherein R15 is an alkylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms, and R16 is hydrogen or hydrocarbyl radical of 1 to 8 carbon atoms preferably alkyl .An epoxy group, such as one having of the following formulaeEMI14.2 EMI14.3 szzay be included in the silane or siloxane as the R13 group provided that it does not constitute all of the R13 groups.In these groups, R17 is a divalent hydrocarbon radical aliphatic , aromatic , or aliphatic and aromaticcontaining of less than 20 carbon atoms or a divalent radical of less than 20 carbon atoms composed of C, H, N, S, and 0 atoms these atoms are the only atoms which may appear in the backbone of the divalent radicals , the last being in the form of ether linkages. No two hetero atoms may be adjacent within the backbone of the divalent hydrocarbon radical. The value of d is 1, 2, or 3 and n is 1 or 2. R14 is an oxyhydrocarbyl group, preferably alkoxy acyl, or acetoxy, having 1 to 8 carbon atoms or a radical of formula CH2CH2O kZ in which k is an integer of at least 1 and Z is an aliphatic hydrocarbon radical of less than 10 carbon atoms or hydrogen.An oxyhydrocarbyl group is a hydrocarbon group or hydrocarbon group having no more than one heteroatom in the backbone selected from N, S, and 0 for every two carbon atoms in the backbone, wherein a hydrogen attached to a carbon atom has been replaced with a divalent oxygen atom to form an external bond. For example, starting with CH3CH2OCH3, the oxyhydrocarbyl derivatives include O CH2CH2oCh3. Exemplary hydrocarbyl groups includ 4 aromatic groups e.g., phenyl, naphthyl and benzothienyl and aliphatic groups linear, branched, or cyclic including cyclohexyl, tetrahydrofuryl, dioxanyl, peperidyl, pyrolidinyl, ethoxyethoxy ethyl, etc. .Preferably, this oxyhydrocarbyl group has 1 to 10 carbon atoms. Examples of useful silanes are vinyltriethoxy silanes, vinyltris 2 methoxyethoxy silane, vinyltriacetoxy silane, gamma methacryloxypropyltrimethoxy silane, beta 3,4,epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxy silane and gamma glycidoxypropyltrimethoxy silane. Other useful silanes of this type are known to the art. Combinations of silanes or additions of silanes and compounds copolymerizable with either functional group of the reactant silane, epoxy, vinyl or methacryloxy is contemplated in the practice of this invention. Preferably, however, the composition is free from amino silanes. Two or more ethylenically unsaturated materials may, of course, be employed in the composition. The composition preferably comprises at least about 5 parts by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated material. Most preferably it comprises from about 10 to 100 parts by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated material. A reaction initiator may be incorporated into the coating composition. It comprises at least about 0.1 parts, and preferably from about 1 to 4 parts by weight of the ethylenically unsaturated material. The nature of the reaction initiator utilized in the composition is dependant upon the ethylenically unsaturated material used. For example, for those ethylenically unsaturated materials which undergo free radical polymerization, suitable initiators are compounds which liberate or generate a free radical on addition of energy. Such initiators include peroxy, azo, and redox systems each of which are well known and are described in polymerization art, e.g. Chapter 11 of Photochemistry, byCalvert and Pitts, John Wiley Sons 1966 . Included among free radical initiators are the conventional heat activated catalysts such as organic peroxides and organic hydroperoxides. Examples of these catalysts are benzoyl peroxide, tertiary butyl perbenzoate, cumene hydroperoxide, azobistisobutyronitrile and the like. The preferred catalysts are photopolymerization initiators. Included among such initiators are acyloin and derivatives thereof, such as benzoin, benzoin methyl ether, benzoin ethyl ether, benzoin isopropyl ether, benzoin isobutyl ether, and a methylbenzoin diketones such as benzil and diacetyl, etc. organic sulfides such as diphenyl monosulfide, diphenyl disulfide, decyl phenyl sulfide, and tetramethylthiuram monosulfide S acyl dithiocarbamates, such as S benzoyl N,N dimethyl dithiocarbmate phenones such as acetophenone, alpha , alpha , alpha tribromacetophenone, alpha , alpha diethoxyacetophenone, alpha , alpha dimethoxy alpha phenylacetophenone, o nitro alpha , alpha , alpha tribrom acetophenone, benzophenone, and p,p bis dimethyliamino benzophenone aromatic iodonium and aromatic sulfonium salts, sulfonyl halides such as p toluenesulfonyl chloride, 1 naphthalenesulfonyl chloride, 2 naphthalenesulfonyl chloride, l,3. benzenedisulfonyl chloride, 2,4 dinitrobenzenesulfonyl bromide, and p acetamidobenzenesulfonyl chloride. The reaction initiator employed with silane and siloxane materials is preferably a metal ester of the formula M tOR18 x, where M is selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, and zirconium, K18 is selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl radicals containing from 1 to 8 carbon atoms which are bonded to the oxygen atom, and x is equal to the number of valence bonds of M. Other reaction initiators, such as acids or bases, may be used with silane and siloxane materials. Representative metal esters which have been found useful in the practice of the present invention include tetraisopropyl titanate Tyzor , commercially available from DuPont tetrabutyl titanate, tetraethyl titanate, tetra 2 ethylhexyl titanate, aluminum isopropoxide, aluminum n butoxide, and tetraiosopropyl zirconate. Each of the metal esters may be utilized either by itself or in combination in the practice of the present invention. Other useful metal esters of the type described are known to the art. The preferred metal ester is tetraisopropyl titanate. The coating compositions can include a variety of other ingredients such as compatible monomers and polymers, stabilizers, antioxidants, flexibilizers, colorants e.g., dyes and pigments , reinforcing fillers, surfactants, flow aids, hardness enhancers e.g., colloidal silica , and the like. Additionally, solvents may be utilized to facilitate preparation and application of the compositions. Examples of suitable solvents include methyl ethyl ketone, chloroform, methylene chloride and methyl alcohol. The following examples further illustrate the present invention. Unless otherwise noted, all references to parts are to parts by weight.Example 1 A coating composition containing the following ingredients was prepared Part AEMI18.1 parts 75 25Water 50Part B 1tthyl Alcohol 65 HCl Concentrated 4.7Tetra isopropyl titanate 3 28.4 1 A 187 silane available from Union Carbide Corporation 2 A 174 silane available from Union Carbide Corporation 3 Tyzor available from DuPont Part A was prepared by combining the ingredients in a glass beaker at room temperature and stirring until a one phase product was obtained. Part B was prepared by combining the ingredients in the order listed in a glass beaker at room temperature and stirring. Part A 129 andPart B 9g were then combined in a glass beaker with stirring at room temperature for about 15 minutes.A minor amount 0.5 by weight of a fluorochemical surfactant FC 430 available from 3M Company was added to. the resultant product and stirring was continued for about 5 minutes. The concave face of a single vision ophthalmic lens mold was coated with the resulting product by holding the mold at an angle of about 45 degrees from horizontal and painting a small quantity of the composition across the top edge of the concave face along an arc having a central angle of from 1400 to 1600. The coating composition flowed downward across the face of the mold and left a thin, uniform, coating on the concave surface. The coating was partially reacted by placing the coated mold about 5 cm from a sunlamp and exposing it to ultraviolet light for two minutes at about 800 to 1000C. The coated mold was then used to cast a single vision ophthalmic lens blank. Allyl diglycol carbonate monomer CR 39 from PPG Industries containing 3 by weight benzoyl peroxide was charged to the mold until the mold was full. The filled mold was placed in a water bath and heated at 650C for one hour, 730F for one hour, and lhen at 850C for 15 hours. The temperature of the bath was then reduced to 600C and the resulting hardened lens removed from the mold. The coating separated completely from the mold face upon removal of the lens from the mold and was firmly bonded to the convex surface of the lens. It could not be removed from the lens when tested according to ASTM D 3359Tape Adhesion Test. Additionally, the coating exactly replicated the convex surface of the lens, was free from aberrations and had a SEB abrasion resistance of 30 40 psi.The coating was about 6 microns thick. The coating was subjected to postcuring by heating it for 8 hours at 850C. After postcuring it had an SEB abrasion resistance of 70 psi.Example 2 A poly ethylenically unsaturated alkyoxyalkyl heterocyclic compound of the formulaEMI19.1 was prepared as described in U.S. Patent 4,249,011 Example 1 . Sixty parts of the heterocyclic compound and 40 parts of methyl ethyl ketone were combined and mixed until uniform. A polymerization initiator 2 by weight of a, a dimethoxy a phenylacetophenone i Irgacure 651 available from Ciba Geigy was added to the mixture and stirred until a uniform composition was obtained. This composition was applied to the concave surface of a single vision ophthalmic lens mold as described in Example 1 to provide a thin coating thereon. The methyl ethyl ketone was evaporated from the coating by allowing the coated mold to stand at room temperature for several minutes. The coating was then partially polymerized by exposing it to a 700 watt Hanovia medium pressure mercury arc lamp for 10 seconds at a distance of about 5 cm. The coated die was then used to prepare an ophthalmic lens blank as described in Example 1 using allyl diglycol carbonate monomer and 3 by weight benzoyl peroxide. The lens was cured as described inExample 1. When the lens was removed from the mold, the coating separated essentially completely from the mold face and remained adhered to the lens surface. The coating was firmly bonded to the convex surtace of the lens and could not be removed when tested according to ASTM f 3359 TapeAdhesion Test. The coating replicated the convex surface of the lens and was free from aberrations. The coated lens had a SEB abrasion resistance of 40 60 psi and was 10 to 12 microns thick The coating was post cured by exposing it to ultraviolet light as described above. After post curing it had an SEB abrasion resistance of 90 psi.Example 3 A composition was prepared which contained 90 parts of the poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl heterocyclic compound described in Example 2, 10 parts ofSilane A 174 , 2 parts a,a dimethoxy a phenylacetophenone, and 508 parts by weight of methyl ethyl ketone. The composition was applied to the concave surface of a series of multivision ophthalmic lens molds as described in Example 1. After the solvent was evaporated, the coatings were partially polymerized by exposing them for five seconds to a 700 watt Hanovia medium pressure mercury arc lamp. The coated dies were then used to prepare multivision ophthalmic lenses using the techniques described inExample 1. After curing and removal from the molds, the coatings separated completely from the mold faces and were firmly bonded to the convex surfaces of the lenses. They could not be removed from the lens surfaces when tested according to ASTM D 3359 Tape Adhesion Test. The exposed surtaces of the coatings exactly replicated the convex surface of the lenses and were free from aberrations. The lenses had a SEB abrasion resistance of 30 50 psi and were free from flow lines and coating buildup at the segment lines of the multivision segments. The coatings were from 4 to 5 microns thick. The SEB abrasion resistance of the lenses was improved to 75 psi by post exposing them for 2 minutes to ultraviolet light from a 100 watt in Hanovia Lamp positioned 10 cm from the coating. This did not affect the adhesion of the coatings to the lenses.Example 4 An ethylenically unsaturated material was prepared which had the formula EMI21.1 wherein Q was CH2 CH CH3 Coo CH2 3 m had a value of between 3 and 8, and p had a value between from 2 to 10.The procedure used was as follows. A 2 1. flask was placed in a heating mantle and fitted with reflux condenser, mechanical stirrer, and thermometer. The flask was charged with 1500 g of amber colored qammamethacryloxypropyltrimethoxys ilane available from Union Carbide as A 174 or from Dow Corning as Z 6030 and 150 g anhydrous sodium carbonate. The flask and contents were heated to about 13O0C and maintained at that temperature with stirring for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and filtered to remove the insoluble residue. The filtrate was returned to the flask together with about 2.25 g 0.158 potassium hydroxide pellets. Stirring was maintained for 1 hour without heating as the liquid became very dark brown to black in color.The liquid was decanted and distilled under vacuum at 85 to 1100C and 1 to 5mw Hg pressure to yield water white gamma methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane. A second flask was charged with 150 g of the above purified gamma methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane, 150 ml of tetrahydrofuran analytical reagent grade 0.03 g butylated hydroxytoluene as a stabilizer and 33.6 g 1 normal hydrochloric acid. The mixture was ref fluxed for one hour and then evaporated in vacuum 45 C at 5mm Hg to provide a residue of water white clear oligomeric prepolymer of the above formula having a viscosity of about 11,000 cps after air purging. The prepolymer was combined with 2 parts by weight of a, dimethoxy a phenylacetophenone, warmed slightly, and applied as a thin coating to the concave surface of a multivision ophthalmic lens mold using the procedures described in Example 1. The coating was partially polymerized by exposing it tor 2 seconds to ultraviolet light from a 100 watt in Hanovia lamp located 10 em from the coating. The mold was then used to prepare ophthalmic lenses from allyl diglycol carbonate monomer as described in Example 1 except that the lenses were heated in the water bath by slowly raising the temperature of the bath from 600C to 850C during a 12 hour period.When the lenses were removed from the mold, the coating separated completely from the mold faces and was firmly bonded to the convex surface of the lenses. It could not be removed from the lenses when tested according to ASTM D 3359 TapeAdhesion test. The coating replicated the convex surface of the lenses and was free from aberrations because the coatings were free from flow lines and coating buildup at the segment lines of the multivision segments. The lenses had an SEB abrasion resistance of 30 45 psi. The abrasion resistance of the lenses was increased to 60 psi by post exposing the coatings for two minutes to ultraviolet from a 100 watt in hanovia lamp located 10 cm from the coating. This did not affect the adhesion of the coatings to the lenses.Example 5 A composition having the following ingredients was prepared Parts Poly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl heterocyclic compound of Example 2 60 Pentaerythritol Tetraacrylate 40 nIryacure 651 3 FC 431 O. 25 Methylene Chloride 896.75 This composition was applied to and partially reacted on a series of multivision ophthalmic lens molds using the methods described in Example 2. Various power levels were utilized during the exposure. The coated molds were then used to prepare ophthamic lenses from allyl diglycol carbonate as described in Example 1. The coated lenses were tested for residual unsaturation using infrared absorption techniques SEB abrasion resistance and adhesion. The results of the abrasion resistance and the adhesion were reported as poor, fair, good and excellent.Poor i.e., unacceptable abrasion resistance meant that the coating visibly scratched with the application of less than 20 psi of force. Fair acceptable abrasion resistance meant that 20 to 40 psi of force were required before the coating visibly scratched. Good abrasion resistance means that 40 to 60 psi of force were required before the coating visibly scratched. Excellent abrasion resistance means that the coating either did not visibly scratch or visibly scratched only after the application of more than 60 psi of force. Poor unacceptable adhesion means that more than 10 of the coating was removed when tested according to the Tape Adhesion test ASTM D 3359.Good acceptable adhesion means that only from 5 to 10 of the coating was removed when tested according to ASTMD 3359. Excellent adhesion means that there was no coating removed when tested according to ASTM D 3359. The results of these tests are set out below. Residual AbrasionSample Unsaturation Resistance Adhesion A 75 Fair Excellent B 67 Excellent Excellent C 62 Excellent Excellent D 57.1 Excellent Excellent E 55 Excellent Excellent F 48.3 Excellent Fair G 43 Excellent Fair H 36.1 Excellent Poor I 30.6 Excellent Poor Example 6 Coating composition prepared as described inExamples 2, 3 and 5 were applied to the convex surfaces of ophthalmic lens molds using the coating technique described in Example 1. The coated molds were allowed to air dry at ambient room temperature for about one minute and then separate molds were partially cured by exposing them to a 300 watt in. Hanovia medium pressure mercury lamp. The coatings were then tested for SEB abrasion resistance. The results are set out below.Coating Sol n Residual Abrasion from Ex Unsaturation Resistance psi 2 30 2 60 7.5 2 90 7.5 3 30 7.5 3 60 7.5 3 90 7.5 5 30 7.5 5 60 7.5 5 90 7.5The coatings each had scratches so numerous that they became opaque.Example 7 A coating composition having the following ingredients was prepared EMI26.1 Parts 14.0to 4.7Deionized waterMethyl alcohol 6.71HC1 37 .96Tetraisopropyl Titanate 5.64Methyl ethyl ketone 59.92 fluorochemical surfactant FC 430 0.24 Clean glass and metal dies were flow coated with the above composition using the technique described inExample 1. The coated dies were allowed to stand at room temperature for about two minutes and then partially reacted for two minutes at 1000C using an infrared heat lamp. Ophthalmic lenses were then cast from alkyl diglycol carbonate using the molds. The lenses were hardened by heating them at 48 850C for 4 1 2 hours. The lenses were removed from the mold, given a post cure at 900C for four hours and tested for SEB abrasion resistance and adhesion.The coating had an SEB abrasion resistance of 70 psi and 100 adhesion to the lens.Example 8 Two separate coating solutions having the following ingredients were prepared EMI27.1 tb Solution SEP A SEP Parts tb CH2CHCH20 CH2 3Si OCH3 3 SEP 18.78 tb SEP 0 tb Deionized SEP water SEP 7.74 tb Methyl SEP Alcohol SEP 6.71 tb HC1 SEP 37 SEP 0.96 tb Tetraisopropyl SEP titanate SEP 5.64 tb Methyl SEP ethyl SEP ketone SEP 59.92 tb Fluorocarbon SEP surfactant SEP FC 430 SEP 0.24 tb Solution B PartsPoly ethylenically unsaturated alkoxyalkyl heterocyclic compound of example 2 6Pentaerythritol Tetraacrylate 4Photoinitiator Irgacuree 651 0.3Fluorocarbon surfactant FC 431 0.03Methylene Chloride 89.67 Solution A was flow coated directly onto primed trifocal lenses and then partially cured using a 200 watt in. medium pressure lamp 1 pass, 0.25 joule cm2 .The lenses were then post cured at 1770F for 12 hours. Trifocal lenses coated with solution B were prepared using the techniques described in Example 1 except that the coated molds were partially cured using a 200 watt in. medium pressure lamp and exposing the molds to only one pass at 0.25 oules cm2. The filled molds were heated to 48 850C for seven hours to cure the lenses. The cured lenses were removed from the molds and post cured using a 300 watt in medium pressure lamp and exposing them to four passes at 1 joule cm2. A Ronchi Graph was used to test the aberration of the coated surfaces. The trifocal lenses coated withSolution A all exhibited aberrations around the segments while the trifocal lenses coated with Solution B did not exhibit aberrations. Example 9 Four coated ophthalmic lenses were prepared using the coating solution of Example 5. The coating solutions were applied and partially cured as described in Example 1 except that a level of 0.25 joules cm2 were used for partial curing. After the lenses had been hardened, the coatings wee exposed to 4 joules cm2. The coatings had 100 adhesion to the lenses. The coated lenses were dipped into a 930C water bath for 10 minutes, removed and immediately dipped into a 20C ice water bath for 10 minutes. This cycle was repeated 5 times. The coatings were then tested for coating j sion and round to have 100 adhesion to the lenses.