# A process for growing crystalline hydrous alumina within the pores of a porous substrate.

## Abstract
Porous substrates containing seeds of hydrous crystal line alumina are contacted with an aqueous solution of alkaline aluminate, thereby causing additional crystalline hydrous alumina to grow on the seeds within the pores of the substrate. Preferable substrates are macroporous ion exchange resins.

## Claims
EMI17.1 1. A process for growing crystalline hydrous alumina within the pores of a porous substrate7 characterized by providing a seed of crystalline hydrous alumina in said pores by the in situ precipitation of a water soluble aluminum compound, thereby forming amorphous hydrous alumina converting the so formed amorphous hydrous alumina to crystalline hydrous alumina by heating and adding to the seed bearing substrate an aqueous solution of an alkaline aluminate, thereby providing aluminum oxide values which grow additional quantities of crystalline hydrous alumina on the crystalline hydrous alumina seeds. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein the alkaline aluminate comprises NaA102xNaOH where x is a numerical value of 0.1 to 0.5. 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein the production of the additional quantities of crystalline hydrous alumina is promoted by addition of an acid which forms a soluble salt with the alkali. 4. The process of Claim 3 wherein the acid is HC1. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the porous substrate is selected from the group consisting of inorganic, organic, polymeric and resinous materials. 6. The process of Claim 1 wherein the porous substrate is a macroporous ion exchange resin. 7. The process of Claim 1 and including the additional step of reacting the so formed crystalline hydrous alumina with LiOH to form crystallineLiOH.2Al OH 3.nH2O. 8. The process of Claim 1 and including the additional step of reacting the so formed crystalline hydrous alumina with lithium salt, Lix, to form crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3 nH20 where X is the anion of the lithium salt.

## Description
A PROCESS FOR GROWING CRYSTALLINE HYDROUS ALUMINA WITHIN TEE PORES OP A POROUS SUBSTRATE. It is known, e.g., from U.S. Patents 4,116,858 Lee and Bauman, September 26, 1978 and 4,154,311 Lee and Bauman, June 26, 1979 that an ion exchange resin may be saturated with aqueous A1C1 solution and that reaction with NH4OH converts the AlC13 in situ to Al OH 3. This so formed amorphous Al OH 3 is then reacted with LiX, where X is halide, at elevated temperature to form crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3 which is useful in selectively recovering Li values from aqueous solutions, e.g., Li containing brines. It is also known, e.g., from U.S. Patents 4,116,856 Lee and Bauman, September 26, 1978 and 4,221,767 Lee and Bauman, September 9, 1980 that improvments in the above discussed formation of crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3 are found by reacting amorphousAl OH 3 or crystalline hydrous alumina e.g., nordstrandite, bayerite, gibbsite or mixtures of these with LioH to form LioH 2Al OH 3 which is then reacted with LiX to form the crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3, where X is halide. Various forms of alumina, A1203, are known, some of which occur as natural minerals, some of which are hydrated and some of which are crystalline. TheHandbook of Chemistry shows the following CrystallineName Form M.P,OC aluminum oxide, A1203 hex. col. 2050 a A12O3, corundum trig col.cr,n 2015 y A1203, T alumina wh.micro.cr.,n tr.to alpha Al203 3H20, gibbsite, monocl.,wh.cr. tr.to hydrargillite A1203 H20 Boehmite Al203 3H20j bayerite wh.micro.cr. tr.to A1203 H20 Boehmite aluminum oxide, amor.wh.pwd. xH2O,tr.to A1203 xH2O y A1203 Nordstrandite is a crystalline hydrous alumina, as are gibbsite and bayerite. The present process differs from the above previous lithium aluminate preparations in that A1C13 is used only once, to provide amorphous Al OH 3 in a substrate such as a macroporous ion exchange resin.Further loading of Al into the substrate pores is accomplished by crystallizing the alumina in the pores and growing the crystals in an alkaline aluminate solution. The present invention is a process for growing crystalline hydrous alumina within the pores of a porous substrate, characterized by providing a seed of crystalline hydrous alumina in said pores by the in situ precipitation of a water soluble aluminum compound, thereby forming amorphous hydrous alumina converting the so formed amorphous hydrous alumina to crystalline hydrous alumina by heating and adding to the seed bearing substrate an aqueous solution of an alkaline aluminate, thereby providing aluminum oxide values which grow additional quantities of crystalline hydrous alumina on the crystalline hydrous alumina seeds. The so formed crystalline hydrous alumina may then be converted to LiX.2Al OH 3.nH2O by reaction with a lithium salt, where X is an anion or negative valence salt radical. Depending on the type of crystalline hydrous alumina formed, the crystalline unit cells may be of the 2 layer or 3 layer variety. As used herein, the expressions 2 layer and 3 layer refer to the number of layers bounded on both sides by the aluminate layers into which the subject Li compounds are intercalated. The following graphic illustrations will aid in describing the 2 layer and 3 layer systems 2 layer 3 layerEMI3.1 tb SEP nAl OH SEP nAl OH SEP tb Li SEP salt SEP Li SEP salt SEP tb SEP Co SEP nAl OH SEP Co SEP nAl OH 3 SEP tb SEP Li SEP salt SEP Li SEP salt SEP tb nAl OH SEP tb SEP Li SEP salt tb It will be realized that the crystals of lithium aluminates are normally present as aggregates or stacks of a plurality of unit cells rather than each unit cell standing as a separate physical entity. 2 Layer LiX.2Al OH 3.nH2O is formed from gibbsite and a lithium salt LiX other than LioH. The lithium salt concentration must be high at least about 12 15 percent of LiCl, for example and the temperature must be high, preferably close to the boiling point of the LiX solution. LioH tends to solubilize the gibbsite and when it reprecipitates it forms 3 layer unit cells. 3 Layer Lix. 2Al OH 3.nH2O is is formed from hydrous alumina and LiOH which forms crystalline LiOH 2Al OH 3 nE20, which can then be neutralized with an acid to form crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3 nH20, where X is the anion of the acid or of the lithium salt. The porous substrate into which the crystalline hydrous alumina is loaded may be an inert material, such as an inorganic or organic material. For certain uses and reasons, the substrate is preferably a macroporous resin such as an ion exchange resin as taught in U.S. Patents 4,116,858 and 4,116,856, both previously identified. Examples of the macroporous resins that can be employed are the strong acid and weak base types of macroporous resins. Once the substrate is loaded to satisfaction with the crystalline hydrous alumina, the composite is then ready for reaction with LiX, where X is a monovalent anion, such as OH , Cl , Br , I , RCOO or OCl , or may be divalent or trivalent, such as SO4 , P04 orR COO 2 . The alkaline aluminate solution e.g. where x is a numerical value of 0.1 to 0.5 NaAlO2.xNaOH, may be prepared, e.g., by dissolving com mercial grade sodium aluminate, NaA102, in water or may be prepared, e.g., by reacting A1 OH 3 with concentratedNaOH. Commercially available solutions of sodium aluminate can be used. When reacting crystalline A1 OH 3 with concentrated NaOH it is preferred that the NaOH be of 50 percent concentration or higher, at a temperature at which the NaOH is a liquid. After the NaAlO2 xNaOH is prepared, it is diluted during its use in the present invention.When preparing the aluminate solution, it is also preferred that there be about 1.0 to 1.5 mole ofNaOH per mole of A1 OH 3, since too much caustic tends to solubilize the crystalline hydrous alumina seed which is provided in the porous substrate to serve as precipitation sites for additional growth of crystalline hydrous alumina. The alkaline material may be KOH, but it is more costly. In preparing a porous substrate having seeds of crystalline A1 OH 3 within the small pores, it is not generally possible or practical to insert appreciable amounts of non soluble crystals into the pores. Therefore, the seeds are best implanted by providing aluminum solution in the pores and then precipitating hydrous alumina in situ within the pores. To accomplish this one may use a soluble Al salt, e.g., AlC13, and then alkalize the Al to insoluble A1 OH 3. This freshly formed A1 OH 3, being amorphous, is then treated in one of various ways to cause the A1 OH 3 to crystallize. When the substrate is a weak base anion exchange resin in its basic form, the preferred procedure for incorporating A1 OH 3 seeds therein is to add an aqueous solution of All13 to where the amount of Cl is about equivalent to the base capacity. After about 1 hour at room temperature or somewhat shorter times if the mixture is warmed to not more than about 6O0C , most, if not all, of the Al values have been converted to A1 OH 3. This is followed by washing out excess All3, titrating to the resin OH capacity with NaOH and washing again to substantially remove remaining chlorides. When the substrate is any other porous structure other exchange resins, polymers or inorganic inert materials , it is recommended that the seeds be implanted within the pores by using soluble Al such as All3 which is precipitated in situ using NH4OH to form A1 OH 3 in the pores. Excess All3, or A1 OH 3 formed outside the pores, is easily washed away. Once the seed of A1 OH 3 is implanted in the pores of the substrate it may be conveniently crystallized as nordstrandite, bayerite or gibbsite, e.g., as follows 1. To obtain nordstrandite use a soluble amine, e.g., ethylenediamine about 20 percent concentration at about 500C overnight, then wash out the amine. 2. To obtain bayerite use NH3 about 1 30 percent in H20 at reflux temperature for 1 16 hours or more, then wash out excess NH4OH 3. To obtain gibbsite use aqueous NaOH in an amount of about 0.1 0.5 mole of NaOH per mole of A1 OH 3, boil for about 0.5 hour or more, and wash with H2O. Sodium aluminate may be used instead of the NaOH. Any of the above described seeds of crystalline A1 OH 3 may be used as growth sites for producing additional crystalline A1 OH 3 by treatment with alkaline aluminate solution. If this additional treatment is done at less than about 5O0C, the newly precipitated crystalline A1 OH 3 is principally nordstrandite and or bayerite if done at greater than about SO0C it is principally gibbsite. There is a tendency for the seed crystal to promote formation of additional A1 OH 3 having the same crystal structure as the seed. The NaAlO2xNaOH, once formed, and having aNaOH Al OH 3 ratio generally in the range of about 1.0 1.5, is then preferably used as a diluted aqueous solution of about 5 30 percent concentration by weight as the precursor for the additional A1 OH 3 growth on the seed. The NaAlO2xNaOH solution is mixed with the seed containing porous substrate. As the aluminum oxide in the sodium aluminate becomes crystallized to Al OH 3, the pH increases. Addition of more amorphous aluminum hydroxide lowers the pH by reforming additional sodium aluminate and solubilizes the amorphous alumina which then crystallizes out of the sodium aluminate and produces further growth of the seeded crystalline A1 OH 3 which is, again, indicated by a rise in the pH.The step of adding NaAlO2 xNaOH, or of adding amorphous alumina to reform NaAlO2xNaOH, may be repeated one or more times until the relative speed of pH change is slowed, indicating that the pores are substantially filled with crystalline A1 OH 3 and any additional formation of crystalline Al OH 3 is likely to take place outside the pores.If additional pre formed NaAlO2xNaOH is added as a source of additional crystalline A1 OH 3, it should be preceded by an amount of acid preferably HC1 to neutralize the caustic already present from a previous addition of sodium aluminate. This prevents the caustic from building to a concentration which would resolubilize the desired crystalline A1 OH 3. Another technique for causing additional precipitation of hydrous alumina onto the seed, is to add the alkaline aluminate in an amount sufficient to supply all, or even an excess, of the aluminate values expected to be precipitated. Then by slow or incremental addition of an acid, e.g., HC1, the alkaline metal is converted to alkali metal salt e.g., Nail , thus decreasing the ratio of alkali metal hydroxide in the alkaline aluminate, thereby causing precipitation of the aluminate and causing the seed to add to this additional aluminate. It can be seen, Then, that by reacting amorphous aluminum hydroxide to form sodium aluminate, the amorphous aluminum hydroxide is solubilized. The solubilized amorphous aluminum hydroxide, in the presence of the crystalline Al OH 3 seed, precipitates out as crystalline A1 OH 3 and the seed increases in size. The reaction of Lix i.e., a lithium salt or lithium compound with the crystalline hydrous alumina is performed using an aqueous solution of the Lix and employing, preferably, an elevated temperature. It is best if the Lix is a concentrated solution and the temperature is at or near the boiling point. Weak solutions of Lix and or lower temperatures of reaction are less effective in obtaining a high degree of the desired intercalation in a reasonable length of time. The term intercalation is used to indicate that the reaction of the Lix with the crystalline hydrous alumina hydroxide creates LiX 2Al OH 3 nH2O crystals wherein the LiX moiety lies between layers of the hydrous alumina hydroxide and causes an expansion of the hydrous alumina crystal lattice. The Lix can be substantially leached out, but so long as a significant percentage of it remains, e.g., about 50 percent of the possible amount, the crystal lattice remains expanded and the amount of intercalated LiX can be replenished until the lattice is again loaded with LiX. The advantages of the present method and of using NaAlO2 xNaOH as the source of hydrous alumina to build crystalline Al OH 3 in the substrate are 1. crystalline A1 OH 3 such as gibbsite, bayerite, nordstrandite and mixtures of these can, by being combined with NaOH, be used and the substrate substantially loaded with the crystalline material, using fewer steps than are shown in U.S.Patents 4,116,856 and 4,116,858 both previously identified 2. because it is not necessary to dry the substrate such as an ion exchange resin after the first loading step, osmotic shock is substantially decreased and substrate breakage or decrepitation is substantially avoided 3. because the composite is neutralized only once, aluminum loss due to neutralization problems is minimized 4. one may selectively prepare 2 layer lithium aluminates or 3 layer lithium aluminates and 5. having the hydrous alumina present in the porous substrate as crystalline A1 OH 3 rather than amorphous A1 OH 3 is beneficial in providing optimum loading of Lix, thereby forming crystalline LiX 2Al OH 3 nH2O in a more consistent and expeditious manner.Example 1 a Lithium Aluminate from Gibbsite A macroporous strong acid ion exchange resin 525 ml containing 10 percent divinylbenzene is stirred into an equal volume of 29 percent aqueous AlCl3 solution. The resin is filtered so that the excess AlCl solution 3 is removed from the resin. The resins dried to free flowing resin with dry N2 and then stirred into 600 ml of aqueous 30 percent NH3 solution. The mixture is washed. The resin is contacted with an excess of brine to convert RSO3NH4 to RSO3Na and then filtered to remove all of the solution from the beads. The resin is then added to 456 g of H20 and 230 g of NaA102 1,gNaOz solution from gibbsite and 50 percent NaOH . The mixture is stirred and heated to 750C SO0C for one hour. The temperature is reduced to 700C and five 25 g additions of amorphous A1 OH 3 are added at 10 minute intervals.After the last addition, the heat and stirrer are turned off and the resin mixture is allowed to set overnight.The final aluminum content of the washed resin is approximately 3.92 mmoles of Al ml of resin. X ray diffraction analysis shows very crystalline gibbsite is present in the resin. b Conversion to 2 Layer Lithium Aluminate The resin is refluxed in 30 percent aqueousLiCl solution for at least 4 hours. The resin now contains 2 layer LiCl.2Al OH 3 .nH2O. c Preparation of 3 Layer LiCl 2Al OH 3 nH2O in a porous substrate via gibbsite 2 The same resin employed in a 110 ml and containing gibbsite, prepared as described above, is heated with 110 ml of an aqueous solution containing 8.31 g of LiCl and 3.52 g of LioHH20. The resulting slurry is stirred at a temperature of 750C. 1N NaOH 75 ml are added and the resin is heated for another hour. The resin is placed in a 950C oven for 12 hours.X ray analyses of samples taken periodically show a decrease in the amount of gibbsite with a corresponding increase in the amount of LiCl.2Al OH 3.nH2O. The resin is then washed and neutralized with HC1 in a solution containing NH4C1 and LiCl. Neutralization to a pH of 5.6 at room temperature requires about 220 milliequivalents of HCl. The LiCl LiOH gibbsite reaction will also take place at 250C. d The same resin employed in a and c above 225 ml and containing gibbsite 3.7 mmoles of Al ml of resin is placed in a stainless steel beaker with 275 ml of H2O and 35 g of LiOH H2O and the mixture heated to 80 C. X ray analysis shows that all of the gibbsite is converted to 3 layer LiOH.2A1 OH 3 nH2O in about 30 min utes The resin is neutralized with HC1. This reaction also occurs at room temperature but at a much slower rate.Example 2 a Preparation of 3 Layer LiCl2Al OH 3nH20 in a Porous Substrate via Bayerite A macroporous weak base ion exchange resin 500 ml in the chloride form is poured into an equal volume of saturated aqueous AlCl3 solution The slurry is stirred without heating for 40 minutes. The resin is filtered by suction until all of the excess A1C13 solution is removed from the resin and the resin is stirred into 500 ml of 30 percent NH3 in H20 at room temperature. An exotherm from 250C to 30 C is observed. The resin is stirred for a total of 20 minutes. The ammonia solution is poured off of the resin and the resin is allowed to set for 16 hours at room temperature.X ray analysis of the resin shows that bayerite has formed in the resin.There is still a large amount of amorphous A1 OH 3 present. Aluminum analysis indicates that the resin contains 0.7 mmole of Al ml of resin at this point. The resin is washed thoroughly so that the filtrate is clear. Even a small amount of crystallineA1 OH 3 in the solution phase cannot be tolerated. The resin and 230 ml of deionized water are stirred and heated to 450C and 173 g of freshly prepared NaAlO2xNaOH is added to the slurry. This mixture is reacted for 1 hour. From x ray data it can be seen that the amorphous A1 OH 3 content of the resin is decreased. Four 216 g additions of amorphous Al OH 3 are added at 15 minute intervals. After the last addition, the resin is allowed to stand for 16 hours. X ray analysis of the product shows only well crystallized bayerite. b The resin described above 210 ml is neutralized with 240 milliequivalents of HC1. The resin is then heated at 1100C 1150C in 250 ml of 30 percent LiCl solution for 1.5 to 3 hours. Very crystalline 3 layer LiCl.2A1 OH 3 nH2O is the product. No further neutrali zation is necessary. Bayerite in porous resin can also be converted to 3 layer lithium aluminate by reaction with LiOH or a mixture of LiCl and LiOH. Example 3 Growth of Nordstrandite in a Porous Sub strate The same resin employed in Example 2 500 ml is poured into an equal volume of aqueous 25 percent A1C13 solution and the mixture is stirred for 30 40 minutes. The resin is then filtered to remove the excess AlCl3 and stirred into 30 percent NH4OH solution. The resin is stirred for 30 minutes and washed thoroughly with H20. The resin is successively treated with NH4OH and H2 0 until substantially all of the Cl is removed. The resin is washed with deionized water to remove all traces of NH4OH. The resin is then placed in a polyethylene bottle with an equal volume of 12 percent ethylenediamine and heated at 500C for 16 hours. X ray shows the presence of nordstrandite. The resin is then contacted with an equal volume of deionized water and 230 g of fresh NaA102 1WNaOH for one hour. Five 25 g additions of amorphous A1 OH 3 are then added at 15 minute intervals. The resulting product is nordstrandite in the pores of the resin.Example 4 The Modified Method for High Loading of Crystalline Hydrous Alumina To 3000 ml of the same resin employed in Examples 2 and 3 except that it was in the OH form, was added water to a total of 3750 ml was stirred as 147 g of anhydrous AlCl3 were added. Stirring was continued for one hour as the pH slowly rose to 5. The slurry was well washed with deionized water until the effluent was almost colorless. The washed resin was reslurried with 40 ml of 30 percent NH3 and 155 ml of 50 percent NaOH to a pH of 10.5. The resin was then washed on a filter. A sample of 197 ml of the resin so prepared was slurried in H2O with 5.22 g of NaAlO2.XNaOH NaAlO2.xNaOH is a solution of sodium aluminate made by dissolving 1960 g of gibbsite in 2100 ml of 50 percent NaOH at 1000C , The final volume of resin was 192 ml. The resin was transferred to a one liter beaker and 299 g of NaAlO2xNaOH was added plus water to a total volume of 540 ml. By means of a pump, 36 percent HC1 was metered into the stirred slurry at a rate of 1 ml minute. The temperature rose to a maximum of 400C and it was maintained at 300C 400C during the course of the HC1 addition. The pH decreased from 14 to 12.8. The pump was controlled by the pH, and near the end of the HC1 addition, was essentially in an on off mode as the pH fluctuated. After 164 ml of 35 percent HC1 had been added the slurry was well washed to yield 230 ml of resin which contained 4.63 mmoles of Al cc of resin. The Al was present as bayerite as determined by x ray.Example 5 The same resin employed in Examples 2 and 3 200 ml was treated at room temperature with a large excess of aqueous 25.5 percent All3. The resin is sucked dry on a filter funnel and dumped into 200 ml of 30 percent aqueous ammonia and stirred for 15 minutes.The resin is rinsed briefly with water and allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. It was titrated to stable 10.1 pH with 74 ml of N 1 NaOH. The resin was then washed until chloride free to give a settled volume of 166 ml and was added to water to a total volume of 260 ml. A sodium aluminate solution 4.4 g 1960 g of gibbsite dissolved in 2100 ml of 50 percentNaOH at 1000C was added. After one hour of stirring at room temperature an additional 70 g of sodium aluminate solution was added. After an additional 45 minutes of stirring at 300C 350C, the pH had risen to 13.6. During the next hour four equal additions of amorphousA1 OH 3 100 g E 1 mole Al of 9 g each were made. The pH held at 13.5 13.6. The supernatant solution was filtered and returned to the resin pot with a pH increase to 13.9. Two more 9 g additions of amorphous A1 OH 3 were made during the next hour and then two more 9 g additions in the next 45 minutes. The washed resin, with a settled volume of 203 ml, showed an aluminum content of 4.5 mmoles ml.