# POLY GLYCIDYL ETHER BLOCK COPOLYMERS AND PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION

## Claims
Block Copolymer mit wenigstens einem Polyglycidylether Block der Struktur

## Description
Advances in the art of preparing block copolymers from two or more monomers with clearly defined block lengths and narrowly defined controlled molecular weight mol wt , substantially free from homopolymer residues, has provided the basis for a host of commercially significant polymers prepared by anionic polymerization. Such advances in the art of preparing block copolymers, it is generally acknowledged, are not known in the art of cationic ring opening polymerization. With respect even to the general art of cationic polymerization, Prof. Joseph Kennedy said Cationic polymerizations have only very recently emerged from the dark middle ages and reached the point where systematic tailoring of polymer structures became possible. see Specifically with respect to the cationic polymerization of ethylene oxide with SnCl₄, Worsfold and Eastham found that each SnCl₄ molecule rapidly initiates two polymer chains which slowly increase in length through stepwise addition of monomer. They observed that addition of monomer does not regenerate the reaction, and assumed termination to involve no transfer but rather destruction of the catalyst. See To one skilled in the art, the synthesis of polymers by cationic ring opening polymerization and an assessment of the properties of block copolymers based on their structure, is bedded in theoretical considerations, which have been formulated with less conviction than those related to non ring opening cationic polymerizations, generally. An assessment of the probability that a little understood process will provide a block copolymer with any particular structure and desirable properties such as stability, controllable block lengths and mol wt distributions, is even more theory oriented, if not speculative. Such theoretical considerations as the effect of reactivity ratios of monomers from which individual blocks of a particular block copolymer are formed, even if these ratios are determined in an analogous cationic polymerization system, is of no known relevance either with respect to the ease of formation of the particular block copolymers of my invention, or the particularity of their properties as a result of being derived by a specific cationic ring opening polymerization. The difficulty of tailoring block copolymers by cationic ring opening polymerization so as to provide a mol wt within a narrow range and well defined functionality is well known. Recently, novel block and graft copolymers based on the di and multicationically ended living polyacetals and polyethers have been shown to be formed without a hydroxyl containing material, and under anhydrous conditions. See In view of the foregoing teachings, one unacquainted with the theory is more likely to consider the results of certain steps in a polymerization process quite easily accounted for, at least after the fact, than one who is more closely acquainted with the theory. Further, one skilled in the art would expect that properties of block copolymers will be different from those of random copolymers, but the difference in properties between certain block copolymers which superficially appear to be similar, may have a wholly different significance from differences in apparently similar random copolymers. This invention is particularly directed to a process for making certain branched block copolymers, and linear block copolymers all of which are herein referred to as block copolymers for reasons which will presently be evident , using a hydroxyl containing organic material hereinafter HCM , for brevity as the chain propagator which furnishes OH groups as chain propagation sites and, using preselected HCMs, for making graft, star and comb block copolymers and, which process, relies upon a living polymerization generated by the catalytic action of a fluorinated acid catalyst having the formula HMF₆ wherein M is selected from phosphorus, arsenic and antimony or, an oxonium salt of the acid. The process of the present invention yields block copolymers which persons skilled in the art believed could not be made before the discovery of this process. More specifically, the block copolymers of the present invention are made by a living cationic ring opening polymerization, and propagated at sites furnished by the HCM in the presence of a known catalyst disclosed in U.S. A 3,585,227, and in U.S. A 3,850,856. The polymerization disclosed in the 856 patent was based on water, or ethylene glycol terminating the growing polymer chains by introducing OH groups at the terminal positions. This polymerization is now discovered to be a living polymerization which is quite surprising since it is well known that The nature of the processes involved in cationic copolymerisations of monomer mixtures, and the experimental limitations which they impose, have made this synthetic route to block copolymers generally unsatisfactory, at least for most comonomer pairs. see Further, since known polymers such as those described in the 856 patent are clearly stated to be hydroxyl ended, the use of a HCM as a chain propagator which furnishes hydroxyl OH groups as chain propagation sites, was deemed to have been precluded. Thus, there was no motivation to explore the possibility that, even a hydroxyl ended prepolymer might function as a chain propagator in the same manner as the HCM. Nevertheless, it has now been found that, under certain conditions, growth of block copolymers is propagated with a HCM, which growth occurs in a well definable living polymerization system. More particularly, it now appears that the structure of the residue of the HCM chain propagator, whether monomeric or polymeric, of low molecular weight or high, does not adversely affect the growth of a block copolymer, but generates a living system able to grow preselected blocks, so that the overall polymer weight, the polymer segmental weight, and the polymer s functionality are each narrowly defined. Epihalohydrin polymers formed by cationic polymerization with triethyloxonium hexafluorophosphate TEOP are known to be formed as disclosed in U.S. A 3,850,857. However, neither the molecular weight of the polymers nor their functionality can be narrowly controlled, resulting in the loss of control of the polymers properties. In contrast, the unexpectedly close control of molecular weight and functionality of the block copolymers of this invention facilitates the production of a variety of tailored block copolymers which are not only useful as film formers, viscosity increasing agents, dispersing agents for polymerization, and the like, but also for mineral beneficiation where highly specific properties are essential to the making of sharp, and hence profitable, separations. Such close control of mol wt and functionality is only possible because of the unique characteristics of a living polymerization found to be the key to the process, in which the mol wt of the polymer is increased directly with the amount of monomer converted to polymer. Some two decades ago, it was known that hydroxyl group containing compounds are condensed with epoxyalkyl halides in the presence of fluoboric catalysts as disclosed in U.S. A 3,129,232. Soon thereafter it was shown in U.S. A 3,305,565 that water is an initiator in the presence of various acid catalysts forming halo hydroxyl terminated polymers which could be epoxidized. More recently, terminally unsaturated liquid epihalohydrin polymers have been disclosed in U.S. A 4,256,910 which are relatively low in molecular weight, in which polymers a backbone is obtained by homopolymerizing an epihalohydrin, or forming random copolymers by copolymerizing two or more epihalohydrins, or copolymerizing an epihalohydrin with a vicinal epoxide, and using the same TEOP catalyst as used in the 856 process. It is clear that this teaching of combinations of a wide variety of monomeric alkylene ethers with an epihalohydrin refers to random copolymers and fails to indicate that a block copolymer might be formed under yet to be specified conditions. Neither is there any indication that the hydroxyalkyl meth acrylate used in the 910 patent functioned as a chain propagator, nor that the mol wt and functionality of the polymer were narrowly defined. GB A 2,021,606 teaches that hydroxyl terminated poly chloroalkylene ethers have not proven entirely satisfactory when prepared by cationic ring opening polymerization as disclosed in U.S. A 3,850,856 3,910,878 3,910,879 and, 3,980,579. Thus, the problems inherent in the use of prior art catalysts referred to in the foregoing U.S. patents have been documented. A solution to the problems was provided in the British patent application. This solution was to use a catalyst comprising i a fluorinated acid catalyst having the formula H This British patent teaches that only tin fluorometallic compounds even among other Group IV metals, has a peculiar catalytic action not attributable to Group V fluorometallic compounds. The catalyst of the British patent permits water to provide hydroxyl terminated polymers with the same structure as those polymers provided by other HCMs. No distinction is made between HCMs in which the residue is other than H, and one in which it is H as it is when the HCM is water . It is disclosed that, with the specified tin fluorometallic compounds, the resulting polymers include random copolymers, and certain block copolymers. Whatever the mechanism of the polymerization reaction, it is clear that the difference in the overall polymer formed in the British invention is attributable to its use of a specific catalyst, namely, a fluorinated acid polyvalent tin compound catalyst, rather than say the trialkyloxonium hexafluoro Group V metal, used in the 856 patent, and now found to be useful in the instant invention. The quaternization amination of polyepihalohydrins is known to yield highly water soluble products useful as coagulants, for example in the treatment of raw sewage, as disclosed in U.S. A 3,591,520. However, as is well known, the amination of poly epichlorohydrin PECH does not proceed very easily, even under elevated pressure and temperature, with the result that only partial amination is generally achieved. Accordingly, it might be expected that a block copolymer having a glycidyl ether segment would not be easily aminated because of the solubility properties of the block copolymer. Thus it is quite unexpected that reactive halogens in a block copolymer of i a HCM, ii a polyepihalohydrin, and, iii at least one poly glycidyl ether , should be substantially fully aminated, if so desired, despite the presence of segments which clearly do not lend themselves to amination in any known manner. It has unexpectedly been found that, under particular conditions, a cationic ring opening polymerization of a first oxirane monomer selected from the group consisting of an acyclic glycidyl ether, a cyclic glycidyl ether, and a haloalkyl epoxide, in the presence of a hydroxyl containing organic material HCM , for example a polymer referred to herein as a hydroxyl prepolymer , and a particular catalyst, produces a polymerization having living polymerization characteristics. The result is that molecular weight mol wt of the resulting polymer is directly proportional to the conversion of the monomer to said resulting polymer. This HCM serves as a chain propagator which initially furnishes OH groups as propagation sites. Though water is known to initiate catalytic polymerization of oxirane monomers, such polymerization with water results in copolymers of different structure from those prepared with organic hydroxyl containing materials. Thus, for the purpose of this invention, water is not an HCM. Subsequent to the polymerization of the first oxirane monomer, a second oxirane monomer, different from said first oxirane monomer, and additional plural oxirane monomers selected from said group, if desired, are sequentially polymerized to yield a block copolymer. Branched block copolymers, or linear block copolymers of a HCM and a one or more glycidyl ethers, or b a haloalkyl epoxide and at least one glycidyl ether, may be prepared such that the mol wt of the resulting polymer may be controlled by adjusting the ratio of oxirane monomer to HCM. Essential requirements of this cationic ring opening living polymerization of the aforespecified oxirane monomers have been found to be the use of i a catalytic amount of a catalyst initiator which may be either a fluorinated metallic acid catalyst having the formula HMF₆ wherein M is selected from phosphorus, arsenic and antimony or, an oxonium salt of the acid and ii a HCM chain propagator which is at least partially soluble, and more preferably, is completely soluble in the reaction mass, with or without a solvent. It is a general object of the invention to provide a block copolymer having at least one polyglycidyl ether block said block copolymer having the structure wherein each R is independently selected from hydrogen, alkyl, haloalkyl, oxyalkylene, oxyhaloalkylene, alkoxyalkyl, aryl Ar and substituted aryl Ar Q , particularly wherein Q is selected from alkyl, haloalkyl each having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, alkenyl and haloalkenyl each having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and unsaturated hydrocarbyl radicals, The present invention further refers to a block copolymer as defined above wherein HCM R¹ is a polyglycidyl ether residue, It is another general object of this invention to provide a process for the manufacture of a poly glycidyl ether block copolymer, which process comprises, catalytically polymerizing The present invention further relates to a process as defined above, wherein HCM R¹ is a polyglycidyl ether residue, C must be present and either A or B or both may be present or It is a specific object of this invention to provide graft and branched block copolymers of i a HCM having from 1 to 200 hydroxyl groups per molecule with ii a first glycidyl ether having the foregoing structure I , and, iii a second glycidyl ether having the foregoing structure I but different from said first glycidyl ether, and, optionally, iv an epihaloalkylene ether, in the presence of a catalytic amount of the HMF₆ acid, or the oxonium salt of the HMF₆ acid, preferably a trialkyl oxonium salt. It has further been discovered that the choice of the HCM chain propagator is wholly determinative of the structure of a copolymer, particularly a block copolymer, formed by a living cationic ring opening polymerization of a ring openable oxirane monomer in the presence of the HCM, under conditions favorable to the polymerization. Such conditions are mild, namely, ambient pressure and a temperature in the range from 0 It is therefore also a general object of this invention to provide block copolymers of the AB or ABA type, ABC or CBABC types, wherein A, B, C et seq each represents a block of an oxirane monomer, and at least one of the oxirane monomers is a glycidyl ether. A block graft copolymer may result if the hydroxyl prepolymer consists essentially of a prepolymer with pendant hydroxyl groups. More simply, a graft or comb block copolymer will result if the HCM has a multiplicity of pendant hydroxyl groups, as for example in poly ethylene vinyl alcohol or, branched or star shaped block copolymers may result, if the chain propagator HCM has plural hydroxy groups, as for example in glycerol. It has still further been discovered that a block copolymer of a glycidyl ether and a haloalkyl epoxide formed by propagation with a HCM, may be aminated quaternized under elevated temperature and pressure, despite the presence of segments in the block copolymer which are not aminatable. Such amination has been found to occur even when the non aminatable segments together constitute a major proportion by weight of the block copolymer. The amination of a halo substituted segment of the block copolymer yields amphophilic polymers found to be especially useful in water. The cationic ring opening living polymerization disclosed herein occurs because of the specific catalyst used with an organic hydroxyl containing material HCM which acts as a chain propagator for a ring openable glycidyl ether, or for a haloalkyl epoxide and, for the purpose of this invention, water is not an HCM. Thereafter another glycidyl ether, or an alpha epihalohydrin, or both, may be sequentially polymerized to form block copolymers, the sequence being a matter of choice. This polymerization reaction was not known to produce block copolymers having the structure II which contains at least one glycidyl ether block derived from the structure I . The structure II of the copolymers formed, is determined by the structure of the HCM chosen and the number and position of its propagating sites OH groups , the monomers to be reacted therewith, and, if more than two monomers are used, the sequence in which the reactions are carried out, provided the HCM is at least partially soluble, and more preferably, is completely soluble, in the reaction mass thus referred to herein as soluble HCM . By partially soluble it is referred to a solubility as low as 1 part of HCM per 100 parts by volume of the reaction mass. Ethylene glycol is partially soluble in either glycidyl ether A or B, or in epichlorohydrin C of formula II and gives reasonable polymerization rates. When the solubility of the HCM in either the glycidyl ether or the epihalohydrin is so low as to give unacceptable reaction rates, a mutual solvent is used. By completely soluble it is referred to the formation of a single phase. Irrespective of how the requisite solubility of the HCM in the reaction mass is obtained so as to give acceptable reaction rates, the HCM is referred to as a soluble HCM. The cyclic glycidyl ether is selected from cycloaliphatic glycidyl ethers, phenyl glycidyl ether, halophenyl glycidyl ether, alkylphenyl glycidyl ether, alkenyl glycidyl ether, and haloalkenyl glycidyl ether. The haloalkyl epoxide contains from 3 to 8 carbon atoms and is selected from epichlorohydrin, epibromohydrin, 1 chloro 2,3 epoxybutane, 3 chloro 4,5 epoxyoctane, 1 chloro 2,3 epoxycyclohexane, 1 bromo 2,3 epoxy 3 methylbutane, and 2 chloro 2 methyl 3,4 epoxypentane. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the copolymers, II are formed by the action of a hexafluorometallic Group V acid catalyst, or oxonium salt thereof, in the presence of the soluble HCM brought into contact with a ring openable glycidyl ether having the structure I written hereinabove, and, additionally, optionally with other alkylene oxide monomers, under mild reaction conditions, namely a temperature in the range from 0 The catalyst is selected from a hexafluorometallic Group V acid, HMF₆ wherein M is an element selected from phosphorus, arsenic and antimony, such acids being HPF₆, HAsF₆, and HSbF₆ and, an oxonium salt of said acid. The catalyst is used in an amount sufficient to initiate the polymerization. It is preferred to use a cyclic or acyclic oxonium salt which may be primary, secondary or tertiary. The cyclic oxonium salt may be prepared by reaction of an acyclic oxonium salt with tetrahydrofuran. It is most preferred to use a trialkyloxonium or other oxonium salt of the HMF₆ acid prepared as described in U.S. A 3,585,227. The amount of the catalyst used is not critical, from 0.001 part to 1 part per 100 parts by wt of oxirane reactants, and more preferably from 0.01 to 0.1 part, being generally sufficient. It is desirable, both for economic reasons and for control of the reaction, to keep the amount of catalyst used as low as possible. As stated hereinabove, the number and position of the hydroxyl groups on the HCM will determine the structure of the resulting HCM alkylene oxide polymer, and then the resulting block copolymer. In addition, the amount of the HCM used in the polymerization is critical since it determines the mol wt of the resulting HCM alkylene oxide, and then the block copolymer. When a preselected amount of the HCM of chosen structure is employed, it functions as a chain propagator, the OH groups serving as propagating sites, and the growth of polymer continues until all the monomer is consumed in the presence of active catalyst. The theoretical mol wt of the HCM alkylene oxide polymer is calculated by the following equation For example, polymerization of 114 g 1 mol of allyl glycidyl ether first monomer using 6.2 g 0.1 mol of ethylene glycol produces a polymer with a mol wt of 1202 at 100 conversion. Since this polymer possesses two terminal hydroxyl groups, it has a theoretical hydroxyl equivalent weight HEW of 600. Since the hydroxyl number is 56100 HEW , it the OH No. computes to be 93.5. The HCM allylglycidyl ether OH , namely HO AGE The benefit of the peculiar catalytic function of the HMF₆ acid, or oxonium salt thereof, is obtained with any soluble HCM having the structure R¹ OH R¹ OH R¹ is the residue of the HCM, which residue may be alkyl having from 1 to 24 carbon atoms, preferably lower alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, for example when the HCM is methanol or other lower alkanol alkylene having from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms when the HCM is an alkane diol, for example, ethylene glycol polyvinyl alcohol having from 2 to 200 OH groups when the HCM is poly 1,2 butadiene diol polyoxyalkylene when the HCM is a polyoxyalkylene glycol, for example poly tetramethylene ether glycol aliphatic polyhydroxy having from 3 to 100 hydroxyl groups whether the hydroxyl groups are primary or secondary, for example an alkane polyol such as polyvinylbutyral, or poly styrene allyl alcohol , or poly ethylene vinyl alcohol alkoxyalkyl having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms phenoxyalkyl wherein the alkyl groups contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. More commonly available monohydric alcohols are alkanols and haloalkanols having from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms lower alkanols including methanol, ethanol, 2 chloroethanol, 2,3 dichloropropanol, 2 butanol, hexanol, higher alkanols and haloalkanols having from 7 to 20 carbon atoms including hexanol, 1 octanol, heptadecanol, cycloaliphatic alkanols and haloalkanols having from 4 to 8 carbon atoms, such as cyclohexanol, 2 chloro cyclohexanol. Polyhydric alcohols which may be used as HCMs are glycerol, propylene glycol, ethylene glycol, butylene glycols, 1,6 hexanediol, bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane, hexanetriol, trimethylolethane, trimethylolpropane, bis 4 hydroxycyclohexyl dimethylmethane, dimethylolbenzenes, 4, 4 dimethyloldiphenylmethane, and dimethylol toluenes. Most preferred polymeric HCMs include polyoxyalkylene glycols and triols, particularly poly tetramethylene ether glycols having a mol wt in the range from 500 to 3000 and, hydroxyl ended polyalkadienes such as poly butadiene diol having a mol wt in the range from 100 to 5000 and hydroxyl ended poly butadiene styrene having a mol wt in the range from 100 to 5000. The polyhydric ether alcohols include diglycerol, triglycerol, dimethylolanisoles, beta hydroxyethyl ethers of polyhydric alcohols for example diethylene glycol, and polyethylene glycol bis beta hydroxyethyl ether of hydroquinone bis beta hydroxyethyl ether of bis phenol beta hydroxyethyl ethers of glycerol condensates of alkylene oxides such as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, butylene oxide, isobutylene oxide glycidol glycidyl ethers with polyhydric alcohols mentioned herein, and with polythioethers such as 2,2 dihydroxydiethyl sulfide and 2,2 3,3 tetrahydroxy propyl sulfide. The mercapto thiol alcohols are exemplified by alpha monothioglycerol and alpha,alpha dithioglycerol. Commonly available are alkylated polyhydric alcohols which include hydroxyalkylated cellulose, and glucose and, halogenated polyhydric alcohols, particularly the chlorides of sorbitol, of mannitol, and of glycerol. For steric reasons, preselected OH groups of polyols such as mannitol and sorbitol are generally rendered inactive by reaction with a suitable OH inactivating agent, preferably by selective alkylation. Still other HCMs may be obtained by reacting a polyhydric alcohol with a polyepoxide, such as the reaction product of glycerol and bis 2,3 epoxy propyl ether and still others are silicone polycarbinols commonly available as Dow Corning The block copolymer formed will have as many OH propagation sites as does the HCM from which the block copolymer is grown. When it is desired to form a linear block, or, branched star block copolymer, the HCM will typically have from 1 to 4 terminal OH groups. When the HCM is a prepolymer with plural pendant OH groups, a graft or comblike block copolymer is formed. The number of pendant OH groups is not critical and may be large, but is generally less than 200, and more preferably from 4 to 50. The block copolymerization of the present invention may be carried out in bulk if the HCM is completely soluble in the reaction mass, or in the presence of a suitable solvent if the HCM is only partially soluble. It is preferred to keep the amount of solvent used to a minimum for best results. Any solvent for the reaction mass, that is, a mutual solvent for the HCM and the glycidyl ether or haloalkyl epoxide, may be used provided the solvent itself does not interfere with the block copolymerization reaction. Typically, a solvent from the class of aromatic hydrocarbons such as xylene, aliphatic hydrocarbons such as hexane, petroleum ethers, polyethers such as diglyme, and chlorinated hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride, chloroform, dichloromethane, and chlorobenzenes which are most preferred. The temperature employed in the polymerization process of the present invention is usually between 0 The polymerization reaction is exothermic. However, the reaction temperature is readily maintained by the controlled rate of catalyst addition, and suitable heat exchange means. The time of the polymerization reaction will normally vary from 1 to 10 hours and in many cases, will take up to about 24 hours or more, depending upon the particular catalyst used, the amount used, the temperature, and other factors. The progress of the reaction may be monitored by periodic sampling to determine the amount of monomer converted. On completion of the polymerization, the reaction is terminated by neutralizing the catalyst, generally by adding a slight molar excess of a base such as ammonium hydroxide in an alcoholic isopropanol solution. Unreacted monomer, if there is any, may be removed by evaporation under vacuum. The polymers formed by the process described herein can be of higher mol wt that is, higher than the mol wts heretofore normally obtainable by prior methods for the cationic polymerization of epihalohydrins, as taught for example in the Dreyfus 856 patent. The polymers will vary from liquids, to semisolids, to solids, and the weight average wt avg mol wt of such polymers will vary from 1,000 to 2,000,000. Molecular weights are preferably determined by gel permeation chromatography GPC using a Waters Model 200 instrument equipped with a modified Waters R4 differential refractometer detector. The solvent used is THF and flow rate is 2.0 mm³ min, in a column 25 cm x 7.8 mm ID, packed with Waters Microstyragel. The mol wt of block copolymers may also be obtained by determining the OH No. and calculating the number avg mol wt as described in The polymerization process, described herein, may be carried out at autogenous pressures although superatmospheric pressures of up to 1.01 MPa 10 atmospheres or more may be employed with some advantage with the more volatile monomers. Superatmospheric pressures may also be employed with those monomers and or solvents having the requisite volatilities at reaction temperatures permitting reflux cooling of the reaction mixture. The unexpected results of the instant invention are formation of block copolymers having i designed desired mol wt, ii designed structure, as a result of the positioning of preselected propagating sites, and iii precise functionality, which block copolymers are produced with iv excellent control of the temperature of polymerization, v high yield, and vi high catalyst efficiency. By catalyst efficiency is meant the weight of polymer produced per unit weight of catalyst initiator employed. For example, a yield of 1 kg of polymer to 10 kg of polymer per one gram of catalyst used is obtained by use of the present invention. Such high yields are comparable only to those obtained by the Dreyfuss process mentioned hereinabove. Moreover, because the mol wt and functionality are controlled, the viscosity of the polymer is controlled. As might be expected, the rate at which each oxirane monomer is polymerized will depend upon its structure, other conditions being the same. It has been found that the rate at which an aromatic glycidyl ether, such as phenyl or naphthyl glycidyl ether, is polymerized, is greater than that of an alkylene glycidyl ether such as allyl glycidyl ether, which in turn is greater than that of a haloalkyl epoxide such as epichlorohydrin. Thus, in the preparation of a block copolymer, it is generally desirable to polymerize the least reactive block first and the most reactive monomer last. The quaternization amination of polyepihalohydrins is known to yield highly water soluble products useful as coagulants, for example in the treatment of raw sewage, and the breaking of oil in water emulsions as disclosed in U.S. A 3,591,520. The aminated block copolymers are also useful as surfactants, sizing agents and anti static agents anti stats . Thus, when the block glycidyl ether copolymers of my invention contain a reactive halogen, the segment containing the halogen may be conventionally aminated with an amine capable of an addition reaction with the halogen containing segment, to yield an aminated glycidyl ether block copolymer. In the aminated glycidyl ether block copolymer, each reactive halogen is typically replaced with N R 2 3.X alkylammonium halide wherein X represents halogen, usually Cl, Br or I, and R² is the residue of an amine, identified hereinbelow, used to aminate the block copolymer. If each glycidyl ether monomer is halo substituted, and the two monomers are blocked together, at least some of the halogen substituents of each block of the block copolymer will be aminated. If no portion of the aminated block copolymer is hydrophobic, it will be hydrophilic. Controlled amphophilicity is most preferably attained by adjusting the length of the PECH block, that is, choosing c , and or choosing the HCM which may have reactive halogen substituents intermediate its OH propagating sites. In addition, the length of one or more poly glycidyl segments, and or the halogen substituents of either, may be chosen that is, a or b . In particular, R¹ may be the residue of a poly glycidyl ether in which the monomer has the structure I in which the substituted group R includes a reactive halogen substituent. Preferred substituted groups are hydrocarbon groups such as alkyl having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms including methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, amyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, tridecyl, most preferred of which are lower alkyl having from 1 6 carbon atoms alkenyl, referring to analogues of alkyl groups containing one or more C C groups, for example, butenyl, pentenyl, hexenyl, decenyl, dodecenyl, tridecenyl, most preferred of which are lower alkenyl or, dienyl, for example, butadienyl, pentadienyl, hexadienyl, heptadienyl, octadienyl, most preferred of which are lower dienyl aryl, including phenyl, substituted phenyl, alkyl phenyl, polyalkylphenyl, alkoxyphenyl, naphthyl, alkyl naphthyl, benzyl, substituted benzyl, most preferred of which are phenyl and alkylphenyl. Segments of PECH are the most preferred if block copolymers of this invention are to be aminated. Amination of the chloromethyl groups in PECH are the most preferred if block copolymers of this invention are to be aminated. Amination of the chloromethyl groups in PECH with a wide variety of aliphatic and aromatic amines is known to produce the corresponding ammonium salt which provides cationic charges and imparts hydrophilicity to the polymer. It is known that amination of PECH may be effected in such a manner as to convert the normally hydrophobic PECH to a hydrophilic polymer, but a polymer with amphophilic properties, that is, having both hydrophilic and hydrophobic characteristics, is difficult to obtain. Controlled amphophilic properties are of especial interest in the fabrication of water treatment chemicals. The block copolymers of this invention may be tailored so that the degree of hydrophilicity or amphophilicity may be controlled by the structure of the block copolymer, the type of amine used to aminate it, and the number of chloromethyl groups which are actually aminated. When PECH is one of the segments to be aminated, at least one of the segments being a glycidyl ether, the aminated block copolymer has the structure wherein X represents a halogen, R¹, R² and A have the same connotation as set forth hereinabove, and a, c, and d represent numerals defined as for structure II . Any conventionally used amine may be used for aminating PECH. Preferred amines are selected from the group consisting of alkylamines, dialkylamines, and trialkylamines having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms, and more preferably from 1 to 6 carbon atoms cyclic alkylamines having from 5 to 7 carbon atoms, more preferably cyclohexylamine fatty amines having from 10 to 50 carbon atoms polymeric amines and polyetheramines having a mol wt in the range from 100 to 500 alkanolamines having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms, and more preferably from 1 to 6 carbon atoms morpholine pyridine aniline thiazines and silane containing amines having from 5 to 20 carbon atoms. Preferred for amination are block copolymers with a multiplicity of reactive chlorine atoms so that at least 20 percent of all Cl atoms are aminated. When the residue is non aminatable, and a segment of the block copolymer is aminatable, the aminated block copolymer will be amphophilic. Amination is usually effected using a predetermined stoichiometric amount of the amine, or a slight excess over the amount calculated as being necessary to effect the desired degree of amination. A solvent, such as a lower alkyl cyanide such as acetonitrile, an aliphatic ketone having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, particularly acetone, or even water, may be used to obtain a homogeneous solution, though obtaining such a solution is not necessary. It is preferred for amination, to use block copolymers which do not require a solvent. The reaction is carried out in the range from 40 The block copolymers of this invention, optionally aminated, are particularly useful in chain extension reactions, the chain extending agent being any polyfunctional compound which will react, under appropriate conditions of temperature, pressure and suitable catalyst, with the hydroxyl groups. Such compounds can be polyisocyanates such as m or p phenylene diisocyanate, 2,4 toluene diisocyanate, or polyepoxides such as Epon resins, as for example, the diglycidyl ether of Bisphenol A. The difunctional chain extending agents are generally used in stoichiometric amounts to the reactive hydroxyl groups at the chain ends, when a linear, relatively high mol wt polymer is desired, such as may be soluble in commonly available solvents. When the chain extending agent contains more than two functional groups, and the hydroxyl ended polymer has two reactive hydroxyl groups, the polymer formed will be cross linked. HCM with single 1 OH propagating site HCM with two 2 propagating sites An analogous procedure to that set forth immediately hereinabove is used to prepare block copolymers with the following HCMs propylene glycol, butylene glycol, diethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, triethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, 1,6 hexanediol, 1,4 cyclohexanediol and 1,4 cyclo hexanedimethanol. HCM with three 3 OH propagating sites HCM with four 4 or more, OH propagating sites Amination of block copolymers HCM is poly glycidyl ether with two 2 OH propagating sites The temperature of the block copolymerization reaction is preferably maintained in the range from 20 As will be evident from the foregoing examples, it is not critical with respect to the initiation and propagation of these block copolymers, what particular glycidyl ether is chosen, except of course as it affects the kinetics of the polymerization. Some glycidyl ethers having the structure I form polymers more quickly than others. Also, the particular properties of the block copolymer formed will depend upon the choice of glycidyl ether s . Thus one skilled in the art will appreciate that a modicum of trial and error will result in the proper choice of a glycidyl ether if it is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, including methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, amyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl and tridecyl having from 1 to 40 carbon atoms, more preferably lower alkyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms alkenyl, being olefinically unsaturated analogs of alkyl groups, and containing from 1 to 40 carbon atoms, including decenyl, dodecenyl, tridecenyl dienes for example octadienyl, but preferably lower alkenyl having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms and cycloalkyl, preferably cyclohexyl, or substituted cycloalkyl having from 5 to 7 ring carbon atoms. Additionally, tailoring the structure of the block copolymer for desirable properties may be done by the choice of HCM. Preferably these HCMs are i compounds having 1 to 4 terminal OH propagating sites referred to as first compounds among which are non polymeric and polymeric compounds first hydroxyl terminated prepolymers or, ii compounds having from 1 to 50 pendant OH propagating sites referred to as second compounds among which are non polymeric and polymeric compounds second hydroxy terminated prepolymers . The non polymeric first compounds are selected from alkanols, haloalkanols, alkyl polyols and haloalkyl polyols having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms alkenols, haloalkenols, alkenyl polyols and haloalkenyl polyols having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms alkynols, haloalkynols, alkynyl polyols, and haloalkynyl polyols having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms cyclic alkanols having from 5 to 10 carbon atoms forming one or two rings, particularly cyclohexanol cyclic alkenyl polyols having from 5 to 10 carbon atoms forming one or two rings, particularly cyclohexenyl diol and, mercapto alcohols having from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. The first hydroxyl terminated prepolymer is selected from of polyalkanes, polyalkenes, polyalkynes, polyvinylbenzenes, optionally with substituents selected from halogens and hydrocarbyl groups, preferably with the prepolymer having a mol wt in the range from 500 to 5000 poly alpha epihalohydrin poly alkylene ether having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms and, poly glycidyl ether having the structure I wherein R is selected from the group consisting of alkyl having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms, alkenyl, aryl Ar , and substituted aryl Ar Q wherein Q is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, haloalkyl, each having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The non polymeric second compound is selected from an alkane or haloalkane having from 1 to 40 carbon atoms having from 1 to 20 pendant OH propagating sites, for example 2,4,6 decane triol. The second hydroxyl terminated prepolymer is selected from alkylated polyhydric alcohols such as poly styrene allyl alcohol poly ethylene co vinyl alcohol and halogenated polyhydric alcohols such as poly chlorostyrene allyl alcohol having a mol wt in the range from 200 to 5000 and, polyacetals such as poly vinyl butyral having a mol wt in the range from 1500 to 50,000. The polyalkene is selected from polymers of monoolefinically unsaturated olefins having from 2 to 6 carbon atoms, and polymers of dienes having from 4 to 6 carbon atoms. The poly glycidyl ether is selected from poly alkyl glycidyl ether , poly allyl glycidyl ether , poly phenyl glycidyl ether , and poly chlorophenyl glycidyl ether . The poly epihalohydrin is selected from poly epibromohydrin and poly epichlorohydrin . The poly alkylene ether glycol is selected from poly tetramethylene ether glycol, and poly pentamethylene ether glycol. The hydroxyl terminated prepolymer may also comprise a copolymer which is selected from poly styrene co butadiene , and poly styrene co isoprene . Furthermore, said prepolymer may be a polyalkadiene diol selected from poly butadiene diol and poly pentadiene diol.