# Quinone compounds, their production and use.

## Abstract
New quinone compounds of the formula

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A compound of the formula EMI20.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxy.carbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms or carbamoyloxymethyl, or its hydroquinone form compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the compound is in the quinone form. 3. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein Y is carboxyl. 4. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein Y is carbamoyloxymethyl. 5. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the compound is 2 11 carboxyundeca 5,10 diynyl 3,5,6 trimethyl 1,4 benzoquinone. 6. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the compound is 2 ll carboxyundeca 5,10 diynyl 5 ,6 dimethoxy 3 methyl 1,4 benzoquinone. 7. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the compound is 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,5,6 trimethyl1,4 benzoquinone 8. A compound as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the compound is 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 5,6 dimethOxy 3 methyl 1,4 benzoquinone. 9. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises, as an active ingredient, an effective amount of a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient there for. 10. A compound as claimed in any one of Claim 1 to 8 or a pharmaceutical composition as claimed in Claim 9 for use in therapeutical treatment of a mammal. 11. A process for producing a compound of a formula EMI21.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or carbamoyloxymethyl, or its hydroquinone form, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI21.2 wherein R and Y are as defined above, and R1 is an alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, benzyl, methoxymethly or tetrahydropyranyl, to deprotection reaction. 12. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI22.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and yl is formyl or carboxyl, which comprises oxidizing a compound of the formula EMI22.2 wherein R is of the meaning given above. 13. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI22.3 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is carbamoyloxymethyl, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI22.4 wherein R is of the meaning given above, to carbamoylation. 14. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI23.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or carbamoyloxymethyl, which comprises reducing a compound of the formula EMI23.2 wherein R and Y are of the meaning given above. CLAIMS for the contracting State AT 1. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI24.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or carbamoyloxymethyl, or its hydroquinone form, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI24.2 wherein R and Y are as defined above, and R is an alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, benzyl, methoxymethyl or tetrahydropyranyl, to a deprotection reaction. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, whereinR1 is C1 C3 alkyl or benzyl, and the compound II is subjected to oxidative dealkylation. 3. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein RÚ is methoxymethyl or t trahydropyranyl, and the compound II is subjected to selvolysis. 4. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI25.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and y1 is formyl or carboxyl, which comprises oxidizing a compound of the formula EMI25.2 wherein R is of the meaning given above. 5. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI25.3 wher.ein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is carbamoyloxymethyl, which comprises subjecting a compound of the formula EMI25.4 wherein R is of the meaning given above, to carbamoylation. 6. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI26.1 wherein Y3 is alkoxycarbonyl group having 2 to 5 carbon atoms and R is methyl or methoxy, which comprises esterifying a compound of the formula EMI26.2 wherein R is as defined above. 7. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI26.3 wherein Y is carbamoyl or a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R is methyl or methoxy, which comprises subjncting a compound of the formula EMI26.4 wherein R is as defined above, to an amidation reaction. 8. A process for producing a compound of the formula EMI27.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or carbamoyloxymethyl, which comprises reducing a compound of the formula EMI27.2 wherein P and Y are of the meaning given above. 9. A process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition, which comprises mixing a compound of the formula EMI27.3 wherein R is methyl or m thoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms or carbamoyloxymethyl, or its hydroquinone form compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

## Description
Quinone Compounds, Their Production and Use This invention relates to novel quinone compounds useful as drugs or intermediates therefor. More particularly, this invention relates to a quinone compound of the formula EMI1.1 wherein R is methyl or methoxy and Y is formyl, carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms, carbamoyl, a mono or di alkoxycarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms or carbamoyloxymethyl, or its hydroquinone form compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The hydroquinone form compound of the above quinone compound Ia is represented by the formula EMI1.2 wherein R and Y are as defined above. Referring to the above formulas la and Ib , the alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 5 carbon atoms represented byY includes methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, propoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, butoxycarbonyl, isobutoxycarbonyl and tert butoxycarbonyl, among others. The mono or dialkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms is, for example, methylcarbamoyl, ethylcarbamoyl, propylcarbamoyl, isopropylcarbamoyl, dimethylcarbamoyl or diethylcarbamoyl. Among the compounds provided by the present invention, those compounds in which Y is a carboxyl group are generally preferred from the viewpoint of achieving the object of the present invention. Furthermore, a methyl group is a preferred species of R. Among the compounds of the present invention, the compounds Ia and Ib wherein Y is carboxyl may take a form of pharmaceutically acceptable salt. As examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts, there may be mentioned alkali metal salts such as sodium salts, potassium salts, etc. The compounds Ia and Ib of the present invention can be produced, for example, by subjecting a compound of the formula EMI2.1 wehrein R and Y are as defined above, and R1 is an alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, benzyl, methoxymethyl or tetrahydropyranyl, to deprotection. That is, the compound Ia can be obtained by subjecting the compound II wherein RÚ is an alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atom or benzyl to oxydative dealkylation, whereby deprotection and oxidation of benzene ring take place,while the compound Ib can be obtained by subjecting the compound II wherein R1 is methoxymethyl or tetrahydropyranyl to solvolysis, whereby deprotection occurs. The oxidative dealkylation of the compound II wherein R1 is an alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atoms or benzyl is carried out using a divalent silver compound e.g. AgO or a cerium compound e.g. Ce NH4 2 NO3 6 , for instance. Thus, for example, the compound II is reacted with AgO nitric acid in water or an aqueous organic solvent e.g. dioxane, acetonitrile or is reacted withAgO or ammonium cerium IV nitrate in the presence of pyridine 2,6 dicarboxylic acid, pyridine 2,6 dicarboxylic acid N oxide or pyridine 2,4,6 tricarboxylic acid in a solvent such as mentioned above. The amount of oxidizing agent is usually 2 to 3 moles per mole of the compound II . The reaction temperature may generally be about 100C to about 300C, preferably about 50C to about 10 C. The reaction time is usually 30 minutes to one hour. The solvolysis of the compound II wherein R1 is methoxymethyl or tetrahydropyranyl is carried out by contacting the compound II with an acid such as a mineral acid hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, etc. , an organic sulfuric acid methane sulfonic acid, p toluene sulfonic acid, camphor sulfonic acid, etc. in the presence of an organic solvent such as methanol, ethanol, dioxane, acetonitrile, a mixture of water and one of these solvents.The amount of an acid is usually 0.005 to 0.1 mole per mole of compound II . The reaction temperature is usually in the range of from OOC to 600C, the reaction time is usually 1 to 5 hours Among the compounds Ia , a compound of the formula EMI3.1 wherein yl is formyl or carboxyl group can also be produced, for example, by oxidizing a compound of the formula EMI4.1 wherein R is as defined above. Such oxidation reaction is performed by the conventional method known for the conversion of alcohols to aldehydes or carboxylic acids.Thus, for instance, the oxidation methods using chromic anhydridesulfuric acid, chromic anhydride pyridine or the like are advantageous for the production of the carboxyl compounds, whereas the oxidation methods using activated manganese dioxide, N chlorosuccinimide dimethyl sulfide or .tetra hydrothiophene are suited for the production of the formyl compounds. The oxidation with chromic anhydride is preferably carried out in acetone or aqueous acetone within the temperature range of 0 100C. In the production of the formyl compounds, anhydrous chloroform or anhydrous methylene chloride is generally used as a solvent and, when activated manganese dioxide is used, the reaction can be carried out at 200C to room temperature. Among the compounds Ia , a compound of the formula EMI4.2 wherein y2 is carbamoyloxymethyl and R is as defined above, can also be produced by subjecting a compound of the formula III to carbamoylation. This reaction is generally carried out by reacting a compound III with trifluoroacetic acid and potassium cyanate in the absence or presence of a solvent such as methylene chloride, chloroform, benzene, etc. Potassium cyanate is usually used in an amount ranging from 1 to 2 moles per mole of compound III .The reaction temperature is usually 10 to 400C, and the reaction time is usually 1 to 5 hours. Among the compounds Ia , a compound of the formula EMI5.1 wherein Y is alkoxycarbonyl group having 2 to 5 carbon atoms and 2 is as defined above, can also be produced by esterifying a compound of the formula EMI5.2 wherein R is as defined above. This reaction is carried out by reacting a compound Ia D with an alcohol and thionylchloride. The alcohol includes methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, benzyl alcohol. The alcohol is usually used in an amount ranging 10 to 100 moles per mole of compound Ia D , and thionylchloride is usually used in an amount ranging from 10 to 20 moles per mole of compound Ia D . A compound Ia C wherein Y3 is methoxycarbonyl can also be produced by reacting a compound Ia D with diazomethane In this reaction diazomethane is usually used in an amount ranging from 1 to 2 moles per mole of compound Ia D . Each of the esterification reactions is usually carried out at a temperature ranging from OOC to room temperature for 1 to 24 hours. Among the compounds Ia , a compound of the formula EMI6.1 wherein Y4 is carbamoyl or a mono or di alkylcarbamoyl whose alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R is as defined above, can also be produced by subjecting a compound of the formula Ia D to amidation reaction. This reaction is usually carried out by reacting a compound Ia D with cyclohexylcarbodilmide DCC or with an active ester which is usually used in the synthesis of peptides. The amount of DCC or the active ester to be used is usually in the range of 1 to 1.5 mole per mole of compound Ia D . The reaction temperature is usually in the range of from 100C to room temperature and the reaction time is usually 1 to 10 hours. A hydroquinone compound of the formula Ib can be produced by reducing a compound of the formula Ia . This reaction is usually carried out in a solvent such as ether, dioxane, methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, a mixture of water and one of these solvents. In this reaction, a relatively mild reducing agent such as sodium hydrosulfite or sodium borohydride is used. An amount of the reducing agent to be used is in the range of from 2 to 5 moles per mole of compound Ia . The reaction temperature is in the range of from 100C to room temperature. Further, this reaction is carried out by catalytic reduction with the use of palladium carbon or platinum oxide. In this case, the completion of the reaction is indicated by the change of yellow or orange yellow to colorless, the color change occurring when compound Ia absorbs one equivalent of hydrogen. The quinone compounds Ia of the invention and the hydroquinone compounds Ib df the invention should be considered as pharmacologically equivalent since the former and the latter are interconvertible to each other under physiological conditions. From the chemical viewpoint, the hydroquinone compounds Ib are generally susceptible to oxidation, and therefore they should preferably be handled in the form of quinone compounds Ib . The hydroquinone compounds Ib can be converted to stable forms, such as the above mentioned compounds II , by introducing a protective group into the hydroxyl groups thereof by the per se known methods e.g. etherification, benzylation, acylation . The thus produced quinone compounds Ia and hydroquinone compounds Ib corresponding thereto can be isolated by the per se known separation and purification techniques e.g. chromatography, distillation, crystallization . The compounds Ia and Ib of the present invention exert significant influence on the metabolism of polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFAs , such as linoleic acid, linolenic acid, dihomo y linolenic acid, arachidonic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid, especially in the lipoxygenase system and in the cyclooxygenase system. Thus, for instance, they inhibit the production of SRS A slow reacting substance of anaphylaxis which is known to play a pathophysiological role in immediate hypersensitivity reactions, and at the same time inhibit the formation of 5 hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid 5 HPETE and 5 hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid 5 HETE . The precursor of 5 HPETE is arachidonic acid, and 5 HPETE is one of hydro peroxyfatty acids produced by lipoxigenase in human leukocytes, rat mast cells and so on and also in an important intermediate of SRS A leukotrienes Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A. vol. 76, page 4275 1979 . A characteristic feature of the compounds of the present invention is that they hardly undergo reduction in the number of side chain carbon atoms in the metabolic systems of living bodies and therefore can remain in living bodies for prolonged period of time, so that effective drug concentrations in plasma can be retained for long. Owing to their PUFA metabolism improving action, especially the hydro peroxyfatty acid production inhibiting antioxidant action or SRS A production inhibiting action, the compounds Ia and Ib of the present invention exhibit in mammals, diversity of physiological actions, such as antiasthmatic, antiallergic, hypertensive, arteriosclerosis ameliorating, atherosclerosis ameliorating, platelet aggregation tendency ameliorating, renal, cerebral and cardiac vascular system improving, anti ulcer, diuretic, immunoregulatory and bacterial infection preventing actions, and are widely useful as drugs, such as antiasthmatic, antiallergic, antihypertens ive, antiulcer, diuretic, antithrombotic, cerebral circulation improving, coronary vessel improving, immunoregulatory, bacterial infection prevention promoting and prostaglandin thromboxane metabolism improving agents, for the treatment or prevention of bronchial asthma, allergic diseases, hypertension, cerebral thrombosis, ischemic myocardial infarction, coronary disorders, atherosclerosis, immunodeficiency and prostaglandin and thromoxane biosynthesis regulating mechanism disorder, among others. The compounds of the present invention have low toxicity and can be safely administered orally or parenterally either per se or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations e.g. tablets, capsules inclusive of soft capsules and microcapsules , solutions, injections, suppositories prepared by mixing with per se known pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, excipients, etc. The dose may vary depending on the target of treatment, route of administration, symptom, and other factors. Where the compounds are orally administered, for instance, to human adults for the treatment of hypertension or bronchial asthma, it is advisable to administer them generally at a single dose of about 0.2 to 25 mg kg body weight, preferably about 0.5 to 10 mg kg body weight, once to about three times per day. The starting compounds II or III for the method of production according to the invention are producible, for example, by the methods described in Japanese PatentApplication laid open under No. 56 154433 Kokai andJapanese Patent Application laid open under No. 57 109739 or modifications thereof. The following examples and experiments illustrate the present invention in more detail but are by no means limitative of the scope of the invention. Example 1 Jones reagent 60 ml was added dropwise to an icecooled and stirred solution of 2.61 g of the alcohol III R CH3 in 40 ml of acetone over 15 minutes. After the dropping, the ice bath was removed, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 45 minutes. Water 30 ml was added to the reaction mixture, and then the acetone was distilled off under reduced pressure. Ethyl acetate 50 ml was added to the residue for extraction, the organic layer was washed with water and then with aqueous sodium chloride, and then 50 ml of an aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate was added to the organic layer for transfer of the product into the aqueous layer. The aqueous layer was separated, made acidic with diluted hydrochloric acid, and extracted with 60 ml of isopropyl ether. The isopropyl ether layer was washed with water and aqueous sodium chloride, and dried over magnesium sulfate. The isopropyl ether was then distilled off under reduced pressure, and the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography using isopropyl ether as eluant to give 2.28 g 84 of the desired carboxylic acid compound Ia 3 in Table 1, R CH3, Y COOH . Example 2 To a solution of 0.33 g of the alcohol III R CH3 in 20 ml of dichloromethane, there was added 2.0 g of active manganese dioxide, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for an hour. After completion of the reaction, the manganese dioxide was filtered off and the dichloromethane was distilled off under reduced pressure.The residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluant isopropyl ether hexane to give 0.29 g 90 of the desired aldehyde compound Ia l in Table 1,R CH3, Y CHO . Example 3 Toluene 30 ml was added to a mixture of 3.26 g 10 millimoles of the alcohol III R CH3 and 2.43 g 30 millimoles of potassium cyanate, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature. Thereto was added dropwise 3.76 g 33 millimoles of trifluoroacetic acid over 10 minutes. After the dropping, the mixture was stirred at 35 400C for 4 hours. Isopropyl ether 60 ml and water 50 ml were added to the reaction mixture. The insoluble matter was filtered off through Celite, and the organic layer was separated, washed with aqueous sodium chloride and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was then distilled off. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluant isopropyl ether ethyl acetate 4 1 to give the carbamoyl ester compound Ia 7 . Yield 2.57 g 70 , recrystallized from isopropyl ether . Another carbamoyl ester compound Ia 8 was produced from the alcohol III R CH3 in the same manner as above. Example 4 To a solution of 0.30 g of the carboxylic acid Ia 3 R CH3, Y COOH as obtained in Example 1 in 5 ml of ethyl ether, there was added a solution of diazomethane in ethyl ether until the starting carboxylic acid Ia 3 was no more detected. After completion of the reaction, the ethyl ether was distilled off, and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography using isopropyl ether hexane as eluant to give 0.30 g 96 of the desired carboxylic acid methyl ester Ia 5, R CH3, Y C02CH3 . Example 5 To a solution of 300 mg of the carboxylic acid compound Ia 3 as obtained in Example 1 in 5 ml of methylene chloride, there were added 150 mg of 2 thiazoline2 thiol and 200 mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes.To this mixture was added 60 mg of isopropylamine, and the resulting mixture was stirred under the same reaction conditions for 2 hours. Thereafter, the crystalline precipitate was filtered off, the filtrate was washed with water, dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated, and the residue was subjected to silica gel column chromatography using isopropyl ether ethyl acetate as eluant.Fractions containing the desired product were gathered and concentrated to give the desire d quinone compound Ia lO . The physical properties and other characteristics of said compound are shown in Table 1. Following the same procedure but using ammonia in place of isopropylamine, there was obtained another. quinone compound Ia 9 . The compounds obtained by the same procedure as in any of the examples mentioned above or a modification thereof are listed in Table 1 A, B together with their physical properties. Table 1EMI12.1 EMI12.2 tb SEP Elemental tb Com SEP Molecular SEP analysis tb pound SEP R SEP Y SEP formula SEP Found tb No SEP melting SEP calculated tb SEP point SEP C SEP H tb SEP C21H24O3 SEP 77.46 SEP 7.57 tb SEP Ia 1 SEP CH3 SEP CHO SEP 77.75 SEP 7.46 tb SEP C21H24O5 SEP 70.64 SEP 6.52 tb SEP Ia 2 SEP OCH3 SEP CHO SEP 70.77 SEP 6.79 tb SEP C21H24O4 SEP 74.18 SEP 7.24 tb SEP Ia 3 SEP CH3 SEP COOH SEP 74.09 SEP 7.11 tb SEP C21H24O6 SEP 67.82 SEP 6.47 tb SEP Ia 4 SEP OCH3 SEP COOH SEP 67.73 SEP 6.50 tb SEP C22H26O4 SEP 74.73 SEP 7.43 tb Ia 5 SEP CH3 SEP COOCH3 tb SEP 74.55 SEP 7.39 tb SEP C22H26O6 SEP 68.27 SEP 6.88 tb Ia 6 SEP OCH3 SEP COOCH3 tb SEP 1 68.38 SEP 6.78 SEP tb EMI13.1 tb SEP Elemental tb Com SEP Molecular SEP analysis tb pound SEP R SEP Y SEP formula tb SEP No. SEP Found tb melting SEP calculated tb SEP point SEP C SEP H tb SEP C22H27NO4 SEP 71.65 SEP 7.55 tb SEP Ia 7 SEP CH3 SEP CH2OCONH2 SEP 56 57 C SEP 71.52 7.37 tb SEP C22H27NO6 SEP 66.06 SEP 6.56 tb SEP Ia 8 SEP OCH3 SEP CH2OCONH2 SEP 44 45 C SEP 65.82 6.78 tb SEP C21H25NO3 SEP 74.08 SEP 7.64 tb Ia 9 SEP CH3 SEP CONH2 SEP 74.31 7.42 tb SEP C24H31NO3 SEP 75.29 SEP 8.04 tb SEP Ia 10 SEP CH3 SEP CONHCH CH3 2 SEP 75.55 8.19 tb B tb SEP Nuclear SEP magnetic SEP resonance tb SEP Compound SEP spectra SEP valne, SEP p.p.m tb SEP No. SEP TMS SEP Internal SEP standard tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.75 SEP 2H , SEP 2.01 SEP 6H , tb SEP Ia 1 SEP 2.03 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , tb SEP 2.54 SEP 2H , SEP 9.16 SEP 1H tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.75 SEP 2H , SEP 2.02 SEP 3H , tb SEP Ia 2 SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , SEP 2.53 SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.98 SEP 6H , SEP 9.16 SEP 1H tb EMI14.1 tb SEP Neclear SEP magnetic SEP resonance tb SEP Compound SEP spectra SEP valne, SEP p.p.m. tb SEP No. SEP TMS SEP Internal SEP standard tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.78 SEP 2H , SEP 2.01 SEP 6H , tb Ia 3 SEP 2.03 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , tb SEP 2.47 SEP 2H , SEP 7.41 SEP 1H tb SEP 1.4 1.9 SEP 6H , SEP 2.03 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.6 8H , tb SEP Ia 4 SEP 3.99 SEP 2H , SEP 7.10 SEP 1H tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.77 SEP 2H , SEP 2.00 SEP 6H , tb SEP Ia 5 SEP 2.02 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , tb SEP 2.44 SEP 2H , SEP 3.74 SEP 3H tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.76 SEP 2H , SEP 2.01 SEP 3H , tb SEP Ia 6 SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , SEP 2.44 SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.73 SEP 3H , SEP 3.97 SEP 1H tb SEP 1.4 1.9 SEP 6H , SEP 2.00 SEP 6H , SEP 2.04 SEP 3H , tb SEP Ia 7 SEP 2.1 2.4 SEP 6H , SEP 2.48 SEP 2H , SEP 4.65 SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.85 SEP 2H tb SEP 1.4 1.9 SEP 6H , SEP 2.03 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.6 SEP 8h0, tb SEP Ia 8 SEP 4.00 SEP 6H , SEP 4.66 SEP 2H , SEP 4.91 SEP 2H tb SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.78 SEP 2H , SEP 2.01 SEP 6H , tb SEP Ia 9 SEP 2.03 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 2H , tb SEP 2.48 SEP 2H , SEP 5.80 SEP 2H tb SEP 1.13 SEP 6H , SEP 1.4 1.6 SEP 4H , SEP 1.72 SEP 2H , tb SEP Ia 10 SEP 2.02 SEP 6H , SEP 2.04 SEP 3H , SEP 2.1 2.3 SEP 4H , SEP 2.3 2.5 tb SEP 2H , SEP 2.48 SEP 2H , SEP 4.01 SEP 1H , SEP 5.41 SEP 1H tb Example 6 To a solution of 0.34 g l.ommole of 2,3,5 trimethyl6 11 carboxyundeca 5, 10 diynyl 1,4 benzoquinone Ia R CH3, Y COOll in ether 5 ml was added a solution of sodium hydrosulfite 0.35 g, 2.0 mmole in water 4 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The ether layer was taken out and washed with aqueous solution saturated with sodium chloride. The ether solution was dried over magnesium sulfate, and solvent was evaporated to give 0.28 g of 2,3,5 trimethyl 6 1l carboxyundeca 5,10 diynyl 1,4 hydroquinone Ib R CH3, Y COOH as white crystals. m.p. 87 890C. Example 7 By a similar manner to Example 7, 0.26 g of white crystals of 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5 , 10 diynyl 3,5,6 trimethyl 1,4 hydroquinone Ib R CH3, Y CH2OCONH2 melting at 90 920C were obtained from 0.33 g 1.0 mmole of 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,5,6 trimethyl 1,4 benzoquinone Ia R CH3, Y CH2OCONH2 . Example 8 By a similar manner to Example 1, 3.56 g 10 mmoles of 1 12 hydroxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 2,5 dimethoxy 3,4,6 trimethylbenzene II R R CH3, Y CH2OH was oxidized with chromic acid sulfuric acid, whereby 12.62 g of 1,4 dimethoxy 2,3,5 trimethyl 6 11 carboxyundeca 5,10 diynyl benzene was obtained as an oily substance. In a mixed solvent of acetonitrile 40 ml and water 20 ml were dissolved 2.60 g 7.0 mmole of the compound obtained above and 3.80 g 7.0 x 3 mmoles of 2,6 dicarboxypyridine N oxide, and the solution was stirred under cooling with ice.An ice cooled solution of ceric ammonium nitrate 11.4 g, 7.0 x 3 mmoles in 50 aqueous acetonitrile 60 ml was added dropwise to the above solution over a period of 30 minutes, followed by stirring under the same conditions for 30 minutes and at room temperature for 30 minutes. After the completion of the reaction, insolubles were filtered out, and the acetonitrile was distilled off under reduced pressure. To the residue were added isopropyl ether 100 ml and water 20 ml for extraction, and the organic layer was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and aqueous sodium chloride, successively and dried over MgSO4 , followed by distilling off the organic solvent under reduced pressure.The residue was chromatographed on a column of silica gel developing with isopropyl ether ethyl acetate 98 2 to 95 5 to give 2.10 g of 2,3,5 trimethyl 2 1l carboxyundeca 5,10 diynyl 1,4 benzoquinone. m.p. 49 510C. Example 9 To a methanol solution 5 ml of 300 mg of 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,4,5 trimethyl 1,4 bis 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy benzene was added 0.05 g of camphor sulfonic acid, and the mixture was kept standing in nitrogen atmosphere for 3 hours. After the completion of the reaction, the solvent was evaporated, and ether was added to the residue. The ether layer was washed with water and dried over magnesium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was recrystallized from isopropyl ether to give 105 mg of 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,4,5 trimethyl 1,4 hydroquinone m.p. 90 920C. Reference Example 1 In anhydrous methylene chloride 5 ml was dissolved 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,4,5 trimethyl 1,4 hydroquinone 186 mg, 0.5 mmole . To the solution were added dihydropyran 100 mg and camphor sulfuric acid 5 mg . The mixdure was.kept standing at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to about 1 ml. The residue was subjected to column chromatography cn silica gel. Development with the use of isopropyl ether gives 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,4,5 trimethyl 1,4 bis 2 tetrahydropyranylOxy3 benzene 250 mg as an oily substance. Example 10 By a similar manner to Example 8, 2 12 carbamoyloxy dodeca 5,10 diynyl 1,4 dimethoxy 3,4,5 trimethylbenzene 200 mg was subjected to oxidative demethylation. The reaction mixture was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel. Recrystallization from isopropyl ether gave 2 12 carbamoyloxydodeca 5,10 diynyl 3,4,5 trimethyl 1, 4 benzoquinone 120 mg . m.p. 56 570C. Example 11Examples of Pharmaceutical CompositionA Capsule 1 Compound Ia 3 50 mg 2 Cellulose fine powder 30 mg 3 Lactose 37 mg 4 Magnesium stearate 3 mg Total 120 mg All the materials were mixed and filled into a gelatin capsule.B Soft Capsule 1 Compound Ia 7 50 mg 2 Corn starch oil 100 mg Total 150 mg A mixed solution of 1 and 2 were prepared and filled into a soft capsule by a conventional manner.C Tablet 1 Compound Ia 3 50 mg 2 Lactose 34 mg 3 Corn starch 10.6 mg 4 Corn starch gelatinized 5 mg 5 Magnesium stearate 0.4 mg 6 Calcium carboxymethyl cellulose 20 mg Total 120 mg All the materials were mixed and compressed by a tabletting machine to prepare a tablet in accordance with a conventional manner. Experiment 1Inhibitory effect on generation and release of SRS A The compound obtained in accordance with the invention were assayed for the inhibitory effect on the generation ofSRS A by the method of Orange and Moore J. Immunol., vol.116, page 392 1976 . Thus, the test compound and antigen egg white albumin were simultaneously added to the lung fragments from guinea pigs Hartley strain, male and female, weighing 300 350 g sensitized with egg white albumin as the antigen. The quantity of SRS A generated and released on that occasion was determined by the method of Brocklehurst J. Physiol., vol. 151, pages 416 435 1960 . As is seen in Table 2, the compounds of the invention strongly inhibited the generation and release of SRS A at low concentrations.EMI18.1 tb Inhibitory SEP effect tb SEP Compound SEP Number SEP of SEP Concentration tb SEP No. SEP experiments SEP test SEP compound SEP on SEP SRS A SEP genera tb SEP tb SEP Ia l SEP 3 SEP 10 6M SEP 59 SEP SEP SEP 15 tb SEP Ia 2 SEP 3 SEP 10 SEP 6M SEP 66 SEP SEP 6 tb SEP Ia 3 SEP 3 SEP 10 SEP 6M SEP 58 SEP SEP 6 tb SEP Ia 4 SEP 3 SEP 10 6M SEP 61 SEP SEP 8 tb Experiment 2Inhibition of 5 lipoxigenase products in RBL 1 clles RBL 1 cells rat basophilic leukemia cells 107 cells were suspended in 0.5 ml of MCM mast cell medium , the test solution composed of 0.5 ml MCM, 50 iig arachidonic acid1 10 ug A 23187 and 10 M or 10 M quinone compound was added, and the mixture was incubated at 370C for 20 minutes. Thereafter, 4 ml of ethanol and 1,4 dimethoxy 2 methyl 3 3 methoxypropyl naphthalene internal standard were added, and the mixture was shaken well, then allowed to stand at room temperature for 10 minutes, and centrifuged at 2,000 revolutions per minute for 10 minutes. The supernatant was collected and concentrated to about 200 p1 under reduced pressure. A mixed solvent for high performance liquid chromatography CH3CN 1500 CH30H 500 water 1100 acetic acid 2 , adjusted to pH 5.6 with aqueous ammonia was added to the concentrate to make up to 1 ml.A 200 p1 portion of this solution was subjected to high performance liquid chromatography for assaying 5 HETE 5hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid . The percentage of inhibition of 5 HETE production IE is expressed by 1 b a x 100, where a is the peak height or area corrected relative to the internal standard peak for the quinone compound free control test solution and b is the peak height or area corrected in relation to the internal standard peak for the quinone compound containing test solution. Table 3EMI19.1 tb SEP Percent SEP inhibition SEP of SEP generation tb Compound SEP and SEP release SEP of SEP 5 HETE tb SEP No. SEP Concentration SEP of SEP test SEP compound tb SEP 10 5M SEP 10 6M tb SEP Ia l SEP 83.5 SEP 71.6 tb SEP Ia 2 SEP 84.3 SEP 72.3 tb SEP Ia 3 SEP SEP 86.7 SEP 75.3 tb SEP Ia 4 SEP 85.4 SEP 70.6 tb ETYA SEP 39.4 SEP 35.9 tb Control compound 5,8,11,14 eicosatetraynoic acid