# Filter for filtering viscous liquids and particularly molten thermoplastic synthetic resins.

## Abstract
A filter for filtering viscous liquids and particularly molten synthetic resins comprising a house 1,2 with an inletport 3 , an outlet port 4 and a chamber defined therein having an inner surface 6 which is partly shaped as a revolutional surface. The chamber accomodates a concentric smooth straped revolutional body 7 while defining an annular slit 8 between said body and the house, through shich slit the material to be filtered is to be passed. The smooth shape of the body prevents congestion of the hot resins and any thermal degradation.

## Claims
Claims 1. Filter comprising a house having an inletport and an outlet port, a chamber between these ports having an inner surface being at least partly shaped as a revolution surface, tre chamber enclosing a concentric core, being shaped as a revolutional body, the core and the house delimiting an annular slit, characterised in the generatrix of the core 7, 13 having predominantly a smooth shape. 2. Filter according to claim 1, characterised in the core 13 being mainly spherical. 3. Fiiter according to claim 1, characterised in the core 7 being essentially spherical. 4. Filter according to claim 2 or 3,characterised in the core 13 being rotatable about an axis being at square angles to the axis of revolution of the revolutional surface of the house and lying within the spherical surface 14 defined by rotation of the largest circular section of the core about the axis of revolution and for the rest coinciding with that spherical surface. 5. Fitter according to any claim 1 to 4, characterised in the inletport 3 , the outlet port 4 , the chamber and the core 7, 13 being coaxial. 6. Filter according to any claim 1 to 5, characterised ir. the core being supported at the side of the outlet port 4 by at least three point shaped supporting elements 9 . 7. Filter according to claim 6, characterised in the three supporting elements being regularly distributed around the revolution axis. 8. Filter according to any claim 1 to 7, characterised in the inner revolutional surface of the chamber being provided with at least three internal projections 10 .

## Description
Short title FilterThe invention relates to a filter, comprising a house having an inletport and an outlet port, a chamber between these ports having an inner surface being at least partly shaped as a revolutional surface, the chamber enclosing a concentric core being shaped as a revolutional body.A filter of this design is disclosed in Dutch specification 4287 and is formed by a house having an inlet and an outlet port and having a cylindrical bore as a chamber, in which chamber a disc shaped core having a slicntly smaller diameter than the bore is supported by means of two coaxial pins. This filter is readily applicable, though is not suited for filtering heat plasticised synthetic resins prior to feeding such resins to an extruder, since for reason of the irregular shape of the path of flow through the house and about the core the synthetic resins are too long exposed to the high temperature and will degrade. Moreover the flow resistance will be too. high for sufficiently quick filtering plasticized synthetic resins.The invention provides a filter of the kind set forth hereinbefore, which in order to obviate these objections is characterised in that the generatrix generating line of the core has predominantly a smooth shape. In particular the core is mainly spherical, giving the advantage of a favourable flow resistance and a relatively low price of it. For that reasons a sphere is preferred as core. In this connection is remarked that US specification 3,767,056 discloses a filter for filtering heat plasticised synthetic resins. This filter is meant for use in combination with extruders, in which synthetic resins at increased temperatures and under high pressure are moulded and comprises a house having an inlet and an outlet port defining a cylindrical bore in which a hollow cylindrical core w,ljch at one end is closed is such positioned that the flow of synthetic resin is forced through a plurality of tapered bores extending in radial direction in the wall of the core. Manufacturing such filter is expensive, the constructional length with respect to the free passage is great and the flow resistance is important caused by the tortuous flow path.Finally at several places in this filter the synthetic resin is prevented from flowing through, thereby increasing the dwelling time and increasing the risk of decomposition.In a modified embodiment of the invention the core is rotable about an axis being at square angles to the axis of revolution of the revolutional surface of the house and lying within the spherical surface defined by rotation of the largest circular section of the core about said axis of revolution and for the rest coinciding with that spherical surface. This embodiment is advantageous in that by rotating the core possible solid contaminations can be removed without the need of taking down the filter or removing it from the apparatus for working synthetic resin.For improving the flow resistance the inlet port, the outletport, the chamber and the core are preferable coaxially arranged. In connection with a favourable centering and support of the core this core is preferably supported at the side to the outlet port by at least three point shaped supporting elements, being particularly regularly distri buted around the axis of revolution.If a loose core is arranged in the house, it. may be advan tageous to have this core reliably centered by providing at least three internal projections on the inner revolutional surface of the chamber, which projections for a favourable distribution of the forces preferable also are regularly distributed around the revolution axis. It will be evident that such projections may be arranged on the core too or may be substituted by seperate spacers, although for reasons of constructions the first embodiment is to be preferred.The invention will be explained in connection with the drawing of two preferred embodiments of the invention.Fig. 1 is an axial secion through a filter according to the inventionFig. 2 is a transverse section along the line z IT in fig. 1 Fig. 3 is an axial section through a modified embodiment of a filter according to the invention.Fig. 1 shows a filter according to the invention, comprising a house being composed of two parts 1, 2, the one part 1 of which comprising the inlet port 3 and the other part 2 comprising the outlet port 4. Both parts are in a usual manner provided with connecting means, such as screw for connecting the filter to a working apparatus. Both parts 1, 2 are mutually connected by means of bolts 5. Between said parts a spherical core 7 is enclosed in a chamber having an inner surface being a revolutional surface 6. The core has a slightly smaller diameter than the chamber has.For delimiting an even slit 8 between the inner surface 6 of the chamber and the core 7 the part 2 of the house is provided at the side to the outlet port 4 with three point shaped projections 9 supporting the core 7. For a very pre cise centering of the core three internal projection 10 may be arranged on the inner surface 6 of the chamber, which projections will not be always necessary. It is evident that both the point shaped projections 9 and the internal projections 10 are preferably regularly distributed around the center line of the filter, in which case usually three of each will be sufficient.This arrangement is clearly shown in fig. 2, r resenting a transverse section along the line 1, in fig. 1, the spherical core being only indicated with a broken line,Fig. 3 shows a modified embodiment of the kilter as shown in fig. 1 corresponding parts have been identified by the sa reference numerals as used in fig. 1.Both parts 11, 12 of the house are again interconnected by bolts 5 and are together defining a chamber having an inlet port 3 and an outlet port 4. In the chamber, the inner surface 6 of which being shaped as a revolutional surface, a for the greater part ball shaped or spherical core 13 is accoinodated. It is true that the side of the core being directed towards the inlet port 3 is spherical although it is within the surface 14 being described by rotating the laxest circular section of said core about an axis being at square angles to the centre line of the filter. The core in this embodiment is supported on a conical shaft 15 and mutually rotatably connected thereto by means of a key. The shaft 15 is rotatably supported in the house and extends with both ends from said house. The one end of the shaft 15 is provided with a suitable operating means, such as a hexagonal head 16, for easily rotating the shaft 15.By rotating the head 16 a quarter turn that part of the core having a smaller diameter is directed to the inner wall of the chamber, thereby widening the slit between the core and the inner wall, so that the solids held back by the filter can be forced through. By thereafter rotating the head 16 a half turn in the reverse direction the other side of the filter can be cleaned as well after which the filter may be made ready for use again by putting the head in its original position and tightening the nut 17 which is arranged on the screw threaded end of the shaft 15 remote from the head 16 such that any play between the shaft 15 and the house is removed. Although in the drawing spherical or almost spherical bodies are shown as cores, which shapes are to be preferred in view of the flow resistance and their manufacture, it may be understood that several other streamlined cores can be used.