# GLYCOLYTIC PROMOTERS FOR REGULATED PROTEIN EXPRESSION PROTEASE INHIBITOR

## Claims
Zur Replikation in Hefe fähiges extrachromosomales Element mit einem Marker für die Selektion in einem Hefewirt, das einen Hefepromotor enthält, der die Transkription der Triosephosphatisomerase reguliert, wobei der Promotor in der folgenden Sequenz vorhanden ist

## Description
The ability to obtain expression of foreign, i.e., exogenous, DNA in unicellular microorganisms provided the opportunity to conveniently prepare long polypeptide chains of interest. Almost immediately, varied polypeptides, such as the small hormone somatostatin and more sophisticated polypeptides, such as insulin, interferons, thymosin and a variety of vaccines having capsid proteins, were prepared and reported in the literature. For the most part, the initial work was performed in the bacterium One host which appeared to be particularly attractive because it lacked many of the shortcomings of Initially, a replication system was required which provided stability in yeast, either as an extrachromosomal element or by integration into the yeast chromosome. In addition, the regulatory functions concerned with transcription and expression had to be developed in order to allow for expression of the desired protein. There was also the uncertainty whether foreign DNA sequences would be transcribed and translated and, if expressed, whether the resulting polypeptides would survive in the yeast cell. Also remaining to be determined was the effect of the foreign proteins on the viability of the yeast cell, such as the effect of recombinant DNA RDNA on mitosis, sporulation and vegetative growth. There have, therefore, been substantial efforts to develop novel RDNA systems in yeast, which will allow for regulated expression of a protein of interest, as well as highly efficient production of such proteins. Hitzeman EP A 073657 discloses an extrachromosomal element which is capable of replication in yeast and which contains a yeast promoter capable of regulating the transcription of a glycolytic protein, the promoter being followed downstream by a gene expressing a protein other than that normally regulated by such a promoter. Chandra et al, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 103 2 , 1981 pp.751 758 disclose a substantially unglycosylated, baboon pre pro alpha 1 antitrypsin. Alber and Kawasaki, J. Molecular and Applied Genetics, Vol 1 5 1982 p 419 434 disclose the sequence of the triose phosphate isomerase gene and promoter. Kurachi et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA Vol 78 11 1981 p 6826 6836 disclose the sequence of human alpha 1 antitrypsin. In the accompanying FIGURES Novel yeast promoters are provided which control the transcription of genes in the glycolytic pathway and which find use in the regulated production of proteins foreign to the yeast. Promoters of particular interest include the promoters for triose phosphate isomerase, pyruvate kinase, phosphoglucose isomerase, phosphoglycerate mutase, hexokinase 1, hexokinase 2, glucokinase, phosphofructo kinase, and aldolase, as well as the glycolytic regulatory gene. The protease inhibitor, mammalian alpha 1 antitrypsin, is expressed using the promoter for triose phosphate isomerase. Methods and compositions are provided for regulated efficient expression of alien or foreign DNA in a yeast host. Alien or foreign DNA is DNA not naturally occurring in the wild type particularly from a different species and which does not normally exchange genetic information with the host. Novel promoters are employed which are involved in the glycolytic pathway and provide for high levels of protein production, so that a substantial proportion of the total protein produced by the yeast cells can be dedicated to the protein of interest. In addition, regulatory mechanisms associated with regulation of production of the glycolytic enzymes are achieved, so that production of the desired products may be modulated. Furthermore, viable cells can be maintained to enhance the efficiency and amount of expression. The promoters of interest are those promoters involved with expression of triose phosphate isomerase and pyruvate kinase, which are controlled by the glycolytic regulation gene The promoters may be obtained by employing a gene bank having large fragments of yeast DNA. By introducing the fragments into appropriate vectors, particularly shuttle vectors having replicons for prokaryotes and yeast, one can readily amplify and clone the yeast DNA In a bacterium and then introduce the yeast DNA into mutant yeast cells for complementation. In this manner, yeast fragments can be identified which complement auxotrophic lesions or mutations in a yeast host. Of particular interest, is where the host is auxotrophic in both the glycolytic pathway step of interest and a separate biochemical pathway, which is complemented by a marker in the vector. Once having established a DNA segment having the desired gene, one may reclone by various techniques to shorten the DNA segment and provide for a segment which is primarily the gene of interest in conjunction with its regulatory signals for transcription and expression. In order to retain the promoter, it is essential that the initiator methionine be determined and this codon be used for developing the strategy for introducing the alien DNA downstream from the promoter. Various techniques can be employed for providing a site for introduction of the alien DNA so as to be under the regulatory control of the promoter in the glycolytic pathway. Where a restriction site is conveniently adjacent to the initiator methionine codon, the glycolytic gene may be cleaved at that site and the DNA chewed back with Bal31 for varying periods of time, so as to chew into or past the initiator methionine codon or retain the initiator methionine codon. Where there is no convenient restriction site, other splicing techniques such as primer repair may be employed. Also, by employing Exemplary of the above procedure is the development of a vector having the promoter for the Similar procedures can be performed with the other subject glycolytic genes in order to provide the promoters associated with those genes. The By employing appropriate auxotrophs, one can further regulate the expression of the polypeptides of interest in choosing the appropriate nutrient medium. Where the chosen promoter is repressed by the particular nutrient because of a metabolic block, a change in the nature of the nutrient can induce expression. Furthermore, the activity of a number of promoters in the glycolytic pathway can be affected by the repression or activation of expression by the In order to obtain expression, an extrachromosomal element construct will be prepared having a number of sequences defining different functions. One function is the replication system, which forms part of a vector. Another function is a promoter by itself or in conjunction with the alien DNA. Other functions include initiators and terminators of expression. Also, there will be selectable markers. In developing an appropriate vector, while not necessary, it will be common to have both a replication system for yeast and a replication system for a prokaryote a shuttle vector . The replication system for yeast may be one which provides for stable maintenance of an extrachromosomal element or one which provides a sufficient lifetime for the DNA in the host, that there is an acceptable probability of integration of the DNA into the host. Integration can be greatly aided by providing for a sequence homologous to the host DNA, so as to provide for recombination. Generally, the homologous sequence will be at least about 800bp usually not more than about 2000bp. Therefore, either integration or an autonomous replication system, such as the use of the In addition to the replication system, there will also be one or more selectable markers, there usually being at least one marker in addition to the alien DNA, which may serve as a marker. Conventional markers include biocidal markers providing antibiotic resistance and those providing resistance to toxins and heavy metal. Also useful is employing an auxotrophic host and providing prototrophy by complementation. In addition to the conventional selection systems just described, the glycolytic genes of the present invention are particularly desirable markers since they can provide for selection, using sugars as selective substrates, in appropriate mutant host strains. Other genes may also be inserted into the extrachromosomal element for a variety of purposes. Where integration is desirable in the genome of the host, a homologous sequence for a particular region of the host genome may be included in the extrachromosomal element. Where amplification of one or more sequences is desired, genes known to provide such amplification, such as dihydrofolate reductase genes, which respond to methotrexate stress or metallothionein genes, which respond to heavy metal stress, may be included in the extrachromosomal element, flanked by the DNA regions to be reiterated. Other regulatory signals may also be included, such as centromeres, autonomously replicating segments, etc. In order to isolate the promoters of interest, clones can be made of yeast chromosomal DNA by random digestion or mechanical shearing of the yeast genome. The presence of the desired gene is then determined by introducing a homogeneous clone of a yeast fragment into an auxotrophic host for complementation. Desirably, the cloning vehicle may have another gene which allows for an additional basis for selection, so that double selection techniques can be used. The mutants are substantially incapable of growing on limited nutrient medium, so that one can select for the presence of the desired glycolytic gene by the choice of medium. After isolating the yeast fragment having the desired gene, the fragment may be subcloned so as to remove superfluous DNA flanking regions and provide for a fragment which is more easily manipulated. The smaller fragment containing the desired gene, of a size less than about 500 base pairs may then be further cloned, restriction mapped and sequenced, so as to provide a useful source for the desired promoters and insertion of the alien DNA. Also, as indicated, the promoters in themselves may be useful, in acting as a titrater for repressor or activator, where it is desirable to modulate the production of a particular enzyme in the yeast host. The alien DNA may be from any source, either naturally occurring or synthetic, either prokaryotic or eukaryotic. Of particular interest are mammalian genes which express a poly amino acid , that is, polypeptide or protein which has physiological activity. To varying degrees, poly amino acids prepared in yeast may be modified by glycosylation, where the glycosylation may not occur or may occur at different sites from the naturally occurring mammalian polypeptide and or in different degrees with different saccharides. It is therefore of great interest to be able to prepare polypeptides which are different from the naturally occurring polypeptide by the degree and manner of glycosylation and in many instances may differ in one or more ways as to the amino acid sequences, where there may be deletions of one or more amino acids or substitutions of one or more amino acids. Mammalian genes may come from a wide variety of mammalian sources, such as domestic animals e.g. bovine, porcine, ovine and equine and primates e.g. humans and monkeys. As exemplary of the use of the subject promoters in preparing an active polypeptide composition, as well as being of particular interest for a variety of purposes, a protease inhibitor is described and made. The protease inhibitor has the same or substantially the same amino acid sequence of human alpha 1 antitrypsin and is capable of inhibiting a number of proteolytic enzymes. The human alpha 1 antitrypsin gene appears to reside within a 9.6 kb The sequencing of chromosomal DNA coding for alpha 1 antitrypsin has been described by Kurachi et al., The human alpha 1 antitrypsin has a BamHI restriction site which allows the cutting of the gene with the removal of information for a single glutamic acid from the mature protein. Various schemes can be employed for introducing the human alpha 1 antitrypsin gene adjacent the glycolytic promoter to be under the regulation of the promoter. Where the promoter does not have a convenient restriction site near the f met codon, the glycolytic gene may be cleaved and chewed back to the promoter with Bal31. A linker may then be introduced downstream from the promoter to provide a convenient cohesive end or flush end for joining to the human alpha 1 antitrypsin gene. The linker can also provide one or more codons for amino acids at the N terminus of the alpha 1 antitrypsin gene, which may be the same or different from the naturally occurring amino acids. The gene for human alpha 1 antitrypsin may then be inserted into the extrachromosomal element downstream from the glycolytic promoter, where an f met codon is provided for initiation of expression of the human alpha 1 antitrypsin. For example, the cDNA coding for alpha 1 antitrypsin hereinafter AT may then be inserted into an expression vector, such as CTEA32 FIG. 2 , which contains the yeast promoter for triose phosphate isomerase TPI inserted at the The This DNA construct containing the gene for human AT located downstream to a yeast triose phosphate isomerase TPI promoter fragment was transformed into yeast strains, N501 B and GK100. Transformation into yeast is described by Beggs, Since GK100 produces significantly more AT than N501 1B, it is preferred. However, the present invention is not limited to AT production by GK100. It may be desirable to utilize mutations in GK100 which lead to hyperproduction of AT. An immuno adsorption column, made according to the method of Cuatrecasas, P. Alternatively, other expression vectors may be constructed which contain a segment coding for alpha 1 antitrypsin. Such expression vectors may be constructed by methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art using available DNA constructs. A preferred vector is plasmid C1 1, which is more stable than CV13 and CV13 derived vectors, such as CAT1. G1 1 was constructed from plasmid, pJDB248 Beggs, J., The sequence of the first ten amino acids in the yeast produced AT may be confirmed by amino acid sequence analysis as identical to the first ten amino acids of the naturally occurring human AT The yeast produced AT does not contain the initiation methionine which is specified by the ATG start codon. Therefore, the yeast cell processes off the methionine to produce the amino acid sequence of natural human AT. The polypeptides produced according to the present invention having AT activity may be useful for treatment of a genetic AT deficiency and other diseased states related to inadequate levels of AT. Thus, conditions such as emphysema and other lung disorders related to progressive digestion of lung sacs may be treated, such as, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or adult respiratory distress syndrome. Non genetically related emphysema may also be treated, such as, emphysema resulting from heavy smoking. Conditions not necessarily confined to the lungs may also be treated, such as, cystic fibrosis and arthritis. For a review of AT deficiency, see Gadek, J.E., and R. Crystal, Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency , The alpha 1 antitrypsin can be used as an antigen for production of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to human alpha 1 antitrypsin, for introduction into a host having a deficiency of alpha 1 antitrypsin, or for modulating proteolytic activity in a mammalian host. In particular, the alpha 1 antitrypsin can be administered to humans to replace alpha 1 antitrypsin which has been inactivated oxidized by tobacco and other smoke. The polypeptides according to the present invention may be admixed with conventional pharmaceutical carriers. Preferably, the polypeptides are to be administered intravenously or by inhalation. While the effective dosages may vary according to the severity of the condition and weight of the subject, dosages in the range of 0.5 10.0 gm week of a polypeptide introduced intravenously may, in many cases, be effective. Lower dosages may be effective if the method of administration is by inhalation. Oral administration may also be effective provided the AT is protected in capsules or coated carriers from premature degradation in the digestive tract. The following examples set forth specific embodiments according to the present invention, but the invention is not intended to be limited thereto. Identification of specific lesions was made by complementation tests with known glycolysis mutants Ciriacy and Breitenbach, A A Mutations in three glucose phosphorylating enzymes produce a strain which is unable to grow on dextrose as the sole carbon source and which is resistant to catabolite repression by 2 deoxyglucose and glucosamine. N517 6C The homothallic diploid strain, The triose phosphate isomerase gene including the upstream sequence having the regulatory signals is as follows The pyruvate kinase gene upstream sequence having the regulatory signals is as follows The transformants were purified on leucineless media and were then grown on a non selective medium YEPGE to allow mitotic segregation of the plasmids. Strains which cosegregated the In order to determine the activity of the various glycolytic genes in the transformants, the various enzymes were assayed and the results for the transformants were compared to mutant and wild type strains. The In order to demonstrate that the hyperproduction of glycolytic enzymes was specific to the mutational defect complemented by the particular plasmid, assays for ten different glycolytic proteins were conducted on the various transformants. The following Table 3 reports the results for one transformant for each of the six different glycolysis genes which were examined in detail. The GCR 8 transformant gave nearly wild type levels of all ten enzymes, while PGI 19, TPI 10, PGK 2, GPM 2 and PYK 1 transformants overproduced their respective glycolytic proteins, but not other enzymes. It was noted that the plasmids readily segregated typically 5 50 segregation in fully grown cultures even under selective pressure of leucine prototrophy , so the assayed cultures probably contain cells with a range of number of plasmids. By complementation in Exploitation of the promoter for Yeast cells containing the human alpha 1 antitrypsin genes were broken open by vortexing with glass beads 0.45mm at high speed for 2 3 minutes. The extraction buffer contained 50mM K₂HPO₄, 2mM EDTA, 2mM 2 mercaptoethanol and 1mM PMSF pH7.4 . Cell debris was removed by centrifugation and the extracts contain 3 4mg ml protein as determined by Lowry assays. The presence of human alpha 1 antitrypsin was determined using a RIA, employing tritium labeled human alpha 1 antitrypsin and antibody directed against the protein. The following Table 5 indicates the results. It is evident from the above results that an immunologically active product is obtained, which is capable of competing with naturally occurring human alpha 1 antitrypsin for antibodies to the native protein. Furthermore, the expression of the alpha 1 antitrypsin gene is regulated by the An immuno adsorption column was prepared by covalently attaching affinity purified antibodies to human alpha 1 antitrypsin to CNBr activated Sepharose according to the method of Cuatrecasas, As a control, 10 microliters 1 microgram of a solution of 100 microgram ml trypsin, 100 microgram 100 microliters of bovine serum albumin and 100 microliters of 0.05 molar Tris, pH 8.0 buffer containing 1mM benzoylarginioyl p nitroanilide were mixed, and the increase in absorbance at 405 nm was measured over time in a spectrophotometer. The absorbance value of this solution was used as a standard for 100 trypsin activity. Three additional samples were run in duplicate, each containing 1 µl trypsin and, respectively containing 25 µl AT solution plus 175 µl buffer, 100 µl alpha 1 antitrypsin plus 100 µl buffer, and 200 µl alpha 1 antitrypsin. All samples contain equal concentrations of substrate and bovine serum albumin. The results demonstrated that utilizing 25 microliters of AT, 73 of the trypsin activity remained, with 100 microliters of AT, 41 of trypsin activity remained and with 200 microliters of alpha 1 antitrypsin, 26 of the trypsin activity remained. This demonstrated that by increasing the levels of the yeast made AT the trypsin inhibitory activity also increased. Increased levels of AT may be obtained by utilizing C1 1, a plasmid which is more genetically stable than CV13. The C1 1 plasmid contains the entire 2 micron DNA from The yeast About 700 base pairs of the 3 flanking region of the yeast The yeast termination sequences were attached to the human AT gene by using the vector, pUC13, which has multiple cloning sites into which the terminator and AT DNA s can be separately inserted. The pUC13 plasmid was constructed as described in Vieira, J., and Messing, J., HAT4 was transformed into N501 1B and GK100. On minimal media with 6 glucose, 2 3 of the yeast soluble protein was alpha 1 antitrypsin at a cell density of nearly 3g per liter wet weight . Because HAT4 contained C1 1, this plasmid was maintainable in a variety of rich media, including YEPD 1 yeast extract, 2 peptone, and 2 glucose . On rich media 2 3 AT was still produced but at a higher cell density of 10 20g per liter wet weight . The HAT4 plasmid was maintained without selection in N501 1B for over 30 divisions on rich media with greater than 70 of the cells containing the plasmid. In GK100 better than 95 of the cells had HAT4 after 30 divisions on rich media. The advantages of using HAT4 over CAT1 were 1 greater plasmid stability, 2 higher levels of AT as a percentage of total protein, 3 much greater yields of cells per liter as a result of using rich media, and 4 cheaper costs of rich media compared to synthetic leucine less media. The mutant yeast strain GK100 has been placed on deposit in the American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland, ATCC No. 20669. It is evident from the above results that yeast promoters can be efficiently used for the production of foreign proteins by regulating the expression of alien DNA in yeast. The promoters are found to be strong promoters, so as to provide for a high degree of expression. Furthermore, it would appear that the messengers are sufficiently stable as to allow for a significant degree of translation into the desired expression product. Furthermore, by employing the glycolytic promoters and appropriate nutrient media, the expression of the alien DNA can be modulated. In this way, production of the alien DNA can be turned on and off. Thus, the subject invention provides a method for using yeast as efficient host in the production of foreign proteins, where the production may be modulated. In addition, by using the glycolytic regulation gene, one can turn on and off a plurality of glycolytic promoters.