# Methods of making tooth cleaning devices.

## Abstract
Method of dental plaque removal, device for carrying out the method and method of making that device. To make the tooth cleaning device, a filament loop of contractable material such as polypropylene is caused to shrink as it is being attached to a base. The loop exhibits an extraordinary contraction wherein the loop is not merely reduced as expected, but by the disclosed process it contracts into tightly adjacent filaments with a tight return loop 14 . The resulting bristle not only solves the vexing problem of proper bristle polishing, but additionally exhibits a greatly improved capability to actually scoop away tooth deposits such as plaque. The tooth cleaning device is formed of a multiplicity of such looped filaments. The method of removing dental pla que involves stroking the surface of the tooth with a plurality of such looped filaments so that they act as scoops to carry away plaque material trapped in the return bends.

## Claims
Claims 1. The method of dental plaque removal, comprising the step of stroking the surface of a tooth with a plurality of double strand bristles each terminating in a tight return bend which serves as a scoop to scarf the surface of teeth and carry away plaque material trapped in the return bend. 2. A tooth cleaning device having a base and a plurality of bristles, each of which is composed of two lengths of filament held in a single composite configuration by a tight return bend, whereby the bristle acts as a drag scoop as opposed to a scratch brush of conventional construction. 3. The method of making an improved tooth cleaning device, comprising the steps of 1 providing a filament of a shrinkable material characterised by its ability to contract to a resilient reed configuration under an externally applied agent, 2 providing lengths of said filament and looping each length of filament to place the ends in a base region, and 3 applying said agent to cause each filament to shrink into a bristle in the form of a loop. 4. The method of Claim 3, wherein the shrinkable material is polypropylene and the agent is heat. The method of making an improved tooth cleaning device, comprising the steps of 1 providing a filament of polypropylene, 2 looming said filament tightly over a thin forming rail, with a return bend over the top of the rail and a length of the filament along the sides of the rail, 3 applying heat to shrink the return bend of the filament into a tight clamp which holds the side length together as a composite bristle and itself serving as a scoop to scarf away dental plaque.

## Description
Methods of cleaning teeth, tooth cleaning devices and methods of making such devices This invention relates to methods of cleaning teeth, tooth cleaning devices and methods of making such devices. As a prelude to the full understanding of the problem area of dental health to which the present invention is directed, it is recommended that UnitedStates patent 3 905 113 be read and understood. This prior teaching presents a novel approach to dental care by enabling the user to maintain a tactile sense and thus feel more accurately where he is in the masticatory region. The prior art has been directed toward the provision of bristles which scrub the plaque as they sweep away trapped food particles. The better brushes are processed to reduce fragmented end structures which lacerate tender gingivae. This invention builds on the teaching of UnitedStates patent 3 905 113. One purpose of the invention is to provide a novel bristle formation that fully eliminates fractured bristle ends and provides improved cleaning action to remove dental plaque. The invention is based on the discovery that a superior double bristle with a tight loop end can not only solve the problem of bristle ends but also provide a scooping action to cut free and carry away the tenacious plaque formation. The invention in one aspect provides a method of dental plaque removal, comprising the step of stroking the surface of a tooth with a plurality of double strand bristles each terminating in a tight return bend which serves as a scoop to scarf the surface of teeth and carry away plaque material trapped in the return bend. In a further aspect the invention provides a cleaning device by carrying out this method having a base and a plurality of bristles, each of which is composed of two lengths of filament held in a single composite configuration by a tight return bend, whereby the bristle acts as a drag scoop as opposed to a scratch brush of conventional construction. Also the invention provides a method for making the cleaning device referred to, the method comprising the steps of 1 providing a filament of shrinkable material characterised by its ability to contract to a resilient reed configuration under an externally applied agent, 2 providing lengths of said filament and looping each length of filament to place the ends in a base region, and 3 applying said agent to cause each filament to shrink into a bristle in the form of a loop. The invention will be further described with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of one preferred embodiment of a tooth cleaning device according to the invention Figure 2 illustrates a fabric ground base and loops of heat shrinkable filaments as they appear when merely woven Figure 3 illustrates the use of forming bars in the weaving process and the application of heat to cause the filaments to contract to the bars and Figure 4 is a greatly enlarged section showing a tooth cleaning structure according to the invention with trapped plaque material in the loops. This invention stems from a discovery which came through observation of the results obtained by novel tooth brushing structure of United States patent 3 905 113. This prior patent described a brush concept which is rapidly gaining acclaim as a means for improved cleaning of tooth surfaces, especially of plaque removal. The bristles of the patented brush have been made on a loom which produces loops of filaments, and then as in conventional practice, the loops were severed to produce individual bristles. During the preliminary testing, it was concluded that the cut filaments were too sharp and jagged for continued use on gum tissue. Hence the bristles were polished, but were not of sufficient quality to meet the high standards demanded by the inventors. One of the materials considered for bristles was polypropylene, which is well known for its heat shrink characteristic. However, if subjected to heat without the process of this invention, the loops would merely contract into very resilient loops incapable of producing any useful scrubbing pressure. Also, flexible loops destroy the erect attitude which will transmit pressure through to the base end, which is one of the major principles of prior patent 3 905 113. As seen inFigure 2 of the drawing, the loops have no distinct side portions or scrubbing ends. They will simply flex under any pressure, and fail as scrubbing bristles.The Figure 2 structure is not within the scope of the invention. Observation of the nature of heat shrink wrapping materials developed into the concept of the present invention. A test was made. The loops were woven over an elongated forming rail 10 and simultaneously heated by radiant source 12. The result was a spectacular accomplishment in the form of a tight return bend 14 over the top of the rail 10 and side lengths 16 and 17 held in a substantially straight rod formation. When this heat shrunk loop is removed from rail 10 it retains the formation illustrated in Figure 4. The small bristle exhibits a better erect resiliency than would be possible by a mere loop structure, whether heat shrunk or not. The resiliency of the bristles is controlled by selection of filament diameter and height of the column. The best results appear to be obtained with about .178 to .228 mm.diameter filaments and a loop about 4.5 to 5.1 mm. high. Study of this composite bristle, under magnification brought about a question of whether the naturally formed end could serve as a polished end without cutting and polishing. It was then discovered that a unique brush bristle had been developed. The bristle, in use has been found to not merely scarf the surface of a tooth in a superior manner, but microscopic study has shown that the return end acts as a scoop to cut into the plaque deposit and actually carry it away to a far greater extend than prior entrapment. Illustration of plaque entrapment is difficult in a line drawing. Figure 4 is a representation made from an enlargement of a photograph. The shaded areas represent entrapped plaque material as seen in an actual photomicrograph. An analogy may be made to the action of a kitchen scrub pad which actually entraps food and is later flushed free. The bristle ends will clean in the same manner as a tooth brush will clean teeth. The entrapment and scoop action is a valuable additional value produces by this invention in addition to the novel method of producing an excellent bristle end. The inventors are aware of the desirability of the bristles to extend into the gingival sulcus. With the configuration and tightness of the loop, it has been discovered that this characteristic is retained and even improved because of the scooping action of the loop.When employed as taught in United States patentNo. 3 905 113, by spreading over the gentle curve of the finger, the bristles being of the same length, follow the contour of the finger and bring to bear a variety of pressures utilising a multiple action of scouring, scooping, and stimulating of tooth and gum tissue. This structure, as in United States patentNo. 3 905 113, has a base fabric 19 woven with the bristle loops and has applied to the bottom surface thereof a layer of pressure sensitive adhesive 20 to attach the appliance to the finger. The greatly enlarged drawing exaggerates the irregularity of this layer. In plan the structure is as shown in Figure 1. Also, the tooth brush configuration has been well accepted by veterinarians for cleaning the teeth of dogs, horses, or other domestic animals. A dog, for example, will not exhibit fear of the brush on the finger of the veterinarian, and the bristles can be structured with the proper resiliency for dog teeth.