# Ceramic fibre refractory member for insulating a pipe.

## Abstract
A light weight, thermally resistant, shock resistant refractory member 13 for covering a water pipe in a high temperature environment. The refractory member is a partial cylinder including a body segment 6 , two protuberances 10,15 spaced apart from and on either side of the body segment by corresponding recesses 16 and terminating in a void 28 between the two protuberances. Two identical members, when axially aligned in juxtaposition, are fitted together around a pipe 20 such that the body segment 6 of each refractory member is intimately received by the corres ponding void 28 of the other member and the pair of pro tuberances 10,15 of one member are closely received and interlocked with the corresponding pair of recesses 16 in the other member to form a substantially closed refractory unit around the pipe. The unit requires no additional means to support itself around the pipe.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A ceramic fibre refs tory member for insulating a pipe within a high temperature environment, said member being characterised by an arcuate body segment 6 extending longitudinally between both ends of the member, a pair of arcuate protuberances 10, 15 each of lesser length than the body segment and integrally connected at one end l0a, l5a to a first end portion 6a of the body segment, a pair of recesses 16, 19 each angularly displacing a respective protuberance 10, 15 from the body segment 6 , and conforming in circumferential and longitudinal shape to the protuberances, and a void 28 arcuately displacing each protuberance 10, 15 and the edges of the first end portion boa from one another so that when a second similar ceramic fibre 0 refractory member is rotated 180 about a lateral axis relative to the first member and inverted, and the two members are longitudinally aligned and urged together, the protuberances of each member are intimately received by the recesses of the other member and the void of each member is intimately filled by the body segment 6b of the other member so that the assembled members form an interlocking tubular light weight thermally resistant, slag resistant and vibration resistant refractory unit suitable for covering and insulating a pipe without additional means of attachment. 2. A member as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the tubular unit formed by the interlocking members 13 is substantially ovular for insulating at least two pipes therein Fig. 7 . 3. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 wherein the protuberances 10 15 are tapered inwardly towards the free ends lOb, 15b thereof, and the corresponding recesses 16, 19 are conformingly tapered. 4. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 wherein the body segment 6 converges toward the second end 6b thereof and the void 28 is conformingly tapered. 5. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the free ends 10b, 15b of the protuberances 10, 15 are arcuate and the recesses 16, 19 are conformingly configured thereby reducing the concentration of stresses in the area of the recesses. 6. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the refractory includes at least 50 Awl2 03 by weight. 7. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the percentage by weight of Awl 203 increases within the refractory in a radially outwardly direction. 8. A member as claimed in Claim 1 or 2 wherein the refractory includes a blend of a first ceramic fibre having at least 95 by weight of A1203 and a second ceramic fibre havi ng at least 47 by weight of A1203 in a ratio of 3 2 by weight respectively. 9. A ceramic fibre refractory member for insulating a pipe within a high temperature environment, said member being characterised by an arcuate body segment 6 converging in the direction of one end 6b thereof, a pair of arcuate protuberances 10, 15 disposed circumferentially on either side of the body segment each being integrally formed with the body segment 6 at end lOa, 15a , extending axially less than the body segment, converging towards its free end lOb, 15b and being arcuate at its free end, a pair of recesses 16, 19 circumferentially spacing the protuberances 10, 15 from the body segment 6 and conforming closely to the shape of the protuberances 10, 15 and a void 28 extending axially the length of the body segment 6 said void circumferentially spacing the protuberances from one another and conforming closely to the shape of the end 6b of the body segment whereby said member is adapted to interlock with a second similar member to form a refractory unit suitable for insulating a pipe Fig. 6 . 10 A member as claimed in Claim 9, wherein the arcuate body segment 6 is a partial oval or ellipse whereby as the two members are interlocked into a refractory unit, the unit is substantially oval or elliptical whereby at least two pipes can be disposed therein.

## Description
CERMlIC FIBRE REFRACTORY MEMBER FOR INSULATING A PIPE. This invention relates to a ceramic fibre refractory member for insulating a pipe within a high temperature environment. In furnaces used throughout the metallurgical and related industries to heat a slab, billet, bloom or other raw steel shape, a typical furnace includes a complex network of vertical and horizontal water cooled pipes which support an additional network of horizontal wateracooled skid rails along which the slabs, billets,blooms, or other raw steel shapes are pushed or walked through the furnace. The metallurgical furnace is an open system that is, heat which is transferred to the metal oipe network is conducted by the water flowing in the pipes to a point outside the furnace and is not recoverable.Accordingly, vast heat losses occur and correspondingly unnecessary amounts of energy are expended to replace the heat loss as a result of the heat transfer into the water cooled pipe network.. For example, as much as thirty to thirty five percent of the total heat supplied to a metallurgical furnace by the combustion of fuels is lost in an infrastructure of uninsulated skid pipes and the supporting pipe network. For all5 mm OD uninsulated water cooled pipe in a furnace operating at 1300 14000C, the heat loss is approximately 398,000 415,000 LJ per lineal meter per hour. For a furnace having GO meters each of skid pipe, horizontal support pipe and vertical support pipe, the heat loss is thus approxitately 180 x 406,500 kJ hour or 73,170,000 kJ per hour. To date, various types of refractory materials have been applied to the water cooled pipe infrastructure in order to reduce the amount of heat loss from the furnace. The use of pre fired or chemically bonded refractory materials which are welded, studded, wired, clipped or anchored with interlocking anchor straps is well known. The use of welds, studs, wires and the like requires large expenditures of labour and time to strip the pipe and secure an additional refractory as a replacement. Moreover, refractory concretes have even been formed in place around the pipe surfaces and supported by any number and type of metallic anchors welded to the pipe surface.Almost without exception these forms of insulation have failed within a relatively short period of operation because of the inherent friability and susceptibility to fracture of the heavy, brittle fired ceramic refractory materials. As the metallic shape is moved along the metal skid rail, significant vibration and flexion of the water cooled pipe infrast ucture occur which are in turn transmitted into the friable, dense, rigid ceramic insulators. High temperature ceramic fibre blankets in the form of split rings, modules or simple wrappings have also been utilized as a means of insulating the pipe infrastructure.The use of ordinary high temperature ceramic fibres and ceramic fibre blankets as insulators around the water cooled pipe has proven unsatisfactory for a number of reasons first, the ordinary high temperature ceramic fibre blanket is susceptible to chemical reaction with scale and slag which is produced during the furnace operation second, ordinary ceramic fibre blankets are inherently susceptible to erosion by the velocities of the gases within the furnace and third, the ceramic fibre blankets have been difficult to attach to the pipe and suffer a notable shrinkage due to the high temperature of the furnace. Covering a ceramic fibre blanket with a rigid preburned ceramic tile refractory has hitherto proven less than desirable. Fractures in the refractory and the failure to form an intimate fit among the refractory segments has in effect exposed the ceramic fibre blanket underneath to the deleterious effects of the furnace noted above. Furthermore, the high specific weight of the preburned ceramic tile refractory has compressed the blanket underneath and has further chafed holes in the blanket from the movement of the tile on the blanket as the pipe is vibrated and flexed during furnace operations. The invention as claimed is a refractory member suitable for insulating water cooled pipes in a metallurgical furnace which is made of a light weight ceramic fibre material having an overall low coefficient of thermal conductivity It substantially reduces the energy expended in the manufacture of the refractory as well as the energy lost through the water cooled pipes comprising the pipe network in a metallurgical furnace. The interlocking shape reduces the labour required to install the members in the furnace and allows for the members to be positioned around a water pipe without the use of additional anchoring devices such as metal studs welded to the pipe. The refractory insulation in its commercial form includes two refractory members interlocked with one another around the pipe. Each member includes a partial cylindrical wall which is termed a body segment, and a pair of protuberances which are angularly spaced apart from the body segment by a corresponding pair of recesses. The body segment, protuberances and corresponding recesses of each shape all lie substantially in the same cylindrical surface of revolution so that the two members can be fitted together around a pipe to form an interlocking, tubular refractory unit which effectively insulates the water cooled pipe inside the furnace. A series of units are fitted together in order to insulate an entire pipe. The refractory member is made from lightweight ceramic fibres which are highly resistant to heat flow. The ceramic fibre refractory is much lighter in weight and is less brittle than the conventional preburned ceramic tiles and allows each pair of interlocking members to be longer longitudinally and to have a greater interlock surface area than previous interlocking cylindrical shapes made of preburned ceramic tiles. Hence, a more intimate fit is obtained which reduces the deleterious effects of high temperature convection and slag migration through the seams of the refractory which quickly destroy the effectiveness of a ceramic blanket located between the water cooled pipe and the refractory shape. The combination of the shape and light weight ceramic fibres also permits the members to be applied to the pipe without any additional means to secure them to the pipe. An even more intimate fit can be obtained by tapering the protuberances and the corresponding recesses so that the more forcefully the shapes are urged together, the more intimate is the fit between the segments. For reasons of economy, a blend of ceramic fibres having differing thermal resistance and slag resistance may be used in order to achieve a homogeneous refractory which is sufficiently resistant to furnace gases and corrosive slags.Although a separate inner ceramic fibre blanket positioned between the ceramic fibre shape and the water cooled pipe is not necessary to the present invention, it assists to reduce even further the heat flow from the furnace to the water cooled pipe and to act as a damper against vibrations and flexion in the pipe network which historically have shortened the effective life of a refractory covering. The use of a light weight, ceramic fibre refractory reduces the crushing forces on the inner blanket which historically have resulted from the massive weight of the preburned ceramic tiles.The reduction of the crushing forces, which forces compact and chafe the fibre blanket, extends both the useful life and the thermal effectiveness of the fibre blanket. Moreover, the coefficient of thermal conductivity of ceramic fibre is significantly lower than the prefired ceramic tiles presently in use. Hence, the resulting insulator is significantly more effective than present refractories in. use with metallurgical furnaces. The refractory members may be formed on a perforated mould whose perforations are in communication with a vacuum source. A suitable slurry which can be maintained at room temperature includes a mixture of conventional basic fibre bulk material, a binder including a colloidal silica or colloidal alumina, a starch and a quantity of water.As the perforated vacuum mould is inserted into the slurry, the colloidal silica, a relatively small portion of the starch bond system and a majority of the water are drawn through the perforations while the ceramic fibres tend to form a bonded mat around the perforated mould. When the desired thickness is achieved, the mould is removed from the slurry. The exact ratio of the various fibres will depend upon the furnace temperatures encountered, the desired thickness of the refractory shape and is further affected by considerations of economy that is, higher temperature and slag resistant, low thermally conductive fibres are more expensive than fibres having lower temperature and slag resistance but which possess a low thermal conductivity. When the refractory is formed to the desired thickness, it is removed from the slurry. The perforated mould is removed from the refractory shape.The refractory shape is preferably placed upon a mandrel to maintain the shape of the refractory as it is cured in an oven and any necessary machining and cueing is performed. If the refractory is formed as a cylinder instead of two individual members, the cylindrical shape can then be cut to produce two members which are interlocking. The energy required to cure the vacuum formed, ceramic fibre refractory is significantly less than the energy required to cure conventional preburned ceramic tile shapes. The resulting refractory member eliminates the need for the welding of metal studs to the pipe in order to anchor the refractory and the need to cement or band conventional semi circular insulators presently used on water cooled pipes. Hence, the labour expended on the installation of the refractory as described and claimed herein is remarkably reduced. A single layer refractory requires less labour input during the vacuum forming and hence can be less expensive to manufacture than a laminated refractory, even though the inner layer of the laminated can be formed from a relative inexpense fibre bulk. Moreover, the lack of ceramic fibre interlace between laminations may form a discontinuity which can cause separation of the layers under extreme conditions. Another form of the present invention includes a continuous spectrum of vacuum formed, ceramic fibre materials having varying characteristics of thermal conductivity which gives a refractory having greater thermal and slag resistance at the outer surface than the inner surface. Such a construction can be obtained by rotating a female cylindrical mould so that the more dense, thermally resistant fibre materials migrate toward the outer portions of the refractory shape while the lighter, less thermally conductive fibres remain at the inner portions of the shape. Similarly, a female mould can be rotated while a more expensive, low thermally conductive material is applied to the mould as the content of the material being applied is altered to include an increasing amount of a less expensive,more thermally conductive ceramic fibre tiaterial. The invention may be put into effect in the manner described below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a typical water cooled pipe network utilized in a metallurgical furnace Figure 2 is a perspective view showing a water cooled pipe, a ceramic fibre blanket therearound, and interlocking refractory insulating members in accordance with one embodiment of the invention Figure 3 is an exploded view in perspective of the interlocking members of Figure 2 further showing the manner in which they interlock Figure 4 is a side elevational view generally showing two of the interlocked insulating members Figure 5 is a cross section along line 4 4 in Figure 4 Figure 6 is a side elevatlonal view of members according to another embodiment of the invention and Figure 7 is an exploded view in perspective showing another embodiment of the invention in which two parallel pipes are insulated with substantially elliptical refractory members. Figure 1 shows diagrammatically a pusher type metallurgical furnace having a series of parallel skid rails 50 each having a metal strip 52 which supports A non illustrated slab as the slab is propelled across the skid rail system. Horizontal support pipes 54 and vertical support pipes 56 as well as the water cooled skid rail 50 all conduct flowing water. The heat which is transferred from the interior of the furnace into the metal strip 52 is then conducted to a point outside the furnace by the water flowing in the water cooled portion of the skid rail 50. The horizontal pipes 54 and vertical pipes 56, which form the infrastructure support system for the skid rails, also transmit heat from the furnace into water therein which flows to a point outside the furnace system. Figure 2 shows a partially exploded view of a water cooled pipe having two full units of a refractory insulation 2 plus a single member 13 in position around a pipe 20 having a bore 23 for transporting cooling water. Located around the exterior surface 24 of the water cooled pipe 20 is a layer of a conventional high temperature pliable ceramic fibre blanket 26 which is known today in the industry. The thickness of the ceramic fibre blanket is preferably sufficient to damp the vibrations of the pipe onto the refractory insulation, but not sufficiently thick to cause an excessive radial depth of the shape to be at undesirably high temperatures. The blanket can be taped temporarily around the pipe until such time as the refractory unit 2 is applied to it. As shown in Figures 2 and 3, the refractory unit 2 includes two substantially identical elongate members 13. Each member 13 has a partially cylindri cal body segment 6 having a first end 6a and a second end 6b. A pair of protuberances 10 and 15 each has a first end lOa and 15a respectively which is integral with and extends from the first end 6a of the body segment, a second end lOb and 15b respectively.The protuberances 10 and 15 are angularly spaced apart from the main body 6 by recesses 16 and 19 which correspond in shape to the protuberances. For each member 13, the body segment 6, the recesses 16 and 19, and the protuberances 10 and 15 lie within a substantially common cylindrical surface of rotation.The protuberances 10 and 15 are further spaced apart arcuately by a void 28. The ends lOb and 15b of the protuberances 10 and 15 respectively can be curved or arcuaterin order to reduce the stresses which are concentrated at a corner where two surfaces meet. 0 When one member 13 is rotated 180 around a lateral axis relative to a second member 13 as shown in Figure 3 and both are aligned along a common longitudinal axis, one member is closely received by the other to form a substantially cylindrical, inter locking refractory unit 2. The seams which are defined by the interlocking portions of the refractory unit 2 are substantially closed and resistant to the entry of slag and high velocity convection which occurs within a metallurgical furnace. In the preferred embodiment, the water cooled pipe 20 is first wrapped with a pliable ceramic fibre blanket 26 which is taped around the pipe 20. A first refractory member 13 is positioned upon the blanketwrapped surface of the pipe 20. The second member 13 is then oriented as described to facilitate the longitudinal engagement of the interlocking protuberances 10 and 15 with the recesses 16 and 19.The two members 13 are urged radially inwardly in order to compress the pliable ceramic fibre blanket and are then pushed longitudinally toward one another in order to interlock and form the unit 2. This procedure is repeated with further members 13 until the desired length of refractory units covers the water cooled pipe 20. When junctions between horizontal and vertical pipes are reached, reduced lengths of the shapes 13 can be used in order to minimize the remaining exposed segments of pipe. As shown in Figure 6, the protuberances 10 and 15, and the body segment 6 of each member 13 can be conformingly tapered. The tapering of the protuberances and the body segments offers the additional feature of ensuring a more intimate fit of the protuberances 10 and 15 with the recesses 16 and 19 as they are received within the recesses. The more intimate fit can be obtained by over inserting the two members 13 into an interlocking, abutting relation ship and then cutting the end surfaces of the refractory unit 2 so that the end surfaces 7 of each member 13 are substantially aligned with the surfaces 11 when the members 13 are interlocked. Because of the construction of the pipe structure within a metallurgical furnace, areas occur in which two independent and aligned pipes are in proximity to one another. A modification to the basically cylindrical construction of the present invention as shown in Figure 7 will enable the insulation of these pipes. The basic cylindrical shape is modified to a more oval or elliptical shape such. that the pair of parallel pipes can be wrapped in a ceramic fibre blanket and then encapsulated with the more elongated ceramic fibre refractory. It is understood that several numbers and arrangements of pipes can be insulated according to the present invention with an appropriately vacuum moulded ceramic fibre refractory. For purposes of economy, the refractory members can be manufactured from a blend of ceramic fibres as a single layer which will permit continuous operation in temperature ranges found in reheat furnaces, and which are sufficiently resistant to attack by slag and furnace gases. However, the temperature rang in a metallurgical reheat furnace is generally not constant. Portions of the furnace in proximity to the burners may operate in the 144000 range while those sections near the flue of the furnace may be closer to the 105500 temperature range. Consequently, the ceramic fibre shapes near the flue can be less thermally resistant, less resistant to the high temperature corrosive gases within the furnace and hence made from a less expensive blend of fibres than those refractory shapes located near the burner section.Thus, by varying the compositional blends of the various ceramic fibres, the appropriate refractory can be installed in the corresponding areas of the furnace at a minimum of expense. For purposes of this disclosure, ceramic fibres which substantially retain their thermal resistance characteristics at a continuous operating temperature will be referred to by that temperature for example, 0 0 0 as 1280 C fibre, 1440 C fibre, 1660 C fibre and so forth. Each ceramic fibre shape may include proportions of a 1280 ceramic fibre bulk, a 1440 0C ceramic fibre bulk and or a 1660 0C ceramic fibre bulk.The precise ratios of one fibre bulk to another is a result of the furnace temperatures encountered, the allowable or desired thickness of the refractory and the preferred cost of manufacture. One 0 acceptable 1280 C basic fibre bulk, called Kaowool, which is manufactured by the Babcock Wilcox Company, consists primarily of fibres having a 47,or A1203 and 52.9 SiO2 percent by weight composition. A o 1440 C bulk ceramic fibre product is also manufactured by the same company having a 55.0 to 44.9 by molecular weight composition of Awl203 and SiO2 respectively.An even more slag resistant and low thermally 0 conductive 1660 C ceramic fibre bulk is manufactured by the Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd., having a 95.0 and 5.0 by molecular weight of Awl23 and SiO2 respectively. In the cooler regions of the furnace, 5 of a high temperature fibre, such as for example a 1660 0C ceramic fibre, can be blended with 95 of lower temperature fibre, for example a 128000 ceramic fibre, by weight to achieve reasonable temperature and slag resistant ceramic fibre refractory. Another embodiment, suitable for much of the furnace, includes a 60 to 40 by weight ratio of 166000 ceramic fibre 0 to 1280 C fibre respectively. The application of a suitable high temperature slurry coating material such as air or heat setting mortar to the outer surface 61 of the members 13 will enhance the slag resistance of the shape. By way of example, and not by way of limitation, one such surface coating is manufactured by A.P.GreenRefractories Co. according to the approximate chemical analysis SiO2 1.0 2.0o10 Al 203 88 90 Na20 K20 Fe203 .05 .2 MgO 05 .2 r2 3 9.0 10.0 The resulting compound is a high temperature . , . protective coating providing an additional degree of surface hardness, resistance to slag penetration, and resistance to erosion of the ceramic fibreAnother coating, which is self curing, contains 95 ZrO2 which can also be applied cold. The ceramic fibre refractory shapes 13 are suitably produced by a vacuum forming process. A slurry is, for example, formulated as follows 23000F ceramic fibre bulk 1.8 kg 30000F ceramic fibre bulk 2.7 kg colloidal silica 0.8 kg starch 0.34 kg water 266 kgThe starch tends to maintain the silica binder in a colloidal state during the forming operation and, being organic, is burned out during the subsequent curing operation thereby leaving a substantially inorganic bond. For best results, the slurry is agitated or stirred in order to assist in the maintenance of the colloidal state within the slurry. A perforated cylindrical male mould whose perforations are in communication with an inner partial vacuum source, is inserted into the slurry. The colloidal silica medium.the starch and the water within the slurry are drawn through the perforations by the vacuum. The ceramic fibres, however, are significantly long and generally do not pass through the perforations of the mould.Hence, the ceramic fibres tend to form a mat of interlaced ceramic fibres around the perforated vacuum mould. The mat around the perforated vacuum mould is generally more dense when nearest the mould and is less dense as it is formed radially outwardly from the mould. By varying the amount of vacuum applied to the perforations of the mould, the density, and to some degree the rigidity, of the mat can be varied. When the desired thickness of the ceramic fibre layer has been deposited on the perforated vacuum mould in the slurry, the mould is removed from the slurry. The inner surface of the refractory, being closest to the vacuum source, exhibits a textured screen like appearance. The outer surface, being farther from the vacuum source, is rougher in appearance and is called the bark surface. The bark surface can be, but is not necessarily required to be, smooth.The perforated vacuum mould is then removed from the combination of the deposited ceramic fibre refractory. The refractory is then positioned on a suitably shaped mandrel and cured. The refractory is cured in a temperature range of approximately 82 0C to 0 260 C for a period of four to eight hours. Forced con vection in the curing oven will minimize the curing time. The refractory can either be moulded as individual shapes 13, or moulded as a unit 2 and cut into two substantial shapes 13. The resistance of the refractory to slag attack is enhanced and the porosity of the refractory is reduced by the addition of a suitable refractory granular filler to the slurry of the fibres during the vacuum forming operation. Acceptable granular fillers can be, for example, alumina Al203 , zirconia Zr20 or chromic oxide Cr203 . The higher the content of the alumina A1203 the more resistant to temperature, slags degradation and furnace gases is the resulting ceramic fibre. Those skilled in the art realize that the ingredients of the slurry can be varied at will in order to optimize the operating characteristics of the refractory with its cost of manufacture for a given continuous operating temperature.The blend can further be varied during the vacuum forming operation in order to deposit an increasingly greater amount ofA1203 in a direction radially outward. The ceramic fibre members of the invention not only save energy by reducing the heat loss within a metallurgical furnace, but also substantially reduces the energy requirement to cure the refractory itself. For example, dense prefired ceramic refractories have generally required curing at a 0 temperature of 1500 C. Approximately sixteen hours are required to fire a furnace to 15000C. The conventional preburned ceramic refractories have then been cured at 1500 0C for six to eight hours. The furnace has then slowly been cooled from 15000C to ambient temperature and the fired refractories have then been removed from the furnace.The total time involved has been thirty to forty hours and the energy required to produce the requisite temperatures has been immense.Conversely, the manufacture Or the interlocking, vacuum formed ceramic fibre refractory members according to the invention requires an average of only six hours in a continuous oven process at a 0 0 temperature of 82 to 260 C. Hence, the energy saving during the manufacturing process of the refractory itself is substantial. In order to ensure an intimate fit around the pipe within the furnace, the refractory unit 2 preferably includes the radially aligned end surfaces 7 and 11 in order to minimize the seams between the installed units 2. It will be realized that the longer the interlock portion of the member 13, that is the portion generally defined by the interlocking recesses 16, 19 and the protuberances 10 and 15 of each member, the more effective is the resulting interlocking action and stability of the unit 2 around the blanket 26 and the pipe 20. The tapering of the protuberances and confor ing recesses further reduces penetration through the seams by the slag and corrosive gases.Because of the remarkably improved weight characteristics of the interlocking, ceramic fibre refractory members of the invention as compared to fire brick or tiles, the weight per lineal foot has been reduced to 4.5 to 9 kilogrammes as opposed to the 52 to 60 kilogrammes per lineal meter for the conventional prefired ceramic refractory tile. Hence, the weight and stress placed upon the water cooled infrastructure is significantly reduced, and the loads and stresses on the protuterances 10 and 15 are reduced thereby reducing in turn the fractures and failures in those areas.The reduced weight per lineal foot of the members of the present invention substantially reduces the crushing effect on the blanket 26 when the blanket is maintained in compression inside the unit 2, and permits quick installation without additional support means. The resiliency of the new refractory permits it to withstand impact to a far greater degree than conventional refractories. It is understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention is suitable for application as a process pipe insulation such as those insulations used in the petroleum or utility industry. The invention greatly reduces heat loss through water cooled pipes in a metallurgical furnace.For example, in a furnace operating between l3000C and 140G C, the approximate following heat losses occur kJ lineal meter hour bare pipe 406,500 prefired ceramic tile 47,199 interlocking vacuum formed ceramic fibre 6.004