# Fungicidal and herbicidal compositions, certain cyanomethane and cyanoethene derivatives being active agents thereof, the preparation of these derivatives and methods for combating fungi and weeds.

## Abstract
There are described pesticidal compositions comprising a compound of formula I, There are also described methods for making and using the compounds. Certain of the compounds are new.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A fungicidal or herbicidal composition comprising a compound of formula I,EMI84.1 in which X represents a group CN and Y a cation, or X and Y together form a group of formula II,EMI84.2 in which R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, each represents hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl or benzyl, R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or phenyl substituted by one or more of halogen, alkyl, alkoxy, phenoxy, nitro, amino, COOR9, SO3R9 or CF3, or R and R4 together form a 4, 5 or 6 membered methylene chain which may be fused to a benzene ring, or which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom or by a group NH , R6 is CiN, C NH NHR8, rnNR9R10, or CQZR9, R8 represents alkyl or cycloalkyl, R9 and R hllich may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl or cycloalkyl, and Q and Z, which may be the same or different, each represent oxygen or sulphur, or a suitable derivative thereof, provided that when R6 is COOC2H5 and nl, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is other than alkyl contaim ng 3, 4 or 5 carbon atoms as active ingredient, together with an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant, diluent or carrier. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 comprising a surface active agent and from 0.5 85 of active ingredient. 3. A compound of formula I, as defined in Claim 1, or a suitable derivative thereof, with the provisos thatA. when X and Y together form a group of formula II, and b when R6 is CN i then not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are hydrogen, ii then not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are methyl, iii and when R1 and R3 are both hydrogen, then both of R2 andR4 are not octadecyl, or both of R2 and R4 are not p nitrophenyl, iv and when R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not methyl or cyclohexyl, v and when R1 and R2 are both methyl, then R3 and R4 are not both ethyl or propyl or do not together form a a CH2 2 O CH2 2 chain, and, when R3 is hydrogen, R4 is not butyl, phenyl or p chlorphenyl, vi and when R1 and R2 are both hydrogen, then R and R4 are not both ethyl or propyl or do not together form à CH2 4 , or a CH2 5 chain, and, when R3 is hydrogen or methyl, then R4 is not hydrogen, ethyl, butyl, phenyl, o methylphenyl or m nitrophenyl, vii and when R3 and R4 are both hydrogen and Rsl is hydrogen or ethyl, then R2 is not benzyl, and c when R6 is COOCH3 i not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are methyl, ii and when R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not alkylC 1 to 6, cyclohexyl or phenyl, iii and when R1, R3, and R4 are all hydrogen, then R2 is not benzyl, and d when R6 is C00C2H5 i and when R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not methyl or alkyl C 3 to 6 inclusive, ii and when R1 and R2 are both hydrogen, then R3 and R4 do not together form a CH2 4 chain, and e when R6 is CONH2, then not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are hydrogen, and f when R6is OOOCH CH3 2 or COOC CH3 3 and R1, 2 R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not propyl, butyl or hexyl, and g when R6 is CONHphenyl not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are ethyl, orB. when X is CN then Y is an organic quaternary ammonium cation other than tetramethylammonium, or is a cation comprising one or more hydrogen atoms co ordinated to an organic base other than isopropylamine, t butylamine, t octylamine, dietiiylamine, triethylamine, pyridine, piperidine, pyrrolidine, benzamidine, aniline, N methylaniline, o toluidine or m nitroaniline. 4. A compound according to Claim 3, wherein each of R1, R2, R ,R4 and R6, when they contain carbon, contain less than 10 carbon atoms. 5. A compound according to Claims or 4, wherein R4 is branched alkyl C 3 to 6, phenyl or Phenyl substituted by one or more orC 1 to 6 alkyl groups, NH2 or CF3 groups, or halogen atoms. 6. A compound according to any one of Claims 3 to 5, whereinR1, R2 and R3 are each hydrogen or alkyl C 1 to 6. 7. A compound according to any one of Claims 3 to 6, whereinR6 is a carboxylic acid group or a C 1 to 6 alkyl ester, or a C 1 to 6 alkyl substituted, or an unsubstituted, amide thereof. 8. A compound according to any one of Claims 3 to 7, whereinR4 is phenyl optionally substituted by chlorine, bromine, iodine, methyl, CF3 or NH2, R3 is hydrogen or methyl, R1 and R2 are chosen from hydrogen or methyl, and R6 is CN, CONH2, COC2H5, COOipropyl COOt butyl or COOCH CH3 CH2CH3. 9. A compound of formula Ic, EMI88.1 in which Rl9 is hydrogen or methyl, R20 is a group R16 or a groupEMI88.2 R21 is CONH2 or OOOR, R is straight or branched alkyl C 2 to 12, R14 and R15, which may be the same or different, are each hydrogen, methyl, CF3 or nitro, R16 is branched chain alkyl C 3 to 6, R17 is chlorine or bromine, and R18 is hydrogen or methyl. 10. A compound of formula Id, Ie or If, EMI89.1 in which R, R14. R15 R16 R17 and R18 are as defined inClaim 9. 11. 3 Amino 3 4 bromophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide, 3 Amino 3 4 chlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide, 3 Amino 3 4 chloro 3 nethylphenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide, Ethyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 N methylphenylamino propenoate, Isopropyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 N methylphenylamino propenoate or the dodecylguanidine salt of tricyanomethane. 12. A process for the production of a compound according to Claim 3, or a suitable derivative thereof, which comprises a production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II by reacting a compound of formula III,EMI90.1 in which at least one of R12 and R13 is a leaving group, and the other of R12 and R13 may be NR3R4 or NS1R2 respectively, with an amine of formula IV or V, RR4NH w R1R2NH V in which R1, R2, R3, R4, R6 and the provisos are as defined in ttaim 3, or b production of a compound of formula I in which at least one of R1, R2, R3 and R4 represents alkyl, by alkylation of a corresponding compound of formula I in which at least one of R1,R2, R3 and R4 represents hydrogen, or c production of a compound of formula I in which R3 and R4 or R1 and R2 are both hydrogen by subjecting to an elevated temperature a compound of formula VI or VII,EMI91.1 in which R1, R2, R3, R4, R5 and the provisos are as defined in claim 3, d production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II and R6 is CONH2, by selective hydrolysis of the corresponding compound of formula I in which R6 is CN, e production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y. together from a group of formula II and R6 is C NH NHR8, by reacting a corresponding compound of formula I or III in which R6 is CN, with an amine of formula R8NH2 in which R8 is as defined above, or f production of a compound of formula I in which X is CN andY is a cation by a metathetical process, and where desired or necessary converting the resulting compound of formula I to a suitable derivative thereof or vice versa. 13. A method for combating fungus or weeds which comprises applying a compcsition according to Claim 1 or 2, or a compound according to any one of Claims 3 to 11, to a locus infested, or liable to be infested, by fungal attack or by weeds.

## Description
5, METHODS FOR THEIR PRO DURAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM The present invention relates to new fungicidal and or herbicidal compounds, fungicidal and or herbicidal compositions and methods of combating fungus or weeds. Accordingly the present invention provides a fungicidal or herbicidal composition comprising a compound of formula I,EMI1.1 In this X represents a group CN and Y a cation, or X and.Y together form a group of formula II,EMI1.2 in which R1 and R2, which may be the same or different, each represents hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl or benzyl, R3 and R4, which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl or phenyl substituted by one or more of halogen, alkyl, alkoxy,phenoxy,nitro,amino, COOR9, SO3R9 or CF3, or R and R4 together form a 4, 5 or 6 membered methylene chai which may be fused to a benzene ring, or which may be interrupted by an oxygen atom or by a group N , R6 is CN, C NH NHR8, CONR9R10, or CQZR9 R8 represents alkyl or cycloalkyl, R9 and R1O, which may be the same or different, each represent hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl or cycloalkyl, and Q and Z, which may be the same or different, each represent oxygen or sulphur, ora suitable derivatives thereof, provided that a when R6 is COOC2H5 and R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is other than alkyl containing 3, 4 or 5 carbon atoms, together with an agriculturally acceptable adjuvant, diluent or carrier, e.g. a surface active agent, a pesticide for example a herbicide, insecticide, fungicide, acaricide or the like , a solid carrier, or a liquid carrier, e.g. a hydrocarbon having a booling point in the range 130 2700C. In a further embodiment, the invention provides a method for combating fungus or weeds which comprises applying a suitable compound of or formula I, or a suitable derivative thereof, to a locus osted, or liable to be infested, by fungal attack or by weeds. According to the invention we also provide, as new compOunds, the compounds of formula I, and suitable derivatives thereof, with tiw2 provisos thatA. When X and Y together form a group of formula II, and Cb when R6 is CN I then not all of RÚ,Rê,R and R4 are hydrogen, ii then not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are methyl, iii and when R1 and R3 are both hydrogen, then both of R2 and R4 are not octadecyl, or both of R2 and R4 are not p nitrophenyl, iv and when R1, 2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not methyl or cyclohexyl, v and when RÚ and R2 are both methyl, then R3 and R4 are not both ethyl or propyl or do not together form a CH2 2 CH2 2 chain, and, when R3 is hydrog , R4 is not butyl, phenyl or cilorophenyl, vi and when R1 and R2 are both hydrogen, then R3 and R4 are not both ethyl or propyl or do not together form a CH2 4 , or a CH2 5 chain, and, when R3 is hydrogen or methyl, then R4 is not hydrogen, ethyl, butyl, phenyl, o methylphenyl or mnitrophenyl, vii and when R3 and R4 are both hydrogen and R1 is hydrogen or ethyl, then R2 is not benzyl, and c when R6 is COOCH3 i not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are methyl, ii and when R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not alkylC 1 to 6, cyclohexyl or phenyl,Ciii and when R1, R3, and R4 are all hydrogen, then R2 is not benzyl, and d when R6 is COOC2H5 i and when t. Rê and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not methyl or alkyl C 3 to 6 inclusive, ii and when R1 and R2 are both hydrogen,then R and R4 do not together form a CH2 4 chain, and e when R6 is CONH2, then not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are hydrogen, and f when R6 is COOCH CH3 2 or COOC CH3 3 and R1, R2 and R3 are all hydrogen, then R4 is not propyl, butyl or hexyl, and g when R6 is CONHphenyl not all of R1, R2, R3 and R4 are ethyl, orB. when X and 0 are CN then Y is an organic quaternary ammonium cation other than tetramethylammonium, or is a cation comprising one or more hydrogen atoms co ordinated to an organic base other than isopropylamine, t butylamine, t octylamine, diethylamine, trlethylanine, pyridine, piperidine, pyrrolidine, benzamidine, aniline, N methylaniline, o toluidine or m nitroaniline. According to the invention we also provide a process for the production of the new compounds of formula I, and suitable derivatives thereof, which comprises a production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II by reacting a compound of formula III,EMI4.1 in which at least one of R12 and R13 is a leaving group, and the other of R12 and R13 may be NR3R4 or NS1R2 respectively, in an amino or formula IV or V, R R4NH IV R1R2NH V in which R1 R2 R3, R4, R6 and the provisos are as defined above, or b production of a compound of formula I in which at least one of RÚ, Rê, R3 and R represents alkyl, by alkylation of a coresponding compound of formula I in whith at least one of RÚ,Rê,R and R4 represents hyd5rogen,or c production c f a compound of formula I in which R3 and R4 orRÚ and R2 are both hydrogen by subjecting to an elevated temperature a compound of formula VI or VII,EMI5.1 in which R1, Rê, R , R4, R6 and the provisos are as defined above, d production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II and R6 is COONH2, by selective hydrolysis of the corresponding compound of formula I in which R6 is GN, e production of a compound of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II and R6 is C NH NH8, by reacting a coresponding compound of formula I or III in nich R6 is an amine of formula R8NH2 In which R8 is as defined above or f production of a compound of formula I in which X is CN and A a caution, by a metathetical process, and where desired or necessary converting the resulting compound of formula I to a suitable derivatire thereof or vice versa. Process a may be carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions, e.g. water, 2 methoxyethynol or a lower aikanol such as ethanol, or a mixture thereof. The reaction preferably takes place at an elevated temperature, e.g. of from about 500 to 1300C. We prefer R12 or R13, when they are a leaving group to be CCl3, alkoxy, halogen, e.g. chlorine or bromine, or more preferably S alkyl, e.g. S alkyl C 1 to 6. The alkylation of process b may be effected by using an alkyl halide, e.g. an alkyl iodide or bromide, or an alkyl sulphate. The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of an acid acceptor, e.g. potassium carbonate, and if desired a catalytic amount of potassium iodide may be present. The reaction may hq carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions, e.g. acetone. The reaction is preferably carried out at temperature of from 20 to 1000C. Process Cc may be carried out by heating the compound of formula VI or VII in a reaction medium which is inert under the reaction conditions, e.g. dilute hydrochloric acid, water or xylene. or in an amine RÚRêNH or R R4NH. The rection is preferabily carried out at a temperature of from 60 to 1600C. Process d may be carried out under neutral, acidic e.g. 80 t S04 or basic conditions, e.g. in the presence of sodium hydroxide.The reaction may be carried out at from about 200 to 1000C. Process e may be carried out at an elevated temperature, e.g. of from 600 to 1500C. The reaction is preferably carried out in a solvent which is inert under the reaction conditions, e.g. an alkanol such as ethanol. Process f may be carrier out by the reaction of a solution of a metal salt of the cyanomethane for example potassium tricyanomethanide with a salt of the quaternary ammonium cation or the organic base. Preferred quaternary ammonium salts are the nalides, particularly the bromides and chlorides. Compounds of formula III are either known or can be made from snowy compounds using techniques known per se, e.g. using the following reaction scheme EMI7.1 In the above reaction scheme RÚ, Rê, R3 R4 and R6 are as defined above. Compounds of formula VI and VII may be made by reacting a compound of formula WV or V, or an acid addition salt thereof, with a compound of formula VIII,EMI8.1 in which R6 is as defined above, and M is is a metallic ion, e.g an alkali metal ion. Compounds of formulae IV, V and VIII are either known or may be made from known compounds using techniques which are knoll per se. Preferred salts of formula I are of formula Ta,EMI8.2 wherein no is a metal, for example an alkali metal such as sodium or potassium, an alkaline earth metal such as magnesium or calcillm, or a heavy metal such as zinc, copper or iron, ammonium, organic quaternary ammonium, or one or more hydrogen atoms co ordinated to an organic base, for example a primary, secondary or tertiary amine guanidine or substituted guanidine, or a heterocyclic compound having a nitrogen containing ring such as a substituted or unsumstituted pyridine,piperidine,pyrrolidine,imidazole,morp triazole or quinoxaline group, and n is the valency of the groupM.The substituted guanidine may for instance be guanidine substituted, preferably monosubstituted, by alkyl, e.g. of 1 to 16, preferably 8 16, carbon atoms. A preferred group of new salts are those of formula Ib,EMI9.1 wherein Ra is alkyl of 2 to 20, preferably 12 to 17, carbon atoms, benzyl or substituted benzyl, and Rb, Rc and Rd, which may be same or different, are alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, e.g. methyl. The benzyl group is suitably substituted by one or more alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, which alkyl groups may be substituted, for example by halogen e.g. chlorine or bromine, thiocyanate or trialhylammanium. Preferred salts are those of formula Ib e.g. the hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium salt of tricyanomethane , and the piperidine, morpholtss, and especially the dodecylguanidine salt of tricyanomethane We prefer compounds of formula I in which X and Y together form a group of formula II. In the compounds of formula I we prefer each of Rl, R2, R3, R4 and R6 when they contain carbon, to contain less than 25, preferably less than IS more preferably less than 10, and most preferably less than 8, carbon atoms We particularly prefer R4 to be branched alkyl 5 3 X phenyl or phenyl substituted by one or more or C 1 to 6 alkyl groups, NH2 or CF3 groups, or halogen, e.g. bromine, chlorine or iodine, atoms. R3 is preferably hydrogen or alkyl C 1 to 6, e.g. methyl.RÚ and R2 are preferably chosen from hydrogen or alkyl C 1 to 6.When one of R1, R2, R , R4 or R6 contains a cycloalkyl group we prefer the cycloalkyl group to be cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl R6 is preferably CN dr C NH NHCH3, or more preferably a carboxylic acid group, or a C 1 to 20 e.g. a C 1 to 6, ester or C 1 to 6 alkyl substituted, or an unsubstituted amide thereof. As a specific group we provide compounds of formula I in whith R4 is phenyl optionally substituted by chlorine, bromine, iodine, methyl, CF3 or NH2, R3 is hydrogen or methyl, R1 and R2 are chosen from hydrogen or methyl, and R6 is CN, COOC2H5, COOipropyl, COOt butyl or COOCH CH3 CH2CH3. We also provide the same group, but in which R6 is not CN. For enhanced herbicidal activity we prefer those compounds of formula I in which R4 is as defined immediately above, R3 is an alkyl group, e.g. a methyl group, and is an ester, e.g. an ethyl, propyl or butyl ester, of a carboxylic acid group. For enhanced fungicidal activity we prefer compounds of formula I in whiu and R2 are hydrogen, R3 is hydrogen or alkyl, R4 is phenyl substituted by chlorine, bromine and or methyl, and R6 is CN or COOt butyl CONH2. Thus preferred compounds of formula I are of forms EMI11.1 in which R19 is hydrogen or methyl,R20 is a group R16 or a groupEMI11.2 R21 is CONH2 or COOR, R is straight or branched alkyl C 2 to 12, R14 and RIS, which may be the same or different, are each hydrogen, methyl, CF3 or nitro, R16 is branched chain alkyl C 3 to 6, R17 is chlorine or bromine, and R18 is hydrogen or methyl. Particularly preferred compounds of formula Ic are of formula Id, Ie and If, EMI12.1 in which R, R14, R15. R10. R17 and R18 are as defined above. As a further specific group we provide those compounds of formula I in which R1 and R2 are both hydrogen, R is methyl,R4 is phenyl and R6 is COOH or COSH or a branched C 2 to 7 alkyl ester thereof. The compounds of Examples 11 b , 11 c ,11 d ,18 b ,18 c and 43 are particularly preferred. Suitable derivatives or the compounds of formula I in whichX and Y together form a group of formula II include salts, e.g.in certain cases salts with alkali metal or alkaline earth metals or with organic bases, and in certain cases with organic or inorganic acids. The derivatives may be made from the compounds of formula I in ways which are known per.se. Certain of the compounds of formula I may exist in stereoisomeric form and both isomeric forms of such compounds are included within the scope of this invention, i.e. where X and Y together form a group of formula II and the groups R6 and CN are interchanged. In general the isomeric forms interchange readily and we prefer that isomeric form which is most stable at room temperature. The present compounds are normally employed in the form of compositions, which can be prepared by awmixnng the ingredients. Usually the compositions are initially produced in the form of concentrates, e.g. containing 0.5 8590 of the compound of formula I, and these are diluted with water or hydrocarbon, usually water, for application, generally such that the concentration of the compound is 0.05 5 , though in ultra low volume application the concentration may be higher, e.g. up to 20 . Percentages and parts in this specification are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The compositions normally contain a surface active agent and or a carrier. The carrier may be a liqui,e.g.water e.g. water used to dilute a concentrate for application . If water is employed as carrier in a concentrate, an organic solvent may also be present as carrier, though this is not usually employed A surface active agent may advantageously be present. Those compounds soluble in water m,r be used as aqueous solutions with or without a surface active agent The carrier may be a liquid other than water for example an organic solvent, such as a water immiscible solvent, e.g. a hydrocarbon which boils within ti2 range 130 2700C, in which the compound is dissolved or suspended. A concentrate containing a water immiscibli solvent suitably also contains a surface active agent so that the concentrate acts as a self emulsifiable oil on admixture with water.The liquid may be a water miscible solvent e.g. 2 nethoxy ethanol, methanol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, formamide or methyl formamiae. The carrier may be a solid, which may be finely divided.Examples of suitable solids are limestone, clays, sand, mica, chalk, attapulgite, diatomite, perlite, sepiolite, silicas, silicates, lignosulphonates, peat and solid fertilizers. The carrier can be of natural or synthetic origin or can be a modified natural material. Wettable powders soluble or dispersable in water may be formed by admixing the compound in particulate form with a particulate carrier or spraying molten compound on to the particulate carrier, admixing a wetting agent and a dispersing agent and finely grinding the whole pvfder mixture. An aerosol composition may be formed by adinixing the compound with a propellant, e.g. a polyhalogenated alkane such as dichloro difluoroinethane, and suitably also with a solvent. A flowable suspension concentrate may be formed if the compound has a laç water solubility by grinding the compound with water, a wetting agent and a suspending agent. A flowable suspension concentrate wherein the carrier is a hydrocarbon which boils within the range 130 2700C rather than water may be formed. Thus the present composition can for example be solid e.g.dust or granules and contain a solid carrier or liquid e.g. an emulsifiable concentrate and contain a liquid carrier which is a hydrocarbon which boils within the range 130 2700C. The term surface active agent is used in the broad sense to include materials variously called emulsifying agents, dispersing agents and wetting agents. Such agents are well known in the art. The surface active agents used may comprise anionic surface active agents, for example soaps, mono or di esters of phosphoric acid with fatty alcohol ethoxylates or salts of such esters, fatty alcohol sulphates such as sodium dodecyl sulphate, sodium octadecyl sulphate or sodium cetyl sulphate, ethoxylated fatty alcohol sulphates, ethoxylated alkylphenol sulphates, lignin sulphonates, petroleum sulphonates, alkyl aryl sulphonates such as alkyl benzene sulphonates or lower alkylnaphthalene sulphonates e.g. butyl naphthalene sulphonate, salts of sulphonated naphthaleneformaldehyde condensates, salts of sulphonated phenolformaldehyde condensates, or more complex sulphonates such as the amide sulphonates e.g. the sulphonated condensation product of oleic acid and N methyl taurine or the dialkyl sulphosuccinates e.g.the sodium sulphonate of dioctyl succinate. Ionic surface active agents may tend to result in precipitation if employed in some formulations with certain of the compounds of formula I. Any surface active agent should be so chosen of course as to avoid this for any particular formalation envisaged. The surface active agents may also comprise non ionic agents, for example condensation products of fatty acid. esters, fatty alcohols, fatty acid asides or fatty , alkyl or alkenyl substituted phenols with ethylene oxide, fatty esters of polyhydric alcohol ethers e.g. sorbitan fatty acid esters, condensation products of such esters with ethylene oxide e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, acetylenic glycols such as 2,4,7,9 tetramethyl 5 decyn 4,7 diol, or ethoxylated acetylenic glycols. The surface active agents may also comprise cationic agents, for example alkyl and or aryl substituted quaternary ammonium compounds such as cetyl trimethylammonium bromide, ethoxylated tertiary fatty amines or a compound containing a cation as shown in formula Ib above. A surface active agent containing a cation as in formula Ib may advantageously be used with a saXt of formula Ib containing the same cation. Preferred surface active agents include ethoxylated fatty alcohol sulphates 1 lignin sulphonates, alkyl aryl sulphonates, salts of sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates, salts of sulphonated phenol formaldehyde condensates, dialkyl sulphosuccinates, alkyl phenol ethoxylates, and fatty alkyl ethoxylates. Non ionic surface active agents are preferred. Higher quantities of surface active agent, e.g. 5 50 of concentrate, than is normally present in commercial pesticidal or plant growth regulant compositions have been found to increase considerably the activity of the present compounds, even in some cases to several times the original activity. The surface active agent employed to produce this potentiating effect may be selected from those described above. It is preferably a non ionic surface active agent, especially an alkylsubstituted phenol condensed with ethylene oxide, e.g. tributylphenol condensed with 11 moles of ethylene oxide available under the trade mark Sapogenat T110 . The potentiating surface active agent may be admixed with the present compound for instance at the point of use, e.g. in a spray tank, or before, e.g. in a concentrate. Preferably the mount of potentiating surface active agent applied in a spray of the present compound is 0.l 5t, especially 1 . The present active compound may be admixed with one or more other pesticides, e.g. herbicides, insecticides or fungicides, or with a plant growth regulant. The invention provides a one pack presentation, in which the present compound is already mixed with another pesticide or plant growth regulant, and also a single package designed to hold the present compound and other pesticide or the plant growth regulant in separate containers, for mixing, e.g. in a spray tank, for application. Particular advantages are obtained with mixtures with another pesticide. The present compound may be used sequentially with one or more other pesticides or plant growth regulants particularly with another fungicide or herbicide. The herbicide may be for example one or more of a phenoxyaliphatic acid, substituted urea, triazine, phenol, nitrile, blpyridylium compound, substituted benzoic acid, halogenated aliphatic acid, carbamate, thiocarbamate, chloroacetanide, diazine, boanzofuran or arsenic herbicide.In respect of selective herbicidal compositions for post emergence use, the present compound may be used in admixture with for example a substituted phenoxyaliphatic a id in respect of selective herbicidal compositions for Fnre emergence use, the present compound may be used in admixture with for example a substituted urea, triazine, S 2,3 dichloroallyl di isopropylthiocarbamate or S 2 ,3,3 trichloroallyl di isopropyl thiocarbamate. The phenoxyaliphatic acid generally comprises alkyl and or halogen substituted phenoxyaliphatic acids, and their salts, for example alkali metal, amine and alkanolamine salts, and functional derivatives, for example esters and amides. These compounds may be of activity such that they are recognised as commercial herbicides, or may be of only slight herbicidal activity.Examples of the substituted phenoxyaliphatic acids which may be mentioned include 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionic acid, 2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxyacetic acid, 2,4,5 trichlorophenoxyacetic acid, gamma 2,4 dichlorophenoxybutyric acid, gamma 2 methyl 4 chloro phenoxybutyric acid, alpha2 methyl 4 chlorophenoxypropionic acid, 2 4 t2 ,4 dichlorophenoxy2 phenoxy propionic acid and 2 4 E4 chlorophenoxyJphenoxy propionic acid. The substituted urea generally comprises a tri or tetrasubstituted urea such as N 3 chloro methoxyphenyl N,N dimethylurea, N 3 cholro 4 methylphenyl N,N dimethylurea,N parachlorophenyl N,N dimethylurea, N buthyl N 3,4 dichlorophenyl N methylurea, N parachlorophenyl O,N,N,trimethylisourea,N p chlorophenyl N methoxy N methylurea, N,N dimethyl N phenylurea, 3 4 b romophenyl 1 methoxy 1 methylurea, l 2 benzothiazolyl 3 methylurea, N,N dimethyl N 4 1 methylethyl phenyl urea, N 3 ,4 dichlorophenyl N methoxy N methylurea N,N dimethyl Ns g3 trifluoromethyl phenyl urea, N 3, 4 dichloro phenyl N,N dimethylurea or N 3 1,1,2,2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl N,N dimethylurea. The triazine herbicide generally comprises 2 chloro 4 lcyano 1 methylamino 6 methylamino 1,3,5 triazine or 2 isopropyl amino 4 3 methoxypropylamino 6 methilthio 1,3,5 triazine or a compound of the formula EMI20.1 Where X is a halogen atom, OY group or SY group, where Y is an alkyl group, Re and Rg are the same or different and are hydrogen or alkyl and Rf and Rh are the same or different alkyl groups, such as 2 chloro 4,6 bisethylamino 1,3,5 triazine, 2 chloro 4ethylamino 6 diethylamino 1,3,5 triazine, 2 chloro 6 ethylamino4 isopropilamino 1,3,5 trizine or 2,4 bis isopropilamino 6 methylthio l 3,5 triazine. The phenol herbicide generally comprises 4,5 dinitro o cresol, 4,6 dinitro 2 sec buthylphenol or pentachlorophenol. The nitrile herbicide generally comprises 3,5 diiodo 4 hydroxy benzonitrile, 3, 5 dibromo 4 hydroxyb enzonitrile or 2 ,6 dichlorobenzonitrile. The bipyridylium herbicide generally comprises l,l dimethyl 4,4 bipyridylium dichloride or P,1 ethylene 2,2 bipyridylirm dibromide. The substituted benzoic acid herbicide genera ras comprises 2,3 ,6 trichlorobenzoic acid, 2 methoxy 3,6 dichlorobenzoic acid or N 1,1 dimethylpropynyl 3,5 dichlorobenzamide.The halogenated aliphatic acid herbicide generally comprises trichloroacetic acid or 2 ,2 dichloropropionic acid. The carbamate herbicide generally comprises isopropyl N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate, 4 chloro 2 butynyl N 3 chlorophenyl carbamate, methyl 3 m tolylcarbamoyloxy phenylcarbamate,isopropyl N 3 N ethyl nphenylcarbamoyloxy phenylcarbamate, or D N ethyl 2 phenylcarbamoyloxy propionamide. The thiocarbamate herbicide generally comprises S ethyl N,N dipropiylthiocarbamate, S ethyl N,N diisobuty1thiocarbamate, S 2,3 dichloroallyl N,N diisopropylthiocarbamate,S ethyl N, ethyl N cyclohexylthiocarbamate, Propyl butylethylthiocarbamate or S 2,3,3 tricloroallyl N,N diisopropylthiocarbamate.The chloroacetamide herbicide generally comprises N,N diallyl 2 chloroacetamide, N isopropyl 2 chloroacetanilide, N chloroacetyl N 2 ,6 diethylphenyl glycine ethyl ester, N 2,6 diethylphenyl N methoxymethyl 2 chloroacetamide, N 2 ethyl 6 methylphenyl N 2 methoxy l methylethyl 2 chIoroacetamide, orN chloroacetyl N 2 methyl 6 ethylphenyl glycine isopropyl ester.The diazine herbicide generally comprises 5 bromo 6 metllyl 3 sec butyluracil, 3 cyclohexyl 5 ,6 trimethyleneuracil, 5 amino 4 chloro 2 phenyl 3 pyridazinone or 1,2 dihydropyridazine 3,6 dione.The benzofuran herbicide may be, for example, ethofumesate or 2,3 dihydro 3,3 dimethyl benzofuram 5 yl ethanesulphonate. The arsenic herbicide generally comprises a salt, e.g. the mono or di sodium salt of methane arsonic acid or cacodylic acid.Other herbicides which may be used include 1,2 dimethyl 3,5 diphenyl pyrazolium ion, ethyl N benzoyl N 3,4 dichlorophenyl alanine, N isobutyl 2 oxo l imidazolidine carboxamide, aminotriazole,2,3dichloro 1,4 naphthoquinone,4 amino 3,5,6 trichloropicolinic acin, N,N dimethyl 2,2 diphenylacetamide, 2,6 dinitro N,Ndipropyl 4 trifluoromethyl aniline,N buthyl ethyl 2,6 dinitro 4trifluoromethylaniline, S,S,S tributhyl phosphorotrithioate, 2 ethoxy 2,3 dihydro 3,3 dimethyl 5 benzofuranyl methylsulphonate, 4 chloro 2 oxobenzothiazolin 3 y1 acetic acid, 3 isopropyl 2,1,3 benzothiadiazinon 4 2,2 dioxyde, 3,5 dibromo 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde, 2,4 dinitrophenyloxime, methyl 2 cloro 3 4 chlorophenyl propionate, 2 chloroethyltrimethylanmonium chloride, 4 methylsulphonyloxy2 butynyl m chlorocarbanilate, isopropyl 2 N benzoyl 3 chloro 4 fluoroanilino propionate, methyl 2 N benzoyl 3 chloro 4 fluoro anilino propionate, 2 chloro N 1, 3 dioxolan 2 ylmethyl 2 ,6 dimethylacetanilide, 2 chloro 1 3 ethoxy 4 nitrophenoxy 4triflouromethylbenzene, methyl 2 4 2 ,4 dichlorophenoxy phenoxy propionate,isobutyl 2 4 4 chlorophenoxy phenoxy propionate, 1,1, I trifluoro 2 methyl 4 phenylsulphonyi inethane sulphonanilide, 4 cloro 5 methylamino 2 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 2H pyridazinone, 5 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenoxy 2nitrobenzoic acid, 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 4pyridone, 4 methylsulphonyl 2,6 dinitro N,N dipropylaniline, 4 2,4 dichlorophenoxy 2 methoxy 1 nitrobenzene, N 1 ethylpropyl 3,4 dimethyl 2,6 dinitroaniline, 2 ,4 dimethyl 5 trifluoromethanesulphonamido acetanilide, dimethyl2,3,5,6 tetrachloroterephthalate, N cyclopropylmethyl 2,6 dinitro N propyl 4 trifluoromethylanilide, N 2 chloroethyl 2,6 dinitro N propyl 4 trifluoromethylaniline, NÚ,NÚ diethyl 2,6 dinitro 4 trofluoromethyl mphenylenediamine, NÚ,NÚ dipropyl 2,6 dinitro 4 trifluoromethyl m phenylenediamine, N sec butyl 4 tert butyl 2 , 6 dinitroaniline, 2 3,4 dichlorophenyl 4 methyl 1,2,4 oxadiazolidine 3,5 dione, 4 dipropylamino 3,5 dinitrobenzenesulphonamide, 1 3 trifluoro methylphenyl 3 chloro 4 chloromethyl 2 pyrrolidone, 2 l allyloxy aminobutylidine 5,5 dimethyl 4 methoxycarbonylcyclohexane 1,3dione, 2 N ethoxybutyrimidoyl S 2 ethylthiopropyl 3 hydro y 2 cyclohexen 1 one, or 2 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl ethylsulphonyl pyridine N oxide. The compounds may also be employed in association with a herbicidal antidote a substance having the property of improving the safety of a herbicide to a crop , e.g. N,N diallyl 2,2 dichloro acetamide, 4 chloro 2 hydroxymino acetanilide, 1,8 naphthalic anhydride, alpha cyanomethoximino benzeneacetonitrile or 2,2 dimethyl 3 dichloroacetyloxazolidine. Although the antidote may be applied in admixture with active compound, it is preferably applied separately, and especially as a treatment for crop seeds. The ratio by weight of herbicide to antidote is preferably from 1 4 to 4 1. The present compound may be used in admixture or sequence with another fungicide, particularly another potato fungicide. The other fungicide may be for instance one or more of manes polymeric manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate , zineb zinc ethlenebisdithio carbamate , mancozeb which can be regarded as a mixture of maneb and zineb , thiram tetramethylthiuram disulphide , ditalimfos O,O diethyl phthalimidophosphonothioate , tridemorph 2 ,6 dimethyl 4 tridecylmorpholine , fluotrimazole 1 diphenyl 3 trifluoromethylphenyl methyl 1,2,4 triazole , ethirimol 5 buthyl 2ethylamino 4 hydroxy 6 methylpyrimidine , triforine 1,4 di 2,2,2trichloro 1 1formamidoethyl piperazine , pyracarbolid 3,4 dihydro6 methylpyran 5 carboxanilide , zinebethylene thiuramdisulphide adduct, carbendazim methyl benzimidazol 2 ylcarbamate , captafol 3a,4,7,7a tetrahydro N 1,1,2,2 tetrachloroethyanesulphenyl phthalimide , thiophanate 1,2 di 3 ethoxycarbonyl 2 thioureido benzene , proprineb polymeric zinc propylenebisdithiocarbamate oxycarboxin 2,3 dihydro 6 methyl 5 phenylcarbamoyl l,4 oxatkiin 4,4 dioxide , quintozene pentachloronitrobenzene , benomyl methyl 1 buthylcarbamoy benzimidazol 2 y carbamate , triadimefon and benadanil 2 iodobenzanilide . The present compound may be used in admixture or sequence with an insecticide. The irsecticide may be for instance one or more of bendiocarb, demeton S methyl S 2 ethylthioethyl 0,0 dimethyl phosphorothioate , dimethoate 0,0 dimethyl S methylcarbamoylmethyl phosphorodithioate , formathion S N formyl N methylcarbamolymethylk 0,0 dimethyl phosphorodithioate , oxydemeton methyl S 2 ethylsulphinylethyl 0,0 dimethyl phosphorothioate , pirimicarb 2 dimethylamino 5,6 dimethylpyrimidin 4 yl dimethylcarbamate , thiometon S 2 ethylthioethyl 0,0 dimethyl phosphorodithioate ,BHC benzene hexachlorida , aldrin 1,2,3,4,10,10 hexachloro 1,4a,4,5,8,8a hexahydro exo 1,4 endo 5,8 dimethanonaphthalene , fenitrothion 0,0 dimethyl O 4 nitro m tolyl phosphorothioate , omethoate 0, 0 dimethyl S methylcarbamoylmethyl phosphorothioate , pirimiphos methyl 0 2 diethylamino 6 methylpyrimidin 4 yl 0,0dimethyl phosphorothioate and DDT 1,1,1 trichloro 2,2 di chlorophenyl ethane . The ratio of the present compound to the other pesticide or plant growth regulant may vary over a wide range according to the particular compounds involved and the intended use. In general the ratio of present compound to other pesticide or plant growth regulant lies in the range 1 0.1 to 1 15. The present compounds may be in admixture with non phytotoxic oils, e.g. Agri Oil Plus, Sun Oil 11E or Fyzol E. The compounds may be in admixture with fertilizers. The compounds and compositions of the invention are active against a range of fungal diseases, particularly those of plants such as Phytophthora infestans potato blight , Plasmopara viticola vine downy mildew , Botrytis fabae chocolate spot of beans ,Erysiphe cichoraceearum powdery mildew of cucumber , Puccinia striiformis wheat yellow rust and Uromyces phaseoli rust of french bean , and the damping off organisms Pythium ultimum and Rhizoctonia solani. As mentioned above, the present invention provides a method of controlling or preventing fungal growth which comprises applying to a locus infested or liable to be infested by fungus a compound or composition according to the invention. The locus infected or liable to be infected may be plants, animals, the soil, aquatic areas, fabrics, textiles, paper, wood and the like. Preferably the compound or composition is employed against fungal diseases of plants. The plants may be growing or may be seeds, using seeds in the wider sense to include tubers etc.The compound or composition can be applied directly to the plants, or can be applied to the medium in which they grow and be taken up by the plants and distributed within the plants, i.e.the compounds show systemic activity. The compounds are applied to a locus infested or liable to be infested with fungus at a rate for example of 0.2 to 5 kg per hectare. For use as a seed dressing, the compounds may be applied in the form of a dust with a solid carrier for instance at the rate of 1 4 e.g. 2 oz of dust per bushel of seed or may be applied in the form of a liquid with a liquid carrier for instance at a rate of 0.575 3 fluid oz of liquid per bushel of seed. The compounds and compositions according to the invention also possess herbicidal activity, especially against weeds growing in crops such as cotton Gossypium sp , potato Solanum tuberosum , peanuts Arachis hypogaea , maize Zea mays , sunflower Helianthus annus , rice 0ryza sativa , sorghum Sorghum vulgare , soya beans 9 max , millets, e.g. foxtail millet Setaria italica , pearl millet Pennisetum typhoides and common millet Panicum niliaeceum , oats Avena sativa , peas Pisum sativum , navy beans Phaseolus vulgaris , wheat Triticum aestivum and barley Hordeum vulgare . Particular weeds which may be mentioned include broad leaved, rhizomatous and grass weeds, e.g. purslane Portulaca oleracea , ground cherry Physalis longiflora , jimsonweed Datura stramomium , pigweeds Amaranthus spp , mayweeds Triplevrospermum maritimum , and Natricaria matricariodes , chickweed Stellaria media , fat hen Chenopodium album , charlock Sinapis arrensis , also known as Brassica kaber , blackgrass Alopecurus myosuroides , canary grass Phalaris arundinace , sterile brome Bromus sterilis , annual meadowgrass Poa annua , yellow nutsedge Cyperus resculentus , and purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus . The compounds and compositions may be applied to the area, e.g. land, soil or water, infested or liable to be infested with the weeds either before or after emergence of the weeds and or the crop. The present compounds are usually employed for herbicidal use at a rate of from 0.5 to 8 kg, e.g. 1 to 4 kg per hectare. We prefer to use compounds of formula I in which X is CN andY is a cation as fungicides. Of the compounds of formula I in whichX and Y together form a group of formula II we prefer to use those in which R6 is COOH or COSH or esters thereof as herbicides and those in which R6 has its other significances as fungicides. In particular we prefer to use compounds of formulae Ic and Id as herbicides and compounds of formula le as fungicides. The invention is illustrated by, but not limited to, the following Examples in which temperatures are in OC, Me represents methyl, Et represents ethyl and Ph represents phenyl.Example 1 a Amino decylamino methylenepropanedinitrile Decylammonium tricyanomethanide 8g was heated under reflux with xylene 50 ml for 4 hours. The solid was filtered off and recrystallised from ethanol to give the yellowisch, waxy title product 4,4g, 55 , m.p. 98 100 . Found C, 67.7 H, 9.75 N, 22.55 C14H24N4 requires C, 67.7 H, 9.7 N, 22.6 .Similarly prepared was b Amino octadecylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 109 11 .Example 2 a Amino 1 piperidinyl methylenepropanedinitrile Piperidinium tricyanomethanide 32g was heated under reflux in piperidine 200 ml for 4 hours. The solution was cooled and poured into a mixture of ice and water 800 rl to precipitate the title product 19. 6g, 613 , m.p. 165 6 .Similarly prepared was a Amino 4 morpholinyl methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 205 10 Ine process was repeated, giving satisfactory results, using xylene, 2 methoxyethanol and water respectively in place of the morpholine as solvent. Example 3 a Amino 1,6 hexanediylamino methylenepropanedinitrile 1,6 Hexanediylammonium tricyanomethanide was heated in 1,6hexanediylamine 50 nl , under reflux, for 10 hours. The mixture was poured into 3M hydrochloric acid 150 ml and ice 15Og , and the precipitate was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 13g, 68 overall , m.p. 164 5 .Similarly prepared were b Amino N butyl N ethylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 107 10 . c Amino dipropylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 123 5 ,Example 4 a Amino 3,4 dichlorophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile 3,4 Dichlorophenylammonium tricyanomethanide was heated under reflux in water 19 ml g for 4 hours to give a precipitate of the title product 71 yield . Recrystallisation fron 2 methoxy ethanol gave the pure title product 583 , m.p. 2300 decamp. Found C, 47.15 r, 2.8 N, 21.65 C10H6Cl2N4 requires C, 47.45 II, 2.4 N, 22.155 b Amino 2,4 dibromophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile 2,4 Dibromobenzenamine 5g, 0.02M , potassium tricyanomethanide 2.3g, 0.022M , c hydrochloric acid 1.8 ini, 0.02 approx , and water 20 ml were heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture was cooled and the precipitate 3.5g, 51 was recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol to give the title product 1.5g, 22 , m.p. 255 decomp. Found C, 35.15 H, 2.1 N, 16.7 C10H6Br2N4 requires C, 35.1 H, 1.75 N, 16.4 The compounds listed in Table I were obtained by the methods of this Example. Table IEMI31.1 EMI31.2 tb SEP R SEP X SEP m.p. tb 1 SEP H SEP 2,5 diCl SEP 200 203 tb SEP 2 SEP H SEP 2 Br SEP 189 94 SEP tb 3 SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 270 SEP decomp SEP tb 4 SEP H SEP 2 C1 SEP 203 5 SEP tb 5 SEP H SEP 3 C1 SEP 209 11 tb SEP 6 SEP H SEP 4 C1 SEP 208 10 tb SEP 7 SEP H SEP 4 F SEP 190 92 tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP 2 I SEP 210 12 tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP 4 I SEP 278 SEP decoy tb 10 SEP H SEP 4 NO2 SEP 260 SEP decomp SEP tb 11 SEP H SEP 3 NH2 SEP 250 SEP decomp SEP tb 12 SEP H SEP 3 CF3 SEP 198 200 tb EMI32.1 tb SEP R SEP X SEP m.p. tb 13 SEP H SEP 4 Br 3 Me SEP 202 4 tb 14 SEP H SEP 2 Cl 6 Me SEP 206 7 tb 15 SEP H SEP 3 Cl 2 Me SEP 244 5 tb 16 SEP H SEP 4 Cl 2 Me SEP 265 7 tb 17 SEP H SEP 5 Cl 2 Me SEP 215 7 tb 18 SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 242 5 SEP decomp tb 19 SEP H SEP 2 ONle SEP 177 9 tb 20 SEP H SEP 3 OMe SEP 196 7 tb 21 SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 244 5 SEP decomp SEP tb 22 SEP H SEP 3,5 di Me SEP 265 70 tb 23 SEP H SEP 2 Me2CH SEP 216 7 tb 24 SEP H SEP 2,5 diOEt SEP 190 91 tb 25 SEP H SEP 4 OPh SEP 208 10 tb 26 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 151 3 tb Example 5Potassium 4 1 amino 2,2 dicyanoethenylamino benzenesulphonate hydrate 4 Aminobenzensulphonic acid 17,3g, 0,1M and potassium tricyanomethanide 14g, 0,11M were heated under reflux in water 100 ml for 8 hours. The solution was cooled to precipitate the title product 22.4g, 68 , m.p. 2500 decomp. Example 6Amino 1 piperazinyl mrthylenepropanedinitrile Piperazine 15g, 0,17M , potassium tricyanomethanide 14g, 0,11M , c hydrochlor acid 9 ml, 0,1M approx , and water 30 ml were heated under reflux for 14 hours. The solution was left at room temperature for 4 days, during which time there crystallised out the title product 13,5g, 70 , m.p. 180 84 . Found C, 54.2 H, 6.3 N, 39.8 C8H11N5 requires C, 54.2 H, 6.25 N, 39.5 Example 7 a Amino 2 amino 3,5 dibromo 4 chlorophenylamino methylenedinitrile 3,5 Dibromo 4 chloro 1,2 benzenediamine 15g, 0,05M , potassium tricyanomethanide 7g, 0,055M , conc. HCl 4,5 ml , and water 50 ml were heated under reflux for 48 hours. The precipitate was stirred with ware 1M sodium hydroxide and insoluble material was filtered off. The filtrate was neutralised to pH 7 with hydrochloric acid. The precipitate was recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol lvater to give the title product 7g, 365 , Pp. 2000 decomp. Similar reactions to tNat above, using the appropiate benzenediamines, gave the following compounds, after heating for 14 36 hours b Amino 2 amino 3,4,5 trichlorophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile, m.p. 1800 decomp. c Amino 2 amino 3,5 dibromophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 258 decomp. d Amino 2 amino 4,5 dichlorophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 2070 deconp. e Amino 2 amino 3,5 diiodophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 2500 decomp. f Amino 2 aminophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 285 7 . g Amino 2 amino 4,5 dimethylphenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile m.p. 1950 decomp. h Amino 2 amino 3 chloro 5 iodophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile, m.p. 239 40 decamp. Example 8 2 1 Amino 2,2 dicyanoethenyl amino 5 chlorobenzoic acid 2 Amino 5 chlorobenzoic acid 17,2g., 0,1M , potassium tricyanomethanide 14g, 0,11M , c hydrochloric acid 9 ml, 0,1M approx and water 190 ml were heated under reflux for 12 hours.The precipitate 20.8g, 79 , decomp 2600, was dissolved in 1M sodium hydroxide. Acidification with hydrochloric acid gave a precipitate of the title product 16.6g, 635 , decomp 2600. Example 9 a Methylamino 1 piperidinyl methylenepropanedinitrile Amino 1 piperidinyl methylenepropanedinitrile 12,5g, 0,07M , iodomethane 25g, 0,18M , potassium carbonate alkyl. 14.3g, 0,105M , and acetone 100 ml were heated under reflux for 2u hours.The mixture was filtered hot and then reduced in volume to remove excess iodomethane. The solution was poured into water to give an oil which crystallised after a few minutes. The solid was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 5g, 37 nn 155 b Amino N methyl 3 chlorophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile was prepared similarly, except that the traction mixture was not filtered but poured straight into water. Recristallisation of the precipitate from 2 methoxyethanol gave the title product 17 , m.p. 236 7 . Example 10 a 3 Amino 3 2 bromophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide The 2 bromophenylamonium salt of dicyanoacetani.de 16.6g, O.06 .j9 was heated under reflux in water 60 m1 for 3 hours to give a precipitate of the title product 12.7g, 77 .Recristallisation from 2 methoxyethanol water gave the title product 9,8g, 59 , m.p. 210 11 . Heating the appropriate salts in water similarly gave the following compounds b 3 Amino 3 2 iodophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide m.p. 124 5 c 3 Amino 3 4 chloro 2 methylphenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide m.p. 224 6 . Exemple 11 a 3 Amino 3 2,4 dochlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide 2,4 Dichlorobenzeneamine, 16.2g, 0,1M , potassium salt of dicyanoacetamide 16g, 0,11M , c hydrochloric acid 9 ml, O.i 4 approx , and water 100 ml were heated under reflux for 20 hours to give a precipitate of the title product 21.5g, 79 .Recrystallisation from 2 methoxyethanol gave the pure product lOg, 37 , m.p. 228 30 . b 3 Amino 3 4 bromophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide 4 Bromoaniline 86g, 0,5M , the potassium salt of dicyanoacetamide 80g, 0,54M , concentrated hydrochloric acid 45 ml, 0,5M and water 35G ml were heated under reflux for 10 hours and then cooled to room temperature. The product was filtered off and recrystalised from 2 methoxyethanol. 83g, 59 m.p. 203 4 . Found C, 42.6 H, 3.4 N, 20.4C10H9BrN4O requires C, 42.7 H, 3.25 N, 19.95 c 3 Amino 3 4 chlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide 4 Chioraniline 63.8g, 0,05M , the potassium salt of dicyanoacetamide 80g, 0.544 , concentrated hydrochloric acid 45 ml, 0,5M and water 350 ml were heated under reflux for 8 hours.The mixture was cooled and the product was filtered off and recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol. 62g, 52 , m.p. 218 90C. Found C, 50.35 H, 3.65 N, 24.05C10H9ClN4O requires C, 50.75 H, 3.85 N, 23.7 d 3 Amino 3 4 chloro 3 methylphenylamino 2 cyanopropenamide The product of Exemple 27 52,3g , potassium salt of dicyanoacetamide 59g , concentrated hydrochloric acid 33.5 r and water 270 ml were heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was cooled and the product was filtered off and recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol, 70g, 75 , m.p. 180 81 . Found C, 52.95 H, 4.65 N, 21.9C11H11ClN4O requires C, 52.7 H, 4.4 N, 22.355 e 3 Amino 3 1,2,3,4 tetrahydro 1 quinolinyl 2 cyanopropenamide m.p. 177 8 was prepared similarly. Similar reactions, using appropriate benzenamines, gave tie compounds listed in Table II. Table II EMI38.1 EMI38.2 tb SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 215 tb SEP 2 SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 233 4 tb SEP 3 SEP 2 C1 SEP 212 3 tb SEP 4 SEP 3 C1 SEP 217 9 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 F SEP 245 6 tb SEP 6 SEP 4 1 SEP 215 SEP decomp SEP tb SEP 7 SEP 3 NO2 SEP 233 5 tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP H SEP 194 5 tb SEP 9 SEP 3 CF3 SEP 112 6 tb 10 SEP 4 Br 3 Me SEP 193 4 tb 11 SEP 3 Cl 2 Me SEP 205 7 tb 12 SEP 3 Me SEP 160 63 tb 13 SEP 444 SEP SEP 197 8 tb 14 SEP 2 MeO SEP 181 2 tb 15 SEP 2,4 diMe SEP 181 2 tb 16 SEP 2,5 diMe SEP 177 9 tb EMI39.1 SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 17 SEP 2,6 diMe SEP 182 4 tb 18 SEP 2 C2H5 SEP 164 5 tb 19 SEP 2 Me2CH SEP 215 6 tb 20 SEP 2,5 di EtO SEP 183 4 tb This compound was also prepared by heating amino 3,4 dichloro phrnylamino methylenepropanedinitrile in 2M aqueous sodium hydroxide for 4 hours. The compounds listed in Table III were prepared by similar methods using the potassium salt of N methyl dicyanoacetamide In place of the salt of decyanoacetamide. Table IIIEMI40.1 EMI40.2 tb SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 203 4 tb SEP 2 SEP 4 Br SEP 191 2 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 C1 SEP 163 4 tb SEP 4 SEP 4 Cl SEP 185 tb SEP 5 SEP 4 F SEP 185 7 tb SEP 6 SEP 4 I SEP 201 3 tb SEP 7 SEP 3 NO2 SEP 260 tb SEP 8 SEP 4 NO2 SEP 214 5 tb SEP 9 SEP H SEP 99 100 tb 10 SEP 4 Br 3 Me SEP 183 5 tb 11 SEP 3 Me SEP 75 7 tb 12 SEP 4 Me SEP 91 3 tb 13 SEP 4 MeO SEP 185 8 tb 14 SEP 2 C2H5 SEP 99 104 tb Example 12Potassium 4 1,3 diamino 2 cyano 3 oxopropenyl amino benzenesulphonate hydrate 4 Astlinobenzenesulplwonic acid 17.3g, 0,1M , potassium salt of dicyanoacetamide 16g, 0,11M , and water 100 ml were heated under reflux for 8 hours.The solution was cooled to precipitate the title product 69 , m.p. 270 decomp. Example 13Potassium 4 1 amino 3 methylamino 2 cyano 3 oxopropenylamino benzenesulphonate dihydrate 4 Aminobenzenesulphonic acid 8.7g, 0.05 , potassium salt of N methyldicyanoacetamide 9g, 0,055M , and water 50 ml , were heated under reflux for 40 hours. The solution was cooled to precipitate the title product 7.6g, 41 , m.p. 200 decomp. Exemple 14 3 Amino 3 3 chlorophenylamino 2 cyano N ethylpropenamide 3 Chlorobenzenamine 6g, 0,037M , potassium salt of N ethyl decyanoacetamide 7g, 0,043M , c hydrochloric acid 3,4 ml, 0.037M approx , and water 40 ml were heated under reflux for 12 hours. The precipitate was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 2.3g, 24 , m.p. 131 3 . Also made by this method was 3 amino 3 4 chlorophenylamino 2 cyano N ethylpropenamide, mp 141 3 C. Exemple 15 3 Amino 3 phenylamino 2 cyano N,N dimethylpropenamide A solution of propanedinitrile 6.6g, 0,1M and dimethylcarbamyl chloride 11g, 0,102M in tetrahydofuran was added, with stirring, to a solution of potassium hydroxide 11.2g, 0,2M in water, over 15 min. The temperature of the mixture was kept below 30 by water cooling. At the end of the addition, the pH of the solution was 8. The solution was stirred for a further 2 hours and then evaporated to dryness to yield the potassium salt of N,N dimethyldicyanoacetamide. The residue was washed with a little ethanol, dried and dissolved in water 50 ml .Benzenamine hydrochloride 10.4g, 0,08M was added and the solution was heated under reflux for 14 hours and than cooled to room temperature. The precipitate 1.4g was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 0.5g, 2.58 based on propanedinitrile , m.p. 134 5 . Example 16 a 3 Amino 3 3,4 dichlorophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide 3,4 Dichlorobenzenamine 8,1g, 0,05M , N phenyldicyanoacetamide containing 20 of its triethylamine salt 10.25g, of mixture, equivalent to 0. OSA of the acid , c hydrochloric acid 1 ml, 0,01M approx, to neutralise J triethylamine , and water 50 ml were heated under reflux for 4 hours. The precipitate 7. 4g, 46 was recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol to give the title product 7.4g, 46 a , m.p. 208 10 . Similar reactions, using the appropriate benzenamines, gave the following compounds after heating for from 8 to 48 hours. b 3 Amino 3 4 bromophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 185 7 . c 3 Amino 3 3 chlorophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 135 6 . d 3 Amino 3 4 chlorophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 1940. e 3 Amino 3 4 fluorophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 174 6 . f 3 Amino 3 3 nitrophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 168 70 . g 3 Amino 3 4 nitrophenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 214 5 . h 3 Amino 3 phenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 164 . i 3 Amino 3 3 methylphenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide m.p. 139 41 . j 3 Amino 2 cyano 3 4 methoxyphenylamino N phenylpropenamide m.p. 196 200 . k 3 Amino 3 2 ethylphenylamino 2 cyano N phenylpropenamide mp 138 40 Example 17Ethyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 1 piperidinyl propanoate The piperidine salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate 7,5g, 0,033M was heated under reflux in piperidine 20 ml for 24 hours. The solution was poured into a mixture of ice 70g and c hydrochloric acid 25 ml and the precipitate was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 1.8g, 25 , m.p. 104 6 . Example 18 a Ethyl 3 amino 3 3,4 dichlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenoate 3,4 Dichlorobenzenamine 16.2g, 0,1M , potassium salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate 19.4g, 0,11M c hydrochloric acid 9 ml, 0,1M approx , and water 100 ml were heated under reflux for 6 hours.The precipitate 27g, 90 was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 21,1g, 70 , m.p. 155 6 . b Ethyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 N methylphenylamino propenoate Potassium salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate 554g , N methylaniline 315g , water 1470 ml , and concentrated hydrochloric acid 265 ml were heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was cooled and the precipitate was filtered off and washed with water. Recrystallisation from ethanol gave the title product 449g, 59 , m.p. 147 9 . Found C, 64.05 H, 6.4 N, 17.55 C13H15N302 requires C, 63.65 H, 6.15 N, 17.15 c Isopropyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 N methylphenylamino propenoate i The product of Example 37 18,1g, 0,095M , N methyl aniline 9.7 ml, 9.57g, 0,0895M , water 47.5 ml , and concentrated hydrochloric acid 8.5 ml, 0,9M approx were heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and the precipitate was recrystallised from isopropanol to give the title compound 14,5g, 62 , mp 147 90C. Found C, 65.15 H, 6.45 N, 16.25C14H17N3O2 Requires C, 64.85 H, 6.6 N, 16,2 ii The reaction described in Examnle 37 was repeated, but the reaction mixture was not cooled to OOC, instead, N methylaniline 21 ml, 20.7g, 0.194n and concentrated hydrochloric acid 19 ml, 0.194n approx were added, and the mixture was heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and the precipitate was recrystallised from isopropanol to give the title product 29.3g, 47 based on malononitrile .The i.r. and pmr sDectra of the product were identical to those of the sample prepared by method i above. The compounds listed in Table IV were prepared by the methods of this Exemple using appropriate starting materials. Table IVEMI46.1 EMI46.2 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 1 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 208 9 tb SEP 2 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 135 7 tb SEP 3 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 4 F SEP 166 8 tb SEP 4 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 160 tb SEP 5 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 4 NO2 SEP 187 8 tb SEP 6 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP H SEP 169 71 tb SEP 7 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 2 CO2H SEP 220 22 tb SEP 8 SEP C02Et SEP H SEP 4 Br 3 Me SEP 157 8 tb SEP 9 SEP C02Et SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 121 3 tb 10 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 143 5 tb 11 SEP C02Et SEP H SEP 2 OMe SEP z SEP 201 2 tb 12 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 174 6 tb 13 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 2 C2H5 SEP 129 32 tb 14 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 142 4 tb 15 SEP CO2 nC3H7 SEP Me SEP H SEP 149 50 tb 16 SEP CO2 nC4H9 SEP Me SEP H SEP 128 30 tb EMI47.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R3 SEP X SEP m.p. tb 17 SEP C02 CH2C Th4e2 SEP H SEP f SEP 184 6 tb SEP CH3 tb 18 SEP C02 CHCH2CH3 SEP t SEP e SEP H SEP 133 5 tb SEP CH3 tb 19 SEP C02 CH2CHCH2CH3 SEP Me SEP H SEP 153 5 tb 20 SEP C02 CH2C123 SEP SEP H SEP 179 81 tb 20 SEP le SEP H SEP 179 81 tb 21 SEP CO2 CH nC5H11 SEP H SEP H SEP 94 5 tb 22 SEP C02 nG8H17 SEP FF SEP H SEP 118 20 tb 23 SEP C02 nC11H23 SEP Me SEP H SEP 88 90 tb Example 19Potassium 4 1 amino 2 cyano 3 oxo 3 ethoxypropenylamino benzenesulphonate hemihydrate 4 Aminobenzenesulphonic acid 8.7g, 0,05M , potassium salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate 9g, 0,051M , and water SO ml were heated under reflux for 36 hours.The solution was evaporated to dryness and tlle residue was recrystallisied frown a small amount of water to give the title product 6g, 34 , m.p. 2600 decomp.Example 20 Ethyl 3 amino 3 N methyl 3,4 dichlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenoate Ethyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 3,4 dichlorophenylamino propenoate 14.3g, 0,048M , iodomethane 16 ml, 14g, 0,1M , potassium carbonate, anhyd. 7.5g, 0,54M , and acetone 100 ml were heated under reflux, with stirring, for 14 hours. The mixture was cooled and filtered, and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness. The residue was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 2g, 135 , m.p. 198 9 . Example 21Phenyl 3 Amino 3 phenylamino 2 cyanopropenoate A solution of propanedinitrile 6.6g, 0,1M , in phenyl chloroformate 13 ml, approx 16g, 0,0103M qa added slowly, with stirring, to a solution of potassium hydroxide 11.2g, 0,2M in water 25 ml with ice cooling to keep the temperature of the mixture below 400. The mixture was stirred at 30 40 for a further 15 minutes and then cooled to 00. A small amount of precizitate was found to be diphenyl carbonate. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness at reduced pressure. The residue was washed with ether and extracted with acetone 50 ml .The extracts were evaporated and the residue was washed with ether and dried. The potassium salt of phenyl dicyanoacetate 10,5g, 0,0 7M, 47 thus obtained was heated under reflux with aniline hydrochloride 6,1g, 0,0447M in water 58 ml for 24 hours. Toe sticky precipitate was triturated with ethanol to give the title compound as a blue grey powder 4.3g, 14 from propanedinitrile .Recrystallisation from dimethylformanide gave the pure product 2g, 7 , m.p. 214 5 . Example 22 a Ethyl 3 amino 3 3,4 dichlorophenylamino 2 cyanopropenethioate 3,4 Dichlorobenzeneamine 5.4g, 0,033M , potassium salt ofS ethyl dicyanoethanethioate 7g, 0,036M , c hydrochloric acidC3 ml, 0.033M approx , and water 35 ml were heated under reflux for 20 hours. The oil which separated was triturated with 2 propanol to give the title product 6,8g, 63 , m.p. 142 5 Similar reactions, using the appropriate benzenamines, gave the compounds listed in Table V. Table VEMI49.1 EMI49.2 tb SEP R SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 1 SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 154 6 tb 2 SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 107 16 SEP decomp tb 3 SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 145 7 tb 4 SEP H SEP 4 I SEP 210 15 tb 5 SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 177 80 tb 6 SEP H SEP H SEP 128 9 tb 7 SEP H SEP 2 NH2 SEP 135 7 tb EMI50.1 tb SEP R SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 8 SEP H SEP 3 ME SEP 120 22 tb 9 SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 118 20 tb 10 SEP H SEP 2 OMe SEP 153 5 tb 11 SEP H SEP 4 0vE SEP 160 63 tb 12 SEP WE SEP SEP H SEP 137 9 tb Example 23 Intermediates for Example 24 a 4 Chlorophenylamino methylthio methylenepropenedinitrile 4 Chlorobenzeneamine 64g, 0,5M , bis methylthiomethylenepropanedinitrile 85g, 0,5M , and ethanol 400 ml were heated under reflux for 6 hours. The solution was cooled and the precipitate was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 65g, 52 , m.p. 164 6 . Similar reactions, using appropriate benzeneamines and 1,l bis methylthioethylenes in ethanol, or, in the case of the esters using ethanol or the related alcohol, gave the compounds listed in Table VI. Table VIEMI51.1 EMI51.2 tb SEP R6 SEP X SEP m.p. tb SEP 1 SEP CN SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 193 5 tb SEP 2 SEP CN SEP 4 Br SEP 201 2 tb SEP 3 SEP CN SEP 3 C1 SEP 161 3 tb SEP 4 SEP C SEP 4 C1 SEP 164 6 tb SEP 5 SEP CN SEP SEP H SEP 174 5 tb SEP 6 SEP CN SEP 3 Me SEP 132 4 tb SEP 7 SEP CN SEP 4 Me SEP 164 5 tb SEP 8 SEP CONH2 SEP 3, SEP 4 diCi SEP 190 92 tb SEP 9 SEP CONH2 SEP 4 Br SEP 212 5 tb 10 SEP CONH2 SEP 3 C1 SEP 174 6 tb 11 SEP CONH2 SEP 4 C1 SEP 200 203 tb 12 SEP CONH2 SEP 4 NO2 SEP 214 5 tb 13 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP SEP 151 3 tb 14 SEP CONH2 SEP 3 Me SEP 143 4 tb 15 SEP CONH2 SEP 4 Me SEP 183 5 tb 16 SEP CO2Me SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 140 42 tb EMI52.1 tb SEP R6 SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 17 SEP CO2Me SEP 4 Br SEP 140 42 tb 18 SEP CO2Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 105 7 tb 19 SEP CO2Me SEP 4 C1 SEP 134 7 tb 20 SEP CO2Me SEP 3 NO2 SEP 183 5 tb 21 SEP CO2Me SEP 3 CF3 SEP 143 6 tb 22 SEP CO2Me SEP 3 Me SEP 93 4 tb 23 SEP CO2Me SEP 4 Me SEP 93 5 tb 24 SEP CO2Et SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 115 9 tb 25 SEP CO2Et SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 140 tb 26 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 Br SEP 130 31 tb 27 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 Cl SEP 118 20 tb 28 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 Cl SEP 105 6 tb 29 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 F SEP 102 4 tb 30 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 NO2 SEP 150 52 tb 31 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 77 9 tb 32 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 CF3 SEP 122 3 tb 33 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 Me SEP 107 9 tb 34 SEP C 2Et SEP 4 Me SEP 75 6 tb 35 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 OMe SEP 120 22 tb 36 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 OMe SEP 85 6 tb 37 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 139 42 tb 38 SEP CO2CH2CH2CH3 SEP 4 C1 SEP 54 5 SEP tb 39 SEP CO2CHMe2 SEP H SEP 90 SEP tb 40 SEP CO2CMe3 SEP H SEP 92 5 tb Example 24 a Methylamino 4 chlorophenylamino methylenepropanedinitrile 4 Chlorophenylamino methylthio methylenepropenedinitrile 7.5g, 0.03M , methylamine 4.8 ml of a 27.5 w v solution in ethanol 1.3g, 0.042M , and ethanol 25 ml were heated under reflux for 6 hours.By that time p.m.r spectroscopy showed that no starting material recognisable from absorption by itsSMe group remained. The solution was cooled and the precipitate was recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 4.9g, 70 , m.p. 188 90 . Similar reactions in ethanol or, in the case of esters, in the appropriate alcohol , using appropriate arylamino methylthio ethylenes and either methylamine 27.5w w v ethanol , dimethylamine 25 w v in water , or ethylamine 70 w v in water , or aqueous ammonia, or another appropriate amine, ammonia generally needed longer reaction times 10 48 hours , gave the compounds listed inTable VII. Table VIIEMI54.1 EMI54.2 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 1 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 215 7 tb SEP 2 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 180 81 tb SEP 3 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 168 70 tb SEP 4 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 175 7 tb SEP 5 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 200 203 tb SEP 6 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 210 12 tb SEP 7 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Br SEP 120 21 tb SEP 8 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 186 8 tb SEP 9 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 186 8 tb SEP 10 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Me SEP 146 8 tb SEP 11 SEP CN SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Me SEP 180 82 tb 12 SEP SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 183 6 tb SEP 13 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 194 6 tb SEP 14 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 163 5 tb SEP 15 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 C1 SEP 160 63 tb SEP 16 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP 140 43 tb SEP 17 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 158 9 SEP tb EMI55.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 18 SEP CN SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 169 71 tb 19 SEP CN SEP my SEP SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 109 10 tb 20 SEP CN SEP Me SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 133 tb 21 SEP CN SEP Me SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP 66 8 tb 22 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP SEP 4 N 2 SEP 264 6 SEP tb 23 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Ye SEP SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 187 9 tb 24 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 215 7 tb 25 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 205 7 tb 26 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 NO2 SEP 210 11 tb 27 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 207 9 tb 28 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 182 4 tb 29 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 210 11 tb 30 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 185 7 tb 31 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Br SEP 187 9 tb 32 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 174 6 tb 33 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 C1 SEP 162 4 tb 34 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 NO2 SEP 207 8 tb 35 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 164 6 tb 36 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Me SEP 141 2 tb 37 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Me SEP 169 71 tb 38 SEP CH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 170 71 tb 39 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 149 51 tb 40 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 168 70 tb EMI56.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 41 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 C1 SEP 149 50 tb 42 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 NO2 SEP 165 7 tb 43 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP 134 7 tb 44 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 145 7 tb 45 SEP CONH2 SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 142 4 tb 46 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 216 7 tb 47 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 174 5 tb 48 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 149 50 tb 49 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 125 6 tb 50 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Be SEP H SEP 4 C1 SEP 150 52 tb 51 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 178 80 tb 52 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 127 9 tb 53 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 CF3 SEP 139 41 tb 54 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 119 21 tb 55 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 158 tb 56 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 204 6 tb 57 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Pr SEP 133 40 tb 58 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 84 6 tb 59 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 NO2 SEP 200 202 tb 60 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 100 103 tb 61 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 CF3 SEP 91 3 tb 62 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 119 21 tb 63 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 144 5 tb EMI57.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 64 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 C1 SEP 109 11 tb 65 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 146 7 tb 66 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP 144 5 tb 67 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 117 20 tb 68 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 156 8 tb 69 SEP CO2Me SEP t SEP SEP H SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 216 7 tb 70 SEP CO2Me SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 165 6 tb 71 SEP CO2Me SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 90 92 tb 72 SEP CO2Me SEP Me SEP PhCH2 SEP H SEP H SEP 98 100 tb 73 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 206 7 tb 74 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 160 tb 75 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 143 6 tb 76 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 127 8 tb 77 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 151 3 tb 78 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 134 6 tb 79 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 197 9 tb 80 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 137 8 tb 81 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 CF3 SEP 154 6 tb 82 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 113 4 tb 83 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 108 9 tb 84 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 OMe SEP 96 7 tb 85 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 86 8 tb 86 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 125 8 tb EMI58.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 87 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 145 7 tb SEP 88 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Br SEP 119 22 tb SEP 89 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Cl SEP 113 5 tb 90 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Cl SEP 112 4 tb 91 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 115 30 tb 92 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 CF3 SEP 108 11 tb 93 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 Me SEP 97 100 tb 94 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Me SEP 116 8 tb 95 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 OMe SEP 130 32 tb 96 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 OMe SEP 103 6 tb 97 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 122 4 tb 98 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 104 12 tb 99 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 101 2 tb 100 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 123 4 tb 101 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP 103 4 tb 102 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 124 5 tb 103 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 113 4 tb 104 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 3 OMe SEP 84 6 tb 105 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 102 3 tb 106 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP Et SEP H SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 112 4 tb 107 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP PhCH2 SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 132 5 tb 108 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP PhCH2 SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 118 20 tb 109 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 193 6 tb EMI59.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb 110 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 214 5 tb 111 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 3 Cl SEP 142 4 tb 112 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 206 7 tb 113 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 146 8 tb 114 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 3 CF3 SEP 121 3 tb 115 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP 136 7 tb 116 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 4 Me SEP 155 6 tb 117 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 3 OMe SEP 166 75 tb 118 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 130 SEP decomp tb 119 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 165 70 tb 120 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Br SEP 158 9 tb 121 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP 127 9 tb 122 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 NO2 SEP 112 3 tb 123 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 80 81 tb 124 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 CF3 SEP 108 9 tb 125 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 Me SEP oil tb 126 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 3 OMe SEP 112 4 tb 127 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 90 92 tb 128 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 132 3 tb 129 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP Me SEP 4 Br SEP 150 51 tb 130 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 NO2 SEP 153 4 tb 131 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP Me SEP Me SEP 3 CF3 SEP 115 6 tb 132 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP PhCH2 SEP H SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 103 tb EMI60.1 tb SEP R6 SEP R SEP RÚ SEP Rê SEP X SEP m.p. tb 133 SEP CO2Et SEP Me SEP PhCH2 SEP H SEP 4 OMe SEP 111 2 tb 134 SEP CO2Et SEP Et SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 128 9 tb 135 SEP CO2Et SEP Et SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 83 4 tb 136 SEP CO2CHMe2 SEP Me SEP Me SEP H SEP H SEP 90 92 tb Example 25 Intermediates Ethyl 3 methyl 3.4 dichlorophenyl amino 2 cyano 3 methylthio nropenoate Ethyl 3 3.4 dichlorophrnylamino 2 cyano 3 mathylthio propenoate 11g , dimethyl sulphate 4.2g , potassium carbonate, anhyd 9.2g , and acetone 50 ml were stirred together and heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated to leave an oil which crystallised on trituration with 40 60 petrol. Recrystallisation from ethanol gave the title compound 7.2g, 63 m.p. 106 8 . The compounds shown in the following Table VIII were also made by this process Table VIIIEMI61.1 EMI61.2 tb SEP R6 SEP X SEP m.p. SEP tb SEP 1 SEP CN SEP 4 Br SEP 130 31 tb SEP 2 SEP CN SEP H SEP 95 6 tb SEP 3 SEP CO2 SEP 3,4 diCl SEP 106 8 tb SEP 4 SEP CO2Me SEP H SEP 84 5 tb SEP 5 SEP CO2Et SEP 3,5 diCl SEP 126 7 tb SEP 6 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 Br SEP 108 10 tb SEP 7 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 C1 SEP 68 70 tb SEP 8 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 C1 SEP 114 5 tb SEP 9 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 F SEP 103 5 tb 10 SEP C 2Et SEP SEP 3 NO2 SEP 96 8 tb 11 SEP CO2Et SEP H SEP 78 9 tb 12 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 CF3 SEP 79 81 tb 13 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 Me SEP 75 7 tb 14 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 Me SEP 122 3 tb 15 SEP CO2Et SEP 3 OMe SEP 99 100 tb 16 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 OMe SEP 96 8 tb 17 SEP CO2Et SEP 4 NMe2 SEP 121 4 tb SEP 18 SEP CO2CHMe2 SEP H SEP 92 3 tb Example 26 Intermediates Ethyl 3 ethyl phenyl amino 2 cyano 3 methylthio propenoate Ethyl 3 phenylamino 2 cyano 3 methylthio propenoate 19.6g , iodethane 13. 4g , potassium carbonate, anhyd 20. 7g , and acetone 100 rX were stirred and heated under reflux for 24 hours. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated. Recrystallisation of the residue gave the title compound 12.6g , m.p. 70 72 .Example 27 Intermediates 4 Chloro 3 methylaniline a 1 Chloro 2 methyl 4 mitrobenzene Sodium nitrite 69g, 1M in water 530 ml was added slowly to 2 methyl 4 nitroaniline 152g, 1M in a mixture of concentrated hydrochloric acid 270 ml and water 600 ml at 10 C. The solution was stirred For 10 minutes and then added to a solution of cuprous chloride 129g in concentrated hydrochloric acid 510 ml at 20 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then the product w filtered off and recrystallised fron. ethanol. Yield 149g, 87 , m.p. 40 44 C. b 4 Chloro methylaniline The product of step a 149g , iron filings 365g , 2 propanol 2 1 , water 250 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 70 ml were stirred and heated underreflux for 3 hours.The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated. The reaction product was washed with dilute aquecus sodium hydroxide then water, and recrystallised from ethanol to give the desired product 52.3g, 43 , m.p. 81 4 .Example 28Potassium salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate A solution a malononitrile 330g, 5M and ethyl chloroformate 425 ml, 5.25 in tetrahydrofuran 500 ml was added slowly to a solution of potassium hydroxide 560g, 10M in water 21 at 30 400. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for an hour and then cooled to OOC. The precipitated product was filtered off and washed with water and with ethanol. 415.5g, 47 , m.p.297 8 . Found C, 40.75 H, 3.15 N, 15.7C6H5N2O2K requires C, 40.9 H, 2.o5 N , 15.9 Example 29Ethyl 3 amino 3 methyl 3 nitrophenyl amino 2 cyanopropenoate a r Nitroaniline 13.8g , the product of Example 28 19g , concentrated hydrochloric acid 10 ml and water 70 ml were heated under reflux for 48 hours. The solid was filtered off, washed well with ethanol and recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol. 7.5g, 26 , m.p. 160 . Found C, 51.8 H, 4.1 N, 20.3C12H12N4O4 requires C, 52.15 H, 4.4 X, 20.3 b The product of step a 5g , iodomethane 2.6g , potassium. carbonate amlydrous 1.5g and acetone 35 ml were heated under reflux for 12 hours The mixture was filtered and tie filtrate was evaporated. The mixture was recrystallised from ethanol to give the desired product 2g, 38 X , m.p. 166 8 . Found C, 53.55 H, 5.05 N, 19.6 C13H14N404 requires C, 53.8 H, 4.85 N, 19.31 This compound was also prepared using the method of Example 24. Example 30 1,3 Bis methylamino 1 chlorophenylamino 2 cyano 3 imino propene 3 Chlorophenylamino methylthio methylenepropanedinitrile 8.3g , methylamine 3.5g , and ethanol 30 ml were heated under reflux for 24 hours. The mixture was cooled to precipitat the title product 3g, 34 , m.p. 189 91 . Found C, 54.85 H, 5.25 N, 2S.25 C12H14ClN5 requires C, 54.65 H, 5.35 N, 26.55 Example 31 a Buthyl 3 t butylamino 2 cyano 3 methylthiopropenoate Buthyl 2 cyano 3,3 dimethylthiopropenoate 108.5g , t butylamine 40g and ethanol 200 ml were heated under reflux for 4 hours and then cooled to precipitate the sub title product 70g, 58 , mp 95 6 . b Ethyl 3 t buthylamino 2 cyano 3 methylaminopropenoate The product from a 8.1g , 27 aqueous methylamine 10ml and ethanol 30 ml were heated under reflux for 8 hours The mixt was cooled and the precipitate was recrystallised from . give the title product 6.8g , mn 149 sa0. Example 32 a Ethyl 2 cyano 3 2 methylpropylamino 3 methylthiopropenoate m.p. 15 17 was prepared by the method of Example 31 a . b Ethyl 2 cyano 3 N methylpropylamino 3 methylthiopronenoate The product from step a 24.2g , potassium carbonate 27.6g , dimethylsulphate 112.5g , and acetone 120 ml were stirred and heated under reflux for 20 hours. The mixture was filtered. The filtrate was evaporated and the residue was recrystallised from ethanol to give fix title product 12g, 475 , mp 52 5 . c Ethyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 N methyl 2 methylpropylamino propenoate The product from step b 8.5g , ethanol 30 ml and .880 ammonia 20 ml were heated under reflux for 24 hours. Ammonia gas was passed through the reaction mixture for the last 8 hours of this time. The ethanol was evaporated off and the residue was recrystallised from ethyl acetate 80 1000 petroleum ether to give the title product 3.7g , m.p. 58 9 . Found C, 58.4 H, 8.25 N, 18.45 C11H19N3O2 requires C, 53.65 H, 8.5 N, 18.65 Example 33 t Buthyl 3 amino 2 cyano 3 methyl phenyl amino propenoate m.p. 186 7 was prepared by the method of Example 32 c using the appropriate starting material. Example 34 Decyltrimethylammonium bromide 100 parts was dissolved in warm water 1,000 parts . The solution was cooled and chloroform 750 parts was added to produce an emulsion like liquid. A freshly prepared and filtered solution of potassium tricyanomethanide 52 parts in water 150 parts was added and the mixture was s naken and allowed to separate. The lower chloroform layer was separated and the aqueous layer re extracted with chloroform. The chloroform extracts were combined and washed with a 5 aqueous solution of potassium tricyanomethanide, dried over magnesium . sulphate and evaporated under reduced pressure to give a golden yellow oil of decyltrimethylamonium tricyanomethanide 88 parts, 85 yield . Found C, 70.15 , 10.25 N, 19.55 C17H30N4 requires C, 70.3 H, 10.4 N, 19.3 Example 35 Concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to a suspension of 2 methylamino quinoxaline 100 parts in water 625 parts until a clear solution was obtained. A solution of potassium tricyanomethanide 82 partr in warm water 125 parts was added.An immediate yellow precipitate formed. The mixture was cooled to Co and the precipitate was filtered off, recrystallised from water and dried to give the 2 methylamino quinoxaline salt of tricyanomethane 110 parts, 70 yield as its hydrate, mp 166 8 . Found C, 58.0 H, 4.4 N, 31.758 C13H12N60 requires C, 58.2 lI, 4,5 N, 31.4 Example 36 The following new salts all of tricyanomethane were prepared by methods analogous to those described in Examples 34 and 35. All had satisfactory elemental analysis. 1. hexadecyltrimethylammonium mp 50 7 2. 1 2,4 dinitrophenyl pyridinium mp 138 140 3. benzyltrimethylammonium mp 115 7 4. o bromomethyl benzyl trimethylammonium mp 178 9 5. triethyloctylammonium, liquid 6. tetrabutylamn.crnium mp 45 8 7. trimethyloctadecylammonium mp 64 6 8. trimethyloctylammonium, liquid 9. dodecyltrimethylammonium mp 29 30 10. triethylheptylammonium, liquid 11. trimethyltetradecylammonium mp 42 5 12. 1 hexadecylpyridinium mp 49 53 13. trimethyl o thiocyanatomethyl benzyl ammonium mp 66 8 14. triethyloctadecylammonium mp 52 3 15. decyltriethylammonium, liquid 16. trimethylnonylammonium, liquid 17. heptyltrimethylammonium, liquid 18. o phenylenedimethylenebis trimethylammonium mp of dihydrate 17 4O 19. dodecyltriethylammonium, liquid 20. butyltriethylammonium, liquid 21. N, N ,N triethyl N1 ,N ,N trimethyl N,N o phenylene dimethylene bis ammonium , mp 85 7 22. 4,5 dimethyl o phenylenedimethylenebis trimethylammonium mp 138 140 23. 3,4,5,6 tetrahydro 7 isopropylamino 2 H azepine salt, mp 53 5 24. octylamine salt, mp 122 3 25. 1,1 dimethyl 4,4 bipyridylium bis salt, mp 188 189 26. decylamine salt, mp 125 7 27. 3,4 dichloroaniline salt mp 225 230 28. piperidine salt mp 75 6 29. morpnoline salt mp 1200 30. m trifluoromethyl aniline salt mp 197 9 31. 2,5 dichloroaniline salt mp 188 192 32. 5,6 dichlorobenzimidazole salt decomposed at 2300 33. aniline salt r p 135 8 34. hexylamine salt mp 80 2 35. 2 amino 3 hydroxypyridine salt mp 1700 decomposed 36. 2 amino 6 methylpyridine salt mp 99 100 37. 2 methoxyaniline salt T p 174 6 38. 2 iodoaniline salt mp 1220 decomposed 39. 2 bromoaniline salt 194 6 40. 3 aminopyridine salt 1 2 dihydrate, mp 130 decomposed 41. 3 chloroaniline salt mD 214 6 42. 2 arninopyridine salt mp 104 5 43. 4 chloro 2 methylaniline salt mp 1600 decomposed 44. 2 ethylpiperidine salt np 79 80 45. 5 chloro 2 methylaniline salt mp 215 7 46. 2,6 dimethylmorpholine salt mp 137 8 47. hexahydroazepine salt mp 125 7 48. 2 chloro 6 methylaniline salt mp 125 decomposed 49. 4 phenoxyaniline salt mp 2050 50. 3 chloro 2 methylaniline salt mp 150 decomposed 51. cyclohexylamine salt mp 200 1 52. octadecylamine salt mp 135 6 53. N Butyl N ethylammonium salt, soil.54. dipropylammonium salt, mp 55 60 55. N ethyl N phenylammonium salt mp 600 decomp 56. 2 bromphenylammonium salt mp 191.50 57. 2 iodophenylammonium salt mp 117 9 58. 4 chloro 2 methylphenylammonium salt mp 1600. Also produced by the same method was the piperidinium salt of ethyl dicyanoacetate oilExample 37Potassium salt of isopropyl dicyanoacetate A solution of malononitrile 15.9g, 0.24 1 in 2 propylchloroformate 29.5g, 0.24n was added slowly, with stirring, to 5M aqueous potassium hydroxide 96.9 ml, O.428M . Ice cooling was used to keep the temperature below 45 C. Addition took 20 minutes. The solution was stirred at 35 45 0C for a further 20 minutes and then cooled to 0 C.The precipitate was washed with ice cold water and with 2 propanol, and dried to give the potassium salt of isopropyl dicyanoacetate l8.lg, 40 . Example 33 a Potassium salt of n butyldicyanoacetate A solution of malonitrile 19.8 g and n butyl chloroformate 45g in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml was added slowly to SM aqueous potassium hydroxide 120 ml which ice water cooling to keep the temperature below 400C, addition took about 20 minutes. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then cooled to 00.The precipitate was filtered off and recrystallised from ethanol to give the title product 35 g, 58 , mp 250 decomp. Prepared similarly and recrystallised from water were the potassium salts of b 2 Methylpropyl dicyanoacetate mp 298 300 c 8 Ethyl dicyanoethanethioate mp 285 decomp Potassium salts of the following were prepared similarly, but isolated by evaporating the reaction mixture to dryness extracting the residue with acetone, evaporating the acetone aild recrystallising the residue from water d m Propyldicyanoacetate m. p. 235 7 e 2 Methylbutyl dicyanoacetate mp 270 72 f 1 Methylhexyl dicyanoacetate mp 207 9 g 1 Methylpropyl dicyanoacetate mp 278 80 Example 39 a Potassium salt of N methyldicyanoacetamide A solution of propanedinitrile 6g, 0.09M and methyl isocyanate 6 ml, 5.8g, 0.1M in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml was added, with stirring, to one of potassium hydroxide 5.lg, 0.09 in water 40 ml over a period of 10 minutes at 25 30 water cooling . The pH of the red solution, after addition, was 8. After 1 hour, the solution was evaporated to dryness and the residue was recrystallised from 50 50 2 propanol water to give the title compound 2g, 14 , mD 294 5 decomp. b Potassium salt of N ethyl dicranoacetaTnide mp 2700 decomp was prepared similarly. Example 40Triethylamine salt of N phenyl dicyanoacetamide Triethylamine 70 ml, Slug, 0.505M was added slowly to a solution of propanedinitrile 33g, 0.5M and phenylisocranate 59.5g, 0.5M in tetrahydrofuran 200 ml , with ice cooling to keep the temperature below 400 After addition, the mixture was cooled to 30 to precipitate the product, mp 93 40. Example 41Pyridine salt of N methyldicyanoacetamide Methyl isocyanate 6 ml, 5.8g, 0.1M was added to a solution of propanedinitrile 6g, 0.09M in pyridine 18 ml . Over a period of 15 minutes the solution became wam and turned dark red. It was left at room temperature overnight. Tlle dark red, crystalline precipitate was filtered off, washed with ethanol and recrystallised from ethanol to give pale orange crystals of the title compound 12.3g, 675 mp 141 20. Example 42Triethylamine salt of N methyldicyanoacetamide A mixture of propanedinitrile 6g, 0.09M , triethylamine 15 ml, lig, 0.11M , and toluene 25 ml was warmed until the propanedinitrile melted. methyl isocyanate 6 ml, 5.8g, 0.1M was added, with water cooling, and the mixture was left at room temperature overnight. The precipitated title compound was filtered off, toluene washed and recrystallised from ethanol. Yield log, 45 mp 139 41 . Example 43Dodecylguanidine salt of tricyanomethane Potassium. salt of tricyanomethane 15g in hot water 25 mi was added to dodecylguanidinium acetate 28.6g in hot water 140 mi . The mixture was cooled. The oil which had separated crystallised rapidly. The solid was filtered off and washed with water to give the title product 30g, 94 , mp 46 50 C. Found C, 64.3 H, 9.7 N, 26.0 C17H30N6 requires C, 64.1 H, 9.5 N, 26.45 Example A The compound under test formulated as an attaclay sand dust was incorporated in John Innes I potting comDost at a rate equivalent to 130 and 26 parts per million weight volume of active ingredient to soil and placed in anodised aluminium pants, r 19 cm long x 9.5 cm wide x 5.0 cm deep.These rates are approximately equivalent to a soil surface application of 56 and 11.2 kg active ingredient hectare cultivated to a denth of 5 Cm. Seeds of Peas, Rlustard, Linseed, xIaize, Oats and Ryegrass were sown in the treated soil, watered and placed in a controlled environment room 22 C 65 85 RH 14 hours artificial illumination at 1200 foot candles for 21 days. The plants were then visually assessed for any growth regulatory or herbicidal effects. All differences from an untreated control were scored on a scale from 0 100, where 0 signifies no effect and 100 signifies complete suppression.The results are summarized in the following table EMI74.1 tb Compound SEP Dose SEP in SEP Peas SEP Mustard SEP Linseed SEP Reygrass SEP Oats SEP Maize tb of SEP Ex SEP No SEP kg ha tb SEP 18 c SEP 11.2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 18 15 SEP 11.2 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 80 tb SEP 18 17 SEP 11.2 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 40 SEP 25 SEP tb SEP 22 12 SEP 11.2 SEP 70 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 70 tb SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 11.2 SEP 80 SEP iOO SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 tb SEP 18 20 SEP 11.2 SEP 35 SEP 100 SEP 40 SEP 70 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 18 16 SEP 11.2 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 70 SEP 35 SEP 30 tb SEP 24 114 SEP 11.2 SEP 40 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 50 tb SEP 56 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 70 tb SEP 24 115 SEP 11.2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP lOQ SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 tb SEP 56 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 24 SEP 113 SEP 11.2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 tb SEP 56 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 85 tb Example B The compound under test was formulated as I an attaclay sand dust and incorporated in John Innes I potting compost at a rate equivalent to 6.5 parts per million weight volume of active ingredient to soil and placed in anodised aluminium pans, 19 cm long x 9.5 cm wide x 5.0 cm high. This is approximately equivalent to a surface application of 2.8 kg active ingredient per hectare cultivated to a depth of 5 cm. Seeds of the species listed below were soil in the treated soil, one species per pan. II An aqueous suspension together with 1000 ppm of the wetting agent Lissapol NX.The surfaces of an additional set of pans with seeds already sown were then sprayed with 2.8 kgrlla in 450 litres hectare. All the pans were watered and placed in a controlled environment room 220C 65 85 RH and 14 hours artificial illumination at 1603 foot candles for 21 days. The plants were then visually assessed for any growth regulatory or herbicidal effects. All differences from an untreated control were scored on a scale from 0 100, whereO signifies no effect and 100 signifies comnlete suppression.The results are sunmarised in me following table EMI76.1 SEP Soil tb SEP Incorporation SEP Surface SEP Spray tb Species SEP Compound SEP of SEP Ex SEP Ex SEP Ex SEP Compound SEP of SEP Ex SEP Ex SEP Ex tb SEP 18c SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 24 SEP 24 SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 24 SEP 24 tb SEP 15 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 115 SEP 113 SEP c SEP 15 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 115 SEP 113 tb Chickweed SEP SEP Stellaria SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Mustard SEP SEP Sinapsis SEP alba SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 60 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 100 tb Cotton SEP SEP Gossypium SEP sp SEP 100 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP 80 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Tomato SEP SEP Lycopersicon SEP esculentum SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Pathen SEP SEP Chenopodium SEP album SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Carrot SEP SEP Daucus SEP carota SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 40 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 70 SEP 20 SEP 90 tb Wheat SEP SEP Triticum SEP aestivium SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Barley SEP SEP Hordeum SEP vulgare SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Wild SEP Oat SEP SEP Avena SEP fatua SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 30 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Blackgrass SEP SEP Alopecurus SEP myosuroides SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 60 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Barnyardgrass SEP SEP Echinochloa SEP crus galli SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 5 SEP 90 SEP 70 SEP 100 tb Crabgrass SEP SEP Digitaria SEP sanguinalis SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 100 tb Example C Seeds of Peas, Mustard, Linseed, Reygrass, Sugarbeet, Oats and French beans were so n in anodised aluminium pans, 19 on long x 9.5 cm wide x 5 cm deep containing Jchn Innes I potting compost. They were then watered and placed in a controlled environment room 220C 65 35E RH 14 hours artificial illumination at 1200 foot candles . Fourteen days after sowing the seedlings received a foliar spray of the compound under test formulated as an aqueous suspension together with 1003 ppm of the wetting agent Lissapol NX. The concentrations of active ingredient and volume of application were adjusted so as to be equivalent to rates of 11.2 and 2.8 kg ha in 450 litres per hectare.After seven days growth in a controlled environment room the were visually assessed for any herbicidal or growth regulant response. All differences fron the untreated control were scored according to a herbicidal index where O no effect and 100 complete kill. The results are summarised in the following table EMI78.1 tb SEP Compound SEP Dose SEP in SEP Peas SEP Mustard SEP Linseed SEP Reygrass SEP Oats SEP Beat SEP F. SEP Beans tb SEP of SEP Ex SEP No SEP kg ha tb SEP 18 c SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 25 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 18 15 SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 35 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb 18 17 SEP 2.8 SEP 0 SEP 80 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 70 SEP 0 tb SEP 22 12 SEP 2.8 SEP 15 SEP 80 SEP 35 SEP 35 SEP 20 SEP 90 SEP 10 tb SEP 18 19 SEP 2.8 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 15 SEP 35 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 70 SEP 10 tb SEP 18 SEP 18 SEP 2.8 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 60 SEP SEP z SEP SEP 90 SEP no SEP tb SEP 18 21 SEP 2.3 SEP 5 SEP 90 SEP 60 SEP O SEP 0 SEP 80 SEP 5 tb SEP 18 20 SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 25 SEP 0 SEP O SEP 100 SEP 5 tb SEP 18 14 SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 40 SEP 5 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 90 SEP 40 tb SEP 18 16 SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 60 SEP 15 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 70 SEP 5 tb SEP 24 115 SEP 2.8 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 20 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 50 tb 11.2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP 24 SEP 113 SEP 2.8 SEP 40 SEP 100 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP 103 SEP SEP 100 SEP lay SEP tb SEP 11.2 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Example D Seeds of various dicotyledon species, listed below were sown in anodised aluminium pans, 19 cm long x 9.5 cm wide x 5.0 cm deep and placed in a controlled environment room 22 C 65 85 RH 14 hours artificial illumination at 1600 foot candles . hen all species had cotyledons plus at least two fully expanded true leaves they received a foliar spray of the compounds under test formulated as aqueous suspension together with 1000 ppm of the wetting agent Lissapol NX.One pan cf each specieds received the equivalent of 1.4 or 0.7 kg in 450 litres hectare and were returned to the controlled environment room. Fourteen days after treatment the plants were visually assessed growing ory effect. All differences from an untreated control were scored on a scale from 0 100 were 0 signifies no effect and 100 signifies complete suppression. The results are summarised in the following table EMI79.1 tb SEP Compound SEP of tb SEP Ex SEP 18 c SEP Ex SEP 18 15 SEP Ex SEP 18 18 tb Species SEP Dosage SEP rate SEP kg ha SEP 1.4 SEP 0.7 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.7 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.7 tb Chickweed SEP SEP Stellaria SEP media SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP 30 SEP 90 SEP 90 tb Mayweed SEP SEP Matricaria SEP spp SEP 25 SEP 20 SEP SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Cleavers SEP SEP Galium SEP aparine SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP 25 SEP 90 SEP 10 tb Fathen SEP SEP Chenopodium SEP album SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP 80 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Corn SEP marigold SEP SEP Chrysanthemum SEP segetum SEP 0 SEP 20 SEP SEP 25 SEP 40 SEP 20 tb Pale SEP persicaria SEP SEP Polygonum SEP lapathifolium SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP SEP 25 SEP 90 SEP 80 tb Pigweed SEP SEP Amarathus SEP retroflexus SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb Wheat SEP SEP Triticum SEP aestivum SEP 80 SEP SEP 80 SEP SEP 40 SEP tb Barley SEP SEP Hordeum SEP vulgare SEP 90 SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP 80 SEP tb Wild SEP Oat SEP SEP Avena SEP fatua SEP 90 SEP SEP 40 SEP SEP 30 SEP tb Blackgrass SEP SEP Alopecurus SEP myosuroides SEP 90 SEP SEP 70 SEP SEP 45 SEP tb SEP Bonvaridgrass SEP SEP Echinochloa SEP crus galli SEP 100 SEP SEP 50 SEP SEP 60 SEP tb Graograss SEP SEP Digitaria SEP sanguinalis SEP 100 SEP SEP 70 SEP SEP 30 SEP Example E Aqueous solutions or suspensions containing 2,000, 500 or 125 ppm of the compounds listed below and 125 ppm of nonylphenol ethylene oxide condensate as wetting agent were sprayed until the foliage was completely wetted on to young French bean plants nhaseolus vulgaris having two fully expanded leaves.After 24 hours, the treated plants were inoculated with an aqueous suspension of spore of the disease organism bean rust Uromyces thaseoli . The plants were t1n placed in a water saturated atmosphere for 24 hours and then kept in a controlled environment roon. temperature 180, relative humidity SO 9Q for 14 days, after which the incidence of futigal disease was measured. The percentage disease control in comparison with plants sprayed with a solution of the wetting agent alone is tabulated below Compound of Example No 500 ppm 125 ppm 36 i 100 40 43 94 61Example F Aqueous solutions or suspensions containing 2000 500 or 125 ppm of the compounds listed below and 12S ppm of nonylphenol ethylene oxide condensate as wetting agent were sprayed until the foliage was completely wetted on to young bean plants Vicia fabae having two fully expanded leaves.After 24 hours, the treated plants were inoculated with an aqueous suspension of spores nf file disease organism chocolate spot Botrytis fabae . The plants were then placed in a winter saturated atmosphere for five days after which the incidence of Eungal disease was measured.The percentage disease control in comparison with plants sprayed with a solution of the wetting agent alone is tabulated below Compound of Example No 500 ppm 125 pnm 36 1 91 80 36 28 84 36 29 55 43 91 66 Example G 10 ml of an aqueous acetone suspension of each compound listed in the table below at a concentration of 2000, 500 or 125 parts per million ppm as listed in the table were applied around the base of French bean plants, Phaseolus vultTaris, whose first cotyledons had fully expanded. 1 Day later, the plants were inoculated with spores of bean rust Uromyces phaseoli , placed in a water saturated atmosphere for 24 hours and then transferred a a controlled environment 180, 80 90 relative humidity for 14 days. The incidence of fungal disease was then measured. The percentage disease control is tabulated below Comnound of Examnle No 2000 nDm 500 ppm 125 DDm 36 28 95 90 90 36 29 100 100 90 36 1 55 43 88 21Example H formulations a Wettable powder Compound of formula I 25 or 50 W W Sodium lignosulphonate 5 w w China clay to 100 w w N Mix Components and then micronise. b Wettable powder Compound of formula I 50 w w Sodium oleoyl N methyl tauride 5 w w A sulphonated condensate Dyanol PFS 3 w w China clay 42 w w Mix components and then micronise. c Emulsifyable concentrate Compound of formula I 10 w v Castor oil ethoxylate 40 moles 5 w v Isophorone to 100 w v Dissolve components in isophorone and filter. d Seed dressing Compound of formula I 98 w w High boiling aliphatic mineral oil 2 with e Speed dressing Compound of formula I ground 50t w China clay 47 w w High boiling aliphatic mineral oil 3 w w The compound of formula I is mixed with the china clay and the oil added dropwise and the whole roller mixed. f Wettable powder Compound of formula I 20 w w Ethoxyleated fatty alcohol absorbed on fine silica 10 w w Polyvinyl alcohol 5 w w China clay 65 w w Components mixed, milled and micronised.