# Novel 1 substituted cycloalkylmethyl isothiocyanates, a process for their preparation, compositions comprising them, and their use as pesticides.

## Abstract
This invention relates to novel 1 arylcycloalkyl methyl isothiocyanates, having biocidal, more particularly fungicidal, bactericidal and insecticidal properties, said isothiocyanates having the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A chemical compounds selected from the group consisting of an 1 arylcycloalkylmethyl isothiocyanate having the formulaEMI17.1 whereinAr is a member selected from the group consisting of thienyl, halothienyl, naphthalenyl, pyridinyl, phenyl and substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl having fram 1 to 3 substituents, each independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyloxy, lower alkythio, halo, amino, nitro, cyano and trifluoromethyl and n is an integer of from 2 to 5 inclusive. 2. A chemical compound selected from the group consisting of l phenylcyclopropylmethyl isothiocyanate. 3. A chemical compound selected from the group consisting of l 2 thienyl cyc lopropylmethyl isothiocyanate. 4. A composition for combating fungi, bacteria and insects comprising an inert carrier material and as an active ingredient an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of an l arylcycloalkyl methyl isothiocyanate having the formula EMI18.1 whereinAr is a member selected from the group consisting of thienyl, halothienyl, naphthalenyl, pyridinyl, phenyl and substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl having from 1 to 3 substituents, each independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyloxy, lower alkylthio, halo, amino, nitro, cyano and trifluoromethyl and n is an integer of from 2 to 5 inclusive. 5, A process for preparing a chemical compound selected from the group consisting of an l arylcycloalkylmethyl isothiocyanate having the formulaEMI18.2 whereinAr is a member selected from the group consisting of thienyl, halothienyl, naphthalenyl, pyridinyl, phenyl and substituted phenyl, said substituted phenyl having from 1 to 3 substituents, each independently selected from the grouse consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyloxy, lower alkylthlJ, halo, amino, nitro, cyano and trifluoromethyl and n is an integer of from 2 to 5 inclusive. characterized by reacting a compound of the formulaEMI19.1 with carbon disulfide III in order to prepare a compound of the formulaEMI19.2 subsequently converting the latter into the desired isothiocyanate I by the reaction of IV with an appropriate decomposing agent, preferably a lower alkyl chloroformate, said reaction of the amine II with carbon disulfide III being carried out in an appropriate reaction inert solvent in the presence of an appropriate base, the reactiontemperature being kept brlow room temperature, and the decomRosition reaction of the dithiocarbamate IV by its reaction with the lower alkyl chloroformate V being suitably conducted at elevated temperatures in an appropriate reaction inert solvent, and preferably bases such as alkaline metal or earth alkaline metal hydroxide, are added to produce a catalytic effect on the decomposition of the intermediately formed carbalkoxydithiocarbamate of the formulaEMI19.3 6. A composition for combating fungi, bacteria and insects comprising an inert carrier material and as an active ingredient an effective amount of a compound according to Claim 2 or Claim 3. 7. Use of a compound in accordance with any one ofClaims 1 to 3, or of a composition in accordance with Claim 4 or Claim 6, as a fungicidal, bactericidal, or insecticidal agent.

## Description
NOVEL l ARYLCYCLOALKYLMETHYL ISOTHIOCYANATES A PROCESS FOR PREPARING THEM, AND COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING THEMBackground of the invention In Brit. Pat. No. 892,790 and in U.S. Pat No.3,367,957 there are described respectively the compounds methyl isothiocyanate and cyclopropylmethyl isothiocyanate both as nematocides. The present invention relates to a novel class of biocidal l arylcycloalkylmethyl isothiocyanates which differ from the aforementioned cyclopropylmethyl isothiocyanate by the presence of an aryl radical in the l position of the cycloalkane ring.Description of the preferred embodiments This invention is concerned with novel l arylcycloalkylmethyl isothiocyanates which may structurally be represented by the formula I EMI1.1 wherein Ar s a a mews per selected from the group consisting of t ie n1 nalothienyl, naphthalenyl, pyridinyl, phenyl and substituter phenyl, said substituted phenyl having from 1 to 3 substituents, each independently selected from the group consisting of lower alkyl, lower alkyloxy, lower alkylthio, halo, amino, nitro, cyano and trifluoromethyl and n is an integer of from 2 to 5 inclusive. In the foregoing and in the following definitions, the term halo is generic to fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo the term lower alkyl is meant to include straight and branched hydrocarbon radicals, having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, such as, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, l methylethyl, 1,1 dimethylethyl and the like. The compounds of Formula I may be prepared by the application of methodologies known in the art, as described, for example, in Saul Patai Ed. The chemistry of cyanates and their thioderivatives John Wiley Sons ChichesterNew York Brisbane Toronto 1977 p. 1013 1053. One meted of preparing the compounds I is by the reaction of the amine II with carbon disulfide III to obtain a dithiD carbamate of formula IV and subsequently converting the latter into the desired isothiocyanate I by the reaction of IV with an appropriate decomposing anent, e.g. a lower alkyl chloroformate V , preferably ethyl chloroformate. The foregoing reactions are illustrated as follows EMI2.1 EMI3.1 Said reaction of the amine II with carbon disulfide III is conveniently carried out in an appropriate reaction inert solvent such as, for example, water a lower alcohols e.g. methanol an alifatic , alicyclic or aromatic hydru carbon, e.g. hexane, cyclohexane or benzene a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. trichloromethane an alifatic or alicyclic ether, e.g. L,l oxybispropane or 1,4 dioxane and the likeThe reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of an appropriate base such as, for example, an alkaline or an earth alkaline metal hydroxide, e.g. sodium hydroxide a tertiary amine, e.g. N,N diethylethanamine and the like.Preferably the reaction temperature is kept below room temperature and, most preferably between 0 C and 10 C. The decomposition reaction of the dithiocarbamate IV by its reaction with the lower alkyl chloroformate V is suitably conducted in an appropriate reaction inert solvent e.g. one of the solvents described hereabove for the reaction of II with III . Bases such as alkaline metal or earth alkaline metal hydroxide, e.g. potassium hydroxide, or tertiary amines, e.g. N,N diethylethanamine are taught to have a catalytic effect on the decomposition of the intermediately formed carbalkoxydithiocarbamate VI . See, e.g. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 83, 2532 2536 1961 . Somewhat elevated temperatures may be used to enhance the reactionrate. EMI4.1 The amines of formula II , used as starting materials herein, are generally known and they may all be prepared following methods described in the literature for the preparation of such known or similar compounds. The isothiocyanates of formula I possess valuable biocidal properties and as such they can be used in a wide variety of circumstances. More particularly, the subject compounds have fungicidal, bactericidal and insecticidal properties, d as a result they can be used to combat any unwanted growth of fungi or bacteria or to kill insects. The compounds of formula I are especially used, as preservatives of organic materials which are susceptible to attack by noxious microorganisms and insects. Te can be used, for example, for the preservation of technical agricultural products, such as, for example, wood, fibers, textiles, jute, cork, paper, dyes, etc., and as disinfectan in veterinary medium and human hygiene. The subject compounds are also active against marine organisms and as such they can be used as antifouling agents. The useful biocidal properties of the compounds . formula I are clearly illustrated in the following experiments. A. Insecticidal activity against the house fly Musca domestica Test solutions are prepared by dissolving the testcompounds in 2 propanone at a concentration of 2.5 and further diluting the thus obtained stock solution with water to obtain final concentrations of the active ingredient of respectively 0.02, 0.01, 0.005 and 0.0025. 1 ml of the test solution is poured onto a filter paper of 11 cm diameter. The filter paper is covered by à petri dish of 11 cm diameter and 10 flies are confined in the space between the filter paper and the petri dish. Insecticidal activity of the test compound is assessed 1, 4 and 24 hours thereafter by counting the number of flies that are N respectively alive, knocked down or dead. The useful insecticidal properties of the compounds of formula I are clearly illustrated by the results presented in the following Table I. Table I Efficacy of compounds I against house fly. EMI6.1 Compound SEP Conc. SEP of SEP act. SEP Number SEP of SEP flies SEP alive SEP L , SEP knocked down SEP KD SEP and SEP dead SEP D tb SEP ingredient SEP in SEP test SEP After SEP 1 SEP hour SEP After SEP 4 SEP hours SEP After SEP 24 SEP hours tb SEP solution SEP L SEP KD SEP D SEP L SEP KD SEP D SEP L SEP DK SEP D tb SEP CH2 N C S SEP 0.02 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 8 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP S SEP 0.01 SEP 9 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP 0.005 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 6 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP 0.0025 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 8 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 6 tb CH2 N C S SEP 0.02 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP 0.01 SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP 0.005 SEP 9 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb SEP 0.0025 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 tb B. Activity against wood attacking fungi. The tests are performed in petri dishes of 50 mm diameter using a solid malt agar medium. The test compound is incorporated into the medium by mixing the latter, before solidification, with a solution ofthe test compound in 50 Ó ethanol to obtain concentrations of the active ingredient of from 0.1 to 100 ppm parts per million . After solidification of the medium inoculation is performed by applying a piece of mycelium to the center of each petridish. Antifungal activity is evaluated 7 and 14 days after inoculation by estimating L,je surface of each petridish which is covered by iium of the fungus.The results, represented in the following Table II, are expressed according to the following score system score 0 no growth score l 25 growth as compared to untreated control. score 2 25 to 50 0 growth as compared to untreated control. score 3 50 to 75 growth as compared to untreated control. score 4 75 growth as compared to untreated control.For each test 2 scores are given, representing respectively the evaluations made after 7 and 14 days. 1ab II Activity of compounds I against woud attacking fungi EMI8.1 SEP Antifungal SEP scores tb Compound SEP Concentration SEP of SEP act. SEP Coniophora SEP Coriolus SEP Poria SEP Pullulairs tb SEP ingredient SEP in SEP ppm SEP cerebella SEP versicolor SEP monticola SEP pullulans tb SEP 7d. SEP 14d. SEP 7d. SEP 14d. SEP 7d. SEP 14d. SEP 7d. SEP 14d. tb CH2 N C S SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP CH2 N C S SEP 100 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb S SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.1 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP In view of the aforementioned biocidal activities of the compounds of the invention this invention further provides valuable compositions comprising at least one of the isothiocyanates of formula I as an active ingredient, if desired, in admixture with other biocidal active agents, in a solvent or a solid, a semi solid or a liquid diluent or a carrier. The active agents can be used in suitable solvents or diluents in the form of emulsions, suspensions, dispersions or ointments, on suitable solid or semi solid carrier substances, in ordinary or synthetic soaps, detergents or dispersion media. Solid carrier substances which are suitable for the preparation of compositions in powder form include various inert, porous and pulverous distributing agents of inorganic or organic nature such as, for example, tricalcium phosphate or calcium carbonate, in the form of prepared chalk or ground limestone, kaolin, bole, bentonite, talcum, silic acid or boric acid powdered cork, sawdust, and other fine pulverous materials of vegetable origin are also carrier substances. The isothiocyanates are mixed with these carrier substances, for example by being ground therewith alternatively, the inert carrier substance is impregnated with a solution of the active component in a readily volatile.solvent and the solvent is thereafter eliminated by heating or by filtering with suction at reduced pressure. By adding wetting and or dispersing agents, pulverous preparations can also be made readily wettable with water, so that suspensions are obtained. Inert solvents used for the production of liquid preparations should preferably not be readily inflammable and as far as possible non toxic to warm blooded animals or plants in the relevant surroundings. Solvents suitable for this purpose are high boiling oils, for example, of vegetable origin, and lower boiling solvents, such as, for example, isopropanol, dimethylsulfoxide, hydrogenated naphthalenes and alkylated naphthalenes. It is of course, also possible to use mixtures of solvents. Solutions can be prepared in the usual way, if necessary, with assistance of solution promoters. Other liquid forms which can be used consist of emulsions or suspensions of the active compound in water or suitable inert solvents, or also concentrates for preparing such emulsions, which can be directly adjusted to the required concentrations.For this purpose, the isothiocyanates are, for example, mixed with a dispersing or emulsifying agent. The active component can also be dissolved or dispersed in a suitable inert solvent and mixed simultaneously or subsequently with a dispersing or emulsifying agent. It is also possible to use semi solid carrier substances of a cream ointment, paste or waxlike nature, into which the isothiocyanates can be incorporated, if necessary, with the aid of solution promoters and or emulsifiers.Vaseline and other cream bases are examples of semi solid carrier substances. Furthermore, it is possible for the isothiocyanates to be used in the form of aerosols. For this purpose, the active component is dissolved or dispersed, if necessary, with the aid of suitable inert solvents as carrier liquids, such as difluorodichloromethane, which at atmospheric pressure boils at a temperature lower than room temperature, or in other volatile solvents. In this way, solutions under pressure are obtained which, when sprayed, yield aerosols which are particularly suitable for controlling or combating fungi and bacteria, e.g. in closed chambers and storage rooms, and for application to vegetation for eradicating or for preventing infection by fungi or bacteria. The isothiocyanates and the compositions thereof can be applied by conventional methods. For example a growth of microorganisms or a material to be treated or to be protected against attack by microorganisms can be treated with the isothiocyanates and the compositions thereof by dusting, sprinkling, spraying, brushing, dipping, smearing, impregnating or other suitable means. When the isothiocyanates are employed in combination with suitable carriers, e.g. in solution, suspension, dust, powder, ointment, emulsion rd the like forms, a high activity over a very high range of dilution is observed.For example, concentrations of the active ingredient ranging from 0.1 to 10 percent by weight, based on the weight of composition employed, have been found effective in combating microorganisms.Higher concentrations may naturally also be employed as warranted by the particular situation. The compounds of formula I may be applied alone or optionally together with other biocidal substances, e.g., bactericides, fungicides, insecticides etc. When used in the preservation of organic material, particularly wood, it has been found advantageous to combine the isothiocyanates of formula I with antimicrobial imidazole and triazole derivatives such as for example, l 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 2 propenyloxy ethyl lH imidazole, 1 2 2,4 dichloro phenyl 1,3 dioxolan 2 ylmethyl 1H 1,2,4 triazhole, 1 2 2,4 dichlorophenyl 4 ethyl 1,3 dioxolan 2 ylmethyl 1H 1, 2,4 triazole, 1 4 chlorophenoxy 1 1H 1,2,4 triazol 1 yl 3,3 dimethylbutan 2 one and the like. The following examples are i tended to illustrate and not to limit the scope of the rst invention. Example I To a solution of 6.5 parts of sodium hydroxide in 20 parts of water are added 12.5 parts of carbon disulfide, while cooling 10 C . Then there are added dropwise 23 part of l phenylcyclopropylmethylamine exothermic reaction . l.e whole is stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. At a temperature of 3D C, there are added dropwise 17 parts of ethyl chloroformate exothermic reaction cooling is necessary . Upon completion, the mixture is stirred for 3 hours at 50 C. The product is extracted with benzene.The organic layer is dried and evaporated. The residue is distilled twice, yielding 18 parts of 1 phenylcyclopropyl methyl isothiocyanate bp. 1500C at 10 mm pressure n20 1.5831 d2200 1.0917. Following the same procedure and using equivalent amounts of the appropriate starting materials there are also prepared 1 4 chlorophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate bp.131 133 C at 0.4 mm pressure nD20 1.5936 d2020 1.2022 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate bp. 20 120 C at 0.1 mm pressure nD20 1.5811 d2020 1.1286 and 1 4 fluorophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate bp.152 153 C at 10 mm pressure nD20 1.5648 d2020 1.1674. cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate Example II A solution of 20 parts of sodium hydroxide and 300 parts of water is cooled to 10 C and there are added suc assively 41.8 parts of carbon disulfide and then dropwise 95 parts of l phenylcyclopentylmethylamine exothermic reaction . Upon completion, the cooling bath is removed and the ole is stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Ihen there are added dropwise at 30 C, 54.25 parts of ethyl ehioroFolmate exothermic reaction cooling is necessary .The whole is stirred for 3 hours at 50 C. The reaction mixture is cooled and the product is extracted with benzene.The extract is dried, filtered and evaporated. The oily residue is distilled, yielding 86 parts of l phenylcyclo pentylmethyl isothiocyanate bp. 1250C at 0.2 mm pressure nD20 1.5848 d2020 1.0910. Following the same procedure and using equivalent amounts of the appropriate starting materials there are also prepared 1 4 fluorophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate bp.120 C at 0.2 mm pressure N l 4 chlorophenyl cyclopentylmethyl isothiocyanate mp.480C and 1 4 methoxyphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate mp.69.5 C.Example III A solution of 11 parts of potassium hydroxide in 200 parts af water is cooled to about 10 C and there are added successively 22.8 parts of carbon disulfide and then dropwise 42 parts of l 2 thienyl cyclopropylmethylamine exothermic reaction . Upon completion, the whole is stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Then there are added at 30 C 29.8 parts of ethyl chloroformate exothermic reaction cooling is necessary . The whole is stirred for 3 hours while heating at 50 C. The reaction mixture is cooled and the product is extracted with benzene. The extract is dried, filtered and evaporated. The oily residue is distilled twice, yielding 40 parts of l 2 thienyl cyclo propy1methyl isothiocyanate bp. 140 150 C at 10 mm pressure nD20 1.6008 d2020 1.1911. Example I A solution of 21.2 parts of sodium hydroxide in 5 parts of water is cooled to 10 C and there is added successively 45.6 parts of carbon disulfide and then dropwise 95.83 of l 2 thienyl cyclopentanemethylamine exothermic reaction . After the addition is complete, the whole is stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Then there are added 57.5 parts of ethyl chloroformate at 30 C exothermic reaction cooling is necessary . The whole is stirred for 3 hours at 50oC and further stirred overnight without heating. The product is extracted with benzene. The extract is dried, filtered and evaporated.The residue is poured onto 350 parts of water and the whole is heated for 3 hours at 80 900C. The mixture is cooled and the product is extracted with dichloromethane. The extract is dried, filtered and evaporated. The oily residue is distilled twice, yielding 88 parts of 1 2 thienyl cyclopentyl methyl isothiocyanate bp. 110 C at 0.1 mm pressure nD20 1.5960 d2 1.1743. Example V Following the procedure described in Example II and using equivalent amounts of the appropriate starting materials there are also prepared 1 4 methylphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 cyano 3 ethylthiophenyl cyclopentylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 amino 4 nitrophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate tl 4 trifluoromethylphenyl cyclopentylmethyl isothiocy2rX 1 4 chloro 3 thienyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 naphthalenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate Ll 2 pyridinyl cyclopentylmethyl isothiocyanate l phenylcyclobutylmethyl isothiocyanate l 4 methylphenyl cyclobutylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 3 ethoxyphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 3 methylthiophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 4 cyano 2,6 dibromophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 amino 4 nitrophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate l 2 thienyl cyclobutylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 4 chloro 2 thienyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 naphthalenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate Ll 3 pyridinyl cyclobutylmethylj isothiocyanate 1 2 ethylphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 chloro 3 methylthiophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 3 propyloxyphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 amino 4 nitrophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 cyano 4 trifluoromethylphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 5 bromo 3 thienyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 1 naphthalenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate l l pyridinyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate and l phenylcyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate.Example VI Following the procedure described in Example I and using equivalent amounts of the appropriate starting materials there are also prepared 1 4 propylphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 2 amino 5 methylphenyl cyclopropylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 4 cyano 2 nitrophenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 3 trifluoromethylphenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 5 bromo 2 thienyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate 1 1 naphthalenyl cyclohexylmethyl isothiocyanate and Ll 4 pyridinyl cyclopropylmethyl isothiocyanate.