# Tampons and applicators.

## Abstract
A tampon for insertion into a bodily cavity, which tampon comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within the tube so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert, when pressure is applied to it, to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body, tampon assemblies and applicators compris ing these tampons are described.

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A tampon for insertion into a bodily cavity, which tampon comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within the tube so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert, when pressure is applied to it, to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body. 2. A tampon as claimed in claim 1 in which the collapsible portion of the tube is attached at or about the nose of the main tampon body. 3. A tampon as claimed in claim 2 in which the collapsible portion of the tube is in an axially compressed form at or about the nose of the main tampon body. 4. A tampon as claimed in claim 3 in which the nose portion of the main tampon body has diameter smaller than that of the remaining portion of the main tampon body to accommodate an axially compressed collapsible portion of the tube positioned about the nose of the main tampon body. 5. A tampon as claimed in any of claims 2 to 4 in which the main tampon body has a shroud which surrounds a portion thereof which is to the rear of the nose of the tampon body to reduce friction between the everting collapsible portion of the tube and the main tampon body when the tampon is inserted into the bodily cavity. 6. A tampon as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 in which the collsrpaible portion of the tube comprises a water permeable non woven fabric. 7. A tampon assembly for aiding the insertion of a tampon into a bodily cavity which assembly comprises a tampon which comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within, the tube so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert, when pressure is applied to it, to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body and a tampon guide receiving the tampon and having an opening to be placed over the bodily cavity opening. 8. An applicator for aiding the insertion of a tampon into a bodily cavity, which tampon comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable translational movement within the tube and a piston capable of sweeping the tube, so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert under the action of the piston to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body. 9. Applicator as claimed in claim 8 in which the piston is tubiform and the main tampon body is within the piston and capable of translational motion therein so that the piston acts directly on the flexible tube. 10. An applicator as claimed in either of claims 8 or 9 which comprises a piston guide receiving the piston and the tampon and having an opening to be placed over the body cavity opening.

## Description
TAMPONS AND APPLICATORS The present invention relates to tampons and applicators therefor, designed to aid insertion of the tampons into a bodily cavity and its extraction therefrom. Conventional tampons can be relatively uncomfortable to insert into a bodily cavity such as a vagina due to friction between the walls of the bodily cavity and the surface of the tampon. United States Patent No. 4,211,225 discloses tampons shrouded by one or two water permeable shrouds which ensure low friction between the outer shroud and the tampon. The shrouds are affixed to the nose of the tampon, which is inserted into the vagina in the shrouded conformation. On extraction, if the friction between vaginal wall and outer shroud is greater than that between either shroud and tampon, the shroud inverts, the rolling action of the inverting shroud making the extraction of the tampon relatively comfortable. The outer shroud may also be pre creased circumferentially so as to facilitate the collapse and inversion of the shroud on withdrawal.Such a shroud, however, does not prevent friction between the shroud and the wall of the bodily cavity during insertion of the tampon. United StatesPatent Nos. 4,286,594 and 4,318,404 discloses an applicator which comprises a flexible sleeve which is inverted at one end and. a tampon which is contact with the inverted portion of the sleeve. In use the applicator is placed inside the vagina and pressure applied to the rear end of the tampon to expel the tampon from sleeve into the vagina. During insertion of the tampon the inverted portion of the sleeve everts and unrolls away from the surface of the tampon against the walls of the vagina to expose the moving surface of tampon to the vagina. Such an applicator therefore does not prevent friction between the wall of the bodily cavity and the surface of the tampon. A tampon has now been found which substantially reduces contact between the wall of the bodily cavity and the surface of the tampon during the insertion of the tampon into the bodily cavity.Accordingly, the present invention provides a tampon for insertion into a bodily cavity, which tampon comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within the tube so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert, when pressure is applied to it, to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body. On insertion of the tampon of the invention into the bodily cavity the inverted collapsible portion of the flexible tube everts against the wall of the bodily cavity and forms a sleeve about the main tampon body which prevents contact between the bodily cavity and the moving surface of the tampon during insertion thereby reducing discomfort caused by frictional engagement of the tampon surface with the wall of the bodily cavity. When used herein collapsible means that the tube portion so described can collapse sufficiently radially to allow its inversion into the tube. The tube of the present invention include circumferentially continuous tubes and tubes in the form of a rolled sheet. Favourably, the main tampon body is a sliding fit in the tube, preferably a low friction sliding fit.The tube may have an inner perimeter lesser, equal or greater than the maximum girth of the main tampon body, but if lesser it must be capable of ready circumferential expansion to accommodate the main tampon body. The collapsible portion of the flexible tube is attached to or with the main tampon body. Preferably the collapsible portion is attached at or near a free end to the nose or tail of the main tampon body, or to near the nose or tail of the main tampon body. If the portion is attached in such a way that the everted portion shrouds the body in use, the portion must be of, or be capable of expanding to a sufficient diameter to accommodate the tampon body when expanded on absorption. When used herein attached tot a given point means that that point is where articulation between the main tampon body and the collapsible portion occurs. For example, the tube may be attached to the conventional retrieval string near the body nose but constrained to or by the body so that articulation between body and tube is only possible at the body tail. The tube is then attached to the tampon body tail. In a particularly preferred embodiment the whole of the flexible tube is collapsible and is attached at or near one end to the nose or to near the nose of the main tampon body, and is attached at or near its other end to the tail or to near the tail of the main tampon body. It will be apparent that in use as one end of the flexible tube everts the other will invert. In all such embodiments the tampon body effectively blocks the bore of the flexible tube at the position of attachment. Thus, for example, the collapsible portion may be attached to the tail of the main tampon body.If, alternatively, the flexible portion receives and conforms to part of the tampon body after eversion, the portion must be capable of circumferential expansion to accommodate the body when expanded in use. For example, the flexible portion may be of continuous perimeter greater than the tampon body girth at the attachment position and axially pleated and attached at points on the pleating to the tampon body to allow for, tampon body expansion. Alternatively, that part of the flexible portion which receives the tampon body after eversion may be provided with axial slits of sufficient length to allow accommodation of the expanded tampon body in use by circumferential distension of the slits, If the tube is in the form of a rolled sheet, accommodation may be achieved by an effective mutual sliding of the turns of the roll in an unrolling action. All the foregoing tampons may also be provided with a tampon guide to register with the bodily cavity. Accordingly in another aspect the invention provides tampon assembly for aid the insertion of a tampon into bodily cavity which assembly comprises a tampon which comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end and a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within the tube so that the collapsible portion when inverted will evert when pressure is applied to it to form a sleeve about the moving tampon body and a tampon guide receiving the tampon and having an opening to be placed over the bodily cavity opening. The tampon guide may be attached to the flexible tube, but if so it is preferably detachable therefrom, for example by means of a preset frangible connection broken for example by pressure continued after tube eversion, or by a water soluble connection which is rapidly dissolved by bodily fluids in situ, for instance a polyvinyl alcohol adhesive. In a further embodiment, a piston may be receivable within the flexible tube to form a tampon applicator. Thus, in a further aspect, the invention provides an applicator for aiding the insertion of a tampon into a bodily cavity which applicator comprises a tampon which comprises a flexible tube having a collapsible portion extending from one end a main tampon body which is attached to the collapsible portion and which is capable of translational movement within the tube and a piston capable of sweeping the tube so that the collapsible tube when inverted will evert under the action of the piston to form a sleeve about the main tampon body. In the applicator of the invention if the main tampon body is interposed between the piston and the collapsible portion, the action of the piston will be transmitted to the collapsible portion by the main tampon body. However, if the piston is tubiform and the main tampon body is within the piston and capable of translational motion within the piston then the piston will act directly on the flexible tube. The applicator favourably has the collapsible portion, at or near its free end attached to the main tampon body, preferably at the nose or tail of the main tampon body or near the nose or tail of the main tampon body. In a preferred embodiment, the applicator comprises a main body, attached to the collapsible tube portion, and capable of translational motion within the flexible tube and a tubiform first piston, and a second piston capable of sweeping the first piston. It will be seen that the first and second pistons correspond to the barrel and piston of a conventional vaginal tampon applicator, and that in this embodiment the first piston acts directly on the collapsible tube portion whilst the second piston either more usually acts on the main tampon body, or is tubiform like the first piston and also moves to house the tampon body and act on the collapsible tube portion. Often the collapsible tube portion will be attached to with the main tampon body at or near the nose of the main tampon body, and the second piston will act on the main tampon body. In this case the collapsible tube portion when inverted will evert under the action of the first piston to form a sleeve about the moving first piston and movement of the second piston to sweep the first piston and eject the main tampon body will cause further eversion of the collapsible tube portion to form a sleeve about the moving, ejected main tampon body. This embodiment not only alleviates the relative discomfort of tampon insertion, but also the relative discomfort of tampon applicator insertion. This can be further beneficial, particularly for vaginal tampons, in minimising the risk of abrasion by the applicator and in allowing the use of conventional applicator barrels which are rougher and or unstreamlined and thus potentially cheaper. All the foregoing applicators may also comprise a piston guide. Accordingly, in another aspect of the invention the applicator for aiding the insertion of a tampon into a bodily cavity, can comprise a piston guide receiving the piston and the tampon and having an opening to be placed over the bodily cavity opening. The piston guide may be attached to, but then preferably detachable from, the flexible tube, as described for tampon guides hereinbefore. In the foregoing applicators, tampons and tampon assemblies of the invention the main tampon body will normally be provided with conventional retrieval means such as a string attached to the tampon body tail. Thus any piston will often be tubiform so that the retrieval means may be led through the piston. Such a retrieval means has the advantage that withdrawal is effected by inverting the collapsible portion into the tube. The rolling action of the inverting collapsible portion advantageously makes the extraction of the tampon relatively comfortable. In all aspects of the present invention, it is preferred that at least a major proportion if not all the flexible tube is collapsible. The collapsible portion of flexible tube can be suitably 80 to 100 and preferably 100 of the total length of the flexible tube. The walls of the collapsible portion of the flexible tube can suitably have an axially extending series of circumferential folds which alternate in direction, in for example a zig zag pattern. Such folds can be obtained by compressing a portion of the tube in a direction parallel to the axis of the tube. When a main tampon body is present, a favoured collapsible portion is thus capable of adopting a bellows conformation for at least part of its length, preferably at the distal portion of the tube just before insertion. When the collapsible portion is in its inverted conformation prior to use the collapsible portion of the bellows type may be held in an axially compressed state. This can be achieved by adhesive means mechanical means or physical means. The adhesive means include the use of a water soluble adhesive for example a polyvinyl alcohol adhesive. Mechanical means can include an optionally water soluble wrapping film,Physical means include a heat set treatment. When so compressed the axial bellows length is favourably less than 15 mm and preferably 5 10 mm.When a main tampon body is present the compressed bellows may be held on the tampon body nose by adhesive, mechanical or physical means as hereinbefore described. The compressed bellows conformation thus offers the advantage of compact storage of the tube collapsible portion before use. Compact storage may also be achieved when a main tampon body is present by housing at least part of the col aps ble portion, generally that part which is inverted, in an axial well extending within the tampon body from its nose The housed collapsible portion may be stuffed randomly into the well and or be pre folded for bellows1 compression as hereinbefore defined. It may, be retained in the well by for example mechanical means, such as an optionally water soluble wrapping film. In use the everting inverted collapsible portion will pay out of the main tampon body nose, somewhat like Åa paying out parachute. The well may extend as far into the tampon body as is useful for convenient storage. For practicality it is preferred that it does not breach the body tail. Such a well in a tampon for an adult vagina is favourably less than 8mm, and preferably 3 to 6mm in diameter.Alternatively the well for holding the collapsible portion may be formed by placing a housing onto the nose of the tampon thereby defining a space between the nose of the tampon and the front wall of the housing. This space is capable of holding the collapsible portion which issues from a circular hole in the front wall of the housing. Suitably the housing is formed from a plastics material, for example polypropylene, or from cardboard or water soluble or insoluble polymeric film or waxes which may be soluble, meltable and optionally contain a medicament. Generally the housing will be fixed to the nose of the tampon by mechanical or adhesive means. Preferably the housing is a push fit onto the tampon. The end of the collapsible portion may be secured to the tampon by trapping between the housing and the tampon. The internal diameter of the well may be up to 16mm. This has the advantage that compared to the well hereinbefore described the housing will be shorter to hold a given length of track. In a further aspect of the invention the nose portion of the main tampon body can have a diameter which is smaller than that of the remaining portion of the main tampon body to accommodate an axially compressed collapsible portipn of the tube positioned about the nose of the main tampon body. Such a smaller diameter nose portion of main tampon body may be in the form of a front piece around which the track is held. The front piece may be adhered to the front of the tampon. Suitably an adhered front piece can be formed from similar material to that of the housing above. Preferably the smaller diameter nose portion is an integral part of the tampon body formed for example by compression during the production of the tampon body. In all aspects of the present invention, either or both the internal and external surfaces of the flexible tube including the liner when present, especially those surfaces of the collapsible portion may be coated with a lubricant which does not impair its water permeability or solubility as apt so that the tube everts easily under low pressure. Suitable lubricants include solid lubricants such as talc, liquid lubricants such as silicone oils and release coatings for example cured silicone resin release coatings, and greasy lubricants, such as glycerol esters, of vegetable fatty acids, for example the Witepsols trade mark of Dynamit Nobel and selected saturated unbranched vegetable fatty acid triglycerides such as the Dynasans trade mark of Dynamit Nobel AG . Alternatively, the flexible tube may be made of a self lubricating film, for example, of a self lubricating plastic, such as a polyamide or polyurethane. In all aspects of the present invention, the flexible tube is preferably inverted so that at least part of the collapsible portion of the flexible tube is inside the rest of the flexible tube. fith this arrangement the collapsible portion will readily evert when pressure is applied to it. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments where all the flexible tube is collapsible the tube may be totally inverted so that no part of the tube actually lies within another. The flexible tube used in this invention will be suitable for lining the walls of a bodily cavity.The size of the tampon will depend on the size of the cavity into which it is inserted. Suitable tampons will often be roughly circular in cross section, optionally with conventional circumferential crimping on the main tampon body when present, or the flexible tube when a main tampon body is absent. Suitable tampons may have a maximum cross dimensionof 4 to 20 mm before use.Preferably, these tampons are vaginal tampons. Thus most suitably the tampons have a maximum girth similar to the average perimeter of a vaginal tract. A preferred tampon for an adult vagina has a maximum cross dimension of 10 mm to 18 mm, before use. If the tampon comprises a shrouded tampon body or has a tube component surrounding an absorbent component, the flexible tube collapsible portion or tube component should preferably either be of, or be capable of expanding to, a diameter twice the above maximum cross dimension tt allow for expansion of the absorbent in use. If the collapsible portion.in in the brm of a roll, it is preferred that it is capable of still shrouding theymain tampon body after expansion of the latter in use. Similarly, when the tampon is inserted by digital or piston pressure on the flexible tube and or a main tampon body when present the flexible tube must be I capable of accommodating the digit or piston, or of expanding to do so. The collapsible portion of the flexible tube of the invention when inserted into the vagina can be everted to form the lining for the walls of the vagina. The length of flexible tube used in this invention for the collapsible portion can suitably be 30 rmn to 200mm. The preferred length of flexible tube for the collapsible portion which is suitable for lining the walls of an adult vagina is from 40 mm to 175 mm depending of course on the particular embodiment. For example the type of tampon where the tube is attached to both ends of a main tampon body may be up to 120mm longer than one attached to tne end only. The flexible tube will be made of a biocompatible material. When tJie tampon comprises a main tampon body which is essentially completely shrouded by the sleeve formed by the fully everted collapsible tube portion, eg when the collapsible portion is attached at or near the nose of the main tampon body, the collapsible portion anst be water permeable or water soluble at least in part so that the main tampon body can fulfil its normal absorbent function. Suitable collapsible tube structures include nets, non woven, woven or knitted fabrics and porous, filmic materials. It is preferred that the collapsible portion of the flexible tube is made from a thin layer which is permeable to liguid water.Apt layers include flexible thin layers of nets and non woven fabrics such as spun bondeds Suitable materials include plastics such as polyamides, polyolefins, for example polyethylene and polypropylene, and polyurethanes. Suitable layers have a thickness of 25 p to 400 v and preferably a thickness of 75 v to 150 , 2 2 or of 10 to 160 g m , preferably 30 to 60 g m Favoured collapsible portions include spunbonded polyamide non woven, of about 0.4 oz yd2, such as Cerex Monsanto spun bonded polypropylene non woven of about 20 g m2, such as Corovin SMED bigh density polyethylene net manufactured following UR 1 548 865, such as Net 909 Grade A4 Smith sNephew and polyurethane net. A preferred collapsible portion of the flexible tube comprises a layer of spun bonded polypropylene of a thickness of 50 , in particular Corovin SMED Alternatively, the collapsible portion of the flexible tube may be made at least in part from a filmic thin layer of a material which is itself impermeable to liquid water but perforate or microperforate to allow access of bodily exudates to the main tampon body.Suitable films have a thickness of 12.5 to 100 microns anl.preferably a thickness of 25 to So microns In all the above films the perforations are suitably of 1 to 55 mm in area, distributed at 25 x 104 to 1 X 104 perforations per m2, preferably 4 to 25 mmê in area distrubted at 9 x 104 to 2 x 104 perforations 2 per m Suitable materials include films of low density polyethy ene, high density polyethylene, polypropylene, etbylene vinylacetate copolymers, natural rubber, silicone elastomers and polyurethanes, including hydro philip polyurethanes. Preferred materials include high density poly ethylene, and polyurethane, such as Estanes B F Goodrich Co . Preferred Estanes are solution grade 5714 FI and extrusion grade 58201. Favoured collapsible portions include high density polyethylene, or polyurethane, or 25 to 50 thickness having perforations of 4 to 25 main area distributed at 9 x 104 to 2 x 104 perforations per 2 A preferred collapsibAe portion comprises a film of Estane 5714 FI 20 to 30 ij thick and having perforations 2. 4 of 10 to 15 mm in area distri buted at 4 x 104 to 3 x 1O perforations m2. As mentioned previously, the flexible tube collapsible portion may be water permeable or water soluble throughout, but it will suffice if all or part of that part of the everted collapsible portion which shrouds the tampon body is water permeable or water soluble the remainder of the collapsible portion may be waterimpermeable. The collapsible portion may thus be a composite of a water permeable or water soluble part and a prosimal water impermeable part The two parts may be attached by thermal bonding or an adhesive in peripherally extending mutual abutment or with axial overlap extending over part or all of the proximal water impermeable part. Suitable collapsible portion materials include those water permeable materials recited hereinbefore.and those intrinsically water impermeable materials recited hereinbefore. Suitable specific and film thicknesses within each class of materials are also those recited hereinbefore for each class. When the tampon comprises a main tampon body which is essentially unshrouded by the sleeve formed by the fully everted collapsible tube portion, eg when the collapsible portion is attached at or near the tail of the main tampon body, the collapsible portion need not be water permeable or water soluble. Suitable collapsible tube structures include filmic materials which may preferably be water impermeable. Suitable materials and film thicknesses are as recited hereinbefore for intrinsically water impermeable collapsible tube portions. The main tampon body may be of conventional absorbent materials such as the bulky non wovens described hereinbefore. An alternative when the tampon comprises a main tampon body essentially completely shrouded by the sleeve formed by the fully everted collapsible portion is that the collapsible portion is made of a watersoluble filmic material, so that once the tampon is in situ the collapsible portion of the tube dissolves. In a preferred embodiment, the material dissolves to give a lubricative solution film, which does not clog the main bampon body but is sufficiently viscous not to be absorbed by the tampon body or to run out of the bodily cavity. The solution film then advantageously serves to render tampon extraction relatively comfortable. In all embodiments especially for vaginal tampons where the flexible tube is water permeable or water soluble, it is preferred that the proxl section of the collapsible portion and or the proximal non collapsible portion when present is made from a water mpermeable material to avoid wicking of exudate to the bodily cavity opening. Suitable materials incluaepolyurethanes, including hydrophilic polyurethanes, as films, or hydrophobic non woven fabrics or such fabrics treated with silicones. When present, a tampon guide must suitably be larger transversely than the bodily cavity into which the tampon is to be inserted. The guide may be made of the same or similar materials as those recited hereinbefore for the absorbent component of a tampon according to the present invention which consists essentially of a flexible tube, that is bulky non wovens ad plastics foams, although since the prime function is not absorption other fabrics such as felts may be used. The guide should of course not be deformable to the extend that it enters the bodily cavity during application of the tampon. This is especially the case where the guide is absorbent and more deformable after absorption of fluids. For this reason, less absorbent and or less flexible materials than those used for tampon absorbent components may be preferred. The guide may be integral with the tube. For example it may be formed as a rolled lip on the proximal edge of the tube held in position by gluing or thermal bonding. The guide may still be made separable from the tube as hereinbefore described. Where the tampon guide is also a piston guide and either un attached to, or made to be detached from, the flexible tube, the guide may like a conventional tampon applicator barrel be made of the same material as the piston, such as plastics or cardboard optionally plastics coated. The main tampon bodies used in the inventions which have the collapsible portion of the tube attached to or about the nose thereof can advantageously be provided with a shroud which surrounds a portion of the main tampon body which is to the rear of the nose of the tampon. Such a shroud prevents contact between the everting tube and the main tampon body and thus reduces friction there between when the tampon is inserted into the bodily cavity. Suitable shrouds will be normally made of a water permeable material coated with a lubricant material as described hereinbefore in relation to water permeable collapsible tubes. The shroud can be attached to the main tampon body for example at a circumferential line or area about the nose of the tampon by any convenient method which includes adhesive bonding, heat sealing or mechanical means.The shroud can conveniently be an extension of or attached to the collapsible portion of the tube in which case both of the components can be attached to main tampon body at the same circumferential line or area for example by means of a suitable band material such a cord. In another aspect the invention provides a method of inserting into a bodily cavity a tampon in accordance with the present invention wherein the collapsible portion of the flexible tube is inverted into the tube, which method comprises placing the tampon with the inverted collapsible portion of the tube proximal to the cavity, inserting the proximal part of the flexible tube into the cavity opening, and everting the collapsible portion of the tube within the cavity. The flexible tube for use in the invention can be conveniently made by various methods depnding on its structure and material. Thus, for example when the collapsible portion is or comprises a peripherally continuous tube of a thin net, non woven, woven or knitted fabric, the material in commercially available sheet form cut to suitable dimensions may be thermally bonded if thermoplastic, or glued with a biocompatible water insoltble glue to form the tube. Xnitted fabrics may be knitted in suitable tubular form. Water soluble, porous or intrinsically waterimpermeable filmic materials may also be thermally bonded or glued as above, as apt. Alternatively, filmic tubes may be formed by tubular extrusion, or by mandrel dipping in a suitable solution or latex of the tube material, followed by drying to form the film. Intrinsically water impermeable sheet materials may be perforated or microperforated conventionally before or after fabrication into a tube. Other filmic materials may also be perforated or microperforated conventionally after extrusion or mandrel dipping. When the collapsible portion is or comprises a bulky non woven this may be fabricated from a sheet into a tube by thermal bonding if thermoplastic , gluing or stitching, or the non woven may be produced in suitable tubular form. The tube is generally perifiherally continuous. Foams are suitably fabricated into a tube by mandrel dipping into a generated foam and drying on the mandrel to form the foam. Suitable glues for tube fabrication include polyurethane,acrylic and cyanoacrylic adhesives. When present, the main tampon body or piston will generally be made of materials conventional therefor in the art. The collapsible portion of the flexible tube may be attached conventionally to the main tampon body when present by thermal bonding, if both portion and body are thermoplastic, by gluing with a biocompatible waterinsoluble glue, or, when the collapsible portion is a fabric, by stitching on. Alternatively if the main tampon body is provided with a conventional retrieval string, the tube is conveniently bonded, glued or even stitched to the string which is conventionally attached to the main tampon body. Suitable glues include those mentioned hereinbefore Alternatively, the tube may be of the same material as the main tampon body, for example of viscose or cotton staple, when the tube may be fabricated as an integral attached part of the main tampon body. Conventional tampon bodies are often formed by rolling a layer of absorbent, usually around a core retrieval string. A convenient roll form tube attached to the main tampon body tail or nose may be fabricated by partially forming the body by rolling, overlaying the residual absorbent layer at least in part with a sheet of the tube material and continuing the rolling process to form the main tampon body and an interleaved roll form tube. The tampon may be provided with a topical antiinfective agent. It is preferred that the devices of the invention are sterile to aid in preventing infection of the bodily cavity during insertion of the tampon. The device can be suitably packed into a bacteria proof package and sterilised within the package by conventional methods. Embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein Figs 1 and la are longitudinal sections of an applicator in accordance with the present invention Figs 2 and 2a are longitudinal sections of a second applicator in accordance with the present invention Figs 3 and 3a are longitudinal sections of a tampon assembly in accordance with the present invention Figs lb, 2b and 3b are the tampons of the present invention everted in situ after application from their corresponding applicators or tampon assembly. Figs 4, 4a and 4b are longitudinal sections of a particularly preferred tampon in accordance with the present invention, Fig 4b depicting the tampon fully everted in situ after application. Figs 5, 5a and 5b are longitudinal sections of a third , preferred applicator in accordance with the present invention, Fig 5c depicting the corresponding tampon of the invention everted in situ after application. Figs 6, 6a and 6b are longitudinal sections of a second particularly preferred tampon in accordance with the present invention, Fig 6b depicting the corresponding tampon of the invention everted in situ after application. Figs la to 6a depict in each case the releyant applicator, tampon assembly or tampon partially inserted into a vagina. Fig 7 shows a longitudinal cross section through a further particularly preferred tampon in which the collapsible portion is held with a housing on the nose of the tampon. Fig 8 shows a longitudinal cross section through an alternative embodiment in which the collapsible portion is held around a front piece of the tampon. Fig 9 shows an embodiment of a tampon shown in Fig 7 in which the shroud and collapsible portion completely enclose the tampon and are attached to the withdrawal string. Fig 10 shows a longitudinal cross section through a further preferred embodiment of the type of tampon shown in Fig 8. In Figs 1 and 2 an applicator in accoraance with the present invention comprises. a flexible tube 2 having a co lapsible portion extending from one end 4 in these embodiments, to be the whole of the f ey.ible tube 2 , and here inverted into the tube 2 , a piston 5 capable of sweeping the tube 2 and a piston guide 6 receiving the piston 3 and the flexible tube 2 . The end 4 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to a conventional main tampon body 11 , so that the tampon body 11 blocks the bore 2 of the flexible tube 2 . In Fig 1, the collapsible portion 3 is attached at its free end 4 to near the nose 13 of the tampon body 11 . In Fig 2 the collapsible portion 3 is attached at its free end 4 to the tail 142 of the tampon body 1,1 . The main tampon body in Figs 1 and 2 is provided with a conventional string retrieval means 7 led through the tubiform piston 5 The assembly has the opening 8 of the guide 6 just within the vaginal opening. In Figs la and 2a the inverted collapsible portion 32 is partially everted under the action of the piston C51 in a direction shown by arrow A, to form a sleeve 15 about the moving main tampon body 11 , and or piston 5 . In Figs lb and 2b the collapsible portion 3 is fully everted and the piston 5 wit drawn, to leave the tampon 1 in situ. In Fig lb the main tampon body 11 is shrouded essentially completely by the collapsible portion 3 , which is therefore at least in part of a water permeable or water soluble material, In Fig 2b the main tampon body 11 is essentially unshrouded by the collapsible portion 3 , which is therefore preferably water impermeable. In Figs lb and 2b the piston guide 6 is depicted as attached to the collapsible portion 3 . In a preferred embodiment however the guide is omitted or attached to the collapsible portion by a pre set frangible connection which is broken by continued pressure on the tampon 1 by the piston 5 after full eversion of collapsible portion 32 or by a water soluble connection, In Fig 3 a tampon assembly in accordance with the present invention comprises a flexible tube 21 having a collapsible portion 3 extending from one end t42 in this embodiment4 to the whole of the flexible tube 2 , and here inverted into the tube RTI ID 28.15 2 , and a tampon guide 16, receiving the flexible tube 2 . and attached to the second end 17 of the tube by a preset frangible or water soluble connection. The end t4 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to the tamil 14 of the main tampon body 11 so that the tampon body 11 brocks the bore 2 of the tube 2 . The tampon body is proviaea with a conventional string retrieval means 7 . The collapsible portion 3 is in part longitudinally compressed into a bellows1 conformation in which it has been held for example with a wrapping film removed in Pig 3 . In Fig 3 the tampon assembly is positioned with the opening t8 of the guide 6 just within the vaginal opening. In Fig 3a the inverted collapsible portion 3 of the tube 2 is partially everted under the action of a finger in a direction shown by arrow A to form a sleeve 15 about the moving tampon body 11 . In Fig 3b the collapsible portion 32 is fully everted to leave the main tampon body 111 essentially unshrouded. The collapsible portion 3 is thus preferably water impermeable. After full eversion further digitÅal pressure has been applied to break the frangible connection at end 17 , and the tampon guide 6 has been removed. In Fig 4 a tampon in accordance with te present invention comprises a flexible tube 2 having a collapsible portion 3 extending from one end 4 in this embodiment, to the whole of the flexible tube 2 , and here inverted into the tube 2 . The end 17 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to the tail 14 of a main tampon body 11 so bat the tampon body 11 blocks the bore 12 of the tube 2 , and the end 4 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to the nose 13 of the main tampon body 11 so that the tampon body 11 thus blocks the bore 12 of the tube 2 . The tampon body is provided with a conventional string retrieval means 7 . The collapsible portion 3 as in part longitudinally compressed into a bellows conformation in which it has been held for example with a wrapping film removed in Fig 5 . In Fig 4, the tampon is positioned with its distal end 18 just within the vaginal opening. In Fig 4a, the inverted collapsible portion 3 of the tube 2 is partially everted under the action of a finger in a direction shown by arrow A to form a sleeve 15 about the moving tampon body 11 . In Fig 4b, the collapsible portion 3 is fully everted to keep the main tampon body 11 essentially shrouded. The collapsible portion 3 is thus preferably water permeable. In Fig 5 an applicator in accordance with the present invention comprises a flexible tube 2 having a collapsible portion 3 extending from one end 4 in this embodiment, to be the whole of the f3exible tube 2 , and here inverted into the tube 2 , a conventional main tampon body 11 capable of translational movement within the tube 2 and lying within a tubiform first piston 5 which is capable of sweeping the tube 2 to evert the inverted collapsible portion 3 , and a second piston 16 capable of sweeping the first piston 5 to eject the main tampon body 11 therefrom. The end 4 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to the main tampon body 11 , so that the tampon body 11 blocks the bore 12 of the flexible tube 2 . The collapsible portion 3 is attached at its free end 4 to near the nose 13 of the tampon body 11 . The main tampon body is provided with a conventional string retrieval means 7 led through the tubiform piston 16 . The collapsible portion 3 is in part longitudinally compressed into a bellows conformation in which it has been held for example with a wrapping film removed in Fig 5 . In Fig 5 the tampon assembly is positioned with the first piston 5 just within the vaginal opening In Fig 5a the inverted collapsible portion 3 is partially everted under the action of the first piston 5 acting directly on the collapsible portion 3 , in a direction shown by arrow A, to form a sleeve 15 about the moving first piston 5 , by pulling the.collapsible portion 13 off the front of its bellows conformation. In Fig 5 b the inverted collapsible portion 3 of the tube 2 is further everted under the action of the second piston 16 on main tampon body 11 in a direction shown by arrow A to form a sleeve 25 about the moving tampon body 11 , by pushing the bellows part of the collapsible portion 3 out of the first piston 5 . In Fig 5c the collapsible portion 3 is fully everted to leave the main tampon body 11 shrouded.The collapsible portion 3 is thus water permeable.After full eversion both pistons 5 and 16 have been removed. In Fig 6, a tampon in accordance with the present invention comprises a flexible tube 2 having a collapsible portion 3 extending from one end 4 to be the whole of the flexible tube 2 and here inverted inbo the tube 2 . The end 17 of the collapsible portion 3 is attached to the tail 14 of a main tampon body 11 so that the tail 14 of the tampon body 11 blocks the bore 12 of the tube 2 . The main tampon body 11 is provided with an axial well 21 extending from its nose133 and having a floor 22 . The second end 4 . of the collapsible portion 3 of the tube 2 is attached to the floor 22 of the well 21 so that the floor 22 within the tampon body 11 also blocks the bore 12 of the tube 2 . In this embodiment, the inverted collapsible tube portion 3 is longitudinally compressed within the well 21 into a bellows conformation. It has been held in .ihis state inside well .21 for example with a wrapping film removed in Fig 5 . Alternativety the inverted collapsible tube portion 3 may be randomly stuffed into the well 21 . Although the end 4 of the collapsible tube portion 3 is depicted as attached to the floor 22 of the well 21 in the tampon body 11 , this end 4 may alternatively be attached to the nose 13 of the tampon body 11 and the inverted collapsible tube portion 3 housed wart bin the well 21 as hereinbefore described. In Fig 6, the tampon is positioned with its distal end WE just within the vagina opening. In Fig 6a, the inverted collapsible portion 3 of the tube has been partially everted and paid out of the well 21 under the action of a finger in the direction shown by arrow A to form a sleeve 15 about the moving tampon body 11 In Fig 6 b, the collapsible portion 3 is fully everted to essentially shroud all of the tampon body 11 except well floor 22 . The collapsible portion is thus preferably water permeable. If alternatively the end 4 of the collapsible tube portion 3 is attached to the nose 13 of the tampon body 11 the walls 23 and floor 22 of the well 21 are unshrouded by the tube portion 3 which need not necessarily be water permeable. Figure 7 shows a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention in which the collapsible portion 3 is retained between the nose of the tampon 11 and the front wall of a housing 25 which is held by a push fit onto the nose of the tampon.The space 26 present between the nose of the tampon 11 and the front wall of the housing 25 is capable of holding the collapsible portion 3 which is able to issue from a hole 27 in the front wall of the housing as the tampon is inserted into the vagina.In this embodiment the non compressed portion of the tube 2 encloses the tampon and is fastened to the withdrawal cord 7 at the point 4 . There is also present a shroud 24 which lies around the tampon inside the track and is fastened at point 28 by being trapped between the housing and the tampon. The end of the compressed portion of the tube is also fixed at this point. The presence of the shroud 24 reduces the friction between the tampon and the tube as the tampon is inserted, thus the .sliding contact down the side of the tampon is non woven against non woven. Typically the non woven is a Cerex material. Figure 8 shows an alternative embodiment of the type of tampon shown in figure 8 in which the housing 25 is replaced by a front piece 29 which is present on the nose of the tampon. The front piece may be formed from the same material as the tampon or it may be a non absorbent material, In this embodiment the collapsible portion 3 is held around the front piece, its end being fixed to the tampon at point 30 . The end of the intern shroud 24 is also conveniently fixed at this point. The withdrawal string 7 runs the length of the tampon from the end of the front piece exiting at the tail of the tampon 14 . Figure 9 shows a variation of the tampon described in Figure 7 in which the shroud also totally encloses the absorbent part of the tampon and is fastened to the withdrawal cord at point 4 . Figure 10 shows a further preferred embodiment of the type of tampon shown in Figure 8 in which the front piece 29 on the nose of the tampon 11 forms part of the main tampon body for example a compressed portion of the tampon. In this embodiment the collapsible portion 3 of the flexible tube 2 in a compressed bellows configuration is positioned on the front piece 29 and attached around its circumference at 30 .The collapsed bellows portion of the tube 2 had been treated during its formation for example by a heat set treatment to maintain it in compressed state. The uncollapsed portion of the tube 2 is shown in a position surrounding the tampon 11 and shroud 24 . The shroud 24 is conventionally an extension of flexible tube 2 and therefore also attached to tampon 11 at position 30 . The withdrawal string 7 is attached to the tail of the tampon. The pressure applied to the collapsible portion will of course be an axial pressure. The pressure applied to the collapsible portion may be applied directly for example by using a piston as hereinbefore described or may be applied indirectly by pressing the main tampon body. In one preferred form of the invention the pressure is applied digitally to one end of the main tampon body. In preferred forms of this invention the collapsible portion is attached at or about the nose of the main tampon body.