# Benzodiazepines for treating panic disorders.

## Abstract
Therapeutic process for treating panic disorders in humans comprising the systemic administration of a com pound of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1A compound of the formula EMI15.1 Formula I X is a member selected from the group consisting of H, CH3, CH2 N CH3 2 and CH2 O R wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, inclusiveEMI15.2 orEMI15.3 wherein n is O to 16, inclusive, and m is 1 to 16, inclusive or the pharmacologically acceptable acid addition salt or a 5 N oxide thereof,when used for preventing or treating panic attacks. 2 A compound of Claim 1 wherein the compound is 8 chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine. 3 A compound of Claim 1 wherein the compound is 8 chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazo.1o 4,3 a 1,4 benzo.diazepine. 4 A compound of Claim 1 wherein the compound is 8 chloro 1 F di methylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine. A compound of Claim 1 wherein the compound is 8 chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s trazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine.

## Description
BENZODIAZEPINES FOR TREATING PANIC DISORDERS This invention is a prophylactic ortherapeutic process for treating panic disorders in humans comprising the systemic administration of a benzodiazepine of the Formula 1 EMI1.1 in which X is selected from the group consisting of H, CH3, CH2 N CH3 2 and CH2 O R wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms,EMI1.2 orEMI1.3 wherein n is O to 16, inclusive, and m is 1 to 16, inclusive and in cluding the N oxides and pharmacologically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. Panic attacks, a spontaneous attack, thought to be a biochemical disorder of genetic origin, begins in the majority of subjects at ages 15 to 30 years. The attacks occur with no apparent reason to the subject and are accompanied by symptoms of hyperventilation, heart pounding, pain in head, numbness or tingling of the limbs, hot and cold flushes, lump in throat, and the like. The attacks continue to occur and can lead the subject to become house bound. Various treatments have been prescribed, including hypnosis and behavior therapies and chemotherapy, particulary the administration of imipramine hydrochloride or phenalzine sulfate. The latter although somewhat effective have undesirable side effects, chiordiazepoxide and diazepam have been tried but found not effective to block the panic attack. The compounds of Formula I have been indicated for the management of anxiety disorders.DETAILED DESCRIPTION The compounds of the Formula I can be prepared by methods disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,987,052, issued October 19, 1976 U.S. Patent 4,116,956, issued September 26, 1978 U.S. Patent 4,250,094, issuedFebruary 10, 1981 U.S. Patent 3,987,052, issued October 19, 1976, andBelgium Patent 782,680 or French Patent 7215118 and as disclosed hereafter. The oxidation of a compound of the Formula I normally follows a 2 step process with the formation of an oxazirino structure. The 5 N oxides of a compound of the Formula I can also be made by reacting a 2methoxy 5 phenyl 7 chloro 3H 1,4 benzodiazepine 4oxide with acethydrazide. This reaction can be carried out in a solvent inert to the reaction such as a lower alkanol of boiling range of about 1000 C or above, especially 1 butanol or 1 pentanol. It is convenient to reflux the reaction mixture, and a convenient reaction temperature is in the range of 100 1400 C. Under these conditions, the reaction time will be from 12 to 48 hours. The peracid oxidation method described above for producing the 5 N oxides of a compound of the Formula I produces an intermediate oxazirino compound as described above, and this latter compound can be further rearranged to the desired 5 N oxide by heating in an appropriate solvent inert to the reaction and capable of being sustained in liquid form at normal pressures at temperatures of 150 200 C. Suitable reaction solvents are the liquid paraffinic hydrocarbons of 10 18 carbon atoms or other solvent hydrocarbons boiling above about 1500 C such as mesitylene. The reaction is conveniently carried out under reflux for 10 minutes to 1 hour. Acid addition salts of compounds of the Formula I can be prepared by neutralization of the free base with the appropriate amount of an inorganic or organic acid, examples of which are hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric, acetic, lactic, benzoic, sali cyclic, glycolic, succinic, tartaric, maleic, malic, pamoic, cyclohexanesulfamic, citric and methanesulfonic acids, and like acids. The neutralization can be carried out by a variety of procedures known to the art to be generally useful for the preparation of amine acid addition salts. The choice of the most suitable procedure will depend on a variety of factors including convenience of operation, economic consideration, and particularly the solubility characteristics of the particular free base, the acid, and the acid addition salt.If the acid is soluble in water, the free base can be dissolved in water containing an equivalent amount of the acid, and thereafter, the water can be removed by evaporation in some instances, the salt precipitates from the aqueous solution, particularly when cooled, and evaporation is not necessary. If the acid is soluble in a relatively nonpolar solvent, for example, dimethyl ether or diisopropyl ether, separate solutions of acid and free base in such a solvent can be mixed in equivalent amounts, whereupon the acid addition salt will usually precipitate because of its relatively low solubility in the nonpolar solvent. Alternatively, the free base can be mixed with an equivalent amount of the acid in the presence of a solvent of moderate polarity, for example, a lower alkanol, a lower alkanone, or a loweralkyl ester of a lower alkanoic acid.Examples of these solvents are ethanol, acetone, and ethyl acetate, respectively. Subsequent admixture of the resulting solution of acid adddition salt with a solvent of relatively low polarity, for example, dimethyl ether or hexane, will usually cause precipitation of the acid addition salt. These acid addition salts are useful for upgrading the free bases. The compositions of the present invention are presented for administration to humans in unit dosage forms, such as tablets, capsules, pills, powders, granules, sterile parenteral solutions or suspensions, and oral solutions or suspensions, and oil in water and water in oil emulsions containing suitable quantities of the compound of Formula I. For oral administration either solid or fluid unit dosage forms can be prepared. For preparing solid compositions such as tablets, the compound of Formula I is mixed with conventional ingredients such as talc, magnesium stearate, dicalcium phosphate, magnesium aluminum silicate, calcium sulfate, starch, lactose, acacia, methylcellulose, and functionally similar materials as pharmaceutical diluents or car riers. Wafers are prepared in the same manner as tablets, differing only in shape and the inclusion of sucrose or other sweetener and flavor. In their simplest embodiment, capsules, like tablets, are prepared by mixing the compound with an inert pharmaceutical diluent and filling the mixture into a hard gelatin capsule of appropriate size.Soft gelatin capsules are prepared by machine encapsulation of a slurry of the compound with an acceptable vegetable oil, light liquid petrolatum or other inert oil. Fluid unit dosage forms for oral administration such as syrups, elixirs, and suspensions can be prepared. The water soluble forms can be dissolved in an aqueous vehicle together with sugar, aromatic flavoring agents and preservatives to form a syrup. An elixir is prepared by using a hydro alcoholic ethanol vehicle with suitable sweeteners such as sugar and saccharin, together with an aromatic flavoring agent. Suspensions can be prepared with a syrup vehicle with the aid of a suspending agent such as acacia, tragacanth, methylcellulose and the like. For parenteral administration, fluid unit dosage forms are prepared utilizing the compound and a sterile vehicle, water being preferred. The compound, depending on the vehicle and concentration used, can be either suspended or dissolved in the vehicle. In preparing solutions the compound can be dissolved in water for injection and filter sterilized before filling into a suitable vial or ampul and sealing. Advantageously, adjuvants such as a local anesthetic, preservative and buffering agents can be dissolved in the vehicle. To enhance the stability, the composition can be frozen after filling into the vial and the water removed under vacuum. The dry lyophilized powder is then sealed in the vial and an accompanying vial of water for injection is supplied to reconstitute the liquid prior to use. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in substantially the same manner except that the compound is suspended in the vehicle instead of being dissolved and sterilization cannot be accomplished by filtration. The compound can be sterilized by exposure to ethylene oxide before sus pending in the sterile vehicle. Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate uniform distribution of the compound. The term unit dosage form as used in the specification and claims refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages for human subjects and animals, each unit containing a predetermined quantity of a active material calculated to prevent panic atacks or treat panic disorders in association with the required pharmaceutical diluent, carrier or vehicle. The specifications for the novel unit dosage forms of this invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the active material and the particular effect to be achieved, and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active material for use in humans and animals, as disclosed in detail in this specification, these being features of the present invention.Examples of suitable unit dosage forms in accord with this invention are tablets, capsules, pills, suppositories, powder packets, granules, wafers, cachets, teaspoonfuls, tablespoonfuls, dropperfuls, ampuls, vials, segregated multiples of any of the foregoing, and other forms as herein described. The dosage of the compound for treatment depends on route of administration the age, weight, and condition of the patient and the particular compound. When X is H or CH3 a dosage dosage schedule of from about 1 to 10 mg day in a single or divided dose, embraces the effective range for treating panic disorders for which the compositions are effective.The dosage to be administered is calculated on the basis of from about 0.01 to about 0.4 mg kg by weight of subject per day. When X is CW N C 2 a dosage schedule of from about 5 to 50 mg day in a single or divided dose, embraces the effective range for treating panic disorders for which the compositions are effective.The dosage to be administered is calculated on the basis of from about 0.05 to about 2 mg kg by weight of subject per day. When X is CH2 O R a dosage schedule of from about 2 to 20 mg in a single dose, embraces the effective range for treating panic disorders for which the compositions are effective. The dosage to be administered is calculated on the basis of from about 0.02 to about 0.8 mg kg by weight of subject. The compound is compounded with a suitable pharmaceutical carrier in unit dosage form for convenient and effective administration. In the preferred embodiments of this invention, the dosage units contain the compound in 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5, 10, 20 and 50 mg amounts for systemic treatment and 0.1 to 1 w v for parenteral treatment. The compositions are useful in preventing and treating panic attacks in adults age fifteen years or more . Adults susceptible to panic attacks, agaraphobia, and phobic anxiety can be treated. The following examples are illustrative of the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out his invention and are not to be construed as limiting.Example 1 A lot of 10,000 tablets, each containing 0.5 mg of 8 chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine is prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chl oro 6 phenyl 4H s tri azol o t4X3 a ls43benzodiazepine 1 Gm Dicalcium phosphate 1,500 Gm Methyl cellulose, U.S.P. 15 cps. 60 Gm Talc 150 Gm Corn Starch 200 Gm Calcium stearate 12 Gm The compound and dicalcium phosphate are mixed well, granulated with 7.5 percent solution of methylcellulose in water, passed through a No. 8 screen and dried carefully. The dried granules are passed through a No. 12 screen, mixed thoroughly with the talc, starch and stearate, and compressed into tablets. These tablets are useful in preventing panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet 4 times a day.Example 2 One thousand two piece hard gelatin capsules, each containing 0.5 mg of 8 chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 alC1,4Jbenzodiazepine are prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chl oro 6 phenyl 4H s tri azol o 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 0.5 Gm Talc 25 Gm Magnesium stearate 250 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and filled into capsules of the proper size. Capsules so prepared are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one capsule four times a day.Example 3 One thousand tablets for sublinqual use are prepared from the following ingredients 8 Choro 6 phenyl4H s triazolo L4,3 a 1,4 benzodlazepine 1 Gm Polyethylene glycol 4,000, powdered 150 Gm Polyethylene glycol 6,000, powdered 75 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and compressed into sublingualtype tablets weighing 226 mg. These tablets placed under the tongue are useful in treating panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet.Example 4 Soft gelatin capsules for oral use, each containing 10 mg of 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a3 1,4Jbenzodiazepine are prepared by first dispersing the micronized compound in corn oil to render the material capsulatable and then encapsulating in the usual manner. One capsule taken daily is useful to prevent panic attacks.Example 5 One thousand tablets, each containing 5 mg. of 8 chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine are made from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 5 Gm Lactose 355 Gm Microcrystalline cellulose NF 120 Gm Starch 16 Gm Magnesium stearate powder 4 Gm The ingredients are screened and blended together and pressed into 500 mg tablets. The tablets are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one tablet twice a day.Example 6 A sterile preparation suitable for intramuscular injection and containing 1 mg of 8 chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4benzo diazepine in each milliliter is prepared from the following ingredients 8 Chloro 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo C4,3 alC1,43benzodiazepine 1 Gm Benzyl benzoate 200 ml Methyl paraben 1.5 Gm Propyl paraben 0.5 Gm Cottonseed oil, q.s. 1,000 ml One milliliter of this sterile preparation is injected to treat panic attack.Example 7 A lot of 10,000 tablets, each containing 5 mg of 8 chloro 1 r dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate is prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 1 dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s tri azolo 4,3 a 1,43benzodiazepine methanesulfonate 10 Gm Dicalcium phosphate 1,500 Gm Methylcellulose, U.S.P. 15 cps. 60 Gm Talc 150 Gm Corn Starch 200 Gm Calcium stearate 12 Gm The compound and dicalcium phosphate are mixed well, granulated with 7.5 percent solution of methylcellulose in water, passed through a No. 8 screen and dried carefully. The dried granules are passed through a No. 12 screen, mixed thoroughly with the talc, starch and stearate, and compressed into tablets. These tablets are useful in preventing panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet 4 times a day.Example 8 One thousand two piece hard gelatin capsules, each containing 10 mg of 8 chloro l dimethylamino methyll 6 phenyl 4H s triazolor493 a 1,4 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate are prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 chl oro 1 dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a3 1,47 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate 10 Gm Talc 25 Gm Magnesium stearate 250 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and filled into capsules of the proper size. Capsules so prepared are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one capsule four times a day. Example 9 One thousand tablets for sublinqual use are prepared from the following ingredients 8 chloro 1 5 dimethylamino methyl3 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a3 1,41 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate 1 Gm Polyethylene glycol 4,000, powdered 150 Gm Polyethylene glycol 6,000, powdered 75 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and compressed into sublingualtype tablets weighing 245 mg. These tablets placed under the tongue are useful in treating panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet.Example 10 Soft gelatin capsules for oral use, each containing 20 mg of 8 chloro 1 dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate are prepared by first dispersing the micronized compound in corn oil to render the material capsulatable and then encapsulating in the usual manner. One capsule taken daily is useful to prevent panic attacks.Example 11 One thousand tablets, each containing 50 mg. of 8 chloro 1 r di methylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4ubenzodiazepine methanesulfonate are made from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 chloro 1 dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate 50 Gm Lactose 355 Gm Microcrystalline cellulose NF 120 Gm Starch 16 Gm Magnesium stearate powder 4 Gm The ingredients are screened and blended together and pressed into 500 mg tablets. The tablets are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one tablet twice a day.Example 12 A sterile preparation suitable for intramuscular injection and containing 10 mg of 8 chloro 1 dimethylamino methyll 6 phenyl tH s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate in each milliliter is prepared from the following ingredients 8 chloro 1 dimethylamino methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazoloC4,3 alC1,41 benzodiazepine methanesulfonate 10 Gm Benzyl benzoate 200 ml Methyl paraben 1.5 Gm Propyl paraben 0.5 Gm Cottonseed oil, q.s. 1,000 ml One milliliter of this sterile preparation is injected to treat panic attack.Example 13 A lot of 10,000 tablets, each containing 0.5 mg of 8 chloro 1methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine is prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chl oro lmethyl 6 phenyl 4H s tri azol o C4,3 alC1,4lbenrodiazepine 1 Gm Di cal ci um phosphate 1,500 Gm Methylcellulose, U.S.P. 15 cps. 60 Gm Talc 150 Gm Corn Starch 200 Gm Calcium stearate 12 Gm The compound and dicalcium phosphate are mixed well, granulated with 7.5 percent solution of methylcellulose in water, passed through a No. 8 screen and dried carefully. The dried granules are passed through a No. 12 screen, mixed thoroughly with the talc, starch and stearate, and compressed into tablets. These tablets are useful in preventing panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet 4 times a day.Example 14 One thousand two piece hard gelatin capsules, each containing 0.5 mg of 8 chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 alE1,4ubenzodiaze pine are prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 0.5 Gm Talc 25 Gm Magnesium stearate 250 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and filled into capsules of the proper size. Capsules so prepared are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one capsule four times a day.Example 15 One thousand tablets for sublinqual use are prepared from the following ingredients 8 Choro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 1 Gm Polyethylene glycol 4,000, powdered 150 Gm Polyethylene glycol 6,000, powdered 75 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and compressed into sublingualtype tablets weighing 226 mg. These tablets placed under the tongue are useful in treating panic attacks at a dose of 1 tablet.Example 16 Soft gelatin capsules for oral use, each containing 10 mg of 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a E1,4 benzodiazepine are prepared by first dispersing the micronized compound in corn oil to render the material capsulatable and then encapsulating in the usual manner. One capsule taken daily is useful to prevent panic attacks.Example 17 One thousand tablets, each containing 5 mg. of 8 chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine are made from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 5 Gm Lactose 355 Gm Microcrystalline cellulose NF 120 Gm Starch 16 Gm Magnesium stearate powder 4 Gm The ingredients are screened and blended together and pressed into 500 mg tablets. The tablets are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one tablet twice a day.Example 18 A sterile preparation suitable for intramuscular injection and containing 1 mg of 8 chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a E1,4 benzodiazepine in each milliliter is prepared from the following ingredients 8 Chloro 1 methyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo E4,3 a 1,4 benzodlazeplne 1 Gm Benzyl benzoate 200 ml Methyl paraben 1.5 Gm Propyl paraben 0.5 Gm Cottonseed oil, q.s. 1,000 ml One milliliter of this sterile preparation is injected to treat panic attack.Example 19 A lot of 10,000 tablets, each containing 0.5 mg of 8 chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazoloE4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine is prepared from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s trnazoloL4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 5 Gm Dicalcium phosphate 1,500 Gm Methylcellulose, U.S.P. 15 cps. 60 Gm Talc 150 Gm Corn Starch 200 Gm Calcium stearate 12 Gm The compound and dicalcium phosphate are mixed well, granulated with 7.5 percent solution of methylcellulose in water, passed through a No. 8 screen and dried carefully. The dried granules are passed through a No. 12 screen, mixed thoroughly with the talc, starch and stearate, and compressed into tablets. These tablets are useful in preventing panic attacks at a dose of 4 tablets 4 times a day.Example 20 One thousand two piece hard gelatin capsules, each containing 2 mg of 8 chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 ben zodiazepine are prepared from the following types and amounts of in ingredients 8 Chl oro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 2. Gm Talc 25 Gm Lactose 250 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and filled into capsules of the proper size. Capsules so prepared are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one capsule four times a day.Example 21 One thousand tablets for sublingual use are prepared from the following ingredients 8 Chl oro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine 5 Gm Polyethylene glycol 4,000, powdered 150 Gm Polyethylene glycol 6,000, powdered 75 Gm The ingredients are mixed well and compresed into sublingual type tablets weighing 230 mg. These tablets placed under the tongue are useful in treating panic attacks at a dose of one tablet.Example 22 Soft gelatin capsules for oral use, each containing 10 mg of 8 chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiaze pine are prepared by first dispersing the micronized compound in corn oil to render the material capsulatable and then encapsulating in the usual manner. One capsule taken daily is useful to prevent panic attacks.Example 23 One thousand tablets, each containing 10 mg of 8 chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine are made from the following types and amounts of ingredients 8 Chloro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,43benzodiazepine 10 Gm Lactose 355 Gm Microcrystalline cellulose NF 120 Gm Starch 16 Gm Magnesium stearate powder 4 Gm The ingredients are screened and blended together and pressed into 500 mg tablets. The tablets are useful to prevent panic attacks at a dose of one tablet twice a day.Example 24 A sterile preparation suitable for intramuscular injection and containing 2 mg of 8 chl oro l hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triazolo 4,3 a 1,4 benzodiazepine in each milliliter is prepared from the following ingredients 8 Chi oro 1 hydroxymethyl 6 phenyl 4H s triatoloC4,3 alC1,43benzodiazepine 2 Gm Benzyl benzoate 200 ml Methyl paraben 1.5 Gm Propyl paraben 0.5 Gm Cottonseed oil, q.s. 1,000 ml One milliliter of this sterile preparation is injected to treat panic attacks. Example 25 Following the procedure of the preceding Examples 19 through 24, inclusive, compositions are similarly prepared and administered substituting an equal amount of the 1 methyl, ethyl or propyl ether, the 1 acetate, propionate or hemisuccinate ester of the anti compound of the examples.Example 26 Following the procedures of the preceding Examples 1 through 25, inclusive, compositions are similarly prepared and administered substituting an equal amount of the N oxide or hydrochloride salt of the active compound of the examples.