# Alpha pyridonecarboxylamino alpha substituted acetamido penicillins and cephalosporins, process for their preparation, their use in pharmaceuticals pyridones used in the process.

## Abstract
alpha Pyridonecarbonylamino alpha substituted acetamido penicillins and cephalosporins, process for their preparation, their use in pharmaceuticals and pyridones used in the process. The compounds are of formula I CHEM in which X is CHEM The pyridines of formulas IV and VI are also described CHEM p

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Compounds of formula IEMI37.1 in which R1 is hydrogen orEMI37.2 R2 is phenyl, 4 hydroxyphenyl or 1,4 cyclo hexadien l yl,R3 is lower alkyl, unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted by alkoxy allyl cyclohexyl cyclopropylmethyl or benzyl or phenyl, such benzyl or phenyl being unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted in the phenyl ring by lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower alkoxycarbonyl, cyano, tri fluoromethyl, chlorine or bromine, is hydrocn, cyano lower alkyl or hydroxy, R5 is hydrogen, chlorine or bromine, and X is a group of formula lia or IIb,EMI38.1 IIa IIb in which R6 is hydrogen or acetoxy, and pharmsceutically acceptable salts of compounds of formula I, in which R1 is hydrogen. 2. The compound of Claim 1, which is 6 alpha l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridonhe 3 carboxylamino p hydroxyphenylacetamido penicillanic acid, ar a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 3. The compound of Claim 1, which is potassium 6 ta l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carhonylanino E hydroxyphenylacetamido penicillanate. 4. A process for the production of the compound of formula I, stated in Claim 1, characterised by a reacting a compound of formula III,EMI38.2 in which R, and X are as defined in Claim 1, and R1 is hydrogen,EMI39.1 or a carboxylic acid protecting group removable under mild conditions, with a carboxylic acid of formula IV,EMI39.2 in which R3, R4 and R5 are as defined in Claim l, or a reactive derivative thereof, and, where R1 signifies a carboxylic acid protecting group, removing this under mild conditions, or b reacting a compound of formula V,EMI39.3 in which R1 and X are as defined above, with a carboxylic acid of formula VI,EMI39.4 in which R2, R3, R, and R5 are as defined in Claim 1, or a reactive derivative thereof, and, where R1 signifies a carboxylic acid protecting group, removing this under mild conditions. 5. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of the compound of Claim 1, in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. 6. Compounds of formula IV, stated in Claim 4. 7. Compounds of formula VI, stated in Claim 4.

## Description
IMPROVEt5ENTS IN OR RELATING TO ORGANIC COMPOUNDS This invention relates to novel penicillins and cephalosporins. More particularly, this invention provides compounds of formula I,EMI1.1 in which R1 is hydrogen orEMI1.2 R2 is phenyl, 4 hydrophenyl or 1,4 cyclo hexadien l yl,R3 is lower alkyl, unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted by alkoxy allyl cyclohexyl cyclopropylmethyl or benzyl or phenyl, such benzyl or phenyl being unsubstituted or mono or poly substituted in the phenyl ring by lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower alkoxycarbonyl, cyano, tri fluoromethyl, chlorine or bromine, R4 is hydrogen, cyano, lower alkyl or hydroxy, R5 is hydrogen, chlorine or bromine, and X, is a group of formula IIa or lib, EMI2.1 IIa IIb in which R6 is hydrogen or acetoxy, and salts of compounds of formula I, in which R1 is hydrogen. The invention also provides processes for the production of compounds of formula I, comprising a reacting a compound of formula III,EMI2.2 in which R2 and X are as defined above, andR1 is hydrogen,EMI2.3 or a carboxylic acid protecting group removable under mild conditions, with a carboxylic acid of formula IV, EMI3.1 in which R3, R and R5 are as defined above, or a reactive derivative thereof, and, where R signifies a carboxylic acid protecting group, removing this under mild conditions, or b reacting a compound of formula V,EMI3.2 in which Rj and X are as defined above, with a carboxylic acid of formula VI,EMI3.3 in which R2, R3, R4 and R5 are as defined above, or a reactive derivative thereof, and, where R signifies a carboxylic acid protecting group, removing this under mild conditions. Processes a and b may be carried out in similar and conventional manner. For example, the compound of formula TV or VI, or a reactive derivative thereof, e.g. an acid halide, acid anhydride or ester thereof, may be dissolved or suspended in an inert solvent, for example a cyclic ether, such as tetrahydrofuran, or a chlorinated hydrocarbon, such as chloroform or methylene chloride, and fixed with a solution of a compound of formula tII or V in the same solvent. Where the compound of formula IV or VI is employed in free acid form, a condensation agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or carbonyldiiinidazole, is suitably added to the reaction mixture.The reaction mixture is then suitably stirred at a temperature of, for example, 300C to 300C. Suitable carboxylic acid protecting groups R are well known in the penicillin cephalosporin field and include benzhydryl and triali ylsilyl groups. Such protecting groups may be removed in conventional manner. The resulting compounds of formula I may be isolated and purified using conventional techniques. Salt forms of thp compounds of formula I, in which R1 is hydrogen, may be produced either by employing the starting material of formula IV or VI on the corresponding salt form or by converting a resulting compound of formula I, in whichR1 is hydrogen, in conventional manner to the salt forms.Suitable salt forms include alkali metal salts, in particular potassium salts. The compounds of formula IV are also new and may for example, be produced by e obtaining a compound of formula IVa,EMI5.1 in which R3 and R5 are as defined above, and R is hydrogon or lower alkyl, by reacting a compound of formula VII,EMI5.2 in which R4 and R5 are as defined above, with a compound of formula VIII, R3 NH2 VIII in which R3 is as defined above, or d obtaining a compound of formula IVb,EMI5.3 in which R3 and R5 are as defined abive, desuiphurating a compound of formula IX,EMI6.1 in which R3 and R5 are as defined above. These processes may be carried out in conventional manner, the desulphuration in process d for example being cffectcd with e.g. Raney Nickel. Other methods of producing compounds of formula IV arc also illustrated in the examples hereinafter, in particular various ir.terconver sion methods. The compounds of formula VI are also new and may for example be produced by reacting a compound of formulaIV or a reactive derivative thereof, with a compound of formula X,EMI6.2 in which R2 is as defined above, in the form, for example, of its triethylammonium salt. This process is suitably effected in an inert solvent, such as chlorinated hydrocarbon, e.g. methylene chloride or chloroform, or dimethylformamide. When the compound of formula IV is employed in free acid form, a condensation agent, e.g. dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, is suitably employed. The resulting compounds of formula IV and VI may be isolated and purified in ccnvcr.tional manner. Where required, reactive derivatives thereof may be produced in conventional manner from the free acids. The compounds of formula XI, employed as starting materials in process d may be produced by reacting1 in conventional manner, a compound of formula XI,EMI7.1 in which R5 is as defined above, and R6 and R7 are each lower alkyl, with an isothiocyanate of formula XII, R3 N C S XII in which R3 is as defined above. The compounds of formula I are useful as pharmaceuticals. In particular, they are useful as antimicrobial agents, more particularly as anti bacterial antibiotics, as indicated in vitro in the series dilution test at concentrations of, for example, 0.1 to 50 pg ml, and in vivo in standard tests in mice at a dosage of, for example 30 to 150 mg kg of animal body weight, against a variety OL bacterial strains, for example Strept. pyogenes, E. coli,Proteus vulgaris, mrabilis and morganii, Shigella flexneri, Serratia marSescens, Neissaeria subflava, Salmonella,Pasteurella multocida, Haemophilus influenzae, llaemophilus sp., Clostridium perfringens, Bacteroides fragilis and melaninogenicus, Fusobacterium fusiforme and Sphaerophorus necrophorus. An indicated suitable total daily dosage is from 1 to 10 g, suitably administered in divided doses of from 0.25 to 5 g, two to four times daily, or in retard form. The compounds may be admixed with conventional pharmaceutically,acceptable diluents or carriers and, optionally, other excipients, and administered in such forms as capsules, or injectable or drop preparations. The compounds of formula I, in which R1 is hydrogen may be employed in free acid form or in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable salts, which salt forms have the same order of activity as the free acid forms. Suitable salts include alkali metal, e.g. potassium, salts. The compounds of formula I fall into two broad classes, namely penicillins X is Ila and cephalosporins X is IIb of which the penicillins are preferred. In the cephalosporins R6 may be hydrogen. Alternatively, it may be acetoxy. R1 may be hydrogen alternatively it may be pivaloyloxymethyl. R2 may be phenyl. Alternatively, it may be 1,4 cyclohexadien l yl. Preferably, it is p hydroxy phenyl. R4 may be hydrogen. Alternatively it may be lower alkyl. Finally, it may be hydroxy. R5 is suitably hydrogen.Alternatively, it may be chlorine or, preferably, bromine. R3 can be lower alkyl. This can be unsubstituted.Alternatively, it can be mono or poly e.g. di substituted by alkoxy, in particular lower alkoxy, e.g. 2,2diethoxyethyl. R3 can also be allyl cyclohexyl or cyclopropylmethyl. It may also be phenyl or benzyl. These may be unsubstituted or they may be mono or poly e.g.di or tri substituted by lower alkyl, lower alkoxycarbonyl, cyano, trifluoromethyl, chlorine or bromine, in particular by lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or halogen, e.g.chlorine, more particularly mono substituted by chlorine or methyl. R3 is preferably ethyl, benzyl or allyl The term lower used herein in connection with alkyl and alkoxy groups means containing 1 to 4, preferably 1 to 2 carbon atoms. The following Examples illustrate the invention, all temperatures being in degrees Centigrade. EXAMPLE 1 Pivaloyloxymethyl 6 alpha 1 ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenylacetamido penicillanate A suspension of 1.8 g of l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxyli.c acid in 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran is mixed, under argon, at 0 with 1.4 ml of triethylamine 1.08 g of ethyl chloroformate in 10 ml of tertahydrofuran are added, dropwise, the reaction mixture is stirred or 1 hour at 0 and the resulting precipitate is filtered off.5 g of pivampicillin hydrochloride are dissolved in 103 ml of water, 0.84 g of sodium bicarbonate are added and the mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium chloride, evaporated in vacuo, taken up in 25 ml of tetrahydrofuran and slowly added, dropwise, to the filtrate obtained above. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 hour at room temperature, evaporated in vacuo, and the residue taken up in chloroform. The mixture is washed with water, then with 0.42 g of sodium bicarbonate in 70 ml of water, again with water and then with 5 ml of 1N hydrogen chloride in 100 ml of water and finally again with water. The chloroform phase is dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo.The residue is taken up in 10 ml of ethyl acetate and the product is crystallised by seeding, filtered and dried in vacuo. M.r. 2030 decomp. . EXAMPLE 2 Potassium 6 alpha 1 ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenylacetamido penicillanate A suspension of 0.36 g of l ethyl 6 nethyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in 10 ml of chloroform is mixed, under argon, at 0 with 0.28 ml of triethylamine. 0.2 ml of ethyl chloroformate in 2 ml of chloroform are slowly added1 dropwise, and the reaction mixture is stirred at 0 for 1 hour. 0.81 g of ampicillin trihydrate are stirred in 15 ml of chloroform at room temperature with 0.6 g of magnesium sulphate and 0.42 ml of triethylamine for 1 hour.After filtration of the magnesium sulphate, the filtrate is slowly added, dropwise, at 200 to the above solution and, after addition, the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture is evaporated in vacuo, and the residue is taken up in 15 ml of water and 0.16 g of sodium bicarbonate and then shaken with chloroform. the aqueous phase is saturated with sodium chloride, acidified with IN hydrochloric acid to pH 1.5, and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform phase is dried and evaporated in vacuo, triturated with ether, filtered and dried. The resulting precipitate is suspended in 20 ml of water, dissolved by addition of 0.19 g of potassium bicarbonate and freeze dried. M.p. 2072090 decomp. . EXAMPLE 3 Potassium 6 alpha 1 ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenyl acetamino penicillanate A suspension of 0.36 g of l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in 10 ml of ethanol 3 chloroform is mixed, under argon at 0 with 0.28 ml of triethylamine. 0.2 ml of ethyl chloroformate in 2 ml of chloroform are added, dropwise, slowly and the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 hour at 00. O .81 g of ampicillin trihydrate are suspended in 3 ml of water and 2 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide, 0.17 g of sodium bicarbonate, and 20 mg of benzyltriethylammonium chloride are added successively.The 2 solutions obtained above are mixed and stirred at room temperature overnight. The aqueous phase is acidified to pH 2 with IN hydrochloric acidr saturated with sodium chloride and extracted with chloroform. After drying and evaporation in vacuo, the residue is rubbed with ether, filtered and dried. The precipitate is suspended in 10 ml of water, dissolved by addition of 0.13 g of potassium bicarbonate and freeze dried. M.p. 207 209 decomp. . EXAMPLE 4 Pivaloyloxymethyl 6 alpha l alkyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenyl acetamido penicillar.ate In manner analogous to Example 1 and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equixtalent amounts, the heading compound, m.p. 99 101 , may be obtained.EXAMPLE 5 6 alpha l alkyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonyl amino phenyl acetamido penicillanic acid 0.39 g of l allyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in 10 ml of ethanol free dichloromethane are converted in manner analogous to that in Example 3, at 0 to the mixed anhydride. 0.81 g of ampicillin trihydrate in converted, in manner analogous to that in Example 2, into water free form and added slowly, dropwise, at 20 to the above solution. After a reaction time of 5 hours at room temperature and working up in accordance to the procedure described in Example 2, the heading compound, m.p. 2360 decomp. is obtained in the form of its potassium salt. EXAMPLE 6 Pivaloyloxymethyl 6 alpha 1 ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenyl acetamido penicillanate 1 g of pivampicillin hydrochloride in 15 ml of dichloromethane is converted in ethyl acetate into the base form as described in Example 1. A suspension of 0.37 g of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in 7 ml of dichloromethane is mixed, under argon, at 0 with 0.28 ml of triethylamine. The mixture is thcn mixed, drop wise, with 0.147 ml of thionyl chloride in 2 ml of dichloromethane. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes.This suspension and a solution of 0.42 ml of triethylamine in 5 ml of dichloromethane are simultaneously added at 20 to the above obtained pivampicillin solution, dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred overnight at 200, taken up in chloroform after careful evaporation and washed successively with water, 0.084g of sodium bicarbonate in 20 ml of water, water, 1 ml of 1N hydrochloric acid in 20 ml of water and again with water. The chloroform phase is dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated in vacuo. The residue is rubbed with ether, filtered and dried in vacuo. M.p. 126 1280. EXAMPLE 7 Potassium 6 alpha l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenyl acetamido penicillanate 0.81 mg of ampicillin trihydrate in dichioromethane are dehydrated in analogous manner to Example 2 and mixed simultaneously with 0.42 ml of triethylamine and a solution of the acid chloride of 0.37 g of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid obtained in accordance withExample 6 ,dropwise, at 300. The reaction mixture is stirred overnight at 20e and stirred for a further 30 minutes at room temperature. After evaporation of the organic phase. The residue is carefully mixed with 10 ml of 0.5 N hydrochloric acid pH 1.5 and the resulting precipitate is filtered, washed with water and dried. 0.66 g of the precipitate are suspended in 20 ml of water, dissolved by addition of 130 mg of potassium bicarbonate and freeze dried. M.p. 2750 decomp. .EXAMPLE 8 7 alpha l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonyl amino0 phenylacetarnido3 ccphalosporanic acid A suspension of 1.8 g of l ethyl 6 tr.ethyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran is mixed, under argon, at 0 with 1.4 ml of triethylamine.0.95 ml of ethyl chloroformate in 10 ml of tetrahydrofuran are slowly added, dropwise, and the reaction mixture is stirred for 1 hour at 00. After filtration of the precipitate, 4.39 g of 7 aminocephalosporanic acid benzhydryl ester in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran are added, at 0 , to the filtrate, dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred for one and half hours at room temperature, evaporated in vacuo, and worked,up as described in Example 6. The residue is rubbed with ether, filtered and dried. A 1 1 mixture of the ê and3 cephem compounds is obtained.The mixture is separated by column chromatography eluant acetonitrile carrier silica gel, Merck Type 7734 , to obtain the benzhydryl ester of the heading compound, m.p. 142 146 1.35 g of this benzhydryl cster.are dissolved in 9 ml of anisoleand added, dropwise, under argon, and with ice cooling, to 8 ml of trifluoroacetic acid. After addition, the mixture is stirred at 0 for 1 hour. The reaction mixture is worked up by repeated evaporation with benzene and chloroform, and the residue is rubbed with ether, filtered and dried in vacuo. M.p. 132 144 .EXAMPLE 9 Potassium 6 alpha l benzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenylacetamido penicillanate The heading compound m.p. 255265c decomp. may be obtained in manner analogous to that of Example 5 employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts. EXAMPLE 10 6 alpha l 2,2 diethoxyethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenylacetamido penicillanic acid The heading compound, m.p. 1880, may be obtained in manner analogous Example 5, employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts. EXAMPLE 11 Potassium 6 alpha l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino p hydroxyphenylacetamido penicillanate 7 ml of triethylamine are added to a suspension of 9.3 g of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid in dry dichloromethane, and the mixture is stirred for 15 minutes at room temperature to obtain a clear solution.3.7 ml of thionyl chloride in 20 ml of dry dichloromethane are added at 0 , dropwise, and the mixture is stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. To a suspension of 20.8 g of amoxycillin trihydrate in 500 ml of dry dichloromethane are added, at 00, successively, 100 ml of dry hexarethyl phosphoric acid triamide, 14 ml of dry triethylamine, and 50 g of molecular sieve 3A.After stirring for 3 hours at room temperature, the practically clear solution is filtered and washed with 50 ml of dry dichioromethane. To this solution, are added, dropwise, at 30 and with stirring, simul taneously, the above prepared solution of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid chloride and a solution of 10.5 ml of dry triethylamine in 100 ml of dry dichloromethane. After the addition, the cooling bath is removed and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours.The mixture is then concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the residue is taken up in 100 ml of ice water. After add ition of 5 g of sodium bicarbonate, the mixture is extracted once with 60 ml of chloroform, the aqueous phase is freed of solvent on a rotary evaporator and acidified with 1N hydrochloric acid, with ice cooling and thorough stirring, to pH 2.5.The precipitate is filtered off, washed with water and dried over phosphorous pentoxide in vacuo, for 30 hours at 30 . For further purification, the residue is dissolved in 100 ml of water and 3.6 g of potassium bicarbonate, extracted 5 times with chloroform and the aqueous phase, after removal of residual solvent, is acidified with 1N hydrochloric acid to pls 2.5. 14 g of the resulting free acid form of the title compound is dissolved in a solution of 2.38 g of potassium bicarbonate in 100 ml of water0 the solution is filtered and the filtrate lyophilised. For purification, the potassium salt is washed 5 times with dichloromethane to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 250 decomp. . EXAMPLE 12 7 D alpha l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino phenylacetamido cephalosporanic acid potassium salt 4.23 g of cephaloglycin monehydrate are suspended in 100 ml of dichloromethane in the presence of 5A molecular sieve. 2.8 ml of triethylamine are added and the mixture is stirred for 60 minutes at rcom temperaturc. The molecular sieve is separated off and the filtrate is employed as solution A. 1.81 g of l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid is suspended in 35 ml of dichloromethane, mixed with 1.4 ml of triethylamine, cooled to 0 and mixed, dropwise, with a solution of 0.96 ml of ethyl chloroformate in 4 ml of dichlorcrr.ethane. After 60 minutes at 00, this reaction mixture is employed as solution B. Soluticn A is cooled to 200 and solution B is added, dropwise, thereto. After 12 hours at 200 and 2 hours at 00,. the solvent is evaporated off in vacuo and the residue is taken up in 100 ml of water.The aqueous solution is shaken with the sane volure of diethylether, separated from somewhat insoluble material and the pH thereof is adjusted to pH 1.5 with 6, hydrochloric acid, whereby the title compound precipitates out in free acid form. The precipitate is filtered off, washed well with water and dried in vacuo at room temperature.M.p. 162 . For preparation of the potassium salt, the free acid is mixed with an equivalent quantity of bicarbonate in water and the mixture lyophilised. In manner analogous to the appropriate precedingExamples, employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the compounds elucidated in the following Tables I to V may be obtained. Table IEMI21.1 EMI21.2 tb SEP Ex. SEP R3 SEP R SEP R4 SEP M.P. tb SEP 4 tb SEP 13 SEP C2 SEP 5 SEP OH SEP Br SEP 245 tb SEP 14 SEP n C SEP 4119 SEP Cl13 SEP , SEP 215 230 tb SEP 15 SEP 6 SEP 5 SEP 011 SEP H SEP 2700 SEP cieco tpj tb SEP 16 SEP C6H5 SEP Cull SEP 3 SEP II SEP 212 2150 tb 17 SEP o SEP Cue13 SEP Cull3 SEP 11 SEP 222 2400 tb SEP 18 SEP rC SEP o SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 193 SEP dc corlp. SEP tb SEP 19 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 229 232 tb SEP 20 SEP CH2 C SEP H5 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 228 233 tb EMI22.1 tb Ex. SEP SEP Rss SEP RA SEP R5 tb SEP 3. SEP I SEP . SEP I tb 21 SEP CW1 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 205 2080 tb SEP H3 tb 22 SEP CH2 SEP SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 220 225 tb SEP ocli3 tb 23 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP CN SEP H SEP 218.2220 tb 24 SEP CH2.CH CH2 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 221 224 tb EMI22.2 EMI22.3 tb Ex. SEP R, SEP R SEP R, SEP M.P. tb SEP 4 tb SEP OC2H tb SEP CH2 CH SEP CH3 SEP H SEP from SEP 1100 SEP decomp. tb SEP 25 tb 26 SEP CH2. SEP 6N5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 1200 SEP decomp. tb 27 SEP C6135 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 121 123 SEP decomp. tb 28 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 117 11t tb Table IIIEMI23.1 EMI23.2 tb SEP Ex. SEP R3 SEP 4 SEP R5 SEP M.P. tb SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 29 SEP C2H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2250 SEP decotnp. tb SEP 30 SEP CH2.CHSCH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2200 SEP decomp. tb SEP OC SEP Hr tb SEP 31 SEP C2 SEP CH SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2100 SEP decomp. tb SEP OC2H5 tb SEP 32 SEP C112. SEP C6H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2100 SEP decomp. tb SEP 6 SEP decornp. tb SEP 33 SEP C6115 SEP C133 SEP H tb 34 SEP 5 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 228 2300 tb SEP 35 SEP o SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 225 SEP decomp. tb EMI24.1 tb SEP Ex. SEP SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP M.P. tb SEP 36 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 230 234 tb 37 SEP CZ2 SEP 4 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 228 234 tb SEP CHZ SEP CH3 SEP 1 tb SEP 38 SEP CH2 SEP O SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 225 228 tb SEP I tb SEP 39 SEP CH, SEP . SEP CH SEP CH SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 238 242 tb SEP 40 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP 1 SEP 206 2096 tb Table IVEMI24.2 EMI24.3 tb SEP I tb Ex. SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP M.P. tb 41 SEP C2H5 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 227 230 tb 42 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 226 2280 tb 43 SEP CH29 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 214 217 tb SEP OCH3 tb EMI25.1 tb Ex. SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP I SEP M.P. tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb 44 SEP CH2 SEP 4 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 213 217 tb SEP SOCH3 tb 45 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP CN SEP H SEP 223 226 tb 46 SEP CH2.CH CH2 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP 225 2320 tb 47 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP H SEP H SEP 220 2240 tb 48 SEP n C4fl9 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 212 2170 tb SEP 49 SEP C2H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 2260 tb 50 SEP CH2.CH CH2 SEP Cli3 SEP H SEP 206 2080 tb 51 SEP CH2.C6H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 209 211 tb 52 SEP C6H5 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 219 222 tb 53 SEP G SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 219 221 tb 54 SEP CH2 C6H5 SEP OH SEP H SEP 2600 SEP decomp. tb 55 SEP w SEP C1 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 162 1750 SEP decomp. tb 56 SEP C2H5 SEP OH SEP H SEP 2400 SEP decomp. tb 57 SEP C2H5 SEP OH SEP Br SEP 3000 tb 58 SEP CH2 C6H5 SEP OH SEP 1 SEP H SEP 2620 SEP decotnp. tb Table VEMI26.1 EMI26.2 tb Ex. SEP R1 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP R6 SEP M.P. tb 59 SEP K SEP C2H5 SEP OH SEP H SEP H SEP 246 decomp. tb 60 SEP K SEP CH2.CH CH2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP O.CO.CH3 SEP 170 tb 61 SEP K SEP C2H5 SEP OH SEP H SEP O.CO.CH3 SEP 250 decomp. tb EXAMPLE 61a Pivalovloxvr.ethvl 6 alpha l allyl 6 methyl 4 pyridon 3 carbonylamino p hydroxyphenyl acetamino penicillanate The above product, m.p. 129 to 1310, may be obtained in manner analogous to the preceding Examples using appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts. EXAMPL 62 Pptassium 6 alpha l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino p hydroxyphenylacetamido penicillanate 3.3 g of a l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonylamino 4 hyroxyphenylacetic acid are dissolved in 200 ml of dichloromethane and 3 ml of triethylamine and the mixture is cooled to 300. After additicn of 1.34 ml of isobutyl chioroformate the m ture is stirred for 1 hour at 30 . Finally a solution of S trireth,lsilyl 6 aminopenicillanic acid trimethylsilyl ester prepared from 2.1 g of 6 APA and 6 g of N,O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide in 100 ml of dichloromethane is added, dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred for 3 hours at 15 and for 1 hour at room temperature. The solvent is removed, the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and mixed with 80 ml of semi concentrated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is acidified to pH 2 with dilute hydrochloric acid. The precipitate is filtered off, washed with water and dried to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 2250 decomp. . The following Examples illustrate the production of starting materials of formula IV a l Ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1,81 g of 3 dimethylaminomethylene 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone are dissolved in 2 ml of water and mixed with 4.5 ml of 7O aqueous ethylamine solution. The mixture is held at room temperature for 15 minutes and refluxed for 15 minutes. After cooling, the mixture is evaporated to dryness, the residue is taken up in a little water, and brought to pH 5 with glacial acetic acid, whereby the heading compound crystallises out. The crystals are filtered off and recrystallised from water. M.p. 183 185 .b l Allyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid In manner analogous to Example a above, and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the heading compound, m.p. 115 117 from water may be obtained. c l Benzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1.81 g of 3 dimethylaminomethylene 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyron are dissolved in 2m1 of water. 2.78 g of benzylamine are added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. The mixture is then refluxed for 1 1 2 hours. After evaporation to dryness, the residue is taken up in a little water, acidified with glacial acetic acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate phase is shaken with sodium bicarbonate solution and the aqueous phase acidified to pH 3.5. The resulting precipitate is taken up in ethyl acetate, the organic phase dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue is rubbed with diisopropylether to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 148 150 .d l 2 Die hoxy cthvl 6 meths 4 pvritone 3 carboxylic acid In manner analogous to Example c and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the heading compound, m.p. 900, may be obtained.e l Ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid To a suspension of 114.5 g of sodium hydride 80 in oil in 3 litres of ether are added, dropwise, with stirring, 687 g of acetone dicarboxylic acid diethyl ester.After standing overnight, 200 ml of ethyl isothyocyanate are added over a period of 1 hour and the mixture is then boiled for 2 hours. The mixture is cooled, extracted with 600 ml of water and the aqueous phase is acidified to pH 1 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. Extraction with ethyl acetate yields, after evaporation of the solvent, l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 1H oxo 2 mercaptopyridine 3 carboxylic acid m.p. 100T1050 126 g of this product are dissolved in 1 litre of 1N caustic soda and the mixture is heated to boiling. To the boiling solution are added, over a period of 2 hours, six 25 g portions of Raney Nickel. The mixture is filtered, concentrated to a volume of approximately 500 ml and acidified, under ice cooling, to pH 1 with concentrated hydrochloric acid.The resulting precipitate of the heading compound is filtered off, washed and dried, m.p. 250 255 .f 6 Hydroxy l phenyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid. In manner analogous to Example e and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the heading compound, m.p. 250 , may be obtained.g l Ethyl 5 bromo 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1 mM of l ethyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester is dissolved in 30 ml cf dry dichloromethane, mixed with 1.1 mM of N brornosuccinimide and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The solution is shaken with watery sodium bicarbonate and water, dried with magnesium sulphate at room temperature and rotary evapor ated. The residue is mixed with 50 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide and stirred at room termperature for 12 hours. The mixture is acidified, filtered and dried in vacuc at 500, tp obtain the heading compound, m.p. 181 184 . In manner analogous to Example g and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the following compounds h to j may be obtained.h l Benzyl 5 bromo 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid M.p. 228 232 . i 5 Bromo 1 2 methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid M.p. 257 2600. j l Allyl 5 bromo 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid M.p. 147 150 . k l Benzyl 6 cyano 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1 ni of l benzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid is stirred with 1.1 t of Meerwein salt triethyloxoniumtetrafluoroborate in dichloromethane for 12 hours at room temperature. The solution is carefully shaken with sodium bicarbonate, washed with water and dried over magnesium sulphate. Rotary evaporation of the solvent yields 1 benzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester. 1 mM of this ester in 20 ml of dry dioxane is mixed with 1.3 mM of selenium dioxide and held at 80 for 12 hours with stirriny.After cooling, the solvent is removed by rotary evaporation, the residue is taken up in 50 ml of methanol, 2 spatula tips of active charcoal are added, and the mixture ifi boiled for 5 minutes. The solution is filtered and evaporated. The residue is taken up in 10 ml of ethanol and slowly added, dropwise, to a solution of 5 mM of hydroxylamine and 30 ml of water. The solution is stirred overnight, filtered, taken up in 50 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The solution is carefully filtered, acidified to pH 3 with 2N hydrochloric acid, filtered, dried and crystallised from ethyl acetate methanol. 1 X of the resulting oxime m.p. 238 240 is mixed with 10 ml of acetic anhydride and warmed for 1 hour at 1400. All volatile components are removed by rotary evaporation, and the residue is recrystallised from toluene, to obtain l benzyl 6 cyano 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid, m.p. 198 200 . l l Benzyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1 mM of product k above is stirred for 12 hours in 30 ml of 1N NaOH at 40 . The solution is carefully filtered, acidified with 2N hydrochloric acid and filtered. 1 mM of the residue m.p. 202 2060 3,6 dicarboxylic acid is warmed to 190 for 10 minutes whereupon gas bubbles appear.Cooling and crystallisation from toluene yields the heading compound, m.p. 150 1520.m l Benzyl 6 hydrcx 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 1.05 g of 4,6 dihydroxypyridine 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester are heated, under argon, with 13.1 g of dibcnzylphosphite for 6 hours at 1500. The reaction mixture is then divided between water and ethyl acetate, the organic phase is washed with sodium bicarbonate and dried with magnesium sulphate. After evaporation of the solvent, l benzyl 4 hydroxy 6 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid ethyl ester m.p. 1180 remains. 2 g of this product are dissolved in 20 ml of methanol and the resulting mixture is mixed with a solution of 1.6 g of sodium hydroxide in 20 ml of water. The mixture is allowed to stand for 22 hours at room temperature, and evaporated in vacuo.The residue is taken up in water, extracted with ether, and the aqueous phase is acidified to pH i with 6N hydo chloric acid. The precipitate is collected on a suction filter, washed free of hydrochloric acid and dried, to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 2350. n l Ethyl 5 bromo 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 350 mg of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 car boxylic acid ethyl ester in 20 ml of chloroform are mixed at room temperature with 265 my of N bromosuccinimide.The mixture is evaporated in vacuo and the residue divided between aqueous sodium bicarbonate and dichloromethyl.The organic phase is evaporated, and the residue dissolved in methanol. A 2 molar excess of sodium hydroxide is added and the mixture is evaporated in vacuo for 24 hours.The residue is taken up in water and the p11 of the mixture is adjusted to pH 1 with 6N tiCl to obtain the heading compound as a crystallised precipitate, m.p. 2600.o 6 Methyl l 4 methylphenyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid 5.4 g of Dimethylaminomethylene 4 oxo 6 methyl 2 pyrone and 3.2 g of p toluidine are stirred in 80 ml of dry ethanol for 2 hours at room temperature. 30 ml of 2N sodium. ethoxide in ethanol are added and the mixture is heated to boiling for 6 hours. After ccoling to room temperature, the solvent is removed, the residue is dissolved in 50 ml of ice water and the pli of the mixture is adjusted to 1 with concentrated sulphuric acid. The resulting precipitate is filtered, washed with water and dried to obtain the heading compound, m.p. 209 211 . In manner analogous to Example n and employing appropriate starting materials in approximately equivalent amounts, the following compounds may be obtained p to s p l 2 Methoxybenzyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid H.p. 168 172 . q l n Butyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone carboxylic acid M.p. 130 136 .r 6 Methyl l phenyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid M.p. 209 211 .s l 4 Chlorophenyl 6 methyl 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid M.p. 262.2650. The following Example illustrates the production of a starting material of formula VI s D N l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carbonyl 4 hydroxyphenylglyciae 0.37 g of l ethyl 6 hydroxy 4 pyridone 3 carboxylic acid are dissolved in 15 ml of dichloronethane and 0.28 g of trimethylamine, and the resulting solution mixed at 0 with 0.15 ml of thionyl chloride in 3 ml of dichlorornethane. The resulting mixture is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and then added, dropwise, at 10 , to a solution of 0.33 g of 4 hydroxyphenylglycine in 15 ml of chloroform and 2,4 ml of N,0 bis trimethylsilylacetamide. After 3 hours at 0 , 0 84 ml of triethylamino and, 15.minutes after, a solution of 0.16 g of sodium bicarbonate in 15 ml of water are added. The aqueous phase is separated and acidified to pH 1 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The supernatant liquor is decanted off and the residual oil is crystallised from ether to obtain the heading compound as light yellow crystals, m.p. 166 168 .