# Hinged lid container.

## Abstract
A container comprises a body 14 and a lid 12 attached to the body by snap or press fit connections 20,42 , the lid including an integral hinge 18 to allow the container to be opened and closed.

## Claims
Claims 1. A container comprising a body 14 114 , a lid 12 112 attached to the body, and a hinge 18 118 permitting selective operation of the lid to cover and uncover a surface of the body, characterised in that the hinge 18 118 is formed integrally with the lid and comprises a lid portion of reduced thickness extending across at least a portion of said lid, and the lid is attached to the body by means 20,42 120,142 arranged to position the lid in registry with said surface of the body. 2. A container as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hinge 18 118 extends in a straight line. 3. A container according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the lid includes a planar surface 16 116 and the hinge extends across said planar surface. 4. A container as claimed in claim 3, wherein said portion of reduced thickness is located inwardly from said planar surface i6 116 . 5. A container as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein said planar surface 16 116 of said lid 12 112 is the exterior surface of said lid. 6. A container as claimed in claim 5, wherein said body surface is planar and an inner surface of said lid opposite to said exterior planar surface is also planar. 7. A container as claimed in claim 6, wherein said opposed planar lid surfaces are parallel. 8. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the reduction of thickness is provided by a V shaped recess in the lid. 9. A container as clsimed in any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein the reduction in thickness is provided by a V shaped recess in the lid, and the sides 58,60 of said V shaped recess form equal angles with said planar surface and permit said hinge to bend through 900. 10. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein said body surface 40 140 has a compartment 34,36 134,136 formed therein. it. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the attachment means is located on one side of the hinge, a catch tab 26 is integral with said lid on the other side of said hinge, and a recess 52 152 is provided in said body, said catch tab being releasably engageable in said recess to hold the lid in the position covering said body surface. 12. A container as claimed in claim 11, wherein said tab includes a protrusion 29 which cooperates with the recess to provide a snap engagement between the lid and body. 13. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said attachment means includes at least one tab 20 120 extending from said lid, and at least one recess 42 142 in said body 14 114 having an offset portion 50 for engaging said tab to retain said tab therein. 14. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said attachment means includes a post 58 180 extending from said lid 12 , and a socket 60 182 in said body, said post engaging in said socket with a press fit and forming a substantially irreversible connection therewith. 15. A container as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the body comprises a main part 114 including said body surface, and a base 160 positioned on the side of said main part remote from said lid 112 , and said attachment means attaches said lid to said base. 16. A container as claimed in claim 15, wherein said main body part it4 is constructed of a material selected from the group of materials including plastic, glass, metal, wood and electroplated elements. 17. A container as claimed in claim 15 or 16, wherein the fit between said main body part 114 and said base 160 and lid 112 is of wide dimensional tolerance. 18. A container as claimed in any one of claims i to 17, wherein at least one additional lid 88 94 is attached to said body and is selectively operable to cover and uncover an additional body surface, each said additional lid being positioned for registry with a respective additional body surface.

## Description
ItINGED L1D COt TAINER This invention relates generally to a hinged lid container and more particularly to a hinged lid container wherein the hinge is formed in a planar surface of a plastic lid and connection to a container body is accomplished without use of hardware. Containers, for example, cosmetic compacts, which use pin hinges or snap hinges for the covers are expensive to produce bqth in tooling and in production.Precise tolerances are generally required which limits the materials for the container, the shape of the finished products and the methods of manufacturing. Materials which do not readily.conform to close tolerances, for example, wood, glass and extruded products are costly to use and accordingly by passe in designing such articles. Pin hinges on lids and snap hinges require time consuming effort for assembly and alignment. What is needed is a hinged lid container which is inexpensive to produce and assemble and can be made with relatively low precision without marring the appearance or performance of the finished product. According to the present invention there is provided a container comprising a body, a lid attached to the body, and a hinge permitting selective operation of the lid to cover and uncover a surface of the body, characterised in that the hinge is formed integrally with the lid and comprises a lid portion of reduced thickness extending across at least a portion of said lid, and the lid is attached to the body by means arranged to position the lid in registry with said surface of the body. The container of the invention can be manufactured to low tolerances and from inexpensive materials.The lid, conveniently made of plastics, may be readily connected to the body without use of hardware. An integral lid catch using no hardware can be provided to retain the lid in a closed position on the body. The lid can be recessed into the body to eliminate gaps due to lid warpage. The container body may be of unitary construction or may comprise a main part including the surface to be covered by the lid and a base positioned on the side of the main part remote from the lid. In this case the lid can be attached to the base. Although the container requires little precision in manufacture it can maintain an attractive appearance. The invention accordingly comprises the features of construction combinations of elements, and arrangement of parts which will be exemplified in the constructions hereinafter set forth, and the scope of the invention will be indicated in the claims. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS For a fuller understanding of the invention, reference is had to the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an exploded top perspective view of a hinged lid and container body in accordance with this invention Fig. 2 is a top perspective view of the lid and body of Fig. 1 in an assembled condition Fig. 3 is a partial sectional view in elevation taken along the line 3 3 of Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a partial sectional view in elevation taken along the line 4 4 of Fig. 2 Fig. 5 is a partial sectional view of an alternative embodiment of hinged lid and container body in accordance with this invention Fig. 6 is a top persepective exploded view of a three piece container using the hinged lid in accordance with this invention Fig. 7 is top view to a smaller scale of the container of Fig. 6 Fig. 8 is partial sectional view in elevation taken along the line 8 8 of Fig. 7 Fig. 9 is partial sectional view in elevation of a connection of container base to container lid in accordance with this invention and Figs. 10 13 are top views of multi lidded containers in accordance with this invention. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED ENBODIMENTS With reference to the figures 1 4, a hinged lid container 10 in accordance with this invention includes a hinged lid 12 and container body 14. The hinged lid 12 is comprised of a planar lid 16 having a hinge 18 extending laterally between the sides of the lid 12. Three hooked shaped, tabs 20 two tabs not shown extend transversely from the planar surface at the sides and center of the rear plate 22 of the planar lid 16 As best seen in Fig. 3, the hook portion at the lower end of the tab 20 is an , extension beyond the rear plate 22 of the planar lid 16. The hinged lid 12 also includes a catch 24 having a tab 26 which is a central extension of the planar lid 16.As best seen in Fig.4 a snap 28 is a rounded frontwardly extending protrusion 29 on a tapered flange 30 extending downward fran the front edge 32 of the lid 16. The container body 14 is rectilinear in shape..and has, for the sake of an example, two interior compartments 34,36 suitable for holding materials, for example, in a small size the compartment 34 may hold cosmetics while the compartment 36 holds a brush applicator for use with the cosmetic product. The body 14 has a rectilinear frame type border 38 which has a planar upper surface and a height t which represents the full depth of the body 14. A second planar surface 40 is recessed below the frame border 38 by an amount 25 t as best seen in Fig. 4. Recesses 42 are formed into the second planar surface 40 adjacent to the border 38. Each recess 42 has a perpendicular rear surface 44 and sloping surface 46 such that the recess 42 becomes narrower toward the base 48 of the body 14.The rear wall 44 of the recess 42 has an offset perpendicular surface 50 proximate the base 48 and the portion of the forward recess surface 46 opposing the offset surface 50 is perpendicular to the base 48. Accordingly, when the hooked shaped tabs 20 of the hinged lid 12 are inserted into the recesses 42, the hooked ends are wedged between the offset surface 50 in the recess and the perpendicular portion at the bottom of the surface 46. Sloping surfaces 45 of the tabs 20 and recesses 42 are in registr whereby the lid 12, once having its tabs 20 fully inserted in the recesses 42 is not readily removeable. A recess 52 is provided in the second planar surface 40 adjacent the border 38 at the front of the body 14 to receive therein the snap 28 with the rounded protrusion 29 of the catch tab 26. As seen in Fig. 4, the tab 26 engages only the forward surface 54 of the recess 52 which is contoured to mate with the forward surface of the tab 26. The hinged lid 12 is made of semi rigid material whereby, when a force is applied in the direction indicated by the arrow 56, the rounded protrusion 29 of the tab 26readily slides around the contours of the forward surface 54 of the recess 52. Thus, the catch is simply disengaged from the body 14. The broken lines of Fig. 2 indicate the hinged lid container 10 in accordance with this invention in an open condition. The base 48 of the container body 14 is continuous such that the compartments 34, 36 include bottoms and the two pieces, namely, the hinged lid 12 and container body 14 comprise the entire construction. The body 14 is fabricated of rigid material,for example, plastic, glass, metal, wood and electroplated materials formed by any of a variety of methods. For example, the body 14 can be formed by injection molding, extrusion, machining, casting and pressing. Relatively inexpensive tooling is. need br production. The hinged lid 12 is made of plastic which is semi rigid but is relatively bendable at the hinge 18 which is in the form of a V groove substantially reducing the thickness of the planar cover 16 at the line of bending.The intersecting surfaces 58,60 of the hinge groove meet at right angles such that the lid can be raised to a substantially perpendicular position relative to the body 14. As stated above, the broken lines of Fig. 2 show the lid in an open condition as indicated with the reference numeral 161. The hinge 18, known in the art as a living hinge, has a long life under repeated bending. Polypropylene is a material which has given good results in fabricating a lid 12 including a living hinge 18. It will be apparent that it is not necessary to have a separated surface 40 recessed by a distance bt from the planar border 38. Further, the planar lid 16 may have rectilinear dimensions similar to the body whereby the border38 is not visible in a top view. In an alternative embodiment, the tabs 20 can extend along the entire rear plate220f the hinged lid 12 and the central recess 42 may be elongated proportionately. Fig. 5 shows can alternative attachment for the hinged lid 12 to the body 14. Circular pins 58 integral with the hinged lid 12 extend into mating holes 60 in the container body 14 with a force fit such that the lid 12 is joined to the body 14 and cannot be removed except by the application of a force greater than that usually applied in use of the container. The rounded pins 58 may be solid or hollow a hollow pin is illustrated in Fig. 5. In the embodiments of Figs. 1 4 and Fig. 5, the hinged lid 12 and the container body 14 are each integral components requiring no hardware or sub assembly, although it should be readily understood, that these parts may also be fabricated from a plurality of components. However, the economy of production is reduced by such manufacturing techniques. The assembled hinged lid container 10 requires no hardware to produce a functioning entity. Fig. 6 illustrates a three component hinged lid container 100 in accordance with this invention. In this exemplary embodiment, a hinged lid 112 is similar to the lid 12 of Fig. 1 and includes a living hinge 118 and a plurality of tabs 120 for engagement in body recesses 142.The lid 116 is planar with the hinge 118 cut into the planar upper surface. A catch 124 has the same construction as the cat 24 of. Fig. 1 and engages a tab recess 152 in the body 114 as in the previously described embodiments. The container body 114 includes a border 138 and second planar surface 140 recessed by a distance A t. A pair of interior compartments 134, 136 are provided for receiving the contents of the container therein. However, contrary to the body 14 ofFig. 1, the compartments 134, 136 of the embodiments of fig. 6 have no closed bottom surfaces. In a top view Fig. 7 the containers of Figs. 1 and 6 appear to be indentical. However, a bottom for the compartments 134, 136 is provided by a base 160 which has a generally planar bottom piece 162 and narrow rectilinear frames 163, 164 elevated above the bottom piece 162 and integral therewith.The external dimensions of the frames 163, 164 correspond to the internal dimensions of the compartments 134, 136 respectively. Thus, as described more fully hereinafter, when the container body 114 rests upon the base 160, the frames 163, 164 register with the compartment openings 134, 136 and enter therein. Hollow posts 166 extend from the bottom piece 162 and engage holes 170 in the bottom surface 172 of the container body 114 with a press fit. Thus, a firm integral construction is formed of the two components. qs seen in Figs. 6 and. ..7, posts 166 are located at the four corners of the base 160.In other respects the embodiment of Figs. 6 8 are similar to the embodiment of Figs. 1 5. As stated above, the hinged lid engages in the recesses 142 in the. container body 114. However, as illustrated in Fig. 9, the hinged lid 112 can be joined to the base 160 rather than to the container body 114. A hollow post 180 on the hinged lid 112 is press fitted into a hollow receiver 182 raised above the bottom surface 172 of the base 160. The container body 114 is sandwiched between the hinged lid 112 and the base 160. Such a construction is especially suitable when the body 114 is fabricated of materials or by methods which result in a low tolerance fit. For example, plastic, glass, metal, wood and electroplated materials may be used, formed a by any of a variety of methods such as injection molding, extrusion, machining, casting and pressing.Thus, relatively inexpensive tooling is needed for production of the body 114 havingwide dimensional tolerances. It should be noted in Fig. 9 that an offset between the base surface 172 and body 114 adjacent to the connection between the lid 112 and base 160 assures proper positioning of the container body 114. A hooked tab construction as shown in Fig. 3 can also be used in an assembly similar to Fig. 9 wherein the tab 20 on the lid engages in a recess formed in the base 160 similar to the recess 42 of Fig. 3. Figs. 10 13 show hinged lid containers 84, 85, 86 respectively having a plurality of hinged lids 88 including living hinges 90 and catch tabs 92. Fig. 10 illustrates a rectangular arrangement with side by side compartments and colinear living hinges 90. Figs. 11 and 12 illustrate parallel hinges 90 such that the lids open in opposite directions in a back to back arrangment of compartments. Fig. 13 illustrates a container having three compartments and three hinged lids 94, each lid having a living hinge 96 and a catch tab 98.The lids are arranged in a fan shaped pattern. As will be apparent from Figs. 10 13, the variety of shapes to which the hinge lid in accordance with this invention may be adapted is virtually unlimited. Regardless of shape the attachments between the lids and the bodies or the lids and the bases is as described above It should be apparent, that recessing of the surface 40 by a distance A t in Fig. 1 is not a necessary requirement of all embodiments. Thewrecess fl t does allow for some warpage in.the hinged planar lid 16 without marring the appearance of the finished product. Also, with reference to Fig. 6, it is not necessary that the base 160 include the frames 163,164 which nest within the openings of the compartment 134,136 of the body 114. However, in a multi compartmented container as illustrated, the frames 163,164 prevent crossflow of stored material between the compartments 134,136. Out leakage at the interface between the container body and base is also prevented. so prevented. It will thus be seen that the objects set forth above, among those made apparent from the preceding description, are efficiently attained and, since certain changes may be made in the above constructions without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, it is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted es illustrative and not in a limiting sense. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall therebetween.