# Polymer encapsulated dispersed solids and methods.

## Abstract
A process for preparing polymer encapsulated dispersed non monomer solids, such as, polymer encapsulated pigments. Water, a pigment, a nonionic protective colloid or stabilizing agent, and a portion of a nonionic monomer having at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety are admixed. The pigment has a minimum of surface charge. A nonionic polymerization initiator is added to the admixture and the admixture is heated to begin the polymerization of the nonionic monomer. A nonionic catalyst and the remainder of the nonionic monomer are added to the admixture. The polymerization is allowed to proceed to finality or the desired degree. A polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion is obtained.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process of preparing a uniformly polymer encapsulated dispersed solid composition comprising a admixing water, a non monomer solid in particulate form, a nonionic protective colloid or stabilizing agent, and all or a portion of a nonionic monomer having at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety, said non monomer solids having a minimum of surface charge b adding a nonionic polymerization initiator to admixture a and heating admixture a to begin the polymerization of said nonionic monomer and c adding a nonionic catalyst and any remainder of said nonionic monomer to admixture b , allowing the polymerization to proceed to finality or the desired degree, whereby a polymer encapsulated solid dispersion is obtained. 2. Process as claimed in Claim 1 wherein the remainder of said nonionic monomer is added over a period of time, said nonionic stabilizing agent is a nonionic surfactant, and said non monomer solid is a pigment. 3. Process as claimed in Claim 2 wherein there is 0.5 to 10 parts ty weight of non ionic surfactant based on the total solids, namely, monomer and non monomer solid. 4. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 3 wherein said and initiator is a tree radical initiator is present in an amount of 0.05 to 1 percent by weight, based on the total weight of the monomer and the pigment. 5. Process as claimed in Claim 4 wherein said free radical initiator is a peroxide or a redox system. 6. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 5 wherein heat is applied to help initiate and carry out the polymerization. 7. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 6 wherein the polymerization is conducted at a temperature between 250 to 3000 C. 8. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 7 wherein the ratio of non monomer solid to monomer is between 9 to 1 and 1 to 9. 9. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 8 wherein the ratio of water to total solids is between 4 to 6 and 7 to 3, the total solids being the monomer and the non monomer solid. 10. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 9 wherein the nonionic stabilizing agent is a dispersion moiety which readily copolymerizes with said nonionic monomer having at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety. 11. Process as claimed in Claim 10 wherein the dispersing monomer is N vinyl pyrrolidone or a polymer of N vinyl pyrrolidone. 12. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 9 wherein the nonionic stabilizing agent is a nonionic surfactant which has a hydrophilic portion which is attracted to the non monomer solid surface. 13. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 12 wherein said nonionic monomer is a monomer containing at least one reactive vinyl group R7R8C CR9 , reactive vinylidene group R7 R8C C and or reactive vinylene group CRlo CRll , wherein R7, R8, Rg, R10 and R11 each is a hydrogen, b alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, c alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, d alkylcarboxy having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, e aryl having 6 to 10 carbon atoms, f alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, g substituted aryl having 6 carbon atoms and being substituted with at least one halogen nitrile, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, h aralkyl wherein the alkyl has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and the aryl has 6 to 10 carbon atoms, i substituted aralkyl wherein the alkyl has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, the aryl has 6 to 10 carbon atoms and the substituents are halogen, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, nitrile and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, j substituted alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and being substituted with nitrile, halogen and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, k substituted alkylcarboxy having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and substituted with halogen and or nitrile, or 1 substituted alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and substituted with halogen and or nitrile, with the proviso that no allyl compound or l olefin, except ethylene or substituted l olefin, comes within the scope of the above formulae. 14. Process as claimed in Claim 13 wherein said nonionic monomer has one or multiple reactive unsaturated group s . 15. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 14 wherein said pigment is an organic solid, preferably an inorganic solid. 16. Process as claimed in Claim 1 to 15 wherein the admixture of step a is conducted in two steps comprising first admixing the water a non monomer solid in particulate form and a nonionic protective colloid or stabilizing agent and then admixing all or a portion of the nonionic monomer with the first admixture. 17. A solids composition as prepared by the process claimed in Claim 1 to 16. 18. A solids composition comprising non monomer insoluble solid particles uniformly coated and encapsulated with at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety, said solids composition being in effect a solids dispersion. 19. The solidus composition as claimed in Claim 18 wherein the solid is an organic solid, preferably an inorganic solid. 20. The solids composition as claimed in Claim 18 wherein a nonionic stabilizing agent or its residue preferably a nonionic surfactant, said nonionic surfactant being one which has a hydrophilic portion which is attracted to the surface of the non monomer pigment is present in said encapsulating polymer and or on the surface of said non monomer solid. 21. A coating composition comprising conventional coating ingredients and a solids composition, said pigment composition being that claimed in Claim 18.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THIS INVENTION This invention relates to solids, such as, pigments encapsulated with a polymer, and methods of preparing and using such. BROAD DESCRIPTION OF THIS INVENTION An object of this invention is to provide polymerencapsulated dispersed non monomer solids, such as, polymer encapsulated pigments. Another object of this invention is to provide a process of preparing such polymer encapsulated dispersed solids, such as, polymer encapsulated pigments. A further object of this invention is to provide uses for such polymer encapsulated dispersed solids e.g., polymer encapsulated pigments and compositions containing such polymer encapsulated dispersed solids e.g., polymer encapsulated pigments . Other objects and advantages of this invention are set out herein or are obvious herefrom to one ordinarily skilled in the art. The objects and advantages of this invention are achieved by the polymer encapsulated dispersed solids, such as, polymer encapsulated pigments, methods and products of this invention. This invention broadly involves a simple process for preparing uniformly polymer encapsulated dispersed non monomer solids. The process includes admixing water, a finely divided solid, a nonionic protective colloid or stabilizing agent, and all or a portion of a nonionic monomer having at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety in a reactor. The solid has a minimum of surface charge. A nonionic polymerization initiator is added to the admixture and the admixture is heated to begin the polymerization of the nonionic monomer. A nonionic catalyst and any remainder of the nonionic monomer is added to the admixture. The polymerization is allowed to proceed to finality or the desired degree. A high molecular weight polymer is preferred, but low molecular weight polymers can be used. A polymer encapsulated solid dispersion is obtained.The novel system of this invention, however, must be primarily nonionic. This invention involves a preferred, simple process for preparing uniformly polymer encapsulated pigments. The process includes admixing water, finely divided pigment, a nonionic protective colloid or stabili ing agent, and all or a portion of a nonionic monomer having at least one monovalent unsaturated organo moiety in a reactor. The pigment has a minimum of surface charge. A nonionic polymerization initiator is added to the admixture and the admixture is heated to begin the polymerization of the nonionic monomer. A nonionic catalyst and any remainder of the nonionic monomer is added to the admixture. The polymerization is allowed to proceed to finality or the desired degree. A high molecular weight polymer is preferred, but low molecular weight polymers can be used. A polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion is obtained.The prior art shows precipitating polymers from a solvent monomer system onto the pigment. The system must be primarily non ionic. The product might be termed plastic pigments or opaque polymers . The process of this invention for preparing the polymerencapsulated solids such as pigments of this invention involves emulsion polymerization. The process is analogous to some latex processes. Advantageously the process is simple and versatile, can use conventional latex reactors, has short reduced reaction times, and involves good heat transfer. Reaction time to a given total solids is reduced by virtue of the pre formed particle core less monomer to react . A pre dispersion step may be required for hard to disperse pigments such as some TiO2 and CaCO3 unless these can be purchased in an acceptable slurry form. Through emulsion polymerization, pigments can be microencapsulated by utilizing the following processes 1.Dispersing Monomer This process embodiment utilizes a monomer that functions as a dispersant or partial dispersant for the pigment and yet copolymerizes readily with subsequent monomer feeds. Vinyl pyrrolidone is such a monomer, but it is limited to use with pigments having hydrophilic surfaces. For example, CaCO3 and TiO2 of the type TiPure R 931 cannot readily be encapsulated with vinyl pyrrolidone as the initiating monomer. Or, in other words, certain monomers such as N vinyl pyrrolidone, vinyl acetate and butyl acrylate, serve both as the monomer forming the encapsulating polymer and as the dispersing monomer. 2. Surfactant Graft This process embodiment necessitates the use of a nonionic surfactant with a long ethylene oxide chain. Igepal CO 990 nonyl phenol lOO mols ethyleneoxide, EO functions in this respect. In this technique, the hydrophilic portion of the soap EO is apparently attracted to the pigment surface and apparently either behaves as the polymerization locus or graft occurs across the tert. hydrogen in the nonyl group. This system permits encapsulation of both hydrophilic and hydrophobic type pigments however, the particle size of the pigment to be encapsulated is generally limited to the approximate size of the EO chains. With either process embodiment, surface charge on the pigment must be minimal and inclusion of any substantial amount of anionic component surfactant, catalyst, monomeric acid, etc. in the initial stages of polymerization will substantially or totally inhibit encapsulation. Polymer control techniques, such as, staged polymerization, for example, core shell, can be used. Some of the key elements of this invention emulsion polymerization process for the preparation of the invention polymer encapsulated pigments are the use of 1 nonionic surfactants, 2 catalysts that leave a minimum of ionic residues in the polymer, and 3 the proper type of grade of pigment. Any suitable vinyl monomer can be used to form the encapsulating vinyl polymer, but preferably vinyl acetate or alkyl acrylates are used. Encapsulatidn is shown by film appearance and performance gloss, scrub, etc. , stability, behavior in the reactor absence of flocculation and incompatability with conventional paints, and through microphotographs. This invention also includes the polymer encapsulated dispersed non monomer solids and the preferred polymer encapsulated pigments. The polymer encapsulated solids or pigments of this invention are best described as a solids or pigment dispersion. A dispersion is an apparently homogeneous substance which consists of a microscopically heterogeneous mixture of two or more finely divided phases. The polymer encapsulated pigments can be formulated into paints, producing unusually good appearance properties for the paint.The unique pigment disper6ions of the invention are often more stable than the pigment scurries used in the paint industry today. The polymer encapsulated pigments are useful in the preparation of paints or other coating materials, and represent stable paint coating intermediates. The polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion is film forming dependent on the typical emulsion polymer parameters of glass transition Tg and minimum filming temperatures MFT . The films frequently show better appearance properties, such as, gloss, distinctness of image and hiding, than do conventional dispersions. In one sense, the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions can be viewed as pre paints. The polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions of this invention, as compared to prior art coatings, can provide better economics, gloss, hiding power, open time, modulus, scrub resistance, color stability and durability. The encapsulated pigments function both as binder and pigment.This invention eliminates dispersion steps and equipment in preparing paints and coatings. The polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions can be used in trade paints e.g., gloss semi gloss, exterior house paints and interior flats , pigment slurries, paper coatings, roof coatings, caulks, adhesives, industrial coatings, and textiles.In addition to paints, there are other related applications for coatings and adhesives containing such polymer encapsulated pigments. The coatings, paints, adhesives, etc., are composed of the normal non pigment components of such coatings, paints, adhesives, etc., plus the polymer encapsulated pigments of this invention. The polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions themselves are pigment slurries that can be used wherever slurries are used.There is reasonable stability at polymer contents as low as 10 percent based on the pigment taken as 100 percent. At the 9 1 pigment polymerratio using clay or calcium carbonate, one has a model for a typical coating color for paper coating applications. Encapsulated mica for example dispersions can be used in latex roof coatings to improve their resistance to water swelling and or water permeability, and in latex caulks. Latex adhesives, e.g., clay filled boxboard adhesives, can be achieved by utilizing a soft polymer encapsulation layer. Industrial coatings or baking enamels are other useful areas an oven dried sample of polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion was prepared and examined, and the visual appearance of the gloss was strikingly excellent versus typical latex enamels.Textile binding or coating systems are useful areas by analogy to the paint, adhesive and paper coatings previously cited. There are many uses for the polymer encapsulated dispersed non monomer insoluble solids of this invention. The best and preferred results have been obtained using polymer encapsulated titanium dioxide in paints and polymer encapsulated calcium carbonate in paper coatings.Normal coating grades of TiO2 are difficult to control adverse effects from organic and non uniform inorganic treatments , so untreated, pure TiO2 is preferred and cheaper. Inert pigments are preferably used, but at least some reactive pigments can be encapsulated. Basically, the titanium dioxide TiO2 is encapsulated with vinyl acetate and or acrylates with nonionic surfactants and or poly vinyl pyrrolidone or vinyl pyrrolidone monomer as stabilizers and redox catalysts. in one scheme, first there is the dispersing of the pigment, monomer, water, stabilizing agents and followed by the adding of the catalysts. So the encapsulations include polymer plus possibly catalysts and stabilizing agent or nonionic surfactant. The pigments basically should be pure pigments which have not been surface treated as the invention process may not succeed in encapsulating surface treated pigments. Also, as absorbed oxygen on the surface of the pigment particles causes some inhibition of pigment encapsulation, such condition should be avoided. Another preferred embodiment of the invention process involves the preparation of the encapsulation admixture before any nonionic polymerization initiator and nonionic catalyst have been added. First, a finely divided solid and a nonionic protective colloid or stabilizing agent plus water are admixed. Then all or a portion of a nonionic monomer is added to such admixture. Example 17 shows that a minor amount of initiator and reducer can be added to such admixture before the monomer is added. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THIS INVENTION Bomopolymers or copolymers can be used to encapsulate the pigments. The monomers used herein have at least one monovalent unsaturated organic moiety. Mixtures of monomers can be used.A preferred class of monomers is that wherein the monovalent unsaturated organo moiety is an alkylene, aralkylene or cycloalkylene moiety. Preferably the monomer contains at least one reactive vinyl group R7R8C CR9 , reactive vinylidene group R7RBC C C , and or reactive vinylene group CR10 CR11 . In such formulae, R7, R8 Rg, R10 and R11 each is a hydrogen, b alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, c alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, d alkylcarboxy having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, e aryl having 6 to 10 carbon atoms, f alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, g substituted aryl having 6 carbon atoms and being substituted with at least one halogen, nitrile, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, h aralkyl wherein the alkyl has 1 to 4 carbon atoms and the aryl has 6 to 10 carbon atoms, i substituted aralkyl wherein the alkyl has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, the aryl has 6 to 10 carbon atoms and the substituents are halogen, alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, nitrile and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, j substituted alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and being substituted with nitrile, halogen and or alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, k substituted alkylcarboxy having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and substituted with halogen and or nitrile, or 1 substituted alkoxycarbonyl having 2 to 12 carbon atoms and substituted with halogen and or nitrile, with the proviso that no allyl compound or a olefin, except ethylene, or substituted a olefin, is within the scope of such formulae. As used herein, the term vinyl monomer broadly means a monomer containing at least one of the groups vinyl, vinylidene or vinylene. Vinyl is B2C CH vinylidene is E2C C and vinylene is CBCB . Each of such terms includes substituted groups. Preferably the monovinyl monomer is a vinyl monomer having the formula B2C CH R wherein R is a hydrogen atom, a methyl group, an alkoxy group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, an alkylcarboxyl group having from 2 to 12, preferably from 2 to 10 carbon atoms, a nitrile group, a halogen atom, preferably a chlorine atom, a phenyl group or an alkoxycarbonyl group having from 2 to 12, preferably from 2 to 9 carbon atoms. A single vinyl monomer as well as mixtures of vinyl monomers, such as, vinyl chloride vinyl acetate, vinylidene chloride vinyl chloride and vinylidene chloride acrylonitrile, can be used. The monovinyl monomers include styrene O6 substituted styrene,EMI9.1 wherein R2 is alkyl and or alkoxy having 1 to 6 carbon atoms substituted styrene, i.e., EnC6H5 nCH CR2, wherein n is 1 to 5, R is chlorine, fluorine, bromine, iodine, alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, alkoxy having 1 to 6 carbon, CN or NO2 alkylacrylates wherein the alkyl has 1 to 11 carbons, preferably 1 to 6 carbons alkoxyacrylates, wherein the alkyl has 1 to 11 carbons, preferably 1 to 6 carbons alkyl methacrylates, wherein the alkyl has 1 to 10 carbons, preferably 1 to 6 carbons and alkoxy methacrylates, wherein the alkyl has 1 to 10 carbons, preferably 1 to 6 carbons. Examples of useful monovinyl monomers include vinyl halides, such as, vinyl chloride, vinyl fluoride and vinyl iodide ethylene vinyl esters of aliphatic monocarboxylic acids, such as, vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, vinyl laurate, vinyl decanate, vinyl butyrate, vinyl isobutyrate, vinyl dimethylpropionate, vinyl ethylbutyrate, vinyl valerate, vinyl caproate, vinyl methoxyacetate, vinyl butoxyacetate, vinyl phenylacetate, vinyl acetoacetate, vinyl lactate, vinyl B phenylbutyrate, vinyl cyclohexylcarboxylate, vinyl benzoate, vinyl salicylate and vinyl naphthoate vinyl ethers, such as, n butyl vinyl ether, isobutyl vinyl ether, vinyl propyl ether, vinyl 2 ethylhexyl.ether, methyl vinyl ether, butyl vinyl ether, hexyl vinyl ether, octyl vinyl ether, decyl vinyl ether, ethylhexyl vinyl ether, methoxyethyl vinyl ether, ethoxyethyl vinyl ether, l methyl 2,2 dimethylpropyl vinyl ether, 2 ethylbutyl vinyl ether vinyl alkoxyalkyl ethers vinyl haloalkyl ethers vinyl ketones, such as methyl vinyl ketone, phenyl vinyl ketone and methoxyethyl vinyl ketone styrene and styrene derivatives, such as s propylstyrene, oC ethylstyrene, methyl styrene, 2 chlorostyrene, 3 chlorostyrene, 4 chlorostyrene, 2 bromostyrene, 3 bromostyrene, 4 bromostryrene, 2 fluorostyrene, 3 fluorostyrene, 4 fluorostyrene, 4 nitrostyrene, 2 methoxystyrene, 3 methoxystyrene, 4 methoxystyrene, o methylstyrene o vinyl toluene , m methylstyrene, p methylstyrene, 2,5 difluorostyrene, 2,5 dichlorostyrene, 2,4 dimethylstyrene, 2,5 dimethylstyrene, 2,4,6 trimethylstyrene, 4 methoxy 3 methylstyrene, 4 fluoro3 trifluoromethylstyrene, 2 bromo 4 trifluoromethylstyrene, trifluorostyrene, dibromostyrene, iodostyrene, trimethylstyrene, ethylstyrene, diethylstyrene, isopropylstyrene, butylstyrene, hexylstyrene, cyclohexylstyrene, decylstyrene, benzylstyrene, chloromethylstyrene, trifluoromethylstyrene and ethoxymethyistyrene. Examples of further useful monovinyl monomers include acrylic acid esters of monohydric alkanols, such as, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, n butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, isobutyl acrylate, n propyl acrylate, isopropyl acrylate, n butyl acrylate, sec butyl acrylate, amyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate, octyl acrylate, tert octyl acrylate, 2 phenoxyethyl acrylate, 2 chloroethyl acrylate, 2 bromoethyl acrylate, 4 chlorobutyl acrylate, cyanoethyl acrylate, 2 nitroethyl acrylate, benzyl acrylate, methoxybenzyl acrylate, 2 ehloro cyclohexyl acrylate, cyclohexyl acrylate, 2 methoxyethyl acrylate, 3 methoxybutyl acrylate, 2 ethoxyethyl acrylate, 2 isopropoxyethyl acrylate, 2 butoxyethyl acrylate, 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethyl acrylate and 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethyl acrylate methacrylic acid esters of monohydric alkanols, such as, methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, phenyl methacrylate, methyl i chloroacrylate, n propyl methacrylate, isopropyl methacrylate, n butyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, sec butyl methacrylate, amyl methacrylate, hexyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, benzylmethacrylate, chlorobenzyl methacrylate, octyl methacrylate, N ethyl N phenylaminoethyl methacrylate, 2 3 phenylpropyloxy ethyl methacrylate, 2 methoxyethyl methacrylate, 3 methoxybutyl methacrylate, 2 propoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 ethoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 isopropoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 butoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethyl methacrylate, 2 2 ethoxyethoxy ethyl methacrylate and 2 2 butoxyethoxy ethyl methacrylate unsaturated nitriles, such as acrylonitrile CB2 CHCN , and methacrylonitrile and heterocyclic vinyl monomers, such as,N vinyl pyrrolidone, N vinyl carbazole, 2 vinyl Sethylpyridine, vinylpyridine 2, 3 or 4 , vinylpicoline,N vinyltriazole, N vinyl 3,5 dimethylpyrazole,N vinylcarbazole, vinylthiophene, N vinylpyrrolidone,N vinylpiperidone, N vinyl caprolactam and N vinyl 2 pyrid ine. Useful divinyl monomers include conjugated dines and substituted divinyl acryl monomers preferably p divinyl benzene . Examples of useful divinyl monomers include o , m and p divinylbenzene divinyl ether or divinyl oxide C82 CH 201 3 ,9 divinylspirobi meta dioxane divinyl sulfone CH2 CHSO2CR CB2 dienes or conjugated diolefins, such as, propadiene, 1,3 butadiene, 1,3 pentadiene cis and trans , 1,5 hexadiene, 2 methyl l,3 butadiene isoprene , and 2,3 methylbutadiene dicyclopentadiene and 2 chlorol 3 butadiene. Comonomers having three vinyl or allyl reactive moieties, such as triallyl cyanurate, diallyl fumarate and diallyl maleate, are also useful. The vinyl reactive moieties of the monomers can be substituted, but the substituents e.g., C1 should not be directly on either of the double bond carbon atoms of the vinyl group i.e., monovalent unsaturated organo group unless the substituent is alkyl or alkoxy. A pigment is a substance that imparts color, including black or white, to other materials. Pigments are generally considered to be insoluble in the medium vehicle in which they are applied. This invention does not include dyestuffs dyes , which are soluble in the medium in which they are applied. Pigments generally have the property of light refractivity, whereas dyes generally only have the property of light absorption. This invention includes inorganic pigments and organic pigments. Pigments are used as finely ground or particulated solid particles. As used herein and in the art, the term pigment includes phosphorescent, luminescent, fluorescent, metalescent and pearlescent materials. The pigment must be in particle form and should have a mean particle size between 0.1 and 100 jim and preferably between 0.2 and 50 jim. The most preferred mean particle size for organic pigments is about 0.2 m the most preferred particle size for inorganic pigments is about 2 Wm. Particle size, size distribution and shape will be dictated by the pigments of choice. This invention helps eliminate pigment aggregates or agglomerates. The color of the pigments are fully developed, and high pigment loadings can be obtained. Examples of pigments, by color, are opaque white pigments, such as, zinc white ZnO , antimony oxide Sb203 , zirconium oxide ZrO , titanium dioxide TiO2 , lithopone about 66 percent BaSO4 and about 34 percent ZnS , titanium calcium white 25 percent TiO2 and 75 percent CaSO4 , and titanium barium white 25 percent TiO2 and 75 percent BaSO4 red and orange pigments, such as, red lead Pb304 , cadmium red CdS Se , antimony vermillion Sb2S3 , vermillion HgS , chrome orange PbCrO4.Pb OH 2 , molybdate orange, Pb MoS, Cr, P O4 , cadmium red lithopone CdS Se and BaSO4 , and quinacridone red C20H1202N2 yellow pigments, such as, zinc yellow 4ZnO 4CrO3 K20.3H20 , barium yellow BaCrO , cobalt yellow COR3 NO2 6 B20 , strontium yellow SrCrO4 , Naples yellow Pb3 SbO4 2 , chrome yellow PbCrO4 , cadmium yellow CdS , massicot PbO , cadmium yellow lithophone CdS and BaSO4 , and indian yellow C19H18O11Mg 5B2O green pigments, such as, cobalt green CoO.nZnO , viridian Cr20g 2820 , phthalocyanine green, emerald green Cu C2B302 2 3Cu As02 21, chromium oxide green Cr203 , chrome green Fe4 Fe CN 6 3 andPbCrO , and verdigris Cu C2B302 i 2Cu OB 2J, malachite CuCO3.Cu OH 2 violet pigments, such as, cobalt violet Co3 PO4 2 , ultramarine violet, manganese violet NH4 2Mn2 P2O7 2 , and quinacridone violet C20H12O2N2 blue pigments, such as, Prussian blue Fe4 Fe CN 6 3 , Egyptian blue CaO CuO.4Si02 , manganese blue BaxnO and BaSO4 , cobalt blue CuO.Al2O3 , azurite 2CuCO3 Cu OE 31, cerulean blue CoO.nSnO2 , blue verditer l2CuCO3CCu OH 2 , phthalocyanine blue, and ultramine blue Na8 10Al6Si6S2 4 black pigments, such as, lamp black C , bone black C and Ca3 PO4 2i, charcoal black C , and graphite C and brown pigments, such as, sepia. A more generalized list of organic and inorganic pigments which can be used in this invention includes iron oxide red, zinc oxide, titanium dioxide, chrome yellow, carbon black, chrome orange, chrome green, zinc chromate, red lead, the lakes, azo type toners, phthalocyanines, aluminum hydrates, lakes, iron oxide, white lead, titanium containing pigments, calcium carbonate, aluminum oxide, ultraphone, lead chromate, cadmium sulfide, cadmium selenide, barium sulfate, azo pigments, anthraquinone and vat pigments, acrylamino yellow, magnesium oxide , chrome red, antimony oxide, zinc sulfide, magnesium fluoride and ground barytes. Benzoid pigments are useful and examples thereof are toners and lakes.Examples of benzoic toners are yellow tones, e.g., benoid yellows and Hansa yellow orange toners, e.g., vat orange 3 red toners, e.g., napthol reds violet toners blue toners green toners brown toners and black toners.Examples of benzoic lakes are yellow lakes, e.g., acid yellow 2 orange lakes red lakes violet lakes blue lakes, e.g., acid blue 93 green lakes brown lakes and black lakes e.g., natural black 3. Metallic pigments can be used, and an example thereof is aluminum flakes. Mixtures of pigments can be used. Note that reactive pigments such asZnO can be used. An extender is a substance, usually an inert material, which is added to paint to give it extra body, key or opacity, or to serve as an adulterating medium. The invention includes the polymer encapsulation of extenders. Examples of suitable extenders also termed inert white pigments or transparent white pigments or fillers are talc 3M90 4Si02 H20 , chalk CaC03 , barytes BaSOI , barium carbonate BaCO3 , aluminum hydrate A1 OH 3 , mica, diatomaceous earth SiO2 , aluminum stearate lAl C18H3502 3 , gypsum CaSO4.2B20 , anhydrite CaSO4 , silica quarts six2 , kaolinite Al203 25i02 2H20 and other clay and silica fillers. Mixtures of pigments and or extenders can be used. For specific pigments the advantages are a TiO2 Increased hiding power with reduced pigment level. This must occur because drying forces induce reagglomeration, loss of surface area and loss of hide. A pigment particle surrounded by a plastic barrier cannot reagglomerate. b Calcined Clays This family can be encapsulated without filling the pigment void with encapsulating polymer, so both dry and wet hide can be achieved at a fraction of the cost of prime pigments without the negatives encountered in current microvoid technology no wet hide, dirt stain pick up, gloss restrictions, etc. . c Color pigments Probably the paint chemists number one headache. Encapsulated color pigments should eliminate problems of color development, color acceptance rub up , floating, flooding, etc. The non monomer solids are those which are insoluble in the medium vehicle in which they are applied. The non monomer solids can be organic or inorganic. Water that is contained in the initial charge can readily be varied over the range of 4 6 to 7 3 water total solids ratio, wherein such total solids are equal to the monomer and the non monomer solids pigment content. The water is not a solvent in the invention as the pigment, monomer, etc., are insoluble therein. The water serves as a heat control mechanism and forms the liquid phase of an emulsion. Minor amounts up to say 10 percent of non aqueous liquids can be used in conjunction with the water. Examples of such non aqueous liquids are alcohols, such as, methanol, ethanol, n propyl alcohol, n butyl alcohol, amy alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, sec butyl alcohol, isobutyl alcohol and 4 methyl 2 pentanol ethers, such as, ethyl ether, diethyl Cellosolve and butyl ether and aldehydes, such as, benzaldehyde and furfural. The most preferred stabilizing agent or protective colloid is T Det N 1007 Thompson Hayward , a 100 mole ethoxylate of nonyl phenol. CELLOSIZE, poly vinyl pyrrolidone , and poly vinyl alcohol typically can be used either alone or in combination with the T Det N 1007. Preferred stabilizing agent concentrations are 0.5 to 4.5 parts based on the solids monomer plus pigment . With high surface area pigments, up to 10 parts based on the total solids may be required. In some cases, monomer alone is sufficiently surface active to effect dispersion of the pigment or non monomer solids and the encapsulated polymer can still maintain a stable dispersion. Examples have included vinyl acetate or N vinyl pyrrolidone V Pyrol ofGAF . The presence of anionic surfactants as a wetting or stabilizing agent is very detrimental to the stability of the dispersion. Generally, a system which effectively forms an excellent initial dispersion of the pigment is favored but several cases have been seen where dispersion seems to improve during the initial stages of polymer formation. Oligomeric forms of the polymer or its grafts are suspected of contributing to the degree of dispersion and its stabilization analogously to similar processes frequently postulated for conventional latex polymerizations. Pigment or non monomer solids to monomer ratios at 9 1 to 1 9 are preferred. Carboxylated polymer layers can be formed if comonomers, such asr acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, are added at the final stages of the process. In this case, the anionic character of such carboxylic monomers appears to be weakened by the preformation of the polymer layer. Also, anionic surfactants can be added at the completion of the encapsulation without causing destabilization of the dispersion. Polymerization temperatures over the range of 100 to 850C are preferred. A variety of latex type processes can be employed. Preferably monomer 5 to 10 percent of the total monomer is initially added, followed by a monomer feed.Other processes which can be used in this invention include 1 adiabatic systems in which all of the monomer is charged, followed by the catalyst, 2 staged fed systems or staged adiabatic systems, and 3 core shell type systems where different monomers are sequentially fed or adiabatically reacted or in which staged polymerization processes are employed. The preferred monomers include vinyl acetate, the butyl, ethyl, 2 ethylhexyl and isobutyl acrylate esters, styrene, acrylonitrile, methyl methacrylate, and vinyl pyrrolidone. The normal relationships seen in emulsion polymerization appear to prevail, e.g., styrene vinyl acetate copolymers will not form readily. Even vinyl isobutyl ether is useful in a copolymer.The principles applicable to conventional emulsion polymerization can be applied as long as care is taken to keep the system as nonionic as is reasonable in the initial steps. A pigment should have good dispersing properties and should be uniformly distributed throughout the surface regions or the entire mass to be pigmented, as desired.Since the pigment or solids is highly dispersed in a polymerencapsulated pigment or solids dispersion such behavior eliminates or minimizes the separate task of dispersion of the pigment or solids . This invention includes the use of at least one nonionic surfactant or wetting agent. Non ionic surfactants have essentially no charge when dissolved or dispersed in aqueous media. The hydrophilic tendency of nonionic surfactants is primarily due to oxygen in the molecule which hydrates by hydrogen bonding to water molecules. The strongest hydrophilic moieties in nonionic surfactants are ether linkages and hydroxyl groups, but the hydrophilic ester and amide linkages are present in many nonionic surfactants. The commercially available nonionic surfactants include ethoxylated alkylphenols, ethoxylated aliphatic alcohols, carboxylic esters, caraboxylic amides, and polyoxyalkylene oxide block copolymers such are useful within the scope of this invention. Nonionic ethoxylated allkylphenols usually are C8 to C1 members or derivatives thereof, such as, nonylphenoxypoly ethyleneoxy ethanols, dodecylphenoxypoly ethyleneoxy ethanols, and octylphenoxypoly ethyleneoxy ethanols. Examples of useful nonionic ethoxylated alkylphenols or more specifically alkylphenoxypoly ethyleneoxy ethanols, with the alkyl groups designated in some instances are Advice 50,Advawet, Agrimul 70A, Atkaflo E, Brites EOC 10 nonyl ,Carboxane DO. Carboxane NW, Conco NI 21 nonyl , Depcopal,Dergon, Dispersant NI O, Dispersant NI W, Estronon NI Conc,Examide G, Bipochem AR 100, Byonic PE 100, Iberscour w Conc, Iberwet W 100, Igepal CA 630 octyl , Igepal CA 730 octyl ,Igepal CO 210 nonyl , Igepal CO 430 nonyl , Igepal CO 530 nonyl , Igepal CO 630 nonyl , Igepal CO 710 nonyl ,Igepal CO 730 nonyl , Igepal CO 850 nonyl , Igepal CO 880 nonyl , Igepal DM 530 dialkyl , Igepal DM 730 dialkyl ,Igepal LO 430 linear alkyl , Igepal LO 520 linear alkyl ,Igepal LO 630 linear alkyl , Igepal LO 730 linear alkyl ,Polytergent B 350 nonyl , Polytergent G 300 octyl ,Polytergent G 400 octyl , Renex 648 nonyl , Renex 650 nonyl , Renex 678 nonyl , Renex 690 nonyl , RetzanolNP 40, Retzanol NP 80, Retzanol NP 120, Retzanol NP 200,Retzanol NP 500, Solar 4 Liquid Conc. nonyl , Solar 12 nonyl , Solar 53 nonyl , Solar NP 100 octyl , Solar NPLiquid Conc. nonyl , Solar NPO nonyl , Sponto 200,Standopon, Surfonic N 40 nonyl , Surfonic N 60 nonyl ,Surfonic N 95 nonyl , Surfonic N 120 nonyl , Surfonic N 200 nonyl , Surfonic N 30 nonyl , Synthonon 100 nonyl , T DETN 4 nonyl , T DET N 6 nonyl , T DET N 9.5 nonyl , T DET N 12.5 nonyl , T DET N 15 nonyl , T DET N 20 nonyl , Intexon NP 3 nonyl , Levelene nonyl , Lipal 9N nonyl ,Makon 4, Makon 10, Makon 20, Hakon 30, Neopon NP 10,Neutronyx 600 nonyl , Neutronyx 605 isooctyl , Neutronyx 622 nonyl , Neutronyx nonyl , Neutronyx 676 nonyl , NinoxBDO, Ninox BFO, Nonionic E 4 linear alkyl , Nonionic E 10 linear alkyl , Nonionic E lS linear alkyl , Nutrosan TSConc. nonyl , Polytergent B 300 nonyl , Tergitol L2 P 6 dodecyl , Tergitol 12 P 9 dodecyl , Tergitol 12 P 12 dodecyl , Tergitol NP 14 nonyl. , Tergitol NP 27 nonyl ,Tergitol NP 33 nonyl , Tertitol NP 35 nonyl Tergitol NP 44 nonyl , Triton N 57 nonyl , Triton N 101 nonyl Triton N ill nonyl , Triton X 35 octyl , Triton X 45 octyl ,Triton X 100 t octyl , Triton X 102 t octyl , Triton X 114 t octyl , Triton X 165 octyl , Triton X 205 octyl , Triton X 305 octyl , and Valdet nonyl . Examples of useful non ionic ethoxylated aliphatic alcohols, or more specifically alkylpoly ethyl eneoxy ethanols, with the alcohol designated in some instances are Alfonic 1218 60 primary, linear , Alfonic 1012 60 primary, linear , Alfonic 1014 60 primary, linear ,Alfonic 1480 60 primary, linear , Allo Scour RB, Antarox BL 330, Antarox LF 330, Arosurf JL 457 oleyl 1 ArosurfJL 758 oleyl , Azocrest, Bio Soft EA 10, Brij 30 lauryl ,Brij 35 lauryl , Brij 52 cetyl , Brij 56 cetyl , Brij 58 cetyl , Brij 72 stearyl , Brij 76 stearyl , Brij 78 stearyl , Brij 92 oleyl , Brij 96 oleyl , Brij 98 oleyl , Carboxane TW 85, Cerfak, Crestomul L, Depconol 111,Dergopen RN, Drupene VO 250, Emnon6954, Emulphogene BC 420 tridecyl , Emuiphogene BC 610 tridecyl , Emulphogene BC 840 tridecyl , Emulphor ON 870 oleyl , Lipal 30 SA stearyl , Lipal 3 TD tridecyl , Lipal 6 TD tridecyl ,Lipal 10 TD tridecyl , Neodol 23 3 C12 13 prim. lin. ,Neodol 23 6.5 C12 13 prim. lin. , Neodol 25 3 C12 15 prim. lin. , Neodol 25 7 C12 15 prim. lin. , Neodol 25 9 C12 15 prim. lin. , Neodol 25 12 C12 15 prim. lin. ,Nutrosan U 9, Plurafac A 3E, Poly Tergent J 200 tridecyl ,Poly Tergent J 500 tridecyl , Promulgen 1703, Renex 30 tridecyl , Retzanol SN, Siponic L 4 lauryl , Siponic L 12 lauryl , Siponic L 16 lauryl , Siponic L 25 lauryl ,Ethosperse LA 4 lauryl , Ethosperse LA 12 lauryl ,Ethosperse LA 23 lauryl , Ethosperse OA 9 oleyl ,Ethosperse TDA 6 tridecyl , Ethosperse TDA 12 tridedcyll, Examide DA, Foryl 100, Hyonic KO 620, Igepal A lineara alcohol Kyro EOB, Lipal 610 tridecyl , Lipal 2 CA cetyl ,Lipal 9 LA lauryl , Lipal 4 LA lauryl , Lipal 12 LA lauryl , Lipal 23 LA lauryl , Lipal 4 MA myristyl , LipalB MA myristyl , Lipal 2 OA oleyl , Lipal 5 OA oleyl ,Lipal 10 OA oleyl , Lipal 20 OA oleyl , Lipal 50 OA oleyl , Lipal 20 SA stearyl , Standamul 18, Standapon 209,Surfonic JN 70 n alkyl , Surfonic NY 30 primary linear , Surfonic NY 66 primary linear , Surfonic NY 150 primary linear , Surfonic NY 300 primary linear , Telkanite M, Tergitol 3 A 6 tridecyl , Tergitol 15 S S secondary, C1115 , Tergitol 15 S 9 secondary C1115 , Tergitol 15 5 12 secondary, C1115 , Tergitol 15 5 15 secondary, C1115 , Tergitol 45 5 9, Tergitol 44 S 10, Tergitol TWN trimethylnonyl , Triton X 67, Volpo 3 oleyl , Volpo 10 oleyl , Volpo 20 oleyl , Trycol LAL 4 lauryl , TrycolLAL 8 lauryl , Trycol LAL 12 leuryl , Trycol LAL 23 lauryl , Trycol TDA 6 tridecyl , Trycol TDA 9 tridecyl ,Trycol TDA 15 tridecyl , Tricol TDA 18 tridecyl , TricolOAL 23 oleyl , Sterox AJ 100 tridecyl , and Steros AP 100 tridecyl . The nonionic carboxylic acid ester type of surfactants are polyolsolubilized, polyoxyethyiene solubilized, or both, and are based on several different types of hydrophobes. The nonionic carboxylic acid esters include glycerol esters, polyethylene glycol ester, anhydrosorbitol esters, ethoxylated anhydrosorsitol esters, ethylene and diethylene glycol esters, propanediol esters, and ethoxylated natural fats and oils. Examples of useful nonionic glycerol esters of fatty acids are Aldo MC monococoate , Aldo ML monolaurate , Aldo MR monoricinoleate , Aldo MS, Mat. For. monostearate Arlacel 165 monostearate , Atmos 150 mono and di fatty acid , Atmul 80 mono and di fatty acid , Atmul 124 mono and di fatty acid , Atmul 500 mono and di fatty acid , Cerasynt O monostearate , Drewmulse CNO um 70 monococoate , Drewmulse GHO monooleate , Drewmulse HM 100 monostearate , Emcol MSC monostearate , Emerest 2400 monostearate , Emerest 2421 monooleate , Flexricin 13 monoricinoleate , Ballco CPH 34 N monolaurate , Calico CPH 35 N monoricinoleate , Bodag GML monolaurate , HodagGMO monooleate , Hodag GMR monoricinoleate , Hodag GMS monostearate , Kessco Ester doleate , Kessco Ester monooleate , Gesso Ester monostearate , Monoflake monostearate , Myverol Type 18 45 cottonseed, mono ,Myverol Type 18 98 safflower oil, mono , Surfactol 13 monoricinoleate ,and Uniwax GMS monostearate . The polyethylene glycol series of nonionic surfactants are the polyoxyethylene esters of fatty acids and of alicyclic carboxylic acids related to abietic acid. Examples of useful nonionic polyethylene glycol esters fatty acids, rosin and tall oil with the degree of esterification and the acid designated are Aldosperse HL 14 mono, lauric ,Aldosperse 0 9 mono, oleic , Aldosperse S 9 mono, stearic , Aldosperse S 40 mono, stearic , Arosurf GFL 418 mono, lauric , Arosurf HFL 714 mono, lauric , Arosurf HES 546 mono, stearic , Arosurf HFS 846 mono, stearic ,Arosurf BFT 453 mono, tall oil , Carboxane 863 mono, fatty , Emcol B 31A mono, oleic , Emerest 2620 mono, lauric , Emerest 2622 di, lauric , Emerest 2640 mono, stearic , Emerest 2642 di, stearic , Emerest 2646 mono, oleic , Emerest 2650 mono, lauric , Emerest 2652 di, lauric , Emerest 2660 mono, oleic 1 Emulphor VN 430 mono, fatty , Emulsynt 600 di, oleic , Estex P4 0 mono, oleic ,Estex P4 S mono, stearic , Estex SE 750 mono, lauric ,Kessco Ester mono, lauric , Xessco Ester di, oleic , KesscoEster mono, oleic , Kessco Ester di, stearic , Kessco mono, stearic , Kessco Ester mono, lauric , Lipal 300 DL di, lauric , Lipal 400 DS di, stearic , LiFal 3005 mono stearic , Horosol 120 nono, stearic , Morosol 3F mono, oleic , Morosol 3F mono, oleic , Morosol 4L mono, lauric ,Myrj 45 mono, stearic , Myrij 52 mono, stearic , Neutronyx 268 di, stearic , Neutronyx 330 mono, soybean , Neutronyx 332 mono, stearic , Neutronyx 834 mono, oleic , Nonisol 100 mono, lauric , Nonisol 200 mono, oleic Nonisol 300 mono, stearic , Nopalcol 6 L mono, lauric , Nopalcol 6 0 mono, oleic , Ethofat C IS mono, coconut , Ethofat C 25 mono, coconut , Ethofat 142 20 mono, tall oil , Ethofat 242 25 mono, tall oil , Ethofat 0 15 mono, oleic , Ethofat 0 20 mono, oleic , Ethofat 60 15 mono, stearic , Ethofat 60 20 mono, stearic , Ethofat 60 25 mono, stearic , Bodag 20 L mono, lauric , Hodag 40 L mono, lauric , Bodag 40 0 mono, oleic , Hodag 40 S mono, stearic , Hodag 40 R mono, ricinoleic , Hodag 42 L di, lauric , Hodag 42 S di, stearic , Hodag 60 L mono, lauric , Bodag 60 S mono, stearic , Bodag 62 0 di, oleic , Hodag 62 S di, stearic , Hooag 150 S mono, stearic , Hodag 150 0 di, oleic , KeriponNC mono, fatty , Kessco Ester mono, lauric , Kessco Ester di, lauric 1 Pegosperse 400 DL di, lauric , Pegosperse 400 DO di, oleic , Pegosperse 400 DS di, stearic ,Pegosperse 400 MOT mono, tallic , Pegosperse 200 nL mono, lauric , Pegosperse 100 MR mono, ricinoleic , Pegosperse 100 MS mono, stearic , Pegosperse 100 0 mono, oleic ,Renex 20 mono, fatty and rosin , RJT Base mono, fatty ,Soltex 3835 mono, fatty , Stearox CD mono, tall oil ,Surfactant AR150 mono, rosin , Teox mono, tall oil TrydetSA B mono, stearic , Trydet 20 mono, tall oil , Varconic O 510 mono, oleic , and ViscoL 1117 mono, stearic .Commercial polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters are mixtures that contain various proportions of the following components monoesters, RCOO OCH2CH2 nOH diesters, RCOO OCH2CH2 nOOCR and polyglycol, H 0CH2CH2 OH Sorbitan is a mixture of anhydrosorbitols.Examples of useful nonionic fatty acid esters of sorbitan with the ester designated are Armotan ML monolaurte , Armotan MO monooleate , Armotan MS monostearate , Drewmulse SML monolaurate , Drewmulse SMO monooleate , Drewmulse SMP monopalmitate , Drewmulse SMS monostearate , Emsorb 2500 monooleate , Emsorb 2505 monostearate , Emsorb 2510 monopalmitate , Emsorb 2503 trioleate , Emsorb 2507 tristearate , Estasorb L monolaurate , Estasorb P monopalmitate , Estasorb S monostearate , Estasorb O monooleate , Estasorb TS tristearate , Estasorb TO trioleate , Glycomul L monolaurate , Glycomul O monooleate , Glycomul P monopalmitate , Glycomul S monostearate , Hodag SML monolaurate , Hodag SMP monopalmitate , Hodag SMS nonostearate , Hodag STS tristearate , Hodag SMO monooleate , Hodag STO trioleate ,Span 20 monolaurate , Span 40 monopalmitate , Span 60 monostearate , Span 65 tristearate , Span 8 monooleate , and Span 85 trioleate . Examples of useful exoxylated anhydrosorbitol esters, or more specifically poiyoxyethylene derivatives of sorbitan fatty acid esters with the ester designated are ArmotanPML 20 monolaurate , Armotan PMO 20 monooleate , Armotan PMS 20 monostearate , Drewmulse POE SMO monooleate 1Drewmulse POE SML monolaurate , Drewmulse POE SMP monopalmitate , Drewmulse POE SMS monostearate , DrewmulsePOE STS tristearate , Emprite 6120 monooleate , Emrite 6125 monostearate , Emrite 6127 tristearate , Glycosperse L 20 monolaurate , Glycosperse 0 20 monooleate , Glycosperse O 5 monooleate , Glycosperse P 20 monopalmitate , GlycosperseS 4 monostearate , Glycosperse S 20 monostearate ,Glycosperse TO 20 trioleate , Glycosperse TS 20 tristearate , Bodag PSML 20 monolaurate , Hodag PSMO 20 monooleate , Bodag PSMP 20 monopalmitate , Hodag PSMS 20 monostearate , Bodag PSTS 20 tristearate , Hodag PST0 20 trioleate , Sorbinox L 20 monolaurate , Sorbinox 0 5 monooleate , Sorbinox 0 20 monooleate , Sorbinox P 20 monopalmitate , Sorbinox S 20 monostearate , Sorbinox TO 20 trioleate , Sorbinox TS 20 tristearate , Tween 21 monolaurate , Tween 20 monolaurate , Tween 40 monopalmitate , Tween 61 monostearate , Tween 60 monostearate , Tween 65 tristearate , Tween 81 monooleate , Tween 80 monooleate , and Tween 85 trioleate . Examples of useful glycol esters of fatty acids with the ester designated are Cerasynt M DG stearate , Drewmulse EGMS EG monostearate , Drewmulse EGDS EG distearate ,Emerest 2350 EG monostearate , Ballco 37 N EG monostearate , Hodag EGS EG monostearate , Kcssco Ester EC distearate , Gesso Ester EG monostearate , Cerasynt W DEG monostearate , Emcol CAD DEG stearate , Emcol DOS DEG oleate , Emcol RDCD DEG cocoate , Emerest 2360 DEG monostearate , Hodag DGL DEG monolaurate , Hodag DGO DEG monooleate , Hodag DGS DEG monostearate , Kessco Ester DEC monostearate , Cerasynt PA PG monostearate , Drewlene 10 PG monostearate , Drewmulse PGML G monolaurate , Drewmulse PGMS PG monostearate , Emerest 2381 PG monostearate , Emerest 2386 PG distearate , Calico CPH 32 PG monostearate , Hodag PGML PG monolaurate , Hodag PGMS PG monostearate , andPegosperse PS PG stearate . Above, EG is ethylene glycol,DEG is diethylene glycol and PG is propylene glycol.Examples of useful ethoxylated natural fats, oils and waxes that are nonionic surfactants are the ethoxylated castor oils. Nonionic surfactants include carboxylic amides, such as, diethanolamine condensates monoethanolamine condensates and isopropanolamine condensates. Examples of useful nonionic diethanolamides of fatty acids are the diethanolamides of coco, lauric, oleic, myristic, stearic and ricinoleic acids.Examples of useful nonionic monoalkanolamides of fatty acids are those of lauric, coco, oleic and stearic acids, with the amine moiety being that of ethanol or isopropanol. Non ironic surfactants also include non ionic polyoxyethylene fatty acid amides, for example, of coco, lauric and oleic acids. Nonionic surfactants include polyalkylene oxide block copolymers such as Tergitol XH and XD polyoxypropylene polyxyethylene of Union CarbideCorporation, and polysiloxane polyoxyalkylene copolymers such as L 520 of Union Carbide Corporation. The initiator or catalyst systems appear to be critical to a successful polymer encapsulated pigment or non monomer solid . The most preferred system is t butyl hydroperoxide with sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate a Redox system . Bydrogen peroxide sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and hydrogen peroxide ferrous ion systems are preferred. All attempts so far to use thermal potassium or ammonium persulfate or a redox system of potassium persulfate sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate system have resulted in destabilization. Apparently the anionic character of such systems somehow interferes with the encapsulation as do anionic surfactants. The initiator can be a free radical initiator. The preferred free radical initiators are the peroxides.Examples of useful peroxides are the dialkyl peroxides, such as, di t butyl peroxide, lauroyl peroxide, decanoyl peroxide, 2 methyipentanoyl peroxide, acetyl peroxide, 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 di t butylperoxy hexane and 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 di t butylperoxy hexyne 3 the diaryl peroxides, such as, benzoyl peroxide the alkaryl peroxides, such as, dicumyl peroxide the suifonyl peroxides, such as, acetyl cyclohexylsulfonyl peroxide and acetyl sec heptylsulfonyl peroxide the peresters, such as, t butyl perbenzoate, t butyl peroxyneodecanoate, t butyl peroxypivalate, 1,1,3, 3 tetramethylbutyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate, 2,5 dimethyi 215 bis 2 ethylhexanoylperoxy hexane, t butyl peroxy 2ethyl hexanoate, t butyl peroxyisobutyrate, t butyl peroxymaleic acid, OO t butyi O isopropyl monoperoxycarbonate, 2 ,5 dimethyl 2, 5 bis benzoylperoxy hexane, t butyl peracetate and di t butyl diperoxyphthalate the peroxydicarbonates, such as, di isopropyl peroxydicarbonate, diisopropyl peroxydicarbonate, di secbutyl peroxydicarbonate, di 2 ethylhexyl peroxydicarbonate, dicyclohexyl peroxydicarbonate and dibenzyl peroxydicarbonate the organometallic peroxides, such as, vinyl tris t butyl peroxy silane the hydroperoxides, such as, t butyl hydroperoxide and cumyl hydroperoxide, 1,1,3,3 tetramethylbutyl hydroperoxide and 2,5 dihydroperoxy 2,5 dimethylhexane and the azo compounds, such as 212 azobis isobutyronitrile and 2,2 a obis 2,4 dimethylvaleronitrile . The polymer encapsulated pigment or non monomer solid dispersions of the invention are stable and there is no separation when centrifuged. During the preparation of the polymer encapsulated pigments or non monomer solids of the invention, high speed agitation for example, a circulation number per minute of the dispersion of 3 or more has the disadvantage of causing foaming. The invention provides water based dispersion coatings obtained from nonionic systems. Except as qualified above, water soluble monomers such as acrylic acid and methacrylic acid are not operable as the nonionic monomer within the scope of the invention process. Reagents The following is information on some of the reagents used in the following examples. 1 PMA 30 is a 30 percent solution of phenyl mercuric acetate. 2 Atomite is a CaCO3 pigment made by Thomson, Weinman Co. 3 ASP 170 is a China clay pigment made by Engelhardt. 4 opaque RCL 9 is a TiO2 pigment made by GliddenPigments Division. 5 CELLOSIZER is hydroxyethylcellulose made by Union Carbide Corporation. 6 Igepal Cc 990 is made by GAF. 7 Tipure R 931 is a TiO2 pigment made by E.I. duPont de Nemours Co. 8 UCAR 3 Latex 351 is made by Union CarbideCorporation and is a vinyl acetate n butyl acrylate resin having 65 percent solids and a nonionic stabilizer system. 9 Rhoplex AC 388 is an acrylic latex used in paints made by Rohm and Haas. 10 Nytal 300 is a talc pigment nade by Vanderbilt. 11 Tamol 731 is a dispersant made by Rohm and Haas. 12 Titanox 2020 is a TiO2 pigment made by NLChemicals. 13 L 475 Antifoam is a silicone. 14 UCAR Latex 367 is a polymer of 78 percent vinyl acetate and 22 percent n butyl acrylate. 15 Texanol is a coalescing aid made by Eastman. 16 R 900 TiO2 is made by E.I. duPont de Nemours Co. 17 OP 4400H is CELLOSIZE hydroxyethylcellulose made by Union Carbide Corporation. 18 Gold Bond R is a silica. 19 Celite 281 is a silica filler made byJohn Nanville. 20 Colloids 581 13 is a surfactant. 21 Tronox CR 822 is a TiO2 pigment made by Kerr McGee. 22 Natrosol is a hydroxyethyl cellulose made byHercules. 23 1 1212 is a 55 percent PVC interior paint formulation published by Union Carbide Corporation. Definition PVC pigment volume concentration r vol. of pigment vol. of pigment and vol. of binder 24 Nalco is an antifoam agent. 25 Satintone No. 5 is a clay. 26 Dowicil 75 is a formaldehyde release agent used as a biostatic agent. 27 T DET N 507 is a 100 mole ethoxylate of nonyl phenol made by Thompson Hayward. The following examples are illustrative of the invention. As used herein, all parts, percentages, ratios and proportions are on a weight basis unless otherwise stated herein or obvious herefrom to one ordinarily skilled in the art. EXAMPLE1 A finely divided precipitated CaCO3 was encapsulated with a copolymer of vinyl acetate and n butyl acrylate 80 20 , which was similar to a typical commercial or trade sales latex copolymer. The pigment to resin ratio was 25 to 75. A nonionic surfactant and a nonionic initiator and nonionic catalyst redox system was used. A shadowed photomicrograph was made and the presence of CaCO3 in the particles was confirmed by EDAX definition. EXAMPLE 2 A physical blend of particles of a latex RhoplexAC 388 and a talc Nytal 300 at a 4 to 1 ratio of polymer to pigment was prepared. Shadowed photomicrographs of the blend shows the dominance of latex particles. This is a prior art example. EXAMPLE 3 A physical blend of particles of Rhoplex AC 388 and a talc Nytal 300 at a 1 to 4 ratio of polymer to pigment was prepared. Shadowed photomicrographs of the blend shows the dominance of pigment particles. This is a prior art example. EXAMPLE 4 Finely divided talc particles Nytal 300 were encapsulated with poly vinyl acetate at a 4 to 1 ratio of polymer to pigment. A nonionic surfactant and a nonionic initiator and nonionic catalyst redox system was used.Examination of SEM photomicrographs did not reveal the presence of any spherical latex particles. The shape of the talc particles is such that latex particles would have easily been seen. EXAMPLE 5 SEM photographs and EDAX traces of a production sample, conventional, commercial semi gloss 26 percent pigment volume concentration PVC were made. SEM is scanning electron microscope and EDAX is analysis of the fluorescence pattern in conjunction with the SEM. The 26 PVC saint was 15,57 kg 7,57 1 prepared as follows 34.6 pounds of propylene glycol and 2 1,35 kg 6,75 kq gallons of water were mixed. 3 pounds of L 475 Antifoam, 15 0,9 kg 1.8 ka pounds of Tamol 731, 2 pounds of Triton GR 7, 4 pounds of 108 ka 67,5 g Igepal C0 880, 240 pounds of R 900 TiO2, and 0.15 pounds ofPMA 30 were added sequentially.The admixture was 9round for 7,57 1 20 minutes at high speed. 2 gallons of water was used as a 153,5 1 1,35 ka 1.8 ka rinse. 40.5 gallons of water, i pounds of L 475 Antifoam 4 0,45 kg pounds of OP 4400H and 1 pound of 29 percent of ammonia solution were premixed by addition in a sequential order.The premix was dissolved and added to the main admixture with 730,68 kg 36,57 kq agitation. 290.4 pounds of Rhoplex AC 388 and 81.27 pounds of Ucar Latex 367 were added sequentially with agitation.The mixture was mixed for 30 minutes after all of the ingredients had been added excessive mixing time would cause foaming . A SEM photograph anda EDAX trace were made of a polymer encapsulated pigment, based on Titanox 2010 NLIndustries, Titanium Pigments Division, titanium dioxide which was encapsulated with an84 percent vinyl acetate l6 percent butyl acrylate polymer at TiO2 polymer resin ratio 26 percent PVC which was equivalent to the above 26 PVC paint. In both paints the particle size of the TiO2 0.2 cm is quite similar to the latex size rJ0.5 m so that the comparison is more difficult to make than in the above examples.Nonetheless, in the conventional paint. 26 PVC paint the latex pigment mixture can clearly be seen while in the paint containing the polymer encapsulated pigments only one type of encapsulated particle is apparent. EXAMPLE 6 TiO2 Titanox 2020 was dispersed with the typical small amount of dispersant Tamol 731 used in conventional paint technology, an aqueous dispersion resulting. This was a control. A laboratory prepared paint based on the following formulation 25 PVC was prepared. TABLE I PERCENT PVC LADDER TRONOX CR 822 UCAR LATEX 366 Grind Parts by Height Water 180.0 QP 4400 4.0 Tamol 731 12.0 1ERGITOL 9NPX 4.0 Colloids 581 B 2.0 Nuosept 95 1.0 Titanox 2020 240.0 Let Down Propylene Glycol 40.0 Texanol 12.0 UCAR 3 Latex 366 389.0 Triton GR t 1.0 B2 or 3e XP 4400 139.0 to 85 KU NB4CH to pB 8.5The resultant paint had 45 percent total solids and 25 percent PVC. This was a conventional paint.A polymer encapsulated pigment was prepared encapsulatingTitanox 2020 with poly vinyl acetate at an equivalentTiO2 polymer ratio 25 percent PVC . SEM microphotographs were made in all three instances. By comparing the photographs of the control TiO2 dispersion, conventional paint and the polymer encapsulated pigment, the difference between the polymer encapsulated pigments versus the TiO2 pigment control and the paint mixture was quite apparent.The polymer encapsulated pigments appear to consist of a uniform encapsulation with an absence of latex particles, which was not the case with the control and the paint mixture. EXAMPLE 7 TiO2 was encapsulated with a copolymer of vinyl acetate and butyl acrylate 84 percent 16 percent the ratio ofTiO2 to copolymer was 50 to SO. The polymer encapsulatedTiO was incorporated into 22 percent PVC paint so as to have 25P,58 kg m3 2.1 pounds of TiO2 per gallon. SEH microphotographs were made of a cross section of a film of the 22 PVC composition having the polymer encapsulated pigment and of a cross section of a film of the commercial 26 PVC paint of 287,52 kg m Example 5. The paint had 2.4 pounds of TiO2 per gallon.In the invention film cross section, the film itself appeared much less porous, and the TiO2 cores appeared to be much more uniformly distributed throughout the cross section than was apparent in the conventional paint film cross section. EXAMPLE 8 A number of other observations provided indirect evidence that a real difference exists between conventional paint and paints containing the polymer encapsulated i52 pin pigments. When side by side comparisons were made of 6 mil wet draw ddwns of a polymer encapsulated TiO2 versus a conventional semi gloss paint TiO2 latex polymer mixture and the films were allowed to dry, a visual appearance difference existed. Although measured gloss differences were not large at equivalent pigment polymer ratio same P C level when measured by the usual 60 gloss meter, the polymer encapsulated pigment films provided a clarity or sparkle similar to a distinctness of image dot character not seen in the conventional paint films. Most such comparisons were made on Leneta charts or Leneta scrub resistance panels. When cast on a metal surface aluminum panel , the polymer encapsulated pigment film appeared to telegraph the metal surface through to the semi gloss paint film. Comparative scrub resistance measurements of conventional semi gloss paints versus polymer encapsulated pigment films at equivalent PVC levels also showed advantages for the polymer encapsulated pigment film as long as a reasonable attempt was made to maintain a high molecular weight in the encapsulating polymer layer exercised using conventional latex technology principles. Apparent hiding improvements of polymer encapsulated pigment films versus conventional paints were also observed.The magnitude of these differences were approximately those seen in competitive plastic pigment technologies, e.g., those technologies reported by Glidden and Dulux, which permit equivalent hiding at about a 30 percent reduction in TiO2 level. Exceptional stability in TiO2 based polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions also existed.Attempts to centifuge 50 percent solids, 15 PVC polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions based on TiO2 RCL 9 encapsulated with 84 16 vinyl acetate butyl acrylate copolymer and to separate a supernatant layer failed. The stability was so high that no separation occurred under the conditions selected. Although control TiO2 dispersions were not run, operation was conducted under conditions at which an easy separation would be expected. Repeated observations were made during the preparation of polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions that indicate that an extremely high degree of dispersion was readily obtained. In fact, an optical light microscope was used to examine dilutions of reaction mixtures, and the absence of large flocculates was frequently observed.The wetting behavior on a drawdown of many of the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions side by side with conventional paints appeared to cause a separation or demixing of the films. Addition of some anionic wetting agent or intentionally mixing a polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion with a conventional paint removed this apparent wetting incompatibility. All of these behavioral differences show that substantial and potentially significant differences exist between the polymer encapsulated pigment technology and conventional paint technology or prior art technologies related to plastic pigments. xABTst 9 Zopaque RLC 9 TiO2 Glidden Pigments Division yielded polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions of excellent stability a 15 PVC version was still stable after six months with no syneresis. The best success was obtained withTitanox 2010 NL Industries, Titanium Pigments Division which is considered to be a grade of TiO2 for plastics rather than coatings applications with a content of 97 percent TiO2 and a trace 1 percent of alumina A1203 surface treatment. Stable dispersions and good film quality resulted and were reproduced from batch to batch preparations of the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion. Titanox 2020, a coatings grade Ti 02 , has also been used to prepare polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions. TiO2 of the brand Tronox CR 822 Kerr McGee gave stable dispersions but SEM photographs suggested that encapsulation was not uniform, and the polymer layer appeared to be lopsidedly attached to the TiO2 particles. Film quality also suffered. On the assumption that a surface treatment existed, extraction of the TiO2 with water monomer mixes, e.g., vinyl acetate, was attempted. Serious foaming with no improvement in encapsulation was observed. In addition to the well known alumina A1203 and silica SiO2 treatments which are widely applied to coatings grades of TiO2, both organic surface treatments and pH adjustments with ammonia, amines, or alkali hydroxides are frequently employed and sometimes are varied from lot to lot.Apparently adverse effects occur from organic and non uniform inorganic surface treatment of many grades of TiO2. Untreated high purity TiO2 are accordingly preferred. Polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions were made at a level of 70 percent total solids with a 90 10 pigment polymer ratio using Atomite CaCO3 pigment and vinyl acetate monomer. A smooth, thick but handleable dispersion resulted which showed substantial syneresis after one to two days.This dispersion was made with 2.5 part of T Det N 1007 on solids. Improved stabilization would occur in the 4 to 10 part range of solids. Untreated Omyacarb DF CaCO3 was used to prepare a 68 percent total solids polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion at a 90 10 pigment polymer ratio using polyvinyl acetate. After five days, no syneresis was observed. The viscosity was high but handleable, and the dispersion showed a low brushometer viscosity of 1.3 poise at high shear rate. The low shear rate viscosity or degree of thixotropy probably could be reduced by the addition of anionic surfactant. A clay ASP 170 plus vinyl acetate monomer was used to make a 62 percent total solids polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion at a 9 1 pigment to polymer ratio. After one month, the dispersion was stable and remained handleable with a trace of syneresis. A screening experiment with a red iron oxide yielded a fluid dispersion in which the red color was extremely bright. A successful screening test was made with a zinc oxide, a reactive pigment. Ti Pure R 900 duPont, TiO2 did not disperse readily in the initial reaction mixture. Once the initiation of the reaction began, the R 900 appeared to deflocculate and smooth, stable dispersion results. Film drawdowns gave variable appearance gloss after drying, and considerable variation batch to batch and from one lot of pigment to another was seen. Ti Pure R 960 duPont dispersed readily in the initial reaction mixture containing vinyl acetate monomer. The polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion did not have outstanding stability and showed syneresis water layer formation after about one month. Only one run was made withR 960. Ti Pure R 932 dispersed poorly under all conditions, and a high quality polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion was not made. R 931 is a flocculated TiO2 pigment grade, so poor dispersion was expected. A 70 percent total solids polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion was made with Beaverwhite 325 talc and vinyl acetate monomer at a pigment polymer ratio of 9 1. Substantial syneresis occurred in one to two days. An attempt was made to prepare a 56 percent total solids 44 wm polymer encapsuiated pigment dispersion of 325 mesh wet ground mica again, substantial syneresis occurred in one or two days. EXAMPLE 10 Hiding comparisons were also made on Leneta 38 opacity charts and visually compared. At equivalent content of TiO, 287,52 kg m3 2.4 libs. per gal. , the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion clearly gave better hiding power than did the commercial paint fotniulation even when compared against toned production sample. Numerous visual comparisons versus conventional technology were made over a wide pigment polymer ratio with polymer encapsulated pigments based on Titanox 2010. While in conventional paint technology the maximum 359,4 395,34 kg m attainable hide is normally achieved at 3.0 to 3.3 lbs. gal.of TiO2 in semi gloss paints, extrapolation of the visual comparisons indicated that polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions could achieve equivalent hide somewhere in the 287,52 347,42 kg m range of 2.4 to 2.9 lbs. gal. as Titanox 2010. A uniform polymer layer such as that achieved with Titanox 2010 is required. Further, from an understanding of alternative technologies for increasing hiding power, e.g., the use of fine particle pigment extenders such as Omyacarb UF, or polystyrene plastic Figments as practiced by Glidden, or the styrene polyester encapsulated TiO2 Spindrift of Dulux, it is estimated that the improvement of hiding achievable with polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions is at least equivalent to the 30 percent reduction in TiO2 content claimed and apparently achieved by these alternative technologies. EXAMPLE 11 Comparisons of the scrub resistance of polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions paints versus commercial paint from Example 5 are shown in Table II. At equivalent binder content, the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions showed about a 4 fold increase in side by side comparisons. On long term drying 2 weeks of the paints, the differential increased to about a 5 times advantage for the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions. Care should be taken in the preparation of polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions to use those techniques which maximize molecular weight in typical latexes, e.g., low catalyst, low temperature, high monomer concentrations, so that scrub resistance is maximized.Comparative wet adhesion tests on glossy alkyd aged Glidden Shamrock Green were also run on the same samples, but no significant degree of wet adhesion was shown by either the PEP dispersion 22 PVC or the commercial production paint from Example 5. TABLE II SCRUB RESISTANCE COMPARISONS CONTROL t PRODUCTION SAMPLE OF COMMERCIAL FORMULATION NUMBER 5851 26 PVC PssP r TITANOX 2010 ENCAPSULATED WITH MONOMER MIX OF 849 VINYL ACETATE 16 BUTYL ACRYLATE 0,152 mm Gardner Scrub Cycles 6 mil wet film, 2 day dry Initial Wear 10 Wear A PEP at 3 1 Pigment Polymer ratio 46 percent PVC 250 280 Control 270 300 B PEP at 1 1 Pigment Polymer ratio 22 percent PVC 1095 1147 Control 260 320 C 2nd Batch of PEP at 1 1 Pigment Polymer ratio 22 percent PVC 1095 1177 Control 230 245 D PEP at 1 3 Pigment Polymer ratio 7 percent PVC 1165 1215 Control 245 280Notes PEP polymer encapsulated pigment Gardner Scrub Cycles standard that is conducted on apparatus sold by Gardner. EXAMPLE 12 On short term dry, the block resistance of polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions as semi gloss paints was inferior to conventional paint technology. The rate of water release appeared to be hindered by the polymer encapsulated pigment structure of a layer of polymer encapsulating a pigment particle. Yet, for a 9 PVC film of a polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion based on a 1 4 Zopaque RCL 9 TiO2 pigment 848 vinyl acetate 168 butyl acrylated polymer, after a 6 months drying, the block resistance of such a 6 mil wet film as excellent. In a brush lapping test, there was a 20 minute lap time, 8 hour tack time and 24 hour dry to touch time when equilibrated.In one experiment, TiO2 was encapsulated with a 60 butyl ac rylate cores408 styrene shell in stages at a 1 4 pigment to polymer ratio. Films of the polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion on air drying fell apart after a 500 gram weight pressed them tace to face overnight. The same slow water release was visually observed to provide improved open time to polymer encapsulated pigment dispersions compared to conventional semi gloss paints even without the incorporation of the traditional propylene glycol additive. This improvement is 4 to 5 times based on limited observations . EXAMPLE 13 This example demonstrates the polymeric microencapsulation of pigments using standard emulsion polymerization techniques. The paint used was a 76.2 percentPVC paint similar to the commercial paint used in Example 5. Paint A was prepared by admixing, in a reactor, 430 gm of water1 57 gm of Igepal C0 997, 89 gm of vinyl acetate and 25 g of n butyl acrylate. The reactor charge was admixed at 200 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 210 gm of TiPureR 902 was added, and the admixture was mixed at 300 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 96 gm of Celite 281 was added, and the admixture was mixed at 400 rpm for 15 minutes.388 gm of Gold Bond R and 260 gm of H20 were added, and the admixture was mixed at 460 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 292 gm of ASP 170 and 260 gm of water were added, and the admixture was mixed at 500 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 1.3 gm of t butyl hydroperoxide and 5 gm of water were added at room temperature, and the admixture was mixed after its temperature was raised to SO C. A premix of 1.3 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate ano 8.0 gm of water was added. The reaction was allowed to occur for 1 hour at 68 C. and then 2 gm of Colloid 581 B was added.The admixture was cooled to room temperature and transferred. The polymer encapsulated pigments had a weight of solids of 53.1 percent, a Stormer viscosity of 93 XU, a Brookfield mPa. s viscosity 0.3 rpm of 6400 cps, and an ICI high shear 50 mPa.s viscosity of 0.5 poise. The pH was 7.5. The contrast ratio dry was 0.99. The contrast ratio wet in the paint was 152 wm 0.9 , and the paint film appearance 6 mil gap, 3B chart was smooth and non grainy. Paint B was prepared by admixing, in a reactor, 430 gm of water, 15.2 gm of Igepal C0 997, 69 gm of vinyl acetate, 25 g of n butyl acrylate and i5 gm of V Pyrol. The reactor charge was admixed at 200 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 210 gm of TiPure R 902 was added, and the admixture was mixed at 300 rpm for 15 minutes at room teperature. 96 gm of Celite 281 was added, and the admixture was mixed at 400 rpm for 15 minutes. 388 gm of Bold Bond R and 260 gm of B20 were added, and the admixture was mixed at 460 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 292 gm ofASP 170 and 300 gm of water were added, and the admixture was mixed at 500 rpm for 15 minutes at room temperature. 1.3 gm of t butyl hydroperoxide and 5 gm of water were added at room temperature, and the admixture was mixed after its temperature was raised to 50 C. A premix of 1.3 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 8.0 gm of water was added. The reaction was allowed to occur for 1 hour at 6t C. The admixture was then cooled to room temperature and transferred. The polymer encapsulated pigments had a weight of solids of 52.1 percent, a Stormer viscosity of 100 KU, a Brookfield mPa. s viscosity 0.3 rpm of 5600 cps, and an ICI high shear 50 mPa.s viscosity of 0.5 poise. The pH was 7.9. The contrast ratio dry was 0.99. The contrast ratio wet in the paint was 152 pin 0.99, and the paint film appearance 6 mil gap, 3B chart was smooth and non grainy. EXAMPLE 14 Using the general procedure outlined in Example 13, the pigment system used in Union Carbide s published formulation 1 1212 was encapsulated once at a PVC of 45 and ounce at aPVC of 60 using a 78 22 vinyl acetate n butyl acrylate ratio. Portions of these two polymer encapsulated pigments were then blended to give 50 PVC and 55 PVC systems. As controls, paints were made by conventional means at 45 PVC and 60 PVC and portions thereof blended to provide 50 PVC and 55 PVC paints. The results of the evaluations of these systems are shown in Tables III and IV. TABLE IIIPVC, TEST Conventional PEP 45 Contrast Ratio 0.974 0.977 50 0.977 0.985 55 0.980 0.991 60 0.991 0.996 45 Resistance to 0.922 0 613 0.613 50 Nigrosine 0.0947 0.567 55 Stain 0.977 0.576 60 0.761 0.502 45 Resistance to 0.993 0.985 50 Gilsonite 0.992 0.748 55 Stain 0.041 0.643 60 0.844 0.675 45 ASTM Scrub 505 19 50 Resistance 202 43 55 cycles 248 39 60 72 14 Notes Gilsonite is a test where stain is placed on the top of the paint, the stain is rinsed off and the extent to which the paint was stained is measured by.leasuring contrast ratio. PEP is polymer encapsulated pigment. TABLE IVPVC, S TEST CONVENTIONAL PEP 45 pB 8.3 8.2 TS 53.0 63.0 KU 88 82 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 0.79 0.91 Brookfield 0.3rpm , cpmPa.s 88,000 130,000 50 pH 8.1 TS 48.0 48.0 KU 80 72 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 0.68 0.80 Brookfield 0 3rpm , cp mPa.s 68,800 67,200 55 pH 8.1 8.1 TS 48.0 48.0 KU 77 70 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 0.60 0.81 Brookfield 0.3rpm , cpmPa.s 43,600 54,400 60 pB 8.2 8.3 TS 53.0 53.0 KU 86 82 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 0.79 0.81 Brookfield 0.3rmp , cpmPa.s 72,400 131,200 Notes TS is percent of total solids solids by weight . KU is Stormed Viscosity in Kr cbs Units. These results suggest that the desired encapsulation was indeed obtained. The encapsulated systems appear to be ignore difficult to film coalesce but have higher high shear I.C.I. viscosity, therefore they would be expected to give higher film build. A series of tests were run with a paint having various pigment volume concentrations with a polymer encapsulatedTiO2 pigment Tronox CR 822 . In this series the encapsulating polymer was 10 percent n butyl acrylate and 90 percent vinyl acetate. The results are TABLE VPVC, 8 TEST CONVENTIONAL PEP 15 Contrast Ratio 0.981 0.983 25 0.981 0.990 15 60 Gloss 67 49 25 19 31 15 20 Gloss 26 17 25 2 5 15 ASTM Scrub 15809 644 25 Res. cycles 53 .279 15 pH 7.3 7.0 TS 48.0 48.0 KU 82 78 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 1.00 0.89 Brookfield 0.3rpm , cp mPa.s 86,000 25,000 25 pH 6.2 6.3 TS 48.0 48.0 KU 86 77 ICI, poise 0,1 Pa.s 0.95 0.90 Brookfield 0.3rpm , cp mPa.s 72,000 14,000 EXAMPLE 15 This example demonstrates an emulsion polymerization technique and latex which can be used to encapsulate pigments A latex was prepared by admixing, in z reactor, 485 gm of water 12 gn of Igepal CO 997 2.5 gn of sodium acetate, 45 gm of Igepal C0 977, 5 g of Nalco 71 D5 antifoam and 70 gn of a monomer mixture of 903 ga of vinyl acetate and 253 gm of n butyl acrylate . The initial reactor charge vas added t room temperature and admixed.The reactor was a 3 liter jacketed resin flask, with the steamiwater controlled by instrumentation for heating and cooling, and using an electric stirrer motor vith a stainless steel shaft, one blade and digetal readout of the rpms. An initial charge of 1.3 ga of t butyl hydroperoxide was added to the reactor at 35 C. Then a solution of 1.3 ga of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 8 gm of water was slowly added to the reactor at 35 C. The temperature was raised to 70 C and maintained there.The rest of the monomer mixture was fed in over a four hour period. A solution of 3.6 ga of t butyl hydroperoxide and 34 gn of water and a solution of 2.4 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 34 gm of water were separately fed into the reactor over a 4 1 2 hour period. The monomer mixture and catalyst solutions were concurrently fed into the reactor starting at the same time. The agitation, once the 70 C level was reached, was about 200 rpm, was jurt below 300 rpm when the monomer and catalyst additions started, and rose to about 1000 rpm at the end of the addition. The reaction mixture was port heated for 30 minutes after the feeding in of the catalyst. The reaction mixture was cooled and removed from the reactor.The resultant latex had a total solids of 66.15 percent, a 0,325 Pa.s brushometer viscosity of 3.25 poise and a Brookfield mPa.s viscosity of 5,350 cps LVT Mode V, 60 rpm . EXAMPLE 16 This example demonstrates an emulsion polynerization technique and latex which can be used to encapsulate pigments. A latex was prepared by admixing, in a reactor, 388 gm of water 9.6 gm of Igepal CO 997, 2.0 gm of sodium acetate, 36 gm of Igepal C0 997, 4.0 gm of Ratio 71 D5 antifoam and 56 gm of a monomer mixture of 722.4 ga of vinyl acetate and 204.4 gm of n butyl acrylate .The initial reactor charge was added at room temperature and admixed. The reactor was a 3 liter jacketed resin flask, with the steaw water controlled by instrumentation for heating and cooling, and using an electric stirrer motor with a stainless steel shaft, one blade and digital readout of the rpms. An initial charge of 1.04 go of t butyl hydroperoxide was added to the reactor at 35 C. Then the solution of 1.04 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 6.4 gn of water was slowly added to the reactor at 35 C. The temperature was raised to 70C. and maintained there.The rest of the monomer mixture was fed in over a four hour period. A solution of 2.88 g. of t butyl hydroperoxide and 27.2 gm of water and a solution of 1.92 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 27.2 gm of water were separately fed into the reactor over a 4 1 2 hour period.The monomer mixture and catalyst solutions were concurrantly fed into the reactor starting at the same time. The agitation, once the 70 C. level was reached, was about 175 rpm, was about 200 to 240 when the monomer and catalyst additions started. and rose to about 750 rpm at the end of the additions and during cooling .Latex TPX 6108 BA4222, in an amount of 350 ml, was fed in over the same time period as the monomer addition. The reason was to study the effect of adding latex to the reaction mixture and the effect on viscosity. The reaction mixture was poet heated for 30 minutes after the feeding in of the catalyst. The reaction mixture was cooled and removed fror the reactor.The resultant latex had a total solids of 65.33 percent, 0,219 Pa.s brushometer viscosity of 2.19 poise and a Brookfield mPa.s viscosity of 8,300 cpa LVT Mode V, 60 rpm . EXAMPLE 17 This example demonstrates the polymer microencapsulation of pigments using standard emulsion polymerization techniques. A reactor was purged with nitrogen. 485 gm of water were added to the reactor. 264 gm of pigments 26 gm of TiPure R 900 and 238 of Santintone um 5 were added to the reactor and the admixture was agitated at a moderate level about 200 rpm . 7 gm of V Pyrol was added while the admixture was agitated at a high level 250 to 270 rpm for about S minutes. 51 gm of T DET N 507 was added while the admixture was RTI ID 53.45 agitated at 270 rpm for 5 minutes. Then 1 gi of Nalco 71 D5 anti foam was added. The initial reactor charge was added at room temperature and admixed. The reactor was a 3 llter jackeed resin flask, with the steam water controlled by instrumentation for heating and cooling, and during an electric stirrer motor with a stainless steel shaft, two blade and digetal readout of the rpma. An initial charge of 1.3 go of t butyl hydroperoxide 70 percent aqueous and 5.0 of distilled vater were added to the reactor at 35 C. and mixed for S minutes at 270 rpm.Then a reducer solution of 1.3 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate and 8 gn of water was added to the reactor at 500C. When the reactor isotherm reached 60 to 65 C., monomer and catalyst reducing feeds were begun A monomer mixture of 550 gm of vinyl acetate, 155 gm of n butyl ac rylate and 7 gm ofNalco 71 D5 was linearly fed in over a four hour period. A catalyst solution of 3.63 gm of t butyl hydroperoxide TBHP and 34 gm of water and a reducing solution of 24 gm of sodium formaldehyde sulfoxylate SFS and 34 gm of water were linearly separately fed into the reactor over a 4 hour period.The monomer mixture and catalyst redueer solutions were concurrently fed into the reactor starting at the same time. The temperature was maintained at 60 to 6S C. during the reaction and the agitation level speed was increased as necessary to maintain a vortex or good mixing. The reaction mixture was post heated at 70 to 75 C. for 30 minutes using minimal agitation after the feeding in of the catalyst. 0.75 go of Dowicil 75 and 3.0 gn of distilled water were added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was cooled and removed from the reactor to provide a latex polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion . The following is a summary of the tert. butylhydroperoxide and sodium formaldehyde sulfide used in Example 17 TBRP SF8 Added to reactor 1.3g 1.3gFed during run 3.63g 2.3gTotal amounts used 4.93g 3.6gThere were 38 ml of 9.57 TBRP in water fed. There were 35 ml of 6.591 SFS in water fed. EXAMPLE 18 Examples 17 was repeated except that no baffles were used in the reactor. A polymer encapsulated pigment dispersion having a total solids content of 66.4 percent is obtained.