# Means for operating hid sodium lamp to minimize lamp voltage variation throughout lamp life.

## Abstract
High pressure sodium HID lamps characteristicly dis play an increasing operating voltage throughout life. The industry has established operating standards as a trapezoid al figure on a graph wherein lamp wattage is plotted on the axis of ordinates and lamp voltages is plotted on the axis of abscissas. The parallel trapezoid sides represent minimum permissible and maximum permissible operating lamp wat tages and the remaining sides of the trapezoidal figure are two lines of sharply rising positive slope which represent minimum permissible and maximum permissible lamp voltages. The lamp life operating characteristics are describable by a curve which enters into the trapezoid through the line representing minimum lamp voltages and which exits from the trapezoid through the line representing maximum lamp voltages. The invention describes a device provided with means which to minimize lamp voltage variations through out normally anticipated life, operate the lamp for an initially relatively short period of time until the operating voltage is a predetermined value and the wattage consumption is rela tively high as compared to the minimum value. Thereafter, the means continue to operate the lamp so that the operating characteristic curve of lamp wattage consumption versus increasing lamp operating voltage displays a slope which is negative in nature and which does not exceed an operating wattage drop of about 1.5 percent per one volt increase in lamp operating voltage. Thereafter, the means continue to operate the lamp in such manner that the characteristic operating curve ultimately exits from the trapezoidal figure proximate the lower right hand portion thereof.