# Method for producing tertiary amines from highly hindered aromatic secondary amines and carbonates.

## Abstract
Highly hindered aromatic secondary amines are reacted with organic carbonates of at least one primary alcohol to produce tertiary amines. The alkylation of such secondary amines with dialkyl carbonates in which at least one of the alkyl groups of the dialkyl carbonate is unsubstituted methyl or is an alkyl group having at least two carbon atoms wherein the number one carbon atoms of the alkyl group is attached to two hydrogen atoms, is preferred.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method comprising reacting highly hindered aromatic secondary amine with organic carbonate of at least one primary alcohol to produce tertiary amine. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein said organic carbonate is represented by the formulaEMI11.1 wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or lower aryl, and H is alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or lower aryl. 3. The method of Claim 2 wherein a. R is hydrogen, alkyl having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, aralkyl wherein the aryl portion contains from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alkyl wherein the cycloalkyl portion contains from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, cyclo alkyl having from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms or lower aryl having from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms and b. R is alkyl having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, aralkyl wherein the aryl portion con tains from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl alkyl wherein the cycloalkyl portion contains from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms or lower aryl having from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms. 4. The method of Claim 1 wherein said reaction is conducted in the liquid phase. 5. The method of Claim 1 wherein said reaction is conducted at temperatures in the range of from about 160 C to about 240etc 6. The method of Claim 1 wherein said reaction is conducted at pressures in the range of from about zero to about 5000 kilopascals, gauge. 7. The method of Claim 1 wherein said highly hindered aromatic secondary amine is represented by the formulaEMI12.1 wherein a. R1 and R10 are each independently a substituent, and b. R2, R3, R4, Rg, R6, R7, Rg, and Rg are each inde pendently hydrogen or a substituent. 8. The method of Claim 7 wherein R1 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo, unsubstituted alkyl or substituted alkyl. 9. The method of Claim 7 wherein R1 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to four carbon atoms. 10. The method of Claim 7 wherein R5 is a substituent. 11. The method of Claim 10 wherein R1, R5 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. 12. The method of Claim 7 wherein R5 and R6 are substituents. 13. The method of Claim 12 wherein R1, Rg, R6 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. 14. The method of Claim 7 wherein R1, R3, Rg, R62 R8 andR10 are each bromo. 15. The method of Claim 14 wherein said dialkyl carbonate is dimethyl carbonate. 16. A method for alkylating highly hindered aromatic secondary amine comprising reacting said amine with dialkyl carbonate in which at least one of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate is unsubstituted methyl or is an alkyl group having at least two carbon atoms wherein the number one carbon atom of said alkyl group is attached to two hydrogen atoms, to produce tertiary amine. 17. The method of Claim 16 wherein each of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate independently contains from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms. 18. The method of Claim 16 wherein each of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate independently contains from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms. 19. The method of Claim 16 wherein each of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate independently contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. 20. The method of Claim 16 wherein both of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate are the same. 21. The method of Claim 16 wherein both of the alkyl groups of said dialkyl carbonate are straight. 22. The method of Claim 21 wherein both of said alkyl groups are unsubstituted. 23. The method of Claim 16 wherein said reaction is conducted in the liquid phase. 24. The method of Claim 16 wherein said reaction is conducted at temperatures in the range of from about 1600C to about 240 C. 25. The method of Claim 16 wherein said reaction is conducted at pressures in the range of from about zero to about 5000 kilopascals, gauge. 26. The method of Claim 16 wherein said highly hindered aromatic secondary amine is represented by the formulaEMI14.1 wherein a. R1 and R10 are each independently a substituent, and b. R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R7, R8 and Rg are each independently hydrogen or a substituent. 27. The method of Claim 26 wherein R1 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo, unsubstituted alkyl or substituted alkyl. 28. The method of Claim 26 wherein R1 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to four carbon atoms. 29. The method of Claim 26 wherein R5 is a substituent. 30. The method of Claim 29 wherein R1, R5 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. 31. The method of Claim 26 wherein R5 and R6 are substituents. 32. The method of Claim 31 wherein R1, Rg, R6 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. 33. The method of Claim 26 wherein R1, R3, Rg, Ro R8 andR10 are each bromo. 34. The method of Claim 33 wherein said dialkyl carbonate is dimethyl carbonate. 35. N,N Bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl methylemine.

## Description
METHOD FOR PRODUCING TERTIARY AMINES FROM HIGHLY HINDERED AROMATIC SECONDARY AMINES AND CARBONATES The alkyl at ion of many aromatic secondary amines is customarily accomplished by reaction of the amine with a dialkyl sulfate. Dimethyl sulfate is typical of the dialkyl sulfates employed for this purpose. Alkylation of many aromatic secondary amines may also be effected using a dialkyl carbonate as the alkylation agent, such as is disclosed in Belgian Patent Specification No. 882,135. When the amino hydrogen atom of the amine to be alkylated is substantially sterically unhindered, either of these methods may in most cases be. used to achieve alkylation. It has now been discovered that when the amino hydrogen atom of the aromatic secondary amine is highly sterically hindered, that is to say, the amine is a highly hindered amine, alkylation through use of dialkyl sulfate either produces low yields of the alkylated product or does not produce the product at all. It has been further discovered that many highly hindered aromatic secondary amines, for which alkylation by dialkyl sulfate is largely ineffectual or inefficient, may be successfully and efficiently alkylated by the use of dialkyl carbonate to produce tertiary amines in greater yield than when dialkyl sulfate is employed.Moreover it has been discovered that many organic carbonates are useful in converting highly hindered aromatic secondary amines to tertiary amines. Accordingly, the present invention is a method comprising reacting highly hindered aromatic secondary amine with organic carbonate of at least one primary alcohol to produce tertiary amine. The organic carbonate of at least one primary alcohol used in the method is subject to wide variation. A class of particular importance may be represented by the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or lower aryl, and R is alkyl, aralkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, cycloalkyl or lower aryl. When alkyl is employed, it usually has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, often from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms. Lower alkyl having from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Methyl and ethyl are especially preferred. When aralkyl is employed, the aryl portion generally contains from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion usually contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms benzyl is preferred.When cycloalkyl alkyl is used, the cycloalkyl portion generally contains from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms and the alkyl portion typically contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms cyclohexylmethyl is preferred. The cycloalkyl typically has from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms cyclohexyl is preferred. The lower aryl usually has from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms phenyl is preferred. These groups are usually unsubstituted, although one or more minor substituents which do not render the organic carbonate unsuitable for its intended purpose may be present on any of the groups. Similarly, those groups having one or more rings are usually homocyclic, but one or more hetero atoms may be present so long as they do not preclude tertiary amine formation.The aliphatic groups and the aliphatic portions of hybrid groups such as aralkyl may be straight or branched, but it is preferred they be straight. Only one organic carbonate or a plurality of organic carbonates may be used as desired. Examples of organic carbonates which may be employed include dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, propyl methyl carbonate, isopropyl methyl carbonate, isopropyl ethyl carbonate, butyl methyl carbonate, secondary butyl methyl carbonate, isobutyl methyl carbonate, tertiary butyl methyl carbonate, cyclohexyl methyl carbonate, benzyl methyl carbonate and phenyl methyl carbonate. It is preferred that R be hydrogen or methyl. The particularly preferred organic carbonates are dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate. Many different and widely varied highly hindered aromatic secondary amines may be converted to tertiary amines according to the invention. The common characteristics of such amines is that two aryl groups are attached to the amino nitrogen and the amino hydrogen is highly hindered. A class of particular importance is represented by the formulaEMI4.1 wherein a. R1 and R10 are each independently a substituent, and b. R2 R3, R4, Rg, Ró, R7, R8 and Rg are each inde pendently hydrogen or a substituent. The substituents located at various points on the ring may be any substituents which do not preclude tertiary amine formation. They may be the same or they may be different. They may themselves be unreactive under the conditions of the reaction as is the usual case, or one or more of them may be reactive under such conditions. Examples of substituents which may be used include halo, nitro, alkyl, alkoxy, alkoxyalkyl, aryloxy, aralkyl, carboxy, acyloxy, aroyloxy, hydroxy, cyano, cycloalkyl, cycloalkyl alkyl, acyl, aroyl, mercapto, alkylthio, seleno, alkylseleno, alkenyl and alkadienyl. The substituents themselves may be substituted, as for example, they may be haloalkyl, halocycloalkyl, nitrobenzyl and the like. Chloro and bromo are typically employed for halo. The alkyl may be straight or branched and usually has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms.The alkoxy ordinarily has from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. The alkoxyalkyl generally contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms in the alkoxy portion and from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms in the alkyl portion. The aryl portion of the aryloxy often contains from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms. The aralkyl often contains from 6 to about 10 carbon atoms in the aryl portion and from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms in the alkyl portion.The acyloxy ordinarily contains from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms.The acyloxy typically contains from 2 to about 7 carbon atoms. The cycloalkyl usually has from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms.The cycloalkyl alkyl generally contains from about 6 to about 8 carbon atoms in the cycloalkyl portion and from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms in the alkyl portion. The aroyl often has from 7 to about 11 carbon atoms. The alkylthio and alkylseleno generally have from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. The alkenyl typically has from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms. The alkadienyl usually has from about 4 to about 10 carbon atoms. Frequently many, and sometimes all, of the substituents on the rings of Formula II are each independently chloro, bromo, unsubstituted alkyl or substituted alkyl. This is particularly the case for R1 and R10. The unsubstituted alkyl and substituted alkyl groups may be straight or they may be branched and they most often contain from one to about ien carbon atoms. From one to about four carbon atoms is preferred. It is especially preferred that R1 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. A subclass of highly hindered aromatic secondary amine of particular interest is that of Formula II wherein R1, R5 and R10 are substituents, since this subclass is more highly hindered than when R5 is hydrogen. The above discussion with respect to substituents is also applicable to this subclass. It is preferred that R1, R5 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. The preferred subclass of highly hindered aromatic secondary amine is that of Formula II wherein R1, Rg, R6 and R10 are substituents. The above discussion with respect to substituents is also applicable to this subclass. It is preferred thatR1, Rg, R6 and R10 are each independently chloro, bromo or unsubstituted alkyl containing from one to about four carbon atoms. It is especially preferred that R1, R3, Rg, R6, R8 and R10 are each bromo. The reaction of highly hindered aromatic secondary amine and organic carbonate is usually conducted in the liquid phase. It may be carried out batchwise, continuously, semibatchwise or semicontinuously. When the organic carbonate is a liquid under the conditions of the reaction, it often acts as a solvent for the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine. Typically, but not necessarily, excess organic carbonate is employed and this usually serves to dissolve the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine throughout the reaction. In many cases, one or more by products of the reaction, most notably alcohols, also tend to dissolve the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine. Although extrinsic solvent is not ordinarily employed, it may be used when desired or when necessary to dissolve one or more of the reactants.Examples of suitable extrinsic solvents include methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, benzene, toluene, dioxane, dimethylformamide and chlorinated solvents such as chloroform, methylene chloride, ethylene chloride, carbon tetrachlbride and chlorobenzene. Only one extrinsic solvent or a plurality of extrinsic solvents may be used as desired. For many reactions, extrinsic solvent need not be introduced, and the reaction may be neat. When extrinsic solvent is used, the weight ratio of extrinsic solvent to the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine initially present is subject to wide variation. Generally, the amount of solvent should be sufficient to dissolve the reactants at the reaction temperature. The weight ratio of extrinsic solvent, when used, to the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine initially present is usually in the range of from about 0.01 1 to about 20 1. From about 0.1 1 to about 5 1 is preferred. The temperatures at which the reaction is conducted may vary widely, but ordinarily they are in the range of from about 160eC to about 240 C. Preferably the temperatures are in the range of from about 1800C to about 210eC. The pressures at which the reaction is conducted are similarly susceptible to wide variation. Atmospheric and superatmospheric pressures are generally employed, although lesser pressures may sometimes be used. Generally the pressure is in the.range of from about zero to about 5000 kilopascals, gauge, but higher pressures may be used. Preferably the pressure is in the range of from about 500 to about 2000 kilopascals, gauge. The reaction may be conducted in the presence of catalyst, although in many instances the use of catalyst is not needed.Exemplary catalysts which may be used include nitrogen containing heterocyclic catalysts such as pyridine, 4 dimethylamino pyridine, imidazole, 2,6 lutidine and 2,4,6 collidine. Only a single catalyst or a mixture of catalysts may be used where desired. The preferred catalyst is 4 dimethylamino pyridine. The equivalent ratio of the catalyst, when used, to the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine initially present may vary widely but usually it is in the range of from about 0.005 1 to about 0.5 1. It is preferred that the equivalent ratio be in the range of from about 0.01 1 to about 0.2 1. A preferred embodiment of the invention is the method for alkylating highly hindered aromatic secondary amine comprising reacting the amine with dialkyl carbonate in which at least one of the alkyl groups of the dialkyl carbonate is unsubstituted methyl or is an alkyl group having at least two carbon atoms wherein the number one carbon atom of the alkyl group is attached to two hydrogen atoms, to produce tertiary amine. The alkyl groups of the dialkyl carbonate used in this embodiment may be the same or different it is preferred that they be the same. Typically each alkyl group independently contains from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms, often from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms. Lower alkyl having from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Methyl and ethyl are especially preferred. The alkyl groups of the dialkyl carbonate are usually unsubstituted, although either or both may, subject to the conditions of the immediately preceding paragraph, contain minor substitutents which do not render the compound unsuitable for its intended purpose. Only one or a mixture of dialkyl carbonates may be used as desired. The preferred dialkyl carbonates are dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate dimethyl carbonate is particularly preferred. The above discussion respecting the highly hindered aromatic secondary amine is applicable to this embodiment. Following preparation, the tertiary amine may be recovered from the reaction mixture by any of the various techniques known to the art. Crystallization is one such technique that is frequently employed. The process of the invention may be employed to produce tertiary amines having widely varying uses, as for example, fire retardants for polymers, antioxidants in substrates such as rubber and as intermediates in the process of organic synthesis. The invention is further described in conjunction with the following examples which are to be considered illustrative rather than limiting. Example I A one liter reactor equipped with an agitator, an automatic temperature controller, a pressure gauge and an electric heating mantle was charged with 50 grams of bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl amine and 160 grams of dimethyl carbonate. The reactor was sealed and heated while the contents were agitated. The temperatures and pressures at various times after heating was begun are shown inTable 1. Table 1Time, Hours Minutes Temperature,oC Pressure, Kilopascals Gauge 0 0 Room o 0 10 55 138 0 50 160 827 1 20 180 1172 2 40 180 1241 3 50 180 1379 4 25 180 1448 4 50 180 1517 Four hours and fifty minutes after heating was begun, heating was discontinued and the reactor was allowed to cool.Twenty three hours and thirty five minutes after heating was begun, the temperature and pressure were observed to be room temperature and 207 kilopascals gauge, respectively. A sample of gas taken from the reactor was analyzed and found to contain carbon dioxide. The pressure was reduced to ambient and the reactor was found to contain 198.0 grams of liquid. After removal of dimethyl carbonate and methanol by vacuum stripping, analysis of the solidified residue by liquid chromatography showed it to contain 63 area percent N,N bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl methylamine and 36 area percent bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl amine. Example II The reactor of Example I was charged with 50 grams of bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl amine and 160 grams of dimethyl carbonate.The reactor was sealed and heated while the contents were agitated.The temperatures and pressures at various times after heating was begun are shown in Table 2. Table 2Time, Hours Minutes Temperature, C Pressure, Kilopascals Gauge 0 0 Room O 0 35 185 1517 1 35 195 1724 2 43 195 2068 3 05 195 2206 4 05 195 2413 4 50 195 2482 Four hours and fifty minutes after heating was begun, heating was discontinued and the reactor was allowed to cool. Twenty three hours and twenty minutes after heating was begun, the temperature and pressure were observed to be room temperature and 276 kilopascals gauge, respectively. The pressure was reduced to ambient and the reactor was found to contain 195 grams of liquid. After removal of dimethyl carbonate and methanol by vacuum stripping, analysis of the solidified residue liquid chromatography showed it to contain 87 area percent N,N bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl methyl amine and 11 area percent bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl amine.N,N bis 2,4,6 tribromophenyl methylamine is useful as a fire retardant additive for polymers, especially, acrylonitrile butadienestyrene interpolymers and high density polyethylene. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific details of certain embodiments thereof, it is not intended that such details should be regarded as limitations upon the scope of the invention except insofar as they are included in the accompanying claims.