# Organic nitrate drug mixtures resistant to detonation by fire.

## Abstract
Detonatable organic nitrates which are blended with excipients in drug mixtures for use as vasolidators, such as nitroglycerine lactose, are rendered nondetonatable when burned in smoldering fires by the incorporation therewith of minor amounts of an alkaline solid material such as magne sium carbonate or hydroxide.

## Claims
What is claimed is Claim 1. An organic nitrate drug mixture comprising a 5 50 by weight of an organic nitrate selected from the group consisting of nitroglycerine, isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5 mononitrate, isosorbide 2 mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and pentaerythritol tetranitrate, b a non alkaline excipient, and c an effective amount of a solid alkaline desensitizer material selected from the group consisting of alkali metal and alkaline earth metal carbonates, bicarbonates, hydroxides and hydrous oxides and the corresponding ammonium salts to prevent detonation when said mixture is burned in a smoldering fire. Claim 2. A composition of claim 1 wherein said solid alkaline material is selected from the group consisting of magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, calcium carbonate and ammonium carbonate. Claim 3. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said solid alkaline material is present in the mixture in quantities ranging from 0.05 0.2 parts by weight per part by weight of organic nitrate. Claim 4. A composition of Claim 1 wherein said excipient is selected from the group consisting of lactose, starch, flour, mannitol, sorbitol, sugar, polyvinylpyrrolidone, bentonite, attapulgite and silica. Claim 5. A composition of Claim 1 comprising a blend containing 1 part nitroglycerine, 9 parts lactose and, based on one part by weight of nitroglycerin, 0.05 0.2 parts of an alkaline material selected from the group consisting of magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, calcium carbonate and ammonium carbonate.

## Description
ORGANIC NITRATE DRUG MIXTURES RESISTANT TO DETONATION BYFIRE This invention is directed to drug mixtures containing high concentrations of organic nitrite compounds such as nitroglycerin dispersed in an inert excipient, and a minor amount of an alkaline solid which acts as a detonation desensitizer when the mixture is burned under oxygen deficient conditions. The nitrate mixtures, which include isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5 mononitrate, isosorbide 2 mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN , are used in more dilute concentrations in preparing tablets which are used as vasodilating drugs, especially in the treatment of angina. Alkaline sold desensitizers may be selected from alkali and alkaline earth metal carbonates, bicarbonates, hydroxides and hydrous oxides, and include such materials as ammonium carbonate. Detonatable organic nitrates such as nitroglycerin, isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5mononitrate, isosorbide 2 mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and PETN have been dispersed in concentrations ranging from 5 50 by weight in organic excipients such as lactose, starch, flour, mannitol, sorbitol, sugar and polyvinylpyrrolidone, and inorganic materials such as bentonite, attapulgité and silica.Such materials are thereafter diluted further when tablets are made for medicinal use. Blends of concentrated organic nitrates are generally considered stable and do not detonate even when submitted to high energy shock waves such as that supplied by a number 8 blasting cap. Furthermore, concentrated organic nitrate excipient blends have been considered safe and have been burned under oxygen rich conditions without incident. Waste materials containing the nitrate have for some time been disposed of by burning without incident. Recently, however, it was discovered that a commercially available drug mixture containing 10 nitroglycerine and 908 lactose could be detonated when burned in oxygen deficient, scorching and smoldering fires. It is the object of this invention, therefore, to provide an organic drug mixture resistant to detonation in smoldering fires which comprises a 5 50 by weight of an organic nitrate selected from nitroglycerin, isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5mononitrate, isosorbide 2 mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and pentaerythritol tetranitrate, b an inert nonalkaline excipient, and c an effective amount of a solid alkaline desensitizer material selected from the group consisting of alkali and alkaline earth metal carbonates, bicarbonates, hydroxides and hydrous oxides, and other salts such as the corresponding ammonium salts. The compositions of the invention can be made by simple blending techniques well known to the art for handling explosive materials. For example, the nitrate can be added to a mixture of excipient containing the desensitizer, the desensitizer can be added to a blend of nitrate plus excipient or alternatively all three may be combined at once. The choice of blending method may require different concentrations of desensitizer to gain equivalent results.In a preferred procedure the desensitizer is added to a blend of the nitrate in excipient so that the nitrate particle is coated with the desensitizer solid material The organic nitrate excipient blend can be made by first dissolving the nitrate in a highly volatile solvent such as alcohol, acetone or the like and thereafter adding the nitrate solution to a commercial blender containing either the inert excipient or a blend of the excipient with the desensitizer. One suitable procedure involves adding an acetone solution of nitrate such as nitroglycerin to an evacuated rotating v shaped blender such as that made by thePatterson Kelly Corporation. The solvent containing nitrate distributes over the surface of the solid powdered excipient after which the solvent evaporates leaving a fully blended nitrate coated solid.A minor amount of the powdered desensitizer may be coated over the nitrate containing particle in the same blending device. It is further contemplated that the ingredients can be blended in an aqueous paste solution after which the composition may be extruded and dried by conventional techniques. Many other commerciallyavailable blending devices normally acceptable for use with explosives may be employed for making the mixture. The drug mixtures usually will contain from 550 by weight of the organic nitrate dispersed in an inert non alkaline solid excipient and a minor amount of an alkaline solid material as a desensitizer. Excipient blends of nitroglycerine can be stabilized against detonation when they contain at least about 0.05 parts of alkaline desensitizer per part of organic nitrate.In most instances larger amounts of desensitizer in the blend offer little improvement up to 0.2 parts per part organic nitrate and higher up to equal amounts. Desensitizing alkaline solid materials may be selected from the carbonates, bicarbonates, hydroxides and hydrous oxides of alkali and alkaline earth metals selected from lithium, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and barium. Ammonium carbonate is effective at higher concentration however, a darkened product results after standing. When lactose is used as an excipient, magnesium hydroxide and carbonate are preferred since they have less tendency to darken the blend. Preferred alkaline materials may be selected from the group consisting of magnesium carbonate, magnesium hydroxide, sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, calcium carbonate and ammonium carbonate. It is contemplated that any inert non alkaline organic or inorganic excipient can be employed.Commonly used are such materials as lactose, starch, flour, mannitol, sorbitol, sugar and polyvinylpyrrolidone. Inorganic materials My be selected from clays such as bentonite and attapulgite, silica and the like. In addition to these essential ingredients coloring agents, flavors or additional medications may be employed. The following examples are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of various alkaline solid materials in stabilizing nitroglycerin lactose blends.However, the equivalent results are expected to be obtained with compositions containing isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5 mononitrate, isosorbide 2mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and PETN in concentrations ranging from 5 to 50 by weight. In the following examples all proportions are expressed in parts by weight unless otherwise stated. Preparation A A solution of 10 parts of nitroglycerin in 90 parts of acetone held in a polyethylene tank was added to 90 parts of hydrous lactose USP held in a commercially available rotating ribbon type blender turning at low speed. When all the acetone solution had been added, usually over a period of about 5 hours, and thoroughly mixed in the ribbon blender the material was transferred to paper covered trays held on a drying cart and placed in a drying room for at least 16 hours at about 500C. The material was then passed through a 10 US Sieve Series screen and stored in polyethylene lined fiber drums. Examples Varying amounts of Preparation A were placed in a ribbon blender and combined with a pulverized alkaline solid desensitizer to form evenly distributed blends containing 0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 parts of desensitizer per part of nitroglycerine wherein the ratio of lactose to nitroglycerine was 9 1. Burn tests were conducted for each of the desensitized blends by placing 907.2 g. of nitrate mixture in a 3 mil thick polyethylene bag measuring 15.25 cm. in diameter and 39.48 cm. in length. The open end was tied off to form a chub measuring 15.24 cm.in diameter by 25.4 cm. in length. These samples were then placed in a 3 AF cap carton and taped. 5 samples of each blend including the control were prepared in this way for burn testing. Each sample was burned at an outdoor test ground as follows 1 multiwall paperbag 58.42 cm. x 88.9 cm. having 3 paper layers and 1 polyethylene layer was placed at the bottom of a hole dug in the ground measuring 76.2 cm. x 76.2 cm. square and 15.24 cm. deep.In the center of the bag over a 40.64 cm. x 40.64 cm. area were placed 5 layers of pine wood furring strips measuring 1.9 cm. x 6.67 cm. x 40.64 cm. 4 strips were placed 10.16 cm. apart parallel to one another on the bag as a first layer. The second layer was placed on top of the furring strips at a 900 angle thereto spaced 10.16 cm. apart. 3 more layers were piled in alternating directions to form the 5 layers of furring strips. 1.89 litres of No. 2 fuel oil were then poured over the wood strips. The 907.2 g. sample was then placed on top of the pile of wood. The fire was ignited and watched from behind a brricade. The wind velocity wa no greater than 16 km. per hour. After about 37 to 42 minutes the blend containing no desensitizer had detonated. Test results for the various desensitizer materials tried appear in Table 1. While concentrations of desensitizer ranging to as low as 0.05 parts per part of nitrate were found to be effective, it is contemplated that even lower quantities may be employed if the alkaline solid is added wet to the ribbon mixer after the nitroglycerine solvent combination is blended with the lactose, since the desensitizer can be more evenly coated over the lactose nitrate particle. While other nitrates such as isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide 5 mononitrate, isosorbide 2mononitrate, mannitol hexanitrate and PETN are somewhat less sensitive than nitroglycerine, it is expected that the incorporation of the desensitizer materials will be effective in reducing the detonation hazard if similar detonating conditions arise in blends containing these substances. Table IEMI7.1 tb SEP Concentration tb Example SEP parts SEP by SEP wt SEP Detonation SEP Test SEP Results tb SEP No SEP Desensitizer SEP per SEP part SEP of SEP No SEP of SEP No SEP of tb SEP nitrate SEP t SEP SEP Samples SEP Detonations tb Control SEP None SEP 0 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 37 42 SEP min. tb SEP 1 SEP NaHC03 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP NaHCO3 SEP .05 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 3 SEP Na2CO3 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 4 SEP MgCO3 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP MgCO3 SEP .05 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP Mg OH 2 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 7 SEP Mg OH 2 SEP .05 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 8 SEP CaC03 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP 9 SEP RTI ID 7.4 CaC03 SEP .05 SEP 4 SEP 0 tb SEP 10 SEP NH4 2CO3 SEP .2 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb