# Immunomodulator and method of use for immunomodulation.

## Abstract
The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising, as active ingredient, swainsonine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The present invention also provides a method of use of swainsonine or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the therapeutic treatment of diseases caused by or accompanied by depression of an immunoactivity.

## Claims
We claim 1. A pharmaceutical composition comprising as an active ingredient swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 2. A method of use of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt for therapeutic treatment of diseases caused by or accompanied with depression of an immuno activity. 3. An immunomodulating agent comprising as an active ingredient swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 4. An immunomodulating agent comprising as an active ingredient swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and an antitumor, antibacterial or antiinflamatory agent. 5. A method of use of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and an antitumor, antibacterial or antiinflamatory agent for preventing depression of an immuno activity, caused by administration of said agent. 6. A method of claim 2, wherein the disease accompained with depression of an immuno activity is tumor, infections diseases, allergistic diseases, autoimmune diseases or steroid dependent diseases. 7. A method of use of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and an antitumor agent for preventing depression of an immuno activity, caused by administration of said antitumor agent. 8. A method of claim 7, wherein the anti tumor agent is mitomycin C or cyclophosphamide.

## Description
IMMUNOMODULATOR AND METHOD OF USE FOR IMMUNOMODULA TI ON This invention relates to an immunomodulator and a method of use for immunomodulation. Particularly, this invention relates to an immunomodulator comprising as an active ingredient swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and to a method of use of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt for immunomodulation . Swainsonine to be used in this invention is the known substance possessing an a mannosidase inhibiting activity which was isolated from the plant Swainsona canescens and has the following chemical structure c.f. Australian Journal of Chemistry, 1979, 32,P. 2257 2264 .EMI1.1 Any medical use of swainsonine, however, has not yet been known. The inventors of this invention, as a result of an extensive study, have found that swainsonine and its pharmaceutically acceptable salt possess an immunomodulating activity such as restoration of a depressed immunity, and accordingly are useful as an immunomodulator for therapeutic treatment of diseases caused by or accompanied with depression of an immuno activity. Preferred examples of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of swainsonine may include an acid addition salt with an organic or an inorganic acid such as methane sulfonate, hydrochloride, sulfate, nitrate, phosphate or the like. Swainsonine and its pharmaceutically acceptable salt are useful as an immunomodulator for therapeutic treatment of diseases of human being and animal caused by or accompanied with depression of an immuno activity, and further for therapeutic treatment of disease of immuno insufficiency due to old age or the like. As such diseases there may be exemplified tumor, infectious diseases, allergistic diseases, autoimmune diseases, steroid dependent diseases and the like. Swainsonine and its pharmaceutically acceptable salt are also useful for prevention of a subsidiary ill effect due to administration of medicines such as an antitumor agent, an antimicrobial agent, an anti inflammatory agent including a steroid hormone or the like. Namely, among these medicines, administration of them may cause occasionally, as a subsidiary ill effect, depression of an immuno activity, and swainsonine and its pharmaceutically acceptable salt prevent such a subsidiary ill effect, and promote the therapeutic effect of these medicines. As examples of such medicines, there may be exemplified cyclophosphamide, cortisone acetate, vinblastine, vincristine, adriamycin, 6 mercaptopurine, 5 fluorouracil, mitomycin C, chloramphenicol and the like. Accordingly, swainsonine and its pharmaceutically acceptable salt can be used as an immunomodulator for therapeutic treatment of diseases caused by or accompanied with depression of an immunoactivity alone or together with medicines such as an antitumor agent, an antimicrobial agent, an antiinflammatory agent or the like. For the purpose of showing utility of swainsonine for an immunomodulator, pharmacological test data of swainsonine are illustrated in the followings.Test 1 Competitive effect of swainsonine against immunosuppressive factor obtained from tumor bearing mice serum Method 1 Preparation of immunosuppressive factor from tumor bearing mice serum. Mice. Female ICR JCL 8 weeks of age mice were obtained from Seidokyo, Shizuoka, Japan. Tumor. Sarcoma 180 S 180 cells maintained in vivo in ICR mouse in ascites form, were used for this experiment. Preparation of immunosuppressive factor. ICR mice were intraperitonealy inoculated with 0.2 ml of S 180 suspension 5x106 cells ml . S 180 bearing mice were bled from heart under light ether anesthesia with sterile synringe between 7 and 9 days after transplantation and serum was collected. Immunosuppressive factor was partially purified from the S 180 tumor bearing mice serum according to the method described by SE KYUNG OH and F.L.MOOLTEN J. Immunol., 127, 2300 2307, 1981 . Briefly, the serum 50 ml was delipidated with 1 10 vol. of 4 phospho tungstic acid and 1 40 vol of 2M magnesium chloride and centrifuged at 6000 x G for 10 min. Excess phosphotungstic acid and magnesium ion were removed by dialysis against phosphate buffered saline PBS 0.15 M sodium chloride and 0.01 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.4 . Then, partially delipidated serum was precipitated with ammonium sulfate at 50 saturation. The supernatant was removed by centrifugation at 20000 x G for 30 min. The precipitates were redissolved in a small volume of water and dialysed against PBS overnight at 40C. The dialysed solution was chromatographed on Sephadex G 200 column in PBS. Each eluate 15 ml was assayed for suppressive activity.2 Assay method of immunosuppressive activity Immunosuppressive activity was measured by assay for inhibition of the mitogen induced mouse spleen cell proliferation.3 Suppression of mitogen induced mouse spleen cell proliferation and its restoration by swainsonine in vitro.Mitogenic activities for mouse spleen cells in vitro a Mice. Female BALB C strain 8 weeks of age was used.b Tissue culture medium The tissue culture medium employed was a complete medium designated Roswell Park Memorial Institute PPMI 1640. All media employed contained 100 units ml of penicillin G and 100 ng ml of streptomycin sulfate and 5 fetal calf serum.c Spleen cell preparation Spleens were removed under sterile conditions and washed with Hanks solution and then teased in the tissue culture medium. The cells were suspended in the tissue culture medium to contain 5 x 105 cells ml.d Culture conditions Into each hole of Microtiteration plate Falcon No. 3040 were poured 0.1 ml of the above cells suspension and 0.1 ml of the prescribed concentrate of the compound and or immunosuppressive factor described above. Concanavalin A con A was utilized for cell stimulation at a final concentration of 1 pg ml. The culture was incubated in triplicate at 370C in a humidified atmosphere 95 air, 5 CO2 for 48 hours.e Assay for mitogen induced mouse spleen cells proliferation. The mitogen induced mouse spleen cells proliferation was assayed for tritiated thymidine 3H thymidine incorporation. In all tests, 20 pl of 10 micro curie pCi ml of 3H thymidine was added to each hole for the 48 hours of culture. After further 24 hours incubation, the culture was terminated. The resultant cells were filtered with filter paper,Whatman GF83 and washed successively with saline and with 5 trichloroacetic acid. The filter paper was dried and placed in a scintillator toluene 1 liter containing 0.1 g of p bis 5 phenyl oxazole benzene and 4 g of 2,5 diphenyloxazole , and 3H thymidine incorporated into DNA was measured. The suppressive effect of immunosuppressive factor on mitogenic response of spleen cells and its restoration by swainsonine were shown in Table 1. Immunosuppressive factor from the tumor bearing mice serum profoundly suppressed the mitogen 3 induced stimulation of 3H thymidine incorporation by mouse spleen cell Table 1 . This suppression was dose dependent. The addition of swainsonine to the culture contained immunosuppressive factor, prevented the suppression. This result indicates that swainsonine has the capacity to restore the depression of mitogenic responses of mouse spleen cell by immunosuppressive factor. Furthermore, the addition of swainsonine to mouse spleen cell culture did not affected mitogenic activity of mouse spleen cell or spleen cell viability. When Con A and swainsonine were added simultaneously to culture, Con A induced stimulation of 3H thymidine incorporation into mouse spleen cell was increased 10 times as much as that seen with Con A only. This stimulation of mitogenecity of Con A on spleen cells by swainsonine indicates that the substance is capable of enhancing the mitogenic responses of suppressor T cells and may be used as an immunosuppressant in human being with allergistic diseases, autoimmune diseases and the like.Table 1.EMI7.1 tb Experiment SEP Treatment SEP of SEP 3H thymidine SEP tb SEP No. SEP spleen SEP cell SEP added SEP uptake SEP SEP cpm SEP tb SEP cpm SEP tb SEP 1 SEP Non SEP treated SEP control SEP 1,616 tb SEP 2 SEP Concanavalin SEP A tb SEP 3 SEP pg well SEP 121,245 tb SEP 1 SEP 61,975 tb SEP 0.3 SEP 13,146 tb SEP 3 SEP Immunosuppressive SEP factor tb SEP 8 SEP pl well SEP 320 tb SEP 6 SEP 302 tb SEP 4 SEP 420 tb SEP 2 SEP 1,310 tb SEP 4 SEP Swainsonine tb SEP 20 SEP pg well SEP 1,260 tb SEP 2 SEP 1,726 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 1,734 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 1,712 tb SEP 0.002 SEP 1,598 tb SEP 0.0002 SEP 1,311 tb SEP 5 SEP Concanavalin SEP A SEP 1 SEP pg well SEP tb SEP Immunosuppressive SEP factor tb SEP 8 SEP pl well SEP 1,617 tb SEP 6 SEP 2,626 tb SEP 4 SEP 21,589 tb SEP 2 SEP 60,308 tb SEP 6 SEP Concanavalin SEP A SEP 0.3 SEP pg we11 SEP tb SEP swainsonine tb SEP 20 SEP pg well SEP , SEP SEP 68,778 tb SEP 2 SEP 100,480 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 118,071 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 108,748 tb SEP 0.002 SEP 105,850 tb SEP 0.0002 SEP 67,017 tb SEP 7 SEP Concanavalin SEP A SEP 1 SEP pg well tb SEP tb SEP Immunosuppressive SEP factor tb SEP 6 SEP ul wel SEP SEP tb SEP swainsonine tb SEP 20 SEP pg well SEP 37,746 tb SEP 2 SEP 53,500 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 70,890 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 66,858 SEP tb 0,002 SEP 69,313 SEP tb Note The cpm is the mean of triplicate cultures. Test 2 Immunosuppressive effect of tumor bearing mouse serum on mixed lymphocyte culture and its restoration by swainsonine Female C57BL 6 mice, 8 weeks in age, and female BALB c mice, 8 weeks in age were sacrificed, spleens were aseptically removed and single cell suspensions were prepared as sources of stimulating and responding cells, respectively. Prior to culture, the stimulator cells were treated with 200 pg ml of mitomycin C for 45 minutes at 370C, followed by three washes with PBS. They were established at a final concentration of 0.2 x 106 cells 0.2 ml of reaction mixture and cultured in microtiteration plate Falcon, No.3040 using RPMI medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum and 5 x 10 2mercaptoethanol. The culture was continued for 120 hours and pulse labeled with 3H thymidine for 24 hours before the termination of incubation. The cells were collected and radioactivity was counted. Immunosuppressive factor from tumor bearing mouse 3 serum inhibited H thymidine uptake into mixed lymphocyte culture MLC stimulated spleen cells. When the immunosuppressive factor was incubated with swainsonine, the inhibitory activity was removed. The addition of swainsonine to MLC enhanced remarkably the MLC stimulated spleen cells 3H thymidine uptake. This result indicates that swainsonine is capable of inducing killer T cell generation. Table 2.EMI9.1 tb 3 SEP tb SEP Experiment SEP Reaction SEP 3H thymidine tb SEP No. SEP uptake SEP cpm SEP SEP tb SEP uptake SEP cpm tb SEP 1 SEP Unstimulated SEP spleen SEP cell tb SEP responder SEP alone SEP 4,401 tb SEP 2 SEP MLC SEP without tb SEP immunosuppressive SEP factor SEP 18,866 tb SEP 3 SEP MLC SEP with SEP immunosuppressive tb SEP factor tb SEP 3 SEP ul SEP 3,278 tb SEP 5 SEP 1l SEP 2,331 tb SEP 4 SEP MLC SEP with SEP immunosuppressive tb SEP factor SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP tb SEP SEP tb SEP swainsonine tb SEP 2 SEP pg well SEP 23,928 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 27,942 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 31,595 tb SEP 0.002 SEP 24,951 tb SEP 0.0002 SEP 13,015 tb SEP 0.00002 SEP 10,449 tb SEP 5 SEP MLC SEP with SEP immunosuppressive tb SEP factor SEP 5 SEP l SEP tb SEP tb SEP swainsonine tb SEP 2 SEP ng well SEP 6,709 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 7,928 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 7,679 tb SEP 0.002 SEP 10,918 tb SEP 0.0002 SEP 6,377 tb SEP 0.00002 SEP 3,737 tb SEP 6 SEP MLC SEP with SEP swainsonine tb SEP 2 SEP ng well SEP 33,104 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 38,077 tb SEP 0.02 SEP 33,686 tb SEP 0.002 SEP 29,688 tb SEP 0.0002 SEP 21,823 tb SEP 0.00002 SEP 20,653 tb Note The cpm is the mean of triplicate cultures. Test 3 Immunosuppressive effect of tumor bearing mouse serum on antibody forming capacities and its restoration by swainsonine Splenic lymphocytes producing antibody against sheep blood red cells SRBC were quantitated using Cunningham modification Cunningham, A.J., Nature, 207, 1106 1107, 1965 of the Jerne plaque assay.Female BDF1 8 weeks in age mice were injected intravenously with 0.2 ml of immunosuppressive factor from 4 days before immunization with 5 x 10 SRBC, every day for 4 days. Samples were administered to mice intraperitoneally four times before immunization. Mice were sacrificed 4 days after the injection of SRBC, and the number of direct plague forming cells per spleen was determined.Table 3 shows immunosuppressive activity of suppressive factor against antibody forming capacities in vivo and its restoration by swainsonine.Immunosuppressive factor from the tumor bearing mouse serum suppressed the antibody forming capacities againstSRBC in mice.The intraperitoneal administration of swainsonine restored the capacities of the mice injected immunosuppressive factor to produce antibody against SRBC.Swainsonine did not enhance the capacities of normal mice to produce antibody against SRBC. Table 3.EMI11.1 tb SEP PFC SRBC spleen tb SEP Substance SEP average SEP number SEP of tb SEP 5 SEP mice group tb SEP Control SEP saline SEP 19.25 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP Immunosuppressive SEP factor SEP 4 tb SEP 0.3 SEP ml mouse day SEP 9.32 SEP x SEP 10 SEP tb 4 tb SEP Swainsonine tb SEP 100 SEP mg kg day SEP SEP 16.49 SEP x SEP 10 SEP tb SEP Immunosuppressive SEP factor tb SEP 0.3 SEP ml mouse day tb SEP tb SEP Swainsonine SEP 4 tb SEP 100 SEP mg kg SEP 17.39 SEP x SEP 10 SEP tb SEP 33 SEP 20.84 SEP x SEP 104 SEP tb SEP 11 SEP 20.08 SEP x SEP 104 SEP tb SEP 3.7 SEP 20.77 SEP x SEP 10 SEP tb Immunosuppressive factor iv SRBC iv EMI11.2 Swainsonine ip pfc assayTest 4 Depression of antibody forming capacities in tumor bearing mice and its restoration by the swainsonine Female ICR 8 weeks in age mice were intraperitoneally inoculated with 0.2 ml of Sarcoma 180 suspension 5 x 106 cells ml at aay O. Samples were administered to mice intraperitoneally from 7 days before immunization with 5 x 108 SRBC, every day for five days. The number of direct plaque forming cells per spleen was measured five days after immunization.Table 4 shows the immunosuppressive effect on the development of tumor and its restoration of immune response by swainsonine in tumor bearing mice.The administration of swainsonine restored the capacities of the tumor bearing mice to produce antibody againstSRBC.Table 4.EMI12.1 tb SEP PFC SRBC spleen tb SEP average SEP number SEP of tb SEP 5 SEP mice group tb Control SEP saline SEP 139.1 SEP x SEP 104 tb Tumor SEP bearer SEP 46.4 SEP x SEP 104 tb Swainsonine SEP 100 SEP mg kg SEP 118.7 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP Swainsonine SEP 126.7 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP mg kg tb Tumor SEP bearer SEP 33 SEP 123.5 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP 11 SEP 71.6 SEP SEP x SEP 104 SEP tb SEP 3.7 SEP 61.6 SEP x SEP 104 tb ScheduleS 180 1x106 cells mouse EMI12.2 Swainsonine ip SRBC iv pfc assay Test 5 Immunosuppressive effect of mitomycin C on antibody forming capacities and its restoration by swainsonine Female BDF1 8 weeks in age mice were injected intraperitoneally with mitomycin C 1 mg kg from four days before immuization with 5 x 108 SRBC, every day for three days. Samples also were administered to mice intraperitoneally from four days before immunization, every day for five days. At day 9, mice were sacrificed and the number of direct plaque forming cells per spleen was measured by using Cunningham modification method. Table 5 shows immunosuppressive activity of mitomycin C in vivo and its restoration by swainsonine.The administration of swainsonine restored the capacities of the mice injected mitomycin C to produce antibody against SRBC.Table 5.EMI13.1 tb SEP PFC SRBC spleen tb SEP Substance SEP average SEP number SEP of tb SEP 5 SEP mice group tb SEP 4 SEP tb SEP Control SEP saline SEP 19.73 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP Swainsonine SEP 100 SEP mg kg SEP 21.66 SEP x SEP SEP 104 SEP tb SEP Saline SEP 12.65 SEP x SEP 104 tb Nitomycin SEP C tb SEP Swainsonine SEP 21 SEP 79 SEP 104 SEP x SEP 4 tb 1.0 SEP mg kg SEP 100 SEP mg kg SEP 21.79 SEP x SEP SEP 10 SEP tb SEP 33 SEP 20.90 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP 11 SEP 20.90 SEP x SEP 10 tb SEP 3.7 SEP 21.31 SEP x SEP 104 tb ScheduleMMC 1 mg kg day ip EMI14.1 Test 6 Immunosuppressive effect of cyclophosphamide on antibody forming capacities and its restoration by swainsonine Female BDF1 8 weeks in age mice were injected intraperitoneally with cyclophosphamide 22.5 mg kg 4 days before immunization with 5 x 108 SRBC.Samples were administered to mice i.p. from four days before immunization, every day for five days. Mouse splenic lymphocytes producing antibody againstSRBC were quantitated by using Cunningham modification method described previously. Table 6 shows immunosuppressive activity of cyclophosphamide in vivo and its restoration by of swainsonine. The administration swainsonine restored the capacities of the mice injected cyclophosphamide to produce antibody against SRBC.ScheduleCY 22.5 mg kg SRBC iv EMI14.2 Table 6.EMI15.1 tb SEP PFC SRBC spleen tb SEP Substance SEP average SEP number SEP o tb SEP 5 SEP mice group tb Control SEP saline SEP 16.94 SEP x SEP 104 tb Swainsonine SEP 100 SEP mg kg SEP 16.54 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP Saline SEP 8.46 SEP x SEP 104 tb Cyclophosphamide SEP Swainsonine SEP 16.48 SEP x SEP i04 SEP tb SEP 16.48 SEP x SEP 104 tb 22.5 SEP mg kg SEP 100 SEP mg kg tb SEP 33 SEP 17.19 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP 11 SEP 16.52 SEP x SEP 104 tb SEP 3 SEP 21.53 SEP x104 tb Test 7 Prevention from dexamethasone induced thymus atrophy by swainsonine Five week old ddy mice male were used. Samples were given subcutaneously twice per day from day 0 to day 2 of the experiment. Five hours after first medication on day 0, mice were supplied with drinking water containing 1 ng ml of dexamethasone.At day 2, the weight of thymus of the treated mice was compared with that of the nontreated controls. The result is shown in Table 7.Swainsonine prevents the mouse from atrophy of thymus induced by dexamethasone in mice. The fact indicates that the compound is capable of restoring the immunosuppression induced by dexamethasone. Table 7. Sample Dexamethasone Thymus weight treatment No 76.8 Yes 57.2 50 mg kg Yes 72.4 15 Yes 78.8 5 Yes 73.0 1 Thymus weight mg mouse n 5 Test 8 Effect of swainsonine on murine transplantable tumors Sarcoma 180 S 180 cells 1 x 106 cells were inoculated to ICR female, 8 weeks old mice intraperitoneally and then after, swainsonine was administered intraperitoneally daily for 5 days.The total tumor cell packed volume in ascites was measured 15 days after tumor cell inoculation. As shown in Table 8 Swainsonineinhibits growth of transplantable tumors in mice.Table 8. Dose mg kg day Total cell packed volume ml 1 100 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 30 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 10 5, 12, 23, 33, 38 3 22, 32, 40, 40, 47 Control 35, 38, 39, 45, 48 1 1000 rpm for 10 minutes Acute toxicity of swainsonine in ddY mice is above lg kg by intravenous injection. The pharmaceutical composition of this invention can be used in the form of a pharmaceutical preparation, for example, in solid, semisolid or liquid form, which contains an active substance of this invention in admixture with an organic or inorganic carrier or excipient suitable for external, enteral or parenteral applications. The active ingredient may be compounded, for example, with the usual non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for tablets, pellets, capsules, suppositories, solutions, emulsions, suspensions, and any other form suitable for use.The carriers which can be used are water, glucose, lactose, gum acacia, gelatin, mannitol, starch paste, magnesium trisilicate, talc, corn starch, keratin, colloidal silica, potato starch, urea and other carriers suitable for use in manufacturing preparations, in solid, semisolid, or liquid form, and in addition auxiliary, stabilizing, thickening and coloring agents and perfumes may be used. The pharmaceutical compositions can also contain preservative or bacteriostatic agents to keep the active ingredient in the desired preparations stable in activity. The active object compound is included in the pharmaceutical composition in an amount sufficent to produce the desired therapeutic effect upon the process or condition of diseases. For applying this composition to humans, it is preferably to apply it by intravenous, intramuscular or oral administration. While the dosage or therapeutically effective amount of the object compound of this invention varies from and also depends upon the age and condition of each individual patient to be treated, a daily dose of about 0.1 100 mg of the active ingredient kg of a human being or an animal is generally give for treating diseases, and an average single dose of about 50 mg, 100 mg, 250 mg, and 500 mg is generally administered. In case of use of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and an antitumor, antibacterial, or antiinflammatory agent, the ratio of swainsonine or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt and an antitumor, anti agent bacterial or antiinflammatory may vary with the kinds of disease and said agent, but may usually be in a range of 1 0.001 to 1 10 by weight. The following Examples are given for the purpose of illustrating this invention.Example 1 Swainsonine 250 mg was dissolved in a sterile distilled water 2 ml and adjusted to pH 7.0 7.2 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The resultant solution was distributed into vials and then lyophilized.Whenever the vial is required for use, 2 ml of sterile distilled water for injection is added to the vial and then the aqueous solution is administered by injection.Example 2 Swainsonine 250 mg 100 Meshed lactose 50 mg Starch 50 mg Magnesium stearate 3 mgThe above ingredients were mixed and then inserted into a hard gelatin capsule in a conventional manner.Example 3 A suitable formulation for a tablet consists of the following mixture. Swainsonine 250 mgLactose 60 mgHydroxypropyl cellulose 6 mgStarch 30 mgMagnesium stearate 3 mg