# Process for sanitizing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid by extrusion.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a method for sanitizing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid by exposure to moist heat under elevated pressure in an extruder.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for sanitizing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid without substantially affecting the useful properties, comprising subjecting psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid to moist heat such that the internal product temperature is from about 800C to about 1200C, under conditions such that the pressure is above about 500 psi while concurrently extruding to ambient temperature and pressure. 2. A process according to Claim 1 where the internal product temperature is 1000C to 1200C. 3. A psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid composition prepared according to Claim 1.

## Description
PROCESS FOR SANITIZINGPSYLLIUM HYDROPHILIC MUCILLOID BY EXTRUSIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION a Eield of the Invention The.present invention relates to a method for sanitizing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid In particular, it relates to a method consisting of subjecting psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid to moist heat under elevated pressure while extruding to ambient temperature and pressure. The term psyllium seed is used in the generic sense to refer to seeds of the Plantagi genus and this term is recognized Roy L. whistler and James N. BeMiller,Industrial Gums, Academic Press, New York and London 1959 p. 438 to include seeds of species such asPlantago psyllium, Plantago ovata, Plantago indica,Plantago lanseolato, and Plantago major as representative but not exclusive examples. Psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid is the husk obtained from the psyllium seed and may be milled or milled Psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid contains natural mucillage and forms a gelatinous mass on contact with water. It is useful in the treatment of constipation by acting as a fecal softner and also as a demulcent in the presence of inflamed mucosa. Generally, psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid is separated from the seed by the application of pressure to the whole seed the husk is separated, sanitized, and then incorporated into laxative products with or without further processing. Untreated psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid has an average microbial count of about 50,000 counts gram. In addition, naturally occurring microbial pathogens and insect eggs are occasionally present. In order to make psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid suitable for oral consumption, these contaminants must be greatly reduced or eliminated sanitization . b Prior Art Psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid is sanitized by a number of methods. Treatment with ethylene oxide ETO reduces the microbial count, but results in undesirable residues such as ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene glycol. In addition, ETO, a known mutagen, is generally not allowed in foods nor recommended for use by pregnant women. See Fed. Reg. Vol. 43 No. 122, Fri, June 23, 1978 Lastly, ETO treated psyllium husk must be stored from 2 to 6 months to dissipate chemical.residues. Likewise, chlorination is used but produces undesirable taste and alters swelling characteristics of the psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid. U.S. Patent 3,992,147 describes a method for sterilizing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid using aqueous isopropanol with hydrogen peroxideHowever, this method is expensive and not readily adaptable to large scale commercial production. While steam sterilization is known in the art, the tendency for psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid to swell on contact with water has rendered this method unworkable. The U,S.P. defines steam sterilization as heating in an autoclave employing saturated steam under pressure for at least 15 minutes at a minimum temperature of 1210C. SUP IMARY OF THE INVENTION It is therefore an object of this invention to develop a method for sanitization of psyllium hydrophilid mucilloid which is readily adaptable to commercial use, is free from harmful residues and undesirable taste, reduces the need for mandatory storage, yet retains the appropriate physical characteristics necessary for efficacy. Current commercially available psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid is either untreated or ETO sanitized. Untreated psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid contains an average microbial count of about 50,000 counts gram and also may contain microbial pathogens, and insect eggs. Eor consumption purposes it is highly desirable to substantially reduce the microbial count and eliminate pathogens and insect eggs, especially if the product is to be marketed worldwide where ex U.S. requirements may be more restrictive. ETO does reduce the microbial count to around 5,000 to 20,000 counts gram but the treated psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid must be stored from 2 to 6 months to dissipate chemical residues such as ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene glycol. These residues have been implicated as possible carcinogens and it would be desirable to eliminate them altogether. The ambient storage process, however, only reduces residues to around lOOppm. That level may be unacceptable for some uses, for example, inSweden, not more than Sppm of ethylene chlorohydrin is allowed in a given psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid sample.In addition, Sweden requires not more than 100 microbial counts gram for psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid.Obviously, a method for reducing the microbial count, pathogens and insect eggs as well as eliminating ETO and its residues would be highly desirable. In accordance with these objects, it has been discovered that psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid that is extruded using moist heat such that the internal product temperature is from about 800C to about 1200C at a pressure greater than about 500 psi, that is extruded to ambient temperature and pressure meets these requirements. The psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid is not significantly changed in physical characteristics and becomes more homogeneous within the parameters of this invention Extrusion may be defined as shaping by forcing through a specially designed die opening. Extrusion therefore is primarily oriented toward the continuous forming of plastic, soft or food products through a die. Several designs are possible for extruders. The simplest is a ram or piston extruder.Other forms of extruders are flighted screw s or worm s rotating within a sleeve or barrel.The action of the flight on the screw pushes the material to be extruded forward and creates pressure behind a die so that it extrudes through the opening. Heat is applied directly by such means as steam injection or indirectly through jackets and by dissipation of the mechanical energy due to the shearing occurring within the extruded material. For a discussion of the history of food extruders see for example Extrusion of Food, CRC Press, Judson M.Harper pp 3 6. A food extruder consists of a screw s which rotates in a tightly fitting cylindrical barrel. Raw ingredients may be preground and blended before being placed in the feed end of the extrusion screw. These ingredients may be partially heated and moisturized in a preconditioning chamber which can be of the atmospheric or pressure cooker type. The action of the flights on the screw pushes the food product forward and in so doing, works and mixes the constituents into a viscous dough like mass.Heat is added to the food dough as it passes through the screw by one or more of three mechanisms 1 viscous dissipation of mechanical energy being added to the shaft of the screw, 2 heat transfer from steam or electrical heaters surrounding the barrel, and 3 direct injection of steam l which is mixed with the dough in the screw. As the moist, hot material moves through the extruder, the pressure within the barrel increases due to a restriction at the discharge of the barrel. The restriction is caused by one or more orifices or shaped openings called a die. Discharge pressures typically vary between 400 to 2200 psi. At these elevated pressures, boiling or flashing of moisture does not occur within the confines of the barrel because the pressure exceeds the vapor pressure of water at the extrusion temperature.Once the mass emerges from the die, the pressure is released causing the product to expand with extensive flashing of moisture. The loss of moisture and drop in pressure results in cooling of the product, solidification and often retention of its expanded shape. While moist heat is generally accepted as a sterilization method, it is also recognized that moist heat is unacceptable for psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid because of the tendency of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid to swell prematurely. Indeed, outside the parameters of this invention that is precisely what happens. The invention is accomplished by placing psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid into the feed hopper of a standard food extruder such as the Creusot Loire double screw or the Wenger single screw type. The barrel jacket is operated at a temperature so as to result in an internal product temperature of from about 800C to about 1200C and a pressure greater than about 500 psi and the extruder operated in a normal manner. Pressure is a direct function of the screw speed, viscosity, temperature of the product, feed rate and the percent open area of the die used in the extrusion process.One skilled in the art may readily vary these functionalities to achieve a pressure in excess of about 500 psi. while the instant invention will work at any pressure above about 500 psi, the upper limits of pressure will most likely be proportional to the temperature, and the strength of the particular extruder used, it being recognized that these functionalities will set practical upper limits on the process which will vary from circumstance to circumstance. In general the practical upper limits will be around 2,200 psi.Likewise, thepractical lower limits of pressure may vary slightly from 500 psi from machine to machine within limits understood in the art. Below about 800C, and about 500 psi., as expected, the psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid becomes rubber like and impossible to mill further.Extrusion above about 1200C yields a product with swell volume and viscosity below acceptable levels. A preferred internal temperature is between 100 1200C. The product may then be milled and sized ready for use. The product of the instant invention compares favorably with products sanitized in conventional manner such that bulk density, viscosity, swell volume, particle size distribution, and color remain relatively comparable within acceptable limits. The milled product does show an improvement in that it becomes more homogeneous in terms of overall appearance when compared to previous products.One skilled in the art could readily distinguish, on microscopic examination, a sample of prior art product versus the extruded product. The following examples further illustrate details for the method of sanitizing of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid. The invention is not to be construed as being limited either in spirit or in scope by these examples.Those skilled in the art will readily understand that known variations of the conditions and processes of the following are possible.Brief Description of the DrawingsReferring to the drawings in example 6 Figure 1 is a chart comparing particle size distribution of the extruded and milled psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid versus the commercial psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid. Fig. 2 is a chart comparing particle size distribution for commercial product containing powdered psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid versus product containing the extruded and milled psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid. DESCRIPTIONS OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSExample 1 Microbial Count Reduction in Extruded Psyllium Hydrophilic MucilloidUsing a Creusot Loire BC 45 double screw extruder, commercial untreated psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid having a microbial count of 51,500 gram was extruded at different temperatures. Temperature Total Microbial Counts Gram Untreated 51,500 600 C 800 C 95 1090 C 8 1200 C Ca. 1 1370 C Ca. 1 In extruded products all pathogens were destroyed. Below about 800 C the material turned into rubber like mass that was not possible to mill or determine microbial count. The milled extruded product, when compared to commercial ETO treated and milled product, is more homogeneous and has comparable bulk density and flow characteristics. On microscopic examination, at approximately 40X, the commercial sized product appears as flat flakes with characteristic fingerprint l patterns on the lateral surfaces, while the extruded product appears as chunks, with no pattern on the surface. Example 2 Effect of temperature on Swell Volume of extruded psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid.The minimum acceptable swell volume is about 30 mls. per 0.5 g. Temperature Swell Volume ml 0.5 g. Untreated 30 35 800 C 32 1090 C 32 1200 C 32 33.5 1250 C 27 1370 C 25 26 1570 C 22.5 1650 C 17 18Example 3 Effect of temperature on viscosity of extruded psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid.Average 24 hour viscosity of current commercial mucilloid at ambient temperature is about 1100 CPS. One rounded teaspoonful is added to 8 oz. of Water, stirred and allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. Temperature Viscosity CPS 800C 1487.5 1605.5 1090C 1635.0 1180C 1210.0 1250C 810.0 1270C 722.5 1370C 555.0 1570C 610.0 1650C 610.0 Example 4 Effect of temperature on moisture content of extruded psyllium hydrophilic mucilloidCurrent processes do not appreciably affect the water content of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid. while not critical to the invention, water content will affect the ultimate weight of the product which is sold by weight. Temperature Water Untreated 9 12.0 800 C 16.0 1090 C 11.8 1200 C 10.9 1370 C 11.4 12.5 1620 C 9.4 1650 C 10.0 1770 C 7.7 7.9 186 C 8.1 Example 5 Microbial Properties of Extruded 100 C Psyllium Hydrophilic Mucilloid Inoculated Total Aerobic Bacterial Pathogens Microorganism Count E. coli SalmonellaLot num 1 Unextruded 118,600 G 4.14 x 106 g 3.56 x 106 g Extruded 100 g nogative negativeLot num 2 Unextruded 51,600 g 4.16 x 106 g 3.88 x 106 g Extruded 100 g negative negativeLot num 3 Unextruded 26,200 g 4.13 x 106 g 3.43 x 106 g Extruded 100 g negative negative Example 6 The particle size distribution of extruded psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid vs. commercial product is shown in figures 1 and 2 of the drawings.