# Modified thermoplastic polyester molding compositions and articles molded therefrom.

## Abstract
Thermoplastic molding compositions which comprise a a poly C₂ ₆ alkylene terephthalate resin and a minor proportion of b an aromatic polycarbonate resin which may also contain silicone units in combination with c a rubbery thermoplastic vinyl polymer which preferably contains olefi nic units or a rubbery poly carbonate co ester resin, provide molded articles of improved impact resistance. Optionally the compositions contain a polyethylene resin as a proces sing and a fibrous reinforcing agent, a mineral filler, and a flame retardant. In preferred embodiments, articles molded from the compositions possess improved impact resistance, lower specific gravity, good tensile strength, improved resistance to distortion at elevated temperatures under load, and improved receptivity for colorants.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thermoplastic molding composition comprising a a poly C2 S alkylene terephthalate resin and a minor proportion of b an aromatic polycarbonate resin com bined with c a rubbery vinyl addition polymer, the combined amounts of b and c being effective to increase te impact strength of articles molded from said component a . 2. A coposltion according to Claim 1 wherein said poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin is poly l,4butylene terephthalate . 3. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin is poly ethylene terephthassate . 4. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin is a copolyester cf poly l,4 butylene terephthalate . 5. A composition according to Claims 2 or 4 also including poly ethylene terephthalate . 6. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said rubbery vinyl polymer contains acrylic units. 7. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said polycarbonate resIn is a poly bisphenol A carbonate . 8. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said polycarbonate resin is a poly bi.phenol A carbonateco silicone . 9. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said rubbery vinyl polymer comprises substantially linear carbon chains. 10. A composition according to Claim 9 wherein the linear carbon chains of said polymer contain olefinically unsaturated double bonds. 11. A composition according to Claim 1 which also includes d a poly C2 6 alkylene oxide co C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin to improve impact strength. 12. A composition according to Claim 1 which also includes e poly carbonate co ester resin to improve impact strength. 13. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the polycarbonate resin is a poly bisphenol A carbonateco silicone resin and the vinyl polymer is a styrenebutadiene block copolymer. 14. A composition according to Claim 13 wherein the vinyl polymer is radial teleblock copolymer of styrene and butadiene. 15. A composition according to Claim 12 wherein the vinyl polymer is a butadiene methyl methacrylatestyrene copolymer. 16. A composition according to Claim 1 which also includes f an additive selected from a fibrous reinforcing agent a mineral filler a stabilizer a mold release agent a dye a pigment a flame retardant, or R rr.xtLre of fly of the foregoing. 17. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer c is selected from the group consisting of an acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer an acrylonitrile butadiene acrylonitrile block copolymer an acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer an acrylonitrile butadiene methyl metacrylate styrene copolymer a rancorn C1 4 al alkyl C34 acrylate styrene copolymer a butadiene methyl methacrylate styrene copolymer a bctyl acrylate styrene copolymer a butyl acrylate methyl acrylate copolymer a methyl methacrylate styrene linear or radial block copolymer an ethylene propylene diene rubber and a mixture of any of the foregoing. 18. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein said polycarbonate resin is a poly carbonate co ester resin. 19. A corpcsition according to Claim 18 whih also includes g a polyester copolymer. 20. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the po1y C26 alkylene terephthalate is a poly ethylene terephthalate . 21. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the poly C26 alkylene terephthalate is a poly l,4butylene terephthalate . 22. A composition according to Claim 18 which also includes f an additive selected from a fibrous reinforcing agent a mineral filler a stabilizer a mold release agent a dye a pigment a flame retardant or a mixture of any of the foregoing. 23. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is a butadiene methyl methacrylate styrene copolymer. 24. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is a butyl acrylatemethyl acrylate copolymer. 25. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is an acrylonitrilebutadiene styrene copolymer. 26. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is a styrene butadienestyrene block copolymer. 27. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is a radial teleblock copolymer of styrene and butadiene. 28. A composition according to Claim 18 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer is an acrylonitrilebutadiene methyl methacrylate styrene copolymer. 29. A thermoplastic molding composition comprising a a poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin, and a minor proportion of b a poly carbonate co silicone resin combined with c a poly carbonate co ester resin, the combined amounts of b and c being effective to increase the impact strength of articles molded from said component a . 30. A composition according to Claim 29 which also includes g a polyester copolymer. 31. A thermoplastic molding composition comprising a a palsy 2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin and a minor proportion of b a polycarbonate resin, combined with c a poly carbonate co silicone resin, the combined amounts of b and c being effective to increase the impact strength of articles molded from said component a . 32. A thermoplastic molding composition comprising a a poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin and a minor proportion of b a rubbery polybutyl acrylatemethyl methacrylate copolymer in combination with c a polycarbonate resin, the combined amounts of b and c being effective to increase the impact strength of articles molded from said component a 33. A composition according to Claim 1 wherein the rubbery vinyl addition polymer comprises polybutadiene units. 34. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the poly C26 alkylene terephthalate resin is poly ethylene terephthalate , 35. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the po1y C26 alkylene terephthalate resin is poly l,4butylene terephthalate , 36. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the po1y C26 alkylene terephthalate resin is a polyester copolymer. 37. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the butadiene polymer is an acrylonitrile butadiene. 38. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the polycarbonate resin is a poly bisphenol A carbonate resin. 39. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the polycarbonate resin is a poly carbonate co silicone resin. 40. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the butadiene polymer is an isobutylene 2 methylbutadiene copolymer. 41. A composition according to Claim 33 wherein the butadiene polymer is polybutadiene. 42. An article molded from a composition according to Claim 1. 43. An article molded from a composition according to Claim 29. 44. An article molded from a composition according to Claim 31. 45. An article molded from a composition according to Claim 32.

## Description
FOR MODIFIED THERMOPLASTIC POLYESTER MOLDING COMPOSITIONS AND ARTICLES MOLDED THEREFROM BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to modified thermoplastic poly C26 alkylene terephthalate molting compositions which in preferred instances provice molded articles possessing improved impact resistance, lower specific gravity, improved resistance to distortion uncer load, and irproved receptivity to colorants. ore arti cularly, the invention relates to compositions of a a C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin, b an aromatic polycarbonate resin which may also contain silicone units, and c a rubbery thermoplastic vinyl addition pol r..er or an aromatic poly carbonate co ester resin. Optionally the compositions contain polyethylene as a processing aid a fibrous reinforcing agent mineral fillers and flame retardants. The invention includes articles molded from the composition. High molecular weight linear polyesters of C24 glycols with terephthal,ic acid and isophthalic acid and other similar dibasic acids have been available for many years. Certain of these are described inWhinfield et al. U.S. Patent 2,465,319 and in PengillyU.S. Patent 3,047,539, incorporated herein by reference. With the development of molecular weight control, the use of nucleating agents and two step molding cycles, polyethylene terephthalate and, in general, the poly C2 6alkylene terephthalate resins have become important constituents of injection moldable compositions. Poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate , because of its very rapid crystallization from the melt, is uniquely useful as a component of such compositions. orkpieces molded from such polyester resins, alone or combined with reinforcements, in comparison with other thermoplastics possess a high degree of surface hardness, abrasion resistance and gloss, and a low degree of surface friction. Stable polyblends of poly l,4 butylene terephthalate and polyethylene terephthalate can be molded into useful unreinforced and reinforced articles. See Fox and Wambach U.S. 3,953,394, incorporated herein by reference. Block copolyesters containing units derived from poly l,4 butylene terephthalate and from an aromatic aliphatic or aliphatic polyester are also known. See copending application U.S. Serial No. 752,325 filed,December 20, 1976, incorporated herein by reference. Such block copolyesters are useful alone as molding resins and also in intimate combination with poly l,4 butylene terephthalate and or polyethylene terephthalate. It has been proposed to increase the impact strengths of such polyesters by adding modifiers. For example, flrinkmann et al. in U.S. 3,591,659 disclose that a useful family of modifiers comprises polyalkyl acrylates, methacrylates and or ethacrylates. Baron et al.in U.S. 4,044,073 disclose that a useful impact modifier for such polyesters is an aromatic polycarbonate.Schlichting et al. in U.S. 4,022,748 disclose that a rubber elastic graft copolymer having a glass temperature below 20iC. is a useful modifier. Lane, U.S. 4,034,013 and Farnham et al., U.S. 4,096,202 disclose that useful impact modifiers comprise multiple stage polymers having a rubbery first stage and a hard final stage, preferably including units derived from alkyl acrylates, especially the butyl acrylates. Baron et al. in U.S. 4,039,016 disclose an impact modifier combination comprising a blend of a polyurethane and an aromatic polycarbonate.Copending application Serial No. 870,679 filed January 19, 1978, discloses an impact modifier combination comprising a segmented block copolyester and an aromatic polycarbonate, and Cohen et al. copending application Serial No. 957,801 discloses combinations of polyarylate resins and aromatic polycarbonate resins for the purpose. Reinforced, filled and or flame retardant modifications of such polyesters are also well known in the art. It has now been discovered that molding compositions comprising a predominantly poly C26 alkylene terephthalate resin, including copolyesters thereof, provide moldings of improved impact resistance, flexural and tensile strength and resistance to distortion at elevated temperatures under load, as well as lower specific gravity and improved color receptivity, when the compositions include in intimate admixture a polycarbonate resin and a rubbery vinyl addition resin which preferably contains olefinic units in the carbon chains thereo , or a poly cocarbonate ester . As is show,n below, compositions modified with the polycarbonate resin alone on the one hand, or with the vinyl resin on the other hand, are significantly less tough.As is also shown below, all the new compositions of the present invention can advantageously contain any of the reinforcing fibers glass and graphite , fillers talc, clay and mica , stabilizers, colorants, mold release agents and flame retardants and the like which are customarily present in molding compositions based on the poly alkylene terephthalate resins. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The invention provides thermoplastic molding compositions comprising a a poly C2 6 alkylene terephthalate resin and a minor proportion of b an aromatic poly carbonate resin in combination with c a rubbery vinyl addition polymer or a poly co carbonateester resin, the combined amounts of b and c being effective to increase the impact strength of articles molded from said resin a . Optionally the compositions can also contain polyethylene as processing aid, and one or more fibrous reinforcing agents. mineral fillers, and flame retardants, and the like. The polyester resins a of the composition of the present invention are available co, ,mercially. They can be prepared by known methods such as the alcoholysis of dimethyl terephthalate with an appropriate diol for example, ethylene glycol and 1,4 butanediol followed by polymerization, or by reacting the acid or its mono or di halide with an appropriate diol or mixture of diols. Copolyesters can be prepared in similar manner by replacement of parts of the terephthalate component with another suitable acid component, for example isophthalic acid.Suitable methods are described in U.S. 2,465,319 and U.S.3,047,539. The preparation of block copolyesters is described in Borman, Dolce and Kramer application Serial No.752,325 filed on December 20, 1976 and incorporated herein by reference. Illustratively, suitable high molecular weight polyesters have an intrinsic viscosity of at least about 0.4 deciliters per gram and preferably at least 0.6 deciliters per gram as measured in a 60 40 phenol tetrachloroethane mixture at 30 C. for poly ethylene terephthalate and at least 0.6 dl. g. and preferably at least 0.8 dl. g. for poly l,4 butylene terephthalate . Polyesters which are especially useful when high melt strength is important are the branched high melt viscosity poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resins which contain a small amount up to about 5 mol percent of the terephthalate units of a branching component which contains at least three ester forming groups. The branching component can be one which provides branching in the acid unit of the polyester or in the glycol unit, and both types of branching components can be present.Illustrative of suitable branching components are tri and tetracarboxylic acids such as trimesic acid, pyromellitic acid, and the lower alkyl esters thereof, and preferably polyols and especially preferably tetrols such as pentaerythritol, triols such as trinethylolpropane, and dihydroxy mcno and dicarboxylic acids and derivatives such as diethyl hydroxy terephthalate and the like. The branched poly 1, 4 butylene terephthalate resins and methods for their preparation are described in Borman,U.S. 3,953,404 incorporated herein by reference. The vinyl addition polymer component c of the impact modifier combination can be any normally rubbery thermoplastic vinyl polymer. Suitable polymers are the commercial copolymers of butyl acrylate and styrene butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate and styrene butyl acrylate and methyl methacrylate Acryloid KM 330 of Rohm s Haas Co., Philadelphia, Pa. EPDM Epsyn 436 and methyl methacrylate and styrene. Other useful vinyl polyners are the polyacrylates which are sold under the trade designationRXL 6886 by Goodyear Tire b Rubber Co. of Akron, Ohio Cyanacryl 770 of American Cyanamid Co. of Wayne, N.J. Durostrength 200 of M Chemicals Co., Trenton, N.J. and Polysar S 1006.In senegal, any of the poly C2 4 alkyl acrylates and methacrylates described inBrinkmann et al. U.S. 3,591,659 can be used, especially those containing units derived from n butyl acrylate.Without limitation, the polyvinyl resin can be a rubbery elastic graft copolymer having a glass transition temperature below 200C. as described in Schlichting et al.U.S. 4,022,748, or it can be a multiple stage polymer having a rubbery first stage and a hard, thermoplastic final stage as is described in Farnham et al. U.S.4,096,202, incorporated herein by reference. Moreover, the rubbery vinyl addition resins can include those which contain olefinic units in their backbone chains. Such polymers are readily made by including a minor amount, in the range of 2 to 20 mol percent, of a.conjugated diene in the initial polymeriza tion mixture. A large number of conjugated dienes are known which are suitable for the purpose. Illustratively, these include 1,3 butadiene, 2,3 dimethyl 1,3 butadiene, chloroprene and 2 methyl butadiene and mixtures thereof. Illustrative polymers which contain olefinic units in the chain are the acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer available under the name Krynac 221, llOC, etc. the acrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer prepared by grafting styrene and acrylonitrile on polybutadiene and available from Polysar Corp. of Canada as PolysarXC 501 isobutylene isoprene copolymer available under the name Polysar Butyl 301 the methyl methacrylateacrylonitrile butadiene styrene copolymer the methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene copolymer, polybutadlene available under the designation Taktene 1202 and the butadiene styrene block copolymer available under the name Kraton G. The aromatic polycarbonate resins which are suitable for use as component b are well known, and many suitable resins of this group are disclosed inEncyclopedia on Polymer Science and Technology, Vol. 10, pages 710 727, 1969 Interscience, New York and in Baron et al. U.S. Patent No. 4,034,016 all incorporated herein by reference. The polycarbonates are produced by reaction of a suitable dihydric phenol compound with phosgene. The reaction is continued until a polycarbonate resin is formed.Because of its ready availability, the ease with which it reacts with phosgene and the very satisfactory properties which it provides in polymerized form, bisphenol A is preferred as the starting dihydric phenol compound. A suitable aromatic polycarbonate is available under the trademark LEXANfrom General Electric Co. Also suitable is a poly carbor.ate co silicone resin known as Copel 3320. The rubbery vinyl addition polymer and the polycarbonate components b and c are present in respective weight ratios between 10 1 and 1 10 and preferably in a ratio between 3 1 and 1 3. The combined weights of b and c are between 5 and 85 , and preferably between 15 and 60 of the weight of the total resin content of the composition. In contemplated embodiments the composition includes reinforcing fillers such as fibrous filamentous glass and or graphite mineral fillers such as mica, talc and the like, and preferably, clay and polyethylene or other similar polymers as carrier for the vinyl componentThe filamentous glass suitable for use as reinforcement in such embodiments is well known to those skilled in the art and is available from a number of manufacturers.For compositions ultimately to be employed for electrical uses, it is preferred to use filaments of a limealuminum boro silicate glass that is substantially sodafree. This is known as E glass. However, other glasses are useful when electrical properties are not important1 and there the low soda glass known as glass can be used. The filaments are made by standard processes, e.g., by steam, air or flame blowing and, preferably, by mechanical pulling. The filaments preferably have diameters between about 0.00012 and 0.00075 , but this is not critical to the present invention. The fillers can be untreated or treated with silane. The polyethylene preferably is of the low density type. The length of the glass filaments and whether or not they are bundled into fibers and the fibers bundled in turn to yarns, ropes or rovings, or woven into mats and the like, are also not critical to the invention. However, in preparing the molding compositions, it is convenient to use the filementous glass in the form of chopped strands about 1 8 to about 2 long. In articles molded from the compositions, on the other hand, fibers of shorter length may be present because, during compounding, considerable fragmentation occurs. This is desirable, however, because, the best properties are exhibited by. thermoplastic injection molded articles in which the filament lengths lie between about 0.0005 and 0.250 . The amount of the filler varies widely depending on the strength specifications which are to be met, it being essential only that an amount is employed which is at least sufficient to provide some reinforcement. Preferably, however, the weight of the reinforcing fibers is between about 18 and 60t of the combined weight of filler and the resinous components of the mixture. It has also been discovered that the polyester compositions of this invention which contain modifiers and fibrous glass exhibit improved impact and flexural properties when the glass is predispersed in the resin. The impact modified polyesters, with and without fibrous reinforcement and filler, can be rendered flame retardant with an effective amount of a conventional flame retardant agent. As is well known, flame retardants can be based on elementary red phosphorus, phosphorus com pcunds, halogen and nitrogen compounds alone or, preferably, in further combination with synergists such as antimony compounds. Especially useful are polymeric and oligomeric flame retardant agents comprising tetrabromobisphenol A carbonate units see, for example,Wambach,U.S. Patent No.3,833,685 which is incorporated herein by reference. Other materials such as stabilizers, dyes, pigments, drip retardants and the like can be added for their conventionally employed purposes in conventional amounts. The molding compositions of this invention can be prepared by a number of procedures. In one way, the modifier and any reinforcement e.g., glass fibers , filler material, fire retardant and other components are put into an extrusion compounder with the resinous components to produce molding pellets. As a result, the modifier and the other components when present are dispersed in a matrix of the resin. In another procedure, the modifier is mixed with the resins by dry tumbling and then the mixture is either fluxed on a mill and comminuted or extruded to form strands which are then chopped. The modifying agents can also be mixed with the resins and directly molded by injection, extrusion or transfer molding or by any other conventional method. It is always important to free all of the ingredients from as much water as possible before subjecting them to any molding operation. The components can be satisfactorily dried by heating them at 100 cm. under vacuum for several hours. In addition, it is desirable that the duration of the compounding step should be short to prevent degradation of the polymers and other components. The temperature should be controlled below the polymer degradation point and the heat of friction should be taken into account, the object being to form an intimate mixture among the strucrural resin component a and the modifying polymers b and c . Best results are usually obtained when the in gradients are pre compounded, pelletized and then molded.Pre compounding can be carried out in conventional equip ment. For example, after the components have been thoroughly dried as described, a single screw extruder is fed with a dry mixture of the ingredients, the screw employed having a long transition section to ensure proper melting. On the other hand a twin screw extrusion maching, e.g., a 28 mm. Werner Pfleiderermachine, can be fed with resin and additives at the feed port and with reinforcement through a downstream port. In either case, a generally suitable machine temperature is between about 450t and 6000F. depending on the melting point of the poly alkylene terephthalate in the composition. The compounded composition can be extruded and cut up into molding compounds such as conventional granules, pellets and other shapes by standard techniques. The composition can be molded in any equipment which is suitable for the molding of fiber reinforced thermoplastic compositions, e.g., a Newbury type injection molding machine with conventional cylinder temperatures 450 6000F. and conventional mold temperatures 1500 2000F. , the molding temperature being such that the resinous components reach their fusion point. The invention is further illustrated by the examples which follow. These examples are best embodi ments of the invention, and the invention is not to be construed in limitation thereof. Parts are by weight except where otherwise stated. EXAMPLE 1 The following illustrates the effect of the combination of a rubbery vinyl polymer containing olefinic linkages in the chain and an aromatic polycarbonate in improving the impact strength of a poly C26 alkylene terephthalate resin molding which contains glass fiber reinforcement and a mineral filler. To 100 parts of a commercial poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin IVALOX 310 of General Electric Co. were added 15 parts of a rubbery vinyl acrylonitrilebutadiene acrylonitrile block copolymer, 15 parts of a poly bisphenol A carbonate resin LEXAN 135 of GeneralElectric Co. 30 parts of glass fibers chopped , 10 parts of clay filler, and 15 parts of poly ethylene terephthalate as supplementary resin. All components are granular and were tumble mixed until a uniform composition was obtained. This composition was dried overnight at 110it., then extruded in a laboratory 1 3 4 Sterling Machine at 2500C. The chopped pellets and the blend were injection molded into standard ASTM test parts. The test parts possessed improved impact strength as the result of the presence of the supplementary resins therein. EXAMPLE 2 The following illustrates the effect of the addition of poly bisphenol A carbonate resin in combination with a variety of vinyl polymers in improving the impact strength of molded articles prepared with poly ethylene terephthalate resin as the major component. .The following compositions were mixed, dried, extruded and then molded in accordance with the method of Example 1. Table 2AComponent 1 2 3 4 5 6PETÚ 68.3 68.3 68.2 58.2 48.3 48.3Sodium benzoate2 0.1 Acryloid KM 330 15 15 Methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene copolymer 15 10 Xraton 1651G4 15 10 LEXAN0RS 15.0 15 15 15 10 10IRGANOX 10936 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05Microthene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 Glass 10 30 30Polyethylene9 1.5 1.5 1.5 1 poly ethylene terepb.thalate 2 nucleating agent 3 a a butyl acrylate and methyl methacrylate core shell copolymer of Rohm s Haas Co. 4 a hydrogenated butadiene styrene block copolymer of Shell Chemical Co.5 a a poly bisphenol A carbonate from General Electric Co. 6 an anti oxidant stabilizer from Ciba Geigy Co. a a phosphite stabilizer from Ferro Co. 8 a a low density polyethylene, fine grind powder a a low density polyethylene, pelletized Test samples prepared from each of the above compositions had the following physical properties Table 2BProperties Compositions 1 2 3 4 5 6Heat Distortion, CF., 66 psi 176 166 158 180 191 192Notched Izod, ft.lb. in. 1.9 1.9 1.5 2.0 1.9 2.0Unnotched Izod, nb nb ft.lb. in. 20.3 nb 17.2 11.87 14.60 15.02Flex, strength, 106 psi 10430 10999 9003 14304 25276 23174Flex, modulus, 106 psi 0.282 0.282 0.257 0.452 0.905 0.781Tensile Strength, psi 6483 6645 5457 9660 16597 14677 e Elongation 52 142 89 Specific Gravity 1.280 1.256 1.229 1.325 1.494 1.456Gardner Impact, bottom,in. lbs. 8 8 10Gardner Impact, top, in. lbs. 32 40 46Gardner Impact, dislodge, in lbs. 325 470 150 100 70 70Melt Viscosity pellets ,poises at 5100F. 3684 2889 1075 2781 13660 9039 tnb No break The impact strength of molded articles prepared with poly ethylene terephthalate as the major component was improved by the addition of a polylbisphenol A carbonate in combination with a vinyl polymer. EXAMPLE 3 The following illustrates the effect of a minor amount of a poly. bisphenol A carbonate resin in combination with a minor amount of one of several rubbery vinyl polymers in improving the impact strength of poly l,4butylene terephthalate resin moldings. Table 3AComponent 1 2 3 4 5 6Valox 3151 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3Lexan 135 111 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 Microthene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .15 .05 .05 .05 .05Durostrength 2002 15 Polysar XC 501 15 Gulf P 2184 15 Hycar 211 21 95 15 15 Hycar 211 21 96 16 15 Hycar 211 21 97 1 15 1 poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin of General Electric Co. 2 butylacrylate methyl methacrylate copolymer from Metal and Thermit Co. acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer from Polysar Corp., Canada 4 ethylene copolymer 5 7 acrylonitrile butadiene rubbers from B.F. Goodrich Chemical Co. Each of the above compositions were mixed, dried, extruded and then molded into test pieces by the method of Example 1. The test pieces had the following properties Table 33 Properties Compositions 1 2 3 4 5 6Heat distortion, OF., 66 psi 198 218 240 236 208 190Heat distortion, OF., 264 psi 100 123 128 129 125Notched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 5.17 7.95 2.40 2.83 2.61 4.67Unnotched Izod, ft. lbs. in. nb nb nb nb nb nbFlex strength, psi 10668 10377 9835 10034 9994 9690Flex modulus, psi 281735 281735 261713 272791 281735 267137Tensile strength, psi 6496 6189 6025 6080 6189 5847 t Elongation 177 214 160 130 114 68Specific gravity 1.254 1.230 1.210 1.247 1.249 1.246Gardner no collar in. lbs. 480 480 470 460 480 420Gardner Impact dislodge,in. lbs. 465 465 480 440 460 450Melt Viscosity pellets ,poises at 5100F. 2626 7545 6752 6433 6411 5463 The impact strength of poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin moldings is improved by addition of a poly bisphenol A carbonate resin in combination with a rubbery vinyl polymer. EXAMPLE 4 The following illustrates the improved impact strength imparted to a poly alkylene terephthalate molding resin when a small uniformly distributed amount of a poly carbonate co silicone resin is added alone, or with a polycarbonate homopolymer or a rubbery vinyl polymer. Six molding compositions were prepared following the method of Example 1 as follows Table 4A Component 1 2 3 4 5 6Valox 315 68.3 68.3 68.3 78.3 68.3 68.3 Microthene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05Copel 33201 15 15 20 15 15KM 3302 15 15 Lexan 135 15 15 Kraton G 15 MBS 15 1 poly bisphenol A carbonate silicone .2 butylacrylate methyl methacrylate core shell copolymer 3 methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene copolymer The physical properties of test pieces prepared as in Example 1 of each of the compositions were as follows Table 4B CompositionsProperties 1 2 3 Q 5 6Heat distortion, F., 264 psi 134 117 137 122 120 120Notched Izod, 1 4 ,ft.lbs. in. 17.3 20.7 17.4 12.4 3.4 3.4Notched Izod, 1 8 ,ft.1bs. in. 21.90 22.56 20.54 15.71 21.01 19.50Unnotched Izod, ft.lbs. in. 5nb 5nb 5nb Snb Snb 5nbFlex Strength, psi 10761 7694 10695 9280 6808 8064Flex Modulus, psi 291285 20705 277191 249070 173594 217542Tensile strength, psi. 6394 4653 6509 5530 4196 4766 8 Elongation 207 238 277 315 302 351Specific gravity 1.247 1.238 1.247 1.255 1.193 1.219Gardner Impact dislodge,in.lbs. 480 480 480 480 480 480 Melt Viscosity pellets ,poises at 266it. 10095 5139 6434 4337 6142 5543 t 5 specimens tested did not break. The addition of a poly carbonate co silicone resin, added alone or in combination with either a polycarbonate homopolymer or a rubbery vinyl polymer to a poly ethylene terephthalate molding resin provides molded articles having a marked increase in impact strength. EXAMPLE 5 The following illustrates the effect of a poly carbonate co silicone resin and a resin comprising a polyester ether block copolymer consisting of polybutylene terephthalate and polybutylene oxide blocks in combination with glass fibers in improving the impact resistance of poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molded articles. The following compositions were prepared in accordance with the method of Example 1 Table 5A Component 1 2 3 4 5VALOX 300 49.85 49.85 54.85 59.85 64.85Glass 30.00 30.00 30.00 30.00 30.00PE 181 .10 .10 .10 .10 .10Ferro .05 .05 .05 .05 .05Copel 3320 20 15 10 5Hytrel 40562 20 pentaerythritol tetrastearate 2 Hytrel 4056 from Dupont Test pieces prepared by the extrusion molding process of Example 1 had the following physical properties Table SB Composition Property 1 2 3 4 5Heat distortion, F., 264 psi 317 357 375 378 393Notched Izod, f4. lbs. in. 3.46 2.58 2.54 2.37 2.22Unnotched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 15.46 9.74 11.06 14.29 14.91Flex Strength, psi 17186 14317 17490 21072 23928Flex Modulus, psi 636513 636513 687434 781175 904518Tensile strength, psi 10837 9429 11541 13653 15147Specific gravity 1.488 1.469 1.482 1.495 1.518Gardener Impact bottom ,in lbs. 12 12 12 12 12Gardner Impact top ,in. lbs. 48 40 44 44 40Gardner Impact dislodge ,in. lbs. 120 96 92 84 72Melt viscosity pellets in poises at 250 C. 10662 8462 10662 12099 12599 The impact resistance of poly l,4 butylene terephthalate resin molded articles is improved by the addition of a resin comprising a polyester ether block copolymer of polybutylene terephthalate and polybutylene oxide blocks in combination with glass fibers. Impact resistance is likewise improved by addition of poly carbonate co silicone in combination with glass fibers. EXAMPLE 6 The following illustrates the improved impact resistance obtained if a small amount of a poly carbonate ester is added to a molding resin composition containing a poly alkylene terephthalate and a vinyl copolymer. Six molding compositions were prepared in accordance with the method of Example 1 as follows Table 6AComponent 1 2 3 4 5 6Valox 315 68.3 68.3 78.3 68.3 68.3 68.3 Microethene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.S 1.5 1.5Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05Copolyestercarbonate resin1 15 15 20 15 15 KM 330 15 Lexan 135 15 15Xraton G 15 MMBS 15 1 poly poly carbonate ester made by intetfacially condensing bisphenol A, phosgene and a mixture of terephthaloyl chloride and isophthaloyl chloride. The compositions were injection molded as in Example 1 into test pieces having the following properties Table 6B CompositionsProperties 1 2 3 4 5 6Heat Distortion, OF., 264 psi 142 153 153 145 153 154Notched Izod, 1 4 ,ft. lbs. in. 13.90 3.40 17.37 17.37Notched Izod, 1 8 ,ft. lbs. in. 19.58 1.54 1.28 24.11 20.19 22.19Unnotched Izod, ft.lbs. in. 5nb Snb 5nb Snb 5nb SnbFlex Strength, psi 10272 13206 12595 8779 10972 10695Flex Modulus, psi 256505 324261 330497 232241 277191 272791Tensile Strength, psi 6300 8382 7546 5658 6677 6364 z Elongation 154 69 182 108 225 183Specific gravity 1.245 1.260 1.270 1.206 1.226 1.252Gardner Impact dislodge in. lbs. 425 480 480 475 480 480Melt Viscosity pellets , poises at 2660C. 7764 7053 5711 7753 10460 9888 The addition of a poly carbonate ester to a molding resin of a polyalkylene terephthalate and a vinyl copolymer improves the impact strength of articles molded therewith. EXAMPLE 7 Several molding compositions were prepared in accordance with the method of Example 1 to illustrate the impact resistance obtained if various vinyl and ester resins are added to molding compositions containing, as the principal structural polymer, a polyalkylene terephthalate resin. The compositions were comprised as follows Table 7A Component 1 2 3 4 5 6Valox 2951 33.8 33.8 33.8 28.8 33.8 28.8RL 16242 18 18 18 18 18 18Glass 30 30 30 30 30 30Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05 OS Teflon 6 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5 .5KM 330 10 15 15 Copel 3320 10 15Hytrel 4056 10 10 3aSb203 Conc. 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 Sb2O3 Conc. 3b 7.5 Ú poly 1,4 butylene terephthalate ,I.V. about 0.85 dl g.2 flame retardant copolycarbonate of bisphenol A and tetrabromobisphenol A, 50 50 wt. .3a Chemetron SbO3 concentrate in polyethylene from PPG, Inc.3b Metal and Thermit Company Sb2O3 concentrate in polyethylen Each composition was dried for a minimum of four hours at 250µF. The compositions were then compounded in a Prodex single screw extruder using a vibratory feeder and working at between 500a 540µF. at 100 rpm. The compositions were molded a 3 oz. Van Dorn injection molding machine. Spiral flow measurements were made using a 1 16 inch channel and 600 psi injection pressure, no boost pressure and 100 psi back pressure, with the barrel temperature set at 480of. Tests of the physical properties of the moldings were performed.The results are summarized in Table 7B below Table 7B Properties Compositions 1 2 3 4 5 6Heat Distortion F., 66 psi 390 402 393 384 398 390Heat Distortion F., 264 psi 392 319 314 290 344 309Spiral Flow, in. 7.3 6.3 4.2 3.5 6.3 6.6Notched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 1.36 1.84 2.02 2.38 1.87 1.95Unnotched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 9.49 11.66 12.83 12.24 11.60 10.82Flex strength,psi 17714 19750 20120 18494 20636 16458Flex modulus, psi 845205 859292 904518 758199 920670 781175Tensile strength,psi 12267 14272 14656 13056 14763 11691Specific gravity 1.637 1.635 1.601 1.572 1.612 1.599Gardner Impact bottom , in.lbs. 16 24 32 28 20 20Gardner Impact top , in.lbs 40 48 52 48 52 44Gardner Impact dislodge , in.lbs. 44 64 68 88 66 68Melt Viscosity pellets , poises at 266 C. 7600 9452 45859 85926 13456 21682Flammability,U.L.Bulletin 94, 30 mils thickness V 0 V 0 V 0 V 0 V 0 V 0 EXAMPLE 8 The following illustrates the effectiveness of two rubbery alkyl acrylate styrene copolymers in improving the impact strength of polyterephthalatepolycarbonate moldings. Table 8AComponent 1 2Valox 315 69.8 69.8Lexan 135 15 15Irganox 1093 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05RXL 6861 15 P 19100 7152 15 1 methyl methacrylate styrene copolymer from Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.2 butylacrylate styrene copolymer from Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company The resulting compositions were then injection molded in accordance with the procedure of Example 1 into test strips. The properties of the resulting test strips were. as follows Table 8BProperties Compositions 1 2Heat distortion OF., 264 psi 144 155Notched Izod 1 4 , ft. lbs. in. 9.79 Notched Izod 1 8 , ft. lbs. in. 19.73 2.03Unnotched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 5nb 5nbFlex strength, psi 10089 12009 Plex Modulus, psi 266861 390587Tensile strength, psi 6109 7140 Elongation 194 212Specific Gravity 1.273 1.254Gardner Impact dislodge , in. lbs. 450 425Melt Viscosity pellets , poises at 5100F. 8751 5682 EXAMPLE 9 The following illustrates the effectiveness of five additional rubbery polymers in improving the impact strength of polyterephthalate polycarbonate moldings. Table 9AComponent 1 2 3 4 5Valox 315 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3Lexan 135 15 15 15 15 15Microthene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 .05 5619 32 4 15 5619 32 6 15 5619 32 9 15 5619 32 10 15 5619 32 11 15 1 5 Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company rubbery vinyl addition polymer resins. The compositions were injection molded in accordance with the procedure of Example 1 to form test pieces which had the following properties Table 9BProperties Compositions 1 2 3 4 5Heat Distortion F., 264 psi 132 132 135 144 139Notched Izod 1 4 ,ft.lbs. in. 5.68 11.67 14.16 14.42 7.02Notched Izod 1 8 ,ft.lbs. in. 16.32 16.16 18.69 18.53 15.01Unnotched Izod, ft.lbs. in.Snb nb nb nb nbFlex strength, psi 9915 9968 9796 9981 11488Flex modulus, psi 263049 264398 256505 264398 298020Tensile strength, psi 6080 6020 6195 6208 7021 S Elongation 252 277 262 138 186Specific Gravity 1.236 1.230 1.230 1.245 1.243Gardner Impact in.lbs no collar 480 480 480 480 480Gardner Impact, in. lbs. dislodge 425 425 400 450 480Melt Viscosity pellets ,poises at 510 F. 14001 7547 10759 13228 7770 EXAMPLE 10 The following illustrates the comparative effectiveness of a rubbery polysiloxane polycarbonate block copolymer and two rubbery vinyl polymers, each containing acrylonitrile, butadiene and styrene units as agents for improving the impact strength of molded articles of polyterephthalate polycarbonate resin compositions. Table 10A Component 1 2 3 4Valox 315 68.3 68.3 68.3 68.3Lexan 135 15 15 Irganox 1093 .15 .15 .15 .15Ferro 904 .05 .05 .05 .05 Msicrothene FN 510 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5Copel 3320 15 15Blendex 3101 15 15 Polysar XC5012 15 15 1 acrylonitrile butadiene methyl methacrylate styrene copolymer, Borg Warner Co.2 acrylonitrile styrene polybutadiene graft copolymer,Polysar Corp., Canada Table lOBProperties 1 2 3 4Heat Distortion F., 264 psi 154 131 122 118Notched Izod 1 4 ,ft. lbs in. 2.80 3.94 3.86 12.11Notched Izod 1 8 l ,ft. lbs in. 10.30 8.58 15.39 14.30Flex Strength, psi 10708 9915 8328 7139Flex modulus, psi 291285 277191 232241 193099Tensile Strength, psi 6656 5888 5184 4096 t Elongation 214 229 246 279Specific Gravity 1.225 1.225 1.210 1.214Gardner Impact dislodge , in lbs. 480 425 400 350Melt viscosity pellets poises at 510CF. 9566 10429 5259 5808 EXAMPLE 11 The following illustrates the comparative effectiveness of certain butadiene copolymers and a butadiene homopolymer in improving the impact strength of polybutylene terephthalate moldings. Table llAComponent 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8VALOX 80 80 80 80 80 80 80 80PolysarButyl 3011 20 PolysarButyl 1112 20 Krynac 27.503 20 Krynac 34.604 20 Krynac 8065 20 Krynac 11006 20 Krynac 221 20 Taktene8 20 1 2 Rubbery isobutylene isoprene copolymers, Polysar Corp.3 8 Rubbery acrylonitrile butadiene copolymers. The resulting compositions were compounded by the method of Example 1 and were injection molded to form test pieces. The properties of the test pieces were as follows Table 11B Properties Compositions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Notched Izod,ft. lbs. in. 2.91 3.41 3.73 3.90 3.44 4.02 4.59 2.98Unnotched Izod, ft. lbs. in. 34.7 32.0 27.4 29.3 33.6 25.9 33.1 22.4Flex Strength, psi 8408 8408 8209 8487 8765 8606 8566 7930Flex Modulus, psi 243770 245512 229144 223192 238692 235422 235422 229440Tensile Strength, psi 5453 5333 5252 5408 5448 5305 5431 5120 Elongation 99.9 123.7 192.8 184.5 246.3 209 259.4 192Gardner Impact dislodge ,in. lbs. 108 450 150 200 80 150 300 350Melt Viscosity pellets , 266 C. 3697 3963 5787 6781 3546 3890 5472 7108Melt Viscosity pellets , poises at 250 C. 6389 6319 9319 12073 7342 7095 10166 12426 unnotched Izod 1,2,6 and 7 several specimens did not break The above mentioned patents and or patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.Obviously, other modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in the light of the above teachings. For example, the reinforced and or filled compositions can be provided with stabilizers, and other polyesters and vinyl polymers can be used which are closely related to and which provide substantially the same results as those which have been specifically disclosed above. It is, therefore, to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments described above which are within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.