# Apparatus and method for dough embossing.

## Abstract
A method and apparatus for embossing a dough sheet 17 is disclosed. An embosser 10 is used to selectively compress zones 18 in a dough sheet 17 before the dough is fried in oil. The embosser 10 comprises a plurality of raised elongate embossing elements 13 . The embossing elements 13 , when pressed into the dough sheet 17 , form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones 18 , wherein the elongated compressed zones 18 are uncon nected and uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elongated compressed zones 18 substantially enclose a plurality of adjacent compressed zone sharing uncompressed blister forming zones 19 . In a preferred embodiment, the uncompressed blister forming zones 19 are a substantially parallelogram shaped, and run along a grid line. Each elongated compressed zone 18 is laterally offset from an adjacent compressed zone. The separation between the elongated compressed zones 18 at the grid intersections is sufficient to define a plurality of second uncompressed blister forming zones 20 . In a preferred embodiment, the compressed zones 18 have an area that is from 6 to 12 of the area of the uncompressed zones. The thickness T of the compressed zones 18 is from 6 to 12 of the thickness T of the uncompressed dough sheet 17 .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An embosser for selectively compressing zones in a dough sheet before the dough is fried in oil without forming a score line, said embosser comprising a plurality of raised elongate embossing elements, said embossing elements, when pressed into the dough sheet, form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough that are unconnected and uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elongated compressed zones form grids which substantially enclose a plurality of uncompressed blister forming zones of dough. 2. A embosser for selectively compressing zones in a sheet of dough before the dough is fried in oil, said embosser comprising a a shaft for rotation about a longitudinal axis b a cylindrical roller cooperatively connected to the shaft and the roller rotatable about the longitudinal axis and c a plurality of raised elongate embossing elements cooperatively connected to said roller, said embossing elements, when pressed into the dough sheet, form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough, wherein the elongated compressed zones of dough are unconnected and the uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elongated compressed zones from grids which substantially enclose a plurality of uncompressed blister forming zones. 3. An embosser for selectively compressing zones in a sheet of dough before the dough is fried in oil, the embosser comprising a a shaft for rotation about a longitudinal axis b a plurality of embossing vanes cooperatively connected to said shaft, the vanes having a plur ality of raised elongate embossing elements, said embossing elements, when pressed into the dough sheet, form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough, wherein the elongated compressed zones are unconnected and uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elon gated compressed zones form grids which substan tially enclose a plurality of uncompressed blister forming zones of dough and c a spacer positioned around the shaft and between the embossing vanes. 4. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein along a grid line each elongated compressed zone is laterally offset from an adjacent compressed zone. 5. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the uncompressed blister forming zones comprise substantially parallelogram shaped uncompressed blister forming zones. 6. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the blister forming zone has an area of from about 10 to 15 square centimeters. 7. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the elongated embossing elements are about 1.6 to 2.6 centimeters in length and about 0.2 to 0.4 millimeters in width. 8. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the separation between elongated compression zones of dough at the grid intersection is sufficient to define a plurality of second uncompressed blister forming zones. 9. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein ends of adjacent compressed zones of the uncompressed blister forming zones are spaced at a distance from about 1.0 to 1.5 centimeters. 10. The embosser of Claim 9, wherein the distance is from 1.2 to 1.3 centimeters. 11. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said embossing elements are constructed from aluminum. 12. The embosser of Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein said embossing elements are constructed from stainless steel. 13. An embosser for selectively compressing zones in a dough sheet before the dough is fried in oil, said embosser comprising a plurality of raised embossing elements, which when pressed into the dough sheet, form compressed zones and uncompressed zones, the compressed zones having an area that is from 6 to 12 of an area of the uncompressed zones. 14. The embosser of Claim 13, wherein the compressed zones have an area that is about 6 to 10 of the area of the uncompressed zones. 15. A method for selectively compressing zones in a dough sheet without forming a score line which comprises pressing an embosser onto the dough sheet to form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough, wherein the elongated compressed zones are unconnected and uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elongated compressed zones form grids which substantially enclose a plurality of uncompressed blister forming zones. 16. The method of Claim 15, wherein along a grid line each elongated compressed zone is laterally offset from an adjacent compressed zone. 17. The method of Claim 15, wherein the uncompressed blister forming zones comprise substantially parallelogram shaped uncompressed blister forming zones. 18. The method of Claim 15, wherein the blisterforming zone has an area from about 10 to 15 square centimeters. 19. The method of Claim 15, wherein said compressed zones are about 1.6 to 2.6 centimeters in length and about 0.2 to 0.4 centimeters in width. 20. The method of Claim 15, wherein the separation between elongated compression zones at the grid intersection is sufficient to define a plurality of second uncompressed blister forming zones. 21. The method of Claim 15, wherein adjacent compressed zones of the uncompressed blister forming zones are spaced at a distance from about 1.0 to 1.5 centimeters. 22. The method of Claim 21, wherein the distance is from 1.2 to 1.3 centimeters. 23. Method of selectively compressing zones in a dough sheet which comprises pressing an embosser onto the dough sheet to provide a grid like pattern of compressed and uncompressed zones in the dough sheet, the compressed zones having a thickness less than or equal to 12 of the thickness of the uncompressed zones, whereby during subsequent frying of the dough, blisters form in the uncompressed zones and the compressed zones prevent delamination of the dough sheet. 24. The method of Claim 23, wherein said compressed zones have a thickness from about 6 to about 10 of the thickness of the uncompressed zones.

## Description
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DOUGH EMBOSSINGField of the Invention The invention relates to an apparatus and method to emboss dough which when fried can be used as pizza shells or crusts.Background of the Invention Pizzas are extremely popular foods since they are tasty, convenient, and easy to prepare. Frozen pizzas can be purchased and can be conveniently reheated at home in a short period of time before consumption.While frozen pizzas continue to be an extremely popular food, they have encountered substantial consumer resistance since they do not compare favorably to pizzeria pizzas or those made at home from basic ingredients such as flour, water, tomato sauce, and meat. In other words frozen pizzas are often purchased for convenience rather than flavor. Consumer resistance to prepared frozen pizzas is commonly directed to the quality of the shell or crust after baking. Initially, pizza shells or crusts comprised generally circular sections of dough that were prebaked at the factory, topped with pizza toppings, quick frozen and stored until sale. Upon reheating, consumers found that these prebaked shells would not become crisp during baking, or tended to be tough, hard, brittle or crackerlike after baking. In the face of such substantial consumer resistance, many pizza manufacturers developed pizza shells or crusts that were fried in oil prior to the application of pizza topping.Fried pizza crusts have solved many consumer and production related problems, but the fried crusts still possess drawbacks. In our research, we have found that by frying pizza shaped dough sections, large delaminated areas can appear. In delaminated areas the pizza crust separates into two layers separated by a large space. Further, we have found that large non delaminated areas can also remain in the pizza crust in which no separation at all occurs. The large delaminated areas that form during frying can often be overcooked, can become extremely crispy and can have substantial size. The large nondelaminated areas can absorb substantial amounts of oil, can be undercooked, and can become soggy. The nondelaminated areas can have an oily character and taste.We have identified the inability to control the distribution and size of the delaminated and non delaminated areas as the reason the fried crusts can be disagreeable to certain consumers. Clearly a need exists to improve the taste and texture of pizza crusts by controlling the distribution and extent of delamination. We have found that by forming dough with certain embossed patterns compressed into the dough forming a specific footprint, the size, shape and distribution of the laminated and non laminated zones can be very closely controlled. The control of the delamination results in the associated control of cooking extent, fat content from the frying step, taste, and mouth feel. Discussion of the Prior Art Novissimo, U.S. Patent No. 3,303,796 teaches forming three dimensional shapes such as animal or human figures from confectionary materials such as chewing gum and candy by roll pressing three dimensional shapes from a confectionary. Moline, U.S. Patent No. 3,765,909 teaches a process for scoring a pizza shell into pieshaped sections by stamping the frozen pizza in a die stamping unit. Wagner, U.S. Patent No. 3,962,751 teaches a method for scoring food products such as meat patties in a scoring station using a scoring device comprising flexible plastic teeth used for penetrating the patty either completely or partially with plastic material being yieldable upon striking an obstruction. Totino, U.S. Patent No. 4,170,659 teaches docking a dough sheet using punched holes which upon frying form fairly hard zones around the holes defining a rivet like bond which connects the upper and lower surfaces of the pizza shell. Totino further teaches that by restraining the docked shell during cooking beneath a metal screen, the qualities of the shell can be improved. Westover,U.S. Patent No. 4,208,441 teaches a method for cooking food products such as flat sheets of dough using an apparatus including a plurality of mating pocketed cooking irons mounted upon endless conveyors which completely enclose the dough sheet and control its delamination. Anstet, U.S.Patent No. 4,308,286 teaches a method for producing a laminated imperforate nondocked product which comprises frying the dough while confining the dough between reticular forms, such as a metal mesh, spaced apart at a distance substantially equal to the thickness of the raw dough pieces, said forms being of a mesh size to control delamination of the dough during cooking in oil. Summary of the Invention The present invention comprises a method and apparatus for embossing a dough sheet. An embosser is used to selectively compress zones in a dough sheet before the dough is fried in oil without forming a score line. The embosser comprises a plurality of raised elongate embossing elements. The embossing elements, when pressed into the dough sheet, form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones or stripes of dough, wherein the elongated compressed zones of dough are unconnected i.e. they are interrupted and wherein the dough is uncompressed at the points where the grids would interesect if the grid lines or stripes were continuous, and wherein the elongated compressed zones form grids which substantially enclose or define uncompressed blister forming zones of dough where blisters will form when the dough is fried.In a preferred embodiment, the uncompressed blister forming zones are substantially parallelogram shaped, and running along a grid line, each elongated compressed zone is laterally offset from an adjacent compressed zone. The separation between elongated compression zones at the grid intersections is sufficient to define a plurality of second uncompressed blister forming zones. A preferred embodiment of a dough embosser constructed according to the principles of this invention has a plurality of raised embossing elements, which when pressed into the dough sheet, form compressed zones anduncompressed zones. The compressed zones have an area that is from 6 to 128 of the area of the uncompressed zones. In one embodiment of the invention, the embosser comprises a shaft for rotation about a longitudinal axis. A cylindrical roller is cooperatively connected to the shaft and the roller is rotatable about the longitudinal axis. A plurality of raised elongate embossing elements are cooperatively connected to the roller. In another eIRbodiment, the embosser comprises a shaft for rotation about a longitudinal axis. A plurality of embossing vanes are cooperatively cqnnected to the shaft. The vanes have a plurality of raised elongate embQssing elements. Brief Description of the Drawing Figure 1 is a perspective view of a dough embosser incorporating my present invention. Figure 2 is a generated plan view of the embossing surface of the dough embosser shown in Figure 1. Figure 3 is a cross sectional view of the dough embosser of Figure 2, taken generally along the lines 3 3. Figure 4 is a front elevational view of another embodiment of a dough embosser incorporating my present invention. Figure 5 is a cross sectional view of the dough embosser of Figure 4, taken generally along the lines 5 5. Figure 6 is a cross sectional view of the dough embosser of Figure 4, taken generally along the lines 6 6. Figure 7 is a perspective view of a fried pizza crust incorporating my present invention. Figure 8 is a cross sectional view of the pizza crust of Figure 7, taken generally along the lines 8 8. Figure 9 is a cross sectional view of the pizza crust of Figure 7, taken generally along the lines 9 9. Figure 10 is a top plan view of a dough sheet after being embossed according to my present invention. Figure 11 is a cross section view of the dough sheet of Figure 10, taken generally along the lines 11 11. Description of the Preferred Embodiment Referring to the Drawings, wherein like numerals represent like parts throughout the several views, there is generally designated at 10 in Figure 1, a dough embosser. The dough embosser 10 includes a shaft 11 for rotation about a longitudinal axis 14. A cylindrical roller 12 is cooperatively connected to the shaft 11 and the roller 12 is rotatable about the longitudinal axis 14. The cylindrical roller 12 has an outer surface 12a.A plurality of raised elongate embossing elements 13 are cooperatively connected to the outer surface 12a of the roller 12. As shown in Figure 2, the elongate embossing elements 13 have sidewalls 13a, 13b, 13c, 13d. Sidewalls 13a and 13b are generally planar and sidewalls 13c and 13d are generally curved. In a preferred embodiment, the shaft 11, cylindrical roller 12 and elongate embossing elements 13 are machined from a single piece of stainless steel.Stainless steel is durable, hard and stable. Also, there are no corrosion problems when the embosser is frequently cleaned. It is well known in the art how to machine raise configurations from a single stock of metal. It is understood that other suitable materials, such as aluminum may be used. It is also understood that the various components of the embosser 10 may be individually made and suitable assembled by methods well known in the art. Figure 2 shows a generated plan view of the outer surface 12a of the cylindrical roller 12. The embossing.elements 13 form a grid like pattern on the outer surface 12a of the cylindrical roller 12. For convenience, I have described the array of embossing elements 13 as being arranged along a grid like pattern. This terminology is used to illustrate the invention and should not be used to unduly limit the invention. The embossing elements 13, which taken together, appear to form a grid or network of offset or zigzag lines.Individual, and imaginary, first grid lines 15 are generally parallel to one another. Individual, and imaginary, second grid lines 16 are generally parallel to one another. Grid lines 16 intersect grid lines 15.The elongate embossing elements 13, along one of the grid lines, are laterally offset from an adjacent embossing element 13. The lateral displacement D is illustrated in Figure 2 by extending the side 13a to an adjacent embossing element 13. The distance from the imaginery extension of side 13a to side 13b of the adjacent embossing element 13 is the lateral displacement D . The lateral displacement D is between 0.2 to 0.8 centimeters, preferrably 0.4 to 0.6 centimeters, and as shown in the preferred embodiment in Figure 2, is 0.5 centimeters. The lateral displacement D prevents the embossing elements 13 from forming a score line on a dough sheet 17. If the embossing elements 13 were not offset, the corresponding compressed zones 18 would form a line of weakness, like that of a cracker.The lateral displacement D prevents a line of weakness and provides for a stronger crust after frying. Figure 10 illustrates a top plan view of a dough sheet 17 after it has been embossed by embosser 10 and before the dough sheet 17 is fried in oil. The dough sheet 17 has a plurality of compressed zones of dough 18 which correspond in position to where the embossing elements 13 of the embosser 10 came in contact with the dough sheet 17. The dough sheet 17, except for the compressed zones of dough 18 remains uncompressed.The compress zones of dough 18 form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough 18. The gridlike pattern is necessarily the same as the grid like pattern of the embossing elements 13 on the outer surface 12a of the cylindrical roller 12. The grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones, which taken together, appear to form a grid or network of zig zag or offset lines. A plurality of first grid lines 115 and a plurality of second grid lines 116, correspond respectively to grid lines 15 and 16. It is understood that the grid lines 115. and 116 are imaginary lines and are shown and described only to aid in the understanding of the alignment and relative positioning of the compressed zones of dough 18. The spacing and configuration of the compressed zones of dough 18 is the same as the elongate embossing elements 13.The elongated compressed zones of dough 18 are unconnected and uncompressed at the intersection of grid lines 115 and 116. The compressed zones of dough 18 form a plurality of uncompressed large blister forming zones 19. The elongated compressed zones of dough 18 form grids which substantially enclose a plurality of adjacent compressed zone sharing uncompressed blister forming zones. In a preferred embodiment, the uncompressed large blisterforming zones 19 are substantially parallelograms. The elongated compression zones of dough 18 are separated at the grid intersections sufficiently to define a plurality of intersection blister forming zones 20. The compressed zones of dough 18 have an area that is from 6 to 12 of the area of the uncompressed dough sheet 17. Preferrably, the percentage of compressed zones 18 to uncompressed area of the dough sheet 17 is approximately 6 to 10 and in the preferred embodiment, 8 . As shown in Figure 11, the thickness of the uncompressed dough sheet 17 is represented by the letter T, and the thickness of the compressed zones 18 is represented by the letter T . Our current research has shown that preferrably, T is 6 to 12 of the thickness T.In a preferred embodiment, the thickness T of the compressed zone is 6 to 10 of the thickness T of the uncompressed dough sheet 17. It is understood that values outside of these ranges may be used with a.corresponding reduction from the optimum. As shown in Figure 3, the height H of the embossing elements 13 is approximately 0.6 centimeters. However, it is understood, that other suitable heights may be used. It is only necessary that the height H be sufficient to compress the compressed zones 18 without the outer surface 12a touching the dough sheet 17. In a preferred embodiment, the length of the elongate embossing elements 13 is between 1.6 to 2.6 centimeters and their width is between 0.2 to 0.4 centimeters. The closest spacing between the ends of adjacent compressed zones of an uncompressed blisterforming zone 19 are from 1.0 to 1.5 centimeters apart.Preferrably, the compressed zones 18 are from 1.2 to 1.3 centimeters apart. The area of the large blisterforming zone 19 is from 10 to 15 square centimeters and preferrably between 12.0 to 14.5 square centimeters. The area of the intersection blister forming zones 20 is from 1.2 to 2.5 square centimeters and preferrably 1.8 to 2.2 square centimeters. It is understood that values outside of thse ranges may be used with a corresponding reduction from the optimum. Another embodiment of the present invention is shown in Figures 4, 5 and 6. A dough embosser generally designated as 30, includes a shaft 31. A plurality of disk members 32b are positioned on the shaft 31. The disk 32b has an aperture in its center through which the shaft 31 is inserted. A plurality of vanes 32 are secured to the disk member 32b. Spacers 33 are positioned between the embossing vanes 32. The spacers 33 have an aperture in their center for which the shaft 31 is inserted. The assembly of embossing vanes 32 and spacers 33 are held in position and secured to the shaft 31 by two collars 34. The collars 34 are secured to the shaft 31 by means of set screws 35. The vanes 32 each have an embossing element 32a cooperatively connected thereto. The size and spacial relationships of the embossing elements 32a of dough embosser 30, as shown in Figures 4, 5 and 6, are identical to the dimensions and spacial relationships of the elongate embossing elements 13 of dough embosser 10, as shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3.. Accordingly the footprint made on the dough sheet 17 is the same for either embodiment. It is understood that while dough embossers 10 and 30 are used for compressing a sheet of dough that passes underneath the revolving embossing elements 13 and 32a, a dough embosser may also be formed having a generally planar surface, such as that shown in the generated plan view of Figure 2. For such a dough embosser, the embosser would reciprocate in a linear motion stamping a dough sheet that is positioned under the dough embosser. In use, the dough embosser 10 is pressed onto the dough sheet 17 to form a grid like pattern of elongated compressed zones of dough 18, wherein the elongated compressed zones of dough 18 are unconnected and uncompressed at the grid intersections, and wherein the elongated compressed zone of dough 18 substantially enclose a plurality of adjacent compressed zone sharing uncompressed blister forming zones. The grid like pattern in the dough 17 is determined by the grid like pattern of the elongate embossing elements 13. The dough sheet 17 is cut to size and subsequently fried. A fried crust 21 is shown in Figure 7. The fried crust 21 has a series of large blisters 22 which corresponds to the large blister forming zones 19 in the dough sheet 17. Intersection blisters 23 correspond to the intersection blister forming zones 20 in the dough sheet 17.The fried crust 21 is very uniform in appearance, size and shape. The combination of the size of the elongate embossing elements 13, spacing of the elongate elements 13 and the percentage of compression yields this very uniform fried crust. As shown in Figure 8, the large blisters 22 have an internal cavity 22a. As shown in Figure 9, the intersection blister 23 has an internal cavity 23a. The compressed zone 18 and the dough sheet 17 uniformly control the size and shape of the internal cavities 22a and 23a. If the thickness T is greater than 12 of the thickness T, the fried pizza crust 21 has open areas and delamination occurs. Also, if the percentage of compressed zones 18 to the uncompressed zones of the dough sheet 17 is greater than 12 , the uniform appearance is lost. Also, if the compressed zones of dough 18 are less than 6 of the uncompressed areas of the dough sheet 17, the integrity and uniformity of blisters 22 and 23 suffer. It is understood that values outside this range may be used with a corresponding reduction from the optimum. Other modifications of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing description. This description is intended to provide specific examples of individual embodiments which clearly disclose the present invention. Accordingly, the invention is not limited to these embodiments or to the use of elements having specific configurations and shapes as presented herein. All alternative modifications and variations of the present invention which follows in the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims are included.