# 1 1H imidazolyl , 1 N morpholinyl and pyridyl compounds, their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Compounds of the general formula

## Claims
Claims 1. Compounds of the general formulaEMI69.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, in which m O or 1 Het represents 1 1H imidazolyl , l N morpholinyl, or pyridyl R1 represents hydrogen or alkyl C1 C6 Rê represents an alkyl group Ci C1O, straight or branched chain , optionally incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and or optionally interrupted with a heteroatom chosen from 0, S, or NR1 and which may be terminally substituted with a group selected from halogen ORÚ, S 0 nRÚ N O 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ OR N RÚ 2 in which RÚ has the meanings hereinbefore defined and additionally, when Het is other than 1 lH imidazolyl , or when X represents CH2 or NR R may additionally represent CH2R4 in which R4 represents a phenyl ring which may or may not be substituted with one or more groups selected from ORÚ, S O nRÚ n 0 2 , COR1, COOR1, CONHR1, CON R1 2, or N RÚ 2 in which H1 has the meanings 2 hereinbefore defined R3 represents an alkyl group C1 C10 straight or branched chain optionally containing unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and which may be. terminally substituted with ORÚ or SR1 in which R has the meaning given above or a group CH2R5 in which R5 represents a phenyl ring which may or may not be substituted with one or more groups selected from halogen, OR1, S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ or N RÚ 2 in which R1 has the meanings hereinbefore defined and additionally when R2 is other than H, R3 may additionally represent H X represents CH2, O, S or NRÚ Y represents 0, S or NH1 and additionally whenHet is other than l lH imidazolyl , Y may additionally represent CH2 and additionally when Het represents lH Imidazol lyl, Y may additionally represent CH2 with the provisos that either X is CH2 or NR1 or R2 specifically represents substituted alkyl, or benzyl CH2H4 in which the substituents are as defined above. 2. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which Het represents l lH imidazolyl , 2 pyridyl, 3 pyridyl, 4 pyridyl or l N morpholinyl. 3. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which R2 represents a C4 8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group terminally substituted with a group COORÚ, CONHRÚ or CON RÚ 2, in which RÚ has the meaning given in claim 1. 4. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which Het represents 1 1H imidazolyl or pyridyl R1 represents hydrogen or methyl R2 represents C3 7 alkyl optionally incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and or optionally interrupted by 0, S or NRÚ, and substituted with OR S 0 nR , COR , COORÚ, CONHR , CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ, or N RÚ wherein n and RÚ are as defined above R3 is as defined above m 0 X represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2. 5. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which Het represents 3 pyridyl R1 represents hydrogen or C1 3 alkyl Rê represents CH2R4 in which R4 is as defined above 71 R represents hydrogen or CH2R5 where R5 is as defined above m O, 1 X represents 0, S, NH NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, NH, NMe or with the provisos defined above Y may additionally represent CH2. 6. Compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which Het represents lH imidazol l yl R1 represents hydrogen R2 represents C4 8 alkyl incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and substituted with COOR1, CONHRÚ, or CON RÚ 2 wherein RÚ is as defined above R is as defined above m 0 X represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, or CH2. 7. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which is 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid. 8. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which is 5 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy pentanoic acid. 9. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which isEthyl 6 2 lH imidazol l yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate. 10. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which isEthyl 5 2 lH Imidazol l yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy pentanoate. 11. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which isMeopentyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate. 12. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which isEthyl 6 2 lH imidazol l yl 1 4 bromophenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate. 13. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which is 6 2 lH Imidazolyl l yl l phenylmethoxy methyl ethoxy ethoxy hexanoic acid. 14. The compound as claimed in claim 1, which is 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 3 pyridine. 15. A process for the preparation of compounds as claimed in claim 1 in which X represents 0 , S , orNR1 in which R1 has the meaning given in claim 1 which comprises a reacting a compound of the formula II EMI72.1 in which Het, R1, R2, R3 and Y have the meanings given in claim 1, with a compound of the general formula III EMI72.2 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group and m and R2 have the meanings given in claim 1 b for the production of compounds in X Y CH2 and m 0, reacting a compound of formula XI EMI73.1 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group and R1, R2 and H have the meanings given in claim 1 with a base Het or an alkali metal salt thereof in which Het has the meaning given in claim 1 c for the preparation of compounds in X Y CH2 and R1 H, reducing a compound of the formula XV EMI73.2 in which R2, R3 and Het have the meaning given in claim 1 d for the preparation of compounds in which X CH2, m O, Y represents S or NH , and Het is as defined in claim 1, reacting a compound of the general formula XX EMI73.3 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group, with compound of the formula R3YH in which Y represents S or NH1 and R1 and R3 are as defined above in each case where required with subsequent conversion of the groups R1, R2 and R3 to another group within the meanings given for such groups and in each case if desired with subsequent conversion to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 16. A pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound as claimed in claim 1 in association with a non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 17. A composition as claimed in claim 16 adapted for oral administration. 18. A composition as claimed in claim 17 in the form of a tablet or capsule, containing a specified quantity of active ingredient of formula I. 19. A composition as claimed in claim 18 in which the amount of active ingredient is within the range of 5 to 250 mg. 20. A composition as claimed in claim 16 adapted for injection. 21. Compounds as claimed in claim 1, for use in pharmacy. 22. A method of treating a patient suffering from a condition susceptible to treatment with an antithrombotic agent wherein an effective amount of a compound as claimed in claim 1 is administered.

## Description
Heterocyclic group containing compounds This invention relates to heterocyclic groupcontaining compounds having antithrombotic activity to the production thereof, and to compositions containing them, as well as to their use in therapy. We have found that antithrombotic activity is possessed by heterocyclic derivatives of the general formula I EMI1.1 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in which m O or 1 Het represents l lH imidazolyl , l N morpholinyl, or pyridyl H1 represents hydrogen or alkyl C1 C6 R represents an alkyl group C1 C10, a straight or branched chain , optionally incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and or optionally interrupted with a heteroatom chosen from 0, S, or NRÚ and which may be terminally substituted with a group selected from halogen, ORÚ, S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ,CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ or N RÚ 2 in which RÚ has the meanings hereinbefore defined and additionally, when Het is other than l lH imidazolyl , or when X represents CH2, or NRÚ, Rê may additionally represent CH2H4 in which 4R represents a phenyl ring which may or may not be substituted with one or more groups selected from OR1S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRl or N Rl 2 in which RÚ, has the meanings hereinbefore defined R3 represents an alkyl group Cl ClO straight or branched chain optionally containing unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and which may be terminally substituted with OR or SRÚ in which R has the meaning given above or a group CH2R5 in which R5 represents a phenyl ring which may or may not be substituted with one or more groups selected from halogen, OR S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ orN RÚ 2 win which RÚ has the meanings hereinbefore defined and additionally when Rê is other thanH, R3 may additionally represent H X represents CH2, O, S, or NH Y represents 0, S or NR and additionally, when Het is other than 1 1H imidazolyl , Y may additionally represent CH2 and additionally whenHet represents 1H Imidazol 1 yl, Y may additionally represent CH2 with the provisos that either X is CH2 1 22 or NR or R specifically represents substituted alkyl or benzyl CH2R4 substituents defined as hereinbefore . The compounds of formula I contain one or more asymmetric centres. Formula I and other formulae in the specification embrace all stereoisomers represented therein. In particular such formulae include the enantiomeric forms, such mixtures as are designated racemates, and diastereoisomers. The invention therefore provides heterocyclic derivatives of formula I, with pharmaceutically acceptable salts, as well as all steroisomers as mentioned above. In the compounds of the invention Het preferably represents l lH imidazolyl , 2 pyridyl, 3 pyridyl, 4pyridyl or l N morpholinyl. R may represent a straignt C1 10 alkyl chain e.g. n butyl, n pentyl, n hexyl , a branched C1 10 alkyl chain e.g. 5,5 dimethylpentyl , a C1 10 alkenyl chain e.g. 3 butenyl, 4 pentenyl, 5 hexenyl , a C1 10 branched alkenyl chain e.g. 5 methyl 4 pentenyl or a C1 10 alkynyl chain e.g. 3 butynyl, 4 pentynyl or 5 hexynyl , any of which may be interrupted with a group 0, S orNRÚ e.g. ethoxyethyl . Preferred numbers of carbon atoms are four to six for a straight alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl chain and six to eight for a branched alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl chain. Compounds in which R2 is interrupted with 0, S or NRÚ are preferred when X represents CH2, and preferred interrupting groups are 0, S, and NH1 where H1 preferably represents hydrogen or methyl.Preferred compounds are those in which Rê is terminally substituted with a group selected from halogen,ORÚ, S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ,CON RÚ , NHRÚ OR N RÚ 2, in which RÚ is preferably hydrogen or a C1 6 alkyl group. Particularly prferred substituent groups are COORÚ, CONHRÚ and CON RÚ 2. Thuis a particularly preferred group of compounds are those in which Rê repressents a C4 8 straight chain or branched chain alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group terminally substituted with a group COOR1, CONHRÚ or CON Rl 2. Examples of such groups are CH2 5COOH, CH2 5COOCH2CH3, CH2 5COOCH2C CH3 3, CH2 4 C CH3 2COOH, cis and trans CH2 3CH CHCOOH and cis and trans CH2 3 CH CHCOOCH2CH3. With certain provisos R may also represent a benzyl group CH2R4 in which R4 represents a phenyl ring which may or may not be substituted with one or more groups selected from ORl, S 0 nRÚ n 0 2 , CORÚ, COOR1, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ or N RÚ 2. Preferred substituent groups in this meaning are ORÚ, SRÚ, COORÚ, CONHRÚ and CON RÚ 2. Examples of particularly preferred benzyl groups CH2R4 are 4 CH2C6H4OCH3, 4 CH2C6H4SCH3, 4 CH2C6H4COOH, 4 CH2C6H4COO CH2 3ch3, 4 CH2C6H4CONHCH3 and 4 CH2C6H4CON CH3 2. In the above definitions R may represent a straight or branched chain alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group. Such groups contain one to ten carbon atoms, preferably one to eight carbon atoms in the case of a straight chain and six to ten carbon atoms in the case of a branched chain. R amy be terminally substituted with the groups ORÚ or SRÚ where RÚ is preferably hydrogen or methyl. The group R3 may also represent a benzyl group CH2R5 in which R5 is a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl ring. Examples of such benzyl groups are CH2C6H5, 4 CH2C6H4Br, 4 CH2C6H4OCH3, 4 CH2C6H4COOH, 4 CH2C6H4 COOCH2CH3, 4 CH2C6H4CON CH3l2, and 4 CH2C6H4N CH3 2. The group X, preferably represents 0, S, CH2 or NRÚ in which RÚ is preferably hydrogen or methyl. The groupY preferably represents O, S, or NRÚ where RÚ is preferably hydrogen or methyl, and it may also represent CH2 with certain provisos. In a preferred aspect of the invention Het represents 1 1H imidazolyl or pyridyl RÚ represents hydrogen or methyl Rê represents C3 7 alkyl optionally incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and or optionally interrupted by O, S or NRÚ, and substituted with ORÚ, S O nRÚ, CORCOORÚ, CONHRÚ, CON RÚ 2, NHRÚ, or N RÚ 2, wherein n and R1 are as defined above R3 is as defined above m 0 X represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2. In an alternative preferred aspect of the invention, Het represents 3 pyridyl RÚ represents hydrogen or C1 3 alkyl Rê represents CH2R4 in which R4 is as defined above 5 R represents hydrogen or CH2R5 where R5 is as defined above m 0, 1 X represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, NH, NMe or with the provisos defined above Y may additionally represent CH2. In a most preferred aspect of the invention Het represents lH imidazol l yl R1 represents hydrogen H2 represents C48 alkyl incorporating unsaturated carbon carbon bonds and substituted with COORÚ, CONHRÚ, or CON RÚ 2 wherein RÚ is as defined above 3 H is as defined above m 0 X represents 0, S, NH, NMe or CH2 and Y represents 0, S, or CH2. Specific compounds according to the invention are those, the preparation of which is described in theExamples. The compounds according to the invention have antithrombotic activity and are useful in treating disease states which involve platelet dysfunction or platelet hyperactivity, such as cerebrovascular disease, ischaemic heart disease, diabetic retinopathy, angina, peripheral vascular disease and myocardial infarction. Chronic platelet dysfunction or hyperactivity of platelets is associated with many chronic diseases such as cerebrovascular disease, ischaemic heart disease, diabetic retinopathy, angina, peripheral vascular disease and myocardial infarction. Oral, long acting platelet therapy is useful in the prophylaxis and or therapeutic treatment of such diseases. Antiplatelet therapy is also useful to reduce complications from surgical procedures and aid in the maintenance of prosthetic devices, vascular catheters, heart valves, renal dialysis shunts and the apparatus used in cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Platelet activation results in the formation of platelet aggregates and the release of proaggregatory substances which increase platelet involvement and further the process of aggregation. Platelets are sensitive to many triggering substances and platelet activation may be initiated through several pathways depending upon the particular disease state. Such aggregatory stimuli as collagen, thromboxane A2 TXA2 , adenosine diphosphate ADP , adrenaline, 5 hydroxytryptamine, thrombin or platelet activating factor PAF may either act directly on receptors resulting in platelet aggregation and or may effect cAMP levels and or Ca sequestration to produce platelet aggregation. Consequently, compounds capable of inhibiting platelet activation induced by such.agents as for example arachidonic acid, collagen and platelet activating factor have considerable clinical utility in medicine. The antiaggregatory activity of the compounds of the invention may be demonstrated by their ability to inhibit in vitro human platelet response induced by agents such as arachidonic acid, collagen and platelet activating factor PAF measured, for example, turbidometrically according to the method first described by G.V.R. Born et al, Nature, 1962 , 194, 927. In vivo activity in rabbits i.v. or oral dosing may be evaluated by measurement of inhibitory potency against collagen or PAF induced thrombocytopoenia using continuous platelet count monitoring according to the method of G.M. Smith and F. Freuler,Bibl.Anat., 1973 , 12, 229. The compounds of the general formula I , according to the invention in which X is O , S or NH in which Rl has the meaning given hereinbefore may be prepared by reacting a compound of the formula II EMI7.1 in which Het, Rl, R , and Y are as hereinbefore defined and X represents 0 , S , or NRl in which H is as hereinbefore defined with a compound of the general formula III EMI7.2 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group, for example a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine or iodine m O,l , or a sulphonyloxy group m O such as the methanesulphonyloxy or p toluenesulphonyloxy group, and R2 is defined as hereinbefore. The product may be isolated as the base or as an acid addition salt.The reaction is preferably carried out in the presence of a suitable base, for example, using an alkali metal hydride such as sodium hydride in an anhydrous aprptic organic solvent under an inert atmosphere, using potassium hydroxide in a solvent such as dimethyl sulphoxide, or in the cases in which X represents S or NR1 using potassium carbonate in dimethylformamide. The reaction may be conducted at ambient temperature 10 200C or at somewhat elevated temperature of the order of 7O0C . The compounds of formula II in which X is O or S may be prepared from the parent substituted oxirane or thiirane of the general formula IV in which X may beO or S EMI7.3 by reacting these with, for example, imidazole, or morpholine, which may be in the form of an alkali metal salt, such as the sodium salt, or for example with 2 , 3 or 4 lithiopyridine in the presence of cuprous iodide trimethylphosphite complex at 1O00C in tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula II in which X representsNH and Het, R3 and Y are as defined hereinbefore, may be prepared by the reduction of compounds of formula V with suitable reducing agents, such as lithium aluminium hydride in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. The compounds of formula V may beEMI8.1 obtained by reaction of a compound of general formula VI EMI8.2 in which L is a sulphonyloxy group such as the methanesulphonyloxy or p toluenesulphonyloxy group and Het, Rl, R3 and Y as defined hereinbefore, with an alkali metal azide, for example sodium azide in an aprotic solvent at elevated temperature for example dimethylformamide at 70 C . Compounds of general formula VI may be prepared from the compounds of formula II in which X represents 0, and Het, Rl, R3 and Y are as hereinbefore defined, with either methane sulphonyl chloride or p toluene sulphonyl chloride using standard conditions. Compounds of the formula II in which X represents NR1 in which R is lower alkyl C1 C4 may be prepared by reductive alkylation of compounds of formula II in which X represents NH, with an aldehyde for example formaldehyde when RÚ in NH1 represents CH3, or acetaldehyde when RÚ represents CH2CH3 in the presence of a suitable reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride. The thiiranes of formula IV in which X representsS, and Rl, Y, and R3 as defined as hereinbefore, may be prepared from the corresponding oxiranes of formula V in which X represents 0, by treating them with triphenylphosphine sulphide in the presence of trifluoroacetic acid in toluene. The oxiranes of formula IV in which X representsO, Y represents O, S, or NRÚ, and RÚ and R are defined as hereinbefore, may be obtained by reacting an epihalohydrin of the formula VII in which Hal represents Cl orBrEMI9.1 with a compound of the formula VIII HY R3 VIII in which Y and R3 are as hereinbefore defined, preferably in the presence of a suitable base such as sodium hydride when Y represents 0, or potassium carbonate when Y represents S or NRl. The oxiranes of formula IV , in which X represents 0, and Y represents CH2, may be prepared by reacting alkenes of general formula IX in which H1 and H3 are defined as hereinbefore with CH2 CRÚ CH2R3 IX m chloroperbenzoic acid in dichloromethane. Compounds of formula IX may be prepared by reacting haloalkenes of formula X CH2 CR1 CH2Hal 1X in which RÚ is defined as hereinbefore and Hal representsCl or Br with Grignard reagents R MgHal in which R is as hereinbefore defined and Hal represents Cl, Br or I, in a suitable solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of general formula I in which X Y CH2 and m 0, may be prepared by reacting a compound of formula XI ,EMI10.1 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group, for example a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine or iodine or a sulphonyloxy group such as a methanesulphonyloxy group, and RÚ, Rê and R are defined as hereinbefore, with, Tor example imidazole, or morpholine, which may be in the form of an alkali metal salt, such as the sodium salt, or for example with 2 , 3 , or 4lithiopyridine in the presence of cuprous iodide trimethylphosphite complex at 10O0C in tetrahydrofuran. The compounds of general structure XI may be obtained from the corresponding alcohol of formula XII in which RÚ, R2 and R3 have the meanings given hereinbefore by reactionEMI10.2 with a suitable reagent. Thus if L represents chlorine a suitable reagent is thionyl chloride or if L represents methanesulphonyloxy a suitable reagent is methane sulphonylchloride in the presence of pyridine. The alcohol of general formula XII may be obtained by the reduction of the corresponding acids of formula XIII with a suitable reducing agent, for example diborane in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.EMI11.1 The acids of general formula XIII may be prepared by reaction of compounds of formula XIV in which R1 R3 CH2 CH2 CHRÚ COOH XIV and R3 are defined as hereinbefore, with two equivalents of a suitable base, such as lithium diisopropylamide, followed by treatment with one equivalent of a compound of general formula RêCH2L in which L is a suitable nucleophilically displaceable group such as a halogen and R2 is defined as hereinbefore. Alternatively, compounds of general formula I in which X Y CH2 and Rl H may be obtained by the reduction of compounds of formula XV in which Het, R2 and R3 EMI11.2 are defined as hereinbefore. A suitable reducing agent for this conversion is hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst such as 10 palladium on carbon in a solvent such as ethanol or acetic acid. Compounds of formula XV may be prepared by the reaction of ketones of formula XVI with suitable compounds EMI12.1 such as the phosphonite of formula XVII in the presence of 3 Ph2P O CH2CH2R3 XVII a suitable base, for example n butyl lithium in tetrahydrofuran. Ketones of formula XVI may be prepared by reaction of iodides of formula R2CH2COCH2I with suitable heterocycles in the presence of base, for example imidazole, or morpholine in the form of an alkali metal salt such as the sodium salt, or for example with 2 , 3 , or 4 lithiopyridine in the presence of cuprous iodide trimethylphosphite complex in tetrahydrofuran. Iodides of formula RCH2COCH2I may be obtained by refluxing the corresponding chlorides R CH2COCH2Cl with an excess of sodium iodide in acetone. Chlorides of the formulaRêCH2COCH2Cl are prepared by reaction of the known acid chlorides RêCH2COCl with diazomethane in diethyl ether followed by treatment with hydrogen chloride gas. Phosphonites of formula XVII may be obtained from the corresponding compounds of formula R3CH2CH2L, in which L represents a halogen atom, such as bromine or iodine, by reaction with ethyl diphenyl phosphinite in an inert solvent, such as toluene at an elevated temperature, for example 8O0C. Compounds of general formula I in which X CH2, m O, Y represents 0, S, and R R2 and R are defined as hereinbefore, may be prepared by reacting a compound of general formula XVIII withEMI12.2 a compound of general formula L R3 in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable group, for example a halogen such as chlorine, bromine or iodine, or a sulphonyloxy group such as the methanesulphonyloxy group and H3 is defined as hereinbefore. Compounds of formula XVIII in which Y O and Het, H1 and R2 are defined as hereinbefore may be obtained byEMI13.1 the reduction of the corresponding methyl ester of formula XIX with a suitable reducing agent, for example lithium aluminium hydride in an inert solvent such as tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of general formula I in which X CH2, m O, Y represents S or NR1, and Het, H1 and H2 are defined as hereinbefore, may be prepared by reacting the compounds of general formula XX in which L represents a nucleophilically displaceable groupEMI13.2 for example a halogen, such as chlorine, or a sulphonyloxy group such as the methanesulphonyloxy group, with a compound of formula R3YH, in which Y represents S or NR1 and Rl and R3 are defined as hereinbefore, in the presence of a suitable base such as potassium carbonate. Compounds of general formula XX may be obtained by reaction of compounds of general formula XVIII in which Het, RÚ and Rê are defined as hereinbefore with a suitable reagent.Thus if L represents chlorine a suitable reagent is thionyl chloride, or if L represents methanesulphonyloxy a suitable reagent is methanesulphonyl chloride in the presence of pyridine. The esters of general formula XIX may be obtained from compounds of general formula XXI , in which L represents aEMI14.1 nucleophilically displaceable group, for example a halogen atom, such as chlorine, bromine or iodine, or a sulphonyloxy group such as a methane sulphonyloxy group with for example imidazole, or morpholine, which may be in the form of an alkali metal salt, such as the sodium salt, or for example with 2 , 3 , or 4 lithiopyridine in the presence of cuprous iodide trimethylphosphite complex at 1000C in tetrahydrofuran. Compounds of formula XXI may be obtained from the corresponding alcohols of general formula XXII inEMI15.1 which RÚ and Rê are defined as hereinbefore, by reaction with a suitable reagent. Thus if L represents chlorine a suitable reagent is thionyl chloride, or if L represents methanesulphonyloxy a suitable reagent is methanesulphonyl chloride. The alcohols of general formula XXII may be prepared from the esters of general formula XXIII , byEMI15.2 reaction with one equivalent of a suitable base, for example lithium diisopropylamide in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran followed by treatment with formaldehyde. In producing the compounds according to the invention, the groups RÚ, Rê and R may be obtained by conversion of one group within the meaning given for that group to another meaning, by one or more process steps. Thus, by way of example compounds in which R2 represents an alkyl group terminally substituted with a CON R1 2 group in which R1 is hydrogen, this may be obtained from the parent carboxylic acid by reaction with ammonia. This amide may then if desired be converted to the amine by reduction.Also the parent carboxylic acid can be converted to an ester, for example an ethyl ester COOEt which may then be converted by reduction, for example with LiAlH4, to the corresponding alcohol CH2OH . This can if so desired be oxidised the corresponding aldehyde CHO or alkylated, for example, methylated to the corresponding methyl ether CH2OCH 3 In another conversion the group R3 when this is a substituted benzyl group may be removed by hydrogenolysis to leave the compound in which R3 is hydrogen. Such conversions are carried out by conventional means and are among the processes exemplified in theExamples which follow. For use as medicinal agents the compounds according to the invention may be administered by any suitable route, preferably in the form of a pharm aceutical composition adapted to such route, and in a dose effective for the treatment intended. Accordingly, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more compounds according to the invention in association with one or more non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and or diluents and or adjuvants and if desired other active ingredients. Th e composition may for example be applied orally or by injection. For oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition may take the form of, for example, a tablet, capsule, suspension or liquid. The pharmaceutical composition is preferably made in the form of a dosage unit contained in a particular amount of the active ingredient. Examples of such dosage units are tablets or capsules.These may with advantage contain an amount of active ingredient from 5 to 250 mg preferably 25 to 150 mg. A suitable daily dose for a mammal may vary widely depending on the condition of the patient and other factors. However, a dose of from 0.1 to 300 mg kg body weight, particularly 1 to 100 mg kg body weight may be appropriate. The active ingredient may also be administered by injection as a composition wherein, for example, saline, dextrose or water for injection may be used as a suitable carrier. A suitable daily dose of about 0.1 to 100 mg per kg body weight injected per day in multiple doses depending on the disease being treated. A preferred daily dose would be from 1 to 30 mg kg body weight. As indicated, the dose administered and the treatment regimen will be dependent, for example, on the disease, the severity thereof, on the patient being treated and his response to treatment and therefore may be widely varied. The pharmaceutical compositions may be prepared by techniques well known in the art and described, inter alia, in Remington sPharmaceutical Science, Mach Publishing Co.,Easton, Penn., 1965. The following Examples illustrate the invention EXAMPLE 1 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxvlmethyliethoxyihexanoic acid a 2,3 Epoxypropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether A solution of 4 methoxybenzyl alcohol 8g, 5.8 mol in dry tetrahydroturan 1200 ml was added dropwise to a stirred slurry of sodium hydride 28 g of a 60 dispersion in oil, 7. mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 6 ml at 50C and under a gentle stream of dry nitrogen.The mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature and stirred until hydrogen evolution ceased. The resulting slurry of the sodium alkoxide was cooled to 5 C and treated with epibromohydrin 860 g, 6.3 mol at a rate such that the temperature remained below 50C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm gradually to room temperature and left stirring for 12 hours. The final mixture was filtered and washed with methanol. The combined filtrate and washings were evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to afford the crude product 250 g . Further purification of this crude product by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform afforded 2,3 epoxypropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 2.7 m,2H , 3.2 m,lH , 3.65 m,2H , 3.37 s,3H , 4.73 s,2H and 7.15 q,4B . b 1 2 Hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole 2,3 Epoxypropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether l g, 0.515 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was treated with imidazole 44.4 g, 0.653 mol and heated under reflux for 16 hours. The solution was filtered and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give a brown solid which was recrystallised from 10 water propan l ol to give 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole as a colourless crystalline solid, m.p. 96 980C.c 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxymethyl ehoxy hexanoic acid 1 2 Hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1Himidazole 2 g, .76 mol was added to a stirred suspension of powdered potassium hydroxide 17 g, 0.30 mol in dimethylsulphoxide 5 ml at 180C and stirred for 0.5 hours. Ethyl 6 bromohexanoate t33.45 g, 0.15 mol was then added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 18 0C for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 21 and washed with dichloromethane 2 x l ml , neutralised to pH 6 7 with sulphuric acid 2 M and extracted with dichloromethane 4 x 150 ml .The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which by column chromatography silica gel, 2t methanol in ethyl acetate gave pure 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid as a colourless oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.2 1.4 m,2H , 1.5 1.7 m,4H , 2.28 t,2H , 3.1 3. 3 m,2H , 3.4 3.6 m,3H , 3.81 s,3H , 3.95 4.15 m,2H , 4.44 ABq,2H , 6 .9 and 7.25 ABq,4H , 6.88 s,lH , 7.6 s,lH , 7.68 s,lH and 9.7 broad s,lH .EXAMPLE2 5 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy p pentanoic acid This compound was prepared as described in Example lc but using ethyl 5 bromopentanoate. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in cnloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.51 1.72 m,4H , 2.31 m,2H , 3.19 3.36 m,2H , 3.41 3.64 m,3H , 3.8 s,313 , 3.96 4.21 m,2H 4.46 s,2H , 6.9 and 7.24 ABq, 4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.6 s,lH 7.69 s,lH and 8.72 broad s,lH .EXAMPLE 3 7 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylmethyllethoxylheptanoic acid This compound was prepared as described in Example lc but using ethyl 7 bromoheptanoate. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in cnloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.H NMR 6 CDC13 1.2 1.7 m,8H , 2.3 t,2H , 3.24 m,2H , 3.4 3.6 m,3H , 3.81 s,3H , 3.95 4.15 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H , 6.96 and 7.24 ABq,4H , 6.97 s,lH , 7.8 s,lH , 7.70 s,lH , 8.84 s,lH .EXAMPLE 4Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate A stirred solution of 6 2 lH imidazol l yl l 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid Example lc 10 g, 0.026 mol and triethylamine 3. g, .3 mol. in dichloromethane 100 ml, dried over 4A molecular sieves at 50 C was treated dropwise with ethyl chloroformate 3.2 g, 0.029 mol. . The solution was allowed to warm up to 0 C over .5 hours, cooled back to 50 C and treated with ethanol 6 ml, B.1 mol . The solution was allowed to warm up and then stirred for 15 hours at 180C. The mixture was then shaken with an aqueous solution of saturated sodium carbonate 5 ml .The organic layer was separated, dried Na2SO4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reducedpressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 5 ethanol in chloroform to give ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol l yl l 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.20 1.35 m,2H , 1.26 t,3H , 1.44 1.68 m,4H , 2.27 t,2H , 3.22 3.36 m,2H , 3.52 3.64 m,lH , 3.81 s,3H , 3.94 4.2 m, 4H , 4.45 s, 2H , 6.90 and 7.28 ABq,4H , 6.91 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH , and 7.46 s,lH . EXAMPLE 5Ethyl 5 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy pentanoate This compound was prepared as in Example 4 using 5 2 lH imidazol l yl l 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy3 methyl ethoxy pentanoic acid Example 2 . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 5 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.22 t,3H , 1.42 1.69 m,4H , 2.2 t,2H , 3.21 3.34 m,2H , 3.38 3.6 m,3H , 3.76 s, 3H , 3.92 4.16 m,4H , 4.44 s,2H , 6.87 and 7.24 ABq 4H , 6.93 s, 1H0, 7.00 s, 1H , and 7.26 s, 1H .EXAMPLE6Ethyl 7 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy heptanoate This compound was prepared as in Example 4 using 7 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy heptanoic acid Example 3 . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil. 1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.2 1.4 m,7H , 1.40 1.70 m,4H , 2.27 t,2H , 3.24 3.36 m,2H , 3.4 3.66 m,3H , 3.83 s,3H , 3.92 4.2 m,4H , 4.46 s,2H , 6.9 and 7.28 ABg,4H , 6.93 s,lH , 7.4 s,lH , and 7.49 s,lB . EXAMPLE 7Isopropyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate a Isopropyl 6 bromohexanoate A solution of e caprolactone 3 g in 2 propanol 250 ml at 0 C was saturated with hydrogen bromide gas.Sulphuric acid 18 M, 5 ml was then added and the solution was heated under reflux for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into water 2 ml , basified with sodium hydrogen carbonate, and extracted with diethyl ether. The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography alumina, dichloromethane to give isopropyl 6 bromohexanoate as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.22 d, 6H , 1.40 1.58 m, 2H , 1.58 1.74 m,2H , 1.80 1.95 m,2H 2.21 2.38 m,2H , 3.32 3.48 m,2H and 5.00 m,lH .b Isopropyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate1 2 Hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole Example lb 18 g, 0.038 mol was added to a stirred suspension of powdered potassium hydroxide 8 g, 0.14 mol in dimethylsulphoxide 2 ml at 18 C and stirred for .5 hours. Isopropyl 6 bromohexanoate 10.5 g, 0.044 mol was then added and the mixture was stirred for .5 hours at 18 C. The mixture was poured into saturated aqueous ammonium chloride 1500 ml and extracted with dichloromethane.The combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 2 ethanol in chloroform to give isopropyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.22 d, 6H , 1.20 1.72 m, 6H , 2.25 t,2H , 3.23 3.52 m,4H , 3.58 m,lH , 3.82 s,3H , 3.94 4.2 m,2H , 4.46 s,2H , 5.00 m,lH , 6.9 and 7.26 ABq 4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.3 s,lH and 7.48 s,lH . EXAMPLE 8Neopentyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenylffmethoxylmethyllethoxylhexanoate a Neopentyl 6 bromohexanoate A solution of 6 bromohexanoyl chloride 10.0 g, 0.047 mol and 2,2 dimethylpropanol 4.96 g, 0.056 mol in benzene 100 ml was heated under reflux for 2 hours.The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in dichloromethane 2 ml , washed with aqueous sodium hydroxide 2 M, 50 ml , water 5 ml and dried Na2sO4 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was further purified by column chromatography alumina, dichloromethane to give neopentyl 6 bromohexanoate as a colourless oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 .96 s,9H , 1.42 1.59 m,2H , 1.60 1.77 m, 2H0, 1.81 2.00 m, 2H , 2.36 t, 2H , 3.39 t,2H and 3.78 s,2H . b Neopentyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate This compound was prepared as in Example 7b using neopentyl 6 bromohexanoate. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 5 ethanol in chloroform to give the title product as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 0.93 s, 9H , 1.22 1.70 m, 6H , 2.32 t,2H , 3.21 3.50 m,4H , 3.59 m,lH , 3.76 s,2H , 3.88 s,3H , 3.94 4.18 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H , 6.9 and 7.26 ABq,4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH and 7.46 s, 1H . EXAMPLE9 2,2 Dimethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxphenyl methoxylmethyl ethoxy hexanoic acid a Ethyl 2,2 dimethyl 6 bromohexanoate A solution of n butyllithium 1.6M, 63 ml, .1 mol. in hexane was added dropwise to a solution of diisopropylamine 1 3.1 g, 0.10 mol. in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 100 ml at 50 C. The mixture was stirred for 0.5 hours and cooled to 70 C. A solution of ethyl isobutyrate 12.2g, 0.105 mol. in tetrahydrofuran 20 ml was then added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 70 C for 1 hour. 1,4 Dibromobutane 3.4 g, 3.14 mol was then added, followed by hexamethylphosphoramide 30 g . The mixture was maintained at 70 C for 0.5 hours and then warmed to room temperature over 1 hour.The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, treated with an excess of an aqueous saturated solution of ammonium chloride 500 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 150 ml . The combined extracts were washed with water 100 ml , hydrochloric acid 1N, 2 x 1 3 3 ml aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 100 ml and dried MgS04 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was distilled to give ethyl 2,2 dimethyl 6 bromohexanoate as a pale yellow oil, b.p. 7300, 0.06 mm Hg . H NMR 6 CDCl3 1.20 s,6H , 1.28 t,3H , 1.35 1.62 m,4H , 1.78 2.00 quintet,2H , 3.42 t,2H and 4.15 q,2H .b 2,2 Dimethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid This compound was prepared by the method of Example lc but using ethyl 2,2 dimethyl 6 bromohexanoate. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 1 3 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.20 s, 6H , 1.15 1.60 m, 6H , 3.15 3.37 m,2H , 3.37 3.65 m,3H , 3.83 s,3H , 3.90 4.20 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H , 6.90 s,lH , 6.91 and 7.25 ABq,4H , 7. 34 s,lH , 7.65 s,lH and 9.2 3 br s,lH, D20exchangeable . EXAMPLE 1 3 Ethyl 2,2 dimethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate This compound was prepared as described in Example 4 but using 2,2 dimethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4methoxyphenyl methoxy ethoxy hexanoic acid Example 9 .The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a colourless oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.15 s,6H , 1.25 t,3H , 1.37 1.55 m, 6H , 3.20 3.35 m, 2H , 3.40 3.65 m, 3H , 3.80 s, 3H , 3.90 4.20 m,4H , 4.45 s,2H , 6.90 d,2H , 6.93 s,lH , 7.00 s,lH , 7.25 d,2H and 7.45 s,lH .EXAMPLE 11 1 F2 Methoxv 3 F 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy orpy propyl lH imidazole A solution of 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole 20 g, 0.0763 mol, prepared by the method of Example la,b , in dry tetrahydrofuran 300 ml was added dropwise to a stirred slurry of sodium hydride 3.32 g of a 60 dispersion in oil, 0.083 mol and stirred for 5 hours at 25 C. A solution or methyl iodide 12 g, 0.0045 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 cm was then added dropwise and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 hours.The solution was filtered and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give an oil which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 hexane in t butylmethyl ether to 5 methanol in t butylmethyl ether to give the product asa colourless oil.NMR 6 CDC13 3.32 s,3H , 3.37 m,2H , 3.51 m,lH , 3.79 s,3H , 4. 36 m,2H , 4.44 s,2H and 6.7 3 7.45 m,7H . TABLE 1EMI29.1 The compounds ot Examples 12 to 18 in the followingTable were prepared as for Example 11 by reacting the compound prepared according to Example la,b with a compound of formulaEMI29.2 where L, m, R1, R , R3, X and Y are as hereinbefore defined and are specifically represented within the Table. TABLE 1 continued EMI30.1 Ex. SEP m SEP L SEP X SEP Y SEP Rê SEP R SEP NMR SEP SEP CDCl3 tb No. tb 12 SEP O SEP OCH3 SEP O SEP O SEP CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2Cl SEP SEP 1.15 1.55 SEP 6H, SEP M , SEP 3.05 3.70 SEP 7H, SEP M , tb SEP 3.79 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.04 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.44 SEP 2H, SEP s , tb SEP 6.82 7.30 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 7.45 SEP 1H, SEP s , tb 13 SEP O SEP I SEP O SEP O SEP CH2CH3 SEP SEP 1.11 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 3.15 3.70 SEP 5H, SEP m , SEP 3.80 SEP 3H, SEP s tb SEP 4.05 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.44 SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.82 7.30 SEP 6H, SEP m tb SEP 7.47 SEP 1H, SEP s . tb 14 SEP O SEP I SEP O SEP O SEP CH2CH2CH2CH3 SEP SEP 0.88 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.10 1.60 SEP 4H, SEP m , SEP 3.10 3.70 tb SEP 5H, SEP m , SEP 3.80 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.05 SEP 2H, SEP t , SEP 4.44 tb SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 6.82 7.30 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 7.46 SEP 1H, SEP s . tb 15 SEP O SEP I SEP O SEP O SEP CH2CH2CH2CH2CH3 SEP SEP 0.87 SEP 3H, SEP t , SEP 1.12 1.60 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 3.15 3.60 tb SEP 5H, SEP m , SEP 3.79 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.06 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 4.44 tb SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.82 7.30 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 7.40 SEP 1H, SEP s . tb 16 SEP O SEP Br SEP O SEP O SEP CH2C CH SEP SEP 2.35 SEP 1H, SEP t , SEP 3.15 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP m , SEP 3.60 3.90 tb SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 3.76 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.00 4.15 SEP 4H, SEP m , tb SEP 4.40 SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 6.78 7.30 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 7.40 SEP 1H, SEP s tb 17 SEP O SEP Br SEP O SEP O SEP CH2CH CH2 SEP SEP 3.10 3.40 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 3.60 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP 3.81 SEP 3H, SEP s tb SEP 3.40 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 4.08 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 4.44 SEP 2H, SEP s , tb SEP 4.95 5.30 SEP 2H, SEP m , SEP 5.45 6.00 SEP 1H, SEP m , SEP and tb SEP 6.65 7.45 SEP 7H, SEP m . tb TABLE 1 continued EMI31.1 Ex. SEP m SEP L SEP X SEP Y SEP Rê SEP R SEP NMR SEP SEP CDCl3 tb No. tb 18 SEP 1 SEP Cl SEP O SEP O SEP CH3 SEP SEP 2.04 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 3.35 3.45 SEP 2H, SEP dd , tb SEP 3.81 SEP 3H, SEP s , SEP 4.15 4.22 SEP 2H, SEP d , SEP 4.45 tb SEP 2H, SEP s , SEP 5.10 SEP 1H, SEP br. SEP t SEP and SEP 6.70 7.45 tb SEP 7H, SEP m . tb EXAMPLE 19Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy 5 oxopentanoate A solution of ethyl 4 chloroformyl butyrate 3.4 g, 0.019 mol in dichloromethane 20 ml was added dropwise over 3.3 hours to a stirred solution of 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imida zole Example lb, 5. 3 g, 0.019 mol and triethylamine 1.9 g, 0.019 mol in dichloromethane 50 ml at room temperature. The solution was stirred for 2 hours, washed with an aqueous saturated solution of sodium chloride and dried MgSO4 .The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 2 ethanol in chloroform to give ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl0methoxy meth yl ethoxy 5 oxopentanoate as a pale yellow oil.H NMR 6 CDCl3 1.25 t,3H , 1.90 quintet,2H , 2.32 t,2H , 2.37 t,2B , 3.32 3.54 m,2H , 3.81 S,3H , 4.14 q,2H , 4.20 d,2H , 4.44 ABq,2H , 5.15 quintet,lH , 6.88 s,lH , 6.90 and 7.25 ABq,4H , 7.B3 s,lH , and 7.43 s,lH . Examples 20 26 were prepared either from Example 1 by standard modifications of the carboxyl group or fromExample 4 by standard modifications of the carboxyethyl group as described in detail below.EXAMPLE 2 3 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyll ethoxylbexanamide A stirred solution of 6 2 lH imidazol 1 yl l 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid Example 1 10 g, 0.027 M and triethylamine 3. 3 g, 0.030 mol in dry dichloromethane 100 ml at 50 C was treated dropwise with ethyl chloroformate 3.2 g, 3.e29 mol . The solution was allowed to warm up to OOC over 3.5 hours, cooled back to 780C and treated with gaseous ammonia. The solution was allowed to warm up to room temperature over 6 hours and washed with an aqueous saturated solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate and dried Na2C03 .The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give a residue which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, ethyl acetate to 10 methanol in ethyl acetate to give 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanamide as a pale yellow oil. ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.15 1.37 m, 2H , 1.40 1.65 m, 4H , 2.17 t,2H , 3.17 3.65 m,5H , 3.84 s,3H , 3.95 4.15 m,2H , 4.51 ABq,2H , 5.8 broad s,lH , 6.4 broad s,lH , 6.93 and 7.27 ABq,4H , 6.89 s,lH , 7. 38 s,lH , and 7.53 s,lH . EXAMPLE 21N,N Dimethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 3 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanamide This compound was prepared as described in Example 2 3 using dimethylamine in place of ammonia. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, ethyl acetate to 5 methanol in ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDCl3 1.21 1.39 m,2H , 1.41 1.68 m, 4H , 2,28 t,2H, 2.92 s,3H , 2.99 s,3H , 3.22 3.64 m,5H , 3.80 s,3H , 3.93 4.21 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H , 6.88 and 7.24 ABq,4H , 6.90 s,lH , 7.00 s,lH and 7.48 s,lH . EXAMPLE 22 1 r2 r 6 aminobexyl oxvl 3 A methoxvDhenvlmethoxyi propyl 1H imidazole 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanamide Example 2 3, 3.3 g, 0.0008 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 2 ml was added to a stirred suspension of lithium aluminium hydride 3.5 g, 0.013 mol in dry tetrahydroturan 10 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere.The resulting suspension was stirred under reflux for 24 hours cooled to room temperature and the residual lithium aluminium hydride destroyed using ethyl acetate 15 ml followed by dilute sodium hydroxide solution 2N, 20 ml , the resulting solution was filtered and the filter cake was washed with ethyl acetate 50 ml , the organic layer was separated, dried MgS04 and evaporated to an oil which was purified by column chromatography silica ge l, ethylacetate to 10 methanol in ethyl acetate to yield the title compound as an oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.2 1.35 m,4H , 1.4 1.6 m,4H , 2.3 2.6 br.s,2H , 3.4 3.6 m,3H , 3.6 3.8 4H , 3.8 s,3H , 4.0 4.2 m,2H , 4.5 s, 2H , 6.85 and 7.2 3 ABq,4H , 6.85 s,lH , 7.1 s,lH and 7.5 s,lH .EXAMPLE 23 1 2 6 Hydroxyhexyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole A solution of ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate Example 4 10 g, 0.025 mol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 50 ml was added dropwise to a stirred slurry of lithium aluminium hydride 1.8 g, 0.047 mol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 20 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere. When the addition was complete the suspension was heated under reflux for 1 hour. Aqueous sodium hydroxide 2M, 2 ml was added and the mixture was poured into an aqueous saturated solution of ammonium chloride 1000 ml and extracted with dichloromethane.The combined extracts were dried Na2S04 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, ethyl acetate to 10 ethanol in ethyl acetate to give l 2 6 hydroxyhexyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.10 1.36 m, 4H , 1.40 1.60 m, 4H , 2.43 broad s,lH , 3.18 3.35 m,2H , 3.42 3.67 m,5H , 3.83 s,3H , 3.95 4.14 m,2H , 4.48 ABq,2 H , 6.94 and 7.26 ABq,4H , 6.94 s,lH 7. 39 s,lH , and 7.52 s,lH .EXAMPLE 24 1 2 6 Methoxyhexyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylZpropyll lH imidazolg 1 2 6 Hydroxybexyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole Example 23 3.3 g, 0.00086 mol was added to a suspension of sodium hydride 0.0069 of an 80 dispersion in oil, 0.002 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml at 25 C and the resulting slurry stirred for 1 hour at this temperature. Methyl iodide 3.284 g, 0.002 mol was then added and the resulting suspension stirred at 250C overnight.The suspension was then evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue poured into dilute hydrochloric acid 6N, 2 3 ml and washed with ethyl acetate 2 x 5 ml , the aqueous phase was then basified with solid potassium carbonate and the liberated oil extracted into ethyl acetate 1 ml , the organic phase was then dried and evaporated under reduced pressure to give the product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 methanol in ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.2 1.4 m,4H , 1.5 1.7 m,4H , 3. 3.2 m,2H , 3.3 s,3H , 3.4 3.7 m,4H , 3.8 s,3H , 3.9 4.2 m,3H , 4.5 s,2H , 6.91 and 7.28 ABq,4H , 6.9 s,lH , 7.0 s,lH , and 7.7 s,lH .EXAMPLE 25 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxyl methyl ethoxy hexanal 1 2 6 Hydroxyhexyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole .5 g, 0.0014 mol was added as a solution in dichloromethane 1 ml to a cool 50 C solution of dimethyl sulfoxide .22 g, 8.8828 mol containing trifluoroacetic anhydride .44 g, 8.8821 mol in dichloromethane 2 ml the latter solution was prepared at 50 C by slow addition of trifluoroacetic anhydride to a solution of dimethylsulfoxide in dichloromethane .After stirring the solution for .5 hours at 50 C, triethylamine 5.6 ml, 0.055 mol was added over 18 min and the resulting solution was allowed to reach 25 0C over .75 hours. The solution was then poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 5 ml and the organic layer separated, dried and evaporated under reduced pressure, the resulting oil was purified x2 by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to l methanol in chloroform to yield the title compound as an oily solid.ÚH NMR CDCl3 P 1.2 1.4 m, 2H0, 1.45 1.7 m, 4H , 2.4 t,2H , 3.1 3.2 m,2H , 3.3 3.6 m,3H , 3.81 s,3H , 3.95 4.2 m,2H , 4.5 s,2H , 6.88 s,lH , 7.5 s,lH , 7.7 s,lH and 9.7 s,lH .EXAMPLE 26Ethyl 6 2 hydroxy 1 1H imidazol 1 yl methyl ethoxy hexanoate A solution of ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methyl methyl ethoxy hexanoate Example 4 5.8 g 0.014 mol in ethanol 2 ml and trifluoroacetic acid 1 ml containing a catalytic amount of 10 palladium on carbon .5 g was stirred at room temperature under a hydrogen atmosphere. When hydrogen uptake had ceased the solution was filtered and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure. The residue was treated with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate and extracted with dichloromethane. The extracts were dried Na2so4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to 5 ethanol in chloroform to give ethyl 6 2 hydroxy l iH imidazo l yl methyl ethoxy hexanoate as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.34 t, 3H , 1.30 1.50 m, 2H , 1.50 1.78 m,4H , 2.38 t,2H , 3.08 br.s,lH, D20 exchangeable , 3.36 3.5 m,lH , 3.5 3.76 m,4H , 4.88 4.38 m,4H , 6.98 s,lH , 7.8 s,lH and 7.54 s,lH .EXAMPLE 27Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 bromophenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate a 2 .3 EDoxynrovl 4 bromobenzvl ether This compound was prepared as in Example la but using 4 bromobenzyl alcohol. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, dichloromethane to give 2,3 epoxypropyl 4 bromobenzyl ether as a colourless oil. H NMR 6 CDC13 2.55 2.64 m,lH , 2.74 2.84 t,lH , 3.12 3.24 m,lH , 3.34 3.46 dd,lH , 3.73 3.84 dd,lH , 4.44 4.6 ABq,2H , and 7.2 and 7.45 ABq,4H . b 1 2 Hydroxy 3 4 bromophenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as in Example lb but using 2,3 epoxypropyl 4 bromobenzyl ether. The crude product was recrystallised from dichloromethane diethyl ether to give 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 bromophenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole as a colourless crystalline solid, m.p. 98 100 C.c Ethyl 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 4 bromophenyl methoxylmethyllethoxylhexanoate This compound was prepared as in Example lc but using 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 bromophenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole. The crude acid so obtained was converted directly into the title ester by the method of Example 4.The product so obtained was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give a colourless oil.H NMR CDC13 1.26 t,3H , 1.28 1.40 m,2H , 1.46 1.68 m,4H , 2.28 t,2H , 3.24 3.50 m,2H , 3.61 m,lH , 3.94 4.2 m, 4H , 4.46 s,2H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH , 7.2 and 7.46 ABg, 4H , and 7.47 s,lH . EXAMPLE 28 6 2 1H Imidazolyl 1 yl 1 phenylmethoxy methyl ethoxy ethoxvlhexanoic acid a 2.3 Epoxypropyl benzyl ether This compound was prepared as in Example la but using benzyl alcohol. The product was used without purification for Example 27b.b 1 2 Hydroxy 3 phenylmethoxy propyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as in Example lb but using 2,3 epoxypropyl benzyl ether. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give 1 2 hydroxy 3 phenylmethoxy propyl lH imidazole as a colourless oil.c 6 2 1H Imidazol 1 yl 1 phenylmethoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoic acid This compound was prepared as in Example lc but using 1 2 hydroxy 3 phenylmethoxy propyl 1H imidazole.The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 2t methanol in ethyl acetate to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.2 1.4 m, 2H , 1.5 1.7 m, 4H , 2.3 t,2H , 3.2 3.4 m,2H , 3.5 3.7 m,3H , 4. 4.2 m, 2H , 4.5 s,2H , 6.95 s, 1H , 7.1 s,lH , 7.3 7.4 m,5B , 7.76 s,lH and 8. br. s, 1H . EXAMPLE 29Ethyl 6 2 2H imidazol 1 yl 1 pentoxy methyl ethoxy hexanoate a 2,3 Epoxypropyl pentyl ether This compound was prepared as in Example la but using pentanol. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, dichloromethane to give the 2,3 epoxypropyl pentyl ether as a yellow oil which was used without further purification.b 1 2 Hydroxy 3 pentoxy propyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as in Example lb but using 2,3 epoxypropyl pentyl ether. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give 1 2 hydroxy 3 pentoxy propyl lH imidazole as a yellow oil. H NMR 6 CDC13 .94 m,3H 1.28 1.40 m,4H , 1.57 m,2H , 3.19 3.46 m,4H , 3.84 4.18 m,3H , 5.17 brs,lH 6.84 s,lH , 6.92 s,lH and 7.4 s,lH .c Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 pentoxy methyl ethoxy 1 hexanoate This compound was prepared as in Example lc but using 1 2 hydroxy 3 pentoxy propyl 1H imidazole. The crude acid os obtained was converted directly into its corresponding ethyl ester by the method of Example 4.The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 0.90 m, 3H , 1.25 t, 3H , 1.27 1.44 m,6H , 1.46 1.7 m,6H , 3.17 3.64 m,7H , 3.92 4.21 m,4H , 6.94 s,lH , 7.4 s,lH , 7.49 s,lH . EXAMPLE 30 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 pentoxy propyl 1H imidazle 1 2 Hydroxy 3 pentoxy propyl 1H imidazole Example 29b 2.12 g, 0.01 mol was added to a stirred suspension of powdered potassium hydroxide 2.24 g, 0.040 mol in dimethylsulphoxide 1 ml at 18 0C and stirred for 0.5 hours. 4 Methoxybenzyl chloride was then added and stirring was continued for 2 hours. Ethyl acetate 35 ml was added and the solution was washed with water and dried MgSO4 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give 1 2 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 pentoxy propyl lH imidazole as a pale yellow oil. ÚH NMR CDCl3 0.91 m, 3H , 1.28 1.40 m, 4H , 1.60 m,2H , 3.21 3.52 m,4H , 3.72 m,lH , 3.8 s,3H , 3.96 4.19 m,2H , 4.34 4.52 m,2H ,6.86 and 7.14 ABq,4H , 6.94 s, 1H , 7.6 s,lH and 7.5 s,lH .EXAMPLE 31Ethyl 4 1 1H imidazol 1 yl methyl 2 pentoxy ethoxy lmethyl 1 benzoate A solution of 1 2 hydroxy 3 pentoxy propyl lH imidazole Example 29b, 2.12 g, 0.016 mol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 15 ml was treated with sodium hydride .44 g of a 60 dispersion in oil, 0.011 mol and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Ethyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 2.67 g, 0.011 mol was then added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with water and dried MgSO4 .The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give ethyl 4 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl 2 pentoxy ethoxy methyl benzoate as a yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 B.91 m,3H , 1.24 1.47 m,7H , 1.73 1.79 m,2H , 3.28 3.53 m,4H , 3.76 m,lH , 4.01 4.25 m,2H , 4.39 q,2H , 4.47 4.69 m,2H , 6.95 s,lH , 7.7 s,lH , 7.28 and 8. ABq,4H and 7.51 s, 1H0.EXAMPLE 32Ethyl 6 t 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl0 methoxy methyl ethyl amino hexanoate a alpha 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 1H imidazole 1 ethanol, 4 methylbenzenesulphonate 4 Toluene sulphonyl chloride 18.g, 0.094 mol was added in portions to a stirred solution of 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole Example lb 31.4g, 0.12 mol in dry pyridine l ml dimethoxyethane 6 ml at BOC over .5 hours. The solution was stirred at BOC for 4 hours.The reaction mixture was poured into ethyl acetate 1200 ml , washed with water 4x2 ml ,was dried MgS04 . The solvent was evaporated otf under reduced pressure to give the crude product as a yellow oil which was further purified by chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give alpha 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 1H imidazole l ethanol,4 methylbenzenesulphonate as a colourless crystalline solid m.p. 130 131 C ether ethanol .ÚH NMR CDCl3 2.40 s, 3H , 3.31 3.50 m, 2H0, 3.80 m,3H , 4.12 4.29 m,2H , 4.32 4.44 m,2H , 4.68 m,lH , 6.76 s,lH , 6.88 and 7.18 ABq,4H , 6.94 s, 1H , 7.26 and 7.66 ABq,4H , and 7.32 s,lH .b 1 2 Azido 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole A solution of alpha 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 1H imidazole 1 ethanol,4 methylbenzenesulphonate 6.39g, 0.015 M in dry dimethylformamide 30ml was treated with sodium azide 1.69g, .225M and heated at 70 C for 16 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with water and dried MgSO4 . The solvent was evaporated otf under reduced pressure to give the crude product wnich was further purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give 1 2 azido 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 3.45 m,2H , 3.6 m,lH , 3.75 s,3H , 4.00 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H and 6.7 7.45 m,7H .c 1 2 Amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole A solution of 1 2 azido 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylpropyl 1H imidazole 5.lg, 0.018 mol in dry tetrahydroturan 10ml was added dropwise to a stirred slurry of lithium aluminium hydride .68g, 0.018 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 4 ml at room temperature under a stream of dry nitrogen. When the addition was complete the reaction mixture was heated under reflux for 18 hours.The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was extracted with ethyl acetate, washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and dried MgS04 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give 1 2 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole as an oil which was used directly without further purification. B NMR CDCl3 1.44 br.s,2H , 3.29 br.s,3H , 3.8 s,3H , 3.96 m,2H , 4.44 s,2H and 6.6 7.45 m,7H .d Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1H 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethyl amino hexanoate A mixture of 1 2 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole 2. g, 8.8877 mol , ethyl 6 bromohexanoate 1.71 g, 0.0077 mol , anhydrous potassium carbonate 2.12 g, 0.015 mol and potassium iodide .lg, 0.0006 mol in anhydrous dimethylformamide was stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the reside was dissolved in dichloromethane, washed with water and dried Na2S04 .The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to l ethanol in chloroform to give ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1H 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethyl amino hexanoate as a pale yeliow oil.H NMR CDCl3 1.24 t,3H , 1.24 1.66 m,7H , 2.27 5, 2H , 2.4 2.66 m,2H , 2.98 m,lH , 3.18 3.36 m,2H , 3.8 s,3H , 4.80 d, 2H , 4.12 q,2H , 4.41 s,2H , 6.89 and 7.23 ABq,4H , 6.87 s,lH , 7.3 s,lH and 7.42 s,lH . EXAMPLE 33Ethyl 5 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethyl amino pentanoate This compound was prepared as described in Example 32d but using ethyl 5 bromopentanoate. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to 5 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.25 t,3H , 1.38 1.70 m,4H , 1.77 br.s,lH , 2.29 t,2H , 2.48 2.68 m,2H , 2.98 m,lH , 3.21 3.36 m, 2H , 3.80 s, 3H0, 4.01 d, 2H , 4.12 g, 2H , 4.43 s,2H , 6.89 and 7.25 ABq,4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH and 7.46 s,lH . EXAMPLE 34Ethyl 5 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethyl amino 5 oxopentanoate A solution of ethyl 4 chloroformyl butyrate 0.714 g, 8.004 mol in dichloromethane 5 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution of 1 2 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole Example 32c 1.0 g, 0.0038 mol and triethylamine .4g, 8.884 mol in dichloromethane 2 ml at room temperature.The solution was stirred for 12 hours, washed with an aqueous saturated solution of ammonium chloride and dried Na2SO4 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 2 ethanol in chloroform to give ethyl 5 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethyl amino 5 oxopentanoate as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.26 t, 3H , 1.97 m,2H , 2.26 t,2H , 2.37 t, 2H , 3.36 m, 2H0, 3.82 s, 3H , 4.05 4.20 m, 2H , 4.33 m,1H , 4.46 s,2H , 6.57 d,lH , 6.87 s, 1H0, 6.98 and 6.25 ABq, 4H , 6.99 s,lH and 7.37 s,lH .EXAMPLE 35 6 Fl l Imidazol l ylmethyl 4 phenylbutoxvlhexanoic acid a 5 Phenylpent l ene A solution of phenethyl magnesium bromide prepared from 25 g, 0.135 mol of phenethyl bromide and excess magnesium turnings in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added to a stirred solution of allyl bromide 16.34 g, 0.135 mol in anhydrous tetrahydroturan 15 ml at room temperature and under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen.The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours and the solvent was then evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate.The solution was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give an oil which was distilled to give 5 phenylpent 1 ene as a colourless oil b.p.40 C, 0.5 mm, Hg . H NMR CDC13 1.64 1.78 m,2H , 2.00 2.14 m,2H , 2.61 t,2H , 4.89 5.7 m,2H , 5.72 5.92 m, 1H , and 7.9 7.31 m,5H . b 2 3 Phenylpropyl oxirane 5 Phenylpent l ene 14.2g, 0.0973 mol and m chloroperbenzoic acid 16.79 g, 0.0973 mol in dichloromethane 3 ml was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solution was washed with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and dried MgS04 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give an oil which was distilled to give 2 3 phenylpropyl oxirane b.p. 850C, .4 mm.Hg .ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.66 1.92 m, 4H , 2.45 m, 1H0, 2.66 t,2H , 2.73 t,lH , 2.94 mrlH and 7.10 7.32 m,5B . c 1 1 2 Hydroxy 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole Imidazole 5.32 g, W.74 mol was added to a solution of 2 3 phenylpropyl oxirane 3 g, 0.185 mol in acetonitrile 500 ml and the mixture was heated under reflux for 7 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with water and dried MgSO4 . The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was recrystallised from dichloromethane hexane to give 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole as a colourless crystalline solid, m.p. 72 740C. 1H NMR CDCl3 1.42 1.57 m,2H , 1.63 1.99 m,2H , 2.66 t, 2H , 3.7 3.96 m,3H , 4.62 br.s,lH , 6.81 m,2H and 7.13 7.35 m,6H .d 6 1 1H Imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylbutoxy hexanoic acid This compound was prepared as in Example lc but using l l 2 hydroxy 5 phenylpentyl lH imidazole. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform , to give the title compound as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.26 1.86 m, 10H , 2.34 t, 2H , 2.62 t,2H , 3.1 3.24 m,lH , 3.26 3.49 m,2H , 3.78 4.4 m,2H , 6.94 bs,s,lH , 7.10 br.s,lH 7.12 7.35 m,5H , 7.74 br, s. 1H and 10.96 br. s, 1H .EXAMPLE 36Ethyl 6 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl0 4 phenylbutoxy hexanoate This compound was prepared as in example 4 but using 6 1 1H imidazol l ylmethyl 4 phenylbutoxy hexanoic acid Example 35d . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 3 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl . 1.18 1.82 m,13H , 2.26 t,2H , 2.62 t,2H , 3.12 3.46 m,3H 3.78 4.2 m,2H , 4.12 q,2H , 6.9 s,lH , 7.3 s,lH , 7.12 7.3 m, 5H , and 7.46 s, 1H0EXAMPLE 37 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 5 phenylpentyl 1Himidazole This compound was prepared as in Example 30 but using 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole Example 35c . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.H NMR CDCl3 1.42 1.88 m,4H , 2.59 t,2H , 3.57 m,lH , 3.78 s,3H , 3.81 4.00 m,2H , 4.13 4.3 m,2H , 6.8 7.36 m,llH and 7.46 s,lH .EXAMPLE 38 6 1 1H Imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl butoxy hexanoic acid a 5 4 Methoxyphenyl pent l ene This compound was prepared as in Example 35a using 4 methoxyphenethyl magnesium bromide prepared from 4 methoxyphenethyl bromide and magnesium turnings. The crude oil isolated after work up was distilled to give the title compound b.p. 650C, .3mm.Hg , as a colourless oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.68 m,2H , 2.07 m,2H , 2.55 m, 2H , 3.7 s,3H , 4.90 5.10 m,2H , 5.7 5.9 m,lH , 6.81 and 7.6 ABq,4H . b 2 3 4 Methoxyphenyl propyl oxirane This compound was prepared as in Example 35b using 5 4 methoxyphenyl pent l ene. The compound was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform , to give a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.40 1.80 m, 4H , 2.40 m, 1H0, 2.58 t,2H , 2.68 m,lH , 2.86 m,lH , 3.7 s,3H , 6.81 and 7.6 ABq,4H .c 1 1 2 Hydroxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl lH imidazole This compound was prepared by the same procedure as in Example 35c using 2 3 4 methoxyphenyl propyl oxirane. Column chromatography silica gel, 5 ethanol in chloroform of the crude reaction mixture and subsequent recrystallisation from dichloromethane pentane gave the title compound as a colourless crystalline solid m.p. 90.5 91.5 C .1H NMR CDCl3 1.39 1.52 m,2H , 1.55 1.94 m,2H , 2.56 t,2H , 3.74 s,3H , 3.64 3.89 m,3H , 5.34 br.s,lH , 6.78 s,lH , 6.8 and 7.8 ABq,4H , 6.84 s,lH and 7.24 s,lH .d 6 1 1H Imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl butoxylhexanoic acf p This compound was prepared as in Example lc but using 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl lH imidazole. Purification by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol chloroform gave the title compound, as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.22 1.81 m, 10H , 2.31 t, 2H , 2.58 t,2H , 3.09 3.21 m,lH , 3.37 3.5 mr2H , 3.8 s,3H , 3,83 4.11 m,2H , 6.83 and 7.9 ABq,4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.10 s,lH , 7.83 s,lH and 9.71 br.s,lH .EXAMPLE 39Ethyl 6 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl butoxy hexanoate The compound was prepared as in Example 4 but using 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl 1H imidazole Example 38d . The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, 5 ethanol in chloroform as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.28 t, 3H , 1.28 1.79 m, 10H , 2.29 t,2H , 2.58 t,2H , 3.13 3.47 m,3H , 3.78 s,3H , 3.81 4.00 m,2H , 4.12 q,2H , 6.83 and 7.08 ABq,4H , 6.91 s,lH , 7.6 s,lH and 7.6 s,lH . EXAMPLE 4 3 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as for Example 30 using 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl 1H imidazole Example 38c . The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.37 1.81 m,4H , 2.55 t,2H , 3.56 m, 1H , 3.72 s, 6H , 3.70 4.04 m, 2H , 4.08 4.39 m, 2H , 6.77 6.85 m,5H , 6.91 s, 1H , 6.98 7.17 m,4B and 7.51 s,lH . EXAMPLE 41Ethyl 4 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl butoxy benzoate This compound was prepared as for Example 31 using 1 1 2 hydroxy 5 4 methoxyphenyl pentyl 1H imidazole Example 38c . The pure product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.40 t, 3H , 1.44 1.82 m, 4H , 2.58 t, 2H , 3.60 m, 1H , 3.80 s, 3H0, 3.86 4.10 m, 2H , 4.20 4.4 m,4H , 6.81 s,lH , 6.83 and 7. 36 ABq, 4H , 6.92 s,lH , 7.25 and 8. 32 ABq,4H and 7.52 s, 1H .EXAMPLE 42 6 1 1H Imidazol 1 ylmethyl nonoxy hexanoic acid a 1,2 Epoxydecane Epoxidation of l decene according to the procedure of Example 35b gave the title compound as a colourless oil wnich was used without further purification.1H NMR 6 CDC13 3.89 m,3H , 1.21 1.73 m,14H , 2.44 m,lH , 2.72 m,lH , 2.88 m,lH .b 1 1 2 Hydroxydecyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared according to the method of Example 35c using 1,2 epoxydecane. The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, 2 58 ethanol in chloroform which gave a pale yellow oil which solidified on standing. Recrystallisation from diethyl ether gave the analytical sample m.p. 59.5 61 C as a colourless crystalline solid. ÚH NMR CDCl3 0.90 m, 3H , 1.16 1.64 m, 14H , 3.74 4. 32 m,3H , 5.30 br.s,lH , 6.87 s,lH , 6.91 s,lH , 7.36 s,lH . c 6 1 1H Imidazol 1 ylmethyl nonoxy hexanoic acid This compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example lc from l l 2 hydroxydecyl lH imidazole. The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, 58 ethanol in chloroform as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 0.82 0.98 m, 3H , 1.17 1.73 m, 20H , 2.27 2.44 m,2H , 3.13 3.27 m,lH , 3.35 3.50 m,2H , 3.81 4.10 m,2H , 6.91 7.13 br.s,2H and 7.77 br.s,lH . EXAMPLE 43 Ethyl 6 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl nonoxy hexanoate This compound was prepared as in Example 4 but using 6 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl nonoxy hexanoic acid Example 42c . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 3 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a colourless oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 8,90 m,3H , 1.21 1.72, m,23H , 2.3 t,2H , 3.21 m,lH , 3.37 3.51 m,2H , 3.85 4.11 m,2H , 4.1 q,2H , 7.88 s,lH , 7.14 s,lH and 7.83 s,lH .EXAMPLE 44Ethyl 6 1 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylbutylthïo hexanoate a 2 3 Phenylpropyl thiirane To a stirred solution of 2 3 phenylpropyl oxirane Example 35b 2.g, 0.0123 mol and triphenylphosphine sulphide 3.62g, 0.0123 mol in toluene 2 ml , trifluoroacetic acid 1.4g, 0.0123 mol was added over 5 min. After stirring for 1 hour at room temperature, the reaction mixture was washed with water, sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and again with water. After drying MgSO4 and removal of solvent at reduced pressure, the product contaminated with triphenylphosphine oxide was isolated as a crystalline mass. Attempted purification of the thiirane resulted in its extensive decomposition and it was therefore used in its crude state. 1H NMR CDCl3 1.74 1.97 m,4H , 2.12 m,lH , 2.47 m,lH , 2.66 t,2H , 2.87 m,lH and 7.9 7.37 m,58 . b 1 1 2 Mercapto 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared according to the procedure ot Example 35c using 2 3 phenylpropyl thiirane. The crude reaction mixture after removal of acetonitrile was dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with water, and then extracted with 1N hydrochloric acid. The combined acid extracts were basified using 1N sodium hydroxide solution and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO4 and the solvent removed at reduced pressure. The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform as a colourless oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.34 d,lH , 1.40 1.98 m,4H , 2.55 2.62 m,2H , 3.00 3.15 m,lH , 3.91 4.12 m,2H , 6.88 s,lH , 7.6 s,lH , 7.10 7.36 m,5H and 7.47 s,lH c Ethyl 6 1 1H imidazolyl 1 ylmethyl 4 phenylbutyl thio hexanoate 1 1 2 Mercapto 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole 2.46 g, 0.01 mol , ethyl 6 bromohexanoate 4.46, 0.02 mol potassium carbonate 5.52 g, .4 mol and potassium iodlde 180 mg, 0.001 mol were stirred together in dimethylformamide 2 ml for 3h. at room temperature.The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 2 ml , washed with water, dried MgSO4 and solvent removed at reduced pressure. The pure product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform as a pale yellow oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.25 t, 3H , 1.27 1.98 m, 10H , 2.2 2.33 m,4H , 2.51 2.71 m,2H , 2.71 2.85 m,lH , 3.92 4.7 m,2H , 4.14 q,2H , 6.9 s,lH , 7.4 s,lH , 7.13 7.30 m, 5H and 7.48 s, 1H .1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl mthylthio 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole 1 1 2 Mercapto 5 phenylpentyl 1H imidazole Example 44b 2.46 g, 0.01 mol , 4 methoxybenzyl chloride 3.12 g, 0.02 mol and potassium carbonate 5.52 g, 0.04 mol were stirred together in dimethylformamide 2 ml at room temperature for 12h.The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 2 ml , washed with water 5x2ml , dried MgSO4 and solvent removed at reduced pressure. The product was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.30 1.91 m, 4H , 2.41 2.58 m, 2H , 2.59 2.73 m,lH , 3.28 3.49 m,2H , 3.77 s, 3H , 3.88 3.98 m,2H and 6.77 7.38 m,12H .EXAMPLE 46 1 1 4 Methoxyphenyl ethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylprotvll lH imidazole a 4 4 Methoxyphenyl 2 hydroxymethylbutanoic acid To a solution of lithium diisopropylamide prepared from diisopropylamine 16.16 g, .16 mol and n butyl lithium 1.6M in hexane, 100ml, 0.016 mol in THF 50 ml at 78 C, was added a solution of 4 4 methoxyphenyl butanoic acid 13.8g, 0.07 mol inTHF l ml over 20 min. The solution was warmed to 20 C and stirred for 2.5h. Formaldehyde gas generated by warming paraformaldehyde 10 g was then passed into the reaction mixture in a stream of nitrogen. After stirring for a further 2h. at 20 C, hydrochloric acid 2N, 500ml was added and the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 8 ml .After washing with water, the organic phase was extracted with sodium hydroxide solution .5N, 3x2ml . The combined aqueous extracts were acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 3x200ml , the combined organic phase MgSO4 was dried and solvent removed at reduced pressure to give the product as a colourless solid. H RMR CDCl3 1.7 2.5 m,2H , 2.56 2.68 m,3H , 3.75 s,3H , 3.72 3.86 m,2H 6.82 and 7.9 ABq,4H and 8.01 br. s, 2H .b Methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 hydroxymethyl butanoate A mixture ot 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 hydroxymethyl butanoic acid 6.0g, 0.027 mol , iodomethane 5.68g, .4 mol and potassium carbonate 7.45g, 0.054 mol in dimethylformamide 4 ml was heated at 70 C for 1 h.After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 4 ml , washed with water 3x2ml , sodium hydrogen carbonate solution 2x2ml and again with water 2x200ml . Drying MgSO4 and removal ot solvent at reduced pressure gave the product as a pale yellow oil.H NMR CDCl3 1.72 2.3 m,2H 2.39 br.s,lH , 2.54 2.66 m,3H , 3.72 s,3H , 3.73 3.81 m,2H 3.79 s,3H and 6.82 and 7.9 ABq,4H .c Methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methanesulphonyloxy methyl butanoate A solution of methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 hydroxy methyl butanoate 3.9g, 0.0173 mol , triethylamine 3.4 g, 0.034 mol and dimethylaminopyridine .5g, 0.04 mol in dichloromethane 3ml was cooled to 20 C and methanesulphonyl chloride 2,05 g, 0.018 mol added over 5 min. After stirring for an additional 20 min. the solution was warmed to room temperature, washed with saturated ammonium chloride solution 2x5ml and water 2x5ml . The organic phase was dried MgSO4 and the solvent removed at reduced pressure to give the product as a colourless oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.74 2.7 m,2H , 2.61 t,2H , 2.77 2.91 m,lH , 3.00 s,3H , 3.72 s,3H , 3.78 s,3H , 4.26 4.44 m,2H and 6.83 and 7.9 ABq,4H .d Methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 1H imidazol l ylmethylbutanoate A solution of methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 methane sulphonyloxymethyl butanoate 5.49, .17 mol and imidazole 10g, 0,149 mol was heated to reflux in acetonitrile 4ml for 8h. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed at reduced pressure, the residue dissolved in ethyl acetate 2ml and washed with water 5x2ml . After drying MgSO4 and removal of solvent at reduced pressure, the residue was column chromatographed silica gel, chloroform to give the product as an oil. ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.67 2.06 m, 2H , 2.47, 2.47 2.69 m,2H , 2.74 2.89 m,lH , 3.64 s,3H , 3.78 s,3H , 3.95 4.27 m,2H , 6.78 6.93 m,3H , 6.99 7.11 m,3H and 7.41 s,lH .e 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl ethyl 3 hydroxypropyl 1H imidazole A solution of methyl 4 4 methoxyphenyl 2 1H imidazol 1 ylmethyl butanoate 2.30g, 0.08 mol in ether 20 ml, at 0 C, was treated with lithium aluminium hydride 3 mg, 0.08 mol over 5 min. After stirring for a further lh. at 0C, saturated aqueous ammonium chloride was added cautiously to destroy excess lithium aluminium hydride. After filtration and drying MgSO4 the solvent was removed at reduced pressure to give the crude product as an oil suitable for use in the next stage.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.46 1.79 m,2H , 1.83 1.99 m,1H , 2.50 2.75 m,2H , 3.47 d,2H , 3.76 s,3H , 3.91 4.11 m, 2H , 6.80 and 7.05 ABq, 4H , 6.88 s, 1H , 6.96 s, 1H and 7.42 s,lH .f 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl ethyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as in Example 3 3 using 1 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl 3 hydroxypropyl 1Himidazole. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give the title compound as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.46 1.72 m, 2H , 1.89 2.02 m, 1H , 2.45 2.74 m,2H , 3.26 d,2H , 3.78 s,3H , 3.82 s,3H , 3.88 4.09 m, 2H , 4.33 4.46 m, 2H , 6.73 7.08 m, 8H and 7.19 7.42 m,3H . EXAMPLE 47 1 5 4 Methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pent 1 yl 1H imidazole a 5 4 Methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pentanoic acid A solution of diisopropylamine 15 g, 0.148 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 100 ml at 780C was treated dropwise with a solution of butyl lithium in hexane l ml of a 1.6 M solution 3.16 mol under an atmosphere of dry argon. The solution was allowed to warm up to BOC over 2 hours, cooled back to 780C and treated with a solution of 4 4 methoxyphenyl butyric acid 14.1 g, 0.0726 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 ml . The solution was allowed to warm up to 20 C, cooled back to 78 0C and treated dropwise over 2 hours with 3 4 methoxyphenyl propyl chloride 13.5 g, 0.0731 mol . The solution was allowed to warm up to room temperature, poured into excess 2N hydrochloric acid and extracted with chloroform. The combined extracts were dried MgSO4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product, which was further purified by column chromatography silica gel, 50 chloroform in hexane to give 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pentanoic acid as a colourless crystalline solid, m.p. 9i 940C from toluene .b 5 4 Methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl l pentanol A solution of 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 12 4 methoxy phenyl ethyl pentanoic acid 20 g, 3. 358 molj in dry tetrahydroturan 50 ml was treated with a solution of diborane in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml of 1 M, 3.1 mol and lett to stand at room temperature for 10 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was acidified with hydrochloric acid 2 N and extracted with chloroform.The combined extracts were dried Na2SO4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was further purified by column chromatography silica gel, ethyl acetate to give 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl l pentanol as a colourless oil.c 1 5 4 Methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pent l yl I lH imidazole A solution ot 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 12 4 methoxy phenyl ethyl l pentanol 9.5 g, 0.029 mol in dry pyridine l ml at 00C was treated dropwise with methanesulphonyl chloride 3.5 g, 0.0306 mol . The reaction was stirred at 00C for 2 hours and then at room temperature for a further 12 hours. A solution of imidazole sodium salt 5.4 g, .6 mol in dry dimethylformamide l ml was then added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours.The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 2 ethanol in dichloromethane to give 1 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pent 1 yl 1H imidazole as an oil. The free base was dissolved in dichloromethane and acidified with ethereal hydrogen chloride. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was recrystallised from dichloromethane pentane to give 1 5 4 methoxyphenyl 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl pent 1 yl lH imidazole, hydrochloride, as colourless needles m.p. 117 1180C .ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.1 2.0 m, 7H , 2.30 2.75 m, 4H0, 3.77 s,6H , 4.1 4.4 m,2H , 6.6 7.1 m,lH , 7.28 s,lH , and 9.6 s,lH .EXAMPLE 48 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylpropyll lH morpholine c 1 2 Hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH morpholine 2,3 Epoxypropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether 16 g, 0.082 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran l ml was treated with morpholine 10 g, 0.11 mol and stirred at ambient temperature for 48 hrs. The resulting mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to give the crude product. Further purification of the crude product by column chromatography silica gel, 50 hexane in chloroform afforded 1 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH morpholine as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 2.36 2.52 m,4H , 2.81 broad s,lH , 3.53 3.74 m,9H , 3.79 s,3H , 4.47 s,2H , 6.85 7.31 m, 4H .b 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H morpholine Potassium t butoxide 2.3 g, 8.021 mol was added to a stirred solution of l 2 hydroxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH morpholine 5.46 g, 8.020 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen. After 1 hour,4 methoxybenzyl chloride 3.13 g, 0.020 mol was added and the solution was stirred for a further 24 hours. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue was treated with water 2 ml and extracted with chloroform. The combined extracts were dried MgSO4 and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure to give the crude product which was further purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give 1 2 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl lH morpholine as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 2.36 2.52 m,4H , 3.53 3.74 m,9H , 3.79 s,3H , 4.47 s,2H , 4.59 s,2H , and 6.89 7.31 m,8B . EXAMPLE 49 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 carboethoxy phenyl methoxy propyl 3 pyridine a 1 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxylmethyl 2 3 pyridyl ethanol 3 Bromopyridine 3.5 g, .22 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added dropwise to a stirred solution ot t butyllithium 1.4M, 15.7 ml, 0.022 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran l ml at 100 C under nitrogen atmosphere. The resultant solution was stirred for 20 min and cuprous iodide trimethyl phosphite complex 6.9 g, 0.022 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 15 ml added.After a further 1 min, 2,3 epoxypropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether 4.27 g, 0.022 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran. 10 ml was added and the mixture allowed to warm up from 100 to 20 C over 3 hours and left to stir overnight at room temperature. The mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and evaporated invacuo. The solid was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 ml , washed with water and dried MgS04 . Filtration and evaporation ot solvent L vacuo gave a crude oil which was purified by column chromatography silica gel chloroform . Recrystallisation from ether pentane gave pure 1 3 pyridyl 3 l 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propan 2 ol as a colourless crystalline solid, m.p. 55 56 . H NMR 6 CDC13 2.78 d,3H , 3.27 3.55 m,2H , 3.81 s,3H , 4.80 m,lH , 4.48 s, 2H , 6.89 d,2H , 7.15 7.4 m,3H , 7.55 d,lH and 8.45 br.s,2H .b 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 carboethoxy phenyl methoxy propyl 3 pyridine This compound was prepared as described in Example 30 but using 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 2 3 pyridyl ethanol. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a clear viscous colourless oil.H NMR CDCl3 1.39 t,3H , 2.78 2.96 m,2H , 3.5 d, 2H , 3.70 3.80 m, 1H0, 3.81 s, 3H , 4.37 q, 2H , 4.47 s,2H , 4.48 d,2H , 4.65 d,2H , 6.88 d,2H , 7.10 7.30 m,5H , 7.49 d,lH , 7.94 d,2H and 8.47 br. s, 2H . EXAMPLE 50 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 carboxyphenyl methoxy propyl 3 pyridine Example 49b 0.69, 1.4 mmol was hydrolysed by treatment with a solution of sodium hydroxide lg in methanol lml and water lml at 70 C for .5 hours.The resultant mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure, taken up in ethyl acetate and water and brought to pH7 with 6N HC1. The organic layer was separated, washed with brine, dried MgSO4 filtered and evaporated in vacuo to give a crude oil. Purification by column chromatography silica gel, 10 MeOH CHCl3 and crystallisation from ether pentane gave the title compound as a colourless crystalline solid m.p. 117 119 . ÚH NMR CDCl3 2.75 3.00 m, 2H , 3.45 3.65 m, 2H , 3.68 3.85 m,lH , 3.82 s,3H , 4.4 d,2H , 4.52 s,2H , 4.7 d,2H , 6.9 d,2H , 7.19 d,2H , 7.25 7.35 m,3H , 7.60 d,lH , 8.4 d,2H , 8.53 s, 1H and 8.59 d,lH .EXAMPLE 51 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylpropyll 3 pyridine The title compound was prepared as described inExample 30 but using 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 2 3 pyridyl ethanol, Example 49a . The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in chloroform to give the title compound as a clear, colourless, viscous oil.1H NMR CDCl3 2.7 2.95 tm,2H , 3.35 3.55 m,2H , 3.65 3.85 m,lH , 3.78 s,3H , 3.80 s,3H , 4.34 d,2H , 4.67 s,2H , 4.51 d,2H , 6.80 d,2H , 6.88 d,2H , 7.00 7.30 m,5H , 7.48 d,lH and 8.46 br.s,2H .EXAMPLE 52 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 carboethoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 4 pyridine a 1 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 2 4 pyridyl ethanol The title compound was prepared as described inExample 49a but using 4 bromopyridine. The title compound was isolated as a white crystalline solid, m.p. 67 68 0C. 1H NMR CDCl3 2.76 d,2H , 2.87 br.s,lH,D20 exchangeable , 3.31 3.49 m,2H , 3.8 s,3H , 4.5 m,lH , 4.46 s,2H , 6.87 d,2H , 7.14 br.s,2H , 7.23 d,2H and 8.46 br.s,2H .b 1 2 4 Methoxyphenyl methoxy 3 4 carboethoxy phenyl methoxy propyl 4 pyridine The title compound was prepared as described inExample 30 but using 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl 2 4 pyridyl ethanol. The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, 10 ethanol in cnloroform to give the title compound as a colouriess, clear, viscous oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.4 t,3H , 2.77 3. m,2H , 3.5 d,2H , 3.70 3.90 m,lH , 3.82 s,3H , .4.37 q,2H , 4.47 s,2H , 4.49 d,2H , 4.67 d,2H , 6.89 d,2H , 7.10 d,2H , 7.17 i.32 m,4H , 7.97 d,2H and 8.50 d,2H . EXAMPLE 53Methyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy E pent 2 enoate a 1 2 3 hydroxypropyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole To a solution of 1 2 prop 2 enyl oxy 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole Example 17 13.0g, 0.043 mol in tetrahydrofuran 100 ml at 0 C under nitrogen, a solution of 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonane 6.1g .5 mol in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml was added over 10 mins. After the addition was complete the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for lh and subsequently at 70 C for 2h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 C, and treated sequentially with ethanol 30 ml , aqueous sodium hydroxide 6N, 18 ml and finally with hydrogen peroxide 30 , 20 ml .After stirring for lh at 0C, potassium carbonate was added to remove water, and the reaction mixture filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness at reduced pressure and the residue column chromatographed silica gel, chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 1.64 1.81 m,2H , 3.27 3.51 m,3H , 3.55 3.69 m,4H , 3.81 s,3H , 3.94 4.19 m,2H , 4.46 s,2H , 6.89 and 7.26 ABq,4H , 6.91 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH and 7.48 s,lH .b l t2 3 Oxopropyl oxyl 3 r 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole Oxalyl chloride 1.lg, 0.008.mol in dichloromethane 2 ml at 780C was treated with dimethylsulphoxide 1.39g, 0.018 mol in dichloromethane 10 ml over 2 min. After stirring at 780C for 5 min, a solution of 1 2 3 hydroxypropyl oxy 3 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole 2.4g, 0.0064 mol in dichloromethane 5 ml was added. Stirring was continued for a further 20 mins, after which time triethylamine 7ml, 0.051 mol was added and the reaction mixture allowed to warm to room temperature over 2h.After washing with water and drying MgSO4 , solvent was removed at reduced pressure and the residue column chromatographed silica gel, chloroform to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.1H NMR CDCl3 2.59 dt,2H , 3.22 3.54 m,2H , 3.55 3.72 m,2H , 3.76 3.91 m,lH , 3.8 s,3H , 3.91 4.16 m,2H , 4.46 s,2H , 6.89 and 7.25 ABq, 4H , 6.91 s,lH , 7.2 s,lH , 7.45 s,lH and 9.67 t,lH .c Methyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy methyl ethoxy E pent 2 enoate A solution of 1 2 3 oxopropyl oxy 3 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole 64 mg, 8.882 mol in tetrahydrofuran 5 ml containing carbomethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 1.67 g, 8.885 mol was stirred at room temperature for 12h. The solvent was then removed invacuo, the residue taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and extracted with 1N hydrochloric acid. The combined acid extracts were washed with ethyl acetate, neutralised with solid sodium hydrogen carbonate and extracted with ethyl acetate.The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated brine, dried MgSO4 and column chromatographed silica gel, 20 hexane in chloroform to give the title compound as a colourless oil.ÚH NMR CDCl3 2.35 2.47 m, 2H , 3.25 3.69 m, 5H , 3.74 s,3H , 3.82 s,3H , 3.91 4.19 m,2H , 4.45 s,2H , 5.81 5.92 m,lH , 6.8 6.97 m,4H , 7.3 s, 1H , 7.25 d,2H and 7.44 s,lH .EXAMPLE 54Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxylmethyl 1 propoxyl hexanoate a 2,3 epoxy 2 methylpropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether This compound was prepared as in Example la but using 2 chloromethyl 2 methyl oxirane. The product was used without further purification Example 54b .b 1 2 Hydroxy 2 methyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy propyl 1H imidazole This compound was prepared as in Example lb but using 2,3 epoxy 2 methylpropyl 4 methoxybenzyl ether.The crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel, chloroform to give the tite compound as a colourless oil.1H NMR 6 CDC13 1.15 s, 3H , 3.18 3.26 m,2H , 3.79 s,3H , 3.95 q,2H , 4.4 4.5 m,2H , 4.69 br.s,lH , 6.83 6.93 m,4H , 7.24 d,2H and 7.4 s,lH .c Ethyl 6 2 1H imidazol 1 yl 1 4 methoxyphenyl methoxy methyl propoxy hexanoate To a solution of 1 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 3 4 methoxy phenyl methoxy propyl lH imidazole 3.2 g, 0.0116 mol in dimethylsulphoxide 2 ml at 10 C. potassium tert butoxide 2.1 g, 0.018 mol was added in portions over 16 min. CAUTION see, L. Bretherick, Royal Society ofChemistry, Hazards in the Chemical Laboratory, 3rd Ed. p. 37 . After stirring for 5 mins. a solution of ethyl 6 bromohexanoate 2.58 g, 0.0116 mol in dimethyl sulphoxide 5 ml was added, the reaction mixture warmed to room temperature, and stirring continued for a further 45 min. The mixture was poured into water, neutralised with 1N hydrochloric acid and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts were washed with water, dried MgSO4 and solvent removed at reduced pressure. The title compound was isolated by column chromatography silica gel, 3 ethanol in chloroform as a yellow oil. ÚH NMR CDCl3 1.12 s, 3H , 1.26 t, 3H , 1.31 1.70 m,6H , 2.3 t,2H , 3.19 q,2H , 3.27 3.41 m,2H , 3.82 s,3H , 3.91 4.2, m,2H , 4.13 q,2H , 4.37 4.48 m,2H , 6.89 and 7.25 ABq,4H , 6.9 s,lH 7. s,lH and 7.45 s,lH .