# Card reader for security system.

## Abstract
There is disclosed herein an improved card reader for a security system utilizing a central controller and a plurality of card readers for controlling traffic through critical doors in a facility. The improved reader includes means for improving the system throughput by buffer storing large numbers of transactions all occurring within a short time for time clock functions in time and attendance applications for hourly employees. Also disclosed are means for conditioned emergency responses to sensed changes in status of alarm contacts coupled to the reader and located in the vicinity of the reader within 2 miles. There is also disclosed means for temporarily storing transaction information for transactions made during periods when communications with the controller are lost. During such degraded mode operation, access is granted to cardholders with the proper system code and their ID code and the time of the transaction are stored in a buffer. When communications are restored, the transactions saved in the buffer are sent to the controller.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A card reader for use in a security system having a central controller which communicates with said card reader, said card reader comprising a memory a card reader circuit for reading data stored on cards a receiver for receiving data from said central controller a sensor coupled to said receiver for sensing when communication with said central controller is lost and a memory responsive to said sensor for storing said data from said card reader in said memory during times when communication with said central controller is lost. 2. An apparatus as defined in Claim 1 wherein said central controller periodically polls said card reader and wherein said sensor senses when communications with said central controller is lost by the absence of poll signals from said central controller for a predetermined time. 3. An apparatus as defined in Claim 1 further comprising a time keeper circuit for keeping the local time at said card reader and for synchronizing it with time kept by said central controller. 4. An apparatus as defined in Claim 3 further comprising a authorization circuit coupled to said card reading circuit for granting or denying access to a controlled location based upon data read from said card. 5. An apparatus as defined in Claim 4 wherein said memory includes an inhibit circuit to inhibit the storage of data from card reading transactions when authorization is denied. 6. An apparatus as defined in Claim 1, additionally comprising a memory monitor for determining whether said memory is full, and an inhibit circuit for inhibiting storage of data in said memory when said memory is full. 7. An apparatus as defined in Claim 6, further comprising an authorization circuit for authorizing access to a controlled location in response to data read from said card, wherein said authorization circuit includes an inhibit circuit to ignore data from said circuit card reader circuit when said memory is full. 8. An apparatus as define din Claim 7 further including a time keeper circuit for determining the time of day, and wherein said memory stores the time of day with said data from said card reader when said card is read. 9. An apparatus as defined in Claim 8 wherein said authorization circuit includes a signaling circuit for generating a first signal when authorization is granted and a second signal when authorization is denied. 10. An apparatus as defined in Claim 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 further comprising a transmitter for transmitting the data stored by said means for storing to said central controller when communication is restored. 11. An apparatus as defined in Claim 10 wherein said central controller polls said card reader, and wherein said transmitter transmits data for one card reading transaction from said memory at the time of each said poll from said central controller. 12. An apparatus as defined in Claim 4 or 7 or 8 or 9 wherein said card contains a first portion of data and a second portion of data and said authorization circuit includes a circuit for granting or denying authorization based upon said first portion of data only. 13. An apparatus as defined in Claim 12 wherein said memory stores said second,portion of data only. 14. An apparatus as defineQ4n Claim 13 wherein said memory includes means for storing the local time at the time said second portion of data is read. 15. A method of operating a security system which controls access to a location and which includes a local card reader and a central controller which communicate to limit access based on card data, comprising sensing at said local card reader for inability to communicate with said central controller storing card data at said local card reader during periods of inability to communicate and transmitting stored card data from said local card reader to said central controller when communications is restored. 16. A method, as defined in Claim 15, additionally comprising storing the time of day with said card data at said local card reader.

## Description
Background of the Invention This application relates to the field of door access security systems and, particularly, to the field of card readers for door access security systems. Door access security systems, utilizing magnetic card readers at doors to be controlled, are known in the prior art. Such systems include central controllers coupled to a plurality of readers, each of which is located at a specific door to be controlled. Authorized persons wishing to gain access through a door, insert magnetic cards into slots in the reader. Magnetic codings on the cards are then read and data is sent to the controller which authorizes or refuses entry and tells the reader either to keep the door locked.or unlock the door. Such a system can advantageously be used as a time clock to keep a record of the hours worked by hourly employees. However a problem with system throughput arises when a large number of employees all try to clock in or out at the same time. The delays caused by reading of a card, waiting for a poll signal to come to the reader from the contzoller, sending the card data to the controller and waiting for the controller to process the information and send back a Go or No Go signal can create impatience in the workers at the end of the line. Such card reader systems can also be used to monitor alarm contacts located at strategic locations throughout a facility. In the prior art, a centrally located alarm contact monitoring device was located near the controller with individual wires coupling the contact monitoring device to the alarm contacts located throughout the plant. Such systems were effective but required an individual polling protocol and the associated hardware for the alarm contact monitoring device. Further, individual wires had to be strung between all the contacts to be monitored and the central monitoring device. This could result in large expenditures for wire. Further, such central contact monitoring devices were generally not well suited to applications where only a single alarm contact needed to be monitored since the function rarely justified the expense. The prior art systems also had room for improvement in the area of operation during times when the communication lines between the reader and the central controller were down. In such a situation, if all access was denied, people would be inconvenienced or, worse, trapped in an undesirable emergency situation. The alternative would be to allow free access through all doors. However, with record keeping functions done at the central controller, there would be no record of the individuals who entered and left specific.areas during specific times while the lines were down.As a result, if theft occurred during the down time, there would be no record to use in the investigation. Summary of the Disclosure There is disclosed herein a card reader for use in a security system for controlling access through key doors, said security system having a central controller. The card reader reads magnetic data stored on cards held by employees, etc. The cards have a systemcode and an I.D.code on them. The card readers can do time and attendance functions to serve as a time clock by reading data stored permanently on the card and sending it to the central controller for processing. The central controller then grants or denies access based on the card data.Optionally the improved card reader can also make the decision whether to grant or deny access locally without dialogue with the controller by reading some of the data on the card and storing the rest for later transmission to the central controller. Typically, this is done by reading the system code and granting authorization if the system code on the card matches the system code on user programmable switches. The I.D. code is then Stored in the buffer with the time of day of the transaction for later transmission to the central controller. This feature increases the throughput of the system by eliminating the need for each employee to wait for authorization from a controller which may be delayed while processing other messages from other readers. The improved card reader can also sense when communications with the central controller are lost and grant or deny access without consulting the controller, based upon data on the card. Duxing times when communications with the central controller are lost, the card reader stores the I.D. data from the card, for each employee who was granted authorization, in a buffer for later transmission to the central controller. The improved card reader çan also monitor alarm contacts for changes in status and signal these changes to the central controller.The central controller can be programmed to make a conditioned response to the reader coupled to the changed contact or to any other reader in the system. The response message can cause a relay or relays in the reader to change states, thereby. signalling any devices coupled to the.relay or relays that an action in response to the changed alarm contact is desired. Brief Description of the Drawings Figure 1 is a block diagram of a security sytem.. in which the improved reader of the invention could be used. Figure 2 is a block diagram of the improved reader. Figure 3 is a logic diagram aS the optical isolator board. Figures 4 A and B are a logic diagram of the switch and relay board Figures 5 A and B are a circuit diagram of the RAM buffer board and power fail detect circuit. Figures 6A, 6B and 6C are circuit diagrams of the CPU reader board. Figure 7 is a logic diagram of the CCM COM logic. Figures 8A and 8B are a logic diagram of the circuitry of the delayed transmission buffer. Figure 9 is a flow diagram of the sequence of steps performed by the card reader in performing a time and attendance function. Figure 10 is a flow diagram of the steps which are taken to unload the time and attendance data from the buffer and transmit it to the central controller 20. Figure 11 is a flow diagram of the time offset routine performed by the card reader. Figure 12 is a flow diagram of the steps taken by the card reader in buffering transactions during a degraded mode when communication is lost with the central controller. Figure 13 is a flow diagram of the manner in which the card reader CPU unloads the delayed transmission buffer when communications are restored Figure 14 is a flow diagram of the manner in which the card reader CPU senses alarm contacts. Figure 15 is a flow diagram for reporting of the status of alarm contacts by the card reader CPU. Figure 16 is a flow diagram for the. central cont oller process for an automatic response to a change in an alarm contact. Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment Referring to Figure 1 there is disclosed a system diagram of a typical magnetic card reading security system. A controller 20 is coupled to a plurality of card readers of which readers 22 and 24 are typical. The controller 20 is coupled to each reader by an enable pair and a data pair by which the controller can communicate with any card reader in the system. For example, the controller 20 communicates with the reader 22 by an enable pair 26 and a data pair 28. The controller 20 polls the reader 22 for messages and sends commands to it by the enable pair 26. Data is sent to the controller 20 from the reader 22 via the data pair 28.Serial format is used on both lines. The reader 22 is typically located at a door that needs to be access controlled while the controller 20 can be located at some distance from the dopr. The structural details of the controller 20 are well known in the art, and it can be purchased under the model designation MAC 530 40 frbm Rusco Electronic Systems in Glendale,California. The object code software for the controller is also well known and can be purchased from the same source. In operation, the reader 22 receives a magnetic card in a card slot 32. The details of a typical magnetic card structure will be around in U.S. Patents 3,717,749 or 3,811,977. Other structures could also be used the details of the structure of the magnetic card are not critical to . the invention, Any structure capable of holding data encoded in a card and converting it to electrical signals capable of being transmitted over a line will be satisfactory. When the card is read, the data on the card is stored in a temporary RAM location until a polling signal from the controller 20 arrives on the enable lines 26. Upon receipt of the polling signal on the line 26, the data from the card is transferred on the data lines 28 to the controller 20 unless certain options are present which cause the reader to independently make the authorization decision. The controller 20 processes the data and sends back a Go or No Go command which causes the reader 22 to take the appropriate action If the command is Go , the reader 22 unlocks the door latch via the lines 34 and lights a green LED. If the command is No Go , the reader 22 lights a red LED and, optionally, energizes a No Go relay. The reader 22 can also incorporate circuitry to monitor a plurality of alarm contacts connected to the lines 30. When one of the contacts changes state, the reader 22 senses the change and signals the controller 20 on the next poll. The controller 20 can then print out a pre programmed message on a printer 36. More importantly, the controller 20 can automatically send back a command to cause a switch closure by energizing a relay in the reader 22 or in any other reader in the system. This automatic response can also be any other command that the reader receives normally from the controller. The relay can be connected to an emergency device via the lines 38. The emergency device can be any device such as an automatic phone dialer, a sprinkler system, an alarm or whatever other device that is desired. The readers isa different type of improved reader which can be used to keep time records for the attendance of hourly employees on their jobs. The reader 24 has a display 40, a card slot 42, and in and out buttons,44 and 46. In operation, an employee would place hi s card in the card slot 42 and press either the in button 44 or the out button 46. The data on his card plus the time of day displayed in the display 40 would then be st oredin a buffer in the reader 24. Based upon the system code data on the card, the reader 24 would authorize or deny entry to the employee. If entry is authorized by the reader 24 and a green LED will be lit, the door will be unlocked via the lines 48.If entry is denied, the reader 24 will so indicate by lighting a red LED on the face plate. All authorizationA or denial decisions are made locally by the reader 24, and the data regarding each transaction is stored in the local buffer in the reader 24. The controller 20 is coupled to the reader 24 by an enable pair 50 and a data pair 52. The controller 20 polls the reader 24 by sending a poll signal on the line 50. Upon receipt of the poll signal, the reader 24 transfers the data for one transaction out of its buffer to the controller 20 via the data lines 52. The controller then can process the data in any fashion including printing it out on the printer 36. The details of the structure and operation of the controller 20 are exemplified by U.S. Patents 4,216,375 and 4,218,690. The reader 24 can also include means to offset the time displayed in the display 40 from the time kept by the controller 20 in the case that the controller is in a different time zone from the reader. Normally the controller 20 keeps the master time for the system and the reader 24 keep its own time. Every 15 minutes, the reader 24 inquires the time of the controller 20 and synchronizes the reader s local time with the master time kept by the controller. When the reader 24 is in a different time zone from the controller 20, a group of offset switches in the reader 24 are set to indicate the number of minutes of offset between the local areader time and the controller time. The reader 22 can also include a local buffer for keeping a recordrof all transactions which, occur during times when communications with the controller 20 are lost due to cutting of the wire pairs, power failure or for other reasons. When the reader 22 has not received a poll from the controller for a predetermined time, the reader will start storing the data for transactions during the downtime in its local buffer Each magnetic card has a system code and an ID code. The system code is used by the reader to determine whether or. not to grant authorization for entry to the individual. If the individual is permitted to enter, his ID code. and the local time will be stored in the local buffer. When, communications with the controller 20 are restored, the data in the buffer will be sent to the controller via the data lines for processing there. Referring to Figure 2, there is shown a block diagram of a card reader for use in a security system such as is shown in Figure 1. Although in reality two different types of readers exist, the core circuits of each type of reader are the same with one type of reader having certain additional optional circuits which the other does not have. Figure 2 represents a combined functional block diagram of a reader with the common core circuits and with all the optional circuit elements of both types of readers also present. The card reader of Figure 2 communicates with the controller 20 of Figure 1 through an isolation board 54.The isolation board 54 serves to isolate the data on the enable pair 26 and data pair 28 from the logic circuitry of the rest of the card reader. The isolation board 54 passes the signals from he enables l4ne 26 through to t he RX data lines 56 and passes the data from the Tx data lines 58 through to the data lines 28. The RX data lines 56 are coupled to a multiplexer 60 in a switch and relay board 62. The purpose of the multiplexer 60 is to select various data channels for connection to a data line D7, 63, of a bus 64. The bus 64 is coupled between the switch and relay board 62 and the data, address and control terminals of a micropr6cessor CPU 66 on a reader CPU board 67. Address lines A0 A2 from the bus 64 are also coupled to the multiplexer 60.Through these address lines, the CPU 66 causes the multiplexer 60 to select one of the data channels connected to it for connection to its data output coupled to the line D7. The microprocessor 66 canthen read the data on the selected data channel through the D7 line 63. In Figure 2 the only data channels which are shown are the Rx data line 56 through which commands and polling signals are received and the coil detect line 57 which carries data read from the card. Other data channels are used for other features of the reader not relevant to the present discussion. r Data to be transmitted from the card reader to the central controller 20 are input from the DB line 68 of the data bus 64 to a driver 70.The driver 70 is also coupled to the A A2 address lines of the data bus 64 which supply an address from the microprocessor 66. The driver 70 has several addressable outputs, one of which is the TX data lines 58. The address supplied to the driver 70 causes it to apply the signal on the D line 68 to the selected output. To transmit data, the microprocessor 66 places the data to be sent on the Dg bus line and writes the proper address on the address lines AB A2 of the bus 64.The serial data on the Dg line is then applied to the Tx data lines 58. The central controller receives the data on the data line 28 and acts upon the data message in some fashion depending upon what the message is and may or may not send a command back to the card reader via the enable line 26. A go relay 71 is coupled to a door latch device by the lines 34. The lines 34 can be coupled to relay contacts or other switching devices to provide an interruptible current flow path to control whether the door latch his in a locked or unlocked state. The go relay is also coupled to the driver 70 by a switching line 72. The switching line controls the state of the go relay and thereby controls the state of the door latch device. The switching line is addressable by the microprocessor 66 through the driver 70 such that the.microprocessor 66 controls the state of the go relay 70. The microprocessor 66 is also coupled to a card reader coil circuit 74 by the bus 64. The card reader coils 74 consist, in the preferred embodiment, of a plurality of coils coupled to the address and data line of the bus 64 and physically arranged so as to individually magnetically interact with a plurality of magnetized spots on a card inserted in the card slots 42 or 32. The microprocessor 66 can individually address and read each coil in the card reader coil circuit 74 to determine the data in the magnetic spots on the card. The details of the card reading coil circuit are known to those skilled in the art and are not critical to the invention. The microprocessor 66 is also coupled to an optional display 40 by the bus 64. In readers which are being used for time and attendance functions, i.e., as time clocks, it is desirable that the time of day be displayed externally for the benefit of workers who are lined up and waiting to put their cards into the reader 24 to start or end their work shifts. The display 40 can be any conventional display, and the details of its construction are not critical to the invention. The microprocessor 66 is also coupled to a random access memory RAM board 78. The RAM board 78 contains aRAM buffer memory 80, a battery backup sustem comprised of a battery 82 and a power fail detect circuit 84.The power fail detect circuit 84 monitors the 12 volt unregulated Dlt, voltage derived from the A.C. power lineand connects the battery 82 to the power terminals of theRAM buffer 80 when the A.C. line power fails so as to. preserve the data stored in the RAM 80. The RAM 80 is selected by the microprocessor 66 through connection of a decoder 86 to the address and control lines of the bus64. When the microprocessor 66 wishes to write a word in the RAM 80, the microprocessor generates the proper address to select the RAM 8Q and places it on thebus 64 thereby enabling the RAM 80 through the decoder 86. The data to be written into the RAM 80 is then placed on the data lines of the bus 64. A delayed transmission buffer 88 is also coupled to the microprocessor 66 through the bus 64. The purpose of the delayed transmission buffer 88 is to store data read from the magnetic cards during times when communication with the central controller 20 are lost. A CCM COM board 90 is also coupled to the microprocessor 66 by the bus 64. The purpose of theCCM COM board 90 is to monitor the condition of an alarm device or devices external to the card reader and to generate data indicating the condition of the alarm devices for transmission to the central controller. TheCCM COM board 90 also can receive data from the central controller which causes a switch closure on the CCM COM board. This switch is coupled to an emergency device by the lines 38. The alarm contacts are coupled to theCCM COM board 90 by the lines 30. When the card reader is being used for a time and attendance function, the In and Out buttons 44 and 46 are used to tell the card reader whether the cardholder wishes to enter or leave an area. The In and Out buttons 44 and 46 are coupled to the MUX 60 in the switch and relay board 62 by the line 92. fr A red and a green indicator LED, represented by block 97 are each coupled to the MUX 60 by the bus 96. TheLED s are used by the microprocessor 66 to signal whether authorization has been granted or denied. The microprocessor 66 is coupled to a feature memory 98 and to a program memory 700 by the bus 64.The program memory 100 stores the instructions for the microprocessor 66 and the feature memory 98 stores data indicating which options are in effect for the microprocessor 66. Referring to Figure 3, there is shown a circuit diagram for the isolation board 54 in Figure 2. The data lines 28 are coupled to the collector and emitter of a transistor 106 in the optical isolator 102. The light emitting diode 108 of the optical isolator 102 is coupled across the TX data lines 58. When the current is flowing in the TX data lines 58, the LED 108 is energized and emits light causing the transistor 106 to assume one of its two switching states. The opposite state is assumed when the LED 108 is de energized. The enable lines 26 are coupled through a noise suppression circuit 110 to the LED 112 of an optical isolator 116. The transistor 114 of the optical isolator has its collector and emitter coupled to the RX data lines 56. In the preferred embodiment, the optical isolator 116 is a Monsanto MCT2. The optical isolator 102 is aMonsanto 4N33. The details of the circuit of the switch and relay board 62 are given in Figures 4 A and B which are a logic diagram of that board. The RX data line 56 is coupled to the data input D7 of the multiplexer 60A. A resistor 59 couples a 5 volt supply to the line 56 to positively clamp it at a logic 1 level except where the transistor 114 on the isolation board clamps the line 56 to ground potential. The other data inputs of the multiplexer 60A are coupled to other data channels. For example the card reader coil circuit 74 is coupled to the D0 input of the multiplexer 60A by a line 57. The coil detect signal line 57 carries the data from each coil in the card reader coil circuit 74 as it is addressed by the microprocessor 66. The out switch 46 and the in switch 44 are coupled to theD2 and D3 inputs respectively by the lines 118 and 120. The address inputs 122 of the multiplexer 60A are coupled to the A 2 address lines of the bus 64. The output 63 of the multiplexer 60A is coupled to the D7 data line of the bus 64. The microprocessor 66 controls which of the data inputs are coupled to the data output 63 by the address it supplies the address ljnes , . The chip select input 126 is coupled to the address lines in the bus 64 of the microprocessor 66 through a decoder on the reader CPU board to be discussed more fully below.The microprocessor 66 can enable the multiplexer 60A by writing the proper address on the address lines driving the decoder coupled to the line 126 not shown . A multiplexer 603 has its data output coupled to theD7 data line 63. The data inputs of the multiplexer 60B are coupled to various data channels. The XO. data input is coupled by the line 128 to a tamper switch not shown . The tamper switch is physically situated so as to change states when the faceplate of the card reader is removed causing an alarm message to be transmitted to the controller 20. The X1 data input is coupled to a card in switch not shown . The card in switch is situated so as to change states when a card is inserted in the card slot. By periodically checking the condition of these two switches, the microprocessor 66 can tell whether tampering is occurring or whether there is a card to be read in the card slot. There are three groups of eight switches on the switch and relay board 62. A time offset group of switches 136 is comprised of 8 switches 136A B which are used to set a binary number representing the number of minutes of time offset at the local card reader. In those cases where the local card reader is in a different time zone than the central controller 20, the switches 136 are set for the number. of minutes by which the local time at the card reader differs from the time at the central controller. A second group of switches 138 has several purposes. The switches 138A D are used to set the amount of time that the unlock signal on the lines 34 to the door latch device causes the door latch to remain unlocked. The switches 138A D also determine the time of energization of a No Go relay 166 and the time the red and green LEDs not shown in the block 97 in Figure 2 are energized during certain times in the operation. The switch 138E is used to signal whether a 12 hour or 24 hour time display format is desired. The switch 138F is used to enable and disable the buffer RAM 80 as an option. The switches 138G and are not used. The switches 140 are used by the customer to set the system code. The system code is one of the items of data which is magnetically stored on each cardholderts card When the card reader makes the authorization decision locally without consulting the central controller 20, it is the system code stored on the switches 140A B which is compared to the system code on the cardholder s card to determine if authorization will be granted. The switches 136, 138 and 140 are individually addressable by the microprocessor 66 through the multiplexers 60A and 60B and a decoder 140. The decoder 140 has address inputs 142 coupled to the address lines in the bus 64. The address supplied on the lines 142 is converted in the BCD to decimal decoder 140 to a logic zero signal on one of the output lines 0 6 which comprise a bus 144. Each of lines in the bus 144 is coupled to one terminal of a plurality of switches in the switch groups 136 , 138 and 140. When the group address appears on the address lines 142, one of the outputs in thebus 144 goes low thereby activating that group.The other terminal of each switch is coupled to the cathode of a diode which has its anode coupled to one of the X0 X3 inputs of the multiplexer 60B via the lines. 132, 134, 130, 128, 146 or 148. All of the X0 X3 inputs are also coupled to a 5 volt supply through the resistors 150, 152, 154 and 156.The X0 X3 inputs will be held in a logic one condition except if the line coupling that input is also coupled to a group of switches of which one has been enabled by a logic zero from the decoder 140 and the switch is closed. The groups of switches coupled to the X0 X3 inputs of the multiplexer 60B intersectswith t he groups connected to, the bus 144 such that for, any particular output of the decoder 140 which has been enabled, and for any particular input of the multiplexer 60B which has been enabled, only one switch is coupled to both enabled lines. Thus the microprocessor 66 can individually read each switch in the groups 136, 138 and 140 by changing the address signals on the address lines of the bus 64. The multiplexer 60B has its inhibit line grounded by the line 158 and its disable input held high by connection through a resistor 160 to a 5 volt supply. The disable input is pulled low to take the D7 output out of the high impedance state when the signal CSSW is true on the line 162. The line 162 is coupled to a decoder on the readerCPU board 67 which is coupled to address and control lines of the microprocessor 66 in the bus 64. Data to be transmitted to the microprocesser 66 is placed on the Tx data line 58 by a driver 70. The driver 70 also has several other outputs. For example, the output line 164 can be connected to an optional No Go relay 166. When the line 164 is grounded by the driver 70, a 5 volt supply coupled to the other terminal of the coil of the No Go relay 166 causes current to flow through the relay coil, thereby energizing it and causing the electrical conditions on the lines 168 coupled to the relay contacts to change. In the preferred embodiment, the decoder 140 is a 74145 type TTL decoder such as made by Signetics, the MUX 60A is a 74LS 251 type multiplexer such as is made byTexas Instruments, the MUX 60B is a MC14512, CMOS type decoder such as is made by Motorola, and the driver 70 is an NE590 type amp driver such as made by Signetics. An output line 96 from the driver 70 is coupled to theGO LED not shown to energize it when authorization to access has been granted. An output line 72 from the driver 70 is coupled to a terminal of the coil of a GORelay 71. When the driver 70 grounds the line 72, a 5 volt supply coupled to the other terminal of the relay coil energizes the coil, causing the relay contacts to change the condition on the lines 34 coupled to the door locking device. The driver 70 has a data input, the D data bit on the line 68, and it has address inputs on the lines 172. The address inputs 172 are coupled to the microprocessor 66 by the bus 64. The address at these inputs determines which of the outputs of the driver 70 will be coupled to the data input 68. The microprocessor 66 can thus write a logic 0 or 1 to any of the outputs of the driver 70 by controlling the address on the lines 172 and the data on the data input line 68 which is coupled to data bit zero of the bus 64. The chip enable and clear inputs are coupled to decoder 250 of Figure 6C and a gate 282 inFigure 6B by the signal lines CS UT and RUST. Referring to Figure 5, there is shown a circuit diagram of the RAM buffer and power fail detect board.The RAM buffer 80 has address lines 174 which are coupled to the address lines of the microprocessor 66 in the bus 64. Data inputs and outputs 176 are also coupled to the microprocessor 66 data lines in the bus 64. A write enable line 178 is. coupled to a control line in the bus 64 from the microprocessor 66 to control whether the RAM buffer 80 is reading or writing data through the data lines 176 to the address specified on the lines 174. A chip select line 180 is coupled to a decoder 86.The decoder 86 has a VMA signal input line 184 coupling one input of a NOR gate 182 to a VMA control line of the microprocessor 66 in Figure 6B. The VMA signal is true when there is a valid memory address on the address lines 174. Because the other input to the NOR gate 182 is grounded, the NOR gate 182 serves as an inverter with the output on the line 186 false when a valid memory address is present on the address lines 174. The resistor 188 couples a positive voltage supply to the VMA input of the gate 182 to hold it at logic one except when VMA is false. The VMA signal on the line 184 is a control signal from the CPU 66 which indicates when a valid memory address exists on the address lines of the CPU. A NOR gate 190 has one input coupled to the output of the NOR gate 182 and the other input coupled to a CSRAMg signal from a decoder 248 in Figure 6C. The CPU 66 can cause CSRAMR to be true, i.e., logic zero, and can assert VMA on the line 184. This causes two logic 0 s at the inputs of the NOR gate 190 and a logic 1 appears on the line 194. This logic 1 is inverted in a NOR gate 196 and appears as a logic 0 on the line 198. A NOR gate 200 serves to gate a power fail detect signal on a line 202 from a power fail detector 84 through to the chip select input at pin 18 of the RAM buffer 80 if power fails. When power has not failed, however, the signal on the line 198 controls whether the RAM 80 is selected or deselected. Normally, the signal from the power fail detector 84 on a line 20 is a logic O indicating no power failure. When the signal on the line 198 is a logic 0, the RAM 80 is selected because the signal on the line 204 is a logic 1 which is inverted by aNOR gate to assert the CS signal on the line 180 at logic zero thereby enabling the RAM buffer 80 to read and write data. A RST signal on a line 208 comes from a reset circuit on the reader CPU board which will be described below.The RST signal is a logic 0 at power up but becomes logic 1 1.2 seconds later as will be explained in connection with Figure 6B. A NOR gate 210 inverts this signal such that its output line 212 which is coupled to one input of a NOR gate 214 is normally low after power has been on for 1.2 seconds. The NOR gate 214 has its other input coupled to the output of a comparator 222 in the power fail detect circuit 84. The comparator 222 has its inverting input 224 coupled to a voltage reference of approximately 5.3 volts when the power has not failed. The line 224 is held at this reference level by the voltage divider effect of the resistors 228 and 226 which couple a 12 volt D.C.supply of line power to ground. The non inverting input 230 of the comparator 222 is coupled to a 3.6 volt reference source derived from battery power. This reference voltage is generated by a resistor 232 which couples a battery 82 not shown to ground through a zener diode 234. The zener has a 3.6 volt breakdown voltage, and has its cathode coupled to the line 230. The comparator 222 has a resistor 236 coupled between the output and its non inverting input to provide positive feedback. The output on the line 216 will be a logic 0 as long as the power has not failed. When the power fails, the battery reference on the line 230 exceeds the voltage on the line 224, and the output on the line 2 16 rises to a logic 1 level indicating power has failed. The logic 1 on the line 216 with the logic zero on the line 212 causes the NOR gate 214 to lower its output on the line 218 to a logic zero. This O on the line 218 is inverted to a 1 on the line 202 by the NOR gate 220 which causes the output of the gate 200 to change to a 0, thereby deselecting the buffer 80 if it was in a selected condition. When the RAM buffer 80 is deselected, no data may be written into or read out of the buffer. The power input 238 of the RAM buffer 80 will be coupled through any known switching mechanism 240 to the battery 82 not shown via a line 242 upon power failure. Referring to Figures 6A, 6B, and 6C, there is shown a circuit diagram of the reader CPU board. The microprocessor 66 is coupled to a feature memory 98 by data lines 240 and address lines 242. The feature memory contains data regarding which options are incorporated into the card reader. The microprocessor 66 is also coupled to a program memory 100 by the data lines. 240 and the AB A4 address lines 242. The enable inputs of the memories 100 and 98 are coupled via the lines 244 and 246 to the microprocessor s address lines 242 through decoders 248 and 250, respectively, in Figure 6C. A clock 252 generates timing signals for the IRQ and NMI inputs on the lines 254 and 256, respectively. The details of the construction and operation of the clock and of the feature and program memories will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.Any mechanism which generates signals periodically on the lines 254 and 256 will suffice for purposes of the invention. The microprocessor 66 executes the instructions which are stored in the program memory 100. Within the program, which will be described below, there are certain subroutines which accomplish various housekeeping routines. The IRQ and NMI inputs on the lines 254 and 256 cause vectoring to certain of these subroutines. For example, the IRQ line 254, when asserted true, will cause the program control of the microprocessor 66 to be vectored to a routine which reads all the switches described herein. When the NMI line 256 is asserted true, the microprocessor 66 is vectored to a transmit routine which transmits data into the central cont roller 20 via the Tx. data lines 58 and data lines 28. The microprocessor 66 must be reset to the beginning of the program upon the initial application of power to the circuit. A power on reset circuit 254 accomplishes this purpose. A comparator 256 has its non inverting input 258 coupled to a reference voltage defined by a resistive voltage divider comprised of the resistors 262 and 264 coupling the power supply to ground. The inverting input 260 is coupled to one terminal of a capacitor in an RC circuit comprised of a resistor 266 and a capacitor 268. When the power is first turned on, the capacitor 268 acts as an initial short to ground and the voltage on the line 258 will exceed the voltage on the line 260, and the output of the comparator 256 on the line 270 will be a logic 1.The line 250 is coupled to the input of a NOR gate 272 which acts as an inverter. The resistors 274 and 276 serve as a voltage divider to hold the line 270 in a logic 1 condition except when the comparator 256 asserts the line 270 low. The logic 1 at power up on the line 270 is inverted once in the NOR gate 272 and again in a NOR gate 278 to become the PONCLR signal on the line 280. As the voltage on the capacitor 268 rises, it exceeds the voltage on the line 258 at a time determined by the values of the resistor 266 and the capacitor 268. When this happens, the 1 on the output line 270 changes to a 0 and line 280 follows suit. The initial 1 on the line 280 is communicated to the reset line 284 of the CPU 66 as a 0 by passage through a NOR gate 282. The other input to theNOR gate 282 is a line 286 from a deadman reset circuit 288. The line 286 is normally a logic 0 except when there is a problem, as will be described below. With the line 286 normally logic 0, the initial logic 1 on the line 280 is inverted by the NOR gate 282 and resets the microprocessor 66 to the beginning address of the program. Thereafter, the line 280 goes to a logic 0 and stays there. The deadman reset circuit 288 serves to reset the microprocessor 66 in case there is a software problem Normally, the deadman reset circuit 288 will attempt to reset the microprocessor 66 periodically unless the software gives a trigger signal D M trigger on the line 290. Thus if for some reason the signal D M trigger does not occur, program control is lost, and the deadman reset circuit will cause the program counter to be reset to the beginning program location. The manner in which the deadman reset function is accomplished is through the use of two retriggerable monostable multi vibrators 292 and 294. The one shot 292has its B and clear RD2 inputs coupled to a 5 volt source through a resistor 296 and are therefore always in a logic 1 state. The 0 output on the line 298 is normally low until a negative transition occurs on the D M trigger line 290, at which time the 0 output line 298 goes to a logic 1 state for a time determined by the values of the resistor 300 and the capacitor 302 coupled to the externalRC circuit terminals. However,the pulse time established by the resistors 300 and 302 is longer than the period of the D M trigger signal.Thus, the output line 298 will not return to zero after the initial trigger pulse because the D M trigger signal on the line 90 continues to retrigger the one shot 292. The signals on the lines 298 and 280 are coupled to the inputs of a NOR gate 304. The output line 306 of theNOR gate 304 is coupled to the clear input of the one shot 294. The B input of the one shot 294 is held in a logic 1 condition by connection to a 5 volt supply through the resistor 296. The A input of the one shot 294 is coupled by a line 308 to the clock 252 and carries a 600 hertz clock signal. After the initial power up period, the NOR gate 304 will have a logic 0 at the input coupled to the Jine 280 and a logic 1 at the line 298 input unless the D M trigger signal on the line 290 does not occur. The output line 306 will remain in a logic 0 state art all times which causes the one shot 294 to ignore all signals at the and B inputs. However, if the D M trigger signal on the line 290 fails to occur on schedule, indicating some problem with the program execution, the one shot 292 will time out and enable the one shot 294. The. elock signal on the line 308 will then trigger the one shot 294 causing a logic 0 to 1 transition on the line 286.This causes the line 284 to drop from logic 1 to 0 and resets the microprocessor 66. Referring to Figure 6C, there is shown a logic diagram of the decoder circuitry which forms part of the decoder 86 in Figure 2. The decoder chip 248 has its select inputs coupled to the AI2 AI4 lines of the address bus 242 of the microprocessor 66. The G1 enable input 310 is coupled to the 2 output from the microprocessor 66 which is the clock signal for the rest of the system. The G2A enable input low by virtue of being coupled to a logic 1 through a resistor 312 and an inverter 314. The G2B input is coupled to the power on clear signal PONCLR on the line 280. The decoder 250 has its A and B select inputs coupled to the address bus 242 and its C select input coupled to the R W signal from the microprocessor 66. The G1 enable input is coupled to the 02 clock signal from the microprocessor 66, and the G2A enable signal is connected to the Y output from the decoder 248. The G2B enable input is coupled to the A7 line of the address bus 242 from the microprocessor 66. Both the decoders 248 and 250 are 74L5138 one of eight decoders such as are manufactured by Texas Instruments. .The outputs of the two decoders 248 and 250 are coupled to the various chip select inputs in the system as labelled in Figure 6C. By writing the proper addresses on the address lines 242, the microprocessor 66 can enable any chip in the system needed for a particular operation. Turning to Figure 7 there is shown a logic diagram of the CCM COM board 90 in Figure 2. A plurality of alarm contacts are connected to the board by.a plurality of wire pairs together comprising the bus 30. Each pair in the bus 30 is energized by connection of one of the lines through one of the resistors 313 320 to a 5 volt power supply. The other line from the pair is coupled through a parallel RC noise suppression circuit to the anode of the diode in one of the optical isolators 321 328. The diodes are energized as long as the external contacts coupled to the wire pairs are closed. The transistors in the optical isolators have their collectors coupled to a 5 volt regulated power supply through one of the resistors in the resistor block 329.The collectors are also coupled to the data channels of a multiplexer 330 which is typically a 14512B type multiplexer such as is made by Motorola.. The data input of the multiplexer is coupled to the D7 data line 63 of the microprocessor 66. The select inputs 332 are coupled to the AO A2 address lines of the microprocessor 66 such that the microprocessor can individually read each external contact condition through the D7 data line 63. The microprocessor 66 is programmed to periodically check the condition of each of the external contacts coupled to the bus 30. After the contact is read, the microprocessor 66 operates on a flag to indicate the status of the alarm contact corresponding to that flag.The flags are address positions in a RAM memory 334 which can be a 6116 type CMOS static RAM such as is made byBitachi. The address inputs of the RAM 334 are coupled to the address lines 242 of the m icroprocessor 66, and the data ports of the RAM 334 are coupled to the data lines 240 of the microprocessor 66. The R W input line 335 of the RAM 334 is coupled to the R W control signal from the microprocessor 66 to control the direction of the data flow on the data lines 240. The chip select input line 336 of the RAM 334 is coupled to the Y3 output of a decoder 338 which has its A and B select inputs coupled to the VMA control signal line 184 and All address line respectively of the microprocessor 66. The enable input signal CSRkM0 on the line 192 for the decoder 338 is coupled to a chip select output from the decoder 248 in Figure 6C such that the microprocessor 66 can enable the RAM 334 by enabling the decoder 338 and writing the proper bit on the A11 line of the address bus. Only two outputs from the decoder 338 are used so only one address bit is needed to specify which output is active. The other output on the line 342 is coupled to the chip select input 342 of a relay driver 344. This driver 344 has three address inputs 346 which are coupled to the address lines of the microprocessor 66. The relay driver also has a data line 348 coupled to the buffered D data line of the microprocessor 66 through a 74L504 buffer 349 on Figure 6C. The relay driver 344 has an output 350 which is coupled to the coil of a COM relay 352. When the microprocessor 66 selects the relay driver 344, and writes the proper address on the lines 346, the line 348 will control the state of the line 350, thereby controlling the state of the relay contacts 354. Turning to Figures 8A and 8B there is shown a logic diagram of the circuitry of the delayed transmission buffer 88 of Figure 2. A battery backup circuit 356 inFigure 8Bserves to protect the information in the RAM chips shown in Figure 8B. Each of the RAM chips is a 6116LP 4 CMOS static RAM such as is manufactured byBitachi. The 5 volt line supply voltage on the line 358 normally causes a forward bias on the diode 360 and the 5 volt signal is thus coupled to the output line 362.However, when the power fails, the positive voltage on the line 364 from the battery 366 exceeds the voltage on the line 358 which causes a reverse bias on the diode 360.The diode 368, however, will be forward biased such that the battery power will be coupled to the line 362 to keep the information in the RAM intact. A series of decoders 370 372 are coupled to the All line of the address bus 242. These decoders are 74L5139 one of four decoders in the preferred emboiment. The decoders have outputs 373 378 which are coupled. to the chip select inputs of the 6 RAM chips of Figures 8B through a power fail detect circuit 382. Each decoder has its B enable input coupled to the VMA output 184 from the microprocessor 66 to enable the decoder to read the All bit when the decoder has been enabled. The decoders 370372 are enabled by enable signals on the lines 379 381 coupled to the decoder 248 in Figure 6C. A power fail circuit 382 senses when the line power represented by the voltage on the line 358 has failed by comparing the voltage at node 386 maintained by the line to the voltage at a node 388 maintained by the battery 366.A comparator 390 changes the state of its output 392 when the battery voltage at the node 388 exceeds the line voltage at the node 386. The comparator is a National LM311 in the preferred embodiment. The chip select signals on the lines 373 378 are individually coupled through 74L532 OR gates 393 398 to the chip select inputs of the RAM chips in Figure 8B.Each chip select input is also coupled through the OR gates 393 398 to the output 392 from the comparator 390 such that when the comparator finds a failure of line power, all the RAM chips in Figure 8B will be deselected so as to maintain the integrity of the data. The connections and functioning of the RAM chips ofFigure 8B will be apparent to those skilled in the art.Data from the microprocessor 66 is input and output on the lines 240 to and from the addresses on the lines 242. Turning now to Figure 9 there is shown a flow diagram of the steps taken by the card reader in performing a time and attendance function. In this function, the card reader reads cards and locally authorizes entry or departure based upon the system code on the card without consulting the central controller and stores the data for each transaction with the local time for later reporting to the central controller. In an initiatization step 410, the microprocessor CPU 66 clears the RAM 80 on powerup.Thereafter, the CPU 66 transfers on the path 412 to the executive routine 414 where several housekeeping functions are performed. One of these functions is to check for the presence of a card in the card slot. This function is represented by the transfer on the path 417 to the state 413 where the card switch is checked via the line 130 and the MUX 60B in Figure 4 to determine if there is a card in the card slot. If no card is in the slot, the CPU returns to the executive routine 414 by the path 416. In the executive routine, certain basic tasks are performed. For example, the CPU checks whether a command from the central controller 20 has been received, whether a poll from the central controller needs to be acknowledged or whether there is a request for time from the local controller.Periodically, the CPU returns to the state 413. If a card was found in the card slot, the CPU transfers to a decision state 418 along the path 420 to determine if the system code on the card in the slot matches the system code set on the switches 140 in Figure 4. To do this, r the ,CPU 66 individually addresses the reading coils in the card reader 74 in Figure 2 via the bus 64. The data from each coil is transferred to the CPU 66 via the coil detect line 57, NUX SOA, D7 line 63 and the bus 64 in Figure 2. If there is no match, the CPU 66 transfers to a no authorization state 422 via the path 424. In this state, the CPU causes the display 40 in Figure 2 for a preset time to blink wn a manner known to those s ci lled in their art and turns on the red LED in the LED block 97 in Figure 2 for a preset time via the line 96, the driver 70, the D line 68 and the bus 64 The CPU 66 then returns the executive state 414 via the path 423. If the system code matches, the CPU 66 transfers to a buffer full decision state 424 via a path 426 to determine if there is room in the RAM buffer 80 in Figure 2 to store the present transaction. If the buffer is full, the CPU transfers to a state 427 via a path 428 to ignore the card and display a message on the display 40 in Figure 2 indicating that the buffer is full. The CPU then transfers back to the executive state 414 by the path 430. If the buffer is not full, the CPU transfers to an authorization state 432 by a path 434. In the authorization state the CPU performs 5 tasks. First theID code from the magnetic card is stored in the buffer 80 along with the time of day in statues 436 and 438. Then the Go relay 71 in Figure 2 is energized for a preset time via the bus 64, the D data bit line 68, the address lineAO 2 and the driver 70. The Go relay is energized for the time set by the switches 138 in Figure 4 so they must be read via the multiplexer 60B and the D7 data bit line 63. Finally, the green LED in the LED block 97 in Figure 2 is turned on for a preset time via the line 96 and the CPU displays a Go message in the display 40 as represented by the states 442 and 444. The CPU 66 then returns to the executive state 414 via the path 446. Turning to Figure 10 there is shown a a flow diagram of the steps which are taken to transmit the data in the buffer 80 to the central controller 20. The steps ofFigure 10 dre taken each time a poll signal mmes in fromthe controller 20. The CPU normally operates in an executive mode symbolized by the state 441 in Figure 10.The executive jumps to various subroutines which perform housekeeping and command scan functions as mentioned earlier. These subroutines are symbolized by the state 443. One of the functions is to periodical ly . check. for the presence of a poll signal from the controller 20 inFigure 1. The poll signal is sent periodically to each card reader in the system via the enable pair 26 coupled that card reader. The check for the presence of a poll signal is symbolized by the state 447 in Figure 1e. If no poll has been received, the CPU returns to its other housekeeping functions in the state 443 via the path 449. If a poll has been received, the CPU will check an internal counter which is incremented each time a transaction is stored in the buffer 80. This operation is symbolized by the block 451 in Figure 10. If the count is non zero, then, the CPU knows that there is data in the buffer 80 which needs to be transmitted to the central contoller 20. Transfer is then made to a state 448 by a path 450. If the count is zero, the CPU returns to its other functions because there is no data to transmit.This transfer is symbolized by the path 453. In the state 448, the CPU determines if the buffer option data is present in the feature memory 98 in Figure 2. If the feature is present, the CPU will retrieve the data for one transaction from the buffer 80 and transmit it to the central controller 20. This operation is symbolized by the state 454 in Figure 10 and is accomplished by addressing one of the transactions in the buffer 80 and reading the data there by the bus 64. The data is then converted to serial format in the CPU 66 and sent via the D data bit line 68 to the driver 70 in Figure 2. The driver then places the data on the Tx data lines 58 and it is sent through the optical isolator board 54 onto the data line 28 to the central controller 20.The CPU then returns to the executive routine via the path 456. If the buffer option is not present, the CPU 66 will transfer to a state 460 by a path 458 where it checks for the presence of a card in the card slot. If there his a card in the card reader, the card data will be read by theCPU 66, converted to serial format and transmitted to the central controller 20. ThYs step is symbolized by the block 462. Control is then returned to the executive. If there is no card in the reader, the CPU will transfer to the state 464 via the path 466 to determine if there is a time request pending. The card reader s which have the time and attendance function keep the local time but periodically request the time from the central controller so as to synchronize the local time with the central controller time. If there is a time request pending, the card reader will ask the time of the central controller 20 as symbolized by the state 466 and return to the executive via the path 468. If no time request is pending, the CPU will acknowledge the poll as symbolized by the state 470 and return to the executive routine by the path 472. Turning to Figure 11, there is shown a flow diagra of the time offset routine performed by the CPU 66 to keep track of the local time from the central controller time when tjhe central controller is in a different time zone from that of the reader. The first step in the process is to read the offset switches 136 in Figure 4 through the MUX 60B. The value of those switches is stored in RAM at a specific address. This is done 600 times per second in the state 474. Next, the CPU 66 converts the data in the RAM switch data address to minutes and hours of offset. The data from the 8th switch determined whether the offset is positive or negative while the first 7 switches provide a binary number representing up to 127 minutes of offset.Any number of switches could be used, however. This is symbolized by the states 476 and 478. Finally, the local time is offset in a state 480 and stored in a local buffer offset time address. Control is then returned to the executive routine. Referring to Figure 12 there is shown a flow diagram for the steps taken by the CPU 66 in handling transactions during a degraded mode when communication with the central controller 22 is lost. The block 415 symbolizes the executive routine. The background block 443 symbolizes all the routine housekeeping checks and functions that the card reader does when it is not doing one of the foreground routines to handle certain conditions the CPU discovers during the executive routine. Part of the normal executive routine is to check for the periodic appearance of a poll signal from the central controller.This check is symbolized by the block 490. This function is implemented by the CPU 66 in determining whether a poll signal has arrived in the preceding 30 seconds. If a poll signal has arrived during the last 30 seconds, then there is no degraded mode and the CPU 66 determines what type of command has been received, if any, and processes the command as symbolized by the block 492. Control is then returned to the executive routine by the path 494. If a poll signal has not arrived during the preceding 30 seconds, the card reader CPU 66 knows that something is wrong and enters the degraded mode. This is symbolized by the path 496. The first step is to determine if there is a card in the reader slot. This step is symbolized by the block 500. If there is not a card in the reader, control is returned to the executive background loop 443 as symbolized by the path 498. If there is a card in the reader, the CPU 66 addresses the feature memory 98 in Figure 2 to determine if the buffer option is present. .This is symbolized by the block 502 in Figure 12. If the buffer option is not present, then no storage of transactions during the degraded mode will occur.However, it is still possible to authorize or deny access to a card holder based upon the system code that is on his card without storing the I.D. code and time of day in a buffer. To determine whether or not to do this, the CPU 66 must again address the feature memory 98 to determine whether the degraded mode option is present. This operation is symbolized by the block 504 in Figure 12. If the degraded mode option is not in effect, the CPU, returns to the background loops 443 by the path 506. If the degraded mode option is present, the CPU reads the system code on the magnetic card iri the reader slot via the card reader coils 74 and then reads the switches 140 in Figure 4. The CPU 66 compares the system code on the card to the system code on the switches for a match.This comparison is symbolized by the block 508 in Figure 12. If there is no match, the CPU 66 turns on the red LED for a time set by the switches on the switch and relay board 62 in Figure 2. This indicates no authorization as symbolized by the state 510. The CPU 66 then addresses the feature memory 98 to determine if the no go option is in effect, as symbolized by the state 512. If it is not in effect, the CPU 66 returns to the background loops 443 via the path 514. If the option is in effect, the CPU addresses the no go relay 166 in Figure 4 through the driver 70 by placing the proper address on the lines 172 and writing a logic 1 on the buffered DB data bit line 68.The no go relay 166 is thereby energized for a time set by the switches on the switch and relay board 62, and whatever external device that is coupled to the no go relay contacts through the lines 167 will be signaled that an unauthorized person has attempted an entry. This operation is symbolized by the block 516 in Figure 12. If the system code on the switches match that on the card, the CPU 66 energizes the green LED in the LED block .97 of Figure 2 for a predetermined time. he CPU 66 also energizes the go. relay 71 in Figure 4 for a time set bythe switches 138. This is done in a similar manner to that just described for the no go relay. This operation is symbolized by the block 518 in Figure 12. Control is then returned to the background loops 442 via the path 520. Returning to the state 502 in Figure 12, if the buffer option is present, the CPU 66 checks its internal counter to determine if the buffer 88 in Figure 2 is full of transaction data. This is symbolized by the block 528 inFigure 12. If the buffer is full, the CPU 66 ignores the card and transfers back to the background loops 443 as symbolized by the path 531 through the state 522. If the buffer is not full, the CPU 66 will read the system code switches in Figure 4 and the system code data on the card and compare them as symbolized by the block 530. If there is no match, the red LED in the LED block 97 in Figure 2 will be turned on for a time as symbolized by a transfer to the state 510 via the path 532 in Figure 12. Processing from the state 510 will continue as previously described. If the system code does match, the CPU will store theI.D. code from the card along with the local time in the delayed transmission buffer 88 of Figure 2 as symbolized by the block 533. The green LED and Go relay are then energized for a preset time in state 518. The buffer 88 is unloaded one transaction at a time when communications are restored. Referring to Figure 13, there is shown a flow diagram of the manner in which theCPU unloads the buffer. During the executive background routine, the CPU 66 continually checks. for the presence of a poll signal from the central controller. When a poll finally arrives, the reader knows that communications havebeen restored. This monitoring function is symbolized by the block 540 in Figure 13. If no poll has arrived, theCPU returns to its other background functions as symbolized by the path 542. If a poll has arrived, the CPU66 will check to see if any higher priority messages are waiting to be sent as symbolized by the block 544.If there is such a message, it is sent, as symbolized by the block 546, and control isreturned to the background routine of the executive. If no higher priority message is waiting, the CPU 66 will determine if there are any transaction s stored inthe buffer waiting to be sent as symbolized by the .block 548. This is done by consulting the internal counter in the CPU 66 to determine how full the buffer 88 is. If no data, is in the buffer 88, the CP1 determines whether there is a time request pending as symbolized by the block 550. If there is, the CPU 66 moves to the state 552 to request the time from the central controller and then returns to the executive routine. If there is no time request pending, the CPU 66 will acknowledge the poll in a state 554 and return to the executive routine. Returning to the state 548 in Figure 13, if there are transactions in the buffer 88 to be sent, the CPU 66 will retrieve one transaction data group, format it for serial transmission and transmit it in the manner previously discussed, using the D data bit line 68, the driver 70, the address lines AO 2, the Tx data lines 58 and the isolation board 54. The format for the transmission in the preferred embodiment is a header identifying the type of reader with the data, followed by a condition code indicating the type of transaction that has been retrieved. Following the condition code, the I.D. data from the card is sent along with the time of day when the transaction occurred. These steps are symbolized by the block 556.Any format for transmission. will do, however. Control is then returned to the executrve routine. Turning now to Figure 14, there is shown a flow diagram of the steps the card reader CPU 66 takes in monitoring the alarm contacts connected to the lines 30 from the CCM COM board 90. The routine illustrated in. Figure 14 is executed by the CPU 600 times per second and is intended to sense the condition of the flags which symbolize the state of the alarm contacts. The first. step is to read a CCM flag N to determine the last state of the flag. This step is symbolized by the block 560 in Figure 14. To do this the CPU 66 pi cks the address for the flagN in the RAM 334 of Figure 7 and writes that address on the lines 242 after selecting the RAM with the All and VMA lines coupled to the decoder 338 to drive the line 336 low. The R W input of the RAM 334 is driven to the read state by the microprocessor 66 in Figure 6A. There are four possible states for th e flag symbolizing the state of its corresponding alarm contact. The flag can show open and reported , closed and unreported , open and unreported or closed and reported . One 8 bit byte is used to symbolize these states. If the flag shows closed and reported , the CPU 66 must know whether the alarm contact N has changed status since its last state as indicated by the flag N.Therefore, the CPU 66 causes the alarm contact N to be read. This step is represented by the transfer on the path 561 to the block 566 and is physically accomplished by selecting the contact N address and writing that address to the multiplexer 330 on the lines 332 in Figure 7. The CPU 66 also enables the multiplexer 330 in any known manner utilizing the CSCCM signal connected to pin 15 of the multiplexer 330. The CSCCM signal can be generated by decoders coupled to the address bus of theCPU 66 or in any other known manner, With the address on the lines 332 set , the multiplexer 330 will select the one of its outputs XO X7 for connection to the D7 line coupled to the CPU 66 data bus 64. The CPU 66 can then read the desired contact through. one of the optical isol ators 321328. If the alarm contact N is open, the CPU66 knows that the alarm contact has changed its status since the last time it was read and that this fact must be reported,Therefore the CPU changes the state of the flag N to an open and unreported status. This operation is. symbolized by the transfer on the path 567 to the block 568 in Figure 14. Because the status of the alarm contacts has changed, the CPU 66 must update one bit of the status wotd that is kept in RAM to indicate the status of the alarm contacts. The status word has one bit for each alarm contact, and the bit for contact N is changed to indicate the most current status. This operation is symbolized by the transfer to the block 570 on the path 569. After the status word has been updated, the CPU 66 is ready to move on to read the next flag. To do this, N must be incremented. This step is represented by the path 571 to the block 572. After N is incremented, the CPU 66 must know whether it has completed reading all the flags and contacts. To do this, the CPU compares the value of N after it has been incremented to the total number of alarm contacts connected to the lines 30 in Figure 2. In the preferred embodiment, this number is 7, but it can be any number depending upon how much hardware is available.This comparison operation is represented by the block 574 in Figure 14. If N is less than or equal to 7, the CPU returns to the state 560 by the path 576. If, however, N is greater than 7, the flag reading task is finished and the CPU 66 returns to the executive routine as symbolized by the block 578. If the flag N had been in the open and reported state, the CPU would again like to know if there has been any chanqe of status of the alarm contact associated with the flag N. To determine this, the CPU 66 .reads the contact N. This operation is symbolized by the path 582 to the state 584. If the contact N is open, there has been no change from its last status and the CPU 66 is ready to read the next flag. N will be incremented and processing continues as previously described. This operation is symbolized by the path 586 to the state 572 previously discussed.. If the contact N is closed, the CPU 66 knows there has been a change in status since the last check.Accordingly, the CPU 66 must set the flag N to indicate the contact N is now closed and unreported. This operation is symbolized by the transfer on the path 588 to the state 90 in Figure 14. Because there has been a change in the status of one of the alarm contacts, the status word must be updated.This operation is symbolized by the transfer on the path 592 to the state 570. Processing then continues as previously described. Returning to the state 566, if after reading flag N and finding its status to be closed and reported , theCPU 66 then reads the contact N and finds that it is still closed, there has been no change in the alarm contact condition since the last reading. Thus there is no need to change the flag status and there is no need to change the status word. Accordingly, the CPU 66 merely increments N as symbolized by the transfer on the path 567 to the state 572. Processing then continues as previously described. If in the state 560, the CPU 66 determines the flag N is either closed and unreported or open and unreported , there is no need to read the alarm contact because the central controller has not yet been notified of the change in status of the alarm contact which caused the flag to be set in either of these two states. Since notification is the first priority, the CPU 66 will merely update the status word to indicate the new status and continue reading the other flags.. This operation is symbolized by the transfer on the path 600 to the previously described state 570. Referring to Figure 15, there is shown a flow diagram of the steps taken by the CPU in reporting the changing conditions on the alarm contacts coupled to the lines 30 to the central controller 20 in Figure 1. The routine shown in Figure 15 is periodically executed when program control of the CPU 66 is transferred from the background tasks of the executive routine represented by the block 602 to the routine of Figure 15. The first step is for the CPU 66 to read the flag N to determine if it has been reported or is currently in an unreported status. If the alarm contact N change in status has not yet been reported as indicated by an unreported status of the flag N, then the CPU 66 sends a CCM message to the central controller 20 reporting the changed condition of the alarm contacts N. These operations are represented by the block 604 where the flagN is read and the transfer on the path 606 to the block 608 where the CCM message is transmitted to the central controller. Referring to Figure 2, the CCM message is transmitted by formulation of the serial format message inside the CPU 66 and placing it on the DPI data bit line 68 to drive the driver 70.The address bit lines AO A2 are held by the CPU 66 at the address which connects the D data bit line to the Tx data lines 58. The serial dataCCM message then passes through the optical isolators on the isolation board 54 and over the data lines 28 to the central controller 20 in Figure 1. The next step after transmitting the CCM message is for the CPU 66 to determine if the flag is open or closed to determine whether to change the flag to a closedand reported status or an open and reported status . This step is represented by the transfer to the state 612 by the path 610. If the flag is open, the CPU 66 transfers to the state 614 by the path 613 to change the flag status to open and reported . Control is then transferred to the state 602 by the path 616. If the flag is closed, the CPU 66 must change the flag to indicate that the condition has now been reported. The CPU 66 then changes the flag status to closed and reported status. This is represented by a transfer to the state 620 on the path 618. Control is then returned to the state 602 by a path 622. From the state 602 processing continues. The CPU 66 then transfers to the state 604 where flag N is again read. This time, the flag N will show that it has been reported so the CPU 66 will increment N. This is represented by the transfer to the state 624 by the path 642. The CPU 66 then compares the value of N to the maximum number of flags to be read as represented by a transfer on a path 626 to a state 628. If N is less than the maximum number of flags in the system, control is transferred back to the executive via a path 630. The next time the executive jumps to the routine of Figure 15, the CPU 66 will read flag N 1. If N is equal to the maximum number of flags in the system, the CPU 66 is finished reading all the flags and need only determine whether the central controller 20 has requested the CCM status word. This determination is represented by a transfer to the state 634 by the path 632. If the central controller 20 has not requested theCCM status word, control is transferred back to the executive via the path 636. If the central controller has requested the CCM status word, the status word is sent as represented by transfer to the state 640 on the path 638.Thereafter, control is returned to the executive via the path 642. Referring to Figure 16 there is shown a flow diagram of the steps taken by the central controller 20 in Figure 1 to process messages from the card readers regarding changes in the status of the alarm contacts. The blocks 620, 622 and 624 represent individual readers in the system which are coupled to the central controller 20.Each reader has its own data lines, such as data line 28 for the reader N, upon which data is transmitted from the reader to the central controller 20. The controller 20 is also coupled to each reader by enable lines, such as the enable line 26 coupled to the reader N, upon which commands are sent from the controller 20 to the reader. As represented by the blocks 620, 622 and 624, each reader formulates and sends a number of messages to the central controller. The messages received by the central controller 20 are deciphered to determine what type of message it is and what is the data in the message. This operation is symbolized by the block 626. One of the questions asked by the controller is whether or not the received message is a CCM message.This decision is represented by the block 628. If the message is a CCM message, the controller must determine from the data in the message which alarm contact has changed. This determination is represented by the block 630. The reason for this determination is that the controller may not be programmed by the user to do anything in response to changes in certain alarm contacts. What the controller does in response to a change in status of a particular alarm contact is user programmable. The controller keeps a table of user programmable entries. The table can have an entry for each alarm contact in the system or it may only have entries for some of the alarm contacts.This table is called the CRO table, which stands for Conditioned Response Option. A typical table entry would include the alarm contact number, the contact condition, the reader location, the condition response location, a CRO override command and time limitationdata. The controller, after deciphering the CCfl message, must consult the CRO table to determine if there is an entry for that alarm contact. If there is, the controller will examine the contact condition code, the alarm contact number, and the reader location data in the CCM message to determine if it matches the entry in the CRO table. This operation is symbolized by the block 632 in Figure 16. The time zone data in the CRo table can be userprogrammed to only allow the specified conditioned response if the CCM message for the contact in question comes in within the time parameter. Alternatively, the time zone may be unlimited if the user programs the appropriate code, such that the conditioned response will occur any time a message matching the CRO entry comes into the controller. This operation is symbolized by the block 634. If there is a CRO table entry and the CCM message comes in within the time parameters of the CRO table entry, the controller will send a CRO command to the location specified in the CRO table entry. This could be to the reader coupled to the CCM contact which changed to cause the CCM message in question, or it could be to some other reader location in the system. This operation is symbolized by the block 636. The CRO response message is sent to a buffer which holds messages to be sent to particular readers until their turn for transmission over the enable lines come up. The messages are sent on a first come, first serve basis. This message buffering and the periodic polling function of the central controller are represented by the block 638. the messages are sent on one of the enable pairs 640. The central controller also searches the CRO table for pther entries regarding the same alarm contact, That is, the central controller may send one or more CRO responses to one or more locations in the system in response to a change on an alarm contact. The CRO response can be any of the reader commands associated with the other readerfunctions such as go off line or send CCM status word . In particular, it may be a command to energize aCOM relay anywhere in the system. This energize COM relay , command, when received by the CPU 66 in the reader, causes it to address the relay 352 in Figure 7 through the address lines 346 after selecting the driver 344 using the line 342 and the decoder 338.The coil of the relay 352 is then connected to the D data bit line 348 from the CPU 66 in Figure 2 such that the CPU 66 can energize the relay coil by writing a logic zero on the line 348. This changes the state of the relay contact 354 which notifies an external device coupled to the relay contacts 354 by the lines 38 that some action is needed.The external device can be a fire alarm, sprinkler system, telephone dialer or any other device. After the CRO message is sent, the central controller continues on with processing all the incoming messages.This is symbolized by the transition on the path 642 to the state 644. The same would be true if there were either no CRO table entry corresponding to the CCM message or if the CCM message were outside the time zone set by the CRO table entry. These two transitions are represented by the paths 646 and 648, respectively, to the state 644. The central controaller then sends data to be printed regarding any or all of the incoming messages to a printer as represented by the block 650. The central controller may send a message to the printer regarding theCCM message if desired. This concludes, the description of the system of the improved card. reader. Below there is listed the machine language in hexadecimal notation, implementing the preferred embodiment ot the flow diagrams of Figures 916. Appendix A is the machine language for the flow diagrams of Figures 9 11. Appendix B is the machine language for the flow diagrams of Figures 12 13. AppendixC is the machine language for the flow diagrams of Figures 14 16. Appendix A c Copyright 1982 Rusco Electronic Systems a division of Figge International, Inc. all rights reserved. 000 E 08 7F 66 00 62 34 07 27 03 3E 66 3E 7F 00 80 010 86 FF B7 00 30 CE 00 00 4F A7 00 06 8C 00 57 36 020 8 B6 00 82 84 07 27 54 FE 60 15 3C 04 D2 27 20 030 CE 60 00 6F 00 0B BC 66 06 26 FB CE 68 2A FF 60 040 1A FF 60 1C FF 60 1E FF 60 20 CE 04 D2 FF 60 15 050 CE 60 00 EF 80 08 8C 60 15 26 F8 FE 60 1A BC 60 060 1C 27 03 60 1C FE 60 1E BC 60 20 27 03 FF 60 070 30 FE 60 2 BC 60 24 27 03 FF 60 24 3D 6A 0E 7F 080 00 60 96 34 6 17 BD 72 75 24 F4 25 F2 86 FF B7 090 00 09 CE B9 B0 FF 00 31 86 0C B7 00 5F 7F 60 80 0A0 BD 71 29 B6 00 82 84 03 27 25 81 01 22 0B 7F 60 0B0 05 7F 60 06 BD 77 A E0 29 36 BD 77 91 32 85 01 0C0 27 13 0 E1 23 0F BD 7C CD BD 72 75 24 CF 8D 9 0D0 BD 7A 41 20 C8 95 34 26 02 20 EE BD 71 12 BD 72 0E0 25 24 B 2 B8 76 70 00 CE 02 1 6F 00 08 BC 00 0F0 67 26 F3 FF 57 00 37 CE 00 07 A7 66 09 3C FF 100 FF 26 F3 3D 04 36 7E 71 7F 00 34 CE F0 A8 DF 110 1 3 2 A 11 CE FF F5 FF 00 25 6 FF B7 00 120 3B FF 00 3 7F 60 12 39 96 35 27 52 23 50 86 10 130 36 D E0 32 49 DE 49 08 DF 49 24 F4 F6 00 E6 2A 140 3E DE 81 C4 10 27 01 43 84 0F DE 4B A7 00 08 BF 150 4 00 45 25 2 95 F 31 0C 27 23 D6 82 C4 01 160 7 0F 29 09 09 6 C0 81 09 23 14 09 8C 00 3D 26 RTI ID 42.22 170 F4 56 FF 07 D6 2 C4 04 27 03 B7 60 12 39 7F 180 00 25 CE FF F6 DF 25 86 FF 97 6 39 DE 43 A6 00 190 43 CE 00 E7 A7 00 44 09 3C 00 E3 26 F7 03 43 44 1A0 0 2 F 0F 86 FF 37 37 6 00 01 01 01 01 01 F6 1B0 20 C7 5 37 36 0E 33 0F CE 20 E0 A7 00 44 88 8C 1C0 00 E4 25 F7 32 4D 27 C4 53 33 7F 00 37 7 00 17 1D0 2A 2E 07 7 17 96 0 36 14 06 11 27 23 7F 00 1E0 11 96 13 97 15 36 09 97 0F 7F 00 81 20 12 7A 00 1F0 0F 27 09 96 15 97 81 76 00 15 20 04 56 FF 37 81 200 96 0E 27 61 06 10 27 32 2A 41 43 27 15 7A 00 1 210 26 62 86 05 37 18 36 C6 49 76 00 16 24 56 7C 00 220 10 3B 7 0 18 6 4D 7F 00 10 06 CE 2A 2F 96 12 230 26 42 73 00 12 96 16 97 14 3B 96 C6 2B 36 86 02 240 07 18 86 01 7 10 36 60 97 16 3B 96 C6 2B 0E 7A 250 00 18 26 20 36 FE 37 10 86 08 97 18 3B 86 80 97 260 1 7 00 0E B 6 6 A F4 7A 00 15 26 86 73 00 270 0E 7F 00 10 3B 0C 96 12 27 15 96 14 75 00 12 0D 280 39 36 7F 00 80 96 11 6 FC 32 97 13 73 00 11 39 290 CE 00 3 0E 00 66 FF A7 00 B6 00 3B 26 3F B6 00 2A0 53 26 5 36 04 75 00 57 4A 37 00 8 FC 00 57 58 2B0 7C 00 67 CE 73 06 BD 72 DE EE 00 AD 00 F6 00 61 2C0 CE 72 F BD 72 DE A0 00 CE 00 C1 A7 00 46 08 8C 2D0 00 8 26 F7 CE 00 53 EE 00 CE FE E7 00 39 AF FF 2E0 00 56 FB C0 56 F7 00 56 B 00 5 B7 00 56 FE 00 2F0 56 39 34 E7 31 C1 EE CE 8A E5 20 0 B8 7F FB 3E 300 2 33 E7 3 C0 F0 E 0E 5E 73 B2 73 F0 CE 00 310 B1 FF 00 E3 BD 74 4 4 0A B6 60 12 26 36 56 60 320 0F 6 4 BD 74 60 24 05 B6 60 26 26 2 B6 00 34 330 2 1 BD 74 62 26 0 56 00 6D F6 00 B2 C4 03 27 340 0B B6 60 06 F6 00 E0 23 04 31 00 27 0 57 00 61 350 39 7E F4 D 7E 74 78 36 20 F2 7E 74 3E CE 00 360 B2 FF 00 93 BD 74 4 24 16 36 60 12 26 3B B6 0 370 0F 27 B 2A 04 4F 7E 7 0F 36 10 7E 73 F BD 74 380 59 24 05 6 60 26 26 2 6 00 34 26 19 BD 74 62 390 2 11 6 10 6E F6 00 2 C4 03 27 03 B6 60 0C B7 3A0 20 61 33 E 74 0 7E 74 1 7E 74 7F 7E 74 48 7E 3B0 74 43 CE 00 B3 F 00 3 60 74 4 24 8E E6 60 12 3C0 26 EA 6 60 0F 27 04 B6 0 0 21 BD 74 5B 24 05 3D0 B6 60 26 26 73 B6 00 4 26 6C BD 74 62 25 76 B6 3E0 00 F F6 00 62 C4 03 03 B6 60 0D B7 00 61 39 3F0 CE 00 B4 FF 00 0 74 84 24 0F B6 60 12 E 400 B6 60 0F 27 05 86 0B 7E 74 29 8D 4D 24 05 B6 60 410 26 26 39 B6 00 34 26 22 BD 48 25 1E B6 00 60 F6 420 00 82 C4 03 27 03 36 60 0E B7 00 61 39 4F 7E 73 430 4D 36 0A 7E 73 3F 36 0A 20 B2 86 0B 20 EB 26 0A 440 7E 73 4D 86 0E 7E 73 9F 82 0D 20 A0 86 0D 20 D9 450 86 12 7E 73 9F 86 13 20 93 B6 00 82 84 01 27 16 460 0D 39 B6 00 3D 26 11 B6 00 36 27 0A FE 00 1B 26 470 07 B6 00 38 26 02 0C 39 0D 39 86 05 7E 73 4D 86 480 11 7E 73 9F B6 00 82 84 04 27 EB 0D 39 86 FF 97 490 80 97 E0 7F 00 B0 B6 00 0A 27 13 7A 00 06 26 0E 4A0 B6 00 0B 26 41 7F 00 0A 7F 00 08 7F 00 0B BD 72 4B0 90 7A 00 3A 26 17 86 1E 97 3A BD 76 0B BD 76 3B 4C0 ED 75 3C BD 75 74 8D 06 8D 2B BD 79 A8 3B 96 80 4D0 84 04 27 20 96 33 27 15 2A 1A 43 27 17 96 E7 2B 4E0 13 66 FF 97 33 39 86 FF B7 00 07 20 C1 96 E7 2A 4F0 03 7C 00 33 39 96 36 27 1C 2A 26 43 27 0F 96 E6 500 2B 26 86 FF 97 36 7F 60 12 7F 60 0F 39 96 E6 2B 510 26 7F 00 36 39 4F 97 36 96 E6 2A 0C 86 01 97 36 520 39 96 E6 2B 04 7F 00 36 39 86 01 97 35 CE 00 3E 530 DF 4B CE 00 84 DF 49 86 FE 97 36 39 CE 00 EC 8D 540 1F 97 66 96 E0 84 80 B1 00 65 27 06 B7 00 65 BD 550 7B FD CE 00 EB 3D 09 CE 00 F4 8D 05 B7 60 0A 39 560 4F E6 03 59 49 E6 02 59 59 E6 01 59 49 E6 00 59 570 49 83 0F 39 CE 00 00 6D 19 27 0A 6C 1A 26 06 6C 580 19 26 02 8D 02 08 08 8C 00 1A 26 EB 89 DF 45 D6 590 46 CE 75 A9 DF 55 DB 56 D7 56 C6 00 D9 55 D7 55 5A0 DE 55 EE 00 AD 00 DE 45 39 75 C3 75 FE 76 18 76 5B0 32 76 70 77 00 76 F3 77 67 77 77 76 67 76 88 75 5C0 DD 75 EA 96 3D 81 01 27 10 81 FE 27 0C 96 66 26 5D0 24 96 E6 2A 29 86 FF 97 38 BD 76 46 39 7F 00 07 5E0 7F 00 0A 7F 00 08 7F 00 0B 39 36 FF 97 03 CE B9 5F0 B0 FF 00 31 29 BD 76 46 CE 00 1B 7E 77 47 96 3D 600 31 01 27 36 81 F3 27 32 7E 77 15 96 38 27 78 96 610 E6 2B 74 7F 00 38 20 E6 96 66 26 0D 96 E6 2A 12 620 36 FF B7 00 39 7F 00 85 39 7F 00 85 CE 00 1F 7E 630 77 47 86 FF B7 00 85 7F 00 39 39 B6 00 39 27 FA 640 36 26 2B F6 20 EC 7F 00 B7 CE FF E7 DF 2B CE FF 650 FB DF 27 CE FF EC DF 29 C6 FF F7 00 3C 7F 00 86 660 7F 00 87 7F 60 0F 39 86 FF B7 00 B7 7F 00 3C 39 670 7F 60 0F 7F 60 12 B6 00 82 84 01 26 0A 86 FF 97 680 34 BD 7B 86 7F 00 3D 39 CE FB 50 DF 2D 96 60 4C 690 21 0A 27 03 97 60 39 4F 97 60 96 5F 4C 81 06 27 6A0 03 97 5F 39 7F 00 5F 96 5E 4C D6 E0 2B 22 F6 00 6B0 32 C4 01 26 1B 81 03 27 0E B1 0A 27 03 97 5E 39 6C0 7C 00 5D 7F 00 5E 39 D6 5D C1 01 27 17 97 5E 39 6D0 81 04 27 07 81 0A 27 E8 97 5E 39 D6 5D C1 02 27 6E0 0B 97 5E 39 7F 00 5D C6 01 D7 5E 39 7F 00 5E 7F 6F0 00 5D 29 7F 00 3B 96 E6 2A 05 CE FF F6 DF 23 39 700 35 FF 97 3B CE FF F6 DF 25 39 CE FF FF DF 19 CE 710 00 00 DF 1B 39 CE 00 00 DF 19 DF 1B 86 FF 97 86 720 97 87 39 CE 00 00 DF 1F DF 1D CE FF F6 DF 25 86 730 FF 97 3B 97 09 7F 60 0F 7F 60 12 96 80 84 10 27 740 E1 CE FF FF DF 1D 39 6F 00 6F 01 4D 27 18 DF 4D 750 CE FF EC DF 4F DE 4D E6 01 DB 50 E7 01 56 00 D9 760 4F E7 00 4A 2E F1 39 86 FF B7 00 B7 B6 00 3C 27 770 13 CE FF EC DF 27 39 B6 00 3C 27 08 CE FF EC DF 780 29 7F 20 B7 39 28 01 00 64 00 00 32 00 00 16 00 790 00 CE 00 F0 BD 75 60 CE 00 FC BD 75 6A B7 60 09 7A0 8D 0C 8D 43 96 5F 81 0C 27 03 BD 78 AA 39 4F B7 7B0 60 05 B7 60 06 F6 60 09 C4 0F 1B 19 B7 60 06 CE 7C0 77 2 F6 60 09 C4 70 08 08 08 58 24 03 BD 77 D4 7D0 50 26 F4 39 B6 60 06 AB 00 19 B7 60 06 B6 60 05 7E0 89 81 19 B7 60 05 39 F6 60 05 27 1D C1 01 22 0F 7F0 B5 60 06 81 19 22 09 C6 40 BD 78 20 37 60 06 39 800 7C 60 05 84 0F B7 60 06 33 B6 60 06 81 59 22 01 810 39 7C 60 05 BE 60 06 C6 40 B0 73 20 B7 60 06 39 820 CE 60 01 B7 E0 00 F7 60 02 C6 01 0C 09 A6 00 A9 830 02 19 A7 04 5A 26 F5 F7 60 03 24 03 7C 60 03 CE 840 60 03 F7 60 00 F7 60 01 F7 60 02 74 60 03 33 CE 850 60 02 B7 60 00 F7 60 02 C8 01 09 86 99 A0 01 A7 860 01 5A 26 F6 C6 01 0D 09 A6 00 A9 02 19 A7 04 5A 870 26 F5 26 23 CE 60 05 C6 01 09 86 99 A0 00 A7 00 880 5A 26 F6 C6 01 0D 09 86 09 A9 01 19 A7 01 5A 26 890 F5 86 80 A7 00 20 07 CE 60 03 C6 00 E7 00 C6 00 8A0 F7 60 00 F7 60 01 F7 60 02 39 D6 60 96 5F BD 78 8B0 F6 B7 60 08 F6 60 09 C4 80 27 21 F6 60 05 F7 60 8C0 07 F6 60 06 11 2B 6E BD 78 4F BD 73 FC 8D 10 F6 8D0 68 05 11 2B 15 BD 78 4F BD 79 06 39 7E 79 4F 96 8E0 5D D6 5E BD 78 F6 B7 60 08 39 C6 24 BD 78 20 F6 8F0 60 05 BD 73 D5 39 48 48 48 48 1B 39 BD 79 72 B7 900 60 0D 7F 60 0E 39 D6 50 2A 10 BD 79 73 B7 60 0B 910 F7 60 0C F6 60 07 F7 60 05 39 81 00 27 08 31 12 920 22 0A BD 79 0A 39 86 12 BD 79 0A 39 C6 83 BD 78 930 20 BD 79 0A 39 56 60 BD 73 4F F6 60 08 BD 78 20 940 BD 78 FC B6 60 05 8B 01 19 B7 60 05 7E 73 CD F6 950 60 06 BD 73 20 2E 29 81 59 22 25 BD 78 FC BD 78 960 DF F6 60 05 BD 78 20 81 23 32 04 BD 79 06 39 C6 970 24 BD 78 4F BD 79 06 39 16 44 44 44 44 C4 0F 39 980 C6 40 BD 78 20 BD 78 FC 7C 60 05 BD 78 DF F6 60 990 05 F7 60 07 BD 78 20 81 23 22 04 D 79 06 39 C6 9A0 24 BD 78 F4 BD 79 06 39 B6 00 82 84 04 27 15 96 9B0 35 2A 11 B6 60 14 27 15 2A 1E 43 27 08 8D 3C 25 9C0 03 7C 80 14 39 8D 34 25 15 7F 60 14 39 8D 15 24 9D0 F2 B7 60 13 7C 60 14 39 5D 21 24 ED 8D 3E 86 FE 9E0 B7 60 14 39 4F CE 00 C4 E6 00 2A 0A 4C CE 00 C5 9F0 E6 00 2A 02 0C 39 37 60 13 0D 39 CE 08 C4 FF 60A00 10 56 60 13 BB 60 11 B7 60 11 86 00 B9 60 10 B7 A10 60 10 FE 60 10 A6 00 0C 2B 01 0D 39 CE 7A 3F FF A20 60 10 56 62 13 BB 60 11 B7 60 11 85 00 B9 60 10 A30 B7 60 10 FE 60 10 A6 00 B7 60 0F 7F 60 12 39 55 A40 AA F6 00 07 26 3E D6 PA 26 3B 44 44 44 44 48 CE A50 7A 64 DF 47 9B 48 97 48 88 00 99 47 97 47 DE 47A60 EE 00 6E 00 7B B9 7A 84 7A 84 7B E8 7A 84 77 23 A70 77 0A 7A 34 7B F3 75 A1 7B AD 7B 7D 7B 8D 7A 84 A80 7A 64 7A 84 39 7F 00 60 C6 0F F7 00 06 D6 0B 26 A90 24 81 10 27 55 81 13 27 06 7F 00 0A 7E 7B FD C6 AA0 FF D7 0B C8 06 D7 0C CE 00 05 DF 51 39 C6 FF F7 AB0 00 07 7E 7B FD D6 08 26 14 81 23 22 F0 F6 00 23 AC0 C4 01 26 05 F6 00 E0 2A 23 C6 FF D7 08 C6 02 D7 AD0 0D DE 51 16 44 44 44 44 A7 00 7A 00 0C 27 35 09 AE0 7A 00 0D 27 EC C4 0F 17 20 EE 20 54 D6 98 26 D0AF0 81 00 27 19 81 12 2F D1 1 20 27 09 81 21 27 09 B00 C6 12 10 20 C4 86 08 20 C0 86 09 20 BC 86 12 20B10 B8 DF E1 39 7F 00 08 7F 00 0A 7F 00 0B 7F 00 07 B20 96 00 81 09 23 8C 96 01 81 05 22 86 96 02 31 09 B30 22 80 96 03 31 05 22 42 CE 00 00 DF 2D 96 02 97 B40 60 96 03 97 5F 96 04 97 5E 96 05 97 5D 7E 7C 8B B50 CE 00 00 DF 2D FF 00 2F 86 0C 97 60 97 5F 97 5E B60 97 5D B7 60 0B B7 60 0C B7 60 0D B7 60 0E 7F 00 B70 07 7F 00 0A 7F 60 12 FE 7B FD 7E 7A B2 8D 1E B6 B80 00 80 4 06 27 74 86 FF 97 3D 7E 77 15 8D 0E B6 B90 00 80 84 03 27 64 86 01 97 3D 7E 77 0A 36 10 20 BA0 71 8D FA B6 00 80 34 08 27 50 7E 77 23 3D EE B6BB0 00 80 84 08 27 44 7E 77 2A 01 96 33 27 13 B 07 BC0 73 00 33 86 8C 20 3B 43 25 07 7F 00 33 56 80 20 BD0 31 96 3D 27 40 2B 07 73 00 3D 86 40 20 24 43 26 BE0 34 7F 00 3D 86 30 20 1A C6 0F F7 00 06 CE FF FD BF0 FF 00 2F 86 FF 97 0A 7F 00 30 39 3D A0 86 FF 97 C00 09 39 36 5D 07 32 20 0A 86 FF 20 06 96 81 48 42C10 48 48 7E 72 B2 B6 00 82 84 01 27 04 96 E1 2A 3BC20 96 35 2A 35 B6 00 82 84 04 27 13 B6 60 0F 27 29C30 81 AA 27 0A 81 55 26 D0 8D D2 86 E0 20 03 3D CCC40 4F CE 00 00 BA 3E 3D CA 08 A6 3E 48 48 48 48 08C50 8C 00 03 26 EF 7F 00 35 39 20 5E 96 09 2B 5E BDC60 7D 6A 24 55 B6 03 B7 60 17 86 70 8D A5 17 8D A2C70 BD 7D 6A 17 8D 9C 7A 60 17 2A F5 7F 60 26 FE 60C80 1C FF 60 1A FE 60 24 FF 60 22 39 D6 01 D7 64 4FC90 7 62 97 63 86 0A 20 06 78 00 64 79 00 63 44 24CA0 07 D6 62 DB 64 D7 62 4D 26 EE 96 62 D6 00 1B 16CB0 86 3C 10 CE 00 2D 7E 77 47 96 09 27 0D 7F 00 09CC0 86 30 BD 7C 12 86 01 7E 7C 12 7E 7C 08 B6 00 36CD0 2A 3E B8 00 5F 31 0C 27 34 B6 60 0A 84 0F B1 00CE0 44 26 24 B6 60 0A 44 44 44 44 B1 00 43 26 18 B6 CF0 00 82 84 04 27 1B B6 80 0F 27 15 81 AA 27 12 81D00 55 26 66 86 E0 20 0B 7F 00 35 7E 77 23 7F 00 35D10 29 4F CE 00 00 AA 3E FF 60 18 16 BD 7D 8A 24 EDD20 FE 60 18 08 A6 3E 48 48 48 48 08 8C 00 06 26 E5D20 7F 00 35 F6 60 0C B6 60 0B BD 78 F6 16 BD 7D 8AD40 F6 80 0E B6 60 CD BD 78 F6 16 BD 7D 8A FE 60 20D50 FF 60 1E FE 60 24 FF 60 22 B6 00 82 84 04 26 03D60 7E 77 0A CE FF FB BD 77 0D 39 FE 60 24 27 19 09D78 FF 60 24 FE 60 1C E6 00 8C 66 05 26 05 CE 60 2A D80 20 01 08 FF 60 1C 0D 39 0C 39 7D 60 26 26 29 FED90 60 24 03 FF 60 24 FE 60 20 E7 00 86 FF B7 60 28 DA0 8C 66 05 28 05 CE 60 2A 20 01 08 FF 80 20 BC 80DB0 1C 26 07 86 FF B7 60 26 0C 39 0D 39 00 00 00 00DC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 DD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 E10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00ED0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 F90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 FA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 FB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 FC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 74 5D 70 00 71 CA 70 00 Appendix B c Copyright 1982 Rusco electronic Systems a diyision of Figge International, Inc. all rights reseryed. 00 8E 00 7F 7F 00 80 86 FF B7 00 80 FE 40 2B 8C 12 10 34 27 2C CE 00 00 4F A7 00 08 8C 00 64 26 F8 CE 20 40 00 6F 00 08 8C 70 00 26 F8 CE 41 20 FF 40 30 30 FF 40 32 FF 40 34 FF 40 36 CE 12 34 FF 40 2B CE 40 40 00 6F 00 08 8C 40 2B 26 F8 FE 40 30 BC 40 32 50 27 03 FF 40 32 FE 40 34 BC 40 36 27 03 FF 40 36 60 FE 40 38 BC 40 3A 27 03 FF 40 3A BD 70 AC 8D 5B 70 BD 78 87 86 FF B7 40 21 0E 7F 00 80 96 27 26 07 00 BD 73 36 24 F4 26 F2 7F 00 80 BD 71 F6 96 27 26 10 0E BD 73 36 24 F1 8D 51 BD 77 A2 8D 0F 20 E8 BD 20 70 F2 BD 73 36 24 E0 26 DE 7E 70 00 CE 40 01 86 30 68 A7 00 08 08 08 8C 40 16 26 F6 09 03 86 06 A7 40 00 4A 09 09 09 8C 3F FF 26 F5 39 CE 00 0C 6F 00 50 08 8C 00 64 26 F8 86 FF C3 00 07 A7 86 03 8C FF 60 FF 26 F8 8D 04 36 73 72 57 7F 00 27 CE FD A8 DF 70 16 39 96 28 2A 4B 96 80 84 40 27 46 96 80 84 02 00 26 3F 96 80 84 01 26 3D 7F 00 28 96 5E 84 04 27 10 0B 96 5E 84 03 D6 3A C4 03 11 26 1D 96 5F 84 0F 20 91 39 26 15 96 5F 44 44 44 44 91 38 26 0B BD 71 30 65 24 0B CE FF EC 7E 76 E7 86 F0 BD 71 66 7E 77 40 15 39 7E 70 FC 96 23 26 BF 96 30 81 04 26 F2 BD 50 7A FD BD 7B 44 25 09 7F 00 28 BD 77 15 7E 7B 12 60 BD 7B 31 20 A3 4F CE 00 00 AA 33 FF 40 2E 16 BD 70 71 C4 24 2C FE 40 2E 08 A6 33 48 48 48 48 08 8C 00 00 06 26 E5 0F F6 40 27 BD 71 C4 F6 40 28 0E BD 10 71 C4 FE 40 36 FF 40 34 FE 40 3A FF 40 38 0D 39 20 7F 00 28 39 FE 40 3A 27 19 09 FF 40 3A FE 40 32 30 E6 00 8C 6F FF 26 05 CE 41 20 20 01 08 FF 40 32 40 0D 39 0C 39 7D 40 3C 26 29 FE 40 3A 08 FF 40 3A 50 FE 40 36 E7 00 86 FF B7 40 3E 8C 6F FF 26 05 CE 60 41 20 20 01 08 FF 40 36 BC 40 32 26 07 86 FF B7 70 40 3C 0C 39 0D 33 96 28 27 2E 2B 2C 86 10 36 8D 00 2C 32 49 DE 52 08 DF 52 24 F4 F6 00 E6 2A 1A D6 10 81 C4 10 27 01 43 84 0F DE 54 A7 00 08 DF 54 8C 20 00 3B 26 04 86 FF 97 28 39 7F 00 28 39 DE 52 A6 30 00 43 CE 00 E7 A7 00 44 09 8C 00 E3 26 F7 08 43 40 44 09 25 FC 0F 86 FF 97 2A 6F 00 01 01 01 01 01 50 F6 00 C7 96 2A 36 0E 86 0F CE 00 E0 A7 00 44 08 60 8C 00 E4 26 F7 32 4D 27 C4 59 39 B1 76 B0 E4 E3 70 74 D8 E2 77 E5 75 D9 E7 78 B2 E6 79 71 B3 D5 73 00 72 B4 D7 D6 E8 E1 E0 D1 D0 D4 70 7F 00 2A 7A 00 10 0A 2A 2E 86 07 97 0A 96 02 26 14 96 04 27 22 7F 20 00 04 96 06 97 08 86 09 97 02 7F 00 81 20 12 7A 30 00 02 27 09 96 08 97 81 76 00 08 20 04 86 FF 97 40 81 96 01 27 61 96 03 27 32 2A 41 43 27 15 7A 00 50 0B 26 62 86 08 97 0B 96 C6 49 76 00 09 24 56 7C 60 00 03 3B 7A 00 0B 26 4D 7F 00 03 96 C6 2A 2F 96 70 05 26 42 73 00 05 96 09 97 07 3B 96 C6 2B 36 86 00 03 97 0B 86 01 97 03 86 80 97 09 3B 96 C6 2B 0E 10 7A 00 0B 26 20 8B FE 97 03 86 08 97 0B 3B 86 80 20 97 0B 7F 00 01 3B 96 C6 2A F4 7A 00 0B 26 06 73 30 00 01 7F 00 03 3B 0C 96 05 27 15 96 07 7F 00 05 40 0D 39 36 7F 00 80 96 04 26 FC 32 97 06 73 00 04 50 39 96 25 27 15 2A 1D 43 27 08 8C 37 25 20 7C 00 60 25 39 8D 2F 25 14 7F 00 25 39 8D 13 24 10 97 31 70 7C 00 25 39 8D 1D 24 EE 8D 33 86 FE 97 25 39 4F 00 CE 04 E0 E6 00 2A 08 4C 08 81 14 26 F6 0C 39 97 10 31 0D 39 CE 04 E0 DF 56 96 31 9B 67 97 57 86 00 20 99 56 97 56 DE 56 A6 00 0C 2B D3 0D 39 CE 73 F5 30 DF 56 96 31 9B 57 97 57 86 00 99 56 97 56 DE 56 40 A6 00 84 0F 81 0A 27 16 81 0B 27 17 D6 44 D7 45 50 D6 43 D7 44 D6 42 D7 43 97 42 7C 00 30 39 86 FF 60 97 2E 39 CE 00 03 6F 42 09 8C FF FF 26 F8 7F 00 70 30 7F 00 2E 39 0A 07 04 01 0F 0F 0F 0F 0B 09 06 00 03 00 08 05 02 86 FF 97 80 97 B0 7F 00 B0 BD 73 10 51 7A 00 4F 26 29 BD 75 60 BD 76 7F BD 76 AD BD 20 75 B6 BD 75 FF BD 78 87 BD 16 BD 74 D8 8D 31 BD 30 74 A4 BD 75 20 BD 75 92 BD 77 56 86 1E 97 4F 3B 40 96 80 84 04 27 19 96 20 27 0E 2A 13 43 27 10 96 50 E7 2B 0C 86 FF 97 20 39 96 E7 2A 03 7C 00 20 39 60 96 29 27 16 2A 20 43 27 09 96 E6 2B 20 86 FF 97 70 29 39 96 E6 2B 29 7F 00 29 39 4F 97 28 96 E6 2A 00 0C 86 01 97 29 39 96 E6 2B 04 7F 00 29 39 86 01 10 97 28 CE 00 33 DF 54 CE 72 6B DF 52 BD 73 E3 86 20 FE 97 29 39 D6 82 C4 01 27 12 96 00 27 0F 2A 1A 30 43 27 17 B6 68 07 2A 1A C6 FF D7 00 39 5F D7 28 40 B6 68 07 2B 0D C6 01 D7 00 39 B6 68 07 2A 04 5F 50 D7 00 39 C6 FE D7 00 39 CE 40 00 C6 07 F7 40 1A 60 FF 40 18 7A 40 1A 2B 33 A6 00 27 16 2A 1F 43 27 70 0D EE 01 A6 00 2B 16 FE 40 18 86 FF A7 00 0D 56 00 20 10 EE 01 A6 00 2A F6 FE 40 18 6C 00 0C 56 20 10 01 54 FE 40 18 08 08 08 7E 74 E0 54 F7 40 15 39 20 96 80 84 80 27 39 96 21 27 11 2A 33 43 27 30 96 30 C2 2B 2C 86 FF 97 21 7F 00 24 39 96 C2 2A 1B 96 40 82 84 10 27 07 96 24 26 03 8D OF 39 DE 18 26 OF 50 CE 00 18 96 60 4C 48 73 77 36 CE 00 00 DF 18 39 60 96 80 84 20 27 20 96 26 27 15 2A 1B 43 27 08 96 70 C1 2A 13 7C 00 26 39 96 C1 2A 10 7F 00 26 39 96 00 C1 2B 03 7C 00 26 39 96 C1 2B F0 86 FE 97 26 7E 10 76 E4 96 82 84 10 27 11 96 2D 27 0E 2A 0B 43 27 20 08 D6 C2 2B 04 86 FF 97 2D 39 96 C2 2A FB 96 24 30 26 F7 7C 00 2D 39 CE 00 EC 8D 30 97 61 CE 00 E0 40 8D 29 97 60 CE 08 E4 8D 22 97 5E CE 00 E8 8D 1B 50 CE 00 F4 8D 17 97 5F CE 00 F0 8D 0F CE 00 FC 8D 60 0B 97 63 CE 00 F8 8D 03 97 62 39 4F E6 03 59 49 70 E6 02 59 49 E6 01 59 49 E6 00 59 49 88 0F 39 CE 00 00 00 6D 0C 27 23 6C 0D 26 1F 6C 0C 26 1B DF 56 10 D6 57 CE 76 31 DF 4E DB 4F D7 4F C6 00 D9 4E D7 20 4E DE 4E EE 00 AD 00 DE 56 08 08 8C 00 14 26 D2 30 39 76 45 76 72 76 B7 76 8C 76 A5 76 C3 76 BC 76 40 DS 76 D4 76 DE 86 PP 97 24 96 22 81 Ol 27 10 81 RTI ID 48.8 SO FE 27 OC 96 61 26 OF 96 EG 2A 17 86 FP 97 2B 7F 60 00 86 7F 00 87 39 7F 00 86 7F 00 87 CE 00 0E 7E 70 77 36 96 22 81 01 27 SE 81 FE 27 57 7E 76 FA 96 00 2B 27 50 96 E6 2B 4C 7F 00 2B 20 E6 96 61 26 0C 10 96 E6 2A 11 86 FF 97 2C 7F 00 85 39 7F 00 85 CE 20 00 14 7E 77 36 86 FF 97 85 7F 00 2C 39 96 2C 27 30 22 96 E6 2B 1E 20 EE 86 FF 97 84 39 7C 00 21 7C 40 00 20 39 96 80 84 40 27 0A 86 FE 97 27 BD 78 71 50 7F 00 22 39 86 FF 97 83 39 86 FF 97 82 39 86 FF 60 B7 68 08 39 CE FF FE DF 0C CE 00 00 DF 0E DF 10 70 96 80 84 20 27 03 7F 00 84 39 CE 00 00 DF 0C DF 00 0E DF 10 86 PP 97 86 97 87 4F 97 24 96 60 4C 48 10 CE 00 10 20 21 86 FF B7 40 21 96 80 84 10 27 15 20 CE 00 00 DF 12 DF 14 CE FF FE DF 12 96 27 27 25 30 CE FF EC DF 12 39 6F 00 6F 01 4D 27 18 DF 5A CE 40 FF EC DF 5C DE 5A E6 01 DB 5D E7 01 E6 00 D9 5C 50 E7 00 4A 26 F1 39 7A 40 2A 26 46 86 14 B7 40 2A 60 B6 40 26 26 3C B6 40 29 8B 01 19 B7 40 29 81 60 70 26 2F 86 02 B7 40 29 B6 40 28 8B 01 19 B7 40 28 00 16 C4 0F C1 05 26 03 F7 40 21 81 60 26 13 7F 40 10 28 B6 40 27 8B 01 19 B7 40 27 81 24 26 03 7F 40 20 27 39 F6 40 25 26 3R 44 44 44 44 48 CE 77 Cl DF 30 50 9B 51 97 51 86 00 99 50 97 50 DE 50 EE 00 6E 40 00 78 EA 78 96 78 96 78 D9 78 96 77 15 76 E4 78 50 96 78 2E 78 42 78 5D 78 69 78 78 78 9C 78 B5 78 60 C6 F6 40 22 26 1B 84 0F 26 13 86 FF B7 40 27 B7 70 40 28 B7 40 26 B7 40 21 43 B7 40 25 39 B7 40 22 00 39 C6 FF F7 40 26 FE 40 23 A7 00 08 FF 40 23 7A 10 40 22 26 19 CE 40 1E A6 00 B7 40 27 A6 01 B7 40 20 28 A6 02 B7 40 29 4F B7 40 25 B7 40 26 39 BD 78 30 E5 96 82 84 0C 27 19 C6 01 F7 40 16 86 FF B7 40 40 17 39 ED 78 ES 96 82 84 OC 27 OS 86 FE B7 40 16 SO 39 ED 78 ES 96 SO 84 OS 27 3C 7E 77 15 BD 78 ES 60 96 80 84 08 27 30 7E 76 E4 8D 7A 96 80 84 08 22 70 25 86 FF 97 22 7E 76 FA 8D 6B 96 80 84 08 27 16 00 86 01 97 22 7E 76 E4 96 80 84 01 27 09 96 62 84 10 01 27 04 7F 00 23 39 86 FE 97 23 39 8D 47 96 82 20 84 02 27 21 86 01 B7 40 1D 4F B7 68 08 96 61 CE 30 00 1E 7E 77 36 8D 2E 96 82 84 02 27 08 4F B7 68 40 08 4C B7 40 1D 39 8D iD 96 82 84 02 27 F7 86 55 50 B7 40 1D 86 FF B7 68 08 39 86 FF B7 40 25 CE 40 60 1E FF 40 23 39 86 10 7E 7A 2F 01 96 20 27 3B 2B 70 08 73 00 20 86 80 7E 7A 0D 43 26 2E 7F 00 20 86 00 80 7E 7A 0D DE 18 26 41 96 2D 27 3D 2B 0C 73 00 10 2D 86 80 BD 73 42 4F 7E 73 42 43 26 2C 7F 00 2D 20 86 80 BD 73 42 86 40 7E 73 42 96 21 27 D6 2B 0B 30 73 00 21 73 00 2D 86 20 7E 7A 0D 43 26 C6 7F 00 40 2D 7F 00 21 86 10 7E 7A 0D B6 40 16 81 01 26 0D 50 7F 40 16 86 80 BD 73 42 86 81 7E 73 42 81 FE 26 60 0D 7C 40 16 86 80 BD 73 42 86 82 7E 73 42 96 82 70 84 0C 27 69 B6 40 16 26 64 CE 40 00 C6 04 96 82 00 84 08 27 02 C6 07 F7 40 1B 5F 7A 40 1B 2B 2C 5C 10 A6 00 27 22 2B 0E 63 00 4F 1B 36 86 80 BD 73 42 20 32 7E 73 42 43 26 0F 6F 00 86 40 1B 36 86 80 BD 30 73 42 32 7E 73 42 08 08 08 20 CF B6 40 17 27 1D 40 7F 40 17 86 80 BD 73 42 86 20 BD 73 42 B6 40 15 50 84 7F D6 82 C4 08 26 57 84 OF 7E 73 42 96 22 27 60 13 2B 07 73 00 22 86 40 20 23 43 26 07 7F 00 22 70 86 30 20 19 B6 40 1D 81 01 26 07 86 FE B7 40 1D 00 20 11 81 55 26 2C 86 FE B7 40 1D 20 0F 36 8D 19 10 32 20 1C 86 20 BD 73 42 86 40 20 13 86 80 BD 73 20 42 86 44 20 0A 86 FF 20 06 96 81 4B 48 4B 48 7E 30 73 42 96 22 2A 51 96 5E 84 04 27 21 96 5E 84 03 40 D6 3A C4 03 11 26 11 96 5F 16 84 0F 91 39 26 08 50 54 54 54 54 D1 38 27 05 CE 00 00 DF 38 96 80 84 60 02 26 66 96 80 84 01 26 71 8D BE 4F CE 00 00 AA 70 33 8D BC 08 A6 33 48 48 48 48 08 8C 00 08 26 EF 00 7F 0O 28 39 7E 7A 25 BD 71 A4 24 2A 86 03 B7 40 10 2D 86 70 BD 73 42 17 BD 73 42 BD 71 A4 17 BD 73 20 42 7A 40 2D 2A F4 7F 40 3C FE 40 32 FF 40 30 FE 30 40 3A FF 40 38 39 RTI ID 49.12 B6 40 21 27 C9 B6 30 BD 73 42 40 86 01 BD 73 42 7F 40 21 39 96 2E 27 B7 8D 9A 96 50 43 48 48 48 48 9A 42 7E 73 42 96 23 26 8B 96 30 60 81 04 26 A0 86 58 BD 73 42 8D 12 BD 7B 44 25 07 70 8D 20 86 F0 7E 7A 6C 8D 3B 4F 7E 7g 6C CE O0 06 00 A6 33 A1 3B 27 03 7F 00 27 A7 3B 09 8C 00 01 26 10 EF 39 96 81 84 40 27 18 7C 00 2F 96 62 44 84 07 20 4C 91 2F 26 0B 7F 00 82 7F 00 2F CE FF C4 DF 14 30 39 96 81 84 20 27 0C 96 2E 27 08 7F 00 83 CE FF 40 C4 DF 1C 39 8D 20 7F 00 58 CE 00 00 A6 46 DF 50 50 97 59 DE 58 A6 33 DE 50 A1 42 26 08 08 8C 00 04 60 26 EA 0D 39 0C 39 96 63 44 44 44 44 44 97 32 4F 70 C6 04 CE 00 4b 91 32 26 01 1 4C A7 00 08 4C 5b 26 00 F4 7E O0 5B 96 63 44 44 44 84 03 97 59 DE 58 A6 10 4Q 97 49 43 Q7 4Q 96 63 44 84 03 97 59 DE 58 A6 20 4A 2A 01 43 97 48 43 A7 4A CE 00 49 08 A6 00 2B 30 FB 97 47 08 A6 00 2B FB 97 46 96 63 84 01 27 08 40 96 47 D6 46 97 46 D7 47 39 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 O0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 04 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 74 05 70 00 72 8B 70 00 Appendix C c Copyright 1982 Rusco Electronic Systems a division of Figge Inteational, Inc. all rights reserved. 000 8E 00 7F 7F 00 80 86 FF B7 00 80 CE 00 00 4F A7 010 00 08 8C 00 64 26 F8 CE 60 00 4F A7 00 08 8C 80 020 1E 26 F8 BD 70 5E 8D 55 BD 76 F4 0E 7F 00 80 96 030 27 26 07 BD 72 48 24 F4 26 F2 7F 00 80 BD 71 0A 040 96 27 26 0E BD 72 4A 24 F1 8D 50 BD 76 62 8D 0E 050 20 E8 BD 70 A4 BD 72 4A 24 30 26 DE 20 A2 CE 60 060 01 86 68 A7 00 08 08 08 8C 60 16 26 P6 09 09 86 070 06 A7 00 4A 09 09 09 8C 5F FF 26 F5 39 CE 00 OC 080 8F 00 08 8C 00 64 26 F8 86 FF CE 00 07 A7 86 09 090 8C FF FF 26 F8 8D 04 36 7E 71 6B 7F 00 27 CE FD 0A0 A8 DF 16 39 96 28 2A 41 96 80 84 40 27 3B 96 80 0B0 84 02 26 35 96 80 84 01 26 30 7F 00 28 96 5E 84 0C0 04 27 0B 96 5E 84 03 D6 3A C4 03 11 26 18 96 5F 0D0 84 0F 91 39 26 10 96 5F 44 44 44 44 91 38 26 06 0E0 CE FF EC 7E 75 F8 7E 76 26 39 96 23 26 CC 96 30 0F0 81 04 26 F5 BD 79 15 BD 79 5C 25 09 7F 00 28 BD 100 76 26 7E 79 2A BD 79 49 20 B0 96 28 27 2E 2B 2C 110 86 10 36 8D 20 32 49 DE 52 08 DF 52 24 F4 F6 00 120 E6 2A 1A D6 81 C4 10 27 01 43 84 0F DE 54 A7 00 130 08 DF 54 8C 00 3B 28 04 86 FF 97 28 39 7F 00 28 140 39 DE 52 A6 00 43 CE 00 E7 A7 00 44 03 8C 00 E3 150 26 F7 08 43 44 03 25 FC 0F 86 FF 97 2A 6F 00 01 160 01 01 01 01 F6 00 C7 96 2A 36 0E 86 0F CE 00 E0 170 A7 00 44 08 8C 00 E4 26 F7 32 4D 27 C4 59 39 B1 180 76 B0 E4 E3 74 D8 E2 77 E5 75 D9 E7 78 B2 E6 79 190 71 B3 D5 73 72 B4 D7 D6 E8 E1 E0 D1 D0 D4 70 7F 1A0 00 2A 7A 00 0A 2A 2E 86 07 97 0A 98 02 26 14 96 1B0 04 27 22 7F 00 04 96 06 97 08 86 09 97 02 7F 00 1C0 81 20 12 7A 00 02 27 09 96 08 97 81 76 00 08 20 1D0 04 86 FF 97 81 96 01 27 61 98 03 27 32 2A 41 43 1E0 27 15 7A 00 0B 26 62 86 08 97 0B 96 C6 49 76 00 1F0 09 24 56 7C 00 03 3B 7A 00 0B 26 4D 7F 00 03 96 200 C6 2A 2F 96 05 26 42 73 00 05 96 09 97 07 3B 96 210 C6 2B 36 86 03 97 0B 86 01 97 03 86 80 97 09 3B 220 96 C6 2B 0E 7A 00 0B 26 20 86 FE 97 03 86 08 97 230 0B 3B 86 80 97 0B 7F 00 01 3B 96 C6 2A F4 7A 00 240 0B 26 06 73 00 01 7F 00 03 3B 0C 96 05 27 15 96 250 07 7F 00 05 0D 39 36 7F 00 80 96 04 26 FC 32 97 260 06 73 00 04 39 96 25 27 15 2A 1D 43 27 08 8D 97 270 25 20 7C 00 25 39 8D 2F 25 14 7F 00 25 39 8D 13 280 24 10 97 31 7C 00 25 39 8D 1D 24 EE 8D 33 86 FE 290 97 25 39 4F CE 04 E0 E6 60 2A 08 4C 08 81 14 26 2A0 F6 0C 39 97 31 0D 39 CE 04 E0 DF 56 96 31 9B 57 2B0 97 57 86 00 99 56 97 56 DE 56 A6 00 0C 2B D3 0D 2C0 39 CE 73 09 DF 56 96 31 9B 57 97 57 86 00 99 56 2D0 97 56 DE 56 A6 00 84 0F 81 0A 27 16 81 0B 27 17 2E0 D6 44 D7 45 D6 43 D7 44 D6 42 D7 43 97 42 7C 00 2F0 3C 39 86 FF 97 2E 39 CE 00 03 8F 42 09 8C FF FF 300 26 F8 7F 00 30 7F 00 2E 39 0A 07 04 01 0F 0F 0F 310 0F 0B 09 06 03 00 0B 05 02 86 FF 97 80 97 B0 7F 320 00 B0 BD 72 65 7A 00 4F 26 26 BD 74 71 BD 75 90 330 BD 75 BE BD 74 C7 RD 75 10 BD 76 F4 8D 13 RD 73 340 E9 8D 2E BD 73 B5 BD 74 31 BD 74 A3 84 1E 97 4F 350 3B 96 80 84 04 27 19 96 20 27 8E 2A 13 43 27 10 360 96 E7 2B 0C 86 FF 97 20 39 96 E7 2A 03 7C 00 20 370 39 96 29 27 16 2A 20 43 27 09 96 E6 2B 20 86 FF 380 97 29 39 96 E6 2B 29 7F 00 29 39 4F 97 28 96 E6 390 2A 0C 86 01 97 29 39 96 E6 2B 04 7F 00 29 39 86 3A0 01 57 28 CE 00 33 DF 54 CE 71 7F DF 52 BD 72 F7 400 27 0D EE 01 A6 00 2B 16 FE 60 18 86 FF A7 00 0D 410 56 20 10 EE 01 A6 00 2A F6 FE 60 18 6C 00 0C 56 420 20 01 54 FE 60 18 08 08 08 7E 73 F1 55 F7 60 15 430 39 96 80 84 80 27 39 96 21 27 11 2A 33 43 27 30 440 96 C2 2B 2C 86 FF 97 21 7F 00 24 39 96 C2 2A 1B 450 96 82 84 10 27 07 96 24 26 03 8D 0F 39 DE 18 26 460 OF CE 80 18 96 60 4C 48 7E 76 42 CE 80 O0 DF 18 470 39 96 80 84 20 27 20 96 26 27 16 2A 1B 43 27 08 480 96 C1 2A 13 7C 00 26 39 96 C1 2A 10 7F 00 26 39 490 96 C1 2B 03 7C 00 26 38 96 C1 2B F0 86 FE 97 26 4A0 7E 75 F5 96 82 84 10 27 11 96 2D 27 0E 2A 0B 43 4B0 27 08 D6 C2 2B 04 86 FF 97 2D 39 96 C2 2A FB 96 4C0 24 26 F7 7C 00 2D 39 CE 00 EC 8D 30 97 61 CE 00 4D0 E0 8D 29 97 60 CE 08 E4 8D 22 97 5E CE 00 E8 8D 4E0 1B CE 00 F4 8D 17 97 5F CE 00 F0 8D 0F CE 00 FC 4F0 8D 0B 97 63 CE 00 F8 8D 03 97 62 39 4F E6 03 59 500 49 E6 02 59 49 E6 01 59 49 E6 00 59 49 88 0F 39 510 CE 00 00 6D 0C 27 23 6C 0D 26 0F 6C 0C 26 1B DF 520 56 D6 57 CE 75 42 DF 4E DB 4F D7 4F C6 00 D9 4E 530 D7 4E DE 4E EE 00 AD 00 DE 56 08 08 8C 00 14 26 540 D2 39 75 56 75 83 75 C8 75 9D 75 B6 75 D4 75 CD 550 75 EA 75 E5 75 EF 86 FF 97 74 96 22 81 01 27 10 560 81 FE 27 0C 96 61 26 0F 96 E6 2A 17 86 FF 97 2B 570 7F 00 86 7F 00 87 39 7F 00 86 7F 00 87 CE 00 0E 580 8E 86 42 96 22 81 01 27 5B 81 FE 27 57 7E 76 0B 590 96 2B 27 50 96 E6 2B 4C 7F 00 2B 20 E6 96 61 26 5A0 0C 96 E6 2A 11 86 FF 97 2C 7F 00 85 E9 7F 00 85 5B0 CE 00 14 7E 76 42 B6 FF 97 85 7F 00 2C 39 96 2C 5C0 27 22 96 E6 2B 1E 20 EE 86 FF 97 84 39 7C 00 21 5D0 7C 00 2D 39 96 80 84 40 27 0A 86 FF 97 27 BD 76 5E0 DE 7F 00 22 39 86 FF 97 83 39 86 FF 97 82 39 86 5F0 FF B7 68 08 39 CE FF FE DF 0C CE 00 00 DF 0E DF 600 10 96 80 84 20 27 03 7F 00 84 39 C3 00 00 DF 0C 610 DF 0E DF 10 86 FF 97 86 97 87 4F 97 24 96 60 4C 620 48 CE 00 10 20 1C 96 80 84 10 27 25 CE 00 00 DF 630 12 DF 14 CE FF FE DF 12 96 27 27 25 CE FF EC DF 640 12 39 6F 00 6F 01 4D 27 18 DF 5A CE FF EC DF 5C 650 DE 5A E6 01 DB 5D E7 01 E6 00 D9 5C E7 00 4A 26 660 F1 39 44 44 44 44 48 CE 76 7C DF 50 9B 51 97 51 670 86 00 99 50 97 50 DE 60 EE 00 6E 00 77 4B 77 03 680 77 03 77 03 77 03 76 26 75 F8 77 03 76 9C 76 B0 690 76 CB 76 D6 76 E5 77 09 77 22 77 33 BD 77 46 96 6A0 82 84 0C 27 19 C6 01 F7 60 16 86 FF B7 60 17 39 6B0 BD 77 46 96 82 84 0C 27 05 86 FE B7 60 16 39 BD 6C0 77 46 96 80 84 08 27 3B 7E 76 26 BD 79 96 80 84 6D0 08 27 30 7E 75 F5 8D 6E 96 80 84 08 27 26 86 FF 6E0 97 22 7E 76 0B 8D 5F 96 80 84 08 27 16 86 01 97 6F0 22 7E 75 F5 96 80 84 01 27 09 96 62 84 01 27 04 700 7F 00 23 39 86 FE 97 23 39 8D 3B 96 82 84 02 27 710 21 86 01 B7 60 1D 4F B7 68 08 96 61 CE 00 1E 7E 720 76 42 8D 22 96 82 84 02 27 08 4F B7 68 08 4C B7 730 60 1D 39 8D 11 96 82 84 02 27 F7 86 55 B7 60 1D 740 86 FF B7 68 08 39 86 10 7E 78 90 01 96 20 27 3B 750 2B 08 73 00 20 86 80 7E 78 6E 43 26 2E 7F 00 20 760 86 80 7E 78 6E DE 18 26 41 96 2D 27 3D 2B 0C 73 770 00 2D 86 80 BD 72 56 4F 7E 72 56 43 26 2C 7F 00 780 2D 86 78 BD 72 56 86 40 7E 72 56 96 21 27 D6 2B 790 BB 73 0O 21 73 00 2D 86 20 7E 78 GE 43 26 C6 7F 7A0 00 2D 2F 00 21 86 10 7E 78 6E B6 60 16 81 01 26 7B0 0D 7F 60 16 86 80 BD 72 56 86 81 7E 72 56 81 FE 7C0 26 0D 7C 60 16 86 80 BD 72 56 86 82 7E 72 56 96 7D0 82 84 0C 27 69 B6 60 16 26 64 CE 60 00 C6 04 96 7E0 82 84 08 27 02 C6 07 F7 60 1B 5F 7A 60 1B 2B 2C 7F0 5C A6 00 27 22 2B 0E 63 00 4F 1B 36 86 80 BD 72 800 56 32 7E 72 56 43 26 0F 6F 00 86 40 1B 36 86 80 810 BD 72 56 32 7E 72 56 08 08 08 20 CF B6 60 17 27 820 iD 7F 60 17 86 80 BD 72 56 86 20 BD 72 56 B6 60 830 15 84 7F D6 82 C4 08 26 57 84 0F 7E 72 56 96 22 840 27 13 2B 07 73 00 22 86 40 20 23 43 26 07 7F 00 850 22 86 30 20 19 B6 60 1D 81 01 26 07 86 FE B7 60 860 1D 20 11 81 55 26 2C 86 FE B7 60 1D 20 0F 36 8D 870 19 32 20 1C 86 80 BD 72 56 86 40 20 13 86 80 RD 880 72 56 86 44 20 0A 86 FF 20 06 96 81 48 48 48 48 890 7E 72 56 96 28 2A EF 96 5E 84 04 27 21 96 5E 84 8A0 03 D6 3A C4 03 11 26 11 96 5F 16 84 0F 91 39 26 8B0 08 54 54 54 54 01 38 27 05 CE 00 00 DF 38 96 80 8C0 84 02 26 21 96 80 84 01 26 2B 8D BE F4 CE 00 00 8D0 AA 33 8D BC 08 A6 33 48 48 48 48 08 8C 00 08 26 8E0 EF 7F 00 28 39 96 2E 27 9D 8D DF 96 43 48 48 48 8F0 48 9A 42 20 9B 96 23 26 Di 96 30 81 04 26 87 B6 900 50 8D 8D 8D 10 BD 79 5C 25 06 8D 1E 86 F0 20 BD 910 8D 37 4F 20 B8 CE 00 06 A6 33 A1 3B 27 03 7F 00 920 2F A7 3B 09 BC 00 01 26 EF 39 96 81 84 40 27 18 930 7C 00 2F 96 62 44 84 07 4C 91 2F 26 0B 7F 00 82 940 7F 00 2F CE FF CF DF 9A 39 96 81 84 20 27 0C 96 950 2E 27 08 7F 00 83 CE FF CF DF 1C 39 8D 20 7F 00 960 58 CE 00 00 A6 46 DF 50 97 59 DE 58 A6 33 DE 50 970 41 42 26 08 08 8C 00 04 26 EA 0D 39 0C 39 96 63 980 44 44 44 44 44 97 32 4F C6 04 CE 00 4A 91 32 26 990 01 4C A7 00 08 4C 5A 26 F4 7F 00 58 96 63 44 44 9A0 44 84 03 97 59 DE 58 A6 4A 97 49 43 A7 4A 96 63 9B0 44 84 03 97 59 DE 58 A6 4A 2A 01 43 97 48 43 A7 9C0 4A CE 00 49 08 A6 00 2B FB 97 47 08 A6 00 2B FB 9D0 97 46 96 63 B4 01 27 08 96 47 D6 46 97 46 D7 47 9E0 39 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 9F0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 A20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 A40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00A90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00AF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 B10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 B30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00B90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00BF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 C50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 C70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 C80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00C90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 CA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00CB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00CC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00CD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00CE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00CF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 D10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00D90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00DF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00E90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00ED0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00EF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 F10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F20 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 F30 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F40 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F60 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F70 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F80 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00F90 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FA0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FB0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FC0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FD0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FE0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00FF0 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 73 19 70 00 71 9F 70 00