# Double belt bonding of fibrous web comprising thermoplastic fibers on steam cans.

## Abstract
Method and apparatus for producing a fabric from a fibrous web comprising at least 5 percent thermoplastic fibers, said method comprising superimposing the web on a first carrier belt, superimposing a second carrier belt on the web, causing the web and belts to travel about at least two heated rolls, and cooling the web between the belts.

## Claims
Claims 1. Method of producing a nonwoven fabric comprising thermoplastic fibers, said method comprising a superimposing a web comprising at least 5 percent thermoplastic fibers on a first endless carrier belt, b superimposing a second carrier belt on said web opposite the first carrier belt to form a two belt laminate, c causing said two belt laminate to travel in a serpentine path around at least two heated rolls, to fuse the thermoplastic fibers to fibers in the web, and d cooling the two belt laminate. 2. Apparatus for heat fusing thermoplastic fibers in a nonwoven web, said apparatus comprising a frame, at least two rolls rotatably mounted to the frame, means for heating the rolls, a first endless carrier belt and means for causing the first endless carrier belt to travel in a serpentine path about the rolls, a second endless carrier belt and means for causing the second endless carrier belt to travel along an initial path spaced from said first belt and then along said serpentine path. 3. An apparatus as in Claim 2 further comprising means for cooling said belts. 4. An apparatus as in Claim 3 wherein said means for cooling comprises at least one cooled roll.

## Description
DOUBLE BELT BONDING OF FIBROUS WEB COMPRISIliG THERMOPLASTIC FIBERS ON STEAM CANS BACY GROUND OF THE INVENTIONMethod and apparatus for drying and heat setting fibrous webs about steam cans are known. The method involves utilizing a carrier belt to carry the web in a serpentine pattern about a series of steam cans. The method and apparatus may also utilize cooling cans about which the web is subsequently carried. The prior art encompasses many variations in the above method and apparatus.U.S. Pat. No. 1,519,239 to Clay discloses a molding apparatus for fibrous sheet material. The fibrous sheet is passed around and between a series of pressure rollers.The initial pressure roller nip is heated and subsequent pressure roller nips may be cooled. Endless carrier belts are provided to move the fibrous sheet material through and around the pressure rollers.U.S. Pat. No. 3,671,365 to Cover Jr., et al., discloses an apparatus for compressing and cooling a fibrous web. The fibrous web is fed between an upper series and a lower series of rollers comprising the compression frame. A carrier belt is mounted about each of the upper and lower series of rollers. U.S. Pat. No. 3,442,740 to David, discloses a process and apparatus which comprises a modification of the palmer dryer and method used to dry and heat fibrous webs, The palmer dryer comprises a heated roll and a flexible endless belt which travels around the roll. A web is fed between the belt and the roll, and travels about the roll while under the belt. In the modification described in the David patent, the web is doffed from the heating roll and travels around another cooling roll or drum.In the method of the present inven tion, the fibrous web is maintained between two belts as the belts travel about spaced heated cans and optionally thereafter spaced cooling cans.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention comprises a method and apparatus for producing a fabric from a fibrous web comprising at least 5 percent thermoplastic fibers including conjugate fibers.The nethod comprises the steps of superimposing a fibrous web comprising thermoplastic fibers on a first carrier belt, superimposing a second carrier belt on the webs causing said two belt laminate to travel around spaced heated rolls, causing said thermoplastic fibers to fuse and bond to fibers in the web and maintaining the web between the two belts until the fibers are cooled. Low shrink thermoplastic fibers may be used, or alternatively, tension may be applied to the web through the belts to prevent substantial shrinkage of the web. Optionally, the fibers may be cooled by passing the web and two belts about spaced cooling cans. The thermoplastic fibrous material formed by the apparatus and method of the present invention have excellent cross directional strength.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWIT GS The Figure is a schematic side view of the method according to the present invention.DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe present invention utilizes a series of spaced heated rolls, such as the steam cans currently used to bond and heat set fibrous webs, in a new and unique process for producing a fabric containing thermoplastic fibers. The heated rolls or steam cans depicted at 1 in Figure 1 are rotatably mounted to a frame not shown . The rolls or cans are spaced from each other, and in no way provide a compression nip. A first endless carrier belt 3, is wound about means 5, for causing said first belt to travel in a serpentine path about the rolls. A second endless carrier belt 7, is wound about means 9, for causing the second belt to travel along an initial path 11, spaced from said first belt, and then along said serpentine path about the rolls.Means 5 may be adjusted to impart different degrees of tension to the belts, lower tension yielding higher bulk fabrics and higher tension giving rise to less shrinkage. First and second carrier belts may be formed of, for example, polyester, stainless steel, teflon coated fiberglass, teflon, or bronze. The belts may vary in construction from, e.g., a 40 x 40 mesh to a substantially non porous configuration. The belts preferably have good release properties, e.g., the teflon and teflon coated fiberglass belts. Another useful property in the belt is good heat transmission as exhibited by belts of bronze and stainless steel.According to the method of the present invention, a web 13 comprising, e.g., low shrink thermoplastic fibers may be superimposed on said first carrier belt and the second carrier belt is superimposed on said web forming a two belt laminate 15 just prior to or as the belts begin to travel about the rolls. The rolls, which may be heated by any suitable means, melt and fuse the thermoplastic fibers to fibers in the web. The fibrous web is maintained between the two belts as it is removed from the last in the series of rolls and is maintained between the belts until the web cools. To facilitate cooling of the web, the belts may be passed around at least one cooling roll as shown in Figure 1 at 17. The cooling rolls are also spaced and in no way comprise a compression nip. The present method and apparatus may utilize existing steal cans as the heated rolls used to fuse tha low shrink thermoplastic fibers to form a fibrous material. By maihtaining the web between the belts until the web is cooled, the method avoids the loss in cross directional strength due to drafting as a web is removed from a roll on one carrier belt. Also the use of two belts prevents sticking of the heated thermoplastic fibers of the web to the rolls and permits rapid handling of the web while heated, including immediately passing the web about cooling rolls. Low shrink thermoplastic monofils such as Eastman 4BC crystalline copolyester fibers may be used in the present invention, however, sheath core polyethylene polyester conjugate fibers are preferred. The conjugate fibers may be eccentric, symmetrical sheath core or side by side by side. Polyethylene polypropylene conjugate fibers may also be used. In all cases, means 5 may be used to adjust the tension and reduce shrinkage.The foregoing description and drawing are illustrative but are not to be taken as limiting. Other variations and modifications are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.