# Glycosidic linkage related antigen, process for producing the same and anticancer agent containing the same as effective component.

## Abstract
A thermally denatured glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancerous cells is disclosed, which comprises a lectin receptor collected from cancerous cell membrane which can bind with a terminal galactose and or termainal N acetylgalactosamine binding lectin, and or a cancerous cell membrane component having a property of binding with an antibody capable of binding with the lectin receptor, each of the lectin receptor and the cancerous cell membrane component being thermally denatured, the thermally denatured glycosidic likage related antigen containing a thermally denatured protein moiety and a thermally non denatured saccharide moiety. Further, a process for preparing a thermally denatrued glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancerous cells is disclosed. Also, a cancerous cell membrane component having a property of binding with an antibody capable of binding with the lectin receptor, and a process for preparing the same as well as an anticancer agent comprising a thermally denatured glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancerous cells are disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 3. A thermally denatured glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancerous cells, comprising a lectin receptor collected from cancerous cell membrane which can bind with a terminal galactose and or termainal N acetylgalactosamine binding lectin, and or a cancerous cell membrane component having a property of binding with an antibody capable of binding with the lectin receptor, each of the lectin receptor and the cancerous cell membrane component being thermally denatured, the thermally denatured glycosidic likage related antigen containing a thermally denatured protein moiety and a thermally non denatured saccharine moiety. 2. A process for producing a thermally denatured glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancer cells, comprising separating a cell membrane component from cancer cells with a termainal galactose and or terminal Nacetylgalactosamine binding lectin to obtain a lectin receptor, or with an antibody capable of binding with a lectin receptor collected from cancerous cell membrane which can bind with a termianl galactose and or terminal Nacetylgalactosamine binding lectin to obtain a fraction having an affinity to a terminal galactose and or terminalN acetylgalactosamine binding reagent, isolating the lectin receptor and or the fraction to obtain a glycosidic linkage related antigen, and heating the thus obtained glycosidic linkage related antigen. 3. A component having a property of binding with an antibody which is capable of binding with a lectin receptor capable of binding with a terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosamine binding lectin. 4. A process for preparing a component having a property of binding with an antibody which is capable of binding with a lectin receptor capable of binding with a terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosaminebinding lectin, which comprises treating a cancerous cell membrane component with an antibody which is capable of binding with a lectin receptor capable of binding with a terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosaminebinding lectin. 5. An anticancer agent comprising a thermally denatured glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancerous cells comprising a lectin receptor collected from cancerous cell membrane which can bind with a terminal galactoseand or termainal N acetyl galactosamine binding lectin, and or a cancerous cell membrane component having a property of binding with an antibody capable of binding with the lectin receptor, each of the lectin receptor and the cancerous cell membrane component being thermally denatured, the thermally denatured glycosidic likage related antigen containing a thermally denatured protein moiety and a thermally non denatured saccharide moiety.

## Description
GLYCOSIDIC LINKAGE RELATED ANTIGEN, PROCESS FOR PRODUCING THE SAME ANDANTICANCER AGENT CONTAINING THE SAME AS EFFECTIVE COMPONENT The present invention relates to a novel glycosidic linkage related antigen derived from cancer cells hereinafter referred to as GRA and, in greater detail, to GRA which specifically acts on cancerous cells having GRA to easily induce cancerous cell cytotoxic lymphocytes which destroy the cancerous cells hereinafter referred to as killer cells . It is known that immune response effector cells, particularly T lymphocytes playing a main role in cellmediated immune response, cause rejection of grafts due to foreign cell antigens, but exhibit no appreciable or very limited immuno inhibition against cancer cells. Thus, the cancer cells are not destroyed and multiply in vivo, finally putting the cancer bearing host to death Previous research on the immune response of the host to cancer cells and its application to the treatment of cancer, has shown that, in a cancer cell specific antigen which is not found in differentiated normal cells, there is GRA which acts as an immunogen for the host and have very high immunogenicity that cause an immune response specific to the cancer cells and that when GRA is used to sensitize lymphocytes, there can be obtained killer cells which act specifically on cancer cells containing GRA and if the killer cells are administered to the host, they recognizeGRA and act on the cancer cells containing GRA, destroying them, and thus that they exhibit an excellent effect in the treatment and prevention of cancer. The above described GRA, which is a cancerous cell membrane component of GRA containing cancerous cells, is a component which can bind a lectin capable of binding terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosamine hereinafter referred to as Lectin recpptor . In the subsequent state of studies, it has been found that cancerous cell membrane components contain a component having a property of binding an antibody which in turn is capable of binding the above described lectin receptor hereinafter referred to as GRA antibody , the component being hereinafter referred to as A GRA . It has also been found that this A GRA is novel GRA which has effects similar to those in the above described lectin receptor. On the other hand, it has been known that, since the immune reactIon to cancers tumor rejection is based chiefly on cell mediated immunity, while amoral immunity, which is cause by an antibody to a cancer associated antigen by masking the antigen, and, by acting as an inhibitory factor for the immune reaction blocking antibody by itself or by forming an immune complex, or by changing the distribution of the antigen .antigenic modulation , sometimes results in not only the destruction of the immunological surveillance mechanism of the living body but also the acceleration of the growth of tumors to bring a disadvantageous action for the host. Extensive research has been made in order to obtain cancerous cell associated antigens capable of bringing about strong cell mediated immunity which is specific to cancerous cells and which prevents the occurrence of humoral immunity of the cancer carrying hosts low antibody productivity , and as a result thereof it has been found that a thermally denatured antigen obtained by heat treatment of GRA composed of the above described lectin receptor and or A GRA hereinafter referred to as thermally denatured GRA satisfies the above described requirements and the thermally denaturedGRA can. be used for medical treatment and Invention for cancers in a wide dosage range since it has a low dependence on the concentration. The present invention is based on the above findings and provides the above described thermally denatured GRA and a process for producing the same. Further, the present invention provides an anticancer agent comprising the above described A GRA or the thermally denatured GRA as an effective component. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The A GRA of the present invention can be obtained from GRA containing cancerous cells such as cultured human or animal cancerous cells, transplanted cancerous cells, spontaneous cancerous cells, chemically or virally induced cancerous cells or cancerous cells originated in operation tissue, etc. as follows. Namely, a cell membrane component is firstly separated from the above described cancerous cells and thereafter treated with a GRA antibody, to bind AGRA and isolate the A GRA GRA antibody complex. Further, the A GRA can be separated by treating with a lectin capable of binding terminal galactose and or N acetylgalactosamine to bind it to the lectin. Examples of the lectin which can specifically bind terminal galactose include peanut lectin PNA , castor bean Ricinus Communis lectin and soybean lectin SBA , etc. J.B.C. 250, 8518 8523 1975 Biome, Biophvs. Res. Comm.62, 144 1975 Z. Immunitaetsforch. 138, 423 433 1969 Br. J. EXD. Pathol, 27, 228 236 1946 Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci. U.S.A., 75, No. 5, 2215 2219 1978 Biochemistry 13, 196 204 1974 and Carbohvdrate Research, 51, 107 118 1976 . Examples of the lectin which can specifically bind terminal N acetylgalactosamine include Dolichos bean lectin DBA , braid orange lectin, Hilix pomatia lectin, lima bean lectin, SBA, Bauhinia bean lectin, etc. As the GRA antibody, any material can be used, if it has a property of binding the lectin receptor. For example, it is possible to use autoantibodies of the patient with cancers, antisera of animals obtained by immunizing the animals with a lectin receptor as an antigen in a conventional manner, and monoclonal antibodies obtained by a known method for example, the method described in Nature, 256, 495 497 1975 from spleen cells immunized with lecti receptor positive cancerous cells, or cell membrane components thereof or a lectin receptor as an antigen. The autoantibodies of patients with cancers can be obtained as an antiserum which is collected according to the conventional method from GRA antibody positive patients and can be used as is or as an immunoglobulin fraction obtained by purifying it as by salting out, etc. As the lectin receptor, it is possible to use those which are obtained by separating a component having a property of binding a lectin which is capable of binding terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosamine from the cancerous cell membrane component according to the process for producing A GRA of the present invention. Mam mals to be subjected to immunization are not especially limited. Generally, rabbits, mice, rats and the like are used, and the immunization can be carried out by a conventional method For example, the above described lectin receptor is diluted with physiological saline, etc. so as to have a suitable concentration and it is administered into the animal by intradermal injection as a suspension with a Ferundis adjuvant.It is preferred that the administration be carried out several times ever.y 1 to 2 weeks so that the whole dosage becomes 1 ug to 20 mg or so in case of, for example, rabbits, and the GRA antibody is collected as a serum. As the monoclonal antibody, it is possible to use those which are obtained by a method comprising screening a hybridoma cell line producing the desired antibody from hybridomas obtained by fusing spleen cells of an animal immunized as described above with known myeloma cells such as NS 1, P3, P3 U1, MPC ll, SP2, X63.6.5.3, etc., and separating as a supernatant of cultured medium in which the above described hybridoma cells have been cultured, or multiplying the hybridoma cells by administering them into an animal which has compatibility therewith and separating from ascites. Separation of the cancerous cell membrane component can be carried out by shown methods, such as a homogenizing method, or a solubilizing method using a solubilizing agent.Preferably, it can be carried out by a method which com prises homogenizing cancerous cells in physiological saline or in a suitable buffer solution, separating precipitate by centrifugal separation, etc., dissolving it in physiological saline or in a buffer solution in the presence of a solubilizing agent, and separating the supernatant by centrifugal separation, etc. As the solubilizing agent used, there are various surface active agents which are known to solubilize cell membranes, for example, nonionic surface active agents such as Triton X 100 produced by Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd. , NP 40 produced by Shell Co. , digitonin or urea, etc. and anionic surface active agents such as sodium dodecylsulfate SDS , etc. Separation of the A GRA which can bind GRA antibody from the cell membrane component can be carried out by conventional physicochemical or biochemical means utilizing properties of the A GRA. Examples of such means include affinity chromatography utilizing a column carrier containing the above described antibody, an immuno precipitation process, a gel filtration process, an electrophoretic process, a physical precipitation process utilizing a glycoprotein precipitant such as polyethylene glycol or acetone, etc. and processes of suitable combinations of them. Preferably, it is preferred to use affinity chromatography utilizing a column carrier containing the antibody. The column carrier can be easily obtained by fixing the above antibody on an insoluble support. The fixation of the antibody on the insoluble support can be carried out by the known methods of fixing the living matters.Among them, it is preferred to use fixation by a method using a polysaccharide activated with cyanogen bromide and a method using N hydroxysuccinimide ester. The method using a polysaccharide activated with cyanogen bromide comprises treating an insoluble support with cyanogen bromide and coupling the resulted activated material with a GRA antibody under mild conditions to fix the GRA antibody to the support.In carrying out treatment of the insoluble support with cyanogen bromide, the support may be treated in water or acetonitrile at room temperature with keeping the pH at 7.5 to 12 with a basic compound such as sodium hydroxide or sodium hydrogen carbonate, etc. or in a buffer solution naving a pH of 7.5 to 12 such as a 0.lM sodium hydrogen carbonate buffer solution having a pH of about 8.7 or a 0.OlM phosphoric acid buffer solution having a pH of about 7.7, etc. for about 1 to 12 minutes. The amount of the cyanogen bromide used is generally nearly the same weight as that of the insoluble support.As the insoluble support, it is possible to use any known insoluble supports that show a low non specific adsorption to living matters in general and have a high porosity, which have a functional group capable of fixing the living matters under mild conditions and are sufficiently stabilized chemically and physically. Examples of the insoluble support include cellulose supports such as aminoethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, bromoacetyl cellulose or p anilino cellulose, etc., cross linked dextran supports such as Sephadex or CM Sephadex produced by Pharmacia Co. , etc. and agarose supports such as Sepharose 2B,Sepharose 4B or Sepharose 6B produced by Pharmacia Co. , etc. When carrying out coupling of the resulted support activated with cyanogen bromide with the GRA antibody, the.support activated with cyanogen bromide is used in an amount of 30 to 80 times by weight that of the GRA antibody, and the reaction is carried out generally at 0 to 400C, preferably 2 to 80C for about 10 to 20 hours in a suitable solvent, for example, a 0.1M aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate containing 0.5M of sodium chloride, pH 8.4 . Thus, the carrier for affinity chromatography can be produced.. According to the chromatography utilizing the above described carrier for affinity chromatography containing GRA antibody, the desired A GRA can be caught on the column by being bound to the GRA antibody in the above described carrier. Then, the A GRA is obtained by carrying out an exchange reaction by passing a substance capable of binding the GRA antibody through the column or by passing an adsorptive separator eluting solution such as a salt solution having a high concentration, an aqueous solution of potassium thiocyanate, a boric acid buffer solution or a hydrochloric acid glycine buffer solution pH 2.7 , etc. through the column to separate A GRA. As the substances capable of binding GRA antibody used in the above described exchange reaction, there are substances which bind to lectin capable of binding to galactose, such as galactose, disacchrides having galactose in the terminal or oligosaccharides having galactose in the terminal, etc. and substances which bind to lectin capable of binding to N acetylgalactosamine, such as N acetylgalactosamine, disaccharides having N acetylgalactosamine in the terminal or oligosaccharides having N acetylgalactosamine in the terminal. The resulting A GRA of the present invention can be separated by treating with lectin capable of binding to terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosamine to bind to said lectin. The treatment with lectin can be carried out according to the above described affinity chromatography utilizing the column carrier containing lectin. As the column carrier, there are those available in the market and those obtained by the same method as the above described method of fixing the GRA antibody on the insoluble support.Further, chromatography utilizing a carrier for affinity chromatography containing the lectin can be carried out similarly to the above described affinity chromatography of the GRA antibody. The A GRA allowed to adsorb on the carrier is dissociated by an exchange reaction or with an adsorptive separator. The exchange reaction is carried out using the above described substances which can bind to. a lectin capable of binding galactose when using the lectin capable of binding galactose as a carrier, or carried out using the above described substances which can bind a lectin capable of binding N acetylgalactosamine when using the lectin capable of binding N acetylgalactosamine as a carrier. In production of the above described A GRA, a component which can bind a lectin lectin receptor is obtained from cancerous cell membranes by the above described treatment with lectin and, thereafter, subjected to the above described treatment with GRA antibody, by which the desired A GRA can be obtained. The A GRA of the present invention obtained as described above contains glycoproteins, glycolipids and or saccharides each having galactose and or N acetylgalactosamine in the terminal. This A GRA, if necessary, can be purified or lyophilized by a conventional method. The lectin receptor can be obtained by separating the above described component having a property of being bound to a lectin capable of binding terminal galactose and or terminal N acetylgalactosamine from the above described cancerous cell membrane component according to the above described process for producing A GRA, preferably by affinity chromatography utilizing the above described column carrier containing such lectin. This lectin receptor contains glycoproteins, glycolipids and or saccharides each having galactose and or N acetylgalactosamine in the terminal, which can be, if necessary, lyophilized or further purified by a conventional separating means.For example, there is a process which comprises separating the lectin receptor separated with a lectin capable of binding galactose with a lectin capable of binding N acetylgalactosamine or a process which comprises separating the lectin receptor separated with a lectin capable of binding N acetylgalactosamine with a lectin capable of binding galactose. Further, in the GRA antibody of the present inven tion, it has been found for the first time that the above described antibody is present in the body fluid of patients with cancers as an autoantibody. This antibody is confirmed measured by the method described in the following and is collected from antibody positive patients as described above. Further, the present invention provides a method of measurement for the above described GRA antibody. The method of measurement is useful for diagnosis of cancer, for medical treatment resistance, and for judgment of prognosis. The above described method of measurement can be carried out by observing an antibody which can be bound to lectin receptor positive cancerous cells by an indirect rosette method using the lectin receptor positive cancerous cells, preferably, the same cancerous cells which do not express major histocompatibility complex M,H,C. . Namely the above described cancerous cells are suspended in a medium which is used for conventional cultivation of cells, such as RPMI 1640 medium, etc. so as to have a suitable population generally 3 x 106 cells ml medium, and serum of a patient with cancer is added to the resulting cell suspension and a reaction is carried out at 4 to 370C for 30 minutes to 4 hours.After the cancerous cells are sufficiently washed with the above described medium, red blood cells such as bovine red blood cells ORBC , etc., protein A bound to polystyrene beads or latex, or anti huitran immu noglobulin antibody bound to polystyrene beads or latex are added thereto and reacted at 4 to 370C for several minutes to 30 minutes by centrifugation about 1000 rpm . The cells are fixed and dyed by a conventional method and rosette forming cells are examined by visual observation, by which existence of GRA antibody in the serum of the patient can be confirmed. Namely, when using a serum of GRA antibodypositive patients, rosette formation is observed in the cancerous cells an the rate of formation is evaluated as aGRA antibody value. As the GRA antibody used in the above described process for producing A GRA, that collected from the serum of a patient having a high antibody value is preferred. Thermal denaturation of the resulting GRA composed of A GRA and or the lectin receptor is carried out under a conventional condition for denaturing proteins. For example, it.is carried out by heating GRA in a solvent such as water, physiological saline or a phosphoric acid buffer solution at about 60 to 1200C, preferably about 90 to 1100C for 5 to 60 minutes, preferably 10 to 20 minutes. The thermally denatured GRA of the present invention is a glycoprotein composed of a saccharide terminal struc ure of galactose and or N acetylgalactosamine and a ther mally denatured protein. When lymphocytes are sensitized with the A GRA or the thermally denatured GRA of the present invention, killer cells are produced. The lymphocytes used here are not especially restricted, and any lymphocytes of normal or cancer carrying humans or animals can be used. Examples of them include those derived from peripheral blood, bone marrow, lymph node, spleen, tonsil and thymus gland, etc. These lymphocytes can be isolated by, for example, a physical or chemical process or a surface membrane process, and they can be used for the process for producing killer cells. Sensitization of lymphocytes with A GRA can be carried out by cultivating the lymphocytes in a medium containing A GRA for 1 to 3 days, preferably 2 days. Sensitization ofX lymphocytes with thermally denatured GRA can be similarly carried out by incubating them for several hours to 10 days, preferably 1 to 5 days. As the medium, various kinds of medium conventionally used for incubating this kind of cells can be used, but it is preferred to use, for example, RPMI 1640 medium andEagle MEM medium to which human serum, fetus calf serum FCS , calf serum or horse serum, etc. is added. The A GRA or the thermally denatured GRA to be added to the medium is preferred to be in an amount of 0.1 to 1000 ng ml, preferably 1 to 500 ng ml as a protein based on the 1 x 106 lymphocytes ml, when using A GRA and 1 to 2000 ng ml, preferably 50 to 500 ng ml as saccharide, when using thermally denatured GRA. Incubation is carried out, for example, at a temperature of 37 C and at a pH of 7.2 or so according to the conventional method. The thus obtained killer cells can be multiplied without any restriction in the above described medium containing T cell growth factor TCGF IL 2 . In this case, selective incubation for cloning killer cells may be carried out by a conventional limiting dilution method. The killer cells can be stably preserved for a long period of time, if they are preserved in, for example, liquid nitrogen. The resulting killer cells are substantially normal lymphocytes, which are characterized by having a cytotoxicity specific to GRA. These killer cells are held in a state available from the applicant. The A GRA and the thermally denatured GRA of the present invention obtained as described above are useful as an anticancer agent. The A GRA and the thermally denaturedGRA may be used alone as an effective ingredient. They may be used together with other antimicrobial agents and or anticancer agents. The anticancer agent containing A GRA or thermally denatured GRA of the present invention as an effective ingredient may have any form, if it is in a state of effectively containing A GRA or thermally denatured GRA as a major active ingredient. However, it is generally administered by intravenous injection, subcutaneous injection or intramusclar injection in a state of a solution, a suspension or an emulsion, etc. It can be provided in a dried state which can be liquefied by adding a suitable vehicle before using.Such liquid agents may contain suspending agents such as methyl cellulose, emulsifiers such as lecithin, antiseptics such as methyl p hydroxybenzoate and stabilizers or buffers which do not have an adverse influence upon an immune function of humans and animals, etc. It is possible to use physiological saline as an aqueous medium and vegetable oils such as sesame oil, etc., mineral oils such as paraffin, etc., vegetable and animal oils such as squalene, etc., and propylene glycol, etc. as a non aqueous medium. Further, such a liquid agent may contain suitable adjuvants for promoting immunity. For example, there areFreund s complete adjuvant, saponin for animals and aluminium hydroxide for humans, etc. The above described anticancer agent can be administered for patients with cancers at a time or several times over a long period of time in order to remedy the disease, and it can be administered for persons who are in danger of taking a cancer in order to prevent the development of the cancer. S ince both the A GRA and the thermally denatured GRA have a low tonicity such that LD50 when administered intraperitoneally to a mouse is 500 mg kg or more as saccharide, they can be administered in an amount of a wide range.Accordingly, the amount of A GRA or thermally denatured GRA in the anticancer agent is not particularly restricted, but it is generally preferred to be in a range of 0.001 to 100 pg ml as saccharide. The amount of administration depends upon the state of disease, age and sexuality, but it is preferred to administer at a time to several times in an amount of 0.001 to 1000 pg kg day. Further, killer cells obtained as described above are useful as an anticancer agent, too. Such an anticancer agent is preferred to be used as an injection preparation together with a vehicle used for.this kind of blood agents.Though the vehicle is not particularly restricted, it is preferred to use those which have the same toxicity as blood, preferably physiological saline. In carrying out production of the agent, it is preferred that, after the killer cells are washed sufficiently with physiological saline to remove the above described medium, they are suspended in a vehicle. The concentration of killer cells in the above described agent is not particularly restricted, but it is generally preferred in a range of 105 to 109 cells ml.Further toxicity of killer cells is not observed when they are administered in an amount of 108 cells mouse intraperitoneally . The dosage depends upon the state of disease, age and sexuality, but it is preferred to administer at a time to several times in an amount of 105 to lol2 cells kg day. In the following, the present invention is illustrated with reference to examples, reference examples, test examples and comparative examples, but the present invention is not limited thereto. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 1 Localization of GRA 1 Production of FITC labeled lectin PNA FITC 10 mg of peanut lectin PNA, produced by EY Co. was dissolved in 2 ml of a 0.01M phosphate buffer solution pH 7.2 containing 0.85 of. NaCi. 2 mg of FITC produced by Sigma Co. was dissolved in 1 ml of a 0.5M bicarbonate buffer solution pH 9.0 , and 0.5 ml of the resulting solution was added to the above described buffer solution containing PNA. After stirring at room temperature for 2 hours, separation was carried out with Sephadex G25 10 mm x 300 mm, produced by Pharmacia Co. to collect a first peak.Ratio F P 1.0. 2 Production of FITC labeled lectin DBA FITC DBA FITC was obtained using DBA produced by EY Co. by the same manner as in 1 above. The ratio F P 0.9. 3 GRA localization in various kinds of cancer cells After 1 x 106 cells of various kinds of cancer cells were washed three times with a O.OSM tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.2 containing 0.85 of NaCl by a centrifugal method, PNA FITC obtained in 1 above or DBA FITC obtained in 2 above or SBA FITC produced by EY Co. 200 pg ml was added in an amount of 100 ul thereto, and the resulting mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes to carry out the reaction. After con clusion of the reaction, the cells were washed three times with a 0.01M phosphate buffer solution pH 7.2 containing 0. 85 of WaCl. The cells were put on a glass slide and examined by a fluorescence microscope. Results obtained are shown in Table 1. The specimens of cancer cells were all known and could be available in the First Pathology Section, MedicalDepartment, Niigata University. Table 1 GRA Positivity DBA FITC Specimen of Cancer Cells PNA FITC SBA FITC Raji Burkitt lymphoma 98.3 1.4 Daudi Burkitt lymphoma 93.1 5.2 BT 1 Burkitt lymphoma 50.1 0 P 12 T cell lymphoma 44.3 6.7 MOLT T cell leukemia 0.6 4.8 Fujimaki B cell lymphoma 19.1 5.3 Oda IgD myeloma 0.6 10.0 QG 56 lung cancer. sq. 70.4 2.0 PC 1 lung cancer. sq. 78.4 0.4PC 3 lung cancer. adeno. 77.1 0QG 90 lung cancer. small cell 68.0 0PC 13 lung cancer. large cell 17.0 0MK 2 stomach cancer. por. 63.7 0.1RATO III stomach cancer. sig. 57.3 0MKN 45 stomach cancer. por. 1.0 40.3MKN 1 stomach cancer. adsq. 4.6 0.4MKN 28 stomach cancer. tubl . 0.4 0.1 MKN 74 stomach cancer.tubl 0.5 0MGH U1 urinary bladder ca. 37.4 0KU 2 urinary bladder ca. 4.5 21.4T 24 urinary bladder ca. 14.6 0NBT 2 urinary bladder ca. 13.1 1.0NRC 12 renal cancer 23.9 0 KU l renal cancer 3.3 0.6Kuramochi ovarian cancer 80.0 0NB l neuroblastoma 50.9 1.7YT nu neuroblastoma 3.6 0.5 TGW nu neuroblastoma 4.1 0TGW nu II neuroblastoma 2.0 1.0GOTO neuroblastoma 0.5 0ITO embryonal carcinoma 96.9 12.3NEC 8 embryonal carcinoma 44.6 0SCH chriocarcinoma stomach 14.6 3.1 GCH chriocarcinoma uterus 5.4 0 YN 1 rhabdomyosarcoma 5.7 1.7 X5563 mouse myeloma 92.0 0 90.6 MH134 mouse ascites liver cancer 18.6 0 6.4 4 Localization of GRA in various kinds of cancer cells operated sample A cancer tissue obtained from an operated sample of a patient with cancer was allowed to pass through a stainless steel mesh 150 to obtain a cell suspension. It was washed twice with a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 2 mM of CaC12, 2 mM of MgCl and 0.85 of NaCl. 5 x 105 cells were suspended in 100 ul of the above described buffer solution, and 100 p1 of PNA FITC or DBA FITC 200 pg ml was added thereto followed by incubating at room temperature for 20 minutes. After conclusion of the reaction, cells were washed three times with 0.01M phosphate buffer solution pH 7.2 containing 0.85 of NaCl referred to as PBS , hereinafter .Thereafter, they were put on a glass slide and examined by a fluorescence microscope. Results are shown in Table 2. The operated samples of patients with cancers were available in KanseiMedical College. In the Table 2, localization of GRA is shown as follows. GRA is expressed on the surface of cells. GRA is not expressed on the surface of cells. Tabl e 2 Localization of GRA Specimen of Cancer Tissue PNA FITC DBA FITC Stomach cancer n n Mastocarcinoma N n n Colon cancer Esophageal cancer Liver cancer REFERENCE EXAMPLE 2Production of Lectin Receptor 1 Production of Insoluble Lectin PNA Sepharose After 3 g of CNBr activated Sepharose 4B produced by Pharmacia Co. was sufficiently washed with 1 mM ECl, it was suspended in 200 ml of 0.1M sodium hydrogen carbonate pH 8.5 . 5 ml of a 0.01M phosphate buffer solution pH 7.7 containing 20 mg of PNA was added thereto and the reaction was carried out at 250C for 2 hours with stirring at times to obtain PNA Sepharose. 2 DBA Sepharose was obtained by the same procedures as in 1 above, except that DBA was used instead of PNA. 3 1.3 x x 108 cells of BT 1 Burkitt lymphoma were washed three times with physiological saline, and 30 ml of a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 2 of Triton X 100 produced by Wako Pure ChemicalIndustries, Ltd. , 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of Caul2 and 2 mM of MgClz was added thereto. The resulting mixture was stirred at 40C for 15 minutes. It was then subjected to ultracentrifugation at 100,000 X g for 2 hours.Of 28 ml of the ultracentrifugal supernatant, 14 ml aliquot was subjected to affinity chromatography diameter 0.5 cm length 1 cm with PNA Agarose beads produced by Maruzen Co. equilibrated with a tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 0.1 of Triton X 100, 0.858 of NaCl1 2 itib ofCaCl2 and 2 mM of MgCl2. After washing with the above described buffer solution, elution was carried out with a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 0.1M lactose, 0.5 of NaCl, 2 mM of CaC12, 2 mM of MgCl2 and 0.1 of Triton X 100, and the eluted part was dialyzed against a O.O1M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution containing 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of MgC12 and 2 mM of Caul2 for 48 hours to obtain 17 ml of a solution of lectin receptor. As a result of measuring the amount of protein thereof buy a Folin Lowry method and the amount of saccharide thereof by a phenol sulfate method, the amount of protein was 644 g and the amount of saccharide was 120 g. Hereinafter, it is referred to as Receptor 1 . 4 1 x 1010 cells of C3H.mouse masocarcinoma MMT were washed three times with physiological saline . Then, 30 ml of a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7 .4 containing 2 of Triton X 100, 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of CaClz and 2 mM of MgCl2 was added thereto and the mixture was stirred at 40C for 30 minutes. Thereafter, it was subjected to ultracentrifugation at 100,000 X g for 2 hours, and the resulting supernatant was dialyzed for a night against a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of CaC12 and 2 mM of MgCl2. The resulting dialysate was concentrated to 3 ml byImmersible CXultra filters produced by Millipore Co. and 1 ml of it was subjected to affinity chromatography with PNASepharose equilibrated with a tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 0.005 of Triton X 100, 0.858 of NaCl1 2 mM of CaCl2 and 2 mM of MgC12 diameter 0.5 cm length 2 cm .After sufficiently washing with the same buffer solution, elution was carried out with a 0.01M trishydrochloric acid buffer solution. pH 7.4 containing 0.lM of lactose, 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of CaC12, 2 mM of MgC12 and 0.0058 of Triton X 100, and the eluted par t was dialyzed for 48 hours against a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.4 containing 0.85 of NaCl, 2 mM of CaC12 and 2 mM of MgC12 to obtain 2 ml of a solution of lectin receptor. The amount of protein thereof was 156 pg and the amount of saccharide thereof was 94 Vg. Hereinafter, it is referred to as Receptor M l . 5 About 120 g wet weight of KATO III cells was homogenized in 100 ml of PBS by means of a mill Waring blender produced by Nippon Seiki Co., Ltd. . The precipitate obtained by centrifugal separation 100,000 g x 1 hour was added to 100 ml of a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.6 containing 2 of Triton X 100 and 0.15M ofNaCl with stirring. The supernatant obtained by centrifugal separation 100,000 g x 1 hour was subjected to affinity chromatography diameter 0.8 cm length 15 cm with PNASepharose equilibrated with 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pie 7.6 containing 0.0158 of Triton X 100 and 0.15M of NaCl.After washing with 50 ml of the same buffer solution, elution was carried out with the same buffer solution containing 0.lM of lactose, and the elute was dialyzed against a 0.85 aqueous solution of NaCl to obtain a solution of lectin receptor. It was concentrated with Sephadex produced by Pharmacia Co. and preserved at 200C. The amount of protein 2.0 mg. The amount of saccharide 0.8 mg. Hereinafter, it is referred to as Receptor 2 . 6 Lectin receptors shown in Table 3 were obtained by the same manner as in 5 above, respectively. Table 3 Amount of Amount of Receptor RÅaw Material Protein Saccharide mg mg 3 BT 1, 33 g 0.5 0.09 4 Mastocarcinoma operated sample , 5 g 0.24 0.5 5 QG 56, 24 g 0.6 0.38 6 QG 90, 26 g 1.0 0.54 7 Raji, 29 g 0.78 0.45 M 2 MMT, 200 g 11.3 28.4 M 3 Lewis lung cancer LLC , 14.4 g 0.06 0.07 M 4 Ascites liver cancer MH134 , 85 g 0.65 0.35 M 5 Myeloma X5563 , 25 g 0.56 0.23 7 A lectin receptor was obtained by the same procedure as in 5 above, except that about 29 g of MKN 45 was used instead of ATO III, a DBA Sepharose column was used instead of the PNA Sepharose column, and elution was carried out with N acetylgalactosamine instead of lactose. Amount of protein 0.03 mg. Amount of saccharide 0.01 mg.Hereinafter, it is referred to as Receptor 8 . 8 5 ml of Receptor 3 obtained in 6 above was subjected to treating with a DBA Sepharose column, and elution was carried. out with a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution containing 0.0158 of Triton X 100, 2 mM of MgC12, 2 mM of Cacti and 0.85 of NaCl to obtain fractions of every 4 ml. Then, elution was carried out with the above described buffer solution containing 0.1M N acetylgalactosamine to obtain a solution of lectin receptor. Hereinafter, it is referred to as Receptor 3 C . Further, the above described fractions No. 1 to 3 are referred to as Receptor 3 A , and the fractions No. 4 to 12 are referred to as Receptor 3 B . 9 SDS gel electrophoresis of each lectin receptor obtained as described above was carried out according to the process by Fairbanks et al Briochemistry, Vol. 10, p. 2606 1971 . Results are shown in Figures 1 to 5. In the drawings, each number is as follows.In Figure 1 and Figure 2 1 ..... Standard 2 ..... Receptor M 3 3 ..... Receptor 7 4 ... . Receptor 1 5 ..... Receptor 2In Figure 3 1 Standard 2 ...... Receptor M 2 3 Receptor 6 4 ..... Receptor 5In Figure 4 1 ..... Receptor M 4 2 ..... Receptor M 5 3 ..... StandardIn Figure 5 1 ..... Receptor 3 2 ..... Receptor 3 A 3 ..... Receptor 3 B 4 ..... Receptor 3 C Further, Figures 1 and 5 are drawings representing electrophoretic diagram detected by a dyeing reaction of protein by means of a C.B.B. method Biochemistry, Vol. 10, p. 2606 1971 and Figures 2 to 4 are representing electrophoretic diagram drawings detected by a dyeing reaction of saccharide by means of a Pas method Anal. Biochem., Vol.30, 148 1962 . In each drawing, as the standard, the following standard materials produced by Biorad Lab. Co. U.S.A. were used. 200 K daltons Myosin 116 n Glucosidase 925 Phosphorylase 662 . BSA 45 Ovalbumin 215 Soybean trypsin inhibitor Further, photographs corresponding to Figures 1 to 4 are shown as Figures 1A to 4A. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 3 ORBC Protein A ORBC was centrifugally washed three times 2000 rpm, 10 minutes with a 0.01M phosphate solution pH 7.2 containing 0.85 of NaCl to obtain 5 x 109 cells by precipitation. 1 mg ml of physiological saline containing 0.45 ml ofProtein A Pharmacia Co. and 1 mg ml of physiological saline containing 0.5 ml of CrCl3. 6H20 were added thereto, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. After the cells were washed with two or three times with RPMI 1640 medium, they were suspended in 25 ml of the same medium 2 x 108 cells ml and preserved at 40C. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 4 Measurement of GRA Antibody After incubation cancer cell, Daudi, was centrifugally washed twice 1,000 rpm, 10 minutes with the medium RPMI 1640, the sample was prepared so as to have 3 x 106 cells ml in the same medium. 100 l of it was put in a test tube, and 100 ul of a serum of a patient with cancer was added thereto and the reaction was carried out at 4 C for 1 hour. After the cells were washed twice with the same medium, 100 ijl of ORBC Protein A obtained in Reference Example 3 was added to the precipitate. After stirred, it was subjected to centrifugation at 1,000 rpm for 5 minutes.Thereafter, it was slightly stirred and fixed and dyed with glutaraldehyde and Coomassie Brilliant Blue CBB . Then rosette formation of the ORBC Protein A to the incubated cells was measured. Results are shown in Table 4. Table 4 Sample No. Cancer Rosette Formation 1 Esophageal cancer 76 2 Mastocarcinoma 28 3 TI 10 4 n 1 5 10 6 It 90 7 85 8 Rectal cancer 50 9 n 15 10 K 97 11 Stomach 65 12 K 45 13 K 45 14 20 15 fi 5 16 n 35 17 Colon cancer 20 Normal cells 10 men 0 REFERENCE EXAMPLE 5 Rosette formation was measured by the same manner as in Reference Example 4, except that various kinds of cancerous cell having each a different property of being bound to lectin were used instead of Daudi. As the serum of patient, that of No 11 in Table 4 was used. The results are shown in Figure 6.It is understood therefrom that the antibody strongly reacts with PNA receptors. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 6 Receptor 1 obtained in Reference Example 2 in an amount of 5 g as protein together with a Freund s complete adjuvant was subcutaneously administered to a rabbit 2 to 3 kg once every two weeks to immunize the animal. After immunizing three times1 the blood was collected, and an antiserum was collected by centrifugal separation to obtain a GRA antibody antibody I . REFERENCE EXAMPLE 7 1 A blood was collected from the patient No. 10 having a high rosette formation in Reference Example 4 and an antiserum was collected by centrifugal separation to obtain aGRA antibody antibody II . 2 To 9 ml of Antibody II obtained in 1 above, 6 ml of a saturated solution of ammonium sulfate was dropwise added. After stirred at room temperature for 1 hour, the mixture was subjected to centrifugal separation 3,000 rpm, for 30 minutes to obtain a precipitate. After the precipitate was dissolved in 6 ml of PBS, it was dialyzed with 5 t of PBS at 40C for 24 hours to obtain a GRA antibody Anti body ITI containing 12 mg protein ml. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 8 Reactivity of GRA antibody a Using Receptor 2 obtained in Reference Example 2 as an antigen, reactivity thereof with the GRA antibody Antibody II obtained in Reference Example 7 was examined by an immuno electrophoretic method. Namely, 15 p1 of the antigen 160 pg protein ml was put in a hole of a 1 Agarose plate to carry out electrophoresis at 70V for 60 minutes. 200 p1 of Antibody II was put in a groove to allow to react at room temperature and room humidity for 24 hours. The result was as shown in Figure 7, where a sedimentation line was ob served. In Figure 7, numeral 1 is a hole and 2 is a groove. b Reactivity of the same antigen with the antibody as in a was examined by a precipitation method using a capillary refer to Hyojun Rinsho Kensaho Igakushoin, 2nd edition, pages 342 345 1967 . Namely, Receptor 2 was put in a capillary and Antibody II was superposed thereon. They were allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. As the result, a precipitate was observed on the boundary face between the antigen and the antibody. When using a serum of a normal person instead of the antibody, a precipitate was not observed. c Block Test PNA 100 ul of a PBS solution of PNA having a suitable concentration was put in a test tube containing BT 1 3 x 105 cells ml RPMI 1640 to incubate at 40C for 20 minutes.After centrifugally washed twice with the medium RPMI 1640 1,000 rpm, for 10 minutes , the cells were suspended again in 100 ul of the above described medium. After adding 100 p1 of a PBS 10 time diluted solution of Antiboay II obtained in Reference Example 7 to the suspension and incubating it at 40C for 1 hour, it was washed three times with the above described medium. The cells were suspended again in 100 pl of the above described medium, and 100 itl ofORBC protein A was added thereto. Then, rosette formation was measured by the same manner as in Reference Example 4. The results were as shown in Table 5, wherein a blocking effect for binding by PNA was observed. Table 5 Concentration of PNA pg ml 0 250 500 1000 Rosette Formation 78.5 62.3 42.4 23.3 d Block Test Lectin Receptor To 0.1 mol of a PBS of Receptor 1 obtained inReference Example 2 having a suitable concentration, 0.1 ml of a PBS diluted solution containing 10 pg ml of Antibody III obtained in Reference Example 7 was added. After the reaction at 370C for 1 hour, Daudi 3 x 105 cells 0.l molRPMI 1640 was added to carry out incubation at 40C for 1 hour. The cells were centrifugally washed three times 1,000 rpm, 10 minutes with RPMI 1640. The resulting cells were suspended again in 100 ul of the above described medium, and rosette formation was measured by the same manner as in Reference Example 4. The results were as shown in Table 6, wherein a blocking effect for binding by lectin receptor was observed. Table 6 Concentration of Lectin Receptor pg ml 0 2.2 4.4 8.8 Rosette Formation 43.5 4.0 1.9 0.2 e Using Receptor 1 obtained in Reference Example 2 as an antigen, reactivity of Antibody I was examined by the same manner as in a above. The results are shown inFigure 8.. In the drawing, 1 is a hole, 2 is a groove forAntibody I, and 3 is a groove for a serum of a normal rabbit. As shown in the drawing, a sedimentation line was observed in Antibody I only. f Rosette formation was measured by the same manner as in Reference Example 4, except that 100 p1 of Antibody I diluted four times with PBS was used instead of the patient serum. The results obtained are shown in Fig. 9. g To 100 1 of a PBS solution of Receptor 1 obtained in Reference Example 2 having a suitable concentration, 100 21 or a PBS 700 time diluted solution of Antibody I was added. After reaction at 370C for 90 minutes, Daudi 3 x 105 cells 0.l ml RPMI 1640 medium was added and incubation was carried out at room temperature for 60 minutes. The cells were centrifugally washed three times 1,000 rpm, 10 minutes with the medium RPMI 1640. The cells were suspended again in 100 tl 1 of the above described medium, and rosette formation was measured by the same manner as in Reference Example 4. The results were as shown in Figure 10, wherein a blocking effect for binding by the lectin receptor was observed. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 9 a TO 2 ml of Antibody III obtained in Reference Example 7, a 0.1M aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate containing .5 g 15 ml of Bromocyan Sepharose Pharmacia Co. and 0.5M of NaC1 pH 8.3 was added, and the resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours to obtain an insoluble carrier of GRA antibody. b An insoluble carrier of GRA antibody was obtained by the same manner as in a above using Antibody I obtained inReference Example 6. EXAMPLE 1 1 About 40 g wet weight of KATO III cells was homogenized in 50 ml of PBS by means of a mill Waring blender .A precipitate obtained by centrifugal separation 100,000 gX, 1 hour was added to 50 ml of a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.6 containing 2 of Triton X 100 and 0.5M of NaCl with stirring. The supernatant obtained by centrifugal separation 100,000 x g, 1 hour was introduced into a column diameter 0.8 cm length 15 cm of GRA antibody Sepharose the carrier obtained in Reference Example 9 a equilibrated with a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution pH 7.6 containing 0.015 of Triton X 100 and 0.15M of NaCl. After washing with the same buffer solution, elution was carried out with the same buffer solution containing 0.1M of lactose, and the elute was dialyzed with a 0.85 aqueous solution of NaCI to obtain a solution of AGRA. Amount of protein 0.45 mg.Amount of saccharide 0.12 mg. Hereinafter, it is referred to as GRA 1 . 2 A solution of A GRA was obtained by the same procedure as in 1 above, except that 20 g of BT l cells was used instead of the KATO III cells and a carrier obtained inReference Example 9 b was used as the GRA antibodysepharose column. Amount of protein 230 ug. Amount of saccharide 40 ug. Hereinafter, it is referred to as GRA2 . 3 After a column of 5 ml of a carrier obtained inReference Example 9 a was washed with a 0.01M tris hydrochloric acid buffer solution washing solution having pH 7.6 containing 0.015 of Triton X 100, Receptor 2 obtained in the reference example was allowed to flow through it in an amount of 350 ug as protein to carry out affinity chromatography. After washing with a washing solution, 30 ml of lactose was allowed to flow through the column. The eluted fraction is hereinafter referred to as GRA 3 amount of protein 164 g . After further washing, elution was carried out with a O.2M hydrochloric acid glycine buffer solution pH 2.7 . The eluted fraction is hereinafter referred to as GRA 4 amount of protein 97 pug . SDS electrophoresis patterns of each fraction obtained as described above obtained by the same manner as inReference Examples 2 to 9 are shown in Figure 11. The Figure 11 shows dyeing patterns by a C.B.B. method, wherein each number is as follows. 1 ..... Receptor 2 2 ..... GRA 3 3 ..... Gra 4 EXAMPLE 2 A physiological saline containing 100 pg as protein of Receptor M 3 obtained in Reference Example 2 was heated to 1000C for 10 minutes in a boiling water bath to obtain a thermally denatured antigen. Hereinafter, it is referred to as GRA M 3 H . It was adjusted to have a concentration of 10 ug protein ml and preserved at 40C. EXAMPLES 3 TO 13 Thermally denatured GRA shown in the following Table 7 were obtained by the same manner as in Example. 2, except that lectin receptors obtained in the Reference Example 2 and A GRA obtained in Example 1 were used instead of Receptor M 3. Table 7 Thermally Example Denatured No. Raw Material Beating Condition Antigen 3 Receptor 1 1000C, 20 minutes GRA l H l 4 n 1 1000C, 10 minutes GRA 1 H 2 5 S 2 900C, 20 minutes GRA 2 E 6 n 4 1200C, 5 minutes GRA 4 H 7 n 6 1000C, 10 minutes GRA 6 H 8 n 8 100 C, 10 minutes GRA 8 H 9 N 3 C 1100C, 10 minutes GRA 3 C H 10 GRA 1 1000C, 10 minutes GRA 1 HA 11 2 1000C, 10 minutes GRA 2 HA 12 3 1000C, 10 minutes GRA 3 HA 13 4 1200C, 5 minutes GRA 4 HA REFERENCE EXAMPLE 10 Preparation of Lymphocyte 1 Human Peripheral Blood Lymphocyte Human PBL 50 ml each of blood samples obtained by heparin collection from a healthy person or patients with various cancers was subjected to centrifugal separation with Ficollpack produced by Pharmacia Japan Co. to obtain 5 x 107 cells of peripheral blood lymphocyte. 2 Mouse Spleen Lymphocyte The spleen of CS7BL 6 mouse male, 6 weeks was picked out and washed twice with the medium RPMI 1640.After it was loosened by an injector needle, it was filtered by a stainless steel mesh No. 100 to remove fragments having a large size. After the cells filtered off was washed twice with the above described medium, they were centrifuged at 1,200 X g for 10 minutes to obtain 4 x 107 spleen lymphocytes. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 11 1 Mouse spleen lymphocytes obtained in Reference Example 10 2 were adjusted with the medium RPMI 1640 containing 15 of FCS so as to be 2 x 106 cells ml, and GRA M 3 E obtained in Example 2 was added thereto so as to have a final protein content of 5, 25, 50, 100, 250, 500 or 1,000 ng ml. After incubation at 370C in a carbon dioxide gas incubator for 24 hours, they were washed twice with the above described medium to obtain killer cells. They were adjusted with the above described medium so as to be 2 x 106 cells ml. 2 The cytotoxicity of the killer cells obtained in 1 above to cancerous cells was measured according to SingleCell Cytotoxic Assay The Journal of Immunology, Vol. 128,No. 6, p. 2514 2521 1982 . Namely, LLC cells were used as target cells. After washed, 5 x 104 cells of them and 2.5 x 105 cells of the above described killer cells E T 5 were mixed with 0.2 ml of the medium RPMI 1640 containing 10 of FCS. After incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes, the mixture was centrifuged at 1,000 rpm for 5 minutes, and 1 Agarose was added thereto so as to have a final concentration of 0.5 . On a Petri dish on which 1 Agarose was previously put, the above described cells were placed and slightly blended, and incubation was carried out at 370C for 1 hour. After addition of 0.5 ml of 0.2 Trypan Blue, they were allowed to stand for 10 minutes.Thereafter, they were washed twice with physiological saline. The number of dead target cells to which the killer cell was attached A was measured by an inverted phase contrast microscope, and the cytotoxicity of killer cells to cancerous cells was calculated from the following formula. A x 100 Cytotoxicity Number of the total target cellsThe results are shown in Figure 12. In the Fig. 12, the ordinate indicates the cytotoxicity and the abscissa indi cates the amount of protein concentration of GRA M 3 H used when inducing the killer cells. Further, the results obtained by a measurement using lymphocytes obtained by the same procedures as in 1 without using GRA M 3 H are shown as a control. The cytotoxicity of the control was 10.7 . As shown in Figure 12, the thermally denatured anti gen of the present invention is effective in a wide range, because it has a low dependency on the concentration when forming cell mediated immunity induction of killer cells , and it is understood that it has a great effect. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 12 1 GRA M 3 H obtained in Example 2 was adjusted with physiological saline so as to have a protein content of 100 ng ml. Hereinafter, it is referred to as Anticancer AgentNo. 1 . 2 1 x 104 of LLC cells derived from C57BL 6 mouse were injected to CS7BL 6 mouse Charles liver, male, 5 weeks from a vein of the tail. After 3 days, 6 days or 9 days from the injection, the above described anticancer Agent No.1 was administered to the animal in an amount of I ml mouse.day from a vein of the tail for 3 days. After 22 days from the injection of LLC cells, the lung was picked up. and presence or absence of implanted LLC on the lung was visually observed and the weight of the lung was measured.As controls, a group to which the anticancer agent was not administered and normal mice were used. Results are shown in Table 8. It is confirmed from Table 8 that administration of the thermally denatured antigen of the present invention clearly causes tumor rejection or suppression of tumor growth. Table 8 Presence or Administration Weight of Absence of Day Mouse No. Lung Implantation day g No administration 1 0.423 2 0.305 3 0.215 4 0.239 5 0.571 3, 4, 5 1 0.194 2 0.182 3 0.177 4 0.359 5 0,176 6, 7, 8 1 0.273 2 0.319 3 0.238 4 0.199 5 0.225 9, 10, 11 1 0,203 2 0.174 3 0.185 4 0.200 5 0.192Normal 1 0.181 2 0.183 3 0.170 4 0.177 5 0.175 REFERENCE EXAMPLE 13 1 Peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained by the same manner as in Reference Example 10 1 from a patient with small cell cancer of lung, male, 67 years old were adjusted with the medium RPMI 1640 containing 15 of FCS so as to have 2 x 106 cells ml, and GRA 6 H obtained in Example 7 was added thereto so as to have a final protein content of 100 ng ml. After they were incubated at 370C in a carbon dioxide gas incubator for 24 hours, the lymphocytes were washed twice with the above described medium to obtain killer cells. They were adjusted with the above described medium so as to have a population of 2 x 103 .cells ml. 2 The cytotoxicity of the above described killer cells to cancerous cells was examined using QG90, which was an incubated strain of a small cell lung cancer of the same kind as the patient, as target cells. Namely, QG90 was incubated on a 96 hole flat bottom microplate to multiply till it became a monolayer, which was used as target cells. To the. cells, 10Q p of. the above described killer cells was dropwise added slowly, and incubation was carried out for 1 hour. After the supernatant was removed, 5 ul of a 5 Eosine solution was added to dry the cells followed by allowing them to stand for 3 minutes. After dyeing, the cells were washed 5 times with the medium RPMI 1640 containing 10 of FCS. Then, the number of the dead cancerous cells per well was measured by microscopic observation. The results obtained are shown in Figure 13. In Fig. 13, the ordinate indicates the number of dead cancerous cells.Further, lymphocytes obtained by the same procedures as in 1 above without using GRA 6 H was used as a control. It is understood from Figure 13 that the thermally denatured antigen of the present invention has a very high induction activity for killer cells. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 14 Ability of formation of cell mediated immunity induction of killer cells of the thermally denatured antigen of the present invention in the living body was examined using Macaca fuscata which is primates closest to Homo sapiens. Namely, GRA 6 H was administered into a monkey ofMacaca fuscata Nippon Primates Co. by intradermally administration at a dosage of 200 ng protein monkey. After 3, 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours from administration, 5 ml of blood was collected from a femoral vein of the monkey using a heparin treated syringe. Then lymphocytes were separated by the difference of specific gravity using a specific gravity separating solution SMF produced by JIMRO , and they were adjusted with the medium RPMI 1640 so as to be 2 x 106 cells ml. Then, the cancerous cell cytotoxicity of the lymphocytes was measured. This activity test was carried out using target cells QG9Q obtained by the same manner as in Reference Example 13 2 . Likewise, 200 ul of each lymphocyte solution was added dropwise. After incubation at 370C in a carbon dioxide gas incubator for 90 minutes, dyeing was carried out using Eosine, and the number of dead cells was measured. The results are shown in the followingTable 9. In Table 9, the number of dead cells is shown as an average SD per well. Further, the passage time 0 hour means a control wherein lymphocytes which were collected just before administration of GRA 6 H were used. Table 9 Passing Time Hour Number of Dead Cells Well Number 0 0 3 3 0 3 6 37.6 10.4 6 24 60.5 13.7 6 48 13.0 8.8 4 72 15.5 4.6 6 It is understood from Table 9 that strong cell mediated immunity is formed in the living body by sensitization with the thermally denatured antigen of the present invention. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 15 In Reference Example 11 1 , GRA 8 H, GRA 1 HA, GRA2 HA, GRA 3 HA or GRA 4 HA, instead of GRA M 3 H, was used so as to have a final amount of 250 ng protein ml to produce killer cells, respectively. They were subjected to SingleCell Cytotoxic Assay by the same manner as in ReferenceExample 11 2 to measure the cancerous cell cytotoxicity.Results are.shown in Table 10. Table 10. Killer Cell Cytotoxicity Sensitized with GRA 8 H 21.5 GRA 1 HA 25.4 GRA 2 HA 20.3 GRA 3 HA 22.0 n GRA 4 HA 18.9 Control 10.7 REFERENCE EXAMPLE 16 1 Peripheral blood lymphocytes obtained from a healthy adult by centrifugal separation by means of Ficollpack Pharmacia Co. were adjusted with the medium RPMI 1640 containing 108 of FCS so as to be 1.5 x 106 cells ml. To 10 ml of it, GRA 3 was added so as to be 5, 25 or 50 ng protein ml, and incubation was carried out at 370C in a carbon dioxide gas incubator for 48 hours to obtain killer cells. Using GRA 4 or Receptor 2 instead of . GRA 3, killer cells were obtained likewise. Also, killer cells obtained without using any GRA Control . 2 After killer cells obtained in 1 above were washed twice with the medium RPMI 1640 1,000 rpm, 10 minutes , they were adjusted with the same medium containing 10 ofFCS so as to be 1.5 x 106 cells ml, which is referred to as Efector cells E . As target cells T , those which were obtained by adjusting Daudi washed twice with the above described medium with the same medium containing 10 of FCS so as to be 1.5 x 106 cells ml were used. 100 p1 of the above described E and 100 p1 of the T were lended. After the mixture was incubated at 370C for 1 hour, a test tube containing the mixture was put in ice water to stop the reaction, and the number of survival cells was measured by carrying out dyeing with 0.2 Trypan Blue.The killer activity of E was calculated from the following formula. Killer Activity Number of Cells When Using E of the Control Number of Cells of Tested E T wherein E represents the number of survival cells after 100 1 of E is incubated at 370C for 1 hour. T represents the number of survival cells after 100 lpl of T is incubated at 370C for 1 hour. Results are shown in Table 11. Table 11 Killer Activity Concentration ng protein ml Effector Cell 50 25 5 Average Group of GRA 3 10.7 20.4 29.5 20.2 Group of GRA 4 18.5 13.1 2.4 11.3 Group of Receptor 2 15.0 10.3 14.3 13.2 3 When the killer activity of killer cells induced with GRA 1 and GRA 2 by the same manner as in 1 and 2 above was measured, nearly the same activity as in the above was observed. REFERENCE EXAMPLE 17 1 GRA 1 obtained in Example 1 1 was diluted with physiological saline to be 15 pg protein ml, which is referred to as nticancer Agent No. 2 . 2 A tumor mass of MMT was cut under asceptic conditions to obtain cubes of 5 mm. They were implanted under the derma of the back of 10 C3E He mice male, 7 weeks , respectively. After 7 days, growth and fixation of tumor were observed. Into 5 mice, Anticancer Agent No. 2 in 1 above was introduced by subcutaneous administration in an amount of every 300 p1 per day at intervals of 2 days. The other 5 mice were used as non treated control. After 10 days from the first administration, tumors were removed by an operation, and average volume of them was measured. As the result, the group of control had an average volume of 142.5 mm3, while the group of administration had an average volume of 18.7 mm , by which an effect of reducing tumors was confirmed.