# IMAGE DATA PROCESSING APPARATUS

## Claims
Bilddatenverarbeitungsvorrichtung, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to an image data filtering apparatus which performs spatial filtering of image data so as to extract and display image data effective for diagnosis by a physician in a medical image diagnosis apparatus. Digital signal processing techniques are more frequently being used in medical image processing by medical image processing apparatuses such as X ray CT apparatuses or digital radiography apparatuses. In particular, spatial filtering has an important role as a technique for performing smoothening, or edge enhancement. The document Computer Design, Vol. 18, No. 9, September 1979, pages 93 101, teaches how to add two different image data associated with the same original image. The first image data is obtained by filtering the original image with 3x3 convolution filters and then multiplying the resultant image data by a certain function. The second image data is the original image data multiplied by a different function. This document however does not disclose that even in a low pass mode of a b 1, any filter can be obtained by adjusting the adding ratio of the low pass filtered original image date to unfiltered original image data. In addition in the case of the prior art it is inevitable to carry out the 3x3 convolution every time the filtering characteristic is changed. In view of this prior art it is the object of the present invention to provide an image data processing apparatus capable of high speed filtering of digital image data which smoothens the data of the original image, and can function as high pass filter or low pass filter by adjusting the adding ratio of the original image data to the smoothened image data. This object is accomplished by an image data processing apparatus comprising first storage means for storing original image data in a digital form filtering means for performing a filtering function to said original image data so as to control spatial frequency characteristics of said original image data first multiplier means for multiplying said filtered image data by a first parameter so as to give a first weighted value to said filtered image data second multiplier means for multiplying said original image data stored in said first storage means, by a second parameter so as to give a second weighted value to said original image data parameter input terminal means for producing said two parameters and delivering the same to said first and second multiplier means respectively and adder means for performing a linear combination operation between said first and second multiplied image data so as to obtain an added image data whose spatial frequency characteristics are controlled to be different from that of said original image data, characterized by further comprising control means for adjusting a first coefficient and a second coefficient to vary characteristics of said filtered image data by the following algebraic expression With an apparatus according to the invention a high pass or low pass filter is constituted optionally by controlling the mixing ratio of the smoothened original image data to the original image data Moreover, the second memory means between said filtering means and said first multiplier means eliminates the need to process the original image data in the filter, even if the parameters constant given to the multipliers are changed to vary the filtering characteristic. This permits a faster display of images that are obtained by changing the filtering characteristic. The present invention may be best understood with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Fig. 1, an original image data storage memory referred to as OID memory 1 stores digital image data obtained by scanning an object not shown by a known digital radiography apparatus of the like. An output from the OID memory 1 is connected to a 3x3 filter 2 and to a multiplier 5 having a multiplication of B. The filter 2 performs a filtering process to be described later. An output from the filter 2 is supplied to a filtered image data storage memory referred to as FID memory 3 and is stored therein. An output from the FID memory 3 is supplied to a multiplier 4 having a multiplication of A. An output from a parameter input terminal 8 is used for controlling the two multipliers 4 and 5 described above. Outputs from the multipliers 4 and 5 are supplied to an image data adder device referred to as adder device 6 which performs a linear combination to be described later. The sum image data from the adder device 6 is accumulated in a processed image data storage memory referred to as PID memory 7. The mode of operation of the apparatus described above will now be described. The filter 2 performs the filtering process of smoothening or enhancing the original image data stored in the OID memory 1. The filtered image data from the filter 2 is stored in the FID memory 3. The filtered image data stored in the FID memory 3 is multiplied by A by the first multiplier 4, and the multiplication product is supplied to the image data adder device 6. Meanwhile, the original image data from the OID memory 1 is multiplied by B by the second multiplier 5 and the multiplication product is supplied to the adder device 6. These data are subjected to linear combination such that image data having desired frequency characteristics can be obtained. The mode of operation will be described in further detail. A description will be made with reference to a 3x3 linear non recursive type two dimensional filter 2 of support size which is adopted in this embodiment. The filter 2 is a basic and important device in image processing and is effective for noise removal, sharpness control, edge enhancement and the like. A 3x3 filter is a filter which performs a convolution given by equation 1 below between a matrix of coefficients a, b and c as shown in Fig. 2A and one input pixel x, y as shown in Fig. 2B. When the spatial frequency characteristics in the x and y directions of a 3x3 filter having such filter coefficients a, b and c are designated by u and v, the spatial frequency characteristics of the filter can be given by When the coefficients a, b and c are properly selected, various frequency characteristics can be obtained within a range such that they can be expressed in the form of a function H. As a result, this filter can be used as either a low pass filter or a high pass filter. The above mentioned features will now be described in further detail. The degree of freedom with respect to the u axis and v axis is 2, and is determined by parameters A and B i.e., multiplications A and B of the multipliers 4 and 5, respectively given by equations 5 and 6 below Using these parameters A and B, equation 3 can be rewritten as equation 7 below The greater the parameter A, the greater the slope of the frequency response curve of the high pass filter. When the parameter A has a negative value, the filter serves as a low pass filter. The parameter B defines the ratio of the component of the original image data in the output data. The greater the parameter B, the closer the output image data is to the original image data. The smaller the parameter B, the more significant are the high pass or low pass characteristics of the filter. In this manner, the two parameters A and B are significant values in determining the filter characteristics, and can be conveniently used as a measure for determining the spatial frequency characteristics. Assume that the 3x3 filter has the characteristics given by When input image data is designated by F u, v and filtered image data is designated by G₁ u, v , we obtain Taking into account the linear combination between the original image data F and the filtered image data G₁, output image data G₂ is given by where A₂ and B₂ are weight coefficients of the linear combination. Provided the parameters A and B which determine the filter function are given, we can obtain relation 11 below for the coefficients A₂ and B₂ of the linear combination Then, the coefficients A₂ and B₂ can be obtained from equation 11 above as Thus, the same filtering result as that of equation 7 above can be obtained from the input parameters A and B. From this, the following conclusion is obtained. That is, if original image data is filtered by a given 3x3 filter and thereafter the original image data and filtered image data are linearly combined with suitable weight coefficients, a desired filtering process as given by equation 7 can be realized. When a 3x3 filter wherein all the coefficients are 1 is considered, the filter does not involve multiplication and only involves nine addition operations, so that high speed data processing can be performed. The frequency characteristics of such a filter can be given as The direction dependency of these spatial frequency characteristics can be represented as shown in Fig. 2C using the direction angle ϑ as a parameter. When various parameters of the multipliers 4 and 5 are used for a single original image data, the original image data can be filtered once by the 3x3 filter 2. Then, the original image data and the filtered image data stored in the FID memory 3 are multiplied by desired weight coefficients i.e., parameters to perform linear combination. Thus, high speed processing is further facilitated. Fig. 3 shows in detail the interface relationship between the 3x3 filter 2 and the surrounding OID memory 1 and the FID memory 3. When input pixel data is designated by F In order to calculate output pixel data G Figs. 4A and 4B are block diagrams showing the internal circuit of the 3x3 filter 2, and Fig. 5 is a timing chart for explaining the mode of operation of the filter 2. Reference symbols a to I in Figs. 4A and 4B correspond to waveforms a to I in Fig. 5. A signal a is a clock pulse CK and is supplied to a counter 11. The counter 11 frequency divides the clock pulse a to produce an output signal b. The signal b is supplied to another counter 12. The counter 12 frequency divides the signal b to obtain an output signal c. The signal c is supplied to a further counter 13. The counter 13 frequency divides the signal c to obtain an output signal d. The signal d is supplied to a still further counter 14 to be frequency divided to obtain an output signal e. The signals b and d are added by an adder 32 which produces a signal f. The signals c and e are added by another adder 31 which produces a signal g. The signal f corresponds to the signal X is thus completed. The calculation result is latched in a latch 35 at a timing determined by an output signal k from a shift register 21, which latch then produces a signal I. The signal I constitutes output image data G of the 3x3 filter 2 and is supplied to the FID memory 3 for storing the filtered data X and y address signals X Fig. 6 is a block diagram for explaining the linear combination of the original image data and the filtered image data from the 3x3 filter. The linear combination circuit comprises an address signal generator 9, the multipliers 4 and 5, and the adder device 6. In the address signal generator 9, a clock pulse a is supplied to a counter 61 which frequency divides the pulse a to produce a signal b . The signal b is supplied to another counter 62 to be further frequency divided to produce a signal c . The signals c and b d are used as x and y address signals for accessing the memories 1, 3 and 7 shown in Fig. 1. The signals a to d in Fig. 6 correspond to the signals a to d in Fig. 1, respectively. Readout of the input image data and writing of the processed image data are executed by scanning one line after another from the left to the right of the image shown in Fig. 2B. The readout original image data is supplied as a signal g to one input terminal of a multiplier element 65 of the multiplier 5 and the filtered image data is supplied as a signal j to one input terminal of a multiplier element 66 of the multiplier 4. Registers 64 and 63 of the respective multipliers 4 and 5 store the parameters A and B supplied from the parameter input terminal 8. The parameters A and B are produced as signals k and k in response to shift control signals h and e and are supplied to the other input terminal of each of the multiplier elements 66 and 65. Then, the multiplier elements 65 and 66 multiply the respective image data by the corresponding weight coefficients, and output data m , n from the multiplier elements 65 and 66 are supplied to an adder 67 to be added together. In this manner, the linear combination is performed, and processed image data p is obtained. The processed image data p is stored in a predetermined area of the PID memory 7 which is selected by signals X and Y from the address signal generator 9. Fig. 7 is a block diagram showing an example of the parameter input terminal 8 shown in Fig. 1. The terminal comprises first and second parameter generators 78 and 79. In these generators 78 and 79, variable resistors 71 and 72 are respectively connected between a power supply of 5V and ground. The analog signals obtained from the resistors 71 and 72 are converted into digital signals by A D converters 73 and 74 and the digital signals are supplied to ALUs 75 and 76, respectively. The ALUs 75 and 76 convert the input signals into parameters and produce the parameters A and B. The ALUs 75 and 76 perform the calculation according to equation 1 such that the analog signals from the resistors correspond to the coefficients of the linear combination. When the parameters supplied from the resistors 71 and 72 are designated by A provided that the 3x3 filter shown in Fig. 1 is a filter wherein all the coefficients are 1. A modification of the parameter input terminal will now be described. In general, in a parameter input terminal, a set of parameters A and B must be designated. This may be said to be equivalent to the selection of one point on the x y plane. Accordingly, a parameter input terminal 80 as shown in Fig. 8 may be conveniently used, together with an input device such as a digitizer or a light pen device which is capable of designating a single point on the x y plane. In Fig. 8, parameters A and B are plotted along the two orthogonal axes, that is, the x and y axes. Fig. 8 shows the frequency characteristics for 16 typical points. As the parameter A increases to the right from a central point 82 , a sharper high pass filter frequency response curve is obtained. As the parameter A becomes increasingly negative to the left from the central point 82 , sharper low pass characteristics are gradually obtained. The parameter B corresponds to the ratio of the original image data component to the processed image data. As the parameter B increases upward from the central point 82 , the processed image data becomes closer to the original image data. It is to be noted that points other than the 16 points indicated in the figure can be designated. In this manner, by designating a point by its coordinates, the spatial frequency characteristics to be obtained can be visually confirmed by the operator, thus improving the operability of the parameter input terminal. According to the present invention, a set of parameters can be selected using a parameter input terminal, so that desired spatial frequency characteristics may be designated. Various types of characteristics can be finely designated. In this case, the frequency characteristics to be obtained can be visually confirmed from the values of the parameters. Accordingly, a spatial filtering apparatus with improved operability can be provided. In accordance with the embodiment using a parameter input terminal which allows designation of the parameters by coordinate points, fine designation can be performed and operability is improved due to easy confirmation of the designated parameters on the x y plane. In a conventional 3x3 filter, nine multiplication operations are performed for one image data. However, in the present invention, only two multiplication operations are required, so that high speed operation can be performed. The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described above, and various changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. For example, in the embodiments described above, a 3x3 filter is used for smoothing the image data. However, the present invention is not limited to this. A series of processing steps such as filtering, weighting and addition can be replaced by software to be executed by a computer. In the embodiments described above, the 3x3 filter 2 has a smoothening function. However, a filter having an edge enhancing function can be used.