# 1,4 DIHYDROPYRIDINE DERIVATIVES

## Claims
2,6 Dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl l,4 dihydropyridin 3,5 dicarbonsäure 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methylester, wobei der Schmelzpunkt des Hydrochlorids Hievon 196 C bis 202 C beträgt, oder ein Salz hievon.

## Description
The present invention relates to 1,4 dihydropyridine derivatives. More particularly, the present invention relates to 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester, the melting point of the hydrochloride of which is 196 C to 202 C referred to as α form , from among the diastereomers of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester represented by the formula I The present compounds have effects to depress the blood pressure and to dilate coronary artery and peripheral blood vessels and are compounds useful as drugs for cardiovascular disease, such as hypotensives and vasodilators. Also, 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester, the hydrochloride of which has melting points of 236 C to 242 C is referred to as β form. Next, the processes for producing α form are shown below. I Diastereomer α form, β form Esterification of the compound represented by the formula II hereinafter referred to as Compound II further compounds represented by formulae III to XI are similarly referred to as Compounds III to XI and Compound III is carried out in a conventional manner, e.g. a a process which comprises converting Compound II into the acid halide using a halogenating reagent and then reacting the acid halide with Compound III b a process which comprises reacting Compound II with Compound III in the presence of the condensing agent such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide The process a using halogenating reagents is explained in further detail. The process in which the halogenating reagent is thionyl chloride, is illustrated by the following equations The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride and chlorobenzene The molar ratio of the carboxylic acid to thionyl chloride is in the range of 1.0 0.8 1.0 2.0, preferably 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2. The molar ratio of thionyl chloride to N,N dimethylformamide or hexamethylphosphoric triamide is 1 1 1 100, preferably 1 5 1 50. The reaction is carried out at temperatures of 70 C to 100 C, preferably 20 C to 50 C. Then, the resulting Compound IV which may not be isolated is reacted with Compound III to obtain diastereomers α form and β form represented by the formula I. As the solvent, the same solvent as employed for preparation of Compound IV from Compound II is employed. The molar ratio of Compound II to Compound III is in the range of 1.0 0.8 1.0 2.0, preferably 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2 and the reaction temperature is 70 C to 100 C, preferably 20 C to 50 C. I Diastereomer α form, β form wherein Y represents a halogen atom. Compound V which is employed as a starting material in this process is obtained by the process illustrated by the following reaction equations, in case that a halogenating reagent is thionyl chloride. The molar ratio of Compound V to Compound VI is in the range of 1.0 0.5 1.0 4.0, preferably 1.0 0.9 1.0 2.0. The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of alcohols such as isopropanol and isobutanol aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and toluene halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, carbon tetrachloride and chlorobenzene ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and dimethoxyethane aprotic polar solvents such as acetonitrile and N,N dimethylformamide or water with or without adding organic bases such as triethyl amine, n butyl amine and pyridine, or inorganic bases such as sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide and potassium carbonate to the reaction mixture at room temperature to 200 C, preferably 30 C to 150 C. a process in accordance with the process described in M. Iwanami et al., Chem. Pharm. Bull, The molar ratio of Compound VII to Compound VIII is in the range of 1.0 0.8 1.0 4.0, preferably, 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.5. The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of alcohols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and toluene halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform and carbon tetrachloride ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and dimethoxyethane aprotic polar solvents such as acetonitrile and N,N dimethylformamide or water at room temperature to 150 C, preferably 30 C to 100 C. a process in accordance with the process described in M. Iwanami et al., Chem. Pharm. Bull., As ammonium salts used in place of ammonia, ammonium acetate or ammonium carbonate are preferred. Compound VII, IX and ammonia are in the molar ratio of 1.0 0.8 0.8 1.0 4.0 4.0, preferably, 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.5 1.5. The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of alcohols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and toluene halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, carbon tetrachloride and chlorobenzene ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and dimethoxyethane aprotic polar solvents such as acetonitrile and N,N dimethylformamide or water at room temperature to 150 C, preferably 30 C to 100 C. a process in accordance with the process described in H. Herbert Fox et al., J. Org. Chem., Compounds X, XI and VIII are in the molar ratio of 1.0 0.8 0.8 1.0 4.0 4.0. preferably 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.5 1.5. The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of alcohols such as methanol, ethanol and isopropanol aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and toluene halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform and carbon tetrachloride ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxan and dimethoxyethane aprotic polar solvents such as acetonitrile and N,N dimethylformamide or water at room temperature to 150 C, preferably 30 C to 100 C. Compounds II to III and VI to XI which are employed as starting materials in the processes of the present invention are either known compounds or compounds obtained in a conventional manner. In the reaction mixtures obtained in Processes 1 to 5, a compound α form , a melting point of the hydrochloride of which is 196 C to 202 C and a compound β form , a melting point of the hydrochloride of which is 236 C to 242 C are present. These are in relation of diastereomers, and are distinguished from each other by thin layer chromatography TLC plate, Merck, Art 11798 developing solvent, dichloromethane ethyl acetate triethyl amine 50 50 1 v v , wherein a compound showing a high Rf value is α form. Isolation of the desired α form from the mixture containing α form and β form is, for example, conducted by the following procedures. After subjecting the reaction mixture to conventional operations such as extraction, concentration and column chromatography, hydrogen chloride gas or hydrogen chloride dissolved in a suitable solvent is added to the reaction mixture to form the hydrochloride in case that the halogen of the halogenating reagent is chlorine in Process , the diastereomer represented by formula I is formed as the hydrochloride so that this operation is not necessarily required by applying a specified isolation method . After removing the solvent if necessary, fractional crystallization is carried out from a suitable single or mixed solvent, whereby α form is crystallized out and β form remains in the solution. As single or mixed solvents suitable for the fractional crystallization, there are mentioned ethanol, chloroform, ethanol acetone, chloroform acetone, chloroform ether or chloroform ethyl acetate. The mixed solvents of ethanol acetone and chloroform acetone are particularly preferred. In Compound V which is a starting material in Process 2, α form a compound which becomes α form when diastereomer I is prepared in accordance with Process 2 and β form a compound which becomes β form when diastereomer I is prepared in accordance with Process 2 are present, which are in relation of diastereomers, as in the case of diastereomers represented by formula I. Accordingly, when only α form of the starting Compound V is selectively used, the diastereomer obtained in Process 2 is only α form so that operation for isolating α form from β form is unnecessary and α form of diastereomer I is obtained in conventional operations such as extraction, concentration, column chromatography and crystallization. As salts of the compound, there are mentioned inorganic salts such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, phosphate and sulfate, and organic acid salts such as formate, acetate, fumarate, maleate and malate. Next, the processes for producing α form are shown below. An optically active form having an optical rotation degree of or a racemate of the compound represented by the formula XIII hereinafter referred to as Compound XIII compounds of formulae XII and XIV are similarly referred to is suitable as a starting material, and similarly an optically active form having an optical rotation degree of or a racemate of Compound XIV is preferred as a starting material. Esterification of Compounds XIII and XIV is carried out in a conventional manner, e.g. a a process which comprises converting Compound XIII into the acid halide using a halogenating reagent and then reacting the acid halide with Compound XIV b a process which comprises reacting Compound XIII with Compound XIV in the presence of the condensing agent such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and the process a using an inexpensive halogenating reagent for example, thionyl chloride, phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus pentachloride, phosphorus oxychloride and phosphorus tribromide is particularly advantageous. The process a is explained in further detail. The process in which the halogenating reagent is thionyl chloride, is illustrated by the following equations The reaction is carried out in the presence or absence of halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride and chlorobenzene aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene and toluene ethers such as tetrahydrofuran and dioxan aprotic polar solvents such as acetonitrile, N,N dimethylformamide and hexamethylphosphoric triamide amines such as pyridine and triethyl amine. The reaction is preferably carried out using thionyl chloride as the halogenating reagent in the presence of N,N dimethylformamide or hexamethylphosphoric triamide as a reaction solvent alone or using the aforesaid solvents in combination. The molar ratio of Compound XIII to thionyl chloride ranges from 1.0 0.8 1.0 2.0, preferably 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2. The molar ratio of thionyl chloride to N,N dimethylformamide or hexamethylphosphoric triamide is 1 1 1 100, preferably 1 5 1 50. The reaction is carried out at temperatures of 70 C to 100 C, preferably 20 C to 50 C. Then, the resulting Compound XV which may not be isolated is reacted with Compound XIV to thereby obtain Compound XII. As the solvent, the same solvent as employed for preparation of Compound XV from Compound XIII is employed. The molar ratio of Compound XIII to Compound XIV is in the range of 1.0 0.8 1.0 2.0, preferably 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2 and the reaction temperature is 70 C to 100 C, preferably 20 C to 50 C. Compound XIII and Compound XIV which are employed as starting materials are known compounds. Furthermore, optically active Compound XIV can also be readily produced from known optically active Compound XVI by the following reaction. represents an asymmetric carbon atom The desired product, α form may be isolated from the resulting reaction mixture as follows. In case that Compound XIII and Compound XIV are both optically active substances Compound XIII is form and Compound XIV is form , the product is principally only α form therefore, the desired product can be isolated by procedures such as extraction and concentration, and if necessary, column chromatography may also be carried out. In case that either Compound XIII or Compound XIV is a racemate, the desired product can be isolated by column chromatography in addition to extraction or concentration, since β form or β form is contained in the reaction mixture, in addition to the desired α form. Furthermore, if deemed necessary, the isolated free product is reacted with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid and sulfuric acid, or organic acids such as formic acid, acetic acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, malic acid and tartaric acid to prepare salts thereof. The hypotensive effect of α form is explained below. Mongrel adult dogs 8 to 15 kg were anesthesized by the intravenous administration of 30 mg kg of sodium pentobarbital. Each cannula was inserted into the left femoral artery, and the blood pressure was measured with a pressure transducer Nippon Koden and recorded on a polygraph. The results are shown in Table 1. As shown in Table 1, α form manifested a significant hypotensive effect one minute after the administration, which effect lasted for 90 minutes or longer. The left renal artery of each mongrel dog 9 l8 kg was constricted under anesthetization with thiopental sodium to prepare renal hypertensive dogs. The blood pressure under nonanesthetic condition was hematoscopically measured via a polyethylene cannula fixed to the back of the neck site inserted into the descending aorta through the left corotid artery. The drug, suspended in a 0.3 aqueous carboxymethyl cellulose solution, was orally administered at a dose of 0.5 ml per kg body weight using a tube for oral administration. The results are shown in Table 2. Next, comparative tests of the hypotensive effect and acute toxicity among α form , α form and α form are described below. Drugs were orally administered at the dose of 0.5 ml 100 g body weight of the rat in the form of a suspension in 0.3 carboxymethyl cellulose, using a gastric tube. The results are shown in Table 4. Drugs were orally administered to mice ddY type, body weight of 20 to 24 g, male and the survival rate 72 hours after the administration was studied. A suspension of each of the drugs in water having added a small quantity of Tween 80 thereto was orally given at the dose of 0.1 ml 10 g mouse body weight, using a gastric tube. The compounds of the present invention, in consideration of their pharmaceutical effect, may be employed in various pharmaceutical forms for the intended administration, and in particular, they are preferably employed in oral forms such as tablets and powders. In the case of tablets, the compound of the present invention may be contained in an amount of 1 30 W W per tablet. As other components carriers , commonly employed excipients, disintegrators, lubricants, binders or coating agents may be employed. For example, there may be mentioned excipients such as glucose and lactose, disintegrators such as starch and calcium carboxymethyl cellulose, lubricants such as magnesium stearate and talc, binders such as simple syrup, polyvinyl alcohol, gelatin and hydroxypropyl cellulose, and coating agents such as dispersants e.g. methyl cellulose and ethyl cellulose and plasticisers e.g. glycerin and polyethylene glycol . Microcrystalline cellulose partakes of the properties of disintegrators of binders and of excipients. In the case of powders, the compound of the present invention may be contained in an amount of 1 20 W W . As the carriers, excipients such as glucose and lactose and binders such as hydroxypropyl cellulose may be employed. The LD₅₀ or α form in the oral administration in male rats is 127 mg kg. The dose is preferably in the range of 1 100 mg per day for a human adult weighing ca. 60 kg. Also, the LD₅₀ of α form in the oral administration in male rats is 95 mg kg. The dose is preferably in the range of 1 50 mg per day for a human adult weighing ca. 60 kg. The present invention is more particularly discribed by the following examples and reference examples. Diastereomer α form, β form In this example, 10.00 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester was suspended in 70 ml of a mixed solvent of dichloromethane and N,N dimethylformamide 4 1 v v and 2.43 ml of thionyl chloride was added to the suspension under ice cooling. After stirring for one hour under ice cooling, 6.33 g of 1 benzyl 3 hydroxypiperidine was added thereto followed by further stirring under ice cooling for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with 100 ml of water and then with 100 ml of brine. After drying the dichlorometahen layer over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the layer was concentrated under reduced pressure. Thereafter, 100 ml of acetone and 8 ml of ethanol were added to the concentrate to obtain 7.57 g of yellow substance of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . The melting point was 197 C to 198 C ethanol . This compound shows a single spot on TLC Merck, Art 11798 developing solvent, dichloromethane ethyl acetate triethyl amine 50 50 1 v v . From the mother liquor of the crystals, 5.21 g of β form was obtained. The melting point was 239 C to 240 C ethanol methanol . Physical properties of α form are shown below. Elemental Analysis as C₂₈H₃₂ClN₃O₆ Desired Product α form In this example, 1.35 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 methyl 5 3 piperidyl ester hydrochloride α form having a melting point of 236 C to 238 C obtained in Reference Example 1, 0.52 g of benzyl chloride and 0.62 g of triethyl amine were added to 20 ml of THF, and stirring was effected for 24 hours under reflux. The reaction mixture was poured into 50 ml of water. The mixture was extracted twice with 30 ml of ethyl acetate. The ethyl acetate layers were combined and 10 ml of 4N hdyrochloric acid was added thereto. After vigorously stirring the mixture for one hour, the ethyl acetate layer was washed with 20 ml of brine and then with 10 ml of water. After drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. To the concentrate was added 10 ml of a mixed solvent of chloroform and acetone 1 9 v v and the mixture was stirred to obtain 1 22 9 of yellow substance of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . The melting point was 197 C to 198 C ethanol . TLC, IR and NMR of the compound obtained in this example were identical with those of α form obtained in Example 1. In this example, 2.49 g of methyl 3 nitrobenzylidene acetoacetate and 2.74 g of 3 aminocrotonic acid 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester were added to 10 ml of methanol, and stirring was effected for 10 hours under reflux. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and fractions containing the desired compound α form were separated therefrom by silica gel column chromatography eluent, chloroform methanol 20 1 v v . After concentrating the fractions containing the desired compound, the concentrate was dissolved in 40 ml of chloroform, and 10 ml of 4N hydrochloric acid was added thereto. The mixture was vigorously stirred. Thereafter, the chloroform layer was washed twice with 20 ml of water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and reconcentrated. A mixed solvent of 3 ml of ethanol and 27 ml of acetone was added to the concentrate, and the mixture was stirred to obtain 1.61 g of yellow substance of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . The melting point was 197 C to 198 C ethanol . TLC, IR and NMR spectra of the compound obtained in this example were identical with those of α form obtained in Example 1. In this example, 4.98 g of methyl 3 nitrobenzylidene acetoacetate, 6.05 g of acetoacetic acid 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester and 1.76 g of 29 aqueous ammonia solution were added to 20 ml of ethanol, and stirring was effected for 12 hours under reflux. The reaction mixture was treated in a similar manner to Example 3 to obtain 3.02 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . The melting point was 196.5 C to 198 C ethanol . TLC, IR and NMR spectra of the compound obtained in this example were identical with those of α form obtained in Example 1. In this example, 3.02 g of m nitrobenzaldehyde, 2.53 g of methyl β aminocrotonate and 5.50 g of acetoacetic acid 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester were added to 10 ml of THF, and stirring was effected for 19 hours under reflux. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure, and fractions containing the desired compound were separated from the concentrate by silica gel column chromatography eluent, chloroform acetone 9 1 v v , and concentrated. The concentrate was dissolved in 70 ml of acetone and adjusted to pH 1 with ether saturated with hydrogen chloride. Further, ether was added thereto to give 2.10 g of yellow crystals. The melting point was 176 C to 178 C. Recrystallization from acetone ethanol 9 1 v v gave 0.93 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . The melting point was 197 C to 198.5 C. TLC, IR and NMR spectra of the compound obtained in this example were identical with those of α form obtained in Example 1. In 17 ml of a mixed solvent of dichloromethane and N,N dimethylformamide 4 1 v v , 2.50 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester was suspended and to the suspension was added 0.57 ml of thionyl chloride under ice cooling. After stirring under ice cooling for one hour, 1.51 g of 1 benzyl 3 hydroxypiperidine obtained in Reference Example 2 was added to the mixture and stirring was further continued under ice cooling for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with 25 ml of dichloromethane, and washed with 30 ml of water and then with 30 ml of brine. The dichloromethane layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluent, chloroform ethyl acetate 1 1 v v and fractions containing the desired product were concentrated. To the concentrate were added 30 ml of chloroform and 10 ml of 4N hydrochloric acid. After vigorously stirring the mixture, the chloroform layer was washed twice with 20 ml of water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness to obtain 4.20 g of amorphous powder. The powders were dissolved in 15 ml of acetone and the solution was added to 200 ml of ether. The mixture was stirred to observe precipitates. The precipitates were filtered and dried to obtain 2.72 g of α 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form . α 21 D 113.6 c 0.50, acetone In 17 ml of a mixed solvent of dichloromethane and N,N dimethylformamide 4 1 v v , 2 50 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester was suspended and to the suspension was added 0.57 ml of thionyl chloride under ice cooling. After stirring under ice cooling for one hour, 1.51 g of 1 benzyl 3 hydroxypiperidine obtained in Reference Example 2 was added to the mixture and stirring was further continued under ice cooling for 2 hours and 40 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml of dichloromethane and washed with 50 ml of 5 sodium hydrogen carbonate solution, 50 ml of water and then 50 ml of brine. The dichloromethane layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure. The concentrate was subjected to silica gel column chromatography eluent, chloroform ethyl acetate triethyl amine 50 50 1 v v to separate α form from β form. Fractions containing the desired α form were concentrated and dissolved in 20 ml of acetone. To the solution was added 5 ml of 4N hydrochloric acid. After stirring the mixture, acetone was removed by distillation under reduced pressure. To the residue remained after the concentration was added 20 ml of chloroform. The chloroform layer was washed twice with 20 ml of water, then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and concentrated to dryness to obtain 1.02 g of amorphous powders of α 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride α form α 21 D 110.7 c 0.50, acetone IR and NMR spectra were identical with those of α form obtained in Example 6. In this example, 3.31 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester was suspended in 23 ml of a mixed solvent of dichloromethane and N,N dimethylformamide 4 1 v v , and further 1.32 g of thionyl chloride was added to the suspension under ice cooling. After stirring the mixture for one hour under ice cooling, 1.51 g of 3 hydroxypiperidine hydrochloride was added thereto and the mixture was further stirred for 1 hour and 20 minutes under ice cooling. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 50 ml of chloroform and the solution was washed with 40 ml of water. Then, 40 ml of 1N sodium hydroxide was added and the mixture was vigorously stirred. The chloroform layer was separated out. After washing the chloroform layer twice with 20 ml of water, the chloroform layer was concentrated. The concentrate was dissolved in 20 ml of acetone and 2 ml of conc. hydrochloric acid was added to the solution. Stirring under ice cooling gave 2.07 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 methyl 5 3 piperidyl ester hydrochloride α form . Elemental Analysis as C₂₁H₂₅N₃O₆ HCl Further from the mother liquor of the aforesaid crystals, 1.27 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 methyl 5 3 piperidyl ester hydrochloride β form having a melting point of 248.5 C was obtained. After stirring 8.53 g of 3 hydroxypiperidine, 7.72 g of benzyl chloride and 6.17 g of triethyl amine in 70 ml of toluene for 5 hours under reflux, the mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was distilled under reduced pressure to obtain 5.49 g of a distillate having a boiling point of 103.8 C 0.5 mmHg. α 23 D 11.9 c 2.14, methanol In a similar manner to Example 6, 3.16 g of amorphous powders of α 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid 3 1 benzyl 3 piperidyl ester 5 methyl ester hydrochloride were obtained except that 2.50 g of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester and 1.51 g of 1 benzyl 3 hydroxypiperidine were employed in place of 2,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1,4 dihydropyridine 3,5 dicarboxylic acid monomethyl ester and 1 benzyl 3 hydroxypiperidine used in Example 6, respectively. α 22 D 110.2 c 0.24, acetone