# Single vapor system for soldering, fusing or brazing.

## Abstract
A single vapor system for soldering, fusing or brazing includes vertically disposed chambers which provide a draining and drying zone 16 above a vapor processing zone 18 . Draining occurs in the upper zone with no additional heat being added in vapor recovery. A sealing system 42,44 is utilized which is actuated by the carrier elevator 30 as an article carrying basket 32 is moved into and out of the zones. The sealing system includes a moveable top cover 42 resting on the top of the article carrying basket, with the top cover being left at the top of the draining and drying zone to seal the top of this zone when the basket is lowered to the bottom of this zone. A moveable bottom plate 50 is raised by pulleys 60 and weights 58 , to the bottom of the draining and drying zone such that the bottom plate seals the bottom of this zone, isolating the zones 16,18 one from the other. Liquid drained from the article in the upper zone flows into a peripheral channel at the bottom plate to provide a liquid seal around the perimeter of the bottom plate. An unheated primary vapor recovery system and a combined system vent and unheated secondary recovery system are utilized for the draining and drying zone. The carrier elevator 30 includes basket lowering tapes 34 which pass through channels carried by the top cover 42 , with the channels carrying slit and chamfered discs for prevention of vapor leakage at the points where the tapes pass through the top plate.