# Production of caerulein intermediate.

## Abstract
A process for producing a decapeptide of the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 I being useful as an intermediate in the production of caerulein as diagnostic agent or psychotropic agent, which comprises subjecting the hexapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH2 II to azide forming reaction at the C terminal and then to reaction with the tetrapeptide represented by the formula H Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 III

## Claims
What is claimed is A process for producing a caerulein intermediate decapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 I which comprises subjecting the hexapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH2 II to azide forming reaction at the C terminal and then to reaction with the tetrapeptide represented by the formula H Trp Met Asp Phe NE2 III wherein Ac means acetyl

## Description
Production of Caerulein IntermediateBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel process for producing a decapeptide, as an intermediate in the production of caerulein, having the following structuralEMI1.1 which was isolated from the extract of the skin of Bylacaerulea, a kind of frog in Australia, by Anastasi et 81 It is known that caerulein has activities analo gous to those of the hormones of the digestive organ such as gastrin, pancreozaimine and the like. Therefore, it has been used now as an agent for diagnosis of the drug for treating the progressing paralytic ileus.Lately, it has been elucidated that caerulein is ef9ec tive in treatment of a sort of mental deseases, particularlly, schizophrenia, manic or depressive psychosis, senile dementia and the like. Therefore, the research and development of caerulein has been focused on its possibility as psycotropic drugs. Some of the processes for producing caerulein had been disclosed, for example, in Japanese PatentPublication No. 44 25079, Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication Nos. 54 61170, 54 63072 and 55 100348.The most important step in the production of caerulein is sulfonation of the tyrosine residue which is located at the 7th from the C terminal of the decapeptide. In the prior art as mentioned above, the said sulfonation reaction is achieved with a pyridine sul furic anhydride so3 in anhydrous dimethylformamide or in an aqueous solvent in a prefixed pH range PR 8.5 12.5 . The present inventors developed a novel improved process for the sulfonation with sulfuric anhydride, whereby the treatment of the reaction product after the reaction completion is easy, which comprises using the copolymer of vinylpyridine with divinylbenzen instead of pridine bases Japanese Patent ApplicationNo. 57 90927 . The decapeptide I prepared in this invention is an important intermediate in producing caerulein because it can readily be converted into caerulein by sulfonation of the 7th amino acid tyrosine from the C terminal and subsequent deacetylation of the 6th amino acid threonine. Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel process for producing a caerulein intermediate decapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 I which comprises subjecting the hexapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH2 II to azide forming reaction at the C terminal and then to reaction with the tetrapeptide represented by the formula H Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 III wherein Ac means acetyl . Description of the Preferred Enbodiment The objective compound I in this invention can be produced by condensation of the hexapeptide of the above formula II with the tetrapeptide of the formula III according to the conventional method.For example, the C terminal hydrazide of the hexapeptide II is allowed to react with nitrous acid or derivatives thereof to give the corresponding C terminal azide compound IV H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly N3 IV which is then allowed to react with the tetrapeptide III . The formation of the azide compound IV from hexapeptide II may be carried out under the known reaction conditions for azide formation for example, the hexapeptide II is dissolved in a polar solvent such as dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide and so on, which is acidified with hydrochloric acid, and to which a nitrite such as sodium nitrite or isoamyl nitrite may be added at a low temperature about 10 C 1000 . The resulting azide compound IV without isolation from the reaction mixture is directly subjected to reaction with the tetrapeptide III . In more detail, the reaction mixture containing the azide compound ivy is basified with addition of an organic base such as triethylamine, tri n butylamine and the like, to which a dimethylformamide or dimethylsulfoxide solution of tetrapeptide III is added at a low temperature about 50 200C, preferably, 30 25 C and the resulting solution is allowed to stand at the same temperature for a few days.The objective product I may be ieo lated as a purified compound by means of conventional isolation technique, for example, evaporation of the solvent, reprecipitation, washing with solvents, drying and the like. The starting hexapeptide II in this invention is produced from the C terminal glycine derivative through the six steps as follows. The threonine derivative represented by the formula BOC Thr Ac OH n or its reactive derivatives are subjected to reaction with glycylhydrazine derivatives represented by the formula H Gly NIINH Z v to give the dipeptide represented by the formula BOC Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z viz which after elimination of the protecting group at theN terminal of the dipeptide is allowed to react with the tyrosine derivative represented by the formula BOC Try Bzl OH VIII or its reactive derivatives to give the tripeptide represented by the formula BOC Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z IX which after elimination of the protecting group at theN terminal is allowed to react with the aspartic acid derivatives represented by the formula BOC Asp OBzl OH X or its reactive derivative to give the tetrapeptide represented by the formula BOC Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XI which after elimination of the protecting group at theN terminal is allowed to react with the glutamine derivative represented by the formula BOC Gln OH XII or its reactive derivatives to give the pentapeptide represented by the formula BOC Gln Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XIII which after elimination of the protecting group at theN terminal is allowed to react wit h tbe pyroglutamic acid derivatives represented by the formula Z Pyr OH XIV or its reactive derivatives to give the hexapeptide represented by the formula Z Pyr Gln Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XV which is deprotected to give the objective compound II wherein the symbols BOC, Z and Bzl mean t butyloxyearbonSl, benzyloxycarbonyl and benzyl, respectively .The hexapeptide II may also be produced as shown below.The tetrapeptide represented by the formula H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr NHNH2 XVI is condensed with the dipeptide represented by the formula H Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XVII in the known.method, followed by deprotection of the hydrazide. On the other hand, another starting material tetrapeptide III is a known compound disclosed in J. Chem. Soc., c 555 1966 , which may be used as its acid addition salt such as the trifluoroacetate. The present invention is explained in more detail according to the following Preparations and Example. The symbols used in the structural formulas in Preparations andExample have the same meanings as mentioned in the formulas I xvii . Preparation of starting material 1 1 BOC Gly NHNH Z To a solution of 25g 0.143 mol of t butylowy carbonylglycine in 300ml of tetrahydrofuran are added 16.46g l.Omoi eq. of N hydroxysuccinimide and 2.95g 1.0 mol eq. of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC under ice cooling and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight. Then, the precipitated dicyclohexylurea is filtered off and the filtrate is condensed under reduced pressure and crystallized from ethyl acetate petroleum ether to give 33.09g in 85.0 yield of t butyloxycarbonylglycine.N succinimide ester. mp. 160 1620C The N succinimide ester is dissolved in a mixture of dimethylformamide 200ml and methylene chloride 200ml and a solution of 30.58g 0.184mol of benzyloxycarbonylhidradine in 50 ml of methylene chloride is added thereto under stirring and ice cooling, and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight under ice cooling. The reaction mixture is condensed under reduced pressure and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate, then washed with chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water, successively, and condensed under reduced pressure the residue is recrystallized from ether.petroleum ether to give 56.95g in 95.71g yield of N tbutyloxycarbonylgIycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydra zine as pillars. m.p. 85 870C. Anal. Calcd. for C15 H21N3O5 C, 55.72 H, 6.55 N, 13.00Found C, 55.61 , 6.50 X, 13.30 2 BOC Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z VII To a solution of 56.95g 0.176 mol of the above product in 300ml of acetic acid is added 300m1 3 mol eq. of 1.76N dry hydrochloric acid acetic acid, and after one hour at a room temperature, the mixture is condensed under reduced pressure. To the residue is added 300ml of toluene, from which most of the acetic acid is removed by azeotropic distillation. Then, 500ml of ether is added to the residue and the suspension is stirred to give 43.3g in 94.75 yield of Nglycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine hydrochloride as crystals. m.p. 177 1800C.Anal. Calcd. for C10H13N3O3.HCl C, 46.25 H, 5.43 N, 16.18 Cl, 13.65Found ffi C, 46.12 H, 5.34 N, 15.98 C1, 13.61 In 358m1 of dimethylformamide is dissolved 35.84g 0.138 mol of the above crystal, to which 329ml 0.1 mol eq. of tri n butylamine and 49.5g 0.138 mol of t butyloxycarbonyl O acetylthreonine.N succinimide ester Experientia, j2, 700 1967 are added under ice cooling, and the mixture is allowed to stand at the same temperature for 23 hours.The residue dis solved in ethyl acetate is washed with chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water successively, condensed under reduced pressure and then crystallized from 300m1 of petroleum ether to give 60.25g in 93.58 yield of N t butyloxycarbonyl O acetyl L threonylglycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine VII as crystals m.p. 54 65 C, alpha D22 17.0 0.6 c, 1.01, methanol Anal.Calcd. for C21H30N4O8 C, 54.07 H, 6.48 N, 12.01Found C, 54.55 H, 6.80 N, 11.52 3 BOC Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z IX The above product VII 32.42g 0.0695 mol is subjected to elimination of the protecting group under the same conditions as in the aforementioned steps to give 26.99g in 96.39 yield of N O acetylL threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine hydrochloride as crystals. m.p. 64 100 C. alpha 6.0 0.5 c, 1.008, methanol Anal.Calcd. for C16H22N4O6.HCl C, 47.71 H, 5.76 N, 13.91 Cl, 8.8t Found C, 47.81 H, 6.28 N, 13.09 Cl, 8.99 To a solution of 26.74g o.o664 mol of the above product in 270m1 of methylformamide are added 12.3g 1.0 mol eq. of tri n butylamine and 31.lg 1.0 mol eq. of t butyloxycarbonyl O benzyl L tyrosine.N succinimide ester under stirring and ice cooling, and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight. The reaction mixture is condensed under reduced pressure and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate, then washed with a chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water, successively, and condensed under reduced pressure.The residue is crystaRized from 350ml of ether to give 31.8g in 66.5 yield of N t butyloxy carbonyl O benzyl L,tyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine IX as crystals. m.p. 167 1690C. alpha D22 13.6 0.50 c, 1.019, methanol Anal. Calcd. for C37H45N5O10 C, 61.74 H, 6.30 N, 9.73 found C, 60.99 H, 6.22 N, 9.54 4 BOC Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XI Under the same conditions as in the above steps, 21.05g 29.2 m mol of the above product IX is subjected to elimination of the protecting group to give 18.74g in 97.6 yield of N O benzyl L tyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine hydrochloride. m.p. 120 128 C alpha D23 23.3 0.6 c, 1.0, methanol Anal. Calcd. for C32H37N5O8.HCl. 1 2H2O C, 57.78 H, 5.91 N, 10.54 Cl, 5.33 H20, 1.35 found C, 57.63 H, 5.86 N,10.54 C1, 5.13 H 0 G.69 To a solution of 18.58g 28.3m mol of the above product in 186ml of dimethylformamide are added 6.7ml 28.3m mol of tri n butylamine and ll.9g 28.3m mol of N succinimide t butyloxycarbonyl ss benzyl L aspartate, and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight. The reaction mixture is condensed under reduced pressure, and the residue is solidified with a mixture of ethyl acetate and ether. The resultant solid is collected by filtration, washed with a chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water, successively, then suspended in ethyl acetate, and collected by filtration to give 24.19g in 92. X yield of N t butyloxycar bonyl p benzyl L aspartyl O benzyl L yrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonyl hydrazine XI .m.p. 157 165 C. alpha D22 1.6 0.4 c, 1.001, methanol Anal. Calcd. for C48H56N6O13 C, 62.33 H, 6.10 N, 9.09Found C, 61.59 H, 5.97 N, 9.16 5 BOC Gln Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z XIII Under the same conditions as mentioned in the above steps, 24.08g 25.92m mol of the above product XI is subjected to elimination of the protecting group to give 22.3g in 100 yield of N p benzyl L aspartyl O benzyl L tyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benz yloxycarbonylhydrazine hydrochloride. a 22 19.0 0.6 c, 1.007, methanol Anal.Calcd. for C43H48N6O11 HCl H2O C, 58.73 H, 5.85 N, 9.56 C1, 4.03 1120, 2.05Found C, 58.65 H 5.77 N, 9.78 Cl, 3.99 1120, 1.90 To a solution of 22.13g 25.7m mol of the above product in 220ml of dimethylformamide are added 6.lml 1.0 mol eq. of tri n butylamine and 8.82g 25.7m mol of N succinimide t butyloxycarbonyl L glutamate under ice cooling and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight. The reaction mixture is condensed under reduced pressure, and ethyl acetate is added to the residue and stirred.The precipitated solid is collected by filtration, then washed with a chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water, successively, suspended in ethyl acetate and collected by filtration to give 23.85g in 88.0 yield of N t butyloxycarbo nyl L glutaminyl ss benzyl L aspartyl O benzyl Ltyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine XIII . m.p. 219 220 C. alpha D22 2.1 0.4 c, 1.007, dimethylformamide Anal. Calcd. for C53H64N8O15 1 2 H2O C. 59.93 H, 6.17 N, 10.55 H90, 0.85Found C, 59.87 H, 6.10 N, 10.87 H20, 0.75 6 Z Pyr Gln Asp OBzl Tyr Bzl Thr Ac Gly NHNN Z XV Under the same conditions as in the above steps, 23.69g 22.49m mol of the above product XIII is subjected to elimination of the protecting group to give 22.41g in 100 yield of N L glutaminyl ssbenzyl L aspartyl O benzyl L tyrosyl O acetyl Lthreonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine hydrochloride. alpha D23 4.4 0.4 c, 1.010, dime thylformamide Anal.Calcd. for C48H56N8O13 HCl H2O C, 57.22 H, 5.90 N, 11.12 Cl, 3.62 H20, 1.79Found C, 56.85 H, 5.98 N, 11.00 Cl, 3.48 H20, 1.19 To a solution of 22.29g 22.49m mol of the above product in 220ml of dimethylformamide are added 5.4ml 22.49m mol of tri n butylamine and 8.1g 22.49m mol of N succinimide benzyloxycarbonyl pyroglutamate and the mixture is allowed to stand overnight under Ace cooling. The reaction mixture is condensed under reduced pressure, and 170ml of ethyl acetate is added to the residue.The precipitated solid is collected by filtration, then washed a chilled diluted hydrochloric acid, water, a chilled aqueous solution of sodium hydrogencarbonate and water, successively, suspended in ethyl acetate and collected by filtration to give 24.57g in 91.3 yield of N benzyloxycarbonyl L pyroglutamyl L glutaminyl p benzyl L aspartyl O benzyl L tyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxyearbonylhydrazine XV . alpha D23 7.0 0.5 c, 1.008, dimethylformamide Anal.Calcd. for C61H67N9O17.1 2 H2O C, 60.69 H, 5.68 N, 10.44 H2O, 0.74Found C, 59.97 11, 5.84 N, 11.00 H20, 0.76 7 H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH2 HCl as the hydrochloride of the compound II To a solution of 24.0g 20m mol of the above product XV in 360ml of dimethylformamide are added 22.7m1 2 mol eq. of 1.76N dry hydrochloric acid acetic acid and 53.2ml of palladium black, and then the mixture is stirred under hydrogen atmosphere for 6 hours. The palladium catalyst is removed by filtration and washed with dimethylformamide the filtrate and washings are combined and evaporated under reduced pressure.The residue is solidified from a mixture of methanol and ether to give 16.9g in 100 yield of L pyroglutamyl L glutaminyl L aspartyl L tyrosyl O acetyl L threonyl glycylhydrazide hydrochloride. alpha D22.5 7.2 0.5 c, 1.016, dimethylformamide Anal.Calcd. for C31H43N9O13.HCl.H2O C, 46.30 H, 5.77 N, 15.68 Cl, 4.53 H2O, 2.24Found C, 45.58 H, 6.30 N, 15.50 Cl, 4.51 H20, 2.26Example H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly Trp Met Asp Phe NH2 I To a solution of 15.6g 16.57m mol x 1.2 of the above product the hydrochloride of iT in 312ml of dimethylformamide, which is cooled to 35 C bath temperature , are added 12.22ml 1.2 x 3 mol eq. of dryhydrochloric acid dioxane 4.9 mol l and 3.19ml 1.2 x 1.2 mol eq. of isoamyl nitrite, and the mixture is stirred for 20 minutes.The reaction mixture is then cooled to about 45 C, and 22.89ml 1.2x4 lmol eq. of tri n butylamine is dropwise added thereto and then a solution of 11.93g 19.57m mol of L tryptophyl L methyonyl L aspartyl L phenylalaninamide trifluoracetate in 72ml of dimethylformamide is added thereto at the same temperature, and the mixture is allowed to stand at a temperature of 300C 250C for 3 days, during which time tri n butylamine 11.43ml as a total amount is occasionrlly added dropwise in order to keep the reaction mixture at p 6 7. The reaction mixture is neutralized with 3.6ml of acetic acid and condensed under reduced pressure. The residue is suspended in 480ml of O.3N acetic acid, and the precipitating solid is collected by filtration, washed with water, methanol and ether, successively, and then dried on phosphorus pentoxide under reduced pressure at room temperature for 20 hours to give 17.03g in 78 yield of the objective product L pyroglutamyl L glutaminyl L aspartyl E tyrosyl O ac e tyl E threonyl glycyl L tryptophyl L methionyl L aspartyl L phenyl alaninamide I . alpha D22 20.4 1.2 c, 0.508, dimethylformamide Anal. Calcd. for C60H75N13O19S.2H2O C, 53.37 H, 5.80 N, 13.48 S, 2.37 H20, 2.67 Found k C, 52.68 H, 5.93 N, 13.27 S, 2.42 H2O, 3.34Preparation of starting material 2 1 H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH Z To a solution of 2.69g of L pyroglutamyl Lglu taminyl L aspartyl L tyrosylhydrazide in a mixture of 7ml of dimethylsulfoxide and 21ml of dimethylformamide are added 3.81ml of 4.88M hydrochloric acid acetic acid and 0.55ml of isoamyl nitrite, and the mixture is allowed to react for 20 minutes at a temperature of 230C 30 C.Then, to this reaction mixture are added a solution of l.Og of N L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine in 6ml of dimethylform amide and O.3ml of tri n butylamine, and then the mixture is allowed to react at 40C for 16 hours. The reaction mixture is worked up in the same manner as in Example 1 for preparing the starting material to give 0.92g in 42.2 yield of N L pyroglutamyl L gIutaminyl Las par tyl L tyro syl 0 ace tyl L threonyl glycyl N benzyloxycarbonylhydrazine. m.p. 207 208 C decomposition . alpha D23 5.00.5 c, 1.0, dimethylformamide . Anal. calcd. for C39H49H9O151 2H2O C, 52.46 H, 5.64 N, 14.12 H20, 1.01 Found ffi C, 51.46 H, 5.66 N, 14.54 H20, 1.12 18 2 H Pyr Gln Asp Tyr Thr Ac Gly NHNH2.Hcl as the hydrocloride of II To a solution of 0.781g of the above product in 15.6ml of dimethylformamide are added lml of 1.76 N dry hydrochloric acid acetic acid and lml of palladium black, and the mixture is stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere and then worked up in the same manner as in Example 1 for preparing the starting material to give O.666g in 95.97 yield of the titled product, hexapeptide hydrazide hydrochloride the hydrochloride of Il .