# Double heterostructure semiconductor laser with periodic structure formed in guide layer.

## Abstract
It is described a single axial mode semicoder laser which is superior in fundamental performance and has higher productivity, reliability, and yield. This double hetero structure semiconductor laser comprises a composite structure including a semiconductor substrate of one con ductivity type and disposed thereon a first semiconductor layer. The composite structure has a first level and a second level higher than said first level to an extent of the thickness of said first semiconductor layers or more. The transition between the first and second levels in the propagation of the laser radiation and having a slant crystal face, and said first semicondcutor layer on said second level having a periodic structure of a prescribed pitch of thickness formed along the side thereof in the propagation of the laser radiation. A second semiconductor layer of one conductivity type, formed on said first and second levels, has a greater bandgap than that of said first semiconductor layer, and is separated into two portions in the extension of said slant crystal face. A semiconductor active layer, formed on said second semiconductor layer, has a smaller bandgap than that of said second semiconductor layer, the ends of said semiconductor active layers and first semiconductor layer abutting together in the extension of said slant crystal face. A third semiconductor layer of the opposite conductivity type, formed on said semiconductor active layer, has a greater bandgap than that of said semiconductor active layer, whereby the application of a forward bias to said semicon ductor active layer produces stimulated emission of radia tion.