# Filter element.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a filter element 30, which comprises a spring 31 which is held coaxially with and between an inlet 32 and an outlet 33 by means of a cage 34. The spring 31 has a generally square cross section and is generally formed with lateral projections 35, which define the minimum filter gaps. Means 39, 45 are provided for extending the spring during backwash to enhance cleaning of the spring. The filter elements are particularly useful in air condi tioning apparatus.

## Claims
CLAIMS r 1. A filter element for filtering fluids, a body defining a plurality of filter gaps, the body being so constructed that the size of at least some of the gaps increases when the filter is extended. 2. An element as claimed in claim 1 wherein the body is elongate and axially resilient and or is held under compression for normal filtering 3. An element as claimed in claim 1 including extension means for extending the body. 4. An element as claimed in claim 2 wherein the extension means extend the body in response to a backwash pressure. 5. An element as claimed in claim 4 wherein the extension means comprise a closure extending across the internal cross section of the body or a piston or ram. 6o An element as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the extension means are automatically operable on backwash of the filter.. 7. An element as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the body is slidably mounted in an external cage. 8. An element as claimed in claim 7 wherein the cage comprises at least three axially extending rods. 9. An element as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the body is at least partially constituted by a spring and the gaps are defined between adjacent segments of the spring. 10. An element as claimed in claim 9 wherein the spring is formed with convergent faces directed in the direction of backwash flow and or has spaced lateral projections along its length for defining the minimum spacing for the gaps. 11. A reservoir for use with a backwashable filter, comprising a tank for receiving backwash liquid, a filter element disposed in the tank and means for reinjecting filtered backwash liquid into the filter or its associated system, 12. A reservoir as claimed in claim 11 wherein the filter element is an element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10. 13. A reservoir as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12 further comprising an intermittently drivable pump down stream of the filter element. 14. A reservoir as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13 further including means for backwashing the filter element. 15. A liquid system including a filter, means for intermittently backwashing the filter, a reservoir for the backwash fluid and means for intermittently reinjecting filtered backwash fluid from the reservoir into the system. 16. A liquid system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the reinjecting means operates in the periods between backwash. 17. A liquid system as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16 wherein the reinjecting means injects sufficient liquid system to replace that previously removed during backwash.

## Description
Filter Element This invention relates to filter elements and associated apparatus for use with a fluid filter, which is intended to be backwashed during its operation for example, filters which are used in air conditioning apparatus incorporating air cooling towers . It is known to increase the economic efficiency of an air conditioning apparatus incorporating an air cooling tower, by circulating water from the tower directly through the heat exchangers of the system, whenever the external temperature falls to a suitable level. For this to be achieved,it is necessary to filter the cooling tower liquid prior to its introduction into the heat exchanger circuit, because of the damaging waste which is picked up from the atombsphere by the cooling tower water.However, it has been found that certain type of waste, for example cotton seed waste, clog existing filter elements in such a way that they cannot be satisfactorily cleansed by simply backwashing. Further such blocking of the element causes the backwash system to be activated frequently giving rise to considerable risk of the air cooling tower tank being drained down and air being introduced into the system. It is an object of the invention to provide filter elements and or backwash apparatus which reduces the risk of a filter being undesirably blocked and or draining down of the tower. From one aspect the invention consists in a filter element for filtering fluid compflsing, a body defining a plurality of filter gaps, the body being so constructed that the size of at least some of the gaps increase when the body is extended. Preferably the body is elongate, hollow and axially resilient and is held under compression for normal filtering. In a preferred embodiment, the element includes extension means for axially extending the body.Conveniently the extension means extend the body in response to backwash pressure and they may be automatically operable on backwash of the element.The extension means may be constituted by a closure extending across the internal cross section of the body and connected to the body or, alternatively, they may comprise a piston, ram, solenoid or a lever mechanism. The lever mechanism may include a pivot able lever having one end attached to a block which is movable relative to the element and its other end attached to the body, such that backwash pressure causes movement of the block, and hence the lever, in a sense to extend the body. The other end of the lever may be connected to the body by a slidable carriage. In a preferred arrangement there are a pair of levers interconnected in a scissor formation. The body may be slidably mounted in an external cage, which may comprise at least three axially extending rods and which may include swirl inducing formations along at least part of its length. The body may be at least partially constituted by a spring and the gaps may be defined by adjacent portions of the spring. The spring may be formed with convergent faces directed in the direction of backwash flow and may have spaced lateral projections along its length for defining the minimum spacing of the gaps. The element may include means for oscillating the body between its normal and extended positions to enhance freeing of contaminant during backwash, in which case the extension means may co operate with means urging the body into its normal filtering position to provide automatically the oscillation. From another aspect the invention consists in a reservoir for use with a backwash filter comprising a tank for receiving backwash liquid, a filter element disposed in the tank and means for reinjecting filtered backwash liquid into the filter or its associated system. The tank may include a series of internal compartments interconnected by weirs or constant level devices, so that liquid flows through the compartments in series. In this case the filter element may be as defined above. The reservoir may further comprise an intermittently drivable pump downstream of the filter element and means may be provided for backwashing the filter element. The reservoir may further comprise means for draining contaminant from the tank, for example at least part of the base of the tank may be formed as a hopper. From a further aspect the invention consists in a liquid system having a liquid circuit including a filter, means for intermittently backwashing the filter and means for intermittently replacing the backwash fluid. The liquid system may further comprise a reservoir for receiving the backwash fluid, wherein the fluid replacement means is constituted by means for intermittently reinjecting filtered backwash fluid from the reservoir into the circuit. The reinjecting means may operate in the periods between backwash. The backwash means may be activated when the pressure drop across the filter reaches a predetermined value or at preset intervals. Preferably the backwash means are arranged to backwash a predetermined quantity of liquid. From a still further aspect the invention consists in a filter element having a body defining a plurality of filter gaps and an external cage for slidably containing the body. From another aspect the invention consists in filter element having a body defining a plurality of filter gaps and means for cyclically increasing and decreasing the size of the gaps during backwash. The invention may be performed in various ways, and one specific embodiment will now be described,with modifications,by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a liquid circuit for a known air conditioning apparatus Figure 2 is a part sectional side view of a filter element for use in the filtering of the circuit of Figure 1 Figure 3 is an enlarged detail of A in Figure 2 Figure 4 is a cross sectional view along the lines IV IV in Figure 2, to a different scale Figure 5 is a schematic representation of an alternative filter element Figure 6 is an enlarged sectional view of the end marked B in Figure 5 Figure 7 is a schematic side view of a filter and a backwash reservoir and Figure 8 is a part cutaway perspective view of the reservoir of Figure 7. The air conditioning system shown in Figure 1 includes a chiller 10, a heat exchanger 11, a cooling tower 20 and a filter 21. These elements are interconnected such that the heat exchanger 11 can be cooled either. by the chiller 10 or by water from the cooling tower 20. In this latter case the water must first be filtered by filter 21. This system is described in aetail in our co endingApplication No. 8205960. Conveniently the filter 21 contains a number of elongate filter elements through which the water normally flows from outside to in. Provision is made for backwashing the element either simultaneously or separately when the elements become blocked. Figure 2 shows a filter element according to the invention for use in the filter 21. The filter element generally indicated at 30 comprises a spring 31, which is held coaxially with and between an inlet 32 and an outlet 33 by means of a cage 34. The normal flow through the filter is indicated by the solid arrows. As can best be seen in Figure 3,the spring 31 has a generally square cross section and is formed with lateral projections 35 along one edge.These projections define a minimum filter gap between adjacent segments of the spring. One end 36 of the spring is welded to an annulus 37 which is fixed in the outlet 33,whilst the other end 38 is secured to a cup shaped member 39 which closes it.The cup shaped member 39 forms an abutment for a compression spring 40 which serves to compress the filter spring 31, during normal operation, to maintain the minimum filter gap. When the filter element is backwashed the interior of the spring 31 is subjected to the full system pressure,whilst the exterior of the spring 31 is connected to atmosphere. This causes a considerable pressure drop across the cup shaped member 39 moving it axially to the left against the action of compression spring 40 and hence causing the spring 31 to be extended. This extension increases the size of the filter gaps 41,enhancing freeing of the contaminant caught in the gaps. As the gaps open there will be a slight drop in the effective system pressure with the result that the cup shaped member 39 will move slightly to the right decreasing the size of gaps 31.The pressure will then build up again and it will be seen that the spring will oscillate in length further improving the freeing of the caught particles. The cage 34 comprises three axially extending rods 34a interconnected at both ends andcontained by a spiral wire 42. This construction of cage is particularly advantageous, because the spring decreases slightly in cross section during extension and there is thus no frictional snagging between the spring 31 and the cage 34. This helps to ensure equal opening of the gaps 41. It will be appreciated that the spiral wire 42 will help to swirl liquid along the length of the element 30 during normal flow causing the full length of the filter to be used. In a number of known filters the flow, during normal filtering, is from inside to out and therefore a different extension mechanism is required. An example is shown in Figures 5 and 6. In this embodiment the other end 38 of the spring 31 is connected to a slidable carriage 43. This carriage can be moved axially to the left i.e. to extend the spring by a lever mechanism generally indicated at 44. The lever mechanism comprises a pair of levers 45 connected in scissor formation and pivoted between their ends about a fixed pivot 46. One end 47 of each lever is located in a respective aperture 48 in the carriage 43, whilst the other end 49 is slid ably mounted on a block 50 by means of a respective pin 51. The block 50 is axially slidable within the cage 34 and each pin is slidably mounted in the block by means of a respective lateral slot 52. During normal flow the block 50 is maintained in its solid line position by means of the liquid pressure and or suitable springs not shown acting on the block 50 and or the carriage 43. When backwash occurs the outside of the element experiences the full system pressure, whilst the inside is connected to atmosphere. The result is that the block 50 is urged axially to the right causing the levers 45 to open, as indicated by the arrows, drawing the carriage 43 into its dotted line or lefthand position and hence extending the spring 31. Currently when filters are backwashed the liquid is normally poured straight into the drain. This is wasteful and in certain parts of the world illegal. In addition the sudden removal of large quantities of liquid from the system can cause the cooling tower tanks or pans to be drained down so quickly that air is introduced into the system.Figures 7 and 8 show an arrangement for reducing or avoiding these problems. As can be seen in Figure 7 the filter is connected to a reservoir 53 by a backwash drainpipe 54. The reservoir 53 is further connected to the filter 21, via a pump 55, by means of an inlet pipe 56. Referring now to Figure 8 the reservoir 53 comprises a tank 57, which is sub divided into internal compartments 58, 59 and 60. The compartments are interconnected by weirs 61 and 62 such that water initially flows into the compartment 58, then into 59 and finally into 60. This arrangement ensures that the majority of the contaminant settles in the compartment 58 and can be removed, for example through a draincock 63. A filter element 64, which may be, for example,the element shown in Figure 2, is disposed in the downstreammost compartment 60.The interior of the element 64 is connected to the pump 55 so that water can be drawn from the compartment 60, through the filter element 64, and pumped back into the system via the inlet pipe 56. Provision for ba ckwashing the element 64 is schematically indicated at 65. The reservoir 53 can be utilised in a number of ways. Most simply it can be used merely for reinjecting backwash fluid resulting from normal backwash of the filter. However, more beneficially the control of the air conditioning system can be arranged so that the elements are backwashed intermittently and fluid from the compartment 60 can be reinjected in the periods between backwash. Indeed to guard against draining down of the cooling tower it is preferred that each backwash is limited to a certain quantity of liquid, e.g. 10 gallons,so that backwashing occurs almost continuously on an intermittent basis. It will be appreciated that the reservoir 53 may form a permanent attachment to the liquid system, but alternatively it may be utilised as a separate temperature unit for cleansing dirty systems, particularly on a pre commissioning basis. Returning to the filter elements 30 the backwash pressure activated extension mechanisms may be replaced by externally operable piston, rams etc., which can be controlled in accordance with the operation of the filter. The provision of convergent faces 66 on the spring 31 may also enhance opening of the gaps 41. The spring 31 may be located around a perforate cylinder rather than by the cage 34, but this is less satisfactory as frictional snagging will occur.