# Vibratory machinery.

## Abstract
Vibratory machinery comprising a base 60 on which a vibratory part 61 is mounted through a resilient mounting means 63, 65 , a vibrator 10 mounted on the vibratory part 61 to cause vibration thereof, the vibrator 10 comprising a first shaft 14 rotatable in one direction about a first rotational axis and carrying a first mass 17 for rotation about said first axis, a second shaft 19 driven from the first shaft 14 and rotatable about a second rotational axis paral lel to the first rotational axis, in a second direction opposite to the first direction, the second shaft 19 carrying a second mass 21 for rotation about the second axis, the first shaft 14 , or an extension 25 of the first shaft 14 , comprising an output shaft of a motive unit 42 secured to or integral with the vibrator 10 .

## Claims
CLAIMS I. Vibratory machinery comprising a base 60 on which a vibratory part 61 is mounted through a resilient mounting means 63,65 , a linear vibrator 10 mounted on the vibratory part 61 to cause vibration thereof, the linear vibrator 10 comprising a casing I I , a first shaft 14 mounted in the casing 11 and rotatable in a first direction about a first rotational axis and carrying the first shaft 14 , a first mass 17 for rotation about said first axis, a second shaft 19 mounted in the casing I I driven from the first shaft 14 and rotatable about a second rotational axis parallel to the first rotational axis, in a second direction opposite to the first direction, the second shaft 19 carrying a second mass 21 for rotation about the second axis, characterised in that the first shaft 14 or an extension 25 of the first shaft, extends from said casing I I and the first shaft 14 , or an, or the, extension 25 of the first shaft 14 comprises an output shaft of a motive unit 42 secured to or integral with the vibrator 10 . 2. Vibratory machinery according to Claim I characterised in that the motive unit 42 has an outer casing 43 secured directly to the casing I I of the vibrator 10 but the motive unit 42 being readily separable from the vibrator 10 . 3. Vibratory machinery according to Claim 2 characterised in that either or both the motive unit casing 43 or the casing I I of the vibrator 10 has mounting means to enable the vibrator 10 and motive unit 42 to be secured to the remainder of the machinery 4. Vibratory machinery according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the output shaft 45 of the motive unit 42 is an extension of the first shaft 14 , the first shaft 14 and the output shaft 45 of the motive unit 42 being rigidly connected together by a key 57 positioned in aligned slots 50 , one slot being in said first shaft 14 and one slot being in said output shaft 45 . 5. Vibratory machinery according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the motive unit 42 comprises an electric motor, the windings 45a of the motor surrounding or partially surrounding a rotor 45 which comprises said output shaft, the windings being wholly within the casing 43 where provided of the motive unit 42 . 6. Vibratory machinery according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the first 14 and second 19 shafts of the vibrator 10 each have meshing spur gears 22,23 whereby the second shaft 19 is driven from the motive unit 42 through the first shaft 14 , the spur gears 22,23 having the same number of teeth so that the masses 17,21 are rotated in opposite directions but at the same speed. 7. Vibratory machinery according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the first and second masses 17,21 are equal and are angularly disposed on their respective shafts 14,19 so that twice in each rotation of the shafts 14,19 the centre of gravity of each mass simultaneously lies in a plane containing the axis of rotation of the shafts 14,19 , and when in said plane the centres of gravity of the masses 17,21 are alternately at positions close together and then furthest apart. 8. Vibratory machinery according to any one of the preceding claims characterised in that the resilient mountings on the vibratory machinery comprise a plurality of linkages 63 each pivotally connected to the base 60 and to the vibrating part 61 with a spring means 65 between the base 60 and the linkage 63 . 9. A linear vibrator 10 comprising a casing II , a first shaft 14 mounted in the casing I I and rotatable in a first direction about a first rotational axis and the first shaft 14 carrying a first mass 17 for rotation about said first axis, a second shaft mounted in the casing I I and driven from the first shaft 14 and rotatable about a second rotational axis parallel to the first rotational axis, in a second direction opposite to the first direction, the second shaft 19 carrying a second mass 21 for rotation about the second axis, characterised in that the first shaft 14 , or an extension 25 of the first shaft 14 extends from said casing I I and the first shaft 14 or an, or the extension of the first shaft 14 , comprises an output shaft of a motive unit 42 secured to or integral with the vibrator 10 . 10. A vibrator according to Claim 9 having any of the features of the vibrator 10 of the vibratory machinery according to any one of Claims I to 9.

## Description
Title Vibratory Machinery This invention relates to vibratory machinery and to a vibrator for causing said machinery to vibrate. There are many uses for vibratory machines, one being to convey articles. An article placed at one location on a platform of a vibratory conveyor, is caused to move by the vibrations to a second location. Another use is for classifying grading articles such as vegetables and fruit which are caused to move across an apertured platen, the apertures being of increasing size across the platen. More particularly, the invention relates to a machinery which is vibrated by a linear vibrator so that vibrating movement takes place along a linear vibrating axis. It has been common practice to provide a vibrator which is secured to the machinery and is actuated as a shaft thereof is rotated. A transmission, such as a V belt has been provided to transmit power from a power means, such as an electric motor, to the shaft. The power means has been mounted on a base structure or elsewhere remote from the vibrator. It has been essential in, for example, applications such as freezing vegetables, where the vegetables have to be frozen within a very short time of harvesting to provide a separate motor which can easily be replaced should the windings become worn or the motor otherwise malfunction. Any delay in conveying the vegetables could result in damage to the vegetables. Such a vibrator is disclosed in U.S. Specification 2,097,347. However, this arrangement also has many disadvantages. A primary disadvantage is that the transmission and separate power means require much space, which space may not be readily available in some applications. Another disadvantage in achieving a satisfactory transmission because of the relative movement between the power means and the vibrator as the machinery vibrates. Another disadvantage is that the transmission or the entire machinery needs to be well guarded so that an operator does not become trapped by a moving part of the transmission. One obvious solution to these problems is to mount the power means more closely adjacent to the vibrator, but because the motor and vibrator are still separate parts, it is necessary to provide a transmission and thus the transmission or the entire machinery, still requires guarding. It is one object of the invention to provide a new or improved vibratory machinery. According to one aspect of the invention, we provide vibratory machinery comprising a base on which a vibratory part is mounted through a resilient mounting means, a linear vibrator mounted on the vibratory part to cause vibration thereof, the linear vibrator comprising a chamber, a first shaft mounted in the chamber and rotatable in a first direction about a first rotational axis and the first shaft carrying a first mass for rotation about said first axis, a second shaft mounted in the chamber driven from the first shaft and rotatable about a second rotational axis parallel to the first rotational axis, in a second direction opposite to the first direction, the second shaft carrying a second mass for rotation about the second axis, the first shaft, or an extension of the first shaft extending from the chamber and the first shaft, or, an, or the extenson of the first shaft, comprising an output shaft of a motive unit secured to or integral with the vibrator. Thus the necessity to provide separate vibrator and power means and transmission between them, which requires guarding is entirely eliminated. It has been found surprisingly that as well as a notable increase in reliability by providing such a direct drive arrangement, there is a considerable increase in efficiency which enables a much smaller vibrator to be used. The motive unit may be readily separable from the vibrator so that the motive unit alone can be replaced in the event of a breakdown, but where there is insufficient time or space available, if desired the entire vibrator and motive unit assembly may be replaced. To assist this, preferably the motive unit and or vibrator is are readily removable from the machinery, e.g. bolted thereto or otherwise secured in a manner to permit of easy removal. Preferably the motive unit has an outer casing secured directly to the casing of a vibrator surrounding the first and second shafts, which casing may have mounting means to enable the vibrator and motive unit to be secured to the vibratory part or alternatively, only one of the casings may have such mounting means. Preferably the output shaft of the motive unit is an extension of the first shaft, and the output and first shafts are rigidly connected and co axial. The first shaft and the output shaft of the motive unit may be connected together in any suitable manner such as for example by a key positioned in aligned slots, one slot being in said first shaft and one slot being in said output shaft. Conveniently, the driving connection between said output shaft of the motive unit and the first shaft, and any connection provided between any casing surrounding the motive unit and any casing of the vibrator surrounding said first and second shafts, may be such that separation of said motive unit from said first and second shafts can be achieved without difficulty. The motive unit may comprise an electric motor and the windings of the motor may surround or partially surround a rotor which comprises said output shaft, the windings being wholly within the casing of the motive unit where this is provided. The first and second shafts of the vibrator may each have meshing spur gears whereby the second shaft is driven from the motive unit through the first shaft. Preferably the spur gears have the same number of teeth so that the masses are rotated in opposite directions but at the same speed. The first and second rotating masses may comprise lobes of metal secured to their respective shafts. Preferably, the first and second masses are equal and are angularly disposed on their respective shafts so that twice in each rotation of the shafts the centre of gravity of each mass simultaneously lies in a plane containing the axis of rotation of the shafts. More preferably the centres of gravity of the masses are alternately at positions close together and then furthest apart when in said plane. Thus when said masses are in said close together positions, the masses are moving in the same first directions, i.e.parallel to tangents to the circumferences of rotation of the centres of gravity, and when said masses are in said furthest apart positions the masses are moving in the same second direction opposite to the first direction, and when in an intermediate position half way between said close together and furthest apart positions, the masses are moving in relatively opposite directions and thus balance the effect of one another out. Regular, linear pulsed vibrations are thus provided by the vibrator along a vibrating axis parallel to the first and second directions, and perpendicular to said plane. To increase the strength of the vibrations of the vibratory machinery, the output shaft of the motive unit may at its end remote from the vibrator, comprise a first shaft, or an extension of a first shaft of a further vibrator substantially identical to the vibrator hereinbefore described, i.e. having first and second masses rotatable in opposite directions about respective first and second shafts. Thus the motive unit may provide power to both the vibrators. The resilient mountings on the vibratory machinery may comprise a plurality of linkages each pivotally connected to the base and to the vibrating part with a spring means between the base and the linkage, although any other type of resilient mounting means could alternatively be provided which permits linear vibration of the vibratory part relative to the base. The vibratory machinery may comprise a conveyor for conveying an article or articles and may be mounted so that the vibratory axis extends in the direction of desired travel of the article or articles. Of course, the vibratory machinery may comprise any other type of machinery which has a part which is required to vibrate linearly with the vibrating axis aligned with the desired direction of vibration. According to a second aspect of the invention, we provide a linear vibrator comprising a casing, a first shaft mounted in the casing and rotatable in a first direction about a first rotational axis and the first shaft carrying a first mass for rotation about said first axis, a second shaft mounted in said casing and driven from the first shaft and rotatable about a second rotational axis parallel to the first rotational axis, in a second direction opposite to the first direction, the second shaft carrying a second mass for rotation about the second axis, the first shaft, or an extension of the first shaft extending from the casing and the first shaft, or an, or the extension of the first shaft, comprising an output shaft of a motive unit secured to or integral with the vibrator. The vibrator according to the second aspect of the invention may have any of the features of the vibrator of the vibratory machinery of the first aspect of the invention. Furthermore, the output shaft of the motive unit may, at its end remote from the vibrator, comprise a first shaft, or an extension of a first shaft of a further vibrator. The invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which FIGURE I is a sectional side view through a vibrator according to the second aspect of the invention for use in vibratory machinery according to the first aspect of the invention FIGURE 2 is a schematic view of part of a conveyor with the vibrator of Figure I attached. Referring to Figure 1, there is shown a linear vibrator 10 comprising a vibrator casing II which provides first and second chambers 12, 13 which each have an annular space in which a mass is rotated, as hereinafter described.Within the first chamber 12, a first shaft 14 is mounted for rotation in bearings 15, the first shaft 14 having keyed thereto a bush 16 which is integral with a first mass 17 comprising a lobe of metal extending outwardly of the bush 16. As the shaft 14 is rotated, the mass 17 is rotated in the annular space of the chamber 12 with the shaft causing a vibration. Within the second chamber 13 there is mounted for rotation in bearings 18 a second shaft 19 having keyed thereto a bush 20 which is integral with a second mass 21 comprising a lobe of metal extending outwardly of the bush 20, so that as the shaft 19 rotates, the second mass 21 is caused to rotate in the annular space of the chamber 13 with the shaft 19, also causing a vibration. The first shaft 14 has mounted on the end thereof adjacent the second chamber 13 a spur gear 22, and similarly the second shaft 19 has mounted on the end thereof adjacent the first chamber 12, a further spur gear 23, the gears 22, 23 meshing. As the shaft 14 rotates, for exampie in a clockwise direction, the second shaft 19 is thus caused to rotate in an anti clockwise direction. The gears 22, 23 are of the same size and have the same number of teeth and this enables the shafts 14, 19 to rotate at the same rotational speed, although oppositely. The axes of the shafts 14 are parallel and the masses 17, 21 are angularly arranged on their respective shafts 14, 19 so that twice in each rotation of the shafts 14, 19 the masses are simultaneously in positions where the centre of gravity of each mass lies in a plane containing the axes of rotation of the shafts 14, 19. The centres of gravity of the masses 17, 21 are alternately in positions where they are close together and moving in the same first direction, and positions where they are furthest apart and again moving in the same second direction opposite to the first direction, the first and second directions being parallel to tangents to the circumferences of rotation of the centres of gravity. Thus the masses rotate in phase . At intermediate positions halfway between the furthest apart and closest together positions, the masses are moving in relatively opposite directions and thus balance one another out. Thus the vibrator 10 as the masses 17, 21 move in the first or second directions is urged linearly along a vibratory axis which is parallel to the first and second directions. As seen in Figure I, one of the masses, i.e. mass 21 is in the lower part of its respective chamber 13, whilst the other mass 17 is in the upper part of its respective chamber 12. As each of the masses 17, 21 are rotating oppositely, but moving in the same first direction, the vibrator 10 will tend to be urged along the vibratory axis in the first direction which is normal to the plane of the paper. When both the masses 17, 21 rotate through 900, they will cancel one another out because they will be moving in relatively opposite directions. When the masses 17, 21 rotate through a further 900 they will assume opposite positions to those shown, that is with the mass 21 in the upper part of its respective chamber 13 and the mass 17 in the lower part of its respective chamber 12. Hence the vibrator 10 will be urged in a second direction opposite to the first direction along the vibratory axis. It can be seen that the first shaft 14 extends outwardly of chamber 12 and hence casing II away from chamber 13, and the extending end, designated 25, is received in further bearings 26. Similarly, the second shaft 19 extends outwardly of chamber 13 away from chamber 12 and the extended end 27 is received in further bearings 28. The casing II is made in two parts, a first part 30 which provides the whole of chamber 12 and approximately one half of chamber 13, and a second part 31 secured to part 30 by bolts 32, which provides the remainder of chamber 13, including a mounting 33 for bearings 18 and mounting 34 for bearings 28. An end cap 35 is also provided to cover the extending end of shaft 19 and to permit ready replacement of the bearings 28, the cap 35 being secured to casing part 31 by bolts 36. The first casing part 30 provides a mounting 37 for bearings 15 and a mounting 38 for bearings 26, and a further cap 39, secured to the casing part 30 by bolts 40, surrounds the extending end 25 of the shaft 14 and allows for ready removal of the bearings 26. It will be appreciated that the vibrator provides a simple construction which is easily maintainable. Because the masses 17, 21 are balanced as described above, wear on the respective bearings 15, 18, 26, 28 is low but when it is necessary to replace the bearings, after prolonged use, the end bearings 26, 28 can easily be replaced by removing caps 39 or 35 respectively, whilst the main bearings 15, 18 are accessible by separating the two casing parts 30, 31. Previously, to power a vibrator, it has been usual practice to rotate the first shaft 14 by securing a pulley or the like to the part of the extended end 25 of the shaft 14 which extends from the cap 39. This has inherent disadvantages as described above. In the vibrator 10 described, all these disadvantages are overcome because a motive unit 42 is directly secured to the vibrator 10. The unit 42 comprises a casing 43 which is bolted to the casing II of the vibrator by bolts 44, the end edge 46 of the casing being of corresponding configuration to an abutting part of casing part 30. The end of casing 43 which engages casing II is open and the mounting 38 for bearings 26 and the end cap 39 of the vibrator 10, are received in the open end of the motive unit 42. The motive unit 42 comprises an electric motor having a rotor 45 which is caused to rotate when windings 45a which surround the rotor 45 are energised. The rotor 45 is, in the example shown, a coaxial rigid extension of the first shaft 14 of the vibrator 10 and is connected thereto by the extending end 25 of the shaft 14 being received in a bore 50 in rotor 45, and being held therein by a woodruff key 51, the bore 50 and end 25 each having a slot to receive the key 57. Of course, if required the rotor 45 could be otherwise arranged to rotate the shaft 14. For example, the shaft 14 may be geared to rotor 45, or the rotor 45 and shaft 14 may comprise an integral assembly of component parts. Referring again to Figure 1, it can be seen that the left end 47 of the rotor 45 is supported by the shaft 14. The right end 48 of the rotor 45 is mounted in bearings 49 for rotation, which bearings are supported in a bush 50 which is secured by bolts 51 to the right end of casing 43. A cap 52 is secured to bush 50 by bolts 53 and provide ready access to bearings 49. The motive unit is itself a simple construction and is easily maintained.If it is necessary to rewind the windings 45a of the unit, the bush 50 is removed and thus the windings 45a can be removed from the casing 43. The entire unit 42 may be removed from the vibrator 10 if required, by merely unfastening the bolts 44 and pulling the casing 43 sideways. If desired, the motive unit may power a further vibrator, the shaft 45 not terminating within a cap 52 as shown, but extending therefrom as indicated in dotted lines, the cap 52 being omitted and the shaft 45 being secured, for example by a similar connection to that between the shafts 45 and 25, to a further shaft similar to shaft 25 comprising a first shaft of a vibrator substantially identical to vibrator 10. The casing 42 of the motive unit may in this event need to be modified at its right hand end to facilitate connection to a casing of the further vibrator. Referring now to Figure 2, there is shown one example of vibratory machinery with which the vibrator 10 and motive unit 42 of Figure I can be used. The machinery comprises a conveyor having a base 60 and a conveyor platform 61 comprising a channel shaped part. The platfonn 61 is connected to the base 60 by a plurality of links 63 which are pivoted at either end to the platform and base respectively. The channel platform may be slightly inclined to the horizontal if required to facilitate an article placed on the platform adjacent end 64 being caused to be conveyed to the right in the direction of arrow A. The links 63 are connected adjacent their pivoted ends to one end of a spring means 65, the other end of which is anchored to the base 60. On the end 64 of the conveyor there is mounted a vibrator 10 as hereinbefore described, the casing II of the vibrator 10 being provided with brackets 66 to facilitate mounting. In the example shown, the vibratory part 61 of the vibratory machinery is intended to vibrate in a cyclic path in response to the linear vibrations of the vibrator 10 so that an article placed on the platform 61 is conveyed in the direction of arrow A. Accordingly the resilient mountings are arranged so that a horizontal vibration of vibrator 10 causes the required response in the conveyor platform 61. Thus the vibrator 10 is mounted so that the vibratory axis V thereof is horizontal.Of course any other type of resilient mounting means may be provided, which allow for cyclic vibration of a part such as platform 61. In another vibratory machine, it may be desirable for the vibrator 10 to vibrate along a vertical or other vibratory axis in which case the vibratory 10 will need to be mounted in the appropriate orientation. It is preferred that the centres of gravity of the masses 17, 21 lie in a plane, or closely adjacent to a plane containing the upper surface of the conveyor platform. It can be seen that the only connection which has to be made to the vibrator 10 is for an electrical lead 67 to be connected to the mains. Thus the need to provide a transmission between a separate motor and a vibrator is eliminated and guarding of the transmission is not required and the motive unit 42 vibrates with the vibrator 10 to provide a linear, balanced vibrator. Further, where previously the motor has been mounted on a framework which extends from the base above the conveyor platform, which has restricted the uses to which the conveyor can be put due to the increased height. In the present example, the maximum height is that of the platform 61 and thus the conveyor is far more versatile than known conveyors. If the vibrator 10 or motive unit 42 malfunction, a repair can be carried out in situ as hereinbefore described, or the motive unit 42 can be replaced.Further alternatively, if desired by undoing the brackets 66, the entire vibrator 10 and motive unit 42 can be replaced. The invention is applicable to other types of vibratory machinery having a part which it is desired to vibrate and the scope of the invention as claimed is not restricted to conveyors as hereinbefore described. The features disclosed in the foregoing description, in the following claims and or in the accompanying drawings may both, separately and in any combination thereof, be material for realising the invention in diverse forms thereof.