# Output filter having swinging inductor.

## Abstract
An output filter for a switched mode power supply with a direct current output is disclosed. The output filter comprises at least two inductors connected in series. One inductor is a swinging inductor or swinging choke that exhibits a relatively high impedance at low current levels and a relatively low im pedance at high current levels. The swinging inductor has a magnetic core characterized by a closed magnetic circuit with no air gaps. This results in reducing the critical current of the output filter to an even smaller level than does a swinging in ductor of conventional construction.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An output filter 20 for a switched mode power supply having a direct current output, said filter comprising at least two inductors 21, 22 connected in a series circuit relationship, one said inductor being a swinging inductor 22 characterized by having a closed magnetic core 36 having effectively no air gaps. 2. The output filter of claim 1 wherein said two inductors are connected in series with a direct current load and further including a capacitance 23 connected in parallel to said load. 3. An output filter 20 for a switched mode power supply having a direct current output, said filter comprising at least two inductors 21, 22 connected in a series circuit relationship, one said inductor being a swinging inductor 22 characterized by having a magnetic core 36 that has a continuous magnetic path with no air gaps.

## Description
OUTPUT FILTER HAVING SWINGING INDUCTOR This invention relates generally to the field of swinging chokes or swinging inductors , and more particularly to the use of such chokes with a switched mode power supply e.g. a pulse width modulated power supply . In order to maintain good output regulation in multi output switched mode power supplies, swinging chokes are commonly used. For a multi output switched mode power supply, if series regulation of the outputs is not used, proper regulation can become a problem at low load currents typically around 10 of full rated load this difficulty in proper regulation is believed to be due to discontinuous current flow in the output filter choke. In order to maintain a good regulation characteristic without using series regulation one solution has been to have a bleed load, consisting of a resistor, permanently connected so as to carry at least the critical current of the output filter choke. Note that the critical current is defined as that current below which discontinuous current flow in the output filter choke of the power supply occurs. It can be appreciated that using a bleed load is an inefficient manner of operating a power supply and results in additional and usually unwanted heat dissipation. The magnitude of the critical current can be reduced by increasing the inductance value of the output filter choke. Normally this is not done for two reasons. Firstly, the choke itself would become bulkier and have more loss, and secondly, the control loop bandwidth would be reduced. The preferred solution has been the use of a swinging choke , placed in series with the filter choke. The swinging choke is so called because it is designed to swing alternate between a relatively small inductance when the current is above the critical current i.e. the swinging choke saturates , and a relatively large inductance when the current is below the critical current. This results in the critical current being reduced to a lower value, determined by the higher combined inductance before the swinging choke saturates . A swinging choke used for such a purpose is characterized by a core having an air gap. The air gap in the core is optimized too wide a gap and the inductance of the switching choke is too small too narrow a gap and the choke saturates at too low a current magnitude. One attempt to optimize the air gap size is to use a core having a stepped gap. The article Characterization, Modeling and Design of Swinging Inductors for Power Conversion Applications by J.M. Dishman et al on pages B 3 page 1 to B 3 page 13 of the Proceedings of Powercon 8 1981, Power Concepts Inc., P.O. Box 5226, Ventura, California 93003 depicts one such stepped gap design.Summary of the Invention The present invention is directed to a swinging choke of different construction to the aforementioned conventional swinging chokes.This different construction results in reducing the magnitude of the critical current to an even smaller magnitude than does the conventional swinging choke. In more detail, the swinging choke of the present invention employs a gapless core and the AL inductance factor is no longer optimized but rather is made large. Stated in other terms, the present invention is an output filter for a switched mode power supply having a direct current output, the filter comprising at least two inductors connected in a series circuit relationship, one inductor being a swinging inductor characterized by having a closed magnetic core having effectively no air gaps.Brief Description of the Drawings The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein like parts in each of the several figures are identified by the same reference character and wherein Figure 1 is a simplified schematic of a prior art application of a swinging choke Figure 2 is a simplified representation of a prior art swinging choke suitable for use in the Figure 1 embodiment and Figure 3 is a simplified representation of a swinging choke constructed according to the present invention and suitable for use in theFigure 1 embodiment.Detailed Description Figure 1 depicts a not untypical simplified prior art output circuit 10 of a switched mode power supply connected to a load 11. Output circuit 10 comprises a transformer 12, with windings 13 and 14 as depicted. Diodes 16 and 17 form a half wave rectifier 18. Output filter 20 is comprised of inductor or choke 21, swinging inductor 22, and capacitor 23. Figure 2 depicts one example of a prior art core 26 for a swinging inductor having an air gap. In this particular instance, the air gap is stepped, and there are in effect four distinct air gaps, namely air gaps 27, 28, and 29 being of the same size, and air gap 30 being significantly larger. Core 26 can be considered as having a centre leg 32, and outer legs 33 and 34. Outer leg 33 contains air gap 27 outer leg 34 contains air gap 29 and centre leg 32 contains both air gaps 28 and 30. Such a core is depicted and described in the aforementioned article by Dishman et al. Figure 3 depicts a core 36 for a swinging inductor constructed according to the present invention. It will be noted that core 36 of Figure 3 is identical to core 26 of Figure 2, except for the fact that core 36 has no air gaps. Core 26 has a centre leg 37 and outer legs 38 and 39. The inductor winding not shown is wound around centre leg 37 in a conventional fashion.