# H2S removal.

## Abstract
In a process for the removal of H₂S from sour gas by con tacting the gas with an aqueous solution containing an oxidiz ing polyvalent metal chelate, the reduced chelate is regenerat ed in an electrochemical cell in which anode and cathode are separated by a hydrogen ion permeable barrier and a oxygen is supplied to the cathode and water is formed at the cathode, or b hydrogen is produced at the cathode.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the removal of H2S from a sour gaseous stream, which process comprises the following steps a contacting the sour gaseous stream in a contacting zone with an aqueous reaction solution at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the solution containing an oxidi zing reactant comprising one or more oxidizing polyvalent metal chelate compounds and producing a sweet gaseous stream and an aqueous reaction solution containing crystalline sulphur and reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates b regenerating the reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates in an electrochemical cell comprising an anode section containing an anode and a separate cathode section containing a cathode connected to the anode, the anode section and the cathode section being separated by a hydrogen ion permeable barrier, said regeneration being carried out by oxidizing the reduced polyvalent mEtal chelate or chelates of said acid in the aqueous reaction solution at the anode by allowing hydrogen ion to migrate to the cathode section, and by bl using a cathode connected through an external electrical connection to the anode, supplying direct current to said cell and concomitantly supplying oxygen to the cathode and forming water at the cathode, or b2 using a cathode connected through an external load to the anode, producing direct current through said load and con canitantly supplying oxygen to the cathode section and forming water at the cathode, or b3 using a cathode connected through an external electrical connection to the anode, supplying direct current to said cell and producing hydrogen at the cathode, and c removing sulphur from the aqueous reaction solution and, in case of bl and b2 water, and, in case of b3 hydrogen fran the cathode section. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1, in which the said contacting zone comprises the said anode section. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1, in which aqueous admixture containing reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates is with drawn from the contacting zone of step a , withdrawn aqueous admixture is electrolytically regenerated by passing the aqueous admixture through the anode section of the electrochemical cell of step b and regenerated aqueous admixture is removed fram the anode section and returned to the contacting zone. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3, in which sulphur is removed from the aqueous admixture prior to the electrolytic regeneration thereof. 5. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the oxidizing reactant comprises one or more oxidizing polyvalent metal chelates of an acid having the formulaEMI18.1 from two to four of the groups Y represent carboxymethyl or 2 carboxyethyl groups from zero to two of the groups Y represent a 2 hydroxyethyl or 2 hydroxyprogyl group or a group having the general formulaEMI18.2 wherein X represents a carbcsymethyl or 2 carboxyethyl group and R represents an ethylene, propylene, isopropylene, 1,2 cyclo hexylene or 1,2 benzylene group. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5, in which the reactant is a polyvalent metal chelate of an aminoacetic acid derived from ethylenediamine. 7. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the polyvalent metal is iron. 8. A process as claimed in claim 7, in which the reactant is a coordination complex of iron with N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid. 9. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, in which the reactant is a polyvalent metal chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9, in which the reactant is a coordination complex of iron with nitrilotriacetic acid. 11. A process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, in which the aqueous reaction solution also contains a liquid absorbent selective for 12. A process as claimed in claim 1, substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the six figures and the two examPles. 13. Sulphur produced by a process as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. 14. Sweet gaseous streams produced by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12.

## Description
H2SI 7 IJ The invention relates to a process for the removal of H2S fran a sour gaseous stream. The presence of significant quantities of H2S and C02 in various sour industrial gaseous streams poses a persistent problem. A gaseous stream is named sour if it contains significant quantities of H2S and or Although various procedures have been developed to remove and recover these contaminants, most such processes are deficient, for a variety of reasons. In one cyclic method currently attracting attention, the sour gaseous stream is contacted, preferably with a solvent reactant system which contains a regenerable reactant, to produce solid elemental sulphur which is recovered either prior or subsequent to regeneration. Suitable reactant materials include polyvalent ions of metals, such as iron, vanadium, copper, manganese, and nickel, and include polyvalent metal chelates. Preferred reactants are coordination complexes in which iron forms chelates with specified organic ligands. In yet another process, e.g., that disclosed in U.S. patent specification 4,091,073 CD, present in the gaseous stream is also removed by the use of a suitable selective absorbent. Because these cleanup processes generally represent significant costs to manufacturing operations, any imprcvements in such processes which increase their efficiency may have great econanic importance. For example, were ligands or chelates of polyvalent metals are employed, chemical degradation or deccmr position of the ligand represents an important cost in the process, as well as requiring measures for decomposition bleed or removal and addition of fresh solution.Even in the case of the iron chelate of N 2 hydroxyetfiyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid, ligand deccocosition, over a period of time, requires attention to prevent build up of deccmpositicn products and consequent loss of efficiency. Evidence exists that degradation of the ligand in such processes may be caused by or enhanced by regeneration of the reduced form of the chelated metal ion with oxygen or an oxygen containing gas. The invention avoids this problem, and regenerates the ligand in a novel and efficient manner. Accordingly, the invention relates to a process for the removal of g S from a sour gaseous stream, which process prises the following steps a contacting the sour gaseous stream in a contacting zone with an aqueous reaction solution at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the solution containing an oxidi zing reactant ocoprising one or more oxidizing polyvalent metal chelate carpounds and producing a sweet gaseous stream and an aqueous reaction solution containing crystalline sulphur and reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates b regenerating the reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates in an electrochemical cell comprising an anode section containing an anode and a separate cathode section containing a cathode connected to the anode, the anode section and the cathode section being separated by a hydrogen ion permeable barrier, said regeneration being carried out by oxidizing the reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates of said acid in the aqueous reaction solution at the anode by allowing hydrogen ion to migrate to the cathode section, and by bl using a cathode connected through an external electrical connection to the anode, supplying direct current to said cell and concomitantly supplying oxygen to the cathode and forming water at the cathode, or b2 using a cathode connected through an external load to the anode, producing direct current through said load and con canitantly supplying oxygen to the cathode section and forming water at the cathode, or b3 using a cathode connected through an external electrical connection to the anode, supplying direct current to said cell and producing hydrogen at the cathode, and c removing sulphur from the aqueous reaction solution and, in case of bl and b2 water, and in case of b3 hydrogen from the cathode section. In one etrboditr nt, the regeneration may be carried out directly in the contacting zone, the anode section of the electrochemical cell being present in the contacting zone. In a preferred eMbodiment, an aqueous admixture containing sulphur and reduced reactant is removed fran the contacting zone and electrolytically regenerated, as herein specified, in a separate zone. In this preferred embodiment, aqueous admixture containing reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates is withdrawn from the contacting zone of step a , withdrawn aqueous admixture is electrolytically regenerated by passing the aqueous admixture through the anode section of the electrochemical cell of step b and regenerated aqueous admixture is removed fran the anode section and returned to the contacting zone.At least a portion of the sulphur crystals may be removed before regenerating the reduced reactant, or at least a portion of the sulphur crystals may be removed after regeneration. Preferably, the sulphur is removed before regeneration of the reactant. In another embodiment of the invention, a sour gaseous stream containing H2S and CO2 is contacted with a selective absorbent aquous reactant mixture at a temperature below the melting point of sulphur, the reactant mixture and procedure being similar to that described, above. Broadly, this is acoolplished by the use of an absorbent mixture containing a liquid absorbent selective for and preferably for H2S, as well , and an effective amount of an oxidizing polyvalent metal chelate compound as specified herein , and mixtures thereof. A purified or sweet gaseous stream is produced which meets general industrial and commercial hS and CO2 specifications.The CO2 is absorbed and the hS is immediately converted to sulphur by the oxidizing polyvalent metal chelate of the said acid. In the process, the oxidizing reactant is reduced, and the sulphur may be treated, as described above. The sulphur crystals may be removed prior or subsequent to electrolytic regeneration of the admixture. The invention also provides, in this ettcdient, for the regeneration of the reactant and the absorbent. Preferably, the loaded absorbent mixture containing the reduced polyvalent metal chelate compound, or mixtures thereof, is regenerated in an electrolytic regeneration zone or zones, as described. The reac tent contacting solution is treated prior or subsequent to such electrolytic regeneration, as by heating or pressure reduction, to remove the C02 either prior or subsequent to sulphur react val . As indicated, a key feature of the invention lies in the manner in which the regeneration of the reduced reactant is carried out. In the first embodiment mentioned, a suitable electrode or electrodes are maintained in the solution or admixture in the contacting zone, preferably at some finite distance from the site of the introduction of the h S, and direct current, such as from a potentiostat, is supplied to maintain such electrode s as an anode, a separate half cell containing a suitable cathode or cathodes being also provided.Alternatively, an external electrical connection is provided, through a load, to another electrode or electrodes separate from the contacting zone. Oxygen is provided to the second electrode or electrodes, and the regeneration cell is operated as a fuel cell, the regeneration being carried out in a fuel cell mode. Alternatively to the oxygen supply and water formation, if direct current is supplied to said cell, concanitantly hydrogen is produced at the cathode. The h S removal and regeneration of the reduced chelate may be carried out continuously. Preferably, however, solution or admixture containing reduced reactant is removed from the contact zone, sulphur is removed, and the reduced reactant is oxidized by passing the solution or ahmdutare through the anode section of an electrochemical cell supplied from a direct current source of potential, the anode removing electrons from the reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates and converting the reduced polyvalent metal chelate or chelates to the oxidized polyvalent metal chelate s . The other half of the cell is used to receive H ions, electrons, and oxygen, and produce water, or, alternatively, to produce hydrogen.A similar procedure may be employed if a selective absorbent aqueous reactant mixture is employed. The process, including the regeneration, is preferably carried out continuously, and the cells may be employed in series. A variety of half cells may be used in the practice of the invention and the precise construction of the cell is a matter of choice. Generally, the anode and cathode sections will be separated by a suitable barrier to prevent reduction of the oxidized polyvalent metal chelate, etc., the barrier, however, allowing or permitting hydrogen ion transport. Suitable barriers may be selected by those skilled in the art, and include porous or fibrous non conductive inert materials containing or impregnated with the desired electrolyte. For example, asbestos cloth and micrcporous polyvinyl chloride may be employed. However, polymeric ion exchange membranes, which also function as electrolytes, may be used to separate the electrodes.For example, Nafion, a perfluorinated carbon polymer with pendant sulphonic groups, as described in lECDC 75 Intersociety Energy Conversion EngineeringConference Record, pages 210 through 216, is suitable. Suitable electrodes include, e.g., platinum or carbon. The cathodic half cell may be of any suitable type for reacting H ions with oxygen and electrons to produce water. The hydrogen producing half cell may be as varied, as for example, a carbon electrode in N SO4, phosphoric acid, or other acidic electrolytes, or an ion exchange electrolyte such as Nafion with platinum or other suitable electrode material deposited thereon.The reaction may be shown, in the case of iron, for example, as follows Anode 2Fe II chelate 2Fe III chelate 2 e Cathode 2H 2 e H2 This overall cell reaction has a free energy near zero.Accordingly the cell will probably in practice require power for the regeneration, as described herein. Protons, of course, are provided in the system by the reaction of the H2S with theFe III chelate, as shewn by the following reaction equation E S 2Fe III chelate ,2Fe II chelate S 2H A preferred half cell which may be coupled with the oxidation half cell is one utilizing an oxygen or the socalled air cathode.In such case, the hydrogen ions migrating to the cathode will react with the oxygen and electrons to produce water, and provision will be made for water removal. The reactions may be shown, in the case of iron, for example, as follows Anode 4Fe 11 chelate 4Fe III chelate 4e Cathode 4H O2 4e 2H2OThis overall cell reaction has a negative free energy. Assuming that an adequate current density, for example, fran about 0.1 to about 0.2 amperes cm2 of electrode surface, can be achieved without excessive overpotentials, the cell provides useful wnrk through the load.Assuming the current densities mentioned, the electrar tive force emf generated will be of sufficient value to be usefully employed. Nonetheless, if overpotentials are excessive the cell will require power for the regeneration, as described herein. Where overpotentials are lower than the redox potential of the overall elecc1 nical cell reaction, the cell may be utilized to generate useful voltage, as described herein.In any case, oxygen or air cathodes are known, as for example, that described in U.S. patent specification 3,765,946, or as described in the Proceedings of the 27th Power Sources Symposium 1976 by P.S.C. Publications, pages 175 through 177. Suitable electrodes include, as noted, those of platinum or platinized porous carbon. As used herein, the term oxgyen includes cxy gen contaning gases, such as air or air enriched with oxygen, or pure oxygen. The particular type of gaseous stream treated is not critical, as will be evident to those skilled in the art. Streams particularly suited to removal of H2S and C02 by the practice of the invention are, as indicated, naturally occurring gases, synthesis gases, process gases, and fuel gases produced by gasification procedures, e.g., gases produced by the gasification of coal, petroleum, shale, tar sands, etc. Particularly preferred are cool gasification streams, natural gas streams and refinery feedstocks composed of gaseous hydrocarbon streams, especially those streams of this type having a low ratio of H2S to CO2, and other gaseous hydrocarbon streams.The term hydrocarbon stream s , as employed herein, is intended to include streams containing significant quantities of hydrocarbon both paraffinic and aromatic , it being recognized that such streams contain significant impurities not technically defined as a hydrocarbon.Again, streams containing principally a single hydrocarbon, e.g., ethane, are eminently suited to the practice of the invention.Streams derived from the gasification and or partial oxidation of gaseous or liquid hydrocarbon may be treated by the invention.The E S content of the type of streams contemplated will vary extensively, but, in general, will range from about 0.1 per cent to about 10 per cent by volume. C02 content may also vary, but may range from about 0.1 per cent to about 99 per cent or greater by volume. Obviously, the amounts of H2S and C02 present are not generally a limiting factor in the practice of the invention. The temperatures employed in the contacting or absorptioncontact zone are not generally critical, except that the reaction is carried out below the melting point of sulphur, and, if an absorbent is used, the temperatures employed must permit acceptable absorption of CO2. In many commercial applications, such as the removal of H2S and C02 from natural gas to meet pipeline specifications, absorption at ambient temperatures is desired, since the cost of refrigeration would exceed the benefits obtained due to increased absorption at the lower temperature. In general, temperatures from 100C to 800C are suitable, and temperatures from 200C to 450C are preferred. Contact times will range from about 1 s to about 270 s or longer, with contact times of 2 s to 120 s being preferred. In the regeneration zone or zones, temperatures may be varied widely. Preferably, the regeneration zone should be maintained at substantially the same temperature as the contacting zone. In general, temperatures of from about 10 C to 800C, preferably 200C to 450C, may be employed. Pressure conditions in the contacting zone may vary widely.If the regeneration is carried out in the contacting zone, the pressure may vary up to the limitations of the electrolytic half cell. If the regeneration is carried out in a separate zone, pressures in the contacting zone may vary fran one bar up to 152 or even 203 bar, with pressures of from one bar to about 101 bar being preferred. In the regeneration or desorption zone or zones, pressures also may be varied considerably, and will preferably range from about 0.5 bar to about three or four bar. The pres e t perature relationships involved are well understood by those skilled in the art, and need not be detailed herein.Other conditions of operation for this type of reaction process, e.g., pH, etc., are further described in U.S patent specification 3,068,065 and U.S. patent specification 4,009,251 incorporated herein by reference. Preferably, pH in the process of the invention will be in the acid region, i.e., less than 7. As indicated, the g S, when contacted, is rapidly converted in the process of the invention by the oxidizing polyvalent chelate, or mixtures thereof, to elemental sulphur. Since the polyvalent metal chelates have limited solubility in many sol vents or absorbents, if an absorbent is used, the polyvalent metal chelates are preferably supplied in admixture with the liquid absorbent and water.The amount of oxidizing polyvalent metal chelate, or mixtures thereof, supplied is an effective amount, i.e., an amount sufficient to convert all or substantially all of the h S in the gas stream, and will generally be on the order of at least about two mol basis polyvalent metal per irol of y S converted. Ratios of from about 2 mol to about 15 wol of poly valent metal chelate or chelates per mol of U S may be used, with ratios of from about 2 mol per mol to about 5 mol of poly valent metal chelate per mol of H2S being preferred.The manner of preparing the admixture containing an absorbent is a matter of choice. For example, the polyvalent metal chelate or chelates may be added to the absorbent, and, if necessary, then water added.The amsunt of water added is not critical but must be sufficient to achieve solution of the chelate or chelates, and can be determined by routine experimentation. Since the polyvalent metal chelate may have a significant solubility in the solvent, and since water is produced by the reaction of the h S and the polyvalent metal of the chelate, precise amounts of water to be added cannot be given. In the case of absorbents having a low solubility for the chelate, approximately 5 per cent to 10 per cent water by volume, based on the total volume of the absorbent mixture, will generally provide solvency.Preferably, hcwever, the chelate or chelates are added as an aqueous solution to the liquid absorbent. where the reactant is supplied as an aqueous solution, the amount of solution supplied may be about 20 per cent to about 80 per cent by volume of the total absorbent admixture supplied to the absorption zone. A polyvalent metal chelate solution will generally be supplied as an aqueous solution having an concen tration of from about 0.1 Trolar to about 1 molar, and a concentration of about 1.0 molar is preferred.The ligand to metal molar ratio may range from 1.0 to 2.0, for example from 1.1. to 2.0 for metal chelates of nitrilotriacetic acid and preferably 1.2 to 1.4. Any oxidizing polyvalent metal, or mixtures thereof, for the chelate compound may be used, but iron, copper and manganese are preferred, particularly iron. The polyvalent metal should be capable of oxidizing hydrogen sulphide, while being reduced itself from a higher to a lower valence state, and should then be oxidizable from the lower valence state to the higher valence state in a typical redox reaction. Other polyvalent metals which may be used include lead, mercury, palladium, platinum, tungsten, nickel, curium, cobalt, vanadium, titanium, tantalum, zirconium, molyb denum, and tin. Preferred reactant materials are coordination cccplexes in which polyvalent metals form chelates with a ligand having the formulaEMI10.1 from two to four of the groups Y represent carbOymethyl or 2 carboxyethyl groups from zero to two of the groups Y represent a 2 hydraxyethyl or 2 hydroxypropyl group or a group having the general formula EMI10.2 wherein X represents a carboxymethyl or 2 carboxyethyl group and R represents an ethylene, propylene, isopropylene, 1,2 cyclo hexylene or 1,2 ben2ylene group. Mixtures of such coordination complexes may be used. The polyvalent metal chelates are readily formed in aqueous solution by reaction of an appropriate salt, oxide or hydroxide of the metal and the chelating agent in the acid form or an alkali metal or ammonium salt thereof. Exemplary chelating agents include aminoacetic acids derived from ethylenediamme, diethylenetriamine, 1,2 prcpylenediamine, and 1,3 propylenediamine, such asEDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid , HERTZ N 2 hydroxy ethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid , DSIPA diethy lenetriamine pentaacetic acid aminoacetic acid derivatives of cyclic 1,2 diamines, such as 1,2 diaminocyclohexane N,N tetraacetic acid, and 1,2 phenylenediamine N,N tetraacetic acid, and the amides of polyaminoacetic acids disclosed in U.S. patent specification No.3,580,950. The ferric chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenedi aminetriacetic acid is preferred. According to another preferred embodiment of the invention the reactant is a polyvalent metal chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid, particularly a coordination complex of iron with nitrilotriacetic acid. The absorbents employed in this invention are those absorbents which have a high degree of selectivity in absorbing C02 and preferably H2S as well fram the gaseous streams. Any of the known absorbents conventionally used which do not affect the activity of the polyvalent chelate, or mixtures thereof, and which exhibit sufficient solubility for the reactant or reactants may be employed. As indicated, the absorbent preferably has good absorbency for H2S as well, in order to assist in the removal of any H2S present in the gaseous streams. The particular absorbent chosen is a matter of choice, given these qualifications, and selection can be made by routine experimentation.For example, 3,6 dioxaoctanol also referred to as Carbitol or diethylene glycol moncetyl ether , propylene carbonate, 2,5,8,11,14 penta oxapentddecane also referred to as tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether , N methylpyrrolidone, tetrahydrothiophene 1, 1 dioxide also referred to as sulfolane , methyl isobutyl ketone, 2,4 pentanedione, 2,5 hexanedione, 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 pentanone also referred to as diacetone alcohol , hexyl acetate, cyclohexannne, 4 methyl 3 penten 2 one also referred to as mesityl oxide , and 4 methyl 4 methoxy pentanone 2 may be used.Suitable temperature and pressure relationships for differentC02 selective absorbents are known, or can be calculated by those skilled in the art. The manner of recovering the sulphur is a matter of choice.For example, the sulphur may be recovered by settling, filtration, liquid extraction or flotation, or by suitable devices, such as a hydrocyclone. Preferably, the sulphur is removed prior to regeneration. In order to illustrate the invention, reference is made to the accampanying schematic drawing. Parameter values given herein are calculated or are merely exemplary, and should not be taken as delimiting the invention. Figure l illustrates a coMbined H2S removal process o gen regeneration scheme. Figure 2 illustrates a preferred H2S removal process o gen regeneration scheme. Figure 3 illustrates a preferred electrode system. Figure 4 illustrates a combined sulphur removal regeneration scheme producing hydrogen. Figure 5 illustrates a preferred H2S removal process regeneration systetn producing hydrogen. Figure 6 illustrates a preferred electrode system suitable for producing hydrogen. The elements in Figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 denoted with the same reference number have the same functions. In Figure l, sour natural gas containing, for example, 0.5 per cent by weight of H2S, based on the total weight of the gas, from a line 1 enters a contactor 2 via a sparger 3. The gas, preferably as fine bubbles, is contacted in contactor 2 with a 1.0 M solution of the ferric chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethyl enediaminetriacetic acid. The y S is immediately converted to sulphur and H ions, and ferric chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid is immediately converted to ferrous chelate of N 2 hydrcsyethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid. Sweetened natural gas leaves contactor 2 via a line or outlet 4 to use or further treatment. Contactor 2 also contains a platinum anode 5, which is connected electrically through a potential source or, alternatively, a load 6 to a cathode 7. Cathode 7 is an air cathode mounted opposite an opening in the wall of contactor 2 in such manner that it is in contact with a hydrogen ion permeable membrane 8 which covers the opening. The membrane 8 preferably comprises a substance, such as Nafion, and the cathode, which may simply be a porous carbon coating on the membrane, preferably contains platinum particles.Adjoining contactor 2 is a chamber 9 into which an oxygen containing gas, such as air, is conducted via a line 10 and through which chamber this gas is passed in contact with the electrode. Spent air is withdrawn fram chamber 9 via a line 11. As the reduced chelate is formed in solution, it is promptly oxidized at anode 5 by virtue of the difference in potential, for examPle 2 volts, being placed across the cell, in case 6 represents a potential source. Concanitantly, hydrogen ions migrate through the membrane 8 to the porous carbon cathode 7 and react there with oxygen and electrons to form water. The water, is removed via an outlet 12. The procedure is preferably conducted continuously, sulphur containing reactant solution being removed from the bottan of contactor 2 via a line 13 and a pump 14 and passed via a line 15 to a filter 16 where sulphur is removed via a line 17. Other sulphur removal techniques may be employed.After sulphur removal, the solution is returned via a line 18 to contactor 2. In theory, a useful voltage of 0.5 to 1 volt may be delivered, in case 6 represents a load. In Figure 2, sour gas, e.g., natural gas containing about 0.5 per cent by weight of H2S, in a line 1 enters a contactor or column 2 tray type into which also enters an aqueous admixture ccmprising an aqueous 1.0 M solution of the Fe III chelate of N 2 hydroxyethyl ethylenediamlnetriacetic acid from a line 20.The pressure of the feed gas is about 83.75 bar and the teepera ture of the aqueous admixture is about 450C. A contact time of about 120 s is employed in order to react all the C S. Purified or sweet gas leaves column 2 through line 4. The sweet gas is of a purity sufficient to meet standard reqpirements. In the admixture, the h S is converted to elemental sulphur by the Fe III chelate, the Fe III chelate in the process being converted to the Fe II chelate. The aqueous admixture, contaIning the elemental sulphur, is removed continuously and sent through a line 21 to a depressurization and degassing unit 22, and then to a separation zone 23.The separation zone 23 preferably ccmprises a unit, such as a filter, liquid extraction unit, or centrifuge, for separating the bulk of the sulphur produced from the aqueous admixture. It is not necessary that all sulphur be removed fran the admixture. Sulphur is removed via line 17, and may further treated, as desired. Concanitantly, the aqueous admixture is removed via a line 24 for regeneration of the chelate. If the aqueous admixture contains a solvent for C02, according to that embodiment of the invention, it may suitably be stripped at this point, or after regeneration in a stripper 25 shown in dotted lines . If steam is used, the solution must be cooled before re use. To regenerate, the admixture in line 24 enters the anode section A of a cell 26 direct current supplied by potentiostat 6 where reduced reactant, i.e., the Fe II chelate of N 2 hydrory ethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid, is oxidized at a carbon or other suitable electrode to the Fe III chelate of N 2 hydraxy ethyl ethylenediaminetriacetic acid. A potential of 2.0 volts is utilized. Regenerated reactant mixture leaves section A via line 27, preferably to a holding tank 28, from whence it may be returned via line 20 to contactor 2. Mbke up reactant solution is supplied to holding tank 28 via a line 29.Section A is separated from cathode section C by a hydrogen ion permeable barrier B, preferably Nafion. Section C receives H ion from section A, and air from line 10 to produce water, as shown. Alternatively, reference numeral 6 indicates a load. In this case, the connection of the half cells, externally as shown, may be used to produce a useful current flow. Those skilled in the art will recognize that this description of cell 26 is merely illustrative, and that a multiple cell unit should, in fact, be employed. Such a cell stack is shown in Figure 3. More particularly, Figure 3 illustrates a cell stack section which may be used in the invention. Each cell has a Nafion ionic irettibrane 8 coated on both sides with porous carbon containing a small amount of platinum or other catalyst. The porous carbon, with the catalyst, serves as the electrodes and the Nafion membrane allows hydrogen ions to migrate to the cathode 7. The reduced admixture is passed via line 24 through the anode cell space containing anode 5 and air is passed via line 10 through the cathode cell space. Regenerated reactant mixture leaves the anode cell space via line 27 and spent air is withdrawn from the cell stack section via line 11. In order to determine the suitability of the Fe III Fe II half cell, the following two examples were carried out. Current density measurements were made utilizing a 2.5 cmê platinum anode and ferric chelate of nitrilotriacetic acid was employed at concentrations of 1 and 2 weight per cent, basis Fe, respectively.At a voltage drop of 0.5V, a current density of 250 ma cm2 was obtained with the 2 wt per cent solution, and a current density of 150 ma an2 was obtained with the 1 wt per cent Fe solution. Based on these tests, it was concluded that the couple was suitable for electrochemical cell regeneration and for fuel cell operation. In Fig. 4, the platinum anode 5 is connected electrically through potentiostat 6 to cathode 7. Cathode 7 is mounted opposite an opening in the wall of contactor 2 in chamber 9 wich contains 0.1 to 1.0 M h SO4 in such a manner that it is in contact with hydrogen ion permeable mEmbrane 8 which covers the opening.Hydrogen ions migrate through the membrane 8 to the porous carbon cathode, receive electrons there, and form molecul hydrogen.The hydrogen gas is removed via an outlet 30. Fresh electrolyte is supplied to chamber 9 via a line 31 and spent electrolyte is withdrawn fram chamber 9 via line 32. In Figure 5, section C receives H ion fram section A, and hydrogen is removed overhead via line 30. Figure 6 illustrates schematically a cell which may be used to produce hydrogen in the regeneration step of the invention. The aqneus,adm1x ure enters the anode section A through line 24. The cell has a potential of 2 to 3 volts across the electrodes. In anode section A, the reduced iron II chelate of N 2 hydrcoy ethyllethylenediaminetriacetic acid is oxidized at the anode to the Fe III chelate. Regenerated aqueous reactant solution leaves section A through line 27 and may be returned to the contact zone for further H2S removal. Concssnitantly, H2 is produced in cathode section C at a platinum electrode, and is removed through line 30.The solution in this half cell is a 0.1 to 1M solution of H2S04, and this solution is separated fran section A by a hydrogen ion Permeable barrier at B. While the invention has been illustrated with particular apparatus, those skilled in the art will appreciate that, except where specified, other equivalent or analogous units may be employed. The term zones , as employed in the specification and claims, includes, where suitable, the use of segmented equipment operated in series, or the division of one unit into multiple units because of size constraints, etc. For example, a contacting column might coMprise two separate columns in which the solution from the lower portion of the first column would be introduced into the upper portion of the second column, the gaseous material from the upper portion of the first column being fed into the lower portion of the second column. Parallel operation of units, is of course, well within the scope of the invention.