# Sulfon amides.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula I , pharmaceutically accept able salts or N oxides thereof, and solvates of any of the foregoing

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing EMI29.1 wherein A is a bond, CH2 or CH CH m is 0 or 1 n is O to 3 R4 is C1 4 alkyl or optionally derivatised hydroxy R1 is halogen, C14 alkyl, hydroxy, C14 alkanoyl, nitro, cyano, CF3 or amino optionally substituted by one or two C1 4 alkyl groups and R2 and R3 are each independently halogen, C1 4 alkyl, or hydroxy and L is l pyrrolidyl, 1 piperidyl, l morpholinyl or 4 methyl l piperazyl, optionally singly substituted as appropriate by a methyl group at each carbon atom in the 2 , 4 or 6 position up to a total of two methyl substituents in the radical L. 2. A compound according to clam 1 of formula II EMI30.1 wherein each of R11, R21 and R31 is independently halogen or C14 alkyl. R41 is methyl or hydroxy and the remaining variables are as defined in claim 1. 3. A compound according to claim 2 which is 2,4,6 trimethylbenzenesulophonamido pentyl 2,4dimethylpyrrolidine, 1 3 2,4,6 trlmethylbenzenesulphonamido 2 hydrOxy propyl 2,4 dimethylpyrrolidine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing. 4. A compound according to claim 1 of formula V EMI30.2 wherein the variables are as defined in claims 1 and 2. 5. A confound according to claim 4 which is 1 4 2,4,6 trimethylbenzenesulphonamido pentyl 2 methylpiperidine, 1 3 2,4,5 trlchlorobenzenesul honamldo 2 hydroxy propyl 2 methylpiperidine, or 1 3 2,4,6 trlmethylbenzenesulphonamldo 2 hydroxy propyl 2 methylpiperidine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing. 6. A compound according to claim 1 which is 1 2 2,4,5 trichlorobenzenesulphonamido propyl piperidine or 1 3 2,4,6 trimethylbenesulphonamido 2 hydro 2 hydroxypropyl pyrrolidine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or Noxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing. 7. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1 to 6 of fourufta I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 8. A process for the preparation of a compound according to claim 1 of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing, which process comprises the reaction of the compounds of formulae VIII and IX EMI32.1 where in Land A are as defined in claim 1 R10, Rll and R12 are R1, R2 and R3 respectively or groups or atoms convertible thereto and i V is CH2 nCR13R14 CH2 ml NH2 where n is as defined, either R13 is R4 as defined or protected hydroxy and R14 is H, or R13 and R14 together are oxo, ml is m as defined with the proviso that when R13 and R14 together are oxo ml is 1 and Y is ZSO2 where Z is a group readily displaceable by a nucleophile ii for compounds of formula T where R4 is optionally derivatised hydroxyl, V is CH2 nCHO where n is as defined and Y is M CH2 mNHSO2 where M is a lithium atom or a halomagnesium group and m is as defined or V is CH2 n M where n and M are as defined and Y is CHO. CH2 mNHSO2 where m is as defined or V V is H and Y is Q CH2 nRl3Rl4 CH2 mNHSO2 where Q is a group readily displaceable by a nucleophile and the remaining variables are as defined and thereafter as necessary reducing the resulting compound deprotecting any protected hydroxy or amino group converting R10, R11, R12 or R4 to R1, R2, R3 or R4 and optionally salifying or forming an N oxide of the resultant compound of formula I . 9. A compound according to claim 1 of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing, for the treatment or prophylaxis of cardiac arrhythmia. 10. A compound of formula VIII L V VIII wherein L is as defined in claim 1, and V is as defined in claim 8 or a compound of formu EMI34.1 wherein A is as defined in claim 1 and the remaining variables are as defined in claim 8.

## Description
NOVEL COMPOUNDS This invention relates to novel substituted sulphonamides having useful pharmacological properties, to pharmaceutical compositions containing them, to a process for their preparation, to intermediates for their preparation, and to the compounds for therapeutic or prophylactic use. EP A 21592 discloses a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of the formula A EMI1.1 or a salt thereof wherein NR2 represents a piperidyl, pyrrolidyl, morpholino or N methyl piperazyl group, any of which may be substituted by one or two methyl groups Ra represents fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, lower alkoxyl, hydroxyl, acetoxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, dimethylamino, lower alkyl, trifluoromethyl, methylthio, ethylthio, methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, acetamido or carboxamido Rb represents hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, lower alkoxyl, hydroxyl, lower alkyl Re represents hydrogen, chlorine or lower alkyl or Ra and Rb when on adjacent carbon atoms may together represent a polymethylene group containing from 3 to 5 carbon atoms and p is 2, 3 or 4 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compounds are antiarrhythmic agents. It has now been found that a structurally distinct class of substituted sulphonamides has useful pharmacological activity, in particular cardiovascular activity such as antiarrythmic activity. Accordingly, the present invention provides a compound of the formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing EMI2.1 wherein A is a bond, CH2 or CH CH m is O or 1 n is 0 to 3 R4 is C1 4 alkyl or optionally derivatised hydroxy RÚ is halo, C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, C1 4 alkanoyl, nitro, cyano, CF3 or amino optionally substituted by one or two C1 4 alkyl groups and R2 and R3 are each independently halo, C14 alkyl, or hydroxy and L is l pyrrolidyl, l piperidyl, l morpholinyl or 4 methyl l piperazyl, optionally slngly substituted as appropriate by a methyl group at each carbon atom in the 2 , 4 or 6 position up to a total of two methyl substituents in the radical L. A is preferably a bond. m may be either 0 or 1. n may be any value from O to 3, more suitably 1, 2 or 3, favourably 1 or 3. Apt values for R4 C1 4 alkyl include methyl ethyl and isopropyl, preferably methyl. When used herein, derivatised hydroxy R4 are nitrato, C1 4 alkoxy, phenyl C1 4 alkoxy, or in vivo hydrolysable acyloxy. Apt values for R4 C1 4 alkoxy groups include methoxy, ethoxy and n and iso propoxy, preferably methoxy. Examples of R4 in vivo hydrolysable icyloxy groups include C1 6 alkanoyloxy, for example acetoxy, propionoxy, n and iso butyroxy, and 2,3 dimethylpropanoyloxy benzoyloxy or benzenesulphonyloxy either being optionally substituted in the phenyl ring by one or two substituents selected from C14 alkyl,C1 4 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl, halogen or nitro C1 6 alkanesulphonyloxy group, such as methanesulphonyloxy C1 6 alkoxycarbonyloxy, such as tert.butoxycarbonyloxy and carbamoyloxy optionally Nsubstituted by C1 6 alkyl, such as methylcarbamoyloxy. A group of variables R1 consists of C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkanoyl, nitro, cyano and CF3, in particular C1 4 alkyl. A second group of variables R1 consists of halo and hydroxy, in particular halo. Suitable examples ofR1 include methyl, ethyl and isopropyl. Suitable examples of R1 also include fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo. Preferred examples of R1 include methyl.Preferred examples of R1 also include chloro. R1 is often in the 2 position. A group of variables R2 consists of C1 4 alkyl. A second group of variables R2 consists of halo and hydroxy, in particular halo. Suitable examples of R2 include methyl, ethyl, and isopropyl. Suitable examples of R2 also include fluro, chloro, bromo and iodo. Preferred examples of R2 include methyl.Preferred examples of R2 also include chloro. R2 is often in the 4 position. A group of variables R3 consists of C1 4 alkyl. A second group of variables R3 consists of halo.Suitable examples of R3 include methyl, ethyl and isopropyl. Suitable examples of R3 also include fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo. 3 referred examples of R include methyl. 3Preferred examples of R also include chloro. often in the 5 or 6 position. Preferably R1, R2 and R3 are the same. A group of values for L consists of l pyrrolidyl, 3 methyl 1 pyrrolidyl and 2,4 dimethyl 1 pyrrolidyl.A second group of values for L consists of l piperidyl, 2 methyl 1 piperidyl, 1 morpholinyl and 4 methyl 1piperazyl. Favoured values for L include 2,4 dimethyl 1 pyrrolidyl. Favoured values for L also include 1 piperidyl, 2 methyl 1 piperidyl, 1 morpholinyl and 4 methyl 1 piperazyl. Especially favoured values for L include l plperidyl and 2 methyl 1 piperidyl. Preferred L include 2 methyl l piperidyl. In a group of compounds within formula I R1 is halogen, hydroxy, C14 alkanoyl, nitro, cyano, C14 alkyl, CF3 or amino optionally substituted by one or two C1 4 alkyl groups R2 is halogen, hydroxy or C1 4 alkyl and either R3 is halogen or C1 4 alkyl and L is 1 piperidyl, 1 morpholinyl, or 4 methyl 1 piperazyl, optionally substituted by one or two methyl groups in the 2 , 4 or 6 positions as appropriate or R3 is C1 4 alkyl and L is l pyrrolidyl optionally substituted by one or two methyl groups in the 2 or 4 positions R4 is C1 4 alkyl, hydroxy, C1 4 alkoxy, C1 4 alkanoyloxy or nitrato From the foregoing it will be realised that a group of compounds of the formula I is of formula 11 EMI6.1 wherein each of R11, R21 and R31 1S independently halogen or C1 4 alkyl. R41 is methyl or hydroxy and the remaining variables are as defined in formula I . S itable and preferred n are as so descried hereinbefore. Suitable and preferred R11, Rê1, R31 andR41 are as so described for relevant R1, R2, R3 and R4 hereinbefore. A preferred sub group of formula II is of formula III EMI7.1 The 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl nucleus is preferred. A second sub group of formula II . is of formula IV EMI7.2 The 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl nucleus is preferred. A second group of compounds of formula I is of formula V EMI8.1 wherein the variables are as hereinbefore defined. Suitable and preferred variables are as so described under formula II . A preferred sub group of formula V is of formula VI EMI8.2 The 2,4,5 trichlorophenyl nucleus is preferred. A second preferred sub group of formula V is of formula VII EMI8.3 The 2,4,6 trimethylphenyl nucleus is particularly preferred. It will of course be realised that when L in the compounds of the Invention is asymmetrically substituted by one or two methyl groups, the L group has a chiral centre. ihe compounds of the formula I also contain a chiral centre at the point of substitution by an R4 group. When L is substituted by two methyl groups, these may give rise to different isomers wherein the two groups are mutually cis or trans across the ring. The compounds may thus be provided in a number of isomeric forms or in mixtures thereof. A mixture of isomers containing all the possible forms of a given compound is particularly apt, in view of its greater ease of synthesis. The invention extends to any of the stereoisomeric forms, including enantiomers, of the compounds of the invention and to mixtures thereof, including racemates. The different stereoisomeric forms may be separated or resolved one from the other by the usual methods, or any given isomer may be obtained by stereospecific or asymmetric synthesis. The invention extends in one aspect to pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I . These include acid addition salts with conventional acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, boric, phosphoric, sulphuric and pharmaceutically acceptable organic acids such as acetic, tartaric, maleic, citric, succinic, benzoic, ascorbic, methanesulphonic, a keto glutaric, a glycerophosphoric, and glucose l phosphoric acids. Preferably the acid addition salt is a hemisuccinate or hydrochloride, in particular the hydrochloride salt. Pharaceutically acceptable salts also include quaternary salts. Examples of quaternary salts include such compounds quaternised by con pounds such. as R8 T wherein R8 is C16 alkyl, phenyl C1 6 alkyl or C57 cycloalkyl, and T is a radical corresponding to an anion of an acid. Suitable examples of 5 include methyl, ethyl and n and iso propyl and benzyl and phenethyl. Suitable T include halide such as chloride, bromide and iodide. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the formula I are usually acid addition salts with conventional acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, phosphoric, sulphuric, citric, tartaric, lactic and acetic acid, in particular the hydrochloride salt. The compounds of formula I may also form pharmaceutically acceptable N oxides, and the invention extends to these. The compounds of the formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and N oxides may also form solvates with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents and the invention extends to these. It will also be realised that salts of the compounds of the formula I which are not pharmaceutically acceptable may be useful as intermediates in the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of the formula I or the compounds of the formula I themselves, and as such form an aspect of the present invention. it is preferred that the compounds of the presentInvention are in substantially pure form, for example in greater than 958 purity, in particular greater than 98 purity. It is also preferred that the compounds of the present invention are in crystalline form. Crystalline pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts and their solvates are favoured in view of their enhanced stability. The compounds of formula I have cardiovascular, in particular antiarrhythmic, activity. Although some of the compounds contain a substituted propanolamine chain, it is believed that they have minimal blockade on the heart or bronchioles. In order to utilise the activity of the compounds of formula I the invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Such compositions are prepared by admixture and are suitably adapted for oral or parenteral administration, and as such may be in the form of tablets, capsules, oral liquid preparations, powders, granules, lozenges, reconstitutable powders, injectable and lnfusable solutions or suspensions or suppositories. Orally administrable compositions are preferred, in particular shaped oral compositions, since they are more convenient for general use. Tablets and capsules for oral administration are usually presented in a unit dose, and contain conventional excipients sch as binding agents, fillers, diluents, tabletting agents, lubricants, disintegrants, colourants, flavourings, and wetting agents. The tablets may be coated according to well known methods in the art. Suitable fillers for use include cellulose, mannitol, lactose and other similar agents. Suitable disintegrants include starch, polyvinylpyrrolidone and starch derivatives such as sodium starch glycollate.Suitable lubricants include, for example, magnesium stearate. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable wetting agents include sodium lauryl sulphate. These solid oral compositions may be prepared by conventional methods of blending, filling, tabletting or the like. Repeated blending operations may be used to distribute the active agent throughout those compositions employing large quantities of fillers.Such operations are, of course, conventional in the art. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of for example, aqueous or oily suspensions, solutions, emulsions, syrups, or elixirs, or may be presented as a dry product for reconstitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents, for example sorbitol, syrup, methyl cellulose, gelatin, hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, aluminium stearate gel or hydrogenated edible fats, emulsifying agents, for example lecithin, sorbitan monooleate, or acacia non aqueous vehicles which may include edible oils , for example, almond oil, fractionated coconut oil, oily esters such as esters of glycerine, propylene glycol, or ethyl alcohol preservatives, for example methyl or propyl v hydroxszbenzoate or sorbic acid, and if desired conventional flavouring or colouring agents. For parenteral administration, fluid unit dose forms are prepared containing a compound of the present invention and a sterile vehicle. The compound, depending on the vehicle and the concentration, can be either suspended or dissolved. Parenteral solutions are normally prepared by dissolving the compound in a vehicle and filter sterilising before filling into a suitable vial or ampoule and sealing. Advantageously, adjuvants such as a local anaesthetic, preservatives and buffering agents are also dissolved in the vehicle To enhance the stability, the composition can be frozen after filling into the vial and the water removed under vacuum. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in substantially the same manner except that the compoundIs suspended in the vehicle instead of being dissolved and sterilised by exposure to ethylene oxide before suspending in the sterile vehicle. Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate uniform distribution of the compound of the invention. In addition such compositions may contain further active agents such as anti hypertensive agents and diuretics. As is common practice, the compositions will usually be accompanied by written or printed directions for use in the medical treatment concerned. The invention further provides a method of treatment or prophylaxis of cardiac arrhythmia in mammals, such as humans, which comprises the administration of an effective amount of a compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing as hereinbefore defined, to the sufferer. An amount effective to treat the disorders hereinbefore described depends on the relative efficacies of the compounds of the formula I , the nature and severity of the disorders being treated and the weight of the mammal. However, a unit dose will normally contain 1 to 100 mg for example 2 to 50 mg, of the compound of the invention. Unit doses will normally be administered once or more than once a day, for example 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 times a day, more usually 2 to 4 times a day, such that the total daily dose is normally in the range, for a 70 kg adult of 0.1 to 250 mg, more usually 50 to 200 mg, for example 10 to 75 mg, that is in the range of approximately 0.002 to 35 mg kg day, more usually 1 to 30 mg kg day, for example 0.15 to 1 mg kg day. The invention also provides a compound of formula I , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, orN oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing as herelnbefore defined, for therapeutic or prophylactic use, in particular for the treatment or prophylaxis of cardiac arrhythmia. The present invention also provides a process for the preparation of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or N oxide thereof, or a solvate of any of the foregoing, whic process comprises the reaction of the compounds of formulae VIII and IX EMI15.1 wherein L is as hereinbefore defined R10, Rll and R12 are R1, R2 and R3 respectively or groups or atoms convertible thereto and i V is CH2 nCR13R14 CH2 ml NH2 where n is as defined, either R13 is R4 as defined or protected hydroxy and R14 is H, or R13 and R14 together.are oxo, m1 is m as defined with the proviso that when R13 and R14 together are oxo ml is 1 and Y is ZSO2 where Z is a group readily displaceable by a nucleophile ii for compounds of formula I where R4 is optionally derivatised hydroxyl, V is CH2 nCHO where n is as defined and Y is M CH2 mNHSO2 where M is a lithium atom or a halomagnesium group and m is as defined or V is CH2 n M where n and M are as defined and Y is CHO. CH2 mNHSO2 where m is as defined or iii V is H and Y is Q CH2 nR13R14 CH2 mNHSO2 wnere Q is a group readily displaceable by a nucleophile and the remaining variables are as hereinbefore defined and thereafter as necessary reducing the resulting compound deprotecting any protected hydroxy or amino group converting R10, Rll, R12 or R4 to RÚ, R2, R3 or R4 and optionally salifying or forming an N oxide the resultant compound of formula I . Suitable examples of Z include halide such as chloride or bromide, or hydroxy. Suitable Q groups are hydroxy, halo such as chloro and bromo when R13 and R14 together are oxo and n is 0, acyloxy such as C14 alkanoyloxy, C14 alkoxycarbonyloxy, and activated hydrocarbyloxy such as pentachlorophenoxy and when n is 1 to 3, or R13 andR14 are not together oxo, labile acyloxy such as tosyloxy, mesyloxy or triflate. It will be appreciated by the skilled man that a protected hydroxyl group is a conventional group readily convertible after a desired reaction to a hydroxyl group, without adversely affecting the rest of the molecule. Examples of protected hydroxyl include C14 alkoxy and C1 6 alkanoyloxy as defined and described in and under formula I benzoyloxy and benzyloxy optionally substituted in the phenyl ring by one or two substituents seiected from C1 4 alkyl, C14 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl, halogen and nitro and tetrahydropyranyloxy. Thus it will be seen that derivatised hydroxy , as defined, and protected hydroxy are not coterminous. groups R10, R11 and R12 convertible to R1, R2 andR3 will be apparent to the skilled man, but the following are mentioned by way of example For t10 a hydrogen atom, protected amino such asC1 7 carboxylic acylamino, and protected hydroxy such as given hereinbefore for R13. Dr R11 and R12 a hydrogen atom, amino and protected hydroxy. In variant 1 , the condensation reaction is generally effected at ambient temperature and normal pressure in a solvent inert to both reactants, such as benzene or toluene, optionally in the presence of a base, such as an alkali or alkaline earth metal carbonate, or an appropriate organic base. Use of a base will depend on whether the free base product or its salt with the acid HZ where Z is as defined is required. In variant ii , where M is a magnesium II halide group, the compound of formula IX or VIII may be prepared in situ under conventional conditions forGrignard reagents. Those are reaction of the halide, preferably the bromide, corresponding to the compound of formula IX or VIII with a molar equivalent or excess of dry, grease free magnesium particles in a dry ether, for example THF, dimethoxyethane or 61ethyl ether, free of protic solvents. THF is a preferred solvent. The presence of trace quantities of dibromoethane may be advantageous. Ambient and non extreme depressed temperatures are suitable, for example between ambient and 150C, although gentle initiative heating may be advantageous. When M is lithium, the compound of formula IX or VIII may be prepared in situ under conventional indirect metallation conditions, for example by reaction of the corresponding halide, preferably the bromide, with n butyl lithium. Temperatures of ambient to 600C are suitable. The completed reaction is conveniently quenched with water. In variant iii , if a Q group is hydroxy, then the reaction is preferably carried out 1 an inert non hydroxylic solvent, such as benzene, toluene or diethyl ether in the presence of a dehydrating catalyst, such as a carbodiimide, for example dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The reaction may be carried out at at non extreme temperature such as 10 to 1000C, for example 0 to 800C. If a Q group is a halide or labile acyloxy, then the reaction is preferably carried out at a non extreme temperature in an inert non hydroxylic solvent, such as benzene, toluene or diethyl ether. It is also preferably carried out in the presence of an acid acceptor, such as an organic base, in particular a tertiary amine, such as triethylamine, trimethylamine, pyridine or picoline, some of which can also function as the solvent. Alternatively, the acid acceptor can be inorganic, such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate. If a Q group is acyloxy then the reaction is preferably effected in substantially the same manner as if the leaving group were hydroxy, without dehydrating catalyst. Suitable examples of acyloxy leaving groups Include C14 alkanoyloxy. If a Q group is C14 alkoxycarbonyloxy, then the reaction is preferably carried out in an inert solvent, such as methylene chloride, at a non extreme temperature in the presence of an acid acceptor such as triethylamine. If a Q group is activated hydrocarbyloxy, then the ration is preferably carried out in an inert polar solvent, such as dimethylformamide. It is also preferred that the activated hydrocarbyloxy group is a pentachlorophenyl ester and that the reaction is carried out at ambient temperature. As regards the deprotection of R13 protected hydroxy When R13 protected hydroxy is C14 alkoxy deprotection is effectable by conventional methods, such as by boron tribromide or boron triiodide or iodotrlemethylsilane. Warm aqueous hydrobromic acid or pyridine hydrochloric may also be used. When R13 is C1 6 alkanoyloxy or benzoyloxy optionally substituted as defined deprotection may be effected conventionally, for example by acidic or basic hydrolysis. When R13 is optionally substituted benzyloxy as defined above, or tetrahydropranyloxy, conversion is effectable by, for example, palladium or platinum charcoal, at about atmospheric pressure.Non extreme temperatures at about ambient are generally suitable. Reduction of the R13 and R14 oxo function when present to give an R4 hydroxy function may be effected using a strong reductant such as lithium aluminium hydride. This R4 hydroxy group may then be derivatised as discussed hereinafter. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts, and N oxides of the compounds of formela I may be formed conventionally. The salts may be formed for example by reaction of the base compound of formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic acid. N oxides of the nitrogen atom t the bicyclic ring system are produced by react ion of a compound of formula I with an organic peracid, such as m chloroperbenzoic acid in, for example, a chlorinated nydrocarbon solvent at below ambient temperature. Quaternary ammonium salts may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula I with the appropriate alkyl, aryl or aralkyl, chloride, bromide or iodide. This reaction may be carried out in a solvent, such as acetone, methanol, ethanol or dimethylformamide, at ambient or elevated temperature with or without pressure. When L in the compounds of the formula I or VIII is asymmetrically substituted by one or two methyl groups, the L group has a chiral centre. The point of substitution by R4 is also a chiral centre. Racemates of compounds of the formula I , VIII or IX may be resolved conventionally, e.g., by salification with a chiral acid if appropriate and preparation of the resultant salts. Alternatively, either may be synthesised from corresponding chiral preceding intermediates. when L is substituted by two methyl groups, these may be tally cis or trans about the L ring. A mixture o cis or trans isomers of the compound of formula I or VIII may be synthesised non stereospecifically and the desired isomer separated conventionally therefrom, e.g. by chromatography or alternatively the cis or trans isomer may if desired be synthesised from the corresponding cis or trans form of the preceding intermediates. Compounds of formula VIII and IX are either known compounds or are novel but preparable analogously to or areroutinely derivable from known compounds.Novel compounds of these formulae form an aspect of the present invention. Cis and trans and or chiral forms of the compounds of the formulae VIII or IX are either known as separate forms or may be separated conventionally e.g., by chromatography, or resolved conventionally, e.g. by separation of salts with chiral acids. It will be apparent that the products of the above preparative reaction which contain a group convertible to an R1, R2, R3 or R4 group, whether itself an A1, R2,R3 or R4 group or not, are useful novel intermediates.A number of such conversions is possible not only for the products under discussion, but also for their intermediates as follows a a hydrogen substituent is convertible to a nitro substituent by nitration b a nitro substituent is convertible to an amino substituent by reduction c a C1 7 carboxylic acyl mino substituent is convertible to an amino substituent by deacylation d a hydrogen substituent is convertible to a halogen substituent by halogenation e an amino substituent is convertible to a corresponding substituent substituted by one or two groups selected from C1 4 alkyl groups f a C14 alkoxy substituent, a phenyl C1 4 alkoxy substitutent, an in vivo hydrolysable acyloxy substituent or a protected hydroxyl substituent is convertible to a hydroxyl substituent by deetherification or deesterification as apt g a hydroxy substituent is convertible to C14 alkoxy or phenyl C1 4 alkoxy by O alkylatlon or to in vivo hydrolysable acyloxy by O acylation. Conversions a to g are only exemplary and not exhaustive of the possibilities. In regard to a , nitration is carried out in accordance with known procedures. In regard to b , the reduction is carried out with a reagent suitable for reducing nitrobenzene to aniline. In regard to c , deacylation is carried out by treatment with a base, such as an alkali metal hydroxide. In regard to d , halogenation is carried out with conventional halogenating agents. In regard to e , alkylation is carried out with a corresponding alkylating agent such as the chloride or bromide under conventional conditions. In regard to f , a C1 4 alkoxy substituent is convertible to a hydroxy substituent by conventional methods, such as warming with aqueous hydrobromic acid or by treatment with pyridine hydrochloride, boron tribromide, boron triiodide or iodotrimethylsilane. A phenyl C14 alkyl, e.g. benzyl substituent, or a tetrahydropyranyloxy is so convertible by conventional hydrogenolysis. An ln vlvo hydrolysable acyloxy or acyl protected hydroxy group is so convertible by conventional basic hydrolysis. In regard to g , O alkylation is carried out under conventional conditions in an inert solvent at a non extreme temperature such as ambient temperature or slightly above or at reflux temperature. The C14 alkylating agent has a leaving group that is readily displaceable by a nucleophile. Examples of leaving groups include halide, such as chloride, bromide or iodide, or labile acyloxy groups, such as mesyl and tosyl. 0 acylation is carried out under conventional conditions with an acylating agent which has an acylgroup capable of forming an in vlvo hydrolysable acyloxy group and leaving group, such as halide, for example chloride and bromide, and hydrogen. When halide is the leaving group, the reaction may be carried out in the presence of a base. When hydroxy is the leaving group, the reaction is generally carried out in the presence of a dehydrating agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, in an inert solvent at non extreme temperature, such as ambient temperature or slightly above, or reflux temperature. Before carrying ot any of these conversions, the effect, if any, on other substituents should be considered, and such reagents as are appropriate should be selected together with the adoption of such precautionary measures as are necessary. For example,O alkylation and O acylation may also produceN alkylated and N acylated products respectively unless the nitrogen atom s is are previously protected.This may be conveniently achieved by carrying out the alkylation or acylation reaction in a strong acid, such as trifluoroacetic acid, which protonates, and thereby protects, the nitrogen atom s . The following Example illustrates the invention example 1 2 2,4,5 trichlorobenzenesulphonamido propyl piperidinium chloride 2 Whilst stirring, a solution of l 2 amino propyl piperidine 5.7 g 0.04 mol and trlethylamine 4.1 g 0.04 mol in toluene 20 ml was added dropwise to a solutlon of 2,4,5 trlchlorobenzenesulphonylchlorlde 11.3 g 0.04 mol in toluene 180 ml at room temperature. Thereafter, the mixture was stirred for a further 6 hours until the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was extracted twice with water 100 ml . The toluene layer was dried over Na2SO4 and neutralized with a solution of HC1 in ethyl alcohol whereby the reaction product crystallized from the mixture. The precipitate was removed by suction and washed with toluene on the suction filter. The crude chloride was recrystallized from ethanol 300 ml to obtain the product 13.8 g .M.p. 2330CYield 82 of theoretical The other compounds of Tables 1 and 2 were prepared analogously. Pharmacology of CompoundsTest Procedure to Demonstrate Antiarrythmic EffectsElectrostimulation Test According to the meted described by SZERERS, L.and PAPP, G J., Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. exp. Path.Pharmak. 245, 70 1963 , arrhythmias are induced inGuinea pigs by electostimulation of the right ventricle of the heart. The animals are anaesthetized withUrethane 1,2 g kg 1.p. and artificially respired before a needle electrode is inserted in the right ventricle of the heart. Substances are given intraduodenally 30 min before the stimulation. The voltage needed for induction of extrasystoles in 6 control animals n 6 is compared with that required for induction of arrhythmias in 6 treated animals n 6 . The difference is statistically evaluated by the unpaired t test STUDENT . This method was used to evaluate the compounds of the present invention. The results are shown in following Tables 1 and 2. In Tables 1 and 2, means statistically significant p 0.05. In Tables 1 and 2, the following abbreviations mean recrystallised from the following solvents, or mixtures thereof DEE diethyl ether. E ethanol IPA isopropanol No toxic effects were observed in any of the above tests. TABLE 1 EMI27.1 EMI27.2 SEP SEP Increase SEP in tb Compound SEP No. SEP L SEP n SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP Salt SEP Mp C SEP Yield SEP Test SEP Voltage tb SEP 1 SEP SEP 3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP HCl SEP 147 SEP 38 SEP 89.4 tb SEP E DEE tb SEP 2 SEP SEP 1 SEP C1 SEP H SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP HCl SEP 233 SEP 82 SEP 29.6 tb SEP E tb SEP 3 SEP SEP 3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP HCl SEP 173 SEP 73 SEP 87.7 tb SEP IPA tb TABLE 2 EMI28.1 EMI28.2 SEP SEP Increase SEP in tb Compound SEP No. SEP L SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP R5 SEP Salt SEP Mp C SEP Yield SEP Test SEP Voltage tb SEP 4 SEP SEP Cl SEP H SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP HCl SEP 157 SEP 18 SEP 60.6 tb SEP E DEE tb SEP 5 SEP SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP HCl SEP 176 SEP 38.5 SEP 29.5 tb SEP E tb SEP 6 SEP SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP HCl SEP 173 SEP 35.7 SEP 12.1 tb SEP E DEE tb SEP 7 SEP SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP H SEP CH3 SEP HCl SEP 127 SEP 48.6 SEP 13.4 tb SEP E tb