# Pyrrolidinone analogs and precursors.

## Abstract
1 Heterocyclic 2 pyrrolidinone analogs, and interme diates thereof, are described and are useful as aquatic and terrestrial herbicides and aquatic algicides. The com pounds can also be used together with one or more herbi cides to provide useful terrestrial herbicidal combinations. The compounds are prepared by cyclizing the intermediate amide with an acid acceptor.

## Claims
CLAIMSI. A compound of the formulaEMI110.1 wherein EMI110.2 each R2 and R3 independently are hydrogen, halogen or C1 C6 alkyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl R is C3 C10 alkyl, C1 C4 haloalkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl or C1 C4 alkyl substituted C3 C8 cycloalkyl This C1 C10 alkyl or C3 C8 cycloalkyl R7 is cyano orEMI110.3 R8 is hydroxy, C1 C6 alkoxy or NH2 n is 1, 2 or 3 m is 1 or 2 X is O or S andY is O, S or NH. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein R1 isEMI110.4 n n is 1, R4 is hydrogen, one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is C1 C6 alkyl, and R6, R7,Y and m are defined as in claim 1. 3. A compound of claim 1 wherein R1 isEMI111.1 where R2,R3, R4, R5, X and n are defined as in claim 1. 4. A compound of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein n is 1. 5. A compound of claim 1 or 4 wherein R1 isEMI111.2 where R5, R6 and R7 are defined as in claim 1. 6. Any one of the following compounds N 3 cyano 4 1,l dimethylethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. 1 3 1, l dimethylethyl 5 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1 5 1,1 dimethylbutyl 3 isoxazolyl 3methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1 5 1,l dimethylethyl 1,2,4 oxadiazol 3 yl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone or I 5 l,l dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 piperidinone. 7. A process for preparing a compound of formula I as defined in claim 1 which comprises reacting EMI112.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, and n are defined as in claimI, and A is halogen, with an acid acceptor orEMI112.2 wherein Rê, R , R4 and n are defined as in claim 1 andM is a group IA or IIA metal, with RÚ L, wherein RÚ is defined as in claim 1 and L is a leaving group. 8. A process of claim 7 A wherein the acid acceptor is sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. 9. A compound of formulae I as defined in claim 1 for use as a herbicide. 10. A herbicidal formulation which comprises as active ingredient a compound of formula I, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, associated with one or more agriculturally acceptable carriers or diluents therefor. 11. A herbicidal combination which comprises a compound of formula I, as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, and a second herbicide, associated with one or more agriculturally acceptable carriers or diluents therefor. 12. The herbicidal combination of claim 11 wherein the second herbicide is a dinitroaniline. 13. The herbicidal combination of claim 12 wherein the dinitroaniline employed is trifluralin. 14. The herbicidal composition of claim 11 wherein the second herbicide is alachlor, ametryn, amitrole, atrazine, bentazon, bifenox, butachlor, butam, buthidazole, butylate, chloramben, chlorbromuron, cyanazine, dichlorprop, diuron, dinoseb, EPTC, fenac, fluometuron, linuron, methazole, metolachlor, metribuzin, nitrofen, norflurazon, pebulate, perfluidone, prometon, prometryn, propachlor, simazine, tebuthiuron, terbutryn, triallate, triclopyr, propanil, or vernolate. 15. The herbicidal combination of claim 11, 13 or 14 wherein the compound of claim 1 is 1 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. 16. A compound of the formulaEMI113.1 wherein R1 isEMI113.2 each Rê and R independently are hydrogen, halogen or C1 C6 alkyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl R5 is C3 C10 alkyl, C1 C4 haloalkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl or C C alkyl substituted C3 C8 cycloalkyl R6 is C1 C10 alkyl or C3 C8 cycloalkyl R is cyano orEMI114.1 R8 is hydroxy, C1 C6 alkoxy or NH2 n is 1, 2 or 3 m is 1 or 2 X is O or S Y is O, S or NH andA is halogen. 17. A compound of claim 16 wherein R1 isEMI114.2 wherein Y, R6, R7 and m are defined as in 4 2 claim 16 and n is 1, R4 is hydrogen, and one of R2 andR3 is hydrogen and the other is C1 C6 alkyl. 18. A compound of claim 16 wherein R1is EMI114.3 where R5 and X are defined as in claim 16. 19. 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide.

## Description
IMPROVESIENTS IN AND RELATING TO PYRROLIDINONE ANALOGS AND PRECURSORS This invention concerns a class of novel l heterocyclic 2 pyrrolidinone analogs, and intermediates thereof, which have been discovered to be herbicides. The use of herbicides to control growth of unwanted vegetation, both terrestrial and aquatic vegetation, has been the subject of much research for many years. Such control is of great economic benefit in many instances in agriculture. However, a number of problems are associated with the continued use of chemical herbicides, including environmental pollution, crop tolerance, weed resistance, as well as economic considerations. Accordingly, the search continues for new herbicides which are economical and which are selectively toxic to unwanted vegetation. The prior art discloses l 5 substituted l,3,4 thiadiazol 2 yl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidone and piperidone derivatives useful as herbicides in U.S. Patent No.3,981,714. U.S. Patent No. 4,240,820 broadly discloses various N 3 cyano 2 thienyl and furyl acylamino derivatives as plant growth regulators. The patent teaches a clear preference for ethanamide derivatives in contrast to the presently claimed butanamide intermediates. 2 Acylamino 1,3,4 oxadiazole and thiadiazole derivatives, useful as antiallergic agents, are disclosed in U.S. Patent o. 4,158,Ï59. U.S. Patent No.4,166,818 discloses 1,2,4 oxadiazol and thiadiazol 3 and 5 yl derivatives with the same utility. The products of both patents require a tertiary amide. The present invention concerns a compound of the formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 isEMI2.2 each R2 and R3 independently are hydrogen, halogen or C1 C6 alkyl R4 is hydrogen or C1 C4 alkyl R5 is C3 C10 alkyl, C1 C4 haloalkyl, C3 C8 cycloalkyl or C1 C4 alkyl substituted C3 C8 cycloalkyl R6 is C1 C10 alkyl or C3 C8 cycloalkyl 0 R7 is cyano or R is hydroxy, C1 C6 alkoxy or NH2 n is 1, 2 or 3 m is 1 or 2 X is O or S and Y is 0, S or NH. A preferred embodiment of this invention is the compounds of formula I above wherein R1 ls EMI3.1 n n is 1, R4 is hydrogen, and one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is C1 C6 alkyl. Another preferred embodiment of this invention is the compounds of formula I above wherein R1 isEMI3.2 and R5 and X are defined as above. Especially preferred compounds of formula I above are those where R1 isEMI3.3 where R5, R6 and R7 are defined as above. An additional embodiment of the present invention relates to a compound of the formulaEMI3.4 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and n are defined as above and A is halogen. The compounds of formula I above are prepared by reacting A the compounds of formula II above with an acid acceptor, or B a corresponding l substituted ococund of formula I, formula III hereinafter where the l substituent is a group IA or IIA metal, with R1 L, where R1 is as defined above and L is a leaving group. A preferred group of compounds of formula II above are those where R1 isEMI4.1 n n is I, R4 is hydrogen, and one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is C1 C6 alkyl. A further preferred group of compounds of formula II above are those where R1 isEMI4.2 where R5 and X are defined as above. These compounds of formula II are useful both as herbicides and intermediates to the above described cyclized derivatives of formula I. This invention also concerns a method for controlling the growth of undesired vegetation which comprises applying to the locus where vegetative control is desired a herbicidally effective amount of a compound of formula I above. In addition to being terrestrial herbicides, the present compounds of formula I are also aquatic herbicides and algicides. A further embodiment of this invention is a herbicidal formulation which comprises as active ingredient a compound of formula I above, associated with one or more agriculturally acceptable carriers or diluents therefor. The term 11herbicidal formulation 1 comprises both terrestrial and aquatic herbicidal formulations. The present invention also provides herbicidal combinations which comprises a present compound of formula I together with one or more second herbicides, associated with one or more agriculturallyacceptable carriers or diluents therefor. In the above formulae, C3 C1O alkyl represents a straight or branched alkyl chain having from one to ten carbon atoms. Typical C3 C10 alkyl groups include n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec. butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, n pentyl, isopentyl, sec. pentyl, neopentyl, n hexyl, sec. hexyl, isohexyl, n heptyl, isoheptyl, sec. heptyl, n octyl, sec. octyl, isooctyl, n nonyl, sec. nonyl, isononyl, n decyl, sec. decyl, and the like. C4 C7 Alkyl is preferred. C3 C8 Cycloalkyl represents saturated monocyclic cycloalkyl groups such as cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, and cyclooctyl. The term halogen , as defined herein, represents fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. Preferred halogen atoms are chlorine and bromine. The term C1 C4 alkyl substituted C3 C8 cycloalkyl includes 2 methylcyclopropyl, 2, 3 dimethylcyclopropyl, 2 isopropylcyclopropyl, 2 t butylcyclopropyl, 2 ethylcyclobutyl, 1, 2 dimethyl 3, 4 dipropyl cyclobutyl, 2 sec. butylcyclopentyl, 3,3 dimethylcyclopentyl, 2 ethyl 4 butylcyclohexyl, 3 isobutyl 4, 4 diethylcyclohexyl, 2,3,4 trimethyl 5 ethylcycloheptyl, l propyl 6 ethylcycloheptyl, 4 n butylcyclooctyl, 5,6 diethylcyclooctyl, and the like. C1 C4 haloalkyl is a C1 C4 alkyl group bearing one or more halogen substituents. Such haloalkyl groups include trifluoromethyl, 1,1,2, 2 tetrafluoro ethyl, pentabromoethyl, pentafluoroethyl, 3,3, 3 tri chloropropyl, l iodobutyl and the like. The compounds and intermediates of formulaeI and II are prepared by procedures well known to those skilled in the art. The preferred process involves reacting an appropriate heterocyclic amine with a halogen substituted carboxylic acid derivative to provide the corresponding intermediate halogen substituted N heterocyclic carboxylic acid amide, which is finally cyclized in the presence of an acid acceptor to give the appropriate N heterocyclic pyrrolidinone analog. The reaction scheme for this process is as follows.EMI6.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, A and n are as defined above and B is halogen, hydroxy, C1 C6 alkoxy,EMI7.1 alkyl and the like. The condensation of the heterocyclic amine with a halogen substituted carboxylic acid derivative is carried out by combining approximately equimolar quantities of the two starting materials in a suitable solvent. Suitable solvents include the aprotic sol vents, preferably ethyl acetate, toluene, benzene, xylenes, hexanes, and octanes. When the by product of this reaction is an acid, it is necessary to add an acid acceptor to the reaction mixture, for example whenB in the above formula is halogen. The reaction may also be carried out in an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen or argon. Exemplary acid binding agents include most organic bases. The preferred base is triethylamine. When B in the above formula is hydroxy, an activating reagent must be used. Suitable activating reagents include CDI carbonyldiimidazole , DCC N,N dicyclocarbodiimide and the like.The reaction is performed at temperatures between OOC and 200 C, more preferably between 15 C and the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture. The product is isolated by typically filtering off the salts produced in the reaction and removing the volatiles by evaporation under reduced pressure. The compound thus isolated may be further purified if desired by procedures well known in the art such as crystallization from common solvents or column chromatography over silica gel. The final step in the preferred reaction process used to prepare compounds of formula I involves reacting the halogen substituted N heterocyclic carboxylic acid amide intermediate with at least one equivalent of a suitable acid acceptor. Preferred acid acceptors are alkali metal carbonates, such as potasslum carbonate and sodium carbonate alkaline earth metal carbonates, such as barium carbonate and magnesium carbonate alkaline earth metal hydroxides, such as barium hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide sodium alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or ethoxide and organic bases such as triethylamine, pyridine and 1,5 diazabicyclo 4.3. Ojnon 5 ene DBN . Preferred acid acceptors are the alkali metal hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide.Preferred solvents for use in this reaction are the alcohols such as methanol or ethanol and water immiscible solvents such as benzene, toluene, diethyl ether, ethyl acetate, dichloromethane and the like. The solvent may then be washed with dilute acid or water and evaporated under vacuum. The reaction is carried out in a temperature in the range of from about 10 C to 1500C, more preferably from about 25 C to the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture is then worked up according to standard procedures. Typically, the mixture is added to water and the product either collected by filtration or extracted into a water immiscible solvent such as toluene or dichloromethane.The product may then be further purified by standard procedures if desired. The starting materials used to prepare compounds and intermediates of formula I and II are either commercially available or readily prepared by known procedures. For example, certain halogen substituted carboxylic acid halide derivative starting materials are preferably prepared by reacting an acetyl lactone derivative with sodium alkoxide and an alkyl halide to provide the corresponding alkyl lactone, which is converted to the appropriate acid halide derivative with a suitable halogenating agent and zinc chloride according to the following reaction scheme EMI9.1 wherein n and A are as defined above and R9 is C1 C6 alkyl.Also, 2 aminothiophene derivatives are prepared by reacting a malonic acid nitrile derivative with an appropriate ketone analog in the presence of ammonium acetate and acetic acid to provide an alkene derivative, which is finally reacted with sulfur in the presence of morpholine to provide the corresponding 2 aminothiophene derivative. The scheme for this reaction is as follows EMI10.1 wherein R7 is as defined above, and R10 is hydrogen,C1 C10 alkyl or C3 C8 cycloalkyl, provided that no more than one RIO is hydrogen. The compounds of formula I may also be conveniently prepared by reacting a lactam salt with a heterocycle according to the following scheme EMI10.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and n are as defined above, M is a group IA or IIA metal and L is a leaving group. This reaction is carried out under anhydrous conditions using any suitable inert solvent. The ethers such as diethyl ether, dioxane and tetrahydrofuran are particularly useful however, solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF , N methylpyrrolidone and hexamethylphosphoric triamide may also be employed.The reaction is typically carried out at temperatures between 0 and 1100 C, preferably between 0 and 40 C, most preferably at room temperature. The product has usually formed after about 1 to 6 hours. The product thus formed is then isolated and purified by procedures well known to those skilled in the art. In the above reaction scheme a preferred lactam salt is a lithium derivative. Preferred leaving groups on the heterocyclic ring include halogen, more preferably chlorine, bromine and iodine. In addition to the synthetic procedures described above, certain compounds and intermediates of formula I or II may be prepared by modification of an existing compound or intermediate of formula I or II, respectively. For example, aromatic heterocyclic derivatives having a carboxamide moiety at the 3 position may be conveniently prepared by simply reacting the corresponding cyano derivative with a suitable oxidizing agent, such as hydrogen peroxide, according to known procedures. The following detailed examples are provided in an effort to more fully illustrate specific aspects of the present invention. The examples are not intended to be limiting in any respect and should not be so construed. Example I N 3 Cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2pyrrolidinone A. l Bromo 3, 3 dimethyl 2 butanone A solution of 30.0 g of 3,3 dimethyl 2butanone dissolved in 150 ml of diethyl ether was cooled to about 00 50C with an ice bath. To the solution was added 25.0 g of bromine dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to about 20 C. The mixture was washed with water and the organic phase was separated, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and filtered. The solution was concentrated under vacuum to afford 25.0 g of l bromo 3,3 dimethyl 2 butanone as an oil. Yield 47 . B. 3,3 Dimethyl 2 butanon l ol To a solution of 27.7 g of potassium formate dissolved in 200 ml of methanol was added 40.0 g of l bromo 3,3 dimethyl 2 butanone. The reaction mixture was refluxed overnight and the methanol was distilled off. The precipitated salt was collected by filtration and washed with anhydrous diethyl ether. The filtrate was distilled under reduced pressure to afford 17.0 g of 3,3 dimethyl 2 butanon 1 ol. Yield 67 . C. 2 Amino 3 cyano 4 I, 1 dimethylethyl furan To a solution of 17.0 g of 3,3 dimethyl 2butanon l ol and 9.6 g of malononitrile dissolved in 100 ml DMF was added 12.71 g of morpholine at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at this tempera ture overnight and the volatiles were removed in vacuo.The resulting residue was added to ice water and stirred for 30 minutes. The precipitate was collected by filtration, redissolved in a small amount of DMF and slurried in ice water again. The precipitated solid was again collected by filtration and dried to afford 14.3 g of 2 amino 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl furan. mp 830 85eC. Yield 61 . D. To 4.0 g of 2 amino 3 cyano 4 l,l dimethylethyl furan and 4.3 g of 2 methyl 4 chlorobutyryl chloride was added 150 ml of toluene. The reaction mixture was allowed to reflux for about 72 hours. The mixture was washed once with 1N hydrochloric acid, once with 2N sodium hydroxide and finally with water. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was chromatographed over silica gel while eluting with an 80 20 mixture of Skellysolve B ethyl acetate. Fractions containing the major component were combined and the solvent was evaporated therefrom to afford 1.3 g of N 3 cyano 4 l,l dimethylethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. mp 880 900C. Yield 21 . Example 2 N 3 Cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 thienyll 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone A. 2 1,1 Dimethylethyl l,l dicyano l propene A solution of 9.9 g of malononitrile, 26.25 g of 3,3 dimethyl 2 butanone, 1.45 g of ammonium acetate and 2.25 g of acetic acid dissolved in 100 ml of toluene was refluxed for about 16 hours with the aid of a Dean Stark Trap. The reaction mixture was diluted with 120 ml of toluene and washed with 200 ml water.The organic phase was collected, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting residue was distilled under vacuum to afford 15.2 g of 2 1,1 dimethylethyl l,l dicyano l propene as an oil. Yield 68 . B. 2 Amino 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl thiophene To a solution of 15.2 g of 2 1,1 dimethyl ethyl l,l dicyano l propee and 3.2 g of sulphur dissolved in 80 ml ethanol was added 8.9 g of morpholine dropwise at 45J 500C. The mixture was stirred for an additional 1 1 2 hours while maintaining the 500C temperature and the volatiles were removed in vacuo.The residue was added to ice water and the precipitated solid was collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to afford about 12.0 g of 2 amino 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethylithiophene. Yield 65 . C. 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4 1, 1 dimethylethyl 2 thienyll 2 methylbutanamide A mixture of 4.0 g of 2 amino 3 cyano 4 l,l dimethylethyl thiophene and 4.0 g of 2 methyl 4chlorobutyryl chloride dissolved with 100 ml benzene was refluxed for about 72 hours. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed while eluting with a 90 10 mixture of Skellysolve B ethyl acetate. Fractions containing the major component were combined and the solvent was evaporated therefrom to afford 3.75 g of 4 chloro N 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 thienyll 2 methyl butanamide. mp 1150 1160C. Yield 57 . Analysis calculated for C14H 19ClN2OS Theory C, 56.27 H, 6.41 N, 9.37 Found C, 56.37 H, 6.28 N, 9.09. D. To a solution of 0.21 g of sodium dissolved in 10 ml of ethanol was added 2.75 g of 4 chloro N 3cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 thienyl 2 methylbutanamide dissolved in 35 ml ethanol dropwise. The mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for about one hour and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was combined with 10 ml ethanol and 250 ml water and the precipitate was collected by filtration. The collected solid was recrystallized from hexane to afford 1.8 g of N 3 cyano 4 l,l dimethylethyl 2 thienyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. Yield 75 . mp 920 940C. Analysis calculated for C14H18N2OS Theory C, 64.09 H, 6.92 N, 10.68 Found C, 64.35 H, 6.88 N, 10.55. The following examples of compounds of formula I were prepared by the general procedures ofExample 1 or 2. Example 3N 3 Cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrro lidinone mp 167 169 C Analysis calculated for C14H19N3O Theory C, 68.54 H, 7.81 N, 17.13 Found C, 68.71 H, 7.61 N, 17.10. Example 4 N 3 Cyano 4 methyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 109 112 C Example 5N 3 Carbethoxy 4 1 methylethyl 2 thienyl 3methyl 2 pyrrolidinone oil Analysis calculated for C15H21NO3S Theory Cr 61.02 H, 7.12 N, 4.75 Found C, 60.73 H, 7.44 N, 4.44. Example 6N 3 Cyano 4,5 dimethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 84 86 C Example 7N 3 Cyano 5 1 methylethyl 2 thienyl 3 methyl 2pyrrolidinone mp 83 85 C Analysis calculated for C13H16N2OS Theory C, 62.87 H, 6.49 N, 11.28 S, 12.91 Found C, 63.00 H, 6.46 N, 11.14 S, 12.90. Example 8 N 3 Carboxamide 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 1480 1500C Analysis calculated for Cl4H20N203 Theory C, 63.62 H, 7.63 N, 10.63 Found C, 63.39 H, 7.42 N, 10.39. Example 9 1 5 l,l Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneA. 2 Methyl 4 chlorobutyric acid chloride To a stirring solution of 77 g of a methyl y butyrolactone and 1 g of zinc chloride was added 120 g of thionyl chloride. The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for about 16 hours and then was heated to 750 800C for 24 hours. The reaction mixture was distilled at 10 mm pressure to provide 2 methyl 4 chlorobutyric acid chloride. bp 570 600C.B. 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide To a stirred solution of 7 g of 3 amino 5 l,l dimethylethyl isoxazole and 5.05 g triethylamine dissolved in 100 ml ethyl acetate was added 7.75 g of 2 methyl 4 chlorobutyric acid chloride dropwise. The mixture was stirred for about 16 hours at room temperature and the precipitated salt was collected by filtration and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed over silica gel while eluting with a 1 1 v v mixture of toluene diethyl ether.Fractions containing the major component as indicated by thin layer chromatography were combined and concentrated under vacuum to provide 7 g of 4 chloro N S 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide. Yield 54 . This material was used in the following reaction without additional purification.C. To a solution of 7 g of 4 chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide in 10 ml of ethanol was added 2 g of powdered potassium hydroxide in 5 ml water and 5 ml ethanol. The mixture was refluxed for 30 minutes, cooled and poured into 40 ml water. A gummy solid was collected by filtration and recrystallized from pentane to afford l 5 l,l dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolylj 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone as a solid mp 890 900C Analysis calculated for Cl2Hl8N202 Theory C, 64.84 H, 8.16 N, 12.60 Found C, 64.57 H, 7.93 N, 12.78. Example 10 1 3 1,1 Dimethylethyl 5 isoxazolyl 3methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneA. 4 Chloro N 3 l,l dimethylethyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide To a stirred solution of 7 g of 3 1,1dimethylethyl 5 aminoisoxazole dissolved in 50 ml ethyl acetate was added 5.05 g of triethylamine at room temperature. As the solution continued to stir, 8 g of 2 methyl 4 chlorobutyric acid chloride was added to the reaction mixture over a 15 minute period. The reaction was allowed to stir for about 3 days and the precipitated triethylamine hydrochloride salt was collected by filtration and washed with ethyl acetate.The solvent was evaporated from the filtrate under reduced pressure and the residue was recrystallized from diethyl ether to afford 4 chloro N 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide as a solid. mp 1350 1370C Analysis calculated for Cl2HlgClN202 Theory C, 55.70 H, 7.40 N, 10.83 Found C, 55.41 H, 7.15 N, 10.84.B. Two grams of 4 chloro N 3 l,l dimethylethyl 5isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide was added by portion to a stirring solution of 0.6 g of powdered potassium hydroxide dissolved in 2 ml of water and 5 ml of ethanol. The reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 15 minutes, cooled and poured into 20 ml of water The precipitated solid was collected by filtration to afford 1.5 g of 1 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. Yield 87 . mp 730 750C Analysis calculated for C12H 18N2O2 Theory C, 64.84 H, 8.16 N, 12.60 Found C, 64.65 H, 8.44 N, 12.46. Example 11 1 3 1,1 Dimethylethyl 5 isothiazolyl 3methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneA. 4 Chloro N 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 lsothiazolyll 2 methylbutanamide To a solution of 2.4 g of 3 1,l dimethyl ethyl 5 aminoisothiazole dissolved in 150 ml of toluene under nitrogen was added 2.3 g of 2 methyl 4chlorobutyric acid chloride. The reaction mixture was refluxed for about 24 hours and cooled. The solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure, and the product was isolated from the residue by chromatography over silica gel eluting with an ethyl acetate Skellysolve B solvent mixture.Fractions containing the major component were combined and the solvent was evaporated therefrom to afford, following crystallization from toluene Skellysolve B, 0.5 g of 4 chloro N 3 1,l dimethylethyl 5 isothiazolyll 2 methylbutanamide.Yield 12 . mp 1440 1460C Analysis calculated for C12H19ClN2OS Theory C, 52.45 H, 6.97 N, 10.19 Found C, 52.50 H, 6.69 x, 10.22. B. To a stirred solution of 0.5 g of 4 chloro N 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 isothiazolyl 2 methylbutanamide dissolved in 30 ml ethanol was slowly added 0.112 g of potassium hydroxide dissolved in ethanol water. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for about one half hour and poured into water. The solution was extracted with diethyl ether, and the organic phase was washed with water, filtered, dried, filtered again, and finally evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure.The product crystallized from Skellysolve B to provide about 0.2 g of 1 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 isothiazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. Yield 46 . mp 1110 1130C NMR multiplet at ô 1.4 15 protons multiplet at o 3.8 2 protons and singlet at 6 6.6 il proton . Example 12 1 5 1,1 Dimethylbutyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone was prepared by reacting 17.2 g of 4 chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylbutyl 3 isoxa zolyl 2 methylbutanamide with 6.72 g of potassium hydroxide in 30 ml water and 75 ml ethanol by the general method of Example 11. Weight 4 g Yield 208 . mp 300 310C Analysis calculated for C14 H22N 202 Theory C, 67.17 H, 8.86 N, 11.19 Found C, 67.40 H, 8.62 N, 11.13. The following examples further illustrate compounds of formula I and were prepared by the general procedures of Examples 9 11. Example 13 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2pyrrolidinone mp 640C Analysis calculated for C11H16N2O2 Theory C, 63.46 H, 7.69 N, 13.46 Found C, 63.17 H, 7.89 N, 13.66. Example 14 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 piperidinone mp 430 450C Analysis calculated for C13H20N202 Theory C, 66.07 H, 8.53 N, 11.85 Found Cr 66.31 H, 8.79 N, 11.57. Example 15 1 5 1 methylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl2 pyrrolidinone mp 380 400C Analysis calculated for C10H16N2O2 Theory C, 63.44 H, 7.74 N, 13.45 Found C, 63.17 H, 7.80 N, 13.37. Example 16 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 1,2,4 oxadiazol 3 yl3 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 840 860C Analysis calculated for CloHl7N302 Theory C, 59.17 H, 7.67 N, 18.82 Found C, 58.93 H, 7.27 N, 18.62. Example 17 1 5 1 Ethyl 1 methylpropyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone oil Analysis calculated for C13H22N202 Theory C, 67.17 H, 8.86 N, 11.19 Found C, 66.98 H, 8.65 N, 10.93. Example 18 1 5 1 Ethyl 1 methylpropyl 1,3,4 oxadiazol2 yl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone oil NMR multiplet from 6 0.9 to 2.0 19 protons and multiplet at 6 4.1 2 protons . Example 19 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3ethyl 2 pyrrolidinone oil Analysis calculated for C12H20N202 Theory C, 66.07 H, 8.53 N, 11.85 Found C, 65.79 H, 8.44 N, 11.85. Example 20 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl hexahydro 2H azepin 2 one mp 660 680C Analysis calculated for C13H20N2O2 Theory C, 66.07 H, 8.53 N, 11.85 Found C, 65.86 H, 8.25 N, 11.61. Example 21 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2piperidinone mp 71 72 C Analysis calculated for C12H18N2O2 Theory C, 64.84 H, 8.16 N, 12.60 Found C, 64.59 H, 7.91 N, 12.60. Example 22 1 5 1 Ethylcyclohexyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 61 63 C Analysis calculated for C16H24N2O2 Theory C, 69.53 H, 8.75 N, 10.14 Found C, 69.82 H, 8.50 N, 9.89. Example 23 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3,3dimethyl 2 pyrrolidinone mp 123 125 C Analysis calculated for Cl2H2lN202 Theory C, 66.07 H, 8.53 N, 11.85 Found C, 65.87 H, 8.65 N, 11.87. Example 24 1 5 1,1 Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3bromo 2 pyrrolidinone mp 1590 1610C Analysis calculated for C11H5BrN2O2 Theory C, 46.01 H, 5.27 N, 9.76 Found C, 46.26 H, 5.37 N, 9.53. The following compounds exemplify the intermediates of formula II contemplated as a further embodiment of the present invention. Example 25 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 87 89 C Example 26 4 Chloro N 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5 isoxa zolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 1350 1370C Analysis calculated for C12H19ClN2O2 Theory C, 55.70 H, 7.40 N, 10.83 Found C, 55.41 H, 7.15 N, 10.84. Example 27 4 Chloro N 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 5isothiazolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 144 146 C Analysis calculated for Cl2ElgClN2OS Theory C, 52.45 H, 6.97 N, 10.19 Found C, 52.50 H, 6.69 N, 10.22. Example 28 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylbutyl 3 isoxa zolyli 2 methylbutanamide Example 29 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl butanamide mp 73 75 C Example 30 5 Iodo N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylpentanamide oil Example 31 4 Chloro N 5 1 methylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 640 660C Analysis calculated for C11H17C1N2O2 Theory C, 53.99 H, 7.00 N, 11.45 Found C, 53.91 H, 7.04 N, 11.27. Example 32 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 1,2,4oxadiazol 3 yl 2 methylbutanamide mp 154e 1560C Analysis calculated for C11H18ClN3O2 Theory C, 50.87 H, 6.99 N, 16.18 Found C, 50.72 H, 6.99 N, 16.11. Example 33 4 Chloro N 5 1 methyl 1 ethylpropyl 3isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 590 610C Analysis calculated for C14H23ClN202 Theory C, 58.63 H, 8.08 N, 9.77 Found C, 58.35 H, 7.87 N, 9.76. Example 34 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 ethylbutanamide mp 740 760C Example 35 6 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl hexanamide mp 81 83 C Analysis calculated for C13H21ClN2O2 Theory C, 57.24 H, 7.76 N, 10.27 C1, 13.00 Found C, 57.50 H, 7.85 N, 10.07 Cl, 13.07. Example 36 5 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl pentanamide mp 710 730C Analysis calculated for C12H19ClN202 Theory C, 55.70 H, 7.40 N, 10.83 Found C, 55.95 H, 7.36 N, 10.86. Example 37 4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2,2 dimethylbutanamide mp 97 99 C Example 38 4 Chloro N 5 1 ethylcyclohexyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide oil Example 39 4 Bromo N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 94 96.5 C Analysis calculated for C12H19BrN2O2 Theory C, 47.54 H, 6.32 N, 9.24 Found C, 47.89 H, 6.43 N, 9.07. Example 40 2,4 Dibromo N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3isoxazolyl butanamide mp 148 150 C Analysis calculated for CllHl6Br2N202 Theory C, 35.90 H, 4.38 N, 7.61 Found C, 36.06 H, 4.48 N, 7.36. Example 41 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2furyl 2 methylbutanamide Example 42 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2thienyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 1150 1160C Example 43 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2pyrrolyl 2 methylbutanamide Example 44 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4 methyl 2 furyl 2methylbutanamide Example 45 4 Chloro N 3 carbethoxy 4 1 methylethyl 2 thienyl 2 methylbutanamide oil Analysis calculated for C15H22 CINO 3S Theory C, 54.29 H, 6.68 N, 4.22 Found C, 54.13 H, 6.80 N, 3.93. Example 46 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 4,5 dimethyl 2 furyl 2 methylbutanamide Example 47 4 Chloro N 3 cyano 5 1 methylethyl 2 thienyl 2 methylbutanamide mp 1000 1020C Analysis calculated for C13H 17ClN2OS Theory C, 54.82 H, 6.02 N, 9.84 Found C, 54.59 H, 5.76 N, 9.79. The compounds of formulae I and II have been found to display both preemergent and postemergent herbicidal activity against a variety of weed species, and are therefore useful in controlling and inhibiting the growth of both broadleaf and grassy weeds in crops such as cereal grains and the like. It is therefore provided as another embodiment of the present invention a method for controlling undesired plants which comprises applying to the plants a growth inhibiting amount of a compound of formula I or II, especially the compounds of formula I. To control the growth of unwanted vegetation, the present compounds may either be applied to young plants in a growth inhibiting amount or applied to the soil prior to emergence of the plants. The compounds may be either incorporated into the soil, by using a conventional disc or harrow prior to planting the seeds of the desired crop species, or by surface applying the compounds to the soil prior to substantial plant emergence or after plant emergence. In this latter procedure the compounds are merely permitted to leach into the soil, for example with the assistance of rainfall. The compounds and intermediates of formulaeI and II display activity against a wide variety of weeds. Examples of typical weeds include, but are not limited to, the following Wild Oat Avena fatua Catchweed Bedstraw Galium aparine Scentless Mayweed Matricaria inodora LadysthumS Polygonum persicaria Common Chickweed Stellaria media Ivyleaf Speedwell Veronica hederaefolia Blackgrass Alopecurus myosuroides Chrysanthenum Chrysanthemum spp. Common Purslane Portulaca oleracea Sida Sida spp. Bristly Starbur Acanthospermum hispidum Goosegrass Eleusine indica Smooth Pigweed Amaranthus hybridus Alexandergrass Brachiaria plantaginea Tall Morningglory Ipomoea purpurea Common Lambsquarters Chenopodium album Green Smartweed Polygonum scabrum Green Foxtail Setaria viridis Redroot Pigweed Amaranthus retroflexus Morningglory Smartweed Polygonum convolvulus Brazil Calalilly Richardia brasiliensis Natal Grass Rhynchelytrum roseum Ryegrass Lolium rigidum Kapeweed Cryptostemma calendula Purple Loosestrife Lythrum salicaria Wild radish Raphanus raphanistrum Wireweed Polygonum aviculare Henbit Lamium amplexicaule Wild Mustard Brassica kaber Barnyardgrass Echinochloa crus galli Foxtail Millet Setaria italica Velvetleaf Abutilon theophrasti Indian Mustard Brassica juncea Birdseye Speedwell Veronica persica Canada Thistle Cirsium arvense Wild Chamomile Matricaria chamomilla Annual Bluegrass Poa annua Buttercup Ranunculus spp. Field Speedwell Veronica agrestis Field Violet Viola arvensis Field Pennycress Thlaspi arvense Wild Violet Viola tricolor Shirley Poppy Papaver rhoeas Field Poppy Papaver dubium Foolsparsley Aethusa cynapium Field Chickweed Cerastium arvense Southern Sanbur Cenchrus echinatus Large Crabgrass Digitaria sanguinalis Cheat Bromus secalinus Morningglory Ipomea spp. Common Ragweed Ambrosia artemisiifolia Common Milkweed Asclepias syriaca Giant Foxtail Setaria faberi Common Cocklebur Xanthium pensylvanicum Spurred Anoda Anoda cristata Sicklepod Cassia obtusifolia Yellow Nutsedge Cyperus esculentus Jimsonweed Datura stramonium Large Crabgrass Digitaria sanguinalis Prickly Sida Sida spinosa Corn Gromwell Lithospermum arvense Yellow Foxtail Setaria glauca Tansymustard Descurainia pinnata Pepperweed Lepidium spp. Bromegrass Bromus spp. Garden Spurge Euphorbia hirta Crowfootgrass Dactyloctenium aegyptium Florida Beggarweed Desmodium tortuosum Spotted Spurge Euphorbia maculata Smallflower Morningglory Jacquemontia tamnifolia Browntop Millet Panicum ramosum Coast Fiddleneck Amsinckia intermedia Wild Turnip Brassica campestris Black Mustard Brassica tiara Shepherdspurse Capsella bursa pastoris Italian Ryegrass Lolium multiflorum London Rocket Sisymbrium irio Redmaids Rockpurslane Calandrinia caulescens Common Groundsel Senecio vulgaris Ivyleaf Morningglory Ipomoea hederacea Fall Panicum Panicum dichotomiflorum Powell Amaranth Amaranthus powellii Texas Panicum Panicum texanum Hemp Sesbania Sesbania exaltata Annual Sowthistle Sonchus oleraceus Field Bindweed Convolvulus arvensis Erect Knotweed Polygonum erectum Venice Mallow Hibiscus trionum Zinnia Zinnia elegens Nightshade Solanum spp. The present compounds and intermediates of formulae I and II have also been found safe on a wide variety of desirable plant species, thereby exhibiting their unique selective capacity. Representative examples of relatively tolerant plant species, depending on the concentration of active compound employed, include the following Corn Zea mays Wheat Triticum aestivum Soybean Glycine max Rice Oryza sativa Barley Hordeum vulgare Cotton Gossypium hirsutum Sorghum Sorghum vulgare v. saccharatum Sugarcane Saccharum officinarum Peanut Arachis hypogae Peas Pisum sativum Alfalfa Medicago sativa Cucumber Cucumis sativus Tomato Lycopersicon esculentum Sugar beets Beta vulgaris Cabbage Brassica oleracea capitata The compounds of formula I have been found to be particularly useful for the control of weeds in cereal grains, such as wheat, when applied either preemergence or postemergence to the locus. The term growth inhibiting amount , as defined herein, refers to an amount of a compound or intermediate of formula I or II which either kills or stunts the growth of the weed species for which control is desired. This amount will generally be from about 0.05 to about 20.0 pounds or greater of a compound or intermediate of formula I or II per acre about 0.056 to about 22.4 kg ha . The compounds of formula I are more preferably applied at rates of about 0.10 to about 8.0 pounds per acre about 0.112 to about 8.96 kg ha , while the intermediates of formula II are more preferably applied at rates of about 0.20 to about 10.0 lbs acre about 0.224 to about 11.2 kg ha . The exact concentration of active ingredient required varies with the weed species to be controlled, type of formulation, soil type, climate conditions and related factors. The term undesired plants , as defined herein, refers to both weeds and weed seeds which are present at the location to be treated with an active agent of formula I or II. These compounds and intermediates can be applied to the soil to selectively control undesired plants by soil contact when the weed seeds are germinating and emerging. They can also be used directly to kill emerged weeds by direct contact with the exposed portion of the weed. The compounds and intermediates can also be used in the control of unwanted vegetation in non crop land, for instance in a chemical fallow land program, particularly in fallow wheatland. Due to their unusually high activity, the present active agents can also be used non selectively for total vegetation control when used in amounts generally greater than 10 lbs acre 11.2 kg ha . The compounds and intermediates of formulaeI and II are preferably formulated with a suitable agriculturally acceptable carrier for ease of application. Such compositions will contain from about 0.1 to about 95.0 percent by weight of the active ingredient, depending on the composition desired. Preferred formulations will contain from about 1 to about 50 percent by weight of the active ingredient. Examples of typical herbicidal compositions contemplated by the present invention include sprayable formulations, such as wettable powders, aqueous suspensions and emulsifi able concentrates and solid compositions, such as dusts and granules. The most convenient formulations are in the form of concentrated compositions to be applied by spraying as water dispersions or emulsions containing in the range from about 0.1 percent to about 10 percent of the active agent by weight. Water dispersible or emulsifiable compositions may be either solids, usually known as wettable powders, or liquids, usually known as emulsifiable concentrates and aqueous suspensions. A typical wettable powder comprises an intimate mixture of an active ingredient of formula I or II, an inert carrier, and one or more surfactants.The concentration of the active agent is usually from about 5 percent to about 90 percent by weight, ideally about 10 to about 70 percent. The inert carrier is usually chosen from among the attapulgite clays, the montmorillonite clays, the diatomaceous earths, the purified silicates or other similar substances that are readily available. Effective surfactants, comprising from about 0.5 percent to about 10 percent by weight of the wettable powder, are chosen from among the sulfonated lignins, the condensed napthalenesulfonates, the alkyl sulfates, and related materials. A typical emulsifiable concentrate comprises from about 0.1 to about 6 pounds of a compound or intermediate of formula I or II per gallon of liquid about 0.0112 to about 0.672 kg l. , dissolved in a mixture of organic solvents and emulsifiers. The organic solvent is chosen with regard to its solvency and its cost. Useful solvents include the aromatics, especially the xylenes and the heavy aromatic naphthas.Hydrophilic cosolvents such as cyclohexanone and the glycol ethers such as 2 methoxyethanol may be included.Other organic solvents may also be used, including the terpenic solvents and kerosene. Suitable emulsifiers for emulsifiable concentrates are chosen from the alkylbenzenesulfonates, napthalenesulfonates, and nonionic surfactants such as alkylphenol adducts of polyoxyethylene, and are used at similar percentages as for wettable powders. An aqueous suspension, or flowable, is comprised of a finely ground suspension of the active ingredient of formula I or II dispersed in a water based system. This type of formulation is particularly useful for compounds with low water solubility. The concentration of active agent is usually from about 15 to 60 percent by weight. A typical aqueous suspension may comprise wetting and dispersing agents, antifreeze components, thickening or bulking agents as well as water and the active ingredient. Dust compositions containing a compound or intermediate of formula I or II usually contain from about 0.1 to about 10 percent by weight of the compound.Dusts are prepared by intimately mixing and finely grinding the active agent with an inert solid such as ground montmorillonite clay, attapulgite clay, talc, ground volcanic rock, kaolin clay, or other inert, relatively dense, inexpensive substances. Solid, granular compositions are convenient for the application of compounds or intermediates of formula I or II to the soil and will contain the active agent in an amount from about 0.1 to about 20 percent by weight. Granules comprise a compound of formula I or II dispersed on a granular inert carrier such as coarsely ground clay of from about 0.1 to about 3 mm particle size. The active ingredient is most conveniently applied to the clay by dissolving it in an inexpensive solvent, such as acetone, and applying the solution to the sized clay in an appropriate solids mixer. The solvent is then typically removed by evaporation prior to applying the granules to the application site. When operating in accordance with the present invention, the present compounds and intermediates, or compositions thereof, may be applied to the site where herbicidal or algicidal control is desired by any convenient manner, e.g., by means of hand dusters or sprayers. Metering applicators can apply accurately measured quantities of granular compositions to the locus to be treated. Other applications can be carried out with power dusters, boom sprayers, high pressure sprayers and spray dusters. In large scale operations, dusts or low volume sprays can be applied aerially, for example from airplanes or helicopters, to the application site. When applying the formulations described above, it is important to apply the desired concen tration of active ingredient uniformly to the plants or locus to be treated. The following examples provide an illustration of typical agriculturally acceptable compositions comprehended by this invention. Wettable Powder Concentration by Ingredient Weight Percent Active agent of formula I or II, e.g.4 Chloro N 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 50.0 3 isoxazolyll 2 methylbutanamide Igepal, a nonionic wetting agent, 5.0GAF CorporationPolyfon O, lignosulfonate dispersant, 5.0Westvaco CorporationZeolex 7, a precipitated hydrated 5.0 silica bulking agent, J.M. HuberCorporationBarden Clay, a kaolinite clay, J.M. 35.0Huber Corporation 100.0 The active ingredient is finely divided into a powder and blended to uniformity with the agronomic carriers to form a free flowing powder that will be wetted and suspendible in water at or near the site of application to form a sprayable mixture. The composition is then sprayed on the locus where control is desired. The application is done at a volume rate so that the active ingredient is present at about 1 to about 4 pounds per acre about 1.12 to about 4.48 kg ha . Dust Concentration Ingredient by weight Active agent of formula I or II, e.g.N 3 Cyano 4,5 dimethyl 2 furyl 10.0 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneDiatomite, a diatomaceous earth, Witco 90.0Chemical Corp., Inorganic SpecialitiesDivision 100.0 The active agent is suspended in acetone and sprayed onto the diatomaceous earth carrier. The solvent is then removed by evaporation and the dry mixture is ground to a fine powder of uniform particle size of about 10 to about 40 microns. The dust formulation can be diluted at the site of application if desired by the addition of additional carrier such as silica or clay. The dust is surface applied to the soil or plants where control is desired, either by conventional ground equipment or aerially. Aqueous Suspension 1 Concentration by Ingredient Weight Percent Active agent of formula I or II, e.g. 1 5 I,l Dimethylethyl 3 45.0 isoxazolyll 2 piperidinonePolyfon H, an anionic lignosulfonate 3.0 wetting agent and dispersant,Westvaco CorporationSponto 2174, an emulsifier, Witco 4.0Chemical CorporationEthylene Glycol 8.0Xanthum Gum thickening agent 0.2Antifoam C foam suppressant, Dow 0.5Corning CorporationWater 39.3 100.0 Aqueous Suspension 2 Concentration Ingredient by weight Active agent of formula I or II, e.g. N 3 Carbethoxy 4 1 methylethyl 2 thienyll 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone Reax, lignosulfonate suspending agent, 5.0Westvaco Corp., Polychemical Dept.Zanthum Gum thickening agent 0.15 Zeosyl 100, a precipitated hydrated 1.0 silicon dioxide anticaking agent,J. M. Hubor Corp.Antifoam C foam suppressant, Dow 0.25CordingWater 33.60 100.00 The aqueous suspension containing the active agent is typically diluted with additional water at the site of application, and sprayed onto the locus where vegetative control is desired. The diluted aqueous suspension is applied such that the active ingredient is present at about 4 pounds per acre 4.48 kg ha for the effective control of unwanted vegetation such as lambsquarter, pisweed, velvetleaf and others in crops such as corn, soybean or cereal grains. Granule 1 Concentration Ingredient by weight Active agent of formula I or II, e.g. 6.0N 3 Cyano 4 ethyl 2 furyl 3methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneNaphtha 4.0Florex 30 60 granular clay, 90.0The Floridin Company 100.0 Granule 2 Concentration by Ingredient Weight Percent Active agent of formula I or II, e.g. 5.0 1 5 l,l Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinoneNaphtha 5.0Bentonite 20 40 mesh granular clay, 90.0The Floridin Company 100.0 The active agent is dissolved in the naphtha and sprayed onto the clay granules, typically under agitation, and the formulated granules are sieved to provide a uniform mesh size. The herbicidal activity of representative compounds and intermediates of formula I or II is illustrated by the following experiments Experiment l The initial screen used to evaluate herbicidal efficacy was conducted at a test compound concentration of 15 lbs acre 16.8 kg ha . In this test a standard sand soil mixture 1 1 was sterilized and added to separate containers and tomato, large crabgrass and pigweed seeds were planted by row. Each container was then fertilized before treatment. The test compounds were formulated for application by dissolving the compound into a solvent pre pared by combining Toximul R and Toximul S proprietary blends of anionic and nonionic surfactants manufactured by Stepan Chemical Company, Northfield, Illinois with a 1 1 v v mixture of acetone ethanol. The solvent compound solution was diluted with deionized water and applied postemergence to some planted containers and preemergence to others using a DeVilbiss atomizer.Postemergence treatment was made 11 to 13 days after planting while preemergence treatment was made one day after planting. Following treatment the containers were moved to the greenhouse and watered as necessary. Observa tions were made 10 to 13 days after treatment using untreated control plants as standards. The degree of herbicidal activity was determined by rating the treated plants on a scale of 1 to 5. On this scale 1 indicates no injury, 2 is slight injury, 3 is moderate injury, n4sZ is severe injury and 5 indicates death to the plant or no seedling emergence. Also, the various types of injury of each test species were coded as follows. A abscission of leaves B burned C chiorosis D death E epinasty F formation erects G dark green I increased plant growth L local necrosis N no germination P purple pigmentation R reduced germination S stunting U unclassified injury Table I presents the herbicidal activity of typical compounds of formula I or II when evaluated in the screen described above. Table I Herbicide Pretest at 15 1bs acre 16.8 kg ha Preemergence PostemergenceExample No.of Compound Large Large Tested Tomato Crabgrass Pigwèed Tomato Crabgrass Pigweed 1 1 4RS 4RS 5D 5D 5D 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 3Bs 2BS 1 Table I cont d. Herbicide Pretest at 15 1bs acre 16.8 kg ha Preemergence PostemergenceExample No.of Compound Large Large Tested Tomato Crabgrass Pigwèed Tomato Crabgrass Pigweed 9 4CBS 3S 4BS 5D 5D 5D 10 3CS 4RS 4RS 5D 4BS 5D 12 3FS 4RS 4RS 5D 5D 5D 18 1 1 1 5D 4BS 5D 31 1 2RS 1 5D 4BS 5D 36 1 1 1 1 5D 5D 40 1 1 1 1 1 1 Experiments 2 and 3 The herbicidal activity of some of the compounds and intermediates of formula I or II was further evaluated at various application rates in a multiple species greenhouse test. Several additional weed and crop species were utilized to determine the herbicidal activity and selectivity of the test compounds. Lower concentrations of the test compounds were obtained by serial dilution of the formulation described above inExperiment I with a mixture of the surfactant containing solvent and deionized water. The compounds were evaluated according to the 1 to 5 scale outlined above.Table II presents the preemergence herbicidal test results, while Table III presents postemergence test data administered at 8 Ibs acre 8.96 kg ha or less. Table IIPreemergence EMI49.1 SEP Crps SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 3 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 4 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 5 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 6 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 7 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 8 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb TABLE II cont d. Preemergence EMI50.1 SEP Crps SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 9 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 3.0 SEP 3.36 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.125 SEP 0.14 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.05 SEP 0.056 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 10 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 11 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Table II cont d. Preemergence EMI51.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 12 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1,12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 13 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 14 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb Table II cont d. Preemergence EMI52.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 15 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 16 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Table II cont d. Preemergence EMI53.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 17 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 18 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 19 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 20 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb Table II cont d. Preemergence EMI54.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 21 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 22 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 23 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 24 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 25 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb Table II cont d. Preemergence EMI55.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Example SEP No. SEP Rate SEP of tb SEP of SEP Appln tb Compound SEP 1bs acre tb Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 25 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 26 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 27 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 39 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb Table III Postemergence Rate ofExample No.Appln Large Barnof Compound lbs acre Crab Velvet Morning yard Wild Tested kg ha Corn Tomato grass Pigweed Foxtail leaf glory Zinnia Grass Mustard Oat 1 8.0 8.96 4 5 5 3 5 4 5 3 5 4 2 8.0 8.96 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 3 8.0 8.96 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 4 8.0 8.96 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 5 8.0 8.96 1 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 6 8.0 8.96 2 1 1 2 2 2 3 1 3 1 7 8.0 8.96 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 8 8.0 8.96 2 3 1 1 1 1 3 2 1 Table III cont d. Postemergence EMI57.1 SEP Rate SEP of tb Example SEP No. SEP Appln. tb of SEP Compound SEP lbs acre tb SEP Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 9 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 3.0 SEP 3.36 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 10 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 11 SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 12 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Table III cont d. Postemergence EMI58.1 SEP Rate SEP of tb Example SEP No. SEP Appln. tb of SEP Compound SEP lbs acre tb SEP Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 13 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 14 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 15 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 2 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 16 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb Table III cont d. Postemergence EMI59.1 SEP Rate SEP of tb Example SEP No. SEP Appln. tb of SEP Compound SEP lbs acre tb SEP Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 17 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 18 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 19 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Table III cont d. Postemergence EMI60.1 SEP Rate SEP of tb Example SEP No. SEP Appln. tb of SEP Compound SEP lbs acre tb SEP Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 20 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 21 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 22 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 23 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 tb SEP 24 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb Table III cont d. Postemergence EMI61.1 SEP Rate SEP of tb Example SEP No. SEP Appln. tb of SEP Compound SEP lbs acre tb SEP Tested SEP kg ha SEP tb SEP 25 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 26 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 27 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 31 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 2 tb SEP 39 SEP 8.0 SEP 8.96 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 3 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 tb Compounds identified as Examples 9 and 25 in this specification were tested in various field studies in an effort to further evaluate the compounds herbicidal activity and crop tolerance. Experiment 4 The compound 1 5 1,1 dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone Example 9 was formulated as a 50 wettable powder which contained the following percentages and ingredients by weight 51.5 Example 9 3.0 Stepanol ME, sodium lauryl sulfate from Stepan Chemical Company 3.0 Polyfon O, emulsifier from Westvaco Corp. 2.0 Zeolex 7, a hydrated silicate from J.M. Huber Corp. 40.5 Barden Clay carom J.M. Huber Corp. 100. 0 The formulated compound diluted with water was both surface applied and pre plant incorporated at various application rates to assorted crop and weed species Plant injury ratings were made visually on a scale of 0 10, with 0 being no injury and 10 being plant death, and this number was multiplied by 10 to obtain a percent inhibition. Three replications were performed at each rate and the average percent inhibition entered in the table. Observations were made at 3 and 5 weeks after planting and treatment . The results of this field test are reported below inTable IV surface applied and Table V pre plant incorporated . Table IVSurface Applied EMI63.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Planting SEP tb 1.5 SEP 1.68 SEP 3 SEP 13.3 SEP 10.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 75.0 SEP 98.0 tb SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 46.7 SEP 83.3 tb 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 43.3 SEP 86.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 99.3 SEP 96.7 SEP 80.0 SEP 99.7 SEP 46.7 SEP 96.3 tb SEP 5 SEP 86.7 SEP 30.0 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 97.3 SEP 50.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 13.3 SEP 93.3 tb 0.75 SEP 0.84 SEP 3 SEP 13.3 SEP 26.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 3.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 88.3 SEP 20.0 SEP 99.3 SEP 56.7 SEP 84.3 tb SEP 5 SEP 3.3 SEP 6.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 6.7 SEP 95.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 78.3 SEP 20.0 SEP 96.7 SEP 20.0 SEP 73.3 tb 0.50 SEP 0.56 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 20.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 98.3 SEP 78.3 SEP 0 SEP 93.3 SEP 33.3 SEP 75.0 tb SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 73.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 30.0 SEP 50.0 SEP 96.7 SEP 0 SEP 46.7 tb 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 73.0 SEP 30.0 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 46.7 SEP 96.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Table VPre Plant Incorporated EMI64.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Planting SEP tb 1.5 SEP 1.68 SEP 3 SEP 43.3 SEP 70.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 93.3 SEP 97.3 tb SEP 5 SEP 36.7 SEP 100.0 SEP 78.3 SEP 81.7 tb 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 80.0 SEP 60.0 SEP 20.0 SEP 40.0 SEP 96.7 SEP 90.0 SEP 80.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 90.0 SEP 90.0 tb SEP 5 SEP 46.7 SEP 76.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 73.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 80.0 SEP 40.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 43.3 SEP 70.0 tb 0.75 SEP 0.84 SEP 3 SEP 50.0 SEP 56.7 SEP 23.3 SEP 36.7 SEP 66.7 SEP 63.3 SEP 80.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 80.0 SEP 88.3 tb SEP 5 SEP 33.3 SEP 46.7 SEP 20.0 SEP 33.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 55.0 SEP 60.0 SEP 96.7 SEP 50.0 SEP 66.7 tb 0.50 SEP 0.56 SEP 3 SEP 28.3 SEP 26.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 10.0 SEP 26.7 SEP 30.0 SEP 30.0 SEP 99.3 SEP 60.0 SEP 78.3 tb SEP 5 SEP 6.7 SEP 23.3 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 100.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 90.0 SEP 16.7 SEP 40.0 tb 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 3 SEP 6.7 SEP 10.0 SEP 6.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 tb SEP 5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 93.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Experiment 5 Example 9 of the present invention was also field tested in an effort to evaluate the compound s ability as a postemergent herbicide. The compound was formulated as a 50 wettable powder as above and diluted with water at the application site to provide the various test compound concentrations. The formulation was applied approximately 2 weeks after planting when the plants had fully emerged. Observations were made about 1 and 2 weeks after treatment. The results were evaluated as above and are recorded below inTable VI as percent inhibition. Table VIPostemergence EMI66.1 Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Treatment SEP tb 3.9 SEP 3.36 SEP 1 SEP 94.3 SEP 88.3 SEP 63.3 SEP 97.7 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb SEP 2 SEP 94.3 SEP 99.7 SEP 76.7 SEP 98.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 1 SEP 73.3 SEP 63.3 SEP 38.3 SEP 76.7 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb SEP 2 SEP 65.0 SEP 80.0 SEP 43.3 SEP 85.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 1 SEP 53.3 SEP 30.0 SEP 26.7 SEP 43.3 SEP 100.0 SEP 91.7 tb SEP 2 SEP 50.0 SEP 0 SEP 33.3 SEP 50.0 SEP 95.0 SEP 100.0 SEP 100.0 tb Experiment 6 A field study was also conducted in GreatBritain to determine the efficacy and selectivity ofExample 9 of the present invention against a variety of crop and weed species. The compound was formulated as a 50 wettable powder as described above. The formulated compound was then diluted with water and applied postemergence approximately 4 weeks after planting.Observations were made at various intervals thereafter to determine the compound s effect against the crop species barley and wheat by comparing crop injury to untreated control plots, as well as the compound s ability to control certain weed species. Control ratings are given in percentage of control compared to untreated control plots based upon visual inspection.These results appear in Table VII below. Table VII Po stemergence Days After RateObservation Treatment kg ha PercentBarley 7 2.0 0.6Injury 1.0 0.6 0.5 0 0.25 0.6 0.125 0 Control 0 13 2.0 37.5 1.0 31.5 0.5 9.4 0.25 2.8 0.125 4.7 Control 0 22 2.0 96.0 1.0 96.0 0.5 84.2 0.25 31.5 0.125 9.4 Control 0Wheat 7 2.0 0.6Injury 1.0 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.25 1.2 0.125 0 Control 0 13 2.0 6.6 1.0 3,9 0.5 0.6 0.25 0.6 0.125 0.6 Control 0 22 2.0 93.4 1.0 88.8 0.5 9.4 0.25 2.8 0.125 2.3 Control 0 Table VII Postemergence Days After RateObservation Treatment kg ha Perdent Control of 13 2.0 68.5Blackgrass 1.0 73.5 0.5 68.5 0.25 22.3 0.125 18.8 Control 0 22 2.0 98.8 1.0 100.0 0.5 94.4 0.25 84.2 0.125 26.5 Control 0 Control of 13 2.0 94.4Catchweed 1.0 84.2Bedstraw 0.5 44.6 0.25 44.6 0.125 9.4 Control 0 22 2.0 100.0 1.0 97.6 0.5 62.5 0.25 62.5 0.125 6.6 Control 0 Control of 13 2.0 11.1 Wild Chamomile 1.0 11.1 0.5 3.3 0.25 3.3 0.125 3.3 Control 0 22 2.0 100.0 1.0 98.8 0.5 97.2 0.25 90.6 0.125 18.8 Control 0 Table VII Postemergence Days After RateObservation Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 13 2.0 55.4Annual Bluegrass 1.0 86.7 0.5 62.5 0.25 55.4 0.125 50.0 Control 0 22 2.0 99.4 1.0 99.4 0.5 88.8 0.25 81.3 0.125 68.5 Control 0 Control of 13 2.0 100.0Ladysthumb 1.0 98.8 0.5 99.4 0.25 93.4 0.125 55.4 Control O 22 2.0 100.0 1.0 100.0 0.5 100.0 0.25 97.6 0.125 93.4 Control 0 Control of 13 2.0 44.6Common Chickweed 1.0 37.5 0.5 5.6 0.25 3,3 0.125 3.3 Control 0 22 2.0 98.8 1.0 95.3 0.5 50.0 0.25 73.5 0.125 9.4 Control 0 Table VII Postemergence Days After RateObservation Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 13 2.0 44.6Ivyleaf 1.0 15.8Speedwell 0.5 1.8 0.25 3.9 0.125 2.3 Control O 22 2.0 97.6 1.0 77.7 0.5 9.4 0.25 22.3 0.125 4.7 Control 0 Control of 13 2.0 73.5Wild Violet 1.0 90.6 0.5 68.5 0.25 37.5 0.125 44.6 Control 0 22 2.0 100.0 1.0 100.0 0.5 96.7 0.25 84.2 0.125 84.2 Control 0 Experiment 7 The intermediate identified as Example 25 in the present invention, 4 chloro N CS l,l dimehyl ethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 methylbutanamide, was also field tested to further evaluate the compound s herbicidal efficacy. The compound was formulated as a 509 wettable powder which contained the following ingredients and percentages by weight 51.5 Example 25 5.0 Stepanol ME, sodium lauryl sulfate from Stepan Chemical Company 5.0 Polyfon 0, emulsifier from Westvaco Corp. 5.0 Zeolex 7, a hydrated silicate from J.M. Huber Corp. 33.5 Barden Clay from J.M. Huber Corp. 100.0 The formulated compound was diluted with water and both surface applied and pre plant incorporated to the soil surface prior to planting various crop and weed species. Observations were made 3 and 6 weeks after planting and the results are recorded as percent inhibition in Table VIII surface applied andTable IX pre plant incorporated below. Table VIIISurface Applied EMI73.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Planting SEP tb 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 70.0 SEP 46.7 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 71.7 SEP 53.8 SEP 16.7 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 53.3 SEP 18.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 87.5 SEP 30.0 SEP 30 SEP 70 SEP 15.0 tb 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 26.7 SEP 23.3 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 50.5 SEP 38.4 SEP 98.3 SEP 13.3 SEP 94.3 SEP 60 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 5.0 SEP 0 SEP 1.7 SEP 13.3 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 82.5 SEP 22.5 SEP 25.9 SEP 69.2 SEP 0 SEP 88.3 SEP 53.3 SEP 15.0 tb 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 16.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 23.4 SEP 8.4 SEP 86.7 SEP 16.7 SEP 81.7 SEP 66.7 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 52.5 SEP 13.3 SEP 3.4 SEP 64.2 SEP 0 SEP 46.7 SEP 0 SEP 10 tb 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 3 SEP 10.0 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 11.7 SEP 12.5 SEP 30.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 46.7 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 23.4 SEP 8.4 SEP 5.9 SEP 32.1 SEP 0 SEP 40.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 3 SEP 6.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 10 SEP 3.3 SEP 36.7 SEP 13.3 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 13.3 SEP 0 tb Table IXPre Plant Incorporated EMI74.1 SEP Crops SEP Weeds tb Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Planting SEP tb 4.0 SEP 4.48 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 40.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 SEP 5.6 SEP 18.3 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 72.5 SEP 10 SEP 3.4 SEP 10.4 SEP 10.0 tb 2.0 SEP 2.24 SEP 3 SEP 11.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 10.0 SEP 28.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 38.4 SEP 11.7 SEP 30 SEP 23.3 SEP 23 SEP 6.7 SEP 5.0 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 5.0 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 32.2 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 1.0 SEP 1.12 SEP 3 SEP 6.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 20.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 21.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 30 SEP 23.3 SEP 0 SEP 10 SEP 6.7 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 5.0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 26.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.5 SEP 0.56 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 2.2 SEP 5 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 4.4 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 8.3 SEP 8.4 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.25 SEP 0.28 SEP 3 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 20.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb Experiment 8 Example 25 of the present invention was also evaluated in a postemergence field study. The compound was formulated as a 50 wettable powder as outlined above. The emerged plants were treated about 2 weeks after planting and observations were made 1 and 2 weeks after treatment. Table X below presents the results of this field test as percent inhibition. Table X EMI76.1 SEP Postemergence tb Application tb Rate SEP Weeks tb lbs acre SEP After tb kg ha SEP Treatment SEP tb 1.0 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 86.7 SEP 0 SEP 56.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 85.0 SEP 0 SEP 100.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.5 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 46.7 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 16.7 SEP 0 SEP 96.7 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.25 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 6.7 SEP 6.7 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 10.0 SEP 0 SEP 33.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 0.125 SEP 1 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 3.3 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb As noted above, the compounds and intermediates of formulae I and II may also be used in combination with one or more herbicides. Such combinations are preferred when a broader spectrum of weed control is desired than either herbicide can provide when used alone. For example, the present compounds may be combined with one or more grass herbicides.The present compounds are particularly effective against broadleaf weeds, and therefore when combined with one or more grass herbicides, an extremly useful and effective herbicidal combination is provided. Preferred grass herbicides to be employed in these combinations include the dinitroanilines, such as trifluralin, benefin, butralin, chlornidine, dinitramine, ethalfluralin, fluchloralin, isopropalin, nitralin, oryzalin, pendimethalin, prodiamine, profluralin, prosulfalin, and the like. A preferred combination comprises trifluralin and N 3 cyano 4 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 2 furyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone. The most preferred combination is comprised of trifluralin and l 5 l,l dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone.Other herbicides which may be used in combination with a presently disclosed active ingredient include alachlor, ametryn, amitrole, atrazine, bentazon, bifenox, butachlor, butam, buthidazole, butylate, chloramben, chlorbromuron, cyanazine, dichlorprop, diuron, dinoseb, EPTC, fenac, fluometuron, linuron, methazole, metolachlor, metribuzin, nitrofen, norflurazon, pebulate, perfluidone, prometon, prometryn, propachlor, simazine, tebuthiuron, terbutryn, triallate, triclopyr, propanil, vernolate and the like. Also provided by this invention is a method for controlling undesired plants which comprises apply ing to the plants a growth inhibiting amount of a combination of a compound of formula I or II together with one or more herbicides. The application rate desired for each of the individual herbicides in the combination is dependent on a number of factors, including the type of weeds and grasses to be con trolled, the herbicides that will be used in the combination, climate and soil conditions, the weed population and related factors. Generally, the present compounds of formula I or II will be employed in com bination with other herbicides in a ratio of about one to about ten parts by weight of a present active agent and about ten to about one part by weight of another herbicide.More preferable ratios of active ingredi ents will be from about one to about five parts by weight of a compound of formula I or II and about five to about one part by weight of another herbicide. A particularly preferred combination will contain the component herbicides in a weight ratio of about one to one. The combinations will be applied at rates which are effective to control the undesired plants to the desired degree. The combinations provided herein are formu lated in the identical manner which was described for the present novel compounds of formulae I and II alone, and at similar concentrations. The active components of the combination may be combined as technical mate rials and later formulated as a whole, or formulated individually and applied either as a combination or individually to the locus of the undesired plants. The following is an example of a typical herbicidal composition containing a combination of the invention. Tank Mix Composition 1 Concentration Ingredient by weight Active ingredient of formula I or II, 65.0 N 3 Cyano 4 1,1 dimethylethyl 2 furyll 3 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone formulated as a 50 wettable powderTrifluralin formulated as an emulsi 35.0 fiable concentrate at 4 lbs gallon 0.48 kg l. 100.0 Tank Mix Composition 2 Concentration by Ingredient Weight Percent Active agent of formula I or II, e.g. 60.0 1 5 l,l Dimethylethyl 3 isoxazolyl 2 piperidinone formulated as a 50 wettable powderTrifluralin formulated 40.0 as a 4EC 100.0 The wettable powder formulation containing 50 by weight of the active ingredient is added to water and the mixture agitated while adding the emulsifiable concentrate containing the trifluralin at the rate of 4 lbs gal 0.48 kg l. .The mixture is sprayed on the soil surface and then typically incorporated at a depth of about 3 to 4 inches prior to planting. The herbicidal activity of representative combinations of the present invention is illustrated by the following field studies. Experiment 9 A field study was conducted in Mississippi using Example 9 compound both alone and in combination with trifluralin on cotton against a wide variety of weed species. Trifluralin was formulated as an emulsifiable concentrate at a test compound concentration of 4 lbs gallon 0.48 kg l. and pre plant incorporated into the soil. Example 9, formulated as a 50 wettable powder as detÅailed above, was then surface applied as an overlay treatment following the trifluralin incorporation. The results of this test appear below inTable XI. Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentCotton 12 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Emergence Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 100.0 0.14 100.0 Untreated Control 100.0Cotton Injury 29 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0 Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 89.3 0.43 0.84 68.3 0.28 0.84 33.3 0.14 0.84 15.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 92.7 0.28 56.7 0.14 13.3 Untreated Control 0 Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0 Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 98.0 0.43 0.84 73.3 0.28 0.84 36.7 0.14 0.84 8.3 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 96.7 0.28 58.3 0.14 15.0 Untreated Control 0Control of 29 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Redroot Rigweed Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 99.7 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 98.3 0.43 91.7 0.28 73.3 0.14 66.7 Untreated Control 0 Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 99.7 Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 96.3 0.43 0.84 98.3 0.28 0.84 96.7 0.14 0.84 97.7 Example 9 0.84 85.0 0.56 56.7 0.43 26.7 0.28 6.7 0.14 6.7 Untreated Control 0Control of 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Large Crabgrass Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 83.3 0.56 26.7 0.43 16.7 0.28 0 0.14 0 Untreated Control 0 Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Goosegrass Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 85.0 0.56 33.3 0.43 16.7 0.28 0 0.14 0 Untreated Control 0Control of 29 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Common Purslane Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 96.0 0.28 73.3 0.14 73.3 Untreated Control 0 Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 29 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0Foxtail Millet Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 99.3 0.43 97.3 0.28 91.7 0.14 66.7 Untreated Control 0 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0 Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 93.3 0.14 76.7 Untreated Control 0 Table XI Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 29 Example 9 0.84 1.68 98.3Prickly Sida Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 96.0 0.43 0.84 96.3 0.28 0.84 96.0 0.14 0.84 86.7 Example 9 0.84 97.3 0.56 97.7 0.43 96.0 0.28 93.3 0.14 86.7 Untreated Control 0 74 Example 9 0.84 1.68 100.0 Trifluralin 0.56 0.84 100.0 0.43 0.84 100.0 0.28 0.84 100.0 0.14 0.84 86.7 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 100.0 0.14 93.3 Untreated Control 0 Experiment 10 A field study was also conducted in NorthCarolina using Example 9 both alone and in combination with other herbicides on peanuts against a variety of weeds. Example 9 was formulated as a 50 wettable powder as has been described previously.This formulation was also tank mixed with each of three other herbicides as follows ethalfluralin as an emulsifiable concentrate at 3 Ibs gallon 0.36 kg l. alachlor as an emulsifiable concentrate at 4 Ibs gallon 0.48 kg l. and metolachlor as an emulsifiable concentrate at 8 lbs gallon 0.96 kg l. . The various formulations were surface applied onto the soil following planting the same day. Observations were then recorded following visual comparison of treated plots and untreated controls.These results appear below in Table XII. Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentPeanut Injury 28 Example 9 0.56 2.52 53.3 Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 15.0 Example 9 0.28 2.24 16.7 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 16.7 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 81.7 0.56 56.7 0.43 36.7 0.28 16.7 0.14 8.3 Untreated Control 0 97 Example 9 0.56 2.52 40.0 Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 6.7 Example 9 0.28 2.24 3.3 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 0 Metolachlor Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 97 Example 9 0.84 85.0 0.56 56.7 0.43 0 0.28 0 0.14 0 Untreated Control 0Control of 28 Example 9 0.56 2.52 99.3Lambsquarters Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 98.3 Example 9 0.28 2.24 98.0 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 98.0 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 99.0 0.56 99.0 0.43 98.3 0.28 95.0 0.14 75.0 Untreated Control 0 Table.XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 97 Example 9 0.56 2.52 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 100.0 Example 9 0.28 2.24 100.0 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 98.7 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 98.3 0.43 93.3 0.28 100.0 0.14 98.7 Untreated Control 0Control of 28 Example 9 0.56 2.52 99.0Jimsonweed Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 96.0 Example 9 0.28 2.24 82.3 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 81.7 Metolachlor Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent Example 9 0.84 99.0 0.56 97.3 0.43 90.0 0.28 66.7 0.14 43.3 Untreated Control 0Control of 28 Example 9 0.56 2.52 98.7Large Crabgrass Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 97.0 Example 9 0.28 2.24 98.3 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 98.3 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 92.3 0.56 85.0 0.43 70.0 0.28 38.3 0.14 23.3 Untreated Control 0 Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 97 Example 9 0.56 2.52 92.3 Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 90.7 Example 9 0.28 2.24 96.0 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 97.7 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 63.3 0.56 50.0 0.43 30.0 0.28 0 0.14 0 Untreated Control 0Control of Ivyleaf 28 Example 9 0.56 2.52 80.0Morningglory Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 53.3 Example 9 0.28 2.24 71.7 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 66.7 Metolachlor Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent Example 9 0.84 88.3 0.56 86.7 0.43 53.3 0.28 33.3 0.14 33.3 Untreated Control 0 97 Example 9 0.56 2.52 50.0 Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 63.3 Example 9 0.28 2.24 76.7 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 65.0 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 60.0 0.56 63.3 0.43 56.7 0.28 66.7 0.14 53.3 Untreated Control 0Control of 28 Example 9 0.25 2.52 98.7Prickly Sida Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 97.0 Table XII Surface Applied Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent Example 9 0.28 2.24 97.3 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 97.3 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 98.0 0.56 97.0 0.43 96.0 0.28 83.3 0.14 86.7 Untreated Control 0 97 Example 9 0.56 2.52 95.3Jimsonweed Ethalfluralin 0.28 1.25 96.3 Example 9 0.28 2.24 96.7 Alachlor Example 9 0.28 2.24 97.7 Metolachlor Example 9 0.84 97.0 0.56 95.7 0.43 95.0 0.28 95.0 0.14 86.7 Untreated Control 0 Experiment 11 A field study was conducted in Florida to evaluate the herbicidal activity and crop tolerance of the compound of Example 9 both alone and in combination with ethalfluralin and linuron. Example 9 was formulated as a 50 wettable powder as above. When used in combination, Example 9 was tank mixed with ethalfluralin formulated as an aqueous suspension at a concentration of 4 lbs gallon 0.48 kg l. and linuron formulated as a 50 wettable powder. The formulations were applied over the top to emerged weeds for preemergence weed control in no till soybeans.Evaluations were made as above and the results appear below in Table XIII. Table XIII Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentSoybean Injury 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 10.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 6.7 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 6.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 3.3 Example 9 0.84 3.3 0.56 3.3 0.43 6.7 0.28 3.3 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 36.7 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 0 0.28 0.84 0.56 3.3 Example 9 0.84 16.7 0.56 3.3 0.43 0 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Velvetleaf Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 0.0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 99.3 0.56 98.0 0.43 95.7 0.28 48.7 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Redroot Pigweed Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 99.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 98.3 Example 9 0.84 98.7 0.56 77.7 0.43 86.7 0.28 13.3 Untreated Control 0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 86.7 0.43 70.0 0.28 26.7 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Spurred Anoda Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 0.0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 98.7 0.43 97.7 0.28 49.3 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Sicklepod Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 99.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 98.3 0.56 78.3 0.43 80.0 0.28 20.0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 97.7 0.43 96.7 0.28 32.7 Untreated Control 0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 99.3Large Crabgrass Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 92.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 95.3 Example 9 0.84 80.0 0.56 46.7 0.43 43.3 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 98.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 97.3 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 93.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 93.3 Example 9 0.84 88.7 0.56 43.3 0.43 30.0 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Tall Morningglory Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 99.3 Example 9 0.84 98.0 0.56 97.0 0.43 97.0 0.28 46.0 Untreated Control 0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha PercentControl of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Common Purslane Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 99.7 0.28 0.84 0.56 98.3 Example 9 0.84 98.7 0.56 78.3 0.43 86.7 0.28 13.3 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 86.7 0.43 80.0 0.28 31.7 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 99.0Foxtail Millet Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 96.7 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 81.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 88.7 Example 9 0.84 83.3 0.56 30.0 0.43 33.3 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0 Table XIII cont d. Days After RateObservation Treatment Treatment kg ha Percent 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 99.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 96.7 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 94.3 0.28 0.84 0.56 94.0 Example 9 0.84 87.7 0.56 43.3 0.43 23.3 0.28 0 Untreated Control 0Control of 7 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0Prickly Sida Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 100.0 0.43 100.0 0.28 100.0 Untreated Control 0 26 Example 9 0.84 0.84 0.56 100.0 Ethalfluralin 0.56 0.84 0.56 100.0 Linuron 0.43 0.84 0.56 100.0 0.28 0.84 0.56 100.0 Example 9 0.84 100.0 0.56 98.7 0.43 97.3 0.28 49.3 Untreated Control 0 The present compounds and intermediates of formulae I and II have also been found to display useful activity as aquatic algicides. It is therefore provided as another embodiment of the invention a method for controlling the growth of aquatic algae which comprises applying to the water containing said algae an algicidal amount of a compound or intermedi ate of formula I or II. These active agents are generally applied at rates effective to inhibit the growth of algae without causing significant toxicity to other aqua.tic life. The compounds and intermediates are applied at rates in the range of from about 20.0 ppm to about 0.1 ppm, more preferably at 10 ppm to 0.5 ppm. Experiment 12 The initial screening procedure used to detect aquatic algicidal activity was performed at a test compound concentration of 10 ppm against the algae Chlorella vulgaris A , Scenedesmus quadricanda B ,Anacystis nidulans C and Anabaena flos aquae D .Additional species of algae were also tested against at lower concentration rates. These species are as follows E. Stichococcus bascillaris F. Chlamydomonas moewusii G. Anabaena spp. H. Anabaena spiroidesThese species of algae were grown on agar slants containing artificial Hughes media. Each species of algae was suspended in 5 ml of an aqueous, sterileHughes media by washing the agar slants. This solution was then pipetted into a volume of 400 ml of the sterile media. Two ml of the inoculated media was transferred via syringe to a sterilized 12 ml vial, to which 10 p1 of the formulated compound was added to obtain a test concentration of 10 ppm. The compounds were formulated by adding 10 mg compound to 0.5 ml acetone and 4.5 ml sterile 0.1 percent Tween 80. Lower concentrations were obtained by further serial dilution.After addition the vial was stoppered. Observations were made 7 days after treatment and the activity of the test compounds against algae growth is recorded in Table XIV according to the following scale I no effect 2 slight effect 3 moderate effect 4 heavy control 5 100 control Table XIV Aquatic AlgicideExample No.Concenof Compound tration Aquatic Algae Tested ppm A B C D E F G H 9 10.0 5 5 5 4 10.0 5 5 5 1.0 4 4 1 1.0 3 4 1 1 1.0 1 3 1 1 0.5 4 4 1 0.5 2 1 1 1 0.5 1 2 1 1 10 10.0 5 5 1 12 10.0 5 5 2 1 14 10.0 2 1 1 1 18 10.0 1 1 1 22 10.0 1 1 1 1 25 10.0 5 5 5 3 1.0 1 1 1 1 1.0 3 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 1 30 10.0 1 1 1 1 31 10.0 4 5 4 3 1.0 1 1 1 1 1.0 1 1 1 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 36 10.0 4 4 5 4 1.0 2 4 1 1 1.0 1 1 1 0.5 1 4 1 1 0.5 1 1 l 1 38 10.0 1 1 2 1 40 10.0 4 4 5 4 1.0 1 1 5 1.0 1 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 0.5 1 1 1 The present compounds and intermediates of formulae I and II have also exhibited useful aquatic herbicidal activity against a wide variety of undesired aquatic plants.It is therefore provided as another aspect of this invention a method for controlling the growth of aquatic plants which comprises applying to the water containing said plants a growth inhibiting amount of a present compound or intermediate. The term growth inhibiting amount , as defined herein, refers to an amount of a compound or intermediate of the present invention which either kills or stunts the growth of the aquatic plant for which control is desired. This amount will generally be from about 20.0 ppm to about 0.5 ppm, more preferably at about 10.0 ppm to 1 ppm. It is, of course, apparent that higher or lower concentrations of the active agent can be employed depending on the plant species to be inhibited, the temperature, and the shape and type of the body of water to be treated.At higher water temperatures, for example, less compound is generally required for a given degree of control than is needed at lower temperatures. In considering the treatment of moving streams for the purpose of controlling flora fixed therein, special account must be taken of the fact that the compounds will pass over the area to be treated and that the concentration during the contact period is dependent upon the water flow rate, the rate of chemical addition, and the time period of addition. Experiment 13 Test compounds were evaluated in this screen to detect aquatic herbicidal activity. The compounds were formulated by dissolving them in acetone and aqueous 0.1 Tween 80. This formulation was added to water containing the plant species to be tested against to provide the appropriate test compound concentration. The following list of aquatic plant species were tested against in this screen Hydrilla Hydrilla verticillata Coontail Ceratophyllum demersum Duckweed Lemna minor Southern Naiad Najas guadalupensis Eurasian Milfoil Myriophyllum specatum Cabomba Cabomba caroliniana Observations were made 1, 2 or 3 weeks after treatment.The injury rating was recorded according to the scale above and the results of this experiment appear below in Table XV. Table XVAquatic Herbicide EMI109.1 Example SEP No. SEP Concen SEP Weeks tb of SEP Compound SEP tration SEP After tb Tested SEP ppm SEP Treatment SEP tb 9 SEP 10.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 3 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 tb SEP 1.0 SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 2 tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 3 tb SEP 0.5 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 2 tb 10 SEP 10.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb 25 SEP 40.0 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 4 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 4 tb 31 SEP 4.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb 36 SEP 4.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 2 tb 40 SEP 4.0 SEP 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 2.0 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP 2 tb