# Liquid fertilizer composition.

## Abstract
A liquid fertilizer composition suitable for house plants contains a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium to gether with trace elements and gibberellic acid or a salt thereof. The gibberellic acid is preferably present in an amount of 0.0001 to 0.001 by weight. The fertilizer also preferably contains α naphthalene acetic acid or a salt thereof, and a per fume, a colourant and a polymeric flocculant.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A liquid fertilizer composition suitable for house plants comprising a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium together with trace elements and, in addition, gibberellic acid or a salt thereof. 2. A liquid fertilizer composition according to claim 1 wherein the gibberellic acid is present in an amount of from 0.0001 to 0.001 by weight. 3. A liquid fertilizer composition according to claim 1 or claim 2 additionally comprising alpha naphthalene acetic acid or a salt thereof. 4. A liquid fertilizer composition according to claim 1 wherein the trace elements comprise ferrous iron, manganese 2 , cupric copper, zinc, cobalt 2 , molybdenum 6 and boron as borate, or a mixture thereof. 5. A liquid fertilizer composition according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a perfume. 6. A liquid fertilizer composition according to any one of the preceding claims comprising a polymeric flocculant.

## Description
LIQUID FERTILIZER COMPOSITION This invention relates to a liquid fertilizer intended for use on houseplants. In some countries, particularly in the Netherlands,Germany and Italy the growing of houseplants has become a widely practised pastime. To cope with this, specialist fertilizers are available, but in our opinion present products are neither attractive enough from the appearance point of view nor optimally effective. We have now developed a liquid fertilizer composition which we consider more effective on common houseplants than existing products. If desired this fertilizer may be made extremely attractive visually, which we consider helps its marketing. According to the present invention there is provided a liquid fertilizer composition suitable for houseplants comprising a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium together with trace elements and, in addition, gibberellic acid or a salt thereof. Preferably the gibberellic acid is present in an amount of from 0.0001 to 0.001 by weight. Gibberellic acid is a known compound and has been suggested for use in fertilizer compositions before. It has not however, so far as we are aware, been suggested in a houseplant fertilizer component, and in any case it is noteworthy that the level of incorporation, which is a preferred feature of the compositions of the invention, is extremely low in comparison with levels which have been suggested or used previously in fertilizing or controlling the growth of crops. A second preferred feature of the liquid fertilizer composition of the invention is that it should contain alpha naphthalene acetic acid. The main components of the liquid fertilizer composition of the invention are a source of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, the essential nutrients for plant growth. The particular source of each element is not especially critical provided that non toxic sources are chosen, but ammonium nitrate and urea are cost effective sources of nitrogen and phosphate salts, especially potassium or ammonium phosphates, are preferred sources of phosphorus and, in the case of the former, of potassium.Potassium chloride or potassium sulphate may also be used as a potassium source. Trace elements will also be present in the compositions of the invention. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, ferrous iron, manganese 2 , cupric copper, zinc, cobalt 2 and molybdenum 6 , and boron as borate. The major components providing the nutritional elements will be present in amounts such that they provide a nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium content of up to 15 by weight, and the trace elements in amounts of up to 0.5 by weight. Other components will optionally be present in minor amounts. These include, but are not limited to, buffering agents and vitamins. Stabilizers may also be present in amounts of up to 2 . Soluble dyestuffs may be present in solution in the compositions of the invention. Alternatively finely divided pigments may be present and may be temporarily suspended in the composition with the aid of a suspending agent or even premanently suspended if the liquid is formulated to be structured or non Newtonian . Another component which is strongly preferred in the fertilizer compositions of the invention is a perfume. We are not aware of any liquid fertilizers which are perfumed even though most fertilizers are extremely evil smelling.Typical amounts of perfume which will be necessary to mask this smell will be 0.5 to 2 by weight of the composition. A polymeric flocculant material is also a preferred component of the liquid fertilizer. Plants remain in their containers for the whole of their lives without even a single soil change, which can result in the soil becoming channelled and resistant to wetting. Inclusion of a polymeric film forming material in the composition can help to retain the initial soil condition. It can also increase the viscosity of the liquid fertilizer which we believe increases its attractiveness to the consumer. The invention will be further described in the following examples Example 1 A liquid fertilizer composition in accordance with the invention was made to the following formulation by weight Ammonium bsphosphate 11.2 Potassium chloride 9.5Urea 6.5Ammonium nitrate 4.8Tetrasodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate 1.9Gibberellic acid 0.0005 i Naphthalene acetic acid 0.01Citric acid 0.5Fe Mn Cu a sulphate or chloride trace Zn Mo6 Boric acid 0.05Rhodopol 23 Trade Mark 0.15Quinoline yellow dyestuff 0.002Sintosol NG green pigment 0.003Polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate 0.05Demineralised water and perfume balance to 100.0 Rhodopol 23 registered Trade Mark , manufactured by Rhone Poulenc, is a xanthan gum. The method of making the composition was as follows The ethoxylated sorbitan ester non ironic surfactant and the perfume are formed into a pre mix, the polymer is added and the three components are mixed again to form a fluid paste. This paste is then added to the water which is held at a temperature of 300C in a mixer, the trace elements are added and mixed in, the major nutrient components are added and the whole mixture is mixed until homogeneous. It may be necessary to heat the mixture to keep it up to the required temperature of 300C.Example la A liquid fertilizer composition identical with that described in Example 1 was made, except that the gibberellic acid was omitted. Example 2 In this experiment sets of various cultivars ofPelargonium nonale were fed with various solutions. Each set of cultivars contained 4 groups, each containing 10 individual plants. One group of each set was fed at regular intervals with water, one with a solution containing 5 ml per litre of the fertilizer composition ofExample 1, one with a similar solution of the composition of Example la, and finally one with a solution containing 5 ml per litre of Gesal registered trade mark , a commercial liquid fertilizer manufactured and sold by Ciba Geigy Ltd. The feeding regimen was continued for 2 months, after which the plants were assessed visually using a point scoring system. The results of the assessment of height are shown in Table 2. Table 2Height index of various Pelargonium nonale cultivarsCultivator Control Ex l Ex la Gesal water water 5 ml Spring Time 100 134 125 127 IreneSalmon Irene 100 175 153 155Ciampinoi 100 137 118 126Topscore 100 170 146 175Tavinu 100 126 105 120Cattleya 100 166 134 148 It can be seen that in general the height of the group of plants fed with the solution of fertilizer shown inExample 1 is superior to that of the group fed with the fertilizer of Example la. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the incorporation of gibberellic acid.The height of the group fed with the fertilizer ofExample 1 is also comparable with that of the group fed with the existing product Gesal.