# MAGNETIC TRANSDUCER HEADS UTILISING MAGNETORESISTANCE EFFECT

## Claims
Magnetischer, einen magnetischen Widerstandseffekt ausnutzender Wandlerkopf mit

## Description
This invention relates to magnetic transducer heads utilising magnetoresistance effect. An example of a conventional magnetoresistance hereinafter abbreviated to MR effect type magnetic reproducing transducer head, in particular a so called rear type magnetic transducer head in which an MR element thereof is placed at a position rearward of a contact surface of the head with a magnetic recording medium, is shown in Figures 1 and 2 of the accompanying drawings. Figure 1 is a schematical enlarged plan view of a main part of the transducer head and Figure 2 is a schematically enlarged cross sectional view taken along a line A A in Figure 1. As shown in Figures 1 and 2, an insulating magnetic substrate 1 made of, for example, ferrite containing Ni Zn has deposited therein a band shaped conductor film or layer 2 which constitutes a current path acting as a bias magnetic field generating means for applying a bias magnetic field to an MR element 4 by electromagnetic induction or the like. The MR effect element 4 is a thin film MR effect element 4 made of, for example, alloy containing Ni Fe or Ni Co or the like and is deposited on the band shaped conductor film 2 with an insulating layer 3 disposed between the film 2 and element 4. A pair of magnetic layers 6 and 7 made of alloy containing Ni Fe or the like are deposited on the MR effect element 4, an insulating layer 5 being disposed between the element 4 and the layers 6 and 7. The magnetic layers 6 and 7 extend in a direction across the MR effect element 4 and are in face to face opposition on the MR effect element 4 so that a predetermined spacing With the above configuration, when a predetermined bias magnetic field generated by causing a current I Such an MR effect type magnetic transducer head, in particular the rear type magnetic transducer head in which the magnetic material members are mounted close to the MR effect element, has a nonlinear MR characteristic. This is because, in a magnetic transducer head of this kind, the magnetic field H versus resistance R characteristic of the MR effect element 4 adopts the form of a parabola, as shown in Figure 3. Accordingly, if, as shown in Figure 3, a magnetic signal 12 is applied to the MR effect element 4 with a bias magnetic field H A magnetic transducer head utilising MR effect, which can remove the nonlinear component of the MR characteristic in the MR effect element, can be obtained by arranging the MR effect elements in a differential type configuration. As shown in Figure 5, the differential type MR magnetic transducer head comprises two MR effect elements MR₁ and MR₂ of which respective ends adjacent one another are connected to a common terminal t₃ and the other respective ends are led out to terminals t₁ and t₂. The terminals t₁ and t₂ are connected to respective independent constant current sources S₁ and S₂ and also are connected to input terminals of a differential amplifier Amp. The common terminal t₃ is supplied with a predetermined potential, for example ground potential. The MR effect elements MR₁ and MR₂ are respectively supplied with constant currents i in directions opposite to one another, and also subjected to bias magnetic fields H In the above described differential type MR magnetic transducer head of constant current type, the nonlinear components of the MR characteristic of the MR effect elements MR₁ and MR₂ can be cancelled out. It is therefore possible to obtain a reproduced signal which is of excellent symmetry and contains no distortion. However, the magnetic transducer head of this kind requires three terminals t₁ to t₃ to be led out, two independent signal lines to be connected to the differential amplifier Amp, and two independent constant current sources S₁ and S₂. Therefore, if this magnetic transducer head is implemented in the form of a multichannel head, the number of channels being taken to be n where n is a positive integer , the trasnducer head requires at least 2n 1 terminals and at least 2n constant current sources. Moreover, because of the constant current driving technique, the multichannel magnetic transducer head consumes a large amount of power and the circuit thereof is large. Thus, the above described differential type magnetic transducer head is not suitable for a multichannel magnetic transducer head where, for example, n is selected to be in a range of from 10 to 50. To remove such defects, use can be made of a magnetic transducer head in which a pair of MR elements are coupled in series, a constant voltage is applied across the outer ends thereof and an output is differentially derived from the junction or connection point between the MR elements. With a differential type magnetic transducer head employing such a constant voltage driving technique, it is possible to cancel out the second order harmonic components in the same way as with the above described constant current driving technique. The sensitivity under the same power consumption is reduced to half that of the constant current driving system. However, the signal to noise S N ratio and signal power under the same power consumption are equal to those of the constant current driving system. Also, as compared with the differential type MR magnetic transducer head of the constant current type, it is not necessary to provide two independent constant current sources for each channel and to lead out a large number of terminals and their wiring. Thus, there is a great advantage in the case of a multichannel type magnetic transducer head that the configuration thereof can be simplified. Such an MR magnetic transducer head of the constant voltage driving type can comprise an MR magnetic transducer head of the self biasing type. An MR magnetic transducer head of the self biasing type configuration is disclosed in published unexamined Japanese Patent Application No. 23920 1977 or can be a so called barber pole type. In these magnetic transducer heads, the direction of the current path through each MR element is at a predetermined angle to the direction of easy magnetisation of each element so that the current flowing through the element allows a bias magnetic field having a predetermined angle to the current path to occur. In the MR magnetic transducer head of, for example, the barber pole type, with an inclination relative to the direction of easy magnetisiation along the longitudinal direction of the thin film MR element, namely just like the oblique patterns in a barber s pole, a plurality of good conductive band lines made of, for example, Au are placed in parallel with a predetermined spacing between them. In this case, if the MR element of a multichannel magnetic transducer head is reduced in size in order to reduce the width of the channel pitch, it is necessary to reduce the spacing between the conductor band lines. In association therewith, the substantial resistance of the MR element becomes small, resulting in various problems such as difficulties in handling the output signal. Furthermore, in a thin film magnetic transducer head of this kind as shown in Figures 1 and 2, when part of a human body, for example a hand, touches the terminal of the magnetic transducer head or the magnetic layer or core 6 which faces the contact surface 11 with the magnetic recording medium, a discharge of static electricity accumulated in the human body or an induced voltage can destroy each of the insulating layers 3 or 5 between the MR element 4 and the bias conductor member 2, between the magnetic cores 6, 7 and the MR element 4, and further between the bias conductor member 2 and the magnetic cores 6, 7, and the breaking of wires is caused in each portion of the thin fim MR element and the like, thus producing defective products or trouble. US Patent No. US A 4 306 215 discloses a magnetic transducer head in which a pair of MR sensing elements are connected in series and bridge a gap between two magnetic cores. Magnetisation vectors of the MR elements are deflected by an external magnetic flux so that the resistance of one element increases while the resistance of the other element decreases. Reading out of the sensed signal is effected by means of a bridge circuit. US A 4 255 708 corresponding to European Patent Application Publication No. EP A 0 012 325 discloses a magnetic position transducer comprising two MR sensing elements connected in series. A voltage is applied across the pair of MR elements. Again, reading out of the sensed signal is effected by means of a bridge circuit. Japanese Patent Application Publication No. JP A 57 50 318 an English abstract of which appears in PATENT ABSTRACTS OF JAPAN, Vol. 6, No. 125 P 127 1003 , 10 July 1982 discloses a magnetic transducer head comprising series connected MR elements and bias conductor portions formed on the MR elements to pass bias currents which flow in different directions. According to the invention there is provided a magnetic transducer head utilising magnetoresistance effect, the transducer head comprising Embodiments of the present invention described hereinbelow can provide a multichannel magnetic transducer head utilising MR effect which can remove or at least alleviate the above described defects inherent in the conventional magnetic transducer head, and which can be of simplified configuration in that there need be only two current supply terminals common to all channels to thereby apply a predetermined bias magnetic field to each MR element of each channel. The invention will now be further described, by way of illustrative and non limiting example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which like references designate like elements and parts throughout, and in which Figure 7 shows a fundamental structure that can be employed in magnetic transducer heads utilising MR effect. As shown in Figure 7, the transducer head comprises a pair of MR elements MR Figure 8 shows an example of the electrical connection pattern of a multichannel magnetic transducer head utilising MR effect. Each of the channels CH₁, CH₂, CH₃......CH As shown in Figure 9, each of the MR elements MR Bias magnetic fields H Since each bias conductor member 22 extends parallel to the associated pair of MR elements MR A form of implementation of the above multichannel MR type magnetic transducer head will now be described with reference to Figures 11 to 13. Figure 11 is a schematically enlarged plan view showing a main part of the multichannel MR type magnetic transducer head, Figure 12 is an enlarged cross sectional view thereof taken along a line A A in Figure 11 and Figure 13 is a like enlarged cross sectional view thereof taken along a line B B in Figure 11. The transducer head comprises a magnetic substrate 23 used as an under core and made, for example, from ferrite containing Ni Zn. The bias conductor members 22 and conductor members 31 and 32 which act as the power supply lines l₁ and l₂ for applying the constant voltages V₁ and V₂ are deposited on the substrate 23. An MR thin film which is to form the pair of MR elements MR Next, contact windows 33 to 36, which are used to contact wiring conductor layers which will be described later, are bored through the insulating layers 24 on the end portions of the central leg portions 22 Then, a non magnetic insulating layer 37 made of, for example SiO₂ and having an etching characteristic different to that of the insulating layer 24 is deposited thereon over the whole area of these patterns by a well known technique. The thickness of the insulating layer 37 is selected to be such e.g. 0.3 microns as to restrict the magnetic gap length in the contact surface with the magnetic recording medium, which will be described later. The insulating layer 37 is selectively etched by, for example, a wet etching method or a dry etching method such as plasma etching or the like to bore windows 38₁ and 38₂ at positions adjoining the pair of MR elements MR Subsequently, a magnetic layer made of alloy containing Ni Fe or the like is deposited thereon by vacuum evaporation, sputtering or the like over the whole area including not only the insides of the windows 38₁ and 38₂ but also positions transversing the pairs of MR elements MR A protective layer 43 made of, for example, SiO₂ or the like, is deposited on the conductive layer over the whole area including these patterns, and an upper protective substrate 45, for example, glass plate or the like, is bonded to the layer 43 by an inorganic adhesive layer such as glass or an organic adhesive layer 44. Over the area from the protective substrate 45 to the magnetic substrate 23, the exposed outer ends of the magnetic layers 41₁ and 41₂ corresponding to the MR elements of the channels CH Multichannel MR type magnetic transducer heads embodying the present invention are not limited to the above examples. When the conductive layer comprising each bias conductor member 22 and the MR thin film layer comprising the MR thin films 21 are laminated to each other over the whole area through the insulating layer 24, which then are patterned, the MR thin film 21 of, for example, E shaped pattern forming each MR element and the bias conductor member 22 are never displaced in position from each other. Also, since they are electrically insulated from each other by the insulating layer 24, the bias magnetic field can be applied to the MR elements MR While in the above example a pair of MR elements are provided for each channel, it is possible to provide a plurality of pairs of MR elements for each channel. Even when the end face of the MR element faces the contact surface with the magnetic recording medium, the MR characteristic of each MR element similarly has a parabolic form, if the magnetic members are placed close to each other across the MR element. Thus, in the above example of embodiment of the present invention the MR magnetic transducer head is of the rear type. However the present invention can be applied also to MR magnetic transducer heads of the so called shield type. In the above example, the magnetic substrate 23 is an insulating substrate. If the magnetic substrate 23 is conductive, the substrate is coated with an insulating layer and the bias conductor member 22 and so on are formed thereon in turn. As set forth above, since the bias magnetic field generated by causing current to flow through the bias conductor member 22 is applied to the MR elements MR where H By the way, in practice, a contribution ratio A between the bias magnetic field substantially applied to the MR element and the magnitude of the magnetic field generated by the current i When the MR magnetic transducer head is formed as the differential type, the magnetic fields H₁ and H₂ to be substantially applied to the MR elements MR Therefore, the currents ib₁ and ib₂ should be selected to satisfy the relationships In order to obtain different values for the currents ib₁ and ib₂ flowing through paths st₁ and st₂ along the MR elements MR Moreover, in some cases, it is possible that the self biasing magnetic fields of the MR elements MR The means for removing the influence of the self biasing magnetic field of the MR element is not limited in application to the mode for generating the bias magnetic field described above, namely to a so called chain type configuration in which two terminals tb and tb are provided and the biasing means are disposed parallel to the pair of MR elements MR Figures 17 and 18 show another magnetic transducer head utilising MR effect embodying the present invention which is applied to a multichannel type MR magnetic transducer head. Figure 17 is a schematically enlarged plan view of a main part thereof and Figure 18 is an enlarged cross sectional view thereof taken along a line B B in Figure 17. In Figures 17 and 18, parts corresponding to like parts of Figures 1 and 2 are designated by the same references and will not be described again. In this embodiment, an electrical coupling member 12 in the form of a non magnetic conductive layer is deposited on the discontinuous portion G except the magnetic gap As set forth above, in the magnetic transducer head of the differential type configuration employing, for example, the constant voltage driving system in which bias magnetic fields of opposite polarity are applied to the MR element thereby to derive the output in a differential manner, the pattern of the bias conductor members 22 for generating the bias magnetic fields of opposite polarity is formed as a chain type pattern in which the patterns are formed in parallel with regard to the pair of MR elements MR Moreover, since the strength of the bias magnetic fields being substantially applied to the MR elements MR Furthermore, with the above configuration, it is possible to avoid the possibility that, when the magnetic transducer head is touched by the human body or the like, static electricity supplied therefrom is discharged and destroys each of the insulating layers between the magnetic cores 6, 7, the MR element 4 and the bias conductor member 2. In consequence, it is possible to obtain an MR magnetic transducer head having high reliability.