# Octabromobiphenyl oxide.

## Abstract
The preparation of octabromobiphenyl oxide using molten biphenyl oxide, bromine and a catalyst compound of anhydrous aluminum or iron or compounds thereof. No solvent is necessary. The temperature of the reaction system can be gradually increased to maintain the brominated products in a molten or liquid state. The temperature may range from about 25 C. to about 200 C.

## Claims
C L A I M S 1. A process for preparing octabromobiphenyl oxide characterized by comprising adding from about 7.5 to about 9.0 equivalents of brominating agent consisting of Br2 orBrC1 to biphenyl oxide and about 0.05 to about 10.0 weight percent of a catalyst composed of anhydrous aluminum or iron or compounds thereof without a solvent while maintaining the reaction temperature such that the reaction mixture remains in a molten or liquid phase. 2. A process according to claim 1, characterized in that the catalyst is aluminum. 3. A process according to claim 2, characterized in that said catalyst is A1C13. 4. A process according to claim 3, characterized in that about 0.5 to about 3.0 weight percent AlC13 catalyst is added. 5. A process according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that said temperature is within the range of about 27 C. to out 2000C. 6. A process according to any of the preceding claims, characterized in that said brominating agent isBr2. 7. A process according to claim 6, characterized in that about 8.0 to about 8.3 equivalents of said Br2 is added to said biphenyl oxide.

## Description
OCTABROMOBIPHENYL OXIDE PROCESS This invention relates to a process for preparing octabromobiphenyl oxide. More particularly, this invention relates to the solventless bromination of molten diphenyl oxide using Br2 or BrC1 and an aluminum or iron catalyst to obtain octabromobiphenyl oxide. Octabromobiphenyl oxide is an additive flame retardant for use in polymer compositions. Octabromobiphenyl oxide is frequently used in acrylonitrile butandiene styrene ABS because of the low melting point of octabromobiphenyl oxide and its high thermal stability. The second primary reason for its use in ABS is its freedom from bloom. Octabromobiphenyl oxide, as the term is used herein, is a mixture of brominated biphenyl oxides with a range of 6 10 bromine atoms per molecule. The average number of bromine atoms per molecules varies significantly depending on its preparation. The product range and distribution can therefore be altered by modifying the reaction conditions. German Patent No. 2,950,877 claims a method of preparing ring brominated aromatic compounds, such as octabromobiphenyl oxide, by reacting biphenyl oxide with bromine in an inert reaction medium in the presence of a halogenation catalyst. From 2 to 90 weight percent of the total stoichiometric amount of bromine is premixed with part or all of the inert reaction medium and part or all of the catalyst. Then the biphenyl oxide is added to the reaction mixture along with the rest of the bromine and any remaining catalyst or inert reaction medium. The octabromobiphenyl oxide product prepared in this manner has approximately 8.0 to 9.0 bromines per molecule with an average of 8.22. Alternatively, the polybromination of biphenyl oxide may be carried out in excess bromine to minimize costs and facilitate mixing. This process in excess bromine does not, however, permit any control over the degree of bromination and an exhaustively brominated product, decabromodiphenyl oxide, is produced. Due to the wide product distribution of what is referred to as octabromobiphenyl oxide, it is desirable to use a process whereby the bromination of biphenyl oxide peaks at approximately eight bromines per molecule. It has now been discovered that by using molten biphenyl oxide, a stoichiometric amount of Br2 or BrCl and a catalyst composed of aluminum or iron or compounds thereof, a favorable octabromodiphenyl oxide product results. Since this invention is carried out without a solvent, a further advantage is that a solvent recovery step is not necessary. Since a stoichiometric amount of bromine is preferred, recovery of excess bromine is not necessary. This invention therefore affords a more cost effective route to octabromobiphenyl oxide. This invention is a process for preparing octabromobiphenyl oxide comprising adding from about 7.5 to about 9.0 equivalents of Br2 or BrCl to biphenyl oxide and about 0.05 to about 10.0 weight percent of a catalyst composed of aluminum or iron or compounds thereof without a solvent while maintaining the reaction temperature such that the reaction mixture remains in a molten or liquid state. The brominating agent is selected from the group consisting of Br2 and BrCl. Br2 is preferred since a slight amount of chlorination may take place if BrCl is used.However, there may be times when an occasional chlorine attached to the aromatic ring may not appreciably affect product performance and BrCl would be a suitable brominating agent. Preferably, the amount of Br2 or BrCl is about 8.0 to about 8.3 equivalents per equivalent of biphenyl oxide.More preferably, a stoichiometric amount of Br2 or BrCl is added to the biphenyl oxide, that is 8.0 equivalents of Br2 or BrCl per equivalent of biphenyl oxide. Generally, the bromines are randomly distributed on the aromatic rings of the biphenyl oxide molecule. Either aluminum or iron or a compound thereof may be used as a catalyst in the practice of the present invention to obtain the desired octabromobiphenyl product.The iron may be in the form of iron powder, Fecal3, FeBr3 and the like. The aluminum may be in the form of aluminum powder, AlC13, AlBr3, and the like. Aluminum is the preferred catalyst and A1C13 is more preferred. Only anhydrous catalysts are suggested in the practice of the present invention since catalyst inactivation occurs when water is present. About 0.05 weight percent to about 10.0 weight percent of a catalyst containing anhydrous aluminum or iron or compounds thereof is used based on the amount of biphenyl oxide charged. Preferably, about 0.5 to about 3.0 weight percent catalyst is used. More preferably, the amount of catalyst is about 0.75 to about 1.25 weight percent. No solvent is used in the practice of the present invention since the reaction mixture is always maintained in a liquid or molten state. The melting point of biphenyl oxide is about 270C. Therefore, the reaction mixture is heated to this temperature before any product is obtained.Generally, the biphenyl oxide and catalyst are combined and heated until a molten mass is obtained, usually at least 270C. Then the bromine is slowly added. The brominated products have higher melting points than 270C., therefore, as these products are produced, the temperature of the reaction system, beyond the initial exotherm, must be increased accordingly. Alternatively, the reaction mixture may be initially heated to a high enough temperature so that even the brominated biphenyl oxide products which are produced during the reaction remain in the molten or liquid phase. The temperature of the reaction system can range anywhere from about 270C. to about 2000C. Preferably, the temperature is between about 270C. and about 1500C. More preferably, the temperature is between about 900C. and about 1200C. In a preferred embodiment the octabromobiphenyl oxide reaction product of the present invention contains an average of about 7.6 bromines per molecule of biphenyl oxide. The average molecular weight generally falls within the range of about 750 to about 800. The usual molecular weight of the octabromobiphenyl oxide reaction product prepared by the process of the present invention is about 773. The following examples represent the process of producing octabromobiphenyl oxide according to the present invention. However, it is to be understood that the practice of this invention is not limited to these examples and other examples are possible. EXAMPLE 1 A 500 ml flask was charged with 34.0g biphenyl oxide 0.2 mole BPO and 0.4g anhydrous Alp131 under nitrogen, and warmed to 35 C. Then 255.7g Br2 1.6 mole was added at a rate of about 1 ml min. HBr evolution slowed significantly after about half the Br2 had been added. Br2 addition was stopped after 45 minutes and the mixture was allowed to remain at 600C. for one hour. A significant amount ofBr2 was collected overhead. Since catalyst deactivation by wet Br2 was suspected, an additional 1.2 g of anhydrousAlC13 was added. The remainder of the Br2 was added over 1 1 4 hours at 90 1000C. After 0.5 hours at 1000C., the total HBr evolved was 114.2g 88 of theory for 8 HBr . An additional 32g Br2 0.2 mole was added over one hour at 105 110 C. The mixture was allowed to remain at 1150C.for 0.5 hour. The total HBr overhead was 128.6g 99 for 8 HBr . The viscous, black mixture was heated to 1200C.and added slowly, with vigorous stirring, to 400 ml water.The resulting granular product was filtered, washed, dried and pulverized to give 148.6g of a cream colored powder, melting point 87 1150C. Yield was 92.8 based on Br8. The gas chromatograph area percent composition is given inTable 1. EXAMPLE 2 The equipment and set up was identical to that for Example 1 except a 500 ml resin flask was used. The flask was charged with 68.0g biphenyl oxide 0.4 mole BPO and 0.7g 1 wt. of anhydrous AlC13 under a slow N2 purge.The mixture was warmed to 350C., and then 511.4g Br2 3.2 mole was added at such a rate as to minimize bromine loses overhead. Initially, this rate was about 1.2 ml min, but slowed to about 0.5 ml min as the reaction progressed.The temperature increased to 600C. due to the reaction exotherm, and was further increased to 1150C. by external heating. After the Br2 addition was complete about 4.5 hrs. total , an additional 25.4g Br2 0.16 was added to the 1150C. reaction mixture at a rate of about 0.2 ml min.After addition was again complete, the mixture was allowed to remain at 1500C. for 0.5 hr. Total HBr evolved 242.3g 93 theory for 8 HBr . Br2 recovered from cold traps 37.8g, for a net amount reacted of 499g 7.8 equivalents .The resulting dark melt was added slowly, with vigorous stirring to 1.3 liters of water. The resulting granular product was filtered, washed with water, and dried under vacuum 2.0 mm for 5 hrs. at 450C. to give 292.2g 91.9 yield based on Br8 of tan product. This material was ballmilled overnight. The resulting tan powder had a slight odor of bromine and a melting range of 78 880C. with effervescence at 1400C. The gas chromatograph area composition is given in Table 1. EXAMPLE 3 The equipment and set up was similar to that used in Example 2. The flask was charged with 68.0g biphenyl oxide 0.4 mole BPO and l.7g anhydrous AlC13 2.5 wt. of biphenyl oxide charge under N2. The funnel was charged with 543.3g Br2 3.4 mole and the Br2 was added initially at a rate of about 0.6 ml min. After about 3 4 of the Br2 had been added, the rate was slowed to about 0.2 ml min.The reaction temperature was gradually increased from 250C.to 1100C, during the addition and the mixture was allowed to remain at 1100C. under a slow N2 purge overnight. The viscous black mixture was then allowed to remain at 1300C.for an additional 6 hrs. Eventually the reaction mixture became gray. Total HBr liberated 257.8g 99 of theory for 8 HBr . A total of 31.4g of Br2 was also recovered from the cold traps for a net Br2 reacted value of 8.0 equivalents. The hot gray melt was added slowly to vigorously stirred 10 NaOH 2 liters . The resulting granular product was filtered, washed with H 20 until the washing were neutral, and air dried overnight to yield 290.lg 90.4 of an off white powder following grinding, melting point 89 980, effervescence at 1400C. The gas chromatograph area composition is given in Table 1. TABLE 1Example 1 2 3Br2 moles mole BPO 8.4 7.8 8.0 Alc13, g per g BPO 0.04 0.01 0.025Melting Range, OC 122 42 78 88 89 98Yield based on BPO charge 92.8 91.9 90.4 and Br8 productGC Area 8 Br6 razz 7.3 4.5 Br7 30.7 40.0 34.4 Br8 53.4 36.5 48.3 Brg 14.3 14.7 12.2 Br1O 1 1.3 0.7Avg. Br molecule 7.84 7.61 7.71 B20, wt 0.8 0.3 0.4Br, wt ring 78.0 79.4 81.1Al, ppn 525 265Color, APHA 110 148Viscosity, centistokes TABLE 1 cont.Example 1 2 3 1250C. solid almost solid 1500C. 230.3 53.7 1700C. 42.3 18.7Heat capacity, cal g oC at l250C 0.0310 EXAMPLE 4 This experiment used a similar set up to those described above. A 500 cc flask was charged, under nitrogen, with 51g biphenyl oxide 0.3 mole and a 0.51g Fe powder and warmed to 40CC. The funnel was charged with 360gBr2 2.25 mole and the ssr2 was slowly added to the flask at a rate of about 1.5 ml min. The mixture exothermed to 900C. After 45 min, when about half the Br2 had been added, the addition rate was slowed to 0.5 ml min to minimize foaming and Br2 breakthrough.After Br2 addition was complete about 2 1 2 hrs. , an additional 23.9g 0.15 mole Br2 was added to make up for overhead losses at 1100C. over 45 min and the resulting viscous dark brown mixture was stirred at 110 1250C. overnight under a slow N2 purge,Total HBr evolved 172g 94.5 of theory for 8 HBr . The hot, viscous melt was poured slowly, with vigorous stirring, into 400 ml of 2N BC1. The resulting granular product was filtered, washed and dried to give 197.6g 82 based on Br8 of crude product as dark brown pellets, mp 74 800. A portion 19.7g was pulverized and vac. dried to give 18.8g of tan powder, mp 75 810, effervescense at 1400C. GC area assay indicates a composition of 38.5 Br6, 47.1 Br7 and 12.1 Brig. Total wt Br 78.1 9996 of theory for Br7,5 .