# A process for producing a proteinaceous foodstuff with a fibrous structure.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process for producing a proteinaceous foodstuff with a fibrous structure, starting from a mixture of vegetable protein containing material and water by extruding said mixture, shredding the ex trudate, incorporating the shreds thus obtained in a protein binder and heat setting the mixture thus obtained. Optimal shreds are obtained by a ensuring that the moisture content of the extru date is at least 30 wt. b incorporating in the mixture to be extruded an effective proportion of an edible agent imparting tough ness to the protein, which agent consists of an edible acid and or a calcium salt, and optionally c an emulsifier having an HLB of at least 8.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing a foodstuff with a fibrous structure which comprises a producing a mixture mainly consisting of i 50 80 wt. of a vegetable protein containing material having a protein content of at least 25 , ii 20 50 wt. water, iii 0.5 8 wt. lipids and iv an effective proportion of an edible agent imparting toughness to the protein material b extruding said mixture while ensuring that an extrudate is obtained having a moisture content of at least 30 wt. c shredding said extrudate d incorporating the shreds in a protein binder, and e heat setting the mixture consisting of binder and shreds. 2. A process according to claim 1, in which a calcium salt is used as a toughening agent. 3. A process according to claim 2, in which 1 3 wt. calcium chloride is used. 4. A process according to claim 1, in which an acid is used as a toughening agent in a proportion sufficient to lower the pH to the isoelectric point of the protein present in the mixture. 5. A process according to any one of the preceding claims 1 4, in which the extrudate is rehydrated to a moisture content of at least 50 by contacting the extrudate with a sufficient amount of water. 6. A process according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 5, in which a hydrophilic emulsifier having an HLB value greater than 8 is incorporated in the mixture to be extruded. 7. A process according to claim 6, in which lecithin is used. 8. A process according to claim 7, in which 1 to 4 lecithin is used. 9. A process according to claim 8, in which a native lecithin consisting of a mixture of lecithin and soybean oil 90 10 w w is used to replace part or whole of the proportion of lipid used as an extrusion aid. 10. A process according to any one of the preceding claims 1 9, in which the mixture is extruded at a temperature ranging from 1100 1650C at a pressure ranging from 5 50 atm. 11. A process according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 10, in which the extrudate is shredded to obtain shreds simulating meat fibres, having a thickness of 0.2 1 mm and a length of 2 25 mm. 12. A process according to claim 1, in which defatted soymeal is used.

## Description
A process for producing a proteinaceous foodstuff with a fibrous structureThe invention relates to a process for producing a proteinaceous foodstuff with a fibrous structure, starting from a mixture of vegetable protein containing material and water by extruding said mixture, shredding the extrudate, incorporating the shreds thus obtained in a protein binder and heat setting the mixture thus obtained.A similar process has been described in French Patent ApplicationNo. 7,624,989. This process, however, displays a number of drawbacks. During the shredding step fines are formed which have to be recirculated. The formation of an unacceptable proportion of fines is due to evaporation of water from the extrudate as soon as it leaves the extrusion die, whereby the water content of the extrudate drops to 20 or less. Shredding such a relatively dry extrudate causes the disintegration of the extrudate into particles of far too small dimensions for these to be useful as a structureimparting component. Moreover the extrudate has a texture which lacks a certain resilience or toughness.Applicants have found a process which alleviates to a great extent the above disadvantages.The process according to the invention involves a producing a mixture mainly consisting of i 50 80 wt. of a vegetable protein containing material having a protein content of at least 25 , ii 20 50 wt.S water, iii 0.5 8 wt. lipids and iv an effective proportion of an edible agent imparting toughness to the protein material b extrudiny said mixture while ensurlnq that an extrudate is obtained having a moisture content of at least 30 wt. c shredd ng said extrudate d incorDoratlrig the shreds in a protein binder, and e heat . r the mixture consis ot binder and shreds.The vegetable rotein containing material in step a may consist of material originating from oleaginous seeds such as rapeseed , cottonseed or soya meal and the like, which has been defatted by extraction with an organic solvent such as hexane. It is very useful to use a protein concentrate which is a meal which has further been refined by extraction with a polar solvent, such as a mixture of ethanol and water, whereby sugars and other undesirable components are removed.The vegetable protein containing material may partly consist of a protein isolate which is usually produced by precipitation of protein from an aqueous suspension of meal at the isoelectric point of the protein.In the process according to the invention a soya protein concentrate or soya meal is preferably used.The toughening agent to be incorporated in the mixture in step a comprises a calcium salt such as calcium chloride or calcium lactate in a proportion of at least 0.05 and preferably 1 3 wt. and or a sufficient proportion of an acid such as citric acid, lactic acid or sulphuric acid to achieve a pH in the mixture which is approximately equal to the isoelectric point of the protein present therein. When soya protein is present the proportion of acid to be used should be such as to achieve a pH of about 5.0.Step b of the process according to the invention can be carried out using a conventional plastic extruder such as a Wenger X20 or X200. Extrusion is usually carried out at a temperature ranging from 110 1650C at a pressure ranging from 5 to 50 atm.The moisture content of the extrudate being critical, it is essential to carefully select the water content of the mixture in step a and the extrusion conditions. A way for obtaining an extrudate having a moisture content of at least 30 and preferably of at least 50 consists in preventing evaporation of water from the extrudate leaving the extrusion die by keeping the extrudate immediately after it is leaving the extrusion die under superatmospheric pressures until its temperature sufficiently drops to a value at which under atmospheric pressure water does not evaporate quickly enough to render the extrudate unuseful.A simpler way of achieving the desired moisture content in the extrudate consists in contacting the extrudate with water, for instance by spraying water on it, or by allowing the extrudate to rehydrate in a vessel containing a sufficient amount of water. The temperature of the water may vary from 4 to 1000C. Although rehydration is quicker at the higher temperatures of this range, for practical reasons it is preferred under conditions prevailing in a factory to use tap water.Applicants have surprisingly found that rehydration rates are improved by incorporating in the mixture to be extruded an efficient proportion of a hydrophilic emulsifier, which means an emulsifier having an HLB value hydrophilic lypophilic balance of at least 8. Such emulsifiers are well known commercial products and are described in Emulsion, Paul Becher, ReinholdPublishing Corporation 1957, Chapter 6.Useful examples of such emulsifiers are lecithin, sodiumstearoyl lactylate and sucrose monopalmitate.The useful proportion of the emulsifier can be established in each particular case. In most instances a proportion ranging from 1 to 4 wt. will suffice.The preferred emulsifier is lecithin. It is believed that lecithin at a level of 1 4 wt. offsets the hydrophobic action of the fat incorporated as a lubricant in the mixture to be extruded.Lecithin can be added as a powder to the mixture. Preferably a mixture of lecithin and soybean oil in a proportion of preferably 9 1, which has a relatively low viscosity, is sprayed on the mixture. Lecithin can be used to replace at least part of the lipids used in the mixture to be extruded as an extrusion aid. Applicants have established that the use of. lecithin allowed rehydration values of 100 3002 subject to the shape and dimensions of the extrudate to be achieved within 5 minutes in cold tap water. The rehydratiorl values indicate the percentage of water absorbed by the extrudate based on the weight of the extrudate.In the process according to the invention the extrudate is shredded in an apparatus exerting shearing forces, such as a Pallman orEirich mill. The clearance between the rotating plates of the apparatus is chosen to be such that shreds of the desired dimensions are obtained. For producing meat substitutes shreds having a thickness of at least 0.2 mm and preferably 0.3 1 mm and a length of at least 2 mm and preferably 4 25 mm, are produced.The binder in which the shreds are incorporated contains fats and proteins. Preferably a binder is used which comprises 10 50 fat, 3 20 protein, 1 10 potato pulp powder as a rehydration aid and water up to 100 . The fat may consist of vegetable and or animal fats such as soybean oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower oil, lard and tallow. The protein may consist of vegetable and or animal proteins such as soy protein, rapeseed protein or meat proteins.The mixture consisting of binder and shreds is subsequently shaped into the desired form and heated at a temperature which is sufficiently high to set the protein. Mostly a temperature from 60 1200C will be adequate. The heat set product is subsequently cut to the desired dimensions and is optionally dried to a moisture content of e.g. 3 6 . The product is eminently suitable for use in dry meals, soups and filled sauces, particularly of the instant type.The invention will now be illustrated in the following Examples.Example I A mixture of the following composition wds produced defatted soya meal 60 water 35 fat 2 calcium chloride 0.5 flavouring substances 2.5.This mixture was fed into a Wenger extruder type X20 and was extruded at 1300C.The moisture content of the extrudate was raised to 50n e by spraying water of 900C on it.Rehydration was completed after 5 minutes.The rehydrated extrudate was shredded in a Pallman apparatus in which the clearance between the rotating plates was about 3.5 mm, to obtain shreds of a thickness ranging from 0.2 lmm and of a length ranging from 4 25 mm.The proportion of fines was almost nil.A binder of the following composition was prepared.soya protein isolate 5 meat protein 5 fat 30 water 58 flavouring substances 2.1 Part of shreds was mixed with 2 parts of binder. A plank was formed from this mixture. The plank was heated at 1000C to coagulate the protein. The heated plank was subsequently cut into dice of 8 x 12 x 25 mm which were finally air dried to a moisture content of 5 wt. . The dice were incorporated in a dry meal composition.On rehydration the dice were found to have excellent chewability and fibrosity similar to real meat. Example IIThe procedure outlined in Example I was repeated, using instedd of calcium chloride a proportion of citric acid sufficient to achieve a pH of about 5.0.The dice obtained had an excellent texture and the proportion of fines formed during shredding was negligeable.Examples III and IVThe procedure outlined in Examples I and II was repeated but using an extrudate having a moisture content of 70 . The results were as satisfactory as in the previous Examples.The following Examples illustrate the effect of the use of specific emulsifiers according to the invention on the rehydration proporties of the extrudate.Examples V VIIIExamples I to IV were repeated, using 3 of a lecithin powder HLB 14 .The extrudates were all rehydrated in cold tap water. Within 5 minutes a rehydration percentage of approximately 120 was achieved.Examples IX X11 Examples I to IV were repeated, using 1.5 of a native mixture of soya lecithin consisting of 9020 lecithin and 10 soybean oil.The extrudates were all rehydrated in cold tap water. Within 5 minutes a rehydration percentage of approximately 170 was achieved.Example XIIIThe procedure outlined in Example I was repeated, using 3 sodiumstearoyl lactylate HLB 12 . A rehydration percentage of the extrudate of approximately 105 was achieved within 5 minutes in cold tap water.Example XIV The procedure outlined in Example I was repeated, using 3 sucrose monopalmitate HLB 12 . A rehydrdtion percentage of the extrudate of approximately 80V. was achieved within 5 minutes in cold tap water. Comparative Examples XV and XVIThe procedure outlined in Example I was repeated, while rehydration was carried out in cold tap water. The rehydration percentage obtained after 5 minutes was insufficient. The procedure outlined in Example I was repeated, using sorbitan monostearate HLB 5 .The rehydration percentage obtained after 5 minutes in cold tap water was 40 , which is considerably lower than the percentage obtained when an emulsifier having an HLB value was used.