# STRUCTURE OF PUMP CHAMBER VALVE UNIT FOR TOY PISTOL, NOZZLE STRUCTURE FOR TOY WATER PISTOL, AND MOLDING DIE STRUCTURE.

## Abstract
The structure of the pump chamber valve unit for a conventional toy water pistol requires a number of parts and a number of assembly steps and does not have sufficient water projecting performance, this invention solves these problems. The valve unit 2 of a pump chamber 1 for a toy water pistol is formed integrally, valve seats 2 , 3 and outer peripheral grooves 2F , 3F are formed to improve the airtightness thereof, and another small valve unit is provided inside the vicinity of the seat 3 to prevent leakage of the projected water. The assembly steps are facilitated by utilizing the front and rear surfaces 2G , 2 , 3M , 3 of the valve seats 2 , 3 , and the nozzle structure 2D of the water pistol toy and a core engaging unit of molding dies 2D1 , 2D2 are formed as parallel rods, thereby solving the above object and providing advantages.

## Claims
SCOPE OF CLAIMS 1. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun characterized by the following features a valve fitting device having a flow hole to control inflow and outflow of water, air etc, is provided in a pump chamber of a toy gun and to said valve fitting device, a valve stop having a flow passage and a valve seat which can close the flow hole with a valve are formed in one body with plastic material utilizing its elasticity, a valve is forcibly fitted in said valve fitting device through said flow hole. 2. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun characterized by the following features a valve fitting device having a flow hole to control inflow and outflow of water, air, etc is provided in a pump chamber of a toy gun and to said valve fitting device, a valve seat which can close the flow hole with a valve is formed with elastic material and a gap of an outer ridge of the valve seat is provided to said valve seat. 3. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun chracterized by the following features a valve fitting device having a flow hole to control inflow and outflow of water, air, etc is provided with a pump chamber of a toy gun, and to said valve fitting device, a valve stop having a flow passage and a valve seat which can close the flow hole with a valve are formed with elastic material and to the neighbouring portion of said valve seat another small valve stop is provided to, and utilizing the following operation in the pump chamber, the valve is stopped or moved automatically. 4. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun chracterized by the following features a valve fitting device having a flow hole to control inflow and outflow of water, air, etc is provided in a pump chamber of a toy gun, and to said valve fitting device, a ridge to receive the valve is provided along the direction of flow of water, air, etc. and a flow gap is made between said ridge and ridge. ridges are leaned to said direction of flow. 5. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun characterized by the flowing features an elastic sucker for water, air etc is provided to the edge of the valvefitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun and a press for said sucker is provided on said edge. 6. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun characterized by the following features a front valvefitting device is provided in a pump chamber of a toy gun the rear portion of front valve fitting device and the fron portion of the rear valve fitting device are arranged capable of engaging so that their insertion and assembling become easy. 7. A structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of a toy gun characterized by the following features a front valvefitting device and a rear valve fitting device are provided in a pump chamber of a toy gun, and the rear portion of the front valve fitting device is pushed forward by the front portion of the rear valve fitting device so that insertion and assembling becomes easy. 8. The structure of water discharge hole of a toy water gun and the structure of its forming mold characterized by the following features a diameter of the tip of the core of the mold to form the water discharge hole of the structure of the water discharge hole of a toy water gun being adjusted to meet the diameter of the water discharge hole and at the same time, making it like parallel bars. 9. In the structure of the water discharge hole of a toy gun and the structure of its forming mold according to claim 8, in which projected ring is provided around the front portion of the water discharge hole. 10. In the structure of the water discharge hole of a toy water gun and the structure of its forming mold according to claim 8, in which projections are provided in the front portion of the water discharge hole to protect the water discharge hole.

## Description
DESCRIPTIONTITLE OF INVENTION Structure of valve fitting devices in a pump chamber and structure of water discharge hole and structure of its forming mold of toy gun TECH JICAL FIELD This invention is related to the improvement of the structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber which projectile waterBACKGROUND OF THE TECHNIQUE The structure of a valve fitting device in a pump chamber of conventional toy gun usually requires many parts fabrication time. In addition, the tightness and faculty of squirting power are not sufficient. The problem how to establish a structure maintaing the tightness and the function of sucking and discharging of water, air, etc, prevention of leakage and faciliation of assembling is the most important fatality for a toy gun in order to give a splendid function with a low price.The water discharge hole 2D which has an important relation to the function of water discharge as shown Fig.4 and 5 is apt to produce a thin film on account of the plastic forming.Due to the wear of the mold, looseness and depending on its direction, many bad products are mingled among the products.Such a fault is seen in this field. This invention aims to eliminate such a fault.BEST MODE OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION To explain this invention by its embodiment 1 is a water pump chamber of a toy water gun. 2 is a front valve fitting device at the water exit portion. 3 is a rear valve fitting device provided at the water inlet portion. 2 R and 3 A are their main bodies. B are their valve stops to stop their valve 4 . C are ridges leaning to the direction of flow of water fixed for stopping valve 4 .Between ridges C and ridge C a water flow gap is made. 3 is a small valve stop. D is water flow outlet hole. E is a valve seat which closes water flow inlet holes 2f , 3F with valves , F is a gap of outer ridge of valve seat provided at the outer circumference of valve seat E . The parts of above said valve fitting device are formed in one body with elastic material such as polyethlene. Besides, 2D serves as a water discharge as well and the rear portion 2G of the front valve fitting device 2 and the front portion 3M of the rear valve fitting device 3 engage and the said front valvefitting device 2 is pushed forward by the rear valve fitting device from the back thereof. 2 is the back side of the front valve fitting device and the receiving side of the back side of the front valve fitting device of the rear valve fitting device. 3G is a water sucking tube provided at the rear portion of the water flow inlet hole 3F . 3I is a piston plate. 3 is relative piston plate fitting device. 3B is a small valvestop provided separately inside of the vicinity of valve seat 3E Besides, 2D1 is a core of the mold which forms water discharge hole 2D and is arranged to meet the diameter of the water discharge hole 2D making a form like parallel bars and its tip is roundish. 2D is projecting ring provided around the front portion of the water discharge hale 2D and forms a shape like a crown. 2D is a thin film provided at the time of plastic forming due to the wear and or looseness of the contact surface of the forming mold. 2 is projecting portion which protects from water discharge hole 2D and is located at the front portion of the water discharge hole 2D DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION An embodiment of the present invention describes aforesaid article as Best Mode of Carrying out tbe invention . In case of prior art products, the valvestops 2B 3B or the valve seat 2E 3E in one part is formed with different material insertion of valve 4 into the valve fitting devices 2 , 3 the remaining part made of different material is inserted, therefore, the good air tightness cannot be obtained.If insertion is loose, they are apt to separate. If insertion is tight to the contrary, they are apt to be deformed. This makes more difficult to get satisfactory air tightness between valve seat 2B , 3B and valve 4 In case of the prior art products, when a water pump chamber l is in the water, intÅake of water is possible, but when the surface of water comes down below the level of the water pump chamber l , the volurnewater intake lessens, the attractiveness is lost, so such a water gun can serve as a plaything for a lower grade school boys and girls only.By the 1st invention of this patent application that is, by the structure, which has a flow passage for water, air, etc and a valve seat which can close the flow hole with a valve are formed in one body with plastic material, and utilizing its elasticity a valve is forcibly fitted in said valvefitting device through said flow hole. This problem is fundamentally solved.By the 2nd invention of this patent application, that is, by the structure, to said valve fitting device a valve seat which can close the flow hole with a valve is formed with elastic material. Softness is maintained for the valve seats 2 , 3E and even a deformation occurs to the valve seats 2E , 3E by the molding and assembling. The air tightness is easily maintained as the gap of outer ridge of valve seat 2F 3F is provided and they can easily meet the form of valve 4 . Further, prevention of leakage of water in a pump chamber l is an important matter when the volume of water is limitted. By the 3rd invention of the patent application, that is, by the structure, the valve stop and valve seat are formed with elastic material and another small valve stop is provided inside of vicinity of said valve seat Even the discharging pressure against the valve 4 is lost after discharge of water by the forward movement of the piston plate 3I , the valve 4 does not turn forward as seen in the prior art products, it temporarily stops at the small valve stop 3B which is made of plastic material, so the leakage of water is prevented, when a minus pressure is generated by the backward movement of the pistom plate 3I in a pump chamber 1 for intake of water, the valve 4 crosses over the small valve stop 3B and goes forward and it is stopped by the valve stop ridge 3C . As a water flow passage is provided between ridge 3C and ridge 3C , intake of water into the water chamber becomes possible. When the piston plate 3I goes forward for discharge of water, the water pressure inside the valve fitting device increases, and the valve 4 crosses over the small valve stop 3B reaching the valve seat 3E , closing the water flow hole 3F forward discharge of water becomes possible.Even if the water pressure becomes nil after it, as described before, the prevention of water leakage can be maintained. Further, as shown by the embodied example of Fig.2, a plural of narrow, long legs with released tips are made at the main body of the small valve stop 3B , and using the elasticity of said tips of legs, a valve 4 is supported and press jointed to the bottom of the valve 3E by increase and decrease of water flow pressure, the forward and backward movements of the valve 4 become possible by expansion and shrinkage of said legs, the valve 4 is pre s jointed and supported, control of water flow becomes possible.By the 4th invention of this patent application, when the ridges 2C 3C are leaned to the direction of the flow of water, rotating movement can be given to the discharged water, water can be jetted out straight ahead. The 4th invention has such an effect. By the 5th invention of this patent application, as shown by the embodied example of Fig.2, by the structure, an elastic sucker 3G for water is provided on rear end of the valve fitting device 3 in the water pump chamber 1 and a press 3H for said sucker is provided on said end. Even if the original air remains inside of sucker for water 3G , its floating up is prevented, sucking of water into the water pump chamber l can be made smoothly.Further, as shown by the embodied example of Fig.l, press 3H can be replaced by material heavier than water.By the 6th and 7th invention of this patent application, by the structure, A front valve fitting device 2 and a rear valvefitting device 3 are provided in a water pump chamber l . The rear portion 2G of the front valve fitting device 2 and the front portion 3M of the rear valve fitting device 3 are arranged capable of engaging to be pushed forward, the front valve fitting device 2 which receives strong water discharge pressure by discharge of water iB inserted and fitted not only with a certainty but also the assembling process making easy, as a result, its production cost is brought down and its sale with low cost becomes pDssible. Further, even if the depth of contact of core 2D1 of the water discharge hole forming mold becomes shallow by about 0.5mum, as the core is arranged like parallel bars by the 8th invention, there will be no fear of producing thin film 2D , and even if a thin film 2D is produced due to the wear of forming mold by the usage over a long period of time, it will be produced parallel to the direction of water flow and discharge, it will not hamper the discharge of water.Further, by the 9th invention, the projected ring 2D is provided, and as shown by this example, when it is provided in a form of a crown, the roundish tip of the core of the water discharge hole forming mold 2D1 is inserted into the accepting hole 2D2 of the water discharge hole forming mold smoothly, and prevent from damage of the tip of mold core 2D1 and bears the usage for a long period of time. Further, by the 10th invention, the water discharge hole 2D which is apt to be damaged by contact with other objects is protected by the projection 2 such as outer cylinder, etc. So, the capacity of water discharge can be maintained with stability for a long period of time. Thus the combined effects of the above inventions achieve the desired end.BRIEF EXPLANATION OF DRAWING Fig.l is a partly side elavated section of a water pump chamber of a water toy gun of the embodied example of this patent application in a status fitted with valve fitting device 2 , 3 .Fig.2 is a side elavated sectional view of another embodied example of a water chamber. Fig.3 is a side sectional view of the water discharge hole 2D of the embodied example of this invention. Fig.4 andFig.5 is a side sectional view of the water discharge hole 2D of the conventional items. l ...water pump chamber 2 ...front valve fitting device 3 ...a rear valve fitting device 2A 3A ...main bodies of the respective valve fitting device 2B 3B ...valve stop 2B 3B ...small valve stops 2C 3C ...ridges 2D 3D ...water flow outlets 2E 3E ...valve seats 2F 3F ...water flow inlet 2F 3F ...gaps of outer ridges of valve seats 2G ...rear portion of the front valve fitting device 2 2 ...rear surface of the front valve fitting device 3G ...water suck located at the rear portion of the rear valvefitting device 3 3H ...press for water suck 31 ...piston plate 3 ...front portion of the rear valve fitting device 3 ...piston plate 3M ...front portion of the rear valvefitting device 3 ...piston plate fitting device 3 ... receiving surface of the rear valve fitting device for the back surface of the front valve fitting device 4 4 ...valve 2D ...projected ring 2D ...thin film 2Dl ...core of water discharge hole forming mold 2D2 ...accepting portion of core of water discharge holeforming mold 2 .... projection such as outer cylinder etc.