# Solventless silicone controlled release compositions.

## Abstract
Controlled release additives are provided which are useful to raise the release of low release solventless silicone release compositions. Solventless silicone release composi tions are also provided. The aged release of controlled release compositions may also be enhanced by addition of a small amount of a vinyl polysiloxane gum.

## Claims
Claims 1. A controlled release additive comprising a copolymer of R3SiOh units and SiO4 2 units, where R represents the same or different monovalent hydrocarbon radical of no more than 2 carbon atoms, dispersed in an unsaturated non volatile organic reactive diluent. 2.. The controlled release additive of Claim 1, wherein said copolymer is an uncondensed silicone MO resin and said reactive diluent is selected from the group consisting of dibutyl maleate, decylvinylether, dodecylvinylether, camphene, C 16 18 alpha olefin and meta bisisopropenylbenzene 3. The controlled release additive of Claim 1, wherein said copolymer is a vinyl silicone MQ resin and said reactive diluentis a C 1618 alpha olefin mixture. 4. The coatrolled release additive of Claim 1 which also contains a small amount of a vinyl containing polysiloxane gum. 5 A solventless silicone controlled release composition comprising 1 a diorganopolysiloxane base polymer having up to 20 by weight of SiN groups or silanol functional groups and a viscosity of from about 50 to about 100,000 centipoise at 250C 2 a copolymer of R3SiO and SiO4,2 units, where R is the same or different monovalent hydro carbon radical of no more than 2 carbon atoms dispersed in an unsaturated organic reactive diluent 3 a polymethylhydrogen siloxane fluid crosslinking agent having up to about 100 parts by weight SiR groups and a viscosity of about 25 to 1,000 centipoise at 250C 4 an effective amount of a precious metal catalyst for promoting an addition cured hydrosilation reaction between said copolymer, said additive and said crosslinking agent and 5 an amount of dialkyl carboxylic ester containing carbon to carbon unsaturation effective to exhibit said hydrosilation reaction at temperatures below the heat cure temperature of said silicone controlled release composition. 6 The composition of Claim 5, wherein said base polymer is a vinyl chainstopped polydimethylmethylvinyl siloxane copolymer. 7. The composition of Claim 5, wherein said copolymer component 2 is an uncondensed silicone MQ resin and said reactive diluent is selected from the group consisting of dibutyl maleate, decylvinylether, dodecylvinylether, camphene, C 16 18 alpha olefin and meta bis isopropenyi benzene. A. The composition of Claim 5, wherein said copolymer component 2 is a vinyl silicone MQ resin dispersed in C 16 18 alpha olefin. 9. The composition of Claim 5 which also contains a small amount of a vinyl containing polysiloxane gum. 10. The composition of Claim 5, wherein the base polymer is silanol functional and was prepared by a KOS catalyzed equilibration of octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane and water, neutralized by the addition of a small amount of tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite. 11. A silanol functional diorganopolysiloxane composition free of latent condensation catalyst having up to about 20 by weight SiOH groups and a viscosity of from about 50 to about 100,000 centipoise at 250C prepared by a base catalyzed equilibration of cyclic polysiloxane monomers and water, said base being neutralized by the addition of tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite. 12. A silanol functional diorganopolysiloxane composition as defined in Claim 11, wherein said base is SOB and said cyclic polysiloxane monomers are primarily octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane. 13. A proccss for preparing a silanol functional diorganopolysiloxane free of latent condensation catalyst and having up to about 20 by weight SIMON functional groups and a viscosity of from about 50 to about 100,000 centipoise at 250C comprising a equilibrating cyclic polysiloxane monomers and water in the presence of a base and b neutralizing the base with tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite. 14. The process of Claim 13, wherein said cyclic polysiloxane monomers are primarily octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane and said base is KOS.

## Description
SOLVENTLESS SILICONE CONTROLLED RELEASE COMPOSITIONS BACRGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to polysiloxane release coating compositions. More particularly, it relates to low viscosity polysiloxane compositions containing increased amounts of MQ silicone resins without the need of solvents which are particularly well adapted to controlled release applications. Silicone compositions have long been used as release coatings, which are useful in many applications whenever it is necessary to provide a surface or material which is relatively nonadherent to other materials which would normally adhere thereto. Silicone release compositions are widely used as coatings which release pressuresensitive adhesives for labels, decorative laminates, transfer tapes, etc. Silicone release coatings on paper, polyethylene, Molars , and other such substrates are also useful to provide non stick surfaces for food handling and industrial packaging applications. Silicone compositions previously developed as release coatings have included solutions in organic solvents, water dispersed emulsions and solvent free 100 solids silicone fluids. The solventless silicones are increasingly preferred for release applications because of the energy inefficient evaporation steps, solvent recovery and costly pollution abatement equipment associated with use of the solvent and waterborne systems. Solventless silicone release compositions, such as those taught by Eckberg, U.S. 4,256,870 incorporated herein by reference , are typically two part systems One part is a mixture of a vinyl containing linear diorgano polysiloxane, a precious.metal catalyst and an inhibitor.The other part is a SiN containing crosslinker, such as a polymethylhydrogensiloxane fluid. These parts may be combined in a coating bath, applied to a substrate and cured to an adhesive coating by a thermally accelerated addition cure reaction illustrated as follows EMI2.1 tb II SEP Si CX C SEP SEP gi SEP catalyst SEP SEP SiCII2CH2Si SEP 2 SEP A tb Cured release coatings using 100 solids silicone compositions exhibit exceptionally low, or premium , release, i.e., very little force is required to separate most adhesives from the silicone treated surface.Hcwever, most commercial applications demand higher or tighter release from common pressure sensitive adhesives, and so additives, called control led release additives or CRAs are added to low release compositions to raise their release. Branched silicone resins, such as vinyl MQ silicone resins are typically employed as release increasing agents inCRAs. Conventional CRA formulations, such as those described by Sandford, Jr., U.S. 4,123,664 and Veil, U.S. 3,527,659 both incorporated herein by reference contain up to 40 45 by weight vinyl MQ resin described in more detail infra dissolved in a vinyl functional diorganopolysiloxane, plus a catalyst and inhibitor. Although they currently enjoy widespread use, conventional solventless CRAs have major disadvantages resulting from their high cost and processing limitations.The vinyl MO resins cannot be incorporated into vinylfunctional polysiloxane fluids in amounts greater than about 40 458 by weight without exceeding a workable application viscosity At such levels the resulting compositions have viscosities 5000 cps, 10 times the preferred viscosity for rotogravure application to papers or films. See, e.g., Moeller, U.S., 4,216,252 incorporated herein by reference . Consequently, theMQ resin content of CRAs is held down, but then large amounts of these expensive materials are added to low release solutions to bring about a higher release. This necessity of using high levels of costly additives in conventional solventless controlled release compositions often makes their use prohibitively expensive, in spite of the energy costs and pollution abatement costs their use avoids. It has now been discovered that efficient, inexpensive solventless CRAs having low viscosities are formulated by dispersing MQ or vinyl MQ silicone resins in high boiling, unsaturated reactive diluents. The olefinic materials are less expensive than polysiloxane fluids and their low viscosities permit high levels of the MQ resins to be dispersed. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide controlled release additives which may contain above about 40 by weight MO silicone resin while maintaining a low application viscosity. It is a further object of the present invention to provide a solvent free silicone release coating composition providing intermediate release as opposed to premium release . It is a further object of the present invention to provide controlled release additives and solventless controlled release compositions particularly well suited for paper release applications. These and other objects are accomplished herein by a controlled release additive comprising a copolymer of R3SioF and SiO4,2 units, where R may be the same or different monovalent hydrocarbon radical of no more than 2 carbon atoms, dispersed in an unsaturated organic reactive diluent. Also contemplated herein is a solventless silicone controlled release composition comprising P a diorganopolysiloxane base polymer having up to 208 by weight alkenyl or silanol functional groups and a viscosity of from about 50 to 100,000 centipoise at 25 C 2 a copolymer of R3SiOF and SiO4,2 units, where R is the same or different monovalent hydrocarbon radical of no more than 2 carbon atoms, dispersed in an unsaturated organic reactive diluent 3 a polymethylhydrogen siloxane fluid crosslinking agent having up to about 1008 by weight SiH groups and a viscosity of about 25 to 1000 centipoise at 250C 4 an effective amount of a precious metal catalyst for promoting an addition cure hydrosilation reaction between said base polymer, said copolymer and said crosslinking agent and 5 an amount of dialkyl carboxylic ester containing carbon to carbon unsaturation effective to inhibit the precious metal catalyzed hydrosilation reaction at temperatures below the heat cure temperature of said silicone controlled release composition. Other features of the present invention include solventless silanol functional release compositions which have been stabilized against premature condensation of the silanol functional groups present in amounts of about 2 5 by weight in MQ resins . in the presence of the SiE containing crosslinker by neutralizing the silanol components in their preparation with tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite rather than phosphoric acid. Such compositions will have a longer shelf life, for reasons to be discussed in more detail hereinafter. Another aspect of this invention relates to silanol functional diorganopolysiloxanes prepared by KOS catalyzed equilibration of cyclic polysiloxane monomers and water, where the catalyst is neutralized by the introduction of tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite so as not to produce any neutralization salts which would catalyze a condensation cure see reaction II and discussion, infra . Also contemplated is a process for prcparing silanols functional polysiloxanes free of latent condensation catalysts. Other features of the present invention include controlled release additives and release compositions additionally containing vinyl functional silicone gums.These CRAs and compositions were found to have more stable aged release than known controlled release formulations. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The controlled release additives of the present invention are prepared by dispersing silicone My resins or vinyl functional silicone MQ resins in high boiling unsaturated organic monomers. These CRAs may be added directly to a premium release composition to raise its release performance For convenience, proportional amounts of a precious metal hydrosilation catalyst may be included in the CRA, so that subsequent direct addition to the release composition does not dilute the catalyst to less effective levels. The silicone resins employed in the present invention are polysiloxanes having primarily monofunctional M units or tetrafunctional Q units. A general discussion of these resins is found in Chapters 1 and 6 of Noll, Chemistrv and Technology of Silicones, 2nd Ede 1968. The MQ resins are made up of M units having the formula R3 SiC and Q units having the formula Six4 2, with the ratio of M to Q being roughly 0.5 to 1.0 and preferably 0.65. The R groups may be, independently, the same or different monovalent hydrocarbon radicals of no more than 2 carbon atoms. Such radicals include, for example, methyl, ethyl, vinyl or ethynyl. Methyl and vinyl are preferred. Uncondensed MQ resins will ordinarily contain 2 5 by weight silanol, which means that contact with the precious metal catalysts which will promote the hydrosilation reaction I , above, will also promote a silanol condensation in the presence of SiH containing compounds, as follows EMI8.1 tb II SEP SIMON SEP 1 SEP HSi SEP catalyst SEP SEP ESiOSiE SEP SEP N2 SEP tb SEP A tb Silanol containing MO resins, therefore, will undergo a condensation cure and are suitable for use in conjunction wi silanol functional or vinyl functional silicone release compositlons. Silanol functional polysiloxanes which will cure in the presence of SiE containing crosslinkers and condensation catalyst to form release coatings are conveniently prepared by base catalyzed equilibration Qf cyclic polysiloxane monomers, such as octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane. The base, e.g. KQS, is commonly neutralized with phosphoric acid or silylphosphate to permit stripping the silanol products of light ends but this mode of neutralization generates acid salts i.e., acid phosphates which catalyze condensation of the SIMON groups with the SiN groups of the SiH functional polysiloxane fluids used as crosslinkers in silanol release compositions.In the presence of the acid salts therefore, a solvent free blend of silanol and SìE containing fluids land silanol MQ resins quickly crosslinks to a gel and liberates hydrogen, as in reaction II , above. Producing silanol fluids by acid catalyzed processes avoids the formation of acid salts but has proved difficult to adapt to large scale operations. It has been discovered herein, however, that lowto medium viscosity devolatilized silanol fluids are stable in the presence of SiE containing crosslinkers if they are neutralized with tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite rather than by phosphoric acid. Thus in the controlled release compositions of the present invention which are based on silanolfunctional diorganopolysiloxane fluids, increased storage stability is achieved by neutralizing the basic hydrolysis catalyst with tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite. The reactive diluents used herein to disperse the MQ resins are any high boiling unsaturated hydrocarbon fluid in which high levels, for example, over 408 by weight, of a given MQ resin is soluble without increasing the viscosity of the dispersion beyond useful application viscosities e.g., 5000 cps . By way of illustration, such unsaturated organic monomers will include dibutylmaleate, decylvinylether, dodecylvinylether, camphene, meta bis isopropenylbenzene and a olefins generally.Mixtures of such compounds, and mixtures of. unsaturated organic monomers with polysiloxane fluids, are also contemplated. The preferred compounds are high boiling alpha olefins. In the solventless release compositions of the invention, the diorganopolysiloxane base polymer may be as indicated previously either silanol or alkenylfunctional. Preferably the polymer is a vinyl chainstopped polysiloxane having the general formula EMI9.1 wherein R is a monovalent hydrocarbon radical free of unsaturation, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, and the like, but not ordinarily including phenyl for paper release applications. R is a hydrocarbon radical having alkenyl unsaturation. Typically R represents vinyl groups but may also represent allylic or cyclo alkenyl unsaturated groups. m and n are positive integers such that the polymer has up to about 20 R groups. The viscosity of such polysiloxanes will be from about 50 100,000 centipoise at 250C.R is preferably vinyl and where R is vinyl, the viscosity of the polymer is preferably from about 300 550 centipoise at 250C Methyihydrogen fluid is often used by those skilled in the silicone art as a crosslinking agent for addition cured silicone systems. Particularly useful as a crosslinking agent for the present invention is a trimethyl chainstopped polymethyihydrogen siloxane fluid having from approximately 10 to approximately 100 SiE groups and having a viscosity in the range of approximately 25 to approximately 1000 centipoise at 250C. The curing reaction which takes place between the vinyl functional polysiloxane and the polymethylhydrogensiloxane fluid crosslinking agent is an addition cure reaction, also known as a hydrosilation. The composition of the present invention may be thermally cured by means of a platinum catalyzed crosslinking reaction between pendant vinyl groups of a dialkylvinyTachinstopped polydialkyl alkylvinylsiloxane copolymer and a trimethyl chanstopped polymethyihydrogen fluid. A useful catalyst for facilitating the hydrosilation curing reaction is the Lamoreaux catalyst as described in U.S. Patent No, 3,220,972 issued November 30, 196S, and assigned to the same assignee as the present invention. Other platinum metal catalysts can also be utilized in practicing the present invention and their selection depends upon such factors as speed of the reaction required as well as expense, useful shelf life, useful pot life and the temperature at which the cure reaction is to take place. Such platinum metal catalysts include those which utilize the precious metals ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium and platinum, and complexes of these metals. For coating compositions as described above, the amount of catalyst ranges from approximately 10 to approximately 500 ppm, depending on the factors of speed of reaction and cost.Preferably, the amount of catalyst is about 10 100 ppm of precious metal. The present controlled release composition, comprising a diorganopolysiloxane base polymer, an MQ resin dispersed in a reactive diluent, a SiE containing crosslinking fluid, and a precious metal hydrosilation catalyst, will thermally cure on a substrate and give a smooth, nonadherent surface. However, it is necessary to include an inhibitor in the release composition in order to avoid premature curing and gellation.of the composition.Suitable compounds to retard the hydrosilation cure reaction at ambient temperatures are well known in the art, but best results have been achieved with the diallylic carboxylic esters fully disclosed in U.S. 4,256,870 Eckberg , which is incorporate herein by reference. The preferred inhibitors are diallylmaleate, dimethylmaleate, and butylallylmaleate. Another feature of the instant invention derives from the discovery herein that very efficient controlled release additives for solventless silicone release compositions are obtained when small amounts of vinyl containing polysiloxane gums are included in the C or CRA modified release composition The gums are vulcanizable dimethylvinyl chainstopped linear diorganopolysiloxanes having a vinyl content of from 0.05 to 5.0 mole percent and a molecular weight ranging from about 200,000 to 800,C00. The preferred gums are dimethylvinylchain stopped linear polydimethylmethylvinylsiloxane copolymer gums having a vinyl content of approximately 0.2 mole percent and a molecular weight of around 250,000. Compositions containing vinyl gums cure as rapidly as premium release compositions and have comparable release stability over time stable aged release . This, combined with the favorable costs, raw material availability and compatability with conventional solvent free systems, makes the vinyl gum containing CRAs of the present invention efficient and attractive additives for controlled release applications. In order that those skilled in the art might be better able to practice the present invention, the following examples are given by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. EXAMPLE 1 To test the effectiveness of the control release additives of the present invention, the following solventless CRAs were prepared using either uncondensed MQ resin 60 solution in toluene or vinyl MQ resin 60 solution in xylene . In all cases, the MQ resin was mixed with an unsaturated non volatile organic reactive diluent, the aromatic solvent was removed by vacuum at temperatures below 800C to prevent loss of the olefin component, and sufficient platinum catalyst was added to furnish approximately 100 parts per million platinum. Wt. ViscositCRA Olefin Diluent Resin Resin num 1 dibutylmaleate uncondensed MQ 50 170 num 2 decylvinylether 50 27 53 dibutylmaleate n 60 765 4 dodecylvinylether 60 110 C i vinyl stopped dimethyl n 50 420,000 fluid C ii vinyl stopped dimethyl 37 1,850 fluid num 5 64 camphine, 36 vinyl 60 280 stopped dimethyl fluids 6 64 C 16 18 alpha olefin, 60 750 36 vinyl stopped dimethyl fluid 97 64 C 16 18 alpha olefin, n 60 800 36 vinyl stopped dimethyl fluid 98 meta bis isopropanele 220 benzene num 9 alpha olefin vinyl gum 450 200 centipoise dimethyl vinyl chainstopped linear polydimethylsiloxane fluid 105 parts of a C16 C18 alpha olefin mixture Ethyl Cor poration plus 15 parts of a dimethylvinyl chainstopped linear polydimethylmethylsiloxane copolymer gum .0.2 mole vinyl, 250,000 average molecular woight General Electric Co. In order to determine the effect of the CRAs on cure, the following coating baths were made up Base Polymer CRA, Cross Linker Bath Parts by Weight Parts by Weight Parts by Weight num 1 7.5 1, 2.5 0.5 num 2 7.5 num 2, 2.5 0.5 num 3 7.5 3, 2.5 0.5 num 4 7.5 4, 2.5 0.5 num 5 8 num 9, 2 0.5 µ 8, 2 0.5 C iii 10 0.5 C iv 10 0.4 base polymer equals vinyl stopped dimethyl polysiloxane fluid plus a vinyl gum cure accelerator, prepared according to commonly assigned copending U.S.Application Serial No. 267,091, filed May 22, 1981 incorporated herein by reference , platinum catalyst 150 ppm Pt and dimethyl maleate cross linker equals low viscosity methyl chainstopped polylinear polymethyl hydrogen siloxane fluid These coating baths were applied to 40 pound supercalendered kraft paper substrates, placed in a 120 C forced air oven until the coating compositions cured to a smear and migration free abhesive surface. The minimum cure time was determined Bath Cure Time sec num 1 10 num 2 10 20 num 4 30 num 5 30 num 6 35 C iii 10 C iv 30 It can be seen that the MQ resin content slows cure but does not prevent cure in this system. In order to assess the efficiency of the CRA compositions in terms of release, it was.necessary to coat out of solvent. The following solutions were prepared Hexane Base Polymer CRA Cross Linker Bath parts by weight parts by weight parts by weight parts by weight a 80.0 20.0 no CRA X b 80.0 15.0 conventional CRA 1 c 80.0 15.0 num 5, 5 1 d 80.0 15.0 num 6, 5 1 e 80.0 15.0 num 7, 5 1 r 80.0 15.0 num 1, 5 1 g 80.0 15.0 num 2, 5 1 h 80.0 15.0 num 3, 5 1 i 80.0 15.0 num 4, 5 1 j 80.0 16.0 num 9, 4 1 k 80.0 16.0 num 8, 4 1 l 80.0 16.0 conventional CRA, 4 1 3 parts vinyl MQ resin dissolved in low viscosity vinyl functional dimethylpolysiloxane a vinyl stopped dimethyl polysiloxane with vinyl gum cure accellerator, platinum catalyst and dimethylmaleate inhibitor grade SS 4310 General Electric Co. Each bath was,coated onto 40 pound kraft paper with a No. 3 wire wound rod, then placed in a 1200 forced air oven for 30 seconds to insure complete cure. The cured silicone coated paper was laminated with 5 mil of Coated Products 4950 SBR pressure sensitive adhesive which was dried for 10 minutes at ambient temperatures, then for 6 minutes at 600C. A second sheet of kraft paper was placed atop the adhesive layer, and 2 x 9 tapes of the resulting laminates were prepared.A Scott tester was used to record the force in grams required to separate the silicone lamina from the adhesive lamina when the laminae were pulled apart at a 1800 angle at 400 ft min. Release was also recorded for tapes aged 2 weeks at room temperature. Quantitative release observed is tabulated below Release, arams Aged Differential ReleaseBath Initial Aged grams A 20 40 20 30 0 B 50 70 65 95 55 C 80 110 100 150 100 D 90 120 110 160 110 E 80 100 80 120 75 F 70 100 160 210 160 G 100 130 190 250 195 H 65 85 150 180 140 I 65 95 175 225 175 J 60 80 80 85 85 105 K 55 75 70 95 57.4 L 40 60 60 70 4G t Aged differential release average release average release of unaltered release composition Bath A . EXAMPLE 2 In order to demonstrate the neutralization of theKOH catalyzed preparation of silanol functional materials, the following samples were prepared Sample A 3500 parts by weight of dimethyl cyclic tetramer plus 0.20 parts by weight finely ground KON were placed in a 5 liter flask and heated to 150 1550C for 90 minutes. The liquid then began to rapidly build in viscosity and 10 parts by weight of water were added. Equilibration was continued for 3 more hours at 150 1550C, resulting in a 1600 cps viscosity fluid which measured 34.7 ppm KOR by titre. The hot equilibrate was treated with 0.18 parts by weight of tris 2 chioroethyl phosphite and the mixture held at 1500 for 30 minutes.Prior to stripping, the tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite treated polymer titred slightly basic 3 ppm SOH , Stripping the silanol fluid under full vacuum about 10 mm Hg pressure at 160 1800C for two hours afforded 2700 parts by weight of a 2850 cps viscosity polymer. Processing was completed byadding 89 parts by weight of a 30 cps viscosity methylhydrogen crosslinker, stirring until uniform, and filtering. The product Sample A was awater white 100 solids silicone blend, 2325 cps viscosity, containing .97 silanol stopped dimethylsilicone fluid and 3 polymethyl hydrogen crosslinker. SamDle B 3422 parts by weight of cyclic tetramer, 0.3 parts by weight KOH, and 146 parts by weight of a vcry low viscosity silanol stopped linear dimethyl fluid containing about 8 weight water as chainstopper were placed into a flask. This mixture formed a viscous polymer after 40 minutes at 1530C. Neutralization was accomplished by addition of 0.54 parts by weight tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite and stirring at 150 C for two hours. Light ends were removed by stripping to yield 3040 parts by weight of silanol fluid to which 101 parts by weight.methylhydrogen crosslinker were added. The filtered product Sample B was a clear viscous mixture, 5250 cps in viscosity. Sample C A control was prepared by mixing 3.3 parts of methylhydrogen fluid with 100 parts of a silanol stopped linear dimethyl fluid prepared by KOH equilibration and phosphoric acid neutralization similar to examples I and 2 except that a molar equivalent amount of H3PO, was substituted for tris 2 chloroethyl phosphite. The performance of the 3 samples described above was compared to the performance of commercial silanol composition General Electric Co. prepared by acid catalyzed equilibratio of cyclic tetramer and water Sample D below . Shelf stability was measured by.monitoring the viscosity of the compositions as a function of time as they were stored at room temperature 25 . Results obtained are presented below Initial 1 Month 2 Month 4 Month 6 MonthComposition Viscosity, cps. cps. cps. cps. cps. A 2325 2290 2280 2360 2332 B 3250 4900 5300 5300 5300 C 3100 100,000 gel D 3800 3880 3950 4300 4700 These 4 samples were tested for release performance in the same manner as Example 1, except that the compositions were applied to the kraft paper out of a Lexane solvent with a No 12 wire wound rod and cured in a 1500C oven for 30 seconds. The following results were observed Measured Release Composition parts by weight A 150 170 B 145 170 c 150 175 D 130 165 It can be seen that the silanol functional compositions neutralized according to the present invention Samples A and B have a longer shelf life than conventionallyneutralized silanol polymethylhydrogensiloxane compositions. Obviously, many variations will suggest themselves to those skilled in this are in light of the above, detailed description. All such modifications are within the intended scope of the appended claims.