# Sulfur vulcanizable chlorinated polyethylene acrylate copolymer graft elastomer.

## Abstract
Chlorinated polyethylene elastomers are rendered sul fur vulcanizable by the incorporation thereinto of a copolym er comprising one or more acrylic acid esters, or one or more acrylic acid esters and acrylonitrile, and an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing a cure site for sulfur vulcanization. Upon vulcanization, the elastomers exhibit excellent resistance to hydrocarbon oils.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A sulfur vulcanizable elastomer composition com prising a chlorinated polyethylene grafted with a copolymer of one or more esters having the formula EMI12.1 wherein R1 is selected from hydrogen and Cl C2 alkyl, and R2 is selected from Cl Cg alkyl and Cl C4 alkoxyalkyl, or a mixture of one or more esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, and a sulfur vulcanizable active halogen containing, or double bond containing, vinyl comonomer, wherein the weight ratio of chlorinated polyethylene to the total weight of reactive monomers ranges from about 0.25 1,, to 5 1, and the weight ratio of ester or esters of formula I , or ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, to sulfur vulcanizable active halogen containing, or double bond containing, vinyl comonomer ranges from about 1 1 to 20 1. 2. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of chlorinated polyethylene to the total weight of reactive monomers ranges from about 1 1 to 1.5 1. 3. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the weight ratio of the ester or esters of formula I , or ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, to sulfur vulcanizable active halogen containing, or double bond containing, vinyl comonomer ranges from about 2 1 to 5.5 1. 4. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the ester of formula I is ethyl acrylate, and the sulfur vulcanizable vinyl comonomer is vinyl chloroacetate which is present in an amount sufficient to provide at least about 0.2 percent, by weight of grafted, sulfur vulcanizable halogen, based on the total weight of the elastomer. 5. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the ester of formula I is ethyl acrylate, and the sulfur vulcanizable vinyl comonomer is 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene which is present in an amount sufficient to provide in the elastomer com position at least about 0.2 percent, by weight, of unsaturtion. 6. A vulcanizable composition comprising a mixture of a a grafted chlorinated polyethylene composition of Claim 1 and b about 0.1 to 3 parts by weight of sulfur, or a thiuram sulfide, per hundred parts by weight of said grafted chlorinated polyethylene composition. 7. The composStion of Claim 6 wherein the ester of formula I is ethyl acrylate and the vinyl.comonomer is selected from vinyl chloroacetate and 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene. 8. The composition of Claim 6 wherein the ester of formula I is ethyl acrylate, the vinyl comonomer is selected from vinyl chloroacetate and 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene, and the weight ratio of ethyl acrylate to vinyl comonomer ranges from about 2 1 to 5.5 1. 9. The elastomer obtained upon the sulfur vulcanization of the composition of Claim 1. 19. A method for rendering a chlorinated polyethylene sulfur vulcanizable which comprises grafting thereunto a copolymer of one or more esters having the formula EMI13.1 wherein R1. is selected from hydrogen and C1 C2 alkyl and R2 is selected from Cl Cg alkyl and Cl C4 alkoxyalkyl, or a mixture of one or more esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, and an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing a sulfur vulcanizable cure site, the weight ratio of chlorinated polyethylene to the total weight of reactive monomers ranging from about 0.25 1 to 5 1 and the weight ratio of ester or esters of formula I , or ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, to ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing a sulfur vulcanizable cure site ranging from about 1 1 to 20 1.

## Description
SULFUR W LCANIZABLR CHLORINATED POLYETHYLENE ACRYLATE COPOLYMER CRAFT ELASTOMER This invention relates to sulfur vulcanizable chlorinated polyethylene graft copolymers. More particularly, it relates to chlorinated polyethylene having grafted thereon a copolymer comprising one or more acrylic acid esters, or a mixture of one or more acrylic acid esters and acrylonitrile, and an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing a cure site for sulfur vulcanization to vulcanizable compositions containing said chlorinated polyethylene graft copolymer and to the vulcanized elastomers obtained therefrom. Graft copolymers of chlorinated polyethylene and acrylic acid esters are known in the art see Nishi et al.Chem. Abstracts 78 098305M, 78 098306N, and 78 137116X Yoshimoto and Nose, Chem. Abstracts 81 170465v Dohi et al.,Chem. Abstracts 83 165227f, and 83 179914q and Hirahara,Chem. Abstracts 85 047553C. However, these elastomers are not sulfur vulcanizable. Either peroxide or radiation vulcanization must be employed to cure these elastomers. A disadvantage of peroxide and radiation vulcanization, however, is the fact that they are not conventionally used in the rubber industry. It would be desirable, therefore, to have a grafted chlorinated polyethylene elastomer which is sulfur vulcanizable. It is an object, therefore, of this invention to prepare a grafted chlorinated polyethylene copolymer which can be readily cured using conventional sulfur vulcanization techniques. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a sulfur vulcanizable elastomeric composition obtained by grafting onto chlorinated polyethylene a copolymer of an ester or mixture of esters having the formula EMI2.1 wherein R1 is selected from hydrogen and C1 C2 alkyl, and R2 is selected from Cl Cg alkyl and C1 C4 alkoxyalkyl, or a mixture of an ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, and an ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing a sulfur vulcanizable cure site. Also, within the scope of the present invention are vulcanizable compositions comprising a mixture of the grafted chlorinated polyethylene, previously described, and about 0.1 to 3 parts by weight sulfur, or a thiuram sulfide, per hundred parts by weight of said grafted chlorinated polyethylene copolymer. Still further within the scope of the present invention are vulcanized elastomers obtained by vulcanizing an elastomer of the present invention by subjecting the abovedescribed vulcanizable composition to sulfur vulcanization at suitable temperatures for a period of time sufficient to effect essentially complete vulcanization. The vulcanized elastomers of this invention exhibit excellent resistance to hydrocarbon oils. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The graft elastomers of the present invention comprise a chlorinated polyethylene having grafted thereon a copolymer comprising one or more esters of formula I , or one or more esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, and an ethylenically, unsaturated comonomer containing a reactive halogen or olefin cure site for sulfur vulcanization, wherein the weight ratio of chlorinated polyethylene to the total weight of reactive monomers ranges from about 0.25 1 to 5 1, and the weight ratio of the ester or esters of formula I , or ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, to ethyl enically unsaturated comonomer containing a sulfur vulcanizable cure site ranges from about 1 1 to 20 1.Preferably, the weight ratio of chlorinated polyethylene to the total weight of reactive monomers ranges from about 1 1 to 1.5 1, and preferably the weight ratio of the ester or esters of formula I , or ester or esters of formula I and acrylonitrile, to ethylenically unsaturated comonomer containing the sulfur vulcanizable cure site ranges from about 2 1 to 5.5 1. When the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer is a halogen e.g., chlorine or bromine containing monomer, such as vinyl chloroacetate, it is present in an amount sufficient to provide at least about 0.2 percent, preferably about 0.3 to 4.5 percent, and most preferably about 0.4 to 1.5 percent, by weight, of grafted, sulfur vulcanizable halogen, based on the total weight of the elastomer. When the ethylenically unsaturated comonomer is an oleo in cure site containing monomer, such as 5 ethylidene 2norbornene, it is present in an amount sufficient to provide in the elastomer composition at least about 0.2 percent, preferably about 0.2 to 5 percent, and most preferably about 0.6 to 1.2 percent, by weight, of unsaturation. Most preferably, the ester of formula I is ethyl acrylate and the ethylenically unsaturated monomer containing the sulfur vulcanizable cure site is vinyl chloroacetate or 5 ethy1idene 2 norbornepe. Further illustrative examples of esters of formula I include ethyl methacrylate, n propyl acrylate, n butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate, 2methoxyethyl acrylate, 2 ethoxyethyl methacrylate, 2 noctyloxyethyl acrylate, and the like. Active halogen containing vinyl monomers which may be used include those represented by the formula CH2 CH R3 11 wherein R3 may be selected from EMI3.1 EMI4.1 wherein X is a halogen atom, preferably chlorine or bromine. Illustrative examples of suitable ethylenically unsaturated monomers containing an olefinic cure site in dude the following allyl acrylate, crotyl acrylate, 2,5norbornadiene, 2, 5 norbornadiene dimer, hexahydrometbano napbthalene, 1,4 hexadiene, 1,7 octadiene, methyltetrahydroindene, 1,5 cyclooctadiene, and the like. The grafted polymer of the present invention may be prepared by conventional methods such as, for example, by mixing the chlorinated polyethylene, in powder or pellet form, and monomers to be grafted thereon and heating the mixture to about 60 8e C. to swell the monomers into the polymer. A suitable free radical catalyst, such as benzoyl peroxide, or tertiary butyl peroctoate, may then be added, and the monomers polymerized at about 800C. The polymer is then isolated, washed and dried. The graft elastomers may then be compounded by conventional means, e.g., byBanbury mixer, two roll rubber mill, or the like. Sulfur, sulfur donors, accelerators, antioxidants, carbon black, and other fillers and additives as are commonly employed in the compounding of acrylic elastomers and the like may be used in the vulcanization system and such methods as those described, for example, inMihal, U.S. Patent 3,458,461, and Behrens, U.S. Patent 3,506,624, may be used to vulcanize the elastomers. The compounded vulcanized elastomer may then be fabricated into useful articles by conventional means, e.g., by compression molding, extrusion, and the like. The following examples are provided for illustrative purposes and may include particular features of the invention. However, the examples are not to be construed as limiting the invention in any way, it being understood that there are many variations which are possible without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise noted. Example 1 Preparation of a Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate Vinyl Chloroacetate on Chlorinated Polyethylene A stirred suspension of a chlorinated polyethylene 120 grams of DOW CPE Elastomer dM 0l36 chlorine content 365 by weight made by Dow Chemical Company , in water 550 grams , was heated under a nitrogen atmosphere to 630C, and ethyl acrylate 56 grams and vinyl chloroacetate 14 grams were then added thereto. The resultirig mixture was stirred at 630C., under nitrogen, for 20 minutes, and a solution of benzoyl peroxide 1.0 gram in ethyl acrylate 10 grams added thereto. The temperature was raised to 70 75 C., over about 30 minutes, and the slurry was, stirred until the resulting exotherm subsided.The temperature was then raised to 800C. and the slurry stirred thereat for one hour. The insoluble material was r ecovered, washed successively with 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate and water, and dried to obtain 190 grams of a graft copolymer which is soluble in trichloro etharie. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate in aSoxhlet extractor to remove soluble, grafted copolymer and the insoluble grafted copolymer was subsequently dried and reweighed. The graft efficiency was found to be 84.3 . The polymer composition, based on the amounts originally charged as are the polymer composition products in Examples 2 6 , was 60Z chlorinated polyethylene, 33 ethyl acrylate, and 7 vinyl chloroacetate. Example 2 Preparation of a Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate Vinyl Chloroacetate on Chlorinated Polyethylene A stirred mixture of CM 0136 375 grams , ethyl acrylate 250 grams , vinyl chloroacetate 60 grams and dodecyl mercaptan Q.375rgram , in water 2500 grams , was heated, under a nitrogen atmosphere, to 60or. The mixture was stirred at 600C for 30 minutes, and a solution of benzoyl peroxide 3.75 grams in ethyl acrylate 65 grams added thereto. The temperature of the reaction mixture was raised to 800C., over about 25 minutes, and the mixture was stirred until the resulting exotherm subsided. The temperature was then again raised, to 800C. and the reaction mixture stirred thereat for 2 hours.The insoluble beads were recovered, washed successively with 55 aqueous sodium bicarbonate and water, and dried to obtain 706.2 grams of a graft copolymer which was soluble in trichloroethane. Extraction of the product with ethyl acetate in a Soxhlet extractor and reweighing the subsequently dried product showed that the graft efficiency was 88.9 . The polymer composition was 50 chlorinated polyethylene, 42 ethyl acrylate, and 8 vinyl chloroacetate. Example 3Preparation of a Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate Acrylonitrile Vinyl Chloroacetate on Chlorinated Polyethylene A stirred mixture of CM 0136 180 grams , ethyl acrylate 51 grams , acryEonitrile 45 grams , vinyl chloroacetate 24 grams , dodecyl mercaptan 0.15 gram , and sodium chloride 50 grams in water 1000 grams was heated, under a nitrogen atmosphere, to 600C. The mixture was stirred at 600C. for 40 minutes, and benzoyl peroxide 1.5 grams was added thereto. The temperature of the reaction mixture was raised to 800C., over about 20 minutes, and the mixture stirred until the reaction exotherm subsided. The temperature was then again raised to 800C. and the reaction mixture stirred thereat for one hour.The insoluble beads were then recovered, washed successively with 5 aqueous sodium bicar bonate and water, and dried to obtain 268 grams of a graft copolymer which was soluble in trichloroethane. The polymer composition was 60 chlorinated polyethylene, 17 ethyl acrylate, 15 acrylonitrile, and 8 vinyl chloroacetate. Example 4 Preparation of a Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate 5 Ethylidene 2 Norbornene on Chlorinated Polyethylene A stirred mixture of CM 0136 150 grams , ethyl acrylate 100 grams , 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene 30 grams , and dodecyl mercaptan 0.15 gram in water 900 grams was heated to 600C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was stirred at 60oC. for 30 minutes, and a solution of benzoyl peroxide 1.5 grams in ethyl acrylate 20 grams was added thereto. The temperature of the reaction mixture was raised to 800C., over about 20 minutes, and the mixture was stirred until the reaction exotherm subsided. The temperature was then raised again to 800C. and the reaction mixture stirred thereat for 40 minutes.The insoluble beads were then recovered, washed successively with 5 aqueous sodiumbicar bonate and water, and dried to obtain 259 grams of a graft copolymer. Extraction of the product with ethyl acetate in aSoxhlet extractor and recovery, drying and reweighing of the extracted product showed that the graft efficiency was 77 . The polymer composition was 50 chlorinated polyethylene, 40 ethyl acrylate, and 10 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene. Example 5 Preparation of Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate Vinyl Chloroacetate on Chlorinated Polyethylene The procedure of Example 2 was followed utilizingCM 0136 210 grams , ethyl acrylate 76 grams , vinyl chioro acetate 24 grams , and dodecyl mercaptan 0.15 gram in 850 mls of water, utilizing 1.5 grams of benzoyl peroxide as the initiator. The graft efficiency was found to be 82.65 The polymer composition was 70 chlorinated polyethylene, 22 ethyl acrylate, and 8 vinyl chloroacetate. Example 6 Preparation of Graft Copolymer of Ethyl Acrylate Vinyl Chloroacetate on Chlorinated Polyethylene The procedure of Example 1 was followed utilizingCM 0136 240 grams , ethyl acrylate 36 grams , vinyl chloroacetate 24 grams in 100 mls of water, utilizing 0.75 gram of benzoyl peroxide as the initiator. The polymer composition was 80 chlorinated polyethylene, 12 ethyl acrylate, and 8 vinyl chloroacetate. Example 7 A vulcanizable composition was prepared by milling the ingredients shown below on a standard two roll rubber mill Parts by Component WeightPolymer of Example 1 100Carbon black 50Stearic acid 2Curative C 50 a soap curative made by American Cyanamid Company 8Sulfur 0.25Epoxy resin Epon 828, made by Shell Chemical Co. 10Antioxidant CYANAFLEX 50, made by American Cyanamid Company 4 Calcium hydroxide 2 The composition was mold cured at 1760C. for 15 minutes, and the resulting sheet 6 inch x 6 inch x 0.0625 inch, the dimensions being the same for all sheets tested in the following Examples as well was post cured in an oven at 1200C. for 16 hours. The resulting product sheet exhibited the following properties Hardness, Shore A 80 Tensile strength, psi 1610 Elongation at break, 370 Volume swell 1 , 21 1 After 22 hours at 1500C. in automatic transmission fluid Substitution of CM 0136 for the polymer of Example 1 in the vulcanizable composition, just described, and heating the resulting composition in a mold at 176 C. for 15 minutes did not produce a cured elastomer. Example 8 A vulcanizable composition was prepared by milling the ingredients shown below on a standard two roll mill Parts by Component WeightPolymer of Example 2 100Carbon Black 50Stearic Acid 2Curative C 50 8Sulfur 0.25 The composition was mold cured at 1760C. for 15 minutes, and the resulting sheet was post cured in an oven at 1200C. for 16 hours. The resulting product sheet exhibited the following properties Hardness, Shore A Tensile strength, psi 1935 Elongation at break 315 Volume swell1, 21 l After 22 hours at 1560C. in automatic transmission fluid Example 9 A vulcanizable composition was prepared by milling the ingredients shown below on a standard two roll rubber mill Parts by Component WeightPolymer of Example 3 100Carbon Black 50Stearic Acid 2Curative C 50 8Sulfur 0.25Antioxidant CYANAFLEX 50 4Calcium hydroxide 2 The composition was mold cured at 1760C. for 15 minutes, and the resulting sheet was post cured in an oven at 120 C. for 16 hours. The resulting product sheet exhibited the following properties Hardness, Shore A 97 Tensile strength, psi 2080 Elongation at break, X 145 Volume swell l , 14 1 After 22 hours at 1500C. in automatic transmission fluid. Example 10 A vulcanizable composition was prepared by milling the ingredients shown below on a standard two roll rubber mill Parts by Component WeightPolymer of Example 4 100Carbon black 50Stearic acid 1Mercaptobenzothiazole 1.5Sulfur 1.5Zinc oxide 5Accelerator CYERAMe DS, made by American C anamid Company 1.5Antioxidant tYANAFLEXX 50 2 The composition was mold cured at 1760C. for 15 minutes, and the resulting sheet was post cured in an oven at 120or. for 16 hours. The resulting product exhibited the following properties Hardness, Shore A 93 Tensile strength, psi 2560 Elongation at break, 75 Volume swell l , 4 1 After 22 hours at I500C. in automatic transmission fluid. Example 11 The procedure of Example 9 was followed in every detail except that, instead of the Polymer of Example 3, 100 parts by weight of the polymer of Example 5 was used, and the amount of calcium hydroxide used was reduced to one part by weight The physical properties of the resulting product sheet are shown below Hardness, Shore A 86 Tensile strength, psi 3485 Elongation at break, 355 Volume swell 1 , 7o 36 1 After 22 hours at 1500C. in automatic transmission fluid. Example 12 The procedure of Example 7 was followed in every detail except that the polymer of Example 6 was used in place of the polymer of Example 1, the carbon black was increased to 60 parts by weight, and no stearic acid, or calcium hydroxide, was used. The physical properties of the resulting product sheet are shown below Hardness, Shore A 87 Tensile strength, psi 1285 Elongation at break, 405