# Process for the preparation of a diester of oxalic acid.

## Abstract
An improved process for preparing a diester of oxalic acid by the vapor phase catalytic reaction of carbon monox ide with an ester of nitrous acid in the presence of a catalyst composed of a solid carrier and a catalyst component supported on the carrier, the improvement wherein said catalyst component is composed of a a platinum group metal or a salt thereof, and b at least one member selected from the group consisting of iron and an iron II or III compound, the atomic ratio of the component a to the component b as metal being from 10,000 1 to 1 4.

## Claims
Claims 1. A process for preparing a diester of oxalic acid by the vapor phase catalytic reaction of carbon monoxide with an ester of nitrous acid in the presence of a catalyst composed of a solid carrier and a catalyst component supported on the carrier characterizedinthat said catalyst component is composed of a a platinum group metal or a salt thereof, and b at least one member selected from the group consisting of iron and an iron II or III compound, the atomic ratio of the component a to the component b as metal being from 10,000 1 to 1 4. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the atomic ratio of the component a to the combonent b as metal is 5,000 1 to 1 3. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said ester of nitrous acid is an ester of nitrous acid with an alcohol having 1 to 8 carbon atoms selected from the group consisting of saturated monohydric aliphatic alcohols and alicyclic alcohols. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the catalytic reaction is carried out at a temperature of about 500C to about 200 C. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the catalytic reaction is carried out at a pressure ranging from atmospheric pressure to about 10 kg cm2G. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein the amount of the component a supported is about 0.01 to about 108 by weight calculated as the platinum group metal based on the weight of the carrier. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said catalyst is prepared by impregnating the solid carrier with an aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of the platinum group metal and an aqueous solution of a.water soluble salt of iron, treating the impregnated solid carrier with an alkali, and then subjecting the alkali treated product to reducing treatment in the liquid or gaseous phase. 8. The process of claim 6 wherein said alkali is selected from the group consisting of hydroxides, carbonates and bicarbonates of alkali metals or alkaline earth metals.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF A DIESTER OF OXALIC ACID This invention relates to an improved process for preparing a diester of oxalic acid by the vapor or gaseous phase catalytic reaction of carbon monoxide with an ester of nitrous acid in the presence of a catalyst composed of a solid carrier and a catalyst component supported on the carrier. According to this process, the diester of oxalic acid can be produced at a higher selectivity and higher yield with a longer catalyst life than a conventional process involving the use of a platinum group metal or a salt thereof as the catalyst component while maintaining an excellent space time yield. More specifically, this invention relates, in the aforesaid vapor phase catalytic reaction, to the improvement which comprises using a catalyst composed of a solid carrier and a catalyst component supported on the carrier, said component being composed of a a platinum group metal or a salt thereof and b at least one member selected from the group consisting of iron and an iron II or III compound, the atomic ratio of the component a to the component b as metal being from 10,000 1 to 1 4. The diester of oxalic acid is a known compound having important utility as a starting material for synthesis of oxalic acid, oxamide, glycols, dyestuff intermediates and medicines. The process for preparing a diester of oxalic acid by the vapor phase catalytic reaction of carbon monoxide with an ester of nitrous acid in the presence of a catalyst composed of a solid carrier and metallic palladium or a salt thereof supported on the carrier is known U. S. Patent No. 4,229,591 . This U. S. Patent, however, does not at all refer to the use of a Co catalyst component or a catalyst having such a second catalyst component supported together. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No.22666 1980 published on February 18, 1980 corresponding UK Patent Application 2025950A discloses another process for the production of a diester of oxalic acid by a similar vapor phase catalytic reaction to that shown in the above U. S. Patent. The Japanese patent document exemplifies palladium, rhodium, iridium, platinum, gold and salts of these metals as ingredients of the catalyst or primary catalytic elements, and iron, copper and salts of these as a carrier which concurrently serves as a catalyst promotor. The iron or salts thereof in the above proposal are used in very large amounts relative to the primary catalytic elements. Said iron or salts thereof in the above proposal are recognized as carriers, not as Co catalytic elements. That is, with respect to the amount of iron or its compound, the above proposal describes that the weight ratio of primary catalytic element iron or its compound calculated as metals is 1 100 to 20 80, preferably 1 100 to 5 100 when the weight ratio is converted into the atomic ratio in the case of the primary catalytic element being palladium, Pd Fe is l about 200 to l about 8, preferably l about 200 to l about 40 .Active catalysts exemplified therein are a catalyst composed of Fecal2 and 5 of Pd deposited thereon and a catalyst composed of a metallic iron and 5 of Pd deposited thereon. Moreover, in Examples on a platinumgroup metal iron type catalyst, there are not used common carriers such as silica and alumina. As will be seen from the results of the Comparative Examples described later, when large amounts of iron compounds deviated from the scope of this invention are used relative to the platinum group metals, the space time yield and selectivity of the diester of oxalic acid decrease drastically. It is an object of this invention therefore to provide an improved process for producing a diester of oxalic acid by vapor pahse catalytic reaction using a specified catalyst. The above and other objects of this invention along with its advantages will become mor apparent from the following description. The present inventors have worked on the improvement of catalysts used in the aforesaid vapor phase catalytic reaction of carbon monoxide with an ester of nitrous acid. In consequence, they have found the following unexpected results.. When iron or its compounds are mixed in large amounts with platinum group metals or salts thereof as desclosed in the above pro posal, they do not show a function as a co catalyst for said reaction but rather hinder the xeaction and decrease the yield of the end compound as 1compared with a case of not mixing them. Despite this fact, when iron or iron II or III compounds are mixed in specific amounts, a catalyst life in said reaction is surprisingly much prolonged and a diester of oxalic acid is produced in high yield and high selectivity over a long period of time. The present invention deals with an improved process of the aforesaid vapor phase catalyst reaction of carbon monoxide with an ester of nitrous acid in the presence of a solid catalyst composed of a carrier and a catalyst component supported on the carrier, said catalyst component being composed of a a platinum group metal or a salt thereof and b iron or an iron 11 or III compound, the atomic ratio of the platinum group metal iron being in the range of 10,000 1 to 1 4, with the consequence that the catalyst life in said vapor phase catalytic reaction is markedly prolonged and a diester of oxalic acid can be produced at a high selectivity and high yield over a long period of time. The use of the solid catalyst in accordance with this invention, compared with the use of a solid catalyst composed of a platinum group metal or its salt alone, does not decrease a space time yield and selec tivity of a diester of oxalic acid in the initiation of the reaction, little decreases said space time yield and selectivity even in the long term reaction. This means that the catalyst life is remarkably prolpnged and the diester of oxalic acid can be produced stably in good yield for a long period of time. Examples of the platinum group metal used as the catalyst component a in this invention are palladium, platinum, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium. They may be used as a mixture of two or more. Palladium, either alone or in combination with another platinum group metal, is preferred. Examples of the salt of the platinum group metal include inorganic salts such as nitrates, sulfates, phosphates and halides organic salts such as acetates, oxalates and benzoates of the above exemplified metals. Examples of the iron or iron 11 or III compound used as the catalyst component b in this invention are a metallic iron, ferrous sulfate, ferric sulfate, ferrous nitrate, ferric nitrate, ferrous chloride, ferric chloride, ammonium ferrous sulfate, ammonium ferric sulfate, ferrous citrate, ferrous lactate, ferric lactate, ferrous oxide, ferric oxide, tri iron tetroxide, ferrous hydroxide, ferric hydroxide, and so forth. They may be used as a mixture of two or more. The ratio of the component a to the component b may be properly selected. Preferably, the atomic ratio of the component a to the component b , as metal, is from 10,000 1 to 1 4, preferably from 5,000 1 to 1 3. If the amount of the component b is too small as compared with the compound a , the effect of prolonging the life of the catalyst is reduced. If it is too large, the reaction is drastically hindered, and the space time yield and selectivity of the diester of oxalic acid are vastly decreased. Accordingly, the ratio within the above exemplified range is advantageous ly used. This is also clear from the following. For instance, in Examples to be described later, a diester of oxalic acid is provided in a markedly high space time yield. However, the final compound is obtained only in a space time yield of 5 g liter.hr with anFe Pd atomic ratio 5 as in Comparative Example 2 to be described later, in a space time yield of 88 g liter.hr with an Fe Pd atomic ratio 10 as in Comparative Example 3, in a space time yield of 76.7 g kg.hr with an Fe Pd atomic ratio 38 as in Example 6 described in JapaneseLaid Open Patent Publication No. 22666 80 and in a space time yield of 6.7 g kg.hr with an Fe Pd atomic ratio 17 as in Example 7 of the same Publication. In this invention, both the components a and b are supported on the solid carrier. Examples of the carrier used include activated carbon, alumina such as a alumina or y alumina , silica, diatomaceous earth, silicon carbide, pumice, zeolite and molecular sieves. Among these, a alumina, y alumina, silica, and silicon carbide are especially preferred. The amount of the component a supported on the solid carrier is preferably about 0.01 to about 10 by weight, more preferably about 0.1 to about 2 by weight, as a platinum group metal based on the weight of the solid carrier. There is no restriction on the manner of supporting the catalytic metal components on the solid carrier, and any known means of supporting can be used.Preferably, however, the catalyst is prepared by impregnating a solid carrier with an aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of a platinum group metal and an aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of iron, treating the impregnated solid carrier with an alkali, and then treating the alkali treated product with a reducing agent in the liquid or gaseous phase.Alternatively, the above procedure may be carried out by first impregnating the solid carrier with the aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of a platinum group metal, treating the impregnated solid carrier with an alkali, dipping the alkali treated product in the aqueous solution of a water soluble salt of iron, and then treating the resulting product with a reducing agent in the liquid or gaseous phase. The impregnation may be effected by dipping the solid carrier in an aqueous solution containing the water soluble salt of the platinum group metal and the water soluble salt of iron, or by dipping the solid carrier in a desired sequence in aqueous solutions of the respective water soluble salts. As stated above, it is also possible to dip the solid carrier in the aqueous solution containing the water soluble salt of the platinum group metal, treat the impregnated solid carrier with an alkali, and then to dip the impregnated carrier in the aqueous solution of the water soluble salt of iron. The dipping may be performed at a temperature of, for example, about OOC to about 900C and a period of, for example, about 0.1 to about 10 hours.If desired, the impregnation may also be carried out by spraying the aforesaid aqueous solution onto the solid carrier. Preferably, the above aqueous solutions are solutions prepared by dissolving the above water soluble salts in an acidic aqueous solution containing about 0.01 to about 10 by weight of an acidic compound.The use of the acidic aqueous solution serves to aid in the dissolving of the salt of the platinum group metal and the salt of iron and to prevent the formation and precipitation of a hydroxide and oxide of the platinum group metal and iron by hydrolysis. Specific examples of the acidic compound include mineral acids such as hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid and organic acids such as acetic acid These acidic compounds may, if desired, be used as a mixture of two or more. The carrier impregnated with the aqueous solutions containing the water soluble salts is then separated, and if desired washed with water and then dried by, for example, air drying, vacuum drying or heat drying, after which it is subjected to the alkali treatment. The alkali treatment can be effected by adding the carrier impregnated with the aqueous solutions of the above water soluble salts to an alkaline aqueous solution containing, for example, about 0.05 to about 10 by weight of an alkaline compound, and stirring the mixture at a temperature of, for example, about 10 to about 90 C for a period of, for example, about 0.5 to about 10 hours. Examples of the alkaline compound include the hydroxides and salts of alkali metals or alkaline earth metals, for example sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, sodium hydrogen carbonate and potassium carbonate. If desired, these alkaline compounds may be used as a mixture of two or more in an amount of about 2 to about 40 moles per mole of the sum of the platinum group metal salt and the iron salt. After the alkali treatment, the product is optionally washed with water, etc. and dried. The product is then treated with a reducing agent in the liquid or gaseous phase to form the final catalyst. The liquid phase reduction is carried out by using such reducing agents as hydrazine, formaldehyde and sodium formate. Specifically, it can be carried out by adding the alkali treated product to an aqueous solution of the reducing agent in a concentration of about 1 to about 10 by weight, and stirring the mixture at a temperature of, say, about 10 to about 500C for a period of, say, about 0.5 to about 10 hours. The alkaline treated product may be added directly to the aqueous solution of the reducing agent in performing the reduction. It is more effective, however, to separate the alkali treated solid product by a solid liquid separating procedure such as filtration or decantation, wash and dry it, then add the dried product to the aqueous solution of the reducing agent, and subject the dried product to the reducing treatment in the liquid phase. Examples of reducing agents suitable for use in the gaseous phase reduction are hydrogen, carbon monoxide and ammonia. These reducing agents may be used after being diluted with inert gases such as nitrogen or carbon dioxide. The gaseous phase reduction can be carried out by passing the gaseous reducing agent through the alkali treated product at a temperature of, for example, about 500C to about 8000C for a period of, say, about 1 to about 10 hours. The starting gases used in this invention in the reaction of synthesizing the diester of oxalic acid are carbon monoxide and a nitrous acid ester0 and sometimes, contain alcohol, nitrogen oxides, etc. as will be stated hereinbelow. In any case, the starting gases contain carbon monoxide effective for the aforesaid vapor phase reducting treatment. Accordingly, as one means of subjecting the aforesaid alkali treated product to a vapor phase reducing treatment, there may also be employed a method which comprises feeding the alkali treated product into an apparatus for the synthesis of the diester of oxalic acid, and prior to the reaction of synthesizing the diester of oxalic acid, subjecting it to a vapor phase reducing treatment by using a gaseous mixture of carbon monoxide and a nitrous acid ester which may optionally contain alcohol, nitrogen oxides, etc. According to the process of this invention, carbon monoxide is reacted with an ester of nitrous acid in the vapor phase in the presence of the catalyst prepared as above which is composed of a solid carrier and a catalyst component supported on it, said component being composed of a a platinum group metal or a salt thereof and b at least one member selected from iron and an iron 11 or III compound. This reaction can be schematically shown by the following equation. EMI9.1 R alkyl or cycloalkyl As the above scheme shows, this reaction yields nitrogen monoxide equivalent to the consumed nitrous acid ester. Accordingly, the nitrogen monoxide thus formed may be recycled as the starting material for the above reaction by introducing an alcohol and a gas containing molecular oxygen to react them with the nitrogen monoxide as schematically shown below and recovering the resulting nitrous acid ester.EMI9.2 R alkyl or cycloalkyl An ester of nitrous acid with a saturated monohydric aliphatic alcohol having 1 to 8 carbon atoms or an alicyclic alcohol having 1 to 8 carbon atoms is preferred as the ester of nitrous acid. Examples of the aliphatic alcohol are methanol, ethanol, n propanol, isopropanol, n butanol, isobutanol, sec butanol, tertbutanol, n amyl alcohol, isoamyl alcohol, hexanol and octanol, and examples of the alicyclic alcohol include cyclohexanol and methyl cyclohexanol. These alcohols may contain a substituent, such as an alkoxy group, which does not inhibit the reaction. The reaction is carried out under such conditions that no liquid phase is formed in the reaction zone namely, in the gaseous or vapor phase . These conditions may vary depending upon the reaction temperature, the reaction pressure, the type and concentration of the nitrous acid ester, etc. Thus, these conditions may be properly selected so that the reaction is carried out in the vapor phase. The reaction proceeds rapidly even at low temperatures, and side reactions occurs less as the reaction temperature is lower. It is desirable there fore to perform the reaction at relatively low temperature at which the desired space time yield can be maintained, for example at a temperature of about 500C to about 2000C, preferably at about 800C to about 1500C.The reaction pressure can also be selected properly.For example, it is atmospheric pressure to about 10 kg cmêG, preferably atmospheric pressure to about 5 kg cmêG. Pressures below the above specified lower limit, for examplereduced pressures of down to about 200 mmHg, can also be used. The concentration of the ester of nitrous acid used may be varied over a wide range. To obtain a satisfactory rate of. reaction, it is desirable to adjust the concentration of the nitrous acid ester in the starting gaseous mixture introduced into the reactor at 1 by volume or higher, for example about 5 to about 30 by volume. Carbon monoxide used in the process of this invention may be pure or may be diluted with an inert gas such as nitrogen. The concentration of carbon monoxide in the reaction zone may be varied over a wide range and is, for example, in the range of 10 to 90 by volume. The catalytic reaction in accordance with this invention may be carried out in a fixed or fluidized bed. The time of contact between the starting gaseous mixture and the catalyst can be properly chosen. For example, the contact time is not more then about 20 seconds, preferably about 0.2 to about 10 seconds. The nitrous acid ester can be prepared, for example, by reacting an alcohol with a nitrogen oxide in the optional presence of molecular oxygen. The reaction product gas contains the unreacted alcohol and nitrogen oxide particularly nitrogen monoxide and at times, traces of water and oxygen in addition to the nitrous acid ester. In the process of this invention, this product gas containing the nitrous acid ester can be used as the starting nitrous acid ester, and good results can be obtained even when such a nitrite containing impurities is used. The following examples illustrate the practice of the process of the invention in greater detail. Preparation Example of Solid Catalyst Palladium chloride 13.33 g was added to 15.67 g of a 35 by weight aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid, and about 50 cc of water was further added The mixture was slightly heated to thoroughly dissolve palladium chloride. The resulting mixture was cooled, and water was added to the mixture so that the total amount became 200 g. Said palladium chloride solution 10.14 g was mixed with a solution of 1.30 g of ferric chloride hexahydrate in 10 cc of water, and water was added to the mixture so that the total weight became 30 cc. Subsequently, 30 g of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm was dipped in 30 cc of the mixed solution and left to stand for 2 hours while stirring at times. The whole amount of the resulting product was placed on a perforated plate and the mother liquor was completely separated. The alumina particles containing palladium chloride and ferric chloride which were obtained upon separation were dipped in 33 cc of a 1N sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. The solution was stirred at about 60 C for about 4 hours and subjected to alkali treatment. The alkali treated product was collected by filtration and washed with deionized water until a chloride ion was no longer detected with silver nitrate.Subsequently, it was dried in a drier at about 950C. The resulting product was then placed into a quarts glass tube with an inside diameter of 20 mm set in an electric oven, and subjected to reducing treatment at 5000C for 3 hours in a hydrogen stream. Thus, there resulted a spherical solid catalyst Fe Pd atomic ratio l composed of a alumina and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.Example 1 A glass reaction tube having an inside diameter of 17 mm and a length of 55 cm was filled with 2 ml 1.8 g of a catalyst prepared in accordance with said Preparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.Glass beads were further filled in the reaction tube and placed on the catalyst layer to a height of 24 cm. The reaction tube was fixed vertically, and a heated silicone oil was flowed in a jacket portion disposed on the reaction tube, and heating was controlled so that the inside temperature of the catalyst layer became 110 0C. From the top of the reaction tube, a gaseous mixture comprising 20 by volume of carbon monoxide, 15 by volume of methyl nitrite, 15 by volume of methanol, 3 by volume of nitrogen monoxide and 47 by volume of nitrogen was fed at a rate of 20 liters hr S.T.P. . The reaction product leaving the reaction tube was first passed through methanol to collect dimethyl oxalate. Low boiling compounds not collected by methanol were then condensed with dry ice methanol and collected. The liquids collected after the initiation of the reaction and after the periods of time elapsed which are shown in Table 1 were analyzed by gas chromatography, and the space time yield g liter.hr of dimethyl oxalate was measured. The results are shown in Table 1. Example 2 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.0262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.The results are shown in Table 1.Example 3 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.00262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.The results are shown in Table 1.Example 4 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in said PreparationExample of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical aalumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.000262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon. The results are shown in Table 1.Example 5 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.786 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.The results are shown in Table 1.Comparative Example 1 A catalyst composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium deposited thereon was produced in accordance with said Preparation Example of Solid Catalyst except that ferric chloride was not added. The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of said catalyst. The results are shown in Table 1.Comparative Example 2 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 1.31 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon.The results are shown in Table 1.Comparative Example 3 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except using 2 ml of a catalyst prepared in accordance with said Preparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 2.62 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon. The results are shown in Table 1. In Table 1, the space time yield ratio of dimethyl oxalate is the ratio of the space time yield at each elaposed time to that at 8 hours after the initiation of the reaction, the latter being taken as 100 g liter.hr, and calculated in accordance with the following equation.EMI15.1 tb Ratio SEP of SEP the SEP Space SEP time SEP yield SEP of SEP dimethyl SEP oxalate tb space SEP time SEP yield SEP SEP at SEP each SEP reaction SEP time SEP elapsed SEP SEP xlOO SEP tb of SEP dimethyl SEP SEP SEP Space SEP time SEP yield SEP of SEP dimethyl SEP oxalate tb oxalate SEP at SEP 8 SEP hours SEP after SEP the SEP initiation tb SEP of SEP the SEP reaction tb Table 1 EMI16.1 SEP Catalyst SEP Reaction SEP Reaction SEP Space SEP time SEP Ratio SEP of SEP Selectivity tb SEP Pd SEP Fe SEP Fe Pd SEP temperature SEP time SEP yield SEP of SEP space SEP time SEP based SEP on SEP CO SEP tb SEP wt. SEP wt. SEP atomic SEP elapsed SEP dimethyl SEP yield SEP of SEP Dimethyl SEP Dimethyl SEP CO2 tb SEP ratio SEP C SEP hr SEP oxalate SEP dimethyl SEP oxalate SEP carbonate tb SEP g litter hr SEP oxalate tb SEP 8 SEP 1820 SEP 100 SEP 97.9 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 1 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.262 SEP 1 SEP 110 SEP 150 SEP 1800 SEP 98.9 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 342 SEP 1730 SEP 95.1 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 8 SEP 1612 SEP 100 SEP 97.9 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.0262 SEP 0.1 SEP 110 SEP 270 SEP 1396 SEP 86.6 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.3 tb SEP 462 SEP 1329 SEP 82.4 SEP 98.4 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.3 tb SEP 8 SEP 1642 SEP 100 SEP 98.5 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 3 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.00262 SEP 0.01 SEP 110 SEP 150 SEP 1437 SEP 87.5 SEP 99.3 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 318 SEP 1361 SEP 82.8 SEP 98.8 SEP 1.1 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 8 SEP 1303 SEP 100 SEP 98.4 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 4 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.00026 SEP 0.001 SEP 110 SEP 150 SEP 1115 SEP 85.6 SEP 98.6 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 318 SEP 1015 SEP 79.9 SEP 98.6 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.2 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.786 SEP 3 SEP 110 SEP 8 SEP 1077 SEP 100 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.4 tb SEP 8 SEP 1604 SEP 100 SEP 97.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 1 SEP 0.5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 110 SEP 150 SEP 1295 SEP 80.7 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.5 tb SEP 318 SEP 1045 SEP 65.1 SEP 97.9 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.8 tb SEP 2 SEP 0.5 SEP 1.31 SEP 5 SEP 110 SEP 8 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 63.2 SEP 14.0 SEP 22.8 tb SEP 3 SEP 0.5 SEP 2.62 SEP 10 SEP 110 SEP 8 SEP 88 SEP 100 SEP 6.07 SEP 15.9 SEP 23.4 tb Comparative Example 4 A 100 milliliter egg plant type flask was filled with 9.5 g of ferrous chloride. Then, 40 ml of an aqueous solution containing 2.1 by weight of palladium chloride and 0.84 by weight of hydrochloric acid was added, and the mixture was concentrated to dryness at a temperature of about 50 C under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator to obtain a solid. The resulting solid was placed in a Pyrex glass tube with an inside diameter of 20 mm which was set in a tubular electric oven to subject it to reducing treatment at a temperature of 2000C for 2 hours in a hydrogen stream. Thus, there resulted a solid catalyst composed of ferrous chloride and 5 by weight of Pd calculated as metal deposited thereon. The procedure of Example 1 was followed using 2 ml of said catalyst. Though the reaction was continued over 8 hours, the space time yield of dimethyl oxalate was 6 g liter hr. Example 6 A catalyst composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 3 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.0262 by weight of iron deposited thereon was produced in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst except that the amount of ferric chloride hexahydrate was changed to 0.130 g and spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 3 mm were used in place of spherical alumina particles with the particle diameter of 5 mm. The procedure of Example 1 was followed using 2 ml of said catalyst. The results are shown in Table 2.Comparative Example 5 A catalyst composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 3 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium was produced in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst except that ferric chloride hexahydrate was not added and spherical aalumina particles with a particle diameter of 3 mm were used instead of spherical a alumina particles with the diameter of 5 mm. The procedure of Example 1 was followed except using 2 ml of the above catalyst. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2 EMI19.1 SEP Catalyst SEP Reaction SEP Reaction SEP Space SEP time SEP Ratio SEP of SEP Selectivity tb SEP Pd SEP Fe SEP Fe Pd SEP temperature SEP time SEP yield SEP of SEP space SEP time SEP based SEP on SEP CO SEP tb SEP wt. SEP wt. SEP atomic SEP elapsed SEP dimethyl SEP yield SEP of SEP Dimethyl SEP Dimethyl SEP CO2 tb SEP ratio SEP C SEP hr SEP oxalate SEP dimethyl SEP oxalate SEP carbonate tb SEP g litter hr SEP oxalate tb SEP 126 SEP 1606 SEP 100 SEP 97.9 SEP 1.4 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 6 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.0262 SEP 0.1 SEP 110 SEP 342 SEP 1623 SEP 101.1 SEP 98.3 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.7 tb SEP 630 SEP 1587 SEP 98.8 SEP 98.4 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.6 tb SEP 54 SEP 1595 SEP 100 SEP 98.8 SEP 1.1 SEP 0.1 tb SEP 5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 110 SEP 342 SEP 1331 SEP 83.4 SEP 98.9 SEP 1.1 SEP 0 tb SEP 678 SEP 1004 SEP 62.9 SEP 99.1 SEP 0.9 SEP 0 tb Said ratio is as defined above. Example 7 A stainless steel reaction tube having an inside diameter of 43 mm and a height of 210 cm was filled with 2.7 liters of a catalyst prepared in accordance with saidPreparation Example of Solid Catalyst and composed of spherical a alumina particles with a particle diameter of 5 mm and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.13 by weight of iron calculated as metals Fe Pd atomic ratio 0.5 deposited thereon. A starting gaseous mixture comprising 10 by volume of methyl nitrite, 20 by volume of carbon monoxide, 3 by volume of nitrogen monoxide, 5 by volume of methanol and 57 by volume of nitrogen was passed through the catalyst layer at a flow rate of 3,000 liters hr S.T.P. .The continuous reaction was conducted at a reaction temperature of 1000 C and a reaction pressure of 3 kg cm2G. As a result, the space time yield of dimethyl oxalate was 490 g liter.hr after 100 hours from the initiation of the reaction and 320 g liter.hr after 2,000 hours from the initiation of the reaction.Example 8 The procedure of Example 1 was followed except that a gaseous mixture comprising 5 by volume of ethyl nitrite, 20 X by volume of carbon monoxide and 75 by volume of nitrogen was used and SV space velosity S.T.P. was set at 5,000 her 1. In consequence, the space time yield of diethyl oxalate in the initiation of the reaction was 479 g literhr, and the ratio of the space time yield was approximately the same as that inExample 1. With respect to the selectivity based on CO in the initiation of the reaction, diethyl oxalate was 98.D 9b, diethyl carbonate was 2.0X and byproduct C02 was slight. Example 9 A spherical solid catalyst Pe Pd atomic ratio 1 composed of a alumina and 0.5 by weight of palladium and 0.262 by weight of iron calculated as metals deposited thereon was produced in accordance with said Preparation Example of Solid Catalyst except that the reduction temperature in the hydrogen stream was changed to 700 C The procedure of Example 1 was followed except using 2 ml of the above catalyst. As a result, the space time yield of dimethyl oxalate in the initiation of the reaction was 1331 liter hr and the decrease of the space time yield was little observed even after the reaction for 1000 hours.