# Epoxy resin composition.

## Abstract
A hardenable epoxy resin composition comprising a curable epoxy resin, a hardener for the epoxy resin and a polyetherimide having the general formula Preferably X is C₃H₆ and R¹ is preferably The compositions are particularly suitable for use in fibre composite materials.

## Claims
Claims 1. A hardenable epoxy resin composition comprising a curable epoxy resin, a hardener for the epoxy resin and a polyetherimide having the general formula EMI13.1 where X is CyH2y, orEMI13.2 or Sy is a positive integer from 1 to 5 m is 0 or 1 n is a positive integer from 20 to 150 andR1 is an aromatic hydrocarbon radical having from 6 to 20 carbon atoms, or a cycloalkylene radical having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms or a divalent radical of the formulaEMI13.3 where Q is O , EMI13.4 S or CxH2x and x is a positive integer from 1 to 5. 2. A hardenable epoxy resin composition as claimed in claim 1 in which the polyetherimide has the general formulaEMI13.5 where R1 is an aromatic hydrocarbon radical having from 6 to 20 carbon atoms, or a cycloalkylene radical having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms or a divalent radical of the formulaEMI14.1 where Q is O , EMI14.2 S or CxH2x and n is a positive integer from 20 to 150. 3. A hardenable epoxy resin composition as claimed in claim 1 in which the polyetherimide has the general formula EMI14.3 where n is a positive integer from 20 to 150. 4. A composition as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2 in which the epoxy resin is a polyglycidyl ether of 4,4 diaminodiphenylmethane or a polyglycidal ether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. 5. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 in which the composition comprises 3 to 30 parts by weight of the polyetherimide per hundred parts of the epoxy resin. 6. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 in which the hardener for the epoxy resin is selected from the group comprising diaminodiphenylsulphone and dicyandiamide. 7. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 in which the amount of hardener in the composition comprises 3 to 40 parts by weight per one hundred parts of the epoxy resin. 8. A method of producing a fibre reinforced article comprises impregnating a fibrous material with a hardenable epoxy resin compositiqon as claimed in any of claims 1 to 7 and curing the composition. 9. A fibre reinforced article prepared according to the method as claimed in claim 8.

## Description
EPOXY RESIN COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to a hardenable epoxy resin composition, and in particular to a hardenable epoxy resin suitable for use in fibre reinforced articles. Cured epoxy resins generally have a relatively low impact resistance. Also, in certain circumstances, it is preferable that the epoxy resin composition has a relatively high viscosity before curing. For example, it is known that the properties of a fibre composite laminate may be improved by controlling the viscosity of the matrix material, e.g. an epoxy resin, so that a relatively high pressure can be used during the curing of the fibres in order to reduce the void volume without excessive flow of the matrix material away from the reinforcing fibres. The viscosity of the resin at the curing temperature is preferably at least about 35 Poises gcm1s1 . It is known to use inorganic materials such as silica, carbon black or metal powders to increase the viscosity of epoxy resin compositions, but these materials may have a deleterious effect on the physical properties of the cured resin e.g. increased water absorption. Increasing the viscosity of the epoxy resin also enables certain solid hardeners to be used which tend to settle out of lower viscosity resins. The applicants have found that the viscosity of an epoxy resin composition may be increased by the inclusion in the composition of a polyetherimide and that such compositions when cured may have an improved impact resistance. Thus according to the present invention a hardenable epoxy resin composition comprises a curable epoxy resin, a hardener for the epoxy resin and a polyetherimide having the general formula EMI2.1 where X is CyE2y, orEMI2.2 or S y is a positive integer from 1 to 5 m is O or 1 n is a positive integer from 20 to 150 andR1 is an aromatic hydrocarbon radical having from 6 to 20 carbon atoms, or a cycloalkylene radical having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms or a divalent radical of the formula where Q isEMI2.3 and x is a positive integer from 1 to 5.Preferably X is C3H6 and R1 is preferablyEMI2.4 The polyetherimides suitable for use in the present invention are preferably substantially linear and are preferably soluble in organic solvents such as for example dichloromethane. Polyetherimides having the above general formula are known. For example British Patent No. 1463300 in the name of General ElectricCompany describes such polyetherimides and a method of preparing them which method comprises reacting an aromatic bis etheranhydride of the formula EMI3.1 and an organic diamine of the formula H2N R1 NH2 where X, m and R1 are as defined above. The aromatic bis etheranhydride and aromatic diamine may be reacted at ambient temperature in the presence of a dipolar aprotic organic solvent to produce a polyamide acid. Heating the polyamide acid at elevated temperatures converts it to the polyimide.Alternatively the aromatic bis etheranhydride and aromatic diamine may be reacted at elevated temperature in the presence of an organic solvent. Water of reaction is removed to facilitate polyetherimide formation. Preferably the polyetherimides for use in the present invention are prepared by the elevated temperature method which produces polyetherimides which are generally soluble in organic solvents and are relatively compatible with epoxy resins i.e. the polyetherimide and epoxy resin do not form two distinct phases. The polyetherimides produced by the ambient temperature method have been found to be generally insoluble in organic solvents. However, polyetherimides produced by the ambient temperature method may be used in the present invention provided they are sufficiently compatible with the epoxy resin. Whichever method of preparation is used, the polyetherimides comprise essentially the chemically combined units defined above. The ends of the polymeric chains comprise groups derived from the reactants i.e. the bis etheranhydride and or the organic diamine. A particularly suitable polyetherimide for use in the present invention is a commercially available compound sold by GeneralElectric under the trade name Ultem, having the formula EMI4.1 The amount of polyetherimide in the composition is preferably from 3 to 30 and more preferably 5 to 25 parts by weight per hundred parts of the epoxy resin. Preferably sufficient polyetherimide is added to increase the viscosity of the epoxy resin to at least 35 Poises. Epoxy resins, i.e. substances containing on average more than one 1,2 epoxide group per molecule are known and include polyglycidyl esters and ethers. Particularly suitable epoxy resins include polyglycidal ethers of 4,4 diaminodiphenyl methane and polyglycidal ethers of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. Preferably the epoxide content of the resins is from 3.5 to 5.9 equivalents per kilogram. Suitable hardeners for epoxy resins are also known and include organic polyamines containing at least two amino hydrogen compounds such as for example diaminodiphenylsuiphone and dicyandiamide. The amount of hardener used in the composition is preferably from 3 to 40 parts per hundred parts of the epoxy resin by weight. A cure accelerator may be included in the composition. Suitable cure accelerators are known and a suitable accelerator for diaminodiphenylsulphone is a boron trifluoride monoethyl amine complex.Preferably the amount of cure accelerator included in the composition is from 0.5 to 5 parts per hundred parts of epoxy resin by weight. The compositions may be dissolved in a suitable solvent, such as, for example, methylene chloride, methyl ethyl ketone, chloroform or acetone. The amount of solvent in the composition is preferably from 30 to 300 parts per hundred parts of epoxy resin by weight, more preferably 75 to 150 parts. Although the components of the composition may be mixed together in the absence of a solvent, the use of a suitable solvent facilitates the preparation of a composition according to the present invention and also helps to ensure satisfactory impregnation of the fibres when the composition is used as a matrix for fibre reinforced articles.The solvent is preferably removed before curing the composition e.g.by heating to a temperature below the activation temperature of the hardener at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. Compositions of the present invention may be cured by heating to a temperature of from 110 to 1300C for 1 to 6 hours followed by up to 7 hours at 1800C. The invention includes a method of producing fibre reinforced articles which comprises impregnating a fibrous material with a hardenable epoxy resin composition, as described above, and curing the epoxy resin component. The curing may be carried out at a pressure above atmospheric pressure in order to reduce the void volume of the cured fibre reinforced article. Typically the curing pressure may be up to 1000 psi 6.9 x 106 Nix2 . The invention also includes fibre reinforced articles produced by the method. The invention is illustrated by reference to the following examples.Examples 1 to 3 Three epoxy resin compositions were prepared containing different amounts of a polyetherimide sold by General Electric under the trade name ULTEM comprising the following chemically combined units,EMI5.1 The compositions were prepared by dissolving the polyetherimide in 200 cm3 of methylene chloride and then adding to this solution 200g of tetraglycidyl 4,4 diaminodiphenyl methane epoxy resin, sold byCiba Geigy under the trade name CIBA MY720 CIBA is a Registered TradeMark . The solution was then heated to 1250C and degassed under reduced pressure to remove the methylene chloride solvent. The viscosity of each of the three epoxy resin compositions containing the polyetherimide was measured at 1000C and 1250C using anICI cone and plate viscometer. The viscosity at the same temperatures of a comparative composition prepared as described above except that the polyetherimide was omitted was also measured. The results given in Table 1 show that the inclusion of the polymer increases the viscosity of each of the compositions compared with the comparative composition. The compositions of Examples 2 and 3 have viscosities of greater than 40 poises at 125 C. Table 1 Effect of Polyetherimide on the Viscosity of an Epoxy Resin CompositionEMI6.1 tb SEP Polyetherimide SEP Viscosity SEP Poises tb SEP Example SEP Content tb SEP pph SEP based SEP on SEP wt SEP 100OC SEP 1250C tb SEP of SEP epoxy SEP resin tb SEP 1 SEP 10 SEP 37 SEP 22 tb SEP 2 SEP 15 SEP 40 SEP 40 tb SEP 3 SEP 20 SEP 40 SEP SEP 40 tb Comparative tb Composition SEP 0 SEP 2.0 SEP 0.6 tb The epoxy resin compositions containing the polyetherimide were heated to 1300C and 60g of the hardener diaminodiphenylsulphone was added. The temperature was maintained in the range 130 to 1350C for about 20 minutes until the diaminodiphenylsulphone had dissolved.The mixture was then degassed under reduced pressure. The comparative composition without the polyetherimide was treated in the same manner and all four of the hardenable epoxy resin compositions were cured by pouring the compositions into stainless steel moulds preheated to a temperature of 1400C and placing the moulds in an oven at 1300C for 3 to 4 hours followed by 7 hours at 1800C. The heat distortion temperature ASTM D1637 61 , Charpy impact resistance ASTM D256 81, Method B , flexural strength and modulus ASTM D790 M 81, Method 1 and water absorption were determined for each of the cured compositions. The water absorption was determined by measuring the increase in the weight of a sample of the cured resin after immersion in distilled water for 33 days at 800C. The results given in Table 2 show that the presence of the polyetherimide increases the impact strength and flexural strength of the composition without seriously affecting the water absorption of the resin. Table 2Effect of Polyetherimide on the Physical Properties of Cured Compositions EMI8.1 SEP Polyetherimide SEP Heat SEP Flexural SEP Flexural SEP Charpy SEP Water tb Example SEP Content SEP Distorsion SEP Strength SEP Modulus SEP Impact SEP Absorption tb pph SEP by SEP wt SEP of SEP epoxy SEP resin SEP Temperature SEP Resistance SEP wt SEP increase tb C SEP MN mê SEP GN mê SEP KJ mê tb 1 SEP 10 SEP 200 SEP 102 SEP 3.6 SEP 5.5 SEP 4.7 tb 2 SEP 15 SEP 187 SEP 109 SEP 3.9 SEP 6.5 SEP 5.6 tb 3 SEP 20 SEP 161 SEP 79 SEP 3.5 SEP 6.4 SEP 4.2 tb Comparative tb Composition SEP 0 SEP 215 SEP 47 SEP 3.5 SEP 1.7 SEP 4.4 tb Example 4 An epoxy resin composition was prepared containing 20 parts of polyetherimide per hundred parts of the epoxy resin by weight. The epoxy resin used was a polyglycidal ether of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane sold by Shell under the trade name EPIKOTE 828 EPIKOTE is a trade mark . The polyetherimide was the same as used in Examples 1 to 3. The composition was prepared by the same method as used inExamples 1 to 3 and cured with the same hardener. However in addition to the diaminodiphenylsulphone 3 parts by weight of a cure accelerator were used per one hundred parts of epoxy resin. The cure accelerator used was a boron trifluoride monoethyl amine complex sold by ShellChemical Company under the trade name Shell BF3 SHELL is a registered trade mark . The epoxy resin polyetherimide blend had a viscosity substantially greater than the epoxy resin without the polyetherimide. The properties of the cured resin are given in Table 3 along with the properties of a comparative composition which comprised the same epoxy resin but without the polyetherimide. The results show that the presence of the polyetherimide increases the Charpy impact resistance without increasing the water absorption of the cured composition as compared with the comparative composition. The flexural strength of the cured epoxy resin composition of Example 4 was also greater than that of the comparative composition. Table 3 EMI10.1 Example SEP Polyetherimide SEP Heat SEP Flexural SEP Flexural SEP Charpy SEP Water tb Content SEP Distortion SEP Strength SEP Modulus SEP Impact SEP Absorption tb pph SEP by SEP wt SEP of SEP Temperature SEP Resistance SEP wt tb epoxy SEP resin SEP C SEP MPa SEP GPa SEP KJ mê SEP increase tb 4 SEP 20 SEP 162 SEP 139 SEP 3.5 SEP 25.3 SEP 5.5 tb Comparative tb Composition SEP 0 SEP 210 SEP 124 SEP 3.4 SEP 12.3 SEP 5.5 tb Example 5 12g of dicyandiamide were dispersed in 50 cm3 of dichloromethane by high shear mixing. The dispersion was added to and mixed with a blend of 200g of epoxy resin and 30g of polyetherimide. The polyetherimide and epoxy resin were the same as used in Examples 1 to 3.The mixture was heated to 115 C to remove the solvent, degassed under reduced pressure and then poured into a stainless steel mould.The composition was cured by heating the mould at 1150C for 2 hours, followed by 1300C for 4 hours and finally 1800C for 7 hours. The curing was carried out at atmospheric pressure. The cured resin had the following properties heat distortion temperature ASTM D1637 61 222 C EMI11.1 tb flexural SEP strength SEP ASTM SEP D790 SEP M 81, SEP Method SEP 1 SEP 89 SEP MN m2 tb flexural SEP modulus SEP 4.2 SEP GN m2 tb Charpy impact resistance ASTM D256 81 Method B 17.4 KJ m2 Dicyandiamide is a known hardener for epoxy resins but it is suitable only for relatively viscous resins because it tends to settle out of less viscous resins. As it settles out the dicyandiamide concentration increases at the bottom of the mould which can cause undesirable exotherms. The epoxy resin CIBA MY 720 was not sufficiently viscous, without the polyetherimide to allow a comparison to be made between the epoxy resin polyetherimide blend and the epoxy resin alone. Example 6 Carbon fibre composite materials were prepared using the epoxy resin polyetherimide composition according to Example 5 and the comparative composition used in Examples 1 to 3. As explained above in Example 5 dicyandiamide is not suitable for curing the epoxy resin alone because of its relatively low viscosity . Release paper was coated with the epoxy resin binders using a standard two roll mill to give a coating weight of 40g m2. The composition according to the invention had good film forming and release properties. The resins were used to impregnate carbon fibres on a two roll impregnation machine. Sixteen sections measuring about 20 cm x 10 cm were cut from each of the prepreg sheets and the sections laid up unidirectionally. The material was then precured by heating the composition at 1400C for 20 minutes followed by curing at 1800C for one hour and then post curing at 1900C for 7 hours. The curing pressure was 600 psi 4.1 x 106 No 2 . The carbon fibre composition prepared using the epoxy resin polyetherimide blend according to the invention had an interlaminar shear strength of 111 MPa. A composite prepared after storing this resin blend for one month at 20 C had an interlaminar shear strength of 115 MPa. The interlaminar shear strength of the comparative composition was 100 MPa. The interlaminar shear strength was determined according to Ministry of Defence Specification NM 565. The shelf life of the composition according to the present invention was found to be about 1 year whereas the comparative composition had a shelf life of only about one week.