# Aromatic polyester polycarbonate and a process for the production thereof.

## Abstract
A aromatic polyester polycarbonate resin which com prises a polymer material composed of repeating units of each of the structures I, II and III

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An aromatic polyester polycarbonate resin which comprises a polymer material composed of the repeating units of each of structures 1, 11 and 111 EMI12.1 wherein X is a divalent organic radical and each divalent aromatic entity may be substituted by a hydrocarbon residue. 2. A resin according to Claim 1, wherein the molar proportion of dihydroxy diaryl residue to benzene dicarboxylic acid residue to carbonate moiety ranges from 1 0.33 0.75 0.67 0.25. 3. A resin according to Claim 2, wherein said molar proportion ranges from 1 0.33 0.49 0.67 0.51. 4. A resin according to either of Claims 2 and 3, wherein the molar ratio of terephthalic acid residue to isophthalic acid residue in the benzene dicarboxylic acid residue ranges from 9 1 to 2 8. 5. A resin according to Claim 4, wherein said molar ratio ranges from 8 2 to 3 7. 6. A resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said resin has an intrinsic viscosity ranging from 0.4 to 1.5 at 200C. 7. A resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein said resin has a glass transition point in the range of 1600 to 1900C. 8. A resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the dihydroxy diaryl residue is derived from a dihydroxy diaryl compound which is a bis hydroxyaryl alkane, a bis hydroxyaryl cycloalkane, a dihydroxy diarylether, a dihydroxy diaryl sulfide, a dihydroxydiaryl sulfoxide or a dihydroxy diaryl sulfone. 9. A resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the terephthalic acid residue is derived from a terephthaloyl chloride compound which is terephthaloyl chloride, methyl terephthaloyl chloride or 2, 5 dimethyl terephthaloyl chloride, and wherein said isophthalic acid residue is derived from an isophthaloyl chloride compound which is isophthaloyl chloride or 2 methylisophthaloyl chloride. 10. A resin according to any one of Claims 1 to 9, wherein said resin has a terminal carboxyl group content of not more than 10 equivalents g of resin. 11. A method of preparing an aromatic polyester polycarbonate resin, comprising polycondensing a combination of a terefhthaloyl chloride compound and an isophthaloyl chloride compound with a dihydroxydiaryl compound and phosgene in an aqueous alkaline reaction medium and separating the product polyester polycarbonate resin from said reaction medium. 12. A method according to Claim 11, wherein said polycondensation step is accomplished by interfacial polymerization or solution polymerization

## Description
AROMATIC POLYESTER POLYCARBONATE The present invention relates to aromatic polyester polycarbonate resins. More particularly, the present invention relates to aromatic polyester polycarbonate resins which have excellent mechanical properties, thermal stability, chemical resistance and transparency and which are suitable for the fabrication of articles by melt molding. In the preparation of prior art aromatic polyester polycarbonates, one resin which has been suggested is a copolymer which is produced by the reaction of 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane bis phenol A with terephthaloyl chloride and phosgene. The copolymer has a bis phenol A residue terephthalic acid residue carbonate moiety constituent mole ratio in the range of 2 0.81.3 1.2 0.7 and a glass transition point Tg in the range of from 170 to 1940C. Japanese Patent Laid Open Publication No. 128992 1977 .Because of its high softening point and high melt viscosity, however, the polyester polycarbonate product has not proved to have satisfactory moldability characteristics. When it is to be injection molded into a shaped article, for example, it must be molded at high temperature, metal die temperature and injection pressure. The use of high temperatures has the disadvantage that thermal deterioration of the resin occurs. Moreover, the use of high injection pressure is disadvantageous because it distorts the shaped product. Still further, the use of elevated temperature and pressure increases the cost of preparation. Under these circumstances, a need has long been felt for polyester polycarbonates of improved moldability. According to the invention there is provided an aromatic polyester polycarbonate resin composed by repeating units of the structures I, II and III as follows EMI2.1 wherein X is a divalent organic radical and each divalent aromatic entity in each of the structures 1,11 and ill may be substituted by a hydrocarbon residue. The resin product of the invention can have an intrinsic viscosity at 20 C of 0.4 to 1.5 and a glass transition point ranging from 1600 to 1900C. Thus an aromatic polyester polycarbonate of improved moldability, produced by reacting a combination of a terephthaloyl chloride compound and a specific proportion of an isophthaloyl chloride compound with bis phenol A and phosgene possesses a low melting point and low melt viscosity and exhibits substantially improved moldability in comparison to an aromatic polyesterpolycarbonate produced by reacting a single terephthaloyl chloride with bis phenol A and phosgene. Moreover, the mixed isophthaloyl and terephthaloyl containing product has substantially the same mechanical, thermal stability, chemical resistance and transparency properties as the known polyester polycarbonate resins. The aromatic polyester polycarbonate of the present invention can be produced by interfacial polymerization or solution polymerization, using as the starting materials, a dihydroxy diaryl compound of the formula EMI2.2 wherein X is a divalent group such as CRR, C R , O , S , SOor S02 , and R is either a hydrogen atom or a monovalent hydrocarbon group and R is a divalent hydrocarbon group, and a mixture of a terephthaloyl chloride and an isophthaloyl chloride and phosgene. Examples of suitable dihydroxy diaryl compounds include bis hydroxy aryl alkanes such as bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane,l,l bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2bis 4 hydroxyphenyl butane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl octane, 2 ,2 bis 4 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl propane, 1, l bis 4 hydroxy 3 tert. butylphenyl propane bis hydroxyaryl cyclo alkanes such as l,l bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclo pentane and l,l bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclo hexane bis hydroxy aryl aryl alkanes such as bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phenyl methan and bis 4 hydroxyphenyl phenylethane,dihydroxy diaryl ethers such as 4, 4 dihydroxy diphenyl ether and 4, 4 dihydroxy 3, 3 dimethyldiphenyl ether dihydroxy diaryl sulfides such as 4, 4 dihydroxy diphenyl sulfide and 4, 4 dihydroxyl3, 3 dimethyldiphenyl sulfide dihydroxydiaryl sulfoxides such as 4, 4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfoxide and 4, 4 dihydroxy 3, 3 dimenthyldiphenyl sulfoxide, and dihydroxy diaryl sulfones such as 4, 4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone and 4, 4 dihydroxy 3, 3 dimethyldiphenyl sulfone. Examples of suitable terephthaloyl chloride compounds in addition to terephthaloyl chloride itself within the scope of the invention include those which contain a monovalent hydrocarbon substituent on a ring such as methyl terephthaloyl chloride and 2,5 dimethyl terephthaloyl chloride. Examples of suitable isophthaloyl chloride compounds in addition to isophthaloyl chloride itself within the scope of the invention include those which contain a halogen atom or a monovalent hydrocarbon substituent on the ring such as 2 methyl isophthaloyl chloride. In the technique of the present invention, mixtures of a terephthaloyl chloride compound and an isophthaloyl chloride compound are used in varying amounts. Hereinafter, such mixtures are referred to briefly as a mixed phthaloyl chloride. The aromatic polyester polycarbonate product of the present invention contains, as benzene dicarboxylic acid residues, both a terephthalic acid residue and an isophthalic acid residue. The mole ratio of terephthalic acid residue to isophthalic acid residue is desriably within the range of 9 1 to 2 8, preferably 8 2 to 3 7. The value of the mole ratio of the terephthalic acid residue to the isophthalic acid residue is determined by hydrolyzing the resin in boiling alkali methanol and subjecting the hydrolyzate to analysis by high speed liquid chromatography. In the preparation of the present product, when the proportion of the isophthalic acid residue in the aromatic polyester polycarbonate product is less than the indicated preferred mole ratio, the moldability of the aromatic polyester polycarbonate is generally not improved sufficiently. When the value of the ratio is greater than the preferred specified upper limit, the mechanical properties such as tensile strength, bending strength, impact strength, creep resistance, and physical properties such as solvent resitance, boiling water resistance of the aromatic polyesterpolycarbonate are generally less than normally required.Thus, the mixing ratio of the the two phthaloyl chloride compounds should be selected with suitable consideration given to the balance which is desired to be maintained between the moldability fluidity and the mechanical and physical properties of the polyester polycarbonate product synthesized. The amounts of dihydroxy diaryl compound, mixed phthaloyl chloride and phosgene employed in the reaction are generally those which provide a product having a dihydroxy diaryl compound residue benzene dicarboxylic acid residue carbonate moiety mole ratio within the range of 1 0.33 0.75 0.67 0.25, preferably 1 0.330.49 0.67 0.51. When the proportion of the benzene dicarboxylic acid residue in the product is less than the indicated mole ratio amount, usually insufficient improvement is obtained in the glass transition point of the product. When the proportion of the cabonate moiety in the product is less than the indicated mole ratio amount, the properties inherently possessed by the poly carbonate product tend to be inferior.It should be noted that the mole ratio of the various constituents of the composition can be 1 determined on the basis of the ratio of peaks, i.e., 1,740 cm for the COO group and 1,770 cm 1 for the OCOO group, found in the infrared spectrum of the product. In the case of the aromatic polyester polycarbonate of the present invention, the intrinsic viscosity which can be determined from the formula sp c 0.427 2C, should fell within the range of from 0.4 to 1.5, preferably from 0.45 to 1.1. The intrinsic viscosity is determined by placing the polyester polycarbonate product in methylene chloride at a concentration of 0.6 g dl and 0 obtaining a measurement at 20 C. If the value of g is too large, the moldability of the product is inferior. Conversely if the value is too small, the mechanical properties of the product are not sufficient. The glass transition point Tg of the aromatic polyesterpolycarbonate of the present invention is determined by scanning differential thermal anaylsis and it should be within the range of from 160 to 1900C, preferably from 170 to 1850C. Further, the aromatic polyester polycarbonate product should have a terminal carboxyl group content of not more than 10 P equivalent g of resin. The aromatic polyester polycarbonate of the present invention can be manufactured by various methods. For example, in the solution polymerization method the resin can be formed by reacting a dihydroxy diaryl compound with a mixed phthaloyl chloride in an organic solvent using pyridine or some other similar compound as an acid acceptor to produce a low molecular polyester oligomer having terminal OH groups. Thereafter, the oligomer is reacted with phosgene to induce polycondensation. In the interfacial polymerization method the resin product can be formed by first mixing, for esterification, an aqueous alkaline solution of the above dihydroxy diaryl compound with a solution of the mixed phthaloyl chloride in an organic solvent to produce a low molecular polyester oligomer having terminal OH groups.Thereafter, the oligomer is reacted with phosgene to convert the terminal OH groups into OCOC1 groups and then the oligomer in an organic solvent is reacted with a dihydroxy diaryl compound in an aqueous alkaline solution. As described above, the aromatic polyester polycarbonate of the present invention possesses a high glass transition point and a low terminal carboxyl group content of less than 10,i equivalent g of resin, and excells in a number of characteristics which include mechanical properties, thermal stability, chemical resistance and transparency. Moreover, the product exhibits notably improved moldability and low melt viscosity. For these reasons, the product of the present invention is very useful from a commercial point of view. Having generally described the invention, a more complete understanding can be obtained by reference to certain specific examples, which are included for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. The values of , Tg, the mole ratio of the constituents of the resin composition and the mole ratio of terephthaloyl chloride to isophthaloyl chloride which are indicated in the following working examples are those determined by the methods described above.For purposes of brevity, terephthaloyl chloride and isophthaloyl chloride are respectively expressed as TPC and IPC.EXAMPLE 1 A solution of 2.5 kg of TPC and 2.5 kg of IPC dissolved in 95 kg of methylene chloride, an aqueous alkaline solution of bisphenol A containing 6 kg of bis phenol A and 6 g of triethylamine dissolved in 40 litres of a 5 weight sodium hydroxide solution were prepared. Into a stainless steel tube with a 4 mm inside diameter and 20 m in length, were fed the methylene chloride solution containingTPC and IPC and the aqueous alkaline solution of bis phenol A at respective flow rates of 24.4 kg hr and 16.1 kg hr. The stainless steel tube was wound in the shape of a coil and was cooled in a water tank. Into this tube, was fed phosgene at a flow rate of 0.6 kg hr through a tube having an inside diameter of 3 miii and attached to the reactor tube at a distance of 8 m from the inlet of the stainless steel tube. When the reaction solution flowing from the outlet of the tube was placed in the receptacle, it immediately separated into two phases. After the reaction continued for about one hour, about 1 litre of the reaction solution was collected. This solution immediately separated into two phases.While a 250 ml portion of the methylene chloride phase containing the oligomer and 0.25 g of p tert butyl phenol were vigorously stirred in a l litre flask, a solution obtained by dissolving 40 g of bis phenol A in 500 g of an aqueous 3 sodium hydroxide solution and 0.05 g of the triethylamine were added thereto and the mixture was allowed to undergo polycondensation for one hour. The reaction temperature was in the range of from 26 to 30 C. The resultant reaction solution was left to stand, and upon standing, separated into two phases. Then, the methylene chloride phase containing the polymer was washed with water, washed with an acid and then washed again with water in the order mentioned. Then the washed phase was freed from methylene chloride by evaporation and dried to afford a white solid resin. This resin was found to have an intrinsic viscozity of 0.76 and a glass transition point Tg of 180 C. The constituents of the product were present in a mole ratio of bis phenol A residue to sum. of terephthalic acid residue and isophthalic acid residue benzene dicarboxylic acid residue to carbonate moiety of 1 0.58 0.42. The terephthalic acid residue isophthalic acid residue mole ratio in the product was 5 5. The resin s terminal carboxylic acid group content was 0.3 P equivalent g of resin. EXAMPLE 2 A 5 by weight solution prepared by dissolving an equivalentweight mixture of TPC and IPC in methylene chloride and an aqueous alkaline solution of bis phenol A prepared by dissolving 15 parts by weight of bis phenol A and 0.05 part of triethylamine in 100 parts of an aqueous 5 sodium hydroxide solution were fed to the same reaction tube as used in Example 1 at feed rates of 33.5 kg hr and 21.6 kg hr, respectively. Phosgene was fed into the reaction tube through the inlet disposed along the middle of the length of the tube at a feed rate of 1.08 kg hr. The reaction solution flowing from the outlet of the tube was introduced into a 10 litre settler and it continuously separated into a water phase and a methylene chloride phase. The separated methylene.chloride phase was fed to a 50litre buffled agitator first polymerization column provided with an overflow type discharge pipe and, at the same time, a solution prepared by dissolving 35 parts of bis phenol A in 600 parts of an aqueous 2.5X sodium hydroxide solution and a solution of 6Z p tertiary butyl phenol in methylene chloride were fed thereto at feed rates of 60 kg hr and 0.5 kg hr respectively to induce polycondensation. The reaction solution which flowed from the overflow tube was introduced into a second polymerization column having the same specifications as the first polymerization column, for completion of the polycondensation reaction. The reaction solution flowing from the overflow tube of the second polymerization column was transferred into a 10 litre settler, where the solution separated into a water phase and a methylene chloride phase. In the comBination of a 15litre agitation tank provided with an overflow type discharge tube and a 10 litre settler, the methylene chloride phase was washed with water, washed with hydrochloric acid and washed again with water. The weight of the washing liquid used in each washing was two times that of the methylene chloride solution. The methylene chloride phase which had undergone the last round of washing was fed into a kneader heated to 1300C by means of a steam jacket, wherein the solution was freed from methylene chloride by evaporation and flakes of a resin material were obtained.This resin was dried for 8 hours in a batch type vacuum drier operated at 1400C and a pressure of 10 Torr. The dry flakes of resin thus obtained were extruded into chips through a vent type extruder 40 mm in diameter at an extrusion temperature of 3000C. By analysis, the flakes were found to possess an intrinsic viscosityLllj of 0.63 and a glass transition point Tg of 1770C. The bis phenol A residue sum of terephthalic acid residue and isophthalic acid residue benzene dicarboxylic acid residue carbonate moiety bond molar ratio was found to be 1 0.45 0.55 and the terephthalic acid residue isophthalic acid residue molar ratio was found to be 5 5. The terminal carboxyl group content was found to be 0.8 u equivalentig of resin. When the chips were injection molded through a 3.5 ounce injection molder at a resin temperature of 3500C, an injection pressure of 80 90 kg cm2 by gauge and die temperature of 1450C and the molded product was tested on a metal die specified byASTM for the molding of test pieces used for determination of physical properties, there was obtained a molded article of high quality.EXAMPLES 3 10 Several TPC IPC mixtures of varying TPC IPC ratios shown in the following table were treated by the procedure of Example 1 to yield white resin samples. The white resins so prepared were analyzed. The results of the analysis are shown in Table 1. TABLE I EMI10.1 Example SEP No. SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 tb TPC IPC SEP molar SEP ratio SEP 9,5 0,5 SEP 9 1 SEP 8 2 SEP 7 3 SEP 6 4 SEP 3 7 SEP 2 8 SEP 1 9 tb Intrinsic SEP Viscosity SEP SEP 0,76 SEP 0,75 SEP 0,74 SEP 0,77 SEP 0,75 SEP 0,75 SEP 0,76 SEP 0,74 tb Glass SEP transmition SEP point SEP Tg SEP 184 SEP 183 SEP 181 SEP 180 SEP 178 SEP 175 SEP 174 SEP 174 tb C tb Bis phenol SEP A SEP residus SEP tb isophthalic SEP acid SEP residues SEP 1 0,57 SEP 1 0,57 SEP 1 0,55 SEP 1 0,56 SEP 1 0,58 SEP 1 0,55 SEP 1 0,55 SEP 1 0,56 tb carbonate SEP moiety SEP molr SEP ratio SEP 0,43 SEP 0,43 SEP 0,45 SEP 0,44 SEP 0,42 SEP 0,45 SEP 0,45 SEP 0,44 tb Terminal SEP Carboxyl SEP group SEP content SEP 0,4 SEP 0,3 SEP 0,4 SEP 0,2 SEP 0,2 SEP 0,2 SEP 0,3 SEP 0,2 tb SEP aquivalent g SEP of SEP resin tb Injection SEP pressure SEP at SEP 350 C SEP 110 120 SEP 90 100 SEP 80 90 SEP 80 90 SEP 80 90 SEP 80 90 SEP 75 90 SEP 70 80 tb kg cmê gauge tb COMPARATIVE EXAMPLE 1. The procedure of Example 2 was faithfully repeated, with the exception that terephthalolyl chloride alone was used in place of the TPC IPC mixture, to produce flakes of dry resin, which were subsequently converted into chips. By analysis, the chips of resin were found to have an intrinsic viscosity razz of 0.52 and a glass transition point Tg of 1840C. The bis phenol A residue terephthalic acid residue carbonate moiety molar ratio was 1 0.46 0.54. When the chips of resin were subjected to molding by the procedure of Example 2, the resin suffered from the phenomenon of short shot because of its poor flowability. For the resin to produce an article of good shape, the injection molding had to be conducted with the resin temperature elevated to 3850C and an 2 injection pressure of 100 kglcm . In this instance the shaped artilce sustained local burning because of the excessively high resin temperature. Having now fully described the invention, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many changes and modifications can be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as set forth herein.