# Instrument panel for a motor car.

## Abstract
An instrument panel for a motor car is assembled with its instruments, its own harness 22 and a heater unit 44, 46 before the panel is mounted in the car. Production of the instrument panel as a sub assembly in this way makes the final assembly into the car very much easier and also allows the function of all the instruments to be checked before the sub assembly enters the car. The heater unit may be split into two parts 44 and 46 with the lower part containing all the mechanical components of the heater and being accessable for easy service. The electrical connections between the wiring harness of the instrument panel and the wiring harness in the rest of the car can be made through a single connector plug 34.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An instrument panel for a motor car, the panel being separate from a car and comprising a panel section, instruments mounted on the panel section and a wiring harness connecting the instruments to electrical connectors mounted on the panel section, characterised by a heater unit 46 mounted on the back of the panel section 10 with air ducts 54 connected between the heater unit and air vents 12 on the panel section 10 . 2. An instrument panel as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the connectors for the wiring harness are combined in a single plug 34 or socket unit adapted to mate with a single socket or plug in the car. 3. An instrument panel as claimed in Claim 1 orClaim 2, including an electrically driven speedometer. 4. An instrument panel as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the heater unit is divided into two parts along a generally horizontal separation plane, the lower part containing all the mechanical components and the upper part containing air deflection surfaces. 5. An instrument panel as claimed in Claim 4, wherein the upper part of the heater unit is divided along a generally vertical plane into two parts 46, 48 . 6. A method of assembling in a motor car an instrument panel as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein a wiring harness, all the instruments, and a heater unit are assembled to a panel section to form a sub assembly, and the sub assembly is mounted in the motor car. 7. A method as claimed in Claim 6, including the step of checking the functions of the instruments before the sub assembly is mounted in the motor car.

## Description
INSTRUMENT PANEL FOR A WOTOR CARThis invention relates to an instrument panel for a motor car.Assembly of the instrument panel into a motor car is a time consuming step in production. Apart from the mechanical mounting of the panel into the car body, it is also necessary to connect up wiring and air ducts for the heater unit. As a result of these various connections, there is a reliability problem in mounting this component.In this specification, the term instrument will be used to refer to all items mounted on the instrument panel, i.e. the dials and gauges as well as switches and illumination lamps and other items.The present invention seeks to provide an instrument panel in which assembly is simplified.According to the present invention, there is provided an instrument panel for a motor car, the panel being separate from a car and comprising a panel section, instruments mounted on the panel section, a wiring harness connecting the instruments to electrical connectors mounted on the panel section, and a heater unit mounted on the back of the panel section with air ducts connected between the heater unit and air vents on the panel section.By assembling the instrument panel in this way, quality testing of the sub assembly is possible before final assembly into the vehicle and furthermore the final assembly is very much simplified. The wiring harness preferably terminates in the vehicle fuse box which is also mounted on the instrument panel.There may be a single, multi pin connector unit through which the instrument panel wiring will be connected to the vehicle wiring.The heater unit is preferably separated horizontalLy into two parts, with the upper part containing the distribution air channels and the lower part containing the mechanically moving components.A problem in the past which has made it necessary to fit the speedometer after the mounting of the instrument panel has been the necessity to connect up the speedometer cable. If an electrically driven speedometer is used, the necessary connections can be in the wiring harness already mentioned and thus the speedometer and associated instruments can be made part of the preassembled instrument panel.The invention also provides a method of assembling an instrument panel in a motor car, wherein a wiring harness, all the instruments, and a heater unit are assembled to a panel section to form a sub assembly, and the sub assembly is mounted in a motor car.The invention will now be further described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a rear perspective view of a panel section for an instrument panel Figure 2 shows the panel section of Figure 1 with a wiring harness fitted Figure 3 is an exploded of a heater unit and Figure 4 is a rear perspective view of a completed instrument panel.The panel section 10 shown in Figure 1 is moulded in a conventional manner from materials usually used for this purpose. Visible in this rear view are a number of air vents 12, an aperture 14 for a speedometer instrument, a glove box 16 and switch housings 18. On the top of the panel section can be seen demister slots 20.Figure 2 shows a wiring harness 22 fitted to the panel section 10, together with the various instruments which are fed with current through the harness. For example, a lead 24 leads to a lamp in the glove box 16 a lead 26 leads to a cigarette lighter 28 and leads 30 lead to accessory switches mounted either side of the speedometer 32. The harness 22 ends in a connector unit 34 which may be combined with the vehicle fuse box.Figure 3 shows the components of the heater unit. These components are a control unit 40 connected by Bowden cables 42 to a control box 44. This control box contains the heat exchange matrix and the ventilator flaps which direct the heated air according to the position of the knobs on the control unit 40.The upper part is divided into two sections 46 and 48.The upper part of each of these sections known as the fish tails are welded together in assembly along the edges 50, to provide an air channel to the demister slots 20. The upper edges 52 of these fish tails are welded to the under side of the panel section 10. The section 48 has two exit ducts 54 which are to be connected to the central air ducts 12 on the panel section 10, to provide air for the face fins. The rear section 46 is open at the top for connection to an incoming airflow and has side outlets 56 which, in the completed instrument panel, are connected by ducts 58 to the outside vents 12 in the panel section 10.The completed instrument panel is shown in Figure 4.This sub assembly can be produced off line, and the necessary function testing can also be carried out offline.When these sub assemblies are to be mounted in the vehicles, all that is required is a single air connection to the top of the heater unit 46, a single electrical connection to the plug 34 and the necessary mechanical connection. of the panel 10 to the vehicle body.The constructional details of the heater unit are of some importance. The idea of splitting the unit horizontally is thought to be new and to provide a considerable improvement over previous arrangements in that all the mechanical parts can be arranged in the lower part whilst the upper part directs the heated air as desired. Since the upper part is made in two halves, internal deflecting planes can easily be fitted between the two halves, and this also makes it possible to make the fish tails integral with the rest of the unit. Upon installation in the car, the heater box would be foam sealed to the air intake aperture in the plemum, and the water connections would be made to the engine 25 compartment as conventionally done, through the pipes 60.It is the lower part of the heater unit which is most likely to require attention once the vehicle is in use, and to facilitate this it is possible to simply unbolt the lower part from the upper part to carry out any maintenance. A further advantage of making the instrument panel as the pre assembled sub unit described is that the integration of the heater unit with the panel section 10 improves the rigidity of the whole unit which is of advantage in the assembly process.