# Antifriction bearing support.

## Abstract
An antifriction bearing support 12 disclosed includes an outer support member 50 for mounting thereof on a spindle housing 16 and an inner support member 52 for mounting an antifriction bearing 42 which rotatably supports a spindle 38 . The support also includes at least one flexible diaphragm 54 extending between the inner and outer support members to radially fix the inner sup port member and the antifriction bearing and preload the antifriction bearing axialiy with respect to the axis of spindle rotation so as to permit high speed spindle rotation. Prefer ably, a pair of the diaphragms 54 are utilized and are mounted in a spaced and parallel relationship to each other. Inner and outer round edges of the diaphragms are secur ed between axial surfaces 80, 82, 88, 90 of the support members and associated retaining ring 76, 78, 84, 86 that have soldered connections to the support members. Threading of the outer support member onto the housing flexes the diaphragms to provide the preloading of the antifriction bearing mounted by the diaphragm support. Another antifriction bearing 48 on the housing is also preloaded through the spindle by the diaphragms. A first end of the inner support member includes an opening 112 that receives the antifriction bearing 42 and a second end of the inner support member includes a heat exchanger 116 for removing heat. An oil mist lubrication system feeds an oil mist lubricant to the antifriction bearings and to the heat exchanger so as to increase the speed at which the spindle can be rotated.