# Process for preparation of substituted dihydropyridines and intermediates therefor.

## Abstract
The invention provides, a new process for preparing di hydropyridines useful in the treatment of hypertension.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. The process of preparing 1,4 dihydro 4 aryl 2,6 disubstituted l 2 substituted 3,5 pyridinedicarboxylate esters of the formulaEMI13.1 wherein Ar is heteroaryl, cycloalkyl having from 3 to 7 carbon atoms, naphthyl, indanyl, indenyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, or a radical of the formulaEMI13.2 wherein each of R5, R6 and R7 is independently H, alkyl, aryl, halo, lower alkoxy, nitro, amino, alkylmercapto, cyano, carboxy, carbalkoxy, sulfamyl, trifluoromethyl, hydroxy, acyloxy, methanesulfonyl, alkylamino or acylamino and R5 andR6 when taken together, form a methylenedioxy Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms in the principal chain each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxyalkyl each R2 is independently lower alkyl R3 is hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkoxyalkyl and R4 is H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkoxy alkyl wherein the alkyl, alkoxy and acyl groups contain up to 10 carbon atoms and wherein R3 and R4 when taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring which may be unsubstituted or substituted by hydrogen or alkyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, dihydropyrazinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, purinyl, perhydroquinolyl, perhydroisoquinolyl, carbazolyl, carbolinyl B , phenothiazinyl, phenoxozinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrrolidonyl, pyrazolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolyl, piperazinyl, o. and p. isoxazinyl, azepinyl, diazepinyl and morpholinyl which comprises condensing by water elimination a compound of the formulaEMI14.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI14.2 wherein Ar, Z, R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are as hereinabove defined, and optionally forming the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the products I . 2. The process of preparing 1,4 ihydro 4 aryl 2,6 disubstitutea 1 2 morpholinoalkyl 3,5 pyridinedicar boxylate esters of the formulaEMI15.1 wherein Ar is heteroaryl, cycloalkyl having from 3 to 7 carbon atoms, naphthyl, indnyl, indenyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, or a radical of the formulaEMI15.2 wherein each of R5, R6 and R7 is independently H, alkyl, aryl, halo, lower alkoxy, nitro, amino, alkylmercapto, cyano, carboxy, carbalkoxy, sulfamyl, trifluoromethyl, hydroxy, acyloxy, methanesulfonyl, alkylamino or acylamino and R5 andR6, when taken together, form a methylenedioxy Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms in the principal chain each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxyalkyl, with the proviso that only one R1 may be hydrogen each R2 is independently lower alkyl and R8 and R9 are each H or lower alkyl which comprises condensing by water elimination a 2 arylidine acetoacetic ester of the formulaEMI15.3 with a 3 aminocrotonic acid ester of the formulaEMI16.1 wherein Ar, Z, R1, R2, R5, R6, R7, R8 and R9 are as hereinabove defined, and optionally forming the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the products. 3. The process of Claim 2 wherein the condensation is conducted in an inert organic solvent under reflux conditions. 4. The process of Claim 2 wherein the condensation is conducted in the presence of pyridine hydrochloride and molecular sieve in an inert organic solvent at a temperature of from about 800C. to about 200 C. 5. The process of Claim 3 wherein said solvent forms an azeotrope with water. 6. The process of Claim 2 wherein Ar is o trifluoromethylphenyl, R1 is ethyl, R2 is methyl, Z is ethylene and R8 and Rg are each hydrogen. 7. The process of Claim 2 wherein Ar is o nitrophenyl, R1 is ethyl, R2 is methyl, Z is ethylene and R8 and Rg are each hydrogen. 8. A compound of the formulaEMI16.2 wherein Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms in the principal chain R1 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxyalkyl R2 is lower alkyl R3 is hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl or alkoxyalkyl and R4 is H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkoxyalkyl wherein the alkyl and alkoxy groups contain up to 10 carbon atoms and wherein R3 and R4 when taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring which may be substituted by hydrogen or alkyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, dihydropyrazinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, purinyl, perhydro quinolyl, perhydroisoquinolyl, carbazolyl, carbolinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxoz inyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrrolindonyl, pyrazolinyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolyl, piperazinyl, o. and p. isoxazinyl, azepinyl, diazepinyl and morpholinyl. 9. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R1 is ethyl, R2 is methyl, Z is ethylene and R3 and R4 are each hydroxyethyl. 10. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each hydroxyalkyl. 11. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each hydroxyethyl. 12. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each aminoalkyl. 13. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each aminoethyl. 14. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each alkoxyalkyl. 15. A compound according to Claim 8 wherein R3 andR4 are each alkoxyethyl. 16. Compounds having the formulaEMI17.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxyalkyl, R2 is lower alkyl, and Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms. 17. The compound of Claim 16 wherein R1 is ethyl,R2 is methyl and Z is ethylene.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARATION OF SUBSTITUTED DIHYDROPYRIDINES AND INTER1EDIATES THEREFOR This invention relates to a new and useful process for preparing valuable, therapeutic dihydropyridines and intermediates useful in the preparation thereof. In U.S. Patent 4,258,042, there is described a new class of substituted dihydropyridines which are particularly effective as anti hypertensive agents. These compounds areN morpholinoalkyl dihydropyridines of the formula EMI1.1 wherein Ar is heteroaryl, cycloalkyl having from 3 to 7 carbon atoms, naphthyl, indanyl, indenyl, tetrahydronaphthyl or a radical of formula EMI1.2 wherein each of R5, R6 and R7 is independently H, alkyl, aryl, halo, lower alkoxy, nitro, amino, alkylmercapto, cyano, carboxy, carbalkoxy, sulfamyl, trifluoromethyl, hydroxy, acyloxy, methanesulfonyl, alkylamino or acylamino and R5 andR6 when taken together form a methylenedioxy Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms in the principal chain and each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxyalkyl, with the proviso that only one R may be hydrogen each R2 is independently lower alkyl R3 and R4 are independently hydrogen or lower alkyl and non toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof. A procedure is described in the said patent for preparation of the aforesaid compounds in accordance with the following EMI2.1 Thus, a haloalkylmorpholine of formula C is reacted with a dihydropyridine of formula B, in the presence of sodium hydride for example and the desired product of formula A obtained. However, large excesses of sodium hydride are employed and this poses considerable difficulty in handling in commercial production. In addition, the haloalkylmorpholines, e.g. N 2 chloroethyl morpholine, are not stable and cyclize on standing, necessitating storage in the form of the hydrochloride salt from which the free base must be produced by neutralization with base when required for reaction.Thus, the use of this procedure for commercial production of the desired therapeutic compounds is costly and time consuming in view of the extra precautions and the base neutralization required. Also described in the said patent is a condensation reaction of N aminoalkylmorpholine, an arylaldehyde and acetoacetic acid ester but the yields of this condensation reaction are quite low which renders this process economically unattractive for commercial production. E. Wehinger et al. The 182nd A.C.S. National Meeting, New York, N.Y. August 1981 Med. Chem. 64 described a process of synthesizing dihydropyridines of the formula EMI3.1 by reaction of a 2 benzylidene acetoacetate EMI3.2 with an optically active 3 aminocrotonic acid esterEMI4.1 The present invention relates to the process of preparing l,4 dihydro 4 aryl 2, 6 disubstituted 1 substituted 3,5 pyridinedicarboxylate esters of the formulaEMI4.2 wherein Ar is heteroaryl, cycloalkyl having from 3 to 7 carbon atoms, naphthyl, indanyl, indenyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, or a radical of the formulaEMI4.3 wherein each of R5, R6 and R7 is independently H, alkyl, aryl, halo, lower alkoxy, nitro, amino, alkylmercapto, cyano, carboxy, carbalkoxy, sulfamyl, trifluoromethyl, hydroxy, acyloxy, methanesulfonyl, alkylamino or acylamino and R5 andR6 when taken together, form a methylenedioxy Z is alkylene containing 1 to about 5 carbon atoms in the principal chain each R1 is independently hydrogen, alkyl or alkoxyalkyl each R2 is independently lower alkyl R3 is hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkoxyalkyl and R4 is H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, hydroxyalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkoxyalkyl wherein the alkyl, alkoxy and acyl groups contain up to 10 carbon atoms and wherein R3 and R4 when taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring which may be unsubstituted or substituted by hydrogen or alkyl selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, dihydropyrazinyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, purinyl, perhydroquinolyl, perhydroisoquinolyl, carbaxolyl, carbolinyl B , phenothiazinyl, phenoxozinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, pyrrolidonyl, pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolyl, piperazinyl, o. and p. isoxazinyl, azepinyl, diazepinyl and morpholinyl which comprises condensing by water elimination a compound of theEMI5.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI6.1 wherein Ar, Z, R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 are as hereinabove defined, and optionally forming the non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the products I . The invention is particularly effective for the production of N morpholinoalkyldihydropyridines of the formula EMI6.2 wherein Ar, R1, R2 and Z are as previously described and R8 and Rg are each H or lower alkyl, which compounds are of particularly high efficacy in the treatment of hypertension. The intermediate compounds of structure II are known compounds and preparable by art recognized procedures. .The intermediate compounds of structure III however, are new compounds which are preparable by reacting an alkyl ester of a trans 3 aminocrotonic acid of the formula EMI7.1 with an aminoalkyl substituted amine of the formulaEMI7.2 usually in an inert organic solvent at temperatures of from about 800C to about 2000C. The reactants can be heated without solvent present to obtain the desired product. The reaction time is usually from about 0.5 to about several hours depending on the selected reaction temperature, the higher the temperature the shorter the reaction time required for representative yields. The end product of this reaction, i.e. the product of formula III, can be used without purification for the condensation with the formula II intermediates.Alternatively, if desired, the said end product can be purified by standard methods prior to the condensation reaction. The preferred compounds of structure III are those in which NR3R4 is N morpholino , Z is ethyl, R8 and Rg are each H, R2 is methyl and R1 is ethyl or methyl. In addition, preferred compounds include those in which R3 and R4 are each hydroxyalkyl, especially hydroxyethyl aminoalkl, especially aminoethyl or alkoxyalkyl, especially alkoxyethyl. The condensation reaction between formula II andIII intermediates to form the compounds of formula I is a dehydrating condensation, i.e. it involves splitting out water from the intermediates with the formation of the desired dihydropyridine ring characteristic of the formula I compounds but only when the trans configuration of structureIII compounds is used. The dehydration can be effected using known dehydrating agents such as silica, preferably in the form of a sieve, e.g. molecular sieve, and is catalyzed by slightly acidic conditions. The slightly acidic condition can be effected employing amine hydrohalide salts, e.g. pyridine hydrochloride, diethylaniline hydrochloride, triethylamine hydrochloride, N methyl piperidine hydrochloride, and similar amine sulfonate salts. Dehydration can also be effected in the presence of reaction solvents which form azeotropes with water, such as toluene, and the water can be removed from the reaction mixture by refluxing and trapping the condensed water using, for example, a Dean Stark apparatus. The dehydration may also be accomplished by absorption of water as formed by anhydrous salts which form thermally stable hydrates. The reaction mixture, including a solvent, is normally heated at elevated temperature for a time sufficient to accomplish significant dehydration. The time of reaction of course is dependent on the selected reaction temperatures.Usually temperatures above about 100 C are employed, since the use of such temperatures permits reasonable reaction times which can range from 2 hours to 24 hours. It is normally convenient to conduct the reaction at the reflux temperature of the reaction mixture. Solvents to be employed in the aforesaid reactions include, for example, tertiary amines, such as pyridine,N methylpyrrolidine and N methyl piperidine, aromatic hydrocarbon solvents such as benzene, toluene and xylene, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylacetamide, acetic acid and lower alkanols such as ethanol and methanol. Of course, mixtures of solvents can be used. The following examples further illustrate the invention. EXAMPLE I N 2 morpholinoethyl 4 2 trifluoromethl henvl 2,6 dimethyl 3,5 dicarbethoxy 1,4 dihydropyridineA. Ethyl 2 o trifluoromethylbenzylidene Acetoacetic esterA mixture of o trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde 8.7 g , ethylacetoacetate 6.5 g , piperidine 0.2 ml , and acetic acid 0.6 ml in 100 ml of toluene was heated to reflux while the water formed was removed by Dean stark apparatus.Reaction was continued overnight. Evaporation of solvent gave 12 g of oily product. This was used for the next reaction without purification.B. Ethyl 3 N morpholinoethylamino crotonateA mixture of ethyl trans 3 aminocrotonate 3 g and N 2aminoethyl morpholine 3 g was heated at 1400C for 2 hours.The reaction product was used without further purification.C. N 2 morpholinoethyl 4 2 trifluoromethylDhenyl 2,6 dimethyl 3,5 dicarbethoxy 1,4 dihydropyridineA mixture of paragraph A product 247 mg paragraph B product 242 mg , pyridine hydrochloride 8 mg , and silica molecular sieve 3 g in 20 ml of pyridine was heated at 1400 for 19 hours. After evaporation of pyridine, the residue was extracted with ether. The organic solution was washed with water, 1 N sodium hydroxide solution, dried and concentrated.Purification by dry column gave 110 mg 20 of product. EXS1PLE II A methyl 2 o nitrobenzylidene 3 oxobutanoate A solution of o nitrobenzaldehyde 15.1 g, 0.10 mole 1, methyl acetoacetate 13.9 g, 0.12 mole , piperdine 0.2 ml and acetic acid 0.6 ml in toluene 100 ml was heated to reflux with reproval of water by means of a Dean Stark strap overnight. The solvent was concentrated in vacuo and water was added to the residue.The product was extracted several times into methylene chloride, washed three times with water, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered, and evaporated to give the product as an oil. The product was crystallized from n hexane to afford pale yellow crystals, M.P. 73 76 . B Ethyl 3 N 2 N morpholino ethylj aminocrotonate A mixture of methyl 3 aminocrotonate 3 g andN 2 aminoethyl morpholine 3 g was heated to 1400 for four hours and then cooled to room temperature. The product was dissolved in methylene chloride, washed twice with water, dried over magnesium sulfate, filtered and evaporated to give the desired product as an oil which was used without further purification. C Dimethyl l,4 dihydro 2,6 dimethyl l 2 4 morpholinyl ethyla 4 2 nitro phenyl 3,5 pyridinedicarboxylate A mixture of methyl 2 o nitrobenzylidene 3oxobutoate 200 mg, 0.803 mmole , ethyl 3 N 2 Nmorphalino ethyl aminocrotonate 200 mg, 0.877 mmole, pyridine hydrochloride 8 mg , pyridine 25 ml , and pulverized molecular sieves 3 g was heated to reflux for six hours. The reaction was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a dark residue which was chromatographed over silica gel using chloroform aceton. a eluent. The desired fractions ere combined and concentrated.The product crystallized as pale yellow crystals 125 mg, 34 upon standing under ether n he ane, M.P. 161 163 . Using the procedure of Example 2, paragraph B, the following crotonates are prepared from corresponding starting materials Ethyl 3 N methyl N piperasinoethylamino crotonateEthyl 3 bis methyoxyethyl aminoethylamino crotonate Ethyl 3 bis hydroxyethyl aminoethylamino crotonateEthyl 3 4 pyridine ethylamino crotonate and then reacted with the following acetoacetates to form corresponding dihydropyridines Ethyl 2 o nitrobenzylidene acetoacetateEthyl 2 2 ,3 dichlorobenzylidene acetoacetaneEthyl 2 o trifluoromethylbenzylidene acetoacetate Using the foregoing crotonate and acetoacetate intermediates, the following dihydropyridines are produced N N methylpiperazinoethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 2,6 dimethyl3,5 dicarbethoxy 1,4 dihydropyridineN bis hydroxyethyl aminoethyl 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl 2,6 dimehtyl 3,5 dicarbethoxy 1,4 dihydropyridine N 4 pyridine ethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 2,6 dimethyl 3,5dicarbethoxy 1,4 dihyropyridine