# Scintillation camera apparatus.

## Abstract
In a scintillation camera apparatus, weight of the detector 14 composed by the scintillator, the photomultiplier tube and so on is generally relatively heavy. To support such a heavy de tector 14 , it is usually necessary to employ a heavy counter weight 16 or a long support arm so as to maintain balance condition between the detector 14 and the counterweight 16 , resulting in a bulky and heavy scintillation camera appara tus. To avoid such problems, the scintillation camera appara tus 100 introduces two sets of parallel link mechanisms 122A, 124 122B, 129 and a light weight 130 under predeter mined ballancing conditions.

## Claims
Claims 1. A scintillation camera apparatus 100 characterized in that it comprises support means 2 which is fixed on a plane of a floor and extends in a first plane perpendicular to the floor plane rotation means 9 which has a rotation center CM in the first plane and is rotatably secured to the support means 2 in the first plane first parallel link means 122A, 124 which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 , and is pivotable in a first pivot direction in a second plane perpendicular to the first plane as well as perpendicular to the floor plane first connection means 127 one end of which is pivotally journaled to the first parallel link means 122A, 124 and the other end of which is pivotally journaled to a scintillation camera means 14 second parallel link means 122B, 129 which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 , and is pivotable in the second plane in a second pivot direction opposite to the first pivot direction and second connection means 131 one end of which is pivotally journaled to the second parallel link means 122B, 129 and the other end of which is rigidly connected to counterweight means 130 . 2. A scintillation camera apparatus 100 as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that said rotation means is a circular ring member 9 which is pivotally journaled to said support means 2 through a plurality of rollers 5, 8, 10, 11 said first parallel link means is constructed by a first half beam portion 122A of a first beam 122 and a second beam 124 , a working length a of which is identical to said first half beam portion 122A , said first half beam portion 122A being pivotally journaled via a first beam rotation shaft 121 to said rotation beams 9 said second parallel link means is constructed by a second half beam portion 122B of said first beam 122 and a third beam 129 , a working length a of which is identical to that of said second half beam portion 122B , said third beam 129 being pivotally journaled via a third beam rotation shaft 128 to said rotation means 9 , and a length b between said first beam rotation shaft 121 and said rotation center CM of said rotation means 9 being identical to that between said third beam rotation shaft 128 and said rotation center CM and weight of said counterweight 130 is identical to that of said scintillation camera means 14 . 3. A scintillation camera apparatus characterized in that it comprises support means 2 which is fixed on a plane of a floor and extends in a first plane perpendicular to the floor plane rotation means 9 which has a rotation center CM in the first plane and is rotatably secured to the support means 2 in the first plane first parallel link means 222, 124 which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 and is pivotable in a first pivot direction in a second plane perpendicular to the first plane as well as perpendicular to the floor plane first connection means 127 one end of which is pivotally journaled to the first link means 222, 124 and the other end of which is pivotally journaled to a scintillation camera means 14 second parallel link means 222, 140 which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 and is pivotable in the second plane in a second pivot direction opposite to the first pivot direction, couterweight means 130 being secured to the second parallel link means 222, 140 and second connection means 131 one end of which is pivotally journaled to the first parallel link means 222, 124 and the other end of which is pivotally journaled to the second parallel link means 222, 140 . 4. A scintillation camera apparatus 100 as claimed in Claim 3, characterized in that said rotation means is a circular ring member 9 which is pivotally journaled to said support means 2 through a plurality of rollers 5, 8, 10, 11 said first parallel link means is constructed by a first beam 222 and a second beam 124 , a working length a of which is identical to said first beam 222 , said first beam 222 being pivotally journaled via a first beam rotation shaft 121 to said rotation beam 9 said second parallel link means is constructed by said first beam 222 and a third beam 140 a working length a of which is identical to that of said first beam 222 , said third beam 140 being pivotally journaled via a third beam rotation shaft 128 to said rotation means 9 , and a length b between said first beam rotation shaft 121 and said rotation center CM of said rotation means 9 being identical to that between said third beam rotation shaft 128 and said rotation center CM and weight of said counterweight 130 is identical to that of said scintillation camera means 14 . 5. A scintillation camera apparatus 100 characterized in that it comprises support means 2 which is fixed on a plane of a floor and extends in a first plane perpendicular to the floor plane rotation means which has a rotation center CM , and a circular ring member 9 which is pivotally journaled to the support means 2 through a plurality of rollers 5, 8, 10, 11 first parallel link means which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 in such a manner that it is pivotable in a first pivot direction in a second plane perpendicular to the first plane as well as perpendicular to the floor plane, and is constructed by a first beam 322 and a second beam 124 , a working length a of which is identical to the first beam 322 , the first beam 322 being pivotally journaled via a first beam rotation shaft 121 to the rotation means 9 first connection means 127 one end of which is pivotally journaled to the first link means and the other end of which is pivotally journaled to a scintillation camera means 14 second parallel link means which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means 9 in such a manner that it is pivotable in the second plane in a second pivot direction opposite to the first pivot direction, and is constructed by the first beam 322 and a third beam 129 , a working length a of which is identical to that of the first beam 322 , one end of the third beam 129 being pivotally journaled via a third beam rotation shaft 128 to the rotation means 9 , and counterweight means 130 being rigidly connected to the other end thereof and second connection means which is constructed by a pair of sprocket wheels 150A, 150B , one of which sprocket wheels 150A is rotatably connected to the first beam rotation shaft 121 and the other end of which sprocket wheels 150B is rotatably connected to the third beam rotation shaft 128 , and a chain 152 which is suspended between the sprocket wheels 150A, 150B . 6. A scintillation camera apparatus as claimed inClaim 5 weight of said counterweight 130 is identical to that of said scintillation camera means 14 , and gear ratio of said sprocket wheels 150A, 150B is selected to 1 1.

## Description
Scintillation camera apparatus The present invention relates to a scintillation camera apparatus which has a scintillation camera which detects, radioisotope to be referred to as RI hereinafter distribution data of an object to be examined, e.g., a patient who has been administered anRI, from various angles with respect to the axis of the object and which provides tomographic images based on the RI distribution data. More specifically, the present invention relates to a scintillation camera apparatus which supports an RI detector in accordance with the principle of weight balance. A scintillation camera captures gamma rays, for example, radiated from the RI administered in a patient.A brightness spot is displayed at a position on a cathode ray tube which corresponds to the position of the detector on which the radiated gamma rays are incident. The camera then grasps the RI distribution referred to as a scintigram within a body of the patient so as to allow diagnosis of a position of a diseased portion, of a spread condition of a diseased portion or the like. An Emission Computed Tomography apparatus to be referred to as an ECT apparatus has recently been developed and receiving a lot of attention. The ECT apparatus produces tomographs of a patient using a scintillation camera as described above. The ECT apparatus uses, for example, an anger scintillation camera as a radiation detector. The scintillation camera is rotated stepwise or continuously around the object who has been administered the RI. Gamma rays emitted from the RI in the patient are detected at various angles with respect to the axis of the patient.The obtained detection data is processed to reconstruct tomographs of the patient. In an apparatus having such an ECT function, a detector ordinarily weighting about 600 to 800 kg must be supported such that it can rotate around the longitudinal axis of the patient through 3600 and it can approach to or depart from the patient.Various detector support mechanisms for supporting such a detector have been devised. The ECT apparatus will now be described with reference to an apparatus having an ECT function and incorporating a supporting mechanism for supporting a conventional RI detector, as shown in Figs. 1A and 1B a longitudinal sectional view taken along the line X X in Fig. 1A . A support frame 2 and a roller support member 3 are securely fixed on a base 1 fixed on a floor not shown . In the roller support member 3, a support roller 5 is pivotally supported by a shaft 4. A roller support base 6 is fixed at the center of the upper portion of the support frame 2, and a guide roller 8 is rotatably supported by a shaft 7 extending downward from the base 6. A circular ring member 9 is rotatably supported by the support roller 5 and a guide roller 8.Thus, the support roller 5 supports the weight of the circular ring member 9, and the guide roller 8 guides the circular ring member 9 such that the member 9 will not be inclined in the clockwise direction with respect to a horizontal plane in Fig. 1A. The apparatus further has two supplementary rollers 10 and 11 for supplementarily supporting the rotating circular ring member 9, thereby allowing smooth rotation of the circular ring member 9 in the clockwise and counterclockwise directions in a plane of the drawing of Fig. 1B. Two beams 13a and 13b are pivotally supported by shafts 12a and 12b, respectively, so as to extend at two sides of and inside the circular ring member 9 and to extend therethrough.An RI detector 14 for detecting radiation from a patient not shown is supported by one end to the left of the support frame 2 in Fig. 1A of each of the beams 13a and 13b through two shafts 15 only one shown in the figure so as to be pivotable in a direction indicated by arrow T . The RI detector 14 is generally constituted by the collimetor, the scintillator, the light guide and the photomultiplier tube which are optically aligned along the incident light path. Accordingly this RI detector 14 is also referred to as a scintillation camera means. A counterweight 16 having a weight given by equation 1 below is fixed by two fixing shafts 17 and 18 at the other end of each of the beams 13a and 13b. W1 W2 f e .. 1 where W1 the weight of the RI detector 14 W2 the weight of the counterweight 16 e the distance between the shafts 12 and 15 f the distance between the shaft 12 and a center of gravity g of the counterweight 16 To obtain tomographs of a patient using a conventional ECT apparatus having a construction as described above, the beams 13a and 13b are inclined by a predetermined angle. The patient is layed down along a rotating shaft of the circular ring member 9, that is, along an axis horizontally extending across a center of rotationCM The detector 14 is rotated about the shaft 15 and prepared such that a detection surface 14a thereof faces the patient.Thereafter, the circular ring member 9 is rotated through 3600 at a pitch of 600 in a clockwise direction with respect to the rotation center I CMII shown in Fig. 1B and detection data of gamma rays at each angle are collected so as to reconstruct tomographs.Similar techniques are also described in U.S. PatentSerial No. 4,216,381. However, in a conventional ETC apparatus as described above, if the distance e must exceed a predetermined distance, the following requirement must be satisfied 1 the distance f is set to be long in accordance with the equation I above or 2 the weight W2 of the counterweight 16 is increased in accordance with the equation 1 above.This results in problems to be discussed below. More specifically, when the requirement of the item 1 is to be satisfied, the length of the beams 13a and 13b extending from the circular ring member 9 is increased. This causes a bulky ECT apparatus. When the requirement of item 2 is to be satisfied, the length of the beams 13a and 13b extending from the member 9 can be reduced. However, the weight of the counterweight 16 must be increased. This results in a heavier ECT apparatus as a whole. In view of these problems, a method has been generally adopted in an ECT apparatus in which the weight of the detector 14 is set to equal that of the counterweight 16 and the distance e is set to equal the distance f , in consideration of the requirements of the items 1 and 2 . Furthermore, in the conventional ECT apparatus as described above, the detector 14 is supported by the beams 13a and 13b to be rotatable about the shaft 15.When the beams 13a and 13b are rotated clockwise about the shafts 12a and 12b, the angle of the detection surface 14a of the detector 14 with respect to the floor surface horizontal plane also changes. This is inconvenient in diagnosis tomographic image reconstruction of the entire body of the patient or ECT photography in which the detection surface 14a must be kept at a constant angle with respect to the patient layed down parallel to the horizontal plane . This gives rise to a need for a rotational angle adjustment such that the detection surface 14a is kept at a constant distance from the patient. It is an object of the present invention to provide a compact and lightweight scintillation camera apparatus which is free from the problems of conventional apparatus. It is another object of the present invention to provide a scintillation camera apparatus which does not require complex or time consuming procedures such as adjustment of the respective components prior to or during diagnosis. Those objects will be accomplished by providing a scintillation camera apparatus comprising support means which is fixed on a plane of a floor and extends in a first plane perpendicular to the floor plane rotation means which has a rotation center in the first plane and is rotatably secured to the support means in the first plane first parallel link means which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means, and is pivotable in a first pivot direction in a second plane perpendicular to the first plane as well as perpendicular to the floor plane first connection means one end of which is pivotally journaled to the first parallel link means and the other end of which is pivotally journaled to a scintillation camera means second parallel link means which is pivotally journaled to the rotation means, and is pivotable in the second plane in a second pivot direction opposite to the first pivot direction and second connection means one end of which is pivotally journaled to the second parallel link means and the other end of which is rigidly connected to counterweight means. For a better understanding of these and other objects of the present invention, reference is had to the following detailed description of the invention to be read in conjunction with the following drawings, in which Fig. IA is a cross sectional view of the conventional scintillation camera apparatus Fig. 1B is a longitudinal sectional view taken along the line X X in Fig. lA Fig. 2A is a cross sectional view of a scintillation camera apparatus according to one preferred embodiment of the invention Fig. 2B is a longitudinal sectional view taken along the line Y Y in Fig. 2A Fig. 3 is a schematic illustration for explaining principle of the weight balance employed in the present invention Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view of a scintillation camera apparatus according to an another embodiment and Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view of a scintillation camera apparatus according to a further embodiment. A scintillation camera apparatus 100 according to an embodiment of the present invention will now be described with reference to Figs. 2A and 2B taking account of the conventional apparatus as described above. The same reference numerals as in Figs. 1A and 1B denote the same parts in Figs. 2A and 2B, and a detailed description thereof will be omitted. Reference numeral 1 denotes the base as a support member which is fixed on a floor not shown . In other words, the base 1 is positioned to be extended in a first plane perpendicular to the floor plane. A support frame 2 and a roller support member 3 are securely fixed on the base 1. A shaft 4 rotatably supports a support roller 5. A roller support base 6 rotatably supports a guide roller 8 by means of a fixed shaft 7.A circular ring member 9 is rotatably supported in a second plane perpendicular to the floor plane as well as the first plane by the support roller 5, the guide roller 8 and two supplementary rollers 10 and 11. In the scintillation camera apparatus 100 having the construction as described above, a structure to be described below is coupled to the constituent parts of the apparatus as shown in Figs. 1A and 1B. In the state shown in Figs. 2A and 2B a longitudinal sectional view taken along the line Y Y inFig. 2A , an upper supporting base plate 117 and a lower supporting base plate 118 are arranged at the inner upper and lower sides of the circular ring member 9.The base plates 117 and 118 have opposing notch members 107 and 108, respectively, which are notched at their centers in U shapes. A pair of guide plates 119 are arranged at the two sides of the notch member 107, while a pair of guide plates 120 are similarly arranged at the two sides of the notch member 108. A first beam supporting shaft 121 is suspended between the pair of guide plates 119 of the upper supporting base plate 117. The first beam supporting shaft 121 rotatably supports a first beam 122. A second beam supporting shaft 123 is suspended between the pair of guide plates 119 above the first beam supporting shaft 121 so as to rotatably support a second beam 124. An L shaped detector supporting arm 127 is pivotally supported at one end of each of the first and second beams 122 and 124 through two pivot shafts 125 and 126, respectively. The shaft 15 arranged at the ends of the detector supporting arm 127 support an RI detector 14 such that the detector 14 is rotatable in a direction indicated by arrow T. In other words, the detector 14 is supported by parallel link mechanisms consisting of the shafts 121, 123, 125 and 126 and the beams 122 and 124. An arm supporting shaft 128 is suspended between the pair of guide plates 120 fixed to the lower supporting base plate 118.The arm supporting shaft 128 rotatably supports one end of an arm or a third beam 129. Two counterweights 130A and 130B which constitute one counterweight 130 are fixed to the other end of the arm 129. A rod 131 is suspended between the arm 129 and the first beam 122 such that the two ends of the rod 131 are pivotally supported by rod shafts 132 and 133, respectively. In this case, the distance between the first beam supporting shaft 121 and the rod shaft 132 is set to be equal to that between the arm supporting shaft 128 and the rod shaft 133. The mode of operation for taking tomographs by the apparatus having the construction as described above will now be described with reference to Figs. 2A and 2B. First, the detector 14 is moved upward in a direction indicated by arrow U from the state shown inFig. 2A. A patient not shown who has been administered an RI is layed down on a plane crossing an axis of center of rotation to be described later of the circular ring member 9. Then the detector 14 is located at an optimal position separated from the patient. Rotation of the detector 14 in a direction indicated by arrow T and movement thereof in a direction indicated by arrow U are locked by an electromagnetic locking mechanism not shown so as to set the detector 14. Thereafter, the circular ring member 9 is rotated clockwise, for example, in Fig. 2B through a predetermined angle or 3600 by a motor not shown or the like so as to detect radiated gamma rays from the patient at various angles. The obtained data is stored. After all the required data has been collected, a tomograph is reconstructed by computerprocessing the obtained data. According to the scintillation camera apparatus of the present invention, the advantage of principle of weight balance method is obtained. More specifically, if the weights of the detector and the counterweight, and their distances from the rotating shaft satisfy a predetermined relationship, a balance can be established irrespective of the rotating angle of the circular ring member and the inclined angles of the beams. In addition, the length of the counterweight extending from the supporting frame can be reduced, and the detection surface of the detector does not change in position with respect to the inclined angles of the beams. This will be described in more detail hereinafter. Fig. 3 is a representation showing the balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 16. The following conditions are assumed with the apparatus having the construction as described above. 1 The weight W1 of the detector 14 is equal to that W2 of the counterweight 16. Wl W2 2 A first half beam portion 122A of the first beam 122 and the second beam 124 constitute a first parallel link mechanism. 3 A second half beam portion 122B of the first beam 122 and the arm 129 constitute a second parallel link mechanism. The first beam 122 consists of the first and second half beam portions 122A and 122B. The first half beam portion 122A partially constitutes the first parallel link mechanism while the second half beam portion 122B partially constitutes the second parallel link mechanism. 4 The rod 131 and the circular ring member 9 hold a parallel relation. 5 The distance between the first beam supporting shaft 121 and the pivot shaft 126, that is, a working length a of the first half beam portion 122A is equal to the distance between the arm supporting shaft 128 and the center of gravity g of the counterweight 130, that is, a working length a of a third beam 129. 6 The distance b between the first beam supporting shaft 121 and the center of rotation CM of the circular ring member 9 is equal to that b between the arm supporting shaft 128 and the center of rotation CM of the circular ring member 9. The above conditions presuppose the following conditions as well. a The positions of the detector 14 and the counterweight 130 are at the material points. b The weights of the arms, links, etc. are considered to be negligible. A reference plane is considered before explaining the balance operation. A first plane is defined to be perpendicular to the floor plane not shown . The base 1 is fixed to the floor plane to extend along the first plane. The first plane is parallel to the plane shown in Fig. 2B. In other words, the first plane is perpendicular to the plane of the sheet of the drawing of Fig. 2A and extends along the line Y Y thereof. The circular ring member 9 as a rotating member is supported by the rollers 5, 8, 10 and 11 so as to rotate clockwise or counterclockwise about the center of rotation CM within the first plane. A second plane is assumed which is perpendicular to both the first plane and to the floor plane. In other words, the second plane is parallel to the plane of the sheet of the drawing of Figs. 2A and 3. Two parallel link mechanisms are constituted in the second plane.The first half beam portion 122A of the first beam 122 and the second beam 124 constitute the first parallel link mechanism under the condition of item 2 above.One end of the first parallel link mechanism is pivotally journaled to the circular ring member 9 through the supporting shafts 121 and 123. The other end of the first parallel link mechanism is pivotally journaled by the L shaped detector supporting arm 127 through the pivot shafts 126 and 125. Meanwhile, the second half beam portion 122B of the first beam 122 and the third beam 129 constitute the second parallel link mechanism under the condition of item 3 above. One end of the third beam 129 is pivotally journaled by the circular ring member 9 through the arm supporting shaft 128. As has been described earlier, one end of the second half beam portion 122B is pivotally supported by the circular ring member 9 through the shaft 121. The other ends of the beams 122B and 129 are pivotally supported by the connection rod 131 through the rod shafts 132 and 133.The counterweight 130 is fixed to the other end of the third beam 129. When a correspodence of the planes with the x y z plane as shown in Fig. 3 is considered, the floor plane corresponds to the x z plane, the first plane corresponds to the y z plane, and the second plane corresponds to the x y plane, respectively. The circular ring member 9 rotates about the center of rotation CM within the y z plane. When the first parallel link mechanism rotates counterclockwise about the center of rotation CM within the x y plane, the second parallel link mechanism rotates clockwise. The weight W1 of the detector 14 produces a force of moment Fm and a moment Fw by the weight of the detector, which are given below, on the two pivot shafts 125 and 126 of the collimator supporting arm. Fm Wl. S.cos0 , W1 Fw where t the distance between the shaft 15 and the pivot shaft 126 S the distance between the first and second beam supporting shafts 121 and 123 and the inclined angle of the first beam supporting shaft 121 with respect to a line of rotation center C . This moment component generates a moment M M W1 Q in the circular ring member 9 through the parallel link mechanism consisting of the first and second beams 122 and 124. The moment M is absorbed by the roller 8 supporting the circular ring member 9 and does not affect the balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 16. Accordingly, only the moment Fw is related to the balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 16. The moment M described above affects the balance in the x direction that is, in the counterclockwise direction indicated by the x y plane in Fig. 3 .However, as described above, this moment M is absorbed by the roller 8 supporting the circular ring member 9 and therefore does not disturb the balance. The balance in the y direction in the direction perpendicular to the x direction is given by Fw x acose W2 x acose, Fw W2 where W2 is the weight of the counterweight 130, thus providing a good balance. When the balance in the R direction around the line of rotation center C parallel to the x axis is considered, it is proved by showing the balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 130 when the direction in which gravity acts is set to be perpendicular to the plane of the sheet of the drawing ofFig. 3. Thus, as in the case of the balance in the x direction, we obtain Fw b a.sin6 Wl x b a.sine where b is the distance between the beam supporting shafts 121 and 128 and the center of rotation CM Therefore, Fw W1 and a good balance is obtained. In the present invention wherein the detector 14 is supported with good balance in this manner, the length of the counterweight 130 extending outward from the support frame 2 is reduced without requiring an increase in the weight of the counterweight 130. Accordingly, the detector 14 and the counterweight 130 are kept balanced independently of the rotational angle of the circular ring member 9 and the inclined angles of the first and second beams 122 and 124. Thus, the apparatus can be rendered compact in size and light in weight. As another feature of the apparatus of this type, the distance Q between the pivot shaft 126 and the center of gravity of the detector 14 is independent of the balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 130.Therefore, the distance can be freely set unlike the distance a between the arm supporting shaft 128 and the center of gravity g of the counterweight 130. The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiment described above. For example, the above embodiment is described with reference to a scintillation camera apparatus having an ECT function.However, the present invention can be similarly applied to other types of scintillation camera apparatus. A construction as shown in Fig. 4 can be adopted.In the construction shown in Fig. 4, an arm or a third beam 140 corresponding to the arm 129 as shown in Fig. 2 projects toward the detector 14 as well. A rod 131 couples an end of the arm 140 with a first beam 222.The first beam 222 has a working length a which is the same as that of the first half beam portion 122A shown in Fig. 2. A pivot shaft 234 on which the connection rod 131 is pivotally mounted is interposed between the shafts 121 and 126. A pivot shaft 233 for pivotally supporting the connection rod 131 is arranged at the end of the third beam 140 which is at the side of the detector 14. In this case, the balance is obtained by the same principle as in the case described with reference to the equations of the balance in the embodiment described above. Another construction as shown inFig. 5 can also be adopted. Referring to Fig. 5, a sprocket 150A is fixed to a first beam supporting shaft 121 of a first beam 322, and another sprocket 150B is fixed to an arm supporting shaft 128 of a third beam 129. A chain 152 connects these sprockets 150A and 150B. In this case, the balance is different from that described with reference to the above embodiment.However, if the gear ratio of the sprockets 150A and 150B is set to be 1 1, a good balance between the detector 14 and the counterweight 130 can be established. The same reference numerals as in Fig. 2 denote the same parts in Figs. 4 and 5. In summary, there is provided according to the present invention a scintillation camere apparatus which is compact in size and which has excellent operability in various diagnosis modes.