# Pipe closures, for example vehicle fuel filler caps.

## Abstract
A pipe closure 10 is adapted to fit a flanged pipe end. The closure comprises a knob 12 having a spigot 14 on which a locking member 34 is mounted for axial sliding. An intermedi ate member 16 is rotatably mounted on the spigot 14 be tween the knob 12 and the locking member 34 . The locking member 34 and intermediate member 16 are separated by an over centre mechanism, provided by three pins 40 , and are urged together by a spring 46 . Pairs of projections 32, 48 are provided on the intermediate member 16 and the locking member 34 . In one relative position, the projections 32, 48 are aligned and can be passed through a cut away in the flanged pipe end. Upon rotation of the knob 12 , the over centre mechanism operates to move the projections 48 be hind the flange, the spring 46 urging the projections 48 against the flange to pull a seal 22 against the flange.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A closure for a flanged pipe end with at least two cut aways in the flange, the closure including two members 16, 34 which are relatively rotatable and are movable towards and away from each other along the axis of rotation, means 46 to bias the members towards each other, means 40 to force the members apart against the biasing means upon rotation of the members from a first relative position, and means to hold the members in a second position of relative rotation, one of the members 16 being provided with sealing means 22 engageable with the pipe end and having means 32 to register said one member 16 with the pipe end, and the other member having at least two projections 48 arranged so that upon offering up the closure to the pipe end with the members in said second relative position the two projections 48 can pass through the two cut aways and the registering means engages the pipe end, and so that upon subsequent rotation of said other member 34 the projections 48 move behind the flange and the members 16, 34 move towards each other under the action of the biasing means 46 as the members approach said first relative Dosition so that the projections 48 engage and are urged against the flange and the sealing meals 22 is urged dyaiii6 the pipe end. 2. A closure as claimed in Claim 1, wherein the means 40 to force the members 16, 34 apart upon rotation from said first relative position permits the members to move towards each other under the action of the biasing means 46 as the members approach said second relative position so that the holding means is provided by the biasing means 46 urging the members 16, 34 towards said second relative position. 3. A closure as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the two members 16, 34 are more closely spaced in said first position than in said second position. 4. A closure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said means to force the members apart comprises a plurality of pins 40 spaced around the axis, the ends of each pin engaging in respective sockets 42, 44 in said first member 16 and said second member 34 . 5. A closure as claimed in Claim 4 wherein the ends of the pins 40 are held in engagement with their respective sockets 42, 44 by the biasing means 40 . 6. A closure as claimed in any preceding claim, further including a spigot 14 extending along said axis, said one member 16 being mounted on the spigot 14 for rotation and the other member 34 being mounted on the spigot 14 for axial sliding movement. 7. A closure as claimed in Claim 6, wherein a manually graspable grip 12 is provided on the spigot 14 by which the spigot and said other member 34 can be rotated. 8. A closure as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said registering means comprises at least one key 32 carried by said one member 16 , said one key being engageable in one of the flange cut aways. 9. A combination of a closure as claimed in any preceding claim and a flanged pipe end which the closure is adapted to fit.

## Description
PIPE CLOSURES, FOR EXAMPLE VEHICLE FUEL FILLER CAPS This invention relates to closures for flanged pipe ends. A known such closure, for example a vehicle fuel filler cap, comprises a seal to engage the pipe end, a member to extend into the pipe end, and a pair of projections extending radially outwardly from the member. When the closure is fitted to the pipe end, the projections are passed through a pair of cut aways in the flanged end and then the closure is twisted so that the projections move behind the flange. The flange has a cam surface adjacent each cut away against which the respective projection bears with more force as the closure is twisted to pull the seal against the pipe end. According to the present invention, there is provided a closure for a flanged pipe end with at least two cut aways in the flange, the closure including two members which are relatively rotatable and are movable towards and away from each other along the axis of rotation, means to bias the members towards each other, means to force the members apart against the biasing means upon rotation of the members from a first relative position, and means to hold the members in a second position of relative rotation, one of the members being provided with sealing means engageable with the pipe end and having means to register said one member with the pipe end, and the other member having at least two projections arranged so that upon offering up the closure to the pipe end with the members in said second relative position the two projections can pass through the two cut aways and the registering means engages the pipe end, and so that upon subsequent rotation of said other member the projections move behind the flange and the members move towards each other under the action of the biasing means as the members approach said first relative position so that the projections engage and are urged against the flange and the sealing means is urged against the pipe end. An advantage of the closure according to the invention is that it may be fitted to the pipe end more easily than the known closure because the projections forcefully engage the flange only towards the end of the locking movement from the second relative position to the first relative position, and the biasing means is at that stage assisting the locking movement. Furthermore, the closure may be removed more easily, because during removal the locking projections are initiallyforced away from the flange. Additionally, the closure according to the invention does not require camming surfaces adjacent the pipe flange cut aways in order to provide a good seal. A specific embodiment of the present invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a half section side view of a vehicle fuel filler cap in a centre position Figure 2 is under plan view of the filler cap shown in Figure 1 Figure 3 is schematic view in the directionIII shown in Figure 1 showing the positions of a pin in the over centre connection and the pin s associated recesses in an unlocked position full line and a locked position chain dot line and Figure 4 is longitudinally sectioned perspective view of a pipe end with which the filler cap ofFigures 1 and 2 is to be used. Referring to the drawings, a cap for a motor vehicle fuel filler pipe 11, shown in Figure 4, is indicated generally by the reference numeral 10 in Figures 1 and 2. The cap 10 comprises a domed plastics knob 12 from which extends a drive spigot 14 which may be integral with the knob 12 or a separate moulding welded thereto. The spigot 14 carries an annular intermediate member 16 of plastics which is free to rotate within limits on the spigot 14. The spigot 14 and intermediate member 16 are provided with complementary thrust faces engaging at 18 and further features which house an 0 ring 20 to provide a seal between the spigot and intermediate member. The intermediate member 16 carries an annular gasket 22 abutting a shoulder 24 of the intermediate member and arranged to seal against the end 26 of the pipe 11. The pipe end, which is also a plastics moulding, has an inturned flange 28 and a pair of opposed cut outs 30 are formed in the flange. The intermediate member 16 has a pair of opposed radially outwardly directed keys 32 arranged to engage the cut outs 30 in the pipe flange 28. The spigot 14 also carries a annular locking member 34 which can slide along the spigot 14 but is prevented from rotation relative to the spigot.To this end, the locking member has a pair of opposed axially extending slots 36 which are engaged by a metal pin 38 extending transversely through and secured to the spigot 14. A spring loaded over centre action is provided between the locking member 34 and the intermediate member 16. Three metal pins 40 with rounded ends are equally spaced around the spigot. Each pin 40 has one end engaging a respective socket 42 in the intermediate member 16 and the other end engaging a respective socket 44 in the locking member 34.A helical coil compression spring 46 is disposed in an annular cavity formed between the spigot 14 and the locking member 34. One end of the spring 46 bears on the transverse pin 38 and the other end bears against a shoulder formed on the locking member, and the spring 46 acts, inter alia, to hold the pins 40 in engagement with the sockets 42, 44. Suitable stops are provided between the intermediate member 16 and the knob 12 or spigot 14 or locking member 34, so that the intermediate member can be rotated between two positions relative to the locking member 34, in one of which positions all of the pins 40 are inclined one way around the spigot 14 and in the other position are all inclined the other way around the spigot 14. As the knob 12 is turned relative to the intermediate member 16 between these two positions, the over centre action of the pins 40 causes the locking member 34 to move axially away from and then return towards the intermediate member 16. A pair of opposed radially outwardly directed locking projections 48 are provided on the locking member 34. In one position of the intermediate member 16 relative to the locking member an unlocked position each locking projection 48 is aligned with a respective one of the keys 32 and the cap 10 can be fitted to the pipe 11, the locking projections 48 passing through the flange cut outs 30 and the keys 32 engaging in the cut outs 30. When inserted, the upper surfaces 49 of the locking projections 48 are at a level slightly below the lower surface 50 of the pipe flange 28. As can be seen from Figure 3, the over centre action is arranged so that the pins 40 are further over centre in the locked position than in the unlocked position and thus the spacing between the intermediate member 16 and the locking member is less in the locked position than in the unlocked position. Upon rotation of the knob 12, the locking member 34 rotates, but the intermediate member is prevented from rotation by the keys 32 engaging the flange cut outs 30 and so that over centre action operates. This causes the locking projections 48 initally to move axially away from the flange surface 50 as they rotate under the flange surface until the centre position of the overcentre action is reached. Upon further rotation, which is assisted or caused by the spring 46 the projections 48 rotate and move axially towards and into engagement with the flange. The cap and pipe are arranged so that the action of the spring 46 causes the gasket 22 to be compressed to form a good seal as the over centre action reaches its stop in the locked position. The cap is easy to fit to and remove from the pipe, particularly because during fitting of the cap the locking projections 48 forcefully engage the pipe flange 28 only towards the end of the locking movement, when the spring 46 is assisting the locking movement, and during removal of the cap the projections 48 are initially urged away from the flange 28 by the action of the pins 40. The cap may be modified. For example, the locking member 34 may be formed as two parts, one being fixed to the spigot 14 and the other being slidable on the spigot with a sliding dog connection to the first part. Also, only one of the keys 32 on the intermediate member 16 need be provided to register the intermediate member 16 with the pipe end 11. A key operated lock assembly may be utilised to prevent unauthorised removal of the cap 10 from the pipe 11. The same principles of using a spring loaded over centre action may be applied to a cap arranged to fit a pipe end having an out turned flange such as on a standard vehicle radiator filler neck, but without the need for a camming feature provided on the out turned flange on the filler neck.