# Yeast plasmid vector capable of induced expressing and method of using said plasmid.

## Abstract
A yeast vector for producing a useful peptide under the control of the promoter of PH05 gene which is a gene controlling a repressible yeast acid phosphatase, a process of preparing the same and a process for producing the useful peptide in high yield by culturing the yeast that has been transformed by said vector are disclosed.

## Claims
Claims 1. A plasmid which contains a promoter for the gene tontrolling a repressible yeast acid phosphatase and a gene for target peptide and which is capable of inducively expressing the gene for the target peptide in the yeast. 2. A process for producing the target peptide which comprises preparing a plasmid bearing a promoter for the gene controlling a repressible yeast acid phosphatase and a gene for the target peptide, transforming yeast with said plasmid, and culturing the transformed yeast under inducible conditions.

## Description
YEAST PLASMID VECTOR CAPABLE OF INDUCED EXPRESSING AND METHOD OF USING SAID PLASMID The present invention relates to a yeast vector for producing a useful peptide under the control of the promoter of PH05 gene a gene controlling a repressible yeast acid phosphatase The invention also relates to d process for producing the useful peptide in high yield by culturing yeast that has been transformed by said vector. A repressible yeast acid phosphatase is an enzyme that is controlled by the concentration of phosphate, and the production of this enzyme can be induced by reducing the concentration of the phosphoric acid. At least two types of the repressible yeast acid phosphatase have been reported, and one of them is encoded by a PH05 gene. The present inventors have succeeded in expressing a useful peptide under the control of the PH05 gene by using a promoter for that gene. The recent development of the technology of genetic engineering is so remarkable that today, pharmaceutically useful peptides such as somatostatin, insulin, growth hormones, interferons a lpha, beta and gamma , influenza viruses, hepatitis B viral protein , thymosin alpha 1, betaendorphin, alpha neoendorphin, secretin, urokinase and plaminogen activating materials can be synthesized in microorganlsms or animal cells. In most cases, these materials are produced by using procaryotic E. coli as host cells. Recently, the use of eukaryotic yeast cells is drawing the attention of many researchers for such reasons as easy cultivation of yeast, rapid cell division, low hazard, and advanced analysis of the genetic and biochemical aspects of Saccharomyces yeast. In order to express genes for useful peptides including exogenous peptide genes and genes encoding endogenous peptides produced only in small amounts in the yeast , the presence of a promoter region adapted to the specific host cells is required, and the efficiency of the expressing of peptide genes greatly depends on the promoter used. Therefore, intensive efforts have been made to develop expressing plasmid vectors using various promoters. However, the vectors so far reported for expressing exogenous genes using yeast cells as the host are not highly efficient in expressing the desired exogenous gene as compared with conventional vectors using E. coli cells as the host. Noting the use of the promoter for an operon encoding the repr2ssIble yeast acid7ghnsphatase PHO5 , the present inventors have made studies to construct vectors capable of expressing the target peptide gene in high efficiency. As a result, the inventors found that this promoter was very useful in the production of exogenous or endogenous peptides in the yeast. We prepared a yeast vector having the desired peptide gene inserted at a point downstream of the promoter, and used the so prepared vector in transforming the yeast.By analyzing the separated yeast cells, we could confirm that they had been transformed by the said vector. This has lead to the accomplishment of the present invention. The target peptide genes used in the present invention include chemically synthesized genes, complementary DNA cDNA prepared from mRNA by reverse transcriptase, and genes isolated from chromosomes by a suitable treatment. Fig. 1 is a restriction map showing the recognition sides for restriction enzymes acting on a BamHI fragment containing the PHO5 gene Figs. 2 a to d show the entire base sequence of the PHO5 gene. Fig. 3 shows the procedure for constructing a yeast vector bearing the PHO5 gene. Fig. 4 shows the procedure for constructing a yeast vector beairng the PH05 gene which expresses a gene for the target peptide. Fig. 5 shows the procedure for inserting aNE alphaneo endorphin gene into a PHOS bearing vector. The yeast vector bearing the PHOS gene according to the present invention is prepared by the following procedure.Chromosomal DNA of Saccharomyces yeast is digested into two fragments by restriction enzyme BamHI, and the PHO5 gene used in the present invention is located on a DNA fragment having a length of about 3 kb. This PHOS gene encodes a protein composed of 45 amino acid residues having a signal peptide made of 17 amino acid residues as counted from the amino acid.sequence at N terminal of the purified enzyme.The recognition sequences for various restriction enzymes working on the BamHI fragment containing the PHO5 gene are shown in the restriction map of Fig. 1, wherein the respective symbols denote the following Ba BamHI, Hf Hinf I, Kp KpnI, Ac AccI, Sa Salt, HII HpaII and HI HpaI. The entire base sequence of the BamHI fragment containing the PHO5 gene is shown in Fig. 2. This fragment is inserted into a suitable vector bearing a replicon and a selective marker, such as pYE207 which is a plasmid having 2 pm replicon and Leu2 gene bound to pBR322. The target peptide gene is inserted into the plasmid at a point downstream f the PHOS gene promoter, thereby preparing a yeast vector bearing PHOS promoter1 target peptide gene and selective marker. If the target peptide has a low molecular weight such as in the case of alpha neoendorphin aNE , it must be produced as a chimeric protein PHOS aNE by inserting the target peptide gene in the PHOS structural gene at a suitable location.However, if the target peptide has a relatively high molecular weight such as in the case of an interferon, it can be directly produced by attaching a gene coding for the peptide to the PH05. promoter with a suitable base sequence being interposed. Therefore, the PHOS promoter can be extensively used not only to inducively express endogenous or exogeneous pep tide genes but also to produce the target peptide. By using the aNE gene in the vector of the present invention, alpha neoendorphin can be expressed as a PHOS aNE chimeric protein and the aNE molecules can be separted from the chimeric protein by cleaving it using cyanogen bromide or other conventional techniques. Radioimmunoassay RIA showed that the productivity of this method was about 106 aNE molecules per cell. The present invention is described in greater detail by reference to the following non limiting example. In the example, the aNE gene is used as the target peptide gene, but it should be noted that the scope of the present invention is by no means limited to the production of aNE.Example 1. Preparation of yeast plasmid pYE1101 bearing PHO5 gene see Fig. 3 The repressible yeast acid phosphatase PHO5 is located on a DNA fragment ca. 3 kb obtained by cleaving the chromosome DNA of Saccharomyces yeast with BamHI. When pPHO5 prepared by cloning this DNA fragment at BamHI site of YRp7 is introduced into a pho5 yeast host, the host is transformed to exhibit PHO phenotype. Replication of the plasmid pPHO5 is controlled by a chromosomal replicon and is unstable in yeast cells. Therefore, we cleaved this plasmid with BamHI, selected a DNA fragment ca. 3 kb bearing thePHO5 gene, and inserted this fragment at BamHI site of pYE207 plasmid having 2 m replicon and Leu2 gene bound to pBR322 so as to prepare pYE1101.This plasmid remained stable in yeast cells and the acid phosphatase was produced in the presence of a low concentration of phosphate. The results of transformation of yeast cells with pYE 1101 are shown in Table 1, from which one can see that pYE 1101 bears the PHOS gene and that this gene is expressed in the yeast. Table 1 Productivity of acid phosphatase in yeast transformed by plasmid pYE1101EMI4.1 tb SEP Plasmid SEP Cell SEP No. SEP Activity SEP of SEP acidic SEP phosphatase tb Medium SEP Plasmid SEP SEP OD660 SEP OD420 SEP ml min SEP OD420 OD660 tb SEP Pi SEP SEP SEP 16.5 SEP SEP 0.005 SEP 0.0003 SEP tb SEP pYE1101 SEP 14.2 SEP 0.450 SEP 0.032 tb SEP 10.0 SEP 0.250 SEP 0.025 tb SEP Pi tb SEP pYE1101 SEP 6.25 SEP 2.800 SEP 0.448 tb P Non inducible medium P Inducible medium Saccharomyces cerevisiae XP3 7A cells that were transformed by plasmid pYE1101 were named Saccharomyces cerevisiae SBM 311 and deposited with the FermentationResearch Institute, Japan deposit No. FERM P 6764 International Deposition Acceptance No. FERM BP 383 underButapest Treaty .2. Preparation of PHOS vector for expressing the target peptide gene see Fig. 4 Plasmid pYE1101 10 vg, 11 kb was cleaved with HpaI 30 units by heating in TA buffer 33 mM tris acetic acid buffered at pH 7.9, 66 mM potassium acetate, 10 mM magnesium acetate and 0.5 mM DTT at 370C for 1.5 hours. EcoRI linker 5 pg 5 GGAATTCC 3 was incubated in a polynucleotide kinase buffer 50 mM tris HCl buffered at pK 7.5, 10 mM MgC12 at 370C for 45 minutes in the presence of ATP 25 nmol and polynucleotide kinase. l0 units so as to phosphorylate the 51 terminals. The 5 pg HpaI fragments 7.9 kb and 3.1 kb of pYE1101 and phosphorylated EcoRI linker 1 Vg were dissolved in 20 1 of a ligase buffer and incubated at 150C for 18 hours in the presence of T4 DNA liga se 5 units . The reaction solution 10 pl was introduced into E. coli JA221 that had been treated with 0.3 ml of CaC12. Plasmid DNA was separated from the amcillin resistant transformants in the conventional manner and analyzed to confirm the construction of a plasmid pYE1170 having EcoRI linker inserted to HpaI site of a 7.9 kb fragment of pYE1101. This piasmid 5 Vg was cleaved into two fragments. 6.5 kb and 1.4 kb withEcoRI 30 units by incubating in TA buffer at 370C for 1 hour. By subsequent heating at 650C for 5 minutes, EcoRI was deactivated, and thereafter, the DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol twice the volume of the reaction solution.The DNA precipitate was dissolved in a buffer solution 50 1 consisting of 20 mM tris HCl pH 8.1 , 100 mM NaCl and 12 mM CaC12 at 300C for 3 minutes in the presence of nuclease BAL 31 0.5 unit . By this treatment, 200 400 bp of DNA was broken down. After inactivating BAL 31 by heat ing the solution at 650C, the DNA was precipitated by adding ethanol twice the volume of the solution. The DNA precipitate was dissolved in T4 ligase buffer 20 p1 , added with phosphorylated EcoRI linker 1 pg and subjected to ligation at 150C for 18 hours in the presence of T4 DNA ligase 5 units . The reaction solution 10 ul was introduced into E. coli JA221 that has been treated with 0.3 ml of CaCl2. Plasmid DNA was separated from the ampicillin resistant transformants by the conventional method and analyzed to confirm the construction of plasmid pYE1170 l 4 about 6.2 kb long and having a single EcoRI cleavage site.3. Insertion of aNE gene into PH05 vector see Fig. 5 The aNE gene was prepared from paNE2 Nucleic AcidsRes., 10 1741 1754, 1982 and paNE51 this plasmid had the base sequence of 51 AATTCTA ATG Met 3 upstream of the nethionine codon of the aNE gene in paNE2 and was to be cut by EcoRI at a site 2 base pairs far than in paNE2, thus causing offsetting of the reading frame by 2 base pairs at the EcoRI site as compared with the case of paNE2 . An outline for the method of inserting the aNE gene into thePHO5 vector is shown in Fig. 5. Plasmid pYE1170 A1 h4 5 pg was cleaved with BamHI 10 units and EcoRI 10 units by incubating in a TA buffer at 370C for 1 hour. Plasmid pYE207 5 Vg was cleaved withPstI 10 units and BamHI 10 units by incubating in TA buffer at 370C for 1 hour. Two other plasmids paNE2 and paNE5 were each cleaved with PstI 10 units and EcoRI 10 units by incubating in TA buffer at 370C for 1 hour.The respective reaction solutions were subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis to separate the desired DNA fractions a fragment containing PHO5 gene was separated from pYE1170 Al A4 a fragment containing Leu2 gene was separated from pYE207 and a fragment containing the aNE gene was separated from each of paNE2 and paNE51. The respective DNA fragments were dissolved in T4 DNA ligase buffer 20 p1 and treated with T4 DNA ligase 2 units at 150C for 18 hours. For example, fragments from pYE1170 1, pYE207 and paNE2 were ligated to obtain plasmid pPaNE31, whereas fragments from pYE1170 Al, pYE207 and PaNES were ligated to obtain plasmid pPaNE41.Each of the ligation solutions 10 p1 was introduced into E. coli JA221 that had been treated with 0.3 ml of CaC12. Plasmid DNA was separated from the ampicillin resistant transformants by the conventional technique and analyzed to conform the construction of eight plasmids pPaNE31, 32, 33 and 34, as well as pPaNE 41, 42, 43 and 44, each having thePHO gene ligated to the aNE gene see Fig. 4 . These eight plasmids were introduced into a yeast strain, Saccharomyces XP3 7A a leu2 his4 trpl pho5 . The cells transformed by plasmid pPaNE42 were named Saccharomyces cerevisiae SBM 314 and have been deposited with the Fermentation Research Institute, Japan deposit No. FERM P 6765 International Deposition Acceptance No. FERM BP 384 under the Budapest Treaty . The respective transformants were shake cultured in PiYPD media low phosphate media prepared by adding 10 ml of 1M MgS04 and 10 ml of ammonium hydroxyde 28 to 1,000 ml of a solution containing 1 yeast extract and 2 poly peptone, filtering the resulting precipitate, and adding glucose to obtain a concentration of 0.2 and PYPD media high phosphate media prepared by adding 0.2 RH2PO4 to the PiYPD media at 300C for 24 hours, and thereafter, the cells were recovered by centrifugation. The cells recovered from 1 ml of the culture were mixed with 0.5 ml of cold acetone and the mixture was left to stand at 200C for 1 24 hours, and freeze dried. The dried cells were suspended in 70 formic acid containing cyanogen bromide 5 mg ml and the suspension was left to stand in a dark place for 24 hours. The suspension was freeze dried and aNE was eluted with 0.1 N acetic acid 0.1 ml . The eluted aNE was neutralized with 0.1 ml of 1.3M tris HCl pH 8.0 and subjected to radioimmunoassay RIA according to the method described in N. Minamino et al., BBRC, vol. 102, 226 1981 . The result was that only the yeast cells having a plasmid pPaNE41, 42 or 43 showed the aNE activity, and the cells having the other plasmids showed no aNE activity probably because the aNE gene binding site did not have good, matching of the reading frame. The productivity of aNE in yeast cells with pPaNE41, 42 and 43 that were cultured in PiYPD and PYPD media is shown in Table 2 in comparison with the data for pYE1101. The table clearly shows that the productivity of NE greatly depends on the concentration of phosphate in the medium and is controlled by the PHO5 gene. The productivity of aNE in the low phosphate medium was about 200 times as high as that achieved with the highphosphate medium, and by using the PHO5 promoter, about one million aNE molecules were produced per cell in the cultivation with the PiYPD medium. The acid phosphatase in the yeast cells having the plasmids constructed by the present invention has the same level of activity as that of the yeast cells free from these plasmids. Table 2 Productivity of aNE in the presence of PHO5 promoterEMI8.1 tb SEP Cell SEP No. SEP aNE tb Medium SEP Plasmid tb SEP cells ml SEP ng ml SEP molecules cell SEP tb SEP pYE1101 SEP 5.2 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 0 tb Pi SEP 41 SEP 5.0 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 0.8 SEP 8.0 SEP x SEP 103 tb SEP pPaNE42 SEP 4.9 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 0.5 SEP 5.1 SEP x SEP 103 tb SEP pPaNE43 SEP 4.8 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 0.5 SEP 5.2 SEP x SEP 103 tb SEP 7 SEP tb SEP pYE1101 SEP 3.0 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 0.18 SEP 12. SEP x tb SEP pPaNE4l SEP 2.0 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 46.3 SEP 12. SEP x SEP 106 SEP tb pP NE42 SEP SEP 2.2 SEP x SEP 107 SEP 50.0 SEP 1.1 SEP x SEP 106 SEP tb SEP pPaNE43 SEP 1.9 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 70.0 SEP 1.8 SEP x SEP 106 tb In order to check the site of binding between the PHO5 gene and aNE gene, plasmid DNA was separated from pPaNE41, 42 and 43 by digestion with EcoRI, and the base sequence of that DNA was determined according to the method of Maxam and Gilbert. The result was as follows in pPaNE41, the 387th proline codon was bound to the aNE gene with a linker made of 9 DNA base pairs interposed in pPaNE42, the 423rd valine codon was bound to the aNE gene, also with the same linker interposed and in pPaNE43, the 374th aspartic acid codon was bound to the aNE gene, again with the interposition of the linker.