# Compounds and method for selectively controlling weeds in the presence of valuable crops.

## Abstract
Novel compounds having the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound having the formulaEMI20.1 wherein A and B are each independently 0, S, NH or N alkyl D is N, which may be ortho, meta or para to B R is H, halogen or lower alkyl R1 is a monovalent organic radical which may containN, O or S atoms and X, Y and Z are each independently halogen, CN, N02, trifluoromethyl, hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower halogenated alkoxy, CHCl2, CC13, CHF2, CC12F, or CClF and their optically active isomers. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 having the formulaEMI20.2 wherein A is 0 and B is O or S Y is C1, F or CF3 X isCl, CF3 or F Z is Cl, CN or NO2 R is H or lower alkyl having 1 to 3 carbon atoms and RÚ is CHm nRê wherein m is 1 or 2 n is O or an integer of from 1 to 4 and R2 is a group corresponding to one of the following formulae EMI21.1 wherein R3 is hydrogen or an aliphatic or alicyclic R4 is hydrogen, an aliphatic or alicyclic group, or a groap which in conjunction with R5 forms a 5 or 6 member heterocyclic ring e.g., NR R is pyrrolidyl, piperidyl or morpholinyl group , R6 is an alkyl or aryl group and M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal or a lower C1 C6 alkylsubstituted or unsubstituted ammonium group. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein Rê is a carboxylic acid group, an alkali or alkaline earth metal salt thereof, an amine salt thereof or a lower alkyl ester thereof. 4 A compound as claimed in claim 3 wherein B is 0 and n is O or 2. 5 A compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein Y is 5CF3 and X is 3 C1. 6. A compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein Z is N02. 7 A carpound as claimed in claim 6 wherein n is 0 andRê is COOC2H5. 8. A compound as claimed in claim 7 wherein A is O and D is ortho to A and B. 9, A compound as claimed in claim 8 wherein R is methyl. 10. A composition comprising a herbicidally effective amount of a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9. 11. A method of controlling undesired plant growth which comprises applying to the locus of the plants a herbicidally effective amount of a compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, or a composition as claimed in claim 10.

## Description
COMPOUNDS AND METHOD FOR SELECTIVELY CONTROLLING WEEDS IN THE PRESENCE OF VALUABLE CROPS This invention relates to novel compounds that are useful as selective herbicides to control undesired vegetation in the presence of valuable crops, thereby reducing the competition for water, sunlight and nutrients and increasing yields.More particularly, this invention provides novel compounds having herbicidal activity and which correspond to the formulaEMI1.1 wherein A and B are independently 0, S, NH or N alkyl D is N, which may be ortho, meta or para to B R is H, halogen or lower alkyl RÚ is a monovalent organic radical which may contain N, O or S atoms and X, Y and Z are independently halogen, CN, NO2, trifluoromethyl, hydrogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, lower halogenated alkoxy, CHCl2, CC13, CHF2, CCl2F,, CClF2 and their optically active isomers. The invention also relates to herbicldal compositions containing such compositions, methods of controlling undesired vegetaticn and methods of making such compounds. The process of this invention comprises reacting a compound having the formulaEMI2.1 with a compound of the formulaEMI2.2 wherein X, Y, A, D, B, Z, R and R1 are as above defined and W represents halogen, in the presence of a base. A A variety of herbicidal compounds containing substituted pyridyl and phenoxy moieties joined via a bivalent 0 or S are described in the art. For example, U.S. Patent Nos. 4,046,553 4,317,913 4,267,336 4,213,77z 4,324,627, 4,309,547 and 4,325,729 and U.S.Patent Application Serial Nos. 262,063 and 261,109, both filed July 30, 1980 Serial No. 817,943, filedJuly 22, 1977 and Serial No. 918,550, filed June 23, 1978, and European Patent Application 0004433 all describe such compounds. In general, the moieties bonded to the pendant 0 group of the phenoxy in the herbicidal compounds described in these references will also be suitable as the monovalent organic radical represented by EMI3.1 in the formula for the aforementioned novel compounds. Advantageously, R is a C1 C3 alkyl group andRÚ is CHm nRê wherein m is 1 or 2, n is an integer from 0 to 4 and R2is selected from moieties corresponding to one of the following formulae EMI3.2 EMI4.1 wherein R is hydrogen or an aliphatic or alicyclic moiety, R is hydrogen, an aliphatic or alicyclic S moiety, or a moiety which in conjunction with R forms a 5 or 6 member heterocyclic ring e.g., NR R is 6.pyrrolídyl, piperidyl or morpholinyl group , R is an alkyl or aryl moiety and M is an alkali or alkaline earth metal or a lower C C6 alkylsubstituted or unsubstituted ammonium moiety. R is preferably a carboxylic acid group, an alkali or alkaline earth metal salt thereof, an amine salt thereof or a lower alkyl ester thereof, wherein lower alkyl includes straight, branched or cyclic alkyl groups containing no more than 6 carbon atoms. Preferably, n is the integer 0 or 2. In the formula for the aforementioned novel compounds, X is preferably C1 or F, Y is preferablyCF3, A and B are preferably 0, and D is ortho to A andB. Most preferred are the compounds in which R is CH3 and R1 isEMI4.2 wherein R is H, methyl, ethyl, isobutyl or n butyl. The compounds of formula I are useful both as pre and postemergence herbicides. Preemergence herbicides are usually used to treat the soil in which a crop is to be planted, by application before or during seeding, or after seeding and before the crop emerges. Postemergence herbicides are applied after the crop plants have emerged from the soil. Compounds of formula I may be used as selective herbicides, preferably, preemergently, in a variety of crops including, for example, cotton, soya bean, peanuts, sugar beet, peas, wheat, barley and rice. They are preferably employed as preemergent selective herbicides in soybeans. They may also be used as total herbicides. They may be applied by any of the conventional techniques for applying herbicides.When applied as preemergence herbicides they may, for example, be sprayed on the surface of the soil before or during seeding, or after seeding and before emergence of the crop. In some situations, for example, in preemergence application to soya bean crops it may be advantageous to incorporate the compound of the invention into the soil before planting the crop. This may be done by applying the compound to the surface of the soil and thendiscing or harrowing the soil to mix the compound with the soil.Alternatively, use may be made of the applicators which have been developed for placing herbicides in a band beneath the surface of the soil. The compounds of formula I may be combined with selective herbicides to achieve broadspectrum weed control in crops, for example, crops of soybean, cotton and peas. Alternatively, the second herbicide component may be a nonselective herbicide chosen to enhance the power of the compound of formula I as a total herbicide. Examples of herbicides for use in admixture with compounds of formula I include, but are not restricted to, the following EMI6.1 where X Mj C1 or F, and R acid derivatives such as salts, esters, amides and the like The compounds employed in the method of the present invention are novel compounds and may be prepared using the requisite starting materials by the following illustrative methods.Example 1 Preparation of ethyl 2 6 chloro 3 nitro 2 pyridinyl oxypropanoate A mixture of 8.8 grams of 3 nitro 6 chloro 2 pyridinol, 9 grams of ethyl a bromopropionate and 6 grams of potassium carbonate was stirred in 50 ml of DMSO dimethylsulfoxide at ambient temperature for approximately 48 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with 1,1,1 trichloroethane. The extract was washed with water, dried and concentrated to a brown oil which was distilled via Kugelrohr affording a yellow liquid, b.p. 135 140 C 2 mm pressure absolute.The liquid solidified on standing. The solid was recrystallized from hexane affording 5 grams of a yellow solid, m.p. 520 550C. It was shown to be the desired product by NMR Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Analysis C1OH11C1N205 C H N Calcd 43.72 4.01 10.2 Found 43.29 3.95 10.11Example 2 Preparation of ethyl 2 6 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy 3 nitro 2 pyridinyl oxy propionate A mixture of the sodium salt of 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethyl phenol, which was prepared from 2.5 grams 14 millimoles of the phenol and 0.75 gram of 50 percent NaH dispersed in paraffin, and 3.5 grams 12.75 millimoles of ethyl 2 6 chloro 3 nitro 2 pyridinyl oxypropionate in 50 ml of DMSO was stirred at room temperature for two hours. Water was added and the resulting mixture extracted with l,1,1 trichloroethane. The extract was washed with water, dried over anhydrousMgS04 and concentrated under vacuo to give a yellow oil which solidified on trituration with hexane. The liquid was removed by filtration giving 2.1 g of white crystalline solid, m.p. 790 810C, which was characterized as the desired product by NMR Nuclear Magnetic Resonance andIR infra red .Analysis C17H14C1F3N206 C H N Calcd 46.95 3.22 6.44 Found 46.92 3.25 6.55 Employing the above procedures and methods analogous to those in the described prior art and utilizing the appropriate starting materials, the following compounds were prepared EMI8.1 tb SEP Physical tb R SEP R SEP X SEP Y SEP Z SEP A SEP ProDerties tb R SEP R tb CH3 SEP COMH SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP O SEP 117 1190C tb CH3 SEP CONHC1 SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 139 l450C tb CH3 SEP CO ND SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 13ji 1320C tb SEP Me tb CH3 SEP CO N SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP SEP 129 131 tb CM SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 129 1310C tb CH3 SEP COO CH2 2OCH3 SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP O SEP n25 SEP 1.5260 tb SEP 25 tb CH3 SEP CO2 SEP n butyl SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP O SEP 1 SEP 5222 tb CH3 SEP COO SEP 3 SEP N02 SEP O SEP 119 120 C tb CH3 SEP CO SEP n hexyl SEP C1 SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP O SEP 25 SEP 1.5170 tb SEP nD tb CH3 SEP COOCl SEP Cl SEP CF3 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 125 1260C tb CH3 SEP COOCM2 SEP Cl SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP O SEP 25 SEP 1.5598 tb SEP nD tb CH3 SEP CO2Et SEP NO SEP Cl SEP NO SEP 0 SEP 117 1190C tb CH3 SEP CO SEP Et SEP 2 SEP 2 tb CH3 SEP CO2Et SEP Cl SEP 2 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 91.5 94 C tb CH3 SEP CO2Et SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP NO2 SEP 0 SEP 84.5 89.50C tb M.P. unless otherwise indicated. Employing the above procedures and methods analogous to those in the described prior art and utilizing the appropriate starting materials, the following compounds may be prepared EMI8.2 R RÚ X Y Z B 1 H CH3 Cl CF3 NO2 O 2 H CH3 F CF3 NO2 O 3 H CH3 Cl Cl NO2 O 4 H CO2H Cl CF3 NO2 O 5 H CO2H F CF3 NO2 O 6 CH3 CO2H Cl CF3 NO2 O 7 CH3 CO2CH3 F CF3 NO2 O 8 CH3 CO2Na Cl CF3 NO2 O 9 CH3 CO2Et Cl CF3 Cl O 10 CH3 CO2Et Cl CF3 CN O 11 CH3 OEt F CF3 NO2 O 12 CH3 OEt Cl CF3 Cl O 13 F F Cl CF3 NO2 O 14 F CHF2 Cl CF3 NO2 O 15 F CHCl2 Cl CF3 NO2 O 16 Cl CHCl2 Cl CF3 NO2 O 17 H CN Cl CF3 NO2 O 18 CH3 CN Cl CF3 NO2 O 19 CH3 CONH2 Cl CF3 NO2 O 20 CH3 CO2iBu F CF3 CN O 21 H CH3 Cl CF3 NO2 S 22 H C3H7 Cl CF3 Cl S 23 CH3 CO2H Cl CF3 NO2 S 24 CH3 CO2Na Cl CF3 NO2 S 25 CH3 CO2Et Cl CF3 NO2 S 26 H CO2Me Cl CF3 NO2 S 27 H CO2Bu Cl Cl CN S 28 CH3 CH2OMe Cl Cl NO2 S The compounds utilized in the method of the present invention provide selective control of broad leaved weeas in valuable crops and give particular and advantageous selective postemergent control of such weeds. For such uses, unmodified active ingredients of the present invention can be employed. However, the present invention embraces the use of the compounds in composition form with an inert material known in the art as an agricultural adjuvant or carrier in solid or liquid form. Thus, for example, an active ingredient can be dispersed on a finely divided solid and employed therein as a dust or granule. Also, the active ingredients, as liquid concentrates or solid compositions comprising one or more of the active ingredients can be dispersed in water, typically with aid of a wetting agent, and the resulting aqueous dispersion employed as a spray.In other procedures, the active ingredients can be employed as a constituent of organic liquid compositions, oil in water and water in oil emulsions or water disper sions, with or without the addition of wetting, dispersing, or emulsifying agents. Suitable adjuvants of the foregoing type are well known to those skilled in the art. The concentration of the active ingredients in solid or liquid compositions generally is from 0.0003 to 95 percent by weight or more. Concentrations from 0.05 to 50 percent by weight are often employed.In compositions to be employed as concentrates, the active ingredient can be present in a concentration from 5 to 98 weight percent. The active ingredient compositions can also contain other compatible additaments, for example, phytotoxicants, plant growth regulants and other biologically active compounds used in agriculture. In further embodiments, the compounds of the present invention or compositions containing the same, can be advantageously employed in combination with one or more additional pesticidal compounds. Such additional pesticidal compounds may be insecticides, nematocides, arthropodicides, herbicides, fungicides or bactericides that are compatible with the compounds of the present invention in the medium selected for application and not antagonistic to the activity of the present compounds.Accordingly, in such embodiments, the pesticidal compound is employed as a supplemental toxicant for the same or for a different pesticidal use or as an additament.The compounds in combination can generally be present in the ratio of from 1 to 100 parts of the compound of the present invention with from 100 to 1 parts of the additional compqund s . The exact rate to be applied is dependent not only on a specific active ingredient being applied, but also on a particular action desired, the plant species to be modified and the stage of growth thereof as well as the part of the plant to be contacted with the toxic active ingredient. Thus, all of the active ingredients of the present invention and compositions containing the same may not be equally effective at similar concentrations or against the same plant species. In selective postemergent operations a dosage of 0.01 to 20 pounds acre 0.0112 2.24 kg hectare is generally applicable, although not all compounds are equally effective and some weeds are more difficult to control. The following example illustrates the effects of the compounds of this invention. Example 3 In representative cperations, each compound to be utilized in a series of tests is dissolved in acetone to one half of the final volume twice the final concentration to be used and the acetone solution in each case is admixed with an equal volume of water containing 0.1 percent by weight of surface active material. The compositions, generally in the nature of an emulsion, were employed to spray separate respective plant species which had been grown to a 2 4 leaf stage in soil of good nutrient content in a greenhouse. Sufficient amounts were employed to provide various application rates as listed in the table. The various beds were positioned side by side and exposed to substantIally identical conditions of temperature and light. Each bed was maintained so as to prevent any interaction with test compounds in different seed beds. Other plants were left untreated to serve as controls. After treatment, the plants were maintained for about two weeks under greenhouse conditions conducive for good plant growth and watered as necessary.The specific plant species, test compound and dosage and the percent postemergent control obtained are set forth in Table I below. Control refers to the reduction in growth compared to the observed results of the same untreated specie. Plant species in these tests were Common Name Scientific Name Soybeans Glycine max Morning Glory Ipomoea sPp. Velvet Leaf Abutilon theophrasti Jimson Weed Datura stramonium Pigweed Amaranthus Stud. TABLE IPOSTEMERGENT CONTROL OF PLANT SPECIES EMI13.1 EMI13.2 SEP Percent SEP Control SEP At SEP Indicated tb Compound SEP Application SEP Rates SEP ppm tb Y SEP X SEP RÚ SEP Plant SEP Species SEP 500 SEP 250 SEP 125 SEP 62.5 SEP 31.25 SEP 15.6 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2C2H5 SEP Soybeans SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 30 SEP 20 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 99 SEP 80 SEP 25 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP NT SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP NT SEP 15 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP NT SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP NT SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb NT SEP SEP Not SEP Tested tb TABLE I Continued EMI14.1 SEP Percent SEP Control SEP At SEP Indicated tb Compound SEP Application SEP Rates SEP ppm tb Y SEP X SEP RÚ SEP Plant SEP Species SEP 500 SEP 250 SEP 125 SEP 62.5 SEP 31.25 SEP 15.6 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP Inactive SEP at SEP 1000 SEP ppm tb SEP Morning SEP Glory tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed tb SEP Pigweed tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 55 SEP 35 SEP 40 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP 50 SEP 35 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 30 SEP 15 SEP 20 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 70 SEP 50 SEP 35 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP 15 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 50 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2C2H5 SEP Soybeans SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP 10 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 25 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 25 SEP 10 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 20 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb TABLE I Continued EMI15.1 SEP Percent SEP Control SEP At SEP Indicated tb Compound SEP Application SEP Rates SEP ppm tb Y SEP X SEP RÚ SEP Plant SEP Species SEP 500 SEP 250 SEP 125 SEP 62.5 SEP 31.25 SEP 15.6 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2C6H13 SEP Soybeans SEP NT SEP 60 SEP 55 SEP 50 SEP 25 SEP 10 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP NT SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 40 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 80 SEP 10 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 tb SEP Pigweed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2C2H4OCH3 SEP Soybeans SEP NT SEP 90 SEP 60 SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 30 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb SEP Pigweed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2 SEP n butyl SEP Soybeans SEP NT SEP 70 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 25 SEP 15 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP NT SEP 50 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 15 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 tb SEP Pigweed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP NT SEP 65 SEP 55 SEP 40 SEP 30 SEP 20 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP NT SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 50 SEP 20 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 50 tb SEP Pigweed SEP NT SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 80 tb TABLE I Continued EMI16.1 SEP Percent SEP Control SEP At SEP Indicated tb Compound SEP Application SEP Rates SEP ppm tb Y SEP X SEP RÚ SEP Plant SEP Species SEP 500 SEP 250 SEP 125 SEP 62.5 SEP 31.25 SEP 15.6 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP 90 SEP 65 SEP 35 SEP 30 SEP 20 SEP 15 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 95 SEP 85 SEP 70 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 70 SEP 70 SEP 50 SEP 15 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 85 SEP 80 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP 75 SEP 75 SEP 60 SEP 30 SEP 25 SEP 10 tb SEP Morning SEP Glory SEP 25 SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 99 SEP 95 SEP 80 SEP 75 SEP 20 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 95 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 20 SEP 20 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 SEP 70 tb Example 4 In a representative operation each compound to be utilized in a series of tests is dissolved in acetone to 1 2 the final volume to be used and the acetone solution in each case is then admixed with an equal volume of water containing 0.1 percent by weight of TWEENY 20 surfactant, a commercially available product from Atlas Chemical Company. Each compound is an active compound of Formula I. The compositions, generally in the nature of an emulsion, are employed to treat separate respective seed beds of agricultural soil of good nutrient content wherein each seed bed contains separate groups of good, viable seeds. The various beds are positioned side by side and exposed to substantially identical conditions of temperature and light. Each bed is maintained so as to prevent any interaction with test compounds in different seed beds. Each seed bed is treated with one of the compositions as a spray applied uniformly throughout the surface of the bed using predetermined amounts of a given test compound. The compositions are applied so that respectively different seed beds are treated with one of each of the test compounds.Another seed bed is treated only with water to serve as a control After treatment, the seed beds are maintained for three weeks under greenhouse conditions conducive for good plant growth and watered as necessary. The specific plant species, test compound and dosage and the percent control obtained are set forth in Table II below. Percent control refers to the reduction in growth compared to the observed results of the controls. TABLE IIPREEMERGENT CONTROL OF PLANT SPECIES EMI18.1 Percent Control At IndicatedCompound Application Rates lbs acre Y X RÚ Plant Species 0.1 0.5 0.25 0.125CF3 Cl CO2C2H5 Soybeans 0 0 0 0 Velvet Leaf 100 100 100 100 Jimson Weed 100 100 100 100 Pigweed 100 100 100 100 Yellow Foxtail 100 100 30 10CF3 Cl CO2C2H5 Soybeans 0 0 0 0 Velvet Leaf 100 100 70 20 Jimson Weed 100 30 10 0 Pigweed 100 100 30 0NT Not Tested Table II Continued EMI19.1 SEP Percent SEP Control SEP At SEP Indicated tb Compound SEP Application SEP Rates SEP lbs acre tb Y SEP X SEP RÚ SEP Plant SEP Species SEP 0.1 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.25 SEP 0.125 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2C6H13 SEP Soybeans SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 70 SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2 C2H4 OCH3 SEP Soybeans SEP 20 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 100 SEP 70 SEP 30 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 80 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP CO2 SEP n butyl SEP Soybeans SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP NT SEP NT SEP NT SEP NT tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 100 SEP 60 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 90 SEP 30 tb CF3 SEP Cl SEP SEP Soybeans SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Velvet SEP Leaf SEP 90 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Jimson SEP Weed SEP 50 SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP Pigweed SEP 30 SEP NT SEP 0 SEP 0 tb