# Draw ironed metal vessel having circumferential side seam.

## Abstract
Disclosed is a draw ironed metal vessel having a cir cumferential side seam 5 , which is formed by lap bonding of open end portions 3, 4 of upper and lower members 2, 1 , each consisting of a seamless molded metal cup, wherein the side wall of at least one of said upper and lower 2, 1 members is formed by draw ironing a tin plated steel plate at an ironing ratio of at least 20 and a spout 10 having a diameter smaller than that of the side wall of the vessel is formed on the top wall 9 of the upper member 2 .

## Claims
CLAIMS l. A draw ironed metal vessel having a circumferential side seam, which is formed by lap bonding of open end portions of upper and lower members, each consisting of a seamess molded metal cup, wherein the side wall of at least one of said upper and lower members is formed by draw ironing a tin plated steel plate at an ironing ratio of at least 20 and a spout having a diameter smaller than that of the side wall of the vessel is formed on the top wall of the upper member. 2. A metal vessel as set forth in claim 1, wherein the open end portion of the seamless cup formed by drawironing is located on the inner side of the circumferential side seam. 3. A metal vessel as set forth in claim 2, wherein said seamless cup, inclusive of the edge of the open end portion, is subjected o a surface treatment with a phosphate and or a chromate. 4. A metal vessel as set forth In claim 2, wherein the open end portion of said seamless cup is subjected to a necking in processing so that the diameter thereof is smaller than that of the barrel wall portion. 5. A metal vessel as set forth in claim 2, wherein said seamless cup is the lower member. 6. A metal cesse as set forth in claim i, wherein the open end portions of the upper and lower members are bonded together througn a heat melt bondable resin adhesive.

## Description
DRAW IRONED METAL VESSEL HAVING CIRCUMFERENTIAL SIDE SEAM The present invention relates to a draw ironed metal vessel having a circumferential side seam. More particularly, the present invention relates to a novel drawironed metal vessel excellent in the combination of the pressure resistance, the light weight characteristics and the shock resistance. So called draw ironed cans are widely used for contents having a spontaneous pressure, such as beer and carbonated drinks. These draw ironed cans are prepared by draw forming a metal blank punched in a disc or the like between a drawing punch and a drawing die to form a cup and ironing the side wall of the formed cup between an ironing punch and an ironing die to reduce the thickness of the side wall. In a draw ironed can, reduction of the side wall of the vessel is preferred for reducing the weight per unit volume of the can and decreasing the cost of the metal blank necessary for the production of the can. However, this requirement has not completely been satisfied because various limitations are placed on the production of cans. For example, when the thickness of the side of a can body is reduced, the buckling strength should naturally be reduced. When a can end is doubleseamed to a can body, the axial load to be applied to the can body by a couble searer is 120 to 200 Kg, and if the thickness of the side wall portion is reduced below a certain limit, double seaming of a can end becomes difficult. The structurally weakest portion of a draw ironed can is the portion double seamed to a can end, and when the can receives shocks on falling or the like, this portion is broken or leakage is caused in this portion. It is a primary object of the present invention to provide a draw ironed metal vessel of a tin plated steel plate which is quite different from conventional drawironed cans in the structure and vessel characteristics. Another object of the present invention is to provide a draw ironed metal vessel of a tin plated steel plate in which there is not a portion double seamed to an end and the sole seam present in the vessel is a circumferential side seam formed by lap bonding of open end portions of two confronting seamless cups. Still another object of the present invention is to provide a draw ironed metal vessel of a tin plated steel plate, which has a smaller thickness of the side wall portion than in the conventional draw ironed tin plated steel plate cans and is excellent in the light weight characteristic, the pressure revs stance and zhe shock resistance and which zan easily be disposed of because cf a igk easy crushability. A furter object of t ne present inverton is to provide a draw ironed metal vessel formed by draw ironing of a tin plated steel plate, which has a circumferential side seam excellent in the bonding property and in which the adhesion of a coating is hIgh. More specifically, in accordance with the present invention, there is provided a draw ironed metal vessel having a circumferential side seam, which is formed by lap bonding of open end portions of upper and lower members, each consisting of a seamless molded metal cup, wherein the side wall of at least one of said upper and lower members is formed by draw ironing a tin plated steel plate at an ironing ratio of at least 20 and a spout having a diameter smaller than that of the side wall of the vessel is formed on the top wall of the upper member. The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a sectional view illustrating a most preferred embodiment of the draw ironed metal vessel according to the present invention. Fig. 2 is a view illustrating an embodiment of the draw ironed metal vessel according to the present invention, in which the upper member is draw ironed. Fig. 3 is a view illustrating an embodiment of the draw ironed metal vessel according to the present inner tion, in wch both the upper and lower members are draw ironed. Figs. and 5 are enlarged partial sectional views illustrating another preferred embodiments of the draw ironed metal vessel according to the present invention Referring to Fig. 1 illustrating a most preferred embodiment of the present invention, a draw ironed metal vessel comprises a lower member 1 formed of a seamless molded cup of a tin plated steel plate and an upper member 2 formed of a seamless molded cup of a metal. These molded cups are integrated in the form of a vessel by lap bonding open end portions 3 and 4 to form a circumferential side seam 5. In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 1, the lower member 1 comprises a tall thin side wall portion 6 formed by deeply draw ironing a tinplate blank and a thick bottom portion 7 which is not substantially ironed. The upper member 2 comprises a short side wall 8 formed by shallow drawing of a tinplate blank and a top wall 9. The height of the side wall portion 8 of the upper member 2 is equai to or slightly larger than the width of the seam 5.The top wall 9 of the upper member 2 has a convex taper face, and a spout 10 for charging and discharging the content is formed at the center of the top wall 9. As is apparent from the foregoing description, the upper member 2 is bonded in the for of a shoulder and neck of a so called bottle to the lower member l. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, the open end portion 3 of the lower member 1 is drawn by necking in of the adjoining portion so that the diameter is smaller than that of the other barrel wall portion, and the open end portion 3 is fitted and inserted in an open end portion 4 of the upper member 2 having a larger diameter. An adhesive layer 11 is formed between the outer surface of the open end portion 5 of the lower member and the inner surface of the open end portion 4 of the upper member to effect bonding and integration of the upper and lower members. From the viewpoint of the corrosion resistance, it is preferred that a part of the adhesive 11 be protruded from the seam 5 to form a coating layer 13 for a cut edge 12 of the tinplate blank located on the inner side of the seam. In the present invention, the side wall 6 of the lower member constituting a main part of the barrel portion of the vessel is ironed so that the ironing ratio RI defined by the following formula EMI5.1 wherein T3 stands for the thickness of the bottom of the molded cup Tw stands for the thickness of the side wall of the molded cup, is at least 20 m0, preferably 50 to 80 , . The tinplate vessel of the present invention is characterized in that, as pointed out hereinbefore, the side wall constituting a m.ai n part of the barrel portion of the vessel is highly ironed and the thickness is reduced, the sole seam present in the vessel is a circurr ferential side seam, and this seam is formed by lap bonding. More specifically, in the tinplate vessel of the present invention, there is not present a double seam portion and the spout is sealed by a cap or plug. Accortingly, even in the case where the thickness of the side wall of the vessel is extremely reduced, the buckling tendency is obviated at the sealing step. At the commercial capping operation, the axial load applied to the vessel barrel is in the range of 50 to 100 Kg and is smaller than about 1 2 of the axial load applied at the doubleseaming step. Therefore, the buckling tendency is considerably reduced as compared with the case of double seaming. Furthermore, the circumferential side seam present in the tinplate vessel of the present invention is formed by lap bonding having a high resistance against a load applied in the axial direction. Accordingly, te structure of the vessel of the present invention is highly resistant to pressures or shocks. In case of double seaming, bonding by folding lock seaming or butt bonding, if the thickness of the blank is small, the blank constituting the seam is first deformed by the load applied to the seam, and because of this deformation, leakage at the seam or breakage of the seam is caused under a relatively small load.In contrast, In case Ol lap bonaing, even if the thickness of the blank constituting the seam is small, the above mentioned deformation of the blank is not caused, and the seam can resist a force of up to a shear strength of the seam, which is irrelevant to the thickness of the blank. Moreover, since the thickness of the main portion of the barrel of the tinplate vessel is reduced by high ironing, the weight of the vessel per unit volume is drastically reduced and the material metal cost can be lowered. Further, in the barrel portion of the vessel of the present invention, a fresh metal face is exposed to the autside by high ironing, and therefore, the adhesion to a protecting paint and the adhesion to an adhesive used for formation of a seam are highly improved. This is another advantage attained by the present invention. As the tinplate blank for formation of the vessel of the present invention, tinplate having tin deposited in an amount of 0.1 to 1.0 lb B.B. on one surface is preferably used. The deposited tin layer may be one subjected to a remelting treatment reflow plate or bright plate , or It may not be subjected to this treatment non reflow late or matt plate . Among various metal blanks, a tinplate blank is relatively difficult to bond by an adhesive. In a tin plate blank, a tin oxide layer should naturally be formed in the surface portion of the deposited tin layer.This tin oxide layer is poor in the mechanical strength and is britz e. Accordingly, it is believed tflat in a vessel formed by bonding such tinplate y an adhesive, the tin oxide layer present in the bonding interface is readily peeled, resulting in drastic reduction of the bonding strength. In contrast, in the present invention, since the side wall portion of the upper or lower member, to be formed into a circumferential seam, is subjected to a drawing processing or a high ironing processing, peeling of the tin oxide layer and exposure of a fresh metal surface are effected, and therefore, the adhesion or bonding property to an adhesive or primer is highly improved. For formation of a draw ironed cup, a tinplate blank such as mentioned above is punched into a disc or the like and is subjected to one stage or multi stage drawing between a drawing punch and a drawing die, and multistage ironing is carried out between an ironing punch and an ironing die. Drawing and iron conditions are known, and drawing and ironing can be accomplished very easily according to known procedures while controlling the ironing ratio in the above mentioned range. It is preferred that the thickness of the tinplate blank to be processed be 0.2 to 0.5 mm, especially 0.2 to 0.35 inm, though the preferred thickness is varied more or less according to the size of the final vessel, and it also is preferred that the thickness Tw of the side wall portion formed by ironing be 0.05 to 0.20 mm, especially 0.06 to 0.17 mm, while the ironing ratio is n the above mentioned range. If the roning ratio of the open end portion of th up to b su jected to a necking in treatment is lower by 5 to 30 than the ironing ratio of the other side wall portion, this portion is advantageously prevented from being damaged at the necking step. For this purpose, there may be adopted a method in which the ironing operation is perforned in at least three stages while gradually narrowing the clearance between a punch and a die and the open end portion is prevented from being ironed at the ironing step of the final stage. The operation of necking in the draw ironed cup is carried out so that the upper and lower members come to have such sizes that they are precisely fitted together.In the present invention, if the outer diameter rI of the open end portion to be located on the inner side of the circumferential lap bonding to be formed, the inner diameter r0 of the other open end portion to be located on the outer side of the circumferential lap bonding and the thickness dA of the adhesive layer to be interposed between both the open end portions are selected so that the relation of rO rI dA is established, both the open end portions always press the adhesive layer and tight bonding and assured sealing at the seam become possible. The draw ironed molded cup is subjected to trimming and after washing if necessary, the cup is subjected to a surface chemical treatment with a phosphate and or a chromate. Then, an anti corrosive protecting varnish is applied to at least the Inner surface of the cur. The phosphate and or chromate treatment may be sucn thatP and or r is deposited in an amcunt of 1 to 2. mg m2 as the atom on the surface cf the deposited tin layer.In the present invention, by this surface chemical treatment of the draw ironed molded cup, the edge of the open end portion of the cup should naturally be treated, and even if this open end portion is located on the inner side of the seam and exposed to the packed content, it shows a high corrosion resistance. Moreover, the adhesion to an adhesive is improved and also the adhesion of a paint or resin coating to be applied later is improved. As the protecting varnish, there can be used optional paints comprising thermosettlng and thermoplastic resins, for example, modified epoxy paints such as phenol epoxy paints and arftno epoxy paints, vinyl and modified vinyl paints such as vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer paints, saponified vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer paints, vinyl chloride vinyl acetate maleic anhydride copolymer paints, epoxy modified epoxyamino modified vinyl resin paints and epoxy modified epoxyphenol modified vinyl resin paints, acrylic resin paints, and synthetic rubber paints such as styrene butadiene copolymer paints. These paints are applied in the form of an organic solvent solution such as a lacquer or enamel or an aqueous dispersion or solution by spray coating, dip coating, electrostatiz coating cr electrophoretic coating. Of course, when a thermosetting resin paint is used, the coating is baked according to need. one sasL wy drawn cur as the Wiper member is formed by shallowly rawing a metal blank, to which a varnish as mentioned above has been applied in advance, by using a pressing mold or a combination of a drawing punch and a drawing die. Then, the top wall of the formed cup is punched to form an upper member having a pouring mouth. Lap bonding of the upper and lower members is advantageously accomplished by using an adhesive. At this bonding step, an adhesive is applied to at least one of the open end portio.ns of the lower and upper members to be bonded and both the open end portions are fitted together. Any of adhesives composed of a heat fusion bondable thermoplastic resin can optionally be used as the adhesive in the present invention. An adhesive resin having a melting or softening point of 130 to 2400C is especially preferred. As preferred examples of the adhesive, there can be mentioned nylon type adhesives such as nylon 13, nylon 12, nylon ll, nylon 6,12 and copolyamldes and blends thereof, polyester adhesives such as polyethylene terephthalate isophthalate and polytetramethylene terephthalate isophthalate, and olefin adhesives such as an acid modified olefin resin, an ethylene acrylic acid ester copolymer, an ion crosslinked olefin copolymer ionomer and an ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer. The adhesive is applied in the form of a film, powder, dispersion or solution to each of the open end portions to be naed te form a heat bondable adhesive layer uniformly alon tnt entire circu.,ferenze of the open en portion When both the upper and lower members are fitted together, the open end portion to be located on the outer side of the seam is heated to increase the diameter or the open end portion to be located on the inner side of the seam is cooled to diminish the diameter, whereby the fitting of both the members is facilitated.If this means is adopted, the fitting can easily be accomplished even when the relation represented by the above mentioned inequality is established among the outer diameter of the inner end edge, the inner diameter of the outer end edge and thebthickness of the adhesive layer. After the fitting operation, the seam is heated to fuse the adhesive layer, and the seam is cooled to effect bonding and sealing on the seam. Since the adhesive layer is fused at this step in the state where the adhesive layer is pressed in both the end edge portions, bonding and sealing on the seam can be accomplished completely.Heating of the seam is advantageously perforined by high frequency Induction heating. In the metal vessel of the present invention, various modifications may be made to the foregoing embodiment. For example, although the side wall portion of the lower member is highly drawn in the foregoing embodiment, there may be adopted a modification shown in Fig. 2 in which the upper member 2a is a draw ironed cup comprising a tal thin side wall portion ea formed by highly draw iro. ntz a metal blank and a thick top wall 9a which is not substantially ironed and the lower member la is a shallowly drawn cup comprising a short side wall 6a formed by shallowly drawing a metal blank and a bottom wall 7a. Furthermore, there may be adopted an embodiment shown in Fig. 3 in which the lower member 1 is a drawironed cup as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, the upper member 2b is a draw ironed cup comprising a tall thin side wall portion 8b formed by highly draw ironing a metal blank and a thick top wall 9b which is not substantially ironed, and the open end portions of both the draw ironed cups are lap bonded. According to this embodiment, there is provided a tall metal vessel in which the thickness of the entire side wall portion is reduced by ironing of a high ratio. Although the lower open end portion of the upper member is located on the outer side of the seam and the upper open end portion of the lower member is located on the inner side of the seam in the foregoing embodiments shown in Figs. 1 through 3, there may be adopted a modification shown in Fig. 4 in which the lower open end portion 4 of the upper member 2 is located on the inner side cf the seam and the upper end portion 3 of the lower member 1 is located on the outer side of the sem. The vessel of the present invention is valuable as a vessel for a content having a spontaneous pressure such as a carbonates rInk, beer or blown liquor or as an inner pressure vessel in which a content is paskea together with nitrogen gas or liquefied nitrogen. The vessel of the present invention is advantageous over a similar can formed of aluminum in that the rigidity is high and the vessel is excellent in the shape retaining property and the deformation resistance. The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the following Examples that by no means limit the scope of the invention. Example 1 A bright tinplate temper of T 2 tin coating weight of num 50 50 having a thickness of 0.50 mm was punched into a disc having a diameter of 120 mm, and the disc was formed into a cup having an inner diameter of 85 mm between a drawing punch and a drawing die according to customary procedures. The cup was subjected to re drawing and was then ironed at an ironing ratio of 65.0 by an ironing punch having a diameter of 65.3 mm and an ironing die. Then, the so formed lower member was subjected to panelling and necking in by using known means. The dimensions and physical values of the lower member were as follcws. Thickness TB of bottom 0.50 mm Thickness Tw of side wall 0.105 mm . 5 value lnner diameter of si e wall 65.3 mm Outer diameter of side wall 65.51 m Height of lower member 110 mm Outer diameter of neck portion 64.95 mm The inner and outer surfaces of the resulting lower member were degreased and washed, and the lower member was subjected to a phosphate treatment 4 mg m2 of P as the atom was deposited on the tin plated surface .Then, a white coat composed of a modified acrylic resin was applied to the outer surface of the lower member except an area of a width of about 5 mm from the open end portion, and the outer surface of the lower member was printed. Then, an epoxy ester type finish varnish was applied to the entire outer surface inclusive of the open end portion and was baked. Then, an epoxy urea type paint was applied to the inner surface of the lower member and was baked. Then, a thermoplastic organic adhesive was applied to a circumferential portion having a width of about 5 mm from the open end portion in the lower member according to customary procedures. Separately, a bright tinpiate temper of T l tin coating weight of num 50 50 having a thickness of 0.23 mm, on both the surfaces of which an epoxy ester type paint had been coated and baked in advance, was punched into a disc having a diameter of 90 mm ana was then press farmed according to customary procedures. Finally, a liquid spout was formed on the resulting upper member. The upper erber was fitted with the lower temper to whicn the adhesive had been applied in the circumferential form. and they were heated at about 220 to Is the adhesive and were then cooled to effect bonding and form a metal vessel. The dimensions and physical values of the metal vessel comprising the upper and lower members were as follows. Height of vessel 128 129 mm Outer diameter of lower member 65.51 mm Outer diameter of upper member 65.49 mm Length of fitted portion 5 6 mm Weight of vessel 39 40 g The metal vessel was cold packed with A cola, B beer or C artificial carbonated drink, and the spout was seale. Then, the packed vessel was heat sterilized under conditions shown in Table 1. Table 1 Content Sterilizing Tempera Spontaneous Pressure Apparatus ture C Kg cmê can warmer L2 7.0 B pasteurizer 62 6.2 C can warmer 42 o.C In each of these three packed vessels, peeling or leakage in the circumferential seam was not caused during the above mentioned treatment. These packed vessels were contained in a carton case 0 can case and were subjected to the vitration test and drop test, deformation, breakage or leakare in the onied portion between the upper ani lower memter was b erve at a . Example 2 A draw ironed metal vessel having a circumferentIal side seam was prepared in the same manner as describes in Example 1 except that a bright tinpiate having a thickness of 0.27 mm was used and the ironing ratio RI of the side wall portion of the lower member was changed to 72.2 .Example 3 A draw ironed metal vessel was prepared in the same manner as described in Example 2 except that a bright tinplate having a thickness of 0.20 mm was used and the ironing ratio RI of the side wall portion of the lower member was changed to 75 .Comparative Examples 1 through 3 In Comparative Example 1, a metal vessel was prepared in the same anner as described in Example 1 except that a drawn lower member was formed by su ecting a brIght tin deposited steel plate temper of T 2 tin coating weight of e0 50 having a thickness of 0.20 mm to drawing and re drawing according to customary procedures. In Somparative Example 2 and 5, drawn lower members were prepared in the same manner as described above except that the blank thickness was changed to 0.10 mm and 0.075 mm, respectively. In the sate manner as described In Example 1, these three comparative metal vessels were packed with the content and sterilized under the conditions shown in able . In all of these three metal vessels, peelin and leakage in the circumferential seam were caused during the treatment. When these metal vessels were subjected to the vibration test and falling test, deformation or breakage of the bonded portion between the upper and lower members was caused and leakage was observed. The buckling strength, hardness and bonding strength were determined with respect to each of the metal vessels obtained in Examples 1 through 3 and Comparative Examples 1 through 5 The obtained results are shown in Table 2.Comparative Example 4 A metal vessel was prepared in the same manner as described in Example 1 except that the phosphate treatment was not carried ot. The bonding strength of the metal vessel was measured. The cbtained results are shown inTable 2. Table 2 Lower Thickness Buckling Hardness Bonding ember mm of Strength Hr 30 Strength Side Wall Kg Kg cm Example l ironed O.i05 250 85 88 4.3Example 2 ironed 0.375 180 87 90 3.6Example 3 ironed 0.050 120 87 90 2.4Comparative drawn 0.200 240 70 72 0.8Example 1Comparative drawn 0.190 140 69 72 0.4Example 2Comparative drawn 0.075 60 70 71 0.1Example 3Comparative ironed 0.105 250 85 88 1.3Example 4 From the results shown in Table 2, it will readily be understood that the metal vessels of Examples 1 through 3 prepared by ironing the lower member and fittin it with the upper member according to te present invention were improved over the metal vessels ofComparative Examples 1 through S prepares according to the conventional draw forming method in the buckling strength and the bonding strength of the bonded portion, though the thickness of the side wall in me vessels of the present invention was smaller than n tne comparative vessels.Example etal vessels were prepare in the a e manne a of the lower member, represented b the following formula EMI20.1 was set at 5 points in the range of from 10 to 80 ,g and the T3 value was adjusted so that the TW value was finally equal. The buckling strength and the bonding strength were determined with respect to each of the so obtained five metal vessels. The obtained results are shown in Table 3. Table 3Ironing Ratio Buckling Tensile Bonding of Lower Strength Strength Strength kg cm Member K2 Kg cm2 80 270 74 4.7 60 230 68 4.0 40 210 55 3.6 20 180 47 3.1 10 1D3 45 0.9 From the results shown in Table 3, it will readily be understood that if the lower member is ironed according to the present invention, the buckling strength and bonding strength are remarkably improved.