# Semiconductor pressure transducer.

## Abstract
The transducer is formed from a single crystal semi conductor chip 10 of square shape and having piezoresis tive stress sensors 12, 13, 16, 17 located in diaphragm region of the chip. The sensors are positioned on the chip along axis which subtend an angle ϑ with the edges of the chip to reduce the effects of zero shift signals, ϑ being in the range 15 to 30 , preferably 22.5 where one axis is parallel to the 110 crystal direction of the chip.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A semiconductor pressure transducer comprising a single crystal semiconductor chip 10 having at least one rectilinear edge and having at least one sensor 12, 13, 16, 17 disposed on the chip, the or each sen sor having a piezoresistive characteristic whereby the resistance of the or each sensor changes in response to stresses induced in the chip, characterized in that the or each sensor is disposed at an angle e with re spect to said rectilinear edge whereby to reduce the effects of zero shift signals. 2. The transducer of Claim 1, characterized in that the angle 6 in in the range 150 to 300, preferably 22.50. 3. The transducer of Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that one pair of sensors 16, 17 is positioned on the chip along an axis which is parallel to the 110 crystal direction of the chip. 4. The transducer of Claim 3, characterized in that anoth er pair of sensors 12, 13 is positioned on the chip along an axis at right angles to the first mentioned axis. 5. The transducer of Claim 4, characterized in that said one pair are circumferential stress sensors and said another pair are radial stress sensors. 6. The transducer of any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the chip is of square shape, in that a cavity 21 is formed in the chip to provide a diaphragm region in which the sensors are located, and in that a cylindrical tube 23 is bonded to a side of the chip remote from the sensors.

## Description
SEMICONDUCTOR PRESSURE TRANSDUCER This invention relates to semiconductor pressure transducers. Semiconductor pressure transducers known in the prior art employ a diaphragm responsive to the pressure differential across the two surfaces thereof. The diaphragm is formed of a single crystal semiconductor chip having stress sensors disposed on one surface thereof. Stress sensors which are widely used for this purpose exhibit a piezoresistive characteristic, whereby the resistance of the sensor varies with the stress experienced by the sensor as the stress in the chip changes with the differential pressure.A circular cavity is formed in the other surface of the chip to form the diaphragm, and a cylindrical tube has one end thereof bonded to such other surface to surround the cavity. Normally at least one pair of radial stress sensors and one pair of circumferential stress sensors are disposed on the surface of the chip. Originally, circular chips having circular diaphragms were employed, whereby the entire transducer was symmetrical with respect to the common axis of the tube, the cavity, and the chip. More recently, however, square semiconductor chips have come to be employed because a plurality of such square chips can be readily obtained by the dicing of a crystal wafer of slice. However, such a square chip no longer exhibits symmetry with respect to the axis of the cylindrical tube bonded to it. The absence of axial symmetry and differences of material between the tube and chip in this prior art semiconductor pressure transducer result in false or spurious signals, termed zero shift signals, as the static pressure i.e., common to both surfaces of the diaphragm or the temperature of the transducer varies. Specifically zero shift signal means a signal that changes as a result of some influence that occurs at zero pressure differential across the transducer diaphragm. Because of this zero shift phenomenon in the semiconductor pressure transducer of the prior art, electronic signal compensation is necessary for the measurement of differential pressures where high accuracy is required. Accordingly, it is an aim of the present invention to provide an improved semiconductor pressure transducer. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a semiconductor pressure transducer comprising a single crystal semiconductor chip having at least one rectilinear edge and having at least one sensor disposed on the chip, the or each sensor having a piezoresistive characteristic whereby the resistance of the or each sensor changes in response to stresses induced in the chip, characterized in that the or each sensor is disposed at an angle e with respect to said rectilinear edge whereby to reduce the effects of zero shift signals. An embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a schematic top view of a prior art transducer Figure 2 shows curves of the differences between radial and circumferential stresses, for different models of semiconductor pressure transducers comprising a square chip, as a function of the angle between the sensor orientation and the edges of the chip, for zero pressure differential across the chip Figure 3 is a top view of an embodiment of pressure transducer of the present invention and Figure 4 is a sectional view taken on line IV IV ofFigure 3. The prior art semiconductor pressure transducer shown schematically in Figure 1 comprises a thin square semiconductor chip 1. Chip 1 is comprised of a single crystal semiconductor material, such as silicon. Radial stress sensors 3 and 4 are disposed on an outer surface of chip 1. Circumferential stress sensors 7 and 8 are also disposed on that outer surface. Sensors 3, 4, 7 and 8 are formed integrally with chip 1 by injecting, such as by diffusion, an impurity, such as boron, into the surface of chip 1 in surface regions defined according to the desired shapes of the sensors. Such a sensor exhibits a piezoresistive characteristic i.e., its resistance changes with the stress experienced by the sensor. A circular cavity, shown by the dashed lines in Figure 1, is formed in a second surface of chip 1 opposite that of the outer surface. A cylindrical tube, not shown, is bonded to the second surface and, generally, surrounds the cavity therein. The tube functions to communicate the pressure to be sensed to the cavity, whereby the portion of chip 1 overlying the cavity forms a diaphragm in which the stresses induced therein depend on the difference between the pressure communicated by the tube and the pressure on the first surface. In Figure 1, the sensors are shown in the form of strips. In practice a particular sensor may be formed of a plurality of parallel strips connected in series. In the prior art, these sensors are oriented in correspondence to the cylindrical coordinates of the cavity or pressure communicating tube. Thus, sensors 3 and 4 of Figure 1 are disposed with their lengths oriented along a radial direction of the cylindrical coordinates. Sensors 7 and 8, shown disposed parallel to sensors 3 and 4, have their lengths oriented along a circumferential direction of the cylindrical coordinates and are symmetrically disposed about a radial direction of the coordinates. The stresses induced in chip 1 are sensed by the stress sensors, whose resistance varies correspondingly.Such stresses are generally described by reference to the axes of the sensors. Vectors representing the direction of stresses are shown as arrows in Figure 1. The amplitude of stresses represented by the vactors is denoted by the sym 2 bol and is expressed in units of dynes cm . Accordingly, the stresses induced along the lengths of radially oriented sensors 3 and 4 are termed radial stresses, ar, whereas the stresses induced transverse to sensors 3 and 4 are termed circumferential stresses, oc sometimes termed tangential stresses . Correspondingly, the stresses induced along the lengths of circumferentially oriented sensors 7 and 8 are termed circumferential stresses, c and those induced transverse to sensors 7 and 8 are termed radial stresses, ar. The zero shift as measured by the output signal generated when the four sensors 3, 4, 7 and 8 are connected in the form of a constant current Wheatstone bridge, is given by e I 2i RTt44 ar a c where iB is the current applied to the bridge the product Rev44 is a function that varies only with the temperature of the transducer and and and o are respectively the radial and circumfer ential stresses induced in the sensors. For transducers which possess perfect axial symmetry, it can be shown that no zero shift signals will be generated even though the chip and tube are of different materials.In such instance, stresses generated at the surface of the chip diaphragm will be uniform and independent of direction, so that no bridge output signal will be generated.However, when the transducer chip is square instead of round, and is bonded to a cylindrical tube, there is a lack of axial symmetry in the structure. Equation 1 above illustrates that the differences between the radial and circumferential stresses directly affect the zero shift signal. Moreover, where there is such a difference, a change in temperature affecting Rev44 also contributes to the zero shift signal. However, equation 1 also illustrates that the zero shift can be minim ized, or even eliminated, by making a and ac equal. In the prior art transducers, the sensors have been oriented either parallel or perpendicular to the edges of the chip, as shown in Figure 1. Generally for such an orientation and placement of the sensors, the stresses a r and ac are not equal. To obviate this problem of such prior art transducers, we have observed by experimental analysis, the variations of the differences between or and c for particular dimensions of the transducer as the orientation of the sensors were changed. The results of this analysis, for different dimensions of transducers, each having a silicon chip and a Pyrex tube, is shown in Figure 2. For each construction of transducer analyzed, the difference between the radial and circumferential stresses ar ac was plotted as the radial and circumferential stress sensors were rotated through angle e with respect to the edges of the square chip.Curve A was produced by a transducer construction having an attached cylindrical tube of dimensions inner diameter I.D. 1.250 mm, outer diameter O.D. 2.675 mm and length L 0.500 mm, curve B by a transducer having tube dimensionsI.D. 1.250 mm, O.D 2.675 mm and L 2.500 mm, and curve C by a transducer having tube dimensions I.D. 1.250 mm, O.D.3.775 mm and L 2.5 mm. In all three cases, the chip was of isotropic material and was a square of approximately 2.675 mm side length. Curve D was produced by a transducer having an attached cylindrical tube of dimensions I.D.1.250 mm, O.D. 2.675 mm and L 2.5 mm the chip in this latter case was of orthotropic material and was again a square of approximately 2.675 mm side length. We observed that for all constructions of the transducer analyzed, the radial and circumferential stresses were equal at an orientation angle, 0, of approximately 22.50. This orientation angle was the angle that the longitudinal axes of the sensors made with the linear edges of the chip. In addition, by making this orientation angle correspond to the angle which a 110 crystal direction of the chip makes with the edges of the chip, the change in resistance of the sensors will be proportional to the difference between radial and tangential stresses. An embodiment of the present invention, employing the principle demonstrated in Figure 2 is illustrated in Figures 3 and 4. The semiconductor pressure transducer ofFigures 3 and 4 comprises a square semiconductor chip 10 formed from a single crystal of semiconductor material, such as silicon. A pair of radial stress sensors 12 and 13 is disposed along an axis P passing through the centre of chip 10 making an angle 8 of approximately 22.50 with respect to one pair of edges of the chip. A pair of circumferential stress sensors 16 and 17 is disposed along and transverse to another axis Q at right angles to axisP passing through the centre of chip 10 and making an angle o of approximately 22 50 with respect to the other two edg es of the chip.This latter axis is also parallel to the 110 crystal direction of the chip. Each stress sensor makes an angle of 22.50 with respect to a corresponding one of the edges of chip 10. Sensors 12, 13, 16 and 17 are formed integrally with chip 10 by injecting, such as by diffusion, an impurity, such as boron into the surface of chip 10 in surface regions defining the shape of such sensors. Sensors 12, 13, 16 and 17 exhibit a piezoresistive characteristic. Each sensor may be composed of a plurality of parallel strips of piezoresistive material connected in series, with the lengths of such strips being oriented parallel to the direction of the sensors shown in Figure 3. A circular cavity shown generally by the reference numeral 21 in Figure 4, is formed in the surface of chip 10 opposite to the surface on which are disposed stress sensors 12, 13, 16 and 17. A cylindrical tube 23, shown in partial cross section, is bonded to the surface of chip 10 opposite to the surface on which are disposed the stress sensors. Tube 23 may be formed from Pyrex, for example, and bonded to the surface of chip 10. Tube 23 is illustrated as surrounding cavity 21, the inner diameter of tube 23 may be greater or less than the diameter of cavity 21. Accordingly, the transducer of Figures 3 and 4 provides for substantially equal stresses to be induced in radial and circumferential stress sensors 12, 13, 16 and 17, whereby zero shift due to changes in static pressure and changes in the temperature of the transducer is substantially eliminated. For many practical applications of the present transducer, the zero shift effect is effectively minimized for an orientation angle s selected from the range between 150 and 300.