# Human immune interferon protein and production thereof.

## Abstract
A substantially pure recombinant human immune inter feron protein was obtained by growing a transformant having DNA containing a base sequence encoding human immune interferon to produce and accumulate human im mune in interferon protein in the transformant cells, lysing the cells and purifying the resulting human immune inter feron protein containing solution with use of monoclonal antibody capable of binding to human immune interferon.

## Claims
What is claimed i 1. A substantially pure reconbinant human immune interferon protein. 2. The protein according to claim 1, which has a specific activity of not less than 107 U mg. 3. The protein according to claim 1 or 2, which is in a lyophilized form. 4. A method for producing a substantially pure recombinant human immune interferon protein, which comprises growing a transformant having DNA containing a base sequence encoding human immune interferon to produce and accumulate human immune interferon in the transformant cells, lysing the cells and purifing the resulting human immune interferon containing solution with use of monoclonal antibody capable of binding to human immune interferon. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the recombinant human immune interferon protein has a specific activity of not less than 107 U mg. 6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the base sequence encoding human immune interferon is of the formula 5 TGT TAC TGC CAG GAC CCA TAT GTA AAA GAAGCA GAA AAC CTT AAG AAA TAT AT TTT AAT GCA GGT CAT TCA GAD AT GTA GCG GAT AAT GGA ACT OTT TTC TTA GGC ATT TTG AAG AAT TGG AAA GAG GAG AGT GAC AGA AAA ATA ATG CAG AGC CAA ATT GTC TTT TAO TTO AAA AA CT TT TTT AAA AAC TTT AAA GAT GAC CAG AGC ATC CAA AAG AGT GTG GAG ACC CC ATC AAG GAA GAC ATG AAT G2C AAG TTT TT TTC AAT AGC AAC AAA AAG AAA CGA GAT GAC TTC GAA AAG CTGACT AAT TAT TCG GTA ACT GAC TTG AAT GTC CAACGC AAA GCA ATA CAT GAA CTC ATC CAA GTG ATGGOT GAA CTG TOG CCA GCA GOT AAA ACA GGG AAGCGA AAA AGG AGT CAG ATG CTG TTT CGA GGT CGAAGA GCA TCC CAG X 3 wherein X is TAA, TGA or TAG. 7 The method according to claim 4, wherein the monoclonal antibody is one against the polypeptide of the formula N C H Z liys Arg Ser Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Gly Y OH wherein X is a bond, or a peptide or amino acid residue having 1 to 16 amino acids counting from the C terminus of the peptide chain of N Ile Gln Val Met Ala Glu lieu Ser Pro Ala C Ala Lys Thr Gly Lys Arg and Y is a peptide or amino acid residue having 1 to 5 amino acids counting from the N terminus of the peptide chain of N C Arg Arg Ala Ser Gln. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein Y isArg Arg Ala Ser Gln. 9. The method according to claim 7 or 8, wherein X isLys Arg. 10. A pharmacentical composition which contains an effective amount of a substantially pure recombinant human immune interferon protein and a pharmacentically acceptable carrier,vehicle or diluent therefor. 11 The composition according to claim 10, wherein the recombinant human immune interferon protein has a specific activity of not less than 107 u mg. 12. The composition according to claim 10, which is an injectable preparation. 13. A method for producing a pharmaceutical composition containing an effective amount of a substantially pure recombinant human immune interferon protein which comprises admixing said human immune interferon protein with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, vehicle or diluent therefor. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the recombinant human immune interferon protein has a specific activity of not less than 107 U mg. 15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the composition is an injectable preparation.

## Description
HUMAN IMMUNE INTERFERON PROTEIN AND PRODUTION THEREOF Field of the Invention This invention relates to human immune interferon protein and a method of producing the same by the genetic engineering technique. Background Art Interferons hereinafter sometimes abbreviated to IFs are proteins produced by higher animal cells on stimulation by viruses, nucleic acids, etc., and have antiviral and antitumor activities, among others Today, interferons are generally classified into three different types in characteristic properties, namely a, ss and Y types, and the a and ss types are induced by viruses or nucleic acids and the y type by mitogens etc. Studies in type a IF hereinafter abbreviated to IF a and type ss IF hereinafter abbreviated to IF B have considerably advanced and the mechanisms of production thereof have been elucidated to a considerable extent. Moreover, owing to advances in genetic engineering techniques, it is now possible to obtain IF alpha , IF P1 and IF a1 as biologically active proteins in large amounts by cultivating Escherichia coli IF a and IF ss1 and yeasts IF alpha 1 Goeddel, D. V. et al., Nature, 287, 411 1980 Yelverton, E. et al., Nucleic Acids Res 9 731 1981 Goeddel, D. V. et al., Nucleic Acids Res 8 4057 1980 Hitzeman R. et al., Nature, 293, 717 1981 . Furthermore, attempts at large scale production are under way for the purposes of clinical trials with them. Type y IF hereinafter sometimes abbreviated to IF y is produced from immunologically competent cells immunocytes under circumstances such that lymphocyte transformation change to blast cells or lymphokine production takes place, and accordingly it is also called immune interferon hereinafter sometimes abbreviated to I IF . I IF is said to have higher anti cell proliferation or antitumor activity as compared with IF a and IF B, and therefore it is much expected of from the clinical application standpoint.However, due to various limitations, such as requirement of fresh lymphocytes for the production of I IF, any efficient production systems have not been established yetv It is suggested that, in different experiment systems, different cell species can possibly produce different molecular species of I IF. Their structures and properties still remain unknown in many aspects On the other hand, IFs are highly species specific, and therefore IFs for use in humans must be human derived. However, since large scale production of human immune interferon is difficult, its clinical application is impossible at the present time, therefore development of a technology by which highly pure human I IF can be produced easily in large amounts and at low costs has been waited for. The present inventors have been engaged in research and development aiming at developing a technology for obtaining the desired human I IF protein, which involves cloning of the human I IF gene by utilizing the gene manipulation technique and introducing the thus obtained recombinant DNA molecule into a host for the expression of the human I IF gene. As a result, the inventors have completed the present invention. Disclosure of the Invention The present invention provides a substantially pure recombinant human immune interferon protein and a method of producing said protein which comprises growing a transformant having DNA containing a base sequence encoding human immune interferon and purifying the thus obtained human immune interferon protein containing liquid with use of monoclonal antibody capable of binding to human immune interferon. Gray et al., believing that they could have cloned one of human I IF genes, reported the amino acid sequence of a polypeptide deduced therefrom Nature, 295, 503 1982 . Then followed similar reports by Devos et al. Nucleic Acids Research, 10, 2487 1982 and by Derynck et al. ibid., 10, 3605 1982 . So far, however, the presence of IF like substances has been only presumed on the basis of the antiviral activity detected. No report mentions that a substantially pure human immune interferon protein could be obtained. The present inventors have established a substantially pure human immune interferon and a method of producing the same and thus have completed the present invention. The human I IF encoding DNA to be used in accordance with the present invention is, for example, a DNA containing a base sequence represented by the formula 5 TGT TAC TGC CAG GAC CCA TAT GTA AAA GAA GCAGAA AAC CTT AAG AAA TAT TTT AAT GCA GGT CAT TCAGAT GTA GCG GAT AAT GGA ACT CTT TTC TTA GGC ATTTTG AAG AAT TOG AAA GAG GAG AGT GAC AGA AAA ATAATG CAG AGC CAA ATT GTC TCC TTT TAC TTC AAA CTTTTT AAA AAC TTT AAA GAT GAC CAG AGC ATC CAA AAGAGT GTG GAG ACC ATC AAG GAA GAC ATG AAT GTC AAGTTT TTC AAT AGC AAC AAA AAG AAA CGA GAT GAC TTCGAA AAG CTG ACT AAT TAT TCG GTA ACT GAC TUG AATGTC CAA CGC AAA GCA ATA CAT GAA CTC ATC CAA GTGATG GCT GAA CTG TCG CCA GCA GCT AAA ACA GGG AAGCGA AAA AGG AGT CAG ATG CTG TTT CGA GGT CGA AGAGCA TCC CAG 3 I wherein X is Tli, TGA or TAG. The above mentioned DNA I may have, at the 5 end thereof, 5 ATG AAA TAT ACA AGT TAT ATC TTG GCT TTT CAG CTC TGC ATC GTT TTG GGT TCT CTT GGC 3 II or ATG III . The DNA I is preferably connected downstream from a promoter, such as tryptophan trp promoter, lactose lac promoter or protein chain elongation factor Tu tufB promoter, preferably trp promoter. Referring to the formula I , the oligonucleotide represented by X is preferably TAA. In the present specification, drawings and claims, the symbols used are as defined in Table 1. Table 1DNA Deoxyribonucleic acidA Adenine Thymine G GuanineC Cytosine RSA Ribonucleic acid dATP Deoxyadenosine triphosphate dTTP Deoxythymidine triphosphate dGTP Deoxyguanosine triphosphate dCTP Deoxycytidine triphosphateATP Adenosine triphosphateEDTA Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acidSDS Sodium dodecylsulfateGly GlycineAla AlanineVal ValineLeu LeucineIle IsoleucineSer SerineThr ThreonineCys Cysteine Met MethionineGlu Glutamic acidAsp Aspartic acidLys LysineArg ArginineHis HistidinePhe PhenylalanineTyr TyrosineTrp TryptophanPro ProlineAsn AsparagineGln GlutamineZ CarbobenzoxyBoc t ButoxycarbonylMtr 4 Methoxy 2,3,6 trimethylbenzenesulfonyl mile PentamethylbenzenesulfonylOBu t Butyl esterONB N Hydroxy 5 norbornene 2,3 dicarboxiimido esterDCC N,N DicyclohexylcarbodiimideDCU N,N Dicyclohexylurea HONB N Hydroxy 5 norbornene 2,3 dicarboxiimideHOBt N HydroxybenzotriazoleCHA Cyclohexylamine DCEA DicyclohexylamineTEA Trietbylamine TFA Trifluoroacetic acidMSA Methanesulfonic acid THF TetrahydrofuranDMF Dimethylformamide MeOH MethanolAcOEt Ethyl acetate In accordance with the present invention a doublestranded DNA coding for human I IF can be produced, for example, by cultivating human I IF secreting cells, such as human peripheral blood lymphocytes, isolating a human I IF encoding messenger m RNA from the culture broth, synthesizing a single stranded complementary DNA cDNA based thereon using, for instance, a reverse transcriptase, deriving a double stranded DNA therefrom inserting the same into a plasmid, transforming, for instance, Escherichia coli with the resulting plasmid, and isolating a cDNAcontaining plasmid. The human peripheral blood lymphocytes to be used here may be either unsensitized cells or sensitized cells. The I IF inducer to be used in the practice of the present invention may be of any kind provided that it can induce human lymphocyte cells to produce I IF. Thus, there may be mentioned, among others, phytohemagglutinin PHA , concanavalin A ConA , staphylococcal enterotoxin A SEA , neuraminidase galactose oxidase NAGO and 12 0 tetradecanoylphorbol 13 acetate UPA . These can be used either alone or in combination. The I IF induction can be effected by cultivating the cells in a per se known medium, such as REMI 1640 medium orMEM medium, preferably RPMI 1640 medium containing fetal calf serum. The cultivation is conducted within the temperature range of 35 39oC, preferably 36 380C, for a period of 12 72 hours, preferably 22 26 hours. The cells are collected by the per se known method and, following addition of an ENase inhibitor, such as guanidine thiocyanide, bentonite, heparin, polyvinylsulfuric acid, aurintricarboxylic acid, vanadium complex, diethyl pyrocarbonate DPC or sodium dodecylsulfate SDS , the cells are lyzed by adding N lauroylsarcosine, Tween 80 or Nonidet P 40, for instance.Then, RNA extraction is carried out0 If necessary, after addition of phenol, phenol chloroform or the like to this RNA containing extract, the extraction procedure is repeated The RNA fraction is collected by ethanol precipitation Since it is knownthat most of mRNAs present in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells have a poly A sequence at the 3 end thereof, poly A RNAs are collected using oligo dT cellulose or poly U sepharose, for instance, and fractionated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. An aliquot of each fraction is injected into oocytes of Xenopus laevis for translation Gurdon, J. B. et al , Nature, 255, 177 1971 . The resulting protein is tested for antiviral activity. In this manner, a 12 16S fraction containing mRNA for I IF can be obtained.The mRNA can also be purified by formamide polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or agarose gel electro phoresis using glyoxal. Using the thus obtained mRNA as the template, a complementary DNA cDNA chain is synthesized, for example, by the per se known method using a reverse transcriptase, and the cDNA is converted to a double stranded DNA Maniatis, T. et al., Cell 8 163 1976 . This DNA is inserted, for instance, into the plasmid pBR322 at the PstI or SphI restriction endonuclease cleavage site, for example by the dG dC or dA dT homopolymer tailing method nelson, T. S., Methods in Enzymology, 68, 41 1979 , Academic Press Inc., New York . The recombinantDNA is introduced, for example, into Escherichia coli X1776 for transformation. Transformant selection can be made based on the tetracycline resistance or ampicillin resistance.Separately, an oligonucleotide having a base sequence presumably corresponding to the amino acid sequence of I IF polypeptide is chemically synthesized and then labelled with 32P to make a probe, and, using this, the previously obtained tetracycline or ampicillin resistant transformants are secondarily screened for the desired clones, for instance by the per se known colony hybridization method Grunstein, M. and Hogness, D. S., Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA, 72, 3961 1975 . The clones positive in this colony hybridization are examined for the base sequence, for example, by the Maxam Filbert method Maxam, A. M. Gilbert, W., Proc. Natal. Acad. Sci. USA 74, 560 1977 or the dinucleotide synthesis chain termination method using phage M13 messing, J. et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 9, 309 1981 for confirmation of the presence of the I IF gene. Then, the I IF gene is cut out wholly or partly from the clone obtained in the above manner and connected downstream from an appropriate promoter and the SD Shine and Dalgarno sequence for introduction into an adequate host. As examples of the promoter, the above mentioned ones may be mentioned. Preferred hosts are Escherichia coli strains 294, W3110, C600, etc0 , among which the strain 294 is especially preferred. The strain 294 is a known organism Backman, K. et al.,Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 73, 4174 1976 and also is deposited with the Institute for Fermentation, Osaka under the deposit number of IFO 14171. The transformation of a host with the DNA according to the present invention is performed, for example, by the known method Cohen, S. N. et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA, 69, 2110 1972 . The thus obtained transformant is cultivated in a per se known medium. The medium is, for example, M9 medium which contains glucose and casamino acid Miller, J., Experiments inMolecular Genetics, 431 433 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,New York, 1972 . For efficient promoter actuation, 3ss indolylacrylic acid or the like agent can be added as necessary. The cultivation is generally carried out at 15 430C for 3 24 hours. If necessary, aeration and or stirring may be carried out. After the cultivation, the cells are harvested by the known method and, for instance, following suspension in a buffer, lysed by means of ultrasonic treatment, lysozyme and or freezing thawing, for instance Then, the supernatant is collected by centrifugation. For the cell lysis, freezing and thawing followed by lysozyme treatment is preferable. Human I IF in the above supernatant can be purified advantageously by using a monoclonal antibody capable of binding to human I IF, preferably a monoclonal antibody against polypeptide of the formula N C H X Lys Arg Ser Gln Met lieu Phe Arg Gly Y OH IV wherein X is a bond, or a peptide or amino acid residue having 1 to 16 amino acids counting from the C terminus of the peptide chain of N Ile Gln Val Met Ala Glu lieu Ser Pro Ala C Ala liys Thr Gly tys Arg and Y is a peptide or amino acid residue having 1 to 5 amino acids counting from the N terminus of the peptide chain of N C Arg Arg Ala Ser Gln, which is novel polypeptide. Referring to polypeptide IV , it is preferable thatY is Arg Arg Ala Ser Gln or and X is liys Arg0 Furthermore, it is preferable that polypeptide IV contains 15 to 25 amino acid residue. Said monoclonal antibody can advantageously be used in the form of an antibody column0 The antibody column can be prepared, for instance, by coupling the above mentioned monoclonal antibody in the purified state as obtained from the ascitic fluid inoculated with the hybridoma with an appropriate carrier, in the manner mentioned below. The carrier may be of any kind provided that, after coupling, I IF can be adsorbed specifically and efficiently and thereafter can be eluted by an adequate means. As an example, agarose gel in the form of beads, which is activated so as to facilitate the bonding of the primary amino group of a protein, for instance AFFI GEL 10 3io Rad Lab., USA can be favorably used in the following manner. The reaction of AFFI GEL 10 with the antibody is carried out in a buffer solution, such as 0.001 1 M preferably 0,1 M, bicarbonate.Usable reaction conditions are 00 200C, 10 minutes to 24 hours, and varying pH, and preferred conditions are 4 C, 4 hours and pH 3 10. The quantitative ratio between AFFI GEL 10 and the antibody may be selected within the range of up to about 50 mg of antibody per ml of AFBI GED, since, in this range, the amount of antibody coupled with AFFI GEL increases as the amount of antibody increases From the coupling efficiency viewpoint, the antibody is used in an amount of not more than 30 mg on said basis The thus produced antibodycarrier coupling product is washed well with the same buffer solution as used for the reaction and then allowed to stand for several days or treated with ethanolamine hydrochloride in a final concentration of 0.05 M at 40C for an hour or by some other method so as to block the remaining unreacted active groups, and packed in an appropriate column to give an antibody column, For the purpose of purification with the above antibody column, a human immune interferon proteincontaining solution such as the supernatant by the cell lysis, for instance, is dissolved in an almost neutral buffer, such as a phosphate buffer or Tris hydrochloride buffer, and made adsorbed on the antibody column, The column is washed with the same buffer and then I IF is elutedUsable eluents are a weakly acidic solution e.g.acetic acid solution , a polyethylene glycol containing solution, a solution containing a peptide having a higher affinity for the antibody as compared with the objective protein, a high concentration salt solution, and a combination of these among others Those eluents which do not promote decomposition of human I IF to a considerable extent are preferred The eluate from the column is neutralized with a buffer by the conventional method If necessary, the purification procedure using the above antibody column can be repeated. The thus obtained human I IF protein solution is dialyzed and, as necessary, can be made into a powder by lyophilization, In carrying out the lyopllilization, a stabilizer, such as sorbit ol, mannitol, dextrose, maltose or glycerol, can be added. The thus obtained human immune interferon protein, when assayed for antiviral activity in a test for evaluating the effect of inhibiting degeneration of human amnion derived WISH cells by the vesicular stomatitis virus VSV , shows a specific acitivity of not less than 107 U mg. The IF activity in U ml units ml was determined in the following manner An international standard IF a for which the unit has been established and leukocyte derived crude IF y were assayed in the test for estimating the inhibitory effect against cell degeneration caused in a human amnion derived FL cell line by VSV, the titer of the lymphocyte derived IF y was determined by comparison of the titers found, and said IF y was used as a laboratory standard IF Y.. In calculating the titer of IF y in a material, this laboratory standard IF Y was always used in parallel in the above mentioned assay in the WISH VSV system and the titer calculation was performed based on the titer ratio. The human immune interferon protein of the present invention preferably contains a polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of the formula N H Y Z1 Tyr Z2 Gln Asp Pro Tyr Val Lys GluAla Glu Asn Leu Lys Lys Tyr Phe Asn Ala Gly HisSer Asp Val Ala Asp Asn Gly Thr Leu Phe Leu GlyIle Leu Lys Asn Trp Lys Glu Glu Ser Asp Arg LysIle Met Gln Ser Gln Ile Val Ser Pile Tyr The lyes Leu Phe Lys Asn Phe Lys Asp Asp Gln Ser Ile GlnLys Ser Val Glu Thr Ile Lys Glu Asp Met Asn Val Lys Phe Phe Asn Ser Asn Lys Lys liys Arg Asp Asp Pile Glu liys lieu Thr Asn Tyr Ser Val Thr Asp LeuAsn Val Gln Arg Lys Ala Ile His Glu lieu Ile GlnVal Met Ala Glu Leu Ser Pro Ala Ala Lys Thr Gly liys Arg Lys Arg Ser Gln Met lieu Phe Arg Gly ArgArg Ala Ser Gln 0HCC V wherein Y is Met or a chemical bonding, and Z1 and Z2 each is Cys or 1 2 Cys. The human I IF protein of the present invention preferably contains said polypeptide in a purity of not less than 90 , in particular not less than 95 , on the dried basis A human immune interferon protein produced by the method of the present invention has the following characterization 1 It exhibits a molecular weight of 17,000 1,000 in SDS polyacrylamide gel 17 5 electrophoresis 2 It contains cysteine or half cystine or methionine as the amino terminal amino acid 3 It combines with a monoclonal antibody against H Lys Arg Lys Arg Ser Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Gly Arg Arg Ala Ser Gln OH. The human interferon protein produced in accordance with the present invention can be used for the same purposes in the same manner as I IF species obtained by the conventional methods. Owing to its smaller content in contaminant proteins and pyrogen, it can be used more safely as a substance for preparing injections, for instance The human I IF protein of the present invention has antiviral, antitumor, cell proliferation inhibiting and immunopotentiating activities. The human I IF protein of the present invention can be used, for medicinal purposes, as it is or as a mixture with sterilized water, human serum albumin HSA , physiological saline or and other known physiologically acceptable carriers vehicle or diluent to produce a pharmacentical composition containing said human I IF, and can be administered parenterally or locally.For instance, it can be administered intraveously or intramuscularly or by some other route in a dose of 100,000 100,000,000 units, preferably 50,000,000 60,000,000 units, per adult human per day. The pharmaceutical preparations containing the humanI IF protein of the present invention may also contain other physiologically acceptable inert components such as salt, diluent, adjuvant, another carrier, buffer, binding agent, surfactant and preservative. For parenteral administration, the preparations are provided in the form of a suspension in a sterilized aqueous solution or a physiologically acceptable solvent in ampules or in the form of a sterilized powder generally obtainable by lyophilization of an I IF solution to be diluted with a diluent prior to use Furthermore, the above mentioned human immune interferon protein containing preparations may further contain other active ingredients such as IF a or IF ss or a lymphokine e.g. interleukin 2 in an amount of 1 99 based on the substance of the present invention. Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is the restriction enzyme map for the plasmid pHIT3709 obtained in Example 1 vii , in which the portionEMI13.1 indicates the region coding for a peptide which is presumably the signal peptide andEMI13.2 inidcates the region coding for the I IF polypeptide.Fig. 2 illustrates the primary structure base sequence of the insert in the plasmid pHIT3709 obtained in Example 1 vii , fig. 3 is the construction scheme for ptrp701 and ptrp771 described in Example 2 i and ii , respectively, Fig. 4 is the construction scheme for pEITtrpllOl described in Example 2 iii , and Fig, 5 is the construction scheme for pEITtrp2101 described in Example 2 iv Fig. 6 shows the results of the electrophoresis in Example 6 i and Fig. 7 the results of the molecular weight detemination inExample 6 i . The present invention will be further explained by way of the following working and reference examples, but these examples should be understood not to limit thereby the present invention Mouse B Hybridoma gamma 2 11.1 disclosed in the following reference examples is deposited at C.N.C.M. ofInstitut Pasteur, Paris, France, under the deposit numberI 242 Example 1 i Isolation of mRNA coding for human I IFLymphocytes prepared from the human peripheral blood were incubated at 370C in the RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 fetal calf serum containing 15 ng ml of 12 0 tetradecanoylphorbol 13 acetate TPA and 40 g ml of concanavalin A for I IFN induction.After twenty four 24 hours, the thus induced human lymphocytes 1 x 1010 cells were destructed in a thioguanidine solution 5M guanidine thiocyanate, 5 mercaptoethanol, 50 mM Tris HC1, pH 7.6, 10 mM EDTA in a Teflon homogenizer. Then, sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate was added in the concentration of 4 and the mixture after homogenization was layered over 6 ml of 5.7 M cesium chloride 5.7 M cesium chloride, 0.1 M ethylenediaminetetraacetate EDTA and centrifuged at 150C and 24000 rpm for 30 hours using a BeckmanSW27 rotor to give a RNA precipitate.This RNA precipitate was dissolved in 0.25 sodium N lauroyl sarcosinate and then precipitated with ethanol to give 8.3 mg of RNA, This RNA was allowed to be absorbed, in a high concentration salt solution 0.5M NaCl, 10 mM Tris HC1 pH 7.6, 1 mM EDTA, 0.3 SDS , on oligo dU cellulose column and mRNA containing poly A was eluted with a low concentration salt solution 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.6, 1 mM EDDY, 0.3 SDS to given 700 g of mRNA.This mRNA was further precipitated with ethanol, then dissolved in 0.2 ml of a solution 10 mM Tris HC1, pH 7.6, 2 mM EDTA, 0.3 SDS , treated at 650C for 2 minutes, and fractionated by 10 35 sucrose density gradient centrifugation at 200C and 25000 rpm for 21 hours using a Beckman SW27 rotor, to give 22 fractions. Aliquots of each fraction were injected into Xenopus laevis oocytes and the proteins synthesized were assayed for interferon activity antiviral activity as determined by the cytopathic effect inhibition assay using vesicular stomatitis virus on WISE cells derived from human amnion Stewart,W.E.The interferon System, springer New York, 1979, page II . In this manner, it was found that fraction 12 the sedimentation constant being 12 14S had an activity of 195 units per g of PNA. The mRNA in the thus obtained fraction 12 weighed about 20 g. ii Synthesis of single stranded RNA Using the above mRNA and a reverse transcriptase, 100 l of a reaction mixture 5 g of mRNA, 50 g of oligo dT , 100 units of reverse transcriptase, 1 mM each of dATP, dCTP, dGTP and dTTP, 8 mM MgC12, 50 mM XCl, 10 mM dithiothreitol and 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3 was incubated at 42 C for 1 hour, then, deproteinized by adding phenol and treated with 0.1N NaOH at 70 C for 20 minutes for removal of RNA by decomposition. iii Synthesis of double stranded DNA The thus synthesized single stranded complementary DNA was subjected to reaction in 50 l of a reaction mixture the same mixture as above except that the mRNA and oligo dT were absent at 420C for 2 hours for synthesizing the double stranded DNA. iv Addition of dC tails The double stranded DNA was treated with nuclease S1 in 50 yl of a reaction mixture doublestranded DNA, 0.1 M sodium acetate, pH 4.5, 0.25 M NaCl, 1.5 mM ZnSO4, 60 units Sl nuclease at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was deproteinized by adding phenol and DNA was precipitated with ethanol. The thus obtained DNA was reacted with terminal transferase in 50 l of a reaction mixture double stranded DNA, 0.14 M potassium cacodylate, 0,3 M Tris base pH 7.6 , 2 mM dithiothreitol, 1 mM CoCl2, 0.15 mM dC2P, 30 units terminal transferase at 37 C for 3 minutes for elongation of the double stranded DNA by about 20 deoxycytidine about 20 units at each 3 end of the DNA.This series of reactions gave about 300 ng of deoxycytidine tailed double stranded DNA. v Cleavage of Escherichia coli plasmid and addition of dG tails Separately, 10 g of Escherichia coli plasmid PBR 322 DNA was treated with restriction enzyme PstI in 50 Cil of a reaction mixture 10 g DNA, 50 mM NaC1, 6 mMTris HC1 CpH 7.4 , 6 mM MgC12, 6 mM 2 mercaptoethanol, 100 g mg bovine serum albumin, 20 units PstI at 37 C for 3 hours for cleavage at the one PstI recognition site present in the pBR322DNA, the reaction mixture was then deproteinized with phenol and the DNA was further subjected to terminal transferase treatment in 50 Cil of a reaction mixture 10 g DNA, 0.14 M potassium cacodylate, 0.3 M Tris base pH 7.6, 2 mM dithiothreitol, 1 mM COCl2, 0.15 mM dGTP, 30 units terminal transferase at 37 C for 3 minutes for elongation of the above pBR322 plasmid DNA by about 8 deoxyguanidines at each 3 end thereof. vi Annealing of cDNA and transformation of Escherichia coli The annealing was effected by heating 0.1 g of the thus obtained synthetic double stranded DNA and 0.5 g of the above pBR322 plasmid in a solution containing 0.1M NaCl, 50 mM Tris HC1 pH 7.6, 1 mM EDTA at 650C for 2 minutes and then at 450C for 2 hours, followed by gradual cooling. The transformation of Escherichia coli X1776 was performed by the method of Enea et al. J. Mol. Biol 96, 495 1975 . vii Isolation of cDNA containing plasmid About 8,500 tetracycline resistant colinies were thus isolated and the DNA of each colony was fixed to a nitrocellulose filter M. Grunstein and D.S. Hogness,Proc Natal Acad. Sci. USA, 72, 3961 1975 . Separately, based on the amino acid sequence ofIF y. as reported by D.V. Goeddel et al. Nature, 295, AA 503 1982 , two oligonuclotides of 5 GCCTGGCAGTAGC3 and G G T T 5 ACATTCATATCCTCCT3 presumably corresponding to amino acids Nos. 1 5 Cys. Try. Cys. Gln. Asp and amino acids Nos 77 82 Lys. Gln Asp. Met. Asn Val of saidI IFN sequence, respectively, were chemically synthesized by the triester method R. Crea et al.,Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 75, 5765 1978 .These oligonucleotides were treated with T4 polynucleotide kinase in 50 l of a reaction mixture 0.2 g oligonucleotide, 50 mM Tris HC1 pit 8.0, 10 mM MgCl2 10 mM mercaptoethanol, 50 Ci gamma 32P ATP, 3 units T4 polynucleotide kinase at 37 C for an hour These oligopeptides thus labeled with 32P at the 5 end were used as probes and annealed with the DNA on the abovementioned nitrocellulose filter by the method of Lawn et al. Nucleic Acids Res., 9, 6103 1981 .Four strains were isolated by autoradiography which were reactive to the above two oligonucleotide probes Plasmid DNAs were isolated from the bacterial cells of each of these strains by the alkali method H.C. Birnboim and J. Doly, Nucleic Acids Res., 7, 1513 1979 The inserts in the plasmid DNAs were excised with the PstI restriction enzyme From among the isolated plasmids, the one containing the longest insert was chosen and named pHIT3709 The structure base sequence of the cDNA sequence inserted in the pH1T3709 plasmid was then determined by the dinucleotide synthetic chain termination method and by the Maxam Gilbert methodSaid primary structure was as shown in Fig. 2 refer to Application No. 83 102 825.3 . The base sequence of the IF y coding region codonNo.Sl to No.146 of pHIT3709 was identical with that shown in Fig. of Nucleic Acids Res., 10, 2487 et seq. 12. Example 2 1 Plasmid ptrp601 vector being pBR322 containing the promoter portion for tryptophan synthesis inEscherichia coli promotor and operator containing DNA fragment, 276 base pairs, G.N. bennett et al., J. Nol Biol., 121, 113 1978 was constructed as the expression plasmid. Separately, plasmid pBR322 was cut with the restriction enzymes EcoRI and AvaI. The thus obtained sticky ends of EcoRI AvaI fragment which contained tetracycline resistant gene were filled with DNA polymerase I large fragment This fragment was allowed to be conjugated to the PvuII cleavage site of ptrpC01 using T4DNA ligase. ptrp701 was thus constructed Fig. 3 . ii For the purpose of excluding either of the two restriction enzyme ClaI cleavage sites present in ptrp701, ptrp701 was subjected to partial decomposition treatment with Clal for giving ptrp701 in which either of the two ClaI cleavage sites had been cut After filling the sticky ends with DNA polymerase I large fragment, the thus obtained ptrp701 was again conjugated using T4DNA ligase to give ptrp771 Fig. 3 . iii pHIT3 09 was cut with the restriction enzyme PstI to give the PstI fragment containing structural gene of IF gamma . This fragment was further subjected to the partial digetion with the restriction enzyme BstNlto give the BstNI PstI fragment which was cut at the BstNI site present in the IF Y structural gene. The sticky ends of theBstNI cleavage site were filled in with DNA polymerase I large fragment. The fragment thus obtained and the oligonucleotide adapter CGATAATGTGTTACTGCC TATTACACAATGACGG which was chemically synthesized by the above mentioned triester method and contains the protein synthesis start codon ATG, were ligated using T4DNA ligase. Separtely, the IF y gene ligated with the above mentioned adapter was inserted into the PstI ClaI site of Plasmid vector ptrp771 downstream from the tryptophan promoter using T4DNA ligase. An IF Y expression plasmid pHITtrpllOl was thus constructed Fig. 4 . iv pHITtrp2101 was constructed by further improvement of pHITtrpllOl, as follows. ptrp601 was first treated with the restriction enzymes ClaI and HnaII to give 0.33 Kb of theClaI HpaII fragment containing trp promoter. This fragment was ligated with pHITtrpllOl, which was cut with ClaI and treated with alkaline phosphatase, usingT4DNA llgase. pHITtrp2001 containing two successive trp promoters was thus obtained Fig. 5 . A strain E. coli 294 pHITtrp2101 was obtained by transforming Escherichia coli 294 with plasmid pHIT.trp2101 by the method of Cohen et al cit. supra . Example 3 E Coli 294 pHITtrp2101 was incubated in 200 ml of M9 medium containing 8 Fg ml tetracycline, 0.4 casamino acid and 1 glucose in a 1 l flask at 37 C.When the growth of the bacteria reached KU220, 3ss indolyl acrylic acid IAA was added at a concentration of 30 pg ml and the mixture was further incubated for 4 hours Example 4 After 1.2 Z of the culture solution as obtained in Example 3 was centrifuged, the cells were collected and suspended in 60 ml of 0.05 M Tris HC1 CpH 7.6 containing 10 sucrose.To this cell suspension, 0.3 ml of 0.2 M phenylmethyl sulfonyl fluoride PMSF 24 ml of 5M NaCl solution, 2.4 ml of 0.2 M ethylenediamine tetraacetate EDTA , 2.4 ml of 1 M spermidine and 2.4 ml of lysozyme 5 mg ml were added The mixture was allowed to stand at 0 C for 1 hour, incubated at 37 C for 5 minutes and, further, destructed at 0 C for 30 seconds using a ARTEK USA ultrasonic disintegrator. This lysate solution was centrifuged at 105,000 x g for 1 hour for collecting 66 ml of the supernatant Example 5 Sixty ml of the supernatant obtained in Example 4 was diluted with 20 bM Tris HCl containing 1 mM EDTA and 0.15 M NaCl pH 7.6 TEN to make 150 ml and the dilution was submitted to an anti IF y antibody column 9 ml prepared by the method of Ref. Example 10. The column was washed well with TEN and further with TEN containing 0.01 Nonidet P 40 Shell and 0.5 M NaCl. Then, IF y was eluted with 0 .1 M acetic acid containing 0.25 M NaCl. The eluate was immediately neutralized with 1 M Tris HCl pH 7.6 . The resulting solution was dialyzed against distilled water at 40C for 16 hours and, after freezing with acetone dry ice, lyophilized to give a powder. The results obtained are shown below. Protein Total Specific Recovery activity activity mg U U mg Supernatant of 250.8 4x108 1.6x106 lysate After treatment on 2.0 1.5x108 7.5x107 37.5 antibody column The specific activity of the final human immune interferon protein product thus obtained based on the viral activity determination by the cytopathic effect inhibition assay using VSV and WISH cells described preveiously herein was 7.5 x 107 U mg. The characterization of this protein is mentioned below. Example 6 Characterization of human immune interferon protein i Molecular weight The protein obtained in Example 5 was treated with 2 mercaptoethanol, subjected to SDS polyacrylamide gel 17.5 electrophoresis 15 mV, 6 hours and stained with Coomassie blue. The protein could be identified as a single band Fig. 6 From the relation between the migration distance for the molecular weight markers simultaneously subjected to electrophoresis and the migration distance for the protein, the molecular weight of the protein was estimated at 17,000 1,000 Fig. 7 .For the protein not treated with 2 mercaptoethanol, an additional band was detected at a position corresponding to a molecular weight of 33,000 2,000. This value is about two times the molecular weight of IF y namely 17,000 9 1,000, suggesting that the band is due to dimerized IF Y. ii Amino acid analysis An aliquot of the protein obtained in Example 5 was placed in a glass tube for hydrolysis and a 200 times V W amount of constant boiling point hydrochloric acid containing 4 thioglycolic acid was added. The tube was sealed under reduced pressure and hydrolysis was conducted at 1100C for 24, 48 and 72 hours.After each hydrolysis, the tube was opened, the hydrochloric acid was removed under reduced pressure, and the residue was dissolved in 0.02 N hydrochloric acid and analyzed using a HitachiModel 835 high speed amino acid analyzer For the determination of cystine and cysteine, the above protein was oxidized with performic acid according to Hirs et al. Methods in Enzymology, 11, 197, 1967 and hydrolyzed in the same manner as above for 24 hours, and cysteinic acid was quantitatively determined by using the amino acid analyzer. The mean of three values obtained after 24, 48 and 72 hours of hydrolysis was employed as the found value for each amino acid except for the cases of serine, threonine, thyrosine and tryptophan, where the values were estimated by extrapolation of the hydrolysis period to 0 hour.The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2Amino acid detected Mole Amino acid detected Mole Aspartic acid 13.4 Methionine 2.9Threonine ,.6 Isoleucine 4.8Serine 7.4 Leucine 6.8 Glutamic acid 12.5 Thyrosine 3.4Proline 1.4 Phenylalanine 6.7 Glycine 3.8 Lysine 13.5Alanine 5.3 Histidine 1.5Cysteic acid 1.3 Arginine 5.4Valine 5.7 Tryptophan 0.9 iii Amino terminal amino acid analysis The protein obtained in Example 13 was oxidized with performic acid according to Hirs et al. Methods in Enzymology, 11, 197, 1967 and then subjected to amino terminal amino acid analysis by the modified Ednan degradation method of Iwanaga et al. Eur. J. Biochem 8, 189, 1969 . The resulting phenol thiohydantoin amino acids PTH amino acids were identified and quantitatively determined on a Varian USA Model 5040 high performance liquid chromatograph using an Ultrasphere 0DS column Altex, USA 4.6 x 250 mm, particle size 5 m by the method of Archer et al AltexChromatogram, 3, 8, 1980 . As a result, PTHmethionine sulk one and PTH cysteic acid were detected As is evident from the above mentioned examples, substantially pure human immune interferon proteins having a specific activity of not less than 7.5 x 107 U mr can be produced by the present invention. Example 7 Injectable preparation 5 mg of human I IF protein of the present invention specific activity of 2 x 1Q7 U mg is dissolved in 100 ml of 5 HSA. The solution is filtered using membrane filter pour size 0.2 um and divided into 100 vials under aseptic conditions. The solution in vials are aseptically lyophirized to give injectable preparations for extemporaneous use. The preparation is dissolved in 1 ml of distilled water before use. In the following reference examples, thin layer chromatography was performed using Merck 60F254 silica gel plates or Funakoshi Yakuhints AVICEL SF cellulose plates, with the developing solvents mentioned below Rfl Chloroform methanol acetic acid 9 1 0.5 Rf2 Ethyl acetate pyridine acetic acid water 30 10 3 5 Rf3 Chloroform methanol water 7 3 0.5 Rf4 n Butanol pyridine acetic acid water 30 20 6 24 Rf5 Ethyl acetate n butanol acetic acid water 1 1 1 1. Reference Example 1 i Production of Z Ser Gln OBut Z Gln OBut 10.1 g was dissolved in 500 ml of methanol and catalytic reduction was carried out in a hydrogen gas stream using palladium black as the catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was dissolved together with 7.5 g of Z Ser OH and 6.8 g of HONB in 250 ml ofDMF and the solution was cooled with ice. DCC 7.15 g was added with ice cooling and the mixture was stirred at 0 C for 4 hours and at room temperature for 12 hours.The formed DCU was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was extracted with 300 ml of AcOEt and the extract was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3, 0.2 N hydrochloric acid and water in that order and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was then distilled off and the resulting crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration, dried and recrystallized fromCH3CN. Yield 6.5 g 51.2 , mp 97 100 C, alpha D25 24.1 c 0.40, methanol RfÚ 0.64. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C20H290N3 C, 56.72 H, 6.90 N, 9.92 Found C, 56.21 H, 6.72 N, 9.76 ii Production of Z Ala Ser Gln OBut Z Ser Gln OBut 4.23 g was dissolved in 300 ml of methanol and catalytic reduction was carried out in a hydrogen gas stream using palladium black as the catalyst.The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was dissolved together with 2.34 g of Z Ala OH and 2.27 g of HONB in a mixed solvent composed of 200 ml of AcOEt, 200 ml of dioxane and 100 ml of DMF and the solution was cooled with ice.DCC 2.38 g was added with cooling and the mixture was stirred at 0 C for 4 hours and at room temperature for 12 hours. The DCU was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off. CN3CN and ether were added to the residue and the resulting crystalline precitate was collected by filtration, dried and recrystallized from CH3CN.Yield 3.72 g 75.3 , mp 165 170 C, alpha D25 41.2 c 0.50, methanol RfÚ 0.60. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C3H34O8N4 C, 55.86 H, 6.93 N, 11.33 Found C, 55.58 H, 6.74 N, 11.12 iii Production of Z Ala Ser Gln OBut 3.46 g was dissolved in 300 ml of methanol and catalytic reduction was carried out in a hydrogen gas stream using palladium black as the catalyst.The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off. The residue was dissolved in 150 ml of DMF together with Z Arg Pme OH prepared from 4.54 g of Z Arg Pme OH.CHA and 1.9 g of ROBt, and the solution was cooled with ice. DCC 1.9 g was added and the mixture was stirred at OOC for 4 hours and at room temperature for 15 hours, The DCU was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off AcOEt was added to the residue and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, dried and reprecipitated from methanol and AcOEt.Yield 4.55 g 75.5 , mp 130 134 C, alpha 25 24.1 Cc 0.26, methanol Rfl 0.57 Elemental analysis Calcd. for C40H60O11N8S. 1 2H2O C, 55.22 H, 7.07 N. 12,88 S, 3.69 Found C, 55.23 H, 693 N, 12,54 S, 3.48 iv Production of Z Arg Pme Ara Pme Ala Ser Gln OBut Z Arg Pme Ala Ser Gln OBut 4 3 g was dissolved in 400 ml of methanol and catalytic reduction was carried out in a hydrogen gas stream using palladium black as the catalyst The catalyst was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off The residue was dissolved in 200 ml of DMF together with Z Arg Pme OH prepared from 3.24 g of Z Arg Pme OH.CHA and 1.42 g of HOBt and the solution was cooled with ice. DCC 1.41 g was added and the mixture was stirred at 0 C for 4 hours and at room temperature for 20 hoursThe DCU was filtered off and the solvent was distilled off.AcOEt was added to the residue and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration, dried and reprecipitated from methanol and AcOEt. Yield 4.4 g 71.7 , mp l25 130 C, alpha D25 18.0 c 0.40, methanol Rfl 0.63. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C57H86O14N12S2.H2O C, 54.96 H, 7.12 N, 13.50 S, 5.15 Found C, 54.66 H, 6.92 N, 13.32 S, 5.34 v Production of Z Arg Pme Gly OBut Z Gly OBut 13.0 g was dissolved in 500 ml ofMeOH and catalytic reduction was carried out in a hydrogen gas stream using palladium black as the catalyst. The catalyst was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 200 ml of DMF, and Z Arg Pme OH prepared from 20.0 g of Z Arg Pme OH.CHA and 5.4 g of HOBt were added, followed by ice cooling. DCC 8.2 g was added and the mixture was stirred for 48 hours. The formedDCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. he residue was dissolved in 500 ml of AcOEt and theAcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaRCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2S04 and concentrated.Petroleum ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration. Yield 19.8 g 96.8 , mp 71 73 C, alpha D23 0.2 c 0.9, DMF , RfÚ 0.62. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C31H45O7N5S C, 58.93 H, 7.18 N, 11.09 S, 5.08 Found C, 59.42 H, 7.58 N, 10.95 S, 4.84 vi Production of Z Phe Arg Pme Gly OBut Z Arg Pme Gly OBut 10.0 g was dissolved in 500 ml ofMeOH and catalytic reduction was carried out The rroduct was then dissolved in 300 ml of DMF. Z Phe OH 4.,2 g and 2.35 g of XOBt were added and the mixture was cooled with ice DCC 3.59 g was added and the whole mixture was stirred for 15 hours. The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 400 ml of AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2S04 and concentrated.Ether was added and the resulting crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from MeOH etherYield 10.5 g 85.3 , mp 101 103 C, alpha D26 8.3 c 0.9,DMF , RfÚ 0.64. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C40H54O8N6S C, 61.67 H, 6.99 N, 10.79 s, 4.12 Found C, 61.66 H, 6.56 N, 10.93 S, 4.14 vii Production of Z Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly OBut . Z Phe Arg Pme Gly OBut 5.5 g was catalytically reduced in 300 ml of MeOH and then dissolved in 300 ml of DMF. Z Leu OH prepared from 3.31 g of Z Leu OH. DCHA and 1.47 g of HONB were added and the mixture was cooled with ice. DCC 1.68 g was added and the whole mixture was stirred for 48 hours. The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in 300 ml of AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHC03 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2S04 and concentrated. Ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration.Yield 6.2 g 98.3 , mp 171 173 C, alpha D26 15.5 c 0.9, DMF , RfÚ 0.64. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C46H65O9N7S C, 61.93 H, 7.34 N, 10.99 S, 3.59 Found C, 62.02 H, 7.37 N, 11.08 S, 3.59 viii Production of Boc Met Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly OBut Z Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly OBut 6.0 g was catalytically reduced in 200 ml of MeOH and then dissolved in 150 r1 orDMF. Boc Met OH prepared from 3.0 g of Boc Met OH.DCHA and 1.39 g of HONB were added and the mixture was cooled with ice. DCC 1.59 g was added and the whole mixture was stirred for 15 hours The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated.The residue was dissolved in n BuOH AcOEt and the solution was washed with 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2S04 and concentratedEther was added and the crystals was collected by filtration. Yield 6.2 g 95.1 mp 192 195 C, alpha D26 19.7 c 1.0, DMF , RfÚ 0.64. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C48H76O10N8S2 C, 58.27 H, 7.74 N, 11.33 S, 6.48 Found C, 58.48 H, 7.79 N, 11.34 S, 5.98 ix Production of Boc Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly OH To 5.5 g of Boc Met Leu PHe Arg Pme Gly OBut was added 50 ml of TFA and the mixture was shaken at room temperature for 10 minutes and then concentrated. Ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration and dried. It was dissolved in 50 ml of DMF and the solution was cooled with ice, followed by addition of 1.8 ml of TEA. Boc Gln ONB prepared from 1.85 g ofBoc Gln OH, 1.49 g of HONE and 1.90 of DCC was added and the mixture was stirred for 15 hours and concentrated.AcOH and then AcOEt were added and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration. Yield 5.3 g 89.8 , mp 181 183 C decomp. , alpha D26 19.6 c 1.0, DMF , RfÚ 0.30. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C49H76O12N10S2 C, 55.45 H, 7.22 N, 13.20 S, 6.04 Found C, 55.39 H, 7.17 N, 13.34 S, 6.20 x Production of Z Ser NHNH Boc Z Ser OH 10.0 g and 6.2 g of t butyl carbazate were dissolved in 150 ml of DMF and the solution was icecooled HONB 8.0 g and 9.3 g of DCC were added and the mixture was stirred for 15 hours. The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated.The residue was extracted into AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated. Ether was added and the crystals was cdllected by filtration, Yield 7,3 g 50.4 , mp 95 98 C, 26 6.2 c 0.8, DNF , Rfl 0,62. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C16H23O6N3 C, 54.38 H, 6.56 N, 11.89 Found C, 54.77 H, 6.88 N, 12.29 xi Production of Z Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc Z Ser NHNH Boc 3.9 g was catalytically reduced in 300 ml of MeOH and then dissolved in 50 ml of DMFZ Arg Phe OH prepared from 6.2 g of Z Arg Pme OH.CHA and 1.5 g of HOBt were added and the mixture was icecooled. DCC 2,3 g was added and the whole mixture was stirred for 15 hours. The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated, Ether was added and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration.Yield 7.45 g 93.7 , mp 100 101 C, alpha D26 0.9 c 1.2, DMF , Rfl 0.51. Elemental analysis Calcd, for 49 9 7 C, 55.06 H, 6.86 N, 13.62 S, 4.46 Found C, 55.49 H, 6.94 N, 13.14 S, 3,86 xii Production of Z Lys Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHTH Boc Z Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc 3,9 g was dissolved in 300 ml of MeOX and catalytic reduction was carried out. The product was dissolved in 50 ml of DMF, andZ Lys Mtr OH prepared from 3.4 g of Z Lys Mtr OH.DCHA and 0,88 g of HOBt were added The mixture was icecooled and 1.34 g of DCC was added. The whole miture was stirred for 20 hours. The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. AcOEt was added and the powdery precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from MeOH AcOEt. Yield 5.1 g 93.4 , mp 103 105 C, alpha D26 7.2 c 0.8, DMF , RfÚ 0.57. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C49H73O13N9S2 C, 55.50 H, 6.94 N, 11.89 S, 6.05 Found C, 55,70 H, 7.15 N, 1160 S, 5.63 xiii Production of Z Arg Pme Lgs Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc Z Lys Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc 4.8 g was dissolved in 300 ml of MeOH and catalytic reduction was carried out The product was dissolved in 70 ml of DMF, and Z Arg Pme OH prepared from 2.8 g ofZ Arg Pme OH.CHA and 0,74 g of HOBt were added.The mixture was ice cooled and 1.12 g of DCC was added0The whole mixture was stirred for 15 hours. The formedDCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated.Ether was added and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and reprecipitated from MeOH ether.Yield 5.8 g 89.8 , mp 136 137 C, alpha D26 6.6 c 1.0, DMF , RfÚ 0.58. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C66H99O16N13S3 C, 55.56 H, 6.99 N, 12.76 S, 6.74 Found C, 55.34 H, 7.07 N, 12,50 S, 6.59 xiv Production of Z Lys Mtr Arg Pme Lys Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc Z Arg Pme Lys Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc 3.0 g was dissolved in 150 ml of MeOH and catalytic reduction was carried out, The product was dissolved in 60 ml of DMF, and Z Lys Mtr OH prepared from 1.54 g of ZLys Mtr OH.DCHA and 0,31 g of HOBt were added. The mixture was ice cooled and 0,57 g of DCC was addedThe whole mixture was stirred for 15 hours.The formedDCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated,The residue was dissolved in AcOEt and the AcOEt solution was washed with 4 aqueous NaHCO3 and 10 aqueous citric acid, dried over Na2S04 and concentrated, Ether was added and the crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from AcOEt, Yield 2.70 g 72,8 , mp 123 1250C, alpha D26 5.9 c 1.1, DMF , RfÚ 0.57. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C82H123O20N15S4 C, 55.73 H, 7.02 N, 11.89 S, 7.26 Found C, 55.89 H, 7.30 N, 11.72 S, 7,08 xv Production of Boc Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly Arg Pme Arg Pme Ala Ser Gln OBut Z Arg Pme Arg Pme Ala Ser Gln OBut 1.0 g was dissolved in 100 ml of MeOH and catalytic reduction was carried out, The product was then dissolved in 20 ml of DMF, and 0.85 g of Boc Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly OH and 135 mg of HOBt were added The mixture was icecooled and 210 mg of DCC was added.The whole mixture was stirred for 20 hours The formed DCU was filtered off and the filtrate was concentrated, MeOH was added and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration0 Yield 1.50 g 87.4 , mp 216 2170C decomp. , alpha D26 11.8 c 1.0, DMF , RfÚ 0.43 Elemental analysis Calcd. for C98H154O23N22S4 C, 55.09 H, 7.27 N, 14.42 S, 6.00 Found C, 54.81 H, 7.33 N, 14.23 S, 5.79 xvi Production of H Lys Arg Lys Arg Ser Gln 3et Leu Phe Arg Gly Arg Arg Ala Ser Gln OHTo 1.0 g of Boc Gln Met Leu Phe Arg Pme Gly Arg Pme Arg Pme Ala Ser Gln OBut was added 10 ml of TFA and the mixture was shaken at room temperature for 50 minutes and then concentrated. Ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration and dried. Separately, 10 ml of TFA was added to 0.83 g of Z Lys Mtr Arg Pme Lys Mtr Arg Pme Ser NHNH Boc and the mixture was shaken at room temperature for 10 minutes and then concentrated, Ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration and dried. It was dissolved in 10 ml of DMF and the solution was cooled with dry ice acetone, followed by addition of 0.23 ml of 6.2 N HCl AcOEt and isoamyl nitrite 0.075 ml . The temperature was maintained at 25 to 200C for 20 minutes negative to the hydrazine test and the reaction mixture was cooled again with dry ice acetone and then neutralized with 0.25 ml of TEA. The amine component was dissolved in 40 ml of DMF and the solution was ice cooled. TEA 0.16 ml was added and the above azide solution was added. The whole mixture was stirred at 4 C for 72 hours and poured into diluted acetic acid. The formed precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with aqueous CHDCN. Yield 1.40 g 81.5 , Rfl 0.09. A part 400 mg of this product was dissolved in 60 ml of TFA thioanisole methyl sulfide 8 1 1 containing 0.15 M MSA and the solution was shaken at room temperature for 2 hours. AcONH4, 400 mg was added and the mixture was concentrated. Ether was added and the precipitate was collected by filtration and dried. It was dissolved in a small amount of 1 N AcOH and the solution was passed through a Sephadex G 25 column 2.2 x 120 cm using 1 N AcOH as the eluent. Fractions from 160 ml to 260 ml were combined and lyophilized. The lyophilizate was then passed through a column of Amberlite IRA 410 acetate form and lyophilized.This lyophilizate was purified by HPLC using a TSK LS410 column 2.14 x 7.5 cm 2.14 x 30 cm to give the above identified compound. Yield 45 mg, alpha D24 45.9 Cc 0.7, 0B1 N AcOH , Rf4 cellulose 0.20 Amino acid analysis Lys 1.71, Arg 4.71, Ser 1.69,Glu 2,12, Gly 1,00, Ala 1,03, Met 0.32, Leu 1.30, Pile 1.08 average recovery rate 77 . Reference Example 2Synthesis of carrier protein polypeptide complex Tile polypeptide obtained in Ref. Example 1 xvi was coupled with thyroglobulin hereinafter, TG according to Goodfriend et al. Sceince, 144, 1334 1964 1 Thus, 2.5 mg of said polypeptidewas mixed with 3.75 mg of TG and, following addition of 2 ml of 50 mM phosphate buffer, the mixture was stirred well in ice waterThereto was gradually added drop by drop a solution of 30.4 mg of carbodiimide hydrochloride in 200 ml of distilled water0 Thereafter, the mixture was stirred in ice water for 3 hours. After the reaction, dialysis was performed against distilled water to a sufficient extent, followed by lyophilization to give 4.7 mg of a protein complex. Reference Example 3Preparation of enzyme linked antigen for antibody detection by EIA The enzyme linked antigen for ElA was prepared according to Kitagawa et al, Journal of Biochemistry, 79, 233, 1976 . i Introduction of a maleimido group into the polypeptide The polypeptide 350 nmoles as obtained in Ref. Example 1 xvi was dissolved in 1 ml of 100 mM phosphate buffer CpH 6.8, and the solution was added to a solution of 585 g 1.75 moles of N 4 carboxycyclohexylmethyl maleimide N hydroxysuccinimide ester in 70 l of N,N dimethylformamide. The mixture was stirred at 300C for into minutes. After the reaction, fractionation was performed using a Sephadex G 25 column to give 185 nmoles of a polypeptide fraction with the maleimido group introduced therein. ii Coupling of the maleimido group containing polypeptide with ss D galactosidase The maleimido containing polypeptide 16.5 nmoles as obtained in Ref. Example 3 i was mixed with 3.3 nmoles of ss D galactosidase. After 18 hours of reaction at 4CC, 412.5 nmoles of ss mercaptoethanol was added for terminating the reaction. The R D galactosid ase coupled polypeptide was fractionated on a Sepharose 6B column and used for the subsequent experiments. Reference Example 4EIA method The detection of antibody activity in the serum of mice immunized with the protein complex obtained in Ref. Example 2 or in the hybridoma supernatant was conducted by theEIA method Immunology, 1, 3, 1978 . Thus, the serum or hybridoma supernatant was diluted with bufferA 20 mM Na2HPO4, 100 mM NaCl, 0.1 NaN3, 1 mM MgCl2, pH 7.0 , a 100 l portion of the dilution was mixed with 100 l of the polypeptide derivative as obtained inExample 3, and the reaction was allowed to proceed at 24 C for 24 hours Thereafter, 100 l of 3 cellulose coupled with rabbit anti mouse IgG was added, and the reaction was allowed to proceed at 24 C for 4 hours. After the reaction, the cellulose was washed well with buffer A containing 0.5 of Tween 20, then 500 l of 20 Wg ml 4 methylumbelliferyl D galactoside was added and, after 2 hours of reaction at 370C, 3 ml of 100 mM carbonate buffer CpH 10.5 was added for terminating the reaction The fluorescence intensity was measured with a fluorometer excitation 365 nm emission 450 nm . Reference Example 5Immunization Each of 6 female BALB C mice aged 7 to 8 weeks was subcutaneously inoculated with 40 g on the protein basis of the protein complex obtained in Ref. Example 2 as the antigen in intimate admixture with Freund s complete adjuvant primary immunization , Two weeks after the primary immunization, the mice were subcutaneously inoculated with the antigen at the same dose as above in intimate a dmixture with Freund s incomplete adjuvant secondary immunization .Further two weeks later, a third immunization was made in the same manner as in the secondary immunization Six days after the third immunization, partial blood sampling oc made from the mice and the serum antibody titers were determined by the EIA method described in Ref. Example 4. The mouse numbered y 2 gave the highest antibody titer and subjected to the final immunization by intravenous inoculation with 120 g of the antigen dissolved in 0.5 ml of aqueous sodium chloride The antibody titer data for each mouse are shown in Table 3 Table 3 Antipeptide antibody titers in immunized miceEMI36.1 tb SEP B T SEP tb Mouse SEP No. SEP Primary SEP immu SEP Secondary SEP Third SEP immu tb SEP nization SEP 1 SEP immunization SEP 2 SEP nization SEP 3 tb SEP gamma 1 SEP SEP SEP 4 SEP N.D. SEP 24.5 tb SEP 2 SEP N.I SEP 5 SEP 19.3 SEP 35.3 tb SEP 3 SEP SEP N.D. SEP 24.7 tb SEP 4 SEP N.D. SEP 1.3 SEP 1.7 tb SEP 5 SEP N.D SEP 1.8 SEP 5.0 tb SEP 6 tb Normal SEP SEP N.D. SEP 0.8 tb SEP mouse SEP 0.6 SEP 0.1 SEP N.D. tb 1 Serum dilution ratio 1 1000 2 Serum dilution ratio 1 6300 3 Serum dilution ratio 1 7800 4 Not detectable 5 ND Not determined B T Bound enzyme activity total added enzyme activity x 100 Reference Example 6Cell fusion Immunization was performed by the method described in Ref. Example 5. Three days after the final immunization, the spleen was excised from the y 2 mouse, filtered under pressure through a stainless mesh, and suspended in Eagle s minimum essential medium MEM to give a spleen cell suspension. For cell fusion, BAI,B C mouse derived P3 x63.Ag8.U1 P3U1 myeloma cells were used Current Topics inMicrobiology and Immunology, 81, 1, 1978 .Cell fusion was performed by the original method Nature, 256, 495, 1975 . Thus, spleen cells and P3U1 cells were separately washed three times with serum free MEM and mixed at a ratio of 5 1 in number of cells . The mixture was centrifuged at 800 rpm for 15 minutes, whereby the cells were settled. After thorough removal of the supernatant, the sediment was lightly loosened, 0,3 ml of 45 polyethylene glycol PEG 6000 Koch Light was added, and the mixture was allowed to stand in a warm water tank maintained at 370C for 7 minutes so as to effect cell fusion.Thereafter, MEM was added thereto at a rate of 2 ml per minute. After addition of 12 ml in total of MEM, the resulting mixture was centrifuged at 600 rpm for 15 minutes, followed by removal of the supernatant. The cell sediment was suspended in RPNI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum RPMI1640 10FCS in a concentration of 2 x 105 P3Ul cells ml and each of 144 wells on 24 well multidishes Linbro was seeded with 1 ml of the suspension. After seeding, the cells were incubated at 370C in a SCA carbon dioxide gas incubator. After 24 hours IAT selectThve culture was started by adding PRNIl64O lOFCS medium supplemented with HAT 1 x 10 4 M hypoxanthine, 4 x 10 7 M aminopterin, 1.6 x 10 5 M thymidine HAT medium in an amount of 1 ml per well. The HAT selective culture was continued while 1 ml of the old medium was replaced by 1 ml of fresh HAT medium 3, 5 and 7 days after start of the culture. The growth of hybridomas was noted 10 to 14 days after cell fusion. When the culture brcth turned yellow about 1 x 106 cells ml , the supernatant was collected and examined for the presence of antibody by the EIA method.In this manner, supernatants from 141 wells in which hybridoma growth had been noted were examined Two wells r2 11 and r2 100 afforded intense antibody activity and other two wells Y2 62 and y2 70 presented weak antibody activity. Reference Example 7Cloning Hybridomas from 3 wells gamma 2 11, 62 and 100 which were positive in antibody activity were cloned by the limiting dilution methods Thus, hybridomas were suspended in RPMI1640 20FCS in a concentration of 2 hybridomas ml and the suspension was distributed in OOl ml portions into the wells on a 96 well microplate Nunc . In said distribution, 5 x 105 per well of BALm c mouse thymocytes were added as feeder cells As a result, cell proliferation was observed in about 2 weeks.The supernatant was then collected and examined for the presence of antibodies by the ElA method as described inExample 4. Antibody activity was noted in 8 out of 19 clones from y2 ll in 3 out of 54 clones from y2 62 and in 5 out of 47 clones from Y2 100. Reference Example 8Ascites formation by monoclonal antibody producing ilybridomas Ascites formation was caused by intraperitoneal inoculation of BALB c mice intraperitoneally pretreated with 0.5 ml of mineral oil with 1 x 106 gamma 2 11.1 clone cells capable of producing antibodies having IFN gamma binding activity, Ten days after intraperitoneal administration of hybridomas, the ascitic fluid was taken and examined for antibody activity up to 107 fold dilution. While the antibody activity of the corresponding clone cell culture supernatant was detected up to 104 fold dilution, the formation of ascites ascitization led to an about 1000 times increase in antibody activity. Reference Example 9 Nonoclonal antibody purification Using 4 ml of the ascitic fluid obtained in Ref. Example 8 as the starting material, monoclonal antibody purification was performed by the method of Staehelin et al. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 256, 9750, t981 j. Thus, the ascitic fluid was first centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 15 minutes to remove fibrin like substances therefrom and then diluted with phosphate buffer saline PBS 8.1 mM NaH2PO4, 1.5 mM KH2PO4, 2.7 mM KCl, 137 mMNaCl pH 7.2 to a concentrationat which the ultraviolet absorption at 280 nm A280 for said dilution would range from 12 to 14. Thereafter, saturated aqueous ammonium sulfate was added to the diluted sample to a concentration of 47 for the sulfate. The mixture was stirred at 40C for 60 minutes to effect salting out and then centrifuged 10,000 rpm, 15 minutes to give a precipitate,The precipitate was dissolved in 20 mM Tris buffer pH 7.9 containing 50 mM NaCl and dialyzed against 2 liters of the same buffer. Tow hours later, the dialyzing solution was replaced by a fresh 2 liter portion of the same solution and the dialysis was continued for further 15 hours Thereafter, the precipitate was removed by centrifugation at 10,000 rpm for 15 minutes, and the supernatant was adjusted to a concentration such that the A280 value became 20 30, This sample was subjected to fractionation on a DEAE cellulose column 8 ml, Whatman DE52 equilibrated with a sufficient amount ofTris buffer containing 50 mM NaCl.After extensive washing with the same buffer at a flow rate of 1.5 ml min,NaCl consentrationwas linearly increased from 50 mM to CC i1. Under these conditions, the antibody activity was detected mainly in effluent fractions. Reference Example 10 Twenty five ml 65.3 mg of the monoclonal antibody from the effluent fractions as purified by the procedure of Ref. Example 9 was dialyzed overnight against 0.1 M NaHCO3 pH 8.3 . Separately, 25 ml of AFFI GEL 10 Bio Rad was thoroughly washed with water using a glass filter, suspended in 0.1 M NaHCO3 pH 8o3 and mixed with the above antibody. The mixture was stirred gently at 40C for 4 hours to effect the reaction, and then allowed to stand at 40C overnight The resulting AFFI GEL 10 was washed well with 0.1 M NaHC03 pH 8,3 using a glass filter To the gel was added 25 ml of a solution CpH 8.0 containing 0.1 M ethanolamine and 0.15 M NaCl. The mixture was shaken at 400 for an hour so as to block possibly remaining unreacted active groups. Then, the gel was washed well with PBS, and suspended in 25 ml of 0.1 NaN3 containing PBS. The suspension was stored at 400 Based on the amount of the added antibody and the amount of the antibody in the recovered filtrate, it was found that the antibody was conjugated to the gel in a proportion of 2.35 mg ml of gel. A column was packed with the reaction product obtained in this manner and used as an antibody column.