# A METHOD OF ENHANCING THE CONTRAST OF IMAGES AND MATERIALS THEREFOR

## Claims
Verfahren zur Erzeugung eines Bildes in einer Photoresistschicht, bei welchem a eine Photoresistschicht mit einer vorgegebenen Höhe der Kontrastschwelle für Licht einer vorbestimmten Wellenlänge bereitgestellt wird, b eine Beschichtung aus einer photobleichfähigen Verbindung ausgebildet wird, die gegenüber diesem Licht auf der Photoresistschicht sensitiv ist, um einen Schichtkörper mit der photobleichfähigen Verbindung und der Photoresistschicht zu erzeugen, wobei die photobleichfähige Verbindung einen Schwächungskoeffizienten gegenüber einem Molekulargewichtsanteil in dem ungebleichten Zustand von mehr als 10 Liter pro Gramm cm hat und das Verhältnis des Schwächungskoeffizienten für den ungebleichten Zustand zu dem Schwächungskoeffizienten für den gebleichten Zustand der photobleichfähigen Verbindung größer als 10 ist, c der Schichtkörper aus der photobleichfähigen Verbindungsschicht und der Photoresistschicht einem Strahlungsbild eines Musters ausgesetzt wird, wobei das Strahlungsbild durch eine Projektion des Lichts der vorbestimmten Wellenlänge durch eine Maske des Musters erzeugt worden ist, und wobei das Bild eine Kontrasthöhe geringer als die vorgegebene Höhe der Kontrastschwelle als Folge der in dem Muster anwesenden Ortsfrequenzen ist, damit eine Maske des Musters innerhalb der photobleichfähigen Verbindungsschicht erzeugt wird, während die Photoresistschicht durch die Maske hindurch innerhalb der photobleichfähigen Verbindung bestrahlt wird, damit das Muster in der Photoresistschicht für eine Zeit ausgebildet wird, damit das Muster erzeugt wird, welches eine Kontrastvergrößerung des Bildes mit verringertem Kontrast in der Photoresistschicht darstellt.

## Description
The present invention is directed to a method of enhancing the contrast of images in photo resists of objects such as masks for photolithography in the manufacture of integrated circuits. Lithography in the production of integrated circuits is predominantly carried out by optical means. In the drive to reduce circuit dimensions, improve performance and increase yield, optical systems have provided the required resolution with each successive generation of circuit technology. The image resolution of projection lithographic systems has recently begun to approach the physical limits imposed by practical constraints on numerical aperture and wavelength. While further improvements in lithographic technology are anticipated, dramatic improvements in inherent lens resolution are not. In order to continue the reduction of minimum feature size achievable by optical techniques, it is necessary to alter some other aspect of the lithographic process for further improvements. One area in which further improvements are possible is in the photoresist process. Each photoresist is characterized by some degree of incident contrast necessary to produce patterns usable for subsequent processing. This minimum required contrast of illumination is referred to as the contrast threshold of the resist. Depending on substrate properties, the required pattern thickness and resist edge profiles, conventionally used positive photoresist has a contrast threshold between 85 and 90 contrast. Currently, most production is done at 90 incident contrast or more. If the contrast threshold of the resist is reduced, the resolution obtainable with a given optical system is improved due to the fact that image contrast is a decreasing function of the spatial frequencies present in the image. A photographic material consisting of photobleachable dye that can be used to enhance the contrast of a print from a low contrast original is described in IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin , Vol. 8, No. 7 1965 p. 980. The present invention is directed to provide a photoresist process in which the contrast of an aerial image utilised in the process is enhanced prior to incidence on the photoresist. An object of the present invention is to lower the minimum contrast required to produce usable images in a photoresist. The present invention accordingly provides a method of producing an image in a layer of photoresist comprising, a providing a photoresist layer having a given level of contrast threshold for light of a predetermined wavelength, b forming a coating of a photobleachable compound being sensitive to said light on the photoresist layer to produce a composite of the photobleachable compound layer and said photoresist layer, said photobleachable compound having an extinction coefficient to molecular weight ratio in the unbleached state greater than 10 liters per gram cm, the ratio of the extinction coefficient for the unbleached state to the extinction coefficient for the bleached state of said photobleachable compound being greater than 10, c exposing said composite of the photobleachable compound layer and said photoresist layer to a radiation image of a pattern, said radiation image having been produced by projecting said light of a predetermined wavelength through a mask of the pattern, said image having a level of contrast less than said given level of contrast threshold due to the spatial frequencies present in the pattern, in order to reproduce a mask of the pattern within said photobleachable compound layer while exposing said photoresist layer through said mask within said photobleachable compound to form the pattern in said photoresist layer for a time to produce said pattern representing an enhancement in contrast of said image of reduced contrast in said photoresist layer. Particularly preferred is such a method wherein the ratio of the extinction coefficient to molecular weight of said photobleachable compound in the unbleached state is greater than 100 liters per gram cm and the ratio of the extinction coefficient for the unbleached state to the extinction coefficient for the bleached state of said photobleachable compound is greater than 30. The photobleachable compound is preferably an aryl nitrone compound, most preferably α 4 diethylaminophenyl N phenylnitrone and the predetermined wavelength of light is 405 nanometers. The contrast enhancing layer is preferably contiguous to the layer of photoresist, the latter layer preferably being less than 3 micrometers thick, the contrast enhancing layer preferably being less than 1 micrometer thick. In carrying out the invention in an illustrative embodiment thereof, a layer of photoresist of a first thickness and having a predetermined contrast threshold is provided. An object or mask is provided having opaque and transparent areas. An image having a contrast less than the predetermined contrast threshold of the photoresist is formed of the object on the layer of photoresist by projecting light of a predetermined wavelength through the object. A layer of photobleachable material including a photobleachable compound is provided between the object and the layer of photoresist and adjacent a surface of the layer of photoresist. The photobleachable compound is sensitive to the aforementioned wavelength of light and has an extinction coefficient to molecular weight ratio in liters per gram centimeter in the unbleached state greater than about 10. The ratio of the extinction coefficient for the unbleached state to the extinction coefficient for the bleached state of the photobleachable material is also greater than about 10. Light of the aforementioned wavelength and of a predetermined intensity is projected through the object onto the layer of photobleachable material for a time to obtain a reduction in optical density of the layer of photobleachable material in direct proportion to the dosage of light of the aforementioned wavelength incident thereof, whereby the integrated contrast of the image transmitted by the layer of photobleachable material increases with dosage transmitted thereby, reaches a maximum value and thereafter decreases. Parameters of the layer of photobleachable material are selected such that the maximum value of integrated contrast is greater than the predetermined threshold contrast of the layer of photoresist. The sensitivity of the layer of photoresist and the thickness thereof are selected such that the layer of photoresist is fully exposed by a dosage in a predetermined range transmitted by the layer of photobleachable material and provides an integrated contrast in the transmitted image above the predetermined contrast threshold of the photoresist. Light of the aforementioned predetermined wavelength is projected through the object for a time to provide the dosage in aforementioned predetermined range transmitted through the photobleachable layer. The layer of photobleachable material is removed and the layer of photoresist is developed whereby a pattern representing an enhancement in contrast of the image of reduced contrast of the object is formed in the layer of photoresist. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the present invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention itself, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages thereof may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein A large fraction of optical lithography is done currently by projection techniques in which an aerial image of a mask is used to expose the photoresist. For an aerial image of low contrast, even those parts of the image that correspond to the dark regions of the mask have significant intensities. As the contrast is reduced, discrimination of the darker area from the lighter area becomes increasingly difficult. In accordance with the present invention a method is provided which enhances the contrast of the image incident on the photoresist and thereby improves this discrimination. The contrast enhancement is based on the use of photobleachable materials which are initially relatively opaque, but following some dose of radiation, become relatively transparent. The optical transmission of an idealized bleachable layer is shots in Figure 1. When the aerial image of a mask is incident on such a layer, the regions of the bleachable layer that are exposed to the highest intensities bleach through first, while those parts of the layer that receive the lowest intensities bleach through at a later time. The dynamics of this bleaching process are depicted in Figures 2A 2F. Figure 2A shows the relative transmission of an object such as a mask consisting of opaque regions producing zero transmission 11 separated by open or transparent regions producing 100 transmission 12. I The application of contrast enhancing techniques to submicron optical lithography raises several physical and chemical constraints on the contrast enhancing layer itself. The contrast enhancing layer must be simultaneously thin and optically dense. The thickness requirement arises because of the narrow depth of focus of high resolution optical systems. This limits the thickness to a range of less than about 1 micron. Because the contrast enhancing layer must be optically dense, it is necessary that the photochemical constituent of the layer be strongly absorbing. Since the optical transmission following bleaching is determined by the absorption of photoproducts, the photoproducts must have a much smaller extinction coefficient than the parent molecule. Extinction coefficient is defined by the equation where A model of the bleaching process was developed and utilized in the evaluation of bleachable materials suitable for use in the contrast enhancing layer. The parameters of the model are set forth in the following table Based on the analysis above and the model of the bleaching process three preferred criteria for material parameters were developed and are set forth in Table 2. The first criterion is based on the need for an optically dense film, and is essentially related to the packing density of absorbing centers in the contrast enhancing layer. The second criterion is based on the need for as abrupt a transition from the unbleached to the bleached state as is possible. Acceptability of a given quantum yield is to some extent related to the first criterion, because improvements in the first can compensate for deficiencies in the second criterion. The third criterion is based on the need for the contrast enhancing layer to be transparent following the bleaching process. These criteria were used in the initial search for appropriate bleachable materials. Selection of suitable bleachable compound was determined by evaluation in the model of the bleaching process and by test of the compound in a layer thereof to determine the relative transmission as a function of time or dosage of radiation with radiation intensity being held constant. A number of different bleachable compounds, the bleaching properties of which were based on different bleaching mechanisms were evaluated. The bleachable compounds dependent on photoisomerization were found to be particularly suitable. Of these compounds, aryl nitrones represented by formula In formula Various aryl ring systems with a variety of substituents may be constructed to suit the particular needs of the optical system employed in the photoimaging process. The aryl nitrones exhibit extinction coefficients of 2 to 5 x 10⁴ liter mole ¹cm ¹ and bleach with quantum yields in the range of 0.1 to 0.5 Included among this subclass of Suitable binders for use in providing a spin castable mixture for formation of a photobleachable layer incorporating the aryl nitrones of formula 1 are vinyl acetate polymers homopolymers and copolymers and their partially saponified products e.g., polyvinylacetate , copolymers of styrene or its derivatives, polymers and copolymers of acrylate or methacrylate esters, acetal resins, acrylonitrile butadiene copolymers, ethyl cellulose and other hydrocarbon soluble cellulose ethers, cellulose propionate and other hydrocarbon soluble cellulose esters, poly chloroprene , poly ethylene oxide , poly vinylpyrrolidone . Suitable solvents for use in providing a spin castable mixture for formation of a photobleachable layer incorporating the aryl nitrone of formula 1 are aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. toluene xylenes, ethyl benzene, chlorobenzene with or without aliphatic hydrocarbons e.g. cyclohexane , halogenated aliphatic compounds e.g. trichloroethylene, methyl chloroform, alcohols e.g. propanol, butanol . The diaryl nitrone 2 where R CH₃CH₂ and n 0 was found to be particularly suitable. This nitrone, referred to as α 4 diethylaminophenyl N phenylnitrone, was found to absorb strongly at 405 nm and bleaches to near transparentcy with high efficiency at the same wavelength by undergoing unimolecular cyclization to an oxaziridine. The nitrone is very soluble in solvents of moderately low polarity e.g., toluene, ethylbenzene and forms good films at high loading densities with a variety of polymers such as polystyrene, poly hydroxyethylmethacrylate , poly α methylstyrene, poly methyl methacrylate , polyvinylpyrrolidone,vinylpyridine styrene copolymers and allyl alcohol styrene copolymers. The material α 4 diethylaminophenyl N phenylnitrone has an extinction coefficient to weight ratio of 130 liters gram cm at 405 nm. The material was formed into a contrast enhancing layer as follows A solution of α 4 diethylaminophenyl N phenylnitrone 5 by weight of solution and a binder, styrene allyl alcohol copolymer 5 by weight of solution are dissolved in toluene. A glass substrate is spin coated to a thickness of 250 nm. The relative transmission of the sample was tested at 405 nm and was found to have the relative transmission versus time characteristic at 405 nm, shown in Figure 3. The model of the bleaching process was used to calculate the improvements in contrast as a function of exposure time for the contrast enhancing layer of Figure 3. This is accomplished by calculating the bleaching for two representative points in a given pattern. In this example, two incident intensities that correspond to the maxima and minima of line and space grating pattern are chosen. The contrast C that these two levels of intensity correspond to can be calculated from the definition of contrast Using the model of the bleaching process, the transmitted intensity as a function of incident dose for both the maxima and minima are determined. From these quantities, both the instantaneous and the integrated contrast can be calculated as a function of incident dosage. Figure 4 shows graphs of such determinations and calculations for a 30 contrast pattern incident on the layer of the sample described above. Graph 21 shows the relative transmission at a relative maximum as a function of incident dosage in joules. Graph 22 shows the relative transmission at a minimum as a function of incident dosage. Graph 23 shows the instantaneous contrast obtained from graphs 21 and 22 using equation 3, as a function of incident dosage. Graph 24 shows the integrated contrast obtained from equation 3 using integrated values of I The process used for utilising the contrast enhancing layer will row be described and thereafter the results obtained thereby will be compared with the results obtained under the same conditions but without the use of a contrast enhancing layer. Reference is now made to Figures 6A 6E which illustrate the various steps of the process for providing a pattern of photoresist on a suitable substrate. Figure 6A shows a substrate 31 on which is provided a layer 32 of a suitable photoresist such as Shipley 1400 series of positive photoresists available from the Shipley Company of Newton, Mass. Such positive resists consist of a novolac resin or poly vinylphenol , diazonaphthoquinone eaters, and solvents e.g. cellosolve acetate, xylenes . In order to determine the improvements in contrast threshold obtained for the composite layer of the contrast enhancing layer and photoresist in accordance with the present invention, the aforementioned photobleachable material constituted of α 4 diethlylaminophenyl N phenylnitrone and a styrene allyl alcohol binder was utilized in conjunction with Shipley 1400 series of positive photoresist to fabricate various patterns. A wafer or substrate of silicon was coated with only photoresist having a thickness of 1.6 µm and another water of silicon was coated with a layer of photoresist 1.6 µm thick over which was coated a layer of the photobleachable material specified above to a thickness of .25 µm. An object consisting of an opaque line 2 µm wide, a transparent space 2 µm wide, an opaque line .8 µm wide and a transparent space .8 µm wide was imaged using the Optimetrix 10 1 projection system at 405 nanometers onto the wafer with just the layer of photoresist with a range of dosages to form a number of patterns in the photoresist and was also imaged on the water which included photoresist and contrast enhancing layer with a range of dosages to form a number of patterns in the photoresist. The photoresist on each of the wafers was developed to obtain the patterns of lines and spaces formed in the photoresist. Patterns produced in the wafer with just photoresist using the minimum exposure or dosage that opened the .8 µm space at the photoresist substrate interface were compared with the patterns produced in the wafer with photoresist and contrast enhancing layer using the minimum exposure or dosage that opened .8 µm space at the photoresist substrate interface. The 2.0 µm wide line and the 2.0 µm wide space, were nearly correct for both the wafer using just the photoresist and the wafer using the photoresist and the contrast enhancing layer thereon. The .8 µm wide line was grossly overexposed on the wafer having just the photoresist using the exposure which produced a .8 µm wide space in the photoresist. The .8 µm wide line was properly exposed producing a .8 wide line in the photoresist on the wafer having both photoresist and contrast enhancing layer using the exposure which produced a .8 wide space in the photoresist. Furthermore, the profiles of the walls of the contrast enhanced patterns were nearly vertical. The poorer resultant patterns produced in the photoresist without the contrast enhancing layer is due to the much lower aerial image contrast obtained at the output of the Optometrix projection system due to the higher spatial frequencies present in the image or pattern of radiation obtained therefrom. While the invention has been described in connection with a particular positive photoresist, other positive and negative photoresists may be utilized. Also, while a particular thickness of photoresist and a particular thickness contrast enhancing layer were utilized in one example describing the invention, it will be understood that other thicknesses of photoresist and contrast enhancing layers may be utilized. Preferably the layer of photoresist should have a thickness less than about 3 µm and the contrast enhancing layer should have a thickness less than about 1 µm. While in an exemplary composition of the contrast enhancing layer equal weight proportions of the photobleachable compound and the binder therefor were utilized, other proportions may be utilized, if desired. While in connection with photoresists it was mentioned that they have a characteristic called contrast threshold, it should be noted that this characteristic is a function of conditions of usage of the photoresist as well as of the resist itself, for example, the nature of the substrate on which used and reflections therefrom. While values of the extinction coefficient to molecular weight ratio in the unbleached state for the photobleachable compound greater than about 100 are preferred and a ratio of the extinction coefficient for the unbleached state to the extinction coefficient for the bleached state of the photobleachable compound greater than about 30 is preferred, values of the above ratios as low as about 10 would be satisfactory. While a particular class of photobleachable compounds, namely, the aryl nitrones, dependent on unimolecular cyclization were utilized, it will be understood that other photobleachable compounds dependent on unimolecular cyclization and on other bleaching mechanisms such as photofragmentation, for example, may be utilized in accordance with the present invention. Aryl nitrones hating an absorption maximum in the range of 300 450 nanometers and suitable for use in the method of the invention are described and claimed in our co pending Application No. 89202607.1 EP A 0361627 Other nitrones having absorption maxima in the wavelength range of 300 to 450 nanometers are also set forth in Table I. In Table I, λ These other nitrones were prepared in a manner similar to the manner of preparation to the aforementioned nitrones by the condensation of the appropriate aldehydes and phenylhydroxylamines in polar solvents. In the method of the invention the photobleachable layer is in the form of an in situ mask on the layer of photoresist. The formation of such a composite structure has a number of advantages. The photobleachable layer conforms to the surface of the layer of photoresist and avoids the formation of gaps between the high points of the surfaces of the layer of photobleachable material and the layer of photoresist. Such gaps would be formed when the two layers are formed on separate supports and then brought together. Such gaps would be highly detrimental to the resolution of any image formed in the photoresist particularly when the features to be imaged are of the order of a few microns and also when the depth of field of the projection system is a few microns. Also, bringing a layer of photobleachable material into contact with a layer of photoresist and thereafter separating them runs the risk of having pieces of one layer adhering to the other layer thereby damaging the layers of photoresist. While in describing the invention in an exemplary embodiment, the contrast enhancing layer was situated in contact with the layer of the photoresist, the contrast enhancing layer could have been spaced apart from the layer of the photoresist, if desired, for example, by a thin conformal layer of neutral material formed in situ.