# COMPOSITE SUTURES OF SILK AND HYDROPHOBIC THERMOPLASTIC ELASTOMERS

## Claims
Chirurgishes Verbund Nahtmaterial, welches eine mehrfädige Seide umfaßt, welche in einem hydrophoben, schlaffen, thermoplastischen Elastomer derart eingebettet ist, das Elastomer im wesentlichen sämtliche Zwischenräume zwischen den Seidenfäden ausfüllt,

## Description
This invention relates to a non irritating composite suture of silk and hydrophobic thermoplastic elastomers containing at least 25 soft segments which composite suture retains the handling qualities of silk and is also capable of retaining at least thirty two percent of its initial mechanical strength Many natural and synthetic materials are presently used as surgical sutures. These materials may be used as single filament strands, i.e. monofilament sutures, or as multifilament strands in a braided, twisted or other multifilament construction. Silk does not lend itself to the fabrication of monofilament sutures and is accordingly generally used in one of the multifilament constructions, preferably the braided form. This results in a silk suture having desirable handling characteristics, being sufficiently flexible and having good knot tying ability and knot security. However, presently available untreated silk sutures are known a to provoke a significant tissue reaction in the biologic environment, b have a significant strength loss in living tissues typically a 2 0 metric size 3 silk suture retains about twenty percent of its original strength after eight weeks, post implantation , and c to lack the surface barrier properties needed for retarding cellular infiltration into the suture interior in living tissue. The composite suture of the present invention displays equivalent handling properties to those of the untreated braided silk suture, it elicits reduced tissue reaction after seven days and later post implantation intervals, and when implanted intramuscularly, is more effective in retarding cellular infiltration due to the monofilamentous geometry of the composite suture and it is characterized by improved strength retention after fifty six days post implantation. The prior art discloses a number of methods for coating sutures in general. Coating material for sutures normally would require low surface friction characteristics so as to facilitate the knot tying ability of the resultant coated suture. Contrary to such expectations, the present invention utilizes an elastomer which has high surface friction characteristics in preparing the present composite suture. Braided silk sutures are desirably flexible due to the interlocking geometry of the fibers. In accordance with the present invention, a multifilament silk suture is treated with a hydrophobic, limp thermoplastic elastomer in order, not only to coat the suture, but to substantially fill all the interstices between the silk filaments. It has been found, surprisingly, that the particular elastomers utilized in accordance with the present invention, when filling the spaces between the silk fibers, do not adversely affect the flexibility of the suture as a whole. U.S. Patent No. 3,527,650 teaches that multifilament non absorbable sutures can be improved with respect to tie down performance by depositing solid particles of polytetrafluoroethylene and a binder resin on the According to U.S. Patent No. 3,942,532, non absorbable sutures can be improved with respect to tie down performance by coating them with a linear polyester having a molecular weight between 1,000 and 15,000 and at least two carbon atoms between the ester linkages. This patent pertains to simple linear thermoplastic polyesters which are highly crystalline, low melting materials. These are expected to impart lubricity and are not a segmented in structure, b elastomeric or c significantly capable of contributing to the mechanical properties of braided sutures including silk to any discernable extent. U.S. Patent No. 3,297,033 discloses that synthetic absorbable sutures can be coated with coating materials used on conventional sutures, such as a silicone or beeswax, to modify handling. However, it does not describe any material or system that can be combined with braided silk sutures to form the unique composite sutures subject of the present invention. U.S. Patent No. 4,043,344 shows that the handling characteristics and particularly the knot run down and tissue drag characteristics of non absorbable sutures are improved by a coating with a lubricating film of bioabsorbable copolymer having copolyoxyethylene blocks and polyoxypropylene blocks. The copolymer has a molecular weight such that it is pasty to solid at 25 C. This lubricant coating is described as absorbable The lubricant coating as described should a have a low molecular weight, about 8350 Dalton, and low Tm and hence would be expected to have hardly any integrity at usual levels of stress b it is soluble in the biologic environment and likely to migrate to the surrounding tissue in two days to cause additional foreign body reaction c it is water soluble and hence would be expected to provide minimum lubricity during wet tie down and d would not be expected to render a commercial silk suture less irritating to tissue and more resistant towards losing its breaking strength, for the coating does not act as a hydrophobic inert barrier about the braid components and does not mask effectively the undesirable morphological features of a braided suture. U.S. Patent No. 4,185,637 discloses a multifilament suture having improved tie down properties, said suture being coated with from 1 to 5 percent by weight of the dry residue of a composition comprising a gel of a polyvalent metal ion salt of C₆ or higher fatty acid in a volatile organic solvent. The coating described by this patent can only serve as a lubricant, for it is a low molecular weight system that cannot impart any discernable physical changes to the mechanical integrity of the suture braid construction. If used for silk sutures, this absorbable coating would not be expected to decrease the tissue reaction or increase the strength retention. According to U.S. Patent No. 4,105,034 the tie down properties of a multifilament surgical suture are improved by coating the suture with an absorbable composition comprising a low molecular weight polyalkylene oxalate. If silk sutures were to be treated with such a coating, the latter would be expected to only impart desirable surface lubricity, without affecting the tissue reaction or breaking strength retention of the implanted suture in any positive sense. This is simply because the coating is an absorbable low molecular weight material which limits the residence time about the fibers and the effect on the suture properties of the braid. Canadian Patent No. 902439 describes a polyfilamentary silk suture having a plurality of fine solid particles of insoluble synthetic polymeric material incorporated in the interstices thereof, in an amount sufficient to embue the suture with substantially the properties of a monofilament. However, these particles cannot be expected to act as a hydrophobic inert barrier about the braid components and accordingly, the method of said reference is not likely to decrease the tissue reaction or increase the strength retention of the suture. French Patent Publication No. 2278348 describes implantable, bioabsorbable articles comprising wholly or partially a specific random copolyester of oxalic and succinic acid derived moieties. Among the articles described are silk sutures coated with the specific copolyester. European Patent Application No. 0008152 describes sutures and ligatures, preferably in monofilamentary form, comprising block copolymers which may be represented by the following formula British Patent Application No. 2089824 describes monofilament surgical sutures comprising poly tetramethylene terephthalate co 2 alkenyl or alkyl succinate . However, neither EP A 0008152 nor GB A 2089824 disclose that any of the elastomers which they describe could be used as a coating or embedding material for fibrous material in the construction of a suture. In view of the above discussion it will be seen, with respect to non absorbable sutures such as braided silk sutures, that the prior art does not disclose any effective method for reducing tissue reaction at later post implantation periods, retarding cellular infiltration or bringing about improved strength retention after eight weeks post implantation. It is accordingly an object of the present invention to provide a composite suture which is non irritating and retains the handling qualities of silk, and which is capable of retaining a higher proportion of the initial mechanical strength, In accordance with the present invention there is provided a composite suture comprising multifilament silk embedded in a hydrophobic, limp, thermoplastic elastomer such that the elastomer fills substantially all the interstices between the silk filaments, said elastomer comprising from 5 to 50 by weight of the total composite suture, said elastomer having a melting temperature by thermal microscopy of from 80 to 180 C, and said elastomer being selected from the group consisting of The elastomer of the present invention preferably possesses an inherent viscosity which ranges between about 0.2 and 1.4. Preferably, the elastomer has a molecular weight of at least 2000 Dalton, and most preferably at least 10,000 Dalton. The elastomer comprises copolymers having hard and soft segments. Preferably the soft segments of the elastomer of the formulae P , Q and R comprise between 55 and 75 by weight thereof and in the instance wherein the elastomer has the above formulae P , Q or R , the soft segments comprise between 60 and 70 thereof. Furthermore, in the instance wherein the elastomer has the formula S , the soft segments preferably comprise between 30 and 50 thereof. In the instance wherein the elastomer has the formula P , the inherent viscosity in HFIP hexafluoro 2 propanol is preferably between 0.8 and 1.3. In the instance wherein the elastomer has the formula Q or R , the inherent viscosity in hexafluoro 2 propanol is preferably between 0.2 and 0.7 and in the instance wherein the elastomer has the formula S the inherent viscosity in hexafluoro 2 propanol is preferably between 0.3 and 0.6. Preferably, there is provided a suture according to the present invention wherein Z is 1,4 phenylene, G is 1,4 butylene, and the elastomer has an inherent viscosity of between 0.2 and 1.4. Preferably, there is provided a composite suture essentially retaining the handling qualities of silk, which is capable of eliciting a tissue reaction comparable to common synthetic sutures and having barrier properties against cell infiltration comparable to those of a monofilament. Within the scope of the present invention is a composite suture, having a surgical needle attached to at least one end, preferably in a sterile condition. In this connection, it is important that sutures be presented to the operating room in sterile condition. Several methods of achieving sterility are known. Of these the most commonly employed method for silk sutures consists of exposure to 2.5 Mrads 2.5 x 10⁴ Gy of γ irradiation derived from a Cobalt 60 source. It is important therefore that the thermoplastic elastomers used in this invention be capable of resisting exposure to this level of irradiation without significant change in their physical properties. In accordance with the present invention, there is also provided a method of preparing a non irritating and strength retaining composite silk thermoplastic elastomer suture comprising the steps of a treating a multifilament silk suture with a hydrophobic, limp thermoplastic elastomer dissolved in a solvent therefor at a temperature between 20 and 80 C but preferably between 30 and 50 C in order to coat said suture, said elastomer comprising copolymers having hard and soft components, said soft components comprising about 25 80 by weight of said polymer said elastomer having a suitable molecular weight sufficient to provide a solution viscosity that is consistent with optimum diffusion into the interior of the suture structure, resulting in a high integrity matrix which does not flake when the suture is subjected to mechanical stress and optionally, b rapidly heating the treated suture at a temperature between about 340 and 500 C to obtain a continuous and consistent impregnation of the multifilament silk suture, and to substantially fill all the interstices between the silk filaments. The preferred synthetic matrix P , used to prepare the composite suture of the present invention, is a segmented polyether ester made by the condensation of dimethyl terephthalate, polyoxytetramethylenediol molecular weight 650 to 10,000 Dalton and preferably 1000 Dalton and butanediol in the presence of a typical polyesterification catalyst e.g. Ti OBu ₄, Ti OBu ₄ Mg OAc ₂ , optionally, an antioxidant of the hindered phenol type e.g. Irganox 1098 N,N hexamethylene bis 3,5 ditert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamide at 0.1 to 1 or aromatic secondary amine type e.g. Naugard 445 4,4 bis α,α dimethylbenzyl diphenylamine at 0.2 to 1 . The polymerization can be achieved under conventional conditions of temperature, pressure and stirring. The resulting polymer is characterized by having long sequences of crystallizable polybutylene terephthalate 4GT units linked to low Tm or liquid at room temperature poly polyoxytetramethylene terephthalate POTMT these units are commonly referred to as hard and soft segments, respectively. The structure of the matrix material can be represented as follows Although some of these segmented copolyesters are available commercially and disclosed broadly in U.S. Patent No. 3,023,192 sold in the U.S. under the trade name Hytrel the relatively high proportion of hard segments and high molecular weight of the commercially avaiable products render them less suitable for use in the present invention, and accordingly special compositions are made in order to provide optimum matrixes for the composite sutures of this invention. The composition and physical properties of two typical matrix materials are shown in Table I. If tested in the appropriate physical form e.g. compression molded film Die C these polymers are expected to have an ultimate elongation of 300 , ultimate tensile strength of 5000 psi 3.5 x 10⁶ kg m² and a flex. modulus of 10,000 psi 7.0 x 10⁶ kg m² . Based on available physical data on compositions other than those described in Table I, the glass transition temperature of polymers 135 and 137 are expected to be well below 40 C irrespective of the analytical procedure used for the Tg measurement. The crystallinity detected in sample 137 is shown to be due to the hard 4GT segments. Considering the available data on Hytrel type polymers the molecular weight of polymers 135 and 137 can be equal to or exceed 10,000 Dalton. The synthetic matrix Ω is prepared by the polycondensation of dimethyl terephthalate, dimer acid, or preferably its diisopropyl ester and a polymethylene diol n 4 to 8, and preferably 4 . The preferred parent dimer acid of the diisopropyl ester utilized in the polymerizations is derived from high purity oleic acid and is formed by a clay catalyzed high pressure dimerization of the oleic acid in the presence of water. The mechanism of formation of the dimer acid is probably free radical in nature and the product is believed to consist of a mixture of acyclic unsaturated C₃₆ acids. The unsaturated materials are then hydrogenated and the diner ester used in the present polymerizations possesses a slight degree of unsaturation as evidenced by an Iodine number of 5. In addition to the C₃₆ acids that make up the dimer acid there is present some monofunctional acid iso stearic and a certain quantity of trifunctionality in terms of a Trimer C₅₄ acid. The former may act as a chain terminator and the latter as crosslinking agent. Detailed structures of the C₃₆ components of the dimer acid have not been elucidated as yet and the diacid is sometimes represented graphically as shown below with four almost equal branches . The reaction may be run in the absence or preferably in the presence of stabilizers taken from the types of hindered phenols or secondary aromatic amines. An example of the former is Irganox 1098 sold by Ciba Geigy N,N hexamethylene bis 3,5 ditert butyl 4 hydroxy hydrocinnamide and an example of the latter is Naugard 445 sold by Uniroyal 4,4 bis α,α dimethylbenzyl diphenyl amine . Oxides and alkoxides of numerous polyvalent metals may be employed as catalysts. A preferred catalyst for the polymerization is a mixture of about 0.1 tetrabutyl orthotitanate and about 0.005 magnesium acetate percentages based on total charge weight . The polymerization is run in two stages. In the first stage, run under nitrogen at temperatures ranging from 160 to 250 C, polycondensation via transesterification and esterification occurs resulting in oligomeric chains. These are converted to materials having high degree of polymerization in the subsequent step run at 240 to 255 C, at pressures of less than 1 mm of mercury less than 133 Pa . The resulting polymers exhibit inherent viscosities measured in hexafluoroisopropyl alcohol of 0.5 to 0.9. The Tm of the polymers, depending on composition, varies from 100 to 180 C. For each mole of the desired amounts of dimethyl terephthalate and diisopropyl dimerate obtained from Emery Industries as Emerest 2349 , a 1.3 to 2.2 molar excess of a polymethylene diol and a given stabilizer are placed under nitrogen into a dry reactor fitted with an efficient mechanical stirrer, a gas inlet tube and a takeoff head for distillation. The system is heated under nitrogen to 160 and stirring is begun. To the homogeneous stirred solution the required amount of catalyst is added. The mixture is stirred and heated under nitrogen for given time periods at 190 C 2 4 hours and 220 C 1 3 hours . The temperature is subsequently raised to 250 to 255 C and over a period of 0.4 0.7 hours, the pressure is reduced in the system to below 1 mm Hg 133 Pa preferably in the range of 0.05 mm to 0.1 mm 6.65 13.3 Pa . Stirring and heating under the above conditions is continued to the completion of the polymerization. The endpoint is determined by either a estimating visually the attainment of maximum melt viscosity, b measuring inherent viscosity or melt indices of samples removed from the reaction vessel at intermediate time periods, and c using a calibrated torquemeter immersed into the mixture. In practice, depending on the terephthalate dimerate ratio, At the end of the polymerization cycle the hot mixture is equilibrated with nitrogen and allowed to cool slowly. The reaction product is isolated, chilled in liquid nitrogen and ground. The ground chips are dried at 80 to 110 C for 8 to 16 hours under vacumm of 1 mm 133 Pa or less. Copolyesters Q of aromatic diacids e.g. terephthalic acid and dimer acids of C₁₈ unsaturated fatty acids have been known for some time in the technical and patent literature. Hoeschele Angew.Makromol.Chem. 58 59, 229 1977 disclosed the preparation of thermoplastic PBT polybutylene terephthalate dimerate systems. According to a number of patents U.S. Patent No. 3,390,108 1968 , U.S. Patent No. 3,091,600 1963 and British Patent No. 994,441 1965 , PET polyethylene terephthalate copolymers were disclosed containing small amounts of dimerate moieties. In a few instances higher concentrations of dimerates are disclosed as being incorporated into PET copolymers Belgium Patent No. 649,158 1964 , U.S. Patent No. 3,383,343 1963 and French Patent No. 1,398,551 1965 . Copolymer Q is also disclosed in copending European Application No. 0081369. The general structure of the poly polymethylene terephthalate co 2 alkenyl or alkyl succinate R , useful in forming the composite sutures of the present invention, may be expressed as follows wherein Z and G are as defined hereinabove. The structure belongs to the copolymer type and g and h can be predicted from the quantities of starting materials The preferred polymers R useful in the present invention are prepared by the polycondensation of dimethyl terephthalate, an alkyl or 2 alkenyl succinic anhydride and a polymethylene diol The required diols are commercially available. The substituted succinic anhydrides can be prepared by the ene reaction of maleic anhydride and an olefin preferably a terminal olefin The reaction may be run in the absence or, preferably, in the presence of stabilizers such as hindered phenols, e.g., Irganox 1098 or secondary aromatic amines, e.g., Naugard 445 . Acetates, oxides and alkoxides of numerous polyvalent metals nay be employed as the catalyst such as, for example, zinc acetate, or magnesium acetate in combination with antimony oxide, or zinc acetate together with antimony acetate. However, the preferred catalyst for the polymerization is a mixture of about 0.1 based on total charge weight tetrabutyl orthotitanate and about 0.005 magnesium acetate. The polymerization is run in two stages. In the first stage, run under nitrogen at temperatures ranging from 160 to 250 C, polycondensation via transesterification and esterification occurs, resulting in lower molecular weight polymers and oligomers. These are converted to higher molecular weight materials in the subsequent step run at 240 to 255 C, at pressures of less than 1 mm of mercury less than 133 Pa . The resulting polymers, exhibit inherent viscosities measured in hexafluoroisopropyl alcohol of 0.3 to 0.9. A representative molecular weight determination of one of the polymers by light scattering gives a value of 78x10³ Daltons. The Tm of the polymers, depending on composition varies from about 100 to 180 C. The desired amounts of dimethyl terephthalate, a 2 alkenyl succinic anhydride or an alkylsuccinic anhydride , a 1.3 to 2.0 molar excess of a polymethylene diol and a given stabilizer are placed under nitrogen into a dry reactor fitted with an efficient mechanical stirrer, a gas inlet tube and a takeoff head for distillation. The system is heated under nitrogen to 160 C and stirring is begun. To the homogeneous stirred reaction mixture the required amount of catalyst is added. The mixture is then stirred and heated under nitrogen for given time periods at 190 C 2 4 hours and 220 C 1 3 hours . The temperature is subsequently raised to 250 to 255 C and over a period of 0.4 to 0.7 hours, the pressure is reduced in the system to about 1 mm Hg 133 Pa preferably 0.05 mm to 0.1 mm 6.65 to 13.3 Pa . Stirring and heating under the above conditions is continued to complete the polymerization. The endpoint is determined by either a estimating visually the attainment of maximum melt viscosity, b measuring inherent viscosity or melt indices of samples removed from the reaction vessel at intermediate time periods, or c using a calibrated torquemeter attached to the stirrer of the reactor . At the end of the polymerization cycle the molten polymer is extruded and pelletized or slow cooled in the glass reactor, isolated and ground in a mill . The polymer is dried at 80 to 110 C for 8 16 hours under reduced pressure. One alternate method of polymerization is set forth in U.S. Patent No. 3,890,279. Said U.S. Patent No. 3,890,279 and U.S. Patent No. 3,891,604 as well as copending U.K. Application No. 2,089,824 disclose copolymer R . The flexible polyesters S useful in the present invention have rigid AB type ester units of an alkylene oxybenzoate and one of the following flexible AA BB type ester sequences of 1 an alkylene, 2 alkenyl or alkyl succinate, 2 an alkylene dimerate from a dimer of a long chain unsaturated fatty acid , 3 a dicarboxylate of poly oxytetramethylene glycol. Preferred copolymers S have the following general formula wherein G is defined hereinbefore and e and f can be determined by the amount of starting materials and J is either or wherein Alk₂ is alkyl or alkenyl with a chain length of 8 to 30 carbon atoms wherein R is an aliphatic, cycloaliphatic or aromatic disubstituted moiety and p is about 10. The J units comprise about 25 50 by weight of the copolyester. The general structures of the preferred copolymers S useful in the present invention may be expressed as follows Copolymers S of type I are prepared typically by the polycondensation of p 4 hydroxy n butoxy benzoic acid HB OB or its methyl ester MB OB , an alkenyl or alkyl succinic anhydride or the corresponding dialkyl succinate and a polymethylene diol in the presence of a suitable catalyst and preferably an antioxidant. Typical illustration of the reaction can be given as follows The MB OB can be prepared according to the following tpical reaction scheme Copolymers S of type II are prepared typically by the polycondensation of P 4 hydroxy n butoxy benzoic acid or its methyl ester , the dialkyl ester of dimer acid or the free acid and a polymethylene diol in the presence of a suitable catalyst and preferably an antioxidant. Typical illustration of the reaction can be given as follows The parent dimer acid of the diisopropyl ester utilized in the polymerization is derived by a catalyzed high pressure dimerization of high purity oleic acid. Copolymers S of type III are prepared typically by the polycondensation of p 4 hydroxy n butoxy benzoic acid or its alkyl ester , dimethyl terephthalate, and polyoxybutylene diol Mol. Wt. about 1000 Daltons , a suitable catalyst and stabilizer. Typical illustration of the reaction can be given as follows The polymerization may be conducted either in the absence or preferably in the presence of stabilizers of the hindered phenol or secondary aromatic amine type. An example of the former is Irganox 1098 and an example of the latter is Naugard 445. As catalyst, oxides and alkoxides of numerous polyvalent metals may be employed. However, the preferred polymerization catalysts are combinations of a tetrabutyl orthotitanate and or magnesium acetate, b Mg OAc ₂ and or Sb₂O₃, and c combinations of tin and antimony catalysts, such as BuSnO OH and Sb₂O₃. The polymerization is conducted in two stages. In the first stage, run under nitrogen at temperatures ranging from 160 to 250 C polycondensation via transesterification and esterification occurs resulting in lower molecular weight polymers and oligomers. These are converted to higher molecular weight materials in the subsequent step run at 240 to 260 C, at pressures of less than 1 mm of mercury less than 133 Pa . The desired amounts of monomers and prepolymers as in system III and a given stabilizer optional are placed under nitrogen into a dry reactor fitted with a mechanical stirrer, a gas inlet tube and a take off head for distillation. The system is heated under nitrogen at 100 to 160 C and stirring is begun. To the homogeneous stirred solution the required amount of catalyst is added. The mixture is then stirred and heated under nitrogen for given time periods at 190 C 2 4 hours and 220 C 1 3 hours . The temperature is subsequently raised to 250 to 260 C and over a period of 0.4 0.7 hours the pressure is reduced in the system to below 1 mm Hg 133 Pa preferably in the range of 0.05 mm to 0.1 mm 6.65 to 13.3 Pa . Stirring and heating under the above conditions is continued to the completion of the polymerization. The end point is determined by either a estimating visually the attainment of maximum melt viscosity, b measuring inherent viscosity or melt indices of samples removed from the reaction vessel at intermediate time periods, and c using a calibrated torquemeter immersed into the reaction mixture. In practice, depending on the copolymer composition, At the end of the polymerization cycle the hot mixture is equilibrated with nitrogen and allowed to cool slowly. The reaction product is isolated, cooled in liquid nitrogen, and then ground. In the case of metal reactors the hot melt is extruded at the bottom of the vessels into Teflon covered metal trays. The ground chips are dried at 60 to 110 C for 8 32 hours under a vacuum of 1 mm 133 Pa or less. Copolymer S is disclosed in copending U.K. Application No. 2,096,627. In accordance with the present invention, pure silk filaments of braided construction are preferably used a wide range of sizes being available . Addition of the elastomer to the silk does not significantly alter the diameter thereof. The elastomers utilized in accordance with the present invention are designed to be soft, ductile and elastomeric but capable of retaining their mechanical integrity under the ordinary mechanical stresses that the composite suture may be subjected to during end use. Retention of physical form and mechanical integrity is achieved by having quasi crosslinks due to the crystallites of the crystaline phase in this system. This constitutes about 5 to 35 of the weight of the polymer. The low modulus and soft handle of the polymer are associated with the soft component of the polymer which comprises between about 25 and 80 by weight thereof for polymers P , Q and R , the soft components comprise between 50 and 80 by weight thereof, preferably between 55 and 75 , and for polymer S , the soft component comprises between 25 and 50 , preferably 30 to 50 by weight . By virtue of their compositions, these quasi crosslinked systems can be made to flow above the melting temperature Tm of the hard block. These thermal characteristics of the matrix material are of importance in connection with the optimal development of the composite suture, for it is then possible to rapidly sinter the matrix about the fibers of the silk braid at a temperature of above 200 C, without causing thermally induced degradation of the silk. Suitable solvents for applying the elastomer matrix material to silk are halocarbons or mixtures of halo carbons with aromatics, methylene chloride being preferred. Methylene chloride was selected for a its ability to induce certain amounts of swelling of the silk braid so as to ensure an ultimate strong joint between the braid components and the elastomeric matrix b its ability to provide polymer solutions in a preferred case, with 20 to 5 concentrations having low Brookfield viscosities this facilitates the impregnation of the braid with these solutions and c its high fugacity under mild devolatilization conditions, for drying the composite suture. The elastomer is applied to the silk suture from a warm solution in a suitable solvent, as discussed above, especially dichloromethane. The temperature of the solution and the concentration of the polymer in the solution are not critical but it is preferred to have a temperature close to the boiling point of the solvent about 40 C in the case of dichloromethane and a concentration which will not substantially increase the viscosity of the solution. In order to obtain the composite suture of the present invention, the braided silk suture is passed in a continuous process through a warm solution of elastomer, then immediately above the solution surface through a felt wipe, then vertically upward to air dry the treated suture over a short distance e.g. 2 to 3 feet 0.3 to 0.6 metres . The treated suture is then submitted to a rapid heating process in which the suture travels through a hot air zone to momentarily melt the elastomer layer inside the braided silk suture in order to substantially fill all interstices between the silk filaments. The temperature of the heated zone is adjusted for optimum polymer infiltration and depends upon the polymer used, the speed of the threadline and the suture diameter. Typical temperatures of the hot air medium used for sintering during the rapid heat treatment range between 340 C and 500 C. This temperature range is not necessarily the same as that of the suture itself. In the instance wherein the polymer has the structure P and the silk suture is size 2 0 metric size 3 travelling at 14 feet per minute 4.3 metres per minute , the temperature is preferably 415 C, the length of the heated zone being 22 centimeters. The composite sutures of the present invention are extremely inert and have a minimal to very slight tissue reaction and are impervious to cellular ingrowth. They also exhibit a greater strength retention after eight weeks than silk coated with beeswax. These properties are demonstrated by the following studies Needles are attached by hand swaging with a crimping tool and all samples are Cobalt sterilized. A method modified from that described by Sewell, Wiland and Craver, Surg., Gynecol. and Obstet. 100 483 494, 1955 is utilized to assess responses to implanted sutures. In this scheme the width of the reaction zone measured along the radius from the center of the suture cross section, is graded as Cellular response is graded from 0 to 4 based on increasing concentrations of cells in the reaction zone. A grade of 0.5 is assigned where only a few cells are widely scattered in the reaction zone, while a grade of 4 is assigned where a high cellular concentration is present in the site. Weighting factors are assigned to zone of reaction and inflammatory cells in computing reaction score as follows A sample score is computed as follows Adjectival ratings assigned to reaction scores are arbitrarily assigned within the following limits 0 none 1 8 minimal 9 24 slight 25 40 moderate 41 56 marked over 56, extensive. The extent of cellular invasion of suture fibrils is estimated subjectively as none, minimal, slight, moderate or marked these ratings correspond approximately to 0, 25, 50, 75 and 100 percent of suture invaded. The implants are recovered after the designated intervals and fixed in buffered formalin. Using standard histologic techniques, Hematoxylin and Eosin stained slides of the muscle cross sections are prepared and examined microscopically, twelve sites per sample per period. Tissue reactions are evaluated according to the modified Sewell Wiland method as described above See Tables 2 and 3 . In addition, the muscle cross sections containing the polymer P treated silk are stained with Oil Red 0 to visualize the presence of the polymer inside the silk braid. Calculation of the tissue reaction area is accomplished by measuring the reaction diameters using an ocular micrometer. Since the shape of the tissue reaction tends to be elliptical, the formula for the area of an ellipse, A D₁ x D₂ 4 x π is used to calculate these areas. The suture is included in these diameter measurements See Tables 2 and 3 . The measurements of cellular invasion inside the silk braids are estimated subjectively as a percentage of suture area invaded. The purpose of this study is to determine the breaking strength of silk sutures coated with a Polymer P coating product of Example 2 at baseline 0 days , 7, 28 and 56 days in the rat subcutis. Seventy two young approx. 200 gm female Long Evans Blue Spruce Farms rats. One lot each of sizes 2 0 and 5 0 metric sizes 3 and 1 sterile silk, coated as follows Eight strands 18 inches 0.45 metres each are used for each coating group. Eight 18 inch 0.45 metre strands of each coating type are divided int four groups of eight segments each. One segment from each of the strands is placed in each of three implanted groupso 7, 28, 56 days and one unimplanted 0 day group. Each segment to be implanted is clamped at each end in a hemostatic forcep. The rats are prepared for surgery by clipping fur from the dorsal scapular region of the skin. They are anesthetized using METOFANE and swabbed in the operative area with an antiseptic solution. A transverse incision approximately 2 cm. long is centered in the shaved area. Two segments of test material are implanted in the posterior dorsal subcutis through this single incision, one left and one right. The wound is closed with stainless steel wound clips. Sutures are so implanted in four rats for each time period previously listed, thus yielding eight replicate segments period. The animals are sacrificed at the designated time periods and suture segments are gently and carefully removed from their respective sites. The recovered segments are stored in prelabeled moist paper towels for subsequent breaking strength testing. All suture segments for this study are tested on an Instron Universal Testing Unit using the following machine parameters The results of the breaking strength tests are summarized for each sample lot as follows These data are listed for each tine period including baseline. Biological response, tensile strength loss and other physical test data are summarized in Tables 2, 3 and 4. The cellular responses to all the tested suture samples are foreign body in nature. However, the polymer P treated silk is extremely inert, provoking minimal to very slight tissue reaction scores and preventing cellular ingrowth inside the silk braid. Oil Red 0 stained cross sections reveal that the polymer is infiltrated throughout the braid. In the case of the size 2 0 metric size 3 material, distribution of polymer tends to be higher in the peripheral carriers than in the central core. The extent of the polymer infiltration is similar after the 7, 28 and 56 day implantation periods, and comparable to the non implanted suture cross sections. The silk filaments of the polymer P treated samples have a less intense black coloration than the beeswaxed control silk filaments, but this can only be seen in the cross sections and is not apparent grossly. The waxed silk elicits a moderate tissue reaction. The primary cell types seen in these reaction zones are macrophages, multinucleated foreign body giant cells and fibro blasts. Individual filaments or bundles of filaments of the waxed silk sutures are separated and surrounded by inflammatory cells. The cross sectional areas of the waxed controls show considerable cell infiltration and consequent explosions of the silk braid. After four and eight week implantation periods the polymer P treated silk exhibits increasingly greater strength retention compared with beeswaxed controls. Infiltration of braided silk with the polymer P results in a tissue inert silk suture with an excellent silk hand and an improved strength retention. Both tissue inertness and A further study, similar to the above is conducted utilizing 54 female Long Evans rats, rather than Sprague Dawley rats, and the results are summarized in Tables 5, 6, 7 and 8. Table 5 sets forth Average Breaking Strength values for polymer P coated Sutures after subcutaneous implantation in rats, whereas Tables 6, 7 and 8 relate to tissue response evaluation. The reactions elicited by the sutures are foreign body in nature. In implant sites of Polymer P sutures the reactions are primarily confined to the periphery of the suture. The reactions consist mostly of fibroblastic fibrocytic cells and macrophages on the suture surface. Other inflammatory cells are absent or present in minimal numbers. Cellular reaction in polybutilate coated suture implant sites tend to be composed of fibroblasts fibrocytes, macrophages, giant cells and scattered neutrophils especially at the seven day interval. Neutrophilic leukocytes are prominent in implant sites of wax coated sutures especially at seven days post implantation. Giant cell and fibroblast fibrocyte cellular reaction are dominant in the 28 and 56 day waxed suture implant sites. Fibrous encapsulation of Polymer P sutures is well defined at 56 days while encapsulation of wax coated sutures is poorly defined at this interval. With respect to overall reactions elicited by size 2 0 metric size 3 sutures, it is noted that Polymer P coated sutures tend to evoke less tissue reaction than wax coated silk at seven days post implantation see Table 6 . The areas of reaction zones for sizes 2 0 and 5 0 metric sizes 3 and 1 polymer P coated sutures are significantly smaller than are observed for the control samples at 7, 28 and 56 days see Table 7 . The smaller tissue reaction areas observed for Polymer P coated sutures are due mainly to lesser amounts of interfibrillar cellular infiltration. Polymer P coating is highly effective in preventing cellular invasion of both sizes of silk sutures at all three periods 7, 28 and 56 days as shown in Table 8. In hematoxylin and eosin stained sections of implant sites of paraffin beeswax, coatings are not visible due to their solubility in histoprocessing solutions. Polymer P coating is faintly visible in ordinary transmitted light and is readily seen in polarized transmitted light. Sections of Polymer P coated suture sites stained with oil red 0 reveal the coating to be uniformly distributed at the periphery of the suture and variably dispersed around filaments near the center of the suture. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.244 g and magnesium acetate 0.01 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 2.5 hours, 220 C for 2.5 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 2.5 hours at 220 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 230 C for 4.5 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 500 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 3.0 hours, 230 C for 4.0 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 4.0 hours at 230 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 230 C for 6.0 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.244 g and magnesium acetate 0.01 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 2.0 hours, 220 C for 2.5 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 2.5 hours at 220 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 230 C for 3.5 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.244 g and magnesium acetate 0.01 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 3.0 hours, 220 C for 3.0 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 3.0 hours at 220 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 240 C for 2.0 hours, 250 C for 2.0 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 100 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 100 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.305 g and magnesium acetate 0.0125 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 2.5 hours, 220 C for 3.0 hours, 240 C for 2.25 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 2.25 hours at 240 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 240 C for 2.5 hours, 250 C for 2.75 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 100 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 100 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.305 g and magnesium acetate 0.0125 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 3.0 hours, 220 C for 2.3 hours, and 240 C for 1.25 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 1.25 hours at 240 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 240 C for 4.5 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.244 g and magnesium acetate 0.01 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 2.0 hours, 220 C for 2.5 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 2.5 hours at 220 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 240 C for 3.5 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. Under a dry nitrogen atmosphere, the following materials are placed into a flame and vacuum dried 300 ml two neck, round bottom flask equipped with a stainless steel paddle stirrer, a short distilling head fitting with a receiver, and a gas inlet nozzle After stoppering the open neck of the flask, the entire charge containing assembly is removed from the nitrogen atmosphere and exposed to a high less than 1 mm less than 133 Pa vacuum for several hours. The charged reaction vessel is then vented with nitrogen, and the reactants are melted by heating to 165 C. Once the charge is liquified, the reaction flask is connected to an efficient mechanical stirrer and thorough mixing at 165 C is performed for 15 minutes. Next, the catalyst consisting of a mixture of tetrabutyl orthotitanate 0.244 g and magnesium acetate 0.01 g dissolved in a mixture of methanol and butanol, is quickly syringed into the reaction vessel via the side arm. Still under a continuous flow of nitrogen, the melted reaction mixture is then subjected to the following heating sequence 190 C for 2.5 hours, 220 C for 3.0 hours. As the distillation of volatile by products slows, after 3.0 hours at 220 C, the receiver containing the distillate is replaced with an empty receiver. Then, gradually over the course of 0.75 hours the pressure in the reaction flask is reduced to 0.05 mm 6.65 Pa . Under reduced pressure the reaction mixture is subjected to the following heating scheme 240 C for 2.0 hours. At the end of this heating cycle, the reaction vessel is removed from the oil bath, equilibrated with nitrogen, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. The polymer is isolated after chilling in liquid nitrogen, ground, and then dried under vacuum. The laboratory coating line consists of the conventional spool let off, solution treatment, drying and suture takeup operations, arranged sequentially. Two black dyed silk sutures, sizes 2 0 and 5.0 metric sizes 3 and 1 are treated. The suture material is passed through a 15 20 w v solution of polymer P prepared in accordance with Example 2 in dichlormethane, maintained at 40 5 C. On emerging from the polymer solution, excess solution is removed by passage through a felt wipe. Solvent is evaporated by running the sutures past a hot air blower 150 C . Both polymer solution temperature and concentration are important in achieving the desired polymer add on in a single pass. Desirable polymer add on is in the 7 15 range, with a value of 9 for size 2 0 metric size 3 and 12 for size 5.0 metric size 1 . At this stage of the process, the polymer encapsulates the suture and does not appreciably penetrate the interior of the braid. The hand of this material is very stiff. Desirable suture properties of hand and knot tying are achieved by causing the polymer to infiltrate and penetrate the interior of the braid by subjecting the polymer sheathed suture to a short duration, high temperature heating stage. The polymer sheathed suture is passed in a vertical mode centrally through a 0.5 cm diameter hole bored in a 22 cm electrically heated aluminum block. Conditions of block temperature and suture speed for achieving optimum infiltration are given below The above conditions are found to confer a soft, supple hand, as contrasted to the stiff, wiry hand of the encapsulated suture.