# Adsorbent and process for preparing the same

## Claims
Adsorbens zum Entfernen von Lipoprotein mit niedriger und oder sehr niedrigerDichte aus Körperflüssigkeit, in kontinuierlicher extrakorporaler Kreislaufbehandlung,umfassend ein poröses Cellulosehartgel auf dem eine Polyanionverbindung durchkovalente Bindung immobilisiert ist wobei das poröse Cellulosehartgel an jeglichemTeil des Gels gleichmäßig Poren aufweist, mit einer Ausschlußgrenze von 10

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel adsorbent and a process for preparing the same, moreparticularly, to an adsorbent for removing harmful substances to be removed from body fluid such asblood or plasma in extracorporeal circulation treatment. There has been required a means for selectively removing harmful substances which appears in bodyfluid and closely relate to a cause or a progress of a disease. For example, it is known that plasmalipoprotein, especially very low density lipoprotein hereinafter referred to as VLDL and or low densitylipoprotein hereinafter referred to as LDL contain a large amount of cholesterol and causearteriosclerosis. In hyperlipemia such as familial hyperlipemia or familial hypercholesterolemia, VLDLand or LDL show several times higher values than those in normal condition, and often causearteriosclerosis such as coronary arteriosclerosis. Although various types of treatments such as regimenand medications have been adopted, they have limitations in effect and a fear of unfavorable side effects.Particularly in familial hypercholesterolemia, a plasma exchange therapy which is composed of plasmaremoval and compensatory supplement of exogeneous human plasma protein solutions is probably theonly treatment method being effective nowadays. The plasma exchange therapy, however, has variousdefects such as 1 a need for using expensive fresh plasma or plasma fractions, 2 a fear of infection byhepatitis viruses and the like and 3 loss of all plasma components containing not only harmfulcomponents but also useful ones, i.e. in case of lipoprotein, not only VLDL and or LDL but also high densitylipoprotein hereinafter referred to as HDL are lost. For the purpose of solving the above defects, aselective removal of harmful components by a membrane and the like has been adopted. These methods,however, are insufficient in selectivity and cause a large loss of useful components from body fluid. Therehas been also tried a selective removal of harmful components by means of adsorption. For example, asynthetic adsorbent such as active carbon or Amberlite XAD a registered trademark, commerciallyavailable from Rohm Haas Co. has been utilized for liver disease. Such an adsorbent however, has manydefects such as poor selectivity and disability for removing high molecular compounds. Furthermore, forthe purpose of increasing selectivity, there has been adopted an adsorbent based on the principle of affinitychromatography composed of a carrier on which a material having an affinity for a substance to bespecifically removed such material is hereinafter referred to as ligand is immobilized. In that case,however, it is difficult to obtain a sufficient flow rate for an extracorporeal treatment because a carrier is asoft gel such as agarose. Accordingly, a particular modification in column shape is required in order toobtain a large flow rate and the risk of an occasional clogging still remains. Therefore, a stableextracorporeal circulation cannot be achieved by the above method. GB A 2 075 362 discloses an adsorbent for the adsorption of blood proteins, the adsorbent beingbased on a porous material. The porous materials comprise porous glass, porous silica, porous aluminaand porous ceramics, which may be coated with a hydrophilic polymer. GB A 2 092 470 discloses a method for reducing pyrogen from pyrogen containing solutions bymeans of an adsorbent comprising a water insoluble carrier having a nitrogen containing heterocycliccompound bonded to it. An adsorbent of the present invention may be used for selectively removing not only theabove mentioned VLDL and or LDL but also other harmful substances to be removed from body fluid. It is an object of the present invention to provide an adsorbent for selectively removing harmfulsubstances such as VLDL, LDL, virus and harmful cells from body fluid such as blood or plasma inextracorporeal circulation treatment of immune disease, metabolic disease, inflammatory disease such ashepatitis or nephritis, virus infection, and the like. A further object of the present invention is to provide a process for preparing the adsorbent. These and other objects of the present invention will become apparent from the descriptionhereinafter. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided an adsorbent for removing low and or very low density lipoproteins from bodyfluid in continuous extracorporeal circulation treatment comprising a porouscellulose hard gel on which a polyanion compound is immobilized by a covalentlinkage said porous cellulose hard gel having uniformly pores at any part ofthe gel, having an exclusion limit of from 10 Fig. 1 is a graph showing relation between flow rate and pressure drop obtained in Reference Examplea, and Fig. 2 is a chart of polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis obtained in Example 13. It is suitable that carriers used in the present invention have the following properties Therefore, the most suitable carrier used in the present invention is a water insoluble porous cellulosegel. The porous cellulose gel used in the present invention is a hard gel and is less swelled with a solventand less deformed by pressure than a soft gel such as dextran, agarose or acrylamide. The term hard gel and soft gel in the present invention is explained as follows A hard gel is distinguished from a soft gel by the following method described in Reference Example a That is, when a relation between flow rate and pressure drop is determined by passing water through acolumn uniformly packed with gel, a hard gel shows a linear relationship while a soft gel shows anon linear relationship. In case of a soft gel, a gel is deformed and consolidated over a certain pressure sothat a flow rate does not increase further. In the present invention, a gel having the above linearrelationship at least by 0.3 kg cm A pore size of the porous cellulose gel is selected depending on molecular weight, shape, or size of asubstance to be removed, and the most suitable pore size may be selected in each case. For measuring thepore size, there are various kinds of methods such as mercury porosimetry and observation by an electronmicroscope as a direct measuring method. With respect to water containing particles, however, the abovemethods sometimes cannot be applied. In such a case, an exclusion limit may be adopted as a measure ofpore size. The term exclusion limit in the present invention means the minimum molecular weight of amolecular which cannot permeate into a pore in a gel permeation chromatography cf. Hiroyuki Hatano andToshihiko Hanai Zikken Kosoku Ekitai Chromatography Experimental High Pressure LiquidChromatography , published by Kabushiki Kaisha Kagaku Dojin . Phenomenally, a molecule having amolecular weight of more than exclusion limit is eluted near the void volume. Therefore, an exclusion limitcan be determined by studying the relations between molecular weights and elution volumes usingsubstances of various molecular weights in a gel permeation chromatography. An exclusion limit varieswith a kind of substances to be excluded. In the present invention, an exclusion limit of the porous cellulosegel is measured by using globular proteins and or viruses, and the exclusion limit is 10 Particularly, in case of removing VLDL and or LDL being giant molecules having a molecular weight ofmore than 1 10 With respect to a porous structure of the porous cellulose gel used in the present invention hasuniformly pores at any part of the gel hereinafter referred to as uniform structure .It is preferred that a porosity of thegel is not less than 20 . A shape of the carrier is selected depending on a kind of a substance to beremoved. The carrier may be selected from suitable shapes such as particle, fiber, sheet and hollow fiber. Incase of using a carrier in the shape of particle, although a particle having a smaller size generally shows anexcellent adsorbing capacity, the pressure drop increases with an extremely small size. Therefore, aparticle having a size of 1 µm to 5000 µm is preferred. Furthermore, it is preferred that a carrier hasfunctional groups to be utilized for the immobilization of ligand or groups to be easily activated. Examplesof the group are, for instance, amino, carboxyl, hydroxyl, thiol, acid anhydride, succinylimide, chlorine,aldehyde, amido, epoxy group, and the like. The porous cellulose gel of the present invention satisfies the above all four points required for thecarrier. In addition, the porous cellulose gel has various excellent advantages such as hydrophilicity due tobeing composed of cellulose, a large number of hydroxyl group to be utilized for immobilization, lessnonspecific adsorption, and sufficient adsorbing capacity not inferior to that of sort gel due to its relativelyhigh strength even with a large porosity. Therefore, the porous cellulose gel on which a ligand isimmobilized provides a nearly ideal adsorbent. As the porous cellulose gel used in the present invention, although cellulose per se is preferred, acellulose derivative such as an esterified cellulose or an etherified cellulose, or a mixture of cellulose andthe cellulose derivatives may be employed. Examples of the cellulose derivative are, for instance, acetylcellulose, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, and the like. It is preferred that thecellulose gel is in the spherical shape. The cellulose gel is prepared, for example, by dissolving or swellingcellulose and or a cellulose derivative with a solvent, dispersing the resulting mixture into another solventbeing not admixed with the used solvent to make beads, and then regenerating the beads. The celluloseand or cellulose derivatives may be cross linked or not. A porosity of a porous cellulose gel may be a measure of cellulose content. The cellulose content isexpressed by the following formula The cellulose content of the porous cellulose gel used in the present invention is 2 to 60 . In case of less than 2 , the mechanical strength of gel is reduced, and in case of more than 60 ,the pore volume is reduced. Representative examples of the polyanion used in the present invention are as follows Representative examples of the ligand using antigen antibody reaction and the like are, for instance, acomplement component such as C Examples of the polyanioncompounds are, for instance, sulfated pclysaccharides such as heparin, dextran sulfate, chondroitinsulfate, chondroitin polysulfate, heparan sulfate, keratan sulfate, heparin sulfate, xylan sulfate, caroninsulfate, cellulose sulfate, chitin sulfate, chitosan sulfate, pectin sulfate, inulin sulfate, arginine sulfate,glycogen sulfate, polylactose sulfate, carrageenan sulfate, starch sulfate, polyglucose sulfate, laminarinsulfate, galactan sulfate, levan sulfate and mepesulfate, phosphorus wolframic acid, polysulfated anethole,polyvinyl alcohol sulfate, polyphosphoric acid, and or the salts thereof and the like. Preferable examples ofthe above polyanion compounds are, for instance, heparin, dextran sulfate, chondroitin polysulfate, and orthe salts thereof, and particularly preferable examples are a dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof.Examples of the salt of the above polyanion compound are, for instance, a water soluble salt such assodium salt or potassium salt, and the like. Dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof are explained in more detail hereinbelow. Dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof are sulfuric acid ester of dextran being a polysaccharideproduced by Leuconostoc mesenteroides, etc., and or the salt thereof. It has been known that dextransulfate and or the salt thereof form a precipitate with lipoproteins in the presence of a divalent cation, anddextran sulfate and or the salt thereof having a molecular weight of about 5 10 For coupling a ligand with a carrier, various methods such as physical adsorption methods, ioniccoupling methods and covalent coupling methods may be employed. In order to use the adsorbent of thepresent invention in extracorporeal circulation treatment, it is important that the ligand is not released.Therefore, a covalent coupling method having a strong bond between ligand and carrier is used. Ifnecessary, a spacer may be introduced between ligand and carrier. It is preferred that a gel is activated by a reagent such as a cyanogen halide, epichlorohydrin, apolyoxirane compound such as bisepoxide or triazine halide, and then reacted with a ligand to give thedesired absorbent. In that case, it is preferred that a gel having a group to be activated such as hydroxylgroup is employed as a carrier. In the above reagents, epichlorohydrin or a polyoxirane compound such asbisepoxide is more preferred, because a ligand is strongly immobilized on a carrier activated by using sucha reagent and a release of a ligand is reduced. Epichlorohydrin and a polyoxirane compound, however, show lower reactivity, particularly lower todextran sulfate and or the salt thereof, because dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof have hydroxyl groupalone as a functional group. Therefore, it is not easy to obtain a sufficient amount of immobilized ligand. As a result of extensive studies, it has now been found that the following coupling method is preferredin case of using dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof as a ligand. That is, a porous polymer cellulose gel isreacted with epichlorohydrin and or a polyoxirane compound to introduce epoxy groups into the gel, andthen dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof is reacted with the resulting epoxy activated gel in aconcentration of not less than 3 based on the weight of the whole reaction system excluding the dryweight of the gel, more preferably not less than 10 . This method gives a good immobilizing efficiency. The amount of immobilized ligand varies depending on properties of the ligand used such as shapeand activity. For sufficient removal of VLDL and or LDL by using a polyanion compound, for instance, it ispreferred that the polyanion compound is immobilized in an amount of not less than 0.02 mg ml of anapparent column volume occupied by an adsorbent hereinafter referred to as bed volume ,economically 100 mg or less. The preferable range is 0.5 to 20 mg ml of bed volume. Particularly, forremoval of VLDL and or LDL by using dextran sulfate and or the salt thereof as a ligand, it is preferred thatthe amount of immobilized ligand is not less than 0.2 mg ml of bed volume. After the coupling reaction, theunreacted polyanion compound may be recovered for reuse by purification, etc. It is preferred that the remaining unreacted active groups are blocked by ethanolamine, and the like. In accordance with the present invention, an adsorbent composed of porous cellulose gel having anexclusion limit of 10 The adsorbent of the present invention may be employed forthe extracorporeal circulation treatment performed by incorporating a column intoextracorporeal circulation circuit and passing body fluid such as blood of plasma through the column, thecolumn being packed with the adsorbent of the present invention. The adsorbent of the present invention can be subjected to steam sterilization by autoclaving so longas the ligand is not largely degenerated, and this sterilization procedure does not affect on micro porestructure, particle shape and gel volume of the adsorbent. The present invention is more specifically described and explained by means of the followingReference Examples and Examples. Biogel A5m a commercially available agarose gel made by Biorad Co., particle size 0.3 to 0.149 mmopenings U.S.S. 50 to 100 mesh as a soft gel and Cellulofine GC 700 a commercially available porouscellulose gel made by Chisso Corporation, particle size 45 to 105 µm were uniformly packed, respectively,in a glass column inner diameter 9 mm, height 150 mm having filters pore size 15 µm at both top andbottom of the column. Water was passed through the thus obtained column, and a relation between flowrate and pressure drop was determined. The results are shown in Fig. 1. As shown in Fig. 1, flow rateincreased approximately in proportion to increase of pressure drop in the porous polymer cellulose gel. Onthe other hand, the agarose gel was consolidated. As a result, increasing pressure did not make flow rateincrease. Cellulofine GC 700 a commercially available porous cellulose gel made by Chisso Corporation,exclusion limit 4 10 The gel was filtered with suction, and 4 g of 20 NaOH and 12 g of heptane were added to 10 g of thesuction filtered gel. One drop of Tween 20 nonionic surfactant was further added to the reaction mixturewhich was stirred for dispersing the gel. After stirring at 40 C for 2 hours, 5 g of epichlorohydrin was addedto the reaction mixture which was further stirred at 40 C for 2 hours. After the reaction mixture was allowed to stand, the resulting supernatant was discarded, and the gel was washed with water to introduce epoxygroups into the gel. To the resulting epoxy activated gel was added 15 ml of concentrated aqueousammonia, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C for 1.5 hours, filtered with suction and washed withwater to introduce amino groups into the gel. Three ml portions of the thus obtained activated gel containing amino groups was added to 10 ml ofaqueous solution pH 4.5 containing 200 mg of heparin. To the resulting reaction mixture was added 200mg of 1 ethyl 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide while maintaining the reaction mixture at pH 4.5, andthen the reaction mixture was shaken at 4 C for 24 hours. After completion of the reaction, the resultingreaction mixture was washed successively with 2 M NaCl aqueous solution, 0.5 M NaCl aqueous solutionand water to give the desired heparin Cellulofine A 3. The amount of immobilized heparin was 2.5 mg ml ofbed volume. The procedures of Reference Example 1 were repeated except that Cellulofine A 2 exclusion limit 7 10 The procedure of Reference Example 1 were repeated except that Cellulofine A 3 having a particle size of 150 to200 µm instead of 45 to 105 µm was employed. The amount of immobilized heparin was 1.5 mg ml of bedvolume. To 4 ml of Cellulofine A 3 was added water to make the volume up to 10 ml, and then 0.5 mole of NalO In 10 ml of 0.25 M NalO Cellulofine A 3 was treated in the same manner as in Reference Example 1 to introduce epoxy groups into the gel. Two ml of the thus obtained epoxy activated gel was added to 2 ml of aqueous solution containing 0.5g of sodium salt of dextran sulfate intrinsic viscosity 0.055 dl g, average polymerization degree 40, sulfurcontent 19 by weight , and the reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 12. The concentration of sodium saltof dextran sulfate was about 10 by weight. The resulting reaction mixture was filtered and washedsuccessively with 2 M NaCl aqueous solution, 0.5 M NaCl aqueous solution and water to give the desiredsodium salt of dextran sulfate Cellulofine A 3. The remaining unreacted epoxy groups were blocked withmonoethanolamine. The amount of immobilized sodium salt of dextran sulfate was 1.5 mg ml of bedvolume. To 5 g of suction filtered Cellulofine A 3 were added 2.5 ml of 1,4 butanediol diglycidyl ether and 7.5 mlof 0.1 M NaOH aqueous solution, and the reaction mixture was stirred at a room temperature for 18 hours tointroduce epoxy groups into the gel. The thus obtained epoxy activated gel was reacted with sodium salt of dextran sulfateto give the desired sodium salt of dextran sulfate Cellulofine A 3. The amount ofimmobilized sodium salt of dextran sulfate was 1.8 mg ml of bed volume. The procedures of Example 6 were repeated except that Cellulofine A 6 a commercially availableporous cellulose gel made by Chisso Corporation, exclusion limit 1 10 Cellulofine A 2 was treated in the same manner as in Reference Example 1 to introduce epoxy groups into the gel.To 1 ml of the thus obtained epoxy activated gel was added 10 mg of IgG, and the reaction mixture wasadjusted to pH 9 and subjected to reaction at a room temperature for 24 hours. The gel was filtered off andwashed successively with 2M NaCl aqueous solution, 0.5 M NaCl aqueous solution and water. After theremaining unreacted epoxy groups were blocked with monoethanolamine solution, the desired IgG CellulofineA 3 was obtained. Cellulofine A 7 was treated in the same manner as in Reference Example 1 to introduce epoxy groups into the gel.The thus obtained epoxy activated gel was reacted with DNA in the same manner as in Reference Example 9a to givethe desired DNA Cellulofine A 7. Each adsorbent obtained in Examples and Reference examples 1 to 9 was uniformly packed in a column internal volume about 3 ml, inner diameter 9 mm, height 47 mm and 18 ml of plasma containing 200 U of heparin waspassed through the column at a flow rate of 0.3 ml minute with varying the plasma origins depending onthe kind of the desired substance to be removed. That is, human plasma derived from familialhypercholesterolemia, normal human plasma, normal human plasma containing about 100 µg ml of acommercially available endotoxin, human plasma derived from rheumatism, human plasma derived fromsystemic lupus erythematosus and human plasma derived from mayasthenia gravis were used,respectively, for the tests of removing VLDL and or LDL IgG, C With respect to the coupling method in Table 1, Epichlorohydrin method, Epichlorohydrin ammoniamethod, NalO Cellulofine A 3 was treated in the same manner as in Reference Example 1 to introduce epoxy groups into the gel.The thus obtained epoxy activated gel was reacted with each sodium salt of dextran sulfate having theintrinsic viscosity and sulfur content shown in the following Table 2 Run Nos. 1 to 7 in the samemanner as in Example 6. One ml portion of the resulting each adsorbent was packed in a column, and then 6 ml of humanplasma containing 300 mg dl of total cholesterol derived from a familial hypercholesterolemia patient waspassed through the column at a flow rate of 0.3 ml minute. The removal efficiency for LDL was determinedfrom the amount of adsorbed LDL measured by using the total amount of cholesterol as an indication. Thatis, the amount of cholesterol in the human plasma used was mostly derived from LDL. The results areshown in Table 2. CSKA 3 a commercially available porous cellulose gel made by Chisso Corporation, exclusion limit 5 10 The gel was reacted with sodium salt of dextran sulfate intrinsic viscosity 0.027 dl g, sulfur content 17.7 by weight in the same manner as in Example 6 except that the concentration of sodium salt ofdextran sulfate based on the weight of the whole reaction system excluding the dry weight of the gel wascharged. The thus obtained adsorbent was subjected to the determination of removal efficiency for LDL in thesame manner as in Example 10. The results are summarized in Table 3. One ml portion of the adsorbent obtained in Example 10 of Run No. 3 was uniformly packed in acolumn having an internal volume of 1 ml, and 6 ml of normal human plasma containing LDL and HDLcholesterol in the ratio of approximately 1 1 was passed through the column. LDL in the plasma passedthrough the column was greatly reduced, while HDL was scarcely reduced. One ml portion of the adsorbent obtained in Example 10 of Run No. 3 was uniformly packed in acolumn having an internal volume of 1 ml, and 6 ml of normal rabbit plasma containing lipoproteins ofVLDL, LDL and HDL was passed through the column. The plasma obtained before and after the columntreatment were, respectively, examined by polyacrylamide disc gel electrophoresis. The results are shownin Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, curves A and B show, respectively, the results obtained before and after the columntreatment. The axis of ordinates indicates the absorbance at 570 nm and the axis of abscissa indicates themigration positions at which bands of VLDL, LDL and HDL were, respectively appeared. As shown in Fig. 2, VLDL and LDL were significantly adsorbed, while HDL was not. The adsorbents obtained in Reference Example 1 and 2 and in Examples 3 and 6 to 8 were sterilized in an autoclave at 120 C for 15minutes. Each resulting sterilized adsorbent was subjected to the determination of removal efficiency forLDL in the same manner as in Test Example 1. As a result, the removal efficiencies were not inferior tothose obtained without sterilizing by autoclaving. In addition, pressure drop was not changed.