# Granular detergents containing pyrophosphate and tripolyphosphate processing aid.

## Abstract
Granular detergents containing organic surfactant, py rophosphate and tripolyphosphate builders at a weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate of from about 50 1 to about 1 1, and low levels of silicate are disclosed. The compositions are prepared by drying an aqueous slurry of the components, and exhibit improved structure, physical properties and whiteness maintenance due to the incorporation of the tripolyphosphate.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A granular detergent coEposition characterised by a from 5 to 50 by weight of an organic surfactant selected from anionic, nonionic, switterionic, ampholytic and cationic surfactants, and mixtures thereof b from 5 to 80 ty weight of an alkali metal pyrophosphate builder c an alkali metal tripolyphosphate builder present at a level such that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate is from 50 1 to 1 1 and d from 0.5 to 3 by weight of an alkali metal silicate having a molar ratio of Sio2 to alkali metal oxide of from 1.0 to 3.2 said ooooosition prepared by drying an aqueous slurry comprising the above components, and wherein said composition is subsbantially free of polyacrylate polymers having a weight average Tlolecular weight of from 10,000 to 200,000, and the amount of orthophosphate is limited such that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to orthopnosphate is at least 5 1. 2. A composition according to Claim I dharacterised in that the organic surfactant comprises an anionic surfactant selected from alkali metal salts of C1 13 alkylbenzene sulfonates, C14 18 alkyl sulfates, C14,18 alkyl polyethoxy sulfates containing from 1 to 4 moles of ethylene oxide, and mixtures thereof. 3. A composition according to Claim 1 or 2 characterised in that tile weight ratio of Eyrcphosphate to tripolyphosphate is from 20 1 to 2 1. 4 A composition according to Claim 3 characterised in that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate is from 10 1 to 4 1. 5. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the silicate has a molar ratio of from 1.6 to 2.4. 6. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 5 characterised by from 10 to 30 by weight of organic surfactant, from 15 to 60t by weight of pyrophosphate builder, the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate being from 10 1 to 4 1, and from 1.5 to 2 by weight of silicate having a molar ratio of from 1.6 td 2.4. 7. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 6 dharacterised in that substantially all of the alkali metal cations are sodium. 8. A composition according to any of Claims 1 to 7 dharacteris i by spray drying an aqueous slurry of the components.

## Description
GRANULAR DETERGENTS CONTAINING PYROPHOSPHATE AND TRI POLYPHOSPHATE PROCESSING AID The present invention relates to granular detergents containing an organic surfactant, pyrophosphate and tripolyphosphate builders at a weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate of from about 50 1 to about 1 1, and low levels of alkali metal sil irate The compositions herein are prepared by drying an aqueous slurry of the components, and exhibit improved granule structure and physical properties due to the incorporation of the tripolyphosphates.The compositions are substantially free of polyacrylate polymer structural aids having a weight average molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 200,000. While the compositions are also preferably substantially free of orthophosphates, they can contain minor amounts of such material provided the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to orthophosphate is at least about 5 1. Pyrophosphates are known to be potentially more efficient builders than the tripolyphosphates commonly used in detergents due to their ability to remove more calcium and magnesium ions from the laundering solution per unit of P205. They do so, however, by precipitating these ions as insoluble phosphates te.g., dicalcium pyrophosphate , whereas the tripolyphosphates retain them in solution as complex ions. These precipitates can build up on fabrics over a period of time and cause undesirable effects, such as greyness and harshness of feel, unless antiredeposition agents are added to detergents containing pyrophos phates. Pyrophosphate built granular detergents have often contained high levels e.g., 102 by weight of alkali metal silicates to provide optimum granule structure and processing. it is believed that when a crutcher mix containing silicate is spray dried, the silicate dries to a tough film capable of cementing finely crystalline granule walls together. This results in granules having very desirable physical properties, i.e., crisp, durable and free flowing granules. Silicates having lower SiO2 to alkali metal oxide molar ratios te,g., 1.6 2.03 are usually selected because they are more water soluble than the higher ratio silicates.However, exposure of the silicate to carbon dioxide during drying and storage can shift its ratio to a higher value, reducing silicate solubility and resulting in detergent granules which do not completely disintegrate in the laundering solution.High levels of silicate in detergents can thus cause an unacceptably high level of insoluble material being deposited on fabrics. It is apparent that there is a continuing need for the development of pyrophosphate built granular detergents having acceptable granule structure and solubility, and capable of maintaining fabric whiteness. U.S. Patent 4,116,852, Bailey et al, issued September 26, 1978, discloses the addition of tripolyphosphates, at levels up to about 15 by weight of the total phosphate, to pyrophosphate built detergents to improve whiteness maintenance. Pending U.S. Patent Application, Serial No. 415,098, Morrow et al, filed September 7, 1982, discloses granular detergents containing pyrophosphate, low levels of silicate and a polyacrylate polymer as a structural aid and antiredeposition agent. Pending U.S. Patent Applications 256,454, Murphy, and 256,453, Sassamali et al, both filed April 22, 1981, disclose the use of film forming polymers, including polyacrylates, as structural aids to replace all or part of the silicate in low phosphate granular detergents containing aluminosi I icates. The present invention encompasses a granular detergent composition comprising a from about 5 to about 50 by weight of an organic surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, zwitterionic, ampholytic and cationic surfactants, and mixtures thereof b from about 5 to about 80 by weight of an alkali metal pyrophosphate builder c an alkali metal tripolyphosphate builder present at a level such that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate is from about 50 1 to about 1 1 and d from about 0.5 to about 3 by weight of an alkali metal silicate having a molar ratio of SiO2 to alkali metal oxide of from about 1.0 to about 3.2 said composition prepared by drying an aqueous slurry comprising the above components, and wherein said composition is substantially free of polyacrylate polymers having a weight average molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 200,000, and the amount of orthophosphate is limited such that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to orthophosphate is at least about 5 1. The granular detergent compositions of the present invention contain, as essential components, an organic surfactant, pyrophosphate and tripolyphosphate builders at a weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate of from about 50 1 to about 1 1, and an alkali metal silicate. The compositions herein are substantially free of polyacrylate polymer structural aids having a weight average molecular weight of from about 10,000 to about 200,000.While the compositions can contain minor amounts e.g., less than about 3 , preferably less than abut 2 , by weight of other film forming polymer structural aids, they preferably are substantially free of such materials. ln addition, the amount of orthophosphate in the compositions should be limited such that the weight ratio of pyrophosphate to orthophosphate is at least about 5 1, preferably at least about 10 1, and more preferably at least about 20 1. The compositions are most preferably substantiaily free of orthophosphates because they tend to form coarse precipitates which more readily deposit on fabrics than the pyrophosphate precipitates. The compositions herein are prepared by drying an aqueous slurry comprising the components. The slurry generally contains from about 25 to about 50 water, whereas the dried granules contain from about 28 to about 10 , preferably from about 2 to about 5 , water. The drying operation can be accomplished by any convenient means, such as by using spray drying towers, both counter current and co current, fluid beds, flash drying equipment, or industrial microwave or oven drying equipment.These are more fully described in U.S. Patent 4,019,998, Benson et al, issued April 26, 1977 tparticularly from Column 14, line 19 to Column 15, line 9 , incorporated herein by reference The granular detergents obtained exhibit very desirable structure and physical properties, including improved structural integrity and free flowing characteristics, and reduced caking tendencies, due to the incorporation of the tripolyphosphates.While not intending to be limited by theory, it is believed that the tripolyphosphates are highly effective moisture sinks which form stable crystalline hexahydrates during drying of the aqueous crutcher mix slurry. This promotes structural integrity and granule crispness by taking up free moisture, which can otherwise cause sticky or mushy granules. In contrast, pyrophosphates form unstable hydrates that are typically destroyed during the drying operation, freeing moisture to adversely affect granule structure and physical properties. The low level of silicate in the present compositions also contributes to the desired granule structure, and also aids processing and inhibits metal corrosion, without causing excessive insoluble silicate deposition. Finally, the tripolyphosphate contributes to maintaining the whiteness of fabrics laundered using the present compositions. Organic Surfactant The detergent compositions herein contain from about 5 to about 50 by weight of an organic surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, zwitterionic, ampholytic and cationic surfactants, and mixtures thereof. The surfactant preferably represents from about 10 to about 30 by weight of the detergent composition. Surfactants useful herein are listed inU.S. Patent 3,664,961, Norris, issued May 23, 1972, and in U.S.Patent 3,919,678, Laughlin, et al, issued December 30, 1975, both incorporated herein by reference. Useful cationic surfactants also include those described in U.S. Patent 4,222,905, Cockrell, issued September 16, 1980, and in U.S. Patent 4,239,659, Murphy, JsusecLecembr 16, 1980, both incorporated herein by reference. Water soluble salts of the higher fatty acids, i.e., soaps are useful anionic surfactants in the compositions herein. This includes alkali metal soaps such as the sodium, potassium, ammon ium, and substituted ammonium salts of higher fatty acids con taining from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, and preferably from about 12 to about 18 carbon atoms. Soaps can be made by direct saponification of fats and oils or by the neutralization of free fatty acids. Particularly useful are the sodium and potas sium salts of the mixtures of fatty acids derived from coconut oil and tallow, i.e., sodium or potassium tallow and coconut soap. Useful anionic surfactants also include the water soluble salts, preferably the alkali metal, ammonium and substituted ammonium salts, of organic sulfuric reaction products having in their molecular structure an alkyl group containing from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms and a sulfonic acid or sulfuric acid ester group. Included in the term alkyl is the alkyl portion of acyl groups, Examples of this group of synthetic surfactants are the sodium and potassium alkyl sulfates, especially those obtained by sulfating the higher alcohols C8 C18 carbon atoms such as those produced by reducing the glycerides of tallow or coconut oil and the sodium and potassium alkylbenzene sulfonates in which the alkyl group contains from about 9 to about 15 carbon atons, in straight chain or branched chain configuration, e.g., those of the type described in U.S. Patents 2,220,099 and 2,477,3a3. Especially valuable are linear straight chain alkyl benzene sulfonates in which the average number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group is from about 11 to 13, abbreviated as C LAS. Other anionic surfactants herein are the sodium alkyl glyc eryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of higher alcohols derived from tallow and coconut oil sodium coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulfonates and sulfates sodium or potassium salts of alkyl phenol ethylene oxide ether sulfates containing from about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per from from about 8 to about 12 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and sodium or potassium saIls of alkyl ethylene oxide ether sulfates containing about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms in the alkyl group. Other useful anionic surfactants include the water soluble salts of esters of alpha sulfonated fatty acids containing from about 6 to 20 carbon atoms in the fatty acid group and from about 1 to 10 carbon atoms in the ester group water soluble salts of 2 acyloxy aikane l sulfonic acids containing from about 2 to 9 carbon atoms in the acyl group and from about 9 to about 23 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety alkyl ether sulfates containing from about 10 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 1 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide water soluble salts of olefin sulfonates containing from about 1.2 to 24 carbon atoms and beta alkyloxy alkane sulfonates containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 8 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety. Water soluble nonionic surfactants are also useful in the compositions of the invention. Such nonionic materials include compounds produced by the condensation of alkylene oxide groups hydrophilic in nature with an organic hydrophobic compound, which may be aliphatic or alkyl aromatic in nature. The length of the polyoxyalkylene group which is condensed with any particular hydrophobic group can be readily adjusted to yield a watersoluble compound having the desired degree of balance between hydrophilic and hydrophobic elements. Suitable nonionic surfactants include the polyethylene oxide condensates of alkyl phenols, e.g., the condensation products of alkyl phenols having an alkyl group containing from about 6 to IS carbon atoms, in either a straight chain or branched chain config duration, with from about 3 to 12 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alkyl phenol. Preferred nonionics are the water soluble condensation products of aliphatic alcohols containing from 8 to 22 carbon atoms, in either straight chain or branched configuration, with from. 3 to 12 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alcohol. Particularly preferred are the condensation products of alcohols having an alkyl group containing from about 9 to 15 carbon atoms with from about 4 to 8 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alcohol. Semi polar nonionic surfactants useful herein include watersoluble amine oxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 18 carbon atoms and two moieties selected from the group consisting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms water soluble phosphine oxides containing one alkyl moiety of about 10 to 18 carbon atoms. and two moieties selected from the group consisting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms and water soluble sulfoxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 18 carbon atoms and a moiety selected from the group consisting of alkyl and hydroxyalkyl moieties of from about 1 to 3 carbcn atoms. Ampholytic surfactants include derivatives of aliphatic or aliphatic derivatives of heterocyclic secondary and tertiary amines in which the aliphatic moiety can be straight chain or branched and wherein one of the aliphatic substituents contains from about 8 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aliphatic substituent contains an anionic water solubilizing group. Zwitterionic surfactants include derivatives of aliphatic qua ternary ammonium, phosphonium, and sulfonium compounds in which one of the aliphatic substituents contains from about 8 to 18 carbon atoms. Particularly preferred surfactants herein are anionic surfactants selected from the group consisting of the alkali metal salts of C11 13 alkylbenzene sulfonates, C1 4 18 alkyl sulfates, C14 18 alkyl linear polyethoxy sulfates containing from about 1 to about 4 moles of ethylene oxide and mixtures thereof. Pyrophosphate Builder The compositions of the present invention also contain from about 5 to about 80 , preferably from about 10 to about 70 , and most preferably from about 15 to about 50 , by weight of an alkali metal pyrophosphate builder. Sodium and potassium, particularly sodium, pyrophosphates are preferred. The pyrophosphate salts useful herein can be obtained commercialiy or can be formed by neutralization of the corresponding pyrophosphoric acids or acid salts. The pyrophosphates can be anhydrous or hydrated, although anhydrous pyrophosphates in finely divided form are preferred for rapid dissolution in wash. Readily available commercially are tetrasodium pyrophosphate Na4P207 and its decahydrate Na4P207.10H2O, tetrapotassium pyrophosphate K4P2O7, sodium acid pyrophosphate or acid pyro11 Na2H2P207 and its hexahydrate Na2K2P2O7. 6H2O, and pyrophosphoric acid H4P2 0 Monosodium pyrophosphate and trisodium pyrophosphate also exist, the latter as the anhydrous form or the monoor nona hydrate. The generic formula for the anhydrous forms of these compounds can be expressed as MXHyP2P7, where M is alkali matri and x and y are integers having the sum of 4. Tripolyphosphate Builder The compositions contain an alkali metal, preferably sodium, tripolyphosphate builder, at a weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate of from about 50 1 to about 1 1, preferably from about 20 1 to about 2 1, and more preferably from about 10 1 to about 4 1 A particularly preferred mixture contai ning about 85 pyrophosphate and 15 tripolyphosphate provides important processing and whiteness maintenance benefits without significantly reducing the builder efficiency advantages provided by the pyro phosphates. Alkali Metal Silicate The compositions herein contain from about 0.5 to about 3 , preferably from about 1 to about 2.5 , and most preferably from about 1.5 to abut 2 , by weight of an alkali metal silicate having a molar ratio of SiO2 to alkali metal oxide of from about 1.0 to abut 3,2, preferably from abut 1.6 te abut 2.4, Sodium silicate particularly having a molar ratio of from about 1,8 to about 2.2, is preferred. The alkali metal silicates can be purchased in either liquid or granu form. Silicate slurries can conveniently be used to avoid having to dissolve the dried form in the aqueous slurry e.g., crutcher mix of the components herein. Optional Components Other ingredients commonly used in granular detergent compositions can be included in the compositions of the present invention. These include cobuilders, color speckles, bleaching agents and bleach activators, suds boosters or suds suppressors, anti tarnish and anti corrosion agents, soil release agents. dyes, fillers, optical brighteners, germicides, non builder alkalinity sources, enzymes, enzyme stabilizing agents, and perfumes. Preferred cobuilders for use herein are disclosed in U.S.Patent 4,019,998, Benson et al,. issued April 26, 1977 particularly from Column 11, line 40 to Column 13, line 5 , incorporated herein by reference. Particularly preferred are the aluminosilicates, carbonates and nitrilotriacetates, and mixtures thereof. The following non limiting examples illustrate the detergent compositions of the present invention. All percentages, parts, and ratios used herein are by weight unless otherwise specified. EXAMPLE I The following composition, intended for usage at a level of 1 cups 129 g in a normal capacity, top loading washing machine, was prepared by admixing the carbonate and polyethylene glycol to base granules formed by spray drying an aqueous curtcher mix slurry of the remaining components, Component Wt. Sodium C1 2 alkylbenzene sulfonate 3.5 Sodium tallow alkyl sulfate 5.5 Sodium C 4 15 alkyl polyethoxy 2.25 sulfate 5.5 Tetrasodium pyrophosphate 20.7 Sodium tripolyphosphate 3.7 Sodium carbonate 15.0 Sodium silicate 2.0r 1.9 Sodium sulfate 38.8 Polyethylene glycol 8000 0.4 Water minors Balance to 100 Other compositions of the present invention are. obtained when the 24.4 phosphate in the above cpmposition is adjusted to provide a weight ratio of pyrophosphate to tripolyphosphate of 10 1, 4 1 or 2 1. Other compositions of the present invention are obtained when in the above compositions the pyrophosphate and sulfate levels are each reduced by 5 and replaced with 10 of either hydrated sodium aluminosilicate Zeolite A avg. dia. 3 microns or sodium nitrilotriacetate. EXAMPLE 1 1 The following composition, intended for usage at a level of I cup r51.9 g in a normal capacity, top loading washing machine, is prepared by spray drying an aqueous crutcher mix slurry of the components. Component Wot. go Sodium C12 alkylbenzene suifonate 16.6 Sodium C14 15 alkyl polyethoxy 2.25 sulfate 7.1 Tetrasodium pyrophosphate 50.0 Sodium tripolyphosphate 8.8 Sodium carbonate 6.3 Sodium silicate 2.0r 1.9 Sodium sulfate 3.7 Poiyethylene glycol 8000 1.6 Water minors Balance to 100 The dispersibility of the above granular composition can be improved by intimately mixing about 1 by weight of sodium polyacrylate of m.w 2000 with the an.onic surfactant paste prior to adding the balance of the components to the crutcher, as described in pending U.S.Patent Application Serial No. 321,516,Barford, filed November 16, 1981. EXAMPLE Ill The following composition is prepared by first intimately mixing the 2000 m.w. polyacrylic acid with the anionic surfactant paste, and then spray drying an aqueous crutcher mix slurry of the components. Component wt. gs Sodium C13 alkylbenzene sulfonate 10.8 Sodium C14 15 alkyl polyethoxy 1.0 sulfate 27.2 Tetrasodium pyrophosphate 1 Q 0 Sodium tripolyphosphate 10.0 Sodium silicate 2.0r 3.0 Sodium sulfate 29.6 Polyacrylic acid avg. m.w. 2000 1.0 Water minors Balance to 100 The base granules obtained are then admixed, at a level of 52.1 parts, with 41.3 parts of tetrasodium pyrophosphate, 5.2 parts of sodium carbonate, 0.6 parts of polyethylene glycol 6000, and minors to provide a finished granular detergent intended for usage at a level of cup 51.9g in a normal capacity, toploading washing machine.