# Non crosslinked elastomeric thermoplastic compositions for low voltage insulation.

## Abstract
Compositions comprising a non crosslinked ethylene pro pylene elastomer a hydrocarbon oil and an inorganic filler, are very effective for low voltage insulation applications.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A non crosslinked elastomeric thermoplastic composition for low voltage insulation applications comprising A A non crosslinked ethylene propylene elastomer having a Mooney viscosity ML 1 8 at 1270C in the range of about 175 to 250, and an ethylene content in the range of about 60 to 75 wt. percent, B A hydrocarbon oil selected from the group consisting of naphthenics and paraffinic oils in an amount in the range of about 50 to 150 parts by weight per 100 parts of elastomer, and C An inorganic filler in a range of about 200 to 400 parts by weight per 100 parts of elastomer. 2. The composition of claim 1 in which the elastomer is an ethylene propylene copolymer. 3. The composition of claim 1 in which the elastomer is a terpolymer. 4. The composition of claim 3 in which. the terpolymer has an ethylene content of 65 wt. percent, a propylene content of 30 wt. percent, and an ENB content of 5 wt. percent. 5 The composition of claims 1. 2. 3 or 4 which additionally includes low density polyethylene in an amount of from 15 150 parts by weight per 100 parts of elastomer. 6. The use of a composition according to any one of the preceding claims as a low voltage insulation material. 7. An electrical cable. wire or flex including a composition accordinq to any one of claims 1 to 5 as material for insulatinq the electrically conductive components.

## Description
NON CROSSLINi D ELASTOMERIC THERMOPLASTIC COMPOSITIONS FOR LOW VOLTAGE INSULATION This invention relates to non crosslinked elastomeric thermoplastic compositions for low voltage insulation, comprising an ethylene propylene elastomer a hydrocarbon oil and an inorqanic filler. Blends of various elastomer oils and crystalline polyolefins have been developed to obtain desired properties. Typical patents are 4,132,698, 4,247,652, 4,247,661, 4,088,713 and 4,046,840. These require the presence of substantial amounts of crystalline polyolefin in the blends to achieve the properties sought. It has now been found that compositions comprising non crosslinked ethylene propylene elastomers a hydrocarbon oil and an inorqanic filler, are possessed of high green strength, adequate tensile strength and easy processability. It is surprising that the compositions provide these properties without vulcanizing or crosslinking the elastomer or incorporating substantial amounts of crystalline polyolefins. The elastomer is a non crosslinked ethylene propylene elastomer having a Mooney viscosity, ML 1 8 commat 1270 in the range of about 175 to 250 and an ethylene content in the range of about 60 to 75 wt. percent, with the balance predominantly propylene. The term ethylene propylene elastomer is intended to generically connote ethylene propylene copolymers EPM and ethylene propylene terpolymers EPDM . Typical of the third monomers is a C5 C14 nonconjugated diolefin. Non limiting examples of such nonconjugated diolefins include the following A. Straight chain acyclic dienes such as 1,4 hexadiene and 1,6 octadiene. B. Branched acyclic dienes such as 5 methyl 1,4 hexadienes, 3,7 dimethyl 1,6 octadiene, 3,7 dimethyl 1,7 octadiene and mixed isomers of dihydromyrcene, and dihydroocimene. C. Single ring alicyclic dienes such as 1,4 cyclohexadiene, 1,5 cyclooctadiene and 1,5 cyclo dodecadiene. D. Multiring alicyclic fused and bridged ring diene such as tetrahydroindene, methyl tetrahydro indene, dicyclopentadiene, bicyclo 2,2,1 hepta 2,5 diene, alkenyl, alkylidene, cycloalkenyl and cyclo alkylidene norbornenes such as 5 methylene 2 norbornene MNR 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene ENB , 5 propenyl 2 norbornene, 5 isopropylidene 2 norbornene, 5 4 cyclopentenyl 2 norbornene, and 5 cyclohexylidene 2 norbornene. Preferred is 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene ENB . The ethylene higher alpha olefin copolymers and terpolymers may be prepared by any conventional manner and the preparation of same does not constitute part of the instant invention. The hydrocarbon oil utilized is a rubber process oil which is either napthenic or paraffinic in nature. The oil is utilized in an amount of about 50 to 150 parts by weight per hundred parts of elastomer phr . The inorganic filler is an inert material and is utilized in an amount of about 200 to t00 parts by weight per 100 parts of elastomer. Illustrative of such inorganic inert materials are ground and precipitated calcium carbonate standard, delaminated, calcined, and hydrated Kaolin clays PreciPitated, hydrated silicas and silicates, especially calcium and magnesium silicates. Low density polyethylene can be incorporated into the compound in the amount of 15 150 phr. The addition of polyethylene which serves as a processing aid is suggested when it is desirable to pelletize the compound prior to extruding the compound onto wire. Also, the addition of polyethylene will increase abrasion re sistance while reducing the flexibility of the compound. For improved heat resistance and weatherability, the addition of 1 phr hindered phenols such as Irganox 1010 and 0.2 phr of W light stabilizers Tinuvin P,Tinuvin 622 may be required. Blending of the compounding ingredients should be carried out in an intensive, internal mixer such as aBanbury. An upside down mix procedure in which all ingredients are added at time zero with the EP rubber added last has been found to give excellent results. The mixing time is about 5 minutes and the temperature of the compound at time of discharge should be 125 140eC. The compositions of this invention can be employed in a wide variety of low voltage insulation applications, e.g., battery booster cables, flexible cord, appliance wire and welding cable. The compositions of this invention can be processed in a broader variety of equipment than most available thermoplastic elastomers. They can be extruded under conditions similar to vulcanizable EPDM in a rubber extruder with a 8 15 1 L D and standard rubber screw single flight, straight 1.5 1 compression with profiles of 95 95 950 100OC on the barrel and head and the die at 100 120eC. The compositions can also be run on a thermoplastic extruder of 15 24 1 L D using a polyethylene type screw. Similar temperature profiles can be used.However, successful extrusions and rapid extrusion rates have also been obtained at substantially higher temperatures with profiles of 140 1400 140 1500C on the barrel and head and the die at 1500 1700C. This invention and its advantages will be better understood from the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 This example illustrates that the non crosslinked elastomeric thermoplastic compositions of this invention give surprisingly good and unexpected balance of physical properties that are about equivalent to a peroxide cured thermosetting compound of the same composition. All parts are by weight. Non Crosslinked Crosslinked EPDM contains 75 phr oil 175 175Calcined Clay 350 350Paraffin Wax 5 5Paraffinic Oil 35 35Irganox 1010 1 1Dilauryl Thiodiproprionate 0.5 0.5Tetraethylene Glycol Dimethacrylate 2 40 Dispersion of Di cumyl Peroxide 12PHYSICAL PROPERTIES Extruded on WireCured No Cure 1 min 2000CShore A Hardness 60 60 200 Modulus, psi 600 620Tensile Strength, psi 950 1020Elongation, 450 400Heat Aged Physical Properties Air Oven Aged 7 days 121eC Tensile Retained 76 82 Elongation Retained 62 68Electrical PropertiesBreakdown Voltage 18kV 21kV Vistalon 3777, typically 65 wt. percent ethylene, 30 wt.percent propylene, 5 wt ENB, narrow mol wt. dist. having a typical Mooney value of 45 at Mt 1 8 at 1270C and typically contains 43 wt percent oil. EXAMPLE 2 This example illustrates the effect of adding polyethylene to the composition for the purpose of making it pelletizable. In this case, calcium carbonate was used as the major filler ingredient. All parts are by weight. Non Crosslinked Crosslinked EPDM contains 75 phr oil 175 175Calcium Carbonate 350 350Low Density Polyethylene 2.1 MI 117 117Paraffin Wax 6Paraffinic Oil 35 35 Irganox 1010 1.2 1.2Dilauryl Thiodiproprionate 0.6 0.6Trimethylol Propane Tri methacrylate 2 40 Dispersion of Dicumyl Peroxide 12PHYSICAL PROPERTIES Compression MoldedCured No Cure 10 1770C Shore A Hardness 75 78 200 Modulus, psi 650 680Tensile Strength, psi 800 870Elongation, 300 300Heat Aged Physical Properties Air Oven Aged 7 days 121 C Tensile Retained 125 115 Elongation Retained 50 62Ozone ResistanceIPCEA Ozone test, 0.3 vol. ozone, 100 hours No Cracks No CracksLow Temperature Performance 400C Bend Test No Cracks No CracksElectrical PropertiesDielectric Constant 3.47 3.42Power Factor, 2.12 2.04Dielectric Strength, v mil 780 800 EPDM same as Example 1. The advantages of this invention will be apparent to the skilled in the art. Compositions are provided that can be processed in a broader variety of equipment than previously available thermoplastic elastomers. Substantial energy savings are made available to cable producers because the compositions can be extruded at substantially lower temperature than previously com mercially available formulations. The products have excellent low temperature properties and are quite flexible at temperatures well below zero. All of these advantages are provided in inexpensive compositions without the need to vulcanize the elastomer or blend with substantial amounts of crystalline polyolefins which are a deterrent to the desired processability. It will be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific examples which are offered as particular embodiments, and that modifications can be made without departing from the spirit thereof.