# ACTIVATED ARYL CAPPED FLUORESCENT COMPOUNDS, AND ASSAY METHODS AND SYSTEMS USING THEM AS FLUOROGENIC PRECURSORS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Bestimmung der katalytischen Aktivität einer Peroxidase durch Messen der aus einem Substrat der Peroxidase gebildeten Menge eines Produkts, welches ein fluorometrisches Signal liefert, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß es als fluorogenes Substrat eine organische Diarylverbindung verwendet, die aus einer mit einer carbocyclischen Aryl Kappengruppe versehenen Aryl Fluoreszenzverbindung besteht, welche eine verknüpfende Gruppe mit einem an ein Ringkohlenstoffatom der carbocyclischen Aryl Kappengruppe gebundenen Stickstoff oder Sauerstoff aufweist und welche bei der Anregungswellenlänge der Fluoreszenzverbindung, wenn diese an eine carbocyclische Arylgruppe als die Kappengruppe gebunden ist, nicht fluoresziert, wobei die Aryl Kappengruppe einen Oxy oder Aminosubstituenten an einem Ringkohlenstoffatom aufweist und der Substituent durch 2 oder 4 Ringkohlenstoffatome von der verknüpfenden Gruppe getrennt ist, und daß die carbocyclische Arylgruppe eine Peroxidase katalysierte Entfernung erfährt, um die Aryl Fluoreszenzverbindung zu erzeugen und daß die Peroxidase direkt auf das fluorogene Substrat einwirkt, um die Aryl Kappengruppe zu entfernen.

## Description
Peroxidase is an enzyme which has a large number of desirable properties. It is available, inexpensive, stable to a substantial range of chemical and physical conditions and has a high turnover rate. Besides its obvious use for the determination of peroxidase substrates, it has found ample application in diagnostics for the localization of determinant sites in tissue and the determination in physiological media of a wide variety of analytes. Many analytes are present only in extremely small concentrations and high amplification of the signal is required as a result of a single binding event between the analyte and its homologous binding pair member. Frequently the number of enzyme molecules that signal a binding event is fixed based on the conditions of the assay and improved sensitivity or enhanced signal level is dependent upon a substrate which has a high turnover rate and provides a high signal level. In developing substrates, there are many constraints. While peroxidase has relatively low specificity, there are limitations on the compounds which can be oxidized. Furthermore, while either the substrate or the product may in principle provide the signal, it is desirable to go from a low signal to a high signal. Therefore, the substrate should contribute little if any detectable signal where the product is measured. Other considerations include the solubility of the substrate and the interaction with materials which may be encountered in the samples to be measured. Additional considerations include ease of synthesis, stability both shelf life and in the assay medium , the effect of the production of side products or even the desired product on the activity of the peroxidase, and the ability to measure the product providing the detectable signal. Saunders and Watson, Broadly, the present invention concerns novel substrate fluorogenic precursors and uses thereof, the precursors being oxidatively suspectible aryl capped fluorescent compounds having ring activating subsituents. The compounds are stable under assay conditions in the absence of peroxidase, but in the presence of peroxidase and hydrogen peroxide, the aryl cap is removed in a reaction catalyzed by the peroxidase to provide a stable fluorogenic product. Particularly preferred embodiments have umbelliferone and hydroxyanthene derivatives joined through a linkage to aryl derivates to provide for a peroxidase substrate which upon oxidation results in removal of the aryl cap where the residual fluorescer has a high fluorescence quantum efficiency. Thus in one aspect the invention provides a method for determining the catalytic activity of a peroxidase by measuring the amount of a product produced from a substrate of said peroxidase, which product provides a fluorometric signal, characterised in that it employs as a fluorogeic substrate a diaryl organic compound consisting of a carbocyclic aryl capped aryl fluorescent compound having a linking group with a nitrogen or oxygen bonded to an annular carbon atom of the carbocyclic aryl cap and which is non fluorescent at the exitation wavelength of said fluorescent compound when linked to a carbocyclic aryl group as said cap, said aryl group cap having an oxy or amino substituent on an annular carbon atom, said substituent being separated by 2 or 4 annular carbon atoms from said linking group, which carbocyclic aryl group undergoes peroxidase catalyzed removal to produce said aryl fluorescent compound and in that the peroxidase acts directly on the fluorogenic substrate to remove said aryl cap. In a second aspect the invention provides a method for determining the presence of an analyte in a sample employing in said method peroxidase as a label, wherein said peroxidase is conjugated to a member of a specific binding pair, said pair consisting of ligand and receptor, and said analyte is a member of said pair, said method comprising combining said conjugate, said sample, a source of peroxide, and a substrate for peroxidase, which substrate results in a product producing a detectable signal and determining the amount of the product produced, which amount is related to the amount of analyte in said sample, characterised in that it employs as a fluorogenic substrate a diaryl organic compound consisting of a carbocyclic capped aryl fluorescent compound having a linking group with a nitrogen or oxygen bonded to an annular carbon atom of the carbocyclic aryl cap and which is and which is non fluorescent compund when linked to a carbocyclic aryl gropu as said cap, said aryl group cap having an oxy or amino substituent on an annular carbon atom, said substitutent being separated by 2 or 4 annular carbon atoms from said linking group, which carbocyclic aryl group undergoes peroxidase catalyzed removal to produce said aryl fluorescent compund and in that the peroxidase acts directly on the fluorogenic substrate to remove said aryl cap. In a third aspect the invention provides a fluorogenic substrate which is a diaryl organic compound consisting of a carbocyclic aryl capped aryl fluorescent compound having a linking group directly bonded to an annular carbon atom of the carbocyclic cap and to the aryl fluorescent compond said linking group being either i carbamyloxy bonded through its nitrogen to an annular carbon atom of said aryl fluorescent compound, or ii oxy and wherein the aryl fluorescent compound is non fluorescent at the excitation wavelength of said fluorescent compound when so linked to said carbocyclic aryl cap said aryl group cap having an oxy or amino substituent on an annular carbon atom, said substituent being separated by 2 or 4 annular carbon atoms from said linking group, which carbocyclic aryl group cap is capable of undergoing peroxidase catalyzed removal to produce said aryl fluorescent compound. A substrate may be prepared from an amino or oxy fluorescent compound, which is preferably relatively stable to peroxidase catalyzed degradation, and an activated carbocyclic aryl group which is bonded to the heteroatom to form a capped substrate for peroxidase. The substrate may be substituted with a wide variety of groups to enhance water solubility, modify the spectroscopic properties, e.g., excitation and emission wavelength, quantum efficiency, and Stokes shift, or to affect other particular properties of interest, e.g., solubility or photo and enzymic stability of the fluorogenic substrate. The fluorogenic substrate will usually have at least about 15 carbon atoms, more usually at least about 16 carbon atoms and generally fewer than 60 carbon atoms, more usually fewer than about 50 carbon atoms, having at least 3 heteroatoms and not more than about 18 heteroatoms, usually not more than about 12 heteroatoms, which are selected from nitrogen and chalcogen oxygen and sulfur , halogen, phosphorus and boron. There will be at least one activating group bound to an annular carbon atom of the aryl cap, having an atom of atomic number 7 8 oxy, including hydroxy and ether and amido and amino, including primary, secondary, and tertiary amino . There will also be a heteroatom N, O containing linkage to the aryl cap, so that upon oxidation of the aryl cap, the linkage is cleaved leaving the uncapped fluorescent product. For the most part, the compounds of the subject invention will have the following formula More generally, X may be an activating group having oxygen or nitrogen bonded to an annular ring. X may then have from 0 to 4, usually 0 to 3 carbon atoms, there being at least one X group and not more than about 3 X groups. When Y is carbamyloxy, preferably the N of the carbamyloxy group N R CO₂ is bonded to Fl and R is hydrogen, lower alkyl 1 3 carbon atoms , or a solubilising group bonded to nitrogen through a carbon atom, there usually being two saturated carbon atoms between heteroatoms and the water solubilising group may be bound to lower alkyl or phenyl R is usually hydrogen. Ar is preferably an activated aryl group, normally carbocyclic, particularly phenyl which upon peroxidase catalyzed oxidation serves as a leaving group, generally having from 1 to 2 fused or non fused rings Fl suitably has at least 9 carbon atoms, more usually at least 10 carbon atoms and not more than about 30 carbon atoms, usually not more than about 26 carbon atoms, and not more than about 16 heteroatoms, more usually not more than about 12 heteroatoms, which may be selected from oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, halogen, boron, and phosphorus. Desirably, there is at least one and not more than about three water solubilizing groups, generally from about one to two water solubilizing groups, normally acidic or basic groups, which may be bonded to R, the aryl Ar group, or the fluorescent Fl group. The water solubilizing groups will for the most part be sulfate, sulfonate, sulfinate, amines, amidates, ammonium, phosphate, phosphonate, borate, boronate, carboxamide, carboxylate, hydroxyalkyl groups e.g. saccharides, etc. The water solubilizing group may be directly bonded to an annular carbon atom or may be joined by a linking group, generally a linking group of from about 1 to 4 atoms, usually carbon atoms, normally aliphatic. Alternatively, the water solubilizing group may be bonded to a heteroatom functionality available on an aromatic ring, which may include the heteroatom involved with the activation of the aryl ring or with the fluorescent properties of the fluorogenic group. For the most part, the precursor compositions of this invention will have the following formula wherein Compounds which may be used for the fluorogenic compound include amino or hydroxyl substituted derivatives of chromen, xanthen, or the like. Of particular interest are the compounds of coumarin and xanthene. For the most part, the compounds of this invention having a coumarin group will have the following formula wherein It is understood that the substrate may be modified as described previously to enhance water solubility. In a preferred group of such coumarins, X is hydroxy or amino and at least one X is separated by 2 or 4 annular members from the oxygen A second group of compounds is based on the xanthenes, and include the fluoresceins which will for the most part have the following formula wherein wherein Generally, the activated aryl group will have 0 to 3, usually 0 to 2 substituents bonded to an annular carbon atom or to X, replacing a hydrogen of X, in order to enhance water solubility, modify the chemical properties of the group in acting as a substrate, or the like. Groups of interest include lower alkyl groups of from 1 to 3, usually 1 to 2 carbon atoms, e.g., methyl and ethyl carboxyalkyl of from 2 to 4, usually 2 to 3 carbon atoms, e.g., carboxymethyl and carboxyethyl hydroxy or aminoalkyl of from 1 to 3, usually 1 to 2 carbon atoms, e.g., hydroxymethyl, aminoethyl, and aminomethyl or alkylsulfonic acid. The groups on the fluorogenic portion of the molecule may be varied more widely to modify water solubility, the fluorogenic properties of the fluorogenic compound, and the like. A number of illustrative fluorescein derivatives may be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,318,846, and application serial no. 73,158 filed September 7, 1979, granted as U.S. Patent N0.4351760 entitled, Novel Alkyl Substituted Fluorescent Compounds and Conjugates . For the most part these compounds have from 2 to 6, usually 2 to 4 substituents, which include lower alkyl of from 1 to 3, usually 1 to 2 carbon atoms, alkoxy of from 1 to 3, usually 1 to 2 carbon atoms, carboxy and halo, particularly of atomic number 9 to 17, wherein the alkyl group may also be substituted by carboxy. The carboxy group may be used as a site for further modification, particularly for adding additional functionalities to impart water solubility. Thus, esters and amides may be prepared having alkyl groups substituted with carboxy, sulfur or phosphorus acid groups and of from about 1 to 4, usually 1 to 3 carbon atoms, with the carboxy having 2 to 4, usually 2 to 3 carbon atoms. Aryl groups which may be used to cap the phenolic group may be illustrated by the following groups For the fluorescent compounds, a wide variety of 2 oxo 7 hydroxy and 7 amino coumarins may be employed having a variety of substituents. The following are illustrative coumarin groups which may be joined to the aryl group at the phenolic hydroxyl group Illustrative umbelliferone compounds may be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,230,797. The compounds of the subject invention can be made by capping anilino or phenolic fluorescent compounds in accordance with conventional ways. Particularly, As already indicated, the subject compounds find use in assaying for peroxides, for peroxidase, and more particularly in diagnostic assays employing peroxidase as a label. A large number of patents exist describing the use of enzymes for diagnostic purposes, many of which specifically describe the use of peroxidase as a label. Illustrative patents include 3,654,090, 3,817,837, 4,233,402, 4,275,149 and 4,299,916, which are merely illustrative of the extensive patent literature. Of particular interest are assays in which the peroxidase enzyme is conjugated with a member of a specific binding pair, which member is either a receptor or a ligand. Ligands can be any analyte of interest for which a receptor exists, while receptors will usually be antibodies or naturally occurring compounds with high specificity for a particular ligand. The conjugate can be used in a variety of ways, particularly where it becomes bound to a surface in proportion to the amount of analyte in the assay medium. Depending upon the particular protocol, after the peroxidase becomes bound, it may be removed from the sample and placed in a separate solution, referred to as a developer solution, containing the fluorogenic precursor substrate according to this invention. Alternatively, where one has Exemplary of the use of the subject compositions is employment of a bibulous support to which an oxidase is bound, such as glucose oxidase, which provides a source of hydrogen peroxide at the surface of the support when glucose is provided. To the bibulous support is also bound either ligand or receptor, which is normally homologous to the analyte. The assay is carried out by contacting the bibulous support with an assay medium which contains the sample, the peroxidase conjugate and the fluorogenic precursor according to this invention. The fluorescent product is produced at the surface of the bibulous support and binds to the support, so that the fluorescence from the support may be determined as indicative of the presence and amount of the analyte. One embodiment of this invention may be found in U.S. Patent No. 4,299,916. An alternative embodiment involves an immunochromatograph, which is exemplified in U.S. Patent No. 4,168,146. In this instance, the immunochromatograph would be a combination of a member of a specific binding pair and a source of hydrogen peroxide, such as glucose oxidase. After chromatographing the analyte, the immunochromatograph is contacted with a solution containing the peroxidase conjugate, the fluorogenic precursor according to this invention, and glucose, as well as ancillary reagents, such as buffers, stabilizers, or the like, so that the presence or absence of the analyte would be observable by the production of a fluorogenic signal where the peroxidase conjugate binds. The following examples are offered by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. Into a reaction flask was introduced 10.68g 45.6mmole of 3 carboethoxyumbelliferone in 300ml toluene and the mixture heated at reflux for one hour, with 30ml of distillate removed azeotropically, followed by cooling. To the cooled mixture was then added 1.92g of sodium hydride and the mixture heated at refluxing for 0.5hr, while removing the solvent with a Dean Stark separator. The residue was dried To about 5g of the above product suspended in approximately 150ml DMF was added 3.8g anhydrous potassium carbonate. The mixture was heated while slowly adding 2.72g of After cooling, the mixture was poured onto ice and the precipitate collected by filtration, followed by extraction with CH₂Cl₂. Work up yielded 5.3g of a yellow solid. The major portion of the solid was purified by chromotagraphy on a 4.2cm x 34cm 200g silica gel 60 200 mesh column, prepared using CH₂Cl₂ as solvent. Approximately 3.5g of crude material was applied onto the column as a CH₂Cl₂ solution, followed by the addition of 100ml CH₂Cl₂, followed by elution with 5 of ethyl acetate in CH₂Cl₂. While initially 50ml fractions were collected, this was followed by collecting 15ml fractions and the fractions containing the desired product were identified by tlc. Fractions were pooled to give about 1.25g of carboethoxy 7 4 nitrophenoxy coumarin, m.p. 163 C. Into 3ml of 50 aqueous ethanol was added 38mg of the above product and 52mg of ferrous chloride. The mixture was stirred rapidly with gradual heating while a solution of 5µl of conc. HCl in 1ml 50 aqueous ethanol was added slowly. The mixture was then refluxed for 2 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was diluted with a few ml of water and extracted with ether. The combined ether extracts were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, the solvent evaporated, yielding 18mg of 3 carboethoxy 7 4 aminophenoxy coumarin. m.p. 136 138 C. NMR and tlc were consistent with the desired product. The above amino ester was dissolved in dioxane and an equal volume of cold 20 sulfuric acid added. The mixture was then heated at reflux overnight. After cooling, the pH was adjusted to pH 5 with aqueous sodium hydroxide, whereby a precipitate formed which was collected by filtration. The precipitate was dissolved in a large volume of boiling water, quickly filtered while hot, and upon cooling the title compound precipitated out. m.p. 213 214 C. dec. Enhanced yields could be obtained by extracting the neutralized medium with ethyl acetate or diethyl ether, and purifying the resulting extracts. Into about 10ml dry DMF was suspended 330mg of the sodium salt of 3 carboethoxyumbelliferone and the mixture heated to about 130 C, where upon most of the salt dissolved. Approximately 300 400µl of 3 methyl 4 nitrofluorobenzene was added slowly dropwise 2 3min drop , while maintaining a nitrogen atmosphere and slowly raising the temperature to about 170 C over a 5 hour period. The reaction was then terminated, the solution cooled and ice water added, followed by extraction with diethyl ether. The combined ether extracts were washed twice with sat. sodium bicarbonate, brine, followed by drying over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by evaporation leaving a solid yellow material, which was purified by preparative tlc to yield approximately 140mg of a pure nearly white compound. m.p. 158 C. Into 25ml of 50 aqueous ethanol was suspended 155mg of the above product, followed by the addition of 180mg of ferrous chloride and 15µl of conc. HCl which was diluted with aqueous ethanol before addition. The mixture was heated to reflux for 3 hours, followed by filtration and extraction with CH₂Cl₂. The extracts were washed, dried, and evaporated to dryness and the product purified with preparative tlc. The aromatic amino compound appeared to degrade during the purification. Into a 1 1 mixture of 12ml of 20 v v of aqueous sulfuric acid and dioxane was suspended 50mg of the above product and the mixture heated to reflux overnight. After cooling, the solution was neutralized with 1 Into about 5ml of dry DMF was dissolved 218mg 0.67mmole of the 3 carboethoxy 7 4 aminophenoxy coumarin under a nitrogen atmosphere. After adding a small amount of anhydrous sodium carbonate, 421mg of ethyl iodoacetate was added very slowly dropwise at room temperature, followed by stirring the mixture at room temperature for several hours. Tlc showed only a small amount of product, so the reaction mix was heated to about 40 C for one hour and then allowed to cool to room temperature and stirring continued for 2 days. The reaction was worked up by pouring the mixture onto water and extracting with CH₂Cl₂. The combined CH₂Cl₂ extracts were washed with sat. aqueous sodium bicarbonate, brine, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. By removal of the solvent, an orange solid residue was obtained weighing approximately 250mg. m.p. 118 119 C. Into 5ml dioxane was dissolved 218mg of the above product followed by the addition of an equal volume cold 10 v v aqueous sulfuric acid. After heating at reflux for 5hr, the reaction mixture was worked up by extraction with ether and some difficulties encountered in obtaining a sharp interface. The combined ether extracts were partitioned with sat. aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous layer was separated and acidified with 4N HCl, followed by extraction with ether. The combined ether extracts were dried over anh. magnesium sulfate, and the solvent removed In about 1.5ml of dry DMF was mixed 102mg 0.33mmole of the product of Example II, 38mg 0.33mmole of N hydroxy succinimide and 78mg of dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and the mixture stirred under nitrogen for about 6 hours and then filtered through glass wool. Taurine 80 mg was dissolved in 1ml distilled water, and the pH adjusted to about 7.5 with 0.1 The precipitate was separated by filtration through a glass wool plug, the filtrate evaporated to dryness, the residue resuspended in DMF and the solution filtered, and the filtered solution re evaporated to dryness to leave a brown residue. Preparative liquid chromotography was employed with methanol methylene chloride water 10 60 1 and the product added in a solution of DMF and water. The yellow band near the baseline was scraped off and eluted using DMF. The product was dried. A large fluorescent background indicated the presence of a fluorescent contaminant, so that the product was further purified employing a Sephadex G 10 Column 1.1x11cm and a solution of 5mg of the product in 0.5ml of water added to the column and the product eluted with water. Fractions 1ml were collected and their fluorescent spectra determined. Fractions having low fluorescence were collected and pooled. The procedure was repeated in order to reduce the background fluorescence. The product was shown to be useful as a HRP substrate by combining the above compound with HRP and H₂O₂ in an aqueous solution and observing the generation of a fluorescent product. The N hydroxy succinimide ester was prepared as described in Example IV. 2 Amino 2 deoxyglucose hydrochloride 39mg, 0.181 mmole was dissolved in a small amount of water and the pH brought to 7.5 7.6 with 0.1 The sample was filtered through a sintered glass filter to obtain a clear solution, the solvent evaporated and the residue dissolved in 5ml DMF. The solution was then evaporated to dryness, dissolved in 1ml. DMF, followed by a dilution with 4ml buffer and an assay carried out as described previously employing 100microliters of the substrate. The product was found to be active as an HRP substrate. Into a flask was introduced 59mg 0.174mmole of the ethyl ester of 3 carboxy 7 3 methyl 4 aminophenoxy coumarin see Example II , 34mg 0.19mmole of N bromo succinimide and 1.45ml dry DMF, the flask sealed with a septum and a stream of nitrogen maintained. The solution turned dark purple, and the mixture was allowed to stir overnight at room temperature. After pouring the reaction mixture onto ice water, the solution was extracted with CH₂Cl₂ and the combined extracts washed with sat. sodium bicarbonate, brine, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed and the residue purified employing tlc. The brominated product 10 15mg was dissolved in about 1ml dioxane and 0.5ml 20 sulfuric acid added, and the mixture heated and refluxed overnight. After cooling, the solution was neutralized with 1 To HRP Sigma, 150mg in 20ml distilled water was added 4ml 0.1 The antiPRP solution To 21.64ml 67.73mg of the activated HRP was added 4.67ml 109.4mg of antiPRP, the mixture diluted to 29.9ml with 10m The conjugate was then chromatographed using a collodion apparatus on a Biogel ASM column 2.5x90cm , collecting 5ml fractions and eluting with PBS containing 0.01 NaN₃. Fractions 39 48 were pooled A₂₈₀ 0.619 A₄₀₃ 0.332. To demonstrate the utility of the fluorogenic precursors of the subject invention, the following exemplary assay was carried out. Microtiter plate wells were coated with a solution 250µl well of an amine modified glucose oxidase 1 to 190 dilution, 7.6 mg ml stock solution and antibodies to polyribosephosphate 1 2000 dilution in 60m A stock solution was prepared of the fluorogenic substrate of Example II. A 3.8mg 10ml DMF solution 1.22mM was diluted 1 10 with PBS buffer immediately before use. A substrate mixture was prepared containing 500µl of the above stock solution, 694µl of 1.8 M glucose, 400µl of a stock catalase solution and the volume brought to 2ml with PBS buffer. The stock catalase solution 3.1 4 mg ml was prepared by dialysing catalase C 100 Sigma in PBS pH 7.2. The following protocol was then employed for the assay. Into each microtiter well coated with amino glucose oxidase see US A 4435504 and EP A 0100619, CA A 1192122, and JP A 59028662. and antiPRP was added 100µl of 50ng ml PRP or 100 µl of PBS buffer pH7.2 and the mixture incubated for one hour at room temperature. At the end of this time, 50µl of HRP antiPRP conjugate was added followed by another one hour incubation. At the end of this time 100µl of a substrate mix was added, followed by a 10 minute incubation at 37 The following table indicated the results with varying concentrations of the HRP antiPRP conjugate, in the presence and absence of PRP. In the next assay, the fluorogenic precursor of Example I was employed. The test was to demonstrate that the compound of Example I is a substrate for HRP. An assay solution was prepared comprising the chromogenic compound of Example I, hydrogen peroxide, horse radish peroxidase, and buffer 0.1 It is evident from the above results, that the subject compositions are efficient substrates for HRP. The fluorogenic precursor is rapidly converted to a fluorescent product. The product resulting from the aryl cap does not interfere with the fluorescence of the fluorescent product, nor does it inhibit the enzyme reaction. Furthermore, at appropriate basic pH at which horseradish peroxidase has high catalytic activity, the fluorescent product is stable and has a high quantum efficiency. Thus, the subject fluorogenic substrates provide a convenient and simple way for performing fluorescent assays for a wide variety of analytes of interest, either in a heterogeneous or homogeneous mode.