# Monoclonal antibodies against melanocytes and melanomas.

## Abstract
Monoclonal antibodies were discovered which recognize differentiation antigens on melanocytes and melanoma cells at various stages of differentiation. A system of classification based on these antigens is proposed and their use in the diagnosis and treatment of melanoma is given.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Monoclonal antibodies recognizing cell antigens of melanocytes. 2. r Monoclonal antibodies of Claim 1 wherein said cell antigens are differentiation antigens. 3. Antibody producing hybridoma cell line characterized by the production of the antibodies as claimed in Claim 1. 4. Antibody producing hybridoma cell line formed by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from non primates immunized with cultured human melanocytes. 5. Method of forming an antibody producing hybridoma cell line by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from non primates immunized with cultured human melanocytes. 6. Monoclonal antibodies of Claim 1 wherein said cell marker is the M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, M6, M7, M8, M9, M10,M11, M12, M13, M14, M15, M16, M17, M18, M19, M20, M21,M22, M23, M24, M25, M26, M27, M27, M28, M29, M30, M31, M32, M33, or M34 antigen system. 7. Monoclonal antibodies recognizing cell antigens on human melanoma cells. 8. Monoclonal antibodies of Claim 7 wherein said cell antigens are differentiation antigens. 9. Monoclonal antibodies of Claim 7 wherein said cell marker is the M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, M6, M7, M8, M9, M10, M11, M12, M13, M14, M15, M16, M17, M18, M19, M20, M21,M22, M23, M24, M25, M26, M27, M28, M29, M30, M31, M32, M33, or M34 antigen system. 10. Antibody producing hybridoma cell line characterized by the production of the antibodies claimed inClaim 7. 11. Antibody producing hybridoma cell line formed by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from non primate animals immunized with human melanoma cell lines. 12. Antibody producing hybridoma cell line of Claim 11 formed by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from mice or rats immunized with human melanoma cell lines DX 2, SK MEL 19, SK MEL 33, SR fjlEL 93, or SK MEL 31. 13. Method of forming an antibody producing hybridoma cell line by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from non primate animals immunized with established human melanoma cell lines. 14. Method of forming. an antibody producing hybridoma cell line of Claim 13 by fusing a myeloma derived cell strain with splenocytes derived from mice or rats immunized with established human meianoma cell lines SK MEL 93 DX 2, SK MEL 19, or SK MEL 31. 15. Method of phenotyping melanocytes comprising determining the reaction of said melanocytes to a panel of various phenotyped monoclonal antibodies to melanocyte antigens. 16. Method of phenotyping melanoma cells comprising determining the reaction of said cells to a panel of various phenotyped monoclonal antibodies to melanocyte antigens. 17. A panel of phenotyping antibodies comprising monoclonal antibodies recognizing melanocyte antigenic system M1 through M34. 18. Method of distinguishing between a melanoma cell and a melanocyte comprising assay of the M34 cell surface antigen system. 19. The method of Claim 18 wherein said assay is immunoassay with monoclonal antibody S6. 20. Method of determining the stage of maturity of a melanoma cell comprising assay of cell differentiation antigens. 21. The method of Claim 20 for detecting immature melanoma cells comprising immunoassay of cell antigens with monoclonal antibodies recognizing M1, M2, or M3 antigen system. 22. The method of Claim 20 for detecting fetal or newborn melanoma cells comprising immunoassay of a panel of cell antigens with monoclonal antibodies recognizing N41 ,, M6, M7 and M8 antigen systems. 23. The method of Claim 20 for detecting adult melanoma cells comprising immunoassay of cell surface antigens with antibodies recognizing N9 or M10 antigen systems. 24. An assay for melanoma cells in a mammal comprising contacting a tissue of said mammal comprising contacting a tissue of said mammal with an antibody to a melanoma cell antigen under conditions suitable for antigenic reaction and observing said antigenic reaction. 25. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said antibody is a monoclonal antibody. 26. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said cell antigen is a differentiation antigen. 27. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said cell antigen belongs to the antigenic system M1, M2, M3, M41 M5, M6,M7, M8, M9, M10, M11, M12, M13, M14, M15, M16, M17, M18,M19, M20, M21, M22, M23, M24, M25, M26, M27, M28, M29, M30, z31, M32, M33, M34. 28. The assay of Claim 24 comprising serological assay. 29. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said tissue is a blood specimen from said mammal. 30. The assay of Claim 29 wherein said assay is radioimmunoassay. 31. The assay of Claim 29 wherein said assay is enzyme linked immunoassay. 32. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said tissue is an excised specimen from said mammal. 33. The assay of Claim 32 wherein said excised specimen is contacted with antibody tagged with a color forming, fluorescent or radioactive substance. 34. The assay of Claim 33 wherein said color forming substance is peroxidase and substrates. 35. The assay of Claim 24 wherein said tissue remains in the body of said mammal, during assay, said antibody is administered to said mammal, said antibody is tagged a radioactive element, and said antigenic reaction is observed by external scanning for iocalized radioactivity. 36. A method of treating melanoma in a patient comprising administering to said patient an anti melanoma effective amount of a monoelonal antibody recognizing cell antigens of melanoma. 37. The method of Claim 36 wherein said monoclonal antibody is tagged to a potentially tissue destructive agent. 38. The use of cultured melanocytes to produce monoclonal antibodies recognizing differentiation antigens on cells of neuroectodermal origin. 39. The use of claim 38 wherein said cells are melanocytes, melanoma, or pigmcnt cells. 40. The anti serum to differentiation antigens of melanoma cells. 41. The anti serum to differentiation antigens of melanocytes. 42. A method of treating disorders of pigment cells in an individual comprising aministering to said individual monoclonal antibodies recognizing cell antigens of melanocytes. 43. The method of Claim 41 wherein said disorder is nevi.

## Description
DESCRIPTION This invention concerns monoclonal antibodies against melanocytes and melanomas. The monoclonal antibodies recognize antigenic markers on and in melanocytes and melanomas and are useful in classifying melanoma cells according to stage of differentiation. Immunoassays for melanocytes and melanoma cells based on these markers are presented. Introduction The introduction by Röhler and Millstein in 1975 of a revolutionary new procedure for the routine production of monoclonal antibodies using hybridomas allows the production of almost unlimited quantities of antibodies of precise and reproducible specificity. While conventional antisera produced by immunizing animals with tumor cells or other antigens contain a myriad of different antibodies differing in their specificity and properties, hybridomas produce a single antibody with uniform characteristics. TheKohler Millstein procedure entails the fusion of spleen cells from an immunized animal with an immortal myeloma cell line. From the fused cells hybridomas , clones are selected that produce antibody of the desired specificity.As hybridoma cells can be cultured indefinitely or stored frozen in liquid nitrogen , a constant supply of antibody is assured. Antibodies are proteins that have the ability to combine with and recognize other molecules, known as antigens. Monoclonal antibodies are no different from other antibodies except that they are very uniform in their properties and recognize only one antigen or a portion of an antigen known as a determinant. In the case of cells, the determinant recognized is an antigen on or in the cell which reacts with the antibody.It is through these cell antigens that a particular antibody recognizes, i.e. reacts with, a particular kind of cell.Thus the cell antigens are markers by which the cell is identified. These antigenic markers may be used to observe the normal process of cell differentiation and to locate abnormalities within a given cell system. The process of differentiation is accompanied by changes in the surface antigenic phenotype, and antigens that distinguish cells belonging to distinct differentiation lineages or distinguish cells at different phases in the same differentiation lineage may be observed if the correct antibody is available. Initial recognition of differentiation antigens came about through analysis of surface antigens of T cell leukemias of the mouse and the description of the TL, Thy l, and Lyt series of antigens.The analysis of these T cell differentiation antigens was greatly simplified by the availability of normal T cells andB cells of mouse and man and is relatively advanced, but little is known about differentiation antigens displayed on normal and neoplastic cells belonging to other lineages. This is due to the difficulty of obtaining a ready source of the appropriate normal cell type. Progress in defining surface antigens on melanocytes was made possible by the recently discovered technique of culturing melanocytes from normal skin ref. Eisinger publication . This method provides a renewable source of proliferating cells for the analysis of melanocyte differentiation antigens. Likewise, a large number of cell lines derived from melanomas have now been established and these have facilitated the analysis of melanoma surface antigens.The advent of MAB has greatly accelerated knowledge about the surface antigens of malignant melanoma 1 4 . By means of the monoclonal antibodies of the present invention, cell markers on both melanomas and melanocytes have been identified. A panel of typing monoclonal antibodies has been selected which recognizes differentiation antigen characteristics at each stage of development in both melanocytes and melanomas. These differentiation antigens may be used to classify melanocytes and melanomas and to group them into characteristic sub sets. Immunoassay of melanocytes and melanoma cells within sub sets is thus made possible. Summary of the Invention The monoclonal antibodies of the present invention were prepared by the Kohler Millstein procedure wherein spleen cells from a mouse immunized with a cultured melanocyte glioma, renal cancer or melanoma cell were fused with a myloma cell to form hybridomas. Antibodies from these hybridomas were discovered which recognize differentiation antigens on melanocytes and melanoma cells at various stages of maturity. A system of classification of melanocytes and melanomas based on these differentiation antigens is proposed and serological assays for melanocytes and melanomas at various stages of differentiation using monoclonal antibodies to these markers have been developed.These assays are of special use in the early diagnosis of melanoma. The assay of the present invention comprises contacting a tissue containing melanoma cells with the antibody recognizing melanoma cell antigens, preferably monoclonal antibodies to one or more cell antigens of the antigenic system 1 through M34 and observing the antigenic reaction between said monoclonal antibody and said antigen.In a preferred embodiment of the invention the tissue contacted is a blood sample and the antigenic reaction is observed by radioimmunoassay or enzyme linked immunoassay.In another embodiment of the present invention the tissue to be assayed is first excised and is then either freshly or after being frozen or embedded in paraffin by methods well known in the art contacted with said monoclonal antibodies. In this embodiment said antibodies may be tagged with colored groups or color forming substances such as enzymes, preferably peroxidase and its substrates, with flourescent substances or with radioactive elements by which the location of the antibodies may be traced. Serological assay of excised tissue is also an embodiment of the present invention. Thus passive hemmaglutination, antibody inhibition assay, or glycolipid mediated immune adherence assay may be used. Likewise anti mouse immunoglobulin assay and Protein A assays may be employed. In another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the tissue to be assayed comprises the intact body of an individual or a whole portion thereof, the antibody is administered to the individual, the antibody having been tagged with a radioactive or other energy producing element, and the whole body or part thereof is scanned externally for localization of radioactivity at the site of melanoma cells. The method of the present invention also comprises treatment of melanomas in a patient wherein the monoclonal antibody recognizing the cell antigen of melanoma cells, preferably the cell differentiation antigen, is administered to the patient in an amount effective to inhibit the growth or proliferation oi melanoma cells. In a preferred embodiment of this method the antibody is tagged with a potentially tissue destructive agent which causes destructive agents . prise chemotoxic agents, chemotherapeutic agents, radionucleides, toxins, complement activators and clotting activators. The method of the present invention also comprises a method of treating disorders of the pigment cells in an individual comprising administering to said individual monoclonal antibodies recognizing cell antigens of melanocytes. Nevi, for example, is one such pigment disorder which may be so treated. Detailed Description of the Invention Description of antibodies in typing panel and antigens recognized. The following description is intended to illustrate this invention without limiting same in any manner especially with respect to substantially functional equivalents of hybridomas, monoclonal antibodies and cell lines described and claimed herein. The monoclonal antibodies selected for use in the present invention were derived from spleen cells of mice immunized with melanoma, glioma, renal cancer or melanocyte cell cultures by fusion methods well known in the art ref.Kohler . A group of Monoclonal antibodies hereinafter termed panel was selected which were found to recognize specific cell surface antigens on melanocytes. This panel and the antigenic systems recognized are given in Table 1. Monoclonal antibodies designated R24, I12, L101 R5, 124 andR8 were reported by Dippold et al. Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci.U.S.A., 77, 6114 1980 Co pending U.S. Patent ApplicationNo. 307,060 , monoclonal antibodies designated V2 and S6 were reported by Ueda et al., Prod. Nat l. Acad. Sci.U.S.A. 78, 5122 1981 . Co pending U.S. PatentApplication No. 413,861 and antibody Mel l was reported byHoughton et al., Prod. Nat l. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 77, 4260 1980 . TABLE I PANEL OF MOUSE MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES DETECTING T.T. SURFACE ANTIGENS OF AND MELANOCYTES Deposit Number Cell Surface of Monoclonal ImmunizingAntigen System Antibody Cell Type and Number Reference L1 27 Melanoma SK MEL 33 M 2 A010 Gliana AO 10 M 3 A092 Glioma AO 10 M 4 M111 Cutaneous melanocytes M 5 M231 Cutaneous melanocytes M 6 AJ8 Glioma AJ 10 M 7 AJ117 Glioma AJ 10 M 8 D14 Melanoma DX 2 M 9 Me1 1 12 M 10 M144 Cutaneous melanocytes M 11 A1 27 Melanoma SK MEL 19 M 12 L166 Melanoma SK MEL 33 M 13 E20 Melanoma SK MEL 93 M 14 AJ225 Glioma AJ 10 M 15 AJ9 Glioma AJ 10 M 16 K1114 Melanoma SK MEL 31 M 17 AJ60 Glioma AJ 10 M 18 R24 Melanoma SK MEL 28 3 M 19 L12,L10,K5,L235 Melanoma SK MEL 28,33 3 M 20 L101,Q24,Q14,829, Melanoma SK MEL 28,33,93 846 M 21 I24 Melanoma SK MEL 28 3 M 22 R8 Melanoma SK MEL 28 3 M 23 L2 30,L254 Melanoma SK MEL 33 M 24 M138 Cutaneous melanocytes M 25 M3 68 Cutaneous melanocytes M 26 A123 Melanoma SK MEL 19 M 27 A124 Melanoma SK MEL 19 M 28 B5 Melanoma SK MEL 93 M 29 AJ2 Glioma AJ 10 M 30 AJ10 Glioma AJ 10 M 31 A050 Glioma AO 10 M 32 A0122 Glioma AO 10 M 33 V V2 Renal cancer SK RC 6 9 M 34 S Renal cancer SK RC 7 9 6 Defined by naturally occuring antibody in human serum that defines the Mel rrlanocyte differentiation antigen. The antibodies, hybridomas and cell lincs identified in Table 1 bear the designated deposit number and are deposited with Sloan Kettering Institute, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, and at American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland. Melanocyte Differentiation Antigens Melanocyte antigens markers detected by this panel of typing antibodies can be grouped into four categories 1 not detected on newborn or adult melanocytes but expressed by subsets of melanoma HLA DR, M 1, and M 3 2 detected on newborn melanocytes but not adult melanocytes M 4 to tA 8 3 detected on adult melanocytes and only weakly, or not at all, on most. newborn melanocytes M 9 and M 10 and 4 detected equally on both newborn and adult melanocytes M ll to M 34.As Table 1 shows, monoclonal antibodies known to identify the same epitope or different epitopes on the same molecule were grouped under the same antigenic system M 19 antigen is a 95 kd glycoprotein detected by four mouse monoclonal antibodies, M 20 represents a 130 kd glycoprotein detected by five different mouse monoclonal antibodies, andM 23 is a glycoprotein dimer of 145 kd and 100 dk detected by two antibodies. Figure 1 illustrates. the serological typing of newborn and adult melanocytes for cell surface antigens. Serological typing was by anti mouse immunoglobulin anti Ig assay and Protein A AP assays by methods known in the art as, for example, those described by Dippold Dippold, W.G. et al., supra 1980 and Pfreundschuh, M. et al., Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci., U.S.A., 75, 5122 1980 . In preferred procedures, indicator cells are prepared by conjugating purified antimouse immunoglobulin or Protein A to human erythocytes using 0.01 chromium chloride. Assays were performed in Falcon 3040 Microtest II plates. Sera was incubated with target cells for 1 hour. Plates were washed and evaluated for rosetting by light microscopy. Titers corresponded to the serum dilution giving 50 positive target cells. Absorption tests were carried out by the methods of Kippold supra and Pfreundschuh supra . Sera from tumor bearing mice, nu nu mice Swiss background innoculated with cloned hybrido,mas, were used for serological analysis. These sera had maximum filters of 10 4 and usually 10 5 with melanoma or melanocyte cultures. Mouse monoclonal antibody and conventional rabbit antisera to b2 microglobulin 018b were purchased fromAccurate Chemical and Scientific Corp., Hicksville, N.Y. Twenty four other monoclonal antibodies detecting a series of differentiation. antigens on renal cancer, lung cancer, and ovarian cancer and ABH blood group antigens were included in these selection tests. No reactions with newborn or adult melanocytes were observed with these MAb so they were excluded from the panel.Subsets of Melanoma Cell Lines Defined by Melanocyte Differentiation Antigen The panel of typing antibodies given in Table 1 was used to identify melanoma surface antigens. Table 2 shows the reactivity and titer of each member of the panel with cultured melanoma cell lines. TABLE 2SEROLOGICAL TYPING OF MELANOMA CELL LINES BY MOUSE MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES Melanoma Cell Lines Cell Surface Reactive TestedAntigen System Titer Range HLA A,B,C, 9 11 10 5 10 6 B2 microgloubulin 37 38 HLA DR 13 21 10 3 10 5 M 1 5 32 10 4 10 5 M 2 6 28 10 3 10 5 M 3 17 31 10 3 10 4 M 4 16 33 10 4 10 7 M 5 10 23 10 3 10 5 M 6 12 31 10 4 10 5 M 7 10 10 10 4 10 5 M 8 17 18 10 4 10 5 M 9 22 43 10 2 10 5 M 10 5 33 10 3 10 4 M 11 19 33 10 4 10 6 M 12 16 19 10 4 10 6 M 13 15 15 10 5 10 6 M 14 3 13 10 3 10 5 M 15 10 10 10 10 5 M 16 10 34 10 3 10 5 M 17 16 16 10 10 5 M 18 16 16 10 3 10 5 M 19 20 29 10 4 10 6 M 20 24 27 10 5 10 6 M 21 16 16 10 3 10 5 T A B L E 2 Cont d Melanoma Cell Lines Cell Surface Reactive TestedAntigen System Titer Range M 22 9 16 10 4 10 6 M 23 19 19 10 5 10 7 M 24 22 26 10 5 10 7 M 25 t 23 26 10 5 10 6 M 26 17 19 10 4 10 7 M 27 14 33 10 3 10 6 M 28 9 10 10 4 10 5 M 29 10 10 10 5 10 6 M 30 9 10 10 10 6 M 31 .8 10 10 4 10 6 M 32 8 10 10 4 10 6 M 33 6 6 10 5 10 6 M 34 2 30 10 3 10 4 Determined by absorption tests rabbit antihumanB2 microgloubulin diluted according to endpoint was absorbed with individual melanoma cell lines and residual antibody activity tested against a standard melanoma target cell line SK MEL 28 . It was found that the typing antibodies listed inTable 1 generally react with only a proportion of the melanoma cell lines, and therefore divide melanomas into distinguishable subsets on the basis of antigenic phenotypes. Antigens such as M 25 are expressed by most melanoma lines 23 26 lines , antigens M 4 and M 6 are detected on approximately one half of the cell lines, andM 10 antigen is found on only 5 of 33 melanoma lines. With regard to MHC products, HLA DR expression was found on 13 of 21 cell lines. Antibodies to HLA A,B,C and b2 microglobulin were highly reactive with nearly all melanoma cell lines two lines, SK MEL 19 andSK MEL 33, showed no reaction. By absorption tests, these antigens were detectable onSK MEL 19 but not on SK MEL 33. The markers thus identified provide new ways to analyze and classify melanomas. For instance, melanomd cell lines fall into one of three general classes on the basis of expression of early, intermediate or late melanocyte differentiation antigens. There is an evident correlation between the surface antigenic phenotype of the cultured melanoma line and other differentiation characteristics, such as morphology, pigmentation and tyrosinase activity.Melanomas expressing early markers but lacking intermediate or late markers have an epitheliai morphology, lack pigmentation, and have low levels of tyrosinase. In cont ra st, melanomas expressing late markers, such as M 9 andM 10, have a spindle shaped or polydenritic morphology, are pigmented, and have high levels of tyrosinase. Intermediate classes of melanoma can be distinguished that express intermediate melanocyte markers, and these generally have a spindle morphology, little pigmentation and low levels of tyrosinase. Tyrosinase activity was measured using a modification of the assay described by Pomerantz Pomerantz, S.H., J.Biol. Chem. 241, 161 1966 . 3Hityrosine specific activity 53.1 Ci mMol was purchased from New EnglandNuclear. Cell lines to be tested were seeded at a density of 1x106 cells per flask in 25 cm2 Falcon flasksAfter 12 hours, medium was removed and replaced with 4 ml.fresh medium containing 5 uCi 3Hjtyrosine in the medium was removed by adsorption to activated charcoal and passage over a Dowex 50w column. Tritiated H2O generated by tyrosinase activity in the eluent was counted in triplicate in LS 9000 Beckman Scintillation Counter. Tyrosinase activity was expressed as the ratio of tritiated H20 generated by melanoma cell lines tritiated H20 generated by control nonpigmented renal cancer cell line SK RC 7 . Twenty five melanoma cell lines were typed for the expression of M 2, M 3, HLA DR, M 4, M 6, M 9 and M 10 antigens. These seven antigens were selected because they defined subsets of melanomas, being present on some melanomas but not others, and had distinct patterns of expression of fetal newborn and adult melanocytes. Thrce antigens, HLA DR, M 2, and M 3, can be assumed to be early markers of melanocytes. Antigens M 4 and M 6 appear on fetal and newborn melanocytes, but not adult melanocytesr and therefore signal an intermediate phase in melanocyte differentiation. M 9 and M 10 appear to be late markers in the melanocyte lineage, because they are strongly expressed on adult melanocytes as compared to fetal and newborn melanocytes.Figure 2 illustrates serological typing of melancytes and melanoma cells for these HLA DR, M 4 and M 10 cell surface antigens by anti Ig assay. In summary, the surface phenotypes of the twenty five melanoma lines appear to cprrespond to early, intermediate, or late phases of melanocyte differentiations. Five melanomas expressed only early markers, ten intermediate markers and ten late melanocyte markers Fig. 2 . Evidence for the significance of these differences comes from a comparison of the pattern of surface antigens with other differentiation characteristics, such as pigmentation, morphology, and tyrosinase. The majority of melanomas expressing early antigenic markers are epithelioid and these melanoma lines lack pigmentation and tyrosinase activity. elanomas expressing late melanocyte markers frequently have a polydendritic morphology, similar to adult melanocytes, with heavy pigmentation and high levels of tyrosinase activity. TABLE 3EMI17.1 tb SEP SEP TWaiTc3 SEP c SEP LT tb SEP CrLL tb SEP A SEP GB SEP çm5 SEP zz SEP LAWOCY5 tb SEP Ph71CEPi tb SEP HLn W SEP 0000000000 SEP 0 SEP 00 SEP 0 SEP qO SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb SEP M l SEP 0000000000 SEP 000000000 tb SEP M 2 SEP 000000 SEP 00000 tb SEP ......oOO SEP 000000 tb SEP M 5 SEP 000.000 SEP 00000 tb SEP M 6 SEP eooO tb SEP 7 SEP v SEP Qo SEP taoO tb SEP M 5 SEP .e000 SEP 00000 tb SEP M 9 SEP 0 SEP O SEP 0000000 0. tb SEP 14 10 SEP QOOQ00 tb SEP M ll SEP .o000 SEP SEP .0000 tb SEP M 12 SEP 44000 SEP .oeo tb SEP M 13 SEP SEP 0 SEP v00 tb SEP M 14 SEP O SEP O SEP 00 tb SEP M 15 SEP SEP D SEP 00 tb SEP M 06 SEP QQQ OP SEP SEP 000000 tb SEP M 17 SEP 000 SEP 000 tb SEP M 19 SEP .. SEP ..e SEP e SEP v0 tb SEP M 19 SEP eeeeee0 SEP e. SEP 0 tb SEP M 20 SEP ..0.0 SEP .0000 tb SEP M 21 SEP tb SEP 0. SEP 0. tb SEP ns 23 SEP SEP tb SEP 24 SEP SEP o0 SEP . SEP ObOC tb SEP M 25 SEP .0b00 SEP . SEP OOb tb SEP M 26 SEP SEP b0000 SEP SEP tb SEP M27 SEP 0000 tb SEP M SEP o00 SEP 000 tb SEP U Z9 SEP SEP 00 tb SEP 30 SEP be. SEP Ob tb SEP M 31 SEP SEP .0 tb SEP M 32 SEP 0 SEP be tb SEP st 33 SEP , SEP tb SEP ht 34 SEP 0b SEP 0. tb SEP .000 SEP 0 SEP 0.0 tb SEP B2m SEP ObO SEP 0 tb Serological typing of newborn and adult melanocytes for melanoma cell surface antigens. Each circle represents an individual test, and each test for a particular antigen was performed with melanocytes from a different individual. In the case of tests with mouse monoclonal antibodies, black circles represent antibody titers 1 104 to 1 107, stippled circles 1 500 to 1 5000, and open circles 1 250.In tests with human typing serum detecting M 14 antigen, black circles represent titers 1 500 to 1 104, stippled circles are 1 10 to 1 250, and open circles are unreactive r 1 101 TABLE 4EMI18.1 tb Melonoma SEP Melonomo SEP Cell SEP Surface SEP Antigen SEP BR tb CeR SEP Lne SEP M Z SEP M 3 SEP TtA OR SEP M 4 SEP M SEP M 9 SEP M 9 tb SK ME SEP 31 SEP SEP G9l SEP E SEP E SEP W tb sK L SEP 37 SEP E SEP E SEP SEP 1.1 tb sK MEL 172 SEP 7Z SEP X SEP SEP 1.0 tb sK MEt SEP 3 SEP a SEP Bra tb 5K MEL SEP 65 SEP SEP U . SEP SEP I.O SEP . tb .MMk.17G SEP . SEP . SEP SEP 65 SEP . SEP 1 2 SEP U0, . tb SKEL 173 SEP . SEP X SEP S SEP SEP 13 SEP . tb sK44EL 066 SEP 166 SEP . SEP SEP . SEP E S SEP SEP 1.2 tb 5K MEL 131 SEP . SEP , SEP . SEP . SEP SEP 1.2 tb SK MEL 110 SEP ES SEP s SEP t SEP cows SEP E S SEP SEP 1.0 tb SK blEL SEP 13 SEP SEP t SEP SEP SEP S SEP for SEP 1.9 tb SK ME1 163 SEP l SEP SEP SEP S SEP SEP 1.0 tb SKM L SEP 96 SEP ea SEP 1 SEP commat SEP S SEP or SEP 1.1 tb SK ML SEP 30 SEP SEP S SEP SEP 5. 5 tb S7 MEL SEP 93 SEP W SEP W SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP S SEP tor SEP 1.3 tb SI MEL 065 SEP w SEP lZE SEP S SEP tor SEP 1.3 tb SI MEL SEP 28 SEP razz SEP EQICI SEP e SEP 151 SEP SZU SEP SEP S SEP cr SEP 14 tb SK MEL SEP 75 SEP . SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP rsaaa SEP E SEP S SEP or SEP 1.4 tb McWo SEP U SEP Bo E SEP Bsss SEP S SEP or SEP 1.5 tb 9 MEL SEP 127 SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 S SEP S.D SEP t SEP 4.14.1 tb 5l MEL SEP 29 SEP BssS SEP . SEP 2X SEP S SEP or SEP ì6 tb SK MEL SEP 64 SEP rsx SEP wc E SEP r SEP z2 SEP S SEP t SEP 50 tb 5K MEL SEP 23 SEP been SEP SEP S SEP 4. SEP 133 tb SK M L SEP 19 SEP . SEP S SEP 5 SEP SEP 7.8 tb SK MEL SEP llO SEP . SEP rats SEP S SEP or SEP 1.8 tb Serological typing of 25 melanoma cell lines for melanocyte differentiation markers. Black rectangles represent antigen expression by melanoma cell lines, as determined by titers of 1 500 to 1 107 for mouse monoclonal antibodies and 1 10 to 1 105 for human serum detecting M 10 antigen. Morphology E, epithelioid, S, spindle shaped D, polydendritic. Pigmentation was estimated visually by the intensity of brown or black pigment in the cell pellet. Tyrosinase activity was expressed as a ratio of tritiated H20 produced by ttelanoma culture nonpigmented renal cancer culture standard