# Method for making semiconductor devices having a thick field dielectric and a self aligned channel stopper.

## Abstract
A method for forming semiconductor devices, for exam ple, FET devices in which the field oxide 14A, B and ion implanted channel stopper 22A, B are self aligned. The method includes the steps of forming a first photoresist 16A, B etch mask over a thick, i.e field, oxide on a wafer etching exposed oxide, forming a complementary image ion implant mask 20A over etched active device areas, and ion 24 implanting a channel stopper layer 22A, B at the interface between the field oxide and the wafer 12 surface.

## Claims
C 1. A I 1 1 S 1. A method of providing device isolation regions in a semiconductor substrate 12 comprising the steps of providing a field dielectric layer 14 on said substrate FIG. 2A , providing a patterned first masking layer 16A, B over regions of the substrate intended to be field regions FIG. 2B , etching the exposed areas of the field dielectric layer FIGS. 2C, 2CC , forming a complementary patterned second masking layer 20, 20A over etched areas FIGS. 2D, 2E, 2F , and providing channel stopper regions 22A, B under the remaining field dielectric layer using said second layer 20 as a mask. 2. The method of claim 1, whereby said substrate is silicon, in particular p type silicon. 3. The method of claim 1, whereby said dielectric layer 14 is silicon dioxide obtained by wet thermal oxidation or chemical vapor deposition. 4. he method of claim l, whereby said patterned first sin layer 16A, B is a resist material that is more sensitive to the exposure or develop ing technique than the resist material used for the compJementary second masking layer 20, 20A . 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the channel stopper regions 22A, B are forred by exposing the struct ure to ion 24 implantation. 6. A method of providing device isolation regions in a semiconductor substrate 12 comprising the steps of growing a dielectric layer 14 on said substrate, applying, exposing and developing a photoresist pattern 16A, B to expose areas on said dielectric layer, baking said photoresist pattern, etching said exposed dielectric areas, applying a layer of self leveling photoresist 20 over said exposed dielectric areas and said baked photoresist pattern, removing the self leveling photoresist material that is on top of said baked photoresist pattern, dissolving said baked photoresist pattern to leave a plug 20A of said self leveling photoresist ex tending above the surface of said dielectric layer, ion implanting channel stopper ions 24 through said dielectric layer into said substrate, and removing said plug Cf self leveling photoresist

## Description
ii,nTIIOD FOR LEAKING L 1lCONDUC OR DEVICES HAVING A TIIICKFIELD DIELECTRIC AND A SELF ALIGNED CISANNEL STOPPEIt This invention relates to a method of forming high density semiconductor devices and more particularly to a method of forming a semiconductor device in which device isolation is provided by a thick field dielectric having a selfaligned channel stopper.An important aspect of semiconductor devices is the means provided for electrically isolating adjacent devices on the same substrate. The fabrication step or steps that produce the isolation affects the spacing between devices i.e., the device packing density as well as the electrical characteristics of the device. The presence of doped areas beneath the isolation regions is often re erred to as a parasitic channel stopper doping and is important for eliminating unwanted conduction due to inversion under the field isolation when lightly doped substrates are employed. The use of lightly doped substrates has been practiced in order to reduce diffused line capacitance which degrades performance as well as reducing hot electron effects which degrade reliability.Along with the channel stopper doping under the field isolation, there is also normally present channel doping in the device areas in order to adjust the gate threshold voltage to an acceptable operating level.One technique employed to provide the channel stopper or field doping is to use an extra masking step. This approach has been described by R. J. hahittier, Semicon doctor Memu r. es The Impact and Momentum of Current Technology , IEEE Electro 76 tsseeting Tech. Digest. Session 33, p. 2, Boston, May 11, 1976. The resultant isolation structure provides a doping region which is not self aligned to the isolation material i.e., silicon dioxide .Consequently this technique suffers from the disadvantage of requiring additional area, thus reducing the device packing density, as well as the additional masking operation. The resist regions used to define the isolation regions are located regions used to define the isolation regions rather than over the device areas. This technique is sometimes referred to as non recessed or planar isolation.Another isolation technique is described in the aforementioned article by Whittfer which provides self alignment of the field doping to the field isolation. Thistechnique is sometimes referred to as selective or local or semi recessed oxidation and is described by P. Richman,U.S. Pat. 3 751 722, 7 Aug. 1973, and by E. Kooi, U.S. Pat. 3 752 711, 14 Aug. 1973. The semi recessed oxide isolation structure has a number of attractive features including self alignment of the field doping and field isolation, the use of only one masking step, and improved planarit. However, this procedure still presents a number of disadvantages. For instance, the presence of the oxidation barrier layer such as the nitride over the device regions may cause strain and thus permanently damage the device regions during the thermal oxidation required to form the field isolation. In addition, the device area is undesirably reduced and the field isolation is undesirably increased by lateral oxidation or what is commonly termed in the art as the Bird sBeak Effect and described by E. Basscous, H.N. Yu, and V.Maniscalco, The Formation of Bird s Beak inSi Structure with Recessed Ski03, Extended Abstracts, pp. 457 458. ECS Fall Meeting, Dallas, Oct. 5 10, 1975. orcocr, the procedure requires additional layers of silicon dioxide substrate protection , silicon nitride oxidation barrier layer , and silicon dioxide defining oxide layer in order to protect and define the device regions. Furthermore, the removal of the defining oxide layer affects the thickness of the recessed oxide or its lateral extent, particularly when a relatively thick oxide layer is required as in a fullyrecessed oxide isolation region formed as described, for example, by R.H. Dennard, V.L. Rideout, and E.J.Walker in U.S. Pat. 3 899 363, 12 Aug. 1975.A process for providing self aligned doping regions by ion implantation and lift off is described in U.S. Patent 4 144 101. The structure utilized in this process is shown in figure 1. The patent teaches a process using complementary masks including a resist mask 4 to define the implanted channel stopper formed by ion implantation 5. In this process, the resist mask 4 is positioned on top of a silicon dioxide layer 3. While this process is effective in providing self aligned doping regions by ion implantation, it is not suitable for devices that recuire both thick field isolation and thin device dielectric Si02 regions because of required device isolation.The IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, October 1979,Vol. 22, No. 5, page 2133, teaches a two resist imagereversal technique in which a first resist image pattern is derined and a second photoresist is applied filling the originally developed areas. The second resist is reroved until the original resist is exposed. The first resist is then removed to leave a portion of the second resist corresponding to a negative image of the first pattern. No conventional semiconductor processing is taucht to take place between the resist processing steps clever, the above described methods and structures still do not satisfy all needs and leave room for im trovement. This invention intends to provide such an inprovement. nsasically, a method for forming semiconductor devices, for example FET devices, in which the field oxide and icn implanted channel stopper are self aligned is disclosed. The method includes the steps of growing or depositing a thick field oxide on a semiconductor wafer applying exposing, and developing a photoresist pattern to expose active device areas etching the field oxide through the openings in the photoresist pattern applying a self leveling masking material such as a polymer or photoresist over the etched photoresist covered field oxide removing the self leveling masking material that is on top of the photoresist pattern removing all of the photoresist pattern to leave a plug of masking material extending above the surface of the field oxide only in the area of the field oxide previously etched ion implantIng channel stcpper ions into and through the field oxide and removing the masking material. This process provides a structure with the advantage of improved circuit density due to reduced process biases and less lateral diffusion. The method itself has fewer steps than the prior art self aligned processes.For further understanding of the invention and of the objects and advantages thereof, reference is made to the following dt 1 ed description and to the accompany In drawings in which FIG. 1 illustrates a planar isolation with a self aligned field doping prepared by a prior art procedure andFIGS. 2A 2H are cross sectional views illustrating various stages of fabrication according to the present invention.For convenience, the discussion of the unique fabricating steps of the present invention is directed to providing field doping in a planar silicon dioxide isolation process. It is understood, of course, that the steps are applicable for providing ion implanted regions beneath preselected regions of an existing layer on a substrate when the aspects of self alignment along with minimal masking steps are desired. In addition, the discussion of the fabrication steps is directed to the preferred aspect of employing a p type silicon substrate as the semiconductive substrate and a p type impurity as the implanted dopant species. This lead to the nchannel FET technology. Accordingly, it is understood that an n type substrate an n type implanted dopant impurities can be employed according to the present invention in the p channel FET technology.Referring to FIG. 2A, there is shown a fragment of initial structure generally shown as 10. A p type silicon substrate 12 such as one having about 10 15 ohmcm resistivity and having any desired crystal orientation e.g., 100 . The substrate can be prepared by slicing and polishing a p type silicon boule grown in the presence of t p t p dopant such as boron follow ing conventional crystal growth techniques. Ot L ptype dopants for silicon include aluminium, gallium, nc indium. Next a relatively thin silicon dioxide layer 14 of about 0,15 to about 1 m about 1500 to about 10 000 A and preferably about 0,5 to about 0,54 tim about 5000 to about 5400 is grown by wet thermal oxidation such as oxidation at about 900C to 10000C in the presence of steam. This is referred to as the initial field oxide thickness as it is not the final field oxide thickness.This oxide might also be a chemical vapor deposited film of SiO2. Next, as shown in Fig. 2B, resist is applied and exposed to radiation incident through a masking pattern to provide the pre selected pattern 16A and 16B in the resist layer. The resist layer is generally about 1,0 to about 2,4 tim about 10 000 to about 24 000 A thick, preferably about 1,8 tim 18 000 thick. A typical resist material is a diazo type positive photoresist such asAZ 135C which is spun onto the substrate and baked at about 80 to 950C for 5 for 15 minutes. The sample is es pod to radiation directly via electron beam or photon exposure using a photo mask to provide the desired pattern of resist.The resist pattern is developed by soaking in a solution of aqueous base such as 0.1 to 0.3M KOH for several minutes.As shcs n in Fig. 2C, the field oxide layer 14 that is exposed by the pattern 16A and l6B in the resist layer is etched cay with plasma or by reactive ion etching means to forv field oxide regions i4A and 14B. The area of silicon layer 12 exposed by the etching of the field oxide layer 14 provides a future gate or diffusion area 18. As will be indicated later, the field stopper ion implant profile at the edges of the field oxide nay be controlled by altering the slope and undercut of films 14H l6 and 14A, l4B of Flcuie 2C.These shapes may be altered by baking to soten 6A, 16B above its gl s, transition temperature of about 105 to 1200C and ary ing the etch process selectivities to films 16A, 16B and 14R, 34B. A shape with no undercut is shown inFig. 2CC.As shown in Fig. 2D, a layer 20 of a self leveling masking material such as a polymer or photoresist is applied over the photoresist pattern 16A and 16B and etched field oxide 14. An example of a suitable polymer is polymethyl methacrylate dissolved in chlorobenzene. The thickness of this photoresist layer is not critical and is of the order of 0,25 to 1,0 tim 2500 to 10 000 above the top surface of the first resist pattern 16A, 163. The photoresist material for layer 20 must be one that does not intermix or dissolve the resist pattern 16A and 16B. The resist layer 20 fills the opening between resist 16A, the holes that have been etched in the oxide layer 14. A polymethyl methacrylate dissolved in chlorobenzene is such a photoresist or polymer.As shown in Fig. 2E, the second resist layer 20 has been etched back either by reactive ion or plasma etching to expose the first resist pattern 16A and 16B.This etching step leaves a plug 20A between resist pattern 16 A and 16B and field oxide 14 that had been etched away. The next step as shorn in Fig. 2F is to dissolv or develop a ay the first resist pattern 16A and 16B leaving the field oxide etched regions 14A and 14B. This leaves a plug 20A having a thickness substantially thicker than the ield oxide regions 14A and 14B. Next, as shown in Fig. 2G, a p type dopant such as boron ions 24 is ion implanted. Boron ions can be implanted, for instance at about 150 KeV energy at a dosage of about 5 1012 atoms per cm2 providing a field surface doping of about 2 ohm cm. Boron ions at 150 He energy have a range of about 0,4 tim 4000 A and a standard deviation of about 0,07 tim 700 . In this step, the resist plug 20A acts as an implantation mask in that the ions will not pass through the resist plug 20A, but will pass through field oxide regions 14A and 1413. Boron ions 24 provide parasitic channel stopper regions 22A and 22B. As shown in Fig. 2H, the resist plug 20A is removed by conventional means such as by dissolving in an etchant such as a hot solution of concentrated sulfuric and nitric acids or plasma ashing with O2 gas mixtures.This leaves area 26 that is used for future gate or diffusion areas.The advantages of this process include improved circuit density due to less lateral diffusion than the current semi RC or non self alignir.ent process as well as the elimination of the problems inherently associated with recessed oxide type isolation processes. In addition, this process is a much simpler process that lends itself to being used in a manufacturing mode. Appropriate automated coating and etching apparata for said process are available and in use.