# Medical temperature indicator.

## Abstract
A medical temperature indicator comprising a temperature sensitive sensor 2 whose electrical characteristics, e.g. the resistance, vary with the temperature, e.g. a thermistor, and a display 4A, 4B . The indicator is constituted of a unit designed in one piece consisting of an insertable part 1 comprising the sensor 2 and a converter part 3 which in itself contains all the electrical components which are required for a conversion of the change of the said characteristic to a signal which can be read off a display outside the converter part. The said display 4A, 4B appropriately is of a type comprising a liquid crystal which is adapted to be energized as a function of the temperature picked up by the sensor 2 and to show one or more colour signals.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A medical temperature indicator comprising a temperaturesensitive sensor 2 whose electrical characteristics, e.g. the resistance, vary with the temperature, e.g. a thermistor, and a display 4A,4B , c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a unit designed in one piece consisting of an insertable part 1 containing the sensor 2 and a converter part 3 , which in itself contains all the electrical components required for a conversion of the change of the said characteristic to a signal which can be read off a display outside the converter part. 2. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 1, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said display 4A,4B is adapted to transmit a colour signal. 3. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said display 4A,4B is adapted to indicate different signals when a certain temperature limit is not reached and when the same or another temperature limit is exceeded respectively. 4. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 3, char act e r i z e d in that the said display 4A,4B is adapted to show a colour, e.g. red, when a certain temperature limit is exceeded, another colour e.g. blue, when a lower temperature limit is not reached, and both the said colours within the region between the said temperatures. 5. A temperature indicator in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said sensor 2 is connected between a battery pole Vg and earth and is adapted to be compared with one or more known and or adjustable resistors R2 R5 connected between the same battery pole VN and earth. 6. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the sensor 2 is connected in series with a known or adjustable resistor R1 parallel with two other known and or adjustable resistors R2,R3 connected in series, means A being provided for comparing the voltages VT and V, at the points between the sensor 2 and the firstnamed resistor R1 and between the two lastnamed resistors R2,R3 connected in series respectively. 7. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the sensor 2 and the resistor R1 connected in series therewith are also connected in parallel with two further known and or adjustable resistors R4,R5 connected in series, means B being provided for comparing the voltages VT and VH at the points between the sensor 2 and the firstnamed resistor R1 and between the two lastnamed resistors R4,R5 connected in series respectively. 8. A temperature indicator in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said display 4A,4B is of a type comprising a liquid crystal which is adapted to be energized as a function of the temperature picked up by the sensor 2 . 9. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 8, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said display comprises at least two different panels 4A,4B covered by different liquid crystals. 10. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by an oscillating circuit C,C ,R6 R8 connected between the same battery pole VB and earth which is adapted so as to transmit a signal to the said display 4A,4B as a function of the temperature picked up by the sensor 2 . 11. A temperature indicator in accordance with anyone of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i z e d by a contact circuit 6 connected between the said sensor 2 and its energy source, e.g. a battery 5 . 12. A temperature indicator in accordance with claim 11, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the said contact circuit 6 is adapted to be controlled by a touch control circuit 7 which in turn is adapted to be controlled by the said display 4A and or 4B .

## Description
TITLE MEDICAL TEMPERATURE INDICATORTECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to a medical temperature indicator, comprising a temperature sensitive sensor whose electrical characteristics, e.g. the resistance, vary with the temperature, e.g. a thermistor, and a display. The indicator in accordance with the invention is intended first and foremost to be used in heart operations and on similar occasions, where the available space is limited, but where.nevertheless an easily observable temperature indication is desirable and this without interference by bulky arrangements or any disturbing leads. To those versed in the art it will be clear, however, that the subject of the invention can also be used advantageously in other cases where a clear and rapid temperature indication is desired. Thus the indicator in accordance with the invention can be inserted advantageously into a blood vessel belonging to an extracorporeal circulation to indicate the temperature in the same.BACKGROUND ART To a certain extent the subject of the invention can be compared to an ordinary meat thermometer intended for the preparation of food. As far as we are aware, however, no such device has been adapted to medical temperature measurement. For such medical temperature measurements very special requirements are made. Thus it is required, for example, of an indicator intended for measuring the temperature in the heart during a heart operation that it should take up as little space as possible, at the same time as the indication should still be clear even in the very bright operating light. Furthermore no flexes or wires must lead up to the operating place. If possible, moreover, the indicator should show a lower temperature limit as well as an upper temperature limit. Furthermore, very high demands are made from a point of view of hygiene. Finally, it must not be possible to misinterpret the signal given.DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION The abovementioned problem is solved in accordance with the invention in that a temperature indicator of the aforementioned type is designed in one piece as a unit consisting of an insertable part comprising the sensor and a converter part which contains in itself all the electrical components required for the conversion of the change in the said characteristic to a signal which can be read off a display outside the converter part.Also included in this definition is the energy source, e.g. a battery, which is required for the activation of the other electrical components. The display is preferably adapted so that it transmits a colour signal. This can be realized for example in that the said display is of a type comprising a liquid crystal which is adapted so as to be energized as a function of the temperature picked up by the sensor. Such a liquid crystal may have the characteristic that it can be clearly read in strong as well as in weak light. The said display is suitably adapted so that it transmits different colour signals when a certain temperature limit is not reached and when the same or some other temperature limit is exceeded respectively. This may be realized for example in that the said display comprises at least two different panels covered by different liquid crystals. It has been found appropriate for the device to show one colour, e.g. red, when a certain temperature is exceeded, another colour, e.g. blue, when a lower temperature is not reached, and both the said colours in the region between the said temperatures. Preferably the said sensor is connected between a battery pole and earth and is adapted to be compared with one or more known and or adjustable resistors connected between the same battery pole and earth. It is of minor importance here whether the battery voltage gradually diminishes. The comparison is done at any rate at the same battery voltage throughout. In a practical embodiment of the subject of the invention the sensor is connected in series with a known or adjustable resistor parallel with two other known and or adjustable resistors, means being provided for comparing the voltages at the points between the sensor and the firstnamed resistor and between the two lastnamed resistors connected in series respectively.If two temperature limits are to be picked up, the sensor and the resistor coupled in series therewith are also connected in parallel with two further known and or adjustable resistors connected in series, means being provided for comparing the voltages at the points between the sensor and the firstnamed resistor and between the two lastnamed resistors connected in series respectively. The liquid crystal is activated preferably by means of an oscillating circuit which is adapted so as to transmit a signal to the said display as a function of the temperature picked up by the sensor.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS Fig.l shows a preferred embodiment of the indicator in accordance with the invention. Fig.2 shows schematically a connection diagram for the electrical components incorporated in the indicator according to fig.l Fig.3 3E finally show the voltage at different points.in the connection diagram according to fig.2 at a temperature increasing with time.BEST MODE OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The temperature indicator shown as an example in fig.l consists of an insertable part 1 which at its tip comprises a sensor 2, e.g. a thermistor. The indicator moreover comprises a converter part 3 which in itself contains all the electrical components required for the conversion of the change of the said characteristic cf the sensor 2 to a signal which can be read off a display 4A, YB outside the converter part. As is evident from the figure, this display is divided into two triangular panels which are formed appropriately by two different liquid crystals.It has been found appropriate here for the panel 4A to consist of a crystal which is of a blue colour when energized, whilst the panel 4B may consist of a crystal which is of red colour when energized. The electrical connection, which is described in more detail in the following, can be arranged so that the indicator shows a blue signal below a lower temperature limit and a red signal above a higher temperature limit and a combined red blue signal between these temperature limits. The indicator shown in fig.l thus comprises all the electrical components which are shown in fig.2.PREFERRED ELECTRICAL CONNECTION In fig.2 accordingly is shown schematically a preferred embodiment of an electrical connection diagram for the indicator shown in fig.l. The thermistor 2 serving as a sensor is arranged here between earth and the point VT and is connected in series with a known resistor R1 which in turn is connected to the battery pole VB. Parallel with the thermistor 2 and the resistor R1 a known resistor R2 is connected in series with an adjustable resistor R3. This resistor too is connected consequently between the battery pole VB and earth. In the same manner a further known resistor R4 is connected in series with an adjustable resistor R5 between the battery pole VB and earth. With the help of an operational amplifier A the voltages can be compared at the points VL and V r and with the help of an operational amplifier B the voltages can be compared between the points VH and VT. The resistance of the thermistor 2 accordingly is changed with the temperature. Thus if the temperature increases, the voltage VT drops, since the resistor R1 is not altered with temperature. HT Ohm s law gives VT VB R1 RT In the same manner the voltages V1 and VH and be calculated R3 L B R2 R3 R5 R5 VB R 5 Vg 4 Since R3 and R5 are variable resistors, VL and VH can be adjusted therefore to the desired value. The operational amplifier A compares the voltages VT and VL.When VT exceeds VL the output A14 is high. When VT is smaller than VL the output A14 is low. In the same manner the operational amplifier B compares the voltages VT and VH but here the positive and negative input are changed in relation to the operational amplifier A, so that the output B4 will be low when VT exceeds VH A third operational amplifier C is connected as an oscillator with an oscillation frequency of approx. 30 Hz. This circuit also includes the resistors R6, R7, R8 and R9 together with the capacitance C . The output C1 from the operational amplifier C is connected to the inputs D1 and E6 of two further circuitsD and E. To the other inputs D2 and E5 of these logical circuits are connected the outputs A14 and B4 respectively from the amplifiers A and B. The circuits D and E are so called exclusive OR gates, the output X of which is determined by the form X AB AB. A is here the inverse of A, and B is the inverse of B. This leads to the result that D inverts the signal from the output C1 of the amplifier C when the output A14 on the amplifier A is high. In the same manner E inverts the signal from the output C1 of the amplifier C when the output B4 on the amplifier B is high. To make possible an extended storage time, a contact circuit 6 may be arranged between the battery 5 and the outgoing battery pole VB. This contact circuit may be constituted of a simple contact which is mechanically acted upon by a relative movement, e.g. a rotation or shifting between the insertable part 1 and the converter part 3. Preferably, however, it consists instead of a so called touch control circuit 7 which in turn can be controlled by either of the two display crystals 4A and 4B.These crystals, in fact, can be so sensitive that a simple touch changes their capacitance or gives rise to other disturbances which can be picked up by the circuit 7 in order to manoeuvre the contact circuit 6. The control circuit 7 may be controlled by such small currents that it is possible more or less to disregard its energy consumption up to when the contact circuit 6 is activated. For a better understanding of the connection diagram according to fig.2, reference is made to fig.3 3E, which demonstrate what occurs as the temperature of the thermistor 2 increases.When the temperature rises, the voltage VT drops and after a time reaches the value VH. This is shown in fig.3. In fig.3A and 3B is shown how at the same time the output A14 is high and the output B4 is low. When the temperature rises further, VT diminishes gradually to the value VL, as can be seen in fig.3. When this limit has been reached the output A14 is extinguished at the same time as the output B4 remains as high as it was after the limit V H had been passed. During this time the output C1 transmits all the time the signal shown in fig.3C This signal together with the signal from the output A14 gives rise to a signal D3 in accordance with fig.3D. If fig.3C and 3D are compared it is found that the signals shown in these figures are out of phase as long as VT exceeds VI, By connecting these signals to the respective poles of the blue crystal, a blue signal can be obtained on the indicator. When VT reaches the value VL, the relationship is changed so that the signals C1 and D3 come in phase, as a result of which the blue signal is extinguished. If the signals C1 and E4 are compared instead it is found that they are in phase during the lower temperature and get out of phase when VT reaches the value VH and when consequently the red signal is lit. Naturally the invention is not limited to the connection diagram shown in fig.2 or the functional diagrams shown in fig.3 3E, but can be varied within the scope of the following claims. Those versed in the art are at liberty, for example, to choose other oscillating circuits or amplification circuits for the activation of the crystals 4A and 4B.