# Device for hydrogaseous massages.

## Abstract
A hydrotherapeutic aerator assembly for pulsating mas sage comprises a mixing nozzle 6 which produces a jet of water and air, to be manually directed at any desired part of the body. An air inlet tube 5 receives a supply from a compressor 1 , and is equipped with a pressure regulator 3 and a manometer 4 . The water supply system comprises a pump 7 , a heater 9 , a mixer 15 and a thermometer 17 . The mixer 15 combines cold water from the duct 12 and warm water from the duct 10 according to the desired outlet temperature, which can be monitored at thermometer 17 . The nozzle assembly 6 includes a swiveling jet controlling ring.

## Claims
Claims. 1 Device for hydrogaseous massages, characterized by The fact That it foresees the execution of the massage at a beating rhythm of hydrogase cus flux which turns out to be activating and stimulating the anatomic functions of the treated part both at epidermic level an in profun dity, thanks to the effect of the constant vibrating action generated without any collateral interferences. The massage can be carried out either by a physiotherapist or in an autogenous way or by an occasional operator, by using a driving device foreseen for this purpose to lead on the forced delivery ducts the ccmponents, air and water and any additives, if required, according to the contingent employ requirements, and which are mixed by means of the nozzle control. The hydroga seous jet is directed on the part to treat of the patient lying on the bed. 2 Device for hydrogaseous massages, according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact That the jet intensity in accordance with the therapeutic requirements is regulated manually on the grip nozzle by means of a rotating ring at its end. 3 Device for hydrogaseous massages, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that compressor 1 is employed in the installa tion for air intaking on line 2 to The pressure regulator 3 fitted with pressure gauge 4 which, through duct 5 leads the air nozzle 6. Throw ugh hydraulic pump 7 on line 8, water passes into heater 9 and reaches cock 11 froan. duct 10 after having been heated, whereas the not heated water on line 12 from offtake 13 arrives to codk 14 of mixir 15. From mixer 15 on duct 16, water at the correct temperature read on gauge 17, reaches nozzle 6. This is possible by means of parts 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 in plastic materials in coaxial ccwposition according the screwing devices 23, 24, 25 and 26. The duct sealing is assured by OR 27, 28, 29 and 30. From central duct 31, water passes into chamber 32 and through ducts 33 and 34 it arrives in mixing chamber 35 in which air contemporarily enters through the coaxial duct36 mounted on tailpie ce 37 fitted in part 19. The air enters through the central duct 38 into The mixing chamber. The vortex formed mixture is thrown Through axial duct 39 and enters The sprayer head 42 through ducts 40 and 41 to get out from bore 43. When tuning ring 22 clockwise, The atomization grade of the mixture is increased because the crown shaped inside 44 presses more on The small vortex channels 45 and 46. 4 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to The previous claims, characterized by the fact that the air is adjusted as well as The water tenperature and delivery by means of mixer 15 when the correct temperature has been reached, the treatment can be begun by gripping and di recting nozzle 6 on The relevant anatomic part. 5 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to The previous claims, racterized by the fact that the pulverization degree of the mixture is then regulated by means of ring 22. 6 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact That the decomposibility of bozzle 6 in many parts allows periodic cleaning operations of the inside duct sustem and, therefore, to restore the device efficiency. 7 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the employ of fixed nozzles has been foreseen to allow to operate always on the same parts. 8 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to the previous claims, characterized by The fact that an installation on tank is foreseen usinng a system of fixed nozzles so that a notifying and regenerating ac tion in general is possible. 9 Device for hydrogaseous massage, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the liquid can then be treated in diffe rent ways to change its mineral composition, e.g. on a salsoiodic, sulphydric base or others, in compliance with the contingen therapeu tic requirements, by means of additives kts or other.

## Description
Device for hydrogaseous massages.The invention refers to a new conception proceeding for carrying out massages, which substabtially foresees a jet of an air water mixture to be manually directed either in an autogenous way or by means of a physioterapist on the patient part to be treated, who is reclining in different way on a bed. The nain features of this hydro gaseous massa ge consist in determining a vibrating stimulating action on The anato mic parts even on an epidermic level and being possible while keeping dry The rinnng parts of the patient body. The invented device permits particular employ for therapeutic,aesthetic and tonifying purposes in general. At present, hyfromassages are carried out which foresee the jet orientation by the physioterapist on The anatamic part of the patient to treat who is partially immersed in the liquid contained in the tank. The proceeding employing the water beating dynamism causes al least two inconveniences it gives rise to a turbolence regimen in the immersion liquid, so that it does permit a stimdlating effect at an epidermic leveland compels The patient to be immerged.The proceeding Thus avoids both inconveniences because a hydrogaseous massage is foreseen which can be carried out on The patient recumbent on the bed this, in this way, also permits the stimulating action at epidermic level even to those who do not li ke or are prevented from being immersed into the liquid. The new proceeding foresees the execution of The massage at a heating rythm of hydrogaseous flux which turns out to be activating and stimulating the anatanic functions of the treated part both at epidermic level and in profundity, thanks to the effect of The constant vibrating action generated without any collateral interferences.The massage can be carried out either by a physiotherapist or in an autogenous way or by an occasional operator, by using a driving device foreseen for this purpose to lead on the forced delivery ducts The components, air and water and any additives, if required, according to The contingent emr ploy requirements, and which are mixed by meats of The nozzle control.The hydrogaseous jet us directed on The parto to treat of The patient lying on the bed.The jet intensity in accordance with the therapeutic requirements in regulated manually on the grip nozzle by means of a rotating ring at its end.A form of execution is illustrated in a merely indicative way by the drawings of Table 1, where Fig. 1 is The longitudinal section of the nozzle showing the delivery ducts, The mixing chamber and the regulation ring of the jet. Fig. 2 is the view of the device with vortex du cts in spraying operation. Fig. 3 is the schematic view of the delive ry device blocks. Fig. 4 is the view from above of a patient recumbent on a bed the draining system can be noted. Fig. 5 is the perspective view of a patient in lying position with inclined bust during the tre atnent phase.Compressor I is employed in the installation for air intaking on line 2 to the pressure regulator 3 fitted with pressure gauge 4 which, through duct 5 leads the air to nozzle 6. Through hydraulic pump 7 on line 8, water passes into heater 9 and reaches cock 11 from duck 10 af ter having been heated, whereas the not heated water on line 12 fran offtake 13 arrives to cock 14 of mixer 15. Fram mixer 15 on duct 16, wa ter at the correct temperature read on gauge 17, reaches nozzle 6. This is possible by means of parts 18, 19, 20, 21and22 in plastic mate rivals in coaxial camposition according The screwing devices 23, 24, 25 and 26.The duct sealing is assured by OR 27, 28, 29 and 30. ftan cen trial duct 31, water passes into chamber 32 and through ducts 33 and 34 it arrives in mixing chamber 35 in which air contemporarily enters though the coaxial duet 36 mounted on teilpiece 37 fitted in part 19. The air enters Through the central duct 38 into the mixing chamber.The vortex formed mixture is thrown through axial duct 39 and entersThe sprayer head 42 through ducts 40 and 41 to get out fran bore 43.When turning ring 22 clockwise, the atocization grade of the mixture is increased because the crown shaped inside 44 presses more on the small vortes channel 45 and 46. For operation, after having started the compressor and the pump, The air is adjusted as well as the water temperature and delivery by means of mixer 15 when the correct tempe rature has been reached, the treatment can be begun by gripping and directing nozzle 6 on the relavan anatcmic part. The pulverization de gree of the mixture is then regulated by means of ring 22. The decom possibility of nozzle 6 in many parts allows periodic cleaning operations of the inside duct sustym and, therefore, to restore the device efficiency. The employ of fixed nozzles has been foreseen to allow to operate always on the same parts. An installation on tank id foreseen using a system of fixed nozzles so That a tonifying and regeneration action in general is possible.The liquid can then be treated in different ways to change its mine ral canposition, e.g. on a salsoiodic, sulphydric base or others, in compliance with the contingent theraupetic requirements, by means of additives such as salts or other.The system permits particular employs in thermal establisments, aesthe tic institutes, as well as autogenous ones.