# Modified granular polytetrafluoroethylene.

## Abstract
A non melt fabricable granular modified polytetraf luoroethylene in which the modifying comonomer is a selected dioxole. The polymer is useful in ram extrusion and in making molded articles.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A non melt fabricable granular modified polytetrafluoroethylene composition comprising tetrafluoroethylene polymer containing polymerized units of at least one copolymerizable monomer of the formulaEMI13.1 present in an amount which does not cause the melt viscosity of the resulting polymer to be less than about 1 X 108 PaS at 38O0C., wherein R is selected fromEMI13.2 or wherein R and R are eachEMI13.3 EMI13.4 tb SEP 0 tb C O alkyl, tb perfluoroalkyl or hydrogensubstituted perfluoroalkyl wherein the alkyl groups contain 1 6 carbon atoms, and X and X1 are each F, Cl or H. 2. The composition of Claim 1 wherein X and X1in the copolymerizable monomer are both fluorine. 3. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the copolymerizable monomer is one in which X and X are both fluorine and R isEMI13.5 4. The composition of Claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the copolymerizable monomer is present in an amount of less than 2t by weight, preferably less than 0.5 by weight, based on weight of polymer. 5. The composition of Claim 1, 2 or 3 in the form of a molding resin or in the form of a molded or extruded article. 6. Process for shaping a resin in which the resin is made of a composition defined in Claim l, which comprises molding and shaping said resin into a shaped article, and cooling the shaped article.

## Description
TITLE MODIFIED GRM ULAR POLYTETRAFLUOROETHYLENE FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to improved granular polytetrafluoroethylene compositions which contain a small amount of at least one selected dioxole copolymerized therewith, and to processes for preparing such compositions. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Granular polytetrafluoroethylene molding resins are employed in molding and ram extrusion processes to produce plastic articles. Granular polytetrafluoroethylene is prepared by polymerizing tetrafluoroethylene by a process in which little or no dispersing agent is employed and agitation is carried out vigorously in order to produce a precipitated resin. This resin is commonly referred to as. granular resin. The procedure is called suspension polymerization . When the term granular is used herein, it is used to denote the resin formed by the suspension polymerization procedure. There is another polytetrafluoroethylene material that is referred to by those skilled in art as fine powder polytetrafluoroethylene. To make this so called fine powder , a process called aqueous dispersion polymerization is used. In this process sufficient dispersing agent is employed and agitation is mild in order to produce small colloidal size particles dispersed in the aqueous reaction medium. In this aqueous dispersion polymerization, precipitation i.e., coagulation of the resin particles is avoided during polymerization. The dispersion may be used as such, or the dispersed particles may be coagulated in a separate step and the resulting fine powder obtained. The two polymerization procedures produce distinctly different products. The granular product can be molded in various forms, whereas the fine powder produced by te aqueous dispersion method cannot be molded but must be fabricated by dispersion coating or by adding a lubricant for paste extrusion. In contrast, granular resin is incapable of being. paste extruded. Tetrafluoroethylene polymers produced by the aqueous dispersion polymerization method are generally not suited to molding and ram extrusion processing, since they have a very soft sensitive grain, and, due to their molecular weight being lower compared with granular polymers, give extrudates with low mechanical strength. Suspension polymerization of tetrafluoroethylene to obtain granular product is generally carried out by filling the polymerization reactor, which is equipped with an agitating system, with an aqueous medium in which a catalyst forming free radicals, optionally a buffer, and optionally a small amount of a fluorinated emulsifier. The air is removed and tetrafluoroethylene is fed into the reactor. After polymerization has started, gaseous tetrafluoroethylene is fed at a rate corresponding to the polymer amount being formed, while keeping the polymerization pressure constant. It has previously been known that if a small amount of comonomer is present, the properties of the resulting modified granular polytetrafluoroethylene particles can be altered. For example, sinterability can be improved and crystallinity reduced. A comonomer preferred by the art is perfluoro propyl vinyl ether , CF3CF2CF2 O CF CF2. However, using perfluoro propyl vinyl ether , the surfaces of articles molded from the resulting copolymer tend to be rough. It would be desirable to find a comonomer which can be used to make granular copolymer articles having smoother surfaces. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention is a granular modified polytetrafluoroethylene composition comprising tetrafluoroethylene polymer containing polymerized units of at least one copolymerizable monomer of the formulaEMI3.1 present in an amount which does not cause the melt viscosity of the resulting polymer to be less than about 1 X 108 PaS at 3800C., wherein R is selected fromEMI3.2 wherein R and R are eachEMI3.3 EMI3.4 tb SEP 0 tb C O alkyl, tb perfluoroalkyl or hydrogensubstituted perfluoroalkyl wherein the alkyl groups contain 1 6 carbon atoms, and X and X are each F, C1 or H. DESCRIPTION The polymers of this invention are of high molecular weight as indicated by their inability to be fabricated by melt flow procedures such as melt .extrusion or injection molding. Thus they are non melt fabricable , i.e. are not extrudable from a melt. They are made by the suspension tetrafluoroethylene polymerization process and thus are the so called granular tetrafluoroethylene polymers. In view of their non melt fabricable nature, the copolymers generally have melt viscosities above 1 X 108 PaS measured at 380eC. These high melt viscosities are obtained by keeping the amount of comonomer low. For example, the amount of polymerized comonomer units present complementally to the tetrafluoroethylene units will be preferably less than 2 percent by weight of total polymer weight and generally less than 0.5 . As a minimum amount present, preferably at least 0.018 of the comonomer will be present in copolymerized form. The comonomers have the formulaEMI4.1 Preferably X and X1 are both fluorine, and R isEMI4.2 Preferably also, R and R are each fluorine, perfluoroalkyl or hydroperfluoroalkyl wherein the alkyl groups contain between l 6 carbon atoms. Most preferably R and R are each perfluoroalkyl. Representative comonomers include perfluoro 2,2 dimethyl l, 3 dioxole , perfluoro dioxole andEMI4.3 The process used to prepare the polymers of this invention is the usual suspension polymerization process used to prepare granular polytetrafluoroethylene. Such polymerization is described in a number of patents such as U.S. Patent 3,245,972 and U.S.P. 3,855,191. In brief, tetrafluoroethylene is pressured into an autoclave containing water and conventional free radical polymerization initiators along with optionally buffer and optionally a small amount up to about 200 ppm based on H2O of an enulsifying agent if desired to increase surface area . The reaction mixture is agitated and the polymerization is carried out at suitable temperatures and pressures.Upon completion of the polymerization, the polymer is isolated and dried. The comonomers may be added as a precharge, but since the comonomers react much faster than tetrafluoroethylene monomer, it may be preferred to add comonomer throughout the course of the polymerization in order to obtain a polymer that contains comonomer units distributed relatively evenly throughout the polymer chain in the,small amounts present. Thus, comonomer is preferably both precharged to the polymerization vessel and added subsequently during polymerization, either in increments or continuously. The polymerization temperature will ordinarily be between 50 1200C and the initiator will be a peroxide or persulfate. Inorganic persulfates, such as ammonium persulfate, are preferred. A buffer to maintain pH at between 6 9 may be used if desired. In addition, a small amount of a dispersing agent e.g. up to 100 or 200 ppm based on water present may be employed in order to increase the surface area of the resulting polymer particles.Agitation will be sufficient to ensure precipitation of the polymer particles as the polymerization proceeds. Due to presence of the comonomer, the polymers of this invention, as compared to polytetrafluoroethylene homopolymer and with polymers modified with perfluoro propylvinyl ether , have low crystallinity, and a high degree of surface smoothness in molded parts. Thus they are useful in making molded parts where smooth surfaces are important, such as ball valve seats. Furthermore, due to the low crystallinity the polymers are expected to have high flex life and low flex modulus in molded parts. A distinction must be made between the granular suspension made polymers of this invention and tetrafluoroethylene copolymers having a higher content of comonomer. The latter contain enough comonomer to permit them to be processed from a melt by extrusion methods customary for thermoplastics.The granular suspension made polymers of this invention, like unmodified polytetrafluoroethylene itself, belong to the type of tetrafluoroethylene polymers that are not extrudable from the melt, and special molding methods must be used to fabricate them. Furthermore, being suspension made, the polymers of this invention have a morphology which differs from that of dispersion prepared fine powder polymers. These latter polymers are produced in the presence of such high amounts of emulsifier that, after polymerization has ended, they remain in colloidal distribution in the aqueous medium. These fine powder polymers are obtained from the colloidal dispersion by coagulation and on coagulation form agglomerates of colloidal primary particles that have an average particle diameter of about 0.1 to 0.5 cm, As is known to one skilled in the art, they can not be molded by by ram extrusion or mold sinter processing techniques, even if they contain comonomer modifiers. Properties of the polymers obtained in theExamples which follow are obtained according to the procedures set forth below 1 Determination of comonomer content Comonomer content in the copolymers was determined by Fourier Transform FT IR spectroscopy and F19 NMR analysis. Ten mil cold pressed films were prepared and spectra were obtained on Nicolet 7000 FT IR spectrophotometer at a resolution of 4 l cm . The IR band at 10.1 10.2 microns is due to C O C stretching of the dioxole unit and therefore the absorbance is related to the dioxole content.The IR is calibrated against NMR analysis. 2 Standard Specific Gravity SsG Standard specific gravity SSG of the molding powder is measured by water displacement of a standard molded test specimen in accordance with ASTMD1457 69. The standard molded part is formed by preforming 12.0 g. of the molding powder in a 2.86 cm. diameter die at a pressure of 2 352 kg. cm. , followed by the sintering cycle of the preform of heating from 300C to 380 C. at 2 C. min., holding at 380 C. for 30 minutes, cooling to 2950C. at 1OC. min. and holding at this temperature for 25 minutes, after which the specimen is cooled to room temperature and tested for specific gravity. 3 Specific Surface Area SSA SSA was measured by a Quantasorb surface air analyzer. The measurement was made on raw polymer obtained directly from the reaction vessel after washing and drying. 4 Melt Viscosity Melt viscosity is calculated by measuring the tensile creep of a sintered piece held at 380 C. Specifically, 12 g. of molding powder is placed in a 7.6 cm. diameter mold between 0.152 cm. rubber cauls and paper spacers. Pressure is then slowly applied on the mold until a value of 40.5 kg. cm.2 is obtained. This pressure is held for 5 minutes and then released slowly. After the sample disc is removed from the mold and separated from the cauls and paper spacers, it is sintered at 380 C. for 30 minutes. The oven is then cooled to 2900C. at a rate of about 10C. a minute and the sample is removed. A crack free rectangular sliver with the following dimensions is cut 0.152 to 0.165 cm. wide, 0.152 to 0.165 cm. thick, and at least 6 cm. long.The dimensions are measured accurately and the cross sectional area is calculated. The sample sliver is attached at each end to quartz rods by wrapping with silver coated cooper wire. The distance between wrappings is 4.0 cm. This quartz rod sample assembly is placed in a columnar oven where the 4 cm. test length is brought to a temperature of 380 2 C. A weight is then attached to the bottom quartz rod to give a total weight suspended from the sample sliver of about 17 g. The elongation measurements vs. time are obtained, and the best average value for the creep curve in the interval between 100 and 130 minutes is measured.The apparent melt viscosity is then calculated from the relationship tapp Ltg 3 dLt dt AT wherein pp apparent melt viscosity in shear, poises w tensile load on sample, gLt length of sample at 380 C. cms. 4.32 cm g gravitational constant, 980 cm. sec.2 dLt dt rate of elongation of sample under load slope of elongation vs. time plot, cm. sec.AT cross sectional area of sample at 380eC , T cm area increases 37 at 3800C over that at room temperature 5 Mold Shrinkage Mold shrinkage MS was determined by measuring the diameter of the SSG molding before and after sintering MS Initial Dia. Final Dia. X 100 Initial Dia. 6 Heat of Crystallization Heat of crystallization was determined by aDifferential Scanning Calorimeter DSC . This value is normally indicative of molecular weight for a given comonomer and comonomer content. 7 Anisotropic Constant Anisotropic constant s is calculated as below S 100 1 0.01 shrinkage EMI9.1 tb 3 SEP Preform SEP density tb SEP Sintered SEP density SEP X SEP 0.9667 SEP SEP 0.1025 SEP preform SEP 2 tb porosity SEP SEP 0.0844 SEP X SEP preform SEP Por. tb It measures polymer elastic recovery during sintering, a major cause of surface roughness. 8 Mold Surface Smoothness Surface smoothness of sintered molding made out of the polymer is determined by means of a Bekk tester.Smoothness is expressed as the time required for passing 3 10 cm of air, by an underpressure of 0.5 atm., between the mold surface and an annular, polished 2 surface of a glass disc with 10 cm area, held together at a pressure of 1 kg cm2. The longer the time the smoother the surface. EXAMPLESExample 1 A 38 liter polykettle vessel was charged with 21.8 kg of demineralized water, 0.10 g ammonium perfluorooctanoate APFC dispersant, and 0.30 g ammonium persulfate APS . The contents of the vessel were heated to 650C and evacuated. The vessel was agitated with a 2 blade 45C pitch agitator at 600 RPM.Six ml perfluoro 2,2 dimethyl 1,3 dioxole , PDD hereafter, was injected into the vessel with a syringe.Tetrafluoroethylene TFE was then added to the vessel until the pressure was 1.72 x 106 Pa. After the polymerization began, as evidenced by a drop in pressure, TFE was added to maintain the pressure at 1.72X 106 Pa. After the desired amount of TFE had been added, the feed was stopped and the mixture was allowed to react down to 5.5 x 10 Pa pressure. Reaction time was 90 min. 8.2 kg TFE was polymerized. After venting and evacuation, the pressure in the vessel was brought back to atmospheric with nitrogen and the contents cooled to below 50 C. The polymer was discharged from the vessel and the adhesions were separated. The polymer was cut to less than 0.03 mm average particle size. The polymer properties are given in Table 1.Example 2 Example 1 was repeated with the following ingredient amounts. The polymer properties are given inTable 1. Ex. 2APFC, g 0.10Zinc chloride, g 0.50APS, g 0.30PDD Precharge, ml 3TFE Reacted, kg. 8.2Reaction Time, min. 95 Comparison In this experjment, perfluoro propyl vinyl ether , PPVE, was used in place of the dioxole, PDD.Otherwise the same ingredients were used as were used in Ex. 2, except the reaction time was 132 min.Polymer properties are given in Table 1. Table 1 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF POLYMERS Ex. 1 B. 2 Comparison PDD by Wt. 0.06 .07 0.02 0.014 PPVE SSG at 34.48 M Pa 2.143 2.144 2.155SSG at 6.90 M Pa 2.119 2.095 2.143SSA, m2 g 2.0 2.0 3.6 Raw Polymer Melting Point, . C 347 347 347 Viscosity, PaS 4.4xlO 6.7x10 2.2x109 Mold Shrinkage, 8 at 34.48 M Pa 2.7 2.9 4.3Heat of Crystallization, J g 18.4 18.4 22.6Anisotropic Cori stant, s 0.23 0.58 1.60Surface Smoothness, ec. 1 Bekk Test 470 Not 194 Measured 1 Surface smoothness was measured on sintered discs made out of agglomerated polymer. The polymer after initial cutting of the raw polymer had a d50 of 13 microns for both samples. It was agglomerated by agitation in an aqueous medium. Dried agglomerated resin had an apparent density of 704 g l for both samples. This was sieved and the fraction between 355 and 500 microns was used for the test to eliminate the effect of agglomerate size on the surface smoothness. Two gram sample was preformed into a 2.54 cm diameter disc and the disc sintered according to the procedure used for SSG measurement.