# Integrated circuit and method.

## Abstract
An ISL structure is produced by a four step diffusion process. A first diffusion produces the main collector tub 18 . A second diffusion produces a thin extension 18a of the collector tub which is more lightly doped than the collector tub. A third diffusion produces the base region and circumscribing channel stop regions 26 . The base region lies partly over the main collector tub and partly over the thin extension of the collector. The fourth diffusion produces the emitter 30 which lies over the main collector tub. The four step diffusion process provides better control over the base thickness so that a smaller thickness than obtainable with an epitaxial structure is possible. With a smaller base thickness, a higher current gain for the PNP clamping transistor is achieved.

## Claims
1. Integrated circuit comprising a semiconductor body having a surface, a substrate region of a first conductivity type adjoining said surface, a first surface region of a second conductivity type being present in said substrate region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said substrate region, said first surface region extending a first depth below said surface, a second surface region of the first conductivity type being present in said first surface region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said first surface region, said second surface region having a second depth below said surface which is smaller than said first depth, a third surface region of the second conductivity type being present in said second surface region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said second surface region, said third surface region having a third depth below said surface which is smaller than said second depth, characterized in that said first surface region has a major portion having said first depth and a laterally adjoining minor portion extending to a fourth depth below said surface which is smaller than said first depth and larger than said second depth, said minor portion having a lower doping concentration than said major portion, said second surface region being located partly in said major portion and partly in said minor portion of said first surface region, said third surface region being located entirely within a portion of said second surface region which extends in the major portion of the first surface region. Integrated circuit as claimed in Claim 1, charac terized in that a circumscribing surface region of the first conductivity type is present in said substrate region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said substrate region, said circumscribing surface region surrounding and extending partly into said first surface region at said surface. 3. Integrated circuit. as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that at said surface ohmic contacts are present respectively on said third surface region, on said second surface region and on said circumscribing surface region, and at said surface one or more rectifying contacts are present which each form a Schottky diode with an adjoining part of said major portion of said first surface region. 4. Integrated circuit as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that said substrate region has p type conductivity. 5. Integrated circuit as claimed in one or more of the preceding Claims, characterized in that said first depth is about 7jum and said fourth depth is about 2 um. 6. Integrated circuit as claimed in any of the preceding Claims, characterized in that said fourth depth is about 2 um and said second depth is about 1 um. 7. A method of fabricating a semiconductive structure, comprising a providing a semiconductor body having a surface and a substrate region of a first conductivity type adjoining said surface b diffusing a first region of a second conductivity type into said substrate region extending to said surface and into said substrate region a predetermined first depth below said surface c diffusing a second surface region of the first conductivity type extending into said first region a second depth below said surface that is less than said first depth d diffusing a third surface region of the second conductivity type into said second surface region and ex tending a third depth below said surface that is less than the second depth e depositing ohmic contacts on said second surface region, said third surface region, and said substrate region, characterized in that the method further comprises f diffusing a further region of the second conductivity type into said substrate region contiguous lvith and forming an extension of said first region, said further region having a lighter doping concentration than the greater part of said first region, said further region extending to said surface and into said substrate region a fourth depth that is substantially less than said first depth, said first region and said further region forming a major portion and a minor portion, respectively, of a contiguous first surface region, g depositing a plurality of contacts spaced apart on the surface of said major portion of said first surface region and each forming a Schottky barrier therewith and in that said second surface region is diffused to extend partly into said major portion and partly into said minor portion, said second depth being less than said fourth depth, said third surface region being diffused entirely within a portion of the second surface region which is located in said major portion of said first surface region. 8. A method as claimed in Claim 7, characterized in that a circumscribing region of the first conductivity type is diffused into said substrate region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said substrate region, said circumscribing region at the surface of said substrate region merging with the perimeter of said major portion and with the perimeter of said minor portion, and wherein the ohmic contact to said substrate region as set forth in step e is deposited on said circumscribing region. 9. A method as claimed in Claim 8, characterized in that said circumscribing region is produced during the same diffusion step that produces said second surface region. 10. A method as claimed in Claim 7, 8 or 9, characterized in that said major portion is diffused to a first depth of about 7 micrometers. 11. A method as claimed in Claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, characterized in that said minor portion is diffused to a fourth depth of about 2 micrometers. 12. A method as claimed in Claim 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11t1 characterized in that said second surface region is diffused to a second depth of about 1 micrometer. 13. A method as claimed in Claim 12, characterized in that said third surface region is diffused to a third depth of about 0.8 micrometer.

## Description
Integrated circuit and method. The invention relates to an integrated circuit comprising a semiconductor body having a surface, a substrate region of a first conductivity type adjoining said surface, a first surface region of a second conductivity type being present in said substrate region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said substrate region, said first surface region extending a first depth below said surface, a second surface region of the first conductivity type being present in said first surface region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said first surface region, said second surface region having a second depth below said surface which is smaller than said first depth, a third surface region of the second conductivity type being present in said second surface region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said second surface region, said third surface region having a third depth below said surface which is smaller than said second depth. Integrated circuit structures oi this kind which are often referred to as triple diffused structures, are known from U.S. Patent 4,005, 470 to Tucci and Russell. In Electronics, pages 44 42, June 8, 1978 and in IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits, Vol. SC 14, No.3, pages 585 590, June 1979, there is described a new type of LSI logic known as ISL, an abreviation for integrated Schottky logic. Briefly, an ISL gate comprises the combination of a current source, a normally operated, i.e. collector down, vertical npn switching transistor merged with a pnp transistor and a set of Schottky output diodes. The pnp transistor, which may have a lateral component in addition to a vertical component, clampe the npn transistor so as to prevent it from going too deeply into saturation. Heretofore, all proposals for an ISL structure have utilized an epitaxial layer in which the components of the logic are combined. One disadvantage of the epitaxial layer form of structure is that the thickness of the epitaxial layer is a limiting factor in minimizing the base width, or thickness, of the pnp clamping transistor. The base width, in turn, limits the current gain of orthe pnp clamping transistor and thereby has a limit f ing effect on the switching speed of the npn transistor. According to the invention an integrated circuit as described in the preamble is characterized in that said first surface region has a major portion having said first depth and a laterally adjoining minor portion extending to a fourth depth below said surface which is smaller than said first depth and larger than said second depth, said minor portion having a lower doping concentration than said major portion, said second surface region being located partly in said major portion and partly in said minor portion of said first surface region, said third surface region being located entirely within a portion of said second surface region which extends in the major portion of the first surface region. In this structure the transistor formed by the second surface region, the minor portion of the first surface region and the substrate region has a base which may be formed by two successive diffusions, whose depth can be more readily controlled to produce a very narrow base width. Used in an ISL structure this transistor pro vides for a clamping transistor with a current gain gbf f which is improved by a factor of 3 over the epitaxial counter part. Preferably the integrated circuit according to the invention is further characterized in that a circumscribing surface region of the first conductivity type is present in said substrate region and having a higher doping concentration than an adjoining part of said substrate region, said circumscribing surface region surrounding and extending partly into said first surface region at said surface. The circumscribing surface region constitutes an effective means to reduce inversion channel formation in the surface adjoining portions of the substrate region. In a preferred form of the integrated circuit according to the invention at said surface ohmic contacts are present on said third surface region, on said second surface region and on said circumscribing surface region, respectively and at said surface one or more rectifying contacts arepresent which each form a Schottky diode with an adjoining part of said major portion of said first surface region. This preferred form is particularly suitable for implementing ISL gate circuits having improved switching speed and which can be made with relatively high yield. Furthermore the invention related to a method of fabricating a semiconductive structure, comprising a providing a semiconductor body having a surface and a substrate region of a first conductivity type adjoining said surface b diffusing a first region of a second conduc tivity type into said substrate region extending to said surface and into said substrate region a predetermined first depth below said surface c diffusing a second surface region of the first conductivity type extending into said first region and a second depth below said surface that is less than said first depth d diffusing a third surface region of the second conductivity type into said second surface region and ex tending a third depth below said surface that is less than the second depth e depositing ohmic contacts on said second sur face region, said third surface region, and said substrate region, characterized in that the method further comprises f diffusing a furtheriregion of the second con ductivity type into said substrate region contiguous with and forming an extension of said first region, said further region having a lighter doping concentration than the greater part of said first region, said further region extending to said surface and into said substrate region a fourth depth that is substantially less than said first depth, said first region and said further region forming a major portion and a minor portion, respectively. of a contiguous first surface region, g depositing a plurality of contacts spaced apart on the surface of said major portion of said first surface region and each forming a Schottky barrier therewith and in that said second surface region is diffused to extend partly into said major portion and partly into said minor portion, said second depth being less than said fourth depth, said third surface region being diffused entirely within a portion of the second surface region which is located in said major portion of said first surface region. The invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to an example and the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a schematic circuit diagram of a basic ISL gate, Figure 2 is a top plan view of a composite mask layout for a triple diffused ISL structure according to the invention and Figures 3 7 are sectional views illustrating the process steps for fabricating such triple diffusedISL structure according to the invention. Figure 1 shows a schematic circuit diagram of a basic ISL gate. A current source I and an input signal terminal A are connected to the base of an npn inverter or switching transistor T1. Multiple outputs are obtained from the npn inverter transistor Ti by coupling the collector to the cathodes of a plurality of Schottky diodesD1, 1 2, D3, D4, and taking the outputs from the anodes thereof at output terminals B1, B2, B3 and B4 respectively.One or more of the outputs, such as at terminal B1, may be coupled to succeeding ISL gates, such as the one shown. The npn inverter transistor T1 is clamped by a pnp transistor T2 to keep it from going too deeply into saturation. In practice, the pnp clamping transistor T2 may be a vertical or a lateral transistor, or a combination of the two, sharing common regions with the npn inverter transistor T1. For example, the emitter and the base of the pnp clamping transistor T2 may comprise the. base and the collector, respectively,of the npn inverter transistorT1. It has not heretofore been proposed to embody ISL logic other than in an epitaxial structure. This invention is predicated in part on the recognition that a simplified process technology and better operating performance of theISL logic gate can be realized by embodying an ISL gate in a structure formed by a triple diffusion process. Reference is now made to Figures 2 7 for a description of a triple diffusion process for fabricating an ISL gate according to the invention. Figure 2 is a top plan view of a composite masked layout and Figures 3 7 are sectional views illustrating the sequential process steps for fabricating the triple diffused ISL structure. As shown in Figure 3, a substrate 10 of monocrystalline semiconductor material, such as silicon, is provided with a light doping of P type impurity, such as boron. The P type doping is uniform and may have a doping concentration of 1015 atoms per cubic centimeter. The surface of the substrate 10 is provided with a first thermal oxide layer 12, which may be grown by subjecting the 0 substrate 10 to a temperature of 1050 C for about 3 hours and 34 minutes to achieve an oxide layer 12 thickness of 6,ooo angstroms. After the first oxide layer 12 is formed, it is patterned photolithographically to produce an opening 14 through which the impurities for the collector diffusion can be introduced. Since it is preferable to implant dopant impurities through a thin oxide layer for screening purposes, a thin oxide layer 16 is formed on the surface of the substrate 10 where the collector is to be formed. The thin oxide layer 16 may be formed by etching the first oxide layer 12 down to the desired thickness. Alternatively, the first oxide layer 12 may be removed entirely from the substrate surface within the opening 14 and a new thin oxide layer 16 may be regrown by subjecting the substrate 10 to a temperature of 10000C for 34 minutes to achieve a desired thickness of 550 angstroms. A collector implant step is next performed by implanting an n type dopant, such as phosphorus, through the thin oxide layer 16. The total dose of phosphorus atoms is preferably 6.4 x 1013 atoms per square centimeter.The phosphorus implant is followed by a drive in diffusion at 12000C for 5 hours and 40 minutes, driving the n type impurity atoms to a depth of about 7 micrometers. The collector tub or n type region thus produced is shown at 18. A number of such collector regions 18 may be formed simultaneously with each other, some of which may be provided with resistors such as for the current source I shown in Figure 1. A portion of one such additional collector region or tub 18 is shown on the right and a por tidn of another one is shown on the left. After the collector tubs 18 are formed, the oxide layers 12 and 16 are stripped, and a new thick oxide layer 12a is regrowa At this time, a new opening 14a is produced for the introduction of a lighter concentration of n type impurity which is to form a short, thin nregion 18a. Prior to the impurity introduction, however, a new thin oxide layer 16a is grown, as shown in Figure 4. The n region 18a forms a thin extension of the main collector region 18. The new opening 14a with the thin oxide layer 16a has an inner edge lying over the collector region 18 that is coincident with the right hand edge of the previous opening 14 shown in Figure 3.The width of the new opening 14a is at least about twice as long as the depth of the main collector region 18, so that the right hand edge of the new opening 14a and the left hand edge of the new opening 14a are both equidistant from the outermost surface edge of the main collector region 18. To form the thin n region 18a a light implant of phosphorus atoms is made through the thin oxide layer 16a.The phosphorus dose is typically 4 x 1012 atoms per square centimeter. Following the implantation, the phosphorus atoms are driven at 1,0000C to a depth of 2 micrometers.During the drive in diffusion a part of the driven phosphorus atoms diffuse into the already formed collector region 18, as shown by the dashed lines, while the other part of the driven atoms diffuse into the substrate 10 and form the thin extension 18a adjoining the main collector region 18, but still spaced from the adjacent collector region 18. Figure 5 shows the next series of steps in the fabrication process. New openings 20 and 22 are formed within the oxide layer 12a. The single opening 20 is formed to expose both a part of the thin collector region 18a and an adjoining part of the main collector region 18. The two smaller openings 22 are formed to expose surface areas of the substrate between adjacent collector regions 18. After the openings 20 and 22 are formed, a p type diffusion is made through the openings 20 and 22 to produce a base region 24 and channel stop regions 26. The p type diffusion is done in three steps. First, the p type dopant such as boron, is deposited on the exposed surfaces by passing a boron containing gas, such as boric acid, HBO, over the semiconductor surface while the substrate is 0 heated at 930 C for 1 hour and 42 minutes. Finally, a drive in diffusion is made in an oxidizing atmosphere at 0 a substrate temperature of 1050 C for 45minutes to drive the p type impurities in regions 24 and 26 to a depth of 1 micrometer and simultaneously grow 4,000 angstroms of oxide. The channel stop regions 26 are p regions and act to prevent leakage of charge carriers between the adjacent tubs 18 by preventing an n type inversion layer from forming in these regions. The channel stop regions 26 overlap the collector region 18 and the next adjacent collector tub 8 and are also closely spaced to the thin collector region 18a. The base region 24 lies partly in the thin collector region 18a and partly in the main collector region 18. During the oxidation step and during the base drive in step, an oxide layer forms over the openings 20 and 22, thereby completely covering the semiconductor surface with the oxide layer 12a. While the oxide layer 12a after the base drive in diffusion may be thinner over the base region 24 and channel stop regions 26 than in the other regions, for drawing simplicity it is shown uniformly thick in Figure 6. Figure 6 shows the next step, in which an opening 28 is formed in the oxide layer 12a. The opening 28 lies over the part of the base region 24 lying within the main collector region 18. After the opening 28 is formed, a heavy doping of n type impurity, such as phosphorus, is deposited on the area of the base region 24 that is exposed through the opening 28. The substrate is heated at 930 0C for 2 hours and 20 minutes during the phosphorus deposition and diffusion, to form an emitter region 30 beneath the opening 28. Thereafter the emitter region 30 is annealed by heating the substrate at 800 0C for 42 minutes. The depth of the emitter region 30 is 8,000 angstroms. During the emitter annealing step, a thin oxide layer forms over the emitter region 30. The next series of steps comprising metalization is shown in Figure 7 wherein multiple openings are formed in the oxide layer 12a over the main collector region 18 where four Schottky diodes are to be formed, and single openings are provided over the emitter region 30, over the base region 24 and over the channel stop region 26 adjoining the thin collector region 18a. The contact metallization is preferably multilayered, there being a first platinel silicide layer making direct contact to the silicon, followed by a barrier layer of titanium tungsten, and then a layer of aluminum. The metallization layers are patterned to form four contacts 32 for the Schottky diodes on the main collector region 18, an emitter contact 34 on the emitter region 30, a base contact 36 on the base region 24, and a collector contact 38 for the pnp clamping transistor, which will be further described. The platinel silicide layer which is formed directly on the semiconductor surface may comprise a ternary alloy of 500 silicon, 440to nickel and 6 platinum. The platinel silicide alloy may be produced by sputter depositing a composition of 880 nickel and 12 platinum on the silicon and heating the silicon to form the ternary alloy. A process for producing the platinel silicide contacts is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,855,612 to Rosvold.This process produces a platinum nickel silicon ternary alloy on the semiconductor surface. In the n type collector region 18 it forms a Schottky barrier contact for the four Schottky diodes D1 through D4 of Figure 1. In the other regions it forms ohmic contacts to the emitter region 30, the base region 24, and the pnp collector at the channel stop region 26. The titanium tungsten barrier layer between the platinel silicide and the aluminum layer prevents the aluminum from diffusing into the platinel sili cide and silicon. The aluminum is preferred for its high conduc tivity and low melting point. Other processing steps which are well known in the art include the application of a low melting point phospho silicate glass layer over the aluminum contacting layer, a top aluminum layer for supply conductors and interconnects, and a passivating layer of phospho silicate glass. The npn inverter transistor Ti of Figure 1 is constituted in Figure 7 by the emitter region 30 , base region 24, and collector region 18. The pnp clamping transistor T2 has a vertical component constituted by the region 24 as the emitter, the thin region 18a as the base, and the substrate 10 as the collector. The pnp clamping transistor T2 also has a lateral component including the region 24 as emitter, the thin region 18a as the base, and the channel stop region 26 as the collector, with the lateral spacing at the surface between regions 24 and 26 determining the base thickness of the lateral clamping component. It will be seen that the thickness of the thin region 18a which forms the base of the pnp clamping transistor is not limited by the thickness of an epitaxial layer of the prior art. The thickness of the pnp clamping transistor is determined by the difference in thickness between the two diffused regions 18a and 24. Since the depth of both these regions 18a and 24 can be controlled by both the temperature and the length of time of diffusion, a wider range of control over the base thickness is afforded.More importantly, the small thickness achievable can be very thin, as small as a few thousand angstroms. An important beneficial result that flows from a small base thickness for the pnp clamping transistor is that its current gain fif can be increased substantially. Experimental results have shown that the current gain ssf can be increased by a factor of 3 over a corresponding epitaxial structure. In Figure 7, the electrical connections to the various elements of the triple diffused structure are shown schematically with reference characters corresponding to those of Figure 1. In practice, these connections, for the most part, would be made during the second metallization. The current source I of Figure 1 is shown in Figure 7 as a resistor coupled to a positive supply. The current source resistor may be present in an adjacent resistor tub 19 and may be formed during the same diffusion steps in the process that forms the regions 24 and 26, often referred to as the base diffusion of the npn transistor. The triple diffused structure produced according to the invention has several important advantages. The increased current gain rZf for the pnp clamping transistor offers a speed improvement for switching the npn inverter or switching transistor. Because the triple diffusion process is simpler than the epitaxial process, it should result in lower cost and higher yield.