# Detergent compositions containing cationic compounds having clay soil removal anti redeposition properties.

## Abstract
Detergent compositions which comprise from about 0.05 to about 95 by weight of a water soluble cationic compound having clay soil removal anti redeposition prop erties. These compounds are selected from ethoxylated cationic monoamines, ethoxylated cationic diamines, ethoxylated cationic polyamines, ethoxylated cationic polymers, and mixtures thereof. In addition to the cationic compounds, the detergent compositions further comprise from about 1 to about 75 by weight of a nonionic, anionic, ampholytic, zwitterionic, or cationic detergent surfactant or mixture thereof. In addition to these detergent surfactants, the detergent composition can optionally comprise from 0 to about 80 by weight of detergent builder. Also, water soluble cationic polymers having clay soil removal anti redeposition properties, which comprise a polymer backbone, at least two M groups and at least one L X group, wherein M is a cationic group attached to or integral with the backbone and contains an N positively charged center X is a nonionic group selected from the group consisting of H, C₁ C₄ alkyl or hydroxy alkyl ester or ether groups, or mixtures thereof and L is a hydrophilic chain connecting groups M and X or connecting X to the polymer backbone. L also contains the polyoxyalkylene moiety R O

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A water solubls cationic compound having clay soil removal antl redeposltion properties selected from the group consisting of 1 ethoxylated cationic monoamines having the formula EMI59.1 2 ethoxylated cationic diamines having the formula EMI59.2 wherein M1 is an N or N group each M2 is an N or N group, and at least one M2 is an N group 3 ethoxylated cationic polyamines having the formula EMI59.3 4 ethoxylated cationic polymers which comprise a polymer backbone, at least 2 M groups and at least one L X group, wherein M is a cationic group attached to or integral with the backbone and contains an N positively charged center and L connects groups M and X or connects group X to the polymer backbone and 5 mixtures thereof wherein A1 isEMI59.4 EMI59.5 or 0 R is H or C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no O N bonds are formed each R2 is C1 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, the moiety L X, or two R2 together form the moiety CH2tr A2 CH2 S , wherein A2 is O or CH2 , r is 1 or 2, 5 is 1 or 2 and r 5 is 3 or 4 each R is C1 C8 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, benzyl, the moiety L X, or two R or one R2 and R3 together form the moiety CH2 r A2 CH2 S R4 is a substituted C3 C12 alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, alkenyl, aryl or alkaryl group having p sub stitution sites R5 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed X is a nonionic group selected from the group consisting of H, C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester or ether groups, and mixtures thereof L is a hydrophilic chain which contains the polyoxyalkylene moiety R6O m CH2CH2O n , wherein R6 is C3 C4 alkylene or hydroxyalkylene and m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 50t by weight of said polyoxyalkylene moiety d is 1 when M2 is N and is O when M is N n is at least about 12 for said cationic monoamines, is at least about 6 for said cationic diamines, and is at least about 3 for said cationic polyamines and cationic polymers p is from 3 to 8 q is 1 or 0 t is 1 or 0, provided that t is 1 when q is 1. 2. The compound of Claim 1 characterized in that said cationic compound is an ethoxylated cationic monoamine. 3. The compound of Claim 2 characterized in that one R2 is methyl and two R2 are the moiety L X. 4. The compound of Claim 3 characterized in that m is 0 and n is at least about 15. 5. The compound of Claim 1 characterIzed in that said cationic compound Is an ethoxylated cationic diamine. 6. The compound of Claim 5 characterized in that R1 is C2 C6 alkylene. 7. The compound of Claim 6 characterized in that R1 is hexamethyl ene. 8. The compound of Claim 1 characterized in that said cationic compound is an ethoxylated cationic polyamine. 9. The compound of Claim 8 characterized in that R4 is a substituted C3 C6 alkyl, hydroxyalkyl or aryl group A1 isEMI61.1 p is from 3 to 6. 10. The compound of any of Claims 5 9 characterized in that each R2 is methyl or the moiety L X and each R3 is methyl. 11. The compound of any of Claims 5 10 characterized in thatM1 and each M2 are an N group. 12. The compound of Claim 1 characterized in that said cationic compound is an ethoxylated cationic polymer. 13. The compound of Claim 12 characterized in that said backbone is selected from the group consisting of the polyurethanes, the polyesters, the polyethers, the polyamides, the polyimides, the polyacrylates, the polyacrylamides, the polyvinyl ethers, the polyalkylenes, the polyalkarylenes, the polyalkyleneimines, the polyvinylamines, the polyallylamines, the polydiallylamines, the polyvinylpyridines, the polyaminotriazoles, polyvinyl alcohol, the aminopolyureylenes and mixtures thereof. 14. The compound of any of Claims 12 13 characterized in that the ratio of groups M to groups X is from about 2 1 to about 1 10. 15. The compound of any of Claims 12 14 characterized in that units of the polymer containing groups M and L X comprise from about 50 to 100 of the polymer. 16. The compound of any of Claims 12 15 characterized in that the number of groups M and L X are each from about 3 to about 40. 17. The compound of any of Claims 5 16 characterized in that m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 85 by weight of said polyoxyalkylene moiety. 18. The compound of any of Claims 5 17 characterized in that m is 0 and n is at least about 12. 19. The compound of any of Claims 5 18 characterized in thatX is H or methyl ether. 20. The compound of Claim 12 characterized in that said polymer comprises units selected from those having formulas I, II and III EMI62.1 EMI63.1 wherein A1 isEMI63.2 x is O or 1 R is H or C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, cycloalkylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed with A1 when x is 1, R2 is R5 except when A1 isEMI63.3 or is OR or oR5 provided that no 0 0 or N O bonds are formed with A1, and R3 is R5 except when A1 isEMI63.4 or is R80 y or R50 provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed with At when x is 0, R2 is OR8 y , OR5 ,EMI63.5 EMI63.6 and R3 is R5 R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or ÖR hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R5 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X R5 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene, or alkarylene each R6 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety CH2 r A2 CH2 s , wherein A2 is O or CH2 R7 is H or R4 R8 is C2 C3 alkylene or hydroxyalkylene X is H,EMI63.7 R9 or mixture thereof, wherein R9 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl k is O or 1 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH2O n comprises at least about 85X by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2, and r s is 3 or 4 y is from 2 to about 20 the number of u, v and w are such that there are at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups. 21. The compound of Claim 20 characterized in that A1 isEMI64.1 R1 is C2 C6 alkylene, R2 is OR5 or OR8 y R3 R50 or R8O y R4 and R6 are each methyl R5 is C2 C3 alkylene R is H or methyl R8 is ethylene X is H or methyl k is O y is from 2 to about 12. 22. The compound of Claim 12 characterized in that said polymer comprises units selected from those having formulas IV, VEMI64.2 tb and SEP VI SEP SEP 1 SEP t tb SEP A SEP tb SEP 2 SEP J tb SEP R3 2 N SEP R2 SEP k SEP R SEP C3H60 m CH2CH2O SEP n tb SEP IV SEP 1 tb SEP A . SEP R2 SEP tb SEP J SEP R2I tb SEP R2 SEP k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X SEP X tb SEP V SEP VI tb wherein A1 is 0 ,EMI64.3 EMI65.1 R is H or C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl R1 is substituted C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or C2 C3 oxyalkylene each R2 is C1 Cl2 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene each R3 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, the moiety R2 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X, or together form the moiety CH2 r A2 CH2 s , wherein A2 is O or CH2 each R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or two R4 together form the moiety 2 CH2 r A CH2 s , is , EMI65.2 R5 or mixture thereof, wherein R is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl j is 1 or 0 k is 1 or O m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2 and r s is 3 or 4 the number of u, v and w are such that there are at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups. 23. The compound of Claim 22 characterized in that A1 isEMI65.3 or 0 R1 is CH21CH orEMI65.4 each R4 is methyl X is H or methyl k is 0. 24. The compound of any of Claims 20 23 characterized in that v and w are 0 and u is from about 3 to about 40. 25. The compound of Claim 12 characterized in that said polymer comprises units selected from those having formulas VII and VIII. EMI65.5 EMI66.1 wherein R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, cycloalkylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no O N bonds are formed R2 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R R3 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X R3 is C1 C12 alkyl ene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene M is an N orN center X is H,EMI66.2 R4 or mixture thereof, wherein R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl d is 1 when M is and isO when M is N e is 2 when Mt is N and is 1 when M is N k is 1 or 0 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH2O n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 the number of x, y and z are such that there are at least 2 M groups, at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups. 26. The compound of Claim 25 characterized in that R1 is ethylene each R2 is methyl or the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X X is H k is 0. 27. The compound of any of Claims 25 26 characterized in that the M groups are a mixture of from about 50 to 100 centers and from 0 to about 50 N centers. 28. The compound of any of Claims 25 27 characterized in that x y z is from 2 to about 40. 29. The compound of Claim 12 characterized in that said polymer comprises units selected from those having formulas X andXI. EMI67.1 wherein R1 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R2 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X R2 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxylakylene, alkylene, arylene or alkarylene each R3 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or together form the moiety CH9 A CH9 , wherein A is O or CH2 X is H,EMI67.2 R4 or mixtures thereof, 0 wherein R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl k is 1 or 0 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is fromO to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2, and r s is 3 or 4 xis 1 or 0 y is 1 when xis 0 and 0 when xis 1 the number of u and v are such that there are at least 2 centers and at least 2 X groups. 30. The compound of Claim 29 characterized in that R1 is methyl each R3 is methyl X is H k is 0. 31. The compound of any of Claims 29 30 characterized in that v is 0 and u is from about 3 to about 40. 32. The compound of any of Claims 20 31 characterized in that m is 0 and n is at least about 12. 33. A detergent composition characterized in that it conprises a from about 1 to about 75 by weight of a nonionic, anion ampholytic, zwitterionic, or cationic detergent surfactant or mixtures thereof and b from about 0.05 to about 95 by weight of said cationic compound of any of Claims 1 32. 34. The composition of Claim 33 characterized in that it comprises from about 0.1 to about 10 by weight of said cationic compound. 35. The composition of Claim 34 characterized in that it comprises from about 1 to about 3 by weight of said cationic compound. 36. The composition of any of Claims 33 35 characterized in that said detergent surfactant is selected from the group consisting of nonionic surfactants, anionic surfactants or mixtures thereof. 37. The composition of any of Claims 33 36 characterized in that it further comprises from 0 to about 80t by weight of a detergent builder.

## Description
DETERGENT COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING CATIONJC COMPOUNDS HAVING CLAY SOIL REMOVAL ANTI REDEPOSITIoN PROPERTIES Young S. Oh Don N. Rubingh Eugene P. Gosselink TECHNICAL FIELD The present application relates to cationic compounds having clay soil removal anti redeposition properties when used in detergent compositions. A particularly important property of a detergent composition is its ability to remove particulate type soils from a variety of fabrics during laundering. Perhaps the most important particulate soils are the clay type soils. Clay soil particles generally comprise negatively charged layers of aluminosilicates and positively charged cations e.g. calcium which are positioned between and hold together the negatively charged layers. A variety of models can be proposed for compounds which would have clay soil removal properties. One yodel requires that the compound have two distinct characteristics. The first is the ability of the compound to adsorb onto the negatively charged layers of the clay particle. The second is the ability of the compound, once adsorbed, to push apart swell the negatively charged layers so that the clay particle loses its cohesive force and can be removed in the wash water. One class of clay soil removal compounds which appears to work according to this model are the polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,301,044 to Wentler et al., issued November 17, 1981. Representative of such compounds are those having the formula EMI1.1 wherein R is a C14 C20 alkyl group x is 1 or an integer of from 3 to 5 and y is from 6 to 12. See also U.S. Patent 3,929,678 toLaughlin et al., issued December 30, 1975 detergent composition containing polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactant plus other detergent surfactants U.S. Patent 3,925,262 to Laughlin et al., issuedDecember 9, 1975 detergent composition containing polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants with detergent builders U.S.Patent 4,157,277 to Gosselink et al., issued June 26, 1979 C4 polyoxyalkylene zwitterionic surfactants useful in detergent compositions U.S. Patent 4,165,334 to Gosselink et al., issued August 21, 1979 sulfonium type polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants . These polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants are generally compatible with other detergent surfactants such as the nonionic, zwitterionic and ampholytic types. However, as indicated in theWentler et al. patent, most anionic surfactants interfere with the particulate soil removal performance of these compounds anionic soils such as fatty acids likewise interfere. Because anionic detergent surfactants form the most important class of such materials for use in detergent compositions, the lack of compatibility between these polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants and anionic surfactants poses a significant handicap where particulate clay soil removal is desired. In addition to clay soil removal, one of the other properties mentioned in the Laughlin et al. patents with regard to these polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants is the ability to keep the removed soil in suspension during the laundering cycle. Soil which is removed from the fabric and suspended in the wash water can redeposit onto the surface of the fabric. This redeposited soil causes a dulling or graying effect which is especially noticeable on white fabrics. Because soil is normally hydrophobic, this graying effect is a particularly important problem for those fabrics made in total or in part from hydrophobic fibers, e.g. polyester. To minimize this problem, anti redeposition or whiteness maintenance agents can be included in the detergent composition.Besides the previously mentioned polyethoxy zwitterionic surfactants, there are a variety of other compounds which can be used as anti redeposition agents. One class of agents are the watersoluble copolymers of acrylic or methacrylic acid with acrylic or methacrylic acid ethylene oxide condensates disclosed in U.S.Patent 3,719,647 to Hardy et al., issued March 6, 1973. Another class of anti redeposition agents are the cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose derivatives disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,597,416 to Diehl, issued August 3, 1971 ionic combination of dodecyltrimethyl phosphonium chloride and sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , and U.S. Patent 3,523,088 to Dean et al., issuedAugust 4, 1970 anti redeposition agent consisting of alkali metal carboxymethylcellulose and hydroxypropylcellulose . A mixture of compounds has also been used to provide not only anti redeposition, but also clay soil removal properties. See U.S.Patent 4,228,044 to Cambre, issued October 14, 1980, which discloses detergent compositions having anti redeposition and clay soil removal properties which can comprise a nonionic alkyl polyethoxy surfactant, a polyethoxy alkyl quaternary cationic surfactant and a fatty amide surfactant. These anti redeposition agents do have a number of significant handicaps. While effective to keep soil suspended, these compounds may lack additional clay soil removal properties.Moreover, as disclosed in the Diehl and Dean et al. patents, mixtures of compounds can be required to achieve the antiredeposition benefit. To the extent that there are combined anti redeposition clay soil removal benefits as disclosed in theCambre patent, mixtures of compounds are also required. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide compounds useful in detergent compositions which provide particulate soil, in particular clay soil, removal benefits. It is a further object of the present invention to provide compounds useful in detergent compositions which provide clay soil removal benefits and are anionic detergent surfactant compatible. It is yet another object of the present invention to provide compounds useful in detergent compositions having anti redeposition properties. It is yet a further object of the present invention to provide compounds useful in detergent compositions which combine both clay soil removal and anti redeposition properties. These and further objects of the present invention are hereinafter disclosed. BACKGROUND ART U. S. Patent 3,838,057 to Barnes et al., issued September 24, 1974, discloses toilet bars containing ethoxylated quaternary ammonium compounds, including ethoxylated, quaternized polyethyleneimines PEIs taught to be useful in the detergent, textile, and polymer industries, as anti static and softening agents. These ethoxylated quaternized PEIs have the formula EMI4.1 wherein R1 is a compatible quaternary nitrogen substituent n is at least 2 x is from 3 to 40 and X is a compatible anion.Preferred compounds are those where R1 is a C8 C22 alkyl group or the group R COO EO y CH2CHOHCH2where R is a C8 C22 alkyl group and y is from 3 to 40. See also U. S. Patent 4,179,382 to Rudkin et al., issued December 18, 1979 U. S. Patent 4,152,272 to Young, issued May 1, 1979 andEuropean Application 2,085 to Rudkin et al., published May 30, 1979, which disclose ethoxylated quaternized polyamines having C10 to C24 alkyl or alkenyl groups attached to one of the nitrogen atoms useful as fabric softeners. U.S. Patent 3,671,305 to Brown et al. issued June 20, 1972, discloses zwitterionic monomers which form polymers used to treat films, sheets, and filamentary materials so as to give them a durable, hydrophilic, anti static, anti soiling, soil releasing finish. These monomers have the formula EMI4.2 R wherein n is 0 to 10 R0 is hydrogen or methyl Z is oxygen or NH A can be a C2 C3 alkylene group te.g. ethylene when n is 1 10 R and R2 can be C1 C4 alkyl A is C1 C4 alkylene, and R can be SO2. U.S. Patent 3,671,502 to Samour et al. issued June 20, 1972, discloses co polymers useful as binders in the production of non wovens. These co polymers consist essentially of from about 5 to about 90 of a monomer having the formula EMI5.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen or methyl A is oxygen or NH R2 is ethylene, propylene, 2 hydroxypropylene or 2 acetoxypropylene R3 and R4 are alkyl n1 is 1 to 4 and X is 503 or CO2 and from about 10 to about 95 by weight of a hydroxyacrylate such as a polyglycerol acrylate methacrylate having the formula EMI5.2 wherein R is hydrogen or methyl R is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxy n2 is 0 when R is hydrogen or methyl e.g. an ethylene group and n3 is 2 to 4. U. S. Patent 3,301,783 to Dickson, et al., issued January 31, 1967, discloses oxyalkylated, acylated, alkylated, carbonylated and olefinated derivatives of polyalkyleneimines, in particular polyethyleneimines PEIs . For the oxyalkylated derivatives, the alkylene oxide e.g. ethylene oxide is reacted with the polyalkyleneimine in a mole ratio of from 1 1 to 1000 1, and preferably in a ratio of from 1 1 to 200 1. Among the ethoxylatedPEIs disclosed are Examples 1 07 and 1 8 formed by condensing 105 and 200 moles, respectively, of ethylene oxide with a 900 M.W.PEI. The degree of ethoxylation calculates out to about 4.5 and about 8 ethoxy groups per reactive site, respectively. See alsoExamples 27 05 and 27 06 which disclose ethoxylated polypropyleneimines M.W. 500 which have about 4 and about 8 ethoxy units per reactive site, respectively. Amongst the numerous disclosed uses of these polyalkyleneimine derivatives is a teaching that they are useful as detergents, softening agents, and anti static agents. Preferred uses disclosed by this patent are as chelating agents, lubricating oil additives, emulsifying agents, and cutting oils. U.S. Patent 2,792,371 to Dickson, issued May 14, 1957, teaches a process for breaking petroleum emulsions with oxyalkylated tetraethylene pentaamines TEPA . Ethoxylated TEPAs specifically disclosed include those having about 5 Example 3aa , about 7 Example 4aa , about 8.5 Example 5a and about 15.5 Example Bc ethoxy units per reactive site. Similarly, U.S.patent 2,792,370 to Dickson issued May 14, 1957, teaches a process for breaking petroleum emulsions with oxyalkylated triethylene tetramines TETAs including those having about 5.5 Example 3aa , about 7.5 Example 4aa , about 9 Example 5a and about 16.5 Example Bc ethoxy units per reactive site. See also U. S.patent 2,792,372 to Dickson, issued May 14, 1957, oxyalkylated higher PEAs used to break petroleum emulsions U. S. patent 2,792,369 to Dickson, issued May 14, 1957 oxyalkylated diethylene triamines used to break petroleum emulsions . U. S. Patent 4,171,278 to Andree et al., issued October 16, 1979, discloses cold water detergent compositions containing a detergent surfactant e.g. anionic and a hydroxyalkyl amine in a weight ratio of 100 1 to 1 1. The amine can have the formula EMI6.1 wherein 1 is C16 alkyl R2 is H or C1 C alkyl R1 R2 have 6 20 carbon atoms R4 is H or methyl m, n, and o, are each 0 to 3 and A is bridging group such asEMI6.2 wherein R3 is H or methyl x is 2 to 6 y is 1 to 3 and p is 0 to 3 the sum of m to p being 1 to 5.5, and preferably 1 to 2.See also German Patent Document 2,165,900 to Henkel, published July 5, 1973, which discloses a washing agent for graying prevention formed by the reaction product of a PEI with an alkylglycidylether and ethylene oxide 2 hydroxyethyl moiety at each reactive site . There are several patents which disclose detergent compositions, shampoo compositions and the like containing slightly ethoxylated PEIs ethylene oxide PEI weight ratio of 4 1 or less to enhance the deposition and retention of particulate substances such as antimicrobials. See, for example, U.S. Patent 3,489,686 to Parran, issued January 13, 1970 U.S. Patent 3,580,853 to Parran, issued May 25, 1971 British PatentSpecification 1,111,708 to Procter Gamble published May 1, 1968,U.S. Patent 3,549,546 to Moore, issued December 22, 1970 and U.S.Patent 3,549,542 to Holderby, issued December 22, 1970. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to detergent compositions which comprise from about 0.05 to about 95 by weight of water soluble cationic compounds having clay soil removal 1 anti redeposition properties. These compounds are selected from the group consisting of 1 ethoxylated cationic monoamines having the formula EMI7.1 2 ethoxylated cationic diamines having the formula EMI7.2 wherein M1 is an N or N group each M2 is an N or N group, and at least one M2 is an N group 3 ethoxylated cationic polyamines having the formula EMI8.1 4 ethoxylated cationic polymers which comprise a polymer backbone, at least 2 M groups and at least one L X group, wherein M is a cationic group attached to or integral with the backbone and contains an N positively charged center and L connects groups M and X or connects group X to the polymer backbone and 5 mixtures thereof wherein A1 isEMI8.2 EMI8.3 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no O N bonds are formed each R2 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, the moiety L X or two R2 together form the moiety CH2 r A CH2 S , wherein A2 is 0 or CH2 , r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2 and r s is 3 or 4 each R3 is C1 C8 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, benzyl, the moiety L X, or two R or one R2 and one R3 together form the moiety CH2 r A2 CH2 s R4 is a substituted C3 C12 alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, alkenyl, aryl or alkaryl group having p substitution sites R5 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed X is a nonionic group selected from the group consisting of H, C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester or ether groups, and mixtures thereof L is a hydrophilic chain which contains the polyoxyalkylene moiety R 0 m CH2CH2O n wherein R6 is C3 C4 alkylene or hydroxyalkylene and m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 50 by weight of said polyoxyalkylene moiety d is 1 when M is N and is O when M is N n is at least about 12 for said cationic monoamines, is at least about 6 for said cationic diamines and is at least about 3 for said cationic polyamines and cationic polymers p is from 3 to 8 q is 1 or 0 t is 1 or 0, provided that t is 1 when q is 1 In addition to the cationic compounds, the detergent compositions further comprise from about 1 to about 75 by weight of a nonionic, anionic, ampholytic, zwitterionic, or cationic detergent surfactant or mixture thereof. In addition to these detergent surfactants, the detergent composition can optionally comprise from 0 to about 80 by weight of a detergent builder. The cationic compounds of the present invention provide clay soil removal benefits while being anionic detergent surfactant compatible. It is believed that the positively charged cationic groups cause adsorption of the compound onto the negatively charged layers of the clay particle. It is also believed that the hydrophilic ethoxy units attached to the compound swell the clay particle so that it loses its cohesive character and is swept away in the wash water. The anti redeposition benefits provided by these cationic compounds are also believed to be due to the positively charged cationic groups which cause it to be adsorbed onto soil suspended in the wash water. As more and more of these compounds adsorb onto the suspended soil, it becomes encased within a hydrophilic layer provided by the attached ethoxy units. As such, the hydrophilically encased soil is prevented from redepositing on fabrics, in particular hydrophobic fabrics such as polyester, during the laundering cycle. Cationic Amines The water soluble cationic compounds of the present invention useful in detergent compositions include ethoxylated cationic monoamines, ethoxylated cationic diamines and ethoxylated cationic polyamines as previously defined. In the preceding formulas for the cationic amines , R1 can be branched e.g.EMI10.1 tb SEP CH3 tb CH2 CH , SEP CH2 CH SEP SEP cyclic SEP e.g. tb SEP CH3 SEP 0 tb or SEP most SEP pref SEP linear SEP e.g. SEP CH2CH2 , SEP CH2 CH2 CH2 , tb CH2 CH alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, alkarylene or oxyalkylene. R1is preferably C2 C6 alkylene for the ethoxylated cationic diamines. Each R2 is preferably methyl or the moiety L X each R3 is preferably C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, and most preferably methyl. The positive charge of the N groups is offset by the appropriate number of counter anions. Suitable counter anions include Cl , Br , SO32, SO42, PO42, MeOSO3 and the like. Particularly preferred counter anions are Cl and Br. X can be a nonionic group selected from hydrogen H , C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester or ether groups, or mixtures thereof.Preferred esters or ethers are the acetate ester and methyl ether, respectively. The particularly preferred nonionic groups are H and the methyl ether. In the preceding formulas, hydrophilic chain L usually consists entirely of the polyoxyalkylene moiety R6O m CH2CH2 On . The moieties R6O m and CH2CH2O n of the polyoxyalkylene moiety can be mixed together or preferably form blocks of R60 in and CH2CH2O n moieties. R6 is preferably C3H6 propylene m is preferably from 0 to about 5 and is most preferably 0, i.e. the polyoxyalkylene moiety consists entirely of the moiety CH2CH2O n . The moiety CH2CH2O n preferably comprises at least about 85 by weight of the polyoxyalkylene moiety and most preferably 100 by weight m is 0 . In the preceding formulas, M1 and each M2 are preferably an group for the cationic diamines and polyamines. Preferred ethoxylated cationic monoamines and diamines have the formula EMI11.1 wherein X and n are defined as before, a is from 0 to 4 e.g.ethylene, propylene, hexamethylene b is 1 or 0. For preferred cationic monoamines b O , n is preferably at least about 12, with a typical range of from about 15 to about 35. For preferred cationic diamines b 1 , n is at least about 12 with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42. In the preceding formula for the ethoxylated cationic polyamines, R4 linear, branched, or cyclic is preferably a substituted C3 C6 alkyl, hydroxyalkyl or 0 aryl group A1 is preferably CN n is preferably at least about H 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42 p is preferably from 3 to 6. When R4 is a substituted aryl or alkaryl group, q is preferably 1 and R5 is preferably C2 C3 alkylene.When R4 is a substituted alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, or alkenyl group, and when q is 0, R5 is preferably a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety when q is 1, R5 is preferably C2 C3 alkylene. These ethoxylated cationic polyamines can be derived from polyamino amides such as EMI11.2 These ethoxylated cationic polyamines can also be derived from polyaminopropyleneoxide derivatives such as EMI12.1 wherein each c is a number from 2 to about 20. Methods for Making Cationic Amines A. Method 1 Cationic amines of the present invention can be prepared according to the following scheme EMI13.1 The synthesis of one such cationic amine is described as follows Example 1Step 1 Ethoxylation N 2 hydroxyethylmorpholine 0.8 moles is placed in a flask equipped with mechanical stirrer, condenser, argon inlet, ethylene oxide sparger, and internal thermometer. After purging with argon, NaH 0.2 moles is added to the flask. The reaction mixture is stirred until the NaH has reacted. Ethylene oxide is then added with vigorous stirring while maintaining the temperature at about 80 120 C. The reaction is stopped when the ethoxylated compound has a degree of ethoxylation of about 11.Step 2 Quaternization The ethoxylated compound 0.03 moles from step 1 is mixed with 1,6 dibromohexane 0.015 moles . The reaction mixture is mixed, sealed in a jar, and heated to 80 C for ten days to provide crude quaternized 1,6 bis N morpholiniopolyethoxylate 11 l hex ane dibromide. B. Method 2 The ethoxylated cationic amines of the present invention can also be prepared by standard methods for ethoxylating and quaternizing amines. There is preferably an initial step of condensing sufficient ethylene oxide to provide 2 hydroxyethyl groups at each reactive site hydroxyethylation . This initial step can be omitted by starting with a 2 hydroxyethyl amine. The appropriate amount of ethylene oxide is then condensed with these 2 hydroxyethylamines using an alkali metal e.g., sodium, potassium , or a hydride or hydroxide thereof, as the catalyst to provide the respective ethoxylated amines. The total degree of ethoxylation per reactive site n can be determined according to the following formula Degree of Ethoxylation E A x R wherein E is the total number of moles of ethylene oxide condensed including hydroxyethylation , A is the number of moles of the starting amine, and R is the number of reactive sites typically 3 for the mono amines, 4 for diamines, and 2 x p for polyamines for the starting amine. The ethoxylated amine can then be quaternized with an alkyl halide such as methyl bromide to form the ethoxylated cationic amine. Representative syntheses of ethoxylated cationic amines of the present invention by this method are as follows Example 2aStep 1 Ethoxylation 1,6 hexamethylenediamine 100 g., 0.86 moles was placed in a flask and heated under argon to 850C. Ethylene oxide EO was bubbled into the flask. The reaction temperature was gradually raised to 1200C over a time period of about 7.5 hours and then raised briefly to 1580C and cooled back to 100 C. H NMR indicated that about 4 moles of EO had been incorporated at this point. Sodium spheres 1.24 g., 0.05 moles were added and the reaction was stirred overnight after which the sodium had been consumed. The addition of EO was resumed and the reaction temperature raised to 1200C. After about 3 hours, H NMR indicated that about 10 moles of EO had been incorporated per mole of the diamine. An additional portion of sodium spheres 3.6 g., 0.15 moles was added and ethoxylation was continued. The temperature was allowed to rise to 125 130 C. Ethoxylation was continued for about 22 hours. The reaction was terminated when about 96 moles of EO had been taken up per mole of the diamine to give a total degree of ethoxylation of about 24.Step 2 Quaternization A portion of the ethoxylated diamine 25 g., 0.0057 moles from step 1 was quaternized by first dissolving the diamine in methanol 100 ml. containing a little NaOH. An excess of methyl bromide was added using a dry ice condenser. The reaction mixture was allowed to stand overnight after which the pH.had dropped to about 4. NaOH in methanol was added to raise the pH to about 9.The quaternized compound was isolated by stripping off the methanol and remaining methyl bromide. The resulting moist material was washed with several portions of dichloromethane. The combined dichloromethane washes were filtered to remove solids and stripped to yield 27.5 g. of a yellow oil that solidified at room temperature. This oil contained the ethoxylated quaternized diamine. Example 2bStep 1 Ethoxylation Dried triethanolamine TEA 16.01 g., 0.107 moles was catalyzed with 0.5 g. 0.0125 moles 60 NaH in mineral oil.Ethylene oxide EO was then added under atmospheric pressure with stirring at 1500 1700C. After 23 hrs. 36.86 g. 8.38 moles of EO had been added to give a calculated total degree of ethoxylation of 26.1. The ethoxylated TEA PEl 17 was a light brown waxy solid.Step 2 Quaternization A portion of the ethoxylated TEA 31.68 g., 0.0088 moles from step 1 was dissolved in H20 to give about a 50 solution.The solution was heated 60 70 C while being stirred magnetically.Methyl bromide gas was swept through the reactor for 8 hrs., with sodium bicarbonate being added as needed to maintain the pH at 7 or greater. After quaternization, the solution was dialized for 3 hrs. to remove the salts. Then the solution was diluted two give 10 aqueous slightly cloudy gold colored solution containing the ethoxylated, quaternized TEA. Cationic Polymers The water soluble cationic polymers of the present invention comprise a polymer backbone, at least 2 M groups and at least oneL X group, wherein M is a cationic group attached to or integral with the backbone X is a nonionic group selected from the group consisting of H, C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester or ether groups, and mixtures thereof and L is a hydrophilic chain connecting groups M and X or connecting X to the polymer backbone. As used herein, the term polymer backbone refers to the polymeric moiety to which groups M and L X are attached to or integral with. Included within this term are oligomer backbones 2 to 4 units , and true polymer backbones 5 or more units . As used herein, the term attached to means that the group is pendent from the polymer backbone, examples of which are represented by the following general structures A and B EMI17.1 As used herein, the term integral with means that the group forms part of the polymer backbone, examples of which are represented by the following general structures C and D EMI17.2 Any polymer backbone can be used as long as the cationic polymer formed is water soluble and has clay soil removal anti redeposition properties.Suitable polymer backbones can be derived from the polyurethanes, the polyesters, the polyethers, the polyamides, the polyimides and the like, the polyacrylates, the polyacrylamides, the polyvinyl ethers, the polyethylenes, the polypropylenes and like polyalkylenes, the polystyrenes and like polyalkarylenes, the polyalkyleneamines, the polyalkyleneimines, the polyvinylamines, the polyallylamines, the polydiallylamines, the polyvinylpyridines, the polyaminotriazoles, polyvinyl alcohol, the aminopolyureylenes, and mixtures thereof. M can be any compatible cationic group which comprises an quaternary , positively charged center. The quaternary positively charged center can be represented by the following general structures E and F EMI17.3 Particularly preferred M groups are those containing a quaternary center represented by general structure E. The cationic group is preferably positioned close to or integral with the polymer backbone. The positive charge of the N centers is offset by the appropriate number of counter anions . Suitable counter anions include Cm , Br, S03 2, S04 2, PO42 MeOSO3 and the like.Particularly preferred counter anions are Cl and Br . X can be a nonionic group selected from hydrogen H , C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl ester or ether groups, and mixtures thereofThe preferred ester or ether groups are the acetate ester and methyl ether, respectively. The particularly preferred nonionic groups are H and the methyl ether. The cationic polymers of the present invention normally have a ratio of cationic groups M to nonionic groups X of from about 1 1 to about 1 2. However, for example, by appropriate copolymerization of cationic, nonionic i.e. containing the groupL X , and mixed cationic nonionic monomers, the ratio of cationic groups M to nonionic groups X can be varied The ratio of groupsM to groups X can usually range from about 2 1 to about 1 10. In preferred cationic polymers, the ratio is from about 1 1 to about 1 5. The polymers formed from such copolymerization are typically random, i.e. the cationic, nonionic, and mixed cationic nonionic monomers copolymerize in a nonrepeating sequence. The units which contain groups M and groups L X can comprise 100 of the cationic polymers of the present invention. However, inclusion of other units preferably nonionic in the polymers is also permissible. Examples of other units include acrylamides, vinyl ethers, and those containing unquaternized tertiary amine groups M1 containing an N center. These other units can comprise from 0 to about 90 of the polymer from about 10 to 100 of the polymer being units containing M and L X groups, includingM1 L X groups . Normally, these other units comprise from 0 to about 50 of the polymer from about 50 to 100 of the polymer being units containing M and L X groups . The number of groups M and L X each usually ranges from about 2 to about 200. Typically, the number of groups M and L X are each from about 3 to about 100. Preferably, the number of groupsM and L X are each from about 3 to about 40. Other than moieties for connecting groups M and X, or for attachment to the polymer backbone, hydrophilic chain L usually consists entirely of the polyoxyalkylene moiety R O m CH2CH2O n The moieties R O m and CH2CH20 n of the polyoxyalkylene moiety can be mixed together, or preferably form blocks of R O m and CH2CH20 n moieties. R is preferably C3H6 propylene m is preferably from 0 to about 5, and most preferably 0 i.e. the polyoxyalkylene moiety consists entirely of the moiety CH2CH2O n . The moiety CX2CH2O n preferably comprises at least about 85 by weight of the polyoxyalkylene moiety, and most preferably 100 by weight m is 0 .For the moiety CH2CH20 n , n is usually from about 3 to about 100. Preferably, n is from about 12 to about 42. A plurality 2 or more of moieties L X can also be hooked together and attached to group M or to the polymer backbone, examples of which are represented by the following general structures G and H EMI19.1 Structures such as G and H can be formed, for example, by reacting glycidol with group M or with the polymer backbone, and ethoxylating the subsequently formed hydroxy groups. Representative classes of cationic polymers of the present invention are as follows A. Polyurethane, Polyester, Polyether, Polyamide or LikePolymers One class of suitable cationic polymers are derived from polyurethanes, polyesters, polyethers, polyamides and the like.These polymers comprise units selected from those having formulas I, II and III EMI20.1 wherein A1 isEMI20.2 x is O or 1 R is H or C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, cycloalkylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed with A1 when x is 1, R2 is R5 except when A1 isEMI20.3 or is OR8 .. or OR5provided that no 0 0 or N O bonds are formed with A1, and R3 is R5 except when A1 isEMI20.4 or is . R8O or R5O provided that no 0 0 or O N bonds are formed with A when x is O.R2 isEMI20.5 orEMI20.6 and R3 is R5 , R4 is Cl C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R5 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X R5 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene, or alkarylene each R6 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety CH2 r A2 tCH2 S , wherein A2 is O or CH2 R7 is H or R4 R8 is C2 C3 alkylene or hydroxyalkylene X is H,EMI21.1 R9 or a mixture thereof, whereinR9 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl k is O or 1 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH20 n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from O to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2, and r s is 3 or 4 y is from 2 to about 20 the number of u, v and ware such that there are at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups.In the above formulas, A1 is preferablyEMI21.2 AZ is preferably 0 x is preferably 1 and R is preferably H.R1 can be linear e.g. CH2 CH2 CH2 ,EMI21.3 or branched e.g.EMI21.4 alkytene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, cycloalkylene, alkarylene or oxyalkylene when R1 is a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety, the number of oxyalkylene units is preferably from about 2 to about 12 R1 is preferably C2 C6 alkylene or phenylene, and most preferably C2 C6 alkylene e.g. ethylene, propylene, hexamethylene . R2 iS preferably OR5 or OR8 y R3 is preferably R5O or R8O y R4 and R6 are preferably methyl. Like R1, R5 can be linear or branched, and is preferably C2 C3 alkylene R7 is preferably H orC1 C3 alkyl R8is preferably ethylene R9 is preferably methyl X is preferably H or methyl k is preferably 0 m is preferably 0 r and s are each preferably 2 y is preferably from 2 to about 12. In the above formulas, n is preferably at least about 6 when the number of N centers and X groups is 2 or 3 n is most preferably at least about 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42 for all ranges of u v w. For homopolymers v and w are 0 , u is preferably from about 3 to about 40, and is most preferably from about 3 to about 20. For random copolymers u is at least 1 or preferably 0 , v and w are each preferably from about 3 to about 40. B. Polyacrylate, Polyacrylamide, Polyvinyl ether or LikePolymers Another class of suitable cationic polymers are derived from polyacrylates, polyacrylamides, polyvinyl ethers and the like.These polymers comprise units selected from those having formulasEMI22.1 tb IV, SEP V SEP and SEP VIj tb SEP r SEP R1 SEP n tb SEP SEP I SEP lu tb SEP 2 SEP tAl tb SEP R3 2NR2 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O tb SEP I SEP V SEP f SEP R1t tb SEP L SEP 1 SEP J SEP tb SEP 3D R4f3 tb SEP 3vmL SEP n tb SEP V SEP VI tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 00 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 1 SEP II SEP II SEP A SEP II SEP H SEP II SEP I tb O , SEP n SEP is SEP 0 , SEP NC , SEP N1 SEP CO , SEP CN1C , SEP CN1 , SEP ON1 tb SEP R SEP R SEP R SEP R SEP R tb SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 08 , SEP OC0 , SEP CO , SEP or SEP NCN SEP R SEP is SEP H SEP or SEP C1 SEP C4 SEP alkyl SEP or tb hydroxyalkyl R1 is substituted C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene, or C2 C3 oxyalkylene each R2 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene each R3 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, the moiety R2 k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X, or together form the moiety CH2 r A CH2 s , wherein A2 is O or CH2 each R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or two R4 together form the moiety CH2 r A CH2 s X is H,EMI22.2 R5 or mixture thereof, wherein R5 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl j is 1 or 0 k is 1 or 0 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH2O comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2 and r s is 3 or 4 the number of u, v and ware such that there are at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups.In the above formulas, A1 is preferablyEMI23.1 or 0 A2 is preferably 0 R is preferably H. R1 can be linear e.g.EMI23.2 tb SEP CH3 tb CH2 CH CH2 , SEP CH SEP CH SEP or SEP branched SEP e.g. SEP CH2 C , SEP CH2CH , tb SEP CH2 tb SEP CH3 SEP 101 tb CH SEP C SEP CHC SEP substituted SEP alkylene, SEP hydroxyalkylene, tb SEP IO SEP ffi SEP 2 tb alkenylene, alkarylene or oxyalkylene R is preferably substituted C2 C6 alkylene or substituted C2 C3 oxyalkylene, and most preferably CH2CH orEMI23.3 Each R2 is preferably C2 C3 alkylene each Ra and Rb are preferably methyl RJ is preferably methyl X is preferably H or methyl j is preferably 1 k is preferably 0 m is preferably 0 r and s are each preferably 2. In the above formulas, n, u, v and w can be varied according to the n, u, v and w for the polyurethane and like polymers. C. Polyalkyleneamine, Polyalkyleneimine or Like Polymers Another class of suitable cationic polymers are derived from polyalkyleneamines, polyalkyleneimines and the like. These polymers comprise units selected from those having formulas VII and VIII and IX EMI23.4 EMI24.1 wherein R1 is C2 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, cycloalkylene, arylene or alkarylene, or a C2 C3 oxyalkylene moiety having from 2 to about 20 oxyalkylene units provided that no O N bonds are formed each R2 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R k C3H6O m CH2CH2O n X R3 iS C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxyalkylene, alkenylene, arylene or alkarylene M is an N or N center X is H,EMI24.2 R4 or mixture thereof, wherein R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl d is 1 when M is and isO when M is N e is 2 when M is N and is 1 when M is N k is 1 or 0 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH2O n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H6O m CH2CH2O n m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 the number of x, y and z are such that there are at least 2 M groups, at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups. In the above formulas, R1 can be varied like R1 of the polyurethane and like polymers each R2 is preferably methyl or the moiety R k C3H6O m CH2CH20 n X, R3is preferably C2 C3 alkylene R4 is preferably methyl, X is preferably H k is preferably 0 m is preferably 0. In the above formulas, n is preferably at least about 6 when the number of M and X groups is 2 or 3 n is most preferably at least about 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42 for all ranges of x y z. Typically, x y z is from 2 to about 40, and preferably from 2 to about 20. For short chain length polymers, x y z can range from 2 to 9 with from 2 to 9N centers and from 2 to 11 X groups. For long chain length polymers, x y z is at least 10, with a preferred range of from 10 to about 42. For the short and long chain length polymers, theM groups are typically a mixture of from about 50 to 100 N centers and from 0 to about 50 N centers. Preferred cationic polymers within this class are derived from the C2 C3 polyalkyleneamines x y z is from 2 to 9 and polyalkyleneimines x y z is at least 10, preferably from 10 to about 42 . Particularly preferred cationic polyalkyleneamines and polyalkyleneimines are the cationic polyethyleneamines PEAs and polyethyleneimines PEIs . These preferred cationic polymers comprise units having the general formula EMI25.1 wherein R preferably methyl , M , X, d, x, y, z and n are defined as before a is 1 or 0. Prior to ethoxylation, the PEAs used in preparing cationic polymers of the present invention have the following general formula LH2N a tCH2CH2N X tCH2CH2N y FCH2CH2NH2lz wherein x y z is from 2 to 9, and a is O or 1 molecular weight of from about 100 to about 400 . Each hydrogen atom attached to each nitrogen atom represents an active site for subsequent ethoxylation. For preferred PEAs, x y z is from about 3 to about 7 molecular weight of from about 140 to about 310 These PEAs can be obtained by reactions involving ammonia and ethylene dichloride, followed by fractional distillation. The common PEAs obtained are triethylenetetramine TETA a nd tetraethylenepentamine TEPA .Above the pentamines, i.e., the hexamines, heptamines, octamines and possibly nonamines, the cogenerically derived mixture does not appear to separate by distillation and can include other materials such as cyclic amines and particularly piperazines. There can also be present cyclic amines with side chains in which nitrogen atoms appear. See U.S.Patent 2,792,372 to Dickson, issued May 14, 1957, which describes the preparation of PEAs. The minimum degree of ethoxylation required for preferred clay soil removal anti redeposition performance can vary depending upon the number of units in the PEA. Where y z is 2 or 3, n is preferably at least about 6. Where y z is from 4 to 9, suitable benefits are achieved when n is at least about 3. For preferred cationic PEAs, n is at least about 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42. The PEIs used in preparing the polymers of the present invention have a molecular weight of at least about 440 prior to ethoxylation, which represents at least about 10 units. PreferredPEIs used in preparing these polymers have a molecular weight of from about 600 to about 1800. The polymer backbone of these PEIs can be represented by the general formula EMI26.1 wherein the sum of x, y and z represents a number of sufficient magnitude to yield a polymer having the molecular weights previously specified. Although linear polymer backbones are possible, branch chains can also occur. The relative proportions of primary, secondary and tertiary amine groups present in the polymer can vary, depending on the manner of preparation.The distribution of amine groups is typically as follows EMI26.2 Each hydrogen atom attached to each nitrogen atom of the PEI represents an active site for subsequent ethoxylation. These PEIs can be prepared, for example, by polymerizing ethyleneimine in the presence of a catalyst such as carbon dioxide, sodium bisulfite, sulfuric acid, hydrogen peroxide, hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, etc. Specific methods for preparing PEIs are disclosed in U.S.Patent 2,182,306 to Ulrich et al., issued December 5, 1939 U.S Patent 3,033,746 to Mayle et al., issued May 8, 1962 U.S. Patent 2,208,095 to Esselmann et al., issued July 16, 1940 U.S. Patent 2,806,839 to Crowther, issued September 17, 1957 and U.S. Patent 2,553,696 to Wilson, issued May 21, 1951 all herein incorporated by reference . As defined in the preceding formulas, n is at least about 3 for the cationic PEIs. However, it should be noted that the minimum degree of ethoxylation required for suitable clay soil removal anti redeposition performance can increase as the molecular weight of the PEI increases, especially much beyond about 1800. Also, the degree of ethoxylation for preferred polymers increases as the molecular weight of the PEI increases. For PEIs having a molecular weight of at least about 600, n is preferably at least about 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42. For PEIs having a molecular weight of at least 1800, n is preferably at least about 24, with a typical range of from about 24 to about 42. D. Diallylamine Polymers Another class of suitable cationic polymers are those derived from the diallylamines. These polymers comprise units selected from those havinq formulas X and XI EMI27.1 wherein R1 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or the moiety R k C3H60 m CH2CH20 n R2 is C1 C12 alkylene, hydroxylakylene, alkylene, arylene or alkarylene each R3 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl, or together form the moiety CH2 r A CH, , . wherein A is 0 or CH2 X is H,EMI27.2 R4 or mixture thereof, wherein R4 is C1 C4 alkyl or hydroxyalkyl k is 1 or 0 m and n are numbers such that the moiety CH2CH2O n comprises at least about 85 by weight of the moiety C3H60 m CH2CH203n3 m is from 0 to about 5 n is at least about 3 r is 1 or 2, s is 1 or 2, and r s Is 3 or 4 xis 1 or O y is 1 when x is 0 and 0 when x is 1 the number of u and v are such that there are at least 2 N centers and at least 2 X groups. In the above formulas, A is preferably 0 R1 is preferably methyl each R2 is preferably C2 C3 alkylene each R3 is preferably methyl R4 is preferably methyl X is preferably H k is preferably 0 m is preferably 0 r and s are each preferably 2. In the above formulas, n is preferably at least about 6 when the number of N centers and X groups are each 2 or 3, n is preferably at least 12, with a typical range of from about 12 to about 42 for all ranges of u v. Typically, v is 0, and u is from 2 to about 40, and preferably from 2 to about 20. Methods for Making Cationic PolymersA. Polyurethane The polyurethane versions of the present invention can be prepared according to the following general scheme. EMI29.1 EMI29.2 EMI29.3 Example 3Step 1 Ethoxylation The monotetrahydropyranyl ether of diethylene glycol 1.77 moles Compt. Rend., 260, 1399 1401 1965 is ethoxylated using 5 mole NaH to generate a catalytic amount of the corresponding alkoxide. Ethoxylation is conducted at 90e 1200C until about 22 moles n 22 of ethylene oxide is taken up for each mole of the starting alcohol to form the ethoxylated compound.Step 2 Tosylation The ethoxylated compound from step 1 is dissolved in 1000 ml.of acetonitrile and then cooled to about 10 C. To this solution is added 2.67 moles of tosyl chloride dissolved in 500 ml. of acetonitrile and cooled to 10 C and then 2.9 moles of triethylamine is added. After the reaction is complete, H20 is added to decompose the remaining tosyl chloride.Step 3 Amination To the reaction mixture from step 3 is added 3.4 moles of diethanolamine. After heating for 18 hrs. at 80 C, the reaction mixture is cooled and carefully acidified with HCl to a pH just above 7 and then extracted with ether. The aqueous phase is then extracted with a mixture of ether acetonitrile ratio of about 5 2 twice. The aqueous phase is separated and then made basic with 50 NaOH. This aqueous phase is extracted with dichloromethane 2000 ml. . The lower layer is separated and then extracted 3 times with 2000 ml. portions of 1 4 saturated NaCl solution while adding enough 50 NaOH to make the aqueous phase strongly basic pH of about 11 . The lower organic layer is stripped to give the desired aminated compound. Toluene 200 ml. is added and the mixture stripped again to give the desired aminated monomer.Step 4 Polymerization The monomer from step 3 is dissolved in chloroform free of ethanol stabilizer. The monomer is previously evacuated in aKugelrohr at 800 900C under a vacuum pressure of 1 mm. for at least 18 hours. The monomer in the chloroform is then dried overnight with 3A molecular sieves and then transferred to a dry flask equipped with mechanical stirrer under argon. To the monomer is added dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst 0.058 mole equiv. in chloroform under argon. To the stirred reaction mixture is then added 0.7 moles of hexamethylenediisocyanate per mole of aminated monomer over a 5 minute period. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The chloroform is removed under a vacuum at about 70 C to give the resulting polymer.Step 5 Quaternization and Removal of Protecting Groups The polymer from step 4 is dissolved in methanol and an excess of methyl bromide is passed in. After about 5 hours, the pH is adjusted to about 4 with aqueous HCl and is then allowed to stand overnight to solvolyze the tetrahydropyranyl protecting group. The solution is then neutralized with NaOH and stripped to give the crude polyurethane. This crude polyurethane is dissolved in chloroform and filtered to remove any salts. The chloroform is stripped away to give the desired, largely salt free polymer. B. Random Copolymer of Ethoxylated Acrylate and a Cationic Methacryl ami de The random copolymer versions of the present invention can be prepared according to the following general scheme EMI32.1 The synthesis of one such random copolymer is described as follows Example 4 Decaethylene glycol monomethacrylate monomer 0.008 moles and N 3 dimethylaminopropyl methacrylamide monomer 0.011 moles are dissolved in 40 ml. of acetonitrile. The reaction mixture is purged of oxygen by bubbling argon through it. A 0.23 g. portion of benzoyl peroxide is separately dissolved in 10 ml. of acetonitrile and similarly purged. The reaction mixture is heated to reflux and the benzoyl peroxide solution then added dropwise over 0.5 hours. Next, 0.28 g. of azobisisobutyronitrile in 5 ml.of acetonitrile is added to the reaction mixture and heating continued overnight. A stream of methyl bromide is then passed through the reaction mixture which is then warmed slightly for 1 hour. The desired random copolymer is isolated by stripping off the solvent. C. Quaternized Polyethyleneamines and Polyethyleneimines Quaternized polyethyleneamines and polyethyleneimines can be prepared using standard methods for ethoxylating amines, with subsequent quaternization. Representatiave syntheses of such polyethyleneamines and polyethyleneimines are as follows Example 5a Step 1 Ethoxylation Tetraethylenepentamine TEPA M.W. 189, 13.5 g., 0.071 moles was placed in a nominally dry flask and dried by stirring for 0.5 hrs. at 110 120 C under vacuum pressure less than 1 mmHg. . The vacuum was released by drawing ethylene oxide EO from a prepurged trap connected to a supply tank. Once the flask was filled with EO, an outlet stopcock was carefully opened to a trap connected to an exhaust bubbler. After 3 hrs. stirring at 115 125 C, H NMR analysis indicated the degree of ethoxylation of 1 per reactive site. The reaction mixture was cooled while being swept with argon and 0.5 g. 0.0125 moles of 60 sodium hydride in mineral oil was then added. The stirred reaction mixture was swept with argon until hydrogen evolution ceased. EO was then added to the mixture as a sweep under atmospheric pressure at 117 1350C with moderately fast stirring. After 31 hrs., 459 g. 10.43 moles of EO had been added to give a calculated total degree of ethoxylation of 21.Step 2 Quaternization A 34.8 g. 0.0052 moles portion of the ethoxylated TEPA from step 1 which was a brown waxy solid, was dissolved in D20 to give a 50 solution. The pH of the solution was about 8. The solution was heated to 600C and methyl bromide gas swept through the reaction vessel whose exit was connected to a bubbler. Several times during the reaction, the pH became acidic and NaHC03 was added to the reaction to maintain the pH at about 8. After about 20 hrs. a sweep bubbler was placed below the reaction mixture surface so that the methyl bromide was bubbled through the mixture while the stirring rate was increased. After a total of 22 hrs., the reaction mixture was diluted to 25 and dialized to remove salts. The reaction mixture was then freeze dried to give a pale yellowish tan crystalline solid as the quaternized ethoxylatedTEPA. Example 5b Step 1 Ethoxylation By a procedure similar to that of Example 3a, PEI 21.5 g.,M.W. 600, 0.5 moles was dried at 1200C under vacuum and swept with EO until hydroxyethylation was complete 3 hrs. . The hydroxyethylated compound was cooled under argon and 0.1 g. 0.0022 moles of 50 NaH in mineral oil was added. The reaction mixture was heated to about 70 C and swept for 13 hrs. with EO until a total of 88.5 g. of EO had been added which gave a calculated degree of ethoxylation of 3.4. A 53 g. 0.0173 mole portion of this compound was placed in a similar apparatus, heated to 1200C and evacuated for 0.5 hrs.then cooled under argon and an additional 0.5 g. 0.010 moles of 50 NaH was added. EO was swept in for 11 hrs. until 103 g. of EO had been added. This brought the total degree of ethoxylation up to 11.6. A 74 g. portion 0.0082 moles of the 11.6 ethoxylated PEI was placed in a similar apparatus and swept with EO for 6 hrs. at 1700C until 70 g. EO had been added to gtve a total degree of ethoxylation 23.4.Step 2 Quaternization By a procedure similar to that of Example 3a, 20 g. 0.00114 moles of the 23.4 ethoxylated PEI from step 1 was dissolved inD20, heated to 50 60 C and swept with methyl bromide for a total of 9 hrs. to provide the quaternized ethoxylated PEI. D. Diallylamine Polymers Diallylamine polymer versions of the present invention can be prepared according to the following general scheme EMI36.1 The synthesis of one such polymer 45 described as follows Example 6 Step 1 Ethoxylation Diallylamine 1.7 moles is dissolved in methanol 160 ml. under argon and then heated to 45 C. Ethylene oxide is then added for 2.5 hours. Methanol is then removed by heating the reaction mixture to 1000C in vacuo. To the residue is added sodium hydride in mineral oil 6.6 g., 0.165 moles with stirring until the evolution of hydrogen has ceased. Ethylene oxide is then added until the degree of ethoxylation n is about 7. Step 2 Quaternization The crude ethoxylated diallylamine from step 1 is dissolved in about an equal volume of 1N methanolic NaOH and then methyl bromide is added. This methyl bromide addition is continued untilH NMR analysis shows complete disappearance of the methylene hydrogens adj acent to the tertiary nitrogen. Additional portions of 1 N methanolic NaOH are added as needed to maintain the pH of the reaction mixture at about 9. The methanol is removed, yielding a damp mass. This damp mass is washed with several portions of dichloromethane. The combined washes are concentrated to yield the desired quaternized compound. Step 3 Polymerization The quaternized monomer from step 2 is mixed with D20 20 ml. and heated to 950C under argon for 1 hour.Tertbutylhydroperoxide 25 drops is then added and the reaction continued at 900C for 18 hours. Then 20 more drops of the hydroperoxide is added. After heating 3 more days, water is then removed in vacuo 50 60 C at pressure of 0.1 mm to yield the crude polymer. The level at which the cationic compound s can be present in the detergent compositions of the present invention can vary depending upon the compounds used, the particular detergent formulation liquid, granular and the benefits desired. These compositions can be used as laundry detergents, laundry additives, and laundry pretreatments. Generally, the cationic compounds can be included in an amount of from about 0.05 to about 95 by weight of the composition, with the usual range being from 0.1 to about 10 by weight for laundry detergents. In terms of the benefits achieved, preferred detergent compositions can comprise from about 0.5 to about 5 by weight of the cationic compounds of the present invention. Typically, these preferred compositions comprise from about 1 to about 3 by weight of these compounds.These compounds are normally present at a level that provides from about 2 ppm to about 200 ppm, preferably from about 10 ppm to about 100 ppm, of the compound in the wash solution at recommended U.S. usage levels, and normally from about 30 ppm to about 1000 ppm, preferably from about 50 ppm to about 500 ppm for European usage levels. Detergent Surfactants The amount of detergent surfactant included in the detergent compositions of the present invention can vary from about 1 to about 75t by weight of the composition depending upon the detergent surfactant s used, the type of composition to be formulated e.g. granular, liquid and the effects desired. Preferably, the detergent surfactant s comprises from about 10 to about 50t by weight of the composition. The detergent surfactant can be nonionic, anionic, ampholytic, zwitterionic, cationic, or a mixture thereof A. Nonionic Surfactants Suitable nonionic surfactants for use in detergent compositions of the present invention are generally disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,929,678 to Laughlin et al., issued December 30, 1975 at column 13, line 14 through column 16, line 6 herein incorporated by reference . Classes of nonionic surfactants included are 1. The polyethyleneoxide condensates of alkyl phenols.These compounds include the condensation products of alkyl phenols having an alkyl group containing from about 6 to 12 carbon atoms in either a straight chain or branched chain configuration with ethylene oxide, the ethylene oxide being present in an amount equal to 5 to 25 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alkyl phenol.The alkyl substituent in such compounds can be derived, for example, from polymerized propylene, diisobutylene, and the like. Examples of compounds of this type include nonyl phenol condensed with about 9.5 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of nonyl phenol dodecylphenol condensed with about 12 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol dinonyl phenol condensed with about 15 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol and diisooctyl phenol condensed with about 15 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of phenol. Commercially available nonionic surfactants of this type include IgepalCO 630, marketed by the GAF Corporation, and Triton X 45, X 114,X 100, and X 102, all marketed by the Rohm Haas Company. 2. The condensation products of aliphatic alcohols with from about 1 to about 25 moles of ethylene oxide. The alkyl chain of the aliphatic alcohol can either be straight or branched, primary or secondary, and generally contains from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms. Examples of such ethoxylated alcohols include the condensation product of myristyl alcohol condensed with about 10 moles of ethylene oxide per mole of alcohol and the condensation product of about 9 moles of ethylene oxide with coconut alcohol a mixture of fatty alcohols with alkyl chains varying in length from 10 to 14 carbon atoms . Examples of commercially available nonionic surfactants of this type include Tergitol 15 S 9, marketed by Union Carbide Corporation, Neodol 45 9, Neodol 23 6.5,Neodol 45 7, and Neodol 45 4, marketed by Shell Chemical Company, and Kyro EOB, marketed by The Procter Gamble Company. 3. The condensation products of ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene glycol. The hydrophobic portion of these compounds has a molecular weight of from about 1500 to 1800 and exhibits water insolubility. The addition of polyoxyethylene moieties to this hydrophobic portion tends to increase the water solubility of the molecule as a whole, and the liquid character of the product is retained up to the point where the polyoxyethylene content is about 50 of the total weight of the condensation product, which corresponds to condensation with up to about 40 moles of ethylene oxide. Examples of compounds of this type include certain of the commercially available Pluronic surfactants, marketed by WyandotteChemical Corporation. 4. The condensation products of ethylene oxide with the product resulting from the reaction of propylene oxide and ethylenediamine. The hydrophobic moiety of these products consists of the reaction product of ethylenediamine and excess propylene oxide, the moiety having a molecular weight of from about 2500 to about 3000. This hydrophobic moiety is condensed with ethylene oxide to the extent that the condensation product contains from about 40 to about 80X by weight of polyoxyethylene and has a molecular weight of from about 5,000 to about 11,000. Examples of this type of nonionic surfactant include certain of the commercially available Tetronic compounds, marketed by Wyandotte Chemical Corporation. 5. Semi polar nonionic detergent surfactants which include water soluble amine oxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 18 carbon atoms and 2 moieties selected from the group consisting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from 1 to about 3 carbon atoms water soluble phosphine oxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 18 carbon atoms and 2 moieties selected from the group consisting of alkyl groups and hydroxyalkyl groups containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms and water soluble sulfoxides containing one alkyl moiety of from about 10 to 18 carbon atoms and a moiety selected from the group consisting of alkyl and hydroxyalkyl moieties of from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Preferred semi polar nonionic detergent surfactants are the amine oxide detergent surfactants having the formulaEMI40.1 wherein R3 is an alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, on or alkyl phenyl group or mixtures thereof containing from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms R4 is an alkylene or hydroxyalkylene group containing from 2 to 3 carbon atoms or mixtures thereof x is from 0 to about 3 and eachR5 is an alkyl or hydroxyalkyl group containing from 1 to about 3 carbon atoms or a polyethylene oxide group containing from one to about 3 ethylene oxide groups. The R5 groups can be attached to each other, e.g., through an oxygen or nitrogen atom to form a ring structure. Preferred amine oxide detergent surfactants are C1O Cl8 alkyl dimethyl amine oxide and C8 C12 alkoxy ethyl dihydroxy ethyl amine oxide. 6. Alkylpolysaccharides disclosed in European Patent AEplication 82.200368.6, filed July 12, 1982, R.A. Llenado, having a hydrophobic group containing from about 6 to about 30 carbon atoms, preferably from about 10 to about 16 carbon atoms and a polysaccharide, e.g., a polyglycoside, hydrophilic group containing from about 1i to about 10, preferably from about 1i to about 3, most preferably from about 1.6 to about 2.7 saccharide units.Any reducing saccharide containing 5 or 6 carbon atoms can be used, e.g. glucose, galactose and galactosyl moieties can be substituted for the glucosyl moieties. Optionally the hydrophobic group is attached at the 2, 3, 4, etc. positions thus giving a glucose or galactose as opposed to a glucoside or galactoside. The intersaccharide bonds can be, e.g., between the one position of the additional saccharide units and the 2 , 3 , 4 , and or 6 positions on the preceding saccharide units. Optionally, and less desirably, there can be a polyalkyleneoxide chain joining the hydrophobic moiety and the polysaccharide moiety. The preferred alkyleneoxide is ethylene oxide. Typical hydrophobic groups include alkyl groups, either saturated or unsaturated, branched or unbranched containing from about 8 to about 18, preferably from about 10 to about 16, carbon atoms.Preferably, the alkyl group is a straight chain saturated alkyl group. The alkyl group can contain up to 3 hydroxy groups and or the polyalkyleneoxide chain can contain up to about 10, preferably less than 5, most preferably 0, alkyleneoxide moieties. Suitable alkyl polysaccharides are octyl, nonyldecyl, undecyldodecyl, tridecyl, tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl, and octadecyl, di , tri , tetra , penta , and hexaglucosides, galactosides, lactosides, glucoses, fructosides, fructoses, and or galactoses. Suitable mixtures include coconut alkyl, di , tri , tetra , and pentaglucosides and tallow alkyl tetra , penta , and hexagl ucos ides. The preferred alkylpolyglycosides have the formula R20 CnH2nO t glycosyl X wherein R2 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkyl phenyl, hydroxyalkyl, hydroxyalkylphenyl, and mixtures thereof in which the alkyl groups contain from about 10 to about 18, preferably from about 12 to about 14, carbon atoms n is 2 or 3, preferably 2 t is from 0 to about 10, preferably 0 and x is from li to about 10, preferably from about 1 to about 3, most preferably from about 1.6 to about 2.7. The glycosyl is preferably derived from glucose. To prepare these compounds, the alcohol or alkylpolyethoxy alcohol is formed first and then reacted with glucose, or a source of glucose, to form the glucoside attachment at the 1 position .The additional glycosyl units can then be attached between their 1 position and the preceding glycosyl units 2 , 3 , 4 and or 6 position, preferably predominately the 2 position. 7. Fatty acid amide detergent surfactants having the formula EMI42.1 wherein R6 is an alkyl group containing from about 7 to about 21 preferably from about 9 to about 17 carbon atoms and each R7 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 hydroxyalkyl, and C2H40 xH where x varies from about 1 to about 3. Preferred amides are C8 C20 ammonia amides, monoethanolamides, diethanolamides, and isopropanol amides. B. Anionic Surfactants Anionic surfactants suitable in detergent compositions of the present invention are generally disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,929,678 to Laughlin et al., issued December 30, 1975 at column 23, line 58 through column 29, line 23 herein incorporated by reference .Classes of anionic surfactants included are 1. Ordinary alkali metal soaps such as the sodium, potassium, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts of higher fatty acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms, preferably from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms. 2. Water soluble salts, preferably the alkali metal, ammonium and alkylolammonium salts, of organic sulfuric reaction products having in their molecular structure an alkyl group containing from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms and a sulfonic acid or sulfuric acid ester group. Included in the term alkyl is the alkyl portion of acyl groups. Examples of this group of anionic surfactants are the sodium and potassium alkyl sulfates, especially those obtained by sulfating the higher alcohols C8 C18 carbon atoms such as those produced by reducing the glycerides of tallow or coconut oil and the sodium and potassium alkylbenzene sulfonates in which the alkyl group contains from about 9 to about 15 carbon atoms, in straight chain or branched chain configuration, e.g., those of the type described in U.S. Patents 2,220,099 and 2,477,383.Especially valuable are linear straight chain alkylbenzene sulfonates in which the average number of carbon atoms in the alkyl group is from about 11 to 13, abbreviated as C11 C13LAS. Preferred anionic surfactants of this type are the alkyl polyethoxylate sulfates, particularly those in which the alkyl group contains from about 10 to about 22, preferably from about 12 to about 18 carbon atoms, and wherein the polyethoxylate chain contains from about 1 to about 15 ethoxylate moieties preferably from about 1 to about 3 ethoxylate moieties. These anionic detergent surfactants are particularly desirable for formulating heavy duty liquid laundry detergent compositions. Other anionic surfactants of this type include sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of higher alcohols derived from tallow and coconut oil sodium coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulfonates and sulfates sodium or potassium salts of alkyl phenol ethylene oxide ether sulfates containing from about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and wherein the alkyl groups contain from about 8 to about 12 carbon atoms and sodium or potassium salts of alkyl ethylene oxide ether sulfates containing about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and wherein the alkyl group contains from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms. Also included are water soluble salts of esters of alphasulfonated fatty acids containing from about 6 to 20 carbon atoms in the fatty acid group and from about 1 to 10 carbon atoms in the ester group water soluble salts of 2 acyloxy alkane 1 sulfonic acids containing from about 2 to 9 carbon atoms in the acyl group and from about 9 to about 23 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety alkyl ether sulfates containing from about 10 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 1 to 30 moles of ethylene oxide water soluble salts of olefin sulfonates containing from about 12 to 24 carbon atoms and beta alkyloxy alkane sulfonates containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 8 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety. 3. Anionic phosphate surfactants. 4. N alkyl substituted succinamates. C. Ampholytic Surfactants Ampholytic surfactants can be broadly described as aliphatic derivatives of secondary or tertiary amines, or aliphatic derivatives of heterocyclic secondary and tertiary amines in which the aliphatic radical can be straight chain or branched and wherein one of the aliphatic substituents contains from about 8 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one contains an anionic water solubilizing group, e.g. carboxy, sulfonate, sulfate. See U.S. Patent 3,929,678 to Laughlin et al., issued December 30, 1975 at column 19, lines 18 35 herein incorporated by reference for examples of ampholytic surfactants. D. Zwitterionic Surfactants Zwitterionic surfactants can be broadly described as derivatives of secondary and tertiary amines, derivatives of heterocyclic secondary and tertiary amines, or derivatives of quaternary ammonium, quaternary phosphonium or tertiary sulfonium compounds.See U.S. Patent 3,929,678 to Laughlin et al., issued December 30, 1975 at column 19, line 38 through column 22, line 48 herein incorporated by reference for examples of zwitterionic surfactants. E. Cationic Surfactants Cationic surfactants can also be included in detergent compositions of the present invention. Suitable cationic surfactants include the quaternary ammonium surfactants having the formula R2 OR3 y R4 OR3 y 2R5N Xwherein R2 is an alkyl or alkyl benzyl group having from about 8 to about 18 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain each R3 is selected from the group consisting of CH2CH2 , CH2CH CH3 , CH2CH CH2OH , CH2CH2CH2 , and mixtures thereof each R4 is selected from the group consisting of C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 hydroxyalkyl, benzyl, ring structures formed by joining the two R4 groups, CH2CHOHCHOHCOR6CHOHCH20H wherein R6 is any hexose or hexose polymer having a molecular weight less than about 1000, and hydrogen when y is not 0, R5 is the same as R4 or is an alkyl chain wherein the total number of carbon atoms of R2 plus R5 is not more than about 18 each y is from 0 to about 10 and the sum of the y values is from 0 to about 15 and X is any compatible anion. Preferred of the above are the alkyl quaternary ammonium surfactants, especially the mono long chain alkyl surfactants described in the above formula when R5 is selected from the same groups as R4. The most preferred quaternary ammonium surfactants are the chloride, bromide and methyl sulfate C8 C16 alkyl trimethylammonium salts, C8 C16 alkyl di hydroxsyethyl methylammonium salts, the C8 C16 alkyl hydroxyethyldimethylammonium slats, and C8 C16 alkyloxypropyl trimethylammonium salts. Of the above, decyl trimethylammonium methyl sul fate, lauryl trimethylammonium chloride, myristyl trimethylammonium bromide and coconut trimethylammonium chloride and methyl sul fate are particularly preferred. Detergent Builders Detergent compositions of the present invention can optionally comprise inorganic or organic detergent builders to assist in mineral hardness control. These builders can comprise from 0 to about 80 by weight of the composition. When included, these builders typically comprise up to about 60 by weight of the detergent composition. Built liquid formulations preferably comprise from about 10 to about 25 detergent builder while built granular formulations preferably comprise from about 10 to about 50 by weight detergent builder. Suitable detergent builders include crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials having the formula Naz A102 Z SiO2 y xH20 wherein z and y are at least about 6, the mole ratio of z to y is from about 1.0 to about 0.5 and x is from about 10 to about 264.Amorphous hydrated aluminosilicate materials useful herein have the empirical formula Mz zA102ySi02 wherein M is sodium, potassium, ammonium or substituted ammonium, z is from about 0.5 to about 2 and y is 1 this material having a magnesium ion exchange capacity of at least about 50 milligram equivalents of CaC03 hardness per gram of anhydrous aluminosilicate. The aluminosilicate ion exchange builder materials are in hydrated form and contain from about 10 to about 28 of water by weight if crystalline, and potentially even higher amounts of waterlf amorphous. Highly preferred crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials contain from about 18 to about 22X water in their crystal matrix. The preferred crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials are further characterized by a particle size diameter of from about 0.1 micron to about 10 microns.Amorphous materials are often smaller, e.g., down to less than about 0.01 micron. More preferred ion exchange materials have a particle size diameter of from about 0.2 micron to about 4 microns. The term particle size diameter represents the average particle size diameter of a given ion exchange material as determined by conventional analytical techniques such as, for example, microscopic determination utilizing a scanning electron microscope. The crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials are usually further characterized by their calcium ion exchange capacity, which is at least about 200 mg. equivalent of CaCO3 water hardness g. of aluminosilicate, calculated on an anhydrous basis, and which generally is in the range of from about 300 mg.eq. g. to about 352 mg. eq. g. The aluminosilicate ion exchange materials are still further characterized by their calcium ion exchange rate which is at least about 2 grains Ca gallon min ute gram gallon of aluminosilicate anhydrous basis , and generally lies within the range of from about 2 grains gallon minute gram gallon to about 6 grains gallon minute gram gallon, based on calcium ion hardness. Optimum aluminosilicates for builder purposes exhibit a calcium ion exchange rate of at least about 4 grains gallon minute gram gallon. The amorphous aluminosilicate ion exchange materials usually have a Mg exchange capacity of at least about 50 mg. eq. CaCO3 g. 12 mg. My 9. and a Mg exchange rate of at least about 1 grain gallon minute gram gallon. Amorphous materials do not exhibit an observable diffraction pattern when examined by Cu radiation 1.54 Angstrom Units . Useful aluminosilicate ion exchange materials are commercial ly available. These aluminosilicates can be crystalline or amorphous in structure and can be naturally occurring aluminosili cates or synthetically derived. A method for producing aluminosilicate ion exchange materials is disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,985,669 to Krummel, et al. issued October 12, 1976 herein incorporated by reference . Preferred synthetic crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange materials useful herein are available under the designations Zeolite A, Zeolite P B , and Zeolite X.In an especially preferred embodiment, the crystalline aluminosilicate ion exchange material has the formula Nal2 A102 l2 sio2 l2 XH2 wherein x is from about 20 to about 30, especially about 27. Other examples of detergency builders include the various water soluble, alkali metal, ammonium or substituted ammonium phosphates, polyphosphates, phosphonates, polyphosphonates, carbonates, silicates, borates, polyhydroxysul fonates, polyacetates, carboxylates, and polycarboxylates. Preferred are the alkali metal, especially sodium, salts of the above. Specific examples of inorganic phosphate builders are sodium and potassium tripolyphosphate, pyrophosphate, polymeric metaphate having a degree of polymerization of from about 6 to 21, and orthophosphate. Examples of polyphosphonate builders are the sodium and potassium salts of ethylene 1,1 diphosphonic acid, the sodium and potassium salts of ethane 1 hydroxy l,1 diphosphonic acid and the sodium and potassium salts of ethane, 1,1,2 triphosphonic acid. Other phosphorus builder compounds are disclosed inU.S. Patents 3,159,581 3,213,030 3,422,021 3,422,137 3,400,176 and 3,400,148 all herein incorporated by reference . Examples of nonphosphorus, inorganic builders are sodium and potassium carbonate, bicarbonate, sesquicarbonate, tetraborate decahydrate, and silicate having a mole ratio of SiO2 to alkali metal oxide of from about 0.5 to about 4.0, preferably from about 1.0 to about 2.4. Useful water soluble, nonphosphorus organic builders include the various alkali metal, ammonium and substituted ammonium polyacetates, carboxylates, polycarboxylates and polyhydroxysulfonates. Examples of polyacetate and polycarboxylate builders are the sodium, potassium lithium, ammonium and substituted ammonium salts of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, oxydisuccinic acid, mellitic acid, benzene polycarboxylic acids, and citric acid. Highly preferred polycarboxylate builders are disclosed inU.S. Patent No. 3,308,067 to Diehl, issued March 7, 1967 herein incorporated by reference . Such materials include the watersoluble salts of homo and copolymers of aliphatic carboxylic acids such as maleic acid, itaconic acid, mesaconic acid, fumaric acid, aconitic acid, citraconic acid and methylenemalonic acid. Other builders include the carboxylated carbohydrates disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,723,322 to Diehl issued March 28, 1973 herein incorporated by reference . Other useful builders are sodium and potassium carboxymethyloxymalonate, carboxymethyloxysuccinate, cis cyclohexanehexacarboxylate, cis cyclopentanetetracarboxylate phloroglucinol trisulfonate, water soluble polyacrylates having molecular weights of from about 2,000 to about 200,000 for example , and the copolymers of maleic anhydride with vinyl methyl ether or ethylene. Other suitable polycarboxylates are the polyacetal carboxylates disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,144,226, to Crutchfield et al.issued March 13, 1979, and U.S. Patent 4,246,495, to Crutchfield et al., issued March 27, 1979 both herein incorporated by reference . These polyacetal carboxylates can be prepared by bringing together under polymerization conditions an ester of glyoxylic acid and a polymerization initiator. The resulting polyacetal carboxylate ester is then attached to chemically stable end groups to stabilize the polyacetal carboxylate against rapid depolymerization in alkaline solution, converted to the corresponding salt, and added to a surfactant. Other useful detergency builder materials are the seeded builder compositions disclosed in Belgian Patent No. 798,856, issued October 29, 1973, herein incorporated by reference .Specific examples of such seeded builder mixtures are 3 1 wt.mixtures of sodium carbonate and calcium carbonate having 5 micron particle diameter 2.7 1 wt. mixtures of sodium sesquicarbonate and calcium carbonate having a particle diameter of 0.5 microns 20 1 wt. mixtures of sodium sesquicarbonate and calcium hydroxide having a particle diameter of 0.01 micron and a 3 3 1 wt. mixture of sodium carbonate, sodium aluminate and calcium oxide having a particle diameter of 5 microns. Other Optional Detergent Ingredients Other optional ingredients which can be included in detergent compositions of the present invention, in their conventional art established levels for use i.e., from 0 to about 20 , include solvents, bleaching agents, bleach activators, soil suspending agents, corrosion inhibitors, dyes, fillers, optical brighteners, germicides, pH adjusting agents monoethanolamine, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, etc. , enzymes, enzyme stabilizing agents, perfumes, fabric softening components, static control agents, and the like. Detergent Formulations Granular formulations embodying the detergent compositions of the present invention can be formed by conventional techniques, i.e., by slurrying the individual components in water and then atomizing and spray drying the resultant mixture, or by pan or drum granulation of the ingredients. Granular formulations preferably comprise from about 10 to about 30 detergent surfactant, usually anionic. Liquid formulations embodying the detergent compositions can be built or unbuilt. If unbuilt, these compositions conventionally contain approximately 15 to 50 total surfactant, from 0 to 10S of an organic base such as a mono , di , or tri alkanol amine, a neutralization system such as an alkali metal hydroxide and a lower primary alcohol such as ethanol or isopropanol, and approximately 20 to 80 water. Such compositions are normally homogeneous single phase liquids of low viscosity approximately 100 to 150 centipoise at 750F . Built liquid detergent compositions can be in the form of single phase liquids provided that the builder is solubilized in the mixture aT its level of use. Such liquids conventionally contain 10 to 25 total surfactant, 10 to 25 builder which can be organic or Inorganic, 3 to 10 of a hydrotrope system and 40 to 77 water. Liquids of this type also have a low viscosity 100 to 150 centipoise at 750F . Built liquid detergents incorporating components that form heterogeneous mixtures or levels of builder that cannot be completely dissolved can also comprise detergent compositions of the present invention. Such liquids conventionally employ viscosity modifiers to produce systems having plastic shear characteristics to maintain stable dispersions and to prevent phase separation or solid settlement. Near Neutral Wash pH Detergent Formulations While the detergent compositions of the present invention are operative within a wide range of wash pHs e.g. from about 5 to about 12 , they are particularly suitable when formulated to provide a near neutral wash pH, i.e. an initial pH of from about 6.0 to about 8.5 at a concentration of from about 0.1 to about 2 by weight in water at 2O0C. Near neutral wash pH formulations are better for enzyme stability and for preventing stains from setting. In such formulations, the wash pH is preferably from about 7.0 to about 8.5, and more preferably from about 7.5 to about 8.0. Preferred near neutral wash pH detergent formulations are disclosed in European Patent Application 83.200688.6, filed May 16, 1983, J.H.M. Wertz and P.C.E. Gcffinet. These preferred formulations comprise a from about 2 to about 60 preferably from about 10 to about 25 by weight of an anionic synthetic surfactant as previously defined b from about 0.25 to about 12 preferably from about 1 to about 4 by weight of a cosurfactant selected from the group consisting of i quaternary ammonium surfactants having the formula ER2 0R3 y FR4 0R3 y 2R5N X wherein R2, each R3, R4, R5, X and y are as previously defined ii diquaternary ammonium surfactants having the formula R2 OR3 y R4 OR3 y 2N R3N R5 R4 OR3 y 2 X 2 wherein R2, R3, R4, Y and X are as defined above particularly preferred are the C8 C16 alkyl pentamethylethylenediamine chloride, bromide and methyl sul fate salts iii amine surfactants having the formula R2 OR3 y R4 OR3 y R5N wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and y are as defined above particularly preferred are the C12 Cl6 alkyl dimethyl amines iv diamine surfactants having the formula R2 OR3 y R4 OR3 y NR3NR5 R4 OR3 y wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and y are as defined above particularly preferred are the C12 Cl6 alkyl dimethyl diamines v amine oxide surfactants having the formula R2 OR3 y R4 OR3 y R5N O wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and y are as defined above particularly preferred are the C12 Cl6 alkyldimethyl amine oxides and vi di amine oxide surfactants having the formula EMI52.1 wherein R2, R3, R4, R5 and y are as defined above preferred are the C12 Cl6 alkyl trimethylethylene di amine oxides and c from about 5 to about 40 by weight preferably 7 to about 30 by weight, and most preferably from about 10 to 20 by weight of a fatty acid containing from about 10 to about 22 carbon atoms preferably a C1O Cl4 saturated fatty acid or mixture thereof the mole ratio of the anionic surfactant to the cosurfactant being at least 1 and preferably from about 2 1 to about 20 1. Such compositions also preferably contain from about 3 to about 15 by weight of an ethoxylated alcohol or ethoxylated alkyl phenol nonionic surfactants as previously defined. Highly preferred compositions of this type also preferably contain from about 2 to about 10 by weight of citric acid and minor amounts e.g., less than about 20 by weight of neutralizing agents, buffering agents, phase regulants, hydrotropes, enzymes, enzyme stabilizing agents, polyacids, suds regulants, opacifiers, antioxidants, bactericides, dyes, perfumes and brighteners, such as those described in U.S. Patent 4,285,841 to Barrat et al., issuedAugust 25, 1981 herein incorporated by reference . Specific Embodiments of Detergent Compositions According to the Present Invention The following embodiments illustrate, but are not limiting of, detergent compositions of the present invention A granular detergent composition is as follows Component Wt. Polyurethane of Example 3 1.0Sodium C14 Cl5 alkylethoxysulfate 10.7C13 linear alkyl benzene sulfonic acid 4.3 C12 Cl4 alkylpolyethoxylate 6 0.5Sodium toluene sulfonate 1.0Sodium tripolyphosphate 32.9Sodium carbonate 20.3Sodium silicate 5.8Minors and water Balance to 100 The components are added together with continuous mixing to form an aqueous slurry which is then spray dried to form the composition.Instead of the polyurethane, the compounds of Examples 1 or 2, the random copolymer of Example 4, the PEA efExample 5a, the PEI of Example 5b or the diallylamine polymer ofExample 6 can be substituted therefor. Embodiment II A liquid detergent composition is as follows Component Wt. Random copolymer of Example 4 1.0Sodium C14 Cl5 alkyl polyethoxy 2.5 sulfate 8.3C12 C14 alkyl dimethyl amine oxide 3.3Sodium toluene sulfonate 5.0Monoethanolamine 2.3Sodium nitrilotriacetate 18.2Minors and water Balance to 100 The components are added together with continuous mixing to form the composition. Instead of the random copolymer, the polyurethane of Example 3, the PEA of Example 5a, the PEI ofExample 5b or the diallylamine polymer of Example 6 can be substituted therefor. Embodiments III and IV Liquid detergent compositions are as follows Component Wt. III IVQuat HMDA of Example 2a 1.5 1.5C14 C15 alkylethoxysulfuric acid 10.8 C14 Cl5 alkylpolyethoxy 2.25 sulfuric acid 10.8C13 linear alkylbenzene sulfonic acid 7.2 7.2C12 alkyl trimethylammonium chloride 1.2 1.2 C12 13 alcohol polyethoxylate 6.5 6.5 6.5Coconut fatty acid 15.0 15.0Citric acid monohydrate 6.9 4.0Diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid 0.9 0.9Protease enzyme 0.8 0.8Amylase enzyme 0.3 0.3 Monoethanol amine 13.6 2.0 Tri ethanol amine 3.0 4.0Sodium hydroxide 2.0 Potassium hydroxide 2.8 1,2 Propanediol 5.0 5.0Ethanol 3.0 7.0Sodium formate 1.0 1.0Sodium toluene sulfonate 5.0 Minors and water Balance to 100 Embodiment IV is prepared by adding the components together with continuous mixing, in the following order to produce a clear liquid a paste premix of the alkylbenzene sulfonic acid, 0.9 parts of the sodium hydroxide, propylene glycol, and 2.3 parts of the ethanol a paste premix of the alkylpolyethoxysulfuric acid, 1.1 parts of the sodium hydroxide and 3.1 parts of the ethanol alcohol polyethoxylate premix of monoethanolamine, triethanolamine and brighteners, 1.5 parts potassium hydroxide balance of the ethanol citric acid formate 1.4 parts potassium hydroxide fatty acid pentaacetic acid alkyl trimethylammonium chloride adjust pH to about 8.4 with potassium hydroxide, water or citric acid enzymes Quat HMDA 50 aqueous solution and perfume.Embodiment III can be prepared in a similar manner. Instead of the PEA, the polyurethane of Example 3, the random copolymer ofExample 4, the PEl of Example 5b or the diallylamine polymer ofExample 6 can be substituted therefor. Embodiment V A liquid detergent composition is as follows Component Wt. PEA of Example 5a 1.0Sodium C12 alkylpolyethoxy 3 sulfate 12.6 C12 Cl3 alcohol polyethoxylate 6.5 23.4Monoethanolamine 2.0Ethanol 9.0Citric acid monohydrate 0.8Minors and water Balance to 100 The components are added together with continuous mixing to form the composition. Instead of the PEA, the compounds ofExample 1 or 2, the polyurethane of Example 3, the random copolymer of Example 4, the PEI of Example 5b or the diallylamine polymer of Example 6 can be substituted therefor. Clay Soil Removal Anti Redeposition Properties of Various Ethoxylated Quaternized AminesA. Experimental Method 1. Clay Soil Removal Clay soil removal comparisons were conducted in a standard 1 liter Tergotometer employing water of 7 grain hardness 3 1 Ca Mg and a temperature of 100 F. Soiled swatches were washed in the Tergotometer for 10 minutes and rinsed twice with water 7 grain hardness at 70 F for 2 minutes. 65 polyester 35 cotton blend fabric was used for the swatches. The swatches were 5 inches by 5 inches in size and were soiled by dipping in an aqueous slurry of local clay and subsequently baked to remove the water. The dipping and baking was repeated 5 times. One wash employed 2000 ppm of a control liquid detergent composition containing the following surfactants Surfactant Amount X Sodium C14 Cl5 alkyl ethoxysul fate 10.8C13 linear alkylbenzene sulfonic acid 7.2 C12 C13 alcohol poly ethoxylate 6.5 6.5 C12 alkyl dimethyl ammonium chloride 1.2A second wash used the same detergent composition but also containing an ethoxylated quaternized amine at 20 ppm. Neither composition contained optical brighteners. The product washes approximated a conventional home use laundry situation. After laundering, the swatches were dried in a mini dryer. The swatches were graded before and after washing on aGardner Whiteness meter reading the L, a, and b coordinates.Whiteness W was calculated as W 7L2 40Lb 700The clay soil removal performance of each detergent composition was determined by finding the difference in whiteness bW before and after washing as W W after W beforeThe improvement in clay soil removal performance of the composition containing the ethoxylated quaternized amine was measured as the difference in W values A2W relative to the control composition.2. Anti Redeposition Anti redeposition comparisons were conducted in a 5 potAutomatic Miniwasher AMW employing 7 grain hardness water and temperature of 95 F. Test swatches were washed for 10 minutes and rinsed twice with water 7 grain hardness at 75 F for 2 minutes. After the AMW pots were filled with 6 liters of water each, the detergent composition to be tested control or containing 20 ppm ethoxylated quaternized amine as in clay soil removal test was added and agitated for 2 minutes. A background soil mixture 200 ppm artificial body soil, 100 ppm vacuum cleaner soil and 200 ppm clay soil was then added and agitated for an additional 3 minutes. Three 5 inch square test swatches 50 polyester 50 cotton T shirt material were then added, along with two 80 cotton 20 polyester terry clothes and two 11 inch square swatches of 100 polyester knit fabric. The 10 minute wash cycle commenced at this point. Following the rinse cycle, the test swatches were dried in a mini dryer. Gardner Whiteness meter readings L, a and b were then determined for the three test swatches. Anti redeposition performance ARD was then calculated according to the following equation. ARD 7L2 40Lb 700The ARD values for the three test swatches were then averaged.The improvement in anti redeposition performance of the composition containing the ethoxylated quaternized amine was measured as the difference in ARD values ARD relative to the control composition.B. Test Results The results from testing the clay soil removal and anti redeposition performance of various ethoxylated quaternized amines is shown in the following Table Amine Amine Degree of Quat Type M.W. Ethoxylation Group A zw AWARDEDA 60 12 C1 8.3 24 9.5 42 9.1 PDA 74 24 C1 8.5 19.4HMDA 100 3 C1 1.2 6 4.6 17.7 12 5.0 24 9.4 19.8 35 6.7 16.8 24 c4 8.7 24 C8 7.3 24 Bz 6.8 PMDA 9 C1 16.8PEA 103 3 C1 2.0 12.2 6 6.3 16.4 12 8.5 17.7 24 7.6 16.4 36 9.5 PEA 189 18 C1 3.9 22 6.0 18.3PEA 309 24 C1 4.4 17.0 EDA ethylenediamine, PDA propylenediamine, HMDA hexamethylenediamine, PMDA 1,3 bis N morphilino propane, PEA polyethyleneamine. C1 methyl, C4 butyl, Bz benzyl For comparison, PEG 6000 polyethylene glycol having M.W. of 6000 has a A2W value of 4.9 and a EARD value of 8.9.