# Liquid level detecting probe.

## Abstract
A probe is disclosed for detecting the level of a liquid or of a flowable, pulverulent solid in a container, e.g. the level of a beverage in a bottle. The probe comprises first, second and third elongate, electrically conductive elements 1,2,3 which are free from direct electrical contact with one another. They are disposed substantially in a mutually parallel relationship, although a slight divergence from parallelism is acceptable. The second and third elements 2,3 are preferably substan tially equal in length and in electrical characteristics, and are coated with an electrically insulating, liquid impermeable coating 4 over substantially the whole of their length except for i a first region 5 intermediate the ends of the second element and ii a second region 6 intermediate the ends of the third element. The mid points of these first and second regions are spaced from one another in the axial direction, i.e they are at non equivalent positions along the lengths of the second and third elements. The probe also comprises means 7 for applying an electrical potential to the first element, and means 8,9,10,11 for comparing the current flowing through, or the potential difference between, the second and third elements when electrical potential is applied to the first element. Conveniently, the first element 1 is in the form of a tube having the second and third elements 2,3 , in the form of wires, adjacent to an electrically insulated surface region of the first element.