# Ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl esters of non steroidal anti inflammatory carboxylic acids, their preparation and use.

## Abstract
The invention provides esters of the general formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An ester of the general formulaEMI35.1 in whichEMI35.2 is the acyl residue of a non steroidal anti inflammatory compound containing a carboxylic acid function. 2. Any one of the following esters 2 acetyloxy benzoic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester salicylic acid 2 ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester 1 p chlorobenzoyl 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester 6 methoxy a methyl2 naphthaleneacetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester a methyl 4 2 methylpropyl benzene acetic acid 1 ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester 2 2,6 dichlorophenyl amino benzene acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester m benzoyihydratropic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester 2 2,3 dimethylphenyl amino benzoic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester Z 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 4 methylsul finyl phenyl methylene 1H indene 3 acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester 2 3 trifluoromethyl phenyl amino benzoic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester or 1 methyl 5 alpha methylbenzoyl 1H pyrrole 2 acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester. 3. A process for preparing an ester as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, which comprises reacting an acid of the general formulaEMI36.1 wherein R C has the same meaning as given in claim 1, or a 0 carboxylate salt of such an acid, with a compound of the formulaEMI36.2 wherein X represents a halogen atom. 4. A process as claimed in claim 3, wherein the halogen containing reactant is 1 chloroethyl ethyl carbonate or 1 bromoethyl ethyl carbonate. 5. A pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation comprising an ester as claimed in claim 7 or claim 2 formulated for pharmaceutical or veterinary use, respectively, optionally together with an acceptable diluent, carrier oraexcipient and or optionally in unit dosage form. 6. A formulation as claimed in claim 5 and adapted for oral administration. 7. A formulation as claimed in claim 5 and adapted for topical application. 8. A method of producing a pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7, which comprises formulating an ester as defined in claim 1 or claim 2 for pharmaceutical or veterinary use, respectively, optionally together with an acceptable diluent, carrier or excipient. 9. An ester as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 for use as an anti inflammatory prodrug.

## Description
ETHOXYCARBONYLOXY ETHXL ESTERS OF NON STROIDAL ANTI INFLAMMATORY CARBOXYLIC ACIDS, THEIR PREPARATION AND USE The present invention concerns novel etboxy carbonyloxy ethyl esters of non steroiaal antiinflammatory substances having a carboxylic acid function, a process for their preparation and pharmaceutidal or veterinary formulations containing them. The novel esters accoraino to the invention are prodrugs of the corresponding non steroidal antiinflammatory substances. In the context of the present specification the term prodrug denotes a derivative 61 a known and proven prior art non steroidal antiinflammatory substance having a carboxylic acid function, such as for example 2 acetyl salicylic acid Aspirin , or compounds known by their generic names such as, for example, indomethacin, ibupro en, napro en and diclofenac, which derivatives when administered cleave in such a manner as to release the proven anti inflammatory compound in its carboxylic acid form at its target site or sites of activity.The enzymatic and or chemical hydrolytic cleavage of the compounds of the present invention occurs in such a manner that the proven drug, i.e. the conventional non steroidal anti inflammatory substance, is released. The remaining cleaved moiety is non toxic and is metabolized in such a manner that non toxic metabolic products are produced such as ethanol, CO2 and acetaldehyde. It is known that the un ionized form of a drug is absorbed more efficiently than its ionic species.In the case of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs Containing 2 carboxylic acd function such as those known by the generic names indomethacin, naproxen, ibuprof en or diclofenac the carboxylic acid is significantly ionized at physiological pH.The result is that such non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs are poorly absorbed through lipid water membrane barriers and are irritating to the mucous membrane of the intestinal tract. European Patent Application Publication No. 0039051 discloses novel prodrug forms of known non steroidal antiinflammatory agents having a free carboxylic acid function, which are acetohydroxamic acid derivatives of the formulaEMI3.1 whereinEMI3.2 is the acyl residue of any non steroidal antiinflammatory substance containing a carboxylic acid function,R1 and R2 stand for a variety of organic radicals and may also form together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached a heterocyclic ring, and R3 stands for hydrogen or a variety of organic radicals. However, these prodrugs are of a rather complex nature and are not readily accessible. Thus the process for the preparation of these prodrugs as described in the said European patent application comprises four stages.In the first of these a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory agent having a free carboxylic acid function is converted into the corresponding acid chloride, e.g. by reaction with thionyl chloride. In a second stage the resulting acid chloride is reacted with hydroxyl amine to form a corresponding hydroxamic acid.The latter is then reacted with an aldehyde and the resulting reaction product is reacted with a secondary amine. See pages 14 and 15 of the European patent application. In addition to the chemical complexity of the prodrug forms of non steroidal anti inflammatory substances according to the said European patent application, it is also difficult to predict which of the large variety of acetohydroxamic acid moieties is of sufficiently low toxicity and yields metabolites of sufficiently low toxicity as to be harmless upon cleavage of the prodrug in the body of a mammal. It is accordingly the object of the present invention to provide novel, improved prodrug forms of known non steroidal anti inflammatory substances having a carboxylic function. It is a further object of the present invention to provide non steroidal antiinflammatory agents of reduced ulcerogenicity. It is known from the literature, e.g. fromBritish Patent Specification No. 1,363,506, to convert a amino penicillins and penicillin G into the corresponding l ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl esters and it has been found that the absorption of such esters from the intestinal tract is superior to the absorption of a corresponding penicillin in the free acid form. However, the art of anti bacterial and antibiotic drugs is different from that of non steroidal anti inflammatory agents and the knowledge of the said penicillin esters did not induce people versed in the art of anti inflammatory agents to look for prodrugs in the form of ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl esters as manifested by the said European PatentApplication No. 81103066.7 which was filed about ten years later. In accordance with the present invention it has now surprisingly been found thatl ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl esters of non steroidal anti inflammatory substances having a free carboxylic function are excellent prodrug forms of these anti inflammatory substances possessing increased bioavailability and reduced ulcerogenicity when adrninistered orally as compared to the non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs with a free carboxylic function from which they are derived. The present invention thus provides a novel group of compounds of the general formulaEMI6.1 in whichEMI6.2 is the acyl residue of a non steroidal anti inflammatory compound containing a carboxylic acid function. The chemical structure of the non steroidal anti inflammatory compounds RCOOH,whose acyl residue R Cis the acyl moiety of the novel esters according to the invention, is not critical non limiting examples are acetyl salicylic acid Aspirin indomethacin, naproxen, ibuprofen, sulindac, diflunisal, ketoprofen, mefenamic acid, tolmetin, diclofenac and fluferaI1ic acid. On oral administration the esters according to the invention are readily absorbed from the digestive tract and liberate the anti inflammatory substance in the free carboxylic form in the blood and in this way a high drug concentration is maintained in the blood over long periods of time. This highly advantageous property of the novel esters according to the invention is believed to be due to the fact that while these esters readily undergo enzymatic hydrolysis in vivo they have a certain resistence to hydrolysis in an aqueous acidic medium. Thus, for example, the 2 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester of acetyl salicylic acid Aspirin is not readily hydrolysed off in an aqueous acidic medium simulated gastric juices in contrast to the acetyl group of this drug which is readily hydrolsed off under the same conditions.Similarly, the 1 ethoxycarbonyly ethyl ester of salicylic acid is stable in acidic media Likewise the rate of hydrolysis in 0.01 N nC1 solution at 250C of other esters according to the invention was found to be relatively slow half life of 32 hours assuming pseudo first order kinetics . Against this the rate of hydrolysis in vitro in human plasma was found to be much faster with a half life of 2.3 hours at 250C. These results show that the esters of the present invention are readily hydrolized when subjected to the influence of hydrolytic enzymes, for instance such as are present in blood serum, while being relatively resistant to hydrolysis in acidic medium such as the gastric juices. In consequence the release of the active non steroidal anti inflammatory substance in the free carboxylic acid form from the prodrug form occurs prior to or during absorption processes. The novel prodrugs according to the invention may be prepared in a simple one step reaction in which a compound of the general formulaEMI7.1 whereinEMI7.2 has the same meaning as before, or a salt thereof, is reacted with a l haloethyl ethyl carbonate of the formula EMI8.1 wherein X represents a halogen atom. Where a free carboxylic acid is used as starting material for the reaction with l haloethyl ethyl carbonate to produce the novel esters according to the invention the reaction is preferably performed in the presence of a base such as for example a trialkylamine, e.g. triethylamine, a metal bicarbonate such as potassium bicarbonate or sodium bicarbonate, or metal carbonates such as sodium and potassium carbonate. Where a salt is used as starting material the reaction proceeds favourably in the absence of a base. Preferably, compounds of the above formula III in which X is C1 or Br are used and of these the bromo compound is particularly preferred. This is because the C Br bond is more labile than the C C1 bond and that in consequence l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate is more reactive than the corresponding chloro compound. In consequence the rate of esterification with l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate is significantly faster than with a different 1 haloethyl ethyl carbonate, e.g.l chloroethyl ethyl carbonate,and there is as a rule no need for a large excess of the l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate nor are high temperatures and the use of catalysts required.The fact thatthe esterification with l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate proceeds under relatively mild conditions is of particular signigicance having regard to the sensitivity of some of the non steroidal anti inflammatory substances in the free carboxylic acid form whose ester prodrugs are produced in accordance with the present invention. 1 Bromoethyl ethyl carbonate is a compound which has only recently been prepared. However, it has now been found that it may be used to produce novel prod rug esters according to the invention in answer to the long felt want for readily accessible and effective prodrugs of nonsteroidal anti inflammatory substances. 1 Bromoethyl ethyl carbonate can be produced by brominating diethyl carbonate with elementary bromine or a brominating agent, e.g. 1,3 dibromo 5,5 dimethylimidazolidine 2,4 dione, in an aprotic inert solvent and under conditions conducive of free radical formation, the amount of bromine made available in the bromination being not more than the stoichiometric quantity. For free radical initiation it is possible to use light or a free radical initiator such as, for example, azobisisobutyronotrile. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples without being limited thereto. Example 1 is concerned with the preparation of the 1 bromoethyl ethyl carbonate starting material.Example 1Production of 1 bromoethyl ethyl carbonate A mixture of 195 g diethylcarbonate and 500 ml of 1,1,2 trichloro trifluoroethane was irradiated externally by a 1.5 km iodine quartz lamp. The mixture soon ref fluxed by the heat evolved fran the lart .The temperature in the flask was 60 C. 79.0 g of 1,3 dibromo 5,5 dimethylimidazoline 2,4 dione was added in small portions during 6 hours. The mixture was irradiated and refluxed for another 20 minutes and cooled. Solids were removed by filtration. The solution was frac tionally distilled first at atmospheric pressure and then under vacuum. l Bromoethyl ethyl carbonate was distilled at 910 at 20 mm Hg pressure. The fraction weighed 60 g and was shown to be 98 pure, by GC, The following are physical data of l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate Boiling point at 60 mm Hg 1100 Bromine content 40.6 theoretical 40.618 Density D 24 1.4244 n20 Refraction index 1.4395 NMR Spectrum 1.4 ppm 3H triplet J 7 Hz 2.0 ppm 3H doublet J 6 Hz 4.25 ppm 2H guartet J 7 Hz 6.6 ppm 1H quartet J 6 HzExample 2The preparation of 1 ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester of 2 tacetyloxy benzoic acid Aspirin . Anhydrous potassium carbonate 0.3 equivalent was added to a solution of 2 acetyloxy benzoic acid Aspirin 0.12mole in acetone. To the mixture, 1.2 mole of l bromsethyl ethyl carbonate was added and the mixture was heated for 3 hours at reflux. The cooled mixture was poured into water and stirred for 1 hour, at room temperature. The organic phase was separated, the aqueous phase extracted with methylenechloride and the combined organic phases washed with water and dried over MgSO4. A pure oily product was obtained in 80e yield after evaporation of the methylene chloride.IR neat 1760 and 1740 cm s EMI11.1 NMR, 6 CDCl3 8.15 7.4 4H, multiplet Aromatic 7.15 lH, AB quartet CH3 CH 0 4.3 2H, AB quartet CH3 CH2 0 2.35 3H, s CH3CO 1.6 3E, d CH3 CHO 1.35 3H, t CH3 CH2 0Anal. calcd. for C14H16O7 m.w 296 C 56.76 H 5.41 found C 56.63 H 5.31Example 3The preparation of l ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester of salicylic acid. Equimolar quantities 0.072 mole of salicylic acid 10 g ,NaHCO3 7.1 g and l chloroethyl ethyl carbonate were added to 70ml DMSO.The mixture was stirred at room. temperature, until no starting material could be detected TLC . The mixture was poured into water, stirred for 1 hour and then extracted with CH2Cl2. The organic layer was separated, washed withNaHCO3 solution, then with water and dried over MgSO4. The oily residue obtained after evaporation of CH2Cl2 contained traces of unreacted l chloroethyl ethyl carbonate, DMSO and the product. Column chromatography on silica with CH2Cl2 afforded 8 g 41 pure colourless oily product. Better yields were obtained by reacting directly sodium salicylate with l bromoethyl ethyl carbonate.IR neat 1765 and 1745 cm l s NMR, 6 CDCl3 7.33 6H, m, Ar OH CH3CHO 4.16 2H, q, OCH2CH3 2.26 3H, d, CH3CHO 1.26 3H, t, CH3CH2O By following the procedure of the foregoing Samples several more novel esters according to the invention of non steroidal anti inflammatory substances were prepared. In the following Examples 4 to 13 only the generic and chemical designations, the structural formulae and the physical properties of the products are given. In the generic and designation and structural formulae the abbreviation ECOE is used for the ethoxycarbonyl ethyl moiety Example 4 1 p Chloro enzoy 5 methoxy 2 methylindole 3 acctic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI13.1 Indomethacin ECOE esterSolid, melting point 86.7 C isopropanol hexane 1IR cm 1760 1740NMR , in CDCl3 7.6 6.4 8H, m, Ar CH3 CHO 4.0 2H, q, CH3 CH2 O 3.7 3H, s, CH3O 3.6 2H, s, CH2CO 2.25 3H, s, CH3CO 1.5 3H, d, CH3 CH 1.2 3H, t, CH3CH2 Example 5 6 Methoxy alpha methyl 2 naphthaleneacetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI13.2 Naproxen ECOE esterOi3 at room temperatureIR cm 1 1760 1740 NMR , in CDCl3 300 M Hz 7.67 7.12 6H, Ar 6.78 1H, 2q, CH3CHO 4.18 2H, q, CH2CH3 3.85,3.97 1H, 2q, CH3CHCO 3.87 3H, s, CH3O 1.57 3H, d, CH3CH 1.48,1.38 3H, d, CH3CH 1.27,1.21 3H, t, CH3CH2O Example 6 a Methyl 4 2 methylpropyl benzene acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI14.1 Ibuprofen ECOE ester oil at room temperatureIR cm 1 1760 1740NMR 6, in CDC13 300 M Hz 7.18 7.06 4H, q d, Ar 6.75 1H, 2q, CH3CH O 4.19,4.09 2H, 2q, CH3CH2O 3.69 1H, 2q, CH3CH 2.43 2H, 2d, CH2 CH 1.85 1H, Septet, CH 1.47,1.44 6H, 2d d, CHCH3 OCHCH3 1.30, 1.25 2H, 2t, CH3CH2 EMI14.2 Example 7 2 2,6 Dichlorophenyl amino benzene acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl esterEMI15.1 Dicloienic ECOE esterSolid, melting point 570C MeOH IR cm 1765 1750NMR , in CDCl3 7.28 8H, Ar CH3CHO, NH 4.2 2H, g, CH3CH20 3.8 2H, s, OCH2CH3 1.5 3H, d, CH3CHO 1.3 3H, t, CH3CH20 Example 8 m Benzoylbydratropic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl este . EMI16.1 Ketoprofen ECOE esterOil at room temperatureIR cm 1 1765 1735 NMR , in CDCl3 7.52 9H, m, Ar 6.70 2H, q, CH3CHO 4.09 1H, 2q, CH3CH2O 3.76 1H, 2q, CH3CHCO 1.53 3H, d, CH3CHO 1.40 3H, d, Me 1.33 3H, t, Me Example 9 2 1 2, 3 Dimethylphenyl amino benzoi c acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI16.2 Mefenamic kcid ECOE ester oil at room temperature 3320 1755 1745 NMR , in CDCl3 9.13 1H, br.s, NH 7.96 1H, d, ortho H to coAr 7.1 6H, m, Ar 6.66 1H, q, CH3CHO 4.23 2H, q, CHECH2O 2.29 3H, s, Me 2.13 3H, s, Me 1.69 3H, d, CH3CH 1.33 3H, t, CH3CH2O Example 10 Z 5 Fluoro 2 methyl 1 4 methylsulfinyl phenyl methylene 1H indene 3 acetic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI17.1 Sulindac ECOE esterOil at room temperatureIR cm 1 1760 1745NMR , in CDC13 7.6 3H, s, Ar H 7.25 6.25 6H, m, Ar C C CH3CHO 4.15 2H, q, CH3CH2O 3.55 2H, s, CH2CO 2.75 3H, s, Me 2.20 3H, s, Me 1.50 3H, d, CH3CH2 1.25 3H, t, CH3CH2 Example 11 2 3 Trifluoromethyl phenyl amino benzoic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI18.1 Flufenamic Acid ECOE esterOil at room temperatureIR cm 1 3320 1755 1745NMR , in CDCl3 9.42 1H, br.s, NH 7.93 1H, d, H ortho to CO 7.03 8H, m, Ar CH3CHO 4.20 2H, q, CH3CH2O 1.66 3H, d, CH3CHO 1.26 3H, t, CH3CH2O Example 12 1 Methyl 5 alpha methylbenzoyl 1H pyrrole 2 ace tic acid 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester.EMI18.2 Tolmetin ECOE esterOil at room temperatureIR cm 1 1765 1740 NMR , in CDCl3 7.49 4H, ABq, Ar 6.82 1H, q, CH3CHO 6.42 2H, ABq, Pyrrole H 4.23 2H, q, CH3CH2O 3.93 3H, s, Me 3.60 2H, s, CH2CO 2.43 3H, s, ArMe 1.59 3H, d, CH3CHO 1.33 3H, t, CH3CH2O The proton, IR, UV and mass spectra and the elemental analyses of all the above esters were in accord with the molecular structure. In each case where optically active non steroidal anti inflammatory carboxylic acids were used the NMR spectrum 300 MHz of the corresponding ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester showed existence of a diasteroisomeric mixture. The rates of hydrolysis of 2 acetyloxy benzoic acid Aspirin ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester to salicylethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester in the aqueous acidic medium simulated gastro intestinal juices were determined by dissolving the ester to a pre determined concentration in the acidic medium containing THF aqueous conc. HC1 1 1 and the rate of hydrolysis at 37 C was measured by the HPLC method. The results are given in the following table wime Min. Ester 0 100 30 96 60 92 90 90 120 90 150 84 180 82 210 76 The rate of hydrolysis of salicylic acid 2 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester under the sane experi mental conditions vas determined in a similar way and this ester was found to be stable. These results show that the 2 ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl esters of non steroida anti inflammatory substances according to the invention are relatively stable against hydrolysis in acidic media. Thus, they are generally absorbed from the gastro intestinal tract to the blood system in the ester form. From pharmacokinetic data it was further found that the novel esters according to the invention exhibit characteristics of a slow release profile. PHARMACO OG CAL T TS The anti inflammatory and analgesic activities of the produrgs of formula A , as well as their reduced ulceroge city and improved bioavailability in comparison with parent non steroidal anti inflammatory drups are evi ent from the results of the tests obtained with representative compounds of the invention. Details of these tests and results are given thereafter.1. Anti Inflammatory Activity Test Procedures a Carrageenin oedema test I. Prior to administration bf test materials and reference compounds, the volume of the right hind paw to the level of the lateral malleolus in all test animals pre injection paw volume was measured with an Hg displacement volumeter Hugo Basile, Italy . II. Test materials and reference compounds, suspended in 0.5 CC at concentrations appropriate to selected dose levels were administered at a constant volume dosage of 10 ml kg by oral gavage with a flexible catheter choke 8 passed down the oesophagus into the lumen of the stomach. Ill. One hour after administration, 0.1 ml of 19 carrageenin suspended in 0.9E sterile saline solution was injected subcutaneously into the sole of the right hind paw. Iv. Vo3une of the injected foot i.e. oedema intensity was determined at 1 and 3 hours after carrageenin injection as detailed above in paragraph 1.Evaluation of dataCarrageeenin oedema test The intensity of oedema, expressed as percent increase in the injected foot volume was calculated for each treatment and the control group, by the following equation Mean post injection volume mean pre injection volume x 100 mean pre injection volume. Anti inflammatory activity was expressed as percent inhibition of oedema, which in turn was calculated for each treatment group by the following equation Mean percsvnt increase paw volume of controls mean percent increase paw volume of treated x 100 mean percent increase paw volume of controls. Table 1Comparative prophylactic anti inflammatory activity of test materials, assessed by inhibition of oedema in theCarrageenin induced rat paw oedema testEMI23.1 tb SEP SEP inhibition tb Treatment SEP Dosage SEP No. SEP of SEP of SEP aedema SEP SEP activity tb SEP mg kg SEP p.o. SEP animals SEP vs. SEP parent tb SEP 3 SEP hrs SEP compound tb Indomethacin SEP 5.0 SEP 6 SEP 65.1 tb Indomethacin ECOE SEP ester SEP 6.6 SEP 6 SEP 65.1 SEP 100 tb Diclofenac SEP 4.0 SEP 6 SEP 39.3 SEP 100Diclofenac ECOE SEP ester SEP 5.6 SEP 6 SEP 34.6 SEP 88 tb Acetylsalicylic SEP acid SEP 100.0 SEP 6 SEP 31.4 tb Acetylsalicylic SEP acidEOOE SEP ester SEP 164.0 SEP 6 SEP 20.2 SEP 64.24 tb SEP Ibuprofen SEP 25.0 SEP 6 SEP 44.7 SEP 100 tb SEP Ibuprofen ECOE SEP ester SEP 39.0 SEP 6 SEP 48.9 SEP 107.59 tb Naproxen SEP 20.0 SEP 6 SEP 20.2 SEP 100 tb Naproxen ECOE SEP ester SEP 30.0 SEP 6 SEP 28.0 SEP 138.9 tb All test materials were administered 1 hour before carrageenin. Mean t incr. paw vol. of controls Mean incr. paw vol. of treated x 100 Mean incr. paw vol. of controls After sub plantar injection of 1 carrageenin. b Adjuvant arthritis chronic inflammation Adjuvant arthritis test I. Arthritis was induced by subplantar injection into the right hind paw of 0.1 ml of Killed Mycobacterium butyricum, suspended at a concentra tion of 5 mg ml in liquid paraffin. On Day 21 after subplantar injection, only those animals which clearly developed signs of arthritis were selected and divided by random order into treatment groups. Test materials and reference compounds, suspended in 0.5t C at concentrations appropriate to selected dose levels, and CC only for adjuvant control animals, were administered once daily for 10 consecutive days i.e. starting on Day 21 after subplantar injection of adjuvant until Day 30 . Administration was by oral gavage with a flexible catheter introduced via the oesophagus into the lumen of the stomach. Volume in all cases was 10 ml kg.III. Swellings of the injected hind paws were measured on Day 31 with a micrometer, across a sagittal section of the matatarsus just below the tarsus.Evaluation of data The comparative therapeutic anti inflammatory activity of the test materials and reference compounds was expressed as percent inhibition of swelling in injected paws after 10 days of treatment i.e. 31 days after adjuvant injected in comparison to the non treated adjuvant controls. Percent inhibition for each treatment group was calculated by the following equation Mean paw swelling of control mean paw swelling of treated x 100 mean paw swelling of control. Results Table 2Comparative therapentic anti inflammatory activity of test materials, assessed by inhibition of swclling in the adjuvant injected rat naw oedema test.EMI25.1 tb SEP SEP inhibition SEP of tb SEP Dosage SEP No. SEP of SEP M an SEP paw SEP swelling SEP compered tb SEP Treatment SEP mg kg SEP p.o. SEP animals SEP swelling SEP to SEP controis tb Adj ant SEP Control SEP 0.5 SEP CMC SEP SEP 18 SEP 15.3 SEP Indomethacin SEP 2.0 SEP 5 SEP 10.1 SEP 34.0 tb Indomethacin ECOE SEP ester SEP 2.6 SEP 5 SEP 9.9 SEP 35.3 tb Diclofenac SEP 2.0 SEP 5 SEP 10.0 SEP 34.6 tb Diclofenac ECOE SEP ester SEP 2.8 SEP 5 SEP 10.9 SEP 28.8 tb Acetylsalicylic SEP acid SEP 200.0 SEP 5 SEP 11.8 SEP 22.9 tb Acetylsalicylic SEP acid ECOE tb ester SEP 300.0 SEP 5 SEP 12.4 SEP 19.0 tb Ibuprofen SEP 60.0 SEP 5 SEP 10.3 SEP 32.8 tb Ibuprofen ECOE SEP ester SEP 94.0 SEP 5 SEP 10.4 SEP 32.0 tb Naproxen SEP 10.0 SEP 5 SEP 10.1 SEP 34.0 tb Naproxen ECOE SEP ester SEP 15.1 SEP 5 SEP 10.9 SEP 28.8 tb Administered by daily oral gavae during 10 consecutive days at a volume dosage of 10 ml kg. measured after termination of 10 day treatment Day 31 , expressed as mm units read off micrometer. Carboxymethylcellulose in 2 x distilled H2O.2. knalsesic Action Test Animals t5ale rats, weighing 95 140 g, 10 rats per experimental group. The major reason for selecting rats of this weight range is the ease in handling smaller sized animals in this particular test. Animals are fed and provided drinking water ad libitum until time of testing. ProcedureA Inflammation is induced by injecting subcutaneously 0.1 ml of a 20t suspension of brewers yeast in saline into the plantar surface of the right hind paw of the rat. Note Brewers yeast, locally obtainable from Abir breweries, may be kept under refrigeration for a period of at least 6 months .B One hour after sub plantar injection of brewers yeast, the experimental compound, customarily dissolved in 1 TWEEN 80, is orally administered to rats usually at a standard dose volume of 0.5 ml 100 g body weight. C At 1, and 3 hours after administration of the test substance on the vehicle, the experimental or control nimals, respectively, are tested for determining their reaction threshold to pressure applied to the inflamed foot by employing the BASILE Analgesy Meter. This instrument is basically a device which exacts force that increases at a constant rate a certain number of grams per second . The force of pressure required to produce the typical escape response, exhibited by the animal as a noticeable struggle to. withdraw the inflamed foot sometimes accompanied by vocalization , is read off the instrument s scale and recorded.Note In case weight discs are being used to increase the force of pressure applied, the same number of discs should be employed throughout the entire experiment for both experimental and control animals. For detailed operation of the analgesy Jneter reference is trade to the specific instructions of the instrument given in the appendix.Calculation of Results a. The results of the recorded Pressure Reaction Thresholds measured on the analgesy meter scale calibrated in grams x 10 expressed as grams, are calculated as Mean Group Values S.E.M. for each test group and testing period, i.e. 1, and 3 hours after test substance or vehicle administration.b. The differences in the various Mean Group Values between treatment and control groups are analyzed for statistical significance using the Student t Test.Results Table 3EMI27.1 tb SEP SEP of SEP SEP of SEP SEP effect SEP SEP effect tb SEP Compound SEP control SEP control SEP vs. SEP parent SEP vs. SEP parent tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 3 SEP hrs SEP compound SEP compound tb SEP 1 SEP hr SEP 3 SEP brs SEP tb SEP Control SEP TWEEN SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP SEP SEP tb Indomethacin SEP 128 SEP 146 SEP SEP Indomethacin ECOE SEP ester SEP 130 SEP 153 SEP 102 SEP 105 tb SEP Aspirin SEP 126 SEP 100 SEP SEP tb SEP Aspirin ECOE SEP ester SEP 178 SEP 148 SEP 141 SEP 150 tb SEP Diclofenac SEP 123 SEP 133 SEP SEP SEP Diclofenac ECOE SEP ester SEP 106 SEP 110 SEP 86 SEP 82 tb SEP Ibuprofen SEP 152 SEP 145 SEP SEP SEP Ibuprofen ECOE SEP ester SEP 176 SEP 129 SEP 115 SEP 89 tb SEP Naproxen SEP 116 SEP 133 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Naproxen ECOE SEP ester SEP 125 SEP 121 SEP 108 SEP 91 tb 3. Ulcerogenicity. Methods Six groups of 10 female Charles River rats weighing 170 230 g were used for each drug. Rats were fasted for a 24 hour period prior to experimentation, but were allowed free access to water during this period. Drugs were freshly suspended in water with 1 carboxy methyl cellulose and administered by stomach tube. Rats treated were sacrificed 5 hours after oral gavage. Ulcers were evaluated under a magnifying lens, after the stomach had been dissected out, opened along the lesser curvature and rinsed. Ulcer index UI for each group was calculated as the mean sum of the lengths of the individual lesions in each rat. Apparent maximal ulcerogenicity was calculatted from regression analysis of the ascending parts of each dose response curve. Results Table 4EMI29.1 tb 5 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 1 tb Compound SEP Slope SEP UD50 SEP UI50 SEP UD SEP ma SEP UI SEP max tb SEP Uxkg mmole SEP mm le kg SEP mmole kg tb SEP Acetyl tb salicylic SEP acid SEP 33.7 SEP SEP 11.5 SEP 0.02 SEP 46.3 SEP 0.4 SEP 92.6 tb Acetyl tb salicylic tb acid ECOE SEP ester SEP 13.7 SEP SEP 6.5 SEP 0.02 SEP 20.5 SEP 0.4 SEP 40.9 tb SEP Ibuprofen SEP 38.1 SEP SEP 8.0 SEP 0.325 SEP 26.0 SEP 2.8 SEP 52.0 tb IbuprofenECOE SEP ester SEP 36.7 SEP SEP 8.5 SEP 0.300 SEP 13.0 SEP 0.7 SEP 26.0 tb Indomethacin SEP 50 SEP SEP SEP 0.32 SEP 60 tb Indomethacin tb SEP ECOE SEP ester SEP 34 SEP SEP SEP 13.8 SEP SEP SEP 0.32 SEP 42.0 tb Diclofenac SEP 31.1 SEP SEP 8.7 SEP SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 61.8 tb DiclofenacECOE SEP ester SEP 21.1 SEP SEP SEP 0.6 SEP 34.9 tb SEP Naproxen SEP 41.0 SEP SEP 14.2 SEP 0.17 SEP 31.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 62.0 tb SEP Naproxen tb SEP ECOE SEP ester SEP 63.5 SEP SEP 0.59 SEP 0.59 SEP 32.5 SEP 1.0 SEP 65.0 tb doese response curve aquired bell shape no plateau reachedUI max ulcerogenic index maxUD max dose causing max ulcerogenic indexU150 50 of ulcerogenic index max UD50 dose causing D1150 Bioavailability phalmnBcokinetic profile in rats of ECOE ester of acetyl salicylic acidMethods Female Charles River rats weighing 200 250 g were used. Rates were starved for a 24 hour period prior to each experiment, while water was allowed ad libitum. Aspirin or aspirin ECOE ester was freshly suspended in water with 1 carboxymethyl cellulose and administered by stomach tube at a dose of 0.4 mmole kg. Blood was drawn from the tail at 0, 1 2, 1, 2 and 4 hours in one group, and at 0, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 24 hours in another group of rats. Plasma salicylate concentrations were measured by fluorometry according to Fret and El Sayed Arch. Int. Pharmacodyn. 230 300, 1977 . The assay was found to be specific for salicylate and to exclude aspirin or aspirin derivative. Statistical evaluation was effected by unpaired Student t test. Results and Discussion As figure 5 shows, plasma concentrations of salicylate rose quickly after aspirin had peaked at 121.3 7.9 g ml after 1 hour, while the ascent after the derivative was more gradual, to reach a peak of 97.9 5.5 only after 4 hours. Thereafter, the salicylate concentrations did not differ significantly in the two groups. The areas under the plasma concentration time curves were, however, not significantly different between the two groups neither at 0 4 hours 293.9 18.1 g ml. hour for the derivative vs 373.3 52.9 for aspirin , nor at 4 24 hours 1440.6 67.D for the derivative vs 1553.3 i 161.2 for aspirin . From the above results one may conclude that aspirin ECOE ester acts as a prodrug and re eases salicylate in rat plasma. Although the rate of appearance of salicylate seems slower after the oral gavage of the derivative than of plain aspirin, the bioavailability of salicylate from the derivative preparation seems complete. The slower build up of salicylate levels may be related either to slower gastrointestinal absorption of the derivative or slower hydrolysis, or both. In view of the much smaller ulcerogenic liability of the derivative and considering its fair bioavailability as presently shown, aspirin ECOE ester seems to have significant advantages over Aspirin itself.Hydrolysis Ehe rates of hydrolysis of acetyl salicylic acid ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester to salicyl ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester in aqueous acidic system simulated gastrointestinal juices are given in the following table Hydrolysis of Aspirin ester to Salicyl ester TIME tMin. ESTER 0 100 30 96 60 92 90 90 120 90 150 180 82 210 76 Ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester of Aspirin was dissolved to a prcdetermined concentration in an acidic aqueous medium simulated gastric juice mixture TIFF aqueous conc. HC1 1 1 and the rate of hydrolysis at 370C was measured by HPLC method. Salicyl 2 ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester in the same experimental conditions was found to be stable. Stability of Salicyl 2 Ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl ester TIwE Min. ESTER 0 100 150 unchanged 180 210 240 11 The results of,all the above tests can be summarized as follows The ethoxy carbonyloxy ethyl esters of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs, the compounds of the present invention, have shown to possess a high degree of anti inflammatory and analgesic activity with low toxicity, especially being less ulcerogenic than the parent acids, but retain their anti infammatory activity The invention includes a pharmaceutical or veterinary formulation comprising an ester of the invention formulated for pharmaceutical or veterinary use, respectively, optionally together with an acceptable diluent, carrier or excipient and or optionally in unit dosage form. The compounds of the present invention are conveniently administered to warm blooded animals by conventional oral or topical aum3nstrat2.on. The ECOE esters of non stero3dal anti inflammatory substaxlces which are usually in the crystalline form, can be conveniently cambined with any suitable non toxic pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable oral inert carrier materials to form tablets or capsules. Such carrier materials are well known to those skilled in the art of oral pharmaceutical or veterinary formulations. Those ECOE esters which are in a liquid form can be conveniently incorporated in softgelatine capsules as is well known to those skilled in the art, or be prepared in solution form. Similarly, any one of the compounds of the invention can be combined with a topical vehicle, such as triacetin, so that the active ingredient is present in an effective amount. Such preparation in the form of ointment ream or elly is applied topically to the inflammed area, whereby the therapeutically active compound is dermally absorbed and cleared to release the parent moiety at the site of inflammation. The therapeutic dosage range for the compounds of the invention will vary with the size and needs of the patient. However, generally the therapeutic oral dose of the compound of the present invention, mimics, on a molecular basis, the dose of the parent conventional nonsteroidal anti inflammatory moiety e.g. aspirin, indomethacin, naproxen, etc. . For topical application, a 0.1t to 2.5e concentration of a compound of the present invention in a suitable topical carrier to the site of inflammation is sufficient. The compounds of the present invention are well absorbed percutaneously and consequently are by far more potent topically than the parent substance as they are poorly absorbed percutaneously. The compounds of the present invention are all lipid soluble products. They are soluble in all conventional organic solvents including light petroleumether. Topical application of the said compounds has produced a higher anti inflammatory potency than that of the parent compounds from which they, are derived. They penetrate easily through skin, and.hydrolyse enzymatically to release the parent non steroidal anti inflammatory agents at the target organ and bring fast relief of rheumatic pains. The invention includes an ester of the invention for use as an anti inflammatory prodrug.