# Beta lactam compound.

## Abstract
Lactam compounds represented by the general for mula

## Claims
WEIAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A ss lactam compound represented by the general formula I EMI32.1 wherein X is phthalimido, azido, phenylacetamido, phenoxyacetamido, 2 thienylacetamido, orEMI32.2 wherein R2 is amino or protected amino, R3 is hydrogen or methyl Y is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxyl Z is CER4NO2 wherein R4 is hydrogen or straight or branched alkyl of C1 C4 or formyl R1 is straight or branched alkyl ofC1 C5 which can be substituted by halogen , substituted silyl, or benzyl, benzhydryl or trityl whose phenyl nuclei can be substituted by methyl, methoxy or nitro represents single bond when Z is fCHR4NO2 and represents single or double bond when Z is formyl and in spite of the above definition, when X isEMI32.3 z is CHR4NO2 . 2. A ss lactam compound according to claim 1, wherein the protecting group of the protected amino for R2 is trityl, t butyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyloxycarbonyl chloroacetyl or formyl. 3. A ss lactam compound according to claim 1, wherein the substituted silyl under R1 is methylsilyl or t butyl dimethylsilyl. 4. A ss lactam compound according to claim 1, whereinX is phthalimido, Y is hydrogen, Z is formyl and represents single or double bond. 5. A ss lactam compound according to claim 1, wherein Z is cHR4NO2 wherein R4 has the same meaning as defined above and represents single bond.

## Description
TITLE OF INVENTION ss LACTAM COMPOUNDBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a novel 6 lactam compound, more specifically to a carbacephem or carbacepham compound wherein hydrogen atom at the 3 position is substituted by an unsubstituted or substituted nitromethyl group or a formyl group. As to carbacephem compounds with a substituent at. the 3 position, those with a halogen atom at the 3 position GB 2041923A , those with methyl, hydroxymethyl, etc. US Patent No. 4,226,866 , etc. have heretofore been known.The Compounds of the present invention are novel compounds not yet disclosed in any literature, and are useful intermediates which can be converted to compounds having an antibacterial activity, as will be described later.Detailed Description of the Invention This invention relates to a novel 6 lactam com pound represented by the general formula I EMI1.1 wherein X is phthalimido, azido, phenylacetamido, phenoxyacetamido, 2 thienylacetamido, or EMI2.1 wherein R2 is amino or protected amino, R3 is hydrogen or methyl Y is hydrogen, methyl or hydroxyl Z is CHR4NO2 wherein R4 is hydrogen or straight or branched alkyl of C1 C4 or fdrmyl R1 is straight or branched alkyl ofC1 C5 which can be substituted by halogen , substituted silyl, or benzyl, benzhydryl or trityl whose phenyl nuclei can be substituted by methyl, methoxy or nitro represents single bond when Z is CHRNO2 and represents single or double bond when Z is formyl and in spite of the above definition, when X isEMI2.2 Z is CHR4NO2 hereinafter referred to as Compound I or merely I , and compounds of other formulae shall likewise be referred to . The protecting group of protected amino group for R2 in the general formula I can be exemplified by trityl, t butyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyloxycarbonyl, chloroacetyl, formyl, etc. The straight or branched alkyl group of C1 C4 for R4 can be exemplified by methyl, ethyl, propyl, i propyl, butyl, i butyl, sec butyl, tert butyl, etc. The straight or branched alkyl group of C1 C5 1 for R1 can be exemplified by methyl, ethyl, tert butyl, etc. The group substituted with halogen in the R group can be exemplified by chloromethyl, chloroethyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl, etc., and the halogen can be exemplified by chlorine, fluorine, and bromine. The substituted silyl can be exemplified by trimethylsilyl, t butyldimethylsilyl, etc. A Compound I wherein.Z is CHR4NO2 and represents single bond, namely a compound represented by the general formula I 1 EMI3.1 wherein X, Y, R1 and R4 have the same meanings as defined above can be obtained by reacting a known compound represented by the general formula II EMI3.2 wherein X, Y and R1 have the same meanings as defined above and disclosed in GB 2017102A, etc. with a compound of general formula III H2 CR4 NO2 III wherein R4 has the same meaning as defined above in the presence of a base. Michael addition type reaction to form a direct carbon carbon bond at the 3 position of 3H S lactam is a novel reaction not disclosed in any literature with respect to not only carbacephems but also 3H cephalosporins. The Compound III can be exemplified by nitromethane, nltroethane, 1 nitropropane, etc. The base can be exemplified by triethylamine, l,,5 diazabicyclo 4.3.O nonene 5, 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, piperazine, pyrrolidine, tetramethylguanidine, pvridine, etc. The amount of the base ranges from a catalytic amount to 2 equivaients to the Compound iii depending upon reaction conditions and generally, a preferred amount is 0.1 1.0 equivalent. A solvent for use in the reaction is chloroform, methylene chloride, l,2 dimethoxyethane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, toluene, ethyl acetate, dimethylsulfoxide, N,N dimethylformamide or Compound III as the reaction reagent, or a mixture thereof. The reaction temperature is 0 1000C, preferably o 500C, and the reaction time is 30 minutes to 7 days, being dependent upon reaction conditions. Isolation and purification of Compound I l from the reaction mixture can be carried out according to the ordinary procedure used in the synthesis of penicillins or cephalosporins, for example, by extraction, column chromatography, recrystallization, etc. A Compound I 1 can be converted to well known cephalosporin analogs IV , V and VI by the following novel processes I and II found by the present inventors and given below. These processes will be illustrated by Ref er ence Examples Process I EMI4.1 EMI5.1 wherein X, Y, R1 and R4 have the same meanings as defined above . Carbacephem compounds having hydroxyl or methoxy at the 3 position such as Compound Iv and v are disclosed in Chem. Pharm. Bull 28 5 1563 1980 . Process II EMI5.2 wherein X has the same meaning as X except the azido group . Carbacephem compounds having 3 hydroxymethyl such as compound VI are also disclosed in the Chem. Pharm. Bull. A compound I wherein Z is formyl, represents single or double bond andEMI6.1 is excluded from the definition of X, namely a compound represented by the general formula I 2 EMI6.2 wherein Y and R, have the same meanings as defined above, and X has the same meaning as X exceptEMI6.3 can be synthesized from a Compound I 1 wherein X is X , namely a compound represented by the general formula I 3 EMI6.4 wherein X , Y, R1 and R4 have the same meanings as defined above according to the following process EMI7.1 wherein X , Y, R1 and R4 have the some meanings as defined above . Compound I 2 consists of Compound I 2 1 andCompound I 2 2 . Conversion of nitromethyl group to aldehyde group in step I 3 I 2 1 is preferably carried out by Nef reaction dilute acid treatment , reaction by MoO5 pyridine hexamethylphosphoramide after base treatment, ozone oxidation after base treatment, reaction by potassium permanganate after base treatment, reaction by titanium trichloride, etc. The last process is particularly preferable because of mild reaction, and the reference reaction process is disclosed in J. Org. Chem. 38 num 26,4367 1973 . Particularly preferably, the nitro Compound I 3 is subjected to reac tiOII in a mixed system of an aqueous solution of titanium trichloride, and an organic solvent such as methanol, ethanol, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, etc. at 0 300C. Yield can be improved by carrying out the reaction under a weakly acidic condition by adding ammonium acetate, etc.to the reaction system. In the reaction, 1 10 equivalents of titanium trichloride is used on the basis of the substrate. Introduction of a double bond in the step I 2 1 1 2 2 is carried out by treating I 2 1J with an appropriate halide to introduce a halogen to the a position of the aldehyde, i.e. the 3 position and then eliminating hydrogen halide by an appropriate base. In the halogenation of the 3 position a reagent to be usually used for halogenation of the a position of an aldehyde can be used, and is preferably exemplified by bromine, chlorine, Nbromosuccinimide, N chlorosuccinimide, N bromoacetamide, sulfuryl chloride, cupric bromide, cupric chloride, Iodo benzehe dichloride, pyrrolidone hydrotribromide, 5,5 dibromo 2,2 dimethyl 4 ,6 dioxo l ,3 dioxane, etc.Particularly, the last two halogenating agents are preferable Any solvent may be used in the reaction so long as it is inert and does not take part in the reaction, and can be exemplified by tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, 1,2dimethoxyethane, diethyl ether, methylene chloride, chloroform, toluene, acetonitrile, etc. Reaction temperature is 20 to 800C depending upon the halogenating agent used, and preferred temperature is generally 0 600C. If necessary, an appropriate acid or base can be added to the reaction system to proceed with the halogenation reaction smoothly. The reaction time varies depending upon the halogenating agent, reaction temperature, solvent, etc.used, and usually is 10 minutes to 2 hours. The halide as formed is treated with an appropriate base without the necessity of isolation to obtain the desired Compound 1 2 2 . The base for use in the treatment is exemplified by triethylamine, diethylamine, 1,5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 nonene 5, 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, piperazine, pyrrolidine, pyridine, N,N dimethylaniline, sodium hydrogen carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, calciun carbonate, etc. In the reaction, 1 to 5, preferably 2 to 3 equivalents of the base is used on the basis of the starting Compound I 2 1 . The reaction temperature is 13 to 500C, and the reaction is preferably carried out under ice cooling.The reaction time is 30 minutes to 6 hours preferably 1 to 3 hours. The thus obtained Compound I 2 2 is a useful intermediate which can be converted to a compound having an antibacterial activity, and an example illustrating how a vinylcarbacephalosporin compound is derived from Compound I 2 2 is shown below, and its embodiment will be shown in Reference Example.EMI9.1 In the foregoing process formulae, A is exemplified by ethoxycarbonyl, cyano, l methyl 5 tetrazolyl, etc., and R5 represents various acyl groups usually used in the field of penicillin and cephalosporin chemistry. In Compound VII of the above process and Compounds IV , V and vIi, theKester group represented by CO 2R1 can be converted to a carboxyl group without impairing the substituent and functional group in the molecule according to the procedure frequently used in the penicillin and cephalosporin chemistry by selecting appropriate conditions and reagent. In Compound VII of the above process and Compounds IV , V and VI , when the functional group at the 7 position is an azido group, the azido group can be converted to an amino group preferably by catalytic reduction, or according to a proceaure psing hydrogen sulfide in the presence of a base such as triethylamine, pyridine, etc. When the functional group at the 7 pcsition is a phthalimido group, the phthalimido group can be converted to an amino group according to a procedure using a hydrazine compound disclosed in Japanese Published UnexaminedPatent Application No. 91991 1982.By introducing various acyl groups usually used in the chemistry of penicillin or cephalosporin into the amino group of Compound VIII , useful cephalosporin analogs having an antibacterial effect can be obtained. Embodiments of the present invention will be given in detail below, referring to Examples and ReferenceExamples.Example 1 Tertiary butyl ester of t 6,7 cis 7 phthalimldo l azabicyclo 4.2 0 oct 3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI10.1 At first, 6 g 16.3 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2en 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid is suspended in 60 ml of nitromethane, and 1.05 ml of 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.e.0 undecene7 is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 23 hours. The reaction mixture is poured into 200 ml of an ice cooled aqueous 0.5 N hydrochloric acid solution, and the mixture is extracted with 200 ml of ethyl acetate.The extract is washed successively three times with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, twice with an aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate soiu ticn, twice with water and once with an aaueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation. Then, the residue is crystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to obtain 4.55 g of the desired compound 65 having the following physical properties. KBr cm 1 IR vmax cm 1 1790 sh , 1780 sh , 1770, 1730, 1560, 1385 NMR CDC13 7.63 7.97 4H, m , 5.48 1H, d., J 5.0Hz , 5.03 1H, dd, J 10.5, 7.5Hz , 4.85 1H, dd, J 10.5, 7.5Hz , 4.51 1H, br. s , 3.93 4.23 1H, m , 2.87 3.17 1H, m , 1.43 1.93 4H, m 1.50 9H, s example 2 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7B phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 nitromethyl 4 alpha hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI11.1 With the same treatment as in Example 1, using 7.4 g 19.2 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of cis 7 ss phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 4 alpha hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid, 77 ml of nitromethane and 1.35 ml of i,3 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, 5.54 g of the desired compound 64.6 is obtained. The compound has the following physical properties. IR maxKBr cm 1 3540, 1790 sh , 1780 sh , 1765, 1735, 1720 sh , 1710 sh , 1560, 1390 NMR CDCl3 CD OD 7.70 7.97 4H, m , 5.54 1H, d, J 5.0Hz , 4.99 1H, dd,wJ 13.5, 9.OHz , 4.67 lH, dd, J 13.5, 6.0Hz , 4.50 1H, br. s , 3.93 4.43 2H, m , 3.16 3.47 1H, m , 1.47 2.03 2H, m , 1.50 9H, s Example 3 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 73 phthalimido1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 formyl 4 alpha hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carbo xylic acid EMI12.1 At first, 5.54 g 12.4 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6.7 cis 7ss phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 nitromethyl 4 alpha hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 2 is treated in the same manner as in Example 8 1 to obtain 2.66 g of crude desired product 51.6 .The crude product can be used in the successive step without any purification. A portion of the crude product is purified by silica gel chromatography n hexane ethyl acetate 1 3 to obtain the purified desired compound having the following physical properties. The compound is mainly a mixture of two isomers. . CHCl3 cm 1 . 1790 1775 sh 1770 1730 1720 sh max NMR CDCl3 CD3OD 9.90 1H, s , 7.72 7.96 4H, m , 5.44 5.60 1H, m , 4.92 5.08 1H, m , 4.20 4.84 2H, m , 1.36 2.60 1H, m 1.56 2.20 2H, m , 1.52 9H, br. s Example 4 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 trans 7 azido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI13.1 At first, 200 mg 0.62 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 trans 7 azido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 bct 3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid is dissolved in 6 ml of methanol, and a solution consisting of 1.2 g of ammonium acetate, 1.5 g of an aqueous 25 titanium trichloride solution and 6 ml of water is added thereto in 5 portions over 30 minutes. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for one hour. Then, 30 ml of water and 30 ml of ethyl acetate are added to the reaction mixture to conduct extraction. The extract is washed twice with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and the solvent is removed therefrom by distillation.The residue is purified by 40 g of silica gel, and fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate are collected and concentrated to obtain 79 mg of an oily product 43.4 . The oily product has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 cm1 2130, 1790 sh , 1780, 1750 sh , max 1745, 1735 sh NMR CDC13 6 9.67 1H, s , 4.96 1H, br. s , 4.11 1H, d, J 2.0Hf , 3.50 3.72 1H, m , 2.85 3.05 1H, m , 1.50 9H, s Example 5 Methyl ester of SR,7S 7 2 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 syn methoxyiminoacetamido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI14.1 With the same treatment as in Example 1, using 610 mg 1 m mole of methyl ester of 6R,7S 7 2 2 trityl amino 4 thiazolyl 2 syn methoxyimino acetamido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid, 64 l of 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7, 3.7 ml of nitromethane and 1 ml of chloroform, 540 mg of a crude product is obtained. The crude product is purified by 30 g of silica gel, and fractions containing the desired compound eluted by n hexane methyl acetate 1 1 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 380 mg of a solid 58.0 . The solid has the following phsyical properties IRVmaxKBr cm 1 1780 sh , 1775 sh , 1770 sh , 1760 sh , 1755, 1745 sh , 1695 sh , 1685, 1560. NMR CDCl3 CD OD 7.32 15H, s , 6.67 1H, s , 5.17 1H, d, J 5.0Hz , 4.43 4.80 3H, m , 3.98 3H, s , 3.80 3H, s , 2.87 3.20 1H, m , 1.43 2.00 4H, m Example 6 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 azido 1azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI14.2 At first, 300 mg 1.14 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6.7 cis 7 azido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid is dissolved in 6 ml of nitromethane, and 100 p1 of 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7 is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. Thereafter, the same treatment as in Example 1 and then purification with silica gel 30 g are carried out.Fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 180 mg of an oily product 48.7 . The oily product has the following physical properties IRVmaxCDCl3 cm 1 2140, 1780, 1775 sh , 1755 sh , 1750, 1570 NMR CDCl3 4.86 1H, d, J 4.8Hz , 4.57 1H, dd, J 12.0r 8.0Hz , 4.49 1H, dd, J 12.0, 8.0Hz ., 4.33 1H, d, J 1.2Hz , 3,75 4.12 1H, m , 2.80 3.20 1H, m , 1.53 9H, s Example 7 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 trans 7 azido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI15.1 The same treatment.as in Example 6 using 150 mg 0.57 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 trans 7azido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid and then chromatographic purification are carried out, whereby 70 mg of the desired compound is obtained as an oily product 37.9 .The product has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 cm 1 2130, 1785 sh , 1780, 1750, 1570 NMR CDCl3 4.58 1H, dd, J 12.0, 8.0Hz , 4.54 1H, dd, J 12.0, 8.0Hz , 4.24 4.36 2H, m , 3.60 3.84 1H, m , 2.84 3.16 1H, m , 1.51 9H, s Example 8 8 1 Tertiary butyl ester of t 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI16.1 At first, 2.75 g 6.4 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 1 is dissolved in 60 ml of 1,2 dimethoxyethane and 40 ml of methanol, and 70 ml of a solution consisting of 11.5 g of ammonium acetate, 15.5 g of an aqueous 25 titanium trichloride solution and water is added thereto in 7 port onus over one hour. Then, the mixture is stirred at room temperature for one hour. Then, 200 ml of water and 200 ml of ethyl acetate are added to the reaction mixture to conduct extraction.The extract is washed successively twice with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, once with an aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution, twice with water and once with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.By removing the solvent therefrom by distillation, 1.92 g of crude desired compound is obtained 74.9 , The crude compound can be used in the successive step without purifi cation. A portion of the crude compound is purified by silica gel chromatography n hexane ethyl acetate l 1 . The purified desired compound has the following physical properties More polar compound IR KBr cm 1 1795, 1780 sh , 1775, 1740 sh , 1730 NMR CDC13 d 9.90 1H, s , 7.67 7.93 4H, m 5.43 1H, d, J 4.5Hz , 5.17 1H, br. s , 3.90 4.20 1H, m , 2.77 2.93 1H, m , 1.47 2.57 4H, m , 1.50 9H, s Less polar compound IR KBr max cm 1 1795, 780 sh , 1775, 1740 sh , 1730 NMR CDCl3 9.80 1H, s , 7.70 7.97 4H, m , 5.50 1H, d, J 4.5Hz , 5.20 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 3.93 4.27 1H, m , 2.93 3.13 1H, m , 1.23 2.43 4H, m 1.47 9H, s 8 2 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI17.1 At first, 10.2 g of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 formyl 8oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 1 is dissolved in 200 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, and 12.8 g of pyrrolidone hydrotribromide is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at 500C for one hour.Then, the reaction mixture is cooled to OOC, and 12.5 ml of triethylamine is added thereto with stirring, and stirring is further continued for 2 hours. The reaction mixture is poured into an aqueous 1 N hydrochloric acid solution under cooling, and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer is washed successively with water, an aqueous sodium sulfite solution, water and an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Then, the solvent is removed therefrom under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from a mixed solvent system of ethyl acetate dimethyl ether n hexane, whereby 2.36 g of the desired compound is obtained as a solid.Furthermore, the mother liquor is concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue is purified by 100 g of silica gel n hexane ethyl acetate l 1 , whereby 1.26 g of the desired compound is further obtained yield 36 . The compound has the following physical properties SMR CDC13 6 9.97 1H, s , 7.70 8.00 4H, m , 5.68 111, d J 5.0Hz , 3.90 4.20 1H, m , 2.77 3.10 1H, m , 1.33 1.67 3H, m , 1.60 9H, s IR CHCl3 max cm 1 1810 sh , 1800, 1790, 1730, 1725 sh , 1670, 1600Example 9 Tertiary butyl ester of t 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid At first, 2.75 g 6.4 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct3 nitromethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 1 isXaissolved in 60 ml of 1,2 imethoxyethane and 40 ml of methanol, and 70 ml of a solution consisting of 11.5 g of ammonium acetate, 15.5 g of an aqueous 25 titanium trichloride solution and water is added thereto in 7 portions over one hour.Then, the mixture is stirred at room temperature for one hour, and 200 ml of water and 200 ml of ethyl acetate are added thereto to conduct extraction.The extract is washed successively twice with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, once with an aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate soluticn, twice with water, and once with a saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation, and 35 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran is added to the residue. Then, 2.4 g of pyrrolidone hydrotribromide is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at 500C for one hour. Then, the reaction mixture is cooled to OOC, and 2.4 ml of triethylamine is added thereto with stirring. The mixture is stirred as such for two hours. The reaction mixture is poured into an aqueous 1 N hydrochloric acid with cooling, and extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer is washed successively with water, an aqueous sodium sulfite solution and an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation. The residue is crystallized from a mixed solvent system of ethyl acetate diethyl ether n hexane, whereby 631 mg of the desired compound is obtained as a solid. The mother liquor is purified by 20 g of silica gel n hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 , whereby 303 mg of the desired compound is further obtained yield 35 . The physical properties of the desired compound are quite identical with those obtained in Example 8 2 .Reference Example 1 Tertiary butyl ester of r cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI19.1 At first, 200 mg 0.5 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 1 is dissolved in 300 l of anhydrous dimethylformamide, and 168 pl 1.2 m moles of triethylamine and 76 pl 0.6 m moles of chlorotrimethylsilane are added thereto. The mixture is stirred at 900C for 4 hours, and then cooled and poured into 10 ml of ice cooled aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution with 20 ml of ethyl acetate.The extract is washed twice with water and once with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. By removing the solvent therefrom by distillation, 220 mg of silylenol ether is obtained as a crude oil. The crude oil is dissolved in 3 ml of ethyl acetate, and ozone is passed through the solution with ice cooling.After excess ozone is detected in the effluent gas 15 minutes , 1 ml of dimethyl sulfide is added to the reaction mixture, and the mixture is left standing at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation, and the residue is purified by 10 g of silica gel, and fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 are collected, and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 36 mg of an oily product 18.88 . The oily product has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 cm 1 3020, 2990, 1795, 1775, 1740 sh 1730, 1665, 1620 NMR CDC13 6 11.54 1H, s , 7.70 7.97 4H, m , 5.54 1H, d, J 5.0Hz , 3.73 4.07 1H, m , 1.7 3.2 4H, m , 1.58 9H, s Reference Example 2 Tertiary butyl ester of cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 methoxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI20.1 At first, 42.8 mg 0.111 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid as obtained inReference Example 1 is dissolved In 3 ml of chloroform and 1 ml of ethyl acetate, and 4 ml of an ether solution of diazomethane obtained according to the procedure disclosed in Organic Synthesis Vol.2, page 165, is added thereto.The mixture as such is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. After addition of 100 pl of acetic acid thereto, the solvent is removed therefrom by distillation, and the residue is purified by 10 g of silica gel. Fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 22.2 mg of the desired oily product 50.0 .The oily product has the following physical properties CHCl3 cm 1 IR maxCHCL3 cm 1 1790 sh , 1780 sh , 1770, 1730 NMR CDC13 ô 7.67 7.97 4H, m , 5.53 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 3.67 3.97 1H, m , 3.73 3H, s , 1.77 2.87 4H, m , 1.53 9H, s Reference Example 3 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 en 3 formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI21.1 At first, 2.66 g 6.4 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7ss phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 formyl 4a hydroxy 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 3 is dissolved in 60 ml, of anhydrous methylene chloride, and 2.72 ml of triethylamine is added thereto under ice cooling, and then 1.01 ml of methanesulfonyl chloride is added thereto. The mixture as such is stirred for 45 minutes. The reaction mixture is poured into ice water1 and the mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate.After water washing, the organic layer is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, and then the solvent is removed therefrom by distillation. The oily product is purified by 60 g of silica gel, and fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 2 3 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 665 mg of a solid 26.1 .The solid has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 cm 1 1795 sh , 1785 sh , 1780, 1740 sh , max 1735, 1700 NMR CDCl3 9.50 1H, s , 7.67 7.90 4H, m , 6.87 7.07 1H, m , 5.58 1H, d, J 5.0Hz , 5.13 1H, d, J 1.5Hz , 4.03 4.33 1H, m , 2.43 2.70 1H, m , 1.47 9H, s Reference Example 4 Tertiary butyl ester of r 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 ot 3 en 3 hydroxymethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI22.1 At first, 100 mg 0.25 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 3 en 3 forinyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in ReferenceExample 3 is dissolved in 8 ml of methanol, and 20 ing of bromocresol green is added thereto, as an indicator. With stirring at room temperature, 100 mg of cyanoboron sodium hydride is added thereto in 4 portions, while pH is adjusted with 1 N hydrochloric acid so that the color of the reaction mixture turns yellow. After the addition, stirring is continued for 30 minutes, and the reaction mixture is poured into an aqueous 1 N hydrochloric acid solution under ice cooling. The mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer is washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation, and the residue is purified by 1 g of silica gel. Fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 1 2 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 78 mg of a solid The solid has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 max cm 1 1790 sh , 1780 sh , 1775, 1735, 1730 sh NMR CDCl3 CD3OD 7.70 7.95 4H, m , 5.83 6.00 1H, m , 5.57 1H, d, J 5.OHz , 4.95 1H, br. s , 4.00 4.33 311, m , 2.13 2.37 2H, m , 1.50 9H, s Reference Example 5 Tertiary butyl ester of t 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 hydroxymethyl 8 oxo 2 carbo xylic acid EMI23.1 At first, 78 mg 0.196 m moles of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct3 en 3 hydroxymethyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained inReference Example 4 is dissolved in 3 ml of anhydrous methylene chloride, and 100 l of ,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undecene 7 is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 20 minutes. The reaction mixture is poured into an ice cooled aqueous 1 N hydrochloric acid solution, and the mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate.The organic layer is washed with water, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation, and the residue is purified by 10 g of silica gel. Fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by n hexane ethyl acetate 1 2 are collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 46 ing of a solid 59.0 .The solid has the following physical properties IR CHCl3 cm 1 1790, 1780 sh , 1775, 1730, 1725 sh max NMR CDCl3 CD3OD 0 7.73 8.00 4H, m , 5.60 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 4.43 1H, d, J 12.0Hz , 4.20 1H, d, J 12.0Hz , 3.70 4.10 1H, m , 1.73 2.63 4H, m 1.55 9H, s Reference Example 6 Tertiary butyl ester of i 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 2 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5yl vinyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI24.1 At first, 600 mg of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo r4. 2.0 oct 2 en 3 formyl8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 2 is dissolved in 20 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, and 1.1 g of 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl methylenetriphenylphosphorane is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 24 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue is dissolved in chloroform. The solution is purified by 100 g of silica gel ethyl acetate chloroform n hexane 3 1 1 to obtain 520 mg of the desired compound as a solid yield 72 . The desired compound has the following physical properties NMR CDCl3 8.17 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 7.70 7.93 4H, m , 6.51 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 5.65 1H, d, J 6.0 Hz , 4.07 3H, s , 3.90 4.17 1H, mY, 1.90 3.00 4H, m , 1.60 9H, s IR maxKBr cm 1 1795, 1785, 1775 sh , 1730, 1725 sh 1625Reference Example 7 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimidol azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI25.1 At first, 273 mg of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 formyl8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 2 is dissolved in 14 ml of toluene, and 32 mg of carbethoxymethy lene triphenylphosphorane is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at 600C for 4 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue is dissolved in chloroform.The solution is purified by 50 g of silica gel n hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 to obtain 190 ing of the desired compound as a solid yield 59 .The compound has the following physical properties NMR CDCl3 8.03 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 7.67 7.90 4H, m , 5.95 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 5.63 1H, d, J 6.0Hz , 4.20 2H, q, J 7.5Hz , 3.83 4.10 1H, m , 1.77 2.90 4H, m , 1.60 9H, s , 1.27 3H, t, J 7.5Hz IR CHCl3 cm 1 1800 sh , 1795, 1785 sh , 1780, 1730, 1725 sh , 1710 sh , 1620Reference Example 8 Tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 2 cyanovinyl 8 oxo 2carboxylic acid EMI26.1 At first, 1 g of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 formyl 8oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 2 is dissolved in 28 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, and 1.1 g of cyanomethylenetriphenylphosphorane is added thereto. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated under reduced pressure, and the residue is dissolved in chloroform.The solution is purified by 120 g of silica gel n hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 to obtain 708 mg of the desired compound as a solid yield 67 . The compound has the following physical properties NMR CDCl3 7.70 7.93 411, m , 7.50 1H, d, J 13.5Hz 5.67 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 5.30 1H, d, J 13.5Hz , 3.90 4.13 1H, m , 3.07 3.43 1H, m , 2.37 2.90 1H, m , 1.77 2.36 2H, m , 1.57 9H, s IR KBrmax cm 1 2225, 1805 sh , 1800, 1790, 1780 sh 1735 sh , 1730Reference Example 9 6,7 cis 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 synmethOxyiminoacetamido 3 2 1 methyl lH tetrazol 5 yl vinyl 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI27.1 At first, 540 mg of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 2 1 methyl 1H tetrazoly 5 yl vinyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Reference Example 6 is dissolved in 15,6 ml of tetrahydrofuran and 2.7 ml of water, and a solution of 375 mg of sodium sulfide nonahydrate in 3.52 ml of water is added thereto under ice cooling. The mixture is stirred for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 1.5 with 1 N hydrochloric acid, and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The organic layer is washed with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent is removed therefrom under reduced pressure, and 6.8 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran is added to the residue. Then, 281 mg of N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide is added thereto. The mixture i s stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The resulting precipitate is removed therefrom by filtration, and the filtrate is cooled to 78 C. Then, 72 1 of methylhydrazine is added to te filtrate, and the mixture i3 stirred as such for 20 minutes. Then, 1.2 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid is added thereto, and the temperature of the mixture is returned to room temperature over 20 minutes. The mixture is further stirred as such for 30 minutes.Then, 50 ml of water and 2 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid are added to the reaction mixture. The water layer is washed three times with ethyl acetate, adjusted to H 8 with an aqueous saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution under cooling and then extracted three times with ethyl acetate.The organic layer is washed with an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Then, 0.8 ml of trifluoroacetic acid is added to the organic layer, and the solvent is removed therefrom under reduced pressure. Then, 7 ml of anhydrous methylene chloride is added to the residue, and then 7 ml of trifluoroacetic acid is added thereto. The mixture is left standing at room temperature for one hour. The solvent is removed therefrom under reduced pressure. Then, 5 ml of ethyl acetate is added to the residue, and the solvent is removed again therefrom under reduced pressure. The residue is pulverized in ether, whereby 135 mg of a solid is obtained. The solid is dissolved in a solution consisting of 3K7 ml of water and 2.2 ml of tetrahydrofuran, and the solution is adjusted to pH 7.7 with triethylamine. On the other hand, 266 mg of 2 2 tritylamino 4 thiazolyl 2 syn methoxyiminoacetic acid is dissolved in 3 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, and 84 p1 of triethylamine is added thereto under ice cooling. Then, 125 mg of phosphorus. pentachloride is added thereto, and the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for one hour to obtain an acid chloride solution. The acid chloride solution is added dropwise to the above mentioned solution, while keeping the mixture to pH 7.5 8.0 with triethylamine.Then, the mixture is stirred at the same temperature for one hour. The mixture is adjusted to pH 1.5 with 1 N hydrochloric acid, an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution is added thereto, and the mixture is extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The organic layer is washed wFth an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and the solvent is removed therefrom under reduced pressure. Then, 20 ml of an aqueous 50 acetic acid solution is added to the residue, and the mixture is stirred at 500C for one hour. The solvent is removed therefrom by distillation under reduced pressure, and the residue is dissolved in a small amount of dimethylsulfoxide. The solution is passed through a column of Diaion HP 10 30 ml , and the column is washed with water.Fractions containing the desired compound, eluted by water methanol 3 1 are collected, and the solvent is removed therefrom by distillation under reduced pressure to obtain 36 mg of the desired compound as a solid yield 7 . The compound has the following physical properties NMR D2O CD3OD d6DMSO 6 8.10 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 6.92 1H, s , 6.73 1H, d, J 16.5Hz , 5.52 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 4.10 3H, s , 3.90 4.17 1H, m , 4.00 3H, s , 1.67 3.10 4H, m IR KBr cm 1 1780 sh , 1770, 1755 sh , 1660, 1620Reference Example 10 6,7 cis 7 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl 2 synmethoxyiminoacetamidol 3 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI29.1 Deprotection and acylation reaction are carried out in the same manner as in Reference Example 9 with 390 mg of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido 1 azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 2 ethoxycarbonylvinyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Reference Example 7 to obtain 40 mg of the desired compound as a solid yield 14 . The compound has the following physical properties NMR D2O CD3OD d6DMSO 7.95 1H, d, J 16.4Hz , 6.81 1H, s , 6.10 1H, d, J 16.411z , 5.53 1H, d, J 5.2Hz , 4.19 2H, q, J 7.0Hz , 3.94 3H, s , 1.27 3H, t, J 7.OHz IR maxKBr cm 1 1790 sh , 1780, 1770 sh , 1760 sh , 1670, 1630Reference Example 11 Tertiary butyl ester of t 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3 cyano 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid EMI30.1 At first, 800 mg of tertiary butyl ester of 6,7 cis 7 phthalimido .l azabicyclo 4.2.0 oct 2 en 3formyl 8 oxo 2 carboxylic acid obtained in Example 8 2 is suspended in 10 ml of toluene.Then, 550 l of pyridine and 960 mg of O,N bis trifluoroacetyl hydroxyamine are added thereto, and the mixture is stirred with heating at 850C for one hour. The reaction mixture is cooled, water and, methyl acetate are added thereto, and the organic layer is separated. The organic layer is washed successively with water, an aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and an aqueous saturated sodium chloride solution, and the organic layer is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The organic layer is subjected to distillation under reduced pressure, and the residue is crystallized from ethyl acetate chloroform n hexane to obtain 596 mg of the desired cyano compound.The mother liquor is purified with 70 g of silica gel chloroform n hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 1 to obtain 124 mg of the esired compound yield 91.5 . The compound has the following physical properties NMR CDCl3 7.7 8.0 4H, m , 5.70 1H, d, J 5.5Hz , 3.83 4.23 1H, m , 2.37 2.73 2H, m , 1.80 2.17 2H, m , 1.59 9H, s IR KBr cm 1 2230, 1810 sh , 1805, 1795 sh , 1780 sh , 1740 sh , 1735, 1725 sh Reference Example 12 Antibacterial effects of the final useful compounds by dilution method on Mueller Hinton agar pH 7.0 are shown in the following table MIC g ml EMI31.1 tb SEP tb Mi SEP croorgan tb SEP ism SEP sm SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 tb Compound SEP of SEP 1.56 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.1 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.01 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.2 tb Ref. SEP Ex. SEP 9 tb Compound SEP of SEP 6.25 SEP 0.2 SEP 0.39 SEP 3.13 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.01 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.78 tb Ref. SEP Ex. SEP 10 tb 1 Staphylococcus aureus 209 P 2 Escherichia coli NIHJJC 2 3 Krebsiella pneumoniae 8045 4 Serratia marcescens T 26 5 Proteus mirabilis 1287 6 Proteus vulgaris 6897 7 Enterobacter cloacae F 1510 8 Citrobacter freundil F 1526