# 5 Substituted phenyl hydantoins.

## Abstract
A series of 5 substituted phenyl hydantoins and phar maceutically acceptable salts thereof are aldose reductase inhibitors useful as agents for treatment of chronic diabetic complications, processes for preparing said compounds, and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A 5 substituted phenyl hydantoin compound having the general formula EMI45.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of X and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino or nitro Z is S O mR, SO2NHRÚ or C1 C4 alkoxy with the proviso that each of X and Y is fluoro, chloro, Cl C4 aikyl or nitro when Z is C1 C4 alkoxy R is C1 C2 alkyl, chloro, methoxymethylEMI45.2 m is 0, 1 or 2, with t,re proviso that when R is chloro, m is 2 R1 is hydrogen, furfuryl, C1 C6 alkyl, omega substituted C2 C6. EMI45.3 the substituent is hydroxy or dimethylamino R4 is hydrogen, fluoro or chloro n is an integer of from 1 to 4 p is O or an integer of from 1 to 4 and each of R 2 and R3 is hydrogen, fluorc, chloro, bromo, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, amino or nitro 2. A compound according to claim i, wherein Z is SO2R, wherein R is Cl C6 alkyl orEMI46.1 wherein n is 1 or 2 and RZ and R3 are as defined in claim 1. 3. A compound according to claim 2, wherein Z is SO2CH3, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is fluoro, chloro, methyl or hydrogen. 4. A compound according to claim 2, wherein Z is SO2 CH2 EMI46.2 X is fluoro or chloro and Y is hydrogen. 5. A compound according to claim 1, wherein Z is SO2NHRÚ, whereinR1 is furfuryl orEMI46.3 wherein R4 is Eluoro or chloro, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro or methyl. 6. A compound according to claim 1, whereinZ is SCH3 or SCll2OCH3, X is chloro or fluoro and Y is hydrogen, flucro, chloro, methyl or trifluoromethyl. 7. A compound according to claim 1, wherein Z is SO2Cl, X is chloro or fluoro and Y is hydrogen, chloro, fluoro or methyl. 8. A compound according to claim 1, whereing Z is methoxy or ethoxy, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is fluoro, chloro or methyl. 9. A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of diabetes associated complications, which comprises an effective amount of a compound according to claim 1 in admixture with a pharmaceuticaliy acceptable carrier or diluent. 10. A compound according to claim 1, fo use in the treatment of diabetes associated complications. CLAIMS FOR AT 1. A process for the preparation oP a 5 substituted phenyl hydantoin compound having the general formula EMI47.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of X and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino or nitro Z is S O mR, SO2NHRÚ or Cl C4 alkoxy, with the proviso that each of X and Y is fluoro, chloro, C1 C4 alkyl or nitro when Z is C1 C4 alkoxy R is C1 C6 alkyl, chloro, methoxymethylEMI47.2 m is o, 1 or 2, with the proviso that when R is chloro m is 2 RÚ is hydrogen, furfuryl, CH2 pEMI47.3 Cl C6 alkyl, omega substituted C2 C6 alkyl wherein the substituent is hydroxy or dimethylamino R is hydrogen, fluoro or chloro n is an integer of from 1 to 4 p is O or an integer of from 1 to 4 and each of R2 and R3 is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, bromo, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, amino or nitro, characterized in that 1 when Z is SR or Cl C4 alkoxy a 2 mercaptobenzaldehyde of the formula EMI48.1 wherein Z is SR or C1 C4 alkoxy and X,Y and R are as defined above, is reacted with ammonium carbonate and potassium or sodium cyanide n aqueous alcohol solution at a temperature of from 50 C. to 600C. 2 when Z is S O X, a hydantoin thioether of the formula EMI48.2 as formed in step 1 , is reacted with sodium periodate in aqueous alcoholic solution at ambient temperature using a 1 2 molar ratio of thioether to sodium periodate 3 when Z is SO2R, a hydantoin thioether of formula V is reacted with potassium permanganate in acetic acid at a temperature of from, 10 C. to room temperature 4 when Z is S02C1, an hydantoin thioether of formula V wherein R is methoxymethyl, is reacted with chlorine in a reaction inert solvent 5 when z is SO,NHR , a sulfonyl chloride of the formula EMI49.1 as formed in step 4 , is reacted with an amine of formula H2 NR in a reaction inert solvent at a temperature of from OOC. to 50 C. and 6 if desired, the compound of formula I is converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein Z isSO2R, wherein R is Cl C6 alkyl orEMI49.2 wherein n is 1 or 2 and RZ and R3 are as defined in claim 1. 3. A process according to claim 2, wherein Z isSO2CH3, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is fluoro, chloro, methyl or hydrogen. 4. A process according to claim 2, wherein Z isEMI49.3 X is fluoro or chloro and Y is hydrogen. 5. A process according to claim 1, wherein Z is I whereinSO2NHR1, wherein R1 is furfuryl orEMI49.4 wherein R4 is fluoro or chloro, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro or methyl. 6. A process according to claim 1, wherein Z isSCH3 or SCH2OCH3, X is chloro or fluoro zand Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro, methyl or trifluoromethyl. 7. A process according to claim 1, wherein Z is SO2Cl, X is chloro or fluoro and Y is hydrogen, chloro, fluoro or methyl. 8. A process according to claim 1, wherein Z is methoxy or ethoxy, X is fluoro or chloro and Y is fluoro, chloro or methyl.

## Description
5 SUBSTITUTED PHEWTh HYDANTOINS This invention relates to novel 5 substituted phenyl hydantoins and to pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof as inhibitors of aldose reductase useful as therapeutic agents for the treatment of chronic diabetic complications and to intermediates therefor. Despite the. widespread use of insulin and of the availability of a large number of synthetic hypo glycemic agents such as the sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, acetohexamide and biguanides e.g. phenformin , the search for improved hypoglycemic agents continues. More recently, efforts have been directed to controlling certain chronic complications of diabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. Such efforts have given rise to development of aldose reductase inhibitors, compounds which inhibit the activity of the enzyme aldose reductase which is primarily responsible for regulating reduction of aldoses to the corresponding polyols. In this way, unwanted accumulation of galactitol in the lens of galactosemic subjects and of sorbitol in the lens, kidney and peripheral nervous cord of various diabetic subjects is prevented or reduced.References which describe aldose reductase inhibitors are U.S. 3,821,383 l,3 dioxo lH benz d,e isoquinoline 2 3R anetic acid and related compounds U.S. 4,200,642 spiro oxazolidine 2,4 diones U.S. 4,117,230 4,130,714 4,147,797 4,210,756 4,235,911 and 4,282,229, each of which describes certain spiro hydantoins. U.S. 4,281,009 describes a series of 5,5 disub atituted hydantoins in which one substituent is a substituted phenyl group and the other an alkyl or a heterocyclic group, said compounds being useful for treatment of diseases caused by stress. Henze et al., J. Am. Them. Soc. 64, 522 3 1942 describe 5 phenylhydantoin and certain 5 monoand di substituted phenyl hydantoins wherein the substituents are hydroxy, alkoxy, formyl, methyl, chloro or dimethylamino. Other 5 substituted phenyl hydantoins are disclosed in U.S. 3,410,865 and inBritish Patent Application 2,063,206A. None of these known 5 phenyl hydantoins are reported to be aldose reductase inhibitors or to have a thio, sulfinyl or sulfonyl substituent in the phenyl ring. It has now been found that certain 5 substituted phenyl hydantoins of formula I below and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are aldose reductase inhibitors useful as therapeutic agents for preventing and or alleviating chronic diabetic complications.EMI2.1 In formula I , each of X and Y is hydrogen, chloro, fluoro, bromo, C1 C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino or nitro Z is S O mR, SO2NER1 or C1 C4 alkoxy with the proviso that each of X and Y is fluoro, chloro, Cl C4alkyl or nitro when Z is C1 C4 alkoxy R is C. C 6 alkyl, chloro, methoxymethyl orEMI3.1 m is 0, 1 or 2, with the proviso that when R is chloro m is 2 n is an integer of from I to 4 each of R2 and R3 is hydrogen, chloro, fluoro, bromo, Cl C6 alkyl, C1 C6 alkoxy, amino or nitro R1 is hydrogen, furfuryl, CH2 p EMI3.2 Cl C6 alkyl, omega substituted C2 C6 alkyl wherein the substituent is hydroxy or dimethylamino R is hydrogen, fluoro or chloro and p is O or an integer of from 1 to 4. The favored compounds of formula I are those wherein Z is S O mR m is 2 and R is C1 6 alkyl EMI3.3 n is I or 2 and those whereinZ is SO2NHRÚ wherein RÚ is furfuryl orEMI3.4 wherein R4 is fluoro or chloro. The preferred compounds are those favored compounds wherein X is fluoro or chloro Y is hydrogen, fluoro, chloro or methyl, and ZEMI3.5 Other preferred compounds are those wherein Z is methoxy or ethoxy X is fluoro or chloro and Y is fluoro, chloro or methyl. The present invention also includes the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of those compounds of formula I wherein X and or Y is amino.Representative of said salts, but not limited thereto are the hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, acetate, lactate, citrate, malate, succinate and gluconate. Such salts are prepared by contacting the free base with the appropriate mineral or organic acid in either aqueous solution or in a suitable organic solvent. The solid salt is then obtained by precipitation or by evaporation of the solvent. Because of the acidic hydrogen atom in the hydantoin ring of the compounds of formula I, salts can be formed with pharmaceutically acceptable cations by conventional methods. Thus, these salts may be readily prepared by treating the compound of formula I with an aaueous solution of the desired pharmaceutically acceptable cation and evaporating the resulting solution to dryness, preferably under reduced pressure.Alternatively, a lower alkyl alcohol solution of the compound of formula I may be mixed with an alkoxide of the desired metal and the solution subsequently evaporated to dryness. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations for this purpose include, but are not limited to, potassium, sodium, ammonium, calcium and magnesium, aluminum, benzathine, piperazine, Nmethylglucamine and procaine. It is to be understood that by use of the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts herein it is meant to embrace both the acid addition salts and the salts formed with appropriate cations, as described above. Also embraced by the present invention are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a cbmpound of formula I in an amount effective for the treatment of diabetesassociated complications, including diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. Preferred compounds for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are those having the preferred substituents as defined herein above. The compounds of the present invention are useful for the treatment of diabetes associated complications, including diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. To carry out such treatment, an effective amount of a compound of formula I, preferably a compound having the preferred substituents for X, as defined herein above, is administered to a subject in need of the treatment. The compounds of formula I are preferably prepared by a process involving the following reactions 1 when z is SR or C1 C4 alkoxy a 2 mercaptobenzaldehyde of the formula EMI5.1 wherein Z is SR or C1 C4 alkoxy and X, Y and R are as defined above, is reacted with ammonium carbonate and potassium or sodium cyanide in aqueous alcohol solution at a temperature of from 50 C. to 600C. 2 when Z is S O R, a hydantoin thioether of the formula EMI6.1 as formed in step 1 , is reacted with sodium periodate in aqueous alcoholic solution at ambient temperature 3 when Z is S02R, a hydantoin thioether of formula V is reacted with potassium permanganate r. acetic acid at a temperature of from 10 C. to room temperature 4 when Z is S02C1, a hydantoin thioether of formula V where R is methoxymethyl, is reacted with chlorine in a reaction inert solvent 5 when Z is SO2NHR1, a sulfonyl chloride of the formula EMI6.2 as formed in step 4 , is reacted with an amine of 1. formula H2NR in a reaction inert solvent at a temperature of from OOC. to 500C. and 6 if desired, the compound of formula I is converted into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The above reactions are illustrated in more detail in the Reaction Schemes which follow.These Reaction Schemes also include the preparation of starting compounds. The preparation of compounds of this invention wherein Z is S O mR and R is other than chloro is illustrated in Reaction Scheme A REACTION SCHEME AEMI8.1 The preparation of compounds of formula I wherein is 2 or SO2NHR is illustrated in Scheme, B REACTION SCHEME B EMI9.1 The preparation of compounds of this invention wherein Z is C1 C4 alkoxy is illustrated in ReactionScheme C REACTION SCHEME CEMI10.1 Convenient starting materials for Reaction Scheme A are the appropriate 2 mercaptobenzoic acid derivatives of formula II or the 2 mercaptobenzaldehydes of formula TV. Many of the required benzoic acid or benzaldehyde derivatives are known compounds. Those that are not described in the literature are readilypreparable by methods known to those skilled in the art. In the first step of Scheme A, the appropriate 2 mercaptobenzoic acid formula II is reduced to the corresponding 2 mercaptobenzyl alcohol derivative by direct reduction of the carboxyl group using lithium aluminum hydride LAH . The reduction is conducted in a reaction inert solvent such as a dialkyl ether, a cyclic ether, e.g. diethyl ether, dioxane, tetrahydro fvuran, ethyleneglycol dimethyl ether or diethyleneglycol dimethyl ether, at a temperature of from 100C to 300C. In general, the compound to be reduced is added to a solution or slurry of the reagent. An excess of reagent, up to 25 excess, is usually used to ensure complete reduction. The unreacted and or excess reagent is destroyed by addition of ethyl acetate. The reduction product is isolated by known procedures. In addition to lithium aluminum hydride, other hydride reducing agents such as diisobutyl aluminum hydride, sodium diethyl aluminum hydride or sodium bis 2 methoxyethoxy aluminum hydride may be used to reduce the benzoic acid starting material to the corresponding benzyl alcohol. In the case of each of the above mentioned reducing agents, acid chloride, ester and anhydride derivatives of the 2 mercaptobenzoic acid reagent II may be used in place of said 2 mercaptobenzoic acid as starting material. In themnext step aikylation or aralkylation of the mercapto group is achieved by reacting the 2 mercaptobenzyl alcohol III in a reaction inert solvent with the appropriate alkylating or aralkylating agent R Q in the presence of a base. The group R is as defined above and Q is chloro, bromo or iodo, or tosylate. Suitable bases for the alkylation or aralkylation are alkoxides, hydrides and hydroxides of sodium and potassium organic bases such as trialkylamines, pyridine, dimethylaniline and N methylmorpholine. The alkylating or aralkylating agent and the mercaptobenzyl alcohol III are reacted in molar ratios ranging from equimolar to up to 10 excess of said agent. Greater excesses of said agent offer no advantage and are generally avoided for reasons of economy. The amount of base used is at least equal to the amount of mercaptobenzyl alcohol reactant. The thus produced thioether derivative is then oxidized to the corresponding benzaldehyde IV by means of activated manganese dioxide in a reaction inert solvent at temperatures ranging from 200C to 1000C. In most instances ambient temperature is used. Suitable reaction inert solvents are methylene chloride, chloroform, acetone, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, benzene and toluene.An excess of manganese dioxide, generally from 4 to 15 equivalents, is used in order to ensure complete reaction. The reaction period, of course, depends upon the reaction temperature, the amount of oxidizing agent used, and upon the nature of the compound to be oxidized. In general, reaction periods of from 4 hours to 24 hours are required. The oxidized product IV is recovered by known methods as by filtration to remove the excessManganese dioxide and evaporation of the filtrate under reduced pressure to afford the crude benzaldehyde derivative IV . The benzaldehyde derivative is generally used without further purification in Scheme A. The benzaldehyde derivative IV is converted to the hydantoin V by reaction with ammonium carbonate and potassium or sodium cyanide in aqueous alcohol solution at a temperature of from 50 50 C for from 2 to 24 hours. Molar ratios of benzaldehyde reactant potasium or sodium cyanide ammonium carbonate of from 1 2 4 afford satisfactory yields of the desired hydantoin. The product is recovered by acidifying the reaction mixture and extracting it with a waterimmiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate. The hydantoin thioether compound V is then oxidized to the corresponding sulfone VI directly or stepwise via the intermediate sulfoxide VII . The stepwise oxidation is carried out by treating the thioether V with sodium periodate in aqueous alcoholic solution at ambient temperature using a 1 2 molar ratio of thioether to sodium periodate. The product, a mixture of diastereomeric sulfoxides VII is recovered by extraction with a water immiscible solvent, e.g. ethyl acetate. Direct oxidation of the thioether V to the corresponding sulfonyl derivative VI is conveniently carried out by reacting the thioether with potassium permanganate in acetic acid at a temperature of from about 10 to room temperature. Two moles of permanganate are used per mole of thioether. The product is recovered by quenching the reaction mixture in dilute aqueous sodium bisulfite and extraction of the product therefrom with a water immiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate. Alternatively, the sulfonyl derivative VI is prepared by potassium permanganate oxidation of the sulfoxide VII . Except for the use of an equimolar amount of permanganate, the procedure is the same as that described for the direct conversion of thioether to sulfonyl derivative. In Reaction Scheme B, the compound of Formula IX , which serves as an intermediate for the sulfonamido derivative of formula X , is prepared from a compound of formula VIII , which veorresponds to formula V wherein R is methoxymethyl, by reacting said compound with chlorine in a reaction inert solvent. In a typical example, chlorine gas is passed into a solution of the methoxymethylthio ether VIII in a water miscible solvent water medium at OOC to 200C until a yellow color persists. The reaction mixture is quenched by adding it to dilute aqueous sodium bisulfite and the product recovered therefrom by extraction. Suitable solvents for this reaction are dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, 1,2 dimethoxyethane monoglyme and diethyleneglycol dimethyl ether diglyme . The sulfonyl chloride of formula IX is converted to sulfonamide of formula X by reacting it with the 1.appropriate amine of formula R2NR in a reaction inert solvent at from OOC to 500C until reaction is complete.A variety of solvents can be used such as methylene chloride, chloroform, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, monoglyme, dig lye and alcohols. The product is recovered by quenching the reaction mixture in dilute aqueous acid followed by extraction of the resulting solution with a water immiscible solvent, such as ethyl acetate. Convenient starting materials for Reaction Scheme C are the appropriate phenyl alkyl ethers of formula XI or the 2 alkoxy benzaldehydes of formula XII. Many of the required phenyl alkyl ethers or benzaldehyde derivatives are known compounds. Those that are not described in the literature are readily preparable by methods known to those skilled in the art. In the first step of Scheme C, the appropriate phenyl alkyl ether formula XI is formylated to give the corresponding aldehyde derivative by direct formulation of the benzene ring using alpha,alpha dichloromethyl methyl ether and titanium tetrachloride. The reaction is conducted in a reaction inert solvent such as a halo carbon, e.g. dichloromethane, chloroform, dichloroethane or carbon tetrachioride, and at a temperature of from 1COC to 300C. In general, the compounds to be formylated is added to a solution of the titanium tetrachloride reagent. An excess of reagent, up to 100 excess, is usually used to ensure complete reduction. The formylating agent, dichloromethyl methyl ether is then added dropwise to this reaction mixture.The unreacted and or excess reagents are destroyed by addition of a large excess of water. The reaction product is isolated by known procedures. Alternatively, the required benzaldehyde reactant XII is made from the appropriate phenol via the Duff reaction which comprises formylation of a phenol with hexamethylenetetramine in the presence of an acidic catalyst. The 2 hydroxy benzaldehyde derivatives thus produced is then alkylated via the Williamson reaction to afford the desired 2 alkoxybenzaldehyde reactant XII . A still further method for producing the necessary 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde reactant comprises reaction of the appropriate phenol compound i.e., a 2 Y 4 X disubstituted hydroxy benzene, with chloroform in aqueousNaOH Reimer Tiemann reaction to afford the desired 2 hydroxy 3 Y 5 X benzaldehyde, which is alkylated by the method described above. The benzaldehyde derivative XII is converted to the hydantoin I by reaction with ammonium carbonate and potassium or sodium cyanide in aqueous alcohol solution at a temperature of from 50 600C for from 2 to 24 hours. Molar ratios of benzaldehyde reactant potassium or sodium cyanide ammonium carbonate of from i 2 4 afford satisfactory yields of the desired hydantoin. The product is recovered by acidifying the reaction mixture and extracting it with a waterimmiscible solvent such as ethyl acetate. The novel compounds of formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are useful as inhibitors of the enzyme aldose reductase in the treatment of chronic complications of idabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, retinopathy and neuropathy.Treatment of subjects with the compounds of this invention includes both the prevention and alleviation of such conditions. The compounds may be administered to a subject in need of treatment by a variety of conventional routes of administration, including oral, parenteral and topical. In general, these compounds will be administered orally or parenterally at dosages from 0.25 to 25 mg kg body weight of the subject to be treated per day, preferably from 1.0 to 10 mg kg. However, depending on the condition of the subject being treated, some variation in dosage will necessarily occur. The person responsible for administration will, in any event, determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. The novel compounds of this Invention may be administred alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, in either single or multiple doses. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert solid diluents or fillers, sterile aqueous solution and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions formed by dombining the novel compounds of formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are then readily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as tablets, powders, lozenges, syrups or injectable solutions. The pharmaceutical compositions, if desired, may contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders and excipients. Thus, for purposes of oral administration, tablets containing various excipients such as sodium citrate, calcium carbonate or calcium phosphate may be employed along with various disintegrants such as starch, alginic acid and certain complex silicates, together with binding agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, sucrose, gelatin and acacia. Additionally, lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tabletting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type also may be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules.Preferred materials for this include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols.When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration, the essential active ingredient therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents, together with diluents such as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glycerine and combinations thereof. For parenteral administration, solutions of the novel compound of formula I in sesame or peanut oil, aqueous propylene glycol, or in sterile aqueous solution can be employed. Such aqueous solutions should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenousµ, intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In this connection, the sterile aqueous media employed are all readily available by standard techniques known to those skilled in the art. The higher solubility of the present compounds of formula I and of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in aqueous solution, compared to other similar compounds and especially compared to the corresponding compounds of formula I having no amino or substituted amino substituents, is advantageous not only for the preparation of aqueous pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration, as described above, but also more particularly for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use as ophthalmic solutions.Such ophthalmic solutions are of principal interest for the treatment of diabetic cataracts by topical administration and the treatment of such conditions in this manner is a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Thus, for the treatment of diabetic cataracts the compounds of this invention are administered to the eye of the subject in need of treatment in the form of an ophthalmic preparation prepared in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice, see for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 15th Edition, pages 1488 to 15 Mack Publishing Co.,Easton, PA .The ophthalmic preparation will contain a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a concentration from about 0 1 to about 5 by weight, preferably from about 0.5 to about 2 in a pharmaceutically acceptable solution, suspension or ointment. Some variation in concentration will necessarily occur, depending on the particular compound employed, the condition of the subject fto be treated and the like, and the person responsible for treatment will determine the most suitable concentration for the individual subject. The ophthalmic preparation will preferably be in the form of a sterile aqueous solution containing, if desired, additional ingredients, for example preservatives, buffers, tonicity agents, antioxidants and stabilizers, nonionic wetting or clarifying agents, viscosity increasing agents and the like.Suitable preservatives include benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, chlorokrutanol, thimerosal and the like. Suitable buffers include boric acid, sodium and potassium bicarbonate, sodium and potassium borate, sodium and potassium carbonate, sodium acetate, sodium biphosphate and the like, in amounts sufficient to maintain the pR at between about 6 and 8, preferably between about 7 and 7.5. Suitable tonicity agents are dextran 40, dextran 70, dextrose, glycerin, potassium chloride, propylene glycol, sodium chloride, and the like, such that the sodium chloride equivalent of the ophthalmic solution is in the range 0.9 plus or minus 0.2 . Suitable antioxidants and stabilizers include sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite, sodium thiosulfite, thiourea and the like.Suitable wetting and clarifying agents include polysorbate 80, polysorbate 20, poloxamer 282 and tyloxapol.Suitable viscosity increasing agents include dextran 40, dextran 70, gelatin, glycerin, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxymethylpropylcellulose, lanolin, methylcellulose, petrolatum, polyethylene glycol, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinvylpyrrolidone, carboxymethylcellulose and the like. The ophthalmic preparation will be administered topically to the eye of the subject in need of treatment by conventional methods, for example in the form of drops or by bathing the eye in the ophthalmic solution. The activity of the compounds of the presentInvention as agents for the control of chronic diabetic complications may be determined by a number of standard biological or pharmacological tests. Suitable tests include 1 measuring their ability to inhibit the enzyme activity of isolated aldose reductase 2 measuring their ability to reduce or inhibit sorbitol accumulation in the sciatic nerve of acutely streptozotocinized i.e. diabetic rats 3 measuring their ability to reverse already elevated sorbitol levels in the sciatic nerve and lens of chronic streptozotocin induced diabetic rats 4 measuring their ability to prevent or inhibit galactitol formation in the lense of acutely galactosemic rats and 5 measuring their ability to delay cataract formation and reduce the severity of lens opacities in chronic galactosemic rats. Suitable experimental procedures are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,821,383 and the references cited therein. The following Examples illustrate the invention and the manner in which it may be performed. The preparation of starting materials is described in the designated Preparations. In these Examples, no effort was made to optimize the yields of a given reaction. All nuclear magnetic resonance data NMR are in standard notation and are reported in parts per million ppm downfield from trimethylsilane. Deuterated dimethylsulfoxide DMSO d6 was used as solvent in all Examples. PREPARATION A 4 Chloro 2 Hydroxymethylthiophenol A solution of 5 chloro 2 mercaptobenzoic acid 40.0 g, 0.21 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 250 ml was added dropwise to a slurry of lithium aluminum hydride 10.0 g, 0.26 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran 50 ml at 0 C. Following completion of addition, the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature, then stirred for 3 hours at said temperature. It was cooled to OOC and ethyl acetate 40 ml added to quench excess lithium aluminum hydride. The quenched reaction was stirred for 30 minutes then cautiously treated with water 10 ml , followed by lN sodium hydroxide 40 ml .The aluminum salts which precipitated were filtered off, dissolved in 10 hydrochloric acid and the solution extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was combined with the filtrate from the aluminum filtration and washed successively with 10 hydrogen chloride, water and brine. It was dried MgS04 and evaporated under reduced pressure to give the title product as an oily solid 35.0 g, 94 yield. It was used as is in PREPARATION B. PREPARATION B 5 Chloro 2 Thiomethylbenzaldehyde Sodium methoxide 11.5 g, 0.21 mol was added to a solution of 4 chloro 2 hydroxymethylthiophenol 35.0 g, 0.20 mol in N,N dimethylformamide 300 ml at 0 C. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at OOC and then iodomethane 15 ml, 0.24 mol added.The mixture was stirred an additional 30 minutes and then poured into water 50G ml and the product extracted therefrom with ether. The extract was washed successively with water and brine then dried MgS04 . Evaporation of the dried extract under reduced pressure gave a yellow solid. The yellow solid was dissolve in methylene chloride 600 ml , manganese dioxide 250 g added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. Filtration of the reaction mixture and evaporation of the filtrate under reduced pressure gave 33.0 g 89 yield of the title product as an oily solid. It was used as is in Example 1. EXAMPLE 1 5 5 Chloro 2 thiomethylphenyl hydantoin A mixture of 5 chloro 2 thiomethylbenzaldehyde 33.0 g, 0.18 mol , potassium cyanide 23.0 g, 0.36 mol , ammonium carbonate 68.0 g, 0.71 mol and 20 aqueous ethanol 1200 ml was heated at 600C for 24 hours. It was then cooled and carefully poured into 10 hydrogen chloride 1000 ml and the product extracted from the resulting mixture with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water, then with brine and dried MgSO4 . Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave a partially solidified oil. Trituration of this residue with ether afforded 27.5 g 60 yield of an off white solid. M.P. 1830 1850C. Analysis Calc d. for C10H9N202SC1 46.79 C 3.53t H 10.91 N Found 46.91 C 3.65 H 10.58 N.MS 256 M , 209 100t , 170. The following compounds were prepared in like manner from the appropriate thiobenzaldehyde derivative of formula IV above EMI23.1 EMI23.2 SEP Calc d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP Mass SEP M.P. tb X SEP Y SEP R SEP Triturate SEP C SEP H SEP N SEP Spec. SEP MS SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP 1 lether SEP 54.46 SEP 4.53 SEP 12.60 SEP 222 M ,100 , SEP 137 139 tb SEP hexane SEP 54.04 SEP 4.56 SEP 12.53 SEP 175,164,136 tb H SEP H SEP CH2CH3 SEP 1 lether SEP 55.92 SEP 5.12 SEP 11.86 SEP 136 137 SEP 10.5 bs,1H ,8.31 s,1H , tb SEP hexane SEP 55.86 SEP 5.06 SEP 11.75 SEP 7.55 d,2H,J 8Hz ,7.4 SEP 7.20 M,3H ,5.58 s,1H , tb SEP 2.95 q,2H,J 8Hz ,1.21 tb SEP t,3H,J 8Hz tb H SEP H SEP CH2 2CH3 SEP SEP 57.58 SEP 5.64 SEP 11.19 SEP 127 129 SEP 10.81 bs,1H ,8.30 s, tb SEP 57.69 SEP 5.68 SEP 11.19 SEP 1H ,7.53 d,1H,J 8Hz , tb SEP 7.39 7.24 m,3H ,5.58 tb SEP s,1H ,3.01 2.02 m,2H , tb SEP 1.65 1.44 m,2H ,0.95 tb SEP 5,3H,J 8Hz tb H SEP H SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP 1 lether SEP 59.07 SEP 6.10 SEP 10.59 SEP 264 M ,100 , SEP 100 103 tb SEP hexane SEP 59.30 SEP 5.92 SEP 10.53 SEP 208,207,195, tb SEP 136 tb EMI24.1 SEP Calc d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP Mass SEP M.P. tb X SEP Y SEP R SEP Triturate SEP C SEP H SEP N SEP Spec. SEP MS SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2OCH3 SEP 1 1CH2Cl2 SEP 46.08 SEP 3.87 SEP 9.77 SEP 286 M ,254 SEP 159 161 tb SEP hexane SEP 46.13 SEP 3.99 SEP 9.84 SEP 100 ,211, tb SEP 209,183,170 tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2 4 ClC6H4 SEP 4 lether SEP 52.32 SEP 3.29 SEP 7.62 SEP 366 M ,241, SEP 139 140 tb SEP hexane SEP 52.55 SEP 3.31 SEP 7.49 SEP 170,125 100 tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2 2 4 ClC6H4 SEP 1 lCH2Cl2 SEP 53.55 SEP 3.70 SEP 7.34 SEP 184 186 SEP 10.92 SEP bs, SEP 1H , tb SEP hexane SEP 53.64 SEP 3.86 SEP 7.57 SEP 8.37 SEP s,1H , SEP 7.62 d,1H, tb SEP J 8Hz ,7.45 d,J 8Hz , tb SEP 7.40 7.30 m,3H ,7.25 tb SEP d,2H,J 8Hz ,5.55 s, tb SEP 1H ,3.32 3.13 m,2H , tb SEP 2.90 2.70 m,2H tb Cl SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 40.67 SEP 2.67 SEP 8.41 SEP 244 245 SEP 11.05 bs,1H ,8.40 s, tb SEP ether SEP 1H ,7.94 s,1H ,7.75 tb SEP s,1H ,6.09 s,1H ,2.40 tb SEP s,3H tb Chromatography on silica gel, elution with 60 40 hexane ethyl acetate. EXAMPLE 2 5 5 Chloro 2 Methylsulfinylphenyl hydantoin To a solution of 5 5 chloro 2 thiomethylphenyl hydantoin 1.0 g, 3.9 mmol in ethanol 50 ml was added water 8 ml and sodium periodate 1.7 g, 7.8 mmol at room temperature. The mixture was stirred overnight then poured into water 50 ml and the product extracted therefrom with ethyl acetate.The extract was dried over MgSO4 and evaporated at reduced pressure to give 0.4 g 37 yield of a white solid comprising a mixture of diastereomeric sulfoxides.M.P. 1650 1700C. Similarly, the following compounds were prepared from the corresponding 5 2 RS phenyl hydantoins of formula V above EMI26.1 EMI26.2 SEP Calc d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP IR SEP cm 1 SEP MP tb X SEP R SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP S O SEP Stretch SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb H SEP CH2CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 1012 SEP bs SEP 119 120 tb SEP ether tb H SEP CH2 2CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 1009 SEP br SEP 116 118 tb SEP ether tb H SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 1014 SEP br SEP 125 130 tb SEP ether tb H SEP CH CH3 2 SEP i propyl SEP 1013 SEP br SEP 127 130 tb SEP ether tb Cl SEP CH2 4 ClC6H4 SEP 1 1 SEP water SEP 1016 SEP br SEP 165 170 tb SEP acetic SEP acid tb Cl SEP CH2 2 4 ClC6H4 SEP i propyl SEP 51.40 SEP 3.55 SEP 7.05 SEP 1015 SEP br SEP 140 144 tb SEP ether SEP 51.25 SEP 3.77 SEP 7.25 tb EXAMPLE 3 5 5 Chloro 2 Methylsulfonylphenyl hydantoin Potassium permanganate 11.0 g, 0.07 mol and water 10 ml were added to a slurry of 5 5 chloro 2thiomethylphenyl hydantoin 9.0 g, 0.035 mol in glacial acetic acid 100 ml at OOC. The reaction mixture was stirred at OOC for a half hour then poured into 500 ml of a 10 solution of sodium bisulfite in water. The product was extracted therefrom with ethyl acetate, the extract washed with water and brine, then dried MgSO4 and evaporated under reduced pressure.The white solid residue was triturated with ether, filtered and air dried. Yield 8.5 g 84 of title product m.p. 238 2400C. Analysis Calcd. for C10H9N2O4SCl 41.60 C 3.14 H 9.70 N. Found 41.37 C 3.39 H 9.43P6 N. MS 288, 289, 209 100 , 202. The following compounds are made in like manner from appropriate 5 2 RS phenyl hydantoins of formula V EMI28.1 EMI28.2 SEP Calc d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb X SEP Y SEP R SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 43.64 SEP 3.66 SEP 9.25 SEP 218 219 SEP 11.11 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.53 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 43.75 SEP 3.78 SEP 8.93 SEP 8.00 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.77 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.59 SEP s, tb SEP 1H , SEP 6.23 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.63 3.46 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 1.18 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 3 SEP Hz tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2 2CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 45.50 SEP 4.14 SEP 8.84 SEP 188 189 SEP 11.10 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 45.23 SEP 4.19 SEP 8.65 SEP 8.00 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.77 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.59 SEP s, tb SEP 1H , SEP 6.22 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.62 3.44 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 1.78 1.42 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 0.95 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb EMI29.1 SEP Calc d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb X SEP Y SEP R SEP Trituration SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb Cl SEP H SEP CH CH3 2 SEP i propyl SEP 5.50 SEP 4.14 SEP 8.84 SEP 221 222 SEP 11.10 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.57 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 5.58 SEP 4.21 SEP 8.49 SEP 7.98 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.78 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.60 SEP s, tb SEP 1H , SEP 6.19 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.83 3.67 tb SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 1.32 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 1.10 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb F SEP H SEP CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 4.12 SEP 3.33 SEP 10.29 SEP 222 224 SEP 11.10 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.53 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 4.12 SEP 3.49 SEP 9.89 SEP 8.18 8.00 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 7.58 7.40 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 6.34 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.45 tb SEP s, SEP 3H tb F SEP CH2CH3 SEP ether SEP 183 186 SEP 11.08 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.10 8.04 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 7.60 7.38 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 6.25 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 3.60 3.48 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 1.16 SEP t, tb SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb F SEP CH2 2CH3 SEP SEP 47.99 SEP 4.33 SEP 9.32 SEP 164 166 SEP 11.05 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 47.94 SEP 4.34 SEP 9.28 SEP 8.06 8.00 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 7.52 7.35 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 6.20 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 3.56 3.40 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 1.75 1.39 tb SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 0.90 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 8 SEP Hz tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2 4 ClC6H4 SEP 1 1 SEP water SEP 165 167 tb SEP acetic SEP acid tb EMI30.1 SEP Calo d. tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb X SEP Y SEP R SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb Cl SEP H SEP CH2 2 4 ClC6H4 SEP water SEP 229 231 SEP 11.11 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.56 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.00 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.74 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz , SEP 7.60 SEP s, tb SEP 1H , SEP 7.31 SEP s, SEP 4H , SEP 6.27 SEP s, tb SEP 1H , SEP 4.00 3.70 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.10 2.75 SEP m, SEP 2H tb Cl SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP ether SEP 225 227 SEP 11.05 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.35 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.62 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.81 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 3H tb Cl SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP ether SEP 43.64 SEP 3.66 SEP 9.25 SEP 258 259 SEP 11.02 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.40 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.66 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.40 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.72 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.45 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 2.70 SEP s, SEP 3H tb Cl SEP CF3 SEP CH3 SEP i propyl SEP 231 233 SEP 11.13 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.52 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 8.20 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.95 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.61 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H tb Chromatography on silica gel, elution with 60 40 hexane ethyl acetate. EXAMPLE 4 5 5 Chloro 2 chlorosulfonylphenyl hydantoin A solution of 5 5 chloro 2 thiomethoxymethyl phenyl hydantoin 3.5 g, 0.012 mol in dioxane 175 ml and water 50 ml was cooled to 0 C.Chlorine gas was passed through the solution at OOC until a yellow color persisted. The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes then poured into 200 ml of ice cold 10 aqueous sodium bisulfite solution. The product was extracted from the resulting solution with ethyl acetate, the extract washed with water, then with brine, and dried MgSO4 . Evaporation under reduced pressure gave a white solid. Trituration of the solid in ether hexane 1 1 followed by filtration gave 2.8 g 74 yield M.P. 211 2120C. 250 MHz NMR 10.92 bs , 8.00 bs, 1H , 7.80 d, 1H, J 8 Hz , 7.43 d, IR, J 8 Hz , 7.12 s, 1H , 6.20 s, 1H . EXAMPLE 5 5 5 Chloro 2 sulfonamidophenyl hydantoin Ammonia gas was passed into a slurry of 5 5chlorosulfonylphenyl hydantoin 5.0 g, 0.016 mol in methylene chloride 100 ml at OOC until the mixture became homogeneous and yellow in color. Stirring at 0 C was continued for one hour after which the reaction mixture was poured into 10 hydrogen chloride 200 ml and the product extracted therefrom with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed successively with water, 10 hydrogen chloride, water and brine and then dried MgSO4 . Evaporation of the dried extract under reduced pressure followed by trituration of the residue with ethyl acetate gave 2.7 g 59 of a white solid. M.P. 239 240 C. Analysis Calcd. for C9H8N3O4SCl 37.31 C 2.78 H 14.49 N Found 37.62 C 2.99 H 14.11 N. 250 MRz NMR 11.08 bs, lH , 8.44 s, lH , 7.97 d, iR, J 8 Hz , 7.69 d, 1H, J r 8 Hz , 7.63 bs, 2H , 7.46 s, 1H , 6.13 s, 1H . The following compounds are similarly prepared from the appropirate amine and 5 2chlorosulfonylphenyl hydantoin of formula IX above EMI33.1 EMI33.2 SEP Calc d tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb SEP RÚ SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb CH3 SEP 1 1 SEP ether SEP 39.55 SEP 3.32 SEP 13.83 SEP 205 207 SEP 11.09 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP hexane SEP 39.61 SEP 3.38 SEP 13.61 SEP 7.95 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.69 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.61 SEP bs, tb SEP 1H SEP 7.50 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 6.08 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 2.49 SEP s, SEP 3H tb EMI34.1 SEP Calc d tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb SEP RÚ SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb CH2 2CH3 SEP ether SEP 162 163 SEP 11.01 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.42 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.90 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.67 7.58 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.45 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.06 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 2.73 SEP t, tb SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz SEP 1.48 1.31 SEP m, tb SEP 2H SEP 0.78 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz tb CH2 3CH3 SEP ether SEP 45.16 SEP 4.66 SEP 12.14 SEP 169 171 SEP 11.06 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 45.37 SEP 4.74 SEP 11.82 SEP 7.93 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.70 7.60 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.50 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.12 SEP s, SEP 1H0 SEP 2.82 SEP q, tb SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz SEP 1.48 1.20 SEP m, tb SEP 4H SEP 0.84 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz tb CH2 4CH3 SEP ether SEP 146 148 SEP 11.04 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.46 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.93 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.70 7.58 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.46 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.10 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 2.80 SEP q, tb SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz SEP 1.50 1.16 SEP m, tb SEP 6H SEP 0.81 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz tb CH2CH2OH SEP i propyl SEP 156 158 SEP 11.06 SEP bs, SEP 1H0 SEP 8.45 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP ether SEP 7.95 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.82 tb SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz SEP 7.67 SEP d, tb SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.49 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 6.10 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 3.40 SEP t, SEP 2H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 7 SEP Hz SEP 2.88 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 7 SEP Hz tb EMI35.1 SEP Calc d tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb SEP RÚ SEP Trituration SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb CH2 3OH SEP CHCl3 SEP 145 SEP 11.05 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 8.49 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP foam SEP 7.92 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.71 6.63 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.49 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.09 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 4.46 SEP t, tb SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz SEP 3.42 3.35 SEP m, tb SEP 2H SEP 2.95 2.80 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 1.58 tb SEP quintet, SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 6 SEP Hz tb CH2 4OH SEP i propyl SEP 43.16 SEP 4.46 SEP 11.61 SEP 11.05 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 8.48 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP ether SEP 42.94 SEP 4.47 SEP 11.23 SEP 7.93 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.71 7.62 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.48 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.10 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 4.40 SEP t, tb SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 4 SEP Hz SEP 3.40 3.20 SEP m, tb SEP 2H SEP 2.81 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz tb SEP 1.50 1.30 SEP m, SEP 4H tb CH2CH2N CH3 2 SEP i propyl SEP 190 SEP 11.00 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 9.00 8.20 SEP b.M, tb SEP ether SEP foam SEP 2H SEP 7.95 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.68 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.45 tb SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 6.03 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 3.02 2.86 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 2.43 2.20 tb SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 2.05 SEP s, SEP 6H tb CH2 C6H5 SEP SEP 50.60 SEP 3.66 SEP 11.06 SEP 122 124 SEP 11.07 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.48 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 50.60 SEP 3.81 SEP 10.89 SEP 8.25 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 7.92 SEP d, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.63 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 3 SEP Hz SEP 7.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.35 7.25 SEP m, SEP 5H SEP 6.4 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 4.05 SEP s, SEP 2H tb EMI36.1 SEP Calc d tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb SEP RÚ SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb CH2 2 C6H5 SEP SEP 177 178 SEP 11.05 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.45 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.95 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.75 tb SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 7.58 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.48 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.30 7.13 SEP m, SEP 5H SEP 6.17 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.15 3.00 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 2.76 tb SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 7 SEP Hz tb CH2 3 C6H5 SEP SEP 145 147 SEP 11.06 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.92 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.78 tb SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 4 SEP Hz SEP 7.67 SEP d, tb SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.30 7.10 SEP m, SEP 5H SEP 6.12 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 2.84 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz tb SEP 2.63 2.50 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 1.71 tb SEP quintet, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 5 SEP Hz tb CH2 4 C6H5 SEP ether SEP 54.09 SEP 4.78 SEP 9.95 SEP 151 153 SEP 11.05 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.48 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 53.85 SEP 4.80 SEP 9.85 SEP 7.93 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.74 7.64 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 7.49 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.10 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 2.90 2.80 tb SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 2.53 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 5 SEP Hz SEP 1.62 1.36 SEP m, SEP 4H tb EMI37.1 SEP Calc d tb SEP Isolation SEP Found SEP MP tb SEP RÚ SEP Trituration SEP SEP C SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb 4 FC6H4 SEP CHCl3 SEP 46.95 SEP 2.89 SEP 10.94 SEP 244 245 SEP 11.09 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 10.40 SEP bs, tb SEP 46.87 SEP 3.02 SEP 10.78 SEP 1H SEP 8.54 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 7.77 SEP d, tb SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.59 SEP d, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.49 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.20 7.05 SEP m, SEP 4H SEP 6.13 SEP s, tb SEP 1H tb CH2 2 furyl SEP SEP 169 170 SEP 11.02 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.45 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 8.30 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 7.93 SEP d, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.66 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.58 7.54 SEP m SEP 1H tb SEP 7.48 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 6.39 6.35 SEP m, tb SEP 1H SEP 6.25 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 2 SEP Hz tb SEP 6.14 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 4.10 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Chromatography on silica gel, elution with 60 40 hexane ethyl acetate. EXAMPLE 6 5 2 Hexylsulfonylphenyl hydantoin To a solution of 5 5 chloro 2 hexylsulfinyl phenyl hydantoin 4.8 g, 0.014 mol in glacial acetic acid 50 ml was added potassium permanganate 2.2 g, 0.014 mol and water 5 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 45 minutes then poured into 10 sodium bisulfite solution 50 ml . The resulting solution was extracted with ether, the ethereal extract then dried MgS04 and evaporated under reduced pressure. The brown oily residue was chromatographed on silica gel and the product eluted with ethyl acetate hexane 40 60 . Evaporation of the eluate under reduced pressure afforded 1.32 g of product as a white solid 26 yield . M.P. 188 1890C. Analysis Calc d. for C15H19N2O4SCl 50.21 C 5.34 H 7.81 N Found 50.05 C 5.23 H 7.76 N. The following compounds were prepared in like manner from the corresponding 5 2alkylsulfinylphenyl hydantoins EMI39.1 EMI39.2 SEP Calc d tb SEP Found SEP MP tb X SEP R SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb H SEP CH2CH3 SEP 185 SEP 11.03 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.54 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 7.98 tb SEP foam SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.83 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.66 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.55 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 6.25 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.50 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 1.15 tb SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb H SEP CH2 2CH3 SEP 190 SEP 11.01 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 7.98 tb SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.81 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.65 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.56 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 6.23 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.55 3.42 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 1.80 1.42 tb SEP foam SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 0.94 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb EMI40.1 SEP Calc d tb SEP Found SEP MP tb X SEP R SEP SEP C SEP SEP H SEP SEP N SEP C SEP 250 SEP MHz SEP NMR tb H SEP CH CH3 2 SEP 195 SEP 11.03 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 7.98 tb SEP foam SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.81 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.66 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 7.56 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 6.18 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.71 SEP septet, SEP 1H SEP 1.30 SEP d, tb SEP 3H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 1.09 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP J SEP tb SEP 8 SEP Hz tb Cl SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP 47.20 SEP 4.57 SEP 8.47 SEP 191 192 SEP 11.09 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 8.00 tb SEP 47.10 SEP 4.61 SEP 8.42 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.77 SEP d, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.59 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 6.23 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.55 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb SEP 1.76 1.30 SEP m, SEP 4H SEP 0.85 SEP t, SEP 3H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb Cl SEP CH2 4CH3 SEP 48.77 SEP 4.97 SEP 8.12 SEP 160 161 SEP 11.10 SEP bs, SEP 1H SEP 8.55 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 8.00 tb SEP 48.82 SEP 4.99 SEP 8.12 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.76 SEP d, SEP 1H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz SEP 7.60 SEP s, SEP 1H SEP 6.25 SEP s, tb SEP 1H SEP 3.55 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP J SEP SEP 9 SEP Hz tb SEP 1.78 1.18 SEP m, SEP 6H SEP 0.84 SEP t, SEP 3H, tb SEP J SEP SEP 8 SEP Hz tb PREPARATION C 3 Chloro 5 Fluoxo 2 Methoxybenzaldehyde To a solution of sodium hydroxide 50 g, 1.25 mol in water 70 ml was added 2 chloro 4 fluorophenol 10 g, 0.068 mol and chloroform 30 ml and the mixture heated at reflux for two hours. An additional 30 ml of chloroform was added and refluxing continued for two more hours. This step was repeated once again after which the mixture was cooled to room temperature. The brown precipitate which formed was removed by filtration, then suspended in water and the suspension acidified with 3N HC1. The resulting tan solid, 3 chloro 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde, was filtered, washed with water and dried 4.03 g 34 . M.P. 31 83 C. The title compound was made by dissolving 3 chloro 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzaldehyde 1.25 g, 7.2 mmol in acetone 25 ml and adding potassium carbonate 1.27 g, 9.2 mmol and methyl iodide 1.3 g, 9.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature then filtered. The filter cake was washed with acetone and the combined filtrate and wash concentrated under reduced pressure to a gummy solid. The solid was partitioned between methylene chloride and water. The methylene chloride phase was separated, washed successively with water, 1N NaOH and brine, then dried MgSO4 and concentration under reduced pressure. The pale yellow solid obtained 710 mg, 52 yield melted at 59 610C. PREPARATION D 5 Chloro 2 Methoxy 3 Methylbenzaldehyde Titanium tetrachloride 24.3 g, 0.128 mole is added to a solution of 4 chloro 2 methylanisole 10 g, 0.064 mol in methylene chloride 150 ml at 8.04 g, 0.070 mol was then added dropwise with stirring over a three minute period at OOC. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at OOC then poured into a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate 700 ml . The organic layer was then separated and the aqueous phase extracted with methylene chloride. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on a silica gel 300 g column using hexane ether 6 1 as eluent. Fractions of 15 ml each were collected.Fractions 21 50 were combined and evaporated in vacuo to a white solid 8.9 g . This solid was rechromatographed on silica gel 300 g , eluting with hexane 15 ml fraction . Fractions 174 215 were combined and evaporated in vacuo to give 2.1 g of the title product as a white solid. NMR 2.3 s, 3H , 3.9 s, 3H , 7.4 d, 1E , 7.6 d, 1H , 10.4 CEO . EXAMPLE 7 5 5 Chloro 2 methoxy 3 methylphenyl hydantoin A mixture of 5 chloro 2 ethoxy 3 methylbenzaldehyde 1.22 g, 0.0066 mol , potassium cyanide 0.86 g, 0.014 mol , ammonium carbonate 2.53 g, 0.0264 mol and 50 aqueous ethanol 150 ml was heated at 600C for 5 hours. Approximately half the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure and the residue cooled and carefully acidified with 1N hydrochloric acid.The pale yellow crystals which precipitated were separated by filtration, washed with water and air dried. Yield 1.27 g 76 . Recrystallization from ethanol water 5 40 gave 2.03 g of white crystals 0.086 g 51 . M.P. 182 184 C. Infrared P Br, cm 3299 m, s , 1771 s , 1729 s . EXAMPLES 8 10 The following compounds were prepared according to the procedure of Example 7 from appropriate 2methoxybenzaldehydes EMI44.1 EMI44.2 tb SEP MP SEP IR SEP cm 1 tb xample SEP X SEP Y SEP Z SEP C SEP KBr tb SEP 8 SEP F SEP Cl SEP OCH3 SEP 199 201 SEP 1778, SEP 1771 tb SEP 9 SEP Cl SEP CH3 SEP OC2H5 SEP 173 5 SEP 1769, SEP 1731 tb 10 SEP F SEP Cl SEP OC2H5 SEP 181 4 SEP 1771, SEP 1720 tb