# APHIDICOLANE DERIVATIVES, THEIR PREPARATION AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING THEM

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to homocyclic derivatives, and more particularly it relates to aphidicolin derivatives which possess inhibitory activity against DNA containing viruses and which inhibit the growth of certain tumours. Aphidicolin is a known compound which has the following structure It is produced by the fermentation of Certain analogues of aphidicolin have been prepared by microbial transformation and are the described by Ipsen J. According to the invention there are provided compounds of the formula wherein R⁵ stands for a piperidin 4 yloxycarbonyloxymethyl, m carboxybenzenesulphonyloxymethyl, or 5 dimethylaminonaphthalenesulphonyloxymethyl radical or a group of the formula wherein m stands for 0 to 4, R⁹ stands for hydrogen, an alkyl radical of not more than 6 carbon atoms, an aryl radical of not more than 10 carbon atoms, a phenylalkyl radical of not more than 9 carbon atoms, an alkoxycarbonyl radical of not more than 6 carbon atoms, or a R⁶O.CO radical wherein R⁶ stands for a phenyl radical which may optionally be substituted by an amino radical, an alkylamino radical of not more than 6 carbon atoms, or dialkylamino radical of not more than 12 carbon atoms, or a carboxy or hydroxysulphonyl radical, or R⁶ stands for a phenylalkyl radical of not more than 9 carbon atoms which may optionally bear an amino radical, an alkylamino radical of not more than 6 carbon atoms, a dialkylamino radical of not more than 12 carbon atoms, or a carboxy or hydroxysulphonyl radical, on the phenyl moiety and R¹⁰ stands for hydrogen or an alkyl radical of not more than 6 carbon atoms, or R⁹ and R¹⁰ are joined to form, together with the adjacent nitrogen atom, a saturated nitrogen containing heterocyclic radical or, where appropriate, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that, since the basic nucleus of the compounds of the invention contains several asymmetric centres, some of the compounds of the invention exist in diastereoisomeric forms. This is the case, for example, when R⁵ contains at least one asymmetric centre, for example when R⁵ stands for a 1 hydroxyethyl or α hydroxybenzyl radical. Such diastereoisomeric forms can be separated from one another by conventional methods, for example by fractional crystallisation or chromatography. R⁵ may for example represent a group of formula V wherein m has the meaning stated above, R⁹ stands for hydrogen or a methyl, phenyl, benzyl, t butoxycarbonyl or benzyloxycarbonyl radical, and R¹⁰ stands for hydrogen or a methyl radical, or R⁹ and R¹⁰ are joined to form, together with the adjacent nitrogen atom, a saturated One preferred embodiment of the invention consists of compounds of the formula II wherein R⁵ stands for a group of the formula In the case where the compounds of the formula II are sufficiently basic, a suitable salt is an acid addition salt derived from an inorganic or organic acid which affords a pharmaceutically acceptable anion, for example hydrochloric or citric acid. In the case where the compounds of the formula II are sufficiently acidic, a suitable salt is a base addition salt derived from a pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic base, for example an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salt, or an aluminium salt, or a salt derived from a pharmaceutically acceptable organic base, for example trimethylamine, triethylamine, ethanolamine, ethylenediamine, morpholine or guanidine. Aphidicolin and many of its derivatives have the disadvantage that they have any extremely low solubility in water. In the case of aphidicolin, for example, the aqueous solubility is 112 9µg.per ml. Such a low solubility causes problems as regards the preparation of aqueous pharmaceutical formulations, for example aqueous formulations suitable for administration by injection, and therefore there is a need for water soluble derivatives of aphidicolin. According to a further feature of the invention there are provided water soluble derivatives of aphidicolin, which are pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of the formula II wherein R⁵ stands for a glycyloxymethyl, piperidin 4 yloxycarbonyloxymethyl, γ According to further features of the invention there are provided the following processes In process a the hydrolytic agent may be a suitable inorganic or organic acid, for example hydrochloric acid or trifluoroacetic acid. The hydrolysis is preferably carried out in the presence of an organic solvent, for example ethanol, and at or below ambient temperature. In process b Z may, for example, stand for a chlorine or bromine atom, and each of these processes is conveniently carried out in pyridine. Processes c and e are carried out by reacting the starting material with hydrogen gas in the presence of a hydrogenation catalyst, for example a palladium on charcoal catalyst. The processes are carried out in an organic solvent, for example an alkanol of not more than 3 carbon atoms, for example ethanol, or an alkyl alkanoate of not more than 8 carbon atoms, for example ethyl acetate, at ambient temperature and at atmospheric pressure or a slightly elevated pressure. The starting material for use in process c in which R⁵ represents a radical of formula VIII as hereinbefore defined may be prepared by reacting a corresponding compound in which R⁵ stands for a hydroxymethyl radical with a compound of the formula in which R⁶ represents a phenylalkyl radical of not more than 9 carbon atoms and Z stands for a halogen atom. Z may for example stand for a chlorine or bromine atom and the process is conveniently carried out in pyridine. In process d the acid halide may, for example, be an acid chloride or bromide, and the acid anhydride may either be derived wholly from the parent acid i.e. of the type R CO O CO R or it may be a mixed anhydride obtained in conventional manner. The process may be carried out in an organic solvent, for example pyridine. Process f may be carried out by, for example, the use of hydrogen chloride or trifluoracetic acid as the hydrolytic agent. It may be carried out in a mixture of water and an organic solvent containing a relatively substantial amount of water, or in an organic solvent, for example diethyl ether, containing a very small amount of water. The acid addition salts of the invention are obtainable by conventional procedures. Aphidicolin, which is used as a starting material in some of the processes of the invention, is obtainable as described in United Kingdom patent specification No.1,331,520. Other starting materials are obtained as described below. The antiviral activity of compounds of the invention has been demonstrated against According to a further feature of the invention there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of the formula II, wherein R⁵ has the meaning stated above, or, where appropriate, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. The compositions of the invention may, for example, be in a suitable form for oral, parenteral or rectal administration. Thus, for example, they may be in an orally administrable unit dosage form, for example a tablet or capsule, which may optionally be adapted for sustained or controlled release, or they may be in an injectable form, for example a sterile injectable solution or suspension, or in the form of a suppository. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are obtainable by conventional methods using conventional diluents and carriers. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples in which the temperatures are expressed in degrees Celsius and the nomenclature is based on the parent hydrocarbon aphidicolane having the following structure and numbered as shown see J.C.S. Chem. Comm., 1972, 1027 Unless otherwise stated, the expression 17 1 Benzyloxycarbonyl piperidin 4 yloxycarbonyloxy 3α, 16β, 18 trihydroxyaphidicolane, 3.0028g., 0.00501 mole was dissolved in ethanol 25ml and the solution added to a suspension of 30 w w palladium on charcoal catalyst 0.2997g in ethanol 100ml containing N hydrochloric acid 10ml . The mixture was hydrogenated at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure for 2 hours. The catalyst was removed by filtration Celite Trade Mark , the solvent in the filtrate was evaporated γ 1 Morpholino butyric acid hydrochloride 2.2895g., 0.109 mole was dissolved in pyridine 50ml , The hydrochloride was prepared by dissolving the free base in methanol water 1g. of the base to 25ml. of methanol and 50ml. of water and titrating the solution to pH 6 with 0.1N hydrochloric acid. The solvent in the resulting solution was evaporated 17 Aphidicolin 6.76g, 0.02 mole was dissolved in dry pyridine 100ml and the solution was stirred at ambient temperature and protected from atmospheric moisture drying tube . m Chlorosulphonylbenzoic acid 8.82g, 0.04 mole was added to the stirred solution over 1 hour. The mixture was stirred for a further 3 hours and the solvent then evaporated The residues from the reactions carried out as described above were combined and chromatographed on silica gel Merck Art. 9385, 100g , eluting with ethyl acetate methanol acetic acid 90 10 1 v v and collecting 20ml. fractions. Fractions 11 to 16 were combined, the solvents were evaporated The sodium salt was prepared by dissolving the free acid 0.20g in a mixture of methanol 25ml and water 35ml and adjusting the solution at 0 to pH 7.5 with 0.1N sodium hydroxide. The resulting solution was evaporated Aphidicolin 3.38g, 0.01 mole was dissolved in dry pyridine 50ml and the solution was stirred at ambient temperature and protected from atmospheric moisture drying tube . 1 Dimethylaminonaphthalene 8 sulphonyl chloride 4.04g, 0.015 mole was added to the stirred solution over 2 hours. Stirring was continued for a further hour and the solvent was then evaporated