# Roofing.

## Abstract
Ridging tile support means comprising a plate 1 having a vertical portion 2 with a plurality of holes 3 therein, and a flange 4 projecting from the portion 2 of the plate 1 and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the plate projects generally upward.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Ridging tile support means comprising a plate 1 having a portion 2 with a plurality of holes 3 therein, and a flange 4 projecting from the portion 2 of the plate 1 and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the portion 2 of the plate 1 projects generally upward. 2. Riding tile support means as claimed in claim 1, wherein the flange 4 has apertures 5 therein through which nails may be passed. 3. Ridging tile support means as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, wherein the flange 4 has struck portions adapted to act as nails. 4. Ridging tile support means as claimed in Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the holes 3 in the portion 2 are arranged in columns and rows whereby a position along the length and with respect to the height of the plate may be chosen by a user to suit requirements. 5. Ridging tile positioning means for use with ridging tile support means comprising a plate 1 having a portion 2 with a plurality of holes 3 therein, and a flange 4 projecting from the portion 2 of the plate 1 and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the portion 2 of the plate projects generally upward, said ridging tile positioning means comprising a member 21 having a first end adapted to engage with and hold a roof ridging tile and a second end 26 adapted to enter into a selected one of the holes 3 in the aforesaid plate 1 to thereby, in use, locate the tile in a desired position. 6. Ridging tile positioning means as claimed inClaim 5, wherein the first end includes a generallyU shaped portion 22 into which may be received an end of the tile. 7. Ridging tile positioning means as claimed inClaim 6, wherein the first end additionally has anotherU shaped portion 24 into which may be received an end of an adjacent tile. 8. Ridging tile positioning means as claimed in claim 7, wherein the ends of the U shaped portions remote from the bights thereof are convergent. 9. Ridging tile positioning means as claimed inClaim 5, 6, 7 or 8, wherein the ridge tile positioning means is made of resilient material whereby to be able to exert springing holding action on ridge tiles. 10 Ridging tile positioning means as claimed in any of Claims 5 to 9, wherein the second end is so shaped as to be difficult of removal from a selected hole 3 , without at least one manipulation of the angular orientation of the second end with respect to the axis of the selected hole. 11. In combination, ridging tile support means comprising a plate 1 having a portion 2 with plurality of holes 3 therein, and a flange projecting from the portion 2 of the plate 1 and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the portion 2 of the plate 1 projects generally upward and ridging tile positioning means comprising a member 21 having a first end adapted to engage with and hold a roof ridging tile and a second end 26 adapted to enter into a selected one of the holes 3 in the aforesaid plate to thereby, in use, locate the tile in a desired position. 12. A roof, roof ridge or verge ridge having ridging tile support means comprising a plate 1 having a portion 2 with a plurality of holes 3 therein, and a flange projecting from the portion 2 of the plate 1 and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the portion 2 of the plate 1 projects generally upward and ridging tile positioning means comprising a member 21 having a first end adapted to engage with and hold a roof ridging tile and a second end adapted to enter into a selected one of the holes 3 in the aforesaid plate to thereby, in use, locate the tile in a desired position.

## Description
Roofing This invention relates to roofing. Difficulty is found in securing roof ridging tiles along ridges, hips and gable ends and the present invention seeks to provide apparatus useful in fixing ridging tiles. The present invention provides ridging tile support means comprising a plate having a portion with a plurality of holes therein, and a flange projecting from the portion of the plate and adapted to be fixed along ridging, hips or gable ends whereby the portion of the plate projects generally upward. The tile support means may have one or more than one such flange and in one instance has a plurality of flanges projecting from each side of the plate. The flange or flanges may have apertures therein through which nails may be passed and or may have struck portions adapted to act as nails. The holes are preferably arranged in columns and rows so that a position along the length and with respect to the height of the plate may be chosen by a user to suit requirements. The plate may be any desired length but in practice it is considered best to use either a small number of long lengths or a large number of short lengths. The present invention also provides ridging tile positioning means comprising a member having a first end adapted to engage with and hold a roof ridging tile and a second end adapted to enter into a selected one of the holes in the aforesaid plate to thereby, in use, locate the tile in a desired position. The first end may include a generally U shaped portion into which may be received an end of the tile. The first end may also have another U shaped portion into which may be received an end of an adjacent tile. The ends of the U shaped portions remote from the bight thereof may be convergent. The positioning means is preferably resilient so as to exert spring holding action on ridge tiles. The second end may be shaped to be difficult of removal from the selected hole without at least one manipulation of the angular orientation of the second end with respect to the selected hole. The present invention also provides, in combination, ridging tile support means and ridging tile positioning means in accordance with this invention. The present invention also provides a roof having ridge tiles supported and positioned by ridging tile support means and ridging tile positioning means in accordance with this invention. The plate may be of mild steel but may be galvanised or made of corrosion resistant material if desired. The tile positioning means is preferably made of galvanised steel hard drawn wire. The present invention is also applicable to verge ridging. Specific constructions in accordance with this invention will now be described with the aid of the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of a mounting plate, Figure 2 is a perspective view of a mounting clip, Figure 3 is a perspective view of a roof and shows a manner of use of the plate and the clip, Figure 4 is a cross section on line 4 4 inFigure 3, Figure 5 is a cross section on line 5 5 inFigure 3, Figure 6 is a cross section through a roof verge ridge and shows a manner of use of the plate and the clip, Figure 7 is a cross section through another roof verge ridge and shows a manner of use of the plate and the clip, Figure 8 is a perspective view of a roof and shows a manner of use of the plate and the clip, Figure 9 is a perspective view of an alternative mounting plate, and Figure 10 is a perspective view of an alternative mounting clip. The plate 1 shown in Figure 1 comprises a vertical portion 2 having a plurality of holes 3 arranged in columns and rows. A flange 4 projects from the vertical portion 2 and has holes 5 through which nails may be passed. The plate 1 is preferably made of mild steel, galvanised if desired, by stamping and bending techniques and may be of any desired length. In one instance a length appropriate to the entire length of a ridge was used but in another instance a plurality of short lengths were used. The clip 21 comprises an upper U shaped portion 22, a lower U shaped portion 24, a shank 25 and an end 26. It is to be observed that the U shaped portions are convergent towards their open ends 31 and 32. The clip 21 is conveniently made of hard drawn galvanised wire by bending techniques. Referring now to Figs. 3 5, in one use, the plate 1 is nailed by nails 30 to a ridge timber 131, and a sufficient length of plate 1 or a sufficient number of plates 1 is are used. Ridge tiles are then placed in generally conventional manner but the clips 21 are positioned to receive, in the portion 24, one end of one ridge tile 132 and, in the portion 22, the adjacent end of an adjacent ridge tile 33. It is to be noted that the convergency towards their open ends of the U shaped portions will result in a resilient holding of the ridge tiles. The fact that the end 26 lies substantially in the same plane as the bight of the lower U shaped portion 24 facilitates positioning of the clips. Further, for ease of fitment reasons, in some situations it may be desirable to have the ridge clips positioned on the opposite side of the plate 1 to that shown in Fig. 3. The clips 21 are also positioned to adjust the height of the ridge tiles and or to draw them downwardly.To achieve the above end, the end 26 is positioned in the hole 3 of the plate 1 which is most appropriate. Figs. 6 and 7 show alternative uses. In Fig. 6 the plate 1 is secured to a barge board 41 and in Fig. 7 the plate 1 is secured to a batten 42. Fig. 8 shows a complete roof and indicates the amount that the clips 21 show in use. Any alternative plate 51 is shown in Fig. 9 and differs from that of Fig. 1 in that it has lugs 54 projecting on both sides of the vertical portion 2. An alternative clip 52 is shown in Fig. 10 and differs from that shown in Fig. 2 in that the U shaped portions are not convergent towards their open ends, a capillary stop 152 is provided, the end 26 lies in the plane of the bight of the upper U shaped portion 22 and the end 26 has a deformation 27 which will inhibit removal of the clip 52 from the selected one of the holes 3 in the plate 1.