# Microorganisms of the species Lactobacillus italicus, processes for their preparation and their use in the production of lactic acid.

## Abstract
A microorganism of the species

## Claims
Claims 1. A microorganism of the species Lactobacillus italicus having the following taxonomic characteristics 1 Gram positive rods in a size of 0.8 1.0 x 2 7 2 formation of spore negative 3 motility negative 4 anaerobic to faculative aerobic 5 growth temperature 15 380C. optimal 28r320C 6 growth pH 4.2 6.5, optimal 5.4 5.8 7 catalase negative and 8 capable of assimilating glucose and maltose to produce DL lactic acid, ethyl alcohol and carbon dioxide but not capable of assimilating arabinose, xylose, galactose, acetic acid, citric acid, gluconic acid or propionic acid as the sole source of carbon in or on a sterile medium. 2. A microorganism as claimed in claim 1 wherein glucose and maltose are the sole assimilable carbon sources. 3. A microorganism as claimed in claim 1 having no unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth, said microorganism being designated Lactobacillus italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 . 4. A microorganism as claimed in claim 1 having an unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth, said microorganism being designated Lactobacillus italicus SH 150 FERM BP 190 5. A process for preparing a microorganism as claimed in claim 1 which comprises inoculating an agar medium with an aqueous suspension of a panettone dough, incubating the inoculated medium under anaerobic conditions to form colonies on said medium, isolating Lactobacillu5 italicus having the identifying characteristics defined in claim 1 and culturing the isolated strain s in or on a sterile medium. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the isolation of Lactobacillus italicus comprises the isolation of Lactobacillus italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 which has no unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth andLactobacillus italicus SH 150 FERM BP 190 which has an unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth. 7. A process as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the incubation is effected at a temperature of from 15 380C for 1 2 days. 8. A process as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the incubation is effected at a pH of from 4.2 6.5. 9. A process for the preparation of lactic acid which comprises culturing a microorganism as claimed in claim 1 in or on a medium therefor whereby to obtain a cultured liquor containing lactic acid. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the lactic acid is isolated from the obtained cultured liquor.

## Description
Microorganisms of the species Lactobacillus italicus, processes for their preparation and their use in the production of lactic acid The present invention relates to microorganisms of the species Lactobacillus italicus, processes for their preparation and their use in the production of lactic acid. The lactobacilli may be isolated from a dough for making bread. Lactobacillus sanfrancisco is a known microorganism isolated from a dough for sour dough French bread conventionally made in the San Francisco Bay area of theUnited States, and is useful in the preparation of a liquid starter and dough for sour dough bakery products such as sour dough French bread U.S. Patents Nos.3,734,743 and 3,891,773 . This microorganism is capable of growing in the presence of a sour dough yeast, vizTorulopsis holmii. As a result of various studies, we have isolated certain microorganisms from a dough used for the preparation of panettone which is a type of Italian rich bread. The present invention is based upon the discovery that the microorganisms which we have isolated are capable of growing in the absence of yeast and are of potential interest as lactic acid producing microorganisms. According to one feature of the present invention, there is provided a microorganism of the speciesLactobacillus italicus having the following taxonomic characteristics 1 Gram positive rods in a size of 0.8 1.0 x 2 7 2 formation of spore negative X3 motility negative 4 anaerobic to facultative aerobic 5 growth temperature 15 380C, optimal 28 320C 6 growth pH 4.2 6.5, optimal 5.4 5.8 7 catalase negative and 8 capable of assimilating glucose and maltose to produceDL lactic acid, ethyl alcohol and carbon dioxide but not capable of assimilating arabinose, xylose, galactose, acetic acid, citric acid, gluconic acid or propionic acid as the sole source of carbon in or on a sterile medium. The microorganisms in one embodiment may be further characterised in that glucose and maltose are the sole assimilable carbon sources. The microorganisms of the present invention have been designated by us as Lactobacillus italicus for reasons hereinafter described and include the following two strains I Lactobacillus italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 and II Lactobacillus italicus SH 150 FERM BP 190 . The above mentioned two microorganisms were deposited with the Fermentation Research InstituteAgency of Industrial Science and Technology, Ministry ofInternational Trade and Industry of 1 3, Eigashi 1 chome, Yatabe machi Tsukuba gun, Ibaraki ken 305, Japan under the Budapest Treatypn. 29th September 1982. The taxonomic characteristics of these two microorganisms are identical with those of various known lactobacilli such as, for example, Lactobacillus sanfrancisco except as specified below I L. italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 A. Morphological characteristics Where this strain is cultured in a liquid medium such as, for example, an ML medium as hereinafter defined, the present strain appears as rods having a size of 0.8 1.0 x 2 7 , and occurs in the form of a single rod or in chains. This strain is non motile, nonsporulating and Gram positive.Composition of ML medium peptone 12.5 g yeast extract 12.5 g potassium monohydrogeaphosphate 250 mg potassium dihydrogen phosphate 250 mg magnesium sulfate 100 mg manganese sulfate 5.0 mg ferrous sulfate 5.0 mg cysteine hydrochloride 300 mg Tween 80 commercial product of Atlas Chemical Industry, Inc., U.S.Ap . 300 mg sodium acetate 10 g glucose 10 g maltose 10 g water 1000 ml adjusted to a pH of 5.6 with lN or 6N HCl .B. Cultural characteristics 1 ML agar plate Where this strain is cultured on an MT. agar plate medium prepared by adding 20 g of agar to ML medium at 30 C for 2 days, round, smooth, entire, raised, semitransparent and milky white colonies are formed, the diameter of the colonies being not greater than about 1 mm. 2 ML broth The culture exhibits a moderate turbidity. No growth on the surface layer. Flocculent sediment is formed. 3 ML agar stab Growth is observed along with the stab and onthe surfaceC. Physiological characteristics 1 Growth temperature Range 15 38 C. Optimal 28 32 C. 2 Growth pH Range 4.2 to ,5. Optimal 5.4 to 5.8. 3 Relation to oxygen Anaerobic to facultative aerobic. Better growth in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide, even though growth is possible under aerobic conditions. 4 Required substances for the growth An unstaturated fatty acid is not required for growth on an ML medium. 5 Production of acid and gas from sugars Produced from glucose and maltose, and not produced from arabinose, xylose, ribose, fructose, mannitol, galactose, sucrose, lactose, melibiose and salicin. 6 Assimilation of carbon sources Maltose and glucose are assimilable, although maltose is more strongly assimilated than glucose. Arabinose, xylose, galactose, acetic acid, citric acid, gluconic acid and propionic acid are not assimilated as sole carbon sources. 7 Liquefaction of gelatin negative. 8 Lithmus milk unchanged. 9 Reduction of nitrate negative. 10 Denitrification negative. 11 Urease negative. 12 Catalase negative. 13 Oxidase negative. 14 Formation of indole negative. 15 Formation of hydrogen sulfide negative. 16 Hydrolysis of starch negative. 17 VP reaction negative. 18 DL lactic acid and ethyl alcohol are produced from glucose or maltose at an approximate ratio of 1 0.4 0.6. II Lactobacillus italicus SH 150 FERM BP 190 Similar taxonomic characteristics to those ofL. italicus TL 1 except for the requirement of an unsaturated fatty acid for growth. As hereinbefore described, L. italicus TL 1 andL. italicus SH 150 are Gram positive rods which are nonsporulating, non motile, anaerobic to facultative aerobic and catalase negative. Moreoever, they are capable of producing lactic acid and ethyl alcohol from glucose and maltose. Thus, it is apparent that they are classified into the genus Lactobacillus.However, the present strains differ from all lactdbacilli disclosed, for example, in Bergey s Manual of Determinative Bacteriology, 8thEdition 1974 in so far as the following identifying characteristics are concerned a they decompose glucose and maltose, but no other carbohydrate whilst various other known lactobacilli decompose many carbohydrates b the optimal growth pH is from 5.4 to 5.8, whilst various known lactobacilli exhibit an optimal pH of from 6.5 to 7.0 c they are incapable of assimilating gluconate, whilst various other lactobacilli of the heterofermentative type are capable of decomposing gluconate d the present strains differ from Lactobacillus sanfrancisco which is only capable of metabolizing glucose with difficulty and produces lactic acid and acetic acid from maltose.Moreover, a fresh yeast extract is required for the growth of L. sanfrancisco. For these reasons, it is believed that the microorganisms of the present invention designated by us asLactobacillus italicus are new microorganisms. The taxonomic characteristics of the present strains were determined by the methods described in Classification and identification of microorganisms edited by Takeshi Hasegawa and published by GakkaiShuppan Centre Tokyo 1975 and Bergey s Manual ofDeterminative Bacteriology, 8th Edition 1974 referred to above. With regard to Lactobacillus sanfrancisco, reference was made to Applied Microbiology, 21, 459 465 1971 . According to a further feature of the present invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a microorganism as hereinbefore defined which comprises inoculating an agar medium with an aqueous suspension of panettone dough, incubating the inoculated medium under anaerobic conditions to form colonies on said medium, isolating Lactobacillus italicus having the identifying characteristics hereinbefore defined and culturing the isolated strain s in or on a sterile medium. Panettone dough is described in Bakers Digest October 76 80 1977 . L. italicus of the prescnt Lnvention may be cultured, for example, in the following manner Various solid and liquid media may be used for culturing L. italicus in so far as they are suitable for culturing lactobacilli and contain glucose and maltose as carbon sources. As carbon sources, various naturally occurring substances containing glucose and maltose such as, for example, starch hydrolyzate liquor, wheat flour and the like maybe used. If desired, various organic acids such as, for example, acetic acid, citric acid and the like may be added to the medium in order to promote the growth of L. italicus.The use of various materials containing organic nitrogen such as, for example, yeast extract, peptone, meat extract, casein, corn steep liquor, tomato juice and the like as nitrogen sources is advantageous for promoting the growth of L. italicus, and thus it is preferred to add to the medium inorganic compounds such as, for example, ammonium sulfate, ammonium nitrate, ammonium phosphate and the like. It is also advantageous to add to the medium, for example, phosphoric acid, various ions of metals such as e.g. potassium, sodium, magnesium, manganese, iron, molybdenum and the like. The addition of, for example, cysteine, cystine, glutathione, ascorbic acid and the like to the medium is also advantageous in order to reduce the partial pressure of oxygen.Where an unsaturated fatty acid is required for the growth of the cultured microorganism, it is necessary to add a suitable agent such as, for example, oleic acid, Tween 80 a surface active agent, commercially available from Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc., U.S.A. , lectin and the like to the medium. The culturing may for example be effected at a temperature of from 15 to 380C, preferably from 28 to 320C and at a pH of from 4.2 6.5,especially from 5.4 to 5.8 for 1 to 2 days. As the present strains are more or less anaerobic, the culturing may preferably be effected under anacrobic conditions In t llt pr n t L f c.ltlson d jc X idt In such a case, the mixing ratio of carbon dioxide with air may be from 25 to 95 by volume. Especially good results may be obtained, for example, by using an ML medium as hereinbefore defined in order to isolate the present strain from a dough used for the preparation of panettone as hereinbefore described. Thus, for example, a panettone dough is suspended in a sterilized physiological saline solution, suitable buffer solution and the like and the mixture is smeared, for example, on an ML agar plate medium as hereinbefore defined for culturing at a temperature of from 28 to 320C for 1 2 days under anaerobic conditions to obtain a pure culture of L. italicus of the present invention. According to a further feature of the present invention there is provided a process for the preparation of lactic acid which comprises culturing a microorganism as hereinbefore defined in or on a medium there for whereby to obtain a cultured liquor containing lactic acid. The lactic acid obtained is preferably isolated from the obtained cultured liquor. The following non limiting Examples illustrate the present invention. Example 1 A panettone dough purchased from the Italian market 0.3 g was suspended in a physiological saline solution 10 ml under sterilized conditions. The suspension thus prepared was multiply diluted with the same solution. Then, on each occasion, the diluted dough suspension 0.1 ml was smeared on an ML medium as hereinbefore defined, and a Gas Pak System Commercial Product of Baltimore Biological Laboratories, Inc., U.S.A. was used to provide an atmosphere of carbon dioxide, in which the culturing was effected at a temperature of 30 C for 2 days to obtain semi transparent, milky white colonies having a diameter of not greater than about 1 mm. The colonies were picked out and transferred to another ML agar plate medium for further culturing under similar conditions for 1 2 days In this manner, 179 strains in total were isolated from 2 kinds of panettone dough, which were very similar to each other. Even though very small differences were noted between them, it was noted that all strains belonged to the same species.In view of the differences in the unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth, Lactobacillus italicus TL 1 negative requirement and L. italicus SH 150 positive requirement were selected. n these cases, the number of the microorganisms present in the panettone doughs used was about 7 x 108 cell per gram. Example 2 A medium containing yeast extract 3 girl , peptone 5 g l , KH2PO4 0.25 g l , MgSO4.7H2O 0.1 girl , MnS04.4H20 t5.0 mg l , FeSO4.7H20 5.0 mg l , cysteine HCl 300 mg l and Tween 80 300 mg l and having an initial p11 adjusted to 5.6 with acetic acid, was used as a basal medium, from which 6 types of media were prepared by adding to the basal medium respectively the additives containing carbon sources shown in Table 1.On each occasion, the thus prepared medium was put into a large test tube and was sterilized at a temperature of 1200C for 15 minutes in an autoclave. Each medium was then inoculated with L. italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 orL. italicus SH 150 FERM BP 190 about 108 cells per ml obtained from the ML agar plate medium hereinbefore described and incubated at a temperature of 300C for the period shown in Table 1. The resultant growth shown inTable 1 is expressed by the turbidity of the cultured liquor, which was measured by the optical density at 660 m. TABLE 1 L. italicus TL 1 SH 150Additive hours 24 60 24 60 1. No additive 0,03 0.05 0.03 0.04 2. Glucose 10 g l 0.41 1.06 0.11 1.14 3. Maltose 10 g l 0.53 1.34 0.33 1.14 4. Glucose 5 g l and 0.55 1.52 0.43 1.14 maltose 5 g l 5. 4 containing 0.72 2.12 0.78 2.40 sodium acetate 10 g l 6. 45 excluding 2.00 0.10 Tween 80 This table indicates that the best result was obtained by using medium No. 5. Example 3Preparation of lactic acid A medium having the composition stated below was inoculated with tactobacilluS italicus TL 1 FERM BP 189 one platinum loop for culturing at 300C for 18 hours to obtain a cultured liquor containing lactic acid in an amount of 0.54 Composition of medium yeast extract 12.5 g peptone 12.5 g glucose 11.0 g maltose 15.0 g KH2PO4 0.25 g K2HPO4 0.025 g MgSO4.7H20 0.1 g MgSO4.4H2O 5 mg FeS04.7H20 5 mg Tween 80 300 mg L cysteine HCl 300 mg adenine 20 mg guanine 20 mg uracil 20 mg sodium acetate. 3H2O 10.0 g made up to 1000 ml with water pH being adjusted to 5.6 with hydrochloric acid .