# Process for simultaneous desulfurization and dewaxing of petroleum oils and catalysts therefor.

## Abstract
Petroleum oils, especially resids ailing above 350 C, can be simultaneously hydrodesulfurized and hydrode waxed by treating them with hydrogen under conventional hydrodesulfurization conditions in contact with a catalyst comprising an alumina, silica or silica alumina support, a ZSM 5 type zeolite and Group VIA and or VIII metal oxides or sulfides. Preferred catalysts 70 to 95 wt. alumina and 5 to 30 wt. ZSM 5 and contain 5 20 wt. NiO and 2 10 wt. MoO₃.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catalyst composition for use in the simultaneous hydrodesulfurization and hydrodewaxing of petroleum oils, comprising alumina, silica, silica alumina or a mixture thereof as support in intimate contact with a ZSM 5 type zeolite and containing as hydrogenation component an oxide or sulfide of a Group VIA metal and orGroup VIII metal. 2. A catalyst composition according to claim 1, comprising from 20 to 99 of support and from 1 to 80X of ZSM 5 type zeolite based on the weight of the support and zeolite, and from 2 to 20X of a GroupVIII metal oxide or sulfide and from 1 to 10 of a Group VIA metal oxide or sulfide based on the weight of the total composition. 3. A catalyst composition according to claim 2, comprising from 70 to 95 of support and from 5 to 30 of a ZSM 5 type zeolite based on the weight of support and zeolite. 4. A catalyst composition according to claim 2 or claim 3, comprising from 5 to 20 of a Group VIII metal oxide or sulfide and from 2 to 10 of a Group VIA metal oxide or sulfide based on the weight of the total composition. 5. A catalyst composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the support is alumina, the zeolite is ZSM 5, the Group VIII metal is nickel and the Group VIA metal is molybdenum. 6. A process for simultaneously hydrodesulfurizing and hydrodewaxing a petroleum oil which comprises contacting the petroleum oil with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst according to any one of claims 1 to 5, at a temperature of from 315 4550C, a pressure of from 3,500 to 21,000 kPa and a space velocity of from 0.1 to 5.0 LHSV. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein the hydrogen is fed to the process at a rate of 180 to 2,700 Nl l of petroleum oil. 8. A process according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the petroleum oil is a residual fraction boiling above 3500C. 9. A process according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the catalyst is used in conjunction with a conventional hydrodesulfurization catalyst.

## Description
PROCESS FOR SIMULTANEWS DESULFURIZATION AND DEWAXING OF PETROLEUM OILS AND CATALYSTS THEREFOR This invention relates to the hydroprocessing of petroleum oils, especially those containing residual hydrocarbon components and having significant sulfur contents, and relates more particularly to a process for simultaneously reducing the sulfur content and the pour point of heavy petroleum oils containing residual hydrocarbon components and to a catalyst for use in such a process. It is conventional to effect sulfur removal from hydrocarbon stocks by subjecting such stocks to treatment with hydrogen at elevated temperature and pressures in contact with a catalyst containing hydrogenating components. Typical catalysts are those containing GroupVIA or Group VIII metals or their oxides or sulfides, with such hydrogenating components being supported on a variety of well known carriers, for example alumina, kieselguhr, zeolitic molecular sieves and other materials having high surface areas. U.S. Patent 3,546,103, for example teaches hydrodesulfurization with a catalyst of cobalt and molybdenum on an alumina base U.S. Patent 3,755,146 describes a process for preparing lube oils characterized by low pour points, utilizing a catalyst mixture comprising hydrogenation components, a conventional cracking catalyst that can be either crystalline or amorphous, and a crystalline aluminosilicate of the ZSM 5 type and U.S. Patent 3,894,938 describes the sequential catalytic dewaxing and desulfurization of high pour point, high sulfur gas oils to lower their sulfur content by contacting such oils first with a ZSM 5 type zeolite hydrodewaxing catalyst that may contain a hydrogenation dehydrogenation component, in the presence or absence of added hydrogen, followed by conventional hydrodesul furization of the dewaxed intermediate. Although hydroprocessing is a highly developed technology, there exists today a great need for efficient and economical means for hydrodesulfurizing resids in order to make them more valuable refinery chargestocks. Heavy resids in particular contain large amounts of sulfur and other contaminants that result in undesirable effects such as corrosion, pollution or poisoning of the catalyst. The removal or at the least a significant reduction in the amount of such contaminants is therefore essential to the upgrading of such stocks. However, in order to provide a suitable upgrading stock other foreign elements such as metals, nitrogen, oxygen and halogen materials also need to be removed from the resids.Known hydrodesulfurization processes employ severe conditions, such as temperatures of about 200 to 508 C or more, pressures of about 3,500 to 21,000 kPa and space velocities of about 0.2 to about 5 LHSV and are simply uneconomical and in their own right create additional problems. However, none of the known processes uses a catalyst that is capable of simultaneously hydrodewaxing and hydrodesulfurizing heavy residual petroleum stocks. The present invention is based on the observation that petroleum oils can be simultaneously dewaxed and desulfurized by treatment with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst comprising a hydrcdesulturization HODS catalyst with a small amount of a ZSM 5 type zeolite. Accordingly, the present invention provides a catalyst composition for use in the simultaneous hydrodesulfurization and hydyrodewaxing of petroleum oils, comprising alumina, silica, silica alumina or a mixture thereof as support in intimate contact with a ZSM 5 type zeolite, and containing as hydrogenation component an oxide or sulfide of a Group VIA metal and or Group VIII metal. The present invention also provides a process for simultaneously hydrodesulfurizing and hydrodewaxing a petroleum oil which comprises contacting the petroleum oil with hydrogen in the presence of such a catalyst at a temperature of from 315 to 4550 C, at a pressure of from 3,500 to 21,000 kPa and at a space velocity of from 0.1 to 5.0 LHSV. The catalyst according to the present invention can be obtained by mixing a ISM 5 type zeolite with a conventional HOS catalyst to obtain am intimate mixture of both components.Conventional commercial HOS catalysts that may be used in this way include, for example, Chevrons ICR 706 Ni W Ti SiO2 A1203 andCyanamid s HDS 1441 Ni MbSA1203 . For practical reasons, it may be desirable to incorporate the ZSM 5 type zeolite in a matrix material, as is well known in the art. Alternatively, the catalyst can be manufactured by first compositing the ZSM 5 type zeolite with the alumina, silica or silica alumina support and then impregnating the resulting composite with a salt of a Group VIA metal and or Group VIII metal and subsequently converting the metal into its oxide or sulfide. The ZSM 5 type zeolite may be used as such, in the hydrogen ion form, i.e. as HZSM 5 for example, or in a base exchanged form containing a hydrogenating metal, especially a Group VIII metal, for example nickel or palladium, or a rare earth metal. The zeolite component of the catalyst according to the invention is a ZSM 5 type zeolite, that is to say a crystalline, aluminosilicate zeolite having a silica to alumina mole ratio above 12 and a Constraint Index of from 1 to 12. The term Constraint Index , its significance and method of determination are described in U.S.Patent 3,907,915, for example. Examples of such zeolites are ZSM 5,ZSM ll, ZSM 12, ZSM 35 and ZSM 38 ZSM 5 is especially preferred. Such zeolites are essentially characterized by their X ray diffraction patterns, the significant lines of which are characteristic of the crystalline structure of the particular zeolite and substantially independent of such features as crystalline silica alumina ratio and ion content. The characteristic X ray diffraction data of ZSM 5 are fully described in U.S. Patent 3,702,886 those of ZSM ll are described in U.S. Patent 3,709,979 those of ZSM 12 are described in U.S. Patent 3,832,449 those of ZSM 35 are described in U.S. Patent 4,016,245 and those of ZSM 38 are described in U.S. Patent 4,046,859. The catalyst compositions according to the present invention may contain from 20 to 99 of the alumina, silica or silica alumina support and from 1 to 80 of the ZSM 5 type zeolite, but preferably contain from 70 to 95 of the support and from 5 to 30X of the zeolite, based on the weight of the zeolite and support. It is significant that the amount of zeolite in the catalyst composition is preferably restricted to a relatively low level the reason for this is that large amounts of zeolite may negatively affect the desulfurization activity of the catalyst without having any compensating effect on its dewaxing activity. This phenomenon is illustrated in the following Examples. The Group VIA and Group VIII metal oxide and or sulfide components of the catalyst compositions of the invention are suitably present in amounts of from 2 to 20 , preferably from 5 to 20 , of theGroup VIA metal oxide or sulfide and from 1 to 10 , preferably from 2 to 10 of the Group VIII metal oxide or sulfide, based on the weight of the total catalyst composition. The preferred Group VIA metals are tungsten and molybdenum and the preferred Group VIII metals are cobalt and nickel, and any combinations of such metals may be used. An especially preferred combination, however, is that of nickel and molybdenum, both as their oxides, i.e. as NiO and MoO3. Preferably, the molar ratio of the Group VIA metal oxide or sulfide to the GroupVIII metal oxide or sulfide is from 0.5 to 4.0. The Group VIA and or Group VIII metal may be impregnated into the support or support zeolite composite in an entirely conventional manner, that is by treating the support or support zeolite composite with a solution, for example aqueous solution, of a thermallydecomposable salt of the metal, drying the wet material and then calcining it to convert the metal salt into the metal oxide. The oxide can then be sulfided to convert the oxide into the sulfide, if desired. The process according to the present invention results in the simultaneous hydrodesulfurization and hydrodewaxing of the petroleum oil chargestock to obtain a high yield of distillate product of low sulfur content and reduced pour point. The process is useful for the treatment of whole crudes and of various fractions thereof, but is especially useful for the treatment of petroleum residua where demetalation is not a major concern, and is highly suitable for the treatment of atmospheric residua 3500C . While the process may also be used for treating vacuum residua and distillates that are difficult to dewax with conventional catalysts, it is especially applicable to residua containing from 1.0 to 5.0X sulfur1 having pour points of 10 to 550C, and boiling above 3500C.Apart from achieving products having reduced sulfur contents and lower pour points, the process of the invention has the further benefit of reducing the fluidity of heavy fuel oil products, thereby reducing the amount of cutter stock that needs to be added to them to produce commercial grade, heavy fuel oils. As stated above, the process involves bringing the sulfurcontaining petroleum oil chargestock together with hydrogen under a pressure of 3,500 to 21,000 kPa and at 315 to 455or into contact with a catalyst according to the invention at a space velocity of 0.1 to 5LHSV 0.1 to 5 volumes of chargestock per volume of catalyst per hour . The hydrogen is suitably circulated at a rate of 180 to 2,700 Nl l liters of hydrogen measured at standard temperature and pressure per liter of chargestock , preferably 540 to 1,400 No 1. That hydrogen may have a purity of 60 to 100 which can be maintained if the hydrogen is recycled in the conventional manner by bleeding off part of the hydrogen and adding makeup hydrogen.The recycled hydrogen is suitably washed or otherwise treated in a conventional manner to chemically absorb hydrogen sulfide entrained in it. According to a further aspect of the invention, when the chargestock has a particularly high sulfur content and or when it is desired that the product should have a very low sulfur content, it may be advantageous to operate the process using the catalyst of the invention in conjunction with a conventional HDS catalyst. This can be achieved, for example, by mixing the two catalysts in appropriate proportions or by including them in separate layers in the same catalyst bed. The following Examples illustrate the invention. In theExamples, the petroleum oil feeds used are Arab Light AtmosphericResid, Lagomedio Atmospheric Resid and Alaskan North Slope VacuumResid. These feedstocks have the properties set out in followingTables I, II and III TABLE I Arab Light Atmospheric Resid C5 195 345Fraction Whole 195 C 3450C 4150C 4150c Yield, wt. 100 0.8 20 0 16.7 62.5PropertiesAPI Gravity 19.8 39.5 26.7 14.0Sulfur, wt. 2.89 0.72 2.25 3.36Pour Point, C 26 16 4Hydrogen, wt. 11.78 11.95 Nitrogen, ppm 1400 2200Vanadium, ppm 28 46.2Nickel, ppm 6 9.4 TABLE II Lagomedio Atmospheric Resid API Gravity 18.1 Pour Point, C 24 Sulfur, wt. X 1.99 Hydrogen, wt. X 11.87 Nickel, ppm 21 Vanadium, ppm 220 CCR, wt. X 7.8 TABLE III North Slope Vacuum Resid Pour point, C 46 Sulfur, wt. X 2.10 Example 1 The hydrodewaxing hydrodesulfurization activities of a conventional HDS catalyst Co Mo Al203, as described in U.S.Patent 4,016,067 Catalyst 1A and of a noble metal containing zeolite catalyst 0.3 Pd on 65 ZSM 5 35 A1203 Catalyst 1B were compared using Arab Light Atmospheric Resid and the following operating conditions temperature 4150C pressure 14,000 kPa LHSV 0.25 hydrogen circulation 890 Nl l Product properties from these runs are set out in the followingTable IV TABLE IVCatalyst 1B 1A 195 345 C PropertiesGravity, API 23.9 35.5Sulfur, X Wt. 2.45 0.0002Pour Pt., C 54 18 345 415 C Properties FeedGravity, API 26.7 19.9 32.0Sulfur, Wt. 2.25 2.89 0.0006Pour Pt., C 16 46 13Cloud Pt., C 54 16 415 C PropertiesGravity, OKAPI 14.0 10.3 25.5Sulfur, Wt. 3.36 2.92 0.063Nickel, ppmw 9.4 4.7 1.1Vanadium, ppmw 46.2 1.6 0.1Pour Pt., C 4 18 7 These data show that the ZSM 5 zeolite reduces the pour point of the 1950C fraction but it does not reduce the sulfur content. In contrast, the Co Mo catalyst does not reduce the pour point but it does have high desulfurization activity.Example 2 Five further runs were carried out for nine days using the same chargestock and same operating conditions as those used in Example 1 except that the LHSV was 0.5, using the following catalysts Catalyst 2A Cyanamid HDS 1441 a commercial resid HDS catalyst Catalyst 2E a dual catalyst system comprising 10 of 65 NiZSM 5 35 A1203 atop 90 of HDS 1441 Catalyst 2C a dual catalyst system comprising 90 of HDS 1441 atop 10 of 65 NiZSM 5 35 A1203 Catalyst 2D 5 NiO 17 MoO3 on 3 X ZSM 5 70 A1203 Catalyst 2E 50 of Catalyst 2D and 50 of Ketjen 153 a commercial resid HDS catalyst . The properties of the products obtained are shown in the following TableV TABLE V Catalyst 2A 2B 2C 2D 2E 195 345 OC PropertiesGravity, OKAPI 34.7 31.0 33.3 30.8 33.2Sulfur, X wt. 0.002 0.016 0.017 0.025 0.006Pour Pt., OC 15 26 26 54 7 345 4150C PropertiesGravity, OKAPI 30.7 28.3 29.5 26.6 27.9Sulfur, Wt. 0.008 0.067 0.09 0.171 0.06Pour Pt., C 10 1 2 54 18 415 C PropertiesGravity, API 24.4 19.7 21.9 18.4 20.1Sulfur, Wt. 0.39 0.51 0.537 0.922 0.35Nickel, ppmw 7.0 5.4 6 4.8Vanadium, ppmw 16 16 13 11.4Pour Pt., C 4 9 4 7 15 The data in Table V show that the runs using ZSM 5 reduced the pour point of the 195 415 C distillate fractions significantly more thanHDS 1441 did. Catalyst 2B 2C and 2D also exhibit significantly more desulfurization activity than the Pd ZSM 5 A1203 catalyst used inExample 1. Catalyst 20 has the highest dewaxing activity of the first four catalysts, but it also has the lowest desulfurization activity. Catalyst 2E gives balanced hydrodesulfurization and dewaxing activites 180C pour point and 0.06 wt. sulfur for the 345 4150C fraction and 0.35 wt. X sulfur in the 4150C fraction. These are important, because it means that the 345 4150C fraction can be blended directly into the distillate pool, and the 4150C fraction meets the 0.5 wt. sulfur specification that is generally required for this fraction. The typical process yields from these tests are shown in the following Table VI TABLE VI Charge Catalyst 2A Catalyst 2B Catalyst 2D Catalyst 2EProcess YieldsC1 C3, Wt 0.55 2.2 3.1 2.5C4, Wt 0.25 2.9 4.5 3.1 Cs 195 C 0.8 2.41 6.5 7.8 9.0 195 3450C 20.0 25.8 18.7 15.6 19.3 345 4150C 16.7 19.3 18.2 14.6 15.9 4150C 62.5 50.0 49.0 53.3 48.9Useful gasoline plus distillate , Wt X 20.8 28.21 25.2 38.0 44.2 c5 3450C Includes the 345 4150C fraction Since Catalysts 2D and 2E give a low pour point 345 4150C fraction which can be blended with the distillate pool, the useful gasoline and distillate yields are 38.0 wt. X and 44.2 wt. X respectively. As shown in Table VI, the useful gasoline and distillate yield for the conventional hydrodesulfurization catalyst i.e., HD5 1441 is 28.2 wt. X. Example 3 Seven further runs were carried out using Lagomedio AtmosphericResid to compare the action of known HDS catalysts with catalysts according to the invention but containing different proportions of zeolite. The runs were carried out on a batch basis in a one liter shaker bomb as described by J.W. Payne, C.W. Streed and E.R. Kent inInd. Eng. Chem. 50, 47 1956 at 14,000 kPa, 4000C and a 20 1 oil to catalyst weight ratio for 80 minutes, using the following catalysts Catalyst 3A the resid hydroprocessing catalyst described in U.S.Patents 3,876,523 and 4,082,695, containing 10 weight X MOO3 and 3.5 weight CoO on a 0.8 mm diameter extruded A1203 support Catalyst 3B a commercial resid hydrodesulfurization catalyst that contains 15 weight X MoO3 and 3 weight X CoO in the form of 0.8 mm diameter cylindrical A1203 pellets Catalyst 3C was prepared as follows Kaiser substrate alumina, a commercial, alpha alumina monohydrate powder, was mixed with water, extruded to 0.8 mm diameter pellets, dried and calcined at 5400C.One hundred grams of the calcined pellets were impregnated with 82 ml of a solution containing 26.8 grams ammonium heptamolybdate and dried, and then impregnated with 70 ml of a solution containing 20.4 grams nickel 11 chloride hexahydrate and dried, and then recalcined at 540 C. The final composition contained 17 weight X MOO3 and 5 weight X CoO Catalyst 3D was prepared as follows Kaiser substrate alumina and driedZSM 5 crystals were blended in proportions to obtain a mixture of 15 weight ZSM 5 and 85 weight X A1203 on an ignited basis this was mixed with water, extruded to 0.8 mm diameter pellets, dried and calcined at 5400C in flowing nitrogen and then flowing air.The calcined extrudate was then exchanged with ammonium nitrate solution to obtain a low residual sodium level and dried. The product had 86.4 weight X solids content and 0.01 weight X sodium content. One hundred grams of the product were impregnated with 65 ml of a solution containing 23.1 grams ammonium heptamolybdate and dried, and then impregnated with 53 ml of a solution containing 17.6 grams nickel II chloride hexahydrate and dried, and then recalcined at 5400C. The final composition contained 17 weight M003 and 5 weight NiO Catalyst 3E was prepared in a similar manner to that of Catalyst 30 with the exception that the extrudate contained 30 weight X ZSM 5 and 70 weight A1203.This extrudate was ammonium exchanged and then treated with Mo and Ni salts and calcined in the manner described forCatalyst 3D to obtain a catalyst containing 17 weight MbO3 and 5 weight X NiO Catalyst 3F was prepared in the same manner as Catalyst 3E with the exception that the dried, ammonium exchanged extrudate was calcined at 5400C in flowing air. The final catalyst contained 17 weight X MO03 and 5 weight X NiO Catalyst 3G was prepared in the same manner as Catalyst 3D except that the composition on an ignited basis was 65 weight X ZSM 5 and 35 weight X A1203.The final catalyst contained 17 weight X MOO3 and 5 weight NiO. The properties of these catalysts are shown in the followingTable VII. TABLE VIICatalyst 3A 3B 3C 30 3E 3F 3G 7 1 ZSM 5 Con tent 2 0 0 0 15 30 30 65 0Density, g cc Packed 0.74 0.82 0.67 0.67 0.62 0.64 0.74 Particle 1.23 1.20 1.19 1.14 1.15 1.16 1.16 Real 3.66 3.45 3.62 3.49 3.30 3.36 2.89 Pore Volume, cc g 0.538 0.542 0.566 0.590 0.567 0.566 0.516 0.513Surface Area, m2 g 103 270 183 199 227 224 276 225Av.PoreDiameter,Angstroms 209 80 124 119 100 101 75 80EMI12.1 tb Pore SEP Volume tb Distribution SEP 3 tb SEP in SEP pores SEP of tb 0 30 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 5 SEP 14 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 32 SEP 1 tb 30 50 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 1 SEP 85 SEP 8 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 9 SEP 83 SEP tb 50 80 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 2 SEP 17 SEP 13 SEP 17 SEP 17 SEP 8 SEP tb 80 100 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 9 SEP 8 SEP 10 SEP 9 SEP 3 SEP 6 tb 100 150 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 20 SEP 1 SEP 28 SEP 27 SEP 31 SEP 31 SEP 7 tb 150 200 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 54 SEP 0 SEP 25 SEP 31 SEP 15 SEP 14 SEP 4 SEP 3 SEP tb 200 300 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 2 SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 0 tb 300 SEP A SEP Diameter SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 32 SEP 2 tb 1 described in following Example 7. 2 based on weight of zeolite plus alumina. 3 30 Angstroms distribution determined by mercury porosimetry on basis of 1300 contact angle and 474 dynes cm surface tension. The properties of the products obtained are set out in the following Table VIII TABLE VIIICatalyst 3A 3B 3C 3D 3E 3F 3G ZSM 5 Content l O 0 0 15 30 30 65Properties of Liquid ProductSulfur, wt. 1.27 1.09 0.85 0.93 1.05 1.13 1.75 Pour Point, C 13 18 18 12 23 23 21Sulfur Removal, wt. 36 45 57 53 47 43 12Pour PointReduction, C 11 6 6 42 47 47 44 1 based on weight of zeolite plus alumina. These results show that the ZSM,5 containing catalysts 3D, 3E, 3F, 3G reduced the pour point of the resid sharply below those obtained with the conventional hydroprocessing catalysts 3A, 38, 3G that contained no ZSM 5, and at the same time were just as effective for reducing sulfur. The catalysts containing 15 30X ZSM 5 3D, 3E, 3F desulfurize the atmospheric resid as well as the commercial desulfurization catalyst 38 and also provide the necessary dewaxing activity, as shown by pour point reduction. With catalyst 3G containing more than 30 ZSM 5, little or no more additional pour point reduction is realized with this stock, while desulfurization declines below that produced with the commercial catalysts. However, catalysts according to the invention containing the larger amounts of ZSM 5 may be used in two or more stage systems as described in following Example 7. The hydrogenation function, attributable to the nickel or cobalt and molybdenum is also needed in the catalyst. A catalyst containing 65 ZSM 5 but no NiMo or CoMo was tested similarly. Product pour point was 21bC, indicating high dewaxing activity but the sulfur level was 2.37 wt. X, indicating not only no reduction in sulfur but also an increase in sulfur content because of loss of light products. Example 4 Two catalysts were used to hydroprocess a North Slope vacuum resid in the shaker bomb unit used in Example 3 at 15,300 kPa and 4000C for 160 minutes and an oil to catalyst weight ratio of 10. The catalysts were the Catalyst 3E and a Catalyst 4 used commercially for hydrodewaxing distillate fuels. This Catalyst 4 contained 65X ZSM 5 zeolite and 35 A1203 and also 1.0 weight percent nickel which was added by exchanging the extrudate with a nickel salt solution.The results obtained are set out in the following Table IX TABLE IXCatalyst Pour Point, OC Sulfur, wt X Charge 46 2.10 3E 4 0.39 4 16 1.37 Catalyst 3E containing nickel and molybdenum and only 30X ZSM 5 was much more effective for both dewaxing and desulfurization thanCatalyst 4 containing much more 65 ZSM 5 zeolite but only 1X nickel by exchange.Example 5 Catalyst 3E was also used in a similar run with North Slope vacuum resid except that the pressure was only 3,500 kPa, which is more typical of distillate hydrodewaxing. The results obtained are set out in the following Table X TABLE X Product Properties Pour Point Sulfur Catalyst OC wt. Charge 46 2.10 3E 1 0.88 The results show that Catalyst 3E is effective at this low pressure with a reduction in pour point of greater than 470C and in sulfur of 58 .Example 6 In this Example, Arab Light atmospheric resid was hydroprocessed in a trickle bed reactor under conventional resid desulfurization conditions 14,000 kPa 3850C hydrogen circulation 450 N1 l 0.5 LHSV . The purpose was to produce a low pour point, low sulfur 345 4150C distillate fraction that could be blended into the distillate pool.Target specifications for products were fraction sulfur, wt. pour point, C 345 415 C 0.25 18 415 C 0.5 The results obtained using the commercial hydrodesulfurizationCatalyst 38 are set out in the following Table XI TABLE XI C 195 345Fraction Whole 195 C 345 C 415 C 415 C Yield, wt. 100 2.4 25.8 19.3 50.0PropertiesAPI Gravity 29.8 34.5 31.0 21.9Sulfur, wt. 0.30 0.002 0.006 0.35Pour Point, 0C 15 13 1Hydrogen, wt. X 12.80 13.49 12.80Nitrogen, ppm 600 24 110 900 Although the 345 415 C fraction from this conventional hydrodesulfurization would meet sulfur specification, it is waxy greater than 100C pour point and cannot be considered for blending in the distillate pool. It is therefore marketed as heavy fuel. The gasoline plus distillate yield was 28.2 wt. 2.4 25.8 wt. , compared to 20.8 wt. 0.8 20.0 wt. in the charge. The results obtained using Catalyst 3E according to the invention are set out in the following Table XII TABLE XII Liquid C5 195 345Fraction Product 1950C 3450C 4150C 4150C Yield, wt. 7.8 15.6 14.6 53.3PropertiesAPI Gravity 26.5 30.8 26.6 18.4Sulfur 0.60 0.025 0.17 0.92Pour Point, OC 54 54 7Hydrogen, wt. 12.40 12.69 12.68 11.80Nitrogen, ppm 1000 34 200 1700 This data shows that there is produced a low sulfur, low pour point 345 4150C fraction that can be included in the distillate pool.Thus, the gasoline plus distillate yield is now 38.0 wt. compared to 28.2 wt. for conventional hydrodesulfurization. However, the 0.92 weight percent sulfur content of the 4150C fraction is considerably above the specified target of 0.5 weight percent. Example 7 This Example illustrates that hydroprocessing catalysts of the present invention may be used simultaneously with known hydrodesulfurizing catalysts in a dual catalyst system to produce a 345 4150C fraction that is acceptable for the distillate pool and lower in sulfur in the 4150C fraction. The dual catalyst system comprised 50X by weight of the Catalyst 3E over 50 of a catalyst 7 a commercial nickelmolybdenum alumina hydrodesulfurization catalyst, the properties of which are set out in Table VII above .The results obtained by treating ArabLight atmospheric resid under the conditions specified in Example 6 are set out in the following Table XIII TABLE XIII Liquid C5 195 345Fraction Product 195 C 3450C 4150C 4150C Yield, wt. X 9.0 19.3 15.9 48.9PropertiesAPI Gravity 28.8 33.2 27.9 20.1Sulfur, wt. 0.28 0.006 0.06 0.35Pour Point, OC 7 18 15Hydrogen, wt. 12.90 13.18 12.98 12.47Nitrogen, ppm 700 25 140 1100 In this Example, the 345 4150C fraction has a low sulfur content 0.06 wt. and low pour point 180C and is suitable for inclusion in the distillate pool. The total gasoline plus distillate yield therefore becomes 44.2 wt. compared to 28.2 wt. X for conventional hydroprocessing as illustrated in Example 6. Moreover, this system upgraded the 4150C fraction to below the target of 0.5 wt. X sulfur.Example 8 This Example illustrates that the hydroprocessing of resids over a combination of a conventional desulfurization catalyst and a conventional dewaxing catalyst fails to produce the desired pour point and sulfur levels in the products. The catalyst system comprised by volume 10 of Catalyst 3G over 90K of Catalyst 3D. The results obtained by treating Arab Light atmospheric resid under the conditions specified in Example 6, are set out in the following Table XIV TABLE XIV Fraction l95 3450C 345 415 C 4150C properties sulfur, wt. 0.029 0.08 0.57 pour point, OC 26 2 2