# Anthelmintic gel compositions and a method for their preparation at ambient temperatures.

## Abstract
This invention relates to aqueous gels, which remain gelatinous in a temperature range as low as 270 C containing dl or 1 6 phenyl 2,3,5,6 tetrahydro imidazo 2,1 b thiazole, acylamino derivatives thereof and phar maceutically acceptable salts thereof, characterized by gela tion and preparation at ambient temperatures 20 60 C , under vacuum, without additional heating or cooling in their preparation.

## Claims
We claim 1. A clear gel in which the gel forming components comprise 30 50 by weight of water, 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol, 0 26 by weight of active ingredient, and greater than 30 50 of the gellant a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 mp 560C, Brookfield viscosity of 3100 at 770C surface tension of a 0.1 aqueous solution 40.6 dynes cm measured with a du Nouy tensiometer with the proviso that the water gellant ratio is from 0.54 1 to 1.66 1. 2. A method for the preparation, at ambient temperatures, of clear aqueous homogeneous gels characterized by subzero gelation points, comprising, mixing about 15 50 by weight of the gellant a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 mp 560C, Brookfield viscosity of 3100 at 770C surface tension of a 0.1 aqueous solution 40.6 dynes cm measured with a du Nouy tensiometer with 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol, 0 41 by weight of one or more active ingredients, and admixing the thus formed mixture with about 30 50 by weight of water and stirring the resulting mixture at ambient temperatures 20 60 C without additional heating or cooling, until it is homogeneous at atmospheric pressure or under reduced pressure of from 10 100 mm Hg. 3. A method according to Claim 2 in which the gellant is present in 20 305 by weight. 4. A aqueous composition comprising 3 25 by weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the anthelmintic compound of the formula EMI17.1 wherein X is hydrogen or NH R R is C2 Cs alkanoyl or benzoyl or the optical isomers thereof 30 50 by weight of water 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol and greater than 30 by weight of the gellant a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly ethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500, specific gravity 1.05 mp 560C, viscosity 3100 at 770C wherein said compositions are gels in the temperature range of from 20 to 600C with the proviso that the water gellant ratio is from 0.54 1.0 to 2.0 1.0 and that the components of said composition add up to a total af 1 no by weight. 5. An aqueous gel composition comprising 3 25 by weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the anthelmintic 1 6 phenyl 2,3,5,6 tetrahydro imidazo 2.1 b thiazole or dl 6 phenyl 6 phenyl 2,3,5,6 tetrahydroimidazo 2,l b thiazole 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol an antimicrobially effective amount of benzyl alcohol at least 15 by weight of water at least greater than 30 by weight of the gellant cx hydro Q hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxy ethylene block copolymer which has an average molecular weight of 12,500 and a specific gravity of 1.05 and provided that the ratio of water to gellant is in the range of from 0.54 1.0 to 1.66 1 and a sufficient amount of a buffer to adjust the pH of the finished gel composition to between pH 3.0 and 3.5. 6. A composition according to Claim 5 comprising 6 12 by weight of said anthelmintic 35 45 by weight of water 1.5 by weight of citric acid 1.0 by weight of trisodium citrate 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol greater than 30 by weight of said gellant 0.5 1.5 by weight of benzyl alcohol 0.01 0.03 by weight of G.I. Acid yellow No. 23 0.001 0.02 by weight of an anti foaming agent comprising a mixture of dimethylpolysiloxanes of formula EMI18.1 silica gel wherein the calculated average value of m is 200 350, the mixture is a viscous liquid, d 0.965 0.970, nD25 about 1.404, viscosity about 60,000 centistokes with the proviso that the water gellant ratio is from 1.5 1.0 to 2.0 1.0. 7. A composition according to Claim 6 comprising 11.73 by weight of the hydrochloride of said anthelmintic 37.5 by weight of water 1.5 by weight of citric acid 1.0 by weight of trisodium citrate 21.74 by weight of propylene glycol greater than 30 by weight of said gellant 1.5 by weight of benzyl alcohol 0.01 by weight of C.I. Acid yellow No. 23 and 0.02 by weight of said antifoaming agent. 8. A composition according to Claim 5, wherein the anthelmintic is l 6 phenyl 2,3,5,6 tetrahydro imidazo 2,1 b thiazole. 9. A method for the preparation of an aqueous composition, comprising dissolving 3 25 by weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the anthelmintic compound of formula EMI19.1 wherein X is hydrogen or NH R R is C2 Cs alkanoyl or benzoyl or the optical isomers thereof 1.5 by weight of citric acid and 1.0 by weight of trisodium citrate 0.5 by weight of benzyl alcohol 0.01 0.03 by weight of C.I. Acid yellow No. 5 0.001 0.02 by weight of an anti foaming agent comprising a mixture of dimethylpolysiloxanes of formula EMI19.2 silica gel wherein the calculated average value of m is 200 350, the mixture is a viscous liquid, d 0.965 0.970, nD25 about 1.404, viscosity about 60,000 centistokes, in 15 50 by weight of water and preferably 20 30 by weight of the gellant a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxy ethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 specific gravity 1.05 mp 560C viscosity 3100 at 770C dissolved or slurried in 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol at from 60 800C and stirring said mixture at ambient temperatures of from 20 600C, under reduced pressure of from 25 50 mm Hg until a clear solution occurs with the provisos that the water gellant ratio is from 0.94 1.0 to 2.5 1 and that the components of said composition add up to a total of 100 . 10. An aqueous composition comprising 3 25 by weight of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the anthelmintic compound of the formula EMI20.1 wherein X is hydrogen or NH R R is C2 Cs alkanoyl or benzoyl or the optical isomers thereof 30 50 by weight of water 14 31 by weight of propylene glycol and 15 30 by weight of the gellant a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxy ethylepe poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500, specific gravity 1.05 mp 560C, viscosity 3100 at 770C wherein the compositions are gels in the temperature range of from 20 to 600C with the proviso that the water gellant ratio is from 0.54 1.0 to 1.39 1.0 and that the components of the composition add up to a total of 100 by weight.

## Description
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention relates in particular to aqueous gels containing an anthelmintic compound of formula I EMI1.1 wherein X is hydrogen or NHR R is C2 Cs alkanoyl or benzoyl, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, characterized by preparation within the temperature range at which gelation occurs 20 600C , under reduced pressure. Gels containing 15 50 gellant, water 15 50 , propylene glycol 14 31 , and an anthelmintic compound of formula I 3 25 may conveniently be prepared by this method. Among the compounds of formula I preferred are levamisole, tetramisole, butamisole or benzamisole. The use of gels characterized by sub zero gelation, as anthelmintic preparations is disclosed inUnited States Patent 4,287,176 1981 . Specifically this patent discloses the use of anthelmintic gels and their formation at 23 to 200C The gellant used in these formulations is a nonionic surfactant of structure a hydro Q hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 specific gravity 1.05 mp 560C Brookfield viscosity 3100 at 770C surface tension of a 0.1 aqueous solution 40.6 dynes cm at 250C as measured on a dieNough tensiometer U. S. Patent 3,740,421 and others . Recommended processes for preparing gels using this gellant are either a cold or hot technique in a temperature range where the gel is in a liquified state prior to gelation as described below and seeIrving R. Schmolka, J. Biomed. MATER. RES., Vol. 6, pgs. 571 582 1972 . The cold technique, is recommended as a first step to determine the feasibility of the potential gel system and to establish the optimum gellant concen traction required. In this technique, the gellant is dissolved, along with the other ingredients, in water at a temperature of 5 10OC. Aeration should be avoided.When solution is completed, usually after about two hours of stirring at 10 C, the system is allowed to warm up to room temperature, whereupon it forms a ringing gel. Water insoluble ingredients may be dissolved in alcohol or acetone, cooled and added to the gellant solution. However, an alcohol content of 20 or greater should be avoided since these weaken the gel.Where alcohol cannot be tolerated, the water insoluble materials should be heated with the gellant and cold water slowly added to the molten mixture to bring the temperature below that at which gelation occurs. This procedure has been used successfully with many water insoluble organic compounds, including N,N diethyltoluamide, amyl para dimethylamino benzoate and lauryl lactate. The hot technique readily lends itself to production. In the laboratory, all ingredients are placed into a three neck glass flask, equipped with a mechanical stirrer, reflux condenser and dropping funnel to prevent composition change due to loss of water.While dissolving the gellant, the mixture is heated to about 800C, and stirred gently. Excessive agitation will cause the development of foam and should be avoided.When the system is homogeneous, transfer to containers.Upon cooling to room temperature, the product gels. Unexpectedly we find that gels suitable but not limited to anthelmintic use may be prepared at ambient temperatures 20 600C under reduced pressure as demonstrated by the general procedure described below. A gellant phase may be prepared by dissolving the gellant 15 50 and preferably 20 30 by weight of final formulation in propylene glycol 14 31 by weight at 60 800C or alternatively, the gellant phase prepared completely at ambient temperatures as described below. The gellant phase is prepared by slurrying the gellant 15 50 and preferably 15 35 by weight of formulation in propylene glycol 14 30 by weight for 15 minutes to one hour under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg at room temperature. The gellant selected is a nonionic surfactant of structure a hydro n hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 mp 560C Brookfield viscosity of 3100 at 770C surface tension of a 0.1 aqueous solution 40.6 dynes cm measured wit a du Nouy tensiometer . An aqueous solution containing the remaining ingredients may be prepared by dissolving a levamisole or tetramisole salt, preferably the hydrochloride, in amounts of from about 3 by weight to about 25 by weight and preferably 6 12 by weight of final formulation in deionized or distilled water used in amounts of from about 15 by weight to about 50 by weight and preferably 35 457O by weight of formulation.This solution is buffered by dissolving 1.5 by weight of citric acid and 1.0 by weight of trisodium citrate to provide a pH range at which long term chemical stability of the components is achieved, i.e. pH 3 3.5. Optional components, which may be incorporated into the above solution at this stage are a. Benzyl alcohol added in amounts of from about 0.5 by weight to about 1.5 by weight and preferably 1.5 by weight of formulation, as an antimicrobial preservative b. the yellow dye C.I. Acid yellow No. 23 tartrazine F.D. C yellow No. 5 4,5 dihydro 5 oXo 1 4 sulfophenyl 4 l sulfophenyl azo lH pyrazole 3 carboxylic acid trisodium salt used as coloring agent in amounts of from about 0.01 by weight to about 0.03 by weight and preferably 0.01 by weight of formulation c. an anti foaming agent comprising a mixture of dimethylpolysiloxanes of structure EMI4.1 and silica gel, wherein the calculated average value of m is 200 350, the mixture is a water white viscous oil like liquid d 0.965 0.970 nD25 about 1.404 viscosity about 60,000 centistrokes and said antifoaming agent is described in United States Patent 2,441,098 used in amounts of from 0.001 0.02 by weight and preferably 0.02 by weight of formulation. The anthelmintic gel is prepared by simply mixing either of the above gellant phases and the aqueous solution from one half to two hours under reduced pressure of from 10 100 mm Hg and preferably 25 50 mm Hg at ambient temperatures of from 20 600C, without the requirements of either additional heating or cooling.This procedure gives an air free gel which is suitable for administering exact dosages of anthelmintic by volume. When careful control of dosage of active ingredients to be administered by volume is not necessary and when the presence of air in the gel is acceptable in the final formulation, the preparation may be carried out at pressures up to and including atmospheric pressure. By the above method a typical gel of the invention may be prepared by dissolving 11.6 g of levamisole or tetramisole hydrochloride, 1.5 g citric acid monohydrate, 1.0 g sodium citrate dihydrate, 1.5 g of benzyl alcohol and 0.01 g of the yellow dye C.I. Acid yellow No. 23 in 39 g of water. Next, a solution of the above gellant 26 g in propyleneglycol 19.39 g is prepared by mixing at 60oC. Then the solutions are mixed together under a 25 50 mm Hg until a homogeneous mixture is obtained at 20 600C without additional heating or cooling. The gel formed has a gelation temperature range of from 15 to 180C viscosity of the gel is 0.51 x 10 6 and the water gellant ratio is 1.5 1.0. The above procedure is equally suitable to prepare gels of the inventions containing but not limited to other anthelmintic compounds defined and described by formula I above. This procedure for preparing these aqueous gels offers several advantages over existing methods.Cold techniques often limit the concentration range of ingredients due to increasing viscosities and decreases in solubility of the components as the temperature of gelation is lowered this would be particularly true when operating temperatures approaching the freezing point of the mixture are required. By the ambient temperature method of the present invention, gels with sub zero gelation points containing 20 to 30 gellant with water to gellant ratios of 0.54 1 to 1.4 1 may be prepared. This is a distinct advantage over prior methods of preparing gels with sub zero gelation points since clear homogenous gels with water to gellant ratios as low as 1 4 1 containing 20 to 30 by weight of the gellant are difficult to prepare, frequently requiring more than 36 hours at temperatures below the gelation point to obtain complete solution.Thus, the method of the present invention provides for the preparation of gel compositions with sub zero gelation points which are not obtainable by prior methods available in the art.Gel compositions with sub zero gelation points containing 15 to 50 by weight of the gellant and water to gellant ratios of 0.54 1 to 1.4 1 are now readily obtainable.Additionally, processing at temperatures below ambient often require the use of specialized cooling systems which are more expensive and difficult to maintain and operate. Chemical thermal instability of one or more of the components often limit the use of a hot technique particularly since gellants of this type are less soluble at elevated temperatures, adding to processing times at higher temperatures. An additional advantage of these gels and their method of preparation at ambient temperatures 20 600C is that they may also be fortified if necessary at ambient temperatures. Frequently in the manufacture of products it is necessary to adjust the concentration of the components to be within finite limits this would be particularly true in food related and pharmaceutical products. The aqueous gels of this invention may conveniently be fortified by simple addition of the required ingredient, either as a solid or as an aqueous solution, followed by mixing under reduced pressure until a homogeneous mixture is obtained without being liquified. The above stated advantageous features of said aqueous gels make them eminently suitable for use as carriers for active ingredients which is meant to include the biologically active component and desired additives including coloring agents, flavoring agents, conditioners, etc., as indicated by the following non limiting limiting examples. Cosmetics, hair preparations, dental products, veterinary products such as anthelmintics, pharmaceutical products administered as gels, pesticide products such as insecticides, herbicides, etc., could conviently be incorporated and applied in said aqueous gels. Further, the method of preparation of these gels readily lends itself to any method of production, batch, semi batch or continuous processing, which enhances their attractiveness for use in the above areas. EXAMPLE 1Preparation of levamisole gels General Procedure The appropriate amounts of levamisole salt as the hydrochloride, citric acid monohydrate, trisodium citrate, benzyl alcohol, yellow dye C.I. Acid yellowNo. 23 are dissolved in deionized or distilled water and the solution clarified if necessary. Next, a homogeneous gellant solution containing the appropriate amount of gellant and propylene glycol is prepared by mixing at 60 800C. The gellant selected is a nonionic surfactant of structure a hydro g hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer, average molecular weight 12,500 mp 560C Brookfield viscosity of 3100 at 770C surface tension of a 0.1 aqueous solution 40.6 dynes cm measured with a du Nouy tensiometer .Then the two solutions are mixed together at ambient temperatures 20 600C under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. The composition of the formulations and other data obtained are summarized in Table I below. TABLE I Composition and physical parameters of various levamisole gels Percent by weight Composition of formulations Component No. 1 No. 2 No. 3 No.4 No.5 No.6 No.7 No.8Levamisole HCl 10.49 12.00 11.60 11.60 11.60 11.73 11.71 11.71Water 50.00 45.00 45.00 40.00 39.00 37.50 28.26 18.86Gellant 20.00 20.00 25.00 25.00 26.00 25.00 30.00 35.00Citric Acid Monohydrate 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50Trisodium citrate, dihydrate 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00Benzyl alcohol 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50C.I.Acid yellow No. 23 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01Antifoamind Agent 0.02 0.02 0.02Propylene glycol 17.00 20.40 14.39 19.39 19.39 21.74 26.00 30.40 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00Water gellant Ratio 2.5 1.0 2.25 1.0 1.8 1.0 1.6 1.0 1.5 1.0 1.5 1.0 0.94 1 0.54 1Gelation temperature C 11 to 13 6 to 10 7 to 9 11 to 14 15 to 18 15 to 18 27 27 TABLE I Continued Component No. 9 No. 10 No. 11Levamisole HCI 11.73 11.73 23.46Water 34.50 40.31 30.50Gellant 28.00 29.00 28.00Citric Acid Monohydrate 1.50 1.50 1.50Trisodium citrate, dihydrate 1.00 1.00 1.00Benzyl alcohol 1.50 1.50 1.50C.I.Acid yellow No. 23 0.01 0.01 0.01Antifoamin Agent 0.02 0.02 0.02Propylene glycol 21.74 14.93 14.01 Total 100.0 100.00 100.00Water gellant ratio 1.23 1 1.39 1 1.09 1Gelation temperature C 25 EXAMPLE 2Fortification of subpotent levamisole gels General Procedures Following the procedure of Example 1, the appropriate amounts of levamisole hydrochloride, citric acid, trisodium citrate, benzyl alcohol and yellow dye C.I. Acid yellow No. 23 are dissolved in deionized water. Following the same procedure, the appropriate amounts of citric acid, trisodium citrate, benzyl alcohol and yellow dye C.I. Acid Yellow No. 23 are dissolved in deionized water. These two aqueous solutions are combined in the proper proportions to give the desired amount of solution containing 80 of the desired levamisole hydrochloride.Next, a homo geneours gellant solution containing the appropriate amounts gellant as defined in Example 1 and propylene glycol is prepared by mixing at 60 800C. The above gellant and aqueous solutions are then mixed together at ambient temperatures 20 600C under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg for one hour. A sample is withdrawn for analysis. Sample 1. A 50.110 w w levamisole hydrochloride aqueous solution was added to bring the levamisole hydrochloride content from 80 90 of the required amount and the mixture stirred for one hour at ambient temperatures without additional heating or cooling, under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg . A sample is taken for analysis.Sample 2. Solid technical levamisole hydrochloride is then added to bring the potency to 100 of the required amount and the mixture stirred at ambient temperature without additional heating or cooling for one hour under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg . A sample is taken for analysis. Sample 3. The results of the fortificatons of the formulations and other data are summarized in Table II below. TABLE II Fortification of levamisole hydrochloride gel from 9.74 to 12.27 Sample 2 Sample 3 added as added as Sample 1 aqueous solution solidTheoretical levamisole hydro 9.43 10.72 12.20 chloride w wAssay w w levamisole hydro 9.74 10.63 12.27 chlorideGel point of 19 to 20 C 17 to 18 C 18 to 19 C resulting gelViscosity of resulting gel Brookfield RVT RL 345, 3.24 x 10 6 cps 3.10 x 10 6 cps 3.02 x 10 6 cpsT.E. spindle at 0.5 rpm EXAMPLE IIIPreparation of aqueous gels at ambient temperatures The appropriate amounts of gellant as defined in Example I, either as a homogeneous solution at 60 8O0C, or as a slurry prepared by stirring under reduced pressure 25 50 mm Hg for 15 minutes to one hour at room temperature, in propylene glycol is added to the desired amount of water at ambient temperature.The resulting mixtu re Is then stirred under reduced pressure of 25 50 mm Hg at ambient temperature 20 600C until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. The composition and viscosity data of aqueous gels prepared by this procedure are included in Table III. TABLE IIIClear aqueous gels EMI15.1 SEP Compoent SEP Percent SEP by SEP weight SEP compsotion tb Gellant SEP slurry SEP or SEP solution SEP 35.00 SEP solution SEP 35.00 SEP slurry SEP 40.00 SEP slurry tb Propylene SEP glycol SEP 30.44 SEP 30.44 SEP 30.00 tb Water SEP 34.56 SEP 34.55 SEP 30.00 tb Total SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 tb Water SEP gellant SEP ratio SEP 0.987 1 SEP 0.987 1 SEP 0.75 1 tb Viscosity SEP of SEP gel tb Brookfield SEP T. SEP E. SEP spindle SEP 5.6 SEP x SEP 106 SEP 5.6 SEP x SEP 106 SEP 7.2 SEP x SEP 106 tb at SEP 0.5 SEP rpm SEP Model SEP RVT tb