# Particulate detergent additive comprising insoluble, anionic cationic softener complex and detergent compositions containing the same.

## Abstract
Detergent compatible antistatic compositions produced by the at least partial complexing of certain anionic complex ing components and quaternary ammonium compounds are described. The complex formed, which is relatively water impenetrable and insoluble, constitutes at least 25 and pre ferably 50 100 of the surfaces of the particulate detergent additive. These compositions provide static control benefits in laundering operations at reduced antistatic levels.

## Claims
CI 7ì5 MS 1. A particulate detergent additive fo preventing static buildup on textiles and for softening fabrics wen applied thereto from a laundry solution, the additive comprising a quaternary ammonium compound of formula LR1R2R3R4N Y wherein at least one, but not more than two, of R1, R2, R3, and Rb is an organic radical containing a group selected from a C16 C22 aliphatic radical, or an alkyl phenyl or alkyl benzyl radical having 10 to 16 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, the remaining group or groups being selected from C1 C4 alkyl C2 C4 hydroxyalkyl, and cyclic structures in which the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring, Y constituting an anionic radical selected from the group consisting of hydroxide, halide, sulfate methylsulfate, ethylsulfate and phosphate ions, and optionally an organic dispersion inhibitor being a solid organic material having a solubility in water of SO ppm maximum at 25 C and a softening point in the range of 75 F to 250 F, said material being selected from the group consisting of paraffinic waxes, cyclic and acyclic monoand polyhydric alcohols, substituted and unsubstituted aliphatic carboxylic acids, esters of the foregoing alcohols and acids, C3 C4 alkylene oxide condensates of any of the foregoing materials and mixtures thereof wherein substantially all of the particles have a size of about 10 microns to about 500 microns, a solubility in water of about 50 ppm maximum at 250C, and a softening point of from about 75OF to about 2500F, characterised in that the particulate additive comprises a complex comprising a from 10 99 by weight of the additive of the quaternary ammonium compound and b from 1 to 90 by weight of an anionic complexing component selected from the group consisting of anionic synthetic surfactants, soaps, nonsurfactant electrolytes selected from the group consisting of alkali metal phosphates, borates, carbonates, silicates, sulfates, and citrates and mixtures of any of the foregoing wherein said complex constitutes at least 25 of the surfaces of said particulate additive. 2. The particulate detergent additive of Claim 1 wherein said complex constitutes 50 1002 of the surface of the particulate additive. 3. The particulate detergent additive of Claim 2 wherein the anionic complexing component complexes substantially all of the quaternary ammonium compound. 4. The particulate detergent additive of any one ofClaims 1 to 3 comprising from about 5 to about 60 by weight of said anionic complexing component. 5. The particulate detergent additive of any one ofClaims 1 to 4 wherein the anionic complexing component is selected from the group consisting of sodium and potassium tetraborate, tripolyphosphate, pyrophosphate, hexametaphosphate, sulfate, citrate, Clo Cl4 linear and branched alkylbenzene sulfonate, C1O Cl8 alkyl sulfate, and mixtures thereof. 6. The. particulate detergent additive of any one ofClaims 1 to 5 comprising from about 20 to about 75 . by weight of the quaternary ammonium compound. 7. The particulate detergent additive of any of Claims 1 to 6 wherein the quaternary ammonium compound, optionally with a dispersion inhibitor, is sprayed with an aqueous solution containing the anionic complexing component. 8. The particulate detergent additive of Claim 7 wherein the quaternary ammonium compound and optionally the dispersion inhibitor are in adn,lixture with a particulate anionic complexing component. 4. The partcula4 e detergent additive of Claim 8 wherein the anionic compiexing component admixed,with the quaternary ammonium compound is sodium tripolyphos phate. 10. A detergent composition for preventing static buildup on textiles and softening fabrics laundered therewith, characterised in that it comprises 1 from 5 to 85 by weight surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, ampholytic, and zwitterionic surfactants, and mixtures thereof, 2 from 5 to 85 by weight of detergency builder material, and 3 from 3 to 50 by weight of a particulate. detergent additive according to any one of Claims 1 9.

## Description
PARTICULATE DETERGENT ADDITIVE COMPRISING INSOLUBLE,ANIONIC CATIONIC SOFTENER COMPLEX AND ITS USE IN DETERGENT COMPOSITIONS Technical Field This invention relates to compositions which provide static control benefits in fabric laundering operations.More particularly, it relates to providing these benefits at reduced antistatic agent levels while simultaneously cleansing fabrics by means of conventional detergent compositions and detergency builders. Background Art Various quaternary ammonium compounds are known in the art to possess antistatic properties. These quaternary ammonium compounds are also known to be generally incompatible with anionic surfactants commonly employed in laundering compositions. The anionic surfactants attack and inactivate the quaternary ammonium compounds in the wash water environment. Thus, larger amounts than desired of the fairly expensive quaternary ammonium compounds must be added to detergent compositions in order to avoid total inactivation in wash solution. It therefore would be highly beneficial, from a performance and economic standpoint, to be able to shield the quaternary ammonium compounds in the wash water, without disturbing their effectiveness as static control agents in the subsequent machine drying process. Techniques known in the art for preserving the antistatic properties of the quaternary ammonium compounds, such as the prilling of the quaternary ammonium compound with organic dispersion inhibitors, as disclosed inU.S. Patent 3,936,537, Baskerville et al, issuedFebruary 3, 1976, incorporated herein by reference, and the agglomeration of that prill with certain watersoluble neutral or alkaline salts, using inorganic agglomerating agents, as disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,141,841,McDanald, issued February 27, 1979, incorporated herein by reference, while delivering improved static control and softening benefits over methods then known in the art, were only partially effective.Some of the quaternary ammonium compound continued to be inactivated by the anionic surfactants, and some of the prills continued to be broken up and dispersed in the wash water, preventing the efficient deposition of antistatic materials of an effective size range onto the fabrics to be treated. The above described techniques still required the addition of larger quantities of the quaternary ammonium compound than necessary to achieve good static control in the absence of the detergent. Also the conventional organic agglomerating agents, such as dextrin glue solutions, required in McDanald to agglomerate the prills with the salts could cause poor caking characteristics and flowability problems in the detergent product under certain conditions, making handling and packaging difficult at times. The present invention, by contrast, teaches the deliberate pre wash water complexing of certain anionic components with the quaternary ammonium compounds to deliver superior static control at significantly reduced levels of antistatic material. The Baskerville et al and McDanald references attempted to avoid the interaction of anionic components with the quaternary ammonium compound upon which the present invention is based. Further, it has been discovered that water can act as the agglomerating agent and or the complexing medium, while producing a product with at least equivalent caking characteristics, and even superior caking qualities under certain conditions.Thus, the organic agglomerating agents required in McDanald have been eliminated in the present invention, reducing material costs and eliminating extra processing and handling steps. It is an object of the present invention to provide a particulate detergent additive composition which delivers static control and fabric softening benefits to laundered fabrics while using a minimum amount of antistatic softening agent. It is also an object of the present invention to provide a detergent composition capable of concurrently laundering, softening, and imparting static control benefits to fabrics washed therewith and subsequently machine dried. Summary of the Invention The present invention encompasses a particulate detergent additive for preventing static buildup on textiles and for softening fabrics when applied thereto from a laundry solution, the additive comprising a quaternary ammonium compound of formula R1R2R3R4N y wherein at least cne, but not more than two, of R1, R2, R3, and R4 is an organic radical containing a group selected from a C16 C22 aliphatic radical, or an alkyl phenyl or alkyl benzyl radical having 10 to 16 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain, the remaining group or groups being selected from C1 C4 alkyl, C2 C4 hydroxyalkyl, and cyclic structures in which the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring, Y constituting an anionic radical selected from the group consisting of hydroxide, halide, sulfate, methylsulfate, ethylsulfate and phosphate ions, and optionally an organic dispersion inhibitor being a solid organic material having a solubility in water of 50 ppm maximum at 25 C and a softening point in the range of. 75 F to 250 F, said material being selected from the group consisting of paraffinic waxes, cyclic and acyclic monoand polyhydric alcohols, substituted and unsubstituted aliphatic carboxylic acids, esters of the foregoing alcohols and acids, C3 C4 alkylene oxide condensates of any of the foregoing materials and mixtures thereof wherein substantially all of the particles have a size of about 10 microns to about 500 microns, a solubility in water of about 50 ppm maximum at 25 0C, and a softening point of from about 75 0F to about 25O0F wherein the particulate additive comprises a complex comprising a from 10 99 by weight of the additive of the quaternary ammonium compound and b from 1 to 90 by weight of an anionic complexing component selected from the group consisting of. anionic synthetic surfactants, soaps, nonsurfactant electrolytes selected from the group consisting of alkali metal phosphates, borages, carbonates, silicates, sulfates, and citrates and mixtures of any of the foregoing wherein said complex constitues at least 25 of the surfaces of said particulate additive. Preferably the complex constitutes 508 100 of the surface of the prrticulate additive and most preferably the anionic complexing component complexes substantially all of thefquaternary ammonium compound. In a particularly preferred embodiment the quaternary ammonium compound and optionally the dispersion inhibitor are in admixture with a particulate anionic complexing component, which preferably is sodium tripolyphosphate The invention also embraces a detergent composition incorporating from 38 to 50 by weight of the particulate detergent additive together with from 5 to 85 by weight surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, ampholytic, and zwitterionic surfactants, and mixtures thereof, and from 5 to 85 by weight of detergency builder material. Disclosure of the Invention This invention compri ses the deliberate, pre washwater complexing of quaternary ammonium compounds with certain anionic complexing components to deliver superior static control at significantly reduced levels of antistatic material. The antistatic particles of the present invention are formed by the at least partial complexing of the cationic quaternary ammonium compound with the anionic complexing components. The complex formed should constitute at least 25 of the surfaces of the antistatic particles. More preferably, the complex constitutes at least 50 of the surfaces, and most preferably the complex constitutes substantially all the surfaces of the antistatic particles.The reaction can also result in the complexation of. substantially all of the quaternary ammonium compound, although it is preferred that the complexing be limited to the surfaces of the antistatic particles. While not intending to be limited by theory, it is believed that the present antistatic particles deliver static control advantages because they are less susceptible to wash water penetration and breakup than the uncomplexed quaternary ammonium particles, thereby allowing for a more efficient deposition of antistatic material of an effective size range and composition onto the laundered fabrics.The complexed material, which is relatively water impermeable and water insoluble, separates unreacted quaternary ammonium antistatic material from the wash water environment and thus hinders the inactivation of this antistatic material by anionic surfactants. Further, the complex itself may provide some additional static control of its own to the system. Thus, the anionic complexing component should be chosen, in view of the particular cationic antistatic agent used, to achieve such a water impenetrable and insoluble complex. The complexing components should also be chosen to maximize the antistatic properties of the complex itself. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, the antistatic particles additionally contain an organic dispersion inhibitor which is intimately mixed with the quaternary ammonium compound and formed into a prill prior to the complexing reaction. The dispersion inhibitor adds to the water impenetrability and insolubility of the complex formed and thus enhances the antistatic benefits realized from the present invention. As another preferred embodiment, a mixture of anionic complexing components is used. Especially preferred are mixtures of sodium tripolyphosphate STP with the other complexing components described herein.Such a mixture, with several possible participating complexing components, can assist in the formation of the desired complex. Further, anionic complexing components which are water soluble neutral or alkaline salts, especially STP, can absorb excess moisture making the particulate detergent additive stronger and more free flowing. The additive products of the present invention can be admixed or agglomerated with smectite clays to enhance fabric softening, and the detergent composition of this invention can additionally contain water soluble detergency compounds and detergency builder salts. The quaternary ammonium compound provides antistatic benefits on the fabrics and also adds an increment of softening benefit to the fabrics, while the detergent surfactant and builder components provide known cleansing and building benefits The individual particle size pf the particulate detergent additive lies in the range from about 10 microns to 500 microns, preferably from about 25 microns to about 250 microns, and most preferably from about 50 microns to about 100 microns.Further, the particulate additive should not have a solubility in water at 25 C of greater than 50 ppm parts per million , preferably less than 10 ppm. The softening or melting point of the particulate additive should lie in the range from about 100 F to about 250 F, preferably from about 100 F to about 200 F, more preferably from about 15OOF to about 17S F. The above specified ranges need not apply to complexed quaternary ammonium compound particles free of the organic dipsersion inhibitor material, although the ranges preferably also apply in this situation. Individual particles of the particulate detergent additive can become ayglomerated during processing steps.These agglomerates have a size of from about 10 microns to about 2500 microns. The agglomerates break up in the wash water, but the individual particles remain relatively water impenetrable and insoluble. Anionic Complexing Component The anionic complexing component required to form the complex is selected from the group consisting of anionic synthetic surfactants soaps nonsurfactant electrolytes selected from the group consisting of alkali metal orthophosphates, polyphosphates, borates, tetraborates, silicates, sulfates, and citrates and mixtures thereof. The anionic component represents from about 1 to about 90 by weight, more preferably from about 5 to about 60 by weight, of the particulate detergent additive. The anionic component is preferably reacted with the quaternary ammonium antistatic agent, or antistatic agent dispersion inhibitor mixture, as a solution preferably a water solution which comprises. from about 1 to about 80 by weight, preferably from about 5 to about 50 by weight of the anionic component.Preferably, the anionic complexing component is present in such a solution at a concentration close to its saturation point. The anionic complexing solution is preferably sprayed onto the quaternary ammonium compound itself, or onto prills, agglomerates or admixes containing it. A fluidized bed reactor can also be used to contact the anionic solution with the quaternary compound particles or prills. The anionic complexing component can optionally be admixed as a solid with the quaternary ammonium compound before being complexed, preferably by being sprayed with a complexing medium, such as water or an aqueous complexing solution. Nonsurfactant electrolytes suitable as the anionic complexing component include alkali metal phosphates, borates, carbonates, silicates, sulfates, citrates, and mixtures thereof. Preferred are sodium tetraborate, potassium tetraborate, sodium tripolyphopshate, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, potassium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, sodium citrate, potassium citrate, and mixtures thereof.Especially preferred are sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium sulfate, and mixtures thereof. Water soluble salts of the higher fatty acids, i.e. 1soaps11 are useful as the anionic complexing component herein. Suitable are ordinary alkali metal soaps such as the sodium, potassium, ammonium, and alkanolammonium salts of higher fatty acids containing from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms and preferably from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms. Soaps can be made by direct saponification of fats and oils or by the neutralization of free fatty acids Particularly useful are the sodium and potassium salts of the mixtures of fatty acids derived from coconut oil and tallow, i.e., sodium or potassium tallow and coconut soaps. Anionic synthetic surfactants useful as a complexing component herein include water soluble salts, particularly the alkali metal, ammonium and alkanolammonium salts, of organic sulfuric reaction products having in their molecular structure an alkyl group containing from about 8 to about 22 carbon atoms and a sulfonic acid o sulfuric acid ester group. Included in the term alkyl is the alkyl portion of acyl groups. Examples of this group of synthetic surfactants which can be used in the present invention are the sodium and potassium alkyl sulfates, especially those obtained by sulfating the higher alcohols C8 C18 carbon atoms produced by reducing the glycerides of tallow or coconut oil sodium or potassium C8 C20 paraffin sulfonates and sodium and potassium alkyl benzene sulfonates, in which the alkyl group contains from about 9 to about 15 carbon atoms in straight chain or branched chain configuration, e.g., those of the type described in U.S. Patents 2,220,099 and 2,477,383, incorporated herein by reference. Other anionic surfactant compounds useful herein include the sodium alkyl glyceryl ether sulfonates, especially those ethers of higher alcohols derived from tallow and coconut oil sodium coconut oil fatty acid monoglyceride sulfonates and sulfates and sodium or potassium salts of alkyl phenol ethylene oxide ether sulfate containing about 1 to about 10 units of ethylene oxide per molecule and wherein the alkyl groups contain from about 8 to about 13 carbon atoms. Other useful anionic surfactants herein include the water soluble salts of esters of alpha sulfonated fatty acids containing from about 6 to 20 carbon atoms in the ester group water soluble salts of 2 a,cyloxy alkane l sulfonic acids containing from about 2 to 9 carbon atoms in the acyl group and from about 9 to about 23 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety alkene sulfonates containing from about 10 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkane group and beta alkyloxy alkane sulfonates containing from about 1 to 3 carbon atoms in the alkyl group and from about 8 to 20 carbon atoms in the alkane moiety. Other useful anionic surfactants utilizable herein are olefin sulfonates having about 12 to about 24 carbon atoms. The term olefin sulfonates is used herein to mean compounds which can be produced by the sulfonation of alpha olefins by means of uncomplexed sulfur trioxide, followed by neutralization of the acid reaction mixture in conditions such that any sulfones which have been formed in the reaction are hydrolyzed to give the corresponding hydroxyalkane sulfonates. The sulfur trioxide can be liquid or gaseous, and is usually, but not necessarily, diluted by inert diluents for example by liquid SO2, chlorinated hydrocarbons, etc., when used in the liquid form, or by air, nitrogen, gaseous SO21 etc., when used in the gaseous form. The alpha olefins from which the olefin sulfonates are derived are mono olefins having 12 to 24 carbon atoms preferably 14 to 16 carbon atoms. Preferably they are straight chain olefines. Examples of suitable 1 olefins include 1 dodecene, 1 tetradecene, l hexadecene, 1octadecene, l eicosene, and 1 tetracosene. In addition to the true alkene sulfonates and a portion of hydroxyalkane sulfonates, the olefin sulfonates can contain minor amount of other materials, such as alkene disulfonates depending upon the reaction conditions, proportions of reactants, the nature of the starting olefins and impurities in the olefin stock and side reactions during the sulfonation process. Preferred anionic synthetic surfactants are alkali and alkaline earth metal, ammonium and alkanol ammonium salts of linear and branched Cl Cl4 alkyl benzene sulfonates, C1O C20 alpha sulfo carboxylic acid salts and esters in which the alkyl group has 1 8 carbon atoms, Clo C20 alkane sulfonates, C14 C18 olefin sulfonates, C1O Cl8 alkyl sulfates and mixtures thereof The preferred group of anionic complexing components for use herein includes sodium tetraborate, potassium tetraborate, soaium tripolyphosphate, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, potassium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, sodium citrate, potassium citrate, C10 Cl4 linear and branched alkyl benzene sulfonates, C1O Cl8 alkyl sulfates, and mixtures thereof. Especially preferred anionic complexing components are sodium tripolyphosphate, sodium sulfate, C10 C14 linear and branched alkylbenzene sulfonates, and mixtures thereof. Quaternary Ammonium Aiitlstatic Agent The cationic component of the present invention is a quaternary ammonim antistatic agent which will be employed in the particulate detergent additive in an amount from about 10 to about 99 by weight, preferably from about 202 to about 75 by weight, more preferably from about 30 to about 60 by weight. Suitable quaternary ammonium antistatic agents are included inU.S. Patent 3,936,537, Baskerville et al, which has been incorporated hereinabove by reference.In the preferred embodiment of the present invention where the quaternary ammonium compound is intimately mixed with an organic dispersion inhibitor and formed into a prill prior to the complexing reaction, the quaternary ammonium antistatic agent will normally be employed at a level of from about 90 to about 20 by weight, and more preferably from about 80 to about 50 by weight, of the intimate mixture. The anti static agents useful herein are quaternary ammonium salts of the formula R1R2R3R4N Y wherein R and preferably R2 represent an organic radical or an alkyl phenyl or alkyl benzyl radical having 10 16 atoms in the alkyl chain, R3 and R4 represent hydrocarbyl groups containing from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms, or C2 C4 hydroxy alkyl groups and cyclic structures in which the nitrogen atom forms part of the ring, and Y is an anion such as halide, methylsulfate, or ethysulfate. In the context of the above definition, the hydrophobic moiety i.e., the C16 C22 aliphatic, C10 C16 alkyl phenyl or alkyl benzyl radical in the organic radical R may be directly attached to the quaternary nitrogen atom or may be indirectly attached thereto through an amide, esters, alkoxy, ether, or like grouping. The quaternary ammonium antistatic agents used in this invention can be prepared in various ways well known in the art. Many such materials are commercially available. The quaternaries are often made from alkyl halide mixtures corresponding to the mixed alkyl chain lengths in fatty acids. For example, the ditallow quaternaries are made from alkyl halides having mixed C14 Cl8 chain lengths. Such mixed di long chain quaternaries are useful herein and are preferred from a cost standpoint. As used herein ditallow is intended to refer to the above described ditallowalkyl quaternaries. The quaternary ammonium antistatic compounds useful herein include both water soluble and substantially waterinsoluble materials. Imidazolinium compounds enumerated in the Baskerville patent possess appreciable water solubility and can be utilized in the present invention by mixing with the appropriate type and level of organic dispersion inhibitor and complexing component to give ultimate particle solubility in water of less than 50 ppm parts per million at 25 0C. Relatively water soluble quaternary ammonium antistatic agents may also be of the nonring variety, such as diisostearyl dimethyl ammonium.chlorides disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,395,100 to Fisher et al, incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary quaternary ammonium imidazolinium compounds are specifically methyl l alkylamidoethyl 2 alkyl imidazolinium methyl sulfates, specifically l methyl l t tallowamido ethyl 2 tallowimidazolinium methyl sulfate. However, the most useful quaternary ammonium antistatic agents are characterized by relatively limited solubility in water. The following are representative examples of substantially water insoluble quaternary ammonium antistatic agents suitable for use in the compositions of the instant invention. All of the quaternary ammonium compounds listed can be formulated with the detergent compositions herein, but the compilation of suitable quaternary compounds hereinafter is only by way of example and is not intended to be limiting of such compounds.Dioctadecyldimethyl ammonium chloride is an especially preferred quaternary antistatic agent for use herein by virtue of its high antistatic activity, ditallow dimethyl ammonium chloride is equally preferred because of its ready availability and its good antistatic activity other useful di long chain quaternary compounds are dicetyl dimethyl ammonium chloride bis docosyl dimethyl ammonium chloride didodecyl dimethyl ammonium chloride ditallow dimethyl ammonium bromide dioleoyl dimethyl ammonium hydroxide ditallow dimethyl ammonium chloride ditallow dipropyl ammonium bromide ditallow dibutyl ammonium fluoride cetyldecylmethylethyl ammonium chloride bis ditallow dimethyl ammonium sulfate tris ditallow dimethyl ammonium phosphate and the like. The preceding description of quaternary ammonium antistatic compounds is an abbreviated discussion.Description in further detail is contained in theBaskerville et al patent. Organic Dispersion Inhibitor As a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the particulate detergent additive contains an organic dispersion inhibitor which is intimately mixed with the quaternary ammonium compound in the form of a prill prior to the complexing reaction. The organic dispersion inhibitor adds to the water impenetrability and insolubility of the complex formed and thus enhances the anti static benefits realized from the present invention.The organic dispersion inhibitor represents from about 10 to about 80 by weight, more preferably from about 20 to about 50 by weight1 of the intimate mixture. The intimate mixture represents from about 10 to about 99 , preferably from about 20 to about 90 , most preferably from about 30 to about 70 by weight of the particulate detergent additive.The dispersion inhibitor should have a solubility in water of 50 ppm maximum at 25 C and a softening point in the range of 1000 2000F, preferably 1250 2000F, and is preferably selected from the group consisting of paraffinic waxes, cyclic and acyclic mono andpolyhydric alcohols, substituted and un substitut ed aliphatic carboxylic acids, esters of the forcgoing alcohols and acids, C3 Cd alkylene oxide condensates of any of the foregoing materials and mixtures thereof. Tallow alcohol is preferred because of ready availability, but useful dispersion inhibitors include other fatty alcohols in the C14 C26 range, such as myristyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, arachidyl alcohol, behenyl alcohol, and mixtures thereof. Saturated fatty acids having 12 to 24 carbon atoms in the alkyl chain can be used, such as lauric acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, arachidic acid, and behenic acid, as well as mixtures of these, particularly those derived from naturally occurring sources such as tallow, coconut, and marine oils. Esters of the aliphatic alcohols and fatty acids are useful dispersion inhibitors, provided they have a total of more than 22 carbon atoms in the acid and alkyl radicals.Long chain C22 C30 paraffinic hydrocarbon materials such as the saturated hydrocarbon octacosane having 28 carbon atoms can also be used. When fatty acids are used as dispersion inhibitors as hereinabove described, the anionic complexing component may not include soaps, which are more fully described above. Another preferred class of materials useful in the present invention are the water insoluble sorbitan esters which comprise the reaction product of C12 C26 fatty acyl halides or fatty acids and the complex mixtures of cyclic anhydrides of sorbitol collectively known as sorbitan .The reaction sequence necessary to produce such sorbitan esters from sorbitol is set out in the Baskerville patent incorporated by reference. The sorbitan esters are, in turn, complex mixtures of mono, di , tri , and tetra ester forms, of which the tri and tetra are the least watersoluble and hence the most preferred for the purposes of the present invention. Typical fatty acids that are suitable for the alkyl portion of the ester are palmitic, stearic, docosanoic, and behenic acids and mixtures of any of these. These sorbitan esters, particularly the tri and tetra esters, provide a degree of fabric softening in addition to their function as dispersion inhibitors. The previous discussion of inorganic dispersion inhibitors is an abbreviated one. Further discussion in detail is set out in the Baskerville et al patent. Water Soluble, Neutral or Alkaline Salt As another preferred embodiment of the present invention, mixtures of anionic complexing components are used in forming the particulate detergent additives.These mixtures can be formed into a solution and sprayed onto the quaternary ammonium compound forming the desired complex, or, one of the complexing components, preferably a water soluble neutral or alkaline salt, is added to the system as a solid prior to complexing with a solution of the remaining complexing component. The salt can assist in the formation of the complex, thus enhancing the benefits realized from its formation, and it can itself complex with the quaternary ammonium compound. Further, the salt can absorb excess moisture, making the particulate detergent additive stronger and more free flowiAg. A neutral or alkaline salt has a pH in solution of seven or greater. This salt can be either organic or inorganic. The water soluble, neutral or alkaline salt will be employed in the particulate detergent additive in an amount from about 5 to about 75 by weight, preferably from about 5 to about 40 by weight, and more preferably from about 10t to about 30 by weight of the particulate detergent additive. In another embodiment, the dispersion inhibitor static control agent intimate mixture is admixed with the water soluble neutral or alkaline salts described herein and this mixture is sprayed with water. The resulting product, which is free of conventional agglomerating agents such as dextrin glues , is a very effective static control product, providing performance, cost and physical property benefits over similar agglomerates which utilize conventional agglomerating agents. This embodiment is described in detail in concurrently filed U.S.Patent Application Serial No. 961,447, Draper, incorporated herein by reference. Examples of such water soluble neutral or alkaline salts include alkali metal chlorides such as sodium chloride and potassium chloride, alkali metal fluorides such as sodium fluoride and potassium fluoride, alkali metal carbonates such as sodium carbonates, alkali metal silicates, and mixtures thereof. Any conventional watersoluble, neutral or alkaline inorganic salts such as the alkali metal sulfates, notably sodium sulfate, can be employed in the present invention. Water soluble, neutral or alkaline salts also include the variety commonly known as detergency builder salts, especially alkaline, polyvalent anionic builder salts.Suitable detergency builder salts include polyvalent inorganic or organic salts or mixtures thereof. Suitable water soluble, preferred inorganic alkaline detergency builder salts include alkali metal carbonates, borates, phosphates, polyphosphates, bicarbonates, silicates, and sulfates. Specific examples of such salts include the sodium and potassium tetraborates, perborates, bicarbonates, carbonates, tripolyphosphates, pyrophosphates, orthophosphates and hexametaphosphates. Examples of suitable organic alkaline detergency builder salts are water soluble aminopolyacetates, e.g., sodium and potassium ethylenediaminetetraacetates, nitrilotriacetates and N 2 hydroxyethyl nitrilodiacetates water soluble salts of phytic acid, e.g., sodium and potassium phytates water soluble polyphosphonates, including sodium, potassium and lithium salts of ethane lhydroxy l,l diphosphonic acid sodium, potassium and lithium salts of methylene diphosphonic acid and comparable examples. Additional organic builder salts are disclosed inU.S. Patent 4,083,813, Wise, et al, issued April 11, 1978,U.S. Patent 3,308,067, Diehl, issued March 7, 1967, andU.S. Patent 2,264,103, Tucker, issued November 25, 1941.The disclosures of the above patents are incorporated herein by reference. The Tucker patent particularly discloses polycarboxylate and citrate salts, notably sodium citrate which may be used in the represent invention as a water soluble, alkaline salt. Further detergency builder salts are disclosed in the Baskerville et al patent. Optional Clay Ingredient The particulate detergent additive may optionally contain smectite clay as an ingredient. These smectite clays may be admixed with the particulate detergent additive of this invention at levels from about 5 to about 70t by weight, preferably from about 20 to about 60 by weight,. and most preferably from about 25 to about 50 by weight of the resulting admixture, to form compositions which provide laundered fabrics with outstanding fabric softening and static control benefits. The clays used herein are impalpable , i.e., have a particle size whichcannotbe perceived tactilely. Impalpable clays have particle sizes below about 50 microns the clays used herein have a particle size range of from 5 microns to about 50 microns. The clay minerals can be described as expandable, three layer clays, i.e., aluminosilicates and magnesium silicates, having an ion exchange capacity of at least 50 meq 100 g. of clay and preferably at least 60 meq 100 g.of clay. The term expandable as used to described clays relates to the ability of the layered clay structure to be swollen, or expanded, on contact with water. The three layer expandable clays used herein are those materials classified geologically as smectites. There are two distinct classes of smectite clays that can be broadly differentiated on the basis of the number of octahedral metal oxygen arrangements in the central layer for a given number of silicon oxygen atoms in the outer layers. The clays employed in the compositions of the instant invention contain cationic counterions such as protons, sodium ions, potassium ions, calcium ions, and lithium ions. It is customary to distinguish between clays on the basis of one cation predominantly or exclusively absorbed. For example, a sodium clay is one in which the absorbed cation is predominantly sodium. Such absorbed cations can become involved in exchange reactions with cations present in aqueous solutions.A typical exchange reaction involving a smectite type clay is expressed by the following eguation smectite clay Na NH4OH smectite clay no4 NAOMI. Since, in the foregoing equilibrium reaction, one equivalent weight of ammonium ion replaces an equivalent weight of sodium, it is customary to measure cation exchange capacity sometimes termed base exchange capacity in terms of milliequivalents per 100 g. of clay meq 100 g. .The cation exchange capacity of clays can be measured in several ways, including by electrodialysis, by exchange with ammonium ion followed by titration or by a methylene blue procedure, all as fully set forth in Grimshaw, sThe Chemistry and Physics of Clays , pp. 264 265, Interscience 1971 , incorporated herein by reference. The cation exchange capacity of a clay mineral relates to such factors as the expandable properties of the clay, the charge of the clay, which, in turn, is determined at least in part by the lattice structure, and the like. The ion exchange capacity of clays varies widely in the range from about 3 mew 100 g. of kaolinites to about 150 mew 100 g., and greater, for certain smectite clays. Illite clays, although having a three layer structure, are of a nonexpanding lattice type and have an ion exchange capacity somewhere in the lower portion of the range, i.e, around 26 meq 100 g. for an average illite clay. Attapulgites, another class of clay minerals, have a spicular i.e. needle like crystalline form with a low cation exchange capacity 25 30 meq lOOg .Their structure is composed of chains of silica tetrahedrons linked together by octahedral groups of oxygens and hydroxyl containing Al and Mg atoms.It has been determined that illite, attapulgite, and kaolinite clays, with their relatively low ion exchange capacities, are not useful in the instant compositions. Indeed, illite and kaolinite clays constitute a major component of clay soils which are removed from fabric surfaces by means of the instant compositions.However, the alkali metal montmorillonites, saponites, and hectorites, and certain alkaline earth metal varieties of these minerals such as calcium montmorillonites have been found to show useful fabric softening benefits when incorporated in compositions in accordance with the present invention. Specific examples of such fabricsoftening smectite clay minerals are sodium montmorillo nite, sodium hectorite, sodium saponite, calcium montmori ilonite, and lithium hectorite. Accordingly, smectite clays useful herein can be characterized as montmorillonite, hectorite, and saponite clay minerals having an ion exchange capacity of at least about 50 meq 100 g., and preferably at least 60 meq lOOg. The above discussion of optional clay additives is intended to only be a brief cursory review of the subject matter contained in the Baskerville et al patent and inU.S. Patent 4,062,647, issued to Storm et al on December 13, 1977, incorporated herein by reference. The smectite clays are preferably admixed with the particulate detergent additive after the additive has been aged for a time sufficient for the complexing reaction to have been substantially completed. Surfactant The particulate detergent additive of the present invention can be further incorporated in a detergent composition, by, for example1 dry mix addition, with a surfactant selected from the group consisting of anionic, nonionic, zwitterionic and ampholytic surfactants, and mixtures thereof. From about 5 to about 85 by weight, preferably from about 5 to about 50 by weight, and most preferably from about 10 to about 25 by weight of the final detergent composition can comprise the organic surfactant component. Examples of organic surfactants useful herein have been described above as possible anionic complexing components, and are further described in U.S. Patent 3,579,454, issued to E.J. Collier onMay 18, 1971, incorporated herein by reference, from column 11, line 45 through column 13, line 64.As extensive discussion of surfactants is contained in theBaskerville et al patent, from column 11, line 39 through column 13, line 52, already incorporated hereinabove by reference. Other Optional Ingredients Other ingredients which are conventionally used in detergent compositions can be included in the detergent compositions of the present invention. These components include detergency builders, such as those enumerated in the Baskerville patent from colunn 13, line 54 through column 16, line 17, as well as oolor speckles, bleaching agents and bleach activators, suds boosters or suds suppressors, anti tarnish and anti corrosion agents, soil suspending agents, soil release agents, dyes, fillers, optical brighteners, germicides, pH adjusting agents, alkalinity sources, hydrotropes, enzymes, enzymestabilizing agents, perfumes, alkyl polyethoxylate nonionic surfactants, and other optional detergent compounds. Tiie detergent compositions of the instant invention can contain a detergency builder in an amount from about 5 to about 85 hy weight, preferably from about 15 to about GO by weight of the entire detergent composition. Method of Preparation Initially, a solution containing from about 1 to about 80 by weight, preferably from about 5 to about 50 by weight of an anionic complexing component is prepared. Preferably, the anionic complexing component is present in solution at a concentration close to its saturation point. Overall, the anionic complexing component represents from about 1 to about 90 by weight, preferably from about 10 to about 60 by weight, of the particulate detergent additive. The anionic complexing component is selected from the group consisting of anionic synthetic surfactants soaps, non surfactant electrolytes selected from the group consisting of alkali metal phosphates, borates, carbonates, silicates, sulfates, and citrates and mixtures thereof. In a preferred embodiment, water alone is the solvent of the complexing solution.The solution is sprayed onto the quaternary ammonium compound, resulting in the at least partial complexing of the quaternary ammonium compound with the anionic complexing component. The complex formed should constitute at least 25 of the surfaces of the anti static particles.More preferably, the complex constitutes at least 50 Ó of the surfaces, and most preferably the complex constitutes substantially all the surfaces of the antistatic particles.The reaction can also result in the complexation of substantially all of the quaternary ammonium compound, although it is preferred that the complexing be limited to the surfaces of the antistatic particles. The anionic complexing component can optionally be admixed as a solid with the quaternary ammonium compound prior to being complexed, preferably by being sprayed with a complexing medium. This complexing medium is preferably water or, with further improvement, a solution of anionic complexing component in water. In a preferred embodiment of tiie present invention, the quaternary ammonium antistatic compound is intimately mixed with an organic dispersion.inhibitor and formed ,into particulates, or prills, according to methods more fully described in the Baskerville et al patent.As another preferred embodiment, a water soluble neutral or alkaline salt, preferably sodium tripolyphosphate, is admixed with the prills prior to the spray on of either water alone or an anionic complexing solution. Watersoluble neutral or alkaline salts agglomerated with these prills are described in U.S. Patent 4,141,841, McDanald, issued February 27, 1979, incorporated herein by reference.This procedure can also result in the formation of stable agglomerates consisting of the anionic complexing component and the prilled particles. The agglomerates are substantially free of organic agglomerating agents, and preferably, water alone acts as the agglomerating agent.These agglomerates are fully described in concurrently filed U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 861,447, Draper, incorporated herein by reference. Smectite clay is optionally admixed or agglomerated into the additive product to provide an additional fabricsoftening benefit. The complexing medium can b sprayed onto the quaternary ammonium antistatic compound particles, prills, agglomerates, and other complexing components, in a mixer, such as the Schugi mixer Flexomix 160, 250, 335 or 400 , the O Brien mixer, the Littleford mixer, thePatterson Kelly mixer, ribbon mixers, a fluidized bed, and or virtually any of the conventionally known pan agglomerators. The optional smectite clays can be admixed with the additive product in a conventional pan agglomerator. The resulting pwrticulate detergent additive composition is aged for approximately one hour, optionally mixed with silica if increased flowability is desired, and admixed with conventional detergent granules. As used herein, all percentages, parts and ratios given are by weight , unless otherwise specified. The following nonlimiting examples illustrate the additives and compositions of the present invention. As discussed hereinafter in the examples, the words comparable results and substantially similar results are intended to indicate that static control benefits can also be obtained at reduced antistatic agent levels. EXAMPLE I A particulate detergent additive composition is prepared as follows Ingredient Wt. Dimethyl di hydrogenated tallow ammonium chloride 95 active powder 75 Tallow alcohol 25 100 The dimethyl di hydrogenated tallow ammonium chloride DTDMAC and tallow alcohol were melted together to form a clear solution at 250 F. This molten solution was atomized at 1600 psi into a chamber with ambient temperature air passing through the chamber. The atomized droplets froze into solid particles in the size range of about 20 microns to about 150 microns. The softening point of the DTDMAC tallow alcohol mixture was about 165 F. The DTDMAC tallow alcohol mixture had a solubility of substantially less than 10 ppm in 25 0C water. The prills in all the subsequent examples have essentially the same characteristics. Sodium tripolyphosphate STP and the DTDMAC tallow alcohol prills, in a 7 4 ratio of prill STP were fed into a Schugi mixer Flexomix 160 where they were thoroughly admixed. The sodium tripolyphosphate was a dry, anhydrous, powder with at least 90 passing through a 100 mesh Tyler sieve. The 7 4 ratio prill STP mixture was sprayed with an anionic complexing solution comprising 0.7 parts sodium citrate, per 1 part water. The reaction of the anionic complexing components the sodium citrate and the STP with the DTDMAC in the prills resulted in the formation of a complex which con sttuted substantially all of the surfaces of the prills.This product was the particulate detergent additive of this Example. The particulate detergent additive product was discharged from the Schugi Flexomix 160 mixer onto a plan agglomerator and there mixed with sodium montmorillonite clay of good fabric softening performance and having an ion exchange capacity of about 63 meq 100 g. available from Georgia Kaolin Co. USA under the trade name Brock which was also discharged onto the pan agglomerator. The resulting mix was aged for approximately one hour, mixed with silica to increase flowability, and then admixed, by dry mix addition, with a conventional detergent composition comprising surfactants, builders and other optional detergent ingredients. The particulate detergent additive product provided increased static control performance and softening benefits relative to uncomplexed DTDMAC particles and to uncomplexed DTDMAC tallow alcohol prills, either alone, when merely admixed with anionic complexing components.or salts, or when agglomerated with anionic complexing components or salts, using conventional organic agglomerating agents. Comparable results are obtained when the insoluble complex constitutes at least 25 of the surface of theDTDMAC particles or prills and when the anionic complexing component complexes substantially all of the DTDMAC in the particles or prills. Comparable results are obtained when the anionic complexing components, or mixtures thereof, are sprayed onto the DTD1AC particles or prills when the complexing components are contacted in a fludized bed reactor and when the anionic complexing components, or mixtures thereof, are admixed as solids with the DTDIAC particles or prills and then sprayed with a complexing solution, which may comprise water and optionally other anionic complexing components. Substantially similar results are obtained when the sodium citrate and or the STP are replaced with other anionic complexing components, such as sodium tetraborate, potassium tetraborate, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, potassium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, potassium citrate, anionic surfactants such as Clo Cl4 linear and branched alkylbenzene sulfonates and C1O Cl8 alkyl sulfates, and mixtures thereof. Substantially similar results are obtained when sodium tripolyphosphate is replaced with other watersoluble neutral or alkaline salts, such as sodium tetraborate, potassium tetraborate, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, potassium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, sodium citrate, potassium citrate, and mixtures thereof. Comparable results are obtained when the quaternary ammonium compound utilized is ditallow dimethyl ammonium methylsulfate, ditallow dimethyl ammonium ethylsulfate, 1 methyl i tallowamido ethylI 2 tallowimidazolinium methylsulfate, or mixtures thereof in place of the ditallow dimethyl ammonium chloride on a part for part basis. Substantially similar results are obtained when the organic dispersion inhibitor is a mixture of C10 C22 alkyl sorbitan esters, the major component of which is one or more esters selected from the group consisting of sorbitan trilaurate, sorbitan trimyristate, sorbitan tripalmitate, sorbitan tristearate, sorbitan tetralaurate, sorbitan tetramyristate, sorbitan tetrapalmitate, sorbitan tetrastearate, and mixtures thereof. Comparable results are obtained when the organic dispersion inhibitor and or the water soluble neutral or alkaline salt are deleted from the system. Comparable results are obtained when the clay is deleted from the system, or when other types of clay are substituted for sodium montmorillonite, such as sodium hectorite, sodium saponite, calcium montmorillonite, lithium hectorite, and mixtures thereof. The silica is an optional additive, and substantially similar results are achieved without its inclusion. Other types of mixers which are used in place of theSchugi Flexomix 160 are the Schugi Flexomix 250, 335, and 400, the O Brien mixer, the Littleford mixer, thePatterson Kelly mixer, ribbon mixers, and or virtually any of the conventionally known pan agglomerators. EXAMPLE II The particulate detergent additive of Example I was incorporated into a detergent composition as follows Base Detergent Granule . Parts Sodium C 2 linear alkylbenzene sulfonae 12.0 Sodium C11 alkyl polyethoxylate 1.1 sulfate 6.0 Sodium silicate 2.0 ratio 11.5 Tallow fatty acid 0.5 Sodium tripolyphosphate 16.8 Sodium sulfate 16.5 Moisture 5.3 TOTAL base detergent granule 68.6Admix Sodium montmorillonite clay ion exchange capacity about 63 meq 100 g, commercially available from Georgia Kaolin Co., USA, under the trade name BROCK 10.4 Sodium tripolyphosphate 7.6 Particulate detergent additive complexed DTDMAC tallow alcohol prills of Example I 6.9 Miscellaneous perfume, speckles, water and others 6.5 TOTAL 100.0 EXAMPLE III The particulate detergent additive of Example I is incorporated into a detergent composition as follows Base Detergent Granule Parts Sodium C 2 linear alkyl benzene sulfonaf 12 0 Sodium C1 alkyl polyethoxylate 1.1 sulfate 6.0 Sodium silicate 1.6 ratio 7.0 Sodium aluminosilicate hydrated Zeolite A, particle diameter 1 10p 20.0 Sodium sulfate ., 26.1 Sodium citrate 5.0 Moisture 4.8 TOTAL base detergent granule 80.9Admix Sodium montmorillonite clay ion exchange capacity about 63 meq 100 g, commercially available from Georgia Kaolin Co., USA, under the trade name BROCK 9.0 Particulate detergent additive complexed DTDMAC tallow alcohol prills of Example I 8.0 Miscellaneous perfume, speckles, water and others 2.1 TOTAL 100.00 The compositions of Examples II and III provide the static control advantages at reduced antistatic agent levels, as described in Example I. EXAMPLE IV A particulate detergent additive composition was prepared as follows The 7 4 ratio prills STP mixture of Example I was fed into a Schugi mixer and sprayed with water. The water acted as an agglomerating agent and stable STP prill agglomerates, the particulate detergent additive of thisExample, were formed. The agglomerates were then discharged from the Schugi mixer onto a pan agglomerator and there admixed with sodium montmorillonite clay. The resulting mix was aged for approximately one hour, mixed with silica to increase fowability, and then admixed, by dry mix addition, with a conventional detergent composition comprising surfactants, builders and other optional ingredients. The particulate detergent additive provided stable agglomerates and increased static control performance and softening benefits relative to STP prill agglomerates formed using conventional agglomerating agents, such as dextrin glues. Also, material costs were reduced and extra processing and handling steps were eliminated due to the elimination of conventional agglomerating agents. Substantially similar results are obtained when theSTP prill mixture is agglomerated with solutions comprising water and being substantially free of organic agglomerating agents. Substantially similar results are obtained when sodium tripolyphosphate is replaced with other water soluble neutral or alkaline salts, such as sodium tetraborate, potassium tetraborate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, potassium tripolyphosphate, sodium pyrophosphate, potassium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, potassium hexametaphosphate, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, sodium citrate, potassium citrate, and mixtures thereof. Comparable results are obtained when the quaternary ammonium compound utilized is ditallow dimethyl ammonium methylsulfate, ditallow dimethyl ammonium ethylsulfate, l methyl 1 tallowamido ethyl 2 tallowimidazolinium methyl sulfate, or mixtures thereof in place of the ditallow dimethyl ammonium chloride on a part for part basis. Substantially similar results are obtained when the organic dispersion inhibitor is a mixture of C10 C22 alkyl sorbitan esters, the major component of which is one or more esters selected from the group consisting of sorbitan trilaurate, sorbitan trimyristate, sorbitan tripalmitate, sorbitan tristearate, sorbitan tetralaurate, sorbitan tetramyristate, sorbitan tetrapalmitateî sorbitan tetrastearate, and mixtures thereof. Comparable results are obtained when the clay is deleted from the system, or when other types of clay are substitute for sodium montmorillonite, such as sodium hectorite, sodium saponite, calcium montmorillonite, lithium hectorite, and mixtures thereof. The silica is an optional additive, and substantially similar results are achieved without its inclusion. Other types of mixers which are used in place of theSchugi Flexomix 160 are the Schugi Flexomix 250, 335, and 400, the O Brien mixer, the Littleford mixer, thePatterson Kelly mixer, ribbon mixers, and or virtually any of the conventionallyknown pan agglomerators. EXAMPLE V A particulate detergent additive composition was prepared as follows A 7 8 part ratio prills DTDMAC tallow alcohol STP mixture was agglomerated according to the procedure ofExample IV, and admixed with sodium montmorillonite clay. The composition of the admix was as follows Admix PartsDTDMAC 14.5STP 33.4 Water 13.9Miscellaneous 8.2Sodium montmorillonite clay 30.0 TOTAL l00.p The above described mix was admixed on a 31 part basis, by dry mix addition, with the base detergent granule composition described in Example II. The detergent composition demonstrated the benefits described in Example IV. EXAMPLE.VI A 7 4 ratio prill STP mixture was prepared according to the procedure of Example I. The mixture was sprayed with an anionic. complexing solution in a Schugi mixer.This procedure was repeated with other anionic complexing solutions being sprayed onto other samples of 7 4 prill STP mixtures. As a control composition, a 7 4 prill STP mixture was sprayed with a dextrin water organic agglomerating agent solution. The reaction of the anionic eompiexing components the STP and. the anionic component contained in the solution with the DTDMAC in the prills resulted in the formation of a relatively insoluble complex which constituted at least 10 of the surfaces of the prills. Sodium montmorillonite clay was admixed with the complexed prills and or the complexed prill agglomerates in a pan agglomerator. The resulting admix was incorporated into a conventional detergent composition, by dry mix addition, with the base detergent granules ofExample II. A series of fabrics were washed in these respective compositions, including the control composition, at a wash water temperature of about 1000F and at a water hardness of about 2 graints per gallon, and then died under ordinary machine drying conditions and at a dew point of about 40,50F, These were full scale washer and dryer loads using conventional fabric bundles. The fabrics were then measured for average volts per square yard using a Faraday cage apparatus and for number of clings. The results of these tests, under ordinary wash water and machine drying conditions, demonstrated that the complexed prills and or the complexed prill agglomerates formed by spraying certain anionic complexing solutions onto the prill STP mixture delivered superior static control benefits to the fabrics at reduced antistatic,. agent levels relative to the control composition formed by spraying a dextrin in water solution onto the prill STP mixture. The admix compositions and the percent usage of the admix equivalent to 5.08 DTDMAC in the finished product in the final detergent compositions were as follows Sample Composition Parts 23.85 usage 63A Prill STP mixture DTDMAC 20.96 Tallow alcohol 7.76 STP 16.43 complexing solution Sodium sulfate 0.97 8 Water 8.69 Clay 45.17 Sample Composition Parts 22.90 usage 72A Prill STP Mixture DTDMAC 21.83 Tallow alcohol 8.11 STP 17.11 Complexing solution Sodium sulfate 2.10 C12 linear alkyl benzene sulfonate 1.40 Water 3.50 Clay 45.95 Sample Composition Parts 26.39 usage 73B Prill STP Mixture DTDMAC 18.95 Tallow alcohol 7.04 STP 14.85 Complexing solution Sodium sulfate 3.00 C12 tallow alkyl sulfate 4.73 Water 9.89 Clay 40.84Sample Composition Parts 25.688 usage 75A Prill STP Mixture DTDMAC 19.47 Tallow alcohol 7.23 STP 15.26 Complexing solution STP not all in soln. 5.59 Water 11.19 Clay 41.26 Sample Composition Parts 25.33 usage 75C Prill STP Mixture DTDMAC 19.74 Tallow alcohol 7.34 STP 15.47 Complexing solution Sodium sulfate not all in solution 5.20 Water 10.40 Clay 41.84 Sample Composition Parts 26.00 usage Control Prill STP Mixture DTDMAC 19.4 Tallow alcohol 6.6 STP 15.1 Agglomerating solution Dextrin glue 5.5 Water 10.3 Clay 42.9 Miscellaneous 0.2 100. O The results were as follows Static Control Test DataSample DTDMAC Ave. Std. Ave. Std. v ydê Dev. Clings Dev.Control 4.92 4 runs 2.3 0.3 2.5 1.0 3.5 2 runs 6.6 0.6 7.0 0.0 63A . 3.5 2 runs 2.7 1.1 2.0 0.0 2.5 2 runs 1.3 0.4 0.0 0.0 1.5 5.6 5.0 72A 3.5 3 runs 2.2 1.6 1.0 2.5 3 runs 2.5 1.6 2.0 2.0 1.5 5 runs 4.3 2.3 3.2 2.3 73B 3.5 2.1 2.0 2.5 2.2 4.0 75A 3.5 2.8 4.0 2.5 2 runs 2.8 2.0 2.0 2.8 75C 3.5 3.9 3.0 2.5 3 runs 2.0 0.6 1.0 1.7 1.5 5 runs 6.6 1.4 7.2 1.8