# Opacification of paint.

## Abstract
Aqueous paints are disclosed having improved hide at lowered titanium dioxide content in which the dispersed pigment is present in an amount providing a pigment volume concentration of from 20 to 80 , and in which the pigment contains from 5 to 65 of titanium dioxide, rutile, and the balance of the pigment consists essentially of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of 30 70 to 90 10. The proportion of opaque polymer particles is smaller at higher pigment volume concentrations to avoid excessive impairment of the burnish and scrub resistance, but a large gain in hide is obtained, nonetheless.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An aqueous paint having improved hide at lowered titanium dioxide content comprising, water, a resin binder, and pigment dispersed in the water, said pigment containing from 5 to 65 of titanium dioxide, rutile, and the balance of the pigment consisting essentially of a mixture of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of from 30 70 to 90 10, the proportion of opague polymer particles being smaller at higher pigment volume concentration to avoid excessive impairment of the burnish and scrub resistance. 2. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 which said binder is an emulsion copolymer suspended in the water with the aid of a surfactant. 3. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 in which said paint is an air drying paint. 4. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 in which said vesiculated beads have an average particle diameter of from 3 to 30 microns and contain from 10 to 60 , based on their dry weight, of finely divided pigment. 5. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 4 in which the finely divided pigment in said vesiculated beads is titanium dioxide, rutile. 6. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 4 in which said opaque polymer particles are constituted by microvoid containing particles having a glass transition temperature high enough to avoid coalescence in the aqueous paint, and an average particle size in the range of 0.1 to 2.5 microns. 7. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 in which the total pigmentation includes up to about 30 of extender particles. 8. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 adapted to deposit a flat film in which the pigment volume concentration is from 608 to 80 , the pigment contains from 5 to 25 of titanium dioxide, rutile and the balance of the pigment consists essentially of a mixture of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of from 80 20 to 90 10. 9. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 8 in which the proportion of titanium dioxide, rutile, is from 5 to 15 of total pigment. 10. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 9 in which said paint is an air drying paint in which said binder is an emulsion copolymer suspended in the water with the aid of a surfactant, said vesiculated beads have an average particle diameter of from 3 to 30 microns and contain from 10 to 60 , based on their dry weight, of titanium dioxide, rutile, and said opaque polymer particles are constituted by microvoid containing particles having a glass transition temperature high enough to avoid coa escence in the aqueous paint, and an average particle size in the range of 0.1 to 2.5 microns. 11. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 adapted to deposit a satin film in which the pigment volume concentration is from 25 to 50 , the pigment contains from 30 to 60t of titanium dioxide, rutile, and the balance of the pigment consists essentially of a mixture of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of from 60 40 to 70 30. 12. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 11 in which the proportion of titanium dioxide, rutile, is at least 409 of total pigment. 13. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 12 in which said paint is an air drying paint in which said binder is an emulsion copolymer suspended in the water with the aid of a surfactant, said vesiculated beads have an average particle diameter of from 3 to 30 microns and contain from 108 to 60 , based on their dry weight, of titanium dioxide, rutile, and said opaque polymer particles are constituted by microvoid containing particles having a glass transition temperature high enough to avoid coalescence in the aqueous paint, and an average particle size in the range of 0.1 to 2.5 microns. 14. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 1 adapted to deposit a gloss film in which the pigment volume concentration is from 205 to 40 , the pigment contains from 35 to 659 of titanium dioxide, rutile, and the balance of the pigment consists essentially of a mixture of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of from 30 70 to so so. 15. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 14 in which the proportion of titanium dioxide, rutile, is from 40 to 50 of total pigment. 16. An aqueous paint as recited in claim 15 in which said paint is an air drying paint in which said binder is an emulsion copolymer suspended in the water with the aid of a surfactant, said vesiculated beads have an average particle diameter of from 3 to 30 microns and contain from 109 to 60 , based on their dry weight, of titanium dioxide, rutile, and said opaque polymer particles are constituted by microvoid containing particles having a glass transition temperature high enough to avoid coalescence in the aqueous paint, and an average particle size in the range of 0.1 to 2.5 microns.

## Description
OPACIFICATION OF PAINT DESCRIPTIONTechnical Field This invention relates to the pigmentation of paint using a plurality of opacifying agents in order to enhance the hiding quality of the paint while minimizing the proportion of titanium dioxide which is present as well as the undesired softening of the paint.Background Art A conventional paint comprises a resinous binder which serves to hold together particles of pigment.These particles of pigment obscure the imperfections in the surface of the substrate which is painted, and this obscuring capacity is known as hide . In modern paints, heavy reliance is placed upon the use of titanium dioxide, rutile, as the pigment because it contribqtes excellent hide. Unfortunately, this pigment is expensive. Because of the expense of the titanium pigment, other pigments have been developed, including pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles. Both of these are known articles of commerce for use in the paint industry and are less costly than titanium dioxide. However, the pigmented vesiculated beads do not entirely maintain the hide which is reduced in proportion to the amount of titanium which is replaced. The opaque polymer particles do enhance the hide, but these are soft and, when used in large amount, degrade the burnish resistance and scrub resistance of the final paint film.Disclosure of Invention In accordance with this invention, an aqueous paint having improved hide at lowered titanium dioxide content comprises water, a resin binder, and pigment dispersed in the water, this pigment being present in a pigment volume concentration PVC of from 20 to 80 , and the pigment contains from 5 to 65 of titanium dioxide, rutile, with the balance of the pigment consisting essentially of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of 30 70 to 90 10. By limiting the proportion of opaque polymer particles and by using smaller proportions thereof at higher pigment volume concentrations, very little opaque polymer is present in the final paint, and the burnish resistance and the scrub resistance remain high. At the same time, if the replacement of the titanium dioxide is entirely by pigmented vesiculated reads, the improvement in hide is much smaller than tEat obtainable if it were the sole replacement for the titanium dioxide, and the pigmented vesiculated beads allows this to be achieved without undue loss in burnish and scrub resistance. Àll proportions and ratios herein are by volume based on dry solids, unless otherwise specified. This invention particularly contemplates paints having combinations of properties which are commonly used in the paint industry, these being designated flat paints, satin paints and gloss paints. The term flat is well known in the latex paint industry and denotes a paint which deposits a film which, when dry, exhibits a gloss not in excess of 6 regardless of whether a 60 or 85 gloss meter is used to determine the proportion of light which is reflected. The term satin is well known in the latex paint industry and denotes a paint which deposits a film which, when dry, exhibits a 60 gloss meter reading in the range of 7 20 and an 850 gloss meter reading in the range of 15 70.It will be understood that gloss meters report the proportion of light which is reflected, and that gloss paints reflect more light than do satin paints. The aqueous flat paints under consideration comprise water, a resin binder, and pigment dispersed in the water, this pigment being present in a pigment volume concentration PVC of irom 60 to 80 , and the pigment contains from 5S to 25 of titanium oxide, rutile, with the balance of the pigment consisting essentially of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of 80 20 to 90 10. By blending a large proportion of pigmented vesiculated beads with a small proportion of opaque polymer particles in the described combination, very little opaque polymer is present in the paint, and the burnish resistance and the scrub resistance remain high.At the same time, if the replacement of the titanium dioxide is entirely by pigmented vesiculated beads, the improvement in hide would be less than about 20 of that obtainable using opaque polymer particles as the sole replacement of titanium dioxide. However, the blends of this invention in which only 109 to 20 of the volume of the mixture is opaque polymer particles provides about 60 or more of the hide improvement obtainable using opaque polymer particles as the sole replacement for the titanium dioxide. The aqueous satin paints under consideration comprise water, a resin binder, and pigment dispersed in the water, this pigment being present in a pigment volume concentration PVC of from 25 to 50S, and the pigment contains from 30 to 60 of titanium dioxide, rutlile, with the balance of the pigment consisting essentially of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles in a ratio of 60 40 to 70 30. By using such blends containing a minor proportion of opaque polymer particles with 308 to 60 of titanium dioxide preferably at least 40 , the proportion of opaque polymer is too small to significantly impair the burnish resistance and the scrub resistance. At the same time, hide is improved more than the respective proportions of pigmented vesiculated beads and opaque polymer particles would suggest.This can be seen by graphing the hide at constant total pigment and constant titanium dioxide content with only one of the two replacements being used and then connecting the hide values so obtained by a straight line to show what blends should provide. The hide obtained by the claimed blends are significantly better than that straight line would suggest. In the gloss paints under consideration, thePVC is from 202 to 40 , the pigment contains from 35 to 65 of titanium dioxide, and the balance of the pigment consists essentially of pigmented vesiculated beads and.ppaque polymer particles in a ratio of 30 70 to 56 So. This invention is applicable to paints in which the resin is dissolved or colloidally dispersed in the aqueous phase of the paint, but the invention is primarily adapted to latex paints in which the resin binder is constituted by particles of solid resin suspended emulsified in the aqueous continuum with the aid of a surfactant. The opaque polymer particles employed herein are emulsion polymer particles of generally transparent water insoluble polymers having a sufficiently high glass transition temperature to avoid coalescence in the aqueous paints which are involved. These polymer particles have an average particle size in the range of 0.1 2.5 microns and contain microvoids which scatter incident light and thereby produce opacity. These microvoids can be provided in various ways, conveniently by first polymerizing in aqueous emulsion a swellable core polymer containing carboxylic acid groups, typically provided by from 5 to 50 by weight of acrylic acid or methacrylic acid, which enable the core to be swollen with a volatile amine or ammonia. A sheath of polymeric material is then emulsion polymerized around the acid containing core.The sheathed particles are subjected to the volatile amine or ammonia in aqueous dispersion to swell the core, and the dispersion is dried to remove the swellant and proviGe a microvoid within the sheathed polymer particle. Typical opaque polymer particles and their production are disclosed in European patent application having PublicationNo. 0022633 A2 of Rohm and Haas Company. The microvoidcontaining product of Example 1C of that disclosure is identified herein as opaque polymer A and will be used in the Examples of this application. In opaque polymerA, the core is a copolymer of 69.65 methyl methacrylate, 29.85 methacrylic acid, and 0.5 ethylene glycol diacrylate having an average particle diameter of 0.35 micron. This core has a swell ratio at pH 10 with ammonia of around 12, by volume. The described core is sheathed with polymerized methyl methacrylate to an average diameter of 1.0 micron and the sheathed particle is neutralized with ammonium hydroxide and heated to 95 C. to swell the particles to 1.15 micron before the ammonia is evaporated to provide an internal void. The pigmented vesiculated beads which are used herein are generally larger than the opaque polymer particles and contain a plurality of small cells or vesicles whose walls are provided by the polymer of the beads. These beads have an average particles diameter of from 3 to 30 microns and contain from 10 to 55 , by weight dry of finely divided pigment, usually titanium dioxide, rutile.These vesiculated beads are available in commerce and are described in Kershaw et al. U. S. Patent No.3,933,579 dated January 20, 1976. They are generally spheroidal with a ratio of bead diameter to mean vesicle diameter of at least 5 1. The pigment volume concentration is important to the provision of a flat, satin or gloss paint. The narrow ranges of PVC described previously is thusta necessary aspect of these paints The proportion of titanium dioxide used herein is also important. In preferred practice, the proportion of titanium dioxide, rutile, is from 79 to 15 for flat paints, at least 40 for satin paints, and from 40 to 50 for gloss paints. This minimizes the cost of the paint at the same time that it maximizes the improvement in hide. The intended use of the paint, such as for interior or exterior application, does not change the parameters of this invention. However, air dry paints are primarily contemplated herein because elevated curing temperatures which destroy the voids in the opaque polymer particles which help to create the desired opacity are counterproductive to this invention. It should be appreciated that it is common in latex paints to include a proportion of extender particles which contribute little to th hide. Such extender particles, illustrated herein by silica or calcium carbonate, are commonly present in amounts up to about 30t of the total particulate content of the paint up to about 20 for satin paints , but these do not alter the synergism of this invention. It will also be evident that while the three pigments noted herein are to provide the desired opacity, one may still wish to add small amounts of other pigments or colorants for special purposes, such as to provide desired coloration or to confer other optical effects. Thus, the pigmentation consists essentially of the three pigments which have been discussed since these determine the hiding capacity of the paint. The invention will be illustrated in the examples which follow. Example 1 Gloss PaintEMI8.1 tb Component SEP kg. SEP Liters SEP Liters tb SEP Lbs SEP Gallons SEP Gallons tb SEP non volatile tb Titanium SEP dioxide,rutile SEP 83,32 183.68 SEP 21.20 5.60 SEP 21,2 SEP 5.60 tb Opaque SEP polymer SEP particle. SEP 30,90 SEP 68.12 SEP 30.0 SEP 7.92 SEP 15,1 SEP 4.00 tb Pigmented SEP vesiculated tb SEP beads SEP 33,65 SEP 74.19 SEP 30.12 7,96 SEP 12,1 SEP 3.20 tb Vinyl SEP acrylic SEP latex SEP 223,32 492.32 SEP 205,9 54,4 SEP 102,9 SEP 27,20 tb Additives SEP 23,12 SEP 50.96 SEP 23,0 SEP 6.08 SEP 3,82 1,01 SEP tb Water SEP 68,16 150.27 SEP 68,2B 18.04 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb This paint has a PVC of 32 , titanium dioxide constitutes 44 of the prime pigmentation and the ratio of pigmented vesiculated beads to opaque polymer particles 1 5 44.4 55.6.The burnish resistance and scrub resistance are essentially the same as the same paint pigmented with only titanium dioxide, but the hide is almost as good despite the small amount of opaque polymer present.Example 2 Flat Paint non extended Component kg. Liters Liters Lbs Gallons Gallons non volatile EMI8.2 tb Titanium SEP dioxide,rutils SEP 45,36 100 SEP 11,73 3.1 SEP 11.73 3.1 tb Opaque SEP polymer SEP particl. SEP 24,31 53.6 SEP 23.47 6.2 SEP 19.92 3.15 tb Pigmented SEP vesiculated SEP SEP 170,1 SEP 375 SEP 49,1 39.4 SEP 65,86 17.4 SEP tb beads tb Acrylic SEP latex SEP 62,96 138,8 SEP 60,56 16.0 SEP 29,90 7,9 tb Additives SEP 27,85 61,4 SEP 15,9 4,2 SEP 7,95 2,1 tb Water SEP 117,7 SEP 259,5 SEP 180,0 31,2 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb This paint has a PVC of 75t, titanium dioxide constitutes 13 of the prime pigmentation and the ratio of pigmented vesiculated beads to opaque polymer particles is 85 15.The burnish resistance and scrub resistance are essentially the same as the same paint pigmented with only titanium dioxide, but the hide is almost as good despite the small amount of opaque polymer present.Example 3 Flat Paint extended EMI8.3 tb Component SEP kg. SEP Liters SEP Liters tb SEP Lbs. SEP Gallons SEP Gallons tb SEP non volatile tb Titanium SEP dioxide, SEP rutils SEP 23,10 50,92 SEP 5,98 1,58 SEP 5,98, SEP tb Opaque SEP polymer SEP particl SEP 21,60 47,31 SEP 0,82 5,50 SEP 10,52tZ,78 SEP tb Pigmentes SEP vesiculated SEP 4,1 317,73 SEP 126,2 33,34 SEP 55,90 14,77 tb beads tb Silica SEP Extender SEP 45,51 100,33 SEP 17,22 4,55 SEP 17,22 SEP 4,55 tb Acrylic SEP latex SEP 62,95 138,78 SEP 60,41 15,96 SEP 29,90 7,90 tb Additives SEP 27,85 61.4O SEP 15,90 4.20 SEP 8.10 2,14 tb Water SEP 131.761290.47 SEP 132 34,87 SEP 0,00 0,00 SEP tb This paint has a PVC of 75 , titanium dioxide constitutes 8 of the prime pigmentation and the ratio of pigmented vesiculated beads to opaque polymer particles is 84 16. The extender is 19 of the total pigmentation. Extender may be added up to 30 of pigment volume to improve film properties, as long as the prime pigment ratios of titanium dioxide, opaque polymer particles and pigmented vesiculated beads are maintained. Again, the burnish resistance and scrub resistance are essentially the same as the same paint pigmented with only titanium dioxide, but the hide is almost as good despite the small amount of opaque polymer present.Example 4 Satin PaintComponent kg Liters Liters Lbs. Gallons Gallons non volatile EMI9.1 tb Titanium SEP Dioxide SEP rutile SEP 94,18 207,64 SEP 27,2ç 7,20 SEP 27,25 7,20 tb Opaque SEP polymer SEP partic SEP 18,54 40,87 SEP 17,98 4,75 SEP 9,08 2,40 tb Pigmented SEP vesiculated SEP 42,07 92,74 SEP 37,66 9,95 SEP 15,14 4,00 tb beads tb Vinyl SEP acrylic SEP latex SEP 215,93 SEP 076,04 SEP 199,1 SEP 52,60 SEP 95,54 26,30 tb Additives SEP 20,85 45,96 SEP 20,86 5,51 SEP 3,18 SEP 0,84 tb Water SEP 75,53066,52 SEP 75,66 19,99 SEP 0,00 SEP 0,00 tb This paint has a PVC of 34 , titanium dioxide constitutes 53 of the prime pigmentation and the ratio of pigmented vesiculated beads to opaque polymer particles is 62 38.The burnish resistance and scrub resistance are essentially the same as the same paint pigmented with only titanium dioxide, but the hide is almost as good despite the small amount of opaque polymer present. Note 1 In all examples, the opaque polymer particles were provided by a commercial product called Phopaque OP 42 marketed by Rohm and Haas of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Note 2 In all examples, the pigmented vesiculated beads were provided by a commercial product called Spindrift PVB made by The Enterprise Companies, Wheeling, Illinois. Note 3 The vinyl acrylic latex refereed to in Examples l and 4 was an aqueous emulsion copolymer of 84 by weight vinyl acetate, 14 by weight n butyl acrylate and 2 by weight of the 2 hydroxypropyl maleate ester of 2 hydroxyethyl ethylene urea. A suitable commercially available latex is UCAR 367 available from Union Carbide Corporation of New York. The acrylic latex in both Examples 2 and 3 isAC 388 made by Rohm and Haas. Note 4 The additives are those normally used in the production of paints, and include surfactants, thickeners, preservatives, fungicides, coalescing solvents, materials for the adjustment of pH, defoamers and driers. These are of no consequence in this invention.