# Adhesion aids for bitumen and road oil.

## Abstract
Improved adhesion aids for bitumen and road oil are disclosed which comprise amide derivatives of N aminoethyl piperazine and aliphatic carboxylic acids having 8 to 22 carbon atoms. Preferred acids are tallow, stearic and oleic acids.

## Claims
PALMS 1. Adhesion aid for bitumen and road oil comprising an amide derivative of N aminoethyl piperazine of the general formulaEMI7.1 characterized in that RfO is derived from a saturated or unsatura ted, straight or branched, aliphatic carboxylic acid having 8 to 22 carbon atoms. 2. Adhesion aid according to claim 1, characterized in that R CO is derived from an acid having 16 to 20 carbon atoms. 3. Adhesion aid according to claim 2, characterized in that the acid is hydrogenated tallow acid. 4. Adhesion aid according to claim 2, characterized in that the acid is oleic acid.

## Description
Adhesion aids for bitumen and road oilThe invention is concerned with adhesion aids for bitumen and road oil comprising compounds which are amide derivatives of N aminoethyl piperazine of the generalEMI1.1 tb formula tb SEP PONEE2CHffl SEP , tb Compounds of this type have been previously proposed for the purpose in the published patent application NL 7 701 955. An exclusive feature of these known compounds is that R contains an aromatic or cycloaliphatic group, Compounds in this category that are specifically disclosed have the group flm derived from benzoic acid, p toluic acid and p tert.butyl benzoic acid.These known compounds, however, are not sufficiently effective and have not found commercial application.Instead, present day industry standards comprise products like Duomeen T and Duomeen BT, which are N tallow and N hydrogenated tallow propylene diamine respectively, ard iiaftrnittel F4hB, which is the stearic acid amide of N ,N dimethyl propylene diamine.An important requirement for adhesion aids in bitumen and road oil is their heat stability. This is particularly so when the treated binder is stored for any length of time before use, or when high temperatures are reached during the coating of the aggregates with binder as in the hotemixing process.A further requirement is that the adhesion aids be effective at relatively low dosages. Yet another factor of importance relating to handling and proportioning is the physical form of the adhesion aid.In one or more of the above aspects the industry standards of today are not fully satisfactory.The purpose of the present invention is to provide better adhesion aids and these have been found in the type of compounds as identified in claim 1. The adhesion aids according to the invention find utility in mainly three areas of technical application. These areas are generally known as road oiling, hot mixing and surface dressing. In road oiling heavy fuel oil is mixed with crushed gravel and the resulting mix is spread on road surfaces to protect them from frost damage. Adhesion agents are added to improve te resistance of the coating to water ingress. Hotemixing involves mixing hot liquid bitumen or cut back bitumen with aggregate. Mixing temperatures are generally in the range 100 2000C depending on the softening point of the bitumen used. The product can be used in road repair or construction and adhesion agents are usually added to improve the bond between bitumen and aggregate.As a road repair method surface dressing involves spraying cut back bitumen or bitumen tar mixture onto an old road surface and then sprinkling aggregate chippings on top before rolling in. Adhesion agents reduce the amount of loose unbound chippings, especially in wet weather.In these and related areas of application the adhesion aids of the invention have the advantage of exhibiting better heat stability, even after prolonged storage in hot bitumen or road oil, than the present day industry standards.Alternatively or additionally they have a better effectiveness at low dosages. The level of addition to the bitumen and oil is normally in the O,l to 2 wt. range.Generally, the amide derivatives of the invention can be made from acids derived from vegetable oils and animal fats such as olein, tal low, tall oil, palm karnel oil, castor oil etc. Very effective products are prepared from saturated or unsaturated, straight chain fatty acids with chain lengths in the C16 C20 range, like stearic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid, linoleic acid, ricinolic acid and hydroxystearic acid.The oleic acid and stearic or hydrogenated tallow acid amides are preferred because of their physical form, the first being a liquid and the second a good flakeable hard solid. The preparation of the amides of the invention can be done by usual methods of amide formation and does not present any particular problem.An obvious and useful method is to react N aminoethyl piperazine with the selected acid producing the amide and water. One can also react with the acid chloride and produce the amine and hydrogen chloride as products.The following examples illustrate the usefulness of the present amides as a adhesion aids in different applications. Example IA number of adhesion aids were tested at different addition levels in a road oiling application.The adhesion aid under test was dissolved in road oil ex. Norsk Fina at 800C and then stored at 1200C for the specified time.To 100 g of dry crushed gravel aggregate 10 mm ex. Sanvik, Norway was added 0,5 g of distilled water and mixed at room temperature. Then 5 g of treated binder at 850C was added and stirred with a spatula for 2 minutes. The e mix was transferred to a 500 ml glass jar, covered with 15C ml water and allowed to stand at 400C for 24 hours.me percent of aggregate surface remaining coated with road oil was estimated visually and the test results obtained are presented in Table 1. Table 1EMI4.1 tb adhesion SEP aid SEP level SEP SEP SEP coverage SEP of SEP aggregate SEP after SEP storage tb SEP of SEP treated SEP binder SEP for tb SEP 2 SEP h SEP at SEP 1200C SEP 8 SEP days SEP at SEP 1200C tb untreated SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 10 tb omeen SEP HT SEP 0,2 SEP 20 SEP SEP 10 tb SEP 0,4 SEP 50 SEP 40 tb SEP 0,6 SEP 80 SEP 40 tb SEP 0,8 SEP 95 SEP 50 tb leic SEP acid SEP amide SEP 0,2 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb SEP 0,4 SEP 90 SEP 50 tb SEP 0,6 SEP 95 SEP 90 tb SEP 0,8 SEP 100 SEP 100 tb tall SEP acids SEP amide SEP 0,2 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP 0,4 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP 0,6 SEP 95 SEP 80 tb SEP 0,8 SEP 95 SEP 100 tb acid source commercially pure oleic acid Priolene 6900 acid source Vantal AC ex British Oxygen Chemicals , comprising mixed oleic, linoleic, rosin acids and minor amounts of other acids derived from tall oil. Alternative source Unitol AC ex Union Camp Chemical Comp. Example IIThe adhesion agent under test in a hot mix application was dissolved in 180 220 pen bitumen ex Lanstar at 850C and stored in sealed containers according to the conditions indicated in Table 2.After storage 6 g of treated bitumen was mixed with 100 g of crushed gravel 5 10 mm at 1500C for 2 minutes in a metal dish. The mix was transferred into a 500 ml glass jar and, When cool, covered with 150 ml distilled water and stored for 24 hours at 600C. The percent of the aggregate surface remaining covered was estimated visually and the results are presented in Table 2. Table 2EMI5.1 tb adhesion SEP aid SEP level SEP SEP SEP coverage SEP of SEP aggregate SEP after SEP storage tb SEP of SEP treated SEP binder SEP for tb SEP 3 SEP d SEP room SEP temp. SEP 3 SEP d SEP at SEP 120 C SEP 3 SEP d SEP at SEP 180 C tb untreated SEP SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 40 tb omeen SEP T SEP 0,7 SEP 75 SEP 70 SEP 45 tb Rmftmittel SEP F4HB SEP 0,7 SEP 50 SEP 75 SEP 60 tb stearic SEP acid SEP amide SEP 0,7 SEP 85 SEP 90 SEP 75 tb acid source hydrogenated tallow acid, Distec A 129 ex Akzo Chemie U.K.Ltd. Examples IIIFor testing in a surface dressing application the adhesion agent was dissolved in 200 pen bitumen cut back with 5 white spirit at 850C and then stored in closed containers for periods indicated in Table 3.After storage the treated binder was poured into shallow trays, allowed to cool, then covered with water at 200C. Individual diorite chippings 10 12 imn were pushed through the water and into the surface of the bitumen and left 15 minutes. The chippings were carefully removed from the binder and the percent coverage of the face which had been in contact with the binder estimated visually. The results presented in Table 3 are an average of 20 chippings. Table 3EMI6.1 tb SEP adhesion SEP aid SEP level SEP SEP SEP SEP coverage SEP of SEP aggregate SEP after SEP storage tb of SEP treated SEP binder SEP for tb 1 SEP hours SEP at SEP 120 C SEP 3 SEP days SEP at SEP 120 C tb un SEP treated SEP SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Duomeen SEP T SEP 1,0 SEP 100 SEP 33 tb oleic SEP acid SEP amine SEP 1,0 SEP 100 SEP 85 tb