# Photovoltaic device

## Claims
Fotovoltaisches Bauelement, das Sonnenenergie in elektrische Energie umwandelt, aufweisend, in Zusammensetzung, eine p n Heteroübergangs Solarzelle C , die einen kristallinen Halbleiterbereich 2 und einen amorphen oder mikrokristallinen Si , SiC , SiN oder SiG Bereich 3 umfaßt, welcher nach der Lichtempfangsseite des Bauelementes hin angeordnet ist und auf dem kristallinen Bereich mit einem zwischen den Bereichen gebildeten p n Heteroübergang HJ aufgebracht ist, und eine amorphe Solarzelle A , die in Reihe auf die Heteroübergangs Solarzelle C aufgeracht ist und einen p Typ Bereich 21 , einen i Typ Bereich 22 und einen n Typ Bereich 23 aus einem amorphen oder mikrokritallinen Halbleiter umfaßt, de der Reihe nach aufgebracht sind, so daß sie einen p i n Übergang bilden, wobei ein p n Übergang OJ , der einen ohm schen Kontakt schafft, an der Übergangsfläche zwischen dem amorphen oder mikrokristallinen Si , SiC , SiN oder SiG Bereich 3 der p n Heteroübergangs Solarzelle und der angrenzenden amorphen Solarzelle gebidet wird, und die Halbleiterbereiche der Reihe nach mit abnehmender Breite des Bandabstandes von der Lichtempfangsseite aus angeordnet sind.

## Description
The present invention relates to a photovoltaic device applicable as a solar battery, a photodetector or the like. More particularly, it relates to a photovoltaic device known as a tandem solar battery wherein solar energy is absorbed in several regions having different energy gaps. A solar cell is a photovoltaic device comprising p type and n type materials and having a p n junction at the interface between them for the conversion of solar energy directly to electrical energy. A solar battery usually consists of a plurality of solar cells connected in series and parallel to each other in a matrix fashion where a large power output is required. Hitherto, commercial solar batteries comprising a p n, homo , or heterojunction of monocrystalline or polycrystalline Si, GaAs, CdS, CdTe or the like are available as well as those comprising a p type, an i type and an n type layer of amorphous silicon each deposited in series and forming a p i n junction. Moreover, it has been suggested that a solar battery comprising a plurality of solar cells, each of which has a p type, an i type and an n type amorphous silicon layer each deposited in series, which battery may produce a high output voltage. In the disclosure herein described, the following terms are to be construed as having the following meanings. The term heterojunction HJ is a junction formed between semiconductor regions made of different materials. The term junction is homojunction made of the same material as is often used as including heterojunction. The p n junction is a region of transition between p type and n type semiconductor regions. The term p in junction is a region of successive transition between a p type and an i type semiconductor region and between the i type and an n type semiconductor region. In the field of solar cells, it is only used for solar cells made from amorphous material and plays the same role as the p n junction in a solar cell made of crystalline material as for the photogeneration of carriers. The term amorphous p n junction is a region of transition formed between p type and n type amorphous semiconductor regions, and provides an ohmic contact between the two regions. The term unitary cell is sometimes used to name a solar cell which constitute a tandem solar battery. A crystalline solar cell is a solar cell wherein a p n junction is formed from crystalline regions. An amorphous solar cell is a solar cell wherein a p i n junction is formed from amorphous materials. A heterojunction HJ solar cell is a solar cell comprising a crystalline region and an amorphous region and having a p n heterojunction between them. The adjective amorphous is often used as including a microcrystalline structure because a microcrystalline semiconductor may be substituted for an amorphous semiconductor in many cases. Economical solar batteries are necessary for them to be widely utilized in practice. It has generally been considered that a thin film process may lower the manufacturing cost of a solar battery. In this respect, a manufacturing process using amorphous silicon is considered desirable because it may reduce the thickness of an amorphous semiconductor region down to the order of 0.5 micrometer in contrast to about 300 micrometer in thickness of a monocrystalline silicon region which is generally employed in a crystalline or HJ solar cell. It has been expected that a thin film process may produce a large area device having a large light receiving area. The efficiency to convert solar energy into electric energy is closely related to the manufacturing cost of a photovoltaic device. An amorphous silicon solar battery has a disadvantage of having the conversion efficiency lower than that of a monocrystalline silicon solar battery, though the amorphous silicon solar battery is expected to lower the manufacturing cost when a thin film process is used to make it. Fig. 1 shows a graph of the collection efficiency η in relative amplitude of an amorphous silicon a Si solar cell and that of a monocrystalline mono Si solar cell plotted against the photon wavelength λ in micrometer. The conversion efficiency is related to an area that the collection efficiency curve surrounds. As shown in Fig. 1, the mono Si curve extends up to a relatively long wavelength, whereas the a Si curve is limited to a shorter wavelength. Therefore, the conversion efficiency of commercial amorphous silicon solar batteries is 7 8 which is rather lower than that of a monocrystalline silicon solar battery because the formers may not utilize solar energy as effectively as the latter does. In order to improve the conversion efficiency of a solar battery, a multi layered solar battery has been studied which usually comprises semiconductor regions having different energy gaps. A region with the largest energy gap is positioned for it to absorb the incident light first, and the other regions are applied on the region further in series in order of the energy gap in order that the lower energy photons may penetrate deeper. Each region has its own peak value of the collection efficiency at a predetermined range of wavelength in the spectrum of solar light. This type of a device, called a tandem solar battery, may raise the conversion efficiency because it utilizes the incident light more effectively than a solar cell made of one material does. As for the manufacturing process, it is desirable to adopt a low temperature process. In crystalline solar cells, a p n junction is generally prepared by using junction formation methods including a high temperature process such as a thermal diffusion process or an annealing process after an ion implantation. The former is a process wherein impurities are diffused thermally into a crystalline semiconductor which is kept at a prescribed temperature as high as about 1000 C in an environment containing impurities to be doped. The latter is a process wherein ionized impurities to be doped are accelerated under high electric field so as to be implanted into a crystalline semiconductor. In the ion implantation process, it is necessary to anneal the implanted semiconductor at a temperature as high as about 1000 C because the crystal structure has been disordered largely when the ions has been implanted. On the other hand, a high temperature process requires a complex set up and careful control in operation, and this increases the manufacturing cost of a solar battery. In addition, it lowers the conversion efficiency of the solar battery because undesirable impurities migrate into the crystalline semiconductor from surroundings. With respect to an amorphous solar cell, the width of the energy gap which affects the collection efficiency may be adjusted by selecting the kind and or the mixing ratio of the gases supplied during a manufacturing process thereof. Hydrogenated amorphous silicon carbide, SiC H, and or hydrogenated amorphous silicon nitride, SiN H, have been used for shorter wavelength, while hydrogenated amorphous silicon germanide SiGe H and or hydrogenated amorphous silicon stannide SiSn H have been used for longer wavelength. However, though a hydrogenated amorphous semiconductors e.g., a SiGe H or a SiSn H having a narrow energy gap can absorb light of longer wavelength, a multi layered amorphous solar battery comprising regions thereof cannot satisfactorily convert the light of longer wavelength to the photocurrent because of inferior photovoltaic properties of an amorphous solar cell. On the contrary, crystalline semiconductors e.g, Si, GaAs, or Ge having a narrow energy gap can utilize satisfactorily the light of longer wavelength. The reflection of the light incident on the surface of a solar cell is also important for its performance. An anti reflecting transparent layer having a suitable refractive index and thickness has been applied on the surface of the outermost semiconductor region so as to minimize the reflection effectively. In tandem solar batteries, it is necessary for the interface between unitary cells to provide a contact which does not bring about an electrical and optical loss in performance of a solar battery. A heavily doped tunnel junction or a transparent conductive layer has been inserted to provide an ohmic contact. For example, in US A 4,292,461, an indium tin oxide transparent conductive layer is placed between a p type crystalline silicon region and an n type amorphous silicon region. It should be noted, however, that the addition of such an extra material as indium tin oxide is liable to lead to deterioration of an amorphous solar cell because of undesirable impurities such as indium atoms or oxygen atoms migrating in the amorphous region during the deposition. US A 4016586 concerns a photovoltaic device comprising an amorphous semiconductor region, e.g. of indium trioxide, applied on a crystalline semiconductor region, e.g. of silicon, with a p n heterojunction formed between said regions and wherein said amorphous region is placed at the light receiving side so the said semiconductor regions are placed in the order of decreasing width of energy gap from the light receiving side. From US A 42 53 882 a photovoltaic device is known which shows two semiconductor cells forming a heterojunction and being formed from crystalline semiconductor and an amorphous semiconductor respectively. It is an object of the present invention to provide a high efficiency photovoltaic device by using a tandem structure comprising at least one crystalline semiconductor region and one amorphous semiconductor region, wherein the two regions are applied on each other without interposing any extra structure in the photo generating regions. It is another object of the present invention to provide a high efficiency photovoltaic device by using a tandem structure by applying a plurality of unitary cells, in order to improve the conversion efficiency and without interposing any extra structure in the photogenerating regions, though an amorphous semiconductor region may be interposed if necessary as will be described below. In accordance with the present invention, an ohmic contact is provided at the interfaces between the unitary solar cells connected in series in a tandem solar cell without interposing any extra structure though a semiconductor region may be interposed if necessary as will be described below. In other words, an amorphous p n junction may be formed between p type and n type amorphous regions by applying two unitary solar cells in series, and it provides an ohmic contact to the two unitary solar cells. Amorphous semiconductors have a unique characteristic that a high density of localized states exists in the forbidden band. Photogenerated electrons and holes are exchanged through those states at the amorphous p n junction. Therefore, the amorphous p n junction serves to provide an ohmic contact between the unitary solar cells connected in series by utilizing the characteristic of an amorphous semiconductor. If such an amorphous p n junction is not formed at the interface between the unitary cells, for example, between a crystalline and an amorphous solar cell, an amorphous semiconductor region will be intervened between the both so as to form an amorphous p n junction providing an ohmic contact. The object of the invention is met by the features of the claims 1, 5, 6 and 7. Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference characters designate like parts throughout the several views thereof, Fig. 2 A shows a schematic sectional view of an HJ solar cell which uses a p type polycrystalline silicon wafer as a crystalline semiconducting material. An aluminum electrode 1 is evaporated onto the p type wafer 2. An n type thin film 3 of microcrystalline silicon is deposited on the opposite side of the p type wafer 2 to the electrode 1 by the use of a glow discharged decomposition GD process. A transparent conductive film 4 of indium tin oxide ITO which acts as both the front electrode and an antireflectance layer is further applied on the n type semiconductor region 3, and a comb like aluminum electrode 5 is still further applied on the transparent layer 4, through which solar energy is transmitted into both semiconductor regions in operation. The electrodes 1 and 5 are used to supply electric power to an external circuit. In this embodiment, an HJ solar cell comprises a p type polycrystalline silicon wafer and an n type microcrystalline silicon film which form a heterojunction HJ . Fig. 2 B shows the energy band diagram of the HJ solar cell, wherein E Experimental data on the I V characteristics of the solar cell is shown in Fig. 3, where I In the GD process, materials which contain constituent atoms of the film to be obtained and which are transformed into the plasma state, are decomposed into chemically active ions and or radicals to form films at low temperatures. By the use of the GD process, n type microcrystalline silicon can be deposited at a temperature between 200 C and 300 C, much lower than that used in the prior art high temperature process needed to form a p n junction made of a crystalline silicon, for several minutes. Furthermore, this process is suitable to prepare devices having a large light receiving area. Thus, an HJ solar ceil having the same level of performance as that of a solar cell manufactured by using a high temperature process, can be manufactured by using the low temperature process at low cost and in a continuous manufacturing process. Alternatively, other low temperature processes than the GD process may be used to deposit the amorphous semiconductor 3 on the substrate 2. For example, a vacuum evaporation method, an ion plating process, a sputtering method, or a photochemical vapor deposition process may be employed. It should be noted that materials such as crystalline GaAs and Ge can be substituted for the polycrystalline silicon 2, while others such as microcrystalline or amorphous, hydrogenated or fluoridated, SiC, SiN and SiGe can be substituted for the microcrystalline Si3, as far as E Fig. 4 shows a schematic sectional view of an HJ solar cell wherein a crystalline semiconductor region 2 is a thin film. A substrate 6 is a thin plate of inorganic solid such as metal, glass or ceramics, or a film of organic solid such as a polyimide. An electrode 1 applied on the substrate 6 forms an ohmic contact with a p type crystalline thin film 2 , which is further deposited thereon by using such a process as a chemical vapor deposition CVD process, a metal organic CVD MOCVD process, a molecular beam epitaxy MBE process, a sputtering process or an ion plating process. The n type microcrystalline or amorphous silicon thin film 3 is deposited onto the crystalline semiconductor 2 by using the GD process. The transparent conductive film 4 and the comb like electrode 5 are applied on the thin film 3 in succession. If the substrate 6 consists of a metallic material, it serves also as an ohmic electrode and it may not be necessary to use the electrode 1 separately. In this HJ solar cell the crystalline semiconductor 2 as well as the region 3 are prepared by using the thin film process so that the manufacturing cost of the solar cell can be lowered further than that of the first example. Especially, if a crystalline film 2 is made of expensive materials such as GaAs and Ge, which can absorb sunlight in the form of thin films less than several micrometer, it may be more effective to provide a solar cell of high performance at a lower cost. If such a process as the CVD and MOCVD process which are suitable for forming a large area film is adopted to deposit a crystalline semiconductor 2 , a device having a large light receiving area may be manufactured. Fig. 5 A shows a photovoltaic device according to a first embodiment of the present invention wherein an HJ solar cell C and an amorphous solar cell A are connected in series. The first solar cell C comprises a p type wafer 2 of polycrystalline silicon and an n type region 3 of amorphous or microcrystalline silicon which form an HJ, while the second cell A comprises a p type region 21, an i type region 22, and an n type region 23 of amorphous or microcrystalline silicon which form a p i n junction. An aluminum electrode 1 is deposited on the p type semiconductor 2, while a transparent conductive film 4 of ITO and an comblike electrode 5 is applied in succession on the n type semiconductor 23. The thicknesses of those amorphous regions and ITO 3, 21, 22, 23 and 4 are about 300, 50, 500, 10 and 70 nm 3000, 500, 5000, 100 and 700 Å respectively. It should be noted that the crystalline film may be substituted for a crystalline wafer 2 a substrate as used in fig.4 is needed in case of such a substitution. It should also be noted that the type of conduction in the semiconductor regions may be reversed. Fig. 5 B shows a schematic energy band diagram of the photovoltaic device shown in Fig. 5 A . An energy gap E In order to connect the unitary solar cells in series effectively in a tandem structure, it is necessary to provide an ohmic contact at the interfaces between the unitary solar cells. The first embodiment of the present invention is characterized in that an ohmic contact is realized easily at an amorphous p n junction by the use of a unique characteristic of an amorphous semiconductor that many localized states exist in the forbidden band, though the characteristic is disadvantageous in most cases. The absorption of light creates electron hole pairs as shown in Fig. 5 B . Holes h in the amorphous solar cell A and electrons e in the H J solar cell C created by the absorption of solar energy recombine through localized states E Fig. 6 is a graph showing the collection efficiency η of the amorphous silicon solar cell C a Si and of the H J solar cell poly Si shown in Fig. 2 A , covered with a filter of amorphous silicon having a thickness of 600 nm 6000 Å , plotted against the wavelength λ of the incident light. The latter data poly Si can be considered to be almost equal to the collection efficiency of the HJ solar cell C composing the tandem solar cell shown in Fig. 5 A . The spectrum curve of the solar energy is shown for reference as the chain line Sun S in relative amplitude. Since the photovoltaic device shown in Fig. 5 A comprises two types of materials with different light sensitivity, as shown in Fig. 6, it may absorb solar energy in a wide range of wavelength effectively and increases the conversion efficiency of the device. Fig. 7 shows the data of I V characteristics of the photovoltaic device shown in Fig. 5 A . The conversion efficiency obtained from the data is 11 12 , which is higher than that exhibited by the prior art amorphous solar cells, i.e., 7 to 8 in general. The efficiency value of 11 12 has been obtained in an early stage of our study. By optimizing amorphous silicon layers, the conversion efficiency of more than 15 will probably be attained in this type of cell. Moreover, though a polycrystalline silicon wafer as a crystalline material is used in this embodiment, a thin film of other materials such as GaAs, Ge and Si can be substituted for the polycrystalline silicon wafer so that the manufacturing cost of a solar cell may be reduced further. Fig. 8 A is a schematic sectional view of a photovoltaic device according to a second embodiment of the present invention. Two amorphous solar cells A1 and A2 are formed by depositing amorphous materials successively by means of the GD process on an HJ solar cell C described with reference to Fig. 2 to result in a tandem solar battery. The three unitary cells are connected in series. A substrate 2 is made of a thin plate of inorganic material such as metal, glass or ceramics, or of a film of organic solid such as a polyimide. An ohmic electrode 1 is deposited on the substrate 2, and a p type crystalline 41 and an n type amorphous region 42 are deposited further in succession to form a crystalline cell C. A p type region 21, an i type region 22 and an n type region 23 of amorphous silicon are deposited on the n type region 42 to form a second cell Al. A p type region 31, an i type region 32 and an n type region 33 of amorphous silicon carbide are deposited on the n type amorphous silicon 22 in succession to form a third cell A2. The junctions between the cells comprising a p type and an n type amorphous material provide an ohmic contact. Finally, a transparent conductive film 4 of ITO and a comb like electrode 5 are deposited in succession on the semiconductor 33. It should be noted that a crystalline wafer may be substituted for a crystalline thin film 41 in the cell C the substrate 2 is needless in case of such a substitution. It should also be noted that the type of conduction in the semiconductor regions may be reversed. Fig. 8 B shows a schematic energy band diagram of the photovoltaic device shown in Fig. 8 A , wherein the energy gap E Fig. 9 A shows a schematic sectional view of a photovoltaic device according to a third embodiment of the present invention. A tandem solar battery is constructed from two HJ solar cells C1 and C2 connected together in series with the intervention of an amorphous semiconductor region 11 whose type of conduction is controlled to have the same sign as those in a crystalline semiconductor region 12 to provide an ohmic contact between them. A solar cell C1, similar to that in Fig. 2 A , comprises a p type crystalline semiconductor wafer 2 with an energy gape E Fig. 10 shows a schematic sectional view of a photovoltaic device of the fourth embodiment according to a present invention. It is constructed by connecting the two HJ solar cells C1 and C2 and the two amorphous solar cells A1 and A2 in series. In the Fig. 10, numerals 1 to 5 and 11 to 13 represent like parts shown in Fig. 9 A , and numerals 21 to 23 and 31 to 33 represent like parts shown in Fig. 8 A . Solar energy is absorbed successively first in an amorphous solar cell A2 with an energy gap E Fig. 11 shows schematically another photovoltaic device. It comprises six cells connected in series. Three of them are HJ solar cells C1 to C3, and the others are amorphous cells A1 to A3. These cells are connected in series and are applied on a stainless steel substrate 1 with the heterojunction formed around the interface between cells C3 and A1. The stainless steel substrate 1 serves also as an electrode. The transparent conductive layer 4 and the comb like electrode 5 are applied in succession on the cell A3. The crystalline semiconductor regions in the three HJ cells C1, C2 and C3 are made from germanium, silicon and GaAs, respectively, and the energy gap E Fig. 12 A shows a schematic model of a crystalline wafer 2 having an irregular surface designed so as to increase the absorption of the incident light. A number of small pyramid shaped protrusions are formed on the surface of a crystalline semiconductor wafer 2 or of a thin plate made of an inorganic or organic solid. A photovoltaic cell according to all the embodiments of the present invention may be manufactured by depositing materials on a substrate of this type. A part of the photovoltaic device in the third embodiment manufactured by successive deposition on the substrate shown in Fig. 12 A is shown in sectional representation in Fig. 12 B wherein 4 designates a transparent conductive film, A an amorphous solar cell and C an H J solar cell. An incident light transmitted through the conductive layer 4 is reflected partially at the interface between the transparent conductive layer 4 and the amorphous region 21, and between the semiconductors 2 and 3. For example, the solid line in Fig. 12 B indicates the confinement of light in the semiconductor layer 2. The confinement effect caused by the multiple reflection may increase the conversion efficiency by enhancing the absorption of the incident light. It should be noted that a photovoltaic device having tandem structure disclosed in the first to fourth embodiments can be used not only as a solar cell but also as a photodetector by using the different photosensitivities of unitary cells composing the photovoltaic device.