# Pyridine derivatives, process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
The invention relates to new pyridne derivatives of the formula I According to another aspect of the invention there are provided processes for the preparation of these compounds. The compounds of the formula I are pharmacologically active. In particular, they inhibit the microsomal monooxige nase enzyme system of the liver. Pharmaceutical composi tons containing them as active ingredient are also within the scope of the invention.

## Claims
Claims 1. Pyridine derivatives of the formula I EMI26.1 where inR1 and R2 independently represent hydrogen, halogen, trihalomethyl, alkyl having from one to 4 carbon atoms or alkoxy having from one to 4 carbon atoms, and salts thereof. 2. A compound selected from the following group 2 methyl 6 4 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 3 methyl 6 4 1 4 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 t4 T 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl7 phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 4 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts there of1 2 methyl 6 4 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 4 1 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 4 1 3 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 4 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 1 hydroxy propyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 2 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine and salts thereof, 2 methyl 6 2 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl, pyridine and salts thereof. 3. Process for the preparation of pyridine derivatives of the formula I EMI27.1 wherein and R2 independently represent hydrogen, halogen, trihalomethyl, alkyl having from one to 4 carbon atoms or alkoxy having from one to 4 carbon atoms, and salts thereof, which comprises a reacting a propiophenone of the formula II EMI27.2 with an organometallic compound of the formula III EMI28.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, and is an alkali metal, preferably lithium, sodium, potassium, or an MgX group, in which X is halogen or b reacting a compound of the formula IV EMI28.2 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, preferably in the form of an alkali metal or quaternary ammonium phenolate thereof, with a compound of the formula V EMI28.3 wherein X is halogen, or a salt thereof, preferably in the presence of an acid binding agent or c reacting a propiophenone of the formula VI EMI28.4 wherein Rl and h2 are as defined above, with a urignard reactant of the formula VII EMI29.1 wherein X is halogen, and if desired, converting any of the products obtained by process variants a to c into their acid addition or quaternary ammonium salts, or converting a product obtained as an acid addition salt into a corresponding base and or converting a free base into an acid addition or quaternary ammonium salt thereof. 4. A pharmaceutical composition containing a pyridine derivative of the formula I as claimed in claim 1, wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1, or an acid addition salt or quaternary ammonium salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or auxiliary substance. 5. A process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition containing as active ingredient a compound of the formula I as claimed in claim 1, wherein Rl and R2 are as defined in claim 1, or an acid addition or quaternary ammonium salt thereof, in which the active ingredient is converted into a pharmaceutical composition in admixture wXth a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or auxiliary 6. A compound or salt thereof as claimed inClaim 1 or Claim 2 for pharmaceutical use. 7. A compound or salt thereof as claimed inClaim 6 for use in inhibiting the microsomal monooxygenase enzyme system of the liver.

## Description
eyridine derivatives, process for their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions containing them This invention relates to new pyridine derivatives and acid addition and quaternary salts thereof. Nore particularly, the invention concerns new pyridine derivatives of the formula I EMI1.1 whereinR1 and R2 independently represent hydrogen, halogen, trihalomethyl, alkyl having from one to 4 carbon atoms or alkoxy having from one to 4 carbon atOms, and acid addition and quaternary salts thereof.The invention further relates to a process for the preparation of these compounds and pharmaceutical compositions containing them as active ingredient. The term halogen as used herein embraces all of the halogens, and may be fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, preferably fluorine or chlorine. The term alkyl having from one to 4 carbon atoms refers to straight or branched chained aliphatic hydrocarbon groups containing from one to 4 carbon atoms. The term alkoxy having from one to 4 carbon atoms is used herein to refer to straight or branched chained alkoxy groups containing from one to 4 carbon atoms. The trihalomethyl groups may contain any of the halogens listed above. The acid addition salts and quaternary salts of these compounds are also within the scope of the invention. Compounds of various structure are disclosed for example in the following references C.A. 22, 4101 3f, 17812 40, 47125 42, P 1015 b 47, 9548 e 50, 12390 c 50, 2509 i 55, 17915 e 55, 25423 b 75, P 103682 b 76, P 119921 k 82, 16477 g 90, 86082 g 92, 52927 b. None of these citations does, however, mention any pharmaceutical activity of the disclosed compounds. According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for the preparation of the compounds of the formula I , wherein R1 and R2 have the same meaning as defined above,.and salts thereof, which process comprises a reacting a propiophenone of the formula II EMI2.1 with an organometallic compound of the formula III EMI3.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, andM is an alkali metal, preferably lithium, sodium, potassium, or an MgX group, in which X is halogen or b reacting a compound of the formula iv EMI3.2 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, preferably in the form of an alkali metal or quaternary ammonium phenolate thereof, with a compound of the formula Y EMI3.3 wherein X is halogen, or a salt thereof, preferably ïn the presence of an acid binding agent or c reacting 2 propiophenone of the formula VI EMI4.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined above, with aGrignard reactant of the formula VII EMI4.2 wherein X is halogen, and if desired, converting any of the products obtained by process variants a to c into their acid addition or quaternary ammonium salts, or converting a product obtained as an acid addition salt. into a corresponding base and or converting a free base into an acid addition or quaternary ammonium salt thereof. According to a preferred embodiment of process variant a propiophenone of the formula II is reacted with an organometallic compound of the formula iii , preferably with a suitably substituted phenyl magnesium chloride or bromide or a suitably substituted phenyl lithium in a dry inert organic solvent. The reaction is preferably carried out in an aprotic organic solvent, e.g. in an aliphatic ether such as diethyl ether, di n butyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether, an alicyclic ether such. as tetrahydrofurane, dioxane, an aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbon such as ligroin, benzene, toluene, xylene, dimethl sulfoxide or hexametbyl phosphorus amide, or a mixture of these solvents. The organometallic compound is used in an at least equimolar amount. The redaction is preferably performed in an inert gas atmosphere, e.g. in nitrogen or argon. The reaction temperature may range from 60 0C up to the boiling point of the solvent, and preferably is between 30 C and 100 C. WEen the reaction is co nplete, the reaction mixture is decomposed, preferably witn an aqueous ammonium chloride solution, and the obtained compound of the formula T is separated. The product can be purified by known techniques, e.g. by distillation or crystallization. According to process variant b a compound of the formula IV , preferably in form of its alkali metal or quaternary ammonium phenolate, is condensed with a tertiary amine of the formula V . As a tertiary amine for example diethylaminoalkyl mesylate, tosylate, bromide or preferably chloride is employed, as a free base or a salt, e.g. hydrogen halide thereof. The reaction is preferably carried out in an inert organic solvent, in the presence of an acid binding agent, under anhydrous conditions or in a mixture of water and an organic solvent.As organic solvents for example esters such as ethyl acetate, etchers such as dioxane, tetrahydrofurane or diethyl ether, hydrocarbons such as ligroin, benzene, toluene or xylene, halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, chlorobenzene, acid amides such as dimethyl formamide, ketones such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone or methyl isobutyl ketone, alcohols such as ethanol, propanol, etc. are employed.Compounds of the formula iV can be converted into their phenolates by methods known in the art, e.g. with alkali metal alcoholates, amides, hydrides, hydroxides, carbonates or quaternary ammonium compounds. preferred acid binding agents include inorganic and tertiary organic bases, e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, potassium carbonate, triethyl amine, pyridine, etc. The reaction is optionally performed in the presence of a catalyst. As a catalyst for example alkali metal halides, preferably alkali metal iodides may be used. The reaction temperature may be varied within a wide range, and preferably is between 2C 0C and the boiling point of the solvent according to process variant c the Grignard compounds of the formula VII , in which X preferably represents a bromine atom, are preferably reacted with an equimolar amount of the propiophenones of formula VI , in a dry inert organic solvent, similarly to process variant a . If desired, the compounds of the formula I can be converted into their acid addition salts or quaternary ammonium salts by methods well known in the art. The acid addition salts can be prepared by means of inorganic or organic acids, e.g.hydrogen halides such as hydrochloric acid, hydrogen bromide, etc., sulfuric acid, phosphoric acids, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, oxalic acid, glycolic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid, citric acid, malic.acid, salicylic acid, lactic acid, benzoic acid cinnamic acid, asparaginic acid, glutaminic acid, N acetyl asparaginic acid, N acetyl glutaminic acid, alkylsulfonic acids, such as methanesulfonic acid, arylsulfonic acids such as ptoluene sulfonic acid, etc. According to a preferred embodiment the corresponding acid is added to a solution of a compound of the formula I in an inert solvent, e.g. ethanol, and the salt formed is precipitated, preferably with a water immiscible organic solvent such as diethyl ether.Quaternization is preferably carried out with a lower alkyl, alkenyl or benzyl halide or alkyl sulfate. The reac tion is performed in an organic solvent, preferably acetone, acetonitrile, ethanol or in a mixture thereof, at a temperature between room temperature and the boiling point of the solvent. The quaternary salts can be isolated e.g. by filtration and if desired, are purified by crystallization. The starting compounds are known or can be prepared by methods known in the art. The ketcnes of the formulae TI and vi can for example be synthetized by the Friedel Crafts type ketone synthesis G.A. Olah Friedel Crafts and related reactions, IlI l, Ed. IntersciencePublishers 1964, pp. 1 63 . The compounds of the formulae III and VII are for example prepared from the corresponding aryl halides by known techniques N.3. Kharash et al. Grignard reactions of nonmetallic substances,Ed. Prentice Hall. Inc. 1954 pp. 5 90 , while the alkali metal organic compounds can be prepared following the method disclosed in Houben Weyl Methoden der organischen Chemie, XIII 1, pp. 134 159 and 389 405 1970 . The compounds of the formula VI can for example be synthetized from the corresponding propiophenones by reaction with the corresponding Grignard reactants see e.g. N.S. Kharash et al. Grignard reactions of nonmetallic substances,Ed. Prentice Hall Inc. 1954 pp. 134 143 . The compounds of the formula I provided by the invention are pharmacologically active.In particular, they inhibit the microsomal monooxygenase enzyme system of liver, and can therefore be used in therapy to inhibit or reduce the toxic effect of exogenic xenobiotic substances, which are transformed into toxic, active metabolites in the liver 1 .N. Jerina et al. Science, 185, 573 1974 , resulting in liver necrosis, blood discrasia, carcinosis. In pharmaceutical combinations the compounds according to the invention may increase the duration of the effect of other active ingredients. The enzyme inhibiting activity of the new compounds was tested in vivo, by measuring the change of hexobarbital oxidase activity. Female Rann. Wistar rats, each weighing 50 to 60 g. were treated orally with a single 40 mg. kg. dose of the test compound. 1 and 24 hours after the administration of the active ingredient, the animals were narcotized with a 60 mg. kg. i.v. dosage of hexobarbital sodium, and the time elapsed until complete wakening was measured Noordhoek, J. Eur. J. Pharmacol., 3, 242 1968 . The data were recorded, and the mean values, the standard errors, as well as the percentage increase with respect to the controls were calculated for each group. As a reference compound Proadifen 2 diethylaminoethyl alpha , alpha diphenyl valerate, i.e.the most effective known compound, was employed, in a dose of 100 mg. kg. The hexobarbital concentration of the plasm, measured on the instant wakening, was the same for both the treated and the control animals, and thus the increase of narcosis period was not due to a certain central nervous interaction Jori, A. et al. Biochem. Tharmacol., 19, 2687 1970 . The results are shown in Table 1. Abbreviations mean value S.E. standard error of the mean value n number of animalsThe control group was treated with placebo.A 2 methyl 6 4 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxy propyl phenoxymethyl pyridineB 2 methyl 6 4 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxy propyl phenoxymethyl pyridine Table 1Compound Rexobarbital Narcosis period in n 1 hour S of the controlA 259 11.4 155 9.6 10B 135 6.7 174 7.2 10Proadiphene 241 9.6 44 5.7 10 100 mg kg Control 100 8.9 1 100 10.8 2 10 Control 100 41.3 3.67 S.E. min. 1 48.12 5.19 S.E. min. 2 Both the increase of the narcosis period and the permanence of the effect the compounds being effective even 24 hours after administration indicate that the compounds of formula I inhibit the biotransformation of xenobiotic agents in the liver for a long time. The effect of the new compounds provided by the invention is better than that ofProadiphene also from qualitative aspects, since, in conctrast to Proadiphene, the initial inhibiting effect caused by the compounds according to the invention is not followed by an increase, i.e.induction of the activity of the microsomal enzyme system. The enzyme inhibiting activity of the compounds of the formula I was further tested by determining the activity of the polysubstrate monooxigenase enzyme system of the liver after treatment with placebo and the compounds according to the invention, respectively. Female R.Wistar rats weighing 50 to 60 g. each were administered a single 40 mg. kg. dose of the test compounds, orally. Two hours after treatment the animals were decapitated and the livers were eliminated.After rinsing with a physiological saline solution at OOC, drying and weighing, the livers were homogenized in a 0.1 molar Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 , containing 1.15 of potassium chloride at dC, centrifuged at 9000 g for 20 minutes, and the supernatant postmitochondrial fraction was used for further investigations. The microsoma fraction was prepared following the method developed byCinti D.1. et al. Biochem. Tharmacol., 21, 5249 1972 . The activity of aniline hydroxylase was determined from the velocity of pamino phenol formation according to Chabra R.S. et al. Toxicol. 1Appl. Tharmacol., 22, 50 1972 . The activity of the aminopyrine demethylase was measured from the amount of the formaldehyde formed, according to Gourlay G.K. et al. Biochem. Pharmacol., 27, 965 1973 . The control groups were treated with placebo. The results are shown in Table 2, in of the control. Table 2Compound Aniline hydroxylase Aminopyrine demethyl ase nmoles g min nmoles g min Control 100 2.7 100 4.2 A 66 8.0 55 4.4 B 77 7.5 63 4.4 Control S.E. 19.8 0.53 nmoles g min 260.7 11.2 nmoles g min As appears from the data of Table 2, the compounds according to the invention substantially inhibit the activity of the biotransforming enzyme system already two hours after administration. The central nervous activities of the compounds according to the invention were examined on mice and rats with the following methods electroshock Swinyard, E.A., Brown, W.C., Goodman, L.S. J.Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 106, 319 1952 , metrazole spasm Everett, G.M., Richards, R.K. J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther. 81, 402 1944 , thiosemicarbazide spasm Da Venzo, J.P., Greig, M.E., Cormin, M.A. Amer. j, Physiol. 201, 833 1961 , strychnine spasm Kerley, T.L., Richards, A.G., Begley, R.W., Abreu,B.B., Wesver, L.C. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 132, 360 1961 , nicotine spasm Stone, C.A., Mecklen burg, K.L., Torhans, M.L. Srch. Int. Pharmacodyn. 117, 419 1958 , rotarod test Xinnard, W.C., Carr,C.J. J. Pharmacol. Expt. Ther. 121, 254 1957 , physostigmine lethality preventing effect Nose, T., sofia, M. Europ. J. Pharmacol. 10, 83 1970 , yohimbine potentiation effect Quinton, R.M.. Brit. J. Tharmacol. 21, 51 1963 , and analgesic activity 3ianchi, G., Pranceschini, J.. Brit.J. Pharm. Chemother. 9, 280 1954 . The compounds of the formula I when tested by the above methods proved completely ineffective, whereas Proadiphene exerted an anticonvulsive side effect H. Ippen Index Pharmacorum 1970 , 40S 3.1 . The acute toxicity of the compounds of the formula I was tested on H Wistar rats of both sexes, weighing 160 to 180 g. each. The compounds were administered in a single 500 rng. kg. dose, orally.The animals were observed for 14 days. The results are set forth in Table 3. Table 3Compound Perished animals. n 500 mg. kg. p.o. A 0 10 B 0 10Proadiphene 90 10 As appears from the data of Table 3, the toxicity of the instant compounds is considerably lower than that of Proadiphene, accordingly their therapeutic index is much more favourable. The pharmacologically active compounds according to the invention can be used in therapy in the form of pharmaceutical compositions, which are formulated as preparations suitable for oral, rectal and or parenteral administration. For oral administration tablets, drawees or capsules are prepared. The oral formulations contain as a vehicle e.g. lactose or starch, as an excipient or a granulation aid e.g. gelatine, carboxymethyl cellulose sodium, methyl cellulose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone or starch gum, as a disintegrating substance e.g. potato starch or microcrystalline cellulose, ultraamylopectine or formaldehyde casein, etc. The formulations may also contain adhesives and lubricants such as talc, colloidal silica, stearine, calcium or magnesium stearate, etc. Tablets are prepared for example by wet granulation and subsequent pressing. A mixture of the active ingredient and the vehicle and optionally a part of the disintegrating agent are granulated with an aqueous, alcoholic or aqueousralcoholic solution of the excipients in a suitable equipment, and the granulate is dried. The remaining portion of the disintegrating substance, lubricant, antiadhesive or optional further additives is then added to the granules, and the mixture is pressed to tablets. If desired, the tablets are prepared with a dividing line, which facilitates administration. Tablets can be prepared also from a mixture of the active ingredient and suitable additives by direct pressing. If desired, the tablets can be converted into ragées, using protecting, flavouring agents and pigments generally known for the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions, e.g. sugar, cellulose derivatives methyl or ethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose sodium, etc. , polyvinylpyrrolidone, calcium phosphate, calcium carbonate, food pigments, food oil varnishes, aroma substances, iron oxide pigments, etc. Capsules are prepared by filling a mixture of the active ingredients and additives into suitable capsules. For rectal administration the compositions are formulated as suppositories, which contain in addition to the active ingredient a carrier mass, called adeps pro suppository. Suitable carriers include vegetable fats, e.g. hardened vegetable oils, triglycerides of fatty acids having 12 to 18 carbon atoms, preferably Witepsol a registered trade mark . The active ingredient is homogenously distributed in the melted carrier mass, and suppositories are prepared by casting. For parenteral administration injectable preparations are prepared. To prepare an injectable solution the active ingredient is dissolved in distilled water and or various organic solvents, e.g. glycol ethers, optionally in the presence of dissolution aids, e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitane monolaurate, monooleate or monostearate Tween 20,Tween 60, Tween 80 .The injectable solutions may contain also various additives, e.g. preserving agents, such as benzyl alcohol, o oxy benzoic acid retnyl or propyl ester, benalkonium chloride cr phenyl mercuri borate, etc., antioxidants such as ascorbic acid, tocopherol, sodium pyrosulfate and optionally complexing agents to bind metal traces such as ethylene diamine tetraacetate, buffers to adjust the pH and optionally local anaesthetics such as lidocaine. The injectable solutions are filtered, filled in to ampoules and sterilized. The daily dose, depending on the state of the patient, varies between 1.0 and 200.0 mg. kg., preferably 2.0 and 40.0 mg. kg, riich is preferably administered in more smaller dose units. The invention will be further illustrated by the following Examples but it is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the Examples. example 1 2 Methyl 6 4 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine To 200 ml. of a 0.5 molar, ethereal 2 tri fluoromethylphenyl lithium solution a solution of 12.7 g. of 4 6 methyl pyrid 2 yl methoxy propiophenone in 290 ml. of dry ether is added dropwise, with stirring under argon atmosphere, at 20 GC, and the reaction mixture is stirred for three further hours. It is then decomposed with a saturated, aqueous ammonium chloride solution, the aqueous phase is extracted with ether, the ethereal phase is washed to neutral with water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product is crystallized from a mixture cf hexane and ethyl acetate.8.2 g. of the title compound are obtained, melting at 128 to 129 Or Analysis for C23H22F3NO2 Calculated C 68.81 , H 5.52 , F 14.20 , N 3.49 Found C 68.66 , H 5.61 , F 14.32 , N 3.76 . Fxaintle 2 2 Methyl 6 4 1 4 fluorophenyl 1 hydroxy propyl phenoxymethyl pyridine To a Grignard reactant prepared from 2.2 g. of magnesium turnings and 25 g. of 4 6 methylpyrid 2 yl methoxy bromobenzene in 120 ml. of dry tetrahydro furane a solution of 9.1 g. of 4 fluoropropiophenone in 45 ml. of tetrahydrofurane is added dropwise at O 00. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for two additional hours, and is then decomposed with a saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution, under cooling. The aqueous phase is extracted with tetrahydrofurane. The tetrahydrofurane phase is washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated in vacuo. Crystallization of the crude product from a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane yields 15.2 . of the title compound, melting at 1C3 to 104 00. Analysis for C22H22FNO2 Calculated C 75.19 , H 6.31 , F 5.40 , N 3.99 Found C 75.00 , H 6.33 gb, F 5.58 , N 4.20 . Example 3 I. 2 Methyl 6 4 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxy propyl phenoxymethyl pyridine 13.1 g. of alpha ethyl alpha 4 chlorophenyl 4 hydroxybenzyl alcohol, 14 g. of anhydrous potassium carbonate, 0.85 5. of tetrabutylammonium hydrogensulfate and 7.8 g. of 2 methyl 6 chloro methyl pyridine in 140 ml. of ethyl acetate are boiled for 18 hours. The solvent is distilled off under reduced pressure, to the residue water is added, and it is extracted with ether. The ethereal solution is washed to neutral with a 5 aqueous potassium hydroxide solution and subsequently water, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, and evaporated in vacuo.Crystallization of the residue from a mixture of hexane and ethyl acetate yields 13.6 g. of the Title compound, melting at 100 to 101 C. Analysis for C22H22ClN02 Calculated C 71.83 , .i 6.03 , Cl 9.64 , N ,.81 Found C 71.75 , H 6.25 , Cl 9.80 N 3.66 . A solution of the base in dry acetone is treated with hydrochloric acid in ether under cooling, and the precipitated crystalline hydrochloride is filtered off and dried. Melting point 124.5 to 125.5 C. To a. solution of the base in dry acetone a solution of methanesulfonic acid in dry ether is added under cooling. The precipitated crystalline methanesulfonate is filtered off and dried.Melting point 126.5 to 127.5 OC. Sxamtle 4 2 Methyl 6 4 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine To a Grignard reactant prepared from 1.5 g.of magnesium turnings and 11.1 g. of 2 bromo Er xylene in 33 ml. of dry tetrahydrofurane 12.7 g.of 4 t6 methylpyrid 2 yl methoxy7 propiophenone in 30 ml. of dry tetrahydrofurane are added dropwise, under slight reflux. The reaction mixture is slightly boiled for additional 30 minutes, and is then poured onto a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride. The aqueous phase is extracted with tetrahydrofurane, the tetrahydrofurane phases are combined, and washed with a saturated sodium chloride solution. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, the solvent phase is evaporated under reduced pressure. Crystallization of the residue from a mixture of n hexane and ethyl acetate yields 13.4 g. ol the title compound, melting at 91 to 92 OC. Analysis for C24H27N02 Calculated C 79.74 , H 7.53 , , N 3.87 Found C 79.87 , H 7.71 , N 4.10 . The hydrochloride and methanesulfonate of tbe base are prepared essentially following the procedure described in Example 3. Melting point of the hydrochloride 115 to 116 CMelting point of the methanesulfonate 116 to 118 C Example 6 2 Methyl 6 4 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxy propyl7 phenoxymethylt pyridine 7.8 g. of alpha alpha 2 methoxyphenyl 4 hydroxybenzyl alcohol are dissolved in 65 ml. of methylisobutyl ketone, 9.1 g. of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added, and the reaction mixture is brought up to the boil. Thereafter, a solution of 4.7 g. of 2 methyl 6 chloromethyl pyridine in 20 ml. of methylisobutyl ketone is added dropwise, and the reaction mixture is slightly boiled for 4 additional hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture is filtered off, and the filtrate is evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue is dissolved in benzene, the solution is washed with a 5 aqueous potassium hydroxide solution and then with water1 dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness in vacuo.The crude product is crystallized from a mixture of ethyl acetate and cyclohexane. Melting point 110 to 111 OC, Analysis for C23H25N03 Calculated C 76.00 5, H 6.93 , N 3.85 round C 76.18 , H 6.77 0, N 3.92 . Example 5 2 Methyl 6 4 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine methoiodide 3.6 g. of the corresponding base are dissolved in 18 ml. of dry acetone, 1.2 ml. of methyl iodide are added, and the reaction mixture is slightly refluxed. After cooling the precipitated crystalline quaternary salt is filtered off, washed with diisopropyl ether and dried. 4.1 g.of the title compound are obtained, melting at 156 to 158 C. 2 Methyl 6 4 1 4 chlorophenyl 1hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine methoiodide is prepared in an analogeous way. Melting point 107 to 108.5 C. Similarly there can be prepared the following compounds by proper selection of the starting substances 2 Methyl 6 4 1 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridineMelting point 82 to 83 C Analysis for C23H22F3NO2 Calculated C 68.81 , H 5.52 , F 14.20 , N 3.49 Found C 69.10 , H 5.67 A, F 14.37 , N 3.66 . 2 Methyl 6 4 1 3 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine Melting point 96 to 97 C Analysis for C22H22ClN02 Calculated C 71.83 , H 6.03 5, Cl 9.64 N 3.81 Found C 71.88 , H 6.18 , Cl 9.52 , N 3.92 . 2 Methyl 6 4 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridineMelting point 119 to 121 0C Analysis for C23H22F3NO2 Calculated C 68.81 , H 5.52 , F 14.20 , N 3.49 Found C 68.73 , H 5.50 , F 14.11 , N 3.40 .2 Methyl 6 2 1 2 methoxyphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridineMelting point 125 to 126 0C Analysis for C23S25N 3 Calculated C 76.00 , H 6.93 , N 3.85 Found C 75.87 36, H 7.20 , N 3.82 .2 Methyl 6 2 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine pelting point 114 to 115 0C Analysis for C24H27NO2 Calculated C 79.74 , H 7.53 , N 3.87 round C 79.71 , H 7.44 , N 3.81 . Example 7 The new compounds according to the invention can for example be converted into the following pharmaceutical compositions. Tablets Co nposition of a single tablet active ingredient 100.0 mg.lactose 184.0 mg.potato starch 80.0 mg.polyvinyl pyrrolidone 8.0 mg.talc 12.0 mg. magnesium separate 2.0 mg.aerosil colloidal SiO2 2.0 mg.ultraamylopectine 12.0 mg. From the above ingredients 400 mg. tablets are prepared by wet granulation and subsequent pressing.Active ingredient 2 methyl 6 4 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridineDragées tablets as described above are coated with a coating prepared from sugar and talc in a known manner. rages are polished with a mixture of bee wax and carnauba wax. Weight of a drag 500.0 mg.Suppositories Composition of a suppository active ingredient 100.0 mg.lactose 200.0 mg.basic substance e.g.Witepsol X 1700.0 mg. The basic substance is melted and then cooled to 35 C. The active ingredient is thoroughly blended with the lactose, and the mixture is homogenized in the basic substance with a homogenizator. The obtained mass is poured into cool moulds. One suppository weights 2000 mg.Active ingredient 2 methyl 6 4 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine Capsules Composition of a single capsule active ingredient 50.0 mg.lactose 100.0 mg.talc 2.G mg. potato starch 30.0 ing. cellulose microcrystalline 8.0 mg. The active ingredient is thoroughly admixed with the additives, the mixture is passed through a C.32 mm. sieve, and filled into hard gelatine capsules No. 4.Active ingredient 2 methyl 6 4 1 2,5 dimethylphenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine Suspension composition of 100 ml. of suspension active ingredient 1.0 g. sodium hydroxide 0.26 g.citric acid 0.30 g.nipagin 4 hydroxybenzoic acid nethylester sodium salt 0.10 g.Carbopol 940 polyacrylic acia 0.30 g.ethanol 96 1.00 g.raspberry aroma 0.60 g. sorbite 70 G aqueous solution 71.00 g.distilled water ad 100.00 ml. To a solution of nipagin and citric acid in 20 ml. of distilled water Carbopol is added in small portions, with vigorous stirring, and the solution is allowed to stand for 10 to 12 hours.Thereafter a solution of the above amount of sodium hydroxide in 1 ml. of distilled water is added dropwise, followed by dropwise addition of an aqueous solution of sorbite and an ethanolic raspberry aroma solution, with stirring. Active ingredient is added in small portions, and the mixture is homogenized. The suspension is supplemented with distilled water ad 1OG ml., and the suspension syrup is passed through a colloidal mill.Active ingredient 2 ethyl 6 F4 T 2, 5 dinethyl phenyl 1 hydroxypropyl phenoxymethyl pyridine