# The use of a collocation containing hydrates to store heat at a steady temperature, and a heat storage device containing this collocation.

## Abstract
U shaped metal channel members 8,9 are used to attach cladding boards 4,5,6 to flanged structural steelwork 3 , the flanges 13,14 of the latter being received in the channels and retained there by the boards, which are fas tened to the channels.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The use of a collocation of calcium chloride hexahydrate and up to 20 percent strontium chloride hexahydrate to store heat at a steady temperature. 2. The use of Claim 1, wherein the collocation contains more than sufficient strontium chloride hexahydrate to saturate the liquified calcium chloride hexahydrate immediately above the said steady temperature. 3. The use of Claim 2, wherein the collocation contains at least 0.1 strontium chloride hexahydrate. 4. The use of Claim 3, wherein the collocation contains at least 0.4 strontium chloride hexahydrate. 5. The use of Claim 4, wherein the collocation contains at least 0.9 strontium chloride hexahydrate. 6. The use of any preceding claim, wherein the collocation contains up to 10 strontium chloride hexahydrate. 7. The use of Claim 6, wherein the collocation contains up to 2 strontium chloride hexahydrate. 8. A heat storage device containing, as the heat storage medium, the collocation defined in any one of Claims 1 to 7, the device further comprising the means to seal the medium from water vapour. 9. The heat storage device of Claim 8, further comprising means for putting the medium into thermal communication selectively with a heat source and a heat sink. 10. The heat storage device of Claim 8 or 9, wherein the strontium chloride hexahydrate is present in finely divided form.

## Description
STORING HEAT AT A STEADY TEMPERATURE CLAIMS IN DIFFERENT CATEGORIES This invention relates to a way of storing heat at a steady including a nearly steady temperature. Water is a popular medium for storing heat for example for central heating systems but, while it remains a liquid, its temperature varies according to the heat energy stored in it.This is inconvenient for those systems which rely on a steadytemperature reservoir to or from which heat is transferred. British Patent No. 1396293 suggests that the steadytemperature reservoir may be a freezable fluid such as water.Heat can be stored in withdrawn from this reservoir as latent heat of fusion freezing, without affecting the temperature of the reservoir. However, the water ice transformation occurs at too low a temperature for many purposes, and British Patent No. 1396292 suggests the use of crystallisable hydrates such as trisodium orthophosphate dodecahydrate . Because this hydrate at its melting temperature does not all dissolve in its own water of crystallisation, water must in practice be added to obtain a clear solution. As a result of the added water, the hydrate crystallises over a temperature range, which is undesirable, 0 and moreover melts at about 75 C, too high for many purposes. Experiments with salts showing a sharp crystallisation temperature have shown that supercooling is often a problem, and that to prevent this by adding seed particles of a foreign substance is often effective for only a limited number of melting freezing cycles. This invention is the use of a collocation of calcium chloride hexahydrate and up to 20 per cent strontium chloride hexahydrate to store heat at a steady temperature about 290C . This invention also consists in a heat storage device containing, as the heat storage medium, a collocation of calcium chloride hexahydrate and up to 20 per cent strontium chloride hexahydrate, or a precursor or precursors of this medium, the device having means to seal the medium from water vapour the device may further have means for putting the medium into thermal communication selectively with a heat source and a heat sink.The amount of water present in the medium or precursorts may deviate by up to 20 either way of the exact amount necessary for the hexahydrates. Calcium chloride hexahydrate melts at about 0 29 C and the whole of the calcium chloride dissolves in the water of crystallisation released, leaving a clear solution congruent melting . This avoids a disadvantageous layering effect and the need for thickening of the solution. The melted solution is preferably saturated in strontium chloride, especially at immediately above the said steady temperature, with some strontium chloride hexahydrate left over as solid. The proportion of strontium chloride hexahydrate by weight thus is preferably at least 0.1 , more preferably at least 0.4, usefully at least 0.9In, and may be up to iso , preferably up to 5, more preferably up to 2 , most preferably up to 12 . The best proportion may be dependent on the shape of the container for the heat storage medium, and on whether nucleation assistants such as seed ng rods are provided. The heat storage medium shout not be heated above 60 to 65 C, since this may induce subsequent supercooling. It is tentatively suggested that this is connected with the transition strontium chloride hexahydrate strontium chloride dihydrate at about 600C.The medium, if supercooled following such overheating, can be made to crystallise, by agitating it, whereafter it again behaves normally, displaying no supercooling. The medium may be compounded by collocating the required proportions of the mentioned compounds, or less hydrated forms of the compounds plus water, or different compounds for example, some other strontium salt instead of strontium chloride which will form the above compounds in situ. Such precursors amount in reality to the above compounds see Beecham Group v BristolLaboratories House of Lords, reported at page 215 of the FleetStreet Law Reports, 1977 . The purity of the compounds is not critical, but there must not be so much insoluble impurity that the strontium chloride is physically covered. Thus it would be possible to use industrialwaste grade calcium chloride which has been subjected to a simple melting and settling or filtration treatment to remove the worst of the insolubles. The heat storage method and device of the invention can be used for example in connection with the termal storage arrangements disclosed in UK Specifications 1396293, 1497042 and 1540835. In an experiment illustrating the invention, 3g SrCl2.6H20 were mixed with 2979 CaCl2.6H20 premelted at 400C in a 250 ml cylindrical glass bottle height diameter 2 1 , thus leaving some air space. The bottle was then sealed, particularly to prevent ingress of water. The chemicals were of general purpose purity, and gave the same results as chemicals of analytical 0 grade purity. Heating at 40 C for 6 hours was followed by 0 cooling the vessel to 25 C in a thermostatically controlled water bath, for 6 hours. This was repeated continuously for 120 days 0 i.e. 240 cycles . On cooling, the vessel reached 29 C in about 10 minutes, and then gave off heat at that temperature until freezing crystallisation was completed in 3 to 4 hours.No supercooling was observed at any time, with crystallisation 0 occurring at 20 C each cycle. The vessel thereafter cooled to 0 25 c about 6 hours from the start of the cooling. On heating there was congruent melting the whole of the calcium chloride dissolving in the water of crystallisation released, leaving a 0 clear solution at 2e9 C the melting was complete in about 19 hours. If, instead of a water bath, air is used as the heat source heat sink, glass bottles may be liable to crack. Therefore plastics containers are recommended. In further experiments, the above procedure was tried using 0.19 SrCl2.6H20 plus 99.99 CaCl2.6H20. At first there was negligible supercooling, but upon repeated cycling, crystallisation became less reliable in that bottle. In another experiment illustrating the invention, CaCl2.6H20 was heated to form a liquid solution at 400C and introduced into a hollow plastics sphere of 45 mm diameter, leaving about 4 cm3 air space. A measured small volume of a saturated solution of strontium nitrate in hot water was injected and formed a cloudy precipitate of strontium chloride hexahydrate equivalent to 21 of the CaCl .6H 0. Strontium chloride hexahydrate in such a 2 2 finely divided form is preferable since it may provide more sites for nucleating crystallisation of the calcium chloride. On thermal cycling of this collocation in the same way as above, 0 crystallisation occurred at 29 C without supercooling. Because the specific density of solid CaCI .6H 0 at 250C is 2 2 1.71 and of liquid CaCl2.6H20 at 400C is 1.51, a vessel being filled with the solid should be left with about 15 20 air space to allow for expansion, while a vessel being filled with the liquid need be left with none, but, to avoid collapse, is preferably left with about 10 .