# 1 Acyloxyphenyl 1,2 diphenylalkene derivatives, processes for their manufacture and a pharmaceutical composition containing these derivatives.

## Abstract
1 p Aminoalkoxy phenyl 1 p acyloxyphenyl 2 phenylalk 1 ene derivatives of the formula

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A process for the manufacture of an alkene d ri vative of the formula EMI15.1 wherein either R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl radical and Rê is a lower alkyl radical, or RÚ and Rê are joined together with the adjacent nitrogen atom to form a heterocyclic radical n is 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 R3 is a halogen atom or a lower alkyl radical R4 is a hydrogen or halogen atom, or a hydroxy or lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical, or is the buta 1,3 dienyl radical such that together with the benzene ring it forms a naphthyl radical, or R has the formula oCoR5, and R5 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or an alkoxyalkyl radical of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, or R5 has the formulaEMI15.2 wherein m is 0, 1, 2, 5 or 4, wherein R is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a cyano lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical and wherein p is 1, 2 or 5 or R5 has the formula NHR7, wherein R7 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or R7 has the formulaEMI15.3 wherein m, p and R6 have the meanings stated above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, characterised by either a the acylation of an alkene derivative of the formula EMI16.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R and n have the meanings stated above with an acylating derivative obtained from an acid of the formula R5cooH, wherein R5 has the meaning stated above, or, when R5 has the formula NHR7, the reaction of said alkene derivative with an isocyanate of the formula R7NCo or b the dehydration of an alkanol of the formula EMI16.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R5 and n have the meanings stated above, with an acid, whereafter the alkene derivative may be separated into its cis and trans isomers and whereafter an alkene derivative in free base form may be converted into an acid addition salt thereof by reaction with an acid. 2. A process for the manufacture of an alkene derivative of the formula EMI17.1 wherein R and R2 are both the same lower alkyl radical, wherein R3 is a lower alkyl radical, wherein R is hydrogen or is a halogen atom or a lower alkyl radical, wherein R5 is methyl, ethyl, isopropyl or phenyl and wherein n is 2, 5, 4 or 5, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, characterised by the acylation of an alkene derivative of the formula EMI17.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and n have the meanings stated above, with an acylating derivative obtained from an acid of the formula R5CooH, wherein R5 has the meaning stated above, whereafter the alkene derivative may be separated into its cis and trans isomers.

## Description
ESTERS OF 1,1,2 TRIPHENYALKENE DERIVATIVES This invention relates to triphenylalkene derivatives which possess anti oestrogenic activity. According to the invention there is provided an alkene derivative of the formula EMI1.1 wherein either R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl radical and R2 is a lower alkyl radical, or R1 and R2 are joined together with the adjacent nitrogen atom to form a heterocyclic radical n is 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 R3 is a halogen atom or a lower alkyl radical R is a hydrogen or halogen atom, or a hydroxy or lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical, or is the buta l,5 dienyl radical such that together with the benzene ring it forms a naphthyl radical, or R4 has the formula oCoR5 and R5 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or an alkoxyalkyl radical of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, or R5 has the formulaEMI1.2 wherein m is O, 1, 2, 3 or 4,wherein R is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a cyano, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical a ld wherein p is 1, 2 or 3 cr R5 has the formula NNR7, wherein R7 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or R7 has the formula EMI2.1 wherein m, p and R6 have the meanings stated above or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. It is clear that a compound of the invention can exist in the form of a cis or a trans isomer in which the designation cis or trans refers te the relative positions of the acyloxyphenyl radical, and the phenyl radical bearing the group R , about the double bond.The cis and trans isomers may be distinguished by the magnetic resonance signals of the protons in the OCH2 group of the O CH2 nNRlR2 side chain, the signals of these protons in the cis isomers occurring at lower field than of those in the corresponding trans isomers. This invention includes both cis and trans isomers and mixtures thereof which possess the above properties, it being a matter of common general knowledge how to separate cis and trans isomers and how to determine their anti oestro genic and oestrogenic activity. A particularly suitable value for R1 R2 R3R4 or R6 when it is a lower alkyl radical is, for example, an alkyl radical of 1 4 carbon atoms, for example a methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl or a butyl radical. A particularly suitable value for R1 and R2 when they are joined together with the adjacent nitrogen atom to form a heterocyclic radical is, for example, a 5 or 6 membered nitrogen containing heterocyclic radical optionally including an oxygen or sulphur atom as a second hetero atom, for example a pyrrolidino, piperidino or morpholino radical. A particularly suitable value for R5, R4 or R6 when it is a halogen atom is, for example, a fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom. A particularly suitable value for R or when it is a lower alkoxy radical is, for example, an alkoxy radical of 1 4 carbon atoms, for example a methoxy or ethoxy radical. A particularly suitable value for. R5 when it is an alkyl or alkoxyalkyl radical is, for example, the methyl, ethyl, isopropyl hexyl, decyl or methoxymethyl radical. A particularly suitable salt is, for example, a hydrochloride, sulphate phosphate, acetate, tartrate or citrate. A preferred compound of the invention has formula I given above wherein H and R2 are both the same lower alkyl radical, preferably the methyl or ethyl radical and especially the methyl radical, wherein R3 is a lower alkyl radical, preferably the methyl., ethyl or n propyl radical and especially the ethyl radical, wherein R4 is hydrogen or is a halogen atom or a lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical, preferably the fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or the methyl, ethyl or methoxy radical, and especially such a radical in the 4 position, wherein R5 is the methyl, ethyl,isopropyl, t butyl, methoxymethyl, phenyl, 2 tolyl, tolyl, 2 ethylphenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 5 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 4 bromo phenyl, 4 mefhoxyphenyl, 4 cyanophenyl, benzyl, methyl amino, propylamino or anilino radical, and wherein n is 2, 5, 4 or 5, preferably 2, cr is a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. In general, trans isomers are more active than the corresponding cis isomers. Particular compounds of the invention are set out in the Examples, and preferred compounds are l p 3 dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxyphenyl 2 p tolylbut l ene, l p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxyphenyl 2 phenylb ut l ene, l U ss dimethyl aminoethOxyphenyl trans l p ben30yloxypher.yl 2 phenyl but l ene, 1 Cp dimethylaminoethoxypheny 1 trans l 2 propionyloxyphenyl 2 phenylb ut l ene, 1 Cp dimethyl aminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxypheny 1 2 p ethyl phenylbut 1 ene and 1 8 dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl t rans l p benzoy loxypheny 1 2 p tolylb ut l ene . A compound of formula I may be obtained by the processes which are applicable to the manufacture of analogous compounds. Thus, for example, an alkene derivative of the formula EMI4.1 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4 and n have the meanings stated above which alkene derivatives are mostly described inEuropean Specification No.0,002,097 or are otherwise known compounds, or may be obtained by analogous methods to those known or described in said Specification may be acylated with an acylating derivative obtained from an acid of the formula R5CooH, wherein R5 has the meaning stated above, or, when R5 has the formula NHR7 may be reacted with an isocyanate of the formula R7NCo. A suitable acylating derivative is, for example, an acyl chloride or an acid anhydride. Alternatively, an alkanol of the formula EMI4.2 wherein R1, R2, H5, R4, H5 and n have the meanings stated above, may be dehydrated with an acid, for example hydrochloric acid, conveniently in a solvent, for example ethanol, at a temperature of from 200C. to 800C. The alkene derivative so obtained may be in the form of a mixture of the cis and trans isomers. If desired, the individual isomers may be obtained by fractional crystallisation of the mixture, or by chromatography. The starting material of formula III may be obtained by the acylation with an acylating derivative, for example an acyl chloride or acid anhydride, obtained from an acid of the formula R5CooH, wherein R5 has the meaning stated above, of the corresponding hydroxy compound which hydroxy compounds are mostly described in European Specification No.0,002,097, or are known compounds, or may be obtained by analogous methods to those known or described in said Specification . An alkene derivative of the invention in free base form may be converted into an acid addition salt thereof by reaction with an acid. The anti oestrogenic acitivity of a compound of formula I has been demonstrated by its effect in preventing implantation of the fertilised ovum when administered orally to rats on day 4 of pregnancy. In this test, each of the compounds showed substantial activity at a dose of 0.2 mg. kg. and a preferred compound showed activity at a dose of 0.01 mg. kg., this compound therefore being substantially more active than tamoxifen. Anti oestrogenic activity can also be demonstrated by inhibition of oestradiol induced vaginal cornification in ovariectomised rats, and by inhibition of uterine growth when given concomitantly with an oestrogen to immature female rats. The weak oestrogenic activity of a compound of formula I has been demonstrated by its effect in producing cornified vaginal smears in spayed rats when administered orally once daily for 5 days. In this test, each of the oompounds showed oestrogenic activity only at a dose substantially greater than that required to produce anti oestrogenic effects. A compound with the above pharmacological properties is of value in the treatment of the same conditions in which tamoxifen is beneficial, in particular, in the treatment of anovulatory infertility and in the treatment of breast tumours. When used to produce an anti oestrogenic effect in warm blooded animals, a typical daily dose is from 0.05 to 1 mg. kg. administered orally or by injection.In man this is equivalent to an oral dose of from 5 80 mg. day. In use, tamoxifen has been administered orally at doses of from 20 80 mg. day for the treatment of anovulatory infertility, and at doses from 10 40 mg. day for the treatment of breast tumours. A similar regime is appropriate for the administration of a compound of formula I, most conveniently in the form of a pharmaceutical composition. According to a further feature of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. The composition may be in a form suitable for.oral or parenteral administration. A tablet or capsule is a particularly convenient form for oral administration, and such a composition may be made by conventional methods and contain conventional excipients. Thus a tablet could contain diluents, for example mannitol or maize starch, disintegrating agents, for example, alginic acid, binding agents, for example methylcellulose, and lubricating agents, for example magnesium stearate. A composition for oral administration may conveniently contain from 5 50 mg. of a compound of formula I, preferably 5 20 mg. The invention is illustrated but not limited by the following Examples Example 1 A mixture of 1 p dimethylaminoethoxypheny1 trans l p hydroxyphenyl 2 phenylbut l ene 1.0 g. acetic anhydride 25 ml. and anhydrous sodium acetate 0.5 g. is heated under reflux for 30 minutes, cooled and poured into ice water. The mixture is made alkaline with aqueous ammnium hydroxide solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract is dried, evaporated to dryness and the residue is crystallised from petroleum ether b.p. 80 100 C. . There is thus obtained 1 p beta dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans 1 p acetoxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene, m.p. 108 110 C. The process described above is repeated using the appropriate but l ene derivative and the appropriate acid anhydride, and there are thus obtained the compounds of Formula I in all of which R1 and R2 are both methyl, n is 2 and R3 is ethyl described in the following table EMI7.1 tb SEP H4 SEP R SEP isomer SEP m.p. C. SEP tb SEP H SEP methyl SEP cis SEP 70 SEP 71 SEP tb SEP H SEP ethyl SEP trans SEP 91 95 SEP tb 4 SEP methy SEP 1 SEP me SEP thy SEP 1 SEP trans SEP 106 108 SEP tb 4 methyl SEP methyl SEP cis SEP 6 SEP 8 SEP 70 tb 4 SEP acet SEP oxy SEP methyl SEP trans SEP 96 99 tb 4 ethyl SEP methyl SEP trans SEP 74 tb 4 ethyl SEP methyl SEP cis SEP 78 tb Example 2 Benzoyl chloride t0.3 ml. is added to a cooled solution of 1 p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans 1 p hydroxyphenyl 2 phenylbut l ene 0. g. in pyridine 3 ml. and the mixture is kept at 0 C. for 17 hours and then poured into water. The mixture is extracted with ether and the extract is dried and evaporated to dryness. The residue is dissolved in petroleum ether b.p. 80 1000C. and the solution is allowed to evaporate slowly. The residue crystallises and consists of 1 p beta dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p benzoyloxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene, m.p. 96 98 C. The process described above is repeated using the appropriate acyl chloride and the appropriate 1 di alky laminoalkoxy 1 p hy droxypheny 1 2 pheny lalk l ene derivative as starting materials and there are thus obtained the compounds described in the following tables Table 1 Compounds have Formula I wherein R1 and R2 are both methyl, n is 2, R is ethyl and R4 is hydrogen EMI8.1 tb SEP R5 SEP Isomer SEP m. SEP p. C. SEP tb SEP phenyl SEP cis SEP 140 142 tb SEP 2 tolyl SEP trans SEP 115 117 tb SEP 4 tolyl SEP trans SEP 108 110 tb SEP 4 tolyl SEP cis SEP 109 111 SEP tb 4 methoxyphenyl SEP trans SEP 117 118 tb 4 methoxyphenyl SEP cis SEP 118 tb 2 chlorophenyl SEP trans SEP 108 110 tb 3 chlorophenyl SEP trans SEP 76 78 tb 4 chlorophenyl SEP trans SEP 80 82 tb 4 chlorophenyl SEP cis SEP 90 92 tb 4 bromophenyl SEP trans SEP 94 96 tb 4 bromophenyl SEP cis SEP 94 tb 2,6 dichlorophenyl SEP trans SEP 135 137 tb SEP isopropyl SEP trans SEP 104 107 tb Table 2 Compounds have Formula I wherein n is 2 and H5 is unsubstituted phenylEMI8.2 tb SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R SEP R4 SEP Isomer SEP m.p. C. SEP tb methyl SEP methyl SEP isopropyl SEP H SEP I SEP trans SEP 120 124 tb me SEP thy SEP 1 SEP methyl SEP ethyl SEP 2 methyl SEP trans SEP 125 tb methyl SEP me SEP thy SEP 1 SEP ethyl SEP 4 methyl SEP trans SEP SEP 113 115 SEP tb methyl SEP methyl SEP ethyl SEP 4 ethyl SEP trans SEP 173 tb methyl SEP methyl SEP ethyl SEP 4 ethyl SEP cis SEP 95 tb methyl SEP methyl SEP ethyl SEP 3 chloro SEP trans SEP oil tb ethyl SEP ethyl SEP ethyl SEP 4 methoxy SEP trans SEP 99 101 tb Example 5 A solution of l p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p hydroxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene 0.77 g. in tetrahydrofuran 15 ml. is added to a stirred suspension of sodium hydride 0.5 g. in tetrahydrofuran 10 ml. and the mixture is stirred at laboratory temperature for 30 minutes. The solution is removed by pipette from the excess of sodium hydride and to this solution is added a solution of 2 ethylbenzoyl chloride 0.45 g. in tetrahydrofuran 3 ml. .The mixture is stirred at laboratory temperature for 15 minutes, di.ethyl ether 30 ml. is added and the solution is washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and then with water.The ethereal solution is dried and evaporated to dryness and the residue is crystallised from hexane. There is thus obtained l p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l 2 ethylbenzoyloxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene, m.p. 77 780C. The process described above is repeated using the appropriate acid chloride, in place of 2 ethylbenzoyl chloride, and there are thus obtained the compounds of formula I in all of which R1 and R are both methyl, n is 2, H5 is ethyl and R is hydrogen described in the following table EMI9.1 tb SEP R5 SEP isomer SEP m.p. C. SEP tb SEP 2 tolyl SEP cis SEP 95 98 tb 2,6 dichlorophenyl SEP trans SEP 126 127 tb SEP 4 cyanophenyl SEP trans SEP 172 174 tb SEP methoxymethyl SEP trans SEP 81 83 tb SEP methoxymethyl SEP cis SEP 70 72 tb SEP benzyl SEP cis SEP 84 86 tb SEP benzyl SEP trans SEP 100 102 tb SEP t butyl SEP trans SEP 118 119 tb Example 4 A solution of phenyl isocyanate 0.298 g. in dry N,N dimethylformamide 2 ml. is added during 10 minutes to a stirred solution of I p B dimethy lamino ethOxyphenyl trans l p nydroxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene 0.774 g. and triethylamine 0.02 g. in dry N,N RTI ID 10.4 dimethylformamide 5 ml. which is cooled to OOC. The mixture is stirred for 15 minutes at OOC, and then for 17 hours at laboratory temperature, diethyl ether 30 ml. is added and the mixture is washed three times with water 20 ml. each time , dried and evaporated to dryness.The residue is crystallised from cyclohexane and the solid product dissolved in methylene chloride. The mixture is filtered, the filtrate is evaporated to dryness and the residue is stirred with cold methanol. The mixture is filtered and there is thus obtained as solid residue 1 p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans 1 p N phenylcarbamoyloxyphenyl 2 phenylbut l ene, m.p. 145 146 C. The process described above is repeated except that methyl or propyl isocyanate is used in place of phenyl isocyanate. There are thus obtained the compounds of formula I in all of which R1 and R2 are both methyl, n is 2, R3 is ethyl and R4 is hydrogen described in the following table EMI10.1 tb SEP R5 SEP isomer SEP m.p. 0C. SEP tb methylamino SEP trans SEP SEP 130 131 SEP tb propylamino SEP trans SEP 98 100 SEP tb What we claim is 1.An alkene derivative of the formula EMI11.1 wherein either R1 is a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl radical and R2 is a lower alkyl radical, or R1 and R2 are joined together with the adjacent nitrogen atom to form a heterocyclic radical n is 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 R3 4.is a halogen atom or a lower alkyl radical R4 is a hydrogen or halogen atom, or a hydroxy or lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical, or is the buta l,5 dienyl radical such that together with the benzene ring it forms a naphthyl radical, or R has the formula oCOR5 and R5 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or an alkoxyalkyl radical of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, or R5 has the formulaEMI11.2 wherein m is O, 1, 2, 3 or 4, wherein R6 is a hydrogen or halogen atom or a cyano, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy radical ard wherein p is 1, 2 or 3 or R5 has the formula NHR7, wherein R7 is an alkyl radical of 1 to 10 carbon atoms or R7 has the formulaEMI11.3 wherein m, p and R have the meanings stated above, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof.2. An alkene derivative as claimed in claim 1 wherein R1 and R2 are both methyl or both ethyl radicals, 4R3 is the methyl, ethyl or propyl radical, H is the hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine or bromine atom or the methyl, ethyl or methoy radical, RD is the methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, t butyl, methoxymethyl, phenyl, 2 tolyl, 4tolyl, 2 ethylphenyl, 2 chlorophenyl, 3 chlorophenyl, 4 chlorophenyl, 4 bromophenyl, 4 methoxyphenyl, 4 cyanophenyl, benzyl, methylamino, propylamino or anilino radical and wherein n is 2, 3, 4 or 5, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof. 5. An alkene derivative as claimed in claim 2 wherein H1 and R are both methyl radicals, H3 is the ethyl radical, R4 is the hydrogen atom or the chlorine atom or the methyl or ethyl radical in the 4 position, wherein R5 is the methyl, ethyl, isopropyl or phenyl radical and wherein n is 2, or a pharmaceuticallyacceptable acid addition salt thereof.4. The compound 1 p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxyphenyl 2 2 tolylbut l ene, l p B dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxyphenyl 2 phenylbut 1 ene, l p ss dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans 1 p benz oyloxyphenyl 2 pheny lb ut 1 ene or 1 p S, dime thy 1 aminoe thoxypheny 1 trans l p propi ony loxypheny 1 2 phenylbut l ene. 5. The compound l p B dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p acetoxyphenyl 2 p ethylphenylbut 1 ene or 1 p dimethylaminoethoxyphenyl trans l p benzoyloxy phenyl 2 p tolylbut l ene. 6. A process for the manufacture of an alkene derivative, claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof, which comprises either a the acylation of an alkene derivative of the formula EMI13.1 wherein R1, R2, H3, R4 and n have the meanings stated in claim 1 with an acylating derivative obtained from an acid of the formula R5CoCH, wherein R5 has the meaning stated in claim 1, or, when R5 has the formula NHR7, the reaction of said alkene derivative with an isocyanate of the formula R7NCo or b the dehydration of an alkanol of the formula EMI13.2 wherein R1, R2, H3, R4, R5 and n have the meanings stated above, with an acid whereafter the alkene derivative may be separated into its cis and trans isomers and whereafter an alkene derivative in free base form may be converted into an acid addition salt thereof by reaction with an acid. 7. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises an alkene derivative or a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt thereof claimed in any of claims 1 to 5, together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. 8. A method of producing an antioestrogenic effect in a warm blooded animal in need of such an effect which comprises administering to said animal an effective amount of an alkene derivative claimed in any of claims 1 to 5.