# Method of manufacture of an injection molding integral heated probe.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a method of manufacturing an injection molding heated probe having an integral structure with externally open melt flow channels and provision for a removable thermocouple. A central heater well is drilled in a main body portion of the outer member and a pair of melt passages are formed to extend on either side of it from a central upper inlet. A transverse terminal opening is bored to connect to the well at its upper end, and a thermocuple bore is drilled longitudinally through the main body portion. A cartridge heater is inserted into the well in the main body portion, which is then seated onto a nose portion of the outer member. The nose portion is formed with a central cavity extending beneath the heater towards its forward end with an offset portion extending into alignment with the ther mocouple bore. A fillter tube is located on a filler duct drilled into the space between the heater and the outer member and the assembly is brazed in a vacuum furnace. This fixes the nose portion, fillter tube and electrical terminal in place and seals the space around the heater. A slug of copper is then cast through the filler duct to integrally bond the car tridge heater to the outer member. The sealed ther mocouple bore is then extended into the copper below the heater to removably receive a thermocouple to accurately measure the copper temperature adjacent the pointed tip end of the probe.