# Method of and system for utilizing thermal energy accumulator.

## Abstract
A method is applicable to a thermal energy accumulator 20 in which a thermal energy fluid 23 and hot water 22 coexist with each other. The hot water is taken out 216 of the accumulator, and supplied as thermal energy to an energy utilization device 36 . The thermal energy fluid may be in the form of saturated steam 33 , for example.

## Claims
What is Claimed is 1. A method of utilizing a thermal energy accumulator in which a thermal energy fluid and hot water coexist with each other, comprising the steps of extracting the hot water from the accumulator and supplying the extracted hot water as thermal energy to an energy utilization device. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which the extracted hot water is flashed to produce steam, which is supplied to the energy utilization device. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the steam produced by flashing the extracted hot water is first compressed and then supplied to the energy utilization device. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, which is mixed with other steam or hot water to adjust superheating degree of the steam that is supplied to the energy utilization device. 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein the extracted hot water is flashed approximately under atmospheric pressure 6. A method according to claim 2, wherein the extracted hot water is flashed at multi stages such that hot water produced at a former stage is flashed in a later stage. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the hot water is flashed approximately under atmospheric pressure at a final flashing stage. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein steam produced at a final flashing stage is first compressed and then supplied to the energy utilization device. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, which is mixed with other steam or hot water to produce saturated steam that is supplied to the energy utilization device. 10. A method according to claim 6, wherein steam produced by flashing the hot water at muitistages is first compressed at multistages in a predetermined relation and then supplied to the energy utilization device. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the multistage compression process has an intermediate steam regulation means. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said intermediate steam regulation means is supplied with other steam. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein said intermediate steam regulation means includes cooling means for introducing water. 14. A method according to claim 2, wherein the extracted hot water is flahsed approximately under atmospheric pressure, and the produce steam is first compressed and then supplied to the energy utilization device. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, which is mixed with other steam or hot water to produce saturated steam that is supplied to the energy utilization device. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein the accumulator is supplemented with a thermal energy fluid to keep temperature and pressure constant therein. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said thermal energy fluid is steam. 18. A method according to claim 16, wherein the thermal energy fluid comprises low pressure steam, which is first compressed and then supplied to the accumulator. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the low pressure steam is first flashed and then compressed. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein the hot water extracted from the accumulator is directly supplied to the energy utilization device. 21. A method according to claim 2, wherein the device for flashing hot water is a total flow turbine. 22. A method according to claim 20, wherein the energy utilization device comprises a heater. 23. A method according to claim 1, which further includes a step of producing said produced hot water and steam being supplied to the accumulator. 24. A method according to claim 1, which further includes a step of producing hot water and steam with use of a heat reovery boiler, at least a portion of said produced steam being supplemented to the accumulator in relation with operation of extracting hot water from the accumulator. 25. A method according to claim 23, wherein said produced hot water being also supplied to the accumulator. 26. A method according to claim 23, wherein the energy utilization device comprises a power generating unit. 27. A method according to claim 23, wherein the heated hot water is flashed to produce steam, which is supplied to the accumulator. 28. A method according to claim 24, wherein the energy utilization device comprises a power generating unit. 29. A method according to claim 24, wherein the heated hot water is flashed to produce steam, which is supplied to the accumulator. 30. A system for utilizing thermal energy, comprising a thermal energy accumulator in which a thermal energy fluid and hot water coexist with each other, and an energy utilization device, said accumulator having a thermal energy fluid inlet and a hot water outlet for supplying the hot water taken out of said hot water outlet to the energy utilization device. 31. A system according to claim 30, further including a flash tank for separating the hot water taken out of said hot water outlet into hot water and steam, the latter being supplied to the energy utilization device. 32. A system according to claim 31, further including a compressor for compressing the steam produced by said flash tank to supply compressed steam to the energy utilization device. 33. A system according to claim 32, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, further including means for adjusting the superheating value of the steam. 34. A system according to claim 33, wherein said converting means includes a mixer for mixing the superheated steam discharged from said compressor and steam or hot water supplied from another source of thermal energy 35. A system according to claim 31, wherein the hot water is flashed approximately under atmospheric pressure. 36. A system according to claim 30, further including a plurality of flash tanks connected sequentially and each having a function to separate an input thereto into steam and hot water, the first flash tank being fed with hot water taken out of said hot water outlet of said accumulator, the other flash tank or tanks being fed with separated hot water from the preceding flash tank, the energy utilization device being supplied with steam separated by at least the final flash tank. 37. A system according to claim 36, wherein hot water is flahsed in the final flash tank approximately under atmospheric pressure. 38. A system according to claim 36, further including a compressor for compressing steam produced by said final flash tank. 39. A system according to claim 38, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, further including means for converting said supeheated steam into saturated steam. 40. A system according to claim 39, wherein said converting means includes a mixer for mixing the superheated steam discharged from said compressor and steam or hot water supplied from another source of thermal energy. 41. A system according to claim 36, further including a multistage compressor for compressing the steam produced by said final flash tank at multistages, said multistage compressor having an intermediate stage supplied with steam from said flash tanks except said final flash tank. 42. A system according to claim 41, wherein said multistage compressor includes an intermediate steam regulation means. 43. A system according to claim 42,.wherein said intermediate steam regulation means has a mixer for introducing other steam. 44. A system according to claim 43, wherein said intermediate steam regulation means comprises cooling means for introducing water 45. A system according to claim 31, wherein said flash tank is capable of flashing the hot water approximately under atmospheric pressure, and has a compressor supplied with steam produced by flashing the hot water. 46. A system according to claim 45, wherein the compressed steam is superheated steam, further including means for converting said superheated steam into saturated steam. 47. A system according to claim 30, further includig a thermal energy supplementing source coupled to said thermal energy inlet for supplementing said accumulator with a thermal energy fluid to maintain pressure and temperature constant at all times in said accumulator. 48. A system according to claim 47, wherein the supplemented thermal energy fluid comprises low pressure steam, further including a compressor for compressing the low pressure steam, said compressor having an outlet connected to said thermal energy fluid inlet. 49. A system according to claim 48, further including a flash tank for flashing the low pressure steam to produce steam which is supplied to said compressor. 50. A system according to claim 30, wherein said energy utilization device comprises a total flow turbine power generating unit. 51. A system accoring to claim 30, wherein said energy utilization device comprises a heater.

## Description
Specification Title of the Invention Method of and System for Utilizing Thermal Energy AccumulatorBackground of the Invention The present invention relates to a method of and a system for utilizing an steam accumulator for storing a thermal energy. Steam, a typical form of thermal energy, is widely used for driving a power generator turbine, or a turbine for a general power source such as a compressor or a turbine for a general power source such as a compressor or a pump. Other frequent uses of steam are as a heating medium for heating water and air, and in various chemical plant processes such as reactors and concentrators. These devices using steam are subjected to a wide range of load variations. For example, a power generating unit in a power plant is required to meet the power variation which varies more and more between daytime and nighttime. There are many process in chemical plants characterized by the large difference between a peak load and a normal load as it uses a large amount of steam in a short period of time.It has been customary to connect a steam accumulator between the source of steam and the energy utilization device driven thereby for storing excessive steam from the boiler during a low load or varying load interval and for discharging the stored steam energy for use in a peak load period. The steam accumulator in conventional systems stores the thermal energy of steam and takes out the thermal energy in the form of steam for use. According to such steam recovery process, however, a portion of the thermal energy that is stored in the accumulator cannot be used effectively. For example, when 308 of hot water stored in the acumulator tank the interior of which is initially held at 2500C and 40.6 Kg cm2 is to be utilized, the temperature in the tank will be lowered to 0 about 100 C. Where the accumulator is to be used in a wide range of steam pressure variations, care should be exercised to design the tank taking the fatigue of its material into consideration.Steam accumulators are normally limited to use under a steam pressure up to a maximum of 20 Kg cm2, while the pressure is held to a minimum of 0.5 Kg cm2 800C for power generator use and of 2 to 6 Kg cm2 1200C to 150 0C for plant use since the steam itself is used by the energy utilization device. In actual applications, therefore, the accumulators which are designed to have a maximum effciency can put only 20 of stored hot water at most to effective use. The steam from the accumulator is utilized by a device such as a steam turbine which ordinarily has multiple inlets that are selectively operated to adapt the steam pressure change which lowered so that a pressure variation due to steam consumption in the accumulator will be compensated for. Therefore, the load is required to be of a sophisticated construction and operated under complicated control to meet the steam pressure variations. Another problem is that the turbine efficiency is lowered since the power generating capacity is reduced with time. Steam accumulators other than those associated with power generators, that is, steam accumulators combined with turbines in general purpose power sources and process devices, have experienced the same problems.For devices undergoing high peak loads, in particular, steam accumulators of large capacity need to be installed to meet a temporary high load, resulting in an increased equipment cost, as accumulators have a poor efficiency of thermal utilization, a disadvantage which makes it quite difficult to control the process on account of temperature changes with time.Summary of the Invention Therefore, it is a major object of the present invention to provide a method of and a system for utilizing a thermal energy accumulator with a higher efficiency of utilization of a thermal energy such as steam than conventionally attained efficiencies. Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of and a system for utilizing a thermal energy accumulator while avoiding the fatigue of the accumulator material by rendering pressure variations within the accumulator smaller than prior accumulator pressure changes, with the result that the accumulator can be of a larger capacity without being specially designed. Still another object of the present invention is to provide a method of and a system for utilizing a thermal energy accumulator, which can simplify the construction of a load through the removal of variations in pressure and temperature of the output from the accumulator. A still further object of the present invention is to provide a method of and a system for utilizing a thermal energy accumulator, which can use the thermal energy of low pressure steam with sufficient effectiveness. A yet still further object of the present invention is to provide a method of and a system for utilizing a thermal energy accumulator while reducig the capacity of the accumulator per load, therby reducing the cost of installation. In an effort to achieve the above objects, the inventor has noticed that steam and hot water coexist with each other, and has proposed an arrangement such that the hot water will be taken out of the accumulator for use as a thermal energy medium. The hot water has the same pressure and temperature as those of the steam. Removal of the hot water from the accumulator does not significantly affect the pressure and temperature within the accumultor unless a considerable amount of such hot water is taken out of the accumulator. According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method of utilizing a thermal energy accumulator in which a thermal energy fluid and hot water coexist together, the method comprising the steps of extracting hot water from the accumulator and supplying the extracted hot water to an energy utilization device. According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a system for utilizing a thermal energy comprising an accumulator in which a thermal energy fluid and hot water coexist together, and an energy utilization device, the accumulator having an inlet for introducing the thermal energy fluid and an outlet for supplying the hot water to the energy utilization device. The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the present invention are shown by way of illustrative example.Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a systematic diagram showing a method of utilizing a thermal energy accumulator according to an embodiment of the present invention, the method being incorporated in system having a steam turbine power generating unit as a peak load power generating unit Fig. 2 is a graph illustrative of changes in temperature and pressure versus consumption of hot water in the accumulator shown in Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relationships between the temperature in the accumulator of Fig. 1 and the ratio in specific volume of saturated hot water to saturated steam and their enthalpy ratio Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relationship between the temperature in the accumulator of Fig. 1 and the energy ratio of saturated hot water to saturated steam Fig. 5 is a systematic diagram of a modified system according to the present invention with two flush tanks and a compressor combined together Fig. 6 is a graph illustrating a graph of entropy of the system shown in Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is a graph showing the relationship between the temperature and pressure of steam supplied in the system of Fig. 5 and the ratio of an amount of steam Gs generated to an initial amount of hot water stored Fig. 8 is a systematic diagram of a system according to another embodiment, in which a tank for flashing hot water at about atmospheric pressure and a compressor are combined together Fig. 9 is a graph of entropy of the system of Fig. 8 Fig. 10 is a systematic diagram of another modified system incorporating a multistage compressor Fig. 11 is a graph of entropy of the system illustrated in Fig. 10 Fig. 12 is a systematic diagram of a system according to still another embodiment of the invention, which utilizes low pressure steam as a supplementary medium for an accumulator Fig. 13 is a graph of entropy of the system shown in Fig. 12 Fig. 14 is a systematic diagram which is a modification of the system shown in Fig. 12 Fig. 15 is a systematic diagram of a modified system in which hot water is supplied from an accumulator directly to a total flow power generating unit and Fig. 16 is a systematic diagram of a system according to a modification in which water discharged from an energy utilization device is utilized as a supplementary medium for an accumulator.Description of the Preferred Embodiments Fig. 1 is illustrative of a method of utilizing a thermal energy accumulator in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The method is incorporated in a system including a steam turbine power generating unit 20 that can be employed as a peak load power generating unit. The power generating unit 20 has an accumulator 21 of a cylindrical closed structure which is horizontally elongated, there normally being hot water 22 and steam 23 coexisting together in the accumulator 21. The accumulator 21 has a steam supply inlet 21a supplied with high temperature steam through a valve 25 and a pipe 26 from a steam generator 27 such as a boiler.The accumulator 21 also has at its bottom a hot water outlet 21b coupled through a pipe 28 and a valve 29 to a steam inlet 31a of a flash tank 31 which serves as a steam separator. The flash tank 31 is capable of dividing the hot water 22 supplied via the steam inlet 31a from the accumulator 21 on opening of the valve 29 into warm water 32 and steam 33. The flash tank 31 has a steam outlet 31b connected by a pipe 35 to a steam turbine 36 and a warm water outlet 31c connected to a warm water tank 37. The steam turbine 36 is operatively connected to a power generator 38 rotatable with the steam turbine 36 for generating electric power, the steam turbine 36 having a steam discharge port 36a coupled to a warm water tank 39 through a condenser not shown . To the accumulator 21, there is connected a pressure fluid supplementing means such as a pipe 41 connected to a source of steam 27 and having a valve 40 for supplementing an amount of steam dependent on the hot water 22 which is taken out of the hot water outlet 21b.The pipe 41 also has a regulator valve 42 openable and closable on detection by a pressure gage 43 of the pressure in the accumulator 21. Operation of the power generating system thus constructed is as follows The steam from the steam source 27 is normally delivered to a main steam turbine not shown for power generation. During a low load interval such as nighttime, the valve 25 is opened to supply a portion of the steam from the steam source 27 via the pipe 6 to the accumulator 21 through the steam supply inlet 21a. The supplied steam is stored in the accumulator 21 as hot water 22 which is in saturated condition at the same temperature and pressure as those of the supplied steam. During a peak load period, for example, the valve 29 is opened to bring the accumulator 21 into communication with the flash tank 31, and the valve 40 in the pipe 41 is opened to bring the steam source 27 into communication with the flash tank 31, while the valve 25 is closed.As the steam is continuously supplied from the steam source 27, the main steam turbine continues to generate electric power, and at the same time the hot water 22 is taken out of the accumulator 21 and supplied to the flash tank 31 in which the delivered hot water 22 is expanded to a predetermined saturation pressure at a predetermined saturation temperature to produce steam, which is fed to the steam turbine 36. The supplied steam rotates the steam turbine 36 which in turn rotates the power generator 38 coupled therewith to generate electric power. The electric power thus generated by the power generator 38 is added to the electric power generated by the main steam turbine for thereby meeting the peak load.The exhaust steam which is discharged from the steam turbine 36 is converted by the condenser to water that is stored in the tank 39 and will be sent back to the steam source 27, if necessary. The warm water 32 left in the flash tank 31 after steam generation is discharged through the warm water outlet 31c into the warm water tank 37. The relationship between hot water consumption in the accumulator 21 and changes in the temperatures of the steam 23 and the hot water 22 in the accumulator 21 will be described with reference to Fig. 2 is comparison with a conventional steam extracting accumulator. Fig. 2 is a graph illustrative of the relationship between hot water consumption and temperature and pressure variations in the accumulator 21. The graph has a horizontal axis indicating the steam consumption rate t which is given as the ratio of an amount of steam generated to an initial amount of hot water, and a vertical axis indicative of the temperature C and the pressure ata within the accumulator 21. In this graph, the pressure and temperature characteristics are represented by a single curve as they correspond to each other.When the curve is to be regarded as a temperature dependent curve, the temperature scale on the vertical axis should be used, and when the curve is to be thought of as a pressure dependent curve, the pressure scale on the vertical axis should be employed. A curve Lo in the graph shows temperature variations in a conventional steam extracting accumulator, and curves L1, L2 show temperature variations in the hot water extracting accumulator 21 according to the present invention. The curve L1 is indicative of a mode of operation in which no steam is supplemented from the steam source 27 through the pipe 41 and the valves 40, 42, whereas the curve L2 2 indicates a moe of operation in which steam is supplemented from the steam source 27 via the pipe 41 and the valves 40, 42.The parameter is representative of the ratio of steam to hot water during an initial period in the accumulator 21. The curves L1, L2 are plotted under the condition in which the accumulator 21 has an initial temperature of 250 0C and 2 an initial pressure 40.6 Kg cm2 therein. Study of Fig. 2 clearly shows that for the curve LI0, consumption of about 30 of steam results in a temperature of lower than 0 100 C in the accumulator, as describe above, and for the curve L1, the temperature and pressure in the accumulator do not drop appreciable until the hot water is consumed by about 50E, and the temperature and pressure fall more gradually than the curve Lo when more than 50 of hot water is consumed. Therefore, the temperature and pressure drop is relatively small as the hot water consumption continues regardless of the fact that no steam is supplemented, so that the capacity of the accumulator can be utilized to a greater rate, and hence can be of a smaller magnitude. Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relationships between the temperature in the accumulator 21 and the ratio in specific volume of saturated hot water to saturated steam and their enthalpy ratio. The horizontal axis of the graph indicates the temperature OC in the accumulator 21 and the vertical axis indicates the ratio in specific volume of saturated hot water to saturated steam and their enthalpy ratio, the ratios being expressed by multiples of 1 that represents hot water.Fig. 4 is a graph illustrative of the relationship between the temperature in the accumulator 21 and the energy ratio of saturated hot water to saturated steam, the horizontal axis indicating the temperature OC in the accumulator 21 and the vertical axis the energy ratio of saturated hot water to saturated steam, the ratio being expressed by multiples of 1 which represents steam. In Fig. 3, for supplementing steam at the same temperature and pressure in order to obtain hot water at 2000C, for instance, the specific volume of the steam is 110 times that of the hot water, and hence an amount of steam having a weight and flow rate which is 1 100 of the hot water to be taken out of the accumulator 21 should be supplemented to maintain the pressure constant within the accumulator 21.Since the enthalpy ratio of the hot water and steam is 3.274 at 0 the temperature of 20 C, the energy supplied in the form of steam is 3.274 led 1 33.6 of the energy supplied in the form of hot water as illustrated in Fig. 4. The amount of steam generated in the flash tank 31 which is supplied with the hot water is dependent on conditions, but is normally 1 10 of that of hot water, and the ratio of the supplemented steam to the generated steam can be considered to be on the order of 1 100 1 10 1 10. With the embodiment shown in Fig. 1, the hot water or warm water which is discharged from the outlet 31c of the flash tank 31 is held at the same temperature as that of the steam taken out of the outlet 31b since the flash tank 31 is saturated therein. The steam used normally has a temperature of 100 0C or higher, and therefore the warm water or low temperature hot water as discharged from the outlet 31c still retains a considerably large thermal energy. A tank for storing the low pressure hot water should be in the form of a pressure tank, and the low pressure hot water stored in the pressure tank should not be discharged as it is. Fig. 5 is illustrative of a system designed with the foregoing problem in view according to another embodiment of the present invention. The system of Fig. 5 flashes hot water which has been discharged from an accumulator 21. Functionally identical parts shown inFig. 5 are denoted by identical reference characters inFig. 1. Passages for supplying steam to the accumulator 21 in Fig. 5 are the same as those shown in Fig. 1. For the sake of brevity, however, such passages are designed at 51, 52 which correspond respectively to the route having the valve 25 and the route having the valves 40, 42 as shown in Fig. 1. Hot water 21 taken out of a hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21 is fed through a valve 29 and a supply inlet 31a into a first flash tank 31.Low pressure hot water having a temperature of 120 for example, is discharged from an outlet 31c of the first flash tank 31, and led via a valve 58 and an inlet 60a into a second flash tank 60 when the valve 58 is opened.The low pressure hot water supplied into the second flash tank 60 is then flashed again, that is, separated into hot water 61 and steam 62 which are held substantially at atmospheric pressure or therebelow. The low pressure steam generated by the re flashing is of a temperature of 90 C, for example, and is fed through a steam outlet 60b to a compressor 65 over a pipe 62. The compressor 65 is of a known structure driven by a motor 66. The low pressure steam supplied from the second flash tank 60 is compressed by the compressor 65 to the same pressure 40 ata, for example as that of steam 33 which is discharged through a steam outlet 31b of the first flash tank 31.The compressed steam is fed out over a pipe 68, and added to the steam delivered out of the first flash tank 31 through a valve 69, the combined steam being fed over a pipe 35A to a steam turbine 36. The power required by the motor 66 for driving the compressor 65 is equal to an adiabatically compresion work. By the same principle as a heat pump, this power is much smaller than the amount of energy from the steam source. Where the steam which is taken out of the compressor 65 for use by the steam turbine does not need to be superheated steam, the hot water from the accumulator 21 may be supplied through a passage as shown by the dotted line in Fig. 5. More specifically, the hot water 22 discharged from the hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21 is led through a pipe 76 and a valve 77 to a mixer 78 disposed in the pipe 68 coupled to the outlet of the compressor 65. The hot water as fed through the valve 77 is flashed to slower the temperature of the same. Thus the superheating rate in the steam from the compressor 65 is controlled in the mixer 78.Exhaust water or warm water discharged out of an outlet 60c of the second flash tank 60 has a pressure lowered down to atmospheric pressure or below by the second flash tank 60, and hence has a temperature 900C, for example lower than the boiling point under normal pressure. The warm water is delivered by a pump 71 over a pipe 72 to a tank 73. The tank 73, which stores warm water at a temperature below the boiling point under normal pressure, may not be pressure resistant or otherwise specially designed.According to this embodiment, the low pressure hot water discharged from the first flash tank 31 is flashed again by the second flash tank 60 to generate warm water and steam, the latter being used again because of better thermal conductivity thereof than that of warm water. Correlated operations of the first and second flash tanks 31, 60 and the compressor 65 will be described in more detail with reference to the i S chart of Fig. 6.In Fig. 6, the curve indicates a saturation line x and the hot water 22 in the accumulator 21 is located at a point A where a P0 pressure line and the saturation line x intersect. When the hot water 22 is extracted and supplied to the flash tank 31, the hot water is expanded from the point A pressure P0 to a point B pressureP1 due to an isenthalpic change. The mixture of steam and water at the point B is separated in the flasher. The separated steam 33 is in a condition at an upper point Bs where the P1 pressure line and the saturation line x cross each other, and is supplied through the valve 69 to the steam utilizing installation 36. The separated hot water 32, on the other hand, is in a condition at a lower point Bw where the P1 pressure line and the saturation line x cross each other, and still retains reusable energy. When the hot water 32 is supplied to the second flash tank 60, it is flashed again and expanded from the point Bw pressure P1 to a point C pressure P2 due to an isenthalpy change. This re flasher separates the steam water mixture at the point C, and the separated steam 62 is in a condition at a point Cs. Though the steam 62 still retains thermal energy, its temperature and pressure are lower than those of supplied steam and hence the thermal energy thereof cannot be used as it is.Therefore, the steam 62 is led to the compressor 65 and compressed thereby. The steam at the point Cs is then brought to a condition at a point D where the steam is under the same pressure as the pressure P1 of the steam which is produced by the first flashing. The compressed steam is then mixed with the steam at the point Bs, and the mixture is supplied to the steam installation 36. The energy required for compressing the steam is small as indicated by Aicomp as compared with its condensating heat supplied heat . The low temperature warm water 61 separated by the second flash tank 60 is in a condition at a point Cw and delivered to the tank 73 for storage therein. The storage tank 73 is not required to be pressure resistant as the warm water 61 stored therein is of a low pressure.When the steam is brought from the point Cs to the point D by being compressed, the steam is converted into superheated steam. Since a large area of thermal conduction would be required for supplying such superheated steam, it is general to introduce water to lower the temperature of the superheated steam. The condition of the superheated steam is then shifted from the point D to the point Bs in which the steam is in a saturated condition. Fig. 7 is a graph having a horizontal axis 0 indicative of temperature T C and pressure P ata and a vertical axis indicating the ratio Gs Go of the amount of steam generated Gs to the initial amount of hot water stored with no steam Go. With a conventional steam extracting and supplying system having a characteristic curve Ls, T and P represent a temperature and a pressure when vaporization has been completed. According to the hot water extracting and supplying system of the invention having characteristic curves Lw, Lwl, Lw2. T and P represent a temperature and a pressure after the hot water has been flashed in the second flash tank 60. The accumulator 21 had an initial condition in which the temperature was 2120C and the pressure was 20.2 ata.The curve Ls is indicative of characteristics of the prior steam extracting system, whereas the curve Lw is indicative of characteristics of the steam supplementing and hot water extracting system, as shown in Fig. 1, according to the present invention. The curve Lwl represents characteristics employing the superheated steam compressed by the compressor 65 subsequent to the second flashing, and the curve Lw2 characteristics using the saturated steam which is compressed by the compressor 65 after the second flashing and mixed with hot water. It is apparent from Fig. 7 that when the temperature in the second flash tank 60 is 90 0C and the pressure therein is 0.715 ata, the steam quantity generated is 26 30 of the hot water stored for any steam temperature.The amount of steam generated is governed by the flashing pressure in the second flash tank 60, the amount of steam being increased as the pressure becomes lower. However, the amount of steam generated should be determined to serve specific purposes as the pressure ratio and handing capacity of the compressor 65 also become larger as the amount of steam is increased. Since the exhaust water is discharged at a low pressure approximating atmospheric pressure after multistage flashing, the warm water having a temperature below the boiling point under normal pressure can be stored, and the storage tank may be of a low pressure storage construction which saves the cost of equipment and facilitates maintenance. With the arrangement of Fig. 5, the steam taken out approximately under atmospheric pressure in the multiflashing process is compressed by the compressor up to an increased pressure, so that there will be generated steam at desired temperature and pressure in constant condition that are identical with or higher than those of the steam supplied from the steam source. This compressed steam can thus be utilized effectively as a thermal energy source.By adding a portion of the hot water flowing through the system to the steam after having been compressed, the amount of steam supplied can be increased to improve the rate of effective utilization of thermal energy, and the dryness fraction and the degree of superheating can be adjusted as desired to meet appropriately conditions in which the steam is used. Fig. 8 is illustrative of a system according to still another embodiment in which hot water 22 from an accumulator 21 is processed by a combination of a flash tank and a compressor to increase the amount of steam available. Thermal energy accumulators have a merit in that in principle they have a high rate of energy retention. However, conventional systems in which steam is taken out of the accumulator have the following problems The first problem is that the temperature and pressure of the steam discharged from the accumulator and flashed are lower than those of an energy source such as steam supplied to the accumulator. The second shortcoming is that since the steam stored in the accumulator is saturated steam, a portion of the steam tends to bel4ondensed resulting in an energy loss where the distance over which the steam is transported is long.Furthermore, the conventional system flashes hot water to the temperature and pressure at which the steam is supplied, and hence the residual steam also has the same temperature and pressure and still retains a large energy. Another problem is that the amount of steam generated is limited by the temperature and pressure at which the steam is supplied. Fig. 8 illustrates a system designed to overcome the foregoing problems with the conventional systems. Hot water 22 discharged from an accumulator 21 is fed to an inlet 120a of a flash tank 120 through a pipe 28 and a valve 29. The flash tank 120 flashes the supplied hot water 22 to a pressure lower than the pressure of the supplied steam, for example a pressure close to atmospheric pressure. Separated steam 121 is taken out of a steam outlet 120b, and supplied through a pipe 123 to a steam compressor 124 which is of a known structure deiven by a motor 125. The steam compressed by the compressor 124 is delivered over a pipe 126 to a mixer 127, which is also injected a portion of the hot water 22 from the accumulator 21 via the pipe 18, a pipe 128, a pump 129, and a valve 130. The mixer 127 has a function to adjust the degree of superheating of the compressed steam by introducing the hot water directly from the accumulator 21 or hot water of a lower temperature obtained through flashing the hot water from the accumulator 21, into the compressed steam. Warm water 122 from the flash tank 120 is led to a tank 73 through a pump 71 and a pipe 73. This arrangement can increase the ratio of the amount of steam generated to the storage capacity of the accumulator 21. The obtained steam is of constant temperature and pressure as described with reference to the foregoing embodiments, and its temperature and pressure can be established as desired by changing the compression ratio of the compressor 124 to meet the demands on the device utilized. With conventional systems in which steam taken out of the accumulator 21 is used as it is, only steam having a temperature which is substantially lower than the temperature 200 C, for example of the steam from the steam source can be supplied. According to the system of the above embodiment, steam having a temperature higher than that of the steam from the steam source can be generated in a large quantity. The operations of the flash tank 120 and the steam compressor 124 illustrated in Fig. 8 will be described in more detail with reference to Fig. 9 which is an entropy diagram. In Fig. 9, a point A indicates a condition in the accumulator 21, and a curve the pressure therein. When the hot water is extracted from the accumulator 21 and supplied to the flash tank 120, the hot water is expanded from the point A pressure PA to a point B pressure B due to an isenthalpy change. These are separated in the tank. The separated steam is then supplied to the steam compressor 124, which compresses the steam by performing a work expressed bydic Kcal Kg. The steam which has a pressure of Ps is supplied to a steam utilizing installation. Thus, the steam having temperature and pressure equal to or higher than those of the steam supplied from the steam source can be fed to the energy utilization device. This compressor work Aic is recovered on the steam utilization and very small comparing to utilization energy. Where the compressor 65 shown in Fig. 8 is to compress steam of a pressure approximating atmospheric pressure to high pressure steam, such as 40 Kg cm2, the dimensions of inlet vanes of the compressor should be much smaller than those of outlet vanes if the compression ratio is large. This is not desirable on view point of compressory design. Further, the compressor becomes large in size and expensive in costs. Compression of the low pressure steam into the high pressure steam necessitates a relatively large amount of energy. Fig. 10 shows a system revised to solve the above problems. Identical parts in Fig. 10 are denoted by identical reference characters in Fig. 5. In Fig. 10, a compressor is of a multistage construction in which steams of different pressures generated by flashing hot water from an accumulator in multiple steps are introduced into the compressor at its different stages for compression.More specifically, hot water 22 discharged from a hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21 is delivered through a pipe 28 and a valve 29 into a first flash tank 31 in which the supplied hot water is flashed, a process which is the same as that in Fig. 5. Low pressure hot water 32 separated by the flash tank 31 is supplied via a pipe 57 into a second flash tank 60, in which the hot water is flashed again for steam separation. Warm water flashed nearly under atmospheric pressure in the second flash tank 60 is delivered to a tank 73 through a pump 71 over a pipe 72. Steams of varying pressures which are taken out of steam outlets of the first and second flash tanks 31, 60 are supplied to a known multistage compressor 80 which is driven by a motor 81.The steam of the lowest pressure that is supplied from the second flash tank 60 is fed over a line 83 into a front stage of the compressor 80 via a steam inlet 80a, while the steam of a relatively high pressure which is picked up from the first flash tank 31 is supplied over a pipe 85 to a steam inlet 80b at an intermediate stage of the compressor 80. The compressor 80 has an outlet 80c connected through a pipe 80 to a mixer 92, to which the hot water 22 is supplied via the pipe 28 connected to the hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21, a pipe 94, a valve 95, a pump 96, and a valve 97. A pipe 100 is coupled to the intermediate stage of the compressor 80 as an intercooling mean and has a mixer 101 coupled via a valve 102 in front of the valve 97 to inject hot water. Operation of the foregoing arrangement is as follows The hot water taken out of the accumultor 21 is flashed at predetermined saturation temperature and pressure in the first flash tank 31 for steam separation.The low pressure hot water 32 from the first flash tank 31 is led to the second flash tank 60, in which the hot water 32 is flashed again nearly under atmospheric pressure.The steams 33, 62 generated by the first and second flash tanks 31, 60 are fed to the compressor 80 and compressed therein at the corresponding stages. The compressed and pressurized steams are delivered over the pipe 90 to the mixer 92. A portion of the hot water 22 from the accumulator 21 is fed through the valves 95, 97 to the mixer 92, in which the hot water is mixed with the steam supplied from the compressor 80 to adjust the degree of superheating of the supplied steam. By opening the valve 102, a portion of the hot water 22 is mixed by the mixer 101 with the steam which circulates through the pipe 100 and intercooled to adjust temperature of the steam which is being compressed. The operations of the flash tanks 31, 60 and the compressor 80 will be described in further detail with reference to the enthalpy diagram of Fig. 11.In Fig. 11, a point A is indicative of a condition in the accumulator 21, and a curve Po of the pressure in the accumulator 21. When the hot water 22 is extracted and supplied to the first flash tank 31, it is expanded from the point A pressure Po to a point B pressure P1 due to an isenthalpy change. The steam water mixture at the point B is separated by flashing into steam and hot water, which is in a condition at a point Bw. When the hot water is supplied to the second flash tank 60, it is flashed again and expanded from the point Bw pressure P1 to a point CII pressure P2 due to an isenthalpy change.The steam 33 separated after the first flashing is in a condition at a point Bs, and the steam 62 separated after the second flashing is in a condition at a point Cs.These steams are supplied to the medium and low pressure stages 80b, 80a, respectively, in the compressor 80. The steam in the condition at the point Cs is intercoded when it is compressed to a condition at a point BII and is brought into the condition at the point Bs and joins with the firstly flashed steam at same condition. Continued compression causes the steam to assume a condition at a point D11 and then to be cooled so as to be in a condition at a point Ds. The energy required for the steam compression is the sum of dicomp 1 and dicomp 2, which is smaller than the energy Aicomp I required when the steam is not cooled. Fig. 12 shows another embodiment of combination of steam accumulator and compressor and Fig. 14 illustrates a modification of the embodiment of Fig. 12.Where thermal energy source supplied to the accumulator 21 is of low pressure, 100 through 150 0C, for example , and only steam of a lower temperature can be produced by flashing the hot water stored in the accumulator 21 and the amount of steam is relatively small. An attempt to store the same amount of energy as that of higher temperature would result in a larger size accumulator which would have a much lower heat storage rate. The above difficulty can be eliminated by the systems illustrated in Figs. 12 through 14. Fig. 12 shows a system of the invention which is incorporated in a peak load power generating unit. The system 140 has an accumulator 21 according to the present invention to which is connected one end of a pipe 144 having a valve 143. A steam compressor 145 is driven by a motor 146 coupled directly therewith, and has a higher pressure outlet connected to the other end of the pipe 144 and a lower pressure inlet connected to an end of a pipe 147, the other end of which is coupled to a steam source. Steam supplied from the boiler to the lower pressure inlet of the steam compressor 145 is compressed thereby, and the compressed steam is supplied through the pipe 144 to the accumulator 21, in which thermal energy of the supplied steam 23 and hot water 22 of the same temperature and pressure as those of the steam 23 are stored as hot water 23 in a saturated condition.The accumulator 21 includes a bottom having a hot water outlet 21b located at a lower layer of the hot water 22 and coupled through a pipe 28 and a valve 29 to an inlet 120a of a flash tank 120. The flash tank 20 is capable of separating the hot water extracted and delivered from the accumulator 21 upon opening of the valve 29 into low pressure hot water 122 and steam 121. The flash tank 120 has a hot water outlet 120c coupled via a pump 71 and a pipe 72 to a water storage tank 73 and a steam outlet 120b connected to one end of a pipe 123, the other end thereof being joined to a steam utilizing installation not illustrated . In operation, when the valve 143 and a valve not shown in the pipe 147 are opened, the steam is supplied to the inlet of the steam compressor 145 and compressed thereof until the steam will have a predetemined higher pressure and temperature. The steam is then supplied to the inlet 21a of the accumulator 21 through the pipe 144.The accumulator 21 now stores the hot water 22. When it is desired to utilize the thermal energy in the accumulator 21 to meet a peak load, for instance, the valve 29 is opened to bring the accumulator 21 and the flash tank 120 into communication with each other, whereupon the hot water 22 is extracted from the accumulator 21 and supplied to the flash tank 120. The hot water 22 fed to the flash tank 120 is then expanded to predetermined saturation temperature and pressure to generate steam 121. The flashed steam 121 is supplied through the pipe 123 to the steam utilizing installation.The hot water 122 in the flash tank 120 is transported through the pump 21 over the pipe 72 to the storage tank 73 and is stored therein. Fig. 13 is a graph showing the enthalpy for saturated steam until the latter is supplied from the steam source to the steam turbine. A curve PA in the graph is indicative of the pressure of the steam supplied from the steam source to the steam compressor 145. When the steam compressor 145 compresses the steam, it performs a work expressed by Z ic Kcal Kg, and the steam now has a pressure of Ps and is supplied to the accumulator 21. The hot water 22 in the accumulator 21 is in a condition at a point A pressure Ps and possible to be of higher temperature than that of the supplied steam.Since the steam has been compressed in advance by the steam compressor 145 to have a higher pressure, the steam turbine is supplied with steam having pressure and pressure equal to or higher than those of the steam supplied from the steam source regardless of the fact that the steam pressure is lowered by the expansion in the flash tank 120. With this arrangement, low pressure steam is compressed and then stored in the accumulator 21 at increased pressure and temperature, so that the rate of steam utilization can be rendered higher than would be if low pressure steam would be stored as it is in the accumulator 21. Although the steam compression requires a certain amount of energy consumption, it will be recovered on steam utilizing and much smaller than the energy required to generate steam needed to meet the peak load. Fig. 14 shows a modification of the system illustrated in Fig. 12 in the case which the energy source is warm or hot water. According to the system of Fig. 14, the compressor 145 is preceded by a flash tank 150 having a steam outlet 150b coupled by a pipe 154 to the steam compressor 145. To the flash tank 150, there is supplied hot water from an energy source not shown over a pipe 155. In the flash tank 150, the supplied hot water is expanded and separated into hot water 151 and steam 152, the latter being fed to the steam compressor 145 through the steam outlet 150b. The water 151 is stored into a storage tank 158 through a pipe 156. The system otherwise operates in the same manner as that of the system of Fig.12. With this arrangement, the steam turbine can be supplied with steam of high temperature and pressure in the case where energy is supplied in the form of hot water from the energy source. According to still another embodiment shown inFig. 15, a hot water turbine is rotated by hot water supplied from an accumulator, and a steam turbine is rotated by steam separated from the hot water by the hot water turbine, the turbines being coupled together for jointly generating electric power. Identical parts shown in Fig. 15 are denoted by identical reference characters in Fig. 1. The hot water 22 stored in the accumulator 21 is led to the hot water turbine 180 through a hot water outlet 21b, a pipe 28 and a valve 29. The hot water turbine 180 is of a known arrangement which is capable of separating the hot water 22 supplied from the accumulator 21 through an inlet 130a into medium temperature warm water and steam.The hot water turbine 180 has a steam outlet 180b connected by a pipe 182 to a steam inlet 183a of the steam turbine 183, and a medium temperature warm water outlet 180c connected to a warm water storage tank not shown . A power generator 185 is coupled to the steam turbine 183 which is connected to the hot water turbine 130. The power generator 185 thus effects total flow power generation by means of the steam turbine 183 and the hot water turbine 180 which are interconnected. The steam turbine 183 has a steam outlet 183b connected to a warm water storage tank via a condenser not shown . The accumulator 21 has an inlet 21a to which is connected a steam source 27 serving as a pressure fluid supplementing means through a valve 25 over a piep 26 for supplementing the amount of steam which is dependent on the amount of hot water 22 taken out of the hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21. A pipe 41 has therein a regulator valve 42 that can be opened and closed in response to detection by a detector 43 of the pressure within the accumulator 21. The power generating system of the foregoing construction will operate as follows When necessary, the valve 25 is opened to allow steam to be supplied from the steam source 27 into the accumulator 21 through the steam inlet 21a, so that steam and hot water at the same temperature and pressure are stored in the accumulator 21. On demand, the valve 29 is opened to communicate the accumulator 21 with the hot water turbine 180, the valve 40 in the pipe 41 for supplementing steam to the accumulator 21 is opened to provide communication between the steam source 27 and the accumulator 21, and the valve 25 for storing hot water is closed.When steam is continuously fed through the pipe 41 into the accumulator 21, the hot water 22 is taken out of the accumulator 21 and fed into the hot water turbine 130 by which the supplied hot water is divided into medium temperature warm water and steam, the latter being supplied to the steam turbine 183. Rotation of the steam turbine 183 by the supplied steam and rotation of the hot water turbine 180 jointly cause the power generator 185 to be rotated for total flow power generation. The steam turbine 186 discharges exhaust steam that is converted by the condenser to water, which may be fed to a boiler. The warm water separated from the hot water by the hot water turbine 180 is discharged via the warm water outlet 180c, and may be fed to a boiler or serve as a cooling source which is employed when storing steam in the accumulator 21.When the hot water 22 is discharged from the accumulator 21, the temperature and pressure in the accumulator 21 tend to drop. However, the accumulator 21 is supplied with steam in an amount dependent on the amount of hot water discharged and adjusted by the regulator valve 43 from the steam source over the pipe 41, with the result that the hot water and the steam in the accumulator 12 will be maintained at constant temperature and pressure at all times. The temperature and pressure in the accumulator 21 tend to fall because of vaporization to fill the space in the accumulator with steam as the hot water is consumed. Since the amount of hot water consumed is smaller than would be the amount of steam taken out of the accumulator 21 in a conventional manner, steam may be supplemented in a smaller amount. With the foregoing construction, the hot water outlet of the accumulator for storing thermal energy is connected to the hot water turbine the steam outlet of which is coupled to the steam turbine, so that the hot water turbine rotated by the hot water taken out of the accumulator and the steam turbine rotated by the steam separated from the hot water by the hot water turbine cooperate with each other in generating electric powerThe accumulator is equipped with a pressure supplementing means for compensating for a drop in pressure and temperature in the accumulator due to hot water consumption, for thereby enabling the accumulator to generate hot water and steam substantially under constant conditions at all times. This arrangement simplifies the construction of the turbines and increases the efficiency thereof.The power generating system can be used as an auxiliary peak power generating means for generating steam in a volume which is several to several hundred times larger than supplemented steam during peak load times, an arrangement which is quite efficient in operation. Fig. 16 is illustrative of a hot water storage power generating system according to a still further embodiment of the invention in which hot water produced by heating waste heat from equipment is stored and supplied to a power generating unit for electric power generation.In Fig. 16, pipes 201, 202, 203 constitute a warm water circulation passage network having an exhaust gas economizer 204 serving as a warm water heater, a steam drum or flash tank 205 serving as a steam generator, and a feed water heater 106, the pipe 202 including a circulation pump 207 for circulating warm water through the warm water circulation passage network. A warm water storage tank 208 serves to store warm water 109 discharged from a power generating unit 220. The warm water tank 208 and the steam drum 205 are interconnected by a pipe 210 passing through the feed water heater 206 and having a feed pump 211. The exhaust gas economizer 204 is connected to a waste heat discharger of an apparatus which is located exteriorly of the power generating system.The warm water 209 is heated by exhaust gas into hot water which is led through a hot water inlet 205a into the steam drum 205, which can perform a function to separate the supplied hot water into steam and warm water that is circulated to the feed water heater 206. The steam drum 205 has a steam outlet 205b connected through a pipe 214 to an accumulator 21. The feed water heater 206 is capable of preheating the warm water supplied through the pipe 210 to the steam drum 205. The pipe 210 has, outside of the feed water heater 206, a feed water regulator valve 215 for opening and closing the passage through the pipe 210 in response to detection by a detector 216 of the pressure in the steam drum 205. The accumulator 21 is in the form of a closed cylinder as with the accumulators according to the preceding embodiments, and is coupled by the pipe 214 to the steam drum 205 and by a pipe 217 to the exhaust gas economizer 104. The pipe 217 has a regulator valve 218 for opening and closing the pipe 217 in response to detection of the temperature of the hot water flowing therethrough. The pipe 214 includes a pair of valves 220, 221 which are selectively openable and closable to provide either a steam passage directly leading to the accumulator 21 or a steam passage leading to a mixer 219 in the pipe 217 in which the steam is mixed with hot water and then supplied to the accumulator 21. The power generating unit 220 is connected by a pipe 223 to a hot water outlet 21b of the accumulator 21.The power generating unit 220 comprises a hot water turbine 180 for separating hot water into steam and medium temperature warm water, a steam turbine 183 coupled by a pipe 182 to the hot water turbine 180, and a power generator 185 coupled to the steam turbine 183, and a condenser 229 coupled to an outlet 183b of the steam turbine 183 for converting exhaust steam therefrom into water. The condenser 229 is connected to the warm water storage tank 208 through a pump 232 over a pipe 230, to which is coupled an outlet 180c of the hot water turbine 180 via a pump 23. Operation of the hot water storage power generating system thus constructed will be described.When the power generating system starts to operate with the warm water 209 stored in the warm water storage tank 208, the warm water 209 is fed by the feed pump 211 through the pipe 210 to the steam drum 205 and then is circulated by the circulation pump 207 through the pipe 202, the feed water heater 206, the pipe 201, the exhaust gas economizer 204, and the pipe 203. Since a high temperature exhaust gas is led from the exterior apparatus into the exhaust gas economizer 204, the circulating warm water is gradually heated by the exhaust gas into hot water. The warm water 209 in the pipe 210 extending through the feed water heater 206 is preheated by the circulating hot water and supplied to the steam drum 205. When the temperature of the hot water reaches a predetermined level, the regulator valve 218 detects the temperaure to thereby open the hot water passage through the pipe 217, whereupon the hot water is supplied into the accumulator 21 while being mixed by the mixer 219 with steam supplied from the steam outlet 205b of the steam drum 205 through the pipe 214 on opening of the valve 220. Therefore, hot water as supplied to the accumulator 21 has a temperature adjusted to a preset level. When the valve 29 is opened, the hot water is supplied from the accumulator 212 into the hot water turbine 180 in which the hot water is separated into steam and medium temperature warm water. The steam is supplied through the pipe 182 to the steam turbine 183, whereas the medium temperature warm water is pressurized by the pump 233 and delivered to the pipe 230.The steam turbine 183 is rotated by the supplied steam to rotate the power generator 185 coupled therewith for electric power generation. Exhaust steam from the steam trubine 183 is converted by the condenser 229 into water, which is sent by the pump 232 into the pipe 230. The water is mixed with the medium temperature warm water from the hot water turbine 180, and the mixed warm water is stored in the warm water storage tank 208. The supply of the wam water 209 to the steam drum 205 is controlled by the feed water regulator valve 105. During operation of the power generating system, the temperature and pressure in the accumulator 21 tend to drop as the hot water 22 is taken out of the accumulator 21. However, the accumulator 21 is supplied with steam dependent on the amount of hot water discharged therefrom by closing the valve 220 and opening the valve 221, so that the hot water and steam in the accumulator 21 can always be maintained at constant temperaure and pressure.The tendency for the temperature and pressure to drop in the accumulator 21 is occasioned by vaporization to fill the space in the accumulator with steam as the hot water is consumed. Since the temperature and pressure drop is small as compared with that experienced when steam is taken out of the accumulator 21, steam may continuously be supplemented in a relatively small quantity. While in the above embodiment steam has been described as being a pressure fluid supplied when hot water is consumed by the accumulator 21, the pressure fluid may comprise compressed air or compressed nitrogen.The power generating system may be used not only for meeting peak loads, but also for generating electric power in temporary need and for averaging differences in time of power required by a plant and steam needed for a work.The thermal energy accumulator according to the present invention may not only be combined with the turbine of a power generating unit, but may be associated with the turbine of a general purpose power drive unit for a compressor or a pump. The system may be coupled between a process device and a steam source in a chemical plant which directly uses steam taken out without the intermediary of a turbine. The present invention can be utilized for installations without converting hot water taken out from the accumulator into steam. Such system may be used for an air heater and comprises an accumulator for storing as hot water steam supplied from an energy source. A hot water outlet of the accumulator is coupled directly to a heater unit having an air circulation pipe. Air flowing through the heater unit is heated by the heat of hot water which is radiated from fins of the pipe, and the hot water after it has radiated heat is discharged out of the system. Changes in the temperature and pressure in the accumulator are as illustrated in Figs. 2, 3 and 4. Another system used with an evaporator and including an accumulator having a hot water outlet coupled directly to an evaporator for storing a working fluid supplied via a pipe. The working fluid in the evaporator is heated by the heat of hot water radiated from fins of the pipe, and the hot water after it has radiated heat is discharged out of the system. Changes in the temperature and pressure in the accumulator are as illustrated inFigs. 2, 3 and 4. With the above arrangements, temperature and pressure changes can be reduced or eliminated by taking the hot water out of the accumulator, an advantage of the present invention, and the hot water can be supplied at a constant temperature. While in the previous two embodiments the accumulator is connected to the heater unit or the evaporator, the system of the invention may be employed in the following applications In direct heating uses, the system may be used in agricultural and fishery applications for heating hothouses, soils, and water for rearing purposes, and in other applications for drying foodstuffs, wood, and granules, or with concentrators, besides air heaters and reactors. The hot water may be used in a hot water supply system. In indirect heating applications in which a medium is heated, the system may be employed with an air cooler in which a medium is heated in a compression or absorption refrigeration cycle, or with power generators using organic mediums such as Freon. Although certain preferred embodiments have been shown and described, it should be understood that many changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the appended claims.