# METHOD FOR DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN COMPLEX CHARACTER SETS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Unterscheiden zwischen einer Mehrzahl von unterschiedlichen, komplexen, handgeschriebenen Zeichen Sets in einem Dateneingabesystem 10 ,

## Description
This invention relates to a method for distinguishing between at least two different complex handwritten character sets, including Chinese characters Kanji , Hiragana characters and Katakana characters. The recognition of complex characters has been pursued with limited success for many years. Various recognition schemes have been reported for hand registered characters. Schemes are typically based on spatial and certain limited shape characteristics of the strokes. One of the problems has been the differentiation between characters of different character sets. For example, in the Kanji system there are approximately 10,000 distinguishable characters in use, representing various syllables, words, phrases and concepts. Other character systems are known which are phonetic in nature. Examples are the Hiragana and the Katakana, which have considerably smaller character sets. Heretofore no one has reported an economical and effective automatic character recognition scheme whereby the character sets can be distinguished from one another. Various methods for character recognition have been reported in the literature. Known systems have attempted to categorize characters on the basis of a general data base containing all possible characters. Due to the large potential data base, such schemes are typically expensive, cumbersome and slow. Commercially viable systems are heretofore unknown. From GB A 1 337 406 a method for distinguishing among a plurality of different non complex handwritten character sets in a character recognition environment employing a character entering means in the form of a data carrier or original source document is known. Said character entering means comprises a plurality of penta blocks or regions, each of said penta blocks including a plurality of duo spaces or areas, each of said duo spaces being assigned to contain one of two possible digits so that five character sets each consisting of two digits cover the ten digits 0 to 9. Said method comprises the steps of In the Patents Abstracts of Japan, Vol. 6, No. 168 P 139 1046 , 2 September 1982, plus JP A 5785179 an optical character reading method to improve the reading accuracy is shown, by deciding a subset from a result of recognition by a recognition dictionary, to every character string partitioned by a blank or a specific symbol in a read field, and recognizing the character string again by use of a recognition dictionary containing said subset only. These approaches of the prior art are not directed to a method for distinguishing between complex hand written character sets. According to the invention, as defined in claim 1, in a system employing a spatial stroke recognition means such as an x y tablet, a method is provided for distinguishing between different sets of handwritten characters whereby characters of a first character set are registered in a first area of the tablet and characters of a second character set are registered in a second area of the tablet. In a particular embodiment, the second area is totally contained within the first area so that characters of different character sets can be written in the same general position but can be distinguished by overall size. This invention permits automatic recognition of character sets, thereby reducing the searching and sorting requirements of mixed character set data input, particularly in Chinese and Japanese writing systems. The invention is useful in data input, word processing, and data processing in general and as a teaching aid for the teaching of writing. The invention will be better understood upon reference to the following detailed description in connection with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a block diagram of a system adapted to employ the inventive method. Fig. 2 is a diagram of a tablet face illustrating an embodiment of the invention. Turning to Fig. 1 there is shown a block diagram of a generalized data input system 10 adapted to employ the method according to the invention. The system 10 includes a registration means such as an x y tablet 12 of conventional design which is for example responsive to pressure applied on a face 14 to generate output signals representative of the location of a registration instrument within a field on the face 14. Output signals are provided to a character set discriminator 16 whose function is to distinguish among the character sets expected to be employed with the x y tablet 12. According to the invention, discrimination among different character sets is determined by examination of the size or location of each cipher, as hereinafter explained. Signals recognized as representative of a first character set are routed to a first character set processor 18, wherein is located all of the functions necessary for recognition and reproduction of data employing the first character set. Similarly, signals recognized as representative of characters of a second type are routed to a second character set processor 20. Should further character sets be employed, the system may be expanded to include three or more character set processors. The processed output information, generally in the form of display generating signals, is routed to a common output device, such as a CRT display 22 or a data utilization system. Turning to Fig. 2, there is shown a diagram 124 for a tablet face useful for illustrating a method according to one embodiment of the invention. Face 124 comprises a grid having generally square regions A and subregions or areas B, C, D and E wholly contained within the regions A. Two to five different character sets may be recognized by data input location by use of such a grid organization. For example, section A region and area may be reserved for Kanji, section A being defined as any combination of at least two subsections contained therein, as illustrated by the characters 30 and 32. Area E may be reserved for Katakana or the like, as illustrated by characters 34, 36 and 38. Area B may be reserved for Arabic style numerals as well as Latin and Greek characters, as illustrated by characters 40 and 42. Each region A is reserved for one character. If only one area is employed, then the character set discriminator 16 Fig. 1 can readily recognize that the character employed is not Kanji. Similarly, if a particular area is employed, the choice of area indicates to the character set discriminator 16 which character set is intended. The character set discriminator 16 may be readily implemented by any means for recognizing selected addresses within a two dimensional array, since the output of an x y tablet is a set of recognizable addresses. The face 14 of the tablet 12 may be provided with a visible background whereby a user can recognize regions and subregions. Characters may be written in a reasonably natural style with adaptation of size and character position as required by the selected face layout. For example, the subregions of each region A may be selected such that a user registers non Kanji characters in the center of the regions A. Since non Kanji characters are generally less complex, writing style is easily adapted to the smaller size of the defined subregions or areas. The invention has now been explained with reference to a specific embodiment. Other embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in this art in light of this disclosure. It is therefore not intended that this invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.