# Building or partitioning systems including frames for door sets or glazing panels.

## Abstract
A building or partitioning system in which door sets or glazing ponds including one or more panes of glass 40 com prise a frame 35 around which are secured spaced pairs of metal clips 42 over which glazing beads 39 fit to define a channel receiving a peripheral edge portion of the pane. The metal clips 42 are secured to the frame 35 by tabs 44 which are pressed out from the metal forming the clips. A sealant may be applied between the glazing beads and the glass. This is destroyed by fire but the pane of glass will remain intact to preserve the fire resistant properties of the system.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A building or partitioning system of the kind including door sets or glazing ponds comprising one or more panes of glass and a frame for each of the said panes characterised by spaced pairs of resilient metal clips 42 arranged at intervals around each frame 35 and metal glazing beads 39 which fit over the clips to define a channel for receiving a peripheral edge portion of the pane of glass 40 . 2. A system according to Claim 1 characterised in that each resilient clip 42 is secured to the frame 35 by tabs 44 which are pressed from the metal forming the clip 42 . 3. A system according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the blazing beads 39 are generally C shaped in cross section, and fit over the clips 42 such that the clips extend into the interior of the glazing beads 39 . 4. 4 system according to a ly one of Claims 1 to 3 characterised in that a sealant is applied between the glazing beads and the pane of glass. 5. A building or partitioning system constructed and arranged substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

## Description
Building or Partitionin Systems This invention relates to building or partitioning systems or the like and more particularly to door sets and glazing ponds including one or more panes of glass. In existing building or partitioning systems it is generally the glazing panel which offers the lowest resistance to fire. Often the glass is mounted by means of P.V.C or other plastics material beads and fittings which deteriorate and burn after only a short exposure to intense heat. Even some aluminium fittings have proved unsatisfactory. What we now propose is a building or partitioning system in which door sets or glazing ponds including one or more panes of glass comprise a frame, spaced pairs of resilient metal clips arranged at intervals around the frame, and metal beads which fit over the clips to define a channel Cor receiving a peripheral edge portion of a pane of glass. PreSerably, the clips are secured to the frame by tabs which are pressed from the metal forming the clip. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with referex e to the accompanying drawings o which Figure 1 is a fragmentary view of a section of a partition including a glazing pond Figure 2 is a perspective view generally on arrow A in Figure 1 Figure 3 is a perspective view of a resilient metal bead clip and Figure 4 is a cross section showing the manner in which glazing beads are arranged for holding a pane of glass. Thie partition has vertical studs 10 one shown secured at intervals in a base channel 12 their upper ends 14 being connected to a head channel 16 by stud extending brackets 18 affording limited adjustment of the height of the partition. Panels 20 of plasterboard or other suitable material are clamped to the vertical studs 10 by battens 22 in the form of shallow channel sections over which cover strips 24 are fitted to conceal the clamping screws 26. The cover strip 24 is cut away for clarity at the bottom of Figure 1. At intervals along the foot of the partition are clips 28 carrying a skirting 29 extruded P.V.C. or other plastics material. When a glazing pond is required a horizontal stud 30 is secured between adjacent vertical studs 10 one shown by stud angle brackets 34 and a rectangular frame 35 is built by horizontal and vertical glazing spacers 36 which are secured to this respective studs 30 and 10 but extend beyond the edges thereof so as to bridge the full width of the partition including the thickness o two plasterboard panels 20 and the stud 10 or 30 therebetween. A facing is provided by further cover strips or glazing channels 38. A pane of glass 40 is mounted in the frame 35 by means of metal e.g. aluminium glazing beads 39 held by pairs of spaced resilient metal glazing bead clips 42 secured at intervals along the horizontal and vertical glazing channels. For ease of construction the clips 42 are not fitted with screws or bolts but have tabs 44 pressed out of the metal into holes in the glazing channels. The metal glazing beads themselves are generally C shaped in cross section and fit over the clips as shown, to define therebetween a space receiving a peripheral edge portion of a pane of glass. If desired a P.V.C. sealant possibly in the form of a tape commonly referred to as a self extinguishing tape to ASTM.D l692 , may be used to seal between the glazing beads and the glass. The sealant will deteriorate or disintegrate in the event of a fire but the pane itself will remain intact hence preserving the fire resistant properties of the partition.