# NEW PHARMACOLOGICALLY ACTIVE PYRAZOLOPYRIDINES

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention is directed to a class of pharmacologically active 4,7 dihydropyrazolo 3,4 b pyridines of formula wherein EP A 107619 filed on 3 October 1983, published on 2 May 1984, and designating the following countries BE, CH, DE, FR, IT, LI, NL and SE describes pharmacologically active 4,7 dihydropyrazolo 3,4 b pyridines of formula wherein X and X¹ each is hydrogen, nitro or halogen which may be located at the position or positions 2, 3, and or 6 R¹ is C₁ C₄ alkyl R² is hydrogen, C₁ C₄ alkyl, C₄ C₆ cycloalkyl or phenyl R³ is hydrogen, C₁ C₈ straight or branched chain alkyl, or C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl which may be substituted by C₁ C₃ alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted phenyl, C₇ C₉ aralkyl, C₁ C₄ alkoxycarbonyl, or 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic group containing an oxygen or nitrogen, and their acid additions salts. The same class of compounds is described also in GB A 2 128 186 filed on 19 September 1983 and published on 26 April 1984. C₁ C₆ alkyl groups, as defined in the present application, include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, pentyl, hexyl, and the like. C₃ C₇ cycloalkyl groups, are cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and cycloheptyl groups. C₁ C₆ alkoxy groups include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy, pentoxy, and hexoxy groups. C₁ C₄ alkyl groups and C₁ C₄ alkoxy groups are groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, inclusive, which are included in the above definition of C₁ C₆ alkyl groups and C₁ C₆ alkoxy groups, respectively. The term halo represents halogen atoms selected from chloro, bromo, and fluoro, while halo C₁ C₄ alkyl groups are halogenalkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms inclusive, wherein some or all the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms. Representative examples of halo C₁ C₄ alkyl groups are trifluoromethyl, chlorodifluoromethyl, bromochlorofluoromethyl, trichloromethyl, 1,1 dichloroethyl 1,2 dichloroethyl, 1 chloro 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl, and the like. Physiologically acceptable salts are pharmaceutically acceptable salts wherein the whole toxicity of the compound is not increased compared with the non salt. These acid addition salts are obtained by treating compounds of the above formula I with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. Representative examples of acids suitable for the formation of physiologically acceptable salts are hydrohalide, sulfuric, phosphoric, and nitric acids aliphatic, alicyclic, aromatic or heterocyclic carboxylic or sulphonic acids, such as formic, acetic, propionic, succinic, glycolic, lactic, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, α ketoglutaric, glutamic, aspartic, maleic, hydroxymaleic, pyruvic acid phenylacetic, benzoic, para aminobenzoic, anthranilic, para hydroxybenzoic, salicylic, para aminosalicylic or embonic acid, methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic, hydroxyethanesulfonic, ethylenesulfonic acid halobenzenesulfonic, toluenesulfonic, naphthalenesulfonic acids or sulfanilic acid. These or other salts of the new compounds may also be used for purifying the resulting compounds by converting them into salts, isolating the latter and liberating the free compound from them. When according to the above outlined procedures, compounds of formula I are obtained as the corresponding salts of pharmaceutically acceptable acids, they may be converted into the corresponding free base by treatment with an alkali agent. The free base may in turn be transformed into the corresponding salts by reaction with predetermined pharmaceutically acceptable acids. In view of the close relationship between the new compounds in the free form and in the form of their salts what has been said above and hereinafter with reference to the free compounds concerns also the corresponding salts. A preferred group of compounds of the present invention are those of formula I wherein R and R¹ independently are hydrogen, C₁ C₆ alkyl or phenyl, unsubstituted or substituted as above, R² is a phenyl group substituted by 1 or 2 substituents, selected from nitro, C₁ C₄ alkoxy, C₁ C₄ alkyl, chloro or trifluoro methyl, R³ is C₁ C₆ alkyl or C₁ C₄ alkoxy C₁ C₄ alkyl, and R⁴ is hydrogen, methyl or benzyl, or a corresponding physiologically acceptable acid addition salt. Another preferred group of compounds are those compounds of formula I wherein R is hydrogen, methyl or phenyl, optionally substituted as above, R¹ is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, phenyl optionally substituted as above, R² is 2 or 3 nitrophenyl, 2 or 3 methylphenyl, or 2 or 3 trifluoromethylphenyl, R³ is C₁ C₆ alkyl, C₁ C₄ alkoxy C₁ C₆ alkyl, and R⁴ is hydrogen, or a corresponding physiologically acceptable acid addition salt. An outline of the process for the production of the compounds of the invention is the following A 5 aminopyrazole derivative of formula II, wherein R, R¹ and R⁴ are defined as above, is reacted with a substituted α,β unsaturated ketoester of formula III, also named 2 vinylidenacetoacetate, wherein the substituents are as above. This reaction can be carried out employing different molar proportions of the two reactants, however an equimolar proportion or a slight excess of the aminopyrazole reactant is preferred. The reaction solvent is an organic solvent which does not unfavourably interfere with the reaction course. Representative examples of such solvents are C₁ C₄ alkanols such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, and t butanol and the like, glycols and their ethers. One of the preferred ether glycols is the mono methyl ether of the ethylene glycol methyl cellosolve . The reaction temperature is generally between 4O C and the reflux temperature. The reaction time obviously varies considerably depending on the reaction conditions, however, the reaction is generally complete in 15 minutes to 2O 60 hours. In any case, the reaction course can be monitored by means of the usual techniques such as TLC using a suitable eluting mixture such as methanol chloroform 1 9 or n hexane ethanol 8 2. Based on these data the skilled man is able to optimize the reaction conditions, and in particular the reaction time. Alternatively, at least in some instances, the dihydropyrazolopyridines of the invention can be prepared by reacting a 5 aminopyrazole derivative with about an equimolar proportion of an aldehyde of formula R² CHO and an acetoacetic acid ester of formula CH₃COCH₂COOR³, wherein R² and R³ are as above, in an organic solvent, preferably a lower alkyl alcohol. In any case the reaction is preferably carried out under nitrogen stream and in the dark. The work up procedures include extraction with solvents, precipitation by non solvents, purification by chromatography, especially flash chromatography, and crystallization. The compounds of formula I wherein R⁴ is as above but different from hydrogen, can also be obtained by reacting the corresponding compound of formula I wherein R⁴ is hydrogen with a suitable alkylating agent. Representative examples of suitable alkylating agents include lower alkyl or optionally substituted benzyl chlorides, bromides or iodides. The starting materials of formula II are prepared essentially by following the techniques known for the preparation of 5 pyrazolamines and described in reference books such as The Chemistry of heterocyclic compounds , Vol. More particularly, when R⁴ is different from hydrogen, they can be prepared according to Micaelis, Annalen der Chemie, The above starting materials wherein the substituent at position 5 is benzylamine, i.e. R⁴ is benzyl, or substituted benzyl, can be prepared reacting the corresponding derivative wherein R⁴ is hydrogen with benzyl chloride, bromide, or iodide. Suitable reaction solvents are organic solvents such as benzene, toluene, chloroform, dimethylformamide, and methylene chloride. The reactants are usually contacted in equimolar proportions in the presence of an excess of a tertiary amine such as trimethylamine and triethylamine or an inorganic base. The preparation of the 2 vinylidenacetoacetate derivatives of formula III is known from the chemical literature. The compounds of the invention possess pharmacological activity and therefore they can be used as medicines. With the term use all industrial applicable aspect and acts of said use, including their embodying into pharmaceutical compositions are intended. In particular, the compounds of the invention show The According to the above technique, strips of taenia 1 2 mm diameter, 2 2.5 cm relaxed length , were dissected from the caecum of male guinea pigs 250 350 g and set up in 20 ml isolated organ baths containing K depolarizing Tyrode solution maintained at 35 C and gassed with 95 O₂ and 5 CO₂. The composition of the K Tyrode solution was mmol 1 NaCl 97 KCl 40 NaHCO₃ 11.9 NaH₂PO₄ O.4 glucose 5.5 pH 7.1. Contractile responses were measured under isotonic conditions 1g load using a Harvard isotonic transducer connected to a Rikadenki potentiometric recorder. Cumulative concentration response curves were obtained to CaCl₂ 30 3,OOO µmol 1 by increasing the Ca² concentration at 3 min intervals in logarithmic increments Van Rossum, Arch. Int. Pharmacodyn., The compounds are initially tested at a fixed concentration 10 µg ml . In these conditions the compounds of the invention show antagonism of Ca² induced contractions in K depolarized taenia. More particularly, the compounds of Examples 1, 2, 11, 13, 18, 27, 35, 39, 41, 42, and 43 show a pA₂ value in the range 8.2 9, cause concentration dependent displacement to the right of cumulative concentration response curves to Ca² , have a rapid onset of action, and cause a rapid relaxation of Ca² 300 µM induced contractions at low concentrations O.O1 O.1 µM . The The procedure allows evaluation of hypotensive effects in the absence of autonomic reflexes. The compounds of the invention produce dose dependent depression of blood pressure, without affecting heart rate. The compounds in this test are administered either intraveneously or intraduodenally. According to the above technique male Sprague Dawley rats 25O 330 g were anaesthetized with sodium pentobarbitone 40 50 mg kg, i.p. , pithed and respired with oxygen. Body temperature was maintained between 35.O and 36.5 C. Blood pressure was measured from the left carotic artery and the antagonists were administered cumulatively via the left jugular vein or via a cannula placed in the duodenum. Blood pressure was maintained between 75 120 mmHg by an intraveneous infusion of angiotensin II O.2 1.O µg kg min . Heart rate was calculated from the ECG. In the above test, the compound of Example 1 shows a very significant dose dependent depression of blood pressure, at a dose of O.1 3 µmol kg, i.v., and did not cause second degree atrioventricular block at any dose level tested. The cardiovascular activity of the compounds of the invention was demonstrated also in the spontaneously hypertensive rats described by K. Aoki in the Japan Cir. Journal, Vol. Some of the compounds of the invention show a lowering of the arterial pressure of at least 15 when administered at a dose inferior to 1 10 of the LD₅₀. This 15 threshold is generally considered predictive of significant cardiovascular activity. Table I summarizes the results obtained in this test for some representative compounds of formula I These results were confirmed in renal hypertensive dogs where significant drops of the systolic blood pressure are observed upon oral administration of the compounds of the invention. The results obtained in the above test by representative compounds of the invention are summarized in Table II, below Generally the compounds of the invention possess prolonged duration of action. In fact representative examples possess a duration of antihypertensive action on animals of 8 to 12 h or more at a doses equal to the ED₅₀ value. The compounds may be administered in various manners to achieve the desired effect. The compounds may be administered alone or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations to the patient being treated either orally or parenterally, such as, intraveneously or intramuscularly. The formulation of suitable pharmaceutical compositions can be carried out by the skilled man according to the general common knowledge in the art, and referring to reference books, such as the Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Handbook, Mack Publishing Company, U.S.A. The amount of compound administered will vary with the severity of the hypertension, and the mode of administration. For oral administration the antihypertensively effective amount of compound is from about O.01 mg kg milligrams per kilogram of patient body weight per day to about 10 mg kg of patient body weight per day and preferably from about 0.05 mg kg of patient body weight per day to about 5 mg kg of patient body weight per day. For parenteral administration the antihypertensively effective amount of compound is from about 0.001 mg kg of patient body weight per day up to about 5 mg kg of patient body weight per day and preferably from about O.01 mg kg of patient body weight per day up to about 2 mg kg of patient body weight per day. For oral administration a unit dosage may contain, for example, from 0.50 to 100 mg of the active ingredient. For parenteral administration a unit dosage may contain, for example, from O.05 to 70 mg of the active ingredient. Since the compounds of the invention generally possess a long lasting duration of action they might be conveniently administered once or twice a day, however, repetitive daily administrations may be, at least in some instances, desirable and will vary with the conditions of the patient and the mode of administration.As used herein, the term patient is taken to mean a warm blooded animal, humans included. For oral administration the compounds can be formulated into solid or liquid preparations such as capsules, pills, tablets, troches, powders, solutions, suspensions or emulsions. The solid unit dosage forms can be a capsule which can be of the ordinary gelatin type, either hard or soft, containing for example lubricants and inert fillers, such as lactose, sucrose and cornstarch. In another embodiment the compounds of the invention can be tabletted with conventional tablet bases such as lactose, sucrose and cornstarch in combination with binders, such as acacia, cornstarch or gelatin, disintegrating agents such as potato starch or alginic acid, and a lubricant such as stearic acid or magnesium stearate. For parenteral administration the compounds may be administered as injectable dosages of a solution or suspension of the compound in a physiologically acceptable diluent with a pharmaceutical carrier which can be a sterile liquid such as water and oils with or without the addition of a surfactant and other pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants. Illustrative of oils which can be employed in these preparations are those of mineral petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, for example, peanut oil, soybean oil and mineral oil. In general, water, saline, aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions, ethanol and glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol can be used as liquid carriers for injectable solutions. For rectal administration the compounds are administered in the form of suppositories, admixed with conventional vehicles such as, for example, cocoa butter, wax, spermaceti, polyvinylpyrrolidone, or polyoxyethyleneglycols and their derivatives. The compounds can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which may be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. The active ingredient can be compressed into pellets or small cylinders and implanted subcutaneously or intramuscularly as depot injections or implants. Implants may employ inert materials such as biodegradable polymers or synthetic silicones, for example, Silastic, a silicone rubber manufactured by the Dow Corning Corporation. The oral route is generally the preferred route of administration of the compounds of the invention, while the capsule is generally the preferred pharmaceutical formulation. The following are illustrative pharmaceutical formulations which may be employed in practicing the present invention A capsule is prepared with A tablet is prepared with A sugar coated tablet is prepared with The following examples are intended to further illustrate the present invention, but, as such, cannot be construed as limitating the scope of the invention. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. Methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate 1O g O.O4O mol is added to 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine 4.89 g O.O44 mol in ethanol 4O ml The mixture is refluxed for about 5 hours, then the solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue is taken up in ethyl ether and recovered by filtration. M.p. 216 220 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester. The reaction is carried out essentially as above, using ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate and refluxing for about 3 hours. M.p. 194 198 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. 1,3 Dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine 3.33 g O.O3O mol is dissolved in ethanol 35 ml and methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate 6.75 g O.27 mol is added thereto. The mixture is refluxed for about 5 hours, then the solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue is taken up in methylene chloride, washed with 2 hydrochloric acid and then with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, the organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate and then the solvent is evaporated. The solid compound of the title is recovered by filtration, after taking up in ethyl ether. M.p. 163 166 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Ethyl 2 benzylidenacetoacetate 5O mmol is added to 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine O.O5O ml in ethanol 4O ml The mixture is refluxed for about 3 hours. The solvent is evaporated and the residue is taken up in ethyl ether, collected by filtration, and dried. The obtained solid is then dissolved in methanol and a mixture of hydrochloric acid methanol 45 mmol of HCl is added thereto the product of the title precipitates by addition of ethyl ether. M.p. 232 C dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 methylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. 1,3 Dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine O.O5O mol in ethanol 5O ml is added with ethyl 2 2 methylbenzyliden acetoacetate 0.050 mol . The mixture is refluxed for about 90 minutes, then, after cooling to room temperature, further ethyl 2 2 methylbenzyliden acetoacetate O.O5O mol is added thereto and the temperature is raised again to the reflux temperature and heating is continued for further 90 minutes. The reaction mixture is then cooled, the solvent is evaporated, and residue is taken up in ethyl ether, collected by filtration and dried. The solid is then worked up as in the above example to give the product of the title. M.p. 235 C dec . By operating essentially as above , the following compounds are obtained, starting from the suitable reactants. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 3 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 3 methoxybenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 200 202 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 chlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 chlorobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 240 242 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 237 C dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1,3 dimethyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 170 174 C. 1 Ethyl 4,7 dihydro 3,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 230 232 C. Starting from 3 ethyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. The reflux is preferably carried out under nitrogen stream. Essentially following the procedure outlined in the above examples, the following compounds or the corresponding acid addition salts can be prepared 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 pentafluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,3 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,3 chlorofluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 ethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n pentyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,3 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,6 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 isopropylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid sec butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,6 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,3,6 trimethyl 4 2,3 dimethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 2 methylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Ethyl 2 2 methylbenzyliden acetoacetate O.O5O mol is added to 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine O.O50 mol in ethanol 5O ml and refluxed for 90 minutes. The mixture is then cooled to room temperature, further ethyl 2 2 methylbenzyliden acetoacetate O.O5O mol is added thereto, and the mixture refluxed for further 90 minutes. The reaction mixture is then cooled, the solvent is evaporated, and the residue is taken up in ethyl ether, collected by filtration, and dried. The product is dissolved in methanol and a mixture of hydrochloric acid and methanol 45 mmol of HCl is added thereto. The product of the title precipitates by adding ethyl ether. M.p. 187 C dec. . Essentially following the procedure of the above example the following compounds are obtained, starting from the suitable reactants 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 3 methoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 3 methoxybenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 2OO 2O4 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 175 C dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid isopropyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and isopropyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 162 167 C dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 212 215 C dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzilyden acetoacetate. M.p. 167 174 C. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2,5 dimethylphenyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 184 189 C. Starting from 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2,5 dimethylbenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. The crude reaction product is taken up with ethyl ether, washed with 2 H₂SO₄, water, and then 5 NaHCO₃ until neutralization of the mother liquors. After drying over Na₂SO₄ the hydrochloride of the title compound is obtained by reacting with HCl ethyl ether. Crystallization from isopropanol ethyl ether. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 145 148 C. 1 Methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine 3,46 g 0.02 mol , 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 3,02 g 0.02 mol , and methyl acetoacetate 2,32 g 0.02 mol are refluxed in isopropanol 30 ml under nitrogen stream and in the dark. Reflux is continued for about 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature, the solvent is stripped off, the dry residue is taken up with ethyl ether, washed with 2 H₂SO₄, water, and then NaHC0₃. After drying over MgSO₄, the solvent is stripped off and the residue is taken up with methanol and salified as usual using 20 HCl ethanol. 4,7 Dihydro 6 methyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester. M.p. 185 187 C methanol . Starting from 3 phenyl 5 1H pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. The reflux is carried out under nitrogen stream and in the dark. 4,7 Dihydro 4 2,5 dimethylphenyl 6 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester. M.p. 270 273 C ethanol . Starting from 3 phenyl 5 1H pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2,5 dimethylbenzyliden acetoacetate. 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 1,3 diphenyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. Methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate is added to 1,3 diphenyl 5 pyrazolamine O.O1O mol in ethanol 16 ml and refluxed for 90 minutes under nitrogen. After cooling to room temperature, the solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure, the residue is taken up in ethyl ether, discarding the insolubles, and then the solvent is evaporated. Upon crystallization from methanol, the product of the title is obtained. M.p. 186 189 C. 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. 3 Phenyl 5 pyrazolamine 5 m mol is dissolved in ethanol 12 ml methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate is added thereto,and refluxed for 3 hours, under nitrogen stream. The reaction mixture is then cooled to room temperature, the solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure, and the residue is taken up in methylene chloride. The product is purified by silica gel column chromatography, eluting with methylene chloride methanol, 99 1. The solvent is then evaporated from the collected fractions, and the residue is crystallized from ethyl acetate n hexane to give the product of the title. M.p. 240 241 C. Essentially following the above procedures, the following compounds or the corresponding acid addition salts can be prepared 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 pentafluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 methylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2,3 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2,3 chlorofluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 ethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n pentyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2,3 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 1 methylethyl phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid sec butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 6 methyl 3 phenyl 4 2,3 dimethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 3 Ethyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 243 247 C Dec. ethanol Starting from 3 ethyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 3 Ethyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid, 2 methoxy ethyl ester. M.p. 172 176 C ethyl ether Starting from 3 ethyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. Essentially following the procedures outlined in the above examples, the following compounds or the corresponding acid addition salts can be prepared 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 pentafluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2,3 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2,3 chlorofluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2 ethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n pentyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2,3 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2 1 methylethyl phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid sec butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 ethyl 4 2,3 dimethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 3 propyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 240 C methanol Starting from 3 propyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 3 propyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. M.p. 175 186 C. Starting from 3 propyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. Essentially following the procedures outlined in the above examples, the following compounds or the corresponding acid addition salts can be prepared 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 pentafluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2,3 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2,3 chlorofluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2 ethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n pentyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2,3 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2 1 methylethyl phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid sec butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 propanyl 4 2,3 dimethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester Essentially following the procedure described in Example 4, the following compounds are obtained 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 218 C Dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1 methylethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and 1 methylethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 229 231 C Dec. . 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 119 124 C Dec. . 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 methylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 methylbenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 226 231 C. 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 3 trifluoromethylbenzyliden acetoacetate. M.p. 255 260 C dec. . 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 phenylmethyl methylamino ethyl ester, dihydrochloride. M.p. 220 228 C. 3 Nitrobenzaldehyde 3,02 g 0.02 mol , acetoacetic acid 2 phenylmethyl methylamino ethyl ester 5,0 g 0.02 mol , 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine in propanol 40 ml are refluxed under nitrogen stream and in the dark for about 8 hours. The crude reaction product is worked up essentially as in Example 29 but using n hexane ethanol 8 2 as the eluent in the flash chromatography. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2,5 dimethylphenyl 3 1 methylethyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 204 211 C. Starting from 3 1 methylethyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2,5 dimethylbenzyliden acetoacetate. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 1 naphthyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 239 241 C. methanol Starting from 3 1 methylethyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 1 naphthyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. The crude reaction product is dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed sequentially with 2 H₂SO₄ and water, dried over Na₂SO₄, dissolved in ethyl ether and salified by bubbling hydrogen chloride into the solution. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 222 228 C. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine 2,79 g 0.02 mol , 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 3,02 g 0.02 mol and methyl acetoacetate 2,32 g 0.02 mol , in propanol 30 ml . The mixture is refluxed for about 8 hours under nitrogen stream and in the dark and then worked up as usual. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 197 199 C isopropanol ethyl ether Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportion. 4 2 Fluorophenyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 210 217 C Dec. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine 2,78 g 0.02 mol , 2 fluorobenzaldehyde 2,48 g 0.02 mol and ethyl acetoacetate 2,6 g 0.02 mol in isopropanol 30 ml . The mixture is refluxed for about 8 hours. The apparatus is protected from air and light as usual and the work up procedure is not dissimilar from those above described. 4 Pentafluorophenyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 219 222 C. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 pentafluorobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 248 250 C. Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. The mixture is refluxed in ethanol for about 6 hours, extracted with ethylacetoacetate and worked up as usual. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1 methylethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 249 253 C methanol Starting from 1 methyl 3 1 methylethyl 5 pyrazolamine 0.02 mol , 3 nitrobenzaldehyde 0.02 mol and ethyl acetoacetate 0.02 mol . 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 2 methylpropyl 4 2 nitro phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 160 167 C isopropanol ethyl ether 1 methyl 3 2 methylpropyl 5 pyrazolamine 0.015 mol methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate 0.015 mol in absolute ethanol are refluxed for about 24 hours. Then the solvent is evaporated under vacuum and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate and reacted with a molar equivalent of 15 HCl ethyl ether. After washing with water and drying, the ethereal phase is evaporated under vacuum leaving the crude product which is purified by flash chromatography and salified as usual. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 2 methylpropyl 4 3 nitro phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.P. 168 172 C Starting from 1 methyl 3 2 methylpropyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 2 methylpropyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester. M.p. 186 189 C Dec. Starting from 1 methyl 3 2 methylpropyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 2 methylpropyl 4 2 nitro phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 158 161 C isopropanol ethyl ether Starting from 1 methyl 3 2 methylpropyl 5 pyrazolamine and ethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 3 Butyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 200 Dec. methanol ethyl ether Starting from 3 butyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions, in isopropanol. 3 Butyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 215 230 C methanol Starting from 3 butyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions, in isopropanol. After refluxing for about 8 hours the reaction mixture is worked up as usual. 3 Butyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridine 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester. M.p. 131 139 C ethyl ether Starting from 3 butyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate. 3 Butyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. M.p. 191 201 C ethyl ether Starting from 3 butyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. Essentially following the procedures outlined in the above examples, the following compounds or the corresponding acid addition salts can be prepared 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 pentafluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 1,1 dimethyl ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 3,4 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 3 fluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2,3 dichlorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2,3 chlorofluorophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2 ethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n pentyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2,3 dimethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid n hexyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2 1 methylethyl phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid sec butyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2 methoxycarbonylphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid i propyl ester 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethyl ethyl 4 2,3 dimethoxyphenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 4 2 nitro phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.P. 163 172 C Dec. ethanol ethyl ether Reflux under nitrogen stream and possibly purify the oily free base by flash chromatography using 350 ml of silica gel and CHCl₃ CH₃OH, 95 5 as the eluent, before salifying as usual. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 4 2 nitro phenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 118 160 C Dec. Work up as in Example 49. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 140 160 C Dec. Work up as in Example 49. 4,7 Dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 1,1 dimethylethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 230 233 C Dec. isopropanol The crude reaction product is dissolved in ethyl acetate, washed with 2 HCl, water, dried over Na₂SO₄, dissolved in isopropanol and salified as usual. 3 Cyclohexyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester. M.p. 235 245 C Dec. ethanol methanol Starting from 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 3 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions. 3 Cyclohexyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid methyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 219 228 C isopropanol ethyl ether Starting from 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in equimolar proportions, in absolute ethanol. The mixture is refluxed for about 24 hours using the usual precautions in the dark, under nitrogen stream , the solvent is stripped off and the residue is dissolved in ethyl acetate. The solvent is washed with 1 HCl and water, dried, and evaporated to dryness. The crude residue is purified by flash chromatography. After dissolving the obtained product in ethyl ether isopropanol, dihydrogen chloride in ethyl ether is added thereto and the obtained solid is collected and crystallized from isopropanol ether. 3 Cyclohexyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid 2 methoxyethyl ester. M.p. 203 207 C. Starting from 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methoxyethyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in about equimolar proportions. 3 Cyclohexyl 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 4 2 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. M.p. 160 165 C Dec. Starting from 3 cyclohexyl 1 methyl 5 pyrazolamine and 2 methyl 2 2 nitrobenzyliden acetoacetate in about equimolar proportions. Work up as usual. One pot preparation of 4,7 dihydro 1,6 dimethyl 3 phenyl 4 3 nitrophenyl 1H pyrazolo 3,4 b pyridin 5 carboxylic acid ethyl ester, hydrochloride. 3 Nitrobenzaldehyde 3.02 g 0.02 mol , ethyl acetoacetate 2.6 g 0.02 mol , 1 methyl 3 phenyl 5 pyrazolamine 3.46 g 0.02 mol in absolute ethanol 30 ml are refluxed under nitrogen and in the darkness. After about 5 hours, the mixture is cooled to O C and the insolubles are collected by filtration and discarded. The filtrate is concentrated under reduced pressure, the residue is dissolved in ethyl ether and the product of the title is precipitated by addition of hydrogen chloride ethyl ether. The collected solid can be further purified by making a suspension of it in water, alkalinizing the pH with NaHCO₃, extracting with ethyl ether and precipitating with hydrogen chloride ethyl ether. M.p. 212 215 C. 4 Methyl 3 oxo pentanenitrile 39.58 g O,356 mol dissolved in glacial acetic acid 4OO ml and methylhydrazine 18.O5 g O.382 mol is added thereto, at 15 2O C. The reaction mixture is heated to 70 75 C under nitrogen stream for about 5 hours. Then the mixture is cooled, and the solvent is evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue is taken up with water 2OO ml and the pH adjusted to about 9. After extraction with methylene chloride, the solvent of the dried organic layer is stripped off. The residue is taken up in ethyl ether and recovered by filtration. M.p. 115 118 C. A mixture of 1,3 dimethyl 5 1H pyrazolamine 2 mmol and benzylchloride 2 mmol in methylene chloride 10 ml in the presence of triethylamine 1 ml is heated to the reflux temperature, for about 6 hours. The reaction mixture is then cooled, washed with water and the organic solvent is evaporated to dryness. The compound of the title crystallizes out from a mixture ethyl ether petroleum ether. M.P. 95 97 C.