# Lead frame and method for manufacturing the same

## Claims
Leitergitter aus einer Kupferlegierung aus 0,1 1 Gew. Chrom, 0,001 0,5 Gew. Zirkonium, gegebenenfalls nicht mehr als 1 Gew. mindestens eines Legierungsbestandteils, ausgewählt aus der Gruppe Magnesium, Silizium, Zinn, Nickel, Eisen, Zink, Mangan, Phosphor, Bor, Silber, Beryllium, Kobalt, Titan und Yttrium, Rest Kupfer und unvermeidliche Verunreinigungen, in der eine Ausfällung einer Korngröße von 0,5 50 um in einer Menge von 1 000 bis 10 000 Körnchen mm

## Description
The present invention relates to a lead frame of a Cu alloy and a method for manufacturing the same. A lead frame of an Fe Ni alloy for a semiconductor IC is conventionally known. Such a lead frame made of an Fe Ni alloy has a high hardness and an excellent bending strength, but is expensive. An inexpensive Cu alloy is being considered to take the place of such an Fe Ni alloy. However, a Cu alloy which simultaneously satisfies all the requirements of a lead frame such as bonding performance with an Au wire, a hardness, a bending strength and the like has not yet been proposed. When Sn or Ni is added to Cu in order to obtain a Cu alloy of higher hardness, bonding performance with an Au wire and soldering performance of the resultant alloy are impaired. When Zr or Cr is added in order to improve bonding performance with an Au wire, bending strength is impaired. Document GB A 921 795 discloses a method of producing a copper base alloy welding electrode material which comprises the steps of preparing a copper base alloy containing from a trace up to 2 by weight of chromium, 0.02 to 0.1 by weight of zirconium and balance copper arid subjecting said aiioy to a heat treatment comprising heating the alloy to a temperature varying from above 1000 C up to the solidus temperature of the alloy, rapidly quenching the alloy from this temperature and subsequently ageing the alloy at a temperature of 300 C to 500 C for a suitable time. Furthermore, document GB A 1525355 describes a continuous casting mould comprising a mould body composed of a hardened copper alloy containing 0.3 to 1.5 of chromium, 0.10 to 0.5 of zirconium, and up to 0.04 of a deoxidizing agent, the remainder being copper and impurities. Finally, Patent Abstracts of Japan , vol. 6, No. 176 E 130 1054 , 10 September 1982, relates to a lead material for a high heat resistance conductive semiconductor. This material contains 1.0 to 3.0 by weight of Sn, 0.001 to 0.030 by weight of P, 0.005 to 0.09 by weight of Zr and the residue of Cu and inevitable impurities. In view of this problem, the present inventors have made extensive studies. As a result of such studies, it was found that a degradation in bending strength of a Cu alloy containing Zr and Cr is attributable to the manufacturing method thereof, and that a lead frame which satisfies all the requirements regarding bonding performance with an Au wire, hardness, bending strength and the like can be obtained if the manufacturing method is improved. The present invention has been made based on this finding and has for its object to provide a lead frame which has an improved bonding performance with an Au wire, hardness and bending strength, and a method for manufacturing the same. A lead frame of the present invention comprises a copper alloy consisting of 0.1 to 1 by weight of chromium, 0.001 to 0.5 by weight of zirconium, optionally not more than 1 by weight of at least one member selected from the group consisting of magnesium silicon, tin, nickel, iron, zinc, manganese, phosphorus, boron, silver, beryllium, cobalt, titanium and yttrium, and balance copper apart from unavoidable impurities, and having a precipitate with a grain size from 0.5 to 50 µm distributed therein at a rate of 1,000 to 10,000 grains mm A method for manufacturing a lead frame as defined in claim 1 according to the present invention comprises the steps of casting a copper alloy consisting of 0.1 to 1 by weight of chromium, 0.001 to 0.5 by weight of zirconium, optionally not more than 1 by weight of at least one member selected from the group consisting of magnesium, silicon, tin, nickel, iron, zinc, manganese, phosphorus, boron, silver, beryllium, cobalt, titanium and yttrium, and balance copper apart from unavoidable impurities by continuous casting, wherein casting is started from a smelting temperature of 1100 to 1300 C and is solidified at a cooling rate of about 10 C s or higher, performing rolling, performing a solution treatment, performing a cold working, and performing an age hardening. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which The Cr content and Zr content of the alloy are very important in the present invention. If the Cr content is 0.1 by weight or more, the mechanical strength and heat resistance of the alloy are increased. The effect mentioned is maintained without impairing the bending strength and electrical conductivity of the alloy until the Cr content reaches 1 by weight. On the other hand, the mechanical strength and heat resistance of the alloy are improved if the Zr content is 0.001 by weight or more. The effect mentioned is maintained without impairing the bending strength and electrical conductivity of the alloy until the Zr content reaches 0.5 by weight. According to the present invention, from the viewpoint of a further improved mechanical strength, the alloy preferably contains, in addition to Cr and Zr, a total amount of 1 by weight or less of one or more members selected from Mg, Si, Sn, Ni, Fe, Zn, Mn, P, B, Ag, Be, Co, Ti and Y. In the age hardening step, the Cr and Zr added to the Cu precipitate in the forms of various compounds with Cu, and gradually grow in the Cu alloy matrix, thereby hardening the alloy. Fig. 1 is a microphotograph 500 showing the state of the precipitate in the Cu alloy which has been subjected to age hardening. Referring to Fig. 1, reference numeral 1 denotes a precipitate and 2 denotes a Cu base. According to the present invention, when a precipitate having a grain size of 0.5 to 50 µm is distributed at a rate of 1,000 to 10,000 grains mm When the distribution of precipitate is less than 1,000 grains mm In order to prepare a Cu alloy containing a precipitate having the size and distribution as defined above, the following procedures are taken. First, a Cu alloy containing, Cr, Zr and the like is prepared by continuous casting. Smelting casting is started from a smelting temperature of 1,100 to 1,300 C and is solidified at a cooling rate of about 10 C sec or higher. Enlargement of the precipitate size can be suppressed by increasing the cooling rate to about 10 C sec or more. After performing hot or cold rolling, a solution treatment is performed. Cold working such as cold rolling is then performed in order to form the alloy to a predetermined size. Age hardening is performed by heating at 400 to 600 C for 0.5 to 10 hours and preferably for 1 to 5 hours. A resultant lead frame consists of a Cu alloy wherein a precipitate is finely and uniformly distributed, and has an excellent bending strength, hardness and so on. The present invention will now be described by way of its examples. Cu alloys having the compositions as shown in the Table below were prepared by continuous casting, were hot rolled, and were subjected to a solution treatment. In the continuous casting step, the molten alloy was kept at a temperature of 1280 C and the cooling rate was about 80 C sec. Cold rolling was then performed to roll each alloy to a plate having a thickness of 0.25 mm. After performing age hardening at 450 C for 1 hour, the plate was punched to prepare a lead frame 3 of a shape as shown in Fig. 2. In the lead frames having the compositions of sample Nos. 1 to 4 obtained in this manner, a precipitate having a grain size of 0.5 to 50 µm was distributed uniformly at a rate of 1,000 to 10,000 grains mm A sample Cu alloy designated No. 5 in the Table beiow was prepared. The Cu alloy was placed in a general casting mold and was cooled, rolled, and subjected to a solution treatment. In this case, the interior of the mold is slowly cooled the cooling rate is thought to be about 5 C sec or less. The alloy was then cold rolled to a plate of the same size as that in the Examples, and the plate was subjected to age hardening. A lead frame obtained in this manner had a big precipitate grain size 50 to 100 µm distributed therein at a rate of not more than about 1,000 grains mm