# Semiconductor integrated circuit device with output stage.

## Abstract
A semiconductor integrated circuit device comprises an output stage MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 17 and an internal circuit MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 16 . The output stage MIS FET has a channel length 2 greater than that L₁ of the internal circuit MIS FET and also has a gate insulator 17 thickness greater than that 16 of the internal circuit MIS FET.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A semiconductor integrated circuit device comprising a first MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 16 for forming an internal circuit and a second MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 17 for forming an output stage circuit, characterised in that the second MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 17 has a channel length L2 greater than that L1 of the first MIS FET 3, 4, 12, 16 and has a gate insulator 17 thickness greater than that 16 of the first transistor 3, 4, 12, 16 . 2. A semiconductor integrated circuit device according to claim 1, in which the first 3, 4, 12, 16 and second 3, 4, 12, 17 MIS FETs have the same depth Xi of impurity diffusion in their drain and source regions.

## Description
SEMICONDUCTOR INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DEVICE The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit device, particularly a device comprising a first metal insulator semiconductor MIS type field effect transistor FET for forming an internal circuit and a second MIS FET with a medium junction sustaining voltage for forming an output stage. Electrical apparatus driven by a 12 V power source are often used and when it is desired directly to couple a semiconductor integrated circuit device operating with a standard 5V power source to such apparatus at its output stage to simplify the circuit system. Although, such a semiconductor integrated circuit device need not have a junction sustaining voltage as high as 30 V to 40 V, as is usually used in devices for driving fluorescent display devices, it has to have a medium junction sustaining voltage which is usually as high as 15 V to 16 V at its output stage. The sustaining voltage is determined by the electric field concentration between the gate electrode and the drain diffusion region and can be enhanced by an increase in the thickness of the gate oxide layer.However, if the channel length is made shorter than a predetermined length, as often happens during mass production of the devices, the so called punch through phenomenon occurs. This increases the drain current and, consequently, lowers the junction sustaining voltage.In addition, such semiconductor devices have to be used in a wide temperature range without deterioration of the performance. For these reasons, it has become necessary to provide mass produced semiconductor devices with a predetermined sustaining voltage of 19 V to 20V, to secure the medium junction sustaining voltage of an output stage. While the so called offset gate structure metal oxide semiconductor MOS FET exhibits a high junction sustaining voltage of approximately 40 V, the yield of chips obtained per wafer is low and the size of the chip is necessarily larger than that of the regular devices because it requires rather complicated process steps and structure. This is also a disadvantage of the socalled 4 ssm rule integrated circuits, in which all of the smallest devices have a 4 ssm channel length, although this device can have a suitable medium junction sustaining voltage of, for example, 16 V to 20 V. According to this invention in such an integrated circuit device the second MIS FET has a channel length greater than that of the first MIS FET and has a gate insulator thickness greater than that of the first transistor. An advantage of such a semiconductor integrated circuit device is that it exhibits no deterioration in the junction sustaining voltage due to the punch through phenomenon in spite of possible fluctuations in its manufacturing process steps. Another advantage is that the device is produced by a small number of production steps and can be mass produced with a high yield. A particular embodiment of a device in accordance with this invention will now be described and contrasted with the prior art with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a graph of the relationship between the voltage VDS and the current IDS of an MOS FET Figure 2 is a section through a common MOS FET Figure 3 is a section through an offset gate structure MOS FET and, Figure 4 is a series of sectional views illustrating the method of producing a semiconductor integrated circuit device comprising two MOS FETs in accordance with the present invention. Before describing the preferred embodiments of the present invention, it is necessary to explain in detail the devices of the prior art in order to show the advantages of the present invention over the prior art. This explanation is made with reference to the accompanying drawings. As shown in Fig. 1, the drain current IDS between the drain electrode and the source electrode rapidly increases, as the drain voltage VDS therebetween increases up to a complete junction breakdown voltage where an avalanche breakdown occurs curve a . It is commonly known that although such a breakdown voltage is determined by the impurity concentration profile at the junction, it is lowered by the electric field concentration between the gate electrode and the drain diffusion region and can be enhanced with the increase of thickness t of the gate oxide layer. If the length L of the gate electrode is selected to be shorter than a perdetermined length, a so called punch through phenomenon will occur, which increases the drain current IDS and, consequently, lowers the junction sustaining voltage curve b .It should be noted that the junction sustaining voltage in practice should be defined by a relatively low drain current even though a complete avalanche breakdown often occurs at much higher voltages.In this specification, the drain junction sustaining voltage is defined as a voltage value at which the junction allows a drain current of 1 uA under the gate bias voltage of zero. Generally, a silicon FET is electrically isolated from adjacent devices formed on the same silicon substrate 1 by means of channel cut layers 2 on which a field oxide layer 10 is formed, and comprises a source, gate, and drain regions, which correspond to a high concentration N type region 3, a region under a gate insulator layer 11 for forming an inverted conduction channel between source and drain under the control of the gate voltage in the transistor action, a polysilicon layer 12, and another high concentration N type region 4, respectively Fig. 2 . A thin oxide layer 6 covers the source and drain regions 3 and 4 and the polysilicon layer 12, on which the source and drain electrodes 7 and 9 and the gate electrode 8 are mounted through the windows opened in the oxide layer 6, respectively Fig. 3 . It is commonly known that a semiconductor device exhibits a medium junction sustaining voltage of 15 V to 16 V, where the device has a 3 vm channel length L, a o 400 A gate oxide layer thickness t, and a 0.4 vm junction depth X. in the source and drain regions Fig. 2 . 3However, in the commercial mass production of such semiconductor devices, some are apt to have a channel length L which is shorter than the predetermined length.In addition, practically, such semiconductor devices have to be used in a wide temperature range without deterioration of their performance. Therefore, it is necessary that mass produced semiconductor devices are provided with a predetermined sustaining voltage of 19 V to 20 V, so as to secure a medium junction sustaining voltage for the purpose of direct coupling with the 12 V power source system. In a so called offset gate structure MOS FET Fig. 3 , the high concentration N type region 4 is separated from the gate region via a low concentrationN type region 5. Thus, the drain region 4 has an offset structure, and, consequently, exhibits a high junction sustaining voltage of about 40 V. The drain region 4 is isolated from the channel cut layer 2. However, these structures inevitably increase the production steps, making necessary, for example, ion implantation for forming the low concentration N type region 5, and also masking for forming this region 5 and separating the region 4 from the channel cut layer 2. In addition, the yield of chips per wafer is lowered because the chip size becomes larger than that of the regular devices. An integrated circuit device for directly coupling with 12 V systems need not be guaranteed to exhibit such a high junction sustaining voltage as 40 V, a medium sustaining voltage of 16 V to 20 V at least at the output stage for the direct coupling is sufficient. Such a medium junction sustaining voltage has been conveniently achieved in so called 4 vm rule integrated circuits, in which all of the least channel length devices have a 4 um channel length L, an about 700 A gate oxide layer thickness t, and a 0.6 um junction depth X. of the high concentration N type regions 3 and 4. However, the yield of chips per wafer is unavoidably reduced due to the relatively large dimension of the least size devices. According to the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit device comprisig a first MIS FET for forming an internal circuit and a second MIS FET for forming an output stage circuit, characterized in that the second MIS FET has a channel length greater than that of the first MIS FET and has a gate insulator thickness greater than that of the first MIS FET. The present invention is advantageous in that the first and second MIS FETs have the same junction depth in the drain and source regions thereof which simplifies the necessary process steps for manufacturing the same. As for an output stage MIS FET for the direct coupling with the 12 V system according to the present invention, the junction sustaining voltage is enhanced by increaing the thickness of the gate oxide layer so as to reduce the electric field concentration between the gate electrode and the high concentration N type drain region the punch through phenomenon is eliminated by increasing the channel length, and, thus, the output stage MIS FET is guaranteed to exhibit a medium junction sustaining voltage. On the other hand, an MIS FET which is not in an output stage has a standard junction sustaining voltage. In addition, the high concentration N type drain and source regions may be formed by a single ion implantation, where the depths of the drain and source regions are equal to each other. Although the following description refers to an integrated circuit device using an MOS FET, it will be clear to a person skilled in the art that the present invention can also be valid to those using MIS FETs. Here the present invention will be described in detail, referring to Fig. 4. The surface of a silicon substrate 1 is oxidized so o as to form a 500 A thick silicon oxide layer 11, and a 1000 A thick silicon nitride layer 13 is deposited on the oxide layer 11 Fig. a . The nitride layer 13 is patterned using a first photoresist mask not shown , thus, windows are opened Fig. b . Channel cut regions 2 are formed by ion implantation using the first photoresist mask, which is then removed.Field oxide layers 10 are formed by a selective thermal oxidation using the nitride layer 13 as a mask. After removing the nitride layer 13 and the oxide layer 11, o a 400 A thick lower gate oxide layer 14 is formed Fig. c . A second photoresist 15 is selectively formed to form an etching mask which exposes a first semiconductor device area and covers a second semiconductor device area. A portion of the lower gate oxide layer 14 is removed by etching so as to expose the area of a first semiconductor device which will exhibit a standard junction sustaining voltage Fig. d . After removing the second photoresist 15, a 400 A thick oxide layer 16 is formed on the surface of the area of the first semiconductor device by a thermal oxidation, by which the oxide layer 14 will grow to the O O thickness of 700 A. Thus, a 400 A thick gate oxide layer 16 is formed in the area of the first semiconductor o device, and a 700 A thick gate oxide layer 17 is formed in the area of the second semiconductor device, so as to exhibit a medium junction sustaining voltage Fig. e .Ion implantation is carried out to control the threshold voltage. A polysilicon layer 12 is deposited and is patterned so as to form the gate regions of the first and second semiconductor devices with the lengths L1 and L2 , which are 3 urn and 4 urn, respectively. After removing portions of the oxide layers 16 and 17 which do not cover the gate regions, an N type impurity is diffused so as to form the source and drain regions 3 and 4. Where the diffusion depth X in both 3 regions is the same, e.g., 0.4 um, the first and second semiconductor devices may be accomplished in a single diffusion step Fig. f . Thus, according to the present invention, there is provided a semiconductor integrated circuit device comprising an output stage MIS FET guaranteed to exhibit a medium junction sustaining voltage and an internal circuit MIS FET guaranteed to exhibit a standard junction sustaining voltage, which device can be mass produced in a simple production process.