# Security system.

## Abstract
The system is especially intended to protect commercial motor vehicles, and provides in each vehicle at least one sensor 1 min for instance, sensing, when activated, intrusion in or movement of the vehicle, connected to a memory 1 storing predetermined data relating to the vehicle e.g. registration number, load being carried and intended destination. The memory is arranged automatically to feed out the relevant data when the sensor is actuated by the intrusion or movement of the vehicle. This data is then fed to a radio frequency modulator 2 comprising a mulitiplexer and the modulated carrier is fed to a transmitter 3 . The sensor, memory, modulator and transmitter are all provided in each vehicle. The transmitter automatically transmits the data to a relay 8 , and the relay automatically transmits to a central receiver 10 which via a demodulator demultiplexer 13 operates a V.D.U visual display unit 14 so that appropriate action can be taken in response to the received data.

## Claims
CIxIlE 1. 4 security system comprising a memory sited at a location to be monitored, holding predetermined data relating to the location, a sensor associated with the memory, the memory being arranged automatically to provide a read out of the data on actuation of the sensor in response to the occurrence of a specified event, and a remote indicator unit to receive a memory read out and provide an indication of the nature thereof characterized in that a transmission link 103, 104 4, 9, 10 is provided to transmit data read out from the memory 102,1 to the indicator 105,14 the link comprising a data transmitter 103,3 located at said location, and a receiver 104, 9, 10 for transmitted data located at the site of indicator to feed data. thereto. 2. A security system as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said transmitter 103, 3 and receiver 104 9,10 are constituted as a radio transmitter and receiver respectively. 30 A security system as claimed in. claim 1 characterized in that a relay 18 is provided. remotely located from said receiver 9,10 to relay a transmission from said transmitter 3 and relay it to said receiver 9,10 . 4. A security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that a plurality of memories are used at respective locations to be monitored or protected each with associated transmitter, 103, 3 and an associated sensor 101,1 or sensors to detect a given condition, and each memory 1us, 1 stores a predetermined message in respect of each given condition indicating the occurrence thereof the actuation of a sensor of any memory causing an automatic read out of the respective ntessa from the memory and thereby its transmission to said indicator unit 105, 14 . 5. A security system as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that, the transmitter 3 comprises a multiplexer 2 , and the receiver 9,10 comprises a demultiplexer 13 whereby the transmission may be made, for instance, by time sharing or frequency shift. 6. A security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that, the system comprises, in respect of the or each location, a communication channel 5,6 to permit a transmission to be made othemfise than from the memory 1 so that the system may additionally be used as a means of routine communication between the site of the memory and the receiver 104 . 7. A security system as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that, the additional communication channel 5,6 comprises a manual data encoder 5 operating through a random access memory 6 of feed data to the transmitter 3 . 8. A security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the indicator anit 14 is a V.D.U visual display unit . 9. A security system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, characterized in that the or each memory is an addressable, programmable read only memory 1 . 10. A security system as claimed in claim 9, characterised in that the store 15 is provided and is arranged automatically to store any displayed message.

## Description
DESCRIPTION SECURITY SYSTEM The resent invention relates to a security system for use at a plurality of fixed locations e.g. in enclosures such as buildings, or in a plurality of nobile locations such as in freight containers and on vehicles, such as notor vehicles and aircraft. Machine control systems are knosm employing computers storing predetermined data and providing a read out of such data in response to the detection by a sensor of a specified occurrence. It is also known, in data processing, toprovide for the visual display of received and stored data and to store received data which is displayed or to be displayed. Security systems are also known using a pluralityOf sensors e.g. T.V. cameras, feeding signals to a central control station for the purpose of monitoring some given thing such as the surroundinss of the exterior of a buildings or an industrial process. Alarm systems are also known which on the occurrence of a given condition e.g. an intrusion, automatic ally provide an alarm signal. It is known in particular to provide such systems in motor vehicles and especially in goods vehicles. The present invention is based on the idea of providing at each of a plurality of locations at which security protection or monitoring is to be provided, stored infonation identifying the location, and of arranging for the stored information automatically to be transmi od to a central station on the occurrence of a specified event or events, the central station indicating reception of all transmitted information to enable appropriate action to be tciten. Thus, an object of the present invention is to provide a security system which permits a large number of widely dispersed locations to be surveilledfroma central station by arranging that the surveillance is given only on demand from each location as and when the need therefor arises. This limits the attention the central station need give, to that location or those locations in respect of which some action is currently needed. The present invention provides a security system comprising a memory sited at a location to be monitored, holding predetermined data relating to the location, a sensor associated azith the memory the memory being arranged automatically to provide a read out of the data on actuation of the sensor in response to the occurrence of a specified event, and a remote indicator to receive a memory read out and provide an indication of the nature thereof wherein a transmission link is provided to transmit data read out from the memory to the indicator the link comprising a data transmitter located at said location, and a receiver for transmitted data located at the site of indicator to feed data thereto. The content of the predetermined data will depend on the particular use of thè security system. For instance, if it is to be used as an anti theft system on a commercial vehicle, the message may provide information concerning the registration number of the vehicle, its load, its intended destination and any other fact which it is considered is needed particularly to identify that vehicle. The sensor is arranged to detect a specified disturbance or change in circumstances. For instance, in the case of a security system for a vehicle, it could be arranged to be actuated by an unauthorised attempt to enter the vehicle or to drive it away. On such actuation, the sensor caves the message automagically to be read out from the memory.The message is then broadcast, for instance, by radio or by ultrasonic tr2nszissior.oS that is, air pressure waves. The receiver is located in some predetermined place and receives the broadcast and thus enable the transmitted message to receive appropriate attention. Since it will be necessary to use low power transmitters at least in the case of radio transmission, then when using such transmission, a local receiver or relay would in practice be provided in each of a number of predetermined areas to receive any broadcast made in the area concerned and to transmit it to the central receiver. Since a great many of the memories mar be in use at any one time, the system may make provision for trar s rutting on a multiplex system, for instance, by time sharing or frequency shift and the transmission may be made by radio modulation of a carrier wave. The system may also incorporate a communication channel to permit a transmission to be made otherwise than from the memory so that the system may additionally be used as a means of routine cozzlmication between the site of the memory and the central receiver. Thus, the system may comprise a manually operated data encoder operating through a random access memory to feed a signal to the transmitter.The system may also provide a microphone input to the transmitter so that a voice signal can be incorporated in the transmission. Transmissions between a local receiver and the central station receiver may be made for instance, by telephone line, by radio as a microwave broadcast or even by optical fibre the signal received at the main receiver being decoded and demodulated and, if necessary, being deslultiplexed, for read out on a suitable displayed.Further the system may provide for storage of all mess ages received. For instance, the system may be arranged to provide that a displayed message is automatically stored. Thus, the invention contemplates that a large number of memories, which may be in the form of addressable prograLma.ble read only memories, would be installed in various enclosures and vehicles and would be served, probably via local receivers, by a central station receiver from where messages may be sent out so that action can be taken to deal with whatever situation has arisen. The invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a block diagram showing the general nature of a system according to the invention, and Figure 2 is a block diagram of an embodiment thereof. Beferring to Figure 1, the system comprises a sensor 101 to detect the occurrence of some given event, the sensor being connected to a computer 102, e.g. a micro computer. A computer is provided at each of a plurality of locations to be monitored or protected, along with one or more of the sensors. The computer memory at each location stores data identifying the location and is arranged so that on receiving a signal from a sensor, the computer automatically reads out the respective data, which may also contain information as to which sensor has been actuated. Each computer feeds its read out to a transmitter 103 stationed at the location concerned, and the transmitter on receiving a read out from the computer transmits the data by aerial broadcast or conductor to a central receiver 104 which in turn feeds the data to a visual display unit 105. The display unit is kept under human observation so that appropflata action can be taken in response to the displayed information. In certain circumstances, it may be sufficient to use incoming data simply to operate an alarm or other indicator devices without visual display. In Figure 2, the system comprises a memory 1 in the form of an addressable prorRmmable read only memory A o.T . The memory contains a predetermined message and on actuation of a sensor 1 , which nay be one of several automatically feeds out the message to a modulator 2 by which a carrier frequency is modulated with the signal from the memory the modulator output being fed to a radio frequency amplifier and transmitter 3 and transmitted therefrom via aerial 4. Uhe.tystem also comprises at the site of each addressable memory, a communication channel for routine communication and a mode select switch MS to enable Whi5 channel to be selected for use. This comprises a manually operated data encoder 5 which may be of the keyboard type so that an encoded message can be written in to a random access memory RAM 6 which may, in addition, have predetermined messages written ine Thus, any message chosen by the operator may be written into the random access memory or some predetermined message already in there may be read out by the operator on operation of an appropriate control.The random access memory may be arranged to repeat each message to be transmitted several times e.g. two or three times, and thereby provide automatic confirmation of the orizlnal message. The routine communication channel may also provide a voice link in the form of a microphone input 7 to the modulator. The modulator may incorporate a multiplexer for the reasons given above. Normally the addressable read only memory will be associated rith a plurality of sensors at least sam of which may be in the forL cr manually operated switches. wor instance, if the system is being used in vehicles, a foot operated switch could be provided for operation by the driver in the case, for instance, of an attempted hi ack operation of the toot site then causing the memory auto.atically to feed out an appropriate message for transmission to the central receiver. A further sensor could, for instance, be in the form of a pressure switch in the case where the vehicle is a tanker to sense any abrupt change in pressure such as would be occasioned by a leak from the tank the sensor on activation reading out the approprifte message from the read only memory. The transmission from the aerial 4 is picked up by a local relay 8 i.e. a receiver transmitter, and for this purpose an aerial 9 may be used. The local receiver then automatically trznssits to a central receiver 10 which may be achieved by microwave radio broadcast in which case the stage 8 will be provided with a transmitter aerial 11 and the main receiver with a reception aerial 12. The main receiver comprises a decoding stage 13 and, if necessary a demultiplexer, and the signal is fed from the decoder both to a V.D.U visual display unit 14 and to a store 15. The display unit comprises a control for the store to permit incoming messages to be stored and to permit any stored message to be displayed on the display unit. In practice, each communication channel would be constituted as a two way channel as indicated inFigure 1 so that each memory could be addressed from the central station and each computer activated or deactivated therefrom. Thus, the channels could be used to check stored information, and also the operation of the local part of a communication channel and, in particular, the operation of each computer, from the central station. Accordingly, the transmitter 103 would be associated with a receiver and the receiver 104 could be associated with a transmitter.