# Method for activating microbial rennet and further production of cheese.

## Abstract
The production of microbial rennet by recombinant DNA techniques, and its use in cheesemaking. The microbial rennet produced in refractile form is reactivated by subject ing it to strongly denaturing conditions and sulfitolysis to break the disulfide bonds and introduce sulfonate groups the sulfonated protein is then subjected to weakly denaturing conditions to refold it, and the disulfide bonds are recreated.

## Description
MICROBIALLY PRODUCED RENNET, METHODS FOR ITS PRODUCTION AND REACTIVATION, PLASMIDS USED FOR ITS PRODUCTION, AND ITS USE IN CHEESEMAKINGBackground of the invention This invention relates to the isolation of rennin or a precursor thereof, which is active in milk clotting or proteolysis, from proteins precipitated within bacterial cells as a result of expression of recombinant DNA. The production of cheese has a long and venerable history. Basically, the preparation consists of the formation of solid curd which desirably includes milk fat, protein, and other insoluble salts in concentrated form, as well as sugar and soluble salts entrapped in a cheese serum included in the curd. In most cheeses, the precipitation and separation of the curd is followed by a ripening period wherein trapped living bacteria in the cheese milk carry out further metabolic reactions to impart distinctive flavors and texture characteristics. In general, the coagulation is carried out in one of three ways. In cottage or cream cheese, the major protein constituent of milk, casein, is precipitated by acid, usually formed as a result of bacterial action, lowering the pH of the milk suspension to the isoelectric point. The pH at which precipitation occurs as a result of acid alone is reasonably low, pH about 4.7, and results in an overtone of sour taste. A second non enzymatic precipitation method, used mainly to produce ricotta, utilizes a combination of high heat and medium acidity, about pH 6, to precipiate the curd.Finally, and most commonly, the standard Swiss, cheddar or provolone are precipitated at an elevated room temperature and at a reasonalby high pH, about 6.2, under the influence of a proteolytic enzyme.the most commonly used proteolytic enzyme is rennin, which has its origins, historically, in the use of cut strips of calves or lambs stomachs inserted directly into warm milk for coagulation into cheese as was done in ancient times. Later, European cheese making firms learned to extract the stomachs of calves, kids and lambs to obtain a brown suspension or rennet used for cheese making.Present day rennet still comprises these extracts, but in a more purified form. It will be obvious that such preparations present certain economic and practical difficulties. First1 to obtain essentially pure rennet, the calves, lambs or kids must be milk fed, and less than two weeks old. Older offspring show the presence in the extracts of considerable amounts of pepsin in addition to rennin.Also religious restrictions in sdme areas of the world, such asIndia, prevent the butchering of the calves, and attempts have been made to obtain rennet directly through a fistula. All of the above approaches present sanitation and handling problems which require expenditure of considerable sums of money to solve. These difficulties have led to attempts to use substitutes such as swine pepsin which makes the cheese bitter and microbial proteases, such as those from Mucor miehei, Bacillus cereus or Endothia parasiticus, which appear to give satisfactory, but less desirable results than rennin. Also, plant extracts such as papain from the papaya tree, and bromelin from pineapple result in bitter cheeses.In summary, substitutes for purified calf rennin have had variable success in obtaining proper yields of curd, and the resulting cheese frequently has undesirable flavor characteristics. Rennin coagulates milk at a desirable pH 6.4 to 6.0 and can be stored at low temperatures, and low pH, in the dark. It is now known that rennin cleaves the phenylalanine methionine bond in kappa casein which thus destroys the casein s stabilizing action.Apparently, as a result of the cleavage, a glycomacropeptide soluble in whey is eliminated, and the remainder para kappa casein is itself coagulated in the presence of calcium ion to form an insoluble precipitate. Other casein forms which had been stabilized by kappa casein are then precipitated as well, also in combination with calcium ion. Removal of these proteins results in precipitation of still other components such as fats and insoluble salts. In short, apparently, kappa casein, a predominant milk protein is responsible for creating conditions which hold the other components of milk in more or less homogeneous suspension. If this casein is disrupted, the stabilizing influence is gone, and the remaining materials precipitate from solution.The manufacture of cheese by proteolytic enzymes capitalizes on this property of casein, in that any treatment of the starting material which results in the hydrolysis of casein provides the necessary environment for the formation of solids. The enzyme above called rennin , also known as chymasin E.C.3.4.23.4 , is isolated from stomach mucosa at least partially in the form of its progenitor prorennin, which contains an additional 42 amino acids at the Nterminus. Rennin itself is composed of a single polypeptide chain of approximately 35,000 daltons molecular weight. Crude extracts of calf stomach mucosa contain some quantities of active rennin as well as the inactive precursor prorennin. Prorennin, which is itself inactive proteolytically, is converted to the active rennin form by treating the solution at low pH, for sufficient time to assure cleavage by autocatalysis. Recently, it has been discovered that another precursor, pre prorennin, which contains an additional 16 amino acid sequence at the N terminal end of prorennin may also be formed see British patent specification 2,091,271A Production of rennin from calf stomach mucosa is costly, and limits the quantity of rennin available for the cheese industry. It would be desirable to obtain rennin, therefore, from a microbial source which can be grown at will and which lends itself to less costly processing requirements. Recently, it has been possible to prepare several known protein sequences using recombinant DNA techniques by transfecting microbes with gene sequences coding for the desired proteins. For example, GB 2,O9l,2 lA purports to disclose the microbial production of pre prorennin. In the process described in the present application the desired rennin protein or its precursor is precipitated within the cell as a refractile body . The present application further describes a process for recovering active rennin activity from the refractile body protein produced in this way. Recombinant Technology The general aspects of DNA recombination and expression in host cells are now well understood. Briefly, the coding sequence for a desired protein is cloned to obtain sufficient quantity to work with, separated from contaminating sequences, and then inserted by known techniques into an expression vector which contains the necessary control systems, usually homologous to the potential host cell culture, to permit transcription into messenger RNA and translation into protein. To be practical, the expression vector must also contain a replication origin to permit it to replicate in the cell, either upon cell division or simply to amplify through reproduction in the non dividing cell. The rennet utilized in the invention herein is produced by employing these techniques to provide a suitable expression vector for rennet in a microbial host, obtaining expression in this host, and recovering the rennet produced. This preparation can be used in the production of cheese according to the method of the invention. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for treating microbial rennet, which process comprises a converting microbial rennet dissolved in a strongly denaturing solution into the corresponding protein S sulfonate b converting the strongly denaturing solution to a weakly denaturing solution in which the protein S sulfonate remains dissolved c treating the resulting protein S sulfonate with a sulfhydryl containing moiety containing a small percentage of its disulfide d optionally removing any remaining denaturant from solution. Preferably step a is preceded by i suspending host cells, in which the rennet has been expressed, in a buffered solution of ionic strength suitable to solubilize most of the host protein ii subjecting the suspension to cell wall membrane disruption iii centrifuging the disrupted suspension at low speed to form a pellet and iv solubilizing the pellet in a strongly denaturing solution. The foregoing process results in a refolding of the rennet e.g. rennin, prorennin or preprorennin microbial expression product into a reactivated form. In the case of prorennin or preprorennin, the pre sequence can then be cleaved to produce rennin. The invention includes reactivated microbial rennet produced by the process hereof. In another aspect the invention provides a method of making cheese using active microbial rennet hereof, and cheese made therewith. In yet another aspect, the invention provides expression vectors and their use in the production of microbial rennet in a suitable microbial host, and microbial rennet produced thereby. In a further aspect the present invention provides rennin or prorennin produced by recombinant DNA techniques, a process for making such rennin or prorennin by culturing cells containing recombinant DNA expressing rennin or prorennin. In yet a further aspect the present invention provides a process for making cheese in which milk is treated with active microbial rennet. Techniques are disclosed which permit the recovery of as much as 200 mg rennet per liter of culture, though even a production of 5 mg per liter would be useful. Alternatively, such production could be measured in terms of molecules per cell, or as equivalents of calf rennin activity.Brief Description of the Drawings Figure 1A is a schematic of the construction of plasmid pRl. Figure 1B is a schematic of the construction of plasmid pRlA. Figure 1C is a schematic of the construction of plasmid prex. Figure 1D is a schematic of the construction of plasmid pRlAX. Figure 2 is the DEAE elution pattern for microbial prorennin Ex 1, part C.8 . Detailed Description A. Definitions As used herein, microbial rennet refers to an enzyme preparation, produced by recombinant DNA technology, which is capable, if necessary with conventional activation, of forming a cheese curd in milk utilizing the mechanism of isolated calf rennin i.e., cleaving the phenylalanine methionine linkage in casein type proteins. The definition of microbial rennet thus includes proteins which are identical in amino sequence to calf rennin and its precursors, and those which are similar to it, though not identical, and which exhibit the same behaviour. It includes any protein sequence which can be activated using conventional techniques to exhibit rennin activity. A classic example is that of prorennin, which is activated to rennin by treating the precursor prorennin at low pH. Preprorennin, which contains an additional 16 amino acids at its N terminus, may similarly be activated by incubating at low pH values. As above, proteins functionally similar to prorennin and preprorennin are also included. The amino acid sequence of rennin and its natural, inactive precursor, prorennin, are known. Rennin has a molecular weight of approximately 35,000 and a sequence of 323 amino acids. Prorennin contains an additional 42 amino acids at the N terminal end of the rennin molecule. Rennin itself, and therefore prorennin, exists naturally in two forms which differ only in the identity of the amino acid at position 286 of the prorennin molecule. In rennin A and corresponsing prorennin, this amino acid is an aspartic acid residue, and in rennin B, and its corresponding prorennin, it is a glycine residue Foltmann, B., et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA , 74 2321 1977 , and J. Biol. Chem., 254 8447 1979 both forms are active.An additional preprorennin11 precursor containing an additional 16 amino acids has also been disclosed see GB 2, 091, 271, supra . Host cells includes, where used in the context of a starting material in a procedure description for heterologous protein isolation, any of the forms in which the cells could be so used. It includes, for example, besides the harvested cell paste, the entire cell culture, a frozen sample of the paste, or a frozen and thawed sample of the paste. Thus the phrase treating host cells in a buffered solution may refer, for example, to manipulation of the whole culture broth or to a preparation using spun down cells. Reactivation , as used herein, is almost synonymous with refolding i.e., it refers to assurance of biological activity for a protein preparation by placing it in a conformationally active form. Reactivation does not, as defined herein involve any change in the amino acid sequence and does not include, for example activation of the type wherein peptide precursors are cleaved to their active forms, such as conversion of trypsinogen to trypsin or prorennin to rennin. Ionic strength refers to the conventional measure of ion concentration in aqueous solution. It is defined as 1 2 of the sum over all ions in solution of the product of the concentration of each ion, times the square of the charge thereon. Denaturing solution refers to a solution which contains a. denaturant . Denaturant , as used herein, refers to those chaotropic compounds or materials which, in aqueous solution and in suitable concentrations are capable of changing the spatial configuration or conformation of proteins through alterations at the surface thereof, either through altering, for example, the state of hydration, the solvent environment, or the solvent surface interaction. Examples of such denaturants include urea, guanidine hydrochloride, sodium thiocyanate and detergents, such as SDS andTriton. It does not include such drastic and irreversible denaturing procedures as high temperature and high acidity. It will be noted that some of the listed reagents are strong denaturants, while others are weaker, and that, of course, the concentration of any of these will directly affect its strength and effectiveness. There can be no specifically exact dividing line between strong and weak , however, strong denaturing conditions more completely unfold the protein from whatever conformation it would spontaneously have preferred due to its amino acid sequence having conferred areas of hydrophilicity and hydrophobicity along the chain under physiological conditions. The most commonly used strongly denaturing environment useful in dissolving refractile protein is a fairly high 4 9M concentration of the ionic denaturant, guanidine hydrochloride. Urea is the most frequently used example of a weak denaturant as even fairly high e.g. 7M concentrations permit the retention of some protein seco dary structures, and provide a route to refolding to the native conformation. It happens also to be nonionic in character, which is significant with respect to its use in those aspects of the invention which entail the use of, for example, ion exchange techniques. Accordingly, a strongly denaturing solution refers to a solution which will effectively unfold a protein also dissolved in the solution. The unfolding will be relatively extensive, but reversible. Solutes which are effective in carrying out unfolding to this extent are exemplified by guanidine hydrochloride and sodium thiocyanate, usually in relatively high concentrations in the range of approximately 4 9 M, and detergents usually supplied in concentrations of the order of 0.01 2 percent. Weakly denaturing solutions refers to those solutions which permit at least partial folding of a protein into the spatial conformation in which it finds itself when operating in its active form under endogenous or homologous physiological conditions, and also solubilizing any intermediate forms between the denatured form as would be found in a strongly denaturing solution, and the properly folded conformation. Examples of such weakly denaturing solutions are high concentrations of urea, ordinarily in the range of 4 9 M and low concentrations of the denaturants set fbrth above which, in high concentrations, are strongly denaturing. These latter low concentrations are ordinarily in the range of 0.5 to approximately 2 M.Occasionally, however, the functional status of weak ly denaturing solution can also be observed simply under fairly standard enzyme assay conditions such as, for example, low buffer concentrations of the order of 0.1 M and below, and physiological pH. As used in this invention, weakly denaturing solution refers to the functional definition i.e. those solutions which permit refolding from whatever contorted conformation the BzzLiin baS for whatever reason, assumed through intermediates soluble in this solution, to a conformation which is capable of exhibiting biological activity. Active microbial rennet refers to a protein which exhibits proteolytic activity qualitatively identical to that of calf rennin or its precursors see microbial rennet supra .B. General Procedure Microbial rennet is prepared in refractile form in bacterial hosts by the methods described in more detail hereinafter. In general, expression vectors containing the sequence encoding calf rennin, prorennin, or other suitable precursor, are prepared using recombinant techniques, and transfected into a microbial host culture, most conveniently a bacterial host, and preferably E. coli. The host cells are grown under conditions which are favorable to the expression of the desired rennet protein, and the refractile bodies formed isolated according to the method of the invention. In this method, the cells are suspended in aqueous buffer comprising either the culture medium itself or a buffered solution of suitable ionic strength. Typical ionic strengths which are useful in the method of the invention are in the range of 0.01M to 2b1 ionic strength. Suitable pH ranges are 5 9, preferably about 6 8.The suspended cells are disrupted by any convenient means, such as mechanical methods, for example, Manton Gaulin press, a French press, or sonication or enzymatic or chemical means, such as, for example lysozyme. After the cells are disrupted, the suspension is centrifuged at low speeds from about 500 x g to about 5,000 x g, preferably around 1,000 x g in a standard centrifuge, for 10 minutes to 2 hours, preferably around 1 2 hour. The pellet contains the desired protein, and may be washed by conventional techniques if desired. The pellet is dissolved in a strongly denaturing solution at approximately neutral pH, from about pH 5 to about pH 9, preferably around pH 7 8. Preferable strongly denaturing solutions are 4 9M, preferably 5 6M guanidine hydrochloride. The solubilized protein is then subjected to sulfitolysis by treating with a suitable concentration of sulfite 10r, in the range of 5 200 mglml, preferably around 15 30 mg ml as calculated for sodium sulfite, or corresponding molar amounts of other sulfite salts, and a mild oxidizing agent sufficient to regenerate disulfide from any sulfhydryl groups which result from the reaction. Suitable oxidizing agents are, for example, metal cations and sodium tetrathionate, preferably sodium tetrathionate. Sodium tetrathionate is added in the amount of approximately 1 20 mglml, preferably around 10 mglml though corresponding molar amounts of other agents may be used. The solution is then allowed to stand 4 24 hours, preferably overnight at 15 C to 35 C, preferably around room temperature. The reaction is then terminated by removal of the reagents, preferably through dialysis into a weakly denaturing solution, such as 1 9h urea or a diluted concentration such as 0.5 2 M guanidine hydrocnloride, preferably around 5M urea. In this sulfitolysis, the do sulfide bonds which exist in the refractile protein are broken and a sulfonate substituted for one of the sulfide partners. It is believed that the mechanism of this reaction involves a nucleophilic attack by the sulfite ion to break the disulfide bond. In any event, the resulting linkage is a protein S S03, i.e., a protein S sulfonate. When the sulfonated protein is placed into the weakly denaturing medium, this medium provides a route to proper refolding, the protein no longer being trapped by incorrect disulfide linkages. If urea is used as a weakly denaturing solution, appropriate concentrations are 1 9M preferably around SM. The pH is kept at approximately 5 9, preferably around 6 8 with suitable buffer, and optionally with added EDTA or other chelating agent. If dilution is used, appropriate concentrations are about O.5M to 2M in the original strong denaturant. Optionally, further purification techniques may be used, such as ion exchange chromatography or treatment with molecular sieve or other gel permeation techniques. The solution is then treated with a system containing a sulfhydryl compound RSH and its corresponding disulfide RSSR , for example B mercaptoethanol, reduced glutathione, cysteaimine, or cysteine and the corresponding oxidized forms, preferably glutathione in the reduced GSH and the oxidized GSSG forms. The pH is adjusted to a value such that the sulfhydryl compound RSH is at least partially in ionized form RS so that nucleophilic displacement of the sulfonate is enhanced. Alternatively the reduced form alone in the presence of air may be used, as sufficient disulfide will be generated in this environment. Typically, the RSH to RSSR molar ratio is approximately between 20 to 1 and 5 to 1, preferably around 10 to 1, and the total glutathione or other reagent concentration in a 0.05 to 5 mM range.The mixture is incubated at about O C to 37 C, preferably around room temperature, for 4 to 24 hours, preferably overnight. The resulting protein solution can then, of course, optionally be subjected to further purification using standard techniques at this point as well if the presence of any remaining concentration of denaturant is objectionable, buffer exchange into the desired conditions may also be performed. General Description of the Cheesemaking Method Successful cheesemaking may be judged by a number of criteria including yield, as measured by solids recovered, suitable bacterial content, and, of course, factors related to quality such as texture, flavor, color and palatability. It is an object of the invention to provide a process for producing acceptable cheese on a practical scale using a milk clotting step which comprises use of rennet microbially produced in practical quantities. In general the cheese making process of the invention utilizes either skim or whole milk of fat content suitable to the nature of the cheese desired. While unpasteurized milk may be used, pasteurized milk is preferred. Ordinarily, but optionally, a starter culture containing a bacterial strain which will be useful in ripening the cheese once the curd is formed is added prior to curd formation. While at the present time, the nature of the cheese ripening process is not entirely understood, it is certainly known that the resulting ripening, and the designation of cheese type, depends on the strain used as starter. In cheddar cheese, for example, the predominating bacteria are mesophilic lactic acidStreptococci, whereas in Swiss cheese, those predominating are thermophilic Streptococci and Lactobacilli.The ripening occurs over a period of a month or so or more, but the bacterial culture peaks about 24 hours after the formation of the curd. While bacteria can be supplied naturally from the milk itself in unpasteurized milk, or by accidental post contamination, usually they are supplied through purposely starting the cheese milk with pure cultures. These cultures are most commonly S. lactis and L. bulgaris strains ordinally found in milk, but which do not survive pasteurization. While generally undesirable, coliforms, including r. coli grow well in cold or warm cheese milk and in the curd as well. They produce gas in the cheese curd and encourage spoilage.While there is some thought that in certain types of fully ripened cheese, coliform bacteria aid in obtaining a typical flavor, coli typically are considered undesirable strains. The process of preparing the milk, for example, through pasteurization or removal of fat, and the choice of starter culture if, indeed, any is used, do not form part of this invention. These are merely commonly used preparation procedures prior to adding a milk clotting enzyme to form the curd. In the process of the invention, the milk prepared as described above, is placed in vats of suitable size, and rennet, microbially prepared, is added at a rate to permit clotting which is sufficiently solid to permit cutting of the curd within 20 to 30 minutes.Shorter clotting times result in undesirable cheese qualities longer clotting times, in addition to resulting in lower quality cheese, are relatively uneconomic. The quantity of rennet to be added is determined by a small scale exemplar treated with the rennet preparation. After clotting has occurred, the curd, cut into suitable size is treated by conventional means, including heating to perfect the clotting process, separation of whey, salting, hooping and pressing. The susequent precedures are variable depending on the form of the cheese desired, and are not a part of the invention. In a typical process, raw milk is pasteurized at 60 to 770C for 30 minutes to an hour and then cooled. After a preincubation at approximately 30 C, a starter culture of, for example,S. thermophillus or S. faecalis, optionally containing, for example, t. bulgaricus or L. helviticus, or other suitable ripening bacteria, is added to approximately 1 percent of the milk weight. Thus, for a 400 pound vat, 4 pounds of starter culture would be added. In order to permit adequate proliferation of the culture, the milk is allowed to ripen at this elevated temperature for approximately an hour. The rennet, which has been prepared from a microbial culture containing a suitable DNA sequence to express the appropriate enzymatic activity, is then added to the warm ripened milk. In a preferred embodiment, the quantity of enzyme added is judged by a preliminary small scale milk clotting experiment preparation, and chosen so that the milk is clotted sufficiently so that it can cut after 20 to 30 minutes, preferably about 25 minutes. After this time period, the curd is then cut, and allowed to heal for approximately 15 minutes before increasing the temperature to approximately 390C and allowing the pH to drop to approximately 6.1. Further reaction is encouraged by turning the curd periodically, for example, every 10 or 15 minutes. The pH continues to fall during this time to a pH of approximately 5.4 whereupon it is salted, hooped and pressed.Additional pressing is usually desirable. The resulting cheese is then aged in a cooler at approximately 50C under anaerobic conditions. These conditions can be achieved by sealing the curd in a heat shrunk saran bag or by alternative provisions such as providing a C02 or nitrogen atmosphere. C. Method for Production of Microbial Rennet C.1 Outline of Procedure The process of the invention whereby rennet is produced in commercially useful quantities using microbial systems may be outlined briefly as follows A. mRNA is isolated from a suitable source, such as calf, lamb or kid stomach, preferably calf fourth stomach mucosa. Of course, mRNA from any tissue which produces rennet will be an appropriate source. mRNA is conventionally separated from total cellular RNA using an oligo dT column however, any technique which is designed to segregate the mRNA from ribosomal and tRNA would fall within the scope of the invention. B. Using conventional techniques, cDNA is prepared using the isolated mRNA as template and selected for that portion of mRNA which codes for rennet sequences. Briefly, the total, or partially fractionated, mRNA is treated with reverse transcriptase, primer, and a mixture of the four dNTPs in suitable buffer. RNA is removed using base, heat denaturing or other methods known in the art, and the complementary DNA strand formed by treating with appropriate enzymes, such as, for example, E. coli DNA polymerase 1, again in the presence of the 4 dNTPs and primer. The polymerase enzyme may be added directly to the initial reaction mixture which contains these reagents. The 7hairpins in the resulting DNA is then cleaved by treating, for example, with SI nuclease. The resulting mixture of double stranded DNA segments, after fractionation into those fragments of appropriate size by, for example, acrylamide gel electrophoresis, is then ligated into a cloning vector by providing suitable ligation sites on both the DNA fragments and on restriction endonuclease cleaved vectors. For example, a preferred method is to add poly C tails to the fragments and poly G tails to the cleaved vectors by treating with the appropriate dCTP or dGTP along with terminal transferase.Suitable cloning vectors are, for example, endonuclease cleaved pBR322, pSC101, or pJC75 58, preferably pBR322. The mixture of DNA fragments, thus annealed into cloning vectors, is used to transform competent cells by, for example, calcium treatment using calcium chloride Cohen, S.N., et al, Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA , 69 2110 1972 and grown on a selective medium specific for a marker contained in the cloning vector. For example, if pBR322 is used, transformed cells will be ampicillin and tetracycline resistant, and only transformed cells will grow on media containing ampicillin or tetracycline. Transformed colonies are placed in microtiter dishes or other suitable containers which will permit retention of a viable colony sample, while permitting assay for presence of the desired DNA sequence. Typically, selection of the desired clones is effected by transferring an imprint of the colonies onto nitrocellulose and treating the resulting replica with a solution containing a suitable probe. Suitable probes comprise radioactivity or fluorescent labeled compounds specific for the desired DNA sequence. In the present invention, as the amino acid sequence of rennin is known, synthetic nucleotide sequences which would code for this result may be used, as may DNA fragments isolated from previous cloning and selection processes. The selected colonies provide plasmids with the desired sequences, which sequences can be recovered by suitable digestion with restriction endonucleases. Techniques for recovering plasmids from cell cultures, for mapping their DNA inserts and for recovery of the desired sequences are well known in the art. Briefly, the isolated plasmids are analyzed by acrylamide gel electophoresis of fragments resulting from double digests using restriction enzymes. By accumulation and analysis of data derived from this process, along with the known restriction enzyme specificities, sizable portions of the gene are recoverable from the transformed colonies. C. The fragments are then pieced together to form the complete coding sequence and expressed in host cells. These fragments can, with appropriate tailoring as necessary, be ligated into plasmids containing promoter operon and replication sites. When used to transform appropriate host cell cultures, these plasmids result in expression of the desired sequence by the transformed organism. D. The resulting protein having the properties of rennet is then recovered from the host cell culture using techniques which are successful in correct management of the 3 dimensional structure of the enzyme.C.2 Level of Production By utilizing the foregoing techniques, rennet is produced in host cell cultures in sufficient amounts to be useful in the clotting of milk for cheese making. Production of 5 mg of rennet per liter of cell culture provides activity sufficient to clot milk effectively, but amounts over 200 mg per liter are producible by the method of the invention. Amounts produced may be measured by assaying the recovered protein according to expected molecular weight or by reactivity with appropriate antibody preparations. A particularly useful assay is that for milk clotting activity, either by measuring the clot diameter on plates, as described by Sokol, et al, J. Coin. Microbiol., 9 538 1979 or by time required to clot liquid milk samples as described in First Supplement of Food Chemicals Codes, 2nd Ed., p. 84 19 .Using such activity as a criterion, amounts of rennet, particularly as prorennin, equivalent in activity when activated if necessary to that exhibited by 5 mg purified calf rennin to more than 200 mg are produced per liter of host cell culture. Alternatively, the aforementioned amounts may be ascertained in terms of molecules produced per cell as judged either by measurement of quantity, antibody reaction or activity in milk clotting . Using the method of the present invention 103 to more than 4 x 104 molecules per cell can be produced. C.3 Preferred Embodiment In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the foregoing procedure was applied as follows mRNA isolated from the fourth stomach mucosa of calves and purified on an oligo DT column is used to prepare cDNA. Based upon information developed in the context of the present invention, a preferred primer in the synthesis of cDNA is dGATCCCGTGAATTCGG. The resulting cDNA is subjected to acrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the fragments containing more than 1,000 base pairs are recovered. The mixture of these fragments is then tailed with poly C, and annealed into Pst 1 cleaved pBR 322 which has been tailed with poly G. The cloning vector mixture is transformed into a suitable host such asE. coli, and transformed cells detected by growth on tetracycline containing medium.The resulting colonies are probed with both Tth probe, described hereinbelow, or with the aforementioned synthetic primer. From the colonies thus selected, plasmids are isolated and the 440 base pair segment between the Bam H1 and Xma sites is recovered and isolated.This is ligated to a synthetic cDNA fragment containing the ATG start codon, preceded by an Eco RI cleavage site, and the codons for the first four amino acids in prorennin. The construction of this synthetic fragment is described hereinbelow. This fragment is ligated to an 800 base pair fragment bracketed by the XmaI and Pst I cleavage sites of a similarly constructed DNA fragment containing cloning vector derived from cloned E. coli using the procedure outlined above except that oligo dT is used as primer and a synthetic pool of 4 sequences described hereinbelow is used as probe. Colonies thus selected, after sequencing, are used as the source of the 800 base pair segment described. The resulting DNA fragment is then ligated in an expression plasmid derived from rIMM, also described below, double digested with EcoR I Pst I.The resulting plasmid is used to transform E. coli W3110 F , A, prototrophic,ATCC 27325 or other appropriate microbe. The cells are grown on LB growth medium containing tetracycline, and induced by addition of indole acrylic acid. The cells are harvested and the presence of prorennin analyzed for as described below. When grown as thus described, prorennin is precipitated within the cell. The prorennin is recovered by solubilizing it in a denaturing solution, for example 5 M guanidine HCl. The solubilized prorennin is then sulfonated using a sulfite solution in the presence of a mild oxidizing agent, buffer exchanged with urea, purified on DEAE cellulose and diafiltered into redox buffer containing reduced predominantly and oxidized glutathione. The resulting protein solution is then activated for use in cheese production by treating with acid at pH 2.C.4 Suitable Host Cells and Vectors Preferred embodiments of suitable host cells for production of rennet include E. coli, B. subtilis, and yeast, although any microbial host cell system may be used. The following sets forth the parameters affecting the use of various such cultures The work, described in Example 1 hereinbelow, employed for cloning purposes, E. coli K12 strain 294 ATCC number 31446.Expression was obtained using E. coli W3110 F , A, prototrophic , ATCC 27325. However, various other microbial strains are useful, including known E. coli strains such asE. coli B, and E. coli X1776 ATCC No. 31537, deposited July 3, 1979 or other microbial strains, many of which are deposited and available from recognized microorganism depository institutions such as the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . For example, bacilli, such as Bacillis subtilus and other enterobacteriaceace, such as Salmonella typhimurium orSerratia marcesans, or various Pseudomonas species may also be employed. Prokaryotic systems are transformed for expression by employing a plasmid vector containing a replicon and control sequences which are derived from the species compatible with the host cell. For example, E. coli is typically transformed using pBR 322, a plasmid derived from an E. coli species Bolivar, et al., Gene 2 95 1977 . This vector ordinarily carries a replication site, as well as marking sequences which are capable of providing phenotypic selection in transformed cells. pBR322 contains genes for ampicillin and tetracycline resistance and thus provides an easy means for identifying transformed cells. The pBR322 plasmid, or other microbial plasmid must contain or be modified to contain promoters which can be used by the microbial organism for expression of its own proteins. Those promoters most commonly used in recombinant DNA construction include the B lactamase penicillinase and lactose promoter systems Chang et al., Nature 275 615 1978 Itakura, et al.,Science, 198 1056 1977 , Goeddel, et al. Nature 281 544 1979 and a tryptophan trp promoter system Goeddel, et al.,Nucleic Acids Res., 8 4057 1980 EPO Appl Publ No. 0036776 .While these are the most commonly used, other microbial promoters have been discovered and utilized, and details concerning their nucleotide sequences have been published, enabling a skilled worker to ligate them functionally with plasmid vectors Siebenlist, et al. Cell 20 269 1980 . In addition to prokaryotes, yeast cultures may also be used. Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or common baker s yeast is the most commonly used among eukaryotic microorganisms, although other commonly available strains of yeast may also be used. For expression in Saccharomyces, the plasmid YRp7, for example, Stinchicomb, et al. Nature, 282 39 1979 Kingsman et al.,Gene, 7 141 1979 Tschemper, et al., Gene, 10 157 1980 is commonly used. This plasmid already contains the TRP1 gene which provides a selection marker for a mutant strain of yeast lacking the ability to grow in tryptophan, for example ATCC No.44076 or PEP4 1 Jones, Genetics, 85 12 1977 . The presence of the trpl as a characteristic of the yeast host cell then provides an effective environment for detecting trpl transformation by growth in the absence of tryptophan. Suitable promoting sequences in yeast vectors include the promoters for 3 phosphoglycerate kinase Hitzeman, et al.,J. Biol. Chem. 255 2073 1980 or other glycolytic enzymes Hess, et al., J. Adv. Enzyme Reg. 7 149 1968 Holland, et al., Biochemistry, 17, 4900 1978 , such as enolase, glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase, hexokinase, pyruvate decarboxylase, phosphofructokinase, glucose 6 phosphate isomerase, 3 phosphoglycerate mutase, pyruvate kinase, triosephosphate isomerase, phosphoglucose isomerase, and glucokinase. In constructing the expression plasmid of the invention, the termination sequences associated with these genes are also ligated into the expression vector 3 of the sequence desired to be expressed to provide polyadenylation of the mRNA and termination.Other promoters, which have the additional advantage of transcription controlled by growth conditions are the promoter regions for alcohol dehydrogenase 2, isocytochromeC, acid phosphatase, degradative enzymes associated with nitrogen metabolism, and the aforementioned glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase, and enzymes responsible for maltose and galactose utilization Holland, ibid. . Any plasmid vector containing yeast compatible promoter, origin of replication and termination sequences may be used.D. Examples The following examples are intended to illustrate the microbial production of rennet and the preparation of cheese therewith. Example 1 Preparation of Practical Quantities of Microbial Calf Prorennin. The following preparation is exemplary of successful proccesses which permit preparation of rennet suitable for use in the process of the invention. Other host organisms, procedures for preparing the correct DNA sequences, and for producing expression vectors are entirely consistent with preparing rennet which may be used in the process of the invention. The particular example given relates to the production of prorennin from E. coli. However, other host organisms and other rennet forms such as rennin or pre prorennin are within the scope of the invention.a. Isolation of Messenger RNA for Prorennin The fourth stomachs of freshly slaughtered calves of less than one week of age were removed and transported on ice from Conti MeatPacking Company, Inc., Henrietta, New York, and the mucosa promptly dissected away from the supporting tissue. Polysomes were isolated from 217 grams of mucosa by the method of Palmiter, R.D., Biochemistry, 13 3606 1974 , incorporated herein by reference, except solutions were autoclaved for one half hour tissue was homogenized with a phenol washed Brinkmann homogenizer Polytron Model PT1OST , and polysomes were pelleted through 1 M sucrose in PB polysome buffer in heat sterilized 250 ml Nalgene polycarbonate tubes. The polysomes were then resuspended in 90 mls of 0.05M Tris, pH 7.2 plus 10 ml of Tenex extraction buffer Tenex is 50 mM Tris, pH 7.0, 500 mM Nail, 250 mM EDTA, 5 percent SDS , and the solution heated to 65 C. Protein was removed by centrifugation at low speed to remove debris, followed by addition of 40 mg of Tritirachium aulbum proteinase K, bound to SAH cellulose MCB EM reagent from MCBManufacturing Chemists, Incorporated, Gibtown, N.J. . The mixture was incubated for one hour at 250C with shaking, and the proteinaseK cellulose removed by centrifugation. The supernatant was extracted with an equal volume of 50 50 v v phenol chloroform. The mixture was centrifuged, and the aqueous phase extracted once with chloroform, and the organic layer plus interphase bulk extracted with 20 ml of 0.02 M Tris, pH 7.2. The aqueous phases were combined and 0.1 volumes of 2 M sodium acetate, pH 5.5, and two volumes of ethanol were added.The RNA was allowed to precipitate in storage at 80 C, and collected by centrifugation at 12,000 x g, lyophilized to remove residual ethanol, and redissolved in 10 mM Tris, 1 mMEDTA, pH 7.5. This RNA solution was adjusted to an RNA concentration of about 2 mg per ml by diluting with 10 mM Tris, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 0.2 percent SDS, and 0.5 M NaCl, and passed over a column of oligo dT cellulose Type 3, Collaborative Research, Lexington,Massachusetts which had been prepared in 1.5 cm diameter sterile econo columns Bio Rad Laboratories, Richmond, CA . The flow through was recycled over the column twice again. The column was then washed with binding buffer plus SDS until no UV absorbing material eluted as monitored by passing the eluate through a precision type 513 ultramicro continuous Quarasil flow cell in aBeckman L 25K spectrophotometer.The bound RNA was then removed from the column by washing with an elution buffer which had been warmed to 65 C and the eluate was collected in 2.5 ml fractions in sterile siliconized 13 x 100 borosilicate tubes using a Gilson microfractionator. The mRNA containing fractions were recycled over the oligo dT columns twice to achieve further purification of poly A messenger. The resulting poly A messenger fractions were brought to 0.2 M in potassium acetate and precipitated with 2 volumes of ethanol and the precipitate stored at 80 C. This mRNA, unfractionated, was used to prepare cDNA as described below.b. Materials and Methods for Construction of Expression Plasmids Incorporating Sequences from mRNA Unless otherwise specified, the procedures used in the description herein are as follows b.1 Preparation of cDNA from mRNA The procedure is as described in Goeddel D. et al., Nucleic Acids Research, 8 4057 1980 , incorporated herein by reference, and was applied with results subsequently to be described. Briefly, for 100pug mRNA, the initial 32p labeled single strand DNA was formed by placing the unfractionated mRNA, prepared as described above, in 100l of reverse transcriptase buffer solution 20mM Tris, pH 8.3, 20mM KCl, 8mM MgCl2, 30mM BMSH which is lmM each in the four dNTPs, 100 microcuries 32p dCTP , and contains approximately 2pg primer, 100 units RNAsin Biotech an RNAase inhibitor and 160 units of reverse transcriptase. The solution was incubated at 42 C for 30 minutes then quenched in ice water and boiled for 3 minutes. After cooling, denatured protein was removed by centrifugation, and the supernatant recovered. The complementary DNA chain was then formed by adding an equal volume of 1 2 times reverse transcriptase buffer with 10 units DNA polymerase Klenow fragment Biolabs and incubated at 14 C for 3 hours. Reaction was stopped and protein extracted by vortexing with 100pal of phenol saturated with buffer 5mM Tris, pH 8, 200mM NaCl, lmM EDTA and adding 100pl chloroform. The aqueous phase was then removed and the nucleic acid precipitated with 2.5 times the volume of ethanol at 200C. The precipitate was spun down and washed with cold 70 percent ethanol. The foregoing method of protein removal by phenol chloroform and nucleic acid recovery by ethanol precipitation was followed throughout. The pellet was then dissolved in 1001 SI buffer 25mM Na0Ac, pH 4.5, lmM ZnCl2, 300mM NaCl and treated with 800 units SI nuclease Miles at 37 C for 90 minutes to cleave the hairpin in the cDNA. The mixture was then phenol choloform extracted as above set forth and nucleic acids precipitated using 4 volumes ethanol at dry ice temperatures. The pellet was resuspended in 45pl TEB and 5pl 50 percent glycerol, 0.1 percent X C, 0.1 percent BPB added. The solution was loaded onto 6 percent acrylamide gel prepared as described in Goeddel supra 5 ml lOx TEB, 2 ml 1.6 percent APS, 7.5 ml 40 percent acrylamide, 36 ml water, 50pl TEMEb. After 30 minutes at 300 volts the gel was cut and stained in EB to determine size locations. Acrylamide gel electrophoresis was run in the foregoing manner throughout. The band corresponding to the desired size was counted using Cerenkov counts and electroeluted into about 300 l 1 10 TEB buffer and recounted to determine yield of cDNA. The volume was reduced to 2001, to this was added 20pl 3M NaOAc, pH 4.8 and 550 l cooled ethanol.This cDNA was stored at 20 C.b.2 Colony Library Preparation 20 ng as judged by recovered radioactivity of the cDNA as prepared in paragraph b.l was tailed with poly C as follows To 20ng cDNA, suspended in 10l1 water, were added 10 l of lOx cacodyalate buffer, 10l,1 1OmM dCTP, 68ul water, lul 100mMCoCl2, and 10 units terminal transferase. The mixture was incubated at 37 C for 5 minutes and protein removed by phenolchloroform extraction as described above. To supernatant was added 0.8 ng PstI cleaved pBR322 tailed with poly G, along with lOpl 3mM NaOAc, pH 4.8, and 275111 ethanol.The spun down nucleic acid precipitate was resuspended in 360 l water plus 40 1 lOx annealing buffer 100mM Tris, pH 7.5, 2.5mM EDTA, 1M Nail and incubated at 70 C diminishing to 37 C overnight. 200pl of the annealed vectors thus prepared were used to transform 4001 of E. coli K12 strain 294 cells, ATCC 31466 by treating with calcium ion calcium chloride solution . After 1 hour, the cells were heat shocked at 42 C for 70 seconds and held for 90 minutes in 5 ml LB. 400ul of cell culture was then plated onto 12 large plates of LB containing Sugiul Tc, and the transformed colonies were recovered. The colonies were picked into microtiter dishes, incubated overnight, and stamped onto nitrocellulose filters BA85 placed on LB plates containing Sug per u1 Tc. The remaining portions of the colonies in the microtitered dishes were preserved by adding 25pal of 42 percent DMSO and storing at 20 C. The transferred portions of the colonies were incubated for 8 to 9 hours at 370C and amplified by transferring the filters to plates containing 12.5pg ml chloramphenicol and incubating at 37 C overnight. Each nitrocellulose filter containing transformed, cultured, and amplified colonies was probed for the desired cDNA sequence as follows Each filter was floated successively on a lysis solution 0.5M NaOH, 1.5M NaCl for 3 minutes, on a neutralizing solution 0.5M Tris, 3M NaCl pH 7.5 for 15 minutes and on 2 x SSC solution for 15 minutes and then dried. In the meantime, kinased probe described below was prepared by the method of Goeddel, et al., Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci., 76 106 1979 , incorporated herein by reference. 100 pmol of DNA probe was treated in kinase buffer 60mM Tris, pH 8, 10mM MgC12, 10mM BME with 251 32P ATP and 10 units of T4 kinase BRL for 30 minutes at 37 C. Labelled probe was separated from unincorporated 32p using a G 50 column. The dried filters described above were prehybridized by covering them with a solution of the following composition 400 ml solution contained 72 ml 5M NaCl, 40 ml 50x Denhardt 50x Denhardt 1 percent each bovine serum albumin, polyvinylpyrrolidine PVP , and SDS , 20 ml 10 percent NP40, 80 mg sonicated salmon sperm DNA, 36 ml 1M Tris, pH 7.5, and 9.6 ml of 250 mM EDTA. Labelled probe was then added and the filters were incubated at 37 C overnight. The filters were washed with 6x SSC with 0.1 percent SDS, dried, and placed against photographic film to locate colonies containing 32p i.e., those which are hybridized with probe.b.3 Isolation of cDNA Plasmids and Sequence Analysis Plasmids were isolated from the identified cultures using the cleared lysate method of Clewell, D.8. and Helinski,Biochemistry 9 4428 1970 , incorporated herein by reference, and purified by column chromatography on Biorad A 50 Agarose.Smaller amounts mini preps were prepared using the procedure of Birnboim, H.C. Nucleic Acids Research, 7 1513 1979 . Fragments of the cloned cDNA containing plasmids were prepared for sequencing by treating about 20 g of plasmids with 10 to 50 units of the appropriate restriction enzyme or sequence of restriction enzymes in approximately 600 pl solution containing the appropriate buffer for the restriction enzyme used or sequence of buffers each enzyme incubation was at 37 C for one hour. After incubation with each enzyme, protein was removed and nucleic acids recovered by the phenolsloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation as set forth above. After cleavage, the preparation was treated for one hour at 370C with 10 units Klenow in 100l of Klenow buffer 50mM KPi, pH 7.5, 7mM MgCl2, lmM BME , containing 50 nmol dNTP. Protein was removed and nucleic acids recovered as above, and the nucleic acids suspended in 4Ol of loading buffer for loading onto 6 percent polyacrylimide gel, as described above, for sizing. DNA sequencing was performed by the M13 vector method Messing, et al, Nucleic Acids Research, 9 309 1981 or by the method Maxam, et al, Methods in Enzymology, 65 499 1980 . b.4 Ligation Procedures DNA fragments, including cleaved expression plasmids were ligated by mixing the desired components e.g. vector fragment cut from 0.25 ug plasmid is mixed with insert cut from 1 pg of plasmid in 20 u1 reaction mixture , which components were suitably end tailored to provide correct matching, with T4 DNA ligase. Approximately 10 units ligase were required for ul quantities of vector and insert components. The resulting plasmid vectors were then cloned by transforming E. coli K12 strain 294 ATCC 31446 . The transformation and cloning, and selection of transformed colonies were carried out as described above.Presence of the desired sequence was confirmed by isolation of the plasmids from selected colonies, and DNA sequencing as described above. b.5 Additional Literature References Additional procedures for preparation of cDNA may be found in Goeddel, et al, Nature, 287 411 1980 Goeddel, et al, Nature, 281 544 1979 Wickens, et, al, J. Biol Chem, 253 2483 1978 .c. Prorennin Expression c.1 Preparation of Probes for Initial Cloning of the Prorennin in Sequence Three types of probes were prepared as follows Four synthetic DNA sequences dTTCATCAT G TT G TC were prepared by the method of Crea, R. and Horn, T., Nucleic Acids Res., 8 2231 1980 except that 2, 4, 6 triiopropyl benzene sulfonyl 3 nitro 1, 2, 4 triazole TPS NT was used as coupling agent de Rooij, J.F.M. et al., Rec. Trav. Chin. Pays Bas, 98 537 1979 . This set of probes will be referred to herein as the probe mixture . The sequence dGATCCGTCGAATTCGG, hereinafter called primer probe was also prepared synthetically and utilized as indicated hereinbelow. A third Tth probe was constructed by recovering and cloning the sequence between two Tth 111 I cleavage sites in a cloned plasmid derived from unfractionated mRNA. In preparing this probe, 100pl of unfractionated mRNA, prepared as described above was converted to cDNA, cloned, the plasmids recovered and the probe excised by treating with Tth 111 1. In this preparation, oligo dT 12 18 was used as primer in the initial reverse transcriptase reaction the cDNA was size separated on 6 percent acrylamide gel, and the fraction containing greater than 1000 base pairs was recovered for annealing into the cloning vector. Upon transforming E. coli 294, 800 transformed colonies were obtained, and one of them, 4H10, hybridized with probe mixture .Plasmids were isolated from the 4H10 culture, and T7hlll I digestion carried out as described above. The fragments were subjected to gel electrophoresis as described above, and the 320 base pair Tth 111 I small fragment electroeluted and labeled by boiling with 2ul 1 pg of calf thymus primer in 28pl of water for 4 minutes, and adding the boiled solution to a tube containing 13ul of a 32PdCTP 130pCi New England Nuclear , 9pl 0.1mM dGTP, dATP, dTTP, and 6pl of 10 x buffer 10 x buffer refers to 60mM NaCl, 60mM MgCl2, 60mM Tris, pH 7.5, 50mM DTT .The reaction mixture was incubated at room temperature for 1 1 2 hours, and added to 40pl of 20 percent glycerol, 0.05 percent SDS, 20mM BBA, and loaded onto a G50 column to remove unincorporated nucleotides. The resulting labeled preparation was used as the Tth probe .c.2 Preparation of Prorennin Sequences The prorennin gene for insertion into an expression plasmid was derived from a fragment at the 5 end ligated to a 3 end fragment. These were prepared as follows. The 5 end fragment was a ligation of a synthetic fragment and a fragment derived from clone PFLA, as described below. The synthetic fragment has the structure Met Ala Glu Ile Thr d A A T T C 77G GCA t7 7mA 77 A C G GTACCGTCTTTATTGTTCCTAGd reading direction This sequence contains an EcoRI site at the upstream end , an ATG start codon, followed by sequences coding for the first four amino acids in prorennin, and terminates in a BamH1 site. The cloned fragment to which this synthetic fragment is ligated in order to form the 5 end of the gene comprises aXma BamHI fragment of approximately 440 base pairs derived from the 5 end. of the gene. The appropriate 440 bp fragment was obtained from cDNA derived from unfractionated mRNA as described above, using as primer, dGATCCGTCGAATTCGG, i.e., the primer probe . The cDNA formed using this primer was size fractionated as set forth above and fragments having more 1,000 base pairs inserted into the PstI site of pBR322 for cloning. The resulting clones were selected using both Tth probe and the primer probe as probes.Only colonies hybridizing with both were selected. From 1,280 transformed colonies, about 300 colonies were obtained which showed hybridization with both probes. These were examined for presence of the 5 portion of the prorennin sequence as follows. The results of a series of double digestions usingAva I Pvu I, AvaI BamH I, Bgl I BamH I, and Bgl I EcoR I were analyzed. Advantage was thus taken of the known Pvu I and Bgl I sites, each 1 5 base pairs either side of the pBR322 Pst site utilized for insertion of the cDNA sequence. These digestions provide suitable fragments for analysis. A rough map of the appropriate fragment as it is disposed in the PstI site of pBR 322 is shown below. Ava Ava EcoRI BamHI Pvul PstI BamHI XmaI PstI Bg1I Aval The desired clone, PFLA, was selected by analysis of acrylamide gel electrophoresis performed on the above double digests of mini preps prepared from the identified clones.Plasmids were then isolated from PFLA clone, double digested with BamH I and XmaI, and the 440 bp fragment recovered by gel electrophoresis. The complete 5 end was then created by a standard ligation reaction utilizing the synthetic fragment and the PFLA clone BamHI XmaI fragment with T4 ligase followed by cleavage with XmaI and EcoRi. The resulting ligated sequences were purified on acrylamide gel electrophoresis selecting for the appropriate 455 base pair fragment. The 3 end fragment was prepared in an manner analogous to that used to prepare the PFLA clone. cDNA containing 1000 bp formed from unfractionated messenger RNA using oligodT as primer, was cloned as above, and colonies selected with Tth probe. Approximately 50 colonies resulted. The desired clone was selected by analyzing the results of gel electrophoresis formed on plasmid minipreps which were double digested withBamHI BglI, PvuI BamHI, EcoR1 BglI, and PvuI EcoR I again taking advantage of the PvuI and BglI sites flanking the PstI insert site. The plasmids from the desired colony were isolated, then cleaved with Xma I and Pst I, and electophoresed to isolate the 800 bp sequence of the 3 375 fragment shown in Figure 1A. The 3 375 fragment extends from the Xma site congruent with that from the PFLA fragment, past the end of the gene to the PstI insertion site. An approximate map of this fragment as it is deployed in thiteof DBR322 is shown below. PvuI PstI EcoRI BamHI BamHI PstI BglI Xma I c.3 Construction of the Expression Plasmid pR1 Figure 1A outlines the construction of the initial plasmid used for prorennin expression. Advantage is taken of a hybrid gene at the 5 end in which the section coding for theN terminal portion of the prorennin is made synthetically, thus allowing the incorporation of an ATG initiation codon for protein synthesis in front of the triplet coding for the first amino acid. The prorennin expression plasmid pR1 was constructed by incubating EcoR1 Pst I cleaved y IMM plasmid with the 5 and 3 segments constructed as described above in the presence of T4 ligase. r IMM, is a pBR 322 derived plasmid, the construction of which is essentially that described for pIFN r trp 48 inEP 77670, GB 2107718, incorporated herein by reference and by Gray et al., Nature, 295 503 1982 . Specifically, rIMM differs from pIFN r trp 48 by one base pair so as to contain an XbaI site contiguous to theEcoRI site downstream from the trp promoter.The XbaI site unaccountably lost in the construction of pIFN r trp 48 there described can be introduced by replacement of the ca. 40 bp sequence spanning the HpaI within the trp promoter to EcoRI site of pIFN trp 48 with a corresponding ca. 40 bp HpaI toEcoRI sequence having an XbaI site contiguous to the EcoRI site, prepared by suitable digestion of pLeIFA25 Goeddel et al.,Nature, 287 411 1980 or pHKY1 European Patent ApplicationPublication No. 0036776 . Alternatively, pIFN y trp 48 can be modified to provide theXba I site by digestion with EcoRI and ligation to the EcoRI EcoRI trp promoterloperator fragment described in EPOPubin. No. 0036776 supra to give an intermediate plasmid, 4813, containing tandem trp promoter operators.Plasmid 48 13 is then digested with Hpal and religated. The ligation mixture was used to transform E. coli K12 294. Plasmids were isolated from the selected transformed clones, and one was selected for sequencing to confirm the proper junction of the desired fragments. c.4 Expression of Prorennin E. coli K12 294JpR1 was inoculated into a test tube containing 5 ml LB growth medium containing 5ug ml tetracycline. The cells were grown overnight at 37 C. An aliquot of this culture was diluted 1 150 into 60 mls of M9 medium containing 5pg ml tetracycline. The cells were grown in a shaker flask at 37 C for 4 hours, to a resulting absorbance at 550nm of 0.25 and the tryptophan analog, indole acrylic acid, added to a concentration of 2ovglml. The cells were incubated 70 minutes, to an absorbance at 550nm of 0.5 and harvested by centrifugation. The cells were resuspended in 0.7 ml of phosphate buffered saline containing BSA.The resulting suspension was sonicated and assayed for the presence of prorennin by concentrating the suspension and subjecting the concentrate to SOS PAGE, according to the method of Eaemmli, Nature, 227 680 1970 , incorporated herein by reference. The slab gel was electrophoretically transfered to nitrocellulose paper in the presence of 20 mM tris, 200 mM glycine, pH 8.5 at 1 m amp for 90 minutes. Removal of the protein from the slab gel was verified by staining with Coomassie blue. The nitrocellulose paper was then rinsed briefly in water and incubated in lOOl NET buffer 50mM Tris, pH 7.4, 0.15M NaCl, 5mM EDTA, 0.25 percent gelatin w v , 0.05 percent MP40 or Triton X 100 w v per square cm of paper containing an appropriate dilution of prorennin antiserum and incubated for 4 hours at 4 C. The paper was then rinsed briefly with water and washed with NET buffer for 2 hours at room temperature, rinsed with water, blotted dry and incubated at room temperature for 1.5 hours in the presence of NET buffer containing 125I labeled protein A 0.25Ci per gel lane Protein A is an antibody binding protein isoluted from Staphylococus aureus. .The paper was then rinsed with water, and exposed to X ray films with intensifying screens at 70 C. The presence of prorennin at a molecular weight of 40,000 daltons was confirmed.c.5 Construction of pRlA Modification to convert pRI into an improved expression plasmid pRlA is outlined in figure 1B. Such modification altered the region between the Shine Dalgarno sequence which participates in ribosome binding and the start codon ATG . In plasmid polyA Xba, the region downstream from the trp promoter has had a sequence of bases added which results in a string of A s between an additional, newly createdShine Dalgarno sequence on the one hand and an Xba I site on the other. This permits the vector to be cut at the Xba I site, and treated with S1 nuclease to remove the resulting sticky end .When this end is ligated to a piece of DNA containing a start codon at or within a few bases of its 5 end, a favorable ribosome binding site is created. The polyA Xba plasmid is prepared as described herein. A sequence of operations which will accomplish this diagrammed in Figure 1B is then as follows. The plasmid polyA Xba was cleaved as previously described, using the enzyme Xba I. The digest was EtOH precipitated, and resuspended in S1 buffer 100 pl per fragments from 25 ug of plasmid . S1 enzyme 5 units of BRL S1 nuclease was added, the reaction mixture incubated at 12 degrees for 30 minutes1 and quenched by extraction three times with phenol chloroform. The pH of the reaction mixture was adjusted by adding 10 pl of 1 M tris, pH 8 to improve the yield of the extraction. The DNA was ethanol precipitated cleaved with Pst I,.and the larger piece purified by gel electrophoresis. The prorennin gene was conveniently prepared for insertion in 2 pieces. pR1 or another plasmid containing the desired sequence is cleaved with Kpn I and Pst I and the piece containing the 3 back end of the gene purified. A second piece containing the 5 front end of the gene with the start codon at or near the end of the piece was prepared from pR1 by EcoRI cleavage, S1 nuclease treatment, KpnI cleavage, and gel purification. The three fragments were then ligated using the standard procedure described above. The S1 nuclease treatments described led to a distribution of products with sequences that end within 1 or 2 bases of the sequence end that would result from exact removal of the sticky end . Hence, a distribution of ligation products with related, favorable ribosome binding site sequences results. From these, one with the sequence dGGGTATCTAGGAAAAAAAATATG was chosen and was designated pRlA. The plasmid p poly A Xba was constructed as follows.First, an intermediate plasmid was prepared by a three way ligation involving fragments from two interferon plasmids and a piece of synthetic DNA. The plasmid pLeIF AD trp EP 51873, GB 2090258 was successively cleaved with Xba I and Pst I and the large fragment isolated on gel.The plasmid pIFNy trp 48 13 EP 77670, GB 2107718 was cleaved with Ava II and Pst I, and the 1000 bp fragment isolated. The DNA fragment CTAGATGTGTTATTGTCAG TACACAATAACAGTCCTG with Xba I and Ava II sites at either end was synthesized as described above.Ligation of the three pieces with T4 using standard procedures gave the intermediate plasmid pXba IFN 1. Plasmid pXba IFNu l was cleaved with Xba I, treated with alkaline phosphatase, and ligated to the synthetic fragment CTAGG A 8T C T AGATC, to give p poly A Xba. c.6 Construction of pRlX Modification to convert pRi into another improved expression plasmid, pRIX, is outlined in figure 1C. The modification consists of excising the prorennin gene from pR1 in a single piece and inserting that gene into the expression vector, 4813 XAP. The plasmid gamma 48 13 XAP was prepared from pIMM supra by deletion of the Ava I Pvu II sequence. The expression vector 4 13 XAP differs from that used to construct pR1 in two respects. First, a second trp promoter operator sequence has been placed in tandem behind the first. Second, the XAP deletion in which the region of pBR322 between its unique Ava I and Pvu II sites has been deleted has been constructed in this vector, resulting in anincreased number of plasmid copies in each host cell. The plasmid 48 13 XAP was cleaved, at its unique Xba I andPst I sites, and the larger resulting piece purified. The plasmid pR1 was cleaved at its unique Xba I site and partially cleaved with Pst I to obtain the Xba I Pst I piece containing the entire prorennin coding sequence and purified by gel purification. These two pieces were ligated as previously described to obtain pR1X. c.7 Construction of pR1AX The plasmid used to produce prorennin for testing, pRlAX, was an improved expression vector obtained by modifying the plasmids pRlA and pR1X, described above, in the way diagrammed in figure 1D and described below. Plasmid pRlA was cleaved with Hind III, and blunt ended by treating with DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment. 25 pg of cut plasmid DNA was incubated in 200 vl of a suitable buffer in the presence of 1 4 mM of each deoxynucleotide and 10 units of NewEngland Biolabs Klenow fragment at 37 for extraction and Et0H precipitation, as previously described. The plasmid. so treated was then digested with Kpn I and the piece containing the improved ribosome binding site, as well as a promoter copy and the 5 end of the prorennin coding sequence, was isolated on the gel. The plasmid pRlX was digested at its unique Xba I site and treated with Klenow fragment as described above for the preparation of the pR1A derived fragment. The plasmid DNA was then cleaved with Kpn I and the larger piece, containing the 3 end of the prorennin coding sequence, as well as the XAP deletion and 2 trp promoter copies, was isolated by gel purification. These two fragments, each having one blunt end and one end derived from Kpn I digestion were ligated as previously described to obtain the plasmid pR1AX.