# TEST FOR SALMONELLA IN FOOD

## Description
This invention relates to the detection of the bacteria of the genus Salmonella The most commonly used test for the presence in food or stool of Salmonella involves the measurement of classical biological characteristics. The test consumes several days. A known method In general, the Each of said Salmonella DNA probes is a Salmonella DNA fragment common to all or most preferably, greater than 80 , most preferably greater than 90 of the great number of known Salmonella species, while at the same time being apparently absent from all other enterobacteria. This finding, that there is a family of highly Salmonella specific fragments distributed throughout the entire Salmonella genus, was extremely surprising, particularly in view of the supposed common lineage of all enterobacteria, including Salmonella. The family of probes of the invention do not code for any protein of which we are now aware, and also are not known to contribute to pathogenicity. The detection of Salmonella using the DNA probes of the invention thus does not depend on the ability to match a DNA probe with any phenotypic characteristic of Salmonella i.e., there is no need to use as a probe a DNA fragment which is known to contribute any particular distinguishing feature of the genus. As far as is known, the probes of the invention are the first bacterial genus specific probes with such wide distribution throughout the genus. Our discovery that there is not just one, but a number, of Salmonella specific probes provides the added advantage of increased sensitivity and signal amplification the larger the number of different probes used, the greater the sensitivity of the assay. This is because, when several different probes are used, each can hybridize to a different portion of a single Salmonella chromosome, so that the single chromosome bears multiple labels. The DNA probes of the invention used in any hybridization assay to detect Salmonella DNA in food and stool samples give rapid, accurate results, and thus, e.g. allowing food manufacturers to reduce food storage time prior to shipment. The particularly hybridization technique unlike conditions is not essential to the invention. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the probe is labeled, e.g., with a radioactive isotope, e.g. ³²P or ¹²⁵I, which is incorporated into the DNA probe, e.g. by nick translation. In other preferred embodiments, the probe is labeled with biotin, which reacts with avidin to which is bonded a chemical entity which, when the avidin is bonded to the biotin, renders the hybrid DNA complexes capable of being detected, e.g. a fluorophore, an electron dense compound capable of rendering the hybrid DNA complexes detectable by an electron microscope, an antibody capable of rendering the hybrid DNA complexes immunologically detectable, or one of a catalyst substrate pair capable of rendering the hybrid DNA complexes enzymatically detectable prior to contacting the bacteria with the probe, the bacteria are lysed to release their DNA, which is then denatured and immobilized on an appropriate DNA binding support such as a nitrocellulose membrane and the method employs at least 2, and preferably at least 3, 4, or 5 different Salmonella specific probes. In other preferred embodiments, the probe is unlabeled and detection is carried out by means of sandwich hybridization. We first briefly describe the drawings. Fig. 1 is an exploded isometric view of apparatus useful in carrying out the invention. Fig. 2 is a table of restriction maps of Salmonella specific probes of the invention. There is shown in Fig. 1 food sample processing apparatus 10 this apparatus does not constitute a part of the present invention. The apparatus includes cap 12, top disposable cylindrical portion 14, and bottom cylindrical portion 16, the narrowed top portion 18 of which snugly mates with the recessed bottom portion of cylindrical portion 14. Cylindrical portion 14 is fitted with large pore 5 200 micron filter 22 capable of allowing the passage of small, Salmonella sized bacteria while filtering out small food particles and larger bacteria. Filter 22 is supported on large pore, rigid plastic grid 24. Cylindrical portion 16 is fitted with nitrocellulose DNA binding membrane 26 supported on large pore plastic grid 28, which constitutes the floor of cylindrical portion 16. Cylindrical portion 16 is sized to fit snugly into a cylindrical hole of the manifold of a vacuum suction device not shown . The illustrated apparatus is employed in the method of the invention as follows. A sample of food suspected of containing Salmonella is placed in portion 14. Portions 14 and 16 are fit snugly together, and vacuum is applied at the bottom end of portion 16, causing Salmonella sized bacteria to be deposited on filter 26, while food particles and larger bacteria remain trapped in portion 14, which is then discarded. The Salmonella detection method of the invention is then carried out on the bacteria on filter 26, as will be described in detail below. A library of The above screening procedure in yeast yields a fragment which selectively hybridizes to Salmonella DNA and not to other bacteria, including other enterobacteria. The To verify that the above fragment is common to a variety of Salmonella cultures, this fragment is cut out of the plasmid vector with Bam HI, purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, nick translated with ³²p using the nick translation method described in Rigby et al. 1977 J. Mol. Biol. Additional Salmonella specific probes are obtained as described above, screening about 200 plasmid minipreps from First, plasmid minipreps of MC1061 transformants are prepared, by the method of Holmes et al. 1981 Anal. Biochem A total of 54 cloned fragments that appear not to hybridize to the Salmonella isolates mentioned herein are summarized by 0 antigen groups in Table 2 below those isolates of specific interest are described in Table 1. Non Salmonella strains, where noted, are isolated from foods and identified using the Enteric tek identification system Difco with tests of growth parameters on a variety of other bacteriological media. In some of these instances, only the genus is indicated. Most of the 54 clones not hybridizing to This screening is carried out as follows. First, the fourteen Salmonella specific fragments are cut out of the plasmid vector using Barn HI, electrophoresed through agarose gels, electroeluted, and labeled with ³²P via nick translation, as described above. Dot blots of Salmonella and other bacterial isolates to be surveyed using the above probes are prepared by concentrating cultures of the bacteria in L broth approximately 20 fold and then spotting one microliter drops onto nitrocellulose filters. The bacteria are lysed The results of the above screening procedure are given in Table 2, below. As shown therein, clone RF321 Fig. 2 hybridizes to every Salmonella isolate tested. Clones RF356, RF352, RE354, and RF355 1, like RF305 1, hybridize to all Salmonella isolates clone RF305, deposited in the ATCC, has since been renamed RF305 1 . Clones RF321, RF352, RF354, and RF355 1 are found to contain identical inserts, although at least three are independent clones. RF321 and RF354 contain the same Barn HI fragment, although in opposite orientations relative to the plasmid vector. RF355 1 is derived from a clone which contains, in addition, a second Barn HI fragment which is 1.4 KB in size the orientation of the 5.6 KB fragment is the same as for RF354. RF352 is identical to RF321. Clone RF356 differs from the others by size and restriction map. Clones RF319, RF333, RF326, and RF305 1 hybridize to fewer than 100 of all Salmonella isolates surveyed. By size, restriction enzyme map, and hybridization pattern, clones RF333 and RF326 are identical, except that they have opposite orientations in the plasmid vector. Five of the fragments illustrated in Fig. 2 were deposited in the Agricultural Research Culture Collection NRRL , International Depository Authority, Peoria, IL, on June 29, 1983. Each fragment is contained in plasmid YEp13, contained in Clones RF304, RF344, RF318, RF347 3, and RF367 hybridize to 50 or less of all Salmonella isolates tested, and are thus much less suitable as probes than the probes of Fig. 2, which are almost certainly chromosomal, consisting of a portion less than the entire chromosome. For RF344 and RF347 3, the hybridization patterns are different from each other. RF318 has the same distribution as RF347 3, but differs in size and restriction map. Clones RF304 and RF367 have narrow distribution in the genus. However, the hybridization patterns for these two clones are different. All of these clones hybridize to DNA from DB9000, an Before describing in detail a method for using the probes of the invention to detect Salmonella, it must be pointed out that detection of the hybrid complexes formed betweeen the probes of the invention and Salmonella DNA can be accomplished in a variety of ways. One method is to label the probes, so that the hybrid complexes will also be labeled. The probes can be labeled in a variety of ways. Some labeling methods are direct, i.e., the label which is bonded to the probe is itself detectable examples are radioactive isotopes. Other labels are indirect, i.e., the label is not itself detectable until it undergoes one or more reactions following hybridization an example is a compound such as biotin, a label which is not itself detectable, but becomes detectable after it reacts with avidin bound to a detectable chemical entity such as a fluorophore, or an enzyme such as horseradish peroxidase HRP . In the case of HRP, detection is accomplished via a substrate for HRP a preferred such substrate is the chromogen diaminobenzidine. For convenience, then, the term label as used herein refers to directly detectable entities such as radioactive isotopes, as well as to indirectly detectable entities such as biotin. The entity, e.g., HRP avidin, to which an indirectly detectable label bonds to become detectable is referred to herein as an indicator . The most preferred labels for the probes are non isotopic labels attached to the cytosine and adenine bases of the probes via linking groups. Such labeling is described in Landes U.S. Pat. Appln. entitled Labeled DNA , filed on the same day as this application, assigned to the same assignee as this application, hereby incorporated by reference. The method of non isotopic labeling described in the above Landes Pat. Appln. requires that a cross linking reagent be used to join an enzyme molecule to the DNA for this reaction to be carried out, the DNA must be in single stranded form. It is convenient, if this type of labeling is to be used, to maintain the probe in single stranded form, prior to labeling. This can be done by incorporating the single stranded probe into a phage vector, e.g. the publicly available phage vector Fd., described in Zinder et al. 1982 Gene If the probes are to be isotopically labeled, they can conveniently be maintained in a plasmid vector, e.g. YEp13, prior to labeling. Labeling most conveniently involves cutting out of the plasmid the probe to be used in the hybridization assay and then nick translating the probe. Alternatively, the entire plasmid can be nick translated and used in the assay. In either case, the probe, which in the plasmid is double stranded, must first be rendered single stranded, e.g., by heat treatment or by treatment with a base. Another detection method, which does not require the labeling of the probe, is the so called sandwich hybridization technique, described in European Pat. Appln. 0079139, hereby incorporated by reference. In this assay, an unlabeled probe, contained in a single stranded vector, hybridizes to Salmonella DNA, and a labeled, single stranded vector, not containing the probe, hybridizes to the probe containing vector, labeling the whole hybrid complex. Any of the Salmonella specific probes of the invention, labeled with, e.g., ³²P, are used to demonstrate the presence of Salmonella in a mixture of bacteria, as follows. A pure culture of The hybridization reaction is allowed to proceed for 2 hrs. at 37 C. Non hybridized probe is then removed by repetitive washes of the solid support with an established wash regimen, e.g., 3 washes of 10 minutes each with 10 mM NaCl at 37 C. Labeled DNA complexes fixed to the membranes quantitatively correspond to the amount of Salmonella on each membrane. For each dilution, the same quantitative result is obtained for the pure Salmonella samples as for those containing Although good results can be obtained using only one of the probes of the invention, we have found, as discussed above, that best results are obtained using more than one different probe at the same time. The procedure for detecting the presence of Salmonella in food can be summarized as follows. Fifteen 25 gram randomly selected samples of food to be tested are cultured in nutrient broth for 20 24 hours at 30 37 C. Referring to Fig. 1, a one ml aliquot of the culture is then pipetted into cylindrical portion 14 and a vacuum applied, as described above, so that small Salmonella sized bacteria are collected on nitrocellulose filter 26 portion 14, containing food and large bacteria, is then discarded. Next, a solution, e.g. NaOH NaCl, which is capable of both lysing bacteria and denaturing bacterial DNA, is added to portion 16. Following denaturation, Tris NaCl is added to neutralize the NaOH NaCl. The bacterial DNA is then fixed onto membrane 26 by adding absolute ethanol to the membrane and then allowing it to dry, as described in Groet et al. U.S. Pat. Appln. S.N. 448,979 , filed on December 13, 1982, assigned to the same assignee as this application, hereby incorporated by reference. corres. EPC 83 1 12 471.4 Following fixation, membrane 26 is soaked for 15 30 min. in pre hybridization buffer, described above. Hybridization buffer, containing ³²P labeled probe, is then added, as described above, and hybridization is allowed to proceed for 2 3 hrs. at 37 C. Radioactive hybrid DNA complexes indicate the presence in the food sample of Salmonella. The above procedure can be used to detect the presence of Salmonella in any foods, including all of the foods listed in Table 2. The processing of the food samples prior to the hybridization assay is carried out according to the methods described by the Food and Drug Administration in U.S. FDA, Bureau of Foods, Div. of Microbiol. 1978 Bacterialog. Anal. Manual, 5th Ed., Wash., DC Association of Anal. Chem. As indicated in Table 2, some of the food cultures tested were inoculated with predetermined numbers of Salmonella prior to the overnight incubation. In those cases, Salmonella cultures were grown to approximately 2 x 10⁸ cells ml in L broth, diluted in L broth, and added to the food cultures. All five of the NRRL deposited probes, nick translated with ³²P, were used to assay, using nucleic acid hybridization, the following foods samples of food tested were both those which had been inoculated with Salmonella, and uncontaminated samples peanut butter, soy flour, macaroni, chocolate pieces, nonfat dry milk, thawed frozen fish sticks, dried eggs, dog treats, sour cream, and instant mashed potatoes. Inoculated samples of each type of food give very strong hybridization results, while uncontaminated samples give very clean negative results. To determine whether different Salmonella strains commonly found in food behave similarly in hybridization assays, soy flour cultures are inoculated with about 1,000 organisms of four of the Salmonella strains most commonly found in food, human clinical samples, and other animals, according to the 1980 Salmonella Surveillance Annual Summary of the Center for Disease Control, issued December, 1982. These four strains are Some strains of Salmonella e.g., Thus diverse food types can be handled with ease in this test. An overnight period of incubation of these foods in nutrient broth is desirable, but selective enrichment is not required. The advantages of this system are multifold. The time required for the analysis of a single food sample is greatly reduced from the 5 7 days currently required for a microbiological assay. In addition, a larger number of food samples can be processed in a small period of time. In these studies the background hybridization is quite low, which makes possible a clear distinction between positive and negative results. The probes described herein can also be applied in a clinical setting to test for the presence of Salmonella in stools stool samples can be processed in the same way as food samples. Other embodiments are within the following claims. For example, as has been mentioned, probes can be labeled using a variety of labels. Nitrocellulose membranes are preferred for binding DNA, but any suitable DNA binding support, e.g. diazobenzyloxymethyl paper, can be used.