# Forming wire cloth for papermaking machine.

## Abstract
A wire cloth for dewatering and forming the stock in papermaking machines consists of a longitudinal and trans verse wire system. In order to reduce the mark problems at papermaking, it is proposed to use a weave pattern, which repeats after six longitudinal wires M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, M6 and six transverse wires C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, and the step move sequence of the binding points is 2 2 3 4 4 3.

## Claims
Claim A wire cloth for dewatering and forming the stock in papermaking machines, consisting of a longitudinal and transvers wire system, c h a r a c t e r i z e d i n that the weave pattern repeats after 6 longitudinal wires M1 M6 and 6 transverse wires C1 C6 , that each wire has floatings of 5 wires, and the step move sequence of the binding points is 2 2 3 4 4 3.

## Description
Forming wire cloth for papermaking machineThis invention relates to a forming wire cloth to be used for dewatering and forming the stock in papermaking machines, which wire cloth consists of longitudibal and transverse wire systems.The invention has been developed in order to replace a usual binding, which is used at forming wire clothes for the making especially of fine paper, viz. a so called 4 shaft cross twill.This binding has the disadvantage that certain transverse wires more than other tend to position themselves closer to each other, depending on how the binding points are located relative to each other. The non uniform distances between the transverse wires at times also between the longitudinal wires give rise to mark problems at the papermaking.The present invention now has the object to eliminate the marks at papermaking, in that the wire cloth has been given the characterizing features defined in the attached claims.The invention is described in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows a known binding pattern, Figs. la and Ib show longitudinal and, respectively, transverse wires,Figs. 2,2a and 2b in the same manner show a second known binding pattern, Fig. 3 by way of a first embodiment shows the binding pattern for a wire cloth according to the invention, Fig. 3a shows a longitudinal wire, which is the outermost right hand wire in the binding pattern shown, Fig. 3b shows the uppermost transverse wire in the binding pattern, and Figs. 4, 4a and 4b show the binding pattern for a second embodiment of a wire cloth according to the invention. The invention is described with reference to the weaving method, which describes how the longitudinal wires in the forming wire cloth are bound together with the transverse wires.The term longitudinal wires refers to the wires, which at the utilization of the wire cloth in the papermaking machine extend in the same direction, in which the paper is made. These wires hereinafter are designated as M1 M2 a.s.o. The wires extending. transversely in the papermaking machine are designated as C1 C2 a.s.o. re wire cloth, thus, does not depend on the way it was produced in respect of weaving, i.e whether it is circ uiar woven or flat woven and made endless with a splice.The binding pattern has been developed for replacing a usual binding, which is used at forming wire clothes especially for the making of fine paper, viz. a so called 4 shaft cross twill. This binding is illustrated inFig. 1 showing the smallest repeating sequence of the binding pattern of the two wire systems.In the checker system where each vertical checker row indicates a longitudinal wire M , and each horizontal checker row indicates a transverse wire C , a filled checker indicates that the longitudinal wire M is lifted over the transverse wire C .In the same way, an empty checker indicates that a transverse wire C passes over a longitudinal wire M .Fig. 1 a shows how the longitudinal wire M4 in Fig. 1 binds, and Fig. Ib shows how the transverse wireC4 binds.In certain papermaking machines substantial advantages are achieved by turning the wire cloth so that the transverse wires are located on the upper forming side of the wire cloth. The binding pattern then has the appearance shown in Fig. 2 with associated cuttings 2a and 2b. The reason why the binding pattern according to Figs.1 and 2 is suitable to be applied especially to the making of fine papers is, that the weave pattern is designed with so called broken diagonal. It is, normlly seen, the diagonal in the weave pattern which makes a mark in the final paper.The diaadvantage of the pattern according to Figs. 1 and 2 is, that the transverse wires C2 and C3 tend to position themselves relative to each other closer than the wires Cl and C2 and the wires C3 and C4 position themselves in the final cloth. This depends on the way how the binding points are located relative to each other.In Fig. 1 the binding points M1 C1 and M2 C2 contact sach other. There is, however, no contact between the points M2 C2 and M3 C4 or N C3. The non uniform distances between the transverse wires at times also between the longitudinal wires give rise to mark problems at the papermaking.The weave pattern acco ding to the invention is a pattern with broken diagonal without contact between the binding points.The pattern term for the invention is apparent fromFig. 3 where the longitudinal wires M are located on the forming side, and from Fig. 4 where the transverse wires are located on the forming side of the wire cloth.For describing the appearance of the diagonal, the term step move is used. Step move defines how the binding point for the different longitudinal wires M is moved.In Fig. 1, for example, the binding point for wire Ml is located at M1 C1, and for wire M2 it is located at M2 C2. The move, thus, is one step. The next binding point is at M3 e4,at which a 2 step move is required. Between the wires M3 and Mh a 3 step move is required in order to arrive at M4 C3. The last one is a 2 step in order to come again to the starting position M1 C1.The appearance of the diagonal for the pattern according to Fig. 1, thus, can be described by the step move sequence 1 2 3 2. Upon turning the wire cloth so as to correspond to Fig.2, the same step move sequence is obtained. When a straight diagonal is desired, consequently, the step move ..u.. er 1 is used throughout.The weave pattern according to the invention Figs. 3 and 4 uses the step move sequence2 2 3 4 4 3. This sequence can be used only when the weave pattern repeats after 6 x 6 wires.Besides, both the longitudinal and transverse wires shall bind over 5 below 1 or below 5 over 1 when the wire cloth is turned.The structure of the wire cloth according to the invention, Figs. 3 and 4, compared to the wire cloth in Figs.1 and 2 is considerably more uniform, owing to the fact that a more uniform distance between the separate wires in each wire system can be maintained.