# Olefin polymerisation catalyst component and polymerisation process employing it.

## Abstract
Novel titanium magnesium compounds are obtained by reaction of titanium tetrachloride with a magnesium com plex of a conjugated diene. Olefins may be polymerised using a catalyst comprising one of the novel compounds and an organo aluminium cocatalyst.

## Claims
rLAI t S 1. An olefin polymerisation catalyst component comprising the reaction product of titanium tetrachloride with a magnesium complex of a conjugated diene. 2. A catalyst component according to Claim 1 wherein the conjugated diene is selected from isoprene, butadiene, myrcene, diphenyl butadiene, and dialkyl butadienes wherein the alkyl groups have 1 to 5 carbon atoms. 3. A catalyst component according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 whercin the magnesium to diene ratio is selected frond 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, and 1 4. 4. A catalyst component according to any preceding claim which comprises the reaction product of titanium tetrachloride with a magnesium isoprene polar solvent complex. 5. A catalyst component according to Claim 4 wherein the polar solvent is tetrahydrofuran in a molar ratio to magnesium of.2 or more 1. 6. A catalyst component according to Claim 4 or Claim 5 wherein the magnesium to titanium ratio is 2 or less 1. 7. A catalyst component according to Claim 6 wherein the magnesium to titanium ratio is 1 1 to 2 1. 8. A process for the polymerisation of at least one olefin carried out by means of a catalyst comprising an olefin polymerisation catalyst component according tc any preceding claim arid an organo aluminium component selected from an aluminium trialkyl, an aluminium alkyl halide having an alkyl to halogen ratio of at least 1 1, and a mixture thereof. 9. A process according tc Claim 8 wherein the alkyl groups in the organo aluminium component have from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. 10. A process according to Claim 8 or Claim 9 wherein ethylene is homopolymerised.

## Description
This invention relates to an olefin polymerisation catalyst component and to the polymerisation of olefins by means of an olefin polymerisation catalyst comprising such a component. The reaction of isoprene with magnesium in polar solvents such as tetrahydrofuran THF is described by Yasuda, N.,Nakano, Y., Natsukawa, J., Tani, H., in Macromolecules 11 1978 p 586. Complexes having the formula Mg isoprene where x 1, 2, 3 or 4 have been characterised. The complex usually contains two molecules of polar solvent, such as THF, coordinated with the magnesium. Similar complexes with butadiene have also been reported see reference 30 in the above paper . It has been concluded that such complexes have a macrocyclic structure containing e.g., 25 members, five magnesium atoms, or 27 members, three magnesium atomsWe have found that an olefin polymerisation catalyst component can be prepared by reaction of titanium tetrachloride with a magnesium complex of a conjugated diene such as one of those just described. According to the present invention an olefin polymerisation catalyst component comprises the reaction product of titanium tetrachloride with a magnesium complex of a conjugated diene.The invention also includes a process for the polymerisation of at least one olefin carried out by means of a catalyst comprising an olefin polymerisation catalyst component as just described and an organo aluminium component which is an aluminium trialkyl, an aluminium alkyl halide having an alkyl to halogen ratio of at least 1 1 or a mixture thereof. Examples of suitable magnesium complexes of a conjugated diene are those wherein the conjugated diene is isoprene, butadiene, myrcene, diphenyl butadiene or a dialkyl butadiene wherein the alkyl groups have 1 to 5 carbon atoms. Magnesium butadiene and magnesiumisoprene complexes are preferred. Generally such complexes are prepared in a polar solvent, such as an ether or cyclic ether e.g.THF . The complexes so prepared generally contain a certain amount of coordinated polar solvent, e.g., a THF to magnesium ratio of at least 2 l, i.e., 2 1 or more than 2 1. For use in olefin polymerisation it is preferred that the amount of polar compound used to prepare the magnesium diene complex is kept to a minimum. The magnesium to diene ratio in the complex may be 1 1, 1 2, 1 3 or 1 4. Magnesium isoprene tetrahydrofuran complexes are preferred. The olefin polymerisation catalyst component is prepared by reaction of titanium tetrachloride with the magnesium complex of a conjugated diene. The titanium to magnesium ratio of the reactants used is preferably from 1 1 to 1 2. The magnesium to titanium ratio in the catalyst component is 2 or less 1, preferably 1 1 to 2 1. A reaction temperature of 0 to 300C is preferred. The reaction to prepare the catalyst component is carried out in hydrocarbon solvent e.g. toluene . It is preferred that the magnesium diene complex is added to titanium tetrachloride both in hydrocarbon solution to give the required magnesium to titanium ratio. The catalyst component predominantly in the solid phase is then recovered. However it may be used in the separated or unseparated form.An olefin polymerisation catalyst prepared from the catalyst component comprises, in addition, an organo aluminium component as cocatalyst, which is an aluminium trialkyl, an aluminium alkyl halide having an alkyl to halogen ratio of at least 1 1 or a mixture thereof. Examples of suitable aluminium components which may be used as cocatalyst are aluminium triethyl, which is preferred and aluminium tri n butyl.Triisobutyl aluminium and aluminium diethyl chloride are other examples. The aluminium to titanium ratio may be e.g., 1 1 to 200 or more 1, e.g., 5 1 to 80 1. The olefin polymerisation catalyst is used for the homo or copolymerisation of olefins. It is particularly effective for the polymerisation of ethylene. Polyethylene may be obtained in yields of at least equivalent to known commercial catalysts.A typical yield is of the order of 13 kilograms of polymer per gram titanium per hour per atmosphere. Polymerisation may be carried out at e.g., ambient temperature or at elevated temperatures.Preferred temperatures are 400C to 600C. Modification of the catalyst by inclusion of an electron donor particularly an ester or another oxygenated compound,such as an ether or a ketone,may be carried out if desired. A typical ester to use is ethyl benzoate. The following Examples illustrate the invention. In Examples 1 to 5 a catalyst prepared according to the following procedure was employed. 1.5 g magnesium in 12.5 mls tetrahydrofuran was treated under nitrogen with 0.1 g iodine to activate the metal and stirred until the colour disappeared. 30 mls dry toluene was added followed by 11.5 mls dry redistilled isoprene. The mixture was stirred for vacuum 3 days at 20 C then distilled, with further addition of toluene, until all free isoprene and tetrahydrofuran had been removed.About one third of the added magnesium had reacted with the isoprene to give a greenish solution. The product was transferred to h bottle containing glass balls and slowly treated with titanium tetrachloride in toluene at a ratio of titanium to magnesium of 1 1.5. The black brown product was dispersed by rolling in the bottle for 3 hours. EXA LE 1 4 mM aluminium triethyl was added to 500 mls isooctane under nitrogen followed by the titanium product prepared as above 1.25 mM based on titanium Ethylene was passed through at 50 C and atmospheric pressure for 1 hour, yielding 76.1 gms of polyethylene.EXAMPLE 2 Example 1 was repeated except that the amount of product employed was 0.25 mM based on titanium. 77 gms of polyethylene was obtained.EXAMPLE 3 Example 1 was repeated except that the amount of product employed was 0.09 mF based on titanium. 45.1 gms of polyethylene was obtained.EXAMPLE 4 Example 1 was repeated except that the amount of product employed was 0.024 mE based on titanium. 14.6 gms of polyethylene was obtained. EXC PLE 5 Example 3 was repeated except that aluminium triisobutyl was used in place of aluminium triethyl. 11 gms of polyethylene was obtained.The above Examples were repeated using an ethylene propylene mixed feed giving a partially soluble ethylene propylene copolvmer. By a similar procedure to that described above, magnesiummyrcene and magnesium diphenyl butadiene complexes in tetrahydrofuran THr were prepared and added to titanium tetrachloride in toluene in various molar ratios within the range Mg Ti of 0.5 1 to 2 1. The product in each case was an active catalyst component for the polymerisation of ethylene using an aluminium triethyl co catalyst 8mud AlEt3 per litre 0.05 mM Ti 50 C .