# Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging.

## Abstract
The invention foresees a device performing the tobacco tamping in contemporary phase with the boxing filling one. This determines a permanent pressure effect on the heap and consistently reduces its height in connection with the employ of a lower boxing 6 . The device is fitted on the boxing outside and employs a motor reducer 16 with self braking motor which drives a horizontal shaft 19 fitted with a pair of pinions 20, 21 these ones, by means of chains 22, 23 with a synchronic alternate motion, drive a pair of arms 26, 27 bearing a tamping fork 30 . With an alternate motion from outside, through a slit 33 , the fork penetrated razing into the boxing 6 and compresses the heap it is then lifted again when getting out from the boxing this avoids interferences with the descending tobacco.

## Claims
Claims. 1 Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging, characterized by the fact that permits by means of an auxiliary device which, with oontemporory phase with the tobacco loading, su8nits The head which is being formed in The boxing, with alternate motion to a permanent pressure effect. The said device can be fitted integral on the boxing outside and, on the fixed settin up part, a motor reducer with self braking motor is employed driving a horizontal shaft this one acts as the articolation of the level sZ stem bearing the tamping device. On the said shaft, a pair of pinions is fitted which drive an arm pair bearing a tamping fork in synchronism and with an alternating motion. With an alternating motion too fram outside, Through a slit, the fork penetrates with a razing motion into the boxing and compresses the heap which in the meantime has been formed The fork is then lifted and gets out again. In this way, the fork does not interfere on the descending tobacco of the charging phase. 2 Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging, according to the previous claim, characterized by the fact that on structure 15 integral with boxing 6, a motorreducer 16 is mounted with a self braking motor which, by means of pinion 17 and chain 18, drives shaft 19 on which pinions 20 and 21 are keyed. Though chains 22 and 23 fitted on the free running pinions 24 and 25, the said pinions 20 and 21 drive the couple of arms 26 and 27 bearing fork 30 on articulation joints 28 and 29. The fork has at first a sin king movement in order to perform a pressing effect, but then it it lifted to get out of the boxing. 3 Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that the chains 22 and 23 are connected to arms 26 and 27 by means of articulated pins 31 and 32 and, in this way, the chains when rotating let the arms 26 and 27 and consequently the fork 30 horizontally move on the top and bottan dead points which permits the connection and disconnection of the forks inside The boxinf in the corre sponging slit system 33. While the transmission. system of chains and pinions is fixed on the bearing structure 15, the arms 26 and 27 j pin tly to fork 30 are anchored on a roller shutter 34 which, therefore, movers alternatively in vertical sense along the whole travel between the top and bottom dead points of The pinions 20, 21, 24 and 25. 4 Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging, according to the previous claims, characterized by fact that the first proximity contact lets the motorreducer 16 start which controls the movement of the tamping device. This occurs when in the boxing already 50 to 100 Kgs. of tobacco are heaped, which cdr responds to a height of an adjustable boxing of 1.50 m. 5 Tamping device to fit an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packing, according to The previous claims, characterized by the fact that the second proximity contact stops the whole system when the heap weight is approximately 5 10 Kgs. less the final weight fixed in advance. This stop avoids oscillations to The scale 13 which would cause troubles to The weighting system these oscillations are generally caused by the movements of the tamping system. Therefore the final phase of the loading operation is performed when the boxing is at a standstill. The stop through The second proximity ty contact occurs but when the fork 30 out of the boxing 6. 6 Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco parcel packaging, according to the previous claims, characterized by the fact that with a view to avoiding that the pressing plug 35, when sinking, meets the fork inserted inside the boxing, the third proximi ty contact is regulated according to the net final weight fixed in advance. Its intervention causes The inversion of the reversible rib bon 2 towards the other boxing and, at the same time, starts the truck 9 ti transfer the filled boxing in the pressing zone 14.

## Description
Tamping device to fit to an automatic pressing machine for tobacco pair cel packaging.The invention refers to a device to be fitted to automatic presses packing tobacco parcels, which substantially permits, by means of a permanent pressure effect on the heap about to be formed in the charging boxing, to employ considerably lower boxing than The ones required at present in This way, a consistent reductions of the plants are reached and a better adaptability to The contingent requiments. The tobacco, either in the free leaf state or in the one of The foil separated fm m the rib, for commercial and technological reasonsis brought on The mar ket in wood or paperboard containersLihaving a capacity tran 200 to 500Kgs.For filling the tobacco into the containers and compressing it at approx. 250 350 Kgs. Cubic meter, loading devices are at present used which perform tamping by means of oildynamic presses operating in charging boxings positioned on The containers. The descending press plug Then tamps The tobacco in the containers however, since the tobacco in free state is highly bulky, These plants require considerably hight boxings. This, in general, makes The plant setting up in buil dings problematic.The invention permits The problem solution by means of an auxiliary device, which contemporary phase with the tobacco loading, submits the heap which is being formed in the boxing, with alternate motion to a permanent pressure effect. The said device can be fitted integral on the boxing outside and, on the fixed setting up part, a moor reducer with self braking motor is employed driving a horizontal shaft this one acts as the articolation of the lever system bearing the tamping device. On the said shaft, a pair of pinions is fitted which drive an arm pair bearing a tamping fork in synchronism and with an alternating motion.With an alternating motion too frem outside, Through a slit, the fork penetrates with a razing motion into the boxing and compresses the heap which in the meantime has been formed The fork is then lifted and gets out again. In This way, The fork does not interfere on the descending tabocco of the charging phase.The proceeding foresees the tobacco arrival on ribbon 1 which dischar ges on the reversible ribbon 2 driven by the motorreducer 3. From this ribbon, by means of the rotating distributor 4, which guarantees uniform distribution and stratification, the tobacco falls into the hopper 5 which fits it into boxing 6. The distributor rotating device 4 is fitted with motorreducer 7 which lets it rotate by means of belt 8. The boxing is in steel plate and is properly reinforced to withstand the sidepressures made by the tobacco during the pressure phase. The boxing is mounted on a special truck 9 foreseen for this purpose tra velling on trail 10 by means of motorreducer 11 with pinion chain tran smission on the wheel axle 12 to enable its transfer fran The loading zone above scale 13 to the pressing zone 14. The consentment to The truck movement is determined by The proximity contact fitted on scale 13. The operation principle of the tamping device is as follows on structure 15 integral with boxing 6, a motorreducer 16 is mounted with a self braking motor, which by means of pinion 17 and chain 18, drives shaft 19 on which pinions 20 and 21 are keyed.Through chains 22 and 23 fitted on the free running pinions 24 and 25, the said pinions 20 and 21 driveJthe couple of arms 26 and 27 bearing fork 30 on. articolation joints 28 and 29. The fork has at first a sinking movement in order to perform a pressing effect, but then it is lifted to get out of the boxingThi6 allows a continuous flux of the descending tobacco.The chains 22 and 23 are connected to arms 26 and 27 by means of arti culated pins 31 and 32 and, in this way, The chains when rotating let the arms 26 and 27 and consequently The fork 30 horizontal y move on the top and bottom dead points which permits the connection and disconnection of the forks inside the boxing in the corresponding slit system 33. While the transmi6sion system of chains and pinions is fixed on the bearing structure 15, the arms 26 and 27 jointly to fork 30 are anchored on a roller shutter 34 which, therefore, moves alternatively in vertical sense along the whole travel between the top and bottom dead points of the pinions 20, 21, 24 and 25. On scale 13 three proximity contacts are fitted which give the consentments to The sequence transition of the whole system consisting of The truck and boxing 6.The first proximity contact lets the motorreducer 16 start which controls the movement of the tamping device. This occurs when in The boxing already 50 to 100 Kegs. of tobacco are heaped, which corresponds to a height of an adjustable boxing of 1.50 m. The second proximity contact stops The whole system when the heap weight is appro ximately 5 10 Kgs. less the final weight fixed in advance. This stop avoids oscillations to the scale 13 which would cause troubles to the weighing system These oscillations are generally caused by The mcve ments of the tamping system.Therefore the final phase of The loading operation is performed when the boxing is at a standstill. The stop Through the second proximity contact occurs but when the fork 30 out of The boxing 6. With a view to avoiding that the pressing plug, when sinking, meets the fork inser ted inside The boxing, The third proxImity contact is regulated accor ding to The net final weight fixed in advance. Its intervention causes the inversion of the reversible ribbon 2 towards the oTher boxing and, at the slme time, starts the truck 9 to transfer The filled boxing in the pressing zone 14. A not limiting execution form is illustrated by the drawings of Tables 1 and 2. Fig. 1 represents a boxing under the press during the pressing phase, while the other boxing is in loading phase. Fig. 2 is a scheme of the operation principle of the tamping device. Fig. 3 is a front view of the transmission chains controllong the movement of the fork arms. Fig. 4 is a view of the fork when passing through the slit.The above mechanical system for the fork drive can be replaced with an oildynamic or pneumatic system controlled by special electric valves foreseen for this purpose, the consentment of which iç given by The proximity contacts already mentioned of the scales.