# Ridging apparatus.

## Abstract
A ridging apparatus comprising a plurality of shell shaped or fan shaped ridging elements 21 secured to a carrying beam 16 or carrying frame in side by side arrange ment in a line transverse to, or perpendicular to, the direction of advance of the apparatus. Each set of ridging elements 21 has a nose 22 at its underside, which points in the direction of advance. The combination of ridging elements 21 and carrying construction is secured to the rear end of a tractor or like vehicle. According to the invention, the ridging elements 21 are combined to form one whole so that, as viewed from the carrying beam 16 or carrying frame a continuously domed surface extends initially backwards and then downwards and forwards again, with the edge of the surface between the noses of adjacent elements extending gradually upwards from the plane containing the noses, 22 so that, in operation, an earth ridge of a shape dictated by said edge is formed between the noses 22 . The apparatus further comprises means for varying the position of the continuously domed surface to suit requirements to set the shape and height of the earth ridges being formed.

## Claims
C L A I M S. 1. A ridging apparatus comprising a plurality of shell shaped or fan shaped ridging elements secured to a carrying beam or carrying frame in side by side arrangement in a line transverse to, or perpendicular to, the direction in which the apparatus is advanced in operation, eachsstcf ridging elements having a nose at its underside, which points in the direction of advance, the whole combination of ridging elements and carrying construction being secured to the rear end of a tractor or like vehicle, characterized in that the ridging elements are combined to form one whole so that, as viewed from the carrying beam or carrying frame, a continuously domed surface extends initially backwards and then downwards and forwards again, with the edge of said surface between the noses of adjacent elements extending gradually upwards from the planecatining said noses, so that, in operation, an earth ridge of a shape dictated by said edge is formed between the noses, the apparatus further comprising means for varying the position of the continuously domed surface to suit requirements to set the shape and the height of the earth ridges being formed. 2. A ridging apparatus according to claim 1, characterized in that a cover plate element having a plate width virtually equal to the width of the whole combination of ridging elements is mounted for rotation about a horizontal shaft arranged along one side of said cover element to extend parallel to the carrying beam or carrying frame, said cover element being spaced some distance ahead of said carrying beam or carrying frame, the height of the cover element being such that, upon rotation of the element about the shaft the side away fromtbe shaft is in contact with the carrying beam or carrying frame. 3. A ridging apparatus according to claim 2, characterized in that the continuously domed surface to which the ridging elements are combined is provided on opposite sides with a vertical sidewall, the plane of which extends virtually in the direction in which the apparatus is advanced when in operation. 4. A ridging apparatus according to claims 1 3, characterized in that the combination of ridging elements is bounded at the top front side by a carrying beam provided with cross beams or cross bars directed forwardly from said continuously domed surface of the ridging elements, said cross beams or cross bars being at the end remote from said carrying beam secured for tilting movement to a suspension frame, said suspension frame comprising a locking mechanism for locking the combination of ridging surface, carrying beam, and cross elements in a fixed position relative to the suspension frame, the arrangement being such that when, after unlocking, the fixed position is changed, the whole is tilted about the point of attachment in the suspension frame, and hence the height of the edge of the domed surface relative to the earth surface and the position of the noses of the ridging elements are changed. 5. A ridging apparatus according to claims 1 4, characterized in that the combination of ridging elements is secured to a suspension frame, which suspension frame is itself suspended in a set of suspension arms adapted to be secured to a tractor or like vehicle for tilting movement relative thereto, the arrangement being such that the suspension frame with ridging elements is movable in a substantially vertical plane, said suspension frame including a draught control handle for setting a desired minimum height of the suspension frame relative to the earth surface on which the tractor or other other vehicle find itself.

## Description
Ridging apparatus. This invention relates to a ridging apparatus comprising a plurality of shell shaped or fan shaped ridging elements secured to a carrying beam or carrying frame in side by side arrangement in a line transverse to, or perpendicular to, the direction in which the apparatus is advanced in operation, eachsetofridging elements having a nose at its underside, which points in the direction of advance, the whole combination of ridging elements and carrying construction being secured to the rear end of a tractor or like vehicle. A similar apparatus is disclosed in Netherlands patent application 6800460.As explained in that publication, ridging machines are much used for covering potatoes planted in rows with an earth ridge.Often, in combination with the ridging apparatus, a rotary cultivator is used for sufficiently loosening the earth to be moved by the ridging apparatus. In the prior apparatus, the shell shaped or fan shaped ridging elements are spaced some distance apart, and these elements are fixedly connected to a carrying beam. Interposed between the ridging elements are adjustable scraper members for imparting a desired shape to the top of the ridge to be formed between adjacent ridging elements.Furthermore, in the prior apparatus, the wings of each ridging element are adjustable for the apparatus to be adapted to the spacing between the rows of seed potatoes to be covered. Thus by varying the position of the wings of the ridging elements, the shape and height of the earth ridges being formed are influenced to a certain extent. It is an object of the present invention to improve the prior apparatus, and to provide a ridging apparatus by means of which fully identical earth ridges can be formed, and whose height and shape can be adjusted in a simple manner. The purpose contemplated is achieved, according to the invention, with a ridging apparatus in which the ridging elements are combined to form one whole, so that, as viewed from the carrying beam or carrying frame,a continuously domed surface extends initially backwards and then downwards and forwards again, with the edge of said surface between the noses of adjacent elements extending gradually upwards from the plane containing said noses, so that, in operation, an earth ridge of a shape dictated by said edge is formed between the noses, the apparatus further comprising means for varying the position of the continuously domed surface to suit requirements to set the shape and height of the earth ridges being formed. Accordingly, with the apparatus according to the invention, in operation, fully identical earth ridges are formed, as the shape is exclusively determined by the edge of the domed surface between two adjacent noses. The shape and height of the earth ridges being formed are varied in a very smple manner by varying the position of the continuously domed surface. This can be effected, as it were, with one movement of the hand. Compared with the prior apparatus, in which, to vary the shape of the earth ridges all the wings of the ridging elements have to be changed in position one by one, this is a considerable improvement. A continuously variable setting of the desired ridge shape is among the possibilities in the apparatus according to the invention. It is noted that Netherlands patent 168,683 discloses a rotary cultivator with a ridging apparatus,in which the ridging elements are also combined to a continuous surface. That, however, concerns a ridging apparatus of quite a different type. In it, the ridging elements consist of flat surfaces arranged in V shape, and disposed so that, in operation, they are dragged along the ground. In the specification, this is regarded as an advantage relative to a ridging apparatus operating by the plough principle, as does the apparatus according to the present invention. By virtue of its particular construction, the non uniform shape of the earth ridges being formed, which is mentioned as a disadvantage of ridging apparatus operating by the plough principle, is not produced by the apparatus according to the present invention. In a preferred embodiment of the ridging apparatus according to the present invention, a cover plate element having a plate width virtually equal to the width of the whole combination of ridging elements is mounted for rotation about a horizontal shaft arranged along one side of said cover element to extend parallel to the carrying beam or carrying frame, said cover element being spaced some distance ahead of said carrying beam or carrying frame, the height of the cover element being such that, upon rotation of the element about the shaft the side away from the shaftisincontact with the carrying beam or carrying frame. In this preferred embodiment, when the apparatus is started the cover element is pressed into contact with the carrying beam or the carrying frame to form a closed space. As a consequence, the soil supplied, which is moved up and compacted by the ridging elements, cannot be forced backwards over the carrying beam or the carrying frame, so that, as contemplated, all soil is processed to form. the earth ridges.When out of operation, however, the ridging system proper can be readily and easily inspected or cleaned, because the cover element then depends again in the vertical plane, so that the system is accessible from above. In a further preferred embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention, the continuously domed surface to which the ridging elements are combined is provided on opposite sides with a vertical sidewall, the plane of which extends virtually in the direction in which the apparatus is advanced when in operation. The advantage of such a sidewall over and above the use of a complete ridging element on the outside is that when operating the apparatus immediately next to a series of earth ridges already formed the nearest earth ridge is not pushed aside. In a further preferred embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention, the combination of ridging elements is bounded at the top front side by a carrying beam provided with cross beams or cross bars directed forwardly from said continuously domed surface of the ridging elements, said cross beams or cross bars being at the end remote from said carrying beam secured for tilting movement to a suspension frame, said suspension frame comprising a locking mechanism for locking the combination of ridging surface, carrying beam and cross elements in a fixed positon relative to the suspension frame, the arrangement being such that when, after unlocking , the fixed position is changed, the whole is tilted about the point of attachment in the suspension frame, and hence the height of the edge of the domed surface relative to the earth surface and the positon of the noses of the ridging elements are changed. The suspension of the continuously domed surface of integrated ridging elements, in this way, so that it is tiltable, but fixable, makes it possible to change the setting of the surface, and hence to vary the shape and height of the earth ridges being formed in a simple manner by means of one operation. According to another preferred embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention, the combination of ridging elements is secured to a suspension frame, which suspension frame is itself suspended in a set of suspension arms adapted to be secured to a tractor or like vehicle for tilting movement relative thereto, the arrangement being such that the suspension frame with ridging elements is movable in a substantially vertical plane, said suspension frame including a draught control handle for setting a desired minimum height of the suspension plane relative to the earth surface on which the tractor or other vehicle finds itself. With such a construction, if for any reason whatsoever, too much soil is present in front of the ridging elements, owing to the then resulting upward pressure of such soil, the ridging system proper is moved upwards until a condition of equilibrium is set, while nevertheless the shape and height of the earth ridgesbeingformed is ensured. The apparatus according to the invention is productive of highly uniform earth ridges. By virtueof this, the apparatus is very suitable for use in conjunction with methods of pulling crops by means of rubber rollers, which methods are much used at present. The invention will now be elucidated with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is an illustration of an essential part of one embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention Fig. 2 shows a front elevational view of the bottom part of a part of the system of ridging elements of the apparatus shown in Fig.1 Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view from the top through a number of important parts of the apparatus shown in Fig. 1 Figs. 4 and 5 illustrate the ridging system proper of the apparatus shown in Fig. 1 in different positions Figs. 6 and 7 are front elevational views, similar to the front elevational view of Fig. 2, but showing the positions shown in Figs. 4 and 5, respectively and Fig. 8 shows the apparatus of Fig. 1 with the suspension frame in a different position to prevent the danger of too much soil being supplied to, or thrown up by, the ridging elements. Fig. 1 shows,in side elevational view, and partly in crosssection, the rear end of one embodiment of a tractor with an interrow rotary cultivator and ridging system according to the invention. Secured behind a tractor or similar vehicle is an inter row rotary cultivator, a draught setting wheel 1 of which is shown diagrammatically. This implement comprises a carrying structure 2,which is conventional for such purposes and will not be described in any detail, and to which the inter row rotary cultivator 3 is secured.Cultivator 3 consists in essence of a plurality of tines 5, secured to and around, a rotary shaft 4 to extend at an angle to each other. The construction of such an inter row rotary cultivator is well known, and will not be described in any detail herein. Secured to the carrying construction 2 behind the inter row rotary cultivator 3 as viewed in the direction of advance of the tractor, is the ridging system which specifically forms part of the present invention. The ridging system comprises a suspension frame 6 which by means of a set of suspension arms, of which arms 7 and 8 are shown, is secured to carrying construction 2. The suspension arm 7 is secured for pivoting or tilting movement about the end away from suspension frame 6 to a beam 9 of carrying structure 2, which beam extends substantially rearwardly. At the other end, arm 7 is secured for pivoting or tilting movement to suspension frame 6. Similarly, suspension arm 8 is secured for pivoting or tilting movement, at one end to carrying structure 2, and at the other end to suspension frame 6. By virtue of this manner of suspension, suspension frame 6 is capable of moving relatively to carrying structure 2 in a substanially vertical plane. Suspension frame 6 consists, for example, of a pair of side plates 10 interconnected by beams. Each plate 10 is provided with a forwardly directed projecting part 11 and a rearwardly directed projecting part 12. Furthermore, a horizontally disposed plate 13, provided with an aperture in the horizontal plane, is secured to one or both side plates 10. Mounted in the internally threaded aperture in plate 13 is a threaded depth stop handle 14. By turning handle 14, it extends more or less deeply through that aperture. The lower end of handle 14 is in contact with a stop plate 15 fixedly secured to carrying structure 2.Accordingly, by operating handle 14 the position of the suspension frame with the parts secured to it can be varied relative to carrying structure 2 in a substantially vertical plane. Suspended in suspension frame 6 is the ridging system proper of the apparatus according to the invention. The ridging system proper consists of a carrying beam 16 arranged transversely to the direction of advance of the tractor. On opposite sides of carrying beam 16, crossbeams or cross arms 17 are secured to it. The combination of carrying beams 16 and cross arms 17 is suspended in suspension frame 6 for pivoting movement about shaft 18. The other end of cross arms 17 is secured by means of a continuously variable locking mechanism 19 to the projecting part 12 of side plate 10 of suspension frame 6. The setting of the ridging system proper relative to the suspension frame can be effected, for example, by means of adjusting spindle 20, which operates similarly to depth stop handle 14. Connected to the carrying beam 16 of the ridging system proper are the ricing elements, which are interconnected to one whole. This combination of ridging elements forms, from carrying beam 16, a continuously domed surface 21, initially extending rearwardly, then downwardly and forwardly again. Forwardly at the bottom of the continuously domed surface 21 are the noses 22, which point in the direction of advance of the apparatus. Suspended under a beam 23 of the carrying structure 2, which beams extends transversely to the plane of the plate, is a plate 25 rotatable about a shaft 24. Plate 25, which extends along beam 23, and similarly to that beam, substantially transversely to the direction of advance of the tractor, and has a width virtually equal to the width of the continuously domed surface 21, has such a height that when plate 25 rotates about shaft 24 the end away from that shaft is in contact with carrying beam 16 of the ridging system proper. In the figure,plate 25 is shown to be in contact with carrier beam 16, while plate 25 is shown in the freely depending state in ghost outline. In operation, tines 5 loosen and throw up soil.Partly owing to this, plate 25 is pushed up into contact with carrying beam 16.As a result, a closed space is formed under beam 23, plate 25 and carrying beam 16 and in front of domed surface 21. The soil supplied will be advanced and compacted via the fan shaped ridging elements with noses 22, integrated to surface 21, whereby the desired earth ridges are formed by the profile of the soil guiding ridging elements between noses 22. Fig. 2 shows a front elevational view of the lower part of a portion of the continuously domedairface 21. Between the noses 22 of two adjacent ridging elements, integrated in the continuously domed surface 21, the lower edge 26 of surface 21 extends from the plane containing noses 22 gradually upwards to a highest point located intermediate noses 22. The edge 26 determines the shape of the earth ridge formed between noses 22. In Fig. 2, a side face of surface 21 is shown. provided on that side face is a vertical sidewall 27, the plane of which is directed virtually in the direction in which the apparatus is advanced in operation, which sidewall adjoins a half ridging element 29. In operation,such a sidewall together with the adjoining half ridging element draws earth towards the ridge being formed between the half ridging element and the next ridging element.An advantage relative to prior ridging apparatus without such a sidewall, but with a full fledged ridging element on the outside is that there is no danger, as there is in the prior apparatus, that when the apparatus is moving along a series of earth ridges already formed, the closest earth ridge is pushed over . Fig.3 shows a cross section,viewed from above, through a number of important parts of a portion of the apparatus shown in Fig. 1. There are shown the shaft 4 of the inter row rotary cultivator with tines 5 next thereto, and the lower parts with noses 22 of two ridging elements integrated into the continuously domed surface 21.Extending between the noses 22 is the lower edge 26 of surface 21. Furthermore, the carrying beam 16 and the cover plate 25 are shown in ghost outline. Fig. 4 shows the ridging system proper in a position tilted rather high about shaft 18, and Fig. 5 shows the ridging system in a low position. A front elevational view of a bottom part of surface 21 pertaining to the position shown in Fig. 4 is depicted in Fig. 6, while Fig. 7 shows a similar front elevation pertaining to the position shown in Fig. 5. These figures clearly show that the earth ridges formed under the edge 26 of surface 21 have a height and shape depending on the position of the ridging system relative to suspension frame 6. Fig. 8 shows how the system operates if there is the danger that too much ground is thrown up by the ridging elements. Let it be supposed that the tines 5 have become worn in use. A worn tine is shown in broken lines. As, in the case of worn tines the entire carrying structure above the inter row rotary cultivator comes to hang in a lower position relative to the ground, partially owing to the change in position of the depth setting wheel 1, the ridging system would also come to be in a lower position relative to the ground in the absence of suitable means.The noses 22 of the ridging elements forming part of the continuously domed surface 21 would thus penetrate to an undesirably deep level into the soil, which is not loosened by the rotary cultivator and accordingly in compact condition. This is prevented by raising the suspension frame 6 of the ridging system, by means of the depth stop handle 14, to such an extent that the noses 22 are at the desired level closely spaced from the ground. During this operation the suspension arms 7 and 8 have been tilted upwards,and the whole suspension frame 6 has moved upwards in a virtually vertical plane. If furthermore, for example, owing to the machine being tilted backwards in the case of irregularities in the field, more loose soil is formed by the tines of the rotary cultivator, and an excess of loose soil is formed in relation to the capacity of the continuously domed surface 21 to pass soil, the soil pressure will be increased, and push the ridging system upwards, via the pressure on the cover flap 25, until an equilibrium is set between the supply of soil and the soil passage capacity of the ridging system.