# Vaccine and its use against pseudorabies virus.

## Abstract
A vaccine comprising glycoprotein gX also known as 3a can be used to protect a PRV susceptible animal, particularly swine, from PRV.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vaccine for protecting an animal susceptible to pseudorabies virus PRV infection, which comprises a material named gX, or an immunogenic fragment thereof, gX being characterised as follows 1 it is a glycoprotein 2 it has a molecular weight of about 95 kilodaltons by standard SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis DATD cross linked gel 3 it is a sulfated protein 4 it is soluble in 1 perchloric acid 5 it is immunogenic in standard laboratory mice and 6 it raises in the animal an immune response which is protective against a lethal challenge by a virulent strain of PRV. 2. A vaccine for protecting an animal, which comprises the material gX as characterised in claim 1, or an immunogenic fragment thereof, in combination with one or more other immunising agents. 3. A vaccine according to claim 1 or claim 2, which comprises a PRV viral protein in addition to the material gX. 4. A vaccine according to any preceding claim, wherein the animal is a pig.

## Description
VACCINE AND ITS USE AGAINST PSEUDORABIES VI RU1S1 This invention relates to a vaccine and its use againstPseudorabies virus. Pseudorabies virus PRV is a herpesvirus which can infect most domestic animals to cause clinical symptoms ranging from vomiting, diarrhea, fever, respiratory and neurological disorders, and abortion, culminating, generally, in death to the host animal. Pseudorabies is known as Aujeszky s disease, mad itch and bulbar paralysis. When PRV infects pigs, serious economic loss is incurred by the farmer. Very young pigs die whereas older pigs get sick and lose weight. Pregnant sows will abort when infected with PRV. Thus, an effective program for the eradication of PRV in swine is urgently needed. Herpesviruses are among the most complex of animal viruses, coding for the synthesis of at least 50 virus specific proteins.Among the most immunologically reactive proteins of herpesviruses are the glycoproteins found in vision membranes and in the membranes of infected cells. The literature on pseudorabies glycoproteins Ben Porat, T., and Kaplan, A.S. 1970 Virology 41, 265 273 Kaplan,A.S., and Ben Porat, T. 1970 Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci. USA 66, 799 806 indicates that there are at least four viral glycoproteins in infected cells and virions. Glycoproteins excreted into the medium have been reported for several herpesviruses, including herpes simplex virus Kaplan, A.S.,Erickson, J.S., and Ben Porat, T. 1975 Prog. Med, Virol. 21, 1 12 herpes saimiri virus Randall, R.E., and Honess, R.W. 1980 J. Gen.Virol. 51, 445 449 Marek s disease virus VanZaane, D., Brinkhof,J.M., Westenbrink, F., and Gielkens, A.L. 1981 Virology 121, 116132 and pseudorabies virus Erickson, J.S., and Kaplan, A.S. 1973 Virology 55, 94 102 . In each of these cases except PRV, the excreted glycoprotein is reported to be a subset of the virion glycopro teins. The pub.icatjon by Ben Porat and Kaplan, 1970, discloses that the PRV excrete d glycoprotein is distinct from virion glycoproteins. The excreted glycoprotein used in the subject invention is referred to herein as gx. . This glycoprotein is known as 3a in the prior art. See Erickson and Kaplan, 1973, supr. Glycoprotein gX has the following characteristics when harvested from PRV infected cells 1 it is. the predominant protein in the culture medium of PRV infected animal cells in culture 2 it is a glycoprotein 3 it has a molecular weight of about 95 kilo daltons by standard SDS polyacrylamide gel electro phoresis DATD crosslinked gel 4 it is a sulfated protein 5 it is soluble in about 1 perchloric acid 6 it is immunogenic in standard abo laboratory mice and, 7 it raises an immune response in the animal host which response is protective against a lethal challenge by a virulent strain of PRV. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The subject invention concerns the novel use of glycoprotein gX to protect PRV susceptible animal hosts. The use of gX in such a manner is unexpected in view of the prior art which heretofore recognizes only vision proteins as capable of raising a protective immune response in a susceptible animal host. The prior art, as discussed above, does not recognize gX as a vision protein. The use of gX, or immunogenic fragments thereof, to treat animals can be accomplished in the form of various vaccine formulations disclosed herein and known in the art. PRV susceptible hosts are most mammals. From an economic standpoint, swine are perhaps the most important. Other hosts are ruminants, for example, cattle, sheep and goats, as well as companion and other animals, for example, dogs, cats, and the like. DETAILED DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION Glycoprotein gX can be prepared by methods disclosed herein and by methods disclosed in the art. See Erickson, Virology, 71, 598 601 19i6 . As noted above, gX is known in the prior art as 3a.The characteristics of gX are as disclosed aboye Methods are well known which can produe proteins or peptides antigenically equivalent to gX or fragments of gX. Such methods include use of recombinant DNA to produce gX or fragments of gX in bacteria, yeast, or mammalian cells or chemical synthesis of antigenic peptides. This invention includes use of gX or fragments of gX, regardless of source, as a PRV vaccine. The subject invention includes the use oR gX in combination with other immunizing agents, with and without antibiotics, to treat PRV susceptible animal hosts. Such other immunizing agents may be, for example, agents against infectious bovine rhinotrachei tis, parainfluenza, Haemophilus somnus, Pasteurella haemolytica and multocida bacterin, and the like. Glycoprotein gX also can be used with otherPRV viral proteins to protect PRV susceptible animal hosts. Further, it is contemplated that synthetic peptide part s of gX can be used in the same manner as gX, as described herein. The following disclosure is illustrative of the products and process of the invention, but is not to be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted. MATERIALS AND METHODSCells and Virus Cells used for virus propagation and protein production areAfrican Green Monkey C. aethiops kidney cells ATCC CCL81 VERO . Cells are maintained in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium GIBCO, Grand Island, N.Y. supplemented with 100 units ml penicillin, 100 pg ml streptomycin, 10 mM HEPES pH 7.4 , 2 mM glutamine, and 10 fetal bovine serum KC Biological . Pseudorabies virus, is isolated from a natural outbreak of PRV in swine. Virus stocks are prepared by infecting either Vero or rabbit kidney cells at low multiplicity 0.01 .Purification of Glycoprotein gX PRV glycoprotein gX is purified from tissue culture supernatants of cells late in infection. Purification is facilitated by use of serum free medium to reduce the amount of contaminating protein. Vero cells grownin 850 cm2 roller bottles are infected with 5 10 plaque forming units per cell in medium 199 plus 1 fetal bovine serum. At 10 12 hours post infection, the medium is carefully removed and the cells are rinsed gently with Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium without any serum supplement. Thirty milliliters of this serum free medium is then added to the roller bottles followed by 4 hour incubation at 37 C. The supernatant is collected and clarified by centrifugation 5 min, 500 xg, room temperature to remove floating cells and other gross debris. This medium is clarified further by ultracentrifugation over a 10 sucrose 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 cushion 125,000 xg, SW28 rotor, 4 C, 3 hrs to remove cellular debris. The supernatant from this clarification is brought to 1 final concen tration perchloric acid and incubated 10 minutes on ice. The perchloric acid precipitable material is removed by centrifugation 10 min, 16,000 xg, 40C . The pellet is discarded and protein in the supernatant is neutralized with Tris base and precipitated with 10 volumes cold acetone incubated 12 hours at 200C. Glycoprotein gX is precipitated with several other proteins under these conditions and is collected by centrifugation conditions identical to those for collecting the perchloric acid precipitate. The pelleted material is dried in vacuo. El ectrophoresi S SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis is in 9.75 polyacrylamide gels with DATD crosslinker, as described by Morse, L., Pereira, L.,Roizman, B., and Schaffer, P.A. J. Virol. 26, 389 410 1978 .Animals For the immunogenicity experiment, standard female CBA mice age 4 6 weeks are used. For the studies involving challenge with virulent PRV, standard CFl adult mice are used. Twenty mice are used for a PRV titration to determine the optimal inoculum size as outlined inTable 2 Study 1 . The remaining mice are used to determine the effect of the gX preparation on protecting mice from PRV infection as outlined in Table 3 Study 2 . They are fed a commercial mouse chow.Preparation comprises essentially gX as the major viral component. mmuni zati ons The protein extract from one 850 cm2 roller bottle of infected cells is resuspended in 1 ml normal saline. For the first immunization day 1 , the suspension is mixed with an equal volume of ccmplete Freund s adjuvant Difco . In the immunogenicity experiment, the first immunization consists of 0.3 ml emulsion subcutaneously SC in the groin in the protection experiment, the immunization is given in two sites, 0.1 ml intraperitoneally IP and 0.1 ml SC. The second immunization is on day 20 for the antigenicity experiment, and day 22 for the protection experiment. The second dose of antigen is given in normal saline, 0.2 ml SC for the immunogenicity experiment, and 0.1 ml each IP and SC for the protection experiment.Animals in the immunogenicity experiment are bled from the tail on day 27 for serum antiPRV antibodies. Animals in the protection experiment are given the virus challenge on day 29.ELISA for Anti PRV Antibodies Virus infected cells are prepared by infecting confluent 150 cm2 flasks of Vero cells with 0.1 1 plaque forming units of PRV Rice per cell. Infected cells are harvested at 16 20 hours post infection by shaking the flasks and centrifugation of the cells from the medium.The cells are washed three times in phosphate buffered saline by centrifugation. Antibodies and reagents used in the ELISA assay are obtained fromNew England Nuclear unless otherwise indicated. The method described here is a modification of that of Kennett, R.H., Monoclonal Antibodies Hybridomas, A New Dimension in Biological Analyses,. PlenumPress, NY, pp. 376 377 1980 . The steps of the ELISA assay are as follows 1. Poly L lysine at 0.01 mg ml is added 0.05 ml to microtiter wells for 30 minutes at 370C to act as a support matrix. Following the incubation period the plates are flicked to remove excess poly L lysine. 2. Virus infected cells 0.1 ml are added to the wells. The equivalent of a confluent 150 cm2 flask is added to each 96 well microtiter plate. Th.e plates are centri fuged 400 x g, in a Beckman TJ 6 centrifuge with microtiter plate carriers tolayer the cells onto the flat microtiter wells. 3. Next 0.1 ml of glutaraldehyde 0.5 in PBS is added for 30 minutes at room temperature to fix the cells. The plates are washed 3 times with 0.2 ml well of PBS. 4. Unreacted sites for nonspecific binding of material to the polystyrene are blocked using 10 fetal calf serum FCS containing PBS for 30 60 minutes at room temperature. The plates are then washed once with PBS 0.2 ml well . 5. In the first incubation 0.05 ml of test sample i.e., dilutions of mouse serum samples is added to dupli cate wells and incubated for 16 18 hours at 40C. The plates are then washed 3 times with PBS 0.2 ml well . 6. In the second incubation 0.1 ml of horseradish peroxidase conjugated sheep F ab 2 anti mouse immuno globulin antibody made up in PBS pH 7.4 with 1X.,FCS, is added to the wells for 90 120 minutes at 370C. The plates are then washed 3 times with PBS 0.2 ml well . 7. The final incubation consists of the addition of substrate 0.1 ml specific for horseradish peroxidase. O phenylenediamine Sigma is made up at 1 mg ml in 17 mM citric acid 65 mM phosphate with 0.02 H202 pH 6.3. Con version of enzyme substrate as indicated by a yellow brownish color is apparent at 10 60 minutes and optical density values are determined using a spectrophotometer set at 450 nm Titer TeK microtiter plate reader . The enzy matic reaction is usually stopped with the addition of 0.05 ml per well of 0.5 N H2S04. Immunogenicity of gX Preparation The gX preparation is injected into mice and the sera of these mice is analyzed by an ELISA assay designed to detect mouse antibody reactive with PRV infected cells. As can be seen in Table 1, a clear quantitative difference can be found in the anti PRV concentration for animals receiving preparations from mock or PRV infected cells.Those animals which receive the mock preparation of the excreted glycoprotein react slightly above that of normal mouse sera. This reactivity reflects the presence of antibodies to Vero cell associated antigens as confirmed in a second assay using rabbit kidney cells in which the mock immunized mouse serum react essentially like normal mouse serum. Those animals which receive the gX preparation show much higher levels of antibody reactive with PRV infected Vero cells. The sera from a hyperimmunized donor give the highest titer of reactive antibody reflecting the immunogenicity of wild type virus after repeated immunizations. Protective Immunization of Mice with gX Preparation The gX preparation is tested for its ability to elicit an immune response in mice that would give protection from a lethal dose of virulent PRV. The results of two studies are presented. Study 1 is a preliminary experiment to determine the appropriate challenge dose ofPRV Rice in mice. Study 2 is a blind comparison of the protective effect of crude protein preparations from uninfected cells designated mock preparation or PRV infected cells designated gX .Study 1 Mice were allotted randomly to 5 groups of 4 mice each. Each group is kept in a separate cage. Mice are inoculated IP with 0.1 ml of the viral inoculum. They are observed daily and mortality is re corded. The results obtained from the viral titration are listed in Table 2. All mice inoculated with 104 PFU died within 3 to 4 days with a mean day of death MDD of 3.0 to 3.75. Three of 4 mice inoculated with 103 PFU ml died with a MDD of 4.67. The challenge dose for Study 2 is 104 PFU ml.Study 2 Three groups of mice are used to determine whether or not the gX preparation is capable of protecting mice against PRV infection.Group 1 contains 8 mice treated twice with the gX preparation. Group 2 contains 9 mice treated twice with the mock preparation. Group 3 contains 8 mice as non treated Control A. In addition, 4 more mice are added as non treated Control B. Groups 1 and 2 mice are treated initially with the adjuvant suspensions of gX or mock and three weeks later they are given a booster injection of the saline suspension.One week after the last injection, all the mice are challenged IP 0.1 ml with PRV 104 PFU ml . Mice are observed daily for mortality and the study is terminated 8 days after viral challenge. The data obtained from the effect of gX on PRV infection in mice are shown in Table 4. Mortality is recorded in 6 of 8 75 nontreated Control A mice, 4 of 4 100 non treated Control B mice, 8 of 9 88.9 mock treated mice and 1 of 8 12.5 gX treated mice. TheMDD group is 3.0, 3.6, 4.0 and 5.0, respectively. These data indicate that the gX given to mice is capable of protection against PRV infection as reflected by a reduction in rate of mortality. Figure 4 summarizes the mortality data from this study. TABLE 1 SERUM SOURCE Hyper immunized Normal Mock, Mock, gX, gX, Mouse Mouse Mouse 1 Mouse 2 Mouse 1 Mouse 2 1 50 .411 .185 .172 .225 .326 .270 1 200 .450 .123 .150 .193 .267 .276 1 800 .355 .048 .068 .073 .157 .124 1 3200 .189 .006 .031 .010 .127 .038 Data summary of ELISA assay for anti PRV antibodies in immunized mice. The ELISA assay is performed as described above. Numbers in the table represent optical density readings, which measure the amount of horseradish peroxidase substrate converted and therefore anti PRV antibody concentration. The numbers represent an average of duplicate assays. The hyperimmunized mouse is immunized with a less virulent, iododeoxyuridine resistant mutant PRV strain, then given repeated challenges with virulent PRV strains.Mock or gX animals receive the protein preparation from uninfected or PRV infected Vero cells, re specti vely. TABLE 2 Mortality in mice following intraperitoneal IP inoculation 0.1 ml mouse with various inoculum sizes of pseudorabies virus RiceStrain . No. Inoculum Size ml No. Mean DayMice Plaque Forming Unit Mortality Death 4 106 4 3.00 4 105 4 3.75 4 104 4 3.75 4 103 3 4.67 4 None O Used later in the challenge study as nontreated B see Tables 2 and 3 . TABLE 3 Experimental design to determine the effect of a gX preparation on protecting mice against PRV infection.Group Group No. Mice Treatment Day Viral Challenge No. Status Used Day 1 Day 22 Day 29 p 1 Glycoprotein 8 Adj. Susp. Salineb 0.1 ml IP 2 Mock 9 Adj. Susp.a Salineb 0.1 ml IP 3 Nontreated 8 None None 0.1 ml IP Control A 4 Nontreated 4 None None 0.1 ml IP Control B aThe complete adjuvant suspension is injected 0.1 ml intraperitoneally IP and 0.1 ml subcutaneously. bThe saline suspension is injected 0.1 ml intramuscularly and 0.1 ml subcutaneously.CThe PRV is inoculated 0.1 ml IP. TABLE 4 Effect of gX in protecting mice against pseudorabi es viral infection.Group No. Mice Mortality Mean Day No. Group Status Used No. of Death 1 Glycoprotein X 8 1 12.5 5.0 2 Mock 9 8 88.9 4.0 3 Nontreated Control A 8 6 75.0 3.6 4 Nontreated Control B 4 4 100.0 3.0 The immunogen gX prepared in accordance with the present invention is preferably free of PRV virus. Thus, the vaccine immunogen of the subject invention is composed substantially entirely of the desired immunogenic protein. The immunogen can be prepared in vaccine dose form by well known procedures. For parental administration, such as intramuscular injection, the immunogen may be combined with a suitable adjuvant, for example, aluminum hydroxide. Such adjuvants are available commercially from various sources, for example, Merck Adjuvant 65 Merck andCompany, Inc., Rahway, N.J. . Another suitable adjuvant is Freund sIncomplete Adjuvant Difco Laboratories, Detroit, Michigan . The proportions of immunogen and adjuvant can be varied over a broad range so long as both are present in effective amounts. For example, aluminum hydroxide can be present in an amount of about 0.5 of the vaccine mixture A1203 basis . On a per dose basis, the concentration of the immunogen can range from less than 1.0 mg to about 4.0 mg. A preferable range is from about 1.0 to about 3.0 mg per dose.A suitable dose size is about one milliliter. Accordingly, a dose for intramuscular injection would comprise 1 ml containing 1.0 mg of immunogen in admixture with 0.5 aluminum hydroxide. Comparable dose forms can also be prepared for parenteral administration to baby pigs, but the amount of immunogen per dose will be smaller, for example, about 0.25 to about 1.0 mg per dose. The immunogen can also be prepared in the form of an enteric coated oral vaccine, for example, as described in U.S. Patent 3,823,228. For vaccination of sows, advantageously, a 2 dose regimen can be used. The first dose can be given from about several months to about 5 to 7 weeks prior to farrowing. For example, the sows can be vaccinated in the fall, such as about the first week in November. The second dose of the vaccine then should be administered several weeks after the first dose, for example, about 2 to 4 weeks later and vaccine can then be administered up to but prior to farrowing. Alternatively, the immunogen can be given as a single 2 ml dose, for exampie, at about 5 to 7 weeks prior to farrowing. However, a 2 dose regimen, described above, is considered preferable for the most effective immunization of the baby pigs. Semi annual revaccination is recommended for breeding animals. Boars may be revaccinated at any time. Also, sows can be revaccinated before breeding. All vaccine administrations can be done by intramuscular injection.