# Chemical process.

## Abstract
The invention concerns a novel press for the race misation of unwanted enantiomeric forms of 1 substituted spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 triones and 1 substituted spiro pyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 triones which comprises heating an unwanted enantiomeric form or a mixture containing an excess of one enantiomer over the other alone or, more conveniently, in the presence of a solvent or diluent at a temperature in the range 80 to 280 C.

## Claims
Claims What is claimed is 1. A process for the manufacture of a compound of the formula I set out hereinafter in racemic form, wherein Ra is 2 12C alkyl, or naphthylmethyl or cinnamyl optionally bearing one or two halogeno substituents, or benzyl optionally bearing one or two substituents independently selected from halogen, 1 4C alkyl, l 4C alkoxy, cyano, nitro and trifluoromethyl located in the 2 , 3 , 4 or 5 position of the phenyl moiety benzene ring A optionally bears one or two substituents independently selected from halogeno, l 4C alkyl, trifluoromethyl and nitro and Q is methylene or imino but Ra is other than ethyl, n propyl or unsubstituted benzyl when benzene ring A is unsubstituted and Q is imino characterised by heating an enantiomeric form of the compound of formula I or a mixture of both enantiomeric forms of said compound containing an excess of one enantiomeric form over the other at a temperature in the range 80 to 2e00c. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the starting material Ra is a propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, l naphthylmethyl, 2 naphthylmethyl, cinnamyl, halogenocinnamyl, dihalogenocinnamyl, benzyl, l 4C alkylbenzyl, trifluoromethyl , halogeno benzyl or dihalogenobenzyl benzyl ring A is unsubstituted or bears a fluoro, chloro, bromo, methyl or trifluoromethyl substituent located at the 5 , 6 or 7 position and Q is imino or methylene. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the starting material Ra is dihalogenobenzyl and benzene ring A bears I or 2 substituents selected from halogeno and l 4C alkyl substituents located at the 5 , 6 or 7 position. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein in the starting material Ra is 2,4 dichlorobenzyl, 4 chloro 2fluorobenzyl, 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl, 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl, 3,4 dichlorobenzyl, 3 bromo 4 chlorobenzyl or 4 bromo 3 chlorobenzyl, and benzene ring A bears 1 or 2 substituents selected from fluoro, chloro, bromo, methyl and ethyl substituents located in the 5 , 6 or 7 position. 5. A process according to any of claims 1 4 chracterised in that it is performed in the absence of a solvent or diluent at a temperature in the range 150 2800C. 6. A process according to any of claims 1 4 characterised in that it is performed in the presence of a solvent or diluent. 7. A process according to claim 6 characterised in that the solvent or diluent is selected from 2 ethoxyethanol, 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethanol, xylene, toluene, liquid paraffin, dichlorobenzene, N methyl 2pyrrolidone and N, N dimethylformamide. 8. A process according to claim 6 characterised in that the solvent or diluent is N,N dimethylformamide optionally together with toluene or xylene. 9. A process according to any of claims 6 8 characterised in that it is performed at a temperature in the range 90 to 1300C. 10. An improved process for the manufacture of an enantiomeric form of a compound of formula I set out hereinafter which comprises carrying out the known steps of a forming a diastereoisomeric mixture of salts between a racemic form of said compound and an optically active form of a suitable quaternary ammonium base b separating the mixture of salts obtained in a by fractional crystallisation from a suitable solvent to give a crystalline salt and a mother liquor and c liberating the required enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I from the crystalline salt obtained in b by acidification and is characterised by carrying out the additional steps of d liberating the mixture of enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I by acidification of the salts in the mother liquor obtained in b e heating the mixture of enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I obtained in d at a temperature in the range 80 to 280 C., to give the racemic form of said compound and f recycling the racemic form obtained in e in the salt formation step a .

## Description
CHEMICAL PROCESS This invention relates to a chemical process and more particularly, it relates to a chemical process for the production of various spiro linked tricyclic heterocyclic compounds in racemic form from their corresponding optically active forms. It is known from our earlier publications that certain l substituted spiroCimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2, 2 ,5 triones European patent application, publication No. 28906A1 and l substituted spiroEpyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 triones European patent application, publication No. 65407A2 are potent inhibitors of the enzyme aldose reductase and are of use in the reduction or prevention of the development of certain complications of protracted diabetes or galactosemia. These spiro linked tricyclic heterocyclic compounds contain an asymmetric carbon atom the spiro linking carbon and exist and may be isolated as two individual optically active forms individual enantiomers or mixtures thereof. The mixture containing equal amounts of both enantiomers is optically inactive and is known as the racemic form or racemate.The latter form is normally obtained by chemical syntheses which do not involve optically active starting materials. In many cases it is possible to increase on the potency of the racemic form by separating out the individual optically active forms individual enantiomers , that is one enantiomer may possess significantly greater potency as an inhibitor of the enzyme aldose reductase than does the other enantiomer.Such a separation of a racemic form is well known in the chemical art and is known as resolution and permits the production of both enantiomers. However, as stated above, in practice only one enantiomer may possess significant aldose reductase inhibitory properties. It is consequently desirable in any large scale process for resolution of a racemic form to be able to convert the unwanted enantiomer into the racemic form again. We have now discovered, and herein lies the basis for our invention, that individual enantiomers of the above mentioned spiro linked tricyclic heterocyclic compounds can be unexpectedly converted to the corresponding racemic form merely by the influence of heat. According to the invention there is provided a process for the manufacture of a compound of the formulaI set out hereinafter in racemic form, wherein Ra is 2 12C alkyl, or naphthylmethyl or cinnamyl optionally bearing one or two halogeno substituents, or benzyl optionally bearing one or two substituents independently selected from halogen, l 4C alkyl, l 4C alkoxy, cyano, nitro and trifluoromethyl located in the 2 , 3 , 4 or 5 position of the phenyl moiety benzene ring A optionally bears one or two substituents independently selected from halogeno, l 4C alkyl, trifluoromethyl and nitro and Q is methylene or imino but Ra is other than ethyl, n propyl or unsubstituted benzyl when benzene ring A is unsubstituted and 0 is imino characterised by heating an enantiomeric form of the compound of formulaI or a mixture of both enantiomeric forms of said compound containing an excess of one enantiomeric form over the other at a temperature in the range 80 to 2800C. A particular value for Ra when it is 2 12C alkyl is, for example, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, nonyl or decyl. A particular value for Ra when A is naphthylmethyl or cinnamyl bearing one or two halogeno substituents is, for example, 5 chloro l naphthylmethyl, 6 chloro 2 naphthylmethyl or 3,4 dichlorocinnamyl. Particular values for optional substituents on benzene ring A or as part of Ra are by way of example for l 4C alkyl methyl or ethyl for l 4C alkoxy methoxy or ethoxy and for halogeno fluoro, chloro, bromo or iodo. A particular compound of formula I may be obtained in racemic form by the process of the invention by heating an enantiomeric form of a compound of the formula I wherein Ra is a propyl, butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, l naphthylmethyl, 2 naphthylmethyl, cinnamyl, halogenocinnamyl especially 4 chlorocinnamyl , dihalogenocinnamyl especially 3,4 dichlorocinnamyl , benzyl, l 4C alkylbenzyl especially 4 methylbenzyl , trifluoromethyl or halogeno benzyl Eespecially 3 trifluoromethyl benzyl, 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl, 4 chlorobenzyl or 4 bromobenzyl , or dihalogenobenzyl especially 2,4 dichlorobenzyl, 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl, 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl, 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl, 3,4 dichlorobenzyl, 3 bromo 4 chlorobenzyl or 4 bromo 3 chlorobenzyl benzene ring A is unsubstituted or bears a fluoro, chloro, bromo, methyl or trifluoromethyl substituent located at the 5 , 6 or 7 position and Q is imino or methylene but Ra is other than ethyl, n propyl or unsubstituted benzyl when benzene ring A is unsubstituted and Q is imino. One group of racemic forms of compounds of the formula I for which the process of the invention is especially suitable, comprises those compounds whereinRa is dihalogenobenzyl especially 2,4 dichlorobenzyl, 4 chloro 2 fluorobenzyl, 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl, 2 fluoro 4 iodobenzyl, 3,4 dichlorobenzyl, 3 bromo 4chlorobenzyl or 4 bromo 3 chlorobenzyl and benzene ringA optionally bears 1 or 2 substituents selected from halogeno and l 4C alkyl substituents especially fluoro, chloro, bromo, methyl and ethyl substituents located in the 5 , 6 or 71 position. The preparation of the required enantiomeric forms of the compounds of formula I from synthetic samples of the corresponding racemic form is decribed inEuropean patent application Publication No 28906A1 and in the Examples hereinafter. The process may be carried out by heating a single enantiomer or a mixture of both enantiomers in which one predominates over the other alone or, more conveniently, in the presence of one or more inert diluents or solvents of relatively high boiling point.Examples of suitable diluents or solvents are 2 ethoxyethanol, 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethanol, xylene, toluene, liquid paraffin, dichlorobenzene, N methyl 2pyrrolidone and N,N dimethylformamide. One preferred solvent is, for example, N,N dimethylformamide which may conveniently be used together with a suitable diluent such as xylene or toluene. When a solvent or diluent is employed, a particularly suitable temperature is, for example, in the range 90 to 1600C., especially in the range 90 to 1300C. When no solvent or diluent is used a higher temperature must generally be employed, for example in the range 1500 to 260 C. The desired racemic form may be separated from the reaction mixture either by cooling, or by evaporation of the inert diluent or solvent, or by other conventional means. The extent of conversion to the racemic form may be assessed by measurement of the fall in optical rotation, change in melting point, or by other conventional means. The process of the invention is of particular value in enabling mixtures containing an excess of an unwanted enantiomer over the desired enantiomer to be recycled to obtain the desired enantiomer. Such mixtures are obtained, for example, during the resolution of the racemic form of a compound of the formula I. Thus, after partial removal of one enantiomeric form of a compound of formula I by fractional crystallisation of its salt with a single enantiomeric form of an optically active quaternary ammonium base, the mother liquors become enriched in the other enantiomeric form of the compound of formula I.This mixture of enantiomers, after conventional work up, for example acidification and filtration of the precipitated material or evaporation of the mother liquor, can then be racemised by the process of the invention and the racemic form recycled in the resolution process. Accordingly, the invention also provides an improved process for the manufacture of an enantiomeric form of a compound of formula I which comprises a forming a diastereoisomeric mixture of salts between a racemic form of said compound and an optically active form of a suitable quaternary ammonium base b separating the mixture of salts obtained in a by fractional crystallisation from a suitable solvent to give a crystalline salt and a mother liquor c liberating the required enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I from the crystalline salt obtained in b by acidification d liberating the mixture of enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I by acidification of the salts in the mother liquor obtained in b e heating the mixture of enantiomeric forms of the compound of formula I obtained in d at a temperature in the range 80 to 200C., to give the racemic form of said compound and f recycling the racemic form obtained in e in the salt formation step a . A suitable method for the formation of the salt in a is, for example, reacting a suitable quaternary ammonium base Csuch as an optically active form of N, N, N trimethyl 1 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide or methoxide, or of N, N, N trimethyl 2 hydroxy l methyl 2 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide or methoxide with the racemic form of a compound of formula I. Alternatively, an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salt such as a sodium, potassium or calcium salt of the racemic form of a compund of formula I may be reacted with a suitable quaternary ammonium halide such as the chloride, bromide or iodide salt corresponding to either of the above quaternary ammonium hydroxides . The process of the invention is illustrated by the following non limiting Examples, in which, unless otherwise stated i all evaporations were carried out by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure ii all operations were carried out at room temperature that is at a temperature in the range 18 to 26 C and iii yields are given for illustration only.Example 1 A solution of l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl 7 fluoro spiroEimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 2.0 g. in N,N dimethylformamide 100 ml. was heated at 95 100 C. The initial solution had an optical rotation of 0.896 at 589 nm and 4.865 at 365 nm in a 10 cm length cell at 230C. This rotation fell to 0.536 at 589 nm and 2.909e at 365 nm after heating for 6 hours. After a further 24 hours heating, the rotation fell to zero at both 589 and 365 nm. EIn all cases the rotations were measured at 23 C. The cooled solution was then diluted with water 200 ml. , adjusted to pH 4 with 2M hydrochloric acid and cooled to 0 50C.The crystalline precipitate.which formed was collected and recrystallised from aqueous ethanol to give l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl 7 fluoro spiro Cimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 0.9 g. , m.p. 248 250 C. 0cD23 0 c 0.874, MeOH . CNote Sodium D spectral line 589 nm . The starting enantiomer was obtained as a solid, m.p. 160 162 C. recrystallised from ethanol , alpha D23 33.8 c 1.0, EtOH , using an analogous procedure to that described in European patent application, publication No. 28906A1, that is by resolution of the racemic form by formation of the diastereoisomeric mixture of salts with N,N,N trimethyl l phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide, followed by fractional crystallisation of a single diastereoisomeric salt and liberation of the enantiomeric form by acidification with hydrochloric acid. The diastereoisomeric salt had m.p. 171 173 C. crystallised from acetonitrile and D23 25.3 c 1.0, EtOH .Examples 2 4 The procedure described in Example 1 may be repeated using Example 2 the enantiomer of l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl 7 fluoro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione COTD23 320EEtOH m.p. 1650C. Erecrystallised from ethyl acetate petrol ether b.p. 60 80 C. , obtained as described in Example 1 but from the diastereoisomeric salt with N,N,N trimethyl l phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide, said salt having m.p. 1700C. recrystallised from 2 propanol andE D23 24 CEtOH , to obtain the corresponding racemate m.p. 247 250 C., alpha D23 0 MeOH Example 3 the enantiomer of l 3,4 dichloro benzyl spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione D23 41 c, 1.6 MeOH3 m.p. 199 200 C, obtained as described in European patent application, PublicationNo. 28906A1 or Example 4 the enantiomer of 1 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione CQD23 39.8O acetone m.p.201 202 C., obtained by an analogous procedure to that described in Example 1 from the diastereoisomeric salt with N,N,N trimethyl 1 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide, said salt having m.p. 147 149 C. Erecrystallised from 2 propanol and then acetonitrile3 and alpha D23 32.6 MeOH to obtain in either case the racemic form of 1 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiro imidazol idine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione, m.p. 269 271 C., D23 oo MeOH .Note the concentrations used for alpha D determinations were approximately 1.0 g.per 100 ml. of solvent i.e.c l.0 .Example 5 A mixture of solid l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 5 g. with liquid paraffin 40 ml. was warmed to 200 210 C. The solid melted initially and then resolidified. The mixture was then heated at 210 2200C. for 30 minutes, cooled to 20 250C., diluted with toluene and the solid material collected by filtration, washed with toluene and recrystallised from ethyl acetate petrol ether b.p. 60 80 C. There was thus obtained the racemic form of l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2, 2 , 5 trione alpha D24 O MeOH, c 1.0 . Example 6 A solution of l 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiroEimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5trione 103 mg.,m.p.260 2620C. alpha D24 17.9 , c 1.01, MeOH in N,N dimethylformamide DMF 1 ml. was heated at 1100C. for 20 hours. The solution was diluted with water 20 ml. and made acid with dilute hydrochloric acid. The precipitate was collected and recrystallised from methanol to give the racemic form of 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiroCimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 60 mg. , m.p.240 241 0cD23 0.02 c 0.92, MeOH .Example 7 The procedure described in Example 6 was repeated using the enantiomer of l 4 bromo 2fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione alpha D23 18.4, c 1.06, MeOH to obtain the corresponding racemic form, m.p. 240 241 C. CMJD24 0.01 c l.01, MeOH . The enantiomers required for Examples 6 and 7 were obtained as follows Racemic 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 64.4 g. was dissolved in a 9.253 M solution of N,N,N trimethyl 1 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide in methanol 581 ml. . The solution was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated. The residue was dissolved in 2 methoxyethanol 132 ml. . The solution was warmed to 700C and then diluted with 1,2 dimethoxyethane 440 ml. previously warmed to 70 C.The clear solution was stored at 0 C. for 48 hours and the crystals of the quaternary ammonium salt A were collected by filtration L27 g. 23 alpha D 21.1 , c 0.93,MeOH . This product was recrystallised from 2 methoxyethanol 55.3 ml. and 1,2dimethoxyethane 184 ml. to give crystals 20 g. alpha 4D23 220 c l.ll, MeOH .A third recrystallisation gave crystals L15.8 g. alpha D24 21.90 c 1.12 MeOH 3. The crystalline salt 15.8 g. thus obtained was dissolved in methanol 50 ml. and treated with 0.25 M aqueous hydrochloric acid 105 ml. . The solution was chilled at OOC. overnight and the solid removed by filtration, washed with water and dried over phosphorous pentoxide under vaccuum to give the enantiomer of 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 9.1 g. , m.p. 260 262 C., CjD23 17.9 c 0.89, MeOH . The mother liquors which were obtained after isolation of the salt A were diluted with ether 600 ml. The precipitate was removed by filtration, washed with ether and dried. The solid obtained 31.5 g., alpha D23 25.3 c l.0l, MeOH was dissolved in methanol 100 ml. . The solution was acidified with 2M hydrochloric acid 200 ml. .The precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and air dried to give solid B 21.8 g. D23 12.3 c 0.95MeOH containing principally the enantiomer of I 4 bromo 2 fluoro benzyl 7 chioro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione. Solid B 21.5 g. was dissolved in a 0.412M solution of N,N,N trimethyl 1 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide in methanol 116 ml. . The solution was evaporated and the residue dissolved in 2 methoxyethanol 43 ml. at 70 C. 1,2 Dimethoxyethane 152 ml. was added to the hot solution which was then cooled. The crystalline salt which formed, was collected by filtration yield 17.0 g. alpha D23 23.5 c 0.68 MeOH and recrystallised from a 1 3 v v mixture 65 ml. of 2 methoxyethanol and 1,2 dimethoxyethane to give a crystalline salt c 14.6 g. alpha D23 22.9 c 1.06 MeOH . The salt C was dissolved in methanol 50 ml. and the solution acidified with 0.25M hydrochloric acid 105 ml. .This mixture was then cooled at 0 5 C. for 16 hours and the solid which had deposited was collected by filtration, washed with water, dried and recrystallised from ethanol to give the enantiomer of 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro spiro Eimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione, as a solid 8.0 g. b lD23,18.40 c 1.06, MeOH . The racemic starting material was obtained as follows A suspension of 7 chloroindoline 2,3 dione 15g. and potassium carbonate 15 g. in N,N dimethylformamide 100 ml. was stirred and treated with a solution of 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl bromide 24.7 g. in chlorobenzene 100 ml. . The mixture was stirred at 9O0C. for five hours, cooled to ambient temperature, and diluted with a mixture of water 500 ml. and petrol ether b.p 60 800c. 500 ml . The aqueous phase was adjusted to pH3 with 10M hydrochloric acid. The mixture obtained was separated by filtration.The solid obtained was washed with further petrol ether, then with water, and recrystallised from ethanol to give l 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro indoline 2, 3 dione 15.5 g. , m.p. 164 166 C. A stirred suspension of 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 chloro indoline 2, 3 dione 96 g. in ethanol 1500 ml. was treated with a solution of potassium cyanide 21.0 g. and ammonium carbonate 300 g. in water 1500 ml. . The mixture was stirred at 45 50 C. for 4 hours. Activated charcoal 50 g. was added and the mixture was stirred for a further hour at 45 50 C. The hot mixture was filtered through diatomaceous earth and the filter cake was washed with aqueous ethanol 2 x 200 ml. 1 1 v v at 600C. The cooled filtrate was made acid to pH 4 at 0 5 C. with lOM hydrochloric acid and the precipitated solid was collected by filtration, washed with water and dried. Recrystallisation twice from 1 1 v v ethyl acetate petroleum ether, b.p. 60 80 C. gave l 4 bromo 2 fluoro benzyl 7 chloro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 60 g. m.p.240 242 C.CNote. Solid B may be converted to the corresponding racemate by heating in DMF at 110 1200C. for 24 hours and working up as described for the racemate in Example 6. Example 8 The procedure described in Example 4 was repeated except that the reaction solution was heated at 135 140 C. for 30 hours, to yield to racemic form of 1 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiroCimidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 0.58 g. , m.p. 270 271 C., C0 1D24 0 c l.01 MeOH , starting from the corresponding enantiomer 1.05 g. . After 16 hours of heating partial racemistaion had occurred as indicated by the specific rotation CEUD24 4 , c 1.2MeOH of a sample worked up and isolated after 16 hours.Example 9 A solution of 1 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 methyl spiroCpyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2t2zZ5 trione 1.42 g. m.p. 231 231 , oSD24 18.4 c 0.95,DMF inDMF 10 ml. was heated at 110 C. for 16 hours. The solution was diluted with water 50 ml. , acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 50 ml. . The combined extracts were evaporated. The residual gum was recrystallised from ethyl acetate to give l 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 methyl spiroCpyrrolidine 3 ,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 426 mg. m.p. 215 216 alpha D23 0.0 c 1.12, DMF . Essentially the same result was obtained starting from the enantiomer m.p. 230 232 C, dD24 18.3 c 1.06, DMF . The starting enantiomers may be obtained from the racemate, for example, by an analogous resolution procedure to that described in Example 7 using N methyl cinchonidinium hydroxide in place of N,N,N trimethyl l phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide TPAH to obtain the enantiomer and using N methyl quinidinium hydroxide in place of TPAH to obtain the enantiomer. In either case, the mixture of enantiomers left in the mother liquors after separation of the crystalline salt formed with the quaternary ammonium hydroxide, may be isolated by acidification and converted to give further racemate by heating in DMF as described above. The necessary quaternary ammonium hydroxides may be made by reacting cinchonidine or quinidine in acetone with excess methyl iodide and potassium carbonate in acetone to give the corresponding quaternary ammonium iodide after conventional work up.This iodide is then converted to the corresponding hydroxide by dissolving the solid iodide in water and passing the solution through a column of anion exchanging resin such as Amberlite ETrade mark IRA401 newly converted into the hydroxide form using methanol as eluant.Example 10 Using an analogous procedure to that described in Example 6, but starting with the enantiomer of 1 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiroEpyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 100 mg. m.p. 240 242 C., WD23 26.6 c 0.96, DMF , there was obtained the racemic form of 1 3,4 dichlorobenzyl spiro Epyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione 64 mg. , m.p. 210 212 C. recrystallised from methanol , COOD22 0 c 1.0, DMF . The necessary enantiomer was obtained by resolution of the corresponding racemate using the enantiomer of N,N,N trimethyl 2 hydroxy l methyl2 phenylethyl ammonium hydroxide as the resolving base. The latter material may be obtained by reacting ephedrine with methyl iodide and potassium carbonate in acetone to give the corresponding quaternary ammonium iodide salt m.p. 210 212 C., recrystallised from a mixture of methanol and ether , which is then converted to the corresponding hydroxide by treatment with anion exchanging resin in hydroxide form as described inExample 9. The mixture of enantiomers Eenriched in the enantiomer left after separation of the crystalline salt with the quaternary ammonium hydroxide, may be isolated by acidification and converted to give further racemate by heating in DMF as described above.Example 11 Using a similar procedure to that described in Example 6, but starting from the enantiomer of I 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzyl 7 a fluoro spiro pyrrolidine 3,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione Em.p. 193 194 C. o D24 7.5 c 1.0, tetrahydrofuran , the corresponding racemate may be obtained of m.p. 240 242 C., E D23 0 c 0.95, MeOH . The required enantiomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemate using N methyl cinchonidinium hydroxide as the resolving base. Again, as in previous Examples the mixture of enantiomers Enriched in enantiomer obtained after separation of the crystalline salt with the resolving base, may be isolated by acidification and converted to give further racemate by heating in DMF as described above.Example 12 A mixture of and enantiomers of 1 3, 4 dichlorobenzyl 7 fluoro spiroL imidazolidine 4,3 indoline 2,2 ,5 trione t1.0 g. alpha D24 11.7 c 1.0, MeOH was suspended in 1,2 dichlorobenzene 10 ml. and the mixture was heated at 135 1400C. for sixteen hours. Complete solution did not occur. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature. The solid was separated by filtration and washed with ether to give l 3,4 dichlorobenzyl 7 fluoro spiro imidazolidine 4,3 indolinel 2,2 ,5 trione 676 mg. , m.p. 246 C., alpha D24 0.01 c 1.2,MeOH . A similar result may be obtained usingN methyl 2 pyrrolidinone as solvent except that complete solution occurs and the racemate is isolated by adding the solution to an excess of water.