# Racefree CMOS clocked logic circuit

## Claims
Synchrone Logikschaltung, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to synchronous logic circuits. In a conventional synchronous CMOS logic circuit, signals to be gated are supplied to asynchronous gate circuits in synchronism with clock signals during the signal transfer, thereby obtaining a desired logic operation. However, when an asynchronous CMOS gate circuit is used together with synchronous CMOS gate circuits in a manner that the asynchronous circuit is inserted between or provided among the synchronous circuits, a clock race problem due to the overlap of two clock phases clock skew occurs, resulting in erroneous operation. Such a clock race problem is chiefly caused by the slow switching speed of CMOS gates. The clock race problem is a known subject to a skilled person in the art. As for the details of clock race problem , reference should be made to the following literature It is also known from US A 3 925 685 to provide a clocked circuit comprising two clocked CMOS gates arranged in line. Each gate comprises four MOS transistors as specified in claim 1. However, there is no disclosure of a third CMOS clocked gate in series with the first and second clocked gates. Also, this circuit is not concerned with race problems, but relates to multiplex transmission over a transmission line. The present invention has been made in consideration of a clock race problem of CMOS logic circuit and has for its object to provide a synchronous logic circuit comprising more than two series connected logic gates which is free from erroneous operation caused by signal races when a clock skew occurs. According to the invention, there is provided a synchronous logic circuit comprising For a better understanding of the invention, and to show how the same may be carried into effect, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 shows a basic block configuration of a racefree CMOS clocked logic circuit for use in explaining aspects of the present invention. In Fig. 1 an input signal Ei and a first clock 1 are supplied to a first CMOS clocked gate 100. Clocked gate 100 selectively transfers input signal Ei according to the clocking of first clock 1 and provides an interstage signal Ex corresponding to input signal Ei. Interstage signal Ex is supplied to a second CMOS clocked gate 200. Clocked gate 200 receives a second clock 2 and selectively transfers the interstage signal Ex according to the clocking of second clock 2. Then, clocked gate 200 provides an output signal Eo corresponding to interstage signal Ex as well as to input signal Ei. The operation of first CMOS clocked gate 100 is synchronised to first clock Fig. 2A shows a simple logic circuit embodying the configuration of Fig. 1. First and second clocked gates 100 and 200 of Fig. 1 correspond to clocked inverters 100 and 200 of Fig. 2A, respectively. Clocked inverter 100 transfers input signal Ei according to a clock Fig. 2B shows details of the circuit of Fig. 2A. Clocked inverter 100 of Fig. 2A corresponds to a CMOS circuit being formed of MOSFETs 100A to 100D, and clocked inverter 200 of Fig. 2A corresponds to a CMOS circuit being formed of MOSFETs 200A to 200D. Although CMOS inverter 100A 100D is clocked by a pair of noninverted and inverted clocks and Fig. 2C shows a conventional transfer gate having a logic operation being functionally equivalent to the logic operation of the circuit of Fig. 2B. An input signal Eii is transferred through a MOSFET gate TG1 according to a noninverted clock and becomes an output signal Eoo. Input signal Eii is also transfered through a MOSFET gate TG2 according to an inverted clock Figs. 3A to 3G are timing charts explaining a racefree operation of the circuit of Fig. 2B and also explaining an operation of the circuit of Fig. 2C which will suffer signal races. First, explanation will be given to the operation of the circuitry of Fig. 2B. When 1, When is changed from 1 to 0 under the condition that When Ei is changed from 0 to 1 under the condition that 0 and When When is changed from 0 to 1 under the condition that When When is changed from 1 to 0 under the condition that When Ei is changed from 1 to 0 under the condition that 0 and When When is changed from 0 to 1 under the condition that As is apparent from the above explanation and the illustration of Figs. 3A 3E, even if the level change of input signal Ei appears within the clock skew period t31 t33 or t36 t38 , the leading edge of output signal Eo is exactly determined by the falling of inverted clock Now, explanation will be given to the operation of the conventional circuitry of Fig. 2C. When 1, When Eii is changed from 0 to 1 under the condition that 0 and When When is changed from 0 to 1 under the condition that When When is changed from 1 to 0 under the condition that When Eii is changed from 1 to 0 under the condition that 0 and As is apparent from the above explanation and the illustration of Figs. 3A, 3B, 3F and 3G, the leading and trailing edges of output signal Eoo are not determined by the rising nor falling of clocks and Fig. 4 shows a shift register. In Fig. 4 an input signal Ein is supplied to a clocked inverter 10 which is clocked by an inverted clock Figs. 5A to 5E are timing charts illustrating a racefree operation of the circuit of Fig. 4. When the consideration is given to a case where signal E10 is fixed at logical 0, the racefree operation of clocked NOR gate 12 and clocked inverter 14 shown in Fig. 4 is substantially the same as in the case of Fig. 2A or 2B. Accordingly, detailed explanation of the circuit operation of Fig. 4 is omitted here, out the circuit operation would easily be understood from the illustration of Figs. 5A 5E. According to the configuration of Fig. 4, no signal races occur by the operation of directly coupled series circuit of clocked gates 100 and 200 in which clock 1 is in phase with or identical to clock 2. Fig. 6 shows a 1 3 frequency divider which is another embodiment of racefree CMOS clocked logic circuit. A signal E18 is supplied to a clocked inverter 10 which is clocked by an inverted clock In Fig. 6, noninverted clock 1 of gate 12 is in phase with or identical to noninverted clock 2 of inverter 14, thereby eliminating signal races from signal E10 or E16 to signal E14. The racefree operation of elements 12 and 14 is substantially the same as that of elements 12 and 14 in Fig. 6. Fig. 7 shows details of the circuit of Fig. 6. The source of a P ch MOS transistor 10A is connected to a positive power line Vcc. The gate of transistor 10A receives a noninverted clock and the drain thereof is connected to the source of a P ch MOS transistor 10B. The gate and drain of transistor 10B are respectively connected to the gate and drain of an N ch MOS transistor 10C. The source of transistor 10C is connected to the drain of an N ch MOS transistor 10D. The gate of transistor 10D receives an inverted clock Signal E10 from transistors 10B and 10C is supplied to the gate of a P ch MOS transistor 12C. The source of transistor 12C is connected to the drain of a P ch MOS transistor 12B. The gate of transistor 12B receives a signal E16, and the source thereof is connected to the drain of a P ch MOS transistor 12A. The gate of transistor 12A receives inverted clock Signal E12 from transistors 12C 12E is supplied to the gate of a P ch MOS transistor 14B. The source of transistor 14B is connected to the drain of a P ch MOS transistor 14A. The gate of transistor 14A receives inverted clock Signal E14 from transistors 14B and 14C is supplied to the gate of a P ch MOS transistor 16B. The source of transistor 16B is connected to the drain of a P ch MOS transistor 16A. The gate of transistor 16A receives noninverted clock , and the source thereof is connected to power line Vcc. The drain of transistor 16B is connected to the drain of N ch MOS transistor 16C. The drains of transistors 16B and 16C output the signal E16 R . The gate of transistor 16C receives signal E14. The source of transistor 16C is connected to the drain of an N ch MOS transistor 16D. The gate of transistor 16D receives inverted clock Signal E16 from transistors 16B and 16C is supplied to the gate of a P ch MOS transistor 18B. The source of transistor 18B is connected to the drain of a P ch MOS transistor 18A. The gate of transistor 18A receives inverted clock Figs. 8A 8G show timing charts illustrating the operation of the circuit shown in Fig. 7. In Figs. 8A and 8B, a clock skew or phase deviation ϑ between noninverted clock and inverted clock In the configuration of Fig. 6 or 7, no signal races occur because of the operation of directly coupled series circuit of clocked gates 100 12 and 200 14 in which clock 1 is in phase with or identical to clock 2. As mentioned above, according to the embodiment of the present invention, no operational error due to signal races, which will be caused by the clock skew ϑ, occurs. The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiment described above. Various changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the claimed invention. The present invention may be applied to a general CMOS circuit having three or more series connected clocked logic circuits.