# An apparatus for dispensing and applying fluids, preferably paint.

## Abstract
An apparatus for dispensing and applying fluid, prefer ably paint, from a container 10 . The paint is dispensed by a pumping mechanism 12 through a conduit 14 up to an applicator 16 . Owing to the flexible conduit 14 the applica tor is freely movable relative to the container 10 . The pumping mechanism 12 may be positioned adja cent to the container 10 or adjacent to the applicator 16 . The apparatus is entirely air tight, which means that the paint will not be in contact with the surrounding air before being supplied to and applied on the surface by means of the applicator 16 .

## Claims
Patent Claims 10 An apparatus for dispensing and applying fluids, preferaly paint, comprising a container holding the fluid, said container connected to a flexible conduit 14 which in turn is connected to an applicator 16 , c ii a r a c t e r i s e d i n t h a t a dispensing member 12 including a pumping mechanism is positioned at a point along the path of flow of the fluid from the container 10 and is arranged to dispense fluid by pumping, from the container to the applicator 16 , irrespective of the position of the applicator relative to tie container 10 , and in that said conduit 14 is arfailed to allow the applicator 16 to be moved freely within a range which is limited only by the length of tile conduit 14 . 20 At apparatus as claimed in claim 1 e h a r a C t e 1 i s e d i n t h a t tie dispensing member 12 is disposed adjacent to the container 10 . 3. An apparatus as claimed in claJm 1, c h a r a c t e r i s e d i n t h a t the dispensing member 12 Is disposed adjacent to the applicator 16 . 40 An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, c h a r a c t e f i S e d i n t ii a t the applicator 16 is a brush provided with a central paint outlet opening 56 . 5. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the pre ceding claims, c h a r a c t e r i s e d i n t h a t said container 10 is formed with a shape permanent part at one of its sides. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, c h a r a c t e r i s e d i n t h a t said shape permanent part of sold container 10 supports a fastener 26 by means of which the container 10 may be suspended from the clothing of tlie user, preferably from a button. 7. An apparatus as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, C 11 a r a c t e r i s e d i n t h a t tije container 10 is collapsible and air tight when in its closed condition, and in that the conduit 14 is attached to the container 10 and to the applicator 16 in an air tight manner.

## Description
An Apparatus for Dispensing and Applying Fluids, preferablyPaint The subject invention concerns an apparatus for dispensing and applying fluids, preferably paint, which apparatus comprises a container holding the fluid, which container is connected to a flexible conduit which in turn. is connected to an applicator. The apparatus is conceived to allow application and dispensing of fluids, particularly paint, in a simple and efficient manner. The apparatus in accordance with the invention provides an integrated system conceived particularly for painting and the system includes both the container and the paint applicator and the means interconnecting the two. Conventional painting equipment consists of an applicator, usually in the form of a brush or a roller which is dipped into the paint can or a trough and thereafter used to apply and distribute the paint evenly over the intended surface. This method suffers from several drawbacks. It is a messy method because inevitably paint will splash and drip repeatedly, for instance when the brush is dipped into the paint can and surplus paint brushed off therefrom, or when the paint laden brush is moved from the paint can to the surface on which the paint is to be applied. Another disadvantage found in this prior art method is that the paint is exposed to air and thus oxidation for some time prior to its application on the intended surface.The method is also inefficient because it involves a large number of operations, such as the painting proper, the application of paint on the brush by dipping the latter into the can of paint, removal of excess paint from the brush to ensure it holds the correct amount, shifting the can of paint as the work progresses, and so on. In addition, it is difficult to apply the paint in an even layer on the surface, because the brush will contain a large amount of paint in the Deginning of the application when it has just been dipped into the paint can but gradually will hold less and less paint, as paint is applied on the surface. Various paint application devices are known which function according to the principle of containing the paint inside a container in which en excess pressure is created.The excess pressure is used to force the paint through a conduit which is connected to an applicator. The dispensing of the paint is controlled by means of a throttling means, such as a valve positioned on the applicator. As examples of devices of this kind may be mentioned those described inCH 420 926, DE 259 188 and WO 80 003 5. However, these devices suffer from several drawbacks. The containers must be large and strong in order to be able to withstand the interior excess pressure, in addition to which the containers must be equipped with a complicated and or expensive mecha nism designed to generate the desired excess pressure, such as a pumping mechanism. Consequently, these prior art devices necessarily are bulky, unmanageable, complicated and expen size. One purpose of the subject invention is to provide an apparatus which is simple, light, reliable and inexpensive.Another purpose is to provide an apparatus which is expendable and may be thrown away when the painting job is finished.Yet another purpose is to provide a construction allowing the paint to be applied on the desired surface in an efficient and evenly distributed manner while minimizing splash and messiness. These and other purposes are obtained in an apparatus in accordance with the invention which is characterised in that a dispensing member including a pumping mechanism is positioned at a point along the path of flow of the fluid form the container and is arranged to dispense fluid by pumping, from the container to the applicator, irresepective of the position of the applicator relative to the container, and in that said conduit is arranged to allow the applicator to be moved freely within a range limited only by the length of the conduit. Further characteristics of the apparatus of the invention will appear from the dependent claims. The invention will be described in closer detail in the following with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Fig. 1 is a perspective general view of an apparatus in accordance with the invention, Fig. 2 is a lateral view of part of the apparatus in accordance with one embodiment thereof, Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view through the same apparatus part as the one shown in Fig. 2, Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view through an applicator in accordance with the embodiment of the invention shown in Figs. 2 and 3, and Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view through an applicator in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. According to one embodiment of the invention illustrated in Fig. 1 the apparatus in accordance with the invention comprises a collapsible container 10 which via a dispensing member 12 is connected to a conduit in the form of a flexible tube or a hose 14 only partly shown inFig. 1 . The hose is attached to an applicator 16 in the form of a brush. The latter is used to apply paint on a surface 18. The container is provided with a fastener 20 by means of which the container may be hooked onto the clothing of the user, preferably on a button at midriff level, which button is inserted in a slot 22 in the fastener. The hose 14 is preferably of sufficient length to correspond to the range of the user. In this manner the applicator 16 becomes easily manageable and operable. The embodiment of the invention illustrated in Figs.1 to 4 comprises a dispensing member 12 which is equipped with a pumping mechanism provided adjacent to and connected to the container. The pumping mechanism may be of a previously known type and one example of a suitable design of such a pumping mechanism is described and disclosed in theSwedish Patent Specification 8007934 6. This prior art type of pumping mechanism is shown in Fig. 3 and is constructed in the manner to be described in the following. A through flow passageway 24 leads from the container 10 to the hose conduit 14. Inside the through flow passageway 24 is positioned a lower valve portion 26 in which is formed a valve seat 28. The valve portion 26 also houses a valve mechanism 30. The latter consists of a plate 32 to which are attached one upper and one lower resilient arm 34 and 36, respectively. These arms support at their lower ends their respective valve body 38 and 40 the latter being in the form of a ball. An upper valve portion 42 is inserted into the passageway 24 and is mounted on the lower valve portion. An upper valve seat 44 is formed in the upper valve portion 42 and in the lower valve portion is formed a channel 46 by means of which a pressurizing bulb 48 communicates with a space which is formed between the two valve seats 28 and 44 and which space forms a valve chamber. A tube 49 projects into the container 10. The arms 34 and 36 are biased to urge the valve balls 38 and 40 into engagement with their associated valve seats 44 and 28. The upper ball is urged upwards while the lower one is pulled upwards. In the inoperative position of the device the balls therefore abut sealingly against their respective valve seat. The device functions in the following manner. When the pressurizing bulb 48 is compressed, i.e. is pressed inwards, an excess pressure is generated in the valve chamber.As a result, the lower valve body 40 is urged downwards, that is away from the valve seat 28 which thus opens. At the same time, the upper valve body 35 is pressed against the upper valve seat 44, the latter thus remaining closed. The paint contained in the valve chamber is forced through the valve seat 28 and further out into the conduit 14. When the pressure on the bulb 48 ceases the latter immediately resumes its original configuration due to its inherent resiliency.The vacuum generated in the valve chamber draws the upper valve body 38 downwards and the lower valve body 40 upwards, the Tatter being pressed hard against the lower valve seat 28, sealing it efficiently. Paint is sucked through the upper valve seat 44 into the valve chamber. When the force acting on the valve body on account of the partial vacuum in the valve chamber becomes less than the bias force by means of which the arm 34 urges the valve body 38 upwards, the valve body 38 again closes the valve seat 44. Once again, the device assumes the original position and is ready to perform another working cycle. According to one embodiment of the invention the pumping mechanism is positioned adjacent the applicator 16. This embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 5 oft the drawings.The pumping mechanism in accordance with this embodiment is in principle equivalent and similar to the one illustrated in Fig. 3 with the exceptions that the means supplying fluid to the pumping mechanism is the conduit 14, that the outlet from the pumping mechanism is directly connected to the applicator and that the passageway 46 from the pressurizing bulb 48 to the valve chamber extends through the upper valve portion 42 instead of through the lower one. The function of this pumping mechanism is identical and equivalent to that of the pumping mechan ism illustrated in Fig. 3. The only difference is that the paint is advanced through the conduit 14 through suction in accordance with the embodiment of Fig. 5 while it is pressed forwards in accordance with the embodiment of Figs. 1 4. Two different embodiments of the applicator 14 are shown in the drawings. In accordance with the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 4 the hose conduit 14 is connected directly to the applicator 16. The conduit 14 is mounted in a handle 50 which also serves as a seat to support a brush 52 and the attachment nipple 54 of the latter. The attachment nipple is screwed onto the handle 50 and thus retains the brush 52 in position thereon. The handle 50 is provided with a central outlet 56 through which paint is discharged and a corresponding aperture is formed in the brush 52. As illustrated in Fig. 4 a tightly fitting cover 58 is positioned on top of the applicator 16. This cover 58 is pressed onto the attachment nipple 54, a central pin formed in the cover being introduced into the opening 56. Another embodiment of the applicator 16 is illustrated in Fig. 5. As described in the aforegoing the discharge member 12 is positioned in accordance with this embodiment adjacent the applicator 16, thus forming the handle of the applicator 16. A channel 62 leads from the lower valve seat 28 to the applicator 16 proper. The latter is in principle constructed in the same way as applicator 16 of Fig. 4 identical components in the two embodiments hqve received identical numeral references and comprises a brush 52,which by means of an attachment nipple 54 is secured on a part 64 forming a base in the form of a portion of the pumping mechanism. A channel 56 is formed in the part 64 to allow paint to flow to the brush 52, and a tightly fitting cover 58 is mounted on the dispensing member 16.A further modification resides an attachment of the brush on the handle 50 or part 64 by means of adhesive tape, glue or other adhesive. This makes the attachment nipple 54 superfluous. The alternative positions of the pumping mechanism mean that the advancement of paint could be effected either adjacent the container 10, that is, close to the body of the user, or adjacent the applicator 16 by means of the hand holding the latter. A A filler opening 66 may be provided on the container 10 to replenish the latter. In accordance with an alternative the container 10 may be replenished through the opening in which, after filling, the discharge member 12 and or the conduit 14 is mounted. The air tight collapsible container 10 will diminish in volume gradually as paint is discharged therefrom since no air is let into the container. The device is completely air tight and consequently the paint will not come into contact with air before it is discharged through the opening 56 and supplied to the face of the applicator 16. The integrated device in accordance with the invention eliminates all drip and splash normally occurring in painting jobs. Another advantage of the apparatus in accordance with the invention is the comparatively even advancement of the paint to the applicator that it allows and this advancement may be performed efficiently without interruption of the painting operation, which is the case when conventional painting methods are used according to which the brush must continually be dipped into the can of paint. The embodiments are described above and illustrated int he drawings are to be regarded as examples,only and a variety of modifications are possible within the scope of the appended claims. The pumping mechanism could be designed otherwise than shown. Several pumping mechanism designs described in the technological literature could be used for the purpose. It is likewise possible to use the apparatus in accordance with the invention in other applications than to dispense paint. As an example of such an alternative application may be mentioned to dispense and apply shaving foam.The container 10 may be delivered filled with paint or it could be designed to allow the user to fill it with paint.