# Substituted hydantoins, and their production and use.

## Abstract
A compound of the formula,

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A compound of the formulaEMI13.1 wherein R1 is a halogen atom or methyl group, R2 is hydrogen or a halogen atom, R3 is chlorine or bromine atom and R4 is hydrogen or chlorine atom. 2. The compound according to Claim 1, wherein R1 and R2 are each fluorine atom or chlorine atom, R3 is chlorine or bromine atom and R4 is hydrogen atom. 3. The compound according to Claim 1, which has the formula,EMI13.2 4. The compound according to Claim 1, which has the formula, EMI14.1 5. The compound according to Claim 1, which has the formula,EMI14.2 6. A process for preparing a compound according to Claim 1, which includes reacting a compound of the formula,EMI14.3 wherein R1, R2 and R4 are each as defined in Claim 1, with chlorine or bromine. 7. An insecticidal composition containing an inert carrier and as an active ingredient an insecticidally effective amount of the compound according toClaim 1. 8. The insecticidal composition according toClaim 7, wherein the content of the active ingredient is from 0.1 to 99 by weight. 9. A method for controlling insects which comprises applying an insecticidally effective amount of the compound according to Claim 1 to said insects. 10. Use of the compound according to Claim 1 as an insecticide.

## Description
SUBSTITUTED HYDANTOINS, AND THEIR PRODUCTION AND USE The present invention relates to a substituted hydantoin of the formula,EMI1.1 wherein R1 is a halogen atom preferably fluorine or chlorine atom or methyl group, R2 is hydrogen or a halogen atom preferably fluorine or chlorine atom ,R3 is chlorine or bromine atom, R4 is hydrogen or chlorine atom a process for producing it and an insecticidal composition containing it. Compounds of the present invention possess useful insecticidal activities and can be obtained by e.g. the following production process.Namely, a compound of the formula,EMI1.2 wherein R1, R2 and R4 are each as defined above, is reacted with chlorine or bromine, the amount of which is preferably more than 1 equivalent, in the presence of organic solvent such as lower alkanoic acid at a temperatures of OOC to 2500C for a period of 1 to 50 hours. The crude product is purified, if necessary, by chromatography or recrystallization. The compound II may be prepared by per se conventional procedures, of which typical examples are as follows EMI2.1 wherein R1, R2 and R4 are each as defined above.A method for the preparation of the substituted hydantoins of the present invention will be illustrated in more detail with reference to the following examples.Example 1 3 C4 Chlorophenyl 1 C2, 6 difluorobenzoyl hydantoin 1.50 g 4.3 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid 50 mly. The solution was heated to reflux and bromine 2.06 g 13 mmoll was added dropwise over a five hour interval. The reaction mixture was heated under reflux for further two hours and the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure. After adding water, the product was extracted with methylene chloride 50 ml . The solution was washed with water, a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and water.The solvent was removed by evaporation and the oily residue was purified on a column packed with 50 grams of silica gel by using methylene chloride as eluent. 0.95 Grams yield 51.4 of the objective compound, 5 bromo 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl hydantoin, was obtained as white crystals melting at 1850 1860C.Elementary analysis C H N Br C1 C 44.73 1.88 6.52 18.60 8.25 F 45.13 1.76 6.38 18.55 7.94Example 2 Instead of bromine in Example 1, Example 2 was performed using chlorine gas which was bubbled into the solution in a ratio of 10 ml min for 5 hours. After the similar work up, 1.27 grams yield 76.5 of the objective compound, 5 chloro 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 2,6 difluorobenzoyl hydantoin, was obtained as white crystals melting at 1870 1880C. In the following Table 1, the compounds obtained as described above were shown. The compound number described here are common in the following formulation examples and test examples. Table 1 EMI4.1 EMI4.2 Compound SEP No. SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R4 SEP Physical SEP constant tb 1 SEP F SEP F SEP Br SEP H SEP M.P. SEP 185 SEP SEP 186 C tb 2 SEP F SEP F SEP Br SEP C1 SEP n22.0 SEP 1.5852 tb 3 SEP C1 SEP H SEP Br SEP H SEP M.P. SEP 160 SEP SEP 161 C tb 4 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Br SEP H SEP n25.0 SEP 1.5974 tb 5 SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP Br SEP H SEP M.P.50 SEP SEP 51 C tb 6 SEP F SEP F SEP Cl SEP H SEP M.P. SEP 187 SEP SEP 188 C tb 7 SEP F SEP F SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP n24.0 SEP 1.5865 tb 8 SEP C1 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP n27.0 SEP 1.5922 tb 9 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Cl SEP H SEP n26.5 SEP 1.5981 tb 10 SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP H SEP n27.0 SEP 1.5915 tb On the practical application as insecticides the compounds I are used in the form of an appropriate composition such as emulsifiable concentrates, dusts, granules, wettable powders and fine granules and the content of the compound I in such composition may be from about 0.1 to 99 by weight, preferably from about 2.0 to 80.0 by weight. The composition can be formulated in a per se conventional manner by mixing at least one of the compounds I with an appropriate solid or liquid carrier s or diluent s with or without an appropriate adjuvant s e.g. surfactants, adherents, dispersants, stabilizers for improving the dispersibility and other properties of the active ingredient on use. Examples of the solid carriers or diluents are clays e.g. kaolin, bentonite, fuller s earth, pyrophyllite, sericite , talcs, other inorganic materials e.g. hydrated silica, pumice, diatomaceous earth, sulfur powder, active carbon in fine powders or powdery form. Examples of the liquid carriers or diluents are alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol , ketones e.g. acetone, methyl ethyl ketone , ethers be.g. diethyl ether, dioxane, cellosolve, tetrahydrofuran , aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene, methylnaphthalene , aliphatic hydrocarbons e.g..kerosene, lamp oil , esters, nitriles, acid amides e.g.dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamiddl, halogenated hydrocarbons e. g. dichloroethane, trichloroethylene, carbon tetrachloride , etc. Examples of the surfactants are alkylsulfates, alkylsulfonates, alkylarylsulfonates, polyethylene glycol ethers, polyhydric alcohol esters, etc. Examples of the adherents and dispersants may include casein, gelatin, starch powder, carboxymethyl cellulose, gum arabic, alginic acid, ligninsulfonate, bentonite, molasses, polyvinyl alcohol, pine oil and agar. As the stabilizers, there may be used PAP tisopropyl acid phosphates mixture , TCP Ctricresyl phosphate , tolu oil, epoxydized oil, various surfactants, various fatty acids and their esters, etc. In addition, the said composition may contain insecticides, insect control agents, acaricides, nematicides, fungicides, herhicides, plant growth regulators, fertilizers, soil improvers, etc. Particularly when employed in conjunction with conventional insecticides, a broad spectrum of activity or a more immediate effect on very heterogeneous populations is provided. Examples of the insecticides include organic phosphorus compounds e.g. fenitrothion O,O dimethyl O 3 methyl 4 nitrophenylXphosphorothioate , malathion S 1,2 bis ethoxycarbonyl ethyl o,o dimethylphosphorothioate , dimethoate O,O dimethyl S N methylcarbainoyl methyl phosphorodithioate , salithion 2 methoxy 4H1,3,2 benz dioxaphosphorin 2 sulfide , diazinon o,o diethyl O 2 isopropyl 6 methyl 4 pyrimydinyl phos phorothioate , dipterex 2,2 ,2 trichloro l hydroxy ethyl O,O dimethylphosphonatel, dichlorvos 0 2,2 dichlorovinyl O,O dimethylphosphatel, etc. carbamate compounds e.g.MPMC 3,4 dimethylphenyl N methylcarbamate ,MTMC m tolyl N methylcarbamate , BPMC 2 sec butylphenylN methylcarbamate , carbaryl C1 naphthyl N methylcarbamate , etc. and pyrethroid compounds e.g.permethrin 3 phenoxybenzyl d, cis, trans 3 2,2 dichloro vinyl 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate , fenvalerate a cyano m phenoxybenzyl a isopropyl p chlorophenylacetate, etc. . The compounds I of the invention formulated into an appropriate composition may be applied in a suitable application method such as spraying, smoking or soil treatment. Some practical embodiments of the composition for the control of insects according to the invention are illustratively shown in the following FormulationExamples wherein and part s are by weight.Formulation Example 1 Each of Compound Nos. 1 to 10 20 parts , an emulsifier a mixture of polyoxyethylene styrenated phenyl ether, polyoxyethylene styrenated phenyl ether polymer and an alkylarylsulfonate 20 parts and xylene 60 parts are mixed well to make an emulsifiable concentrate containing the active ingredient in a concentration of 20 . Formulation Example 2 Each of Compound Nos. 1 to 10 t20 parts and an emulsifier sodium laurylsulfate 5 parts are mixed well, and diatomaceous earth 300 mesh 75 parts is added thereto, and the resultant mixture is mixed well in a pulverizer to make a wettable powder containing the active ingredient in a concentration of 20 .Formulation Example 3 Each of Compound Nos. 1 to 10 3 parts is dissolved in acetone t20 parts , talc t300 mesh t97 parts is added thereto, and the resultant mixture is mixed well in a pulverizer. Then, acetone is eliminated by evaporation to give a dust containing the active ingreadient in a concentration of 3 .Formulation Example 4 Each of Compound Nos. 1 to 10 t5 parts , a dispersant calcium ligninsulfonate2 t2 parts and kaolin 93 parts are mixed well in a pulverizer. To the resultant mixture, water is added in an amount of 10 , and the resulting mixture is kneaded well and granulated by the aid of a granulator, followed by drying to give granules containing the active ingredient in a concentration of 5 .Formulation Example 5 Each of Compound Nosq 1 to 10 C2 parts , a dispersant calcium lingninsulfonate 2 parts and clay 96 parts are mixed well in a pulverizer. Water is added to the resultant mixture in an amount of 10 . The resulting mixture is mixed well and granulated by the aid of a granulator. The granules are dried to give fine granules containing the active ingredient in a concentration of 2 . The following Examples show some typical test data indicating the excellent insecticidal activity of the compounds I . The compound used for comparison is as follows EMI9.1 tb Compound tb SEP No. SEP Chemical SEP structure SEP Remarks tb SEP S SEP CH3 SEP Commercially tb SEP II SEP H SEP available SEP in tb SEP A SEP CH3O 2P O SEP SEP SCH3 SEP secticide tb SEP n SEP a SEP L SEP fenthion tb Test Example 1 An emulsifiable concentrate prepared in the same manner as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water to make a 400 fold dilution. Two ml of the solution were applied to the artificial diet 15 g for tobacco cutworms placed in a polyethylene cup of 11 cm in diameter.Ten third instar larvae of tobacco cutworms Spodoptera litura were released into the cup and the number of the dead and the alive insects was observed after 6 days to calculate the mortality 4 replications . The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2EMI10.1 tb Compound SEP No. SEP Mortality SEP SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 100 tb SEP 2 SEP 100 tb SEP 3 SEP 100 tb SEP 4 SEP 100 tb SEP 5 SEP 100 tb SEP 6 SEP 1 SEP 100 tb SEP 7 SEP 100 tb SEP 8 SEP 100 tb SEP 9 SEP 100 tb SEP 10 SEP 100 tb SEP Untreated SEP 0 SEP tb Test Example 2 The LC50 value against the third inster larvae of tobacco cutworms Spodoptera litura was determined in the same manner as in Test Example 1. The results are shown in Table 3. Table 3EMI11.1 tb Compound SEP No. SEP LC50 SEP ppm tb SEP 1 SEP 32 tb SEP 2 SEP 27 tb SEP 3 SEP 52 tb SEP 4 SEP 56 tb SEP 6 SEP 27 tb SEP 7 SEP 25 tb SEP 8 SEP 48 tb SEP 9 SEP 55 tb SEP A SEP j SEP 320 tb Test Example 3 A wettable powder prepared according toFormulation Example 2 was diluted with water to make a 400 fold dilution. The solution 0.7 ml was added to 100 ml of distilled water. The last instar larvae of common mosquitoes Culex pipiens pallens were released therein. The diet was put and the larvae were reared until their emergence. The rate of emergence was observed 2 replications . The results are shown inTable 4. Table 4EMI12.1 tb Compound SEP No SEP c SEP SEP Concentration SEP Rate SEP of SEP emergence tb SEP ppm SEP tb SEP 1 SEP 3.5 SEP 0 SEP tb SEP 2 SEP 3.5 SEP Q tb SEP 5 SEP 3.5 SEP 0 tb SEP 6 SEP 3,5 SEP Q tb SEP 7 SEP 3.5 SEP Q tb SEP 10 SEP 3.5 SEP Q tb SEP Untreated SEP SEP 92.5 tb Test Example 4 An emulsifiahle concentrate prepared in the same manner as in Formulation Example 1 was diluted with water to make a 400 fold dilution. An artificial diet 5 g for rice stem borer in a polyethylene cup of 5.5 cm in diameter was wet with 0.7 ml of the diluted sample 500 ppm in concentration . After air dried, ten 10 day old larvae of rice stem borers Chilo suppressalis were released into the cup and the number of the dead and the alive insects was observed after 8 days. As the results, all compounds showed the mortality ov.er 8Q .