# Treatment of EDTP for use in electroless copper baths.

## Abstract
The improvement in electroless copper plating baths for the deposition of copper onto a substrate wherein ethylene dinitrilotetra 2 propanol EDTP is used as complexer. The low boiling contaminants of the commercially available EDTP are removed by a process which avoids the formation of oxidation by products. The thus treated EDTP renders good and consistent results with respect to deposition rate and copper quality of the deposit.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An electroless copper bath for the deposition of copper onto a substrate comprising at least a water soluble copper salt, formaldehyde, hydroxide to adjust the pH, a wetting agent and ethylenedinitrilotetra 2 propanol EDTP as complexer for the copper ions, characterized in that the low boiling impurities contained in commercially availableEDTP are removed by a process during which no oxidation byproducts are formed. 2. The electroless copper bath of claim 1 characterized in that the EDTP complexer does not contain more than 0,28 of low boiling impurities. 3. The electroless copper bath of claim 1 character izëd in that the low boiling impurities are removed by chromatographic methods. 4. The electroless copper bath of claim 1 character ized in that the low boiling impurities are stripped. 5. The electroless copper bath of claim 1 characterized in that the low boiling impurities are removed by electrolytic methods. 6. The method of claim 4 characterized in that the stripping is done by vacuum destillation. 7. The method of claim 6 characterized in that the destillation is done under reduced pressure between 65 and 1500 Pascal. 8. The method of claim 6 characterized in that the destillation is done at below 100 Pascal. 9. The method of claims 6 to 8 characterized in that the low boiling impurities are removed by destillation under reduced pressure and at temperatures below 1500C. 10. The method of claims 6 to 9 characterized in that the low boiling impurities are removed at a temperature of below 500C, preferably at 400C. 11. The method of claim 6 characterized in that the destillation is done in N2 atmosphere.12. An electroless plating bath in accordance with claim 1 comprising 18 g l of copper sulfate pentahydrate, 20 ml l formaldehyde 37 , 1,5 mg l sodium 2 mercaptobenzothiazole and 37 g l sodium hydroxide, characterized in that it further contains 18 g l of EDTP containing substantially no low boiling impurities. 13. The electroless plating bath of claim 12 characterized in that it has a plating rate on a reference copper foil of between 4,8 and 8,8 Am per hour at a temperature of between 240 and 26. C, and that the copper deposited on said reference strip is smooth, non flakey, unstressed and bright in color. 14. The electroless plating bath of claim 12 characterized in that it consistently provides plating rates of between 4,8 and 8,8 jim per hour at a temperature of between 240 and 260C and a copper deposit which is smooth, non flakey, unstressed and bright in color.

## Description
TREATMENT OF EDTP FOR USE IN ELECTROLESS COPPER BATHSIn 1956 Atkinson, US patent 3 119 709, has suggested the use of EDTP ethylenedinitrilotetra 2 propanol as an effective chelating agent for copper in electroless copper plating baths.Since, EDTP has been suggested for use in electroless copper plating baths because of the increased plating rate achieveable with EDTP as a complexant compared to EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid or Rochelle salt generally used for such purposes.Commercially available EDTP products to be used for production scale purposes were, however, found to produce lotto lot dependent results with the majority of EDTP production batches causing copper deposits of completely unacceptable structure and quality and, thus, unpredictable and often extremely high reject rates.EDTP is widely used as a polyol in the manufacture of urethane polymers and, therefore, the manufacturing quality control is mainly concerned with color and moisture content.No control is exercised with respect to surface active and other chelating impurities formed in the course of the EDTP production process or otherwise introduced into the product and detrimental to the quality of electrolessly formed copper deposits and to the EDTP containing electroless copper plating baths.Up to this time, there has been no reliable way to make EDTP of a quality suitable for electroless depositions solutions.Although EDTP was known and used, adequate quality EDTP for this purpose was not available. Expensive selection methods were employed to pick the least contaminated df commercially available EDTP lots. Even attempts to select the usable product from a wide range of available batches were unsuccessful. Thus the otherwise superior electroless copper baths could not find wide acceptance due to quality failure of EDTP.It is expected that these basic deficiencies would become more pronounced in the future in view of the trend to use cyanide free baths to achieve high copper deposition rates where the copper quality is affected by purity to a greater extent.It is the objective of the present invention to provide anEDTP product for use in electroless copper plating baths which overcomes the deficiencies and shortcomings of the previously used and commercially available EDTP.More particularly, it is highly desirable to provide a product which renders consistent results in electroless copper plating baths and is free of lot to lot variations and which consistently produces copper deposits which are coherent and ductile.The production of pure EDTP in lab scale processes is prior art compare Lunsted et al US patent 2 697 118loin In the pro cess suggested therein, EDTP is manufactured by reacting propylene oxide and ethylene diamine. Ethylene diamine is introduced into the reactor and heated to 600C. Four moles of propylene oxide per mole of ethylene diamine are introduced into the reactor to a pressure of 70 kPa. The reaction mixture is continuously stirred and cooled to maintain the temperature between 60 and 1000 C. After an hour or more, the pressure stabilizes signaling the reaction is complete. TheEDTP is then vacuum stripped to remove water. Such product as achieved by the process described in US patent 2 697 118 would certainly fulfil the conditions outlined above, but would be far too expensive for production purposes on an extensive scale.The applicants of the present invention have found that the above mentioned problems were caused by surprisingly small amounts of contaminants in the EDTP, and that such contaminants are characterized by higher vapor pressure and lower boiling points that EDTP. Surprisingly, removal of these small amounts of low boilers does produce EDTP of uniform quality for electroless plating baths and does produce good electroless copper deposits.In accordance with the present invention there is provided a comparatively inexpensive and simple method for use in an electroless copper plating bath for the deposition of copper onto a substrate comprising at least a water soluble copper salt, formaldehyde, hydroxide to adjust pH, a wetting agent and EDTP, ethylenedinitrilotetra 2 propanol, as complexer for the copper ions, characterized in that the low boiling impurities contained in commercially available EDTP are removed by a process during which no oxidation by products are formed.It has been found that EDTP which contains less than 0,2 of the above mentioned low boiling impurities used as a complexer in an electroless copper bath is characterized by the ability to consistently provide, in a test solution, a copper plating rate of between 4,8 and 8,8 ssm per hour at a temperature of between 24 and 260C and a copper deposit on a stainless steel strip which is smooth, non flakey, unstressed and bright in color.As described hereinafter and in the Examples, the impurities can be removed in accordance with the present invention by either chromatographic means or by pre electrolysis or by stripping.The EDTP containing electroless copper baths disclosed herein are highly effective as they allow the production of consistently uniform, coherent and ductile copper deposits. By using the EDTP product defined herein with attendant bath characteristics, the lot to lot variation problem assciated with previously used EDTP containing baths is alleviated.EDTP is manufactured by condensing propylene oxide with ethylene diamine. In this reaction each amino hydrogen atom present in the diamine reacts with one molecule of propylene oxide. If reaction components are not present in the proper ratio and if the reaction is not properly controlled an incompletely hydroxypropylated derivative of ethylene diamine can result. Also, under different conditions, propylene oxide can further react with the active hydrogen of EDTP pro ducing higher hydroxypropylated derivatives of ethylene diamine.Thus, most frequent impurities in a manufactured EDTP are 1 unreacted starting compounds, ethylene diamine and propylene oxide 2 incompletely hydroxypropylated derivatives of ethylene diamine 3 higher hydroxypro pylated derivatives which are results of reaction of pro pylene oxide with EDTP 4 decomposition products of EDTP produced during manufacture if the reaction mixture is ex posed to air and higher temperatures and 5 impurities such as acetone, propionaldehyde, ethylamines and ethylene diamine dimers and trimers contained in the starting raw materials. Inconsistencies in the process control and start ing raw materials result in inconsistencies in composition of EDTP and in inconsistencies in physical properties of electrolessly deposited copper.An alternative manufacturing procedure for EDTP is to react ethylene diamine and 1 chloro 2 propanol. This avoids the formation of higher hydroxypropylated derivatives of EDTP, but gives a product which contains not only the impurities present in ethylene diamine, but also those present in 1 chloro 2 propanol. In addition, 1 chloro 2 propanol is a very costly raw material compared to propylene oxide. The commercially available EDTP is produced by one of the above described methods and is impure in the sense of the present invention. If distilled at 66 Pascal at a tempera ture of 1840C the fraction which distills over at 1840C is the pure EDTP, which has all the properties desired for its successful use in electroless plating baths, while the commercially available product is unacceptable for high quality electroless copper plating.Surprisingly, it has been found that removal of small quanti ties of contaminants from the EDTP results 9n EDTP of uni form quality for electroless copper plating and allows the deposition of good quality copper. The contaminants removed are characterized in that they have lower boiling points compared to EDTP. jt has been further found that the removal of the low boiling contaminants must be done in such a way that no additional contaminants are formed as by products of the removal process.The distillation removes the low boiling contaminants as a fraction distilling below 1840C. Pure EDTP is distilled over at 1840C. The impurities produced by heating the EDTP are high boiling contaminants and are concentrated in the remaining undistilled fraction. The remaining undistilled fraction is no longer water white, but colored yellow.This complete distillation of EDTP is expensive, and since only small quantities of low boilers are present, the preferred method is stripping off the low boiling impurities by distillation. Thus, stripping is best done at low temperatures in the absence of air or oxygen to avoid formation of oxidation by products and other high boiling impurities.The stripping is done in an inert gas atmosphere or preferably under vacuum. Preferably, stripping to remove the low boiling contaminants should be carried out at very low pressures and low temperatures to avoid formation of high boilers as contaminants.The aforementioned distillation procedures for obtaning theEDTP used herein must be carefully controlled in respect of the following parameters a rate of heating if the impure or commercial EDTP is heated too fast, the solution becomes yellow or brown indicating formation of new impurities not initially present in the impure material b pressure control higher pressures can be employed but, in such case, there is a tendency to produce decomposi tion and oxidation products during the distillation pro cess. Therefore, 66 Pascal is most preferred because of the lower partial pressure of oxygen. The same applies to higher temperatures for vacuum stripping of EDTP temperatures up to 50 C are preferred. c vapor condensation it should proceed at a steady state manner since any clogging during condensation will cause overheating resulting in decomposition of EDTP and an occurrence of side reactions in the distillation vessel.It has been observed that copper deposited from an electroless copper bath in the absence of a brightener, which is prepared with EDTP with the low boilers removed by vacuum distillation up to 500C abd 66 Pascal or EDTP which distills over at the same pressure at 1840C has a brighter color, exhibits good physical properties and is not stressed.In comparison, copper deposited from an impure EDTP containing bath is unacceptable it is very dark and is stressed.Although less preferred, other distillation techniques are available to provide generally comparable EDTP as used herein. For instance, distillation pressures higher than 66 Pascal can be used and utilization of an inert gas, e.g., nitrogen during distillation as a stripping agent is a useful variant.Also applicable are procedures which are unlike the distillation procedures discussed above.One such procedure involves adsorption chromatography in which commercially available or impure EDTP can be purified by passing an aqueous solution of EDTP through a chromatographic column which is packed with activated alumina, activated carbon, silica or other high surface area adsorbents. The chromatographic column is of the conventional design and flow of substance to be purified can be accelerated by external pressure applied by means of an inert gas. Fractions are identified by and separated on the basis of color, refractive index and or spectrally. EDTP for use as described herein can be obtained by this procedure.Another method for producing EDTP for use herein is termed pre electrolysis. In this method, purification of impure or commercial EDTP is obtained in the presence of copper sulfate or other supporting electrolyte. During electrolysis, impurities are deposited or react at the electrodes and are thus removed from the EDTP solution when the electrodes are removed. Another method for producing EDTP for use herein involves an ion exchange recycling process in which an EDTP solution is first pre electrolysed in an electrolytic or electroless bath and then further purified with an adsorptive chromatographic step.After EDTP is purified by one of the methods described hereinbefore, it should be handled in a manner to avoid decomposition and or atmospheric oxidation, Otherwise, theEDTP may develop an unsuitable color characteristic of further contamination. It is found that heating purifiedEDTP above 950C in air will induce coloration, i.e., theEDTP will turn yellow and, eventually, brown. Since yellowing is prevented when heating does not exceed 600C, it is recommended that heating be kept below 60 C in handling.Facile and easily followed methods have been established to ensure that the EDTP employed in electroless copper plating baths has the purity required to provide consistently good deposited products, i.e., the ability to consistently provide in a test solution a copper plating bath rate of bet ween 4,8 and 8,8 iim per hour at a temperature of between 24 and 260C and a copper depositonastainless steel strip , re ference which is bright in color, not stressed, and does not flake off due to stress cracking. Such quality control methods include an electromechanical method, a functional test and a physio chemical measurement.The elëctromechanical method for evaluating the purity ofEDTP in a bath involves the cyclic voltametry of a formaldehyde EDTP, a copper ion EDTP or a complete electroless copper solution. The test electrode can be a stationary or a rotating electrode, polarized cathodically or anodically.The range of polarization is from 2,0 to 2,0 V vs. saturated calomel electrode SCE . The Figure is a graphical presentation of the cyclic voltammograms of a platinum test electrode in a bath. There are shown two cyclic voltammograms for the anodic oxidation of formaldehyde in the presence of two commercial EDTP products.It can be seen that the voltammogram for the solution cont aining unacceptable EDTP shows an inflection point in the potential range between 400 and 200 mV vs. SCE.The inflection point between 400 and 200 mV vs. SCE indicates the presence of an extraneous component which is being oxidized at that potential. The solution containing acceptable EDTP, as disclosed herein, does not show this inflection point. The peak current in the range between 200 and 0,0 mV vs. SCE is higher for the unacceptable than for the acceptable EDTP.The higher peak current shows the extraneous component continues to be oxidized simultaneously with, or affects the oxidation of formaldehyde, since the peak current is mainly due to the oxidation of formaldehyde. This difference in the peak current is also indicative of the purity of EDTP. It is also noted that the position of the current peak maximum on the potential axis is different for two EDTP products.In theory, since these extraneous materials are oxidizable at the same or a lower potential then formaldehyde, the said materials and their oxidation products can affect the copper deposition and may even be incorporated in the metal deposit.A similar electrochemical test can be used to analyze EDTP in an electroless copper solution.A functional quality control test for EDTP involves testingEDTP in an electroless copper bath having the following composition EDTP 35 g l 0,12 Mol CuSO4.5H2O 18 g l 0,07 Mol CH2O 37 20 ml l Sodium 2 mercaptobenzo thiazole MBT 1,5 mg l pH adjusted with NaOH 13,3 Temperature 25 OC Copper clad strips and stainless steel strips are activated for 30 seconds in 1 g l PdCl2 in 20 ml l HCl and plated in the above shown composition for 15 to 30 minutes.In the above procedure, when the copper bath contained a commercial EDTP, the rate of deposition was 9,4 iim per hour.The deposited copper was stressed and very dark.However, when the EDTP was prepared in accordance with one of the methods described herein, the rate of deposition was between 4,8 and 8,8 ijm per hour and the deposited copper had good physical properties, a bright color and was not stressed.Particular advantages associated with this functional test are i it is closest to the application of EDTP in the electroless plating bath ii it does not require specialized equipment and iii it does not require highly trained personnel.The physico chemical method for evaluating the purity ofEDTP can be achieved by one of several measurements, e.g., high pressure liquid chromatography, boiling point determination, viscosity and by infrared IR adsorption spectrometry.In high pressure liquid chromatography measurements, the important quality citeria are the absence of high and particularly low molecular weight components. Impure EDTP when tested by high pressure liquid chromatography has had as many as four major components. Purified EDTP has shown only two major components very close in molecular weight comprising 97 of the product.Since most of the impurities boil below 40 C at 66 Pascal, boiling point measurements monitor EDTP quality. Water is not a major component of these impurities since the impurities distilling over below 400C at 66 Pascal do not condense in an ice trap, but condense in a liquid nitrogen trap.The criteria fqr acceptable EDTP as used herein relate to rate and stress parameters. The plating rate at 24 260C should fall between about 4,8 and 8,8 ssm per hour. Regarding stressing, the deposit on the stainless steel strip must be smooth and there should be no evidence of flakes copper deposition. Smooth copper deposits on the stainless steel strip are unstressed. Deposits that have blisters or bubbles bet ween copper and the stainless steel are slightly stressed.Severely stressed copper deposits stress crack during deposition forming flakes or flakey copper. Flakey copper will fall off if the strip is tapped against a hard surface. EXAMPLE 1An EDTP product QuadrolRTM 1 kg was placed in a distillation flask and inserted into a conventional distillation apparatus connected to a vacuum pump. The EDTP was gently heated at a steady vapor condensation rate. Most of the impurities boiled off below 400C at 66 Pascal. These impurities did not condense in an ice trap, but were condensed in a liquid nitrogen trap. When a distillation temperature of 1840 C at 66 Pascal pressure was attained, the fraction which distills over was collected. EXAMPLE 2Example 1 is repeated except that the distillation was stopped just at the point when the fraction at 1840C at 66 Pascal began to distill over. The residue was cooled and bottled. EXAMPLE 3This Example provides a comparative demonstration of the use of EDTP as disclosed herein and commercially available EDTP QuadrolRTM in a room temperature electroless copper deposition bath having the following composition Copper sulfate pentahydrate 18 g l Formaldehyde 37 solution 20 ml l Sodium 2 mercaptobenzothiazole 1,5 mg l Sodium hydroxide 36,9 g l pH 13,3 Temperature 25 70C To the room temperature bath was added 17,5 g l of the following EDTP products EDTP Example 1 EDTP Example 2 and OuadrolRTM. For each formulation, the following test was performed copper clad strips and stainless steel strips were activated for 30 sec. in 1 g l PdCl2 in 20 ml l HCl and plated in the above plating bath formulation 1 liter test baths for 15 minutes to observe the incidence of stressing.The copper foil test strips were used to determine the plating rate. The following results were obtained RTM stripped at Quadrol non preSerred as received tetperature S Properties EDTP vex.1 EDTP Ex.2 EDTP vex.3 Rate m hour 5,49 7,70 10,43Color brightness pink tan dark brownStress smooth slight stress stressed, non stressed bubbles flakedSolution stability stable stable stableThe EDTP of Example 1 shows excellent results. The EDTP of Example 3 shows completely unacceptable results. TheEDTP of Example 2 shows improved but not satisfactory results.due to the formation of by products forming at the higher destillation temperature which were not separated from the EDTP. EXAMPLE 4A lot of commercial EDTP which had been selected as the most satisfactory for electroless copper plating out of all lots available in the manufacturer s warehouse was stripped of low boiling impurities at a temperature of 400C at 66 Pascal.The low boiling impurities obtained by stripping were 1,5 ml per liter of EDTP.Plating solutions were prepared as in Example 3 using EDTP as received and EDTP after stripping of low boiling impurities. The following results were obtained Properties As received After strippingPlating rate m h 8,1 6,9Color pink pinkStress fair, small bubbles good, smooth, no bubbles This test shows that even the best of commercially avail able EDTP has high plating rates, indicative of poor plating bath stability and stress in the deposits. Removal of the low boiling impurities resulted in an improved plating bath with plating rates indicative of long term stability and in unstressed deposits. EXAMPLE 5This Example provides a comparative demonstration of the use of EDTP as disclosed herein and commercially available EDTP in hot electroless copper plating baths used for the manufacture of fully additive printed circuit boards.In the manufacture of fully additive printed circuit boards a 35 to 40 jim thick copper deposit obtained by electroless deposition forms all the conductors and plated through holes on a circuit board. When all the copper on a circuit board is electrolessly deposited, the electroless copper bath must deposit a ductile copper layer to insure the integrity of the copper conductors and plated through holes. It is prior art to form suitable copper deposits by inclusion of ductility promotors such as cyanide and the like in the electroless plating bath solution.Cyanide and other ductility promotors greatly improve the ductility of the deposits from electroless copper plating solutions using EDTP as the complexing agent. Even impureEDTP solutions may deposit somewhat ductile copper but greatly improved ductility is obtained with pure EDTP of this invention as is shown by plating from solutions of the following composition Hot Bath Composition EDTP 17,5 g l Copper sulfate pentahydrate 10,5 g l Gafac RE 610RTM o T6 g l Formaldehyde 37 solution 3,5 ml l Sodium hydroxide 8,0 g l Sodium cyanide 30,0 mg l Potassium polysulfide sulfurated potash 0,6 mg l Sodium 2 mercaptobenzothiazole 0,075 mg l pH at 250C 12,7 Temperature 530CThis hot electroless bath is used in the manufacture of fully additive printed circuit boards.A 35 to 40 jim thick copper deposit obtained from this composition forms all the conductors and plated through holes on a circuit board. Nonylphenylpolyglycidolphosphate ester surfactantThe hot electroless plating bath was run in a 360 liter plat ing tank for 4 days producing 4 lots of printed circuit towards. An examination of plating rate, color, stress, ductility and solution stability is performed using stainless steel strips and actual additive circuit board test panels.All samples are plated for 16 to 18 hours.The copper deposited from the solution containing impure commercial EDTP had marginal ductility while the copper deposited from the solution containing only pure EDTP in accordance with this invention had excellent ductility. The ductility is measured by bending the copper deposit through 1800, in one direction, creasing, then returning it to its original position, with pressing along the crease to flatten it, this cycle constituting one bend. Non ductile copper deposits break below 1 1 2 bends low ductility copper deposits break between 1 1 2 and 3 bends and high ductility copper deposits break at a higher number of bends.The copper deposited from solutions containing impure EDTP broke over a range of 1 to 2 bends, while copper deposited from solutions containing purified EDTP broke over a range of 4 to 6 bends. EXAMPLE 6A commercially available EDTP is divided into two parts one part is used as received while the second part is stripped at 500C and 500 Pascal to produce a purified EDTP free of low boilers. A fraction less than 1 by weight is removed by stripping from this second part. This fraction does not condense as within an ice trap, but is a low boiling organic contaminant which only condenses in a liquid nitrogen trap.Two electroless copper plating solutions were prepared as in Example 3 using the two different EDTP parts. The copper deposited from the solution containing the EDTP as received was dark brown and stressed the copper deposited from the solution containing the stripped EDTP had a pinkish copper color and the deposit was very slight stressed EXAMPLE 7A column is packed with activated alumina. It is flushed with deionized water to displace all air. A solution of 50 impureEDTP in deionized water is prepared. The EDTP is forced through the column by pressurized nitrogen gas. The deionized water used to flush air from the column exits first.and is discarded. A dilute EDTP solution exits next and is also discarded. A clear solution of EDTP in water solution changes color, all the purified EDTP solution has been collected. A plating solution is prepared as in Example 3. The copper depositedhas a pink color and is not stressed. EXAMPLE 8A solution is prepared with Impure EDTP 350 g Copper sulfate 170 g Water to make 1 literA copper anode and a copper cathode are placed in the solution and a current is passed between the anode and the cathode sufficient to maintain a current density of 10 mA cm2.After pre electrolysis over night, the solution is cleansed of impurities.An electroless copper plating solution is prepared as inExample 3. Equivalent results are obtained.