# Television receivers.

## Abstract
A television receiver comprises a sawtooth generator 11 for generating sawtooth waves in dependence on a synchronizing signal in an incoming positively or negatively modulated such as SECAM or PAL respectively composite video signal, a voltage detector 12 capable of generating an output waveform in response to the peak voltage of the sawtooth wave, during the field response period, the output waveform having a relatively high level or a relatively low level depending on the modulation polarity of the incoming video signal composite video signal, a smoothing circuit 13 for generating an output in response to the output waveform over the field period of the incoming video signal, and a switch driver 14 for effecting a control, such as video modulation polarity switching, in dependence on the output of the smoothing circuit C13 .

## Claims
CLAIMS I. A television receiver characterised by a sawtooth generator 11 to generate a sawtooth wave in dependence on a synchronizing signal in an incoming positively or negatively modulated composite video signal a detector 12 for generating an output waveform in response to the peak voltage of said sawtooth wave, during the field retrace period, said output waveform having a relatively high level or a relatively low level depending on the modulation polarity of said incoming composite video signal a smoothing circuit C13 to smooth said output waveform over the field period of said incoming composite video signal and to generate an output in response to said output waveform and means 14 to effect a control in dependence on said output of the smoothing circuit C13 . 2. A television receiver according to claim 1 wherein the control effected comprises video modulation polarity switching. 3. A television receiver according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the oontrol effected comprises sound system switching. 4. A television receiver according to claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 wherein the control effected comprises colour system switching. 5. A television receiver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the control effected comprises television signal modulation system indicator control. 6. A television receiver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the control effected comprises automatic gain control switching. 7. A television receiver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the sawtooth generator 11 comprises a first transistor Q2 , the detector 12 comprises a zener diode Dl and a second transistor Q3 , the smoothing circuit C13 comprises a capacitor C13 , and the means 14 to effect a control in dependence on the output of the smoothing circuit C13 comprises a third transistor Q4 . 8. A television receiver according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the negatively modulated composite video signals are of the PAL system, and the positively modulated signals are of the SECAM system.

## Description
TELEVISION RECEIVERS This invention relates to television receivers, and more particularly is concerned with video signal polarity switching for positively and negatively modulated television signals. In Europe, various different television signal modulation systems are used. In particular, the French broadcasting system SECAM is very different from the PAL systems used in other European countries, partly because the colour system is different, but more particularly because the video signal modulation polarity at radio frequency is opposite. The French system employs positive modulation, whereas others employ negative modulation, so even black and white television receivers cannot receive both systems without video polarity switching. In order to receive both systems in a conventional multi standard television receiver, either so called mechanical switching or semi automatic video signal polarity switching are usually used. The above systems allocate a polarity switch for each preset channel, or for certain groups of channels. For example, if twelve channel presetters are provided there can be one switch for PAL channels 1 to 8 and another for SECAM channels 9 to 12, or there can be a two condition selectable switch for each preset channel. Both methods of standard switching may be replaced by electronic switching, but in either case there are still problems 1 If only a few stations are received, then these stations may be several channels apart, for example Channels 1 to 4 for receiving PAL stations see Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings in which the locations of the PAL broadcasting stations are denoted by P1 to P4 . Channels 9 to 11 for receiving SECAM stations see Figure 1 in which the locations of the SECAM broadcasting stations are denoted by S1 to S3 . 2 The channel preset arrangement is not flexible.3 It is difficult to use an automatic tuning circuit like a voltage synthesizer or frequency synthesizer . Moreover, if this system is used to memorize a station, channel searching is necessary through the broadcasting band from the lowest channel see Figure 1, in this case from Band I E 2 , to the highest channel in this case UHF 68 . During the search all the signals which are received will be identified by a synchronous signal detector circuit, in order to pick up only television signals. This means that the signals from SECAM stations S1 S2 and S3 will be rejected or tuned incorrectly if the video polarity mode is set toPAL, because no correct synchronous signal will appear. Hence, SECAM signals need to be tuned manually on certain of the preset channels later. This means that during the manufacture of television receivers, additional wiring is required to accept polarity switching between the tuning circuit and the video detector circuit. In addition to this, the channel tuning operation on the production line is complicated. According to the present invention there is provided a television receiver characterised by a sawtooth generator to generate a sawtooth wave in dependence on a synchronizing signal in an incoming positively or negatively modulated composite video signal a detector for generating an output waveform in response to the peak voltage of said sawtooth wave, during the field retrace period, said output waveform having a relatively high level or a relatively low level depending on the modulation polarity of said incoming composite video signal a smoothing circuit to smooth said output waveform over the field period of said incoming composite video signal and to generate an output in response to said output waveform and means to effect a control in dependence on said output of the smoothing circuit. The control effected can be one or more Qf the following 1 Video modulation polarity switching. 2 Sound system switching by providing different sound demodulators . 3 Colour system switching. 4 Television signal modulation system indicator control PAL SECAM . 5 Automatic gain control AGC switching. In embodiments of the invention the automatic system switching circuit can be obtained by the addition of a simple circuit to the video detection output circuit. Therefore, any type of preset tuning system including an automatic tuning system can be connected without any modification to the tuning circuit. By using this circuit, the overall tuning circuit can be simplified both in the hardware and also in operation either on the production line or for the user . In one embodiment of the invention, the means for generating a sawtooth wave comprises a first transistor, the detector comprises a zener diode and a second transistor, the smoothing circuit comprises a capacitor, and the means to effect a control in dependence on the output of the smoothing circuit comprises a third transistor. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 shows diagrammatically three wavebands and the disposition of PAL and SECAM broadcasting stations therein Figure 2 is a block diagram of an embodiment of television receiver according to the invention Figure 3 shows waveforms for explaining the embodiment and Figure 4 shows part of the embodiment in more detail. In Figure 2 the incoming radio frequency television signals are supplied to a tuner 1 from an aerial 2. The tuner 1 amplifies the incoming signals and converts them to a video intermediate frequency IF signal. A tuning voltage is supplied from a preset tuning circuit 3. The video IF signal is amplified in a pre amplifier 4 and supplied to a video IF amplifier and an audio IF demodulator or discriminator 5. A second audio IF demodulator or discriminator 6 is also provided. To demodulate the audio component of the incoming signals, the two different audio demodulators 5 and 6 are necessary because of the audio modulation system difference between the European PAL system and theFrench SECAM system. In this case there is an amplitude modulation demodulator 5 for the SECAM system and a frequency modulation demodulator 6 for the PAL system. The video IF signal is processed through a filter and amplifier 7 and then detected by a video IF detector 8. The output signal from the detector 8 point A is the so called video detect out composite video signal . This signal and an inverted video signal from an inverter 9 are supplied to a video polarity selection switch SW1, this being an analog switch. The inverted signal is also supplied to the audio demodulator 6. For example, if the video IF detector 8 is designed to produce a proper video signal, with a negative going sync pulse, on SECAM reception, the waveforms at the point A for SECAM and PAL reception are as shown in Figure 3. At the point A, the polarity of the PAL and SECAM video signals are completely opposite, hence, a synchronous separator 10 supplies a proper sync pulse on SECAM reception and a random pulse output although related to the white peak of the received picture on PAL reception. At point B, to identify the field retrace period on PAL reception, no picture information is inserted during the field pulse. This means that no pulse output can be obtained during this interval. In the next stage a sawtooth generator 11 is controlled by the synchronous separator output pulse point B , so that during the field sync period on PAL reception, the sawtooth generator output reaches power supply voltage Vcc . A voltage detector 12 is set with a voltage threshold level VT see point C in Figure 3 which is greater than the peak voltage of the sawtooth wave on SECAM reception, but less than the peak voltage of the sawtooth wave on PAL reception. A voltage detector 12 generates an output in response to the peak voltage of the sawtooth wave on PAL reception, during the field retrace period. Since the voltage detector 12 is set with the threshold voltage VT, which is greater than the peak voltage of the sawtooth wave on SECAM reception, the detector 12 does not respond toSECAM signals. Therefore, the output of the detector 12 switches according to the signal system received. By this switching a smoothing circuit comprising a capacitor C13, which is connected between the detector 12 and earth, can be discharged by the detector 12, thereby switching an access switch driver 14. The time constant to charge up the capacitor C13 is set to be quite long say 200 to 300 mS compared with the vertical scanning frequency 20 mS or field frequency, hence during PAL reception the point D is not coupled to the access switch driver 14. In this condition the video signal appears at an output 15 through the inverter 9. At the same time, the PAL audio signal can also be selected by a switch SW2 which is controlled by the same switch driver 14, so that the audio signal appears at an output 16. In the detailed circuit shown in Figure 4, the synchronous signal separator 10 comprises a transistor Q1, the sawtooth generator 11 comprises a transistor Q2, and the voltage detector 12, which comprises a zener diodeD1, is arranged to drive a switching transistor Q3 coupled to the smoothing capacitor C13. The switch driver 14 comprises a transistor Q4. The sawtooth wave is generated by a resistor R1 and a capacitor C1.When the sync pulse is applied to the base of the transistor 02 it is turned on and discharges the capacitor C1. After the pulse has ended, the transistor Q2 will be turned off and the capacitor C1 will start to charge up via the resistor R1. The sawtooth peak voltage should be set at about half of the voltage of the power supply voltage Vcc at line frequency, which can be set by the R1 Cl time constant. The sawtooth peak voltage, for SECAM receptions, should be set lower than the zener voltage of the diode D1, so that the diode D1 only breaks down when the wrong polarity video signal PAL is received, that is, during the PAL field retrace pulse period. When the diode D1 breaks down, the transistor Q3 is turned on by the breakdown current of the diode D1 and discharges the capacitor C13. After the field sync pulse has finished, the diode D1 and the transistor Q3 are turned off and the capacitor C13 starts to charge up through a resistor R2, but the time constant C13 R2 is long compared with the field frequency so that the voltage across the capacitor C13 cannot increase sufficiently to turn on the transistor Q4. As a result the transistor Q4 stays off and the switch remains in the PAL mode. When SECAM is received, the diode Dl does not break down and so the transistor 03 is not switched on. Hence, the capacitor C13 is charged up and the transistor Q4 is switched on, so that the switching output is low. The overall action is that the switching output point E from the transistor Q4 is low on SECAM and high on PAL reception. Although this embodiment shows the SECAM signal set to the proper polarity at the output of the detector 8, the opposite case PAL signal set to get proper polarity can also apply.