# Paperlike sheet materials.

## Abstract
A thermally formable paperlike sheet material compris ing at least 25 synthetic thermoplastics material a substan tial proportion of which is fibrillated, with at least a substantial portion of the balance 100 being of cellulosic fibres, said sheet having a thickness of less than 140 microns and being treated to exhibit a minimum tensile strength along a first axis of 12 Newtons, and along a second axis at right angles to the first axis of 8 Newtons, per 25 millimetres of width transverse to the respective axis, and a permeability to air of less than 100,000 cubic centimetres per minute through an area of 10 square centimetres and at a pressure of 10 centimetres water gauge. Such sheet material finds particular application for use as wrappers or in forming sealed closures 4 for containers 2 having convoluted surfaces 3 and which hold materials 1 like freshly ground coffee which are required to breathe 7 without being exposed to ambient conditions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material comprising at least 25 synthetic thermoplastics material a substantial proportion of which is fibrillated, with at least a substantial portion of the balance to 100 being of cellulosic fibres, said sheet having a thickness of less than 140 microns and being treated to exhibit a mimimum tensile strength along a first axis of 12 Newtons, and along a second axis at right angles to the first axis of 8Newtons, per 25 millimetres of width transverse to the respective axis, and a permeability to air of less than 100,000 cubin centimetres per minute through an area of 10 square centimetres and at a pressure of 10 centimetres water gauge. 2. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim l in which the tensile strength is achieved by heat and or pressure consolidation. 3. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim l in which the tensile strength is achieved by coating with a binder or a film forming material. 4. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim 3 in which the binder or film forming material is polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl acetate. 5. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 in which the tensile strength is achieved by a binder or a film forming material in combination with heat and or pressure consolidation. 6. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the content of synthetic thermoplastics material is at least 30 . 7. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which pigments or fillers are included. 8. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising from 50 to 95 synthetic thermoplastic material. 9. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim 8 comprising 75 synthetic plastics material, at least 80 of which is fibrillated. 10. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the synthetic plastics material is constituted by a polyolefin. 11. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim 10 in which the polyolefin is polyethelene or polypropylene. 12. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which synthetic thermoplastics particulate material is included to supplement the fibrillated material. 13. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims in which the cellulosic fibres are of bleached softwood sulphate or sulphite or cotton linters. 14. A thermally formable paperlile sheet material as claimed in any one of the preceding claims including loadings of papermaking additives. 15. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material as claimed in claim 14 in which the additives are titanium dioxide or calcium carbonate. 16. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material having the characteristics set forth in accompanying Examples 1 to 12. 17. A thermally formable paperlike sheet material substantially as described herein. 18. A method of making a thermally formable paperlike sheet material as set forth in any one of the preceding claims 1 to 17 which includes using an aqueous dispersion of solid material comprising at least 25S synthetic thermoplastics material, a substantial proportion of which is fibrillated with at least a substantial proportion of the balance to 100 being cellulosic fibres, which dispersion is formed into a web, pressed and dried and then treated so as to confer thereon the thickness, tensile strength and permeability as defined in claim 1. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18 in which the said treatment includes consolidation by heat and or pressure, coating with a binder or a film forming material, or a combination of such consolidation and coating. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19 in which the binder or film forming material is polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl acetate. 21. A method of making a thermally formable paperlike sheet material substantially as described herein.

## Description
PAPERLIKE SHEET MATERIALSThis invention relates to paperlike sheet materials.In particular, the invention is concerned with thin membranous sheet materials which can be formed into nonplanar configurations under the influence of heat whilst maintaining a low but finite permeability to air. It is also sometimes desirable that such materials should also have paperlike matt surface characteristics facilitating adhesion when using conventional adhesives.The invention is additionally concerned with such membranous sheet material, which when adhered to another surface, or perhaps to itself in overlapping relation, is required to not significantly affect the apparent smoothness of the surfaces at the zone of overlap.Such sheet material finds particular application for use as wrappers or in forming sealed closures for containers having convoluted surfaces and which hold materials required to breathe without being generally exposed to ambient conditions. Freshly ground coffee, for example, exhibits this characteristic. The capacity of the sheet to accept thermal deformation assists in configuring the closure to the container or the wrapper whilst maintaining the desired permeability. At the same time, because the material has a paperlike matt surface, the adhesives conventionally used in the packaging industry can be used to secure the closure or wrapper.The material can also be used as a moisture resistant air filtration element which is odour free, in contradistinction to conventional elements made of cellulosic paper, which are necessarily impregnated with resins such as melamine or urea formaldehyde to achieve wet strength. In one aspect therefore, the invention provides a thermally formable paperlike sheet material comprising at least 25 synthetic thermoplastic material, a substantial proportion of which is fibrillated, with at least a substantial proportion of the balance to 100 being of cellulosic fibres, said sheet having a thickness of less than 140 microns and being treated to exhibit a minimum tensile strength along a first axis of 12 Newtons, and along a second axis at right angles to the first axis of 8 Newtons, per 25 millimetres of width transverse to the respective axis, and a permeability to air of less than 100,000 cubic centimetres per minute through an area of 10 square centimetres and at a pressure of 10 centimetres water gauge.The foregoing tensile strength may be achieved by heat and or pressure consolidation or by coating with a binder or a film forming material such as polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl acetate, or by a combination of such consolidation and coating.By limiting the thickness of the sheet material of the invention to 140 microns it can be adhered to another surface, or perhaps to itself, in overlapping relationship without substantially affecting the apparent smoothness at the zone of overlap.Preferably, the content of synthetic thermoplastic material is at least 30 . Pigments or fillers may also be included if required.In another aspect, the invention provides a method of making a paperlike sheet as above defined, using an aqueous dispersion of solid material comprising at least 25 synthetic thermoplastic material, a substantial proportion of which is fibrillated with at least a substantial proportion of the balance to 100 being of cellulosic fibres, which dispersion is formed into a web, pressed and dried and then treated so as to confer thereon the thickness tensile strength and permeability as above defined. The heating of the web is preferably effected by infra red heating. Such treatment may comprise consolidation by heat and or pressure coating with a binder or a film forming material such as polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl acetate, or a combination of such consolidation and coating.Preferably, the sheet material comprises from 50 to 95 synthetic thermoplastic material. Still more preferably the sheet material comprises 75 synthetic thermoplastic material, at least 80S of which is fibrillated. The synthetic thermoplastic material may, for example, be constitued by a polyolefin such as polyethylene or polypropylene.Synthetic thermoplastic particulate material may be included to supplement the fibrillated material.The cellulosic fibres may for example be of bleached softwood sulphate or sulphite or cotton linters. Loadings of papermaking additives such as titanium dioxide or calcium carbonate may also be included.Heat consolidation provides an effective method of reducing the permeability of the sheet material of the invention without significantly affecting its paper like character.With material containing fibrillated material of lower melting points, such as polyethylene, permeability can be reduced substantially to zero by heat consolidation alone.For material containing fibres of higher melting points, such as polypropylene, such low levels of permeability are not always obtainable by heat consolidation alone without affecting the paper like characteristics . In such cases, after heat consolidation to achieve the required tensile strength, the permeability is further reduced as required by sizing with materials such as polyvinyl alcohol or polyvinyl acetate. Alternatively, pressure consolidation may be used, pressure being applied for example by means of a paper machine calender, to achieve the same result.The invention will now be further described in use with reference to the accompanying drawings and in the Examples which follow. In the drawings Figure 1 is a side elevation, partly in section of a container for material which is required to breathe, and Figure 2 is a plan view on the line II II of Figure 1.Referring to the drawings a material 1 which slowly generates a gas as a by product, is held in a container 2.The container 2 is formed with apertured lugs 3 which facilitate handling, but which confer a convoluted outer configuration on the container.The container 2 is sealed by a closure 4 of material according to the invention. The closure 4 is heat moulded so as to envelop the upper edge 5 of the container and the lugs 3 to provide an effective seal. Conventional adhesives such as polyvinyl acetate can be used to adhere the closure to the container at the peripheral portion 6 of the closure.It will be seen that the closure is effective to seal the contents 1 from exposure to ambient conditions whilst permitting the slow release of any gas generated as indicated by the arrows 7.The examples are set out in the Tables which follow. In Table I, each Example relates to a sheet material which has been made by dispersing the specified furnish in water, forming, pressing and drying a fibrous web derived from the furnish on a Fourdrinier paper machine and subjecting the dried web to infra red heating to effect consolidation. In the case of Example 7, the sheet was additionally surface coated with polyvinyl acetate. Other surface coatings which may be used for controlling the permeability are Poly vinylalchohol Poly vinylacetate Plasticised starch derivatives e.g. starch ether glycerol antihumectant Poly vinylidenechloride Plasticised alginates carboxymethyl cellulose Pigmented slurries bound by any of the above.The sheet materials of Examples 1 to 12 were found to perform satisfactorily in the formation of container closures as described above with reference to Figures 1 and 2.In Table II, each Example relates to a sheet material made in the same manner as the sheets of Examples 1 to 6, except for the heat consolidation step. In the case of theExamples of Table II consolidation was affected by passing the sheet twice through a paper machine calender. EMI6.1 SEP FURNISH SEP POST SEP CONSOLIDATION SEP POST SEP POST tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENTH SEP CONSOLIDATION SEP GRAMMAGE SEP CONSOLIDATION tb SEP SYNTHETIC SEP CELLULOSIC SEP NEWTONS 25mm SEP WIDTH SEP PERMEABILITY SEP THICKNESS tb EXAMPLES SEP MICRONS tb SEP PULP SEP SEP PULP SEP tb SEP MACHINE SEP CROSS SEP cc min cmê SEP gms mê tb SEP DIRECTION SEP DIRECTION SEP at SEP 10 SEP cms SEP W.G. tb SEP 1 SEP 50 SEP SOLVAY SEP 50 SEP STORA SEP 32 SEP 34 SEP 24 SEP 600 SEP 37 SEP 90 tb SEP PULPEX SEP E tb SEP POLY SEP ETHYLENE tb SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP 34 SEP 19 SEP 30 SEP 36 SEP 90 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 3 SEP 75 SEP 25 SEP STORA SEP 32 SEP 28 SEP 17 SEP 500 SEP 30 SEP 75 tb SEP SOLVAY SEP tb SEP 4 SEP PULPEX SEP E SEP SEP 29 SEP 18 SEP 250 SEP 37 SEP 82 tb SEP POLY SEP tb SEP 5 SEP ETHYLENE SEP SEP 36 SEP 22 SEP 160 SEP 38 SEP 85 tb SEP SEP tb SEP 6 SEP SEP SEP 37 SEP 17 SEP 100 SEP 45 SEP 99 tb SEP 7 SEP 75 SEP SOLVAY SEP 25 SEP STORA SEP 32 SEP 15 SEP 9 SEP 780 SEP 35 SEP 134 tb SEP PULPEX SEP P SEP after SEP sizing tb SEP POLY SEP with SEP polyvinyl tb SEP PROPYLENE SEP acetate tb SEP 8 SEP 75 SEP SOLVAY SEP 25 SEP STORA SEP 32 SEP 9 SEP 7 SEP 4700 SEP 33 SEP 102 tb SEP PULPEX SEP PADC tb SEP SEP YELLOW tb SEP IRON SEP OXIDE tb SEP PIGMENT tb TABLE I EMI7.1 SEP FURNISH SEP POST SEP CONSOLIDATION SEP POST SEP POST tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENTH SEP CONSOLIDATION SEP GRAMMAGE SEP CONSOLIDATION tb SEP SYNTHETIC SEP CELLULOSIC SEP NEWTONS 25mm SEP WIDTH SEP PERMEABILITY SEP THICKNESS tb EXAMPLES SEP MICRONS tb SEP PULP SEP SEP PULP SEP tb SEP SOLVAY SEP STORA SEP 32 SEP MACHINE SEP CROSS SEP cc min 10cmê SEP gms mê tb SEP PULPEX SEP PADC SEP DIRECTION SEP DIRECTION SEP at SEP 10 SEP cms SEP W.G. tb SEP 9 SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 23 SEP 14 SEP 170 SEP 35 SEP 58 tb SEP 10 SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 23 SEP 13 SEP 270 SEP 38 SEP 65 tb SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 32 SEP 16 SEP 390 SEP 39 SEP 68 tb SEP 12 SEP SEP 60 SEP 40 SEP 25 SEP 14 SEP 20 SEP 33 SEP 63 tb SEP SEP YELLOW tb SEP IRON SEP OXIDE tb SEP PIGMENT tb TABLE II