# Improvements relating to multi panel radiators.

## Abstract
A valve system for fabricating multi panel radiators in a new way. The valve system comprises a pair of valves which are fitted onto the flow and return ports of a plurality of radiator panels to thereby connect the waterways of said panels in parallel. Each valve comprises a valve body 1 having ports 2, 3 and 4 internally interconnected by respec tive conduits. The port 2 is associated with a conventional pipe coupling for connection to associated pipework and water flow through this port is controlled by a valve means 9. The ports 3, 4 incorporate conventional plumbing fittings to enable each of them to be attached to a respective radiator panel not shown , thus making up, in the example illus trated, a double panel radiator.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A valve system for fabricating a multi panel radiator, said system comprising a pair of flow regulating valves each having multi way connector means for connecting the respective waterways of at least two single panel radiators in parallel and each having pipe connection means for permitting connection to respective flow and return service water pipes. 2. A valve system as claimed in claim 1 wherein each valve comprises a valve body having at least three ports through which water may flow during use of the valve, a first input output one of said ports being associated with said pipe connection means and the remaining ports being associated with respective ways of said multi way connector means, conduit means within the body to provide a water flow path between the ports, said conduit means comprising a conduit leading from each port to a junction within the body where all the ports are in communication and valve means situated between said first one of said ports and said junction for controlling the water flow through said one of said ports. 3. A valve system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said multi way connector means comprises a plurality of connectors each associated with a respective one of said remaining ports and lying in the same plane, spaced apart by an amount such that each of the remaining ports lies in substantial registry with a respective liquid flow port of a respective panel in an associated multi panel radiator. 4. A valve system for fabricating a multi panel radiator and comprising a pair of flow regulating valves substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures 1 to 4 of the accompanying drawings. 5. A multi panel radiator comprising a plurality of radiator panels and a valve system as claimed in any one of the preceeding claims for attachment to said radiator panels in such a way as to connect the respective waterways of said panels in parallel. 6. A multi panel radiator as claimed in claim 5 further including means for attaching said panels together in spaced apart relationship. 7. A multi panel radiator as claimed in claim 6 wherein said attaching means includes the valves of said valve system.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO MULTI PANEL RADIATORS The present invention relates to multi panel radiators and in particular to a valve system for use in fabricating such radiators. In conventional single panel radiator systems, there are many occasions when the radiator surface area required to heat a particular room space is excessively large in relation to the wall space available. In these circumstances it is very common to use multi panel radiators which effectively increase the heat output for a given area of wall space taken up by the radiator. For example, in the case of a double panel radiator, the heat output is just short of double that of a single panel radiator of the same size. In the case of conventional steel radiators, these multi panel radiators are fabricated as integral units, the various sections being welded together. Hence multi panel radiators in a variety of sizes have to be manufactured and stocked as well as the equivalent single panel radiator sizes in order to cater for all requirements.Although the teaching of this invention could be applied to radiators having, within reason, any number of panels, in practice it is unusual to come across radiators having more than two panels. Accordingly the remainder of the specification will make reference only to double panel radiators as being the most usual form of multi panel radiator. The present invention seeks to reduce the above mentioned problem associated with conventional double panel radiators by providing a valve system which enables on site fabrication of a double panel radiator. In particular the valve system comprises a pair of flow regulating valves which are operable to connect the respective waterways of two single panel radiators in parallel and to further provide a means of pipe connection to flow and return water service pipes, thus allowing two single panels to be installed bridged together with the two valves to create a double panel radiator. In a preferred embodiment, each said valve comprises a metal valve body having three ports through which liquid may flow during use of the valve, conduit means formed within said body to provide a liquid flow path between the ports, said conduit means comprising a conduit leading from each port to a junction within the body where all three conduits are in communication, and valve means situated between a first one of said ports and said junction, and wherein the second and third of said ports are positioned on the body in the same plane and spaced apart in said plane by an amount such that they lie in substantial registry with the liquid flow ports of respective panels of an associated double panel radiator. The invention also conceives a kit of parts for making a double panel radiator, said kit comprising two single panel radiators, means for attaching said radiators together on site to form a double panel radiator defining, at opposite bottom corners thereof, respective liquid flow ports for each panel, and a valve system according to the present invention, in which a respective valve is provided for attachment to each of the bottom corners of the radiator to provide liquid communication between said liquid flow ports of the respective single panel radiators. It will be seen that, as well as providing the necessary valve function at each side of the radiator, the valve system of the invention provides the liquid communication between the panels of a double panel radiator normally effected by tubes or the like passing between and welded to the respective panels. By providing simple attaching means therefore a double panel radiator can be fabricated on site with ease. The invention is thus able to perform the function of providing a means by which a conventional central heating radiator may be installed either as a single panel or as a double panel and thus eliminates the need to manufacture and stock double panel radiators. The use of the invention will enable the inventory of radiator type sizes as required in conventional practice to be halved by allowing standard single panel radiators to be installed either singly or as double panels. In order that the invention may be better understood, an embodiment thereof will now be described by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a side view of one embodiment of one valve forming part of the valve system according to the invention Figures 2 and 3 are front and plan views respectively of the valve of Figure 1 Figure 4 is a section along the lines A A and B B ofFigure 2 and Figures 5 and 6 are partial side and end elevations respectively of a double panel radiator incorporating the valve system of Figure 1. Referring to the drawings, the valve comprises a valve body 1, for example of brass having 3 ports 2, 3 and 4 interconnected by respective conduits 5, 6 and 7. The conduits interconnect at an area 8 approximately in line with a valve comprising a rotatable knob 9 which acts on a piston not shown which, in the closed position, bears against a valve seat 10 see Figure 4 . For clarity, the valve parts are not shown in Figure 4, but are conventional and need not be described further. The valve is operable to control the flow of liquid along the conduit 5 between the junction area 8 and the port 2. The ports 3 and 4 are situated on a plane at a distance apart in that plane approximately equal to the expected distance apart of the corresponding ports presented by a pair of single panel radiators 18, 19 when attached together to form a double panel radiator. Conventional plumbing fittings are used at the three ports to enable a mechanical and liquid tight connection to the rest of the system. In the case of ports 3 and 4 these comprise a respective union tail 11 having an external thread 12, for example 1 BSPT which is tightened into a corresponding female thread in the radiator panel port not shown . The tail has an enlarged end portion 13 to enable it to be tightened against the valve body 1 as the respective union nut 14 is tightened over the t BSPP thread 15.In the case of port 2, this is machined to take a standard compression fitting comprising an olive not shown and ring nut 20. The nut 20 is tightened by turning upon thread 16 which is, for example, of BSPP. The valve is fitted by first securing the two tails 11 into their respective bores in the two panels of the radiator, Each tail is formed internally with a hexagonal section 17 for this purpose.The valve is then offered up to the two tails, protruding from the bottom of the radiator, and the union nuts 14 tightened to attach the valve body to the tails. Although the outer ends of the tails have a spherical mating surface with the valve body, some care should be taken to eliminate gross differences between the protruding distance of the two tails when fitted into the radiator panels. This will not only look unsightly, but may lead to leakage. Having attached the valve body the port 2 may then be joined to adjacent pipework in the usual manner. It should be noted that, although port 2 is shown facing downwards this being the most usual orientation , in certain circumstances it may be desirable to orient port 2 in such a way that the outlet pipe therefrom is horizontal. It will be seen that the valve system described above not only controls the flow of liquid into the two single panels forming the associated double panel radiator but also connects the liquid flow paths of the two single panel radiators in parallel. Any type of valve mechanism can be used for example of the conventional onfoff variety or thermally responsive types.