# Method for forming polycrystalline silicon resistors having reproducible and controllable resistivities.

## Abstract
The ion implantation of high doses of electrically inactive species such as carbon or nitrogen, into heavily doped polycrystalline silicon produces high resistivity material 10 3 10 5 ohms per square having superior characteristics with respect to reproducibility and controllability as compared to lightly doped polycrystalline silicon. This material is suitable for forming resistors ideally suited for various applications in the integrated circuit field such as load devices in of high speed logic circuits where it is mandatory to control the sheet resistance precisely.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of forming high resistivity polycrystalline silicon film disposed on a substrate comprising the steps of a heavily doping the polycrystalline silicon film with an impurity either of P or N type, in an amount well in excess of the trapping density of said film to saturate them, b ion implanting the polycrystalline silicon film with an electrically inactive specie taken from the group consisting of carbon and nitrogen, in order to enhance the sheet resistivity, and c annealing the polycrystalline silicon film in order to activate electrically the dopants and to heal the defects in the grains. 2 A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said electrically inactive species is implanted with a concentration in the 3. 1019 to 3.1021 at cm3 range. 3. A method as recited in claim 1 or 2 wherein said impurity is boron which is implanted with a dose of about 6.4 1014 at cm2, at about 50 keV. 4. A method as recited in claim 3 wherein said inactive species is nitrogen which is implanted at 180 keV. 5. A method as recited in claim 3 wherein said inactive species is carbon which is implanted at 75 kev. 6. A method as recited in claim 3 wherein said inactive species is carbon which is implanted at 40 keV at 90 keV in two successive steps. 7. A method as recited in claim 1 or 2 wherein said impurity is phosphorous which is implanted with a dose in the 5.1014 1.8 1015 at cm2 range, at about 130 keV. 8. A method as recited in claim 7 wherein said inactive specie is carbon which is implanted at 75 keV. 9. A method as recited in any of above claims wherein said film is annealed in a 2 minute 02 28 minute N2 cycle. 10. A method as recited in any of above claims wherein said substrate comprises a silicon wafer having a layer of silicon dioxide disposed thereon, said polycrystalline silicon film being deposited on the silicon dioxide layer. 11. A structure produced in accordance with the method of any of above claims. 12. A structure as recited in claim 11 wherein a protective coating such as thermal oxide is provided over the polycrystalline silicon film.

## Description
METHOD FOR FORMING POLYCRYSTALLINE SILIOSUVU REPRODUCIBLE AND CONTROLLABLE RESISTIVITIES Description Field of the InventionThis invention relates to a method for forming polycrystalline silicon resistors having reproducible and controllable resistivities on a substrate and the structure produced in accordance with this method. Description of the Prior ArtResistors formed by doping a shallow region into a semiconductor substrate of the opposite type of conductivity are well known in the integrated circuits field. They generally exhibit low sheet resistivity less than about 103 ohms per square , high temperature coefficient of resistance T.C.R. and, as a result, poor linearity.Increased interest is being evidenced in doped polycrystalline silicon resistors formed on top of an oxide, particularly in bipolar technology where at the cost of reasonably higher processing complexity, they offer high value and, occupy little area as compared with the conventional shallow resistors formed in monocrystalline silicon.In addition to resistors, deposited films of doped polycrystalline silicon are being used extensively in integrated circuit devices where polysilicon still acts as a conducting material. Typically polycrystalline silicon is also used for fabricating gate electrodes for Metal Oxide semiconductor LIMOS devices, for electrical contacts, and for interconnection patterns.Undoped thin films a few microns or less of polycrystalline silicon exhibit extremely high sheet resistance, at least as high as 10 10 ohms per square, because the conduction takes place across grain boundaries. This value is too temperature sensitive and too highly resistive.Fabrication of relatively less resistive polycrystalline silicon films as ordinarily practiced for integrated circuit resistor applications such as for load elements for logic circuits or memory cells requires the use of lightly doped polycrystalline silicon in order to reduce the sheet resistance. Typically, a several hundred nanometer thick film is subjected to a phosphorous implantation e.g. at 100 to 12 keV 14 2 150 keV to a dose of between 1 x 1012 to 1 x 1014 at cm to produce a sheet resistance in the range of 104 107 ohms per square and to create the desired characteristics of the resistors.Following this implant step, the wafers are annealed in an N2 atmosphere for at least 30 minutes at 1000 C. The object of this step is to distribute the phosphorous atoms properly in the silicon and to activate them.Untortunately, lightly doped polycrystalline silicon is not an adequately reproducible material for the fabrication of resistors for integrated circuit applications. Reproducible sheet resistivities are difficult to obtain in this material since, in the lightly doped condition, the resistivity is highly sensitive to both the action of charge carrier traps at grain boundaries and to the grain size, which together have a complex and as yet unpredictable dependence on numerous processing variables doping concentration, deposition temperature, .. .In a typical, lightly doped polysilicon tilm 340 nm thick, 2 x 1018 atoms of Boron cm3, 25 nm grain diameter , for example, increasing the grain diameter by a factor of two can result in the reduction of resistivity by a factor of 103. With the same film, changing the trap density by a factor of two can result in a thousand fold change in resistivity. This is a consequence of the critically close compensation between the concentrations of charge carriers dopants and grain boundary carrier traps trapgi , occuring in lightly doped polycrystalline silicon.In addition, the resistivity also strongly depends on the doping level the sheet resistance decreases more than linearly with the doping level . A good example of this can be seen in Fig. 1 in the article entitled The Features ofResistor Load MOSIC Using Ion Implanted PolysiliconResistors , authored by T. Ohzone et al and published in theTransactions of the IECE of Japan Vol.E, No.4, April 1980, pages 267 274. In particular, Fig. 1 shows that a change of one order of magnitude in the doping level 1014 to 1015 at cm2 , results in a change of four orders of magnitude in the sheet resistance 107 to 10 ohms per square . This article also show the strong dependency between the TCR value and the sheet resistance. Sheet resistance of lightly doped polycrystalline silicon has a stronger temperature dependence than heavily doped material.As a direct consequence therefrom obtaining sheet resistivities in the range of 103 105 ohms per square with reproducible and controllable values appears to be very difficult. Unfortunately this range is of key importance for the development of high speed logic circuits.Shallow implanted resistors in monocrystalline silicon have been made with an additional implantation of an electrically inactive ions, such as Ar or Ne. Examples of these resistor fabrication processes include New Technique for ImprovingHigh Value Ion Implanted Resistors by K. H. Nicholas and R.A.Ford published in Ion Implantation in Semiconductors Proc.2nd Int. Conf. on Ion Implantation in SemiconductorsSpringer Verlag, Berlin, 1971, pp. 357 361 IBM TDB Vol. 22,NO 4, September 1979, pp. 1501 1502, entitled implanted Resistors Made With an Additional Neutral Ion Implantation byR. Chanclou et al. and K Bulthuis et al. US A 3,683,306.Nicholas et al. is related to neon or argon plus boron implantations in monocrystalline silicon, and it suggests that a neutral ion species could have an effect on then ial properties of the boron doped resistors. The basic experiment examined the use of a preliminary implant of neon at 200 keV to a dose of 1 x 1017 at cm2 to set the sheet resistance.Annealing was done between 400 and 8000C. The resistance decreases at higher annealing temperatures suggesting that the nion and or argon form bubbles and out diffuse from the resistor. Chanclou et al. also points out that any neutral species of neon or argon may be used, but would be expected to have a similar instability problem as shown by Nicholas et al.Bulthuis et al. also describes a semiconductor substrate not a polycrystalline slum. The patent is limited to tin and lead.Further, that patented process was designated to control TCR and not resistivity as in the present patent application.The main objective of this invention, therefore, is to offer a controllable method of making polycrystalline silicon films having precise and reproducible resistivities with a sheet resistance on the order of 103 105 ohms per square. Another object is to provide a simple process which requires only one extra implant step with respect to standard silicon wafer processing. Summary of the InventionAccording to the teachings of the present invention, the various inconveniences cited above can be avoided by first heavily doping the polysilicon to provide charge carriers well in excess of those necessary to fill the traps. Then, the resistivity can be increased and, unexpectedly can be accurately and reproducibly tailored by implanting with electrically inactive species particularly carbon and nitrogen atoms which do not contribute electrically. Upon subsequent heat treatments these atoms will form small and stable precipitates which will lower the mobility which, in turn, will increase resistivity. Preferably, the resistor area is first heavily doped with an N or P type impurity in a concentration of between about 1 x 10 to 6 x iso19 at cm3. The resistor area is then implanted with carbon or nitrogen atoms at a concentration about 3 about 3 x 10 to 3 x 1021 at cm3. The structure is annealed in first an oxidizing atmosphere to torm a silicon dioxide cap upon the top of the polycrystalline silicon film to prevent out diffusion of the inactive specie from the film. The heating is then continued in a non oxidizing atmosphere, such as nitrogen, to electrically activate the dopants and heal the defects in the grains. Brief Description of the DrawingsFig. 1 is a graphic representation of sheet resistivity plotted as a function of nitrogen implant dose tor a heavily boron doped polycrystalline silicon film.Fig. 2 is a graphic representation of sheet resistivity plotted as a function of carbon implant dose for two heavily boron doped polycrystalline silicon films.Fig. 3 is a graphic representation of sheet resistivity plotted as a function of carbon implant dose for a heavily boron doped polycrystalline silicon film when a double carbon implant with two different energies is performed.Fig. 4 is a graphic representation of sheet resistivity plotted as a function of carbon implant dose for various heavily doped phosphorous polycrystalline silicon films. Detailed Description of the Preferred Embouimenxs v Polycrystalline silicon material is composed or small crystallites joined together by grain boundaries. Inside each crystallite the atoms are arranged in a periodic manner, so that it can be considered in itself as a portion of a single crystal. The grain boundary is a complex structure, usually consisting of a few atomic layers of disordered atoms. The latter, in the grain boundary represent a transitional region between the difterent orientation of neighboring cristallites.There is a strong interaction between the grain boundary and the electrical properties of doped polysilicon.Because the atoms at the grain boundary are disordered, there are a number of defects due to incomplete atomic bonding. This results in the formation of trapping states. These trapping states, acting as trapping centers, are capable of gettering carriers and thereby immobilizing them. As a consequence, the number of free carriers available for electrical conductors is reduced. When the trapping centers become charged, a potential energy barrier is created which impedes the motion of free carriers from one crystallite to the neightboring one, thereby reducing their apparent or effective mobility. This very simple explanation points out the dependence between the resistivity of the tilm and its doping level.The essence of the present invention resides in the discovery that the sheet resistance of a polycrystalline silicon film deposited onto a substrate can be adjusted to a desirable value while maintaining stable, accurate and reproducible electrical caracteristics. The film is typically 50 to 1000 nanometer in thickness and preferably about 300 nanometers in thickness. It has been found that by first heavily doping the polycrystalline silicon by an impurity of either N or P type to provide charge carriers well in excess of those necessary to fill the trapping centers, and then ion implanting high doses of electrically inactive species such as carbon or nitrogen, one can prepare reproducible polycrystalline silicon resistors with relatively high sheet resistance in the fange of 103 105 ohms per square ideally suited for many integrated circuit applications.In the first step, the polycrystalline silicon must be doped heavily enough so that the traps can be filled using only a small fraction of the carriers provided by the doping. The influence of the grain boundary traps will then be made relatively weak.Carrier trapping will create only a small decrease in overall free carrier concentration, and the band bending at the interface between adjoining grains will be minimal. The small energy barrier will not therefore significantly impede the flow of majority carriers from the interior of one grain to the next grain.With, for example, boron and phosphorous as dopants, it is necessary to implant from 30 to 200 times the amount necessary to sature the carrier traps. In others words, 30 to 200 times the ratio of the grain boundary trapping state density St Qt cm to the grain size L in cm . This heavily doped 19 impurity is typically between about 1 x 10 to 6 x 1019 3 at cm . particularly for phosphorus the concentration is preferred to be between about 1.6 x 1019 to 6 x 1019 3 at cm . Polycrystalline silicon films which are then obtained exhibit a sheet resistivity of about 103 ohms per square or even slightly less.The purpose of the second doping in the next step is to intentionally introduce a finely dispersed and high density of defect centers which will increase scattering events and trap carriers. This will increase resistivity by lowering the mobility and density of charge carriers. Defect centers may be introduced by implanting high doses of chemically reactive, electrically neutral species such as nitrogen and carbon. Upon high temperature annealing, finely dispersed and stable precipitates will form which are effective hole or electrons scatterers. For nitrogen and carbon the doping range is from 3 x 1019 to 3 x 1021 at cm3.The anncaling step preferably involves an initial short thermal oxidation step followed by annealing in a non oxidizing atmosphere. It is preferred to accomplish these steps at a temperature of less than about 10000C. The oxidation step produces a thin silicon dioxide cap in the order of tens of nanometers on the surface to prevent out diffusion of the inactive specie. The non oxidizing atmosphere annealing accomplishes activation of the dopant and healing of defectsIn the final stage of the process, the sheet resistivity of polysilicon films can be tailored to any desired value between 3 and 5 ohms per square. The eftectiveness of this concept is demonstrated in Figs. 1 to 4 and related tables I to IV which exhibit a distinct relationship between film resistivity and implant dose. It has been found through the following Examples that a log linear relationship holds for a variety of processing variations. These Examples further illustrate various features of the invention but are intended in no way to limit the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.Example 1 Nitrogen implant into boron doped polycrystalline silicon.Approximately 300 nm of polycrystalline silicon was deposited onto 104 nm of thermal silicon dioxide, on ten sample wafers referenced as EE1 to EEl0. For all ten wafers, the polycrystalline silicon was then implanted with boron ions at 14 2 a dose of 6.5 x 10 at cm at 50 keV which should give an R5 value in the 800 to 1000 ohms per square range see samples referenced EE.9 and 10 . For eight other wafers referenced EE1 to EE8, there was desired a maximum of 5 atomic percent of nitrogen. Since the density of silicon is 5.0 x 1022 at cm3, the concentration of nitrogen atoms to be implanted is then 2.5 x 1021 at cm3 which corresponds 16 2 to a maximum dose of 7.5 x 10 at cm . The implant energy for nitrogen was 180 keV.The wafers were annealed at 10000C using a 2 minutes 02 28 minutes N2 cycle. The O2 portion of the cycle produced a silicon dioxide cap upon the surface of the polycrystalline silicon film. Sheet resistance was measured according to the 4 point method, on three different points to provide an average value of Rs.The correspondence between the implanted dose and the resulting sheet resistance R5 for the sample wafers referenced EE1 to EE10 is shown in Table I. TABLE IEMI9.1 tb SEP tb SEP B11 SEP IM SEP N14 SEP IM tb SEP PLANT SEP PLANT tb SEP 50 SEP keV SEP IBO SEP keV tb tb SEP Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb SEP wafer SEP DOSE SEP DOSE SEP RESIST. tb at cm2 SEP at cm2 SEP RS SEP ohms tb per SEP square tb SEP tb EE1 SEP 6.5 SEP E14 SEP 7.5 SEP E16 SEP 10300 tb EE2 SEP SEP SEP 9900 tb EE3 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP 4100 tb EE4 SEP SEP SEP 3950 tb EE5 SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP 1460 tb EE6 SEP SEP SEP 1470 tb EE7 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP E15 SEP 1010 tb EE8 SEP SEP SEP 1000 tb EE9 SEP SEP no SEP impl. SEP 943 tb E10 SEP SEP SEP 946 tb Fig. 1 illustrates data on the first set of samples EE1 8 implanted with nitrogen. Curve I clearly shows the enhancement of sheet resistivity in polysilicon when implanted with nitrogen.Beyond a few atomic percent of Nz, this effect becomes quite pronounced producing nearly an order of magnitude increase of the sheet resistance compared with samples not submitted to the nitrogen implantation wafersEE9 EE10 .Example 2 Nitrogen and carbon implants into boron doped polycrystalline silicon.Fourteen waters referenced PR 1 to 14 were prepared with 320 nm of polycrystalline silicon deposited on top of a 95 nm thermal oxide layer. All wafers received an implantation of boron at a dose of 6.5 1014 cm2 with an energy of 50 keV.Wafers PR 1 and 2 served as test wafers and were doped with boron only. Carbon and nitrogen were implanted in wafers PR 3 to 14 with various doses. After implantation, the wafers were annealed at l0000C using a 2 minute 02 28 minute N2 cycle in order to grow a thin capping silicon dioxide at the start of the anneal. Sheet resistance was measured on the 4 point probe at the same 3 positions as mentionned above.Tables IIA and IIB respectively give the sheet resistivity measurements for this set of wafers PR1 to PR14 as a function of the dopant used to produce scattering centers Nitrogen or Carbon. TABLE IIAEMI11.1 tb 11 SEP 14 tb B SEP IM SEP N SEP IM tb PLANT SEP PLANT tb SEP 50 SEP keV SEP SEP 180 SEP keV tb Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP DOSE SEP DOSE SEP RESIST. tb SEP at cmê SEP at cmê SEP RS SEP ohms tb per SEP square tb PR1 SEP 6.5 SEP E14 SEP no SEP impl. SEP 935 tb PR2 SEP SEP SEP 894 tb PR3 SEP SEP 7.5 SEP E16 SEP 4.35 SEP E5 tb SEP PR4 SEP SEP SEP 4.73 SEP E4 tb SEP PR5 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP SEP SEP 7.56 SEP E3 tb PR6 SEP SEP SEP 7.57 SEP E3 tb SEP PR7 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP SEP SEP 1.78 SEP E3 tb SEP PR8 SEP SEP SEP 1.78 SEP E3 tb TABLE IIEMI11.2 tb SEP B11 SEP IM SEP C12 SEP IM tb PLANT SEP PLANT tb 50 SEP keV SEP 75 SEP keV tb Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP DOSE SEP DOSE SEP RESIST. tb at cmê SEP at cmê SEP RS SEP ohms tb per SEP square tb PR9 SEP 6.5 SEP E14 SEP 7.5. SEP E16 SEP 8.69 SEP E5 tb PR13 SEP SEP SEP 5.83 SEP E5 tb SEP PR11 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP SEP 4.1 SEP E3 SEP tb PR12 SEP SEP SEP 4.03 SEP E3 tb SEP PR10 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP SEP SEP 1.60 SEP E3 SEP tb PR14 SEP SEP SEP 1.65 SEP E3 tb Example 3 Single and multiple carbon implants into boron doped polycrystalline silicon. Sample wafers FF1 to FF20 were first thermally Ïxidzlzed thickness of the SiO2 layer 114 nml, then 290 nm polycrystalline silicon were deposited onto the silicon dioxide layer, and finally boron was implanted at a dose of 6.5 x 1014 and an energy of 50 keV.The first set of wafers FF1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20 was annealed at 10000C for 30 minutes prior to the carbon implant. All of the wafers referenced FF1 16 were given a double carbon implant at two different energies 40 and 90 keV for various carbon implant doses.The remaining wafers, referenced FF17 20 were given only a single carbon implant with an energy of 75 keV for different carbon implant doses. All wafers were then annealed as mentionned above, the first set of wafers being annealed twice The sheet resistance was measured using the same conditions as mentioned above.Sheet resistivity measured after the prior anneal 10000C with the first set of wafers, has been found to be in the range of 700 to 746 ohms per square with an average value of about 725 ohms per squareTables IIIA and IIIB give the respective sheet resistivity measurements for both groups of wafers. TABLE IIIA EMI13.1 tb FIRST SEP C SEP SECOND SEP C tb IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT tb at SEP 40 SEP keV SEP at SEP 90keV tb Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP DOSE SEP DOSE SEP RESIST. tb SEP at cmê SEP at cmê SEP RS SEP ohms tb per SEP square tb FF1 SEP 1.0E16 SEP 1.0 SEP E16 SEP 1.60 SEP E3 tb FF2 SEP SEP SEP 1.64 SEP E3 tb FF3 SEP SEP SEP 2.56 SEP E3 tb FF4 SEP SEP SEP 2.45 SEP E3 tb SEP FF5 SEP 3.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 3.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 2.09 SEP E4 tb SEP FF6 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.97 SEP E4 tb FF7 SEP SEP SEP 2.14 SEP E4 tb FF8 SEP SEP SEP 2.09 SEP E4 tb SEP FF9 SEP SEP 5.0. SEP E16 SEP l SEP 5.0. SEP E16 SEP SEP 2.96 SEP E5 SEP tb FF10 SEP SEP SEP 1.64 SEP E5 tb FF11 SEP SEP SEP 1.88 SEP E5 tb FF12 SEP SEP SEP 3.03 SEP E5 tb SEP FF13 SEP SEP 7.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 7.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP SEP 4.90 SEP E6 tb FF14 SEP SEP SEP 3.87 SEP E6 tb FF15 SEP SEP SEP 2.56 SEP E6 tb FF16 SEP SEP SEP 2.18 SEP E6 tb TABLE IIIBEMI14.1 tb 1 SEP SEP SEP I tb I SEP SEP C12 tb I SEP SEP IM SEP I SEP tb PLANT SEP PLANT SEP tb tb Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP I SEP DOSE SEP 2 SEP SEP RESIST. tb SEP RS SEP ohms tb SEP wiper SEP square tb SEP SEP SEP SEP tb FF17 SEP 1 SEP 3.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 9.49 SEP E3 tb SEP FF18 SEP SEP SEP SEP 9.40 SEP E3 tb SEP FFl9 SEP I SEP 5.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 3.66 SEP E4 tb 1 SEP FF20 SEP SEP SEP I SEP 2.94 SEP E4 SEP SEP tb SEP Wafers marked with an asterisk constitute said first set of wafers, which were annealed before implantation took place.Fig. 2 illustrates a plot of log R ohms per square vsCarbon dose in at cm2 for boron doped samples, prepared at different times corresponding to Tables IIB and IIIB. The parallel slopes for the two data sets indicate that the same mechanism prevails in both cases. The offset in the two data sets is due to an apparent variation in the initial boron implant dose and is not due to the carbon implant and or subsequent processing. The resistivities of wafers before the carbon implantation were probably not the same because they came from different lots. Fig. 3 illustrates a plot of log R ohms per square Vs S carbon dose in at cm for boron doped polycrystalline silicon samples subjected to a double carbon implant with two different energies as indicated in Table IIA. Two different implant energies were utilized in order to spread the distribution of implanted carbon more evenly throughout the thickness of the film. This makes the implant roceVsfls nt6re effective in increasing R5 as evidenced by the steeper slope in this figure as compared to Fig. 2. Also, there is no discernable difference in the samples FF1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 14 annealed twice, i.e., once after the boron implantation and once after the carbon implantation, as compared to samples annealed only once FFX, 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 16 .Example 4 Carbon implant into phosphorous doped polycrystalline silicon.Waters having 400 nm films of intrinsic low pressure chemical vapor deposited, LPCVD, polycrystalline silicon were prepared.A first set of wafers, referenced HH1 to HH15 was then implanted with phosphorous and carbon using the doses and energies depicted in Table IVA. Following this procedure, the samples were annealed oxidized at 10000C, employing a 5 minute O2 30 minute N2 cycle. The 5 minutes oxidation was used to form a silicon dioxide cap on the polycrystalline silicon surface. A second set of wafers was added to the lot prior to this step in order to determine the susceptibility of the resistivity to changes in the heat cycle. These wafers are those numbered HH16 to HHl9 in Table IVA. These wafers during previous processing had already received an identical heat cycle.All wafers then were dipped in buffered HF to remove the oxide, and had their resistivity measured employing an in line four point probe, and monitored using the standard process characterization system.The resulting sheet resistivities, for both sets of samples, including those wafers 1HH16 to 19 receiving the double anneal, are summarized in Table IVA which follows. TABLE IVAEMI16.1 tb SEP P31 SEP C12 tb IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT tb SEP 130 SEP keV SEP SEP 75 SEP keV tb tb SEP SEP tb Ref. SEP of SEP SEP IMPLANT SEP SEP IMPLANT SEP SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP DOSE SEP DOSE SEP RESIST tb at cmê SEP at cmê SEP RS SEP ohms tb per SEP square tb SEP HH1 SEP 1.0 SEP E15 SEP 1.0 SEP E15 SEP 1200 tb SEP HH2 SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP 1200 tb SEP HH3 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP E16 SEP 1450 tb SEP HH4 SEP SEP 3.0 SEP E16 SEP 6200 tb SEP HH5 SEP SEP 7.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 82000 tb SEP HH6 SEP 5.0 SEP E14 SEP 1.0 SEP E15 SEP 4100 tb SEP HH7 SEP SEP SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP SEP 4200 tb SEP HH8 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E15 SEP 10000 tb SEP HH9 SEP 1.8 SEP E15 SEP 1.0 SEP E15 SEP 400 tb SEP HH10 SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E16 SEP 500 tb SEP HH11 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP E16 SEP 680 tb SEP HH12 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP 817 tb SEP HH13 SEP SEP 3.0 SEP E16 SEP 1860 tb SEP HH14 SEP SEP 5.0 SEP E16 SEP 5260 tb SEP HH15 SEP SEP 7.0 SEP E16 SEP 11200 tb SEP HH16 SEP 5.0 SEP E15 SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP 12000 tb SEP HH17 SEP SEP 0.5 SEP E16 SEP 5400 tb SEP HH18 SEP 1.8 SEP E14 SEP 0.5 SEP E16 SEP 484 tb SEP HH19 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP E16 SEP 785 tb The remaining wafers referenced HHl9 to HH22, were submitted to a double carbon implantation, in order to measure the influence of such a second step Sheet resistivities are given in Table IVB. TABLE IVBEMI17.1 31 SEP 12 tb P SEP IC SEP I SEP tb IMPLANT SEP SEP IMPLANT tb SEP 130 SEP keV SEP 75 SEP keV tb SEP SEP Ref. SEP of SEP IMPLANT SEP IMPLANT SEP SHEET tb wafer SEP SEP DOSE SEP 2 SEP SEP I SEP DOSE SEP 2 SEP SEP RESIST. tb at cm2 SEP RS ohms tb tb SEP wiper SEP square tb SEP resistive tb HH20 SEP SEP 0.75 SEP E16 SEP SEP 0.75 SEP E16 SEP SEP 840 tb SEP HH21 SEP SEP 1.0 SEP E16 SEP SEP 1.6 SEP E16 SEP SEP 430 tb SEP HH22 SEP SEP 3.75 SEP E16 SEP 3.75 SEP E16 SEP SEP highly tb SEP HH23 SEP SEP 4.8 SEP E16 SEP SEP 7.8 SEP E16 SEP SEP highly tb SEP resistive tb Multiple implants wafers HH19 and 22 proved more difficult to characterize. Designed to indicate the separate effects of dose vs. peak concentration, the wafers data appear to offer little information, Wafers HH21 22 had resistivities too high to measure.The data for wafer HH19 might suggest more dependence on overall dose than on peak concentrations. HHl9, having the same total carbon dose as samples HH11 and HH18, has a resistivity 840 ohms per square similar to those of the single implanted wafers HH11 817 ohms per square or HH18 785 ohms per square . Wafer HH20, however, with a much higher total dose, has a lower resistivity. The reason for this was not apparent.Fig. 4 illustrates a plot of log R ohms per square vs carbon for three carbon dose in different phosphorus doses and for a range of carbon doses varying by approximately one order of magnitude according to the Figures given in TableIVA. Fig. 4 shows excellent reproducibility when using carbon to control R2. The upward displacement of the lines follows the expected trend for decreasing P doses. THel htsJ re roughly parallel, given the limited data. This suggests that the carbon implant method for tailoring the R5 values works regardless of doping concentration and doping type, i.e., N orP.Good control, as measured by the sensitivity of resistance to small changes in dose small sensitivity meaning better control , was also very good up to resistivities of 4 approximately 1 to 2 x 10 ohms per square, depending on phosphorous dose. Doubling of the anneal cycle is found to produce very minimal change in resistivity indicating the thermal stability of the material wafers HH15 to 18 .The above data verify the effectiveness and process in variance of the nitrogen or carbon implant method for forming thin film resistors. In addition, the existence of a log linear relationship between R5 and the concentration of ion implanted carbon or nitrogen indicates a high degree of predictability which is very important commercially inasmuch as this is a key asset for the design and processing of integrated circuit resistors. It has been demonstrated that the above method assures repeatability and controllability by using implanted carbon or nitrogen atoms to increase the resistivity of doped polycrystalline silicon films. This probably results from the ability of these species to control the grain growth in the films. Unexpectedly controlling the grain growth did not result in producing lower stresses and thereby decreasing the pinhole density in addition to the remarkably good resistivity control.While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. What 1s claimed is