# Tap.

## Abstract
A tap for dispensing liquids from containers such as cans, which tap comprises a hollow cylindrical body 2 from which a spout 8 is arranged to extend, the body 2 being provided at one end with a flange nut 4 for attachment to a screw topped container not shown and at the other end with a valve comprising a generally cylindrical obturator member 6 which is fitted coaxially within the body 2, and sealing rings 52, 54 forming a seal between an inside cylindrical surface of the body 2 and the obturator member 6 , the obturator member 6 having at one end an obliquely truncated end portion 29 which extends within the body 2 and at the other end a handle part 21 which serves to facilitate angular rotation of the obliquely truncated end portion 29 with respect to the body 2 , whereby a flow of liquid from the container through the spout 8 is progres sively controllable consequent upon progressive occlusion of an entrance to the spout 8 from within the body 2 by the obliquely truncated end portion 29 as the handle 21 is angularly rotated.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A tap for dispensing liquids, which tap comprises a hollow cylindrical body from which a spout is arranged to extend, the body being provided at one end with a screw coupling for attachment to a screw topped container, and at the other end with a valve operative for controlling in use the flow of liquid from a screw topped container through the spout, the valve comprising a generally cylindrical obturator member which is fitted coaxially within the body, and seal means forming a seal between an inside cylindrical surface of the body and the obturator member, the obturator member having at one end an obliquely truncated end portion which extends within the body and at the other end a handle portion which serves to facilitate angular rotation of the obliquely truncated end portion with respect to the body, whereby a flow of liquid from the container through the spout is progressively controllable consequent upon progressive occlusion of an entrance to the spout from within the body by the obliquely truncated end portion as the handle portion is angularly rotated. 2. A tap as claimed in claim 1 wherein the spout is arranged to extend orthogonally from the body. 3. A tap as claimed in claim I or claim 2 wherein the body and the obturator member are provided with complementary mutually engageable locking parts which serve to hold them together and which limit relative longitudinal movement between them. 4. A tap as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the body and the obturator member include mutually engaged indexing parts which serve to limit angular rotation of the obturator member with respect to the body. 5. A tap as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the seal means comprises at least one resilient sealing ring which is accommodated in a circumferential groove on the obturator member. 6. A tap as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the seal means comprises a circumferential rib formed on the obturator member. 7. A tap as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the handle portion comprises a knob formed at one end of the obturator member, the knob being secured to a cylindrical portion of the obturator member, on which cylindrical portion the seal means is provided, the knob being arranged to extend over the cylindrical portion so as to define an annular groove into which one end of the body extends. 8. A tap as claimed in claim 3 wherein the mutually engageable locking parts are defined by a circumferential rib on the obturator member which engages with a complementary circumferential groove in the end of the body. 9. A tap as claimed in claim 4 wherein the inside of the body adjacent the screw coupling is formed to define a part annular co axial channel into which a complementary annular end of the obliquely truncated end portion extends. 10. A tap as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the screw coupling comprises a screw coupling nut which is arranged to be a captive press fit in a groove on one end of the body and to be rotatable thereon.

## Description
TAP This invention relates to taps and more particularly it relates to taps for dispensing liquids from containers such as cans. According to the present invention there is provided a tap for dispensing liquids, which tap comprises a hollow cylindrical body from which a spout is arranged to extend, the body being provided at one end with a screw coupling for attachment to a screw topped container, and at the other end with a valve operative for controlling in use the flow of liquid from a screw topped container through the spout, the valve comprising a generally cylindrical obturator member which is fitted coaxially within the body, and seal means forming a seal between an inside cylindrical surface of the body and the obturator member, the obturator member having at one end an obliquely truncated end portion which extends within the body and at the other end a handle portion which serves to facilitate angular rotation of the obliquely truncated end portion with respect to the body, whereby a flow of liquid from the container through the spout is progressively controllable consequent upon progressive occlusion of an entrance to the spout from within the body by the obliquely truncated end portion as the handle portion is angularly rotated. The spout may be arranged to extend orthogonally from the body. The body and the obturator member may be provided with complementary mutually engageable locking parts which serve to hold them together and which limit relative longitudinal movement between them. The body and the obturator member may include mutually engaged indexing parts which serve to limit angular rotational movement of the obturator member with respect to the body. The seal means may comprise at least one resilient sealing ring which is accommodated in a circumferential groove on the obturator member. Alternatively the seal means may comprise a circumferential rib formed on the obturator member. The handle portion may be a knob formed at one end of the obturator member, the knob being secured to a cylindrical portion of the obturator member, on which cylindrical portion the seal means is provided, the knob being arranged to extend over the cylindrical portion so as to define an annular groove into which one end of the body extends. The end of the body which extends into the annular groove and the groove itself may be respectively. provided with the mutually engageable locking parts by means of which the body and the valve are held together. Alternatively the mutually engageable locking parts may be defined by a circumferential rib on the obturator member which engages with a complementary circumferential groove on the end of the body. The inside of the body adjacent the screw coupling may be formed to define a part annular co axial channel into which a complementary annular end of the obliquely truncated end portion extends thereby to define the indexing parts. The screw coupling may comprise a screw coupling nut which is fitted to one end of the body and retained by means of a circlip so as to be rotatable thereon and at least one sealing washer which fits within the nut and which serves in use to seal the tap against a screw threaded neck of a container. Alternatively, the screw coupling may comprise a screw coupling nut which is arranged to be a captive press fit in a groove on one end of the body and to be rotatable thereon. Embodiments of the invention will now be described solely by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a tap Figure 2 is a sectional view of a body part of the tap shown in Figure 1 Figure 3 is an end view of the body part shown inFigure 2 and is taken in the direction of arrow A Figure 4 is a sectional view of a valve obturator forming part of the tap shown in Figure 1 Figure 5 is a plan view of the valve obturator shown inFigure 4 Figure 6 is a sectional view of an alternative tap body part Figure 7 is a side view of an alternative valve obturator Figure 8 is an underneath plan view of the valve obturator shown in Figure 7 and Figure 9 is a side view of a further alternative valve obturator. Referring now to Figures 1 to 5, a tap for a container having a screw threaded neck, comprises a plastics moulded body 2 having fitted at one end a screw coupling in the form of a moulded plastics flange nut 4. In use of the tap, the nut 4 screws over the screw threaded neck of a container not shown to secure the tap to the container. The other end of the body 2 is adapted to receive a plastics moulded valve obturator 6 which is operative to control the flow of liquid from the container through an integral spout 8 which extends orthogonally of the body 2. The nut 4 comprises internal screw threads 10 and a flange 12. The nut 4 is fitted to one end 14 of the body 2, the end 14 being provided with a circumferential groove 16 for a circlip 18 which serves to retain the nut 4 in position.It will be appreciated that the nut 4 is free to rotate about the body 2 and in order to effect in use a good seal with the neck of the container, a resilient sealing washer 20 is provided which fits within the nut 4. The valve obturator 6 is provided with a knob 21 which includes an outer wall 22 and an inner cylindrical obturator part 24 so as to define therebetween an annular groove 26 into which an end portion 28 of the body 2 is received. The end portion 28 of the body 2 is formed with a circumferential rib 30 which is arranged to engage a complementary recess 31 within the groove 26 so that the recess 31 and the rib 30 comprise mutually engagable locking parts which hold the valve obturator 6 and the body 2 together. The cylindrical obturator body 24 is provided with an obliquely truncated end portion 29 which, as shown, extends at an angle of about 450 The obliquely truncated end portion 29 has a part annular end portion 32 which locates in a complementary channel 34 formed within the body 2 adjacent to the nut 4, thereby to define indexing means. The cylindrical obturator body 24 is provided with a resilient sealing band 36 which bears against the inside cylindrical surface 40 of the body 2. The valve obturator 6 is rotatable within the body 2 by turning the knob 21 so that an aperture 41 at a junction between the spout 8 and the body 2 is progressively occluded as the valve obturator 6 is rotated. It will be appreciated that the limits of rotation are defined by the indexing means comprising the channel 34 and the end portion 32 of the obturator body 24. An alternative embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to Figures 6,7,8 and 9, wherein an obturator member 46 is provided with a hexagonal knob 48 and a body portion 50. The body portion 50 has an obliquely truncated end portion 51 and two resilient sealing rings 52 and 54. The sealing rings 52 and 54 are accommodated in circumferential grooves defined in the cylindrical surface of the body portion 50. The sealing ring 52 extends generally parallel to the plane of the truncated end portion 51. A body portion 42 is provided at one end with a neck part 56 to which a flange nut like the flange nut 4 is fitted. The neck part 56 is provided with a circumferential groove 57 and when the flange nut is just moulded and is hot, it is force fitted over the chamfered leading edge 56a of the neck part 56 and into the groove 57. Shrinkage of the flange nut as it cools locates the flange nut as a rotatable fixture in the groove 57. The truncated end portion 51 has a part annular end portion 58 which is arranged to be accommodated in a groove 59 in the body portion 42. The body portion 42 is provided with an indexing pip 44 which cooperates with an indexing pip 45 on the knob 48, whereby angular indexing is facilitated to limit rotational movement of the knob 48 and therefore rotation of the body portion 50. As shown in Figures 7 and 8, a circumferential integrally formed rib 66 is provided for fitting in a circumferential groove 68 see Figure 6 in one end of the body portion 42 and to thereby rotatably retain the obturator member 46 on the body portion 42. It will be appreciated that by providing an obturator member having an obliquely truncated end portion 51 as shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8, progressive control of fluid flow from a container to which the tap is fitted will be facilitated, the fluid flowing from a spout 70 via an aperture 72 at a junction between the spout 70 and the body 42. Various modifications may be made to the arrangements thus far described and for example an obturator member 74 may be provided as shown in Figure 9, wherein circumferential integral formed sealing ribs 76 and 78 are provided instead of the rings 52 and 54 shown in Figure 7. The obturator member 74 of Figure 9 is still preferably provided with a rib 80 as shown, the rib 80 operating the same as the rib 66 shown in Figure 7.