# A plasticized and or non plasticized, non toxic and or toxic P.V.C. compound with no emissions of corrosive and or non corrosive fumes in the course of transformation processes.

## Abstract
This invention relates to PVC compounds useful in any processing steps giving rise to the emission of fumes from degredation, evaporation, sublimation, and reaction of the additives, plasticizers, stabilizers, and to the evaporation of water either where included as moisture or released by reaction. More specifically, this invention relates to a PVC com pound formulation effective to avoid fume release from the resulting mixtures while being processed for transformation purposes. Processing as above, which would involve temperatures of 220 C above, may encompass, by way of example, rotational molding, slush molding, fluidized bed plasticizing, spraying including electrostatic spraying and sintering.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A plasticized and or non plasticized, nontoxic and or toxic PVC compound with no emissions of corrosive and or non corrosive fumes in the course of transformation processes, characterized in that the components thereof are selected from substances featuring low fume emission rates in the course of a high temperature test, or more specifically, from substances having volatility and thermal stability as set forth in the following Table where ft3n means low molecular weight Components Volatility Thermal stabilityPVC 0.1 water High owing to its purityPlasticizers 0,1 by BPM High without coloringStabilizer 0.1 BPM High without coloringPolymer processing 0.1 BPM Without coloring waterLubricants 0.1 BPM Without coloringOrganic pigments 0.01 BPM Stable waterInorganic pigments 1 water StableFillers 1 water Stable Cross linking 0.1 water Stable agents, antioxidants BPM 2. A stabilized PVC compound according to Claim 1, characterized in that it exhibits plasticization from 0.1 to 100 total PCB, as obtained with one or more plasticizers selected from polymerics, epoxies, natural and treated oils, linears, phosphatates, trimellitate, esters of fat acids, monomerics. 3. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises stabilizers from o to 10 PCR, said stabilizers comprising natural or treated oils or carbohydrates and or derivatives of Ca Zn, Sn, Ba, Cd, Tio Sn, Pb, Ba Zn. 4. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises fillers from 0 to 300 POUR, said fillers including CaCO3, talc, baryta, organic matter. 5. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises polymers from 0 to 100 PCR, said polymers including CPE, ElLA, E. 6. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises processing aids from 0 to 20 FOR. 7. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterized in that it comprises pigments and lubricants from 0 to 10 PCR, and cross linking agents and antioxidants from 0 to 5 PCR. 8. A PVC compound according to the preceding claims, characterised in that it drastically cuts down the generation of corrosive and non corrosive fumes in a visible and weighable way, the whole substantially as described hereinabove for the objects specified.

## Description
This invention relates to a plasticized and or non plasticized, non toxic and or toxic PVC compound with no emissions of corrosive and or non corrosive fumes in the course of transformation processes. As is known, in view of the importance of PVC, its propensity to release volatile matter and degrade has long been the subject for extensive scientific investigation directed to provide the foundations for a more specific research work on the stabilizer action, and accordiagly, for optimizing the technologies of stabilization. While on the one hand, the influence of structural anomalies on PVC degradation seems to be a substantially ascertained fact, on the other hand, it should be recognized that a role is also played by the impurities contained in the resin, where the polymer is not purified, and more generally by the additives admixed to the polymer. Also known is the influence born on the stability of PVC compounds by the additives used in transformation processes, with the obvious exception of the class of stabilizers. In this respect, it has been found that, while by dissolving the PVC in some solvents, dehydrochlorination is made faster, with other solvents, it remains unmo.dified, or is only marginally modified, with respect to the mass conditions. The latter solvents include common plasticizers. Other compounds which have been investigated in a fairly systematic way are metal chlorides generated by the stabilizers as a result of their reaction M e degrading. It has been found that barium and lead have little or no influence, whereas zinc, cadmium and tin chloride, in common with iron chloride, produce a considerable increase of the dehydrochlorination rate. As for the causes of the action of chloridric acid, its polar character is adduced, which promotes polarization of the C C1 and C H bonds to encourage their breaking, and hence, the separation of HC1 in accordance with substantially well known patterns. Some authors consider that polarization is Vainly concentrated on the C Cl bond, thereby ionic dissociation takes place first, followed by proton dissociation. That mechanism is generally preferred where the catalytic agent is the chloride of a metal such as zinc, cadmium, etc. It should be further appreciated that PVC transformation processes are never carried out in a completely oxygen free environment. Besides those instances where the polymer is at all times exposed to air, even with processes providing no contact with the atmosphere, there remains to be considered the oxygen picked up bg the resin. Consequently at least during the initial stage of the process, one can talk of thermal oxidative degradation. The term degradation , as applied to PVC articles of manufacture, refers to deterioration processes which imply no chemical alterations in the resin macromolecules. On the one side, there are the physical modifications of the articles of manufacture induced by shifted or even lost components, which results in lack of homogeneity and altered compositions and affects the physical and mechanical properties of the articles. On the other side, there are the chemical alterations, which mainly or solely concern the additives, not the polymer. One example comes from the biodegradation of plasticizers, lubricants, and some other additives. All of the foregoing types of degradation result in essence, as avisible reaction during the PVC transformation processes such as rotational molding, slush molding, plasticization on a fluidized bed, spraying inclusing electrostatic spraying, and sintering , in a significant emission of fumes and discoloration of the compound original color. It is an object of this invention to obviate such prior disadvantages by providing a plasticized and or nonplasticized, toxic and or non toxic PVC com pouuzd, which in the course of its transformation processes, can virtually release no fumes, whether corrosive or otherwise. his object, as well as other practical ones which will be apparent hereinafter, are achieved by a PVC compound, according to the invention, which includes all YYC types and all the additives required for the practical utilization of the compound in standard applications, as specified in the followingTable. Classes Industrial examples PVC 1 99 Emulsion, Solvic 364 MB suspension, Ravinil S70 F mass Bucovil RB 8010Plasticizers O 99 monomeric DOP Linevol 911 DLP11 DINP Unem 9506 polymeric fat DBS DOA acid esters Estabe x 2307 epoxiesStabilizers 1 40 Natural oils, Advastab T22N Sn derivatives, DIPHOS, PROSPER 460 Pb derivatives, Ca, Zn, Cd, Ba derivativesLubricants 0 10 Waxes, Wax A, wax E silicones, PE, PPProcessing Functional Soda flow, MBS aids resins Paraloid K 120 NInorganic Titanium Cronos CL220 pigments dioxide, Monark 700 carbon black, Molybdate red Cr,Sb,Xo derivativesOrganic 0 10 Compatible Cromoftal G, pigments with PVC phtalocyanine blue and greenFillers 0 99 Organic and Talk, Atomform, inorganic baryta amorphous on PVCPolymers 0 99 Compatible CPE,PE,EAA, with PVC PolibondCross 0 10 Polyfunctional Triethylenetetramine, linking amines, dichloromaleic agents resulting acids anhydride and anhydrides This PVC compound is characterized in that saidPVC and additives are selected, either alone or together, from substances featuring low fume emission rates in the course of a high temperature stability test, or more specifically, from substances having volatility and thermal stability as set forth in the following Table, where BPM stands for low molecular weight Components Volatility Thermal stability PVC 0.1F water High owing to its purityPlasticizers O.tf BPM High without coloringStabilizer 0.1 BPM High without coloringPolymer 0.1 BPM Without coloring processing waterLubricants 0.1 BPM Without coloringOrganic 0.01,6 BPM Stable pigments waterInorganic 1 water Stable pigmentsFillers 1,6 water StableCross linking 0.1 water Stable agents, antioxidants In particular, plasticizers are intended to include polymerics with varying length molecules formed from condensation, reaction of dibasic acids with mono and polyvalent alcohols e.g., polybutylene adipate epoxies epoxidized linseed oil, epoxidized soyabean oils, N. al1 yleneepoxystearate, I.alkyleneepoxystearate, cyclo alkyleneepoxystearate natural and treated oilsa linseed oil, mixed seed oils, corn oil, etc. linears esters of such aromatic acids as phtalate and terephtalate, of linear alcohol, linear type 911 phosphatate organic esters of phosphoric acid, type TTP, TCP, TXP, etc. trimellitate organic esters of trimellitic acid fat acid esters organic esters of sebacic, azelaic, adipic acids monomerics esters of mono di tri carboxylic acids DIDP, DIOP, etc. , PVC compatible polymers having a plasticizing effect. Merely for illustration purposes, one example of non toxic compounds according to this invention is set forth in the following Table, where PCR stands for parts per 100 resin Components PCR Processing technologiesResin suspension K48 70 0 100Resin mass t50 70 0 100Resin emulsion E60 80 0 100Resin copolymer K40 70 0 100Polymeric plasticizer 0 60Monomeric plasticizer 0 10Epoxy plasticizer 0 60 extrusionPretreated natural oils 0 10Linear plasticizer 0 50Phosphatate plasticizer 0 10Trimellitic plasticizer 0 40 moldingNon metallic stabilizer 1 10Ca Zn stabilizer 1 10 co extrusionSn metal stabilizers 1 2CaCO fillers 0 300 rotational Baryja fillers 0 300 calenderingTalc fillers 0 300 fluidized bed Organic inorganic 0 100 slush molding fillersLubricants 0 10 volatility 1 at 3000. C, over 1 minute 30 secondsProcessing aid 0 20CPE polymer 0 100BAA polymer 0 100PE polymer 0 100Nitrile elastomers 0 100Compatible polymers 0 100Cross linking agents 0 5 and antioxidants Another example, relating to the preparation of generic compounds, is given in the following Table Components PCR Processing technologiesResin suspension K48 70 0 100Resin mass K50 70 0 100Resin emulsion K60 80 0 100Resin copolymer E40 70 0 100Polymeric plasticizer 0 60Monomeric plasticizer 0 10Epoxy plasticizer 0 40 extrusionPretreated natural oils 0 10Linear plasticizer 0 50 Phosphatate plasticizer 0 10Trimellitic plasticizer 0 40 molding Ba, Cd stabilizer 0 10 co extrusionSn stabilizer 0 10 T or Sn stabilizer 0 10Pb stabilizer 0 10Ba,Zn stabilizer 0 10 CaCOfillers 0 300 rotational Baryta fillers 0 300 calenderingTalc fillers 0 300 fluidized bedOrganic inorganic 0 100 slush molding fillers Lubricants 0 10 volatility 1 at 3000 C, over 1 minute 30 secondsProcessing aid 0 20CPE polymer 0 100 whA polymer 0 100 PE polymer 0 100Nitrile elastomers 0 100Compatible polymers 0 100 Cross linking agents s and antioxidants The foregoing compounds have shown in practice, during the various static and dynamic stability tests, an emission of non corrosive fumes in the 0.1 to 1 range.on compound. Determination of the loss has been carried out on a by weight basis, by weighing the product before and after the test. The presence of corrosive gases has been determined by flowing the fumes through a solution of AGO03 while taking into account the presence of strong acids, such as RCl, which would have resulted in AgC1 precipitation. In particular, all of the examples have ruled out the presence of corrosivity, originating no AgCl precipitate. Standard compounds, in the same conditions, had a loss of weight ranging from 4cs to 10 . It will be appreciated from the foregoing description that the invention fully achieves its objects. Moreover, any modifications and changes within the capability of a skilled person in the art may be introduced in the above related examples without departing from scope of the inventive concepts outlined hereinabove.