# Methods and materials for development of parvovirus vaccine.

## Abstract
Novel immunologically active polypeptides for use in anti parvovirus vaccines are provided through structural analysis and characterization of the parvovirus genome. In a preferred embodiment, microbial expression of polypeptides is secured through use of DNA vectors comprising DNA sequences duplicative of porcine parvovirus PPV genomic DNA. Microbially expressed polypeptides as well as synthe tic replicas of polypeptides coded for by DNA sequences of the invention exhibit immunological activity in, e.g., plate binding assays.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An immunologically active polypeptide useful in development of vaccinal immunity against par vovirus infection and characterized by being the product of the microbial expression of 9 DNA sequence wholly or partially duplicative of a DNA sequence extant in a parvovirus oenome or of a tr2nslational equivalent thereof. 2. R polypeptide product according to claim 1 wherein the DNA sequence microbially expressed is dupli captive of a sequence present in a porcine parvovirus genome, 3. A polypeptide product according to claim 1 which is the product of joint microbial expression with 2 non virl polypeptide in E single translational event. 4. A polypeptide product according to claim 1 which is the product of microbial expression of a DNA sequence wholly or partially duplicative of that set forth in Tables II or III or of 2 translational equivalent thereof. 5. A polypeptide product according to claim 1 and further characterized by the presence of multiple hydrophilic amino acids in series. 6. A chemicElly synthesized immunologically active polypeptide useful in the development of vaccinal immunity against parvovirus infection and characterized by the presence of amino acids in 2 series which is wholly or partially duplicative of the sequence of amino acids set forth in Tables II or III. 7. A vaccine composition for use in provoking an immune response protective against parvovirus infection comprising an immunologically effective amount of 2 polypeptide according to claim 1 or 6 and an immunologically acceptable diluent, adjuvant or carrier. 8. A DNA transformation vector suitable for use in securing the expression of immunologically signi ficant polypeptides and characterized by the presence of nucleotide base pairs in a sequence duplicative of that extant in a parvovirus genome or the translational equivalent thereof. 9. A method for the production of immunolooi cally active polypeptides comprising transforming a suitable microbial host cell with c vector according to claim 8 growing cells so transformed under suitable nutrient conditions and isolating the desired polypeptide therefrom. 10. A DNA sequence wholly or partially duplicative of the DNA sequences set forth in Table II or III. 11. A reagent material comprising a DNA sequence according to claim 10 and 2 detectable label. 12. A reagent material according to claim 11 wherein the detectable label is ê radiolabel. 13. A reagent material comprising a polypeptide according to claim 1 or 6 or an antibody thereto and a detectable label. 14. A reagent material according to claim 13 wherein the detectable label is a radiolabel.

## Description
METHODS AND MATERIALS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF PARVOVIRUS VACCINE BACKGROUND The present invention relates generally to mam malian parvoviruses and more particularly to immunologically active polypeptides useful in development of vaccinal immunity against parvovirus inection. Parvoviruses, members of the familyParvoviridae, are among the simplest viruses known to infect eucaryotic cells. Of the three genera, theParvovirus and Pdeno associated virus AAV subgroup cover the viruses of vertebrates, whereas the genusDensovirus densonucleosis virus, DNV comprises arthropod agents. Vertebrae hosts for parvovirus infection include cattle, pigs, dogs, cats, rats, humans and certain avian species. The vertebrate parvoviruses are divided into two genera or subgroups on the basis of their require ment for helper viruses. Viruses of the largest subgroup, the genus Parvovirus, are usually referred to as the nondefective or autonomous parvoviruses. These are capable of productive replication without the aid of a helper virus in the vast majority of host cells studied to date. On the other hand, all members of the Adeno associated virus subgroup are defective and are entirely dependent upon adenovirus coinfection for their own replication in all systems examined so far.The viruses are strikingly similar in physiochemical properties growth characteristics in vitro, and, in general, pathoenic potential. They are among the smallest known DNA viruses, being spherical, nonenveloped particles 20 25 nm in diameter. In the electron microscope these particles appear to possess angicosa hedral symmetry and comprise 32 morphological capsomers.The infectious particle contains the genome, which is a predominantly single stranded, linear DNA molecule with a molecular weight of 1.35 1.70 x 106. This DNA accounts for about 25 of the total virion mass the balance is protein, with no detectable RNA, carbohydrate, or lipid. The viruses are extremely stable with regard to heat, freezing and thawing, lipid solvents, desiccation, detergents, and even low con centrtions of chaotropic agents. Nearly all the vertebrate viruses show hemagglutinating activity. They are mostly antigenically distinct, as measured by hemagglutinin inhibition and complement fixation, apart from the cross reacting groups. Within these cross reacting groups, individual viruses can be distinguished by the species of red blood cell they will agglutinate, by host range, and in some cases by pathogenic potential. See, generally, Replication of Mammalian Parvoviruses, Ward andTattersall, eds., Cold spring Harbor Laboratory 1978 . Of particular interest to the background of the present invention are a number of publications specifically directed to porcine parvovirus PPV , an autonomous parvovirus which constitues a major cause of reproductive failure in swine throughout much of theUnited States and in many major swine producing regions of the world. See, generally, Joo, et al., Arch.Virol., 51, 123 1976 Mengeling, et al. Am,J.Vet.Res., 37, 1393 1976 Johnson, et al. Australian Vet. your., 52, 80 1976 and Mengeling, J.Am.Vet.Med.Assoc., 172, 1291 1978 . Symptoms of infection by PPV in adult pigs are usually subclinical. Infection of pregnant dams in the first half of gestation commonly results in embryonic death and fetal mummification. The primary manifestations of disease are failure to farrow, prolonged gestation and increased farrowing interval, decrease in litter size, farrowing of stillborn and mummified fetuses, resorption of fetuses into the uterine lining and neonatal death or decreased vigor. See,Cutlip, et al. Am.J.Vet.Res., 36, 1751 1975 . A number of studies have been performed relating to the effects of vaccinal and passive immunity on infection of pigs with PPV . See, Paul, et al.Am.J.Vet.Res., 41, 1368 1980 and references cited therein. Inactiv ted virus vaccines have been developed and are reputed to provide some degree of protection against PPV induced reproductive failure. See,Fujisaki, et al., Nat l. Inst. Anim. Health Quarterly Tokyo 18, 184 1978 3 Joo, et al. Aust. Vet. Jour., 53, 550 1977 Mengeling, et al., Am.J.Vet.Res., 40, 204 1979 and Suzuki, et al., Nat l. Inst. Anim. Health Quarterly Tokyo 16, 81 1976 . More recently, modified live PPV virus vaccines and bivalent vaccines including pseudorabies immunogens have been evaluated for their potential in the control of reproductive failure in swine. See, Paul, et al., Am.J.Vet.Res., 41, 2008 1980 and Mengeling, et al., Am.J.Vet.Res., 42, 600 1981 . While, as indicated above, some substantial efforts have been directed toward development of particulate, live or killed parvovirus vaccines, there have been no reports of use of subunit vaccines in development of immune responses protective against parvovirus infection. Indeed, it was only recently reported that porcine parvovirus structural proteins have been isolated and determined to have immunogenic potentials independent of their association with viral particles.More specifically at a meeting of the American Society for Virology conducted at Cornell University on August 2 through 4, 1982, H. S. Joo orally reported the findings of recent research at the University of Minnesota concerning the characterization and immunogenicity of porcine parvovirus structural proteins passaged in swine fetuses. SDS PAGE isolation and V 8 protease treatment of viral proteins was said to have indicated the presence of three structurally similar proteins1 of 90 kd, 65 kd and 60 kd molecular weights. These were said to be capable of stimulating the production of anti PPV antibodies in rabbits. Written results of this work were later reported in Molitor, et al., J.Virol., 45, 842 854 1983 , verifying that antisera raised against each protein had some ability to neutralize virus activity. Sone structural studies of autonomous replicating parvoviruses have been conducted. See, Astell, et al., Cell, 17, 691 1979 Rhode1 et al. J. Virol., 41, 990 1982 Revie, P.N.A.S., 76, 5539 1979 Paradiso, et al., J.Gen.Virol., 62, 113 1982 andRhode, J. Virol., 21, 694 1977 , which has not involved investigation of the structure of the PPV genome nor the relationship between its structure and the structure of viral proteins. More recent studies of the parvovirus genome have been reported by Rhode, et awl., J.Virol., 45, 173 184 1983 and Astell, et al. Nuc.Acids.Res., 11, 999 1018 1983 . Both studies dealt with rodent parvovirus, designated H l and MVM, respectively. Rhode, et al. determined the nucleotide sequence of H 1, correlating it to known structural characteristics of parvovirus capsid proteins, VP1 and VP2 and a non capsid virus protein, NCVP1. The H l genome was determined to contain 5176 nucleotides with 2 large open reading frames headed or preceded by â start codon.Graphically depicted structures of the mRNAs of the viral proteins showed that NCVP1 was in the left most reading frame, and slightly overlapped the start positions of the VP1 and VP2 proteins. While the second open reading frame in the right half of the genome was assigned to VP1 and VP2 , no detailed arrangement of the coding sequences was identified. VPl was shown to start just left of the start site for VP2 . Both VP1 and 2 were illustrated to terminate at the same point on the mRNA map. Astell, et al. 1983 determined the 5081 nucleotide sequence of the genome of Minute Virus of Mice MVM , and observed open reading frames in the genome similar to those reported by Rhode, et al. for H l. Preliminary experiments indicated that 3 viral capsid proteins VP1 83,000 daltons , VP2 64,000 daltons and VP3 61,000 are encoded by the right half of the genome, while a noncapsid polypeptide of 85,000 daltons is encoded at least in part by the left half of the genome. The mRNA maps in this study indicate that the VP1 message begins at the left most portion of the genome, is interrupted by a large intron, then continues for the length of the genome. VP2 is indicated as wholly contained by the map of VP1, the message starting to the left of a small center intron and continuing to the right side of the map. Also of interest to the background of the present invention are recent efforts directed toward the use of recombinant methods and materials in the development of subunit viral vaccine materials. A typical example of this type of research effort may be found inRutter, et al., European Patent Application No.0062574, published October 13, 1982. To date, however, recombinant methods have not been brought to bear in the sequencing, characterization, or manipulation of the parvovirus genome in a manner permitting microbial expression of immunologically active polypeptides which are wholly or partially duplicative of parvovirus protein sequences. BRIEF SUMMARY The present invention provides immunologically active polypeptides useful in the development of vaccinal immunity against parvovirus infection, illustratively, porcine parvovirus PPV infection. Polypeptides of the invention generally comprise amino acid sequences which duplicate or substantially duplicate sequences putatively extant in the major protein constituents of the parvovirus virion. Presently preferred polypeptides of the invention include products of microbial expression of novel, vector borne, DNA sequences which are wholly or partially duplicative of DNA sequences extant in a parvovirus genome. Especially preferred microbially expressed polypeptides of the invention include those comprising series of hydrophilic amino acids which are duplicative of those in the porcine parvovirus protein envelope. Illustratively provided by the invention is plasmid pSS17 which principally comprises pBR322 DNA and includes an approximately 780 base pair DNA insert duplicative of a DNA sequence extant in the double stranded replicative form RF DNA of porcine parvovirus. The cloned PPV DNA insert in pSS17 is operatively associated with the promoter regulator and initial protein coding region of the E. coli tryptophan synthetase E gene, allowing for inducible expression in a selected host cell of a fusion polypeptide of PPV and E.coli origins. Other illustrative microbial expression systems provided by the present invention include plasmid p H6, in which a fragment of pSS17 is placed into operative association with the temperature sensitive copy control region of a run away expression vector pCFM414, allowing for greater quantities of the fusion polypeptide to be expressed in a selected host cell. Another plasmid S S3 is provided which includes as approximately 350 base pair DNA insert duplicative of a DNA sequence extant in porcine parvovirus doublestranded RF DRA in association with a pBR322 derived sequence containing a trp promoter and four amino acids of y interferon, allowing for inducible expression of a y interferon PPV fusion polypeptide in a selected host cell. A third PPV fragment of approximately 475 base pairs is expressed as a fusion polypeptide with a portion of the ss galactosidase polypeptide in plasmid pE H2.5transformed into a selected host cell. pE H2.5 is also principally composed of pBR322 DNA sequences including the promoter regulator and initial protein coding region of the E. coli tryptophan synthetase E gene. The present invention also encompasses presenty preferred synthetic peptides having amino acid sequences which are wholly or partially duplicative of amino acid sequences of parvovirus. An illustrative desirable synthetic peptide sequence according to the present invention is NH2 Asn Leu Ala Lys Lys Lys Ala Lys Cly Thr Ser Asn Thr Asn Ser COOH. Immunologically active polypeptides of the invention, including microbially expressed polypeptides, fusion polypeptides and synthetic polypeptides, should provide the synthesis of parvovirus specific antibodies in host animals to whom the polypeptides are administered and the antibody responses so generated are expected to provide protection against subsequent parvovirus infection, especially porcine parvovirus infection. Illustrations of the probable antigenicity and immunogenicity of the polypeptides of the present inven tion are provided by in vitro plate binding assays and plaque reduction neutralizing assays. Provided by the present invention, therefore, are vaccine compositions comprising immunologically effective amounts of one or more polypeptides of the invention in combination with immunologically acceptable diluents, adjuvants or carriers. Polypeptides of the invention are also suitable for use as reagent constituents in assays for quantitative detection of parvovirus antigens or parvovirusassociated antibodies nn fluid samples. DNA sequences of the invention may, in a like manner, be employed as probes in DNA DNA hybridization procedures for the detection of complementary parvovirus DNA sequences in samples of various origins. Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description thereof wherein FIGURE 1 is a restriction map of the PPV genome and FIGURE 2 illustrates manipulations involved in the manufacture of plasmid pSSl7 according to the invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION The novel polypeptide products and processes which provide an illustration of the present invention are described in the following examples which are directed to procedures involved in the isolation, and characterization of DNA and proteinaceous components of a representative parvovirus, porcine parvovirus PPV , and procedures relating to securing expression by microbial host cells including bacteria, yeast and mammalian cells in culture of PPV polypeptides, and assaying the polypeptides for antigenicity and immunogenicity. The following example relates to growth and isolation of PPV in culture. EXAMPLE 1 Porcine parvovirus NADL 2 virulent strain obtained from the National Animal Disease Center,U.S.D.A., Ames, Iowa are propagated in a suitable continuous culture of porcine cells e.g., PK 15, A.T.C.C.No. CCL 33 , propagated in Dulbecco modified Eagle s medium supplemented with 5 fetal calf serum.The following example summarizes the results of isolation and characterization of PPV protein constituents. EXAMPLE 2 Lysates of PPV infected cells were labelled in vivo by incorporation to 35S methionine in the culture medium. Labelled PPV virions released were then purified by pelleting and CsCl equilibrium sedimentation. Analysis on SDS PAGE revealed three major polypeptide constituents having respective molecular weights of 90,000, 65,000 and 60,000 daltons. The relative abundance of these three proteins were determined to be 3 , 80 to 90 and 7 , respectively, of the virion mass. V 8 protease digests of each of the three purified pro teins provided cleavage patterns which were essentially identical, indicating that the sequences of the smaller proteins are contained in the larger ones. All three proteins were found to be reactive with neutralizing serum obtained from a convalescent pig recovered fromPPV infection in a plate binding assay. Attempts to sequence the three proteins using a gas phase protein microsequenator were unsuccessful, indicating that all three PPV proteins have modified or blocked amino termini. The following example relates to isolation ofPPV DNA and development of a restriction endonuclease digestion map for the PPV genome. EXAMPLE 3 The infectious virion of PPV propagated according to Example 1 was found to have a buoyant density of 1.375 g c.c. and could be purified by banding inCsCl gradients. The genome of PPV could be labelled with 3H thymidine in vivo and extracted from the virion with phenol. Gel electrophoresis and electron microscopic analysis revealed the genomic DNA of PPV to be a linear, mostly single stranded DNA molecule with molecular weight of 1.76 X 106 daltons or 5.0 kilobases.However, about 6 of the PPV DNA is resistant to S1 nuclease digestion, and probably represents the two nonidentical, self complementary structures at the ends of the genome, as found in other nondefective parvoviruses. DNA from PPV infected cells was prepared following the standard Hirt extraction method. See,Hirt, J.Mol.Biol., 261 365 1967 . When the DNA from the supernatant fractions was analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis, two bands corresponding to duplex monomeric MD, 3 X 106 daltons and dimeric DD, 6.7 X 106 daltons genome lengths were observed. Upon heat denaturation and quick cooling, 33 of the MD molecules regenerate the duplex MD, indicating that these MD molecules must have the two complementary strands linked covalently. The other 66 MD molecules, however, convert to single stranded genome length DNA CUSS under this treatment, indicating that they have open ends.Thus the MD population is composed of two types of molecules with either fold back ends or extended ends. The DD molecules, on the other hand, completely converted to MD and SS after heating and quenching, suggesting the existence of specific single stranded nicks near the middle of the molecules. After isolating the MD and DD forms of PPV from preparative gels, a restriction endonuclease cleavage map for PPV was constructed and is illustrated in Figure 1. Briefly summarized, the 5 kilobase PPV monomer replicative form was digested with a number of restriction enzymes and several double digest combinations to produce the restriction cleavage map shown. The enzymesSall, HpaI, SmaI and BamHI do not cleave PPV DNA. The direction of translation as determined by hybridization studies and the base sequence is shown by the arrow. The left end of the MD DNA frequently resolved into doublet bands upon cleavage with certain restriction enzymes, a phenomenon that has also been observed for other nondefective parvoviruses. It has been proposed that the slow mirating band in the doublet represents the extended form and the fast migrating band represents the snap back configuration as described above. The right hand end, Figure 1, is homogeneous and always gave a single band upon cleavage.The selfpriming mechanism known for the complementary strand synthesis of parvoviruses suggests that the MD molecules with the 88 snap back configuration when cleaved with restriction enzymes, should generate a fragment with the two strands linked covalently, and this fragment should contain the 3 OH terminus of the original viral DNA strand. Based on this assumption, it is appropriate to orient the map with respect to the polarity of the viralDNA as shown in Figure 1 with the left end corresponding to the 3 terminus of the viral DNA. Other evidence which supports this orientation is provided by analysis of the transcriptional orientation of PPV. Poly A containing RNAs from PPV infected cells, were isolated, fractionated and selected to pro vide a low molecular weight population which is enriched in the 3 portion of the transcripts.Radioactively labeled cDNA probes were synthesized using oligo dT primer and reverse transcriptase. These probes were hybridized to the Southern transfers of various restriction enzyme digests of PPV DNA. The results showed that the right end Fig. 1 fragments hybridized most strongly with the probes whereas the left end fragments failed to hybridize, indicating that the right end contains sequences complementary to the 3 end of the RNA transcripts. Since PPV mRNAs have polarities opposite to the viral DNA, it can be deduced that the left end corresponds to the 3 terminus of the viralDNA. Restriction endonuclease analysis of the PPV duplex dimer DD DNA intermediate revealed that the dimeric form is constructed by two MO molecules joined in a tail to tail configuration with the 3 ends of the viral strands covalently linked to the complementary strands. It was observed that upon storage the PPV dimer spontaneously converts to duplex monomer MD, indicating that there are staggered, specific singlestranded nicks on the oppoisite strands at unit genome length, i.e., in the middle of the dimer, and that the base pairing which holds the two units together is rather unstable. The following example relates to DNA sequence analysis of cloned PPV genomic fragments. EXAMPLE 4 Fragments derived from the 5 kb monomer replicative form were cloned into either M13 phase or pBR322. These clones fell into two main groups 1 random clones produced by the cleavage of the 5 kb molecule or a portion of it with Alul, RsaI, or Sau3A followed by ligation into appropriately cleaved M13mp8 and 2 specific clones generated using restriction sites whose positions have been mapped in Figure 1. Most of these were asymmetric double digests which were cloned into both M13mp8 and M13mp9 so that their orientation relative to the restriction map was also known. In addition, the 3.3 kb Pstl EcoRl fragment extending from position 0.3 to 3.6, Figure 1, was cloned into pBR322. After isolation, the position and orientation of some of the larger random clones was determined by restriction analysis. Since M.13 phage DNA is single stranded, hybridization of these clones to virion DNA known to be the strand established the relationship of the restriction map to the mRNA coding strand as shown in Figure 1. This conclusion was verified by subsequent sequence analysis as described below. Many of the random clones and all of the specifically constructed clones described above were base sequenced using the M13 dideoxy method. The data from overlapping clones were assembled to yield the entire nucleotide sequence from 0.3 to 3.85 kb as illustrated in Table I below, as well as the sequence from about 4.25 to 4.7 kb, illustrated in Table II below. TABLE 1 Translation of DNA PPVAlaAla TrpGlnArgGluThrLeuThrArgLtysAIgTyrOC LysLeuProThrGlyPheLysIleMetLeuLysCysSerMetAlaAlaGlyAsnThrTyISerGluGluVelLeuLysAlaThrAshTrpLeuGlngspAsnAlaGlnLeuGlnHisGlySerGlyLysHisLeuLeuGlyArgGlyThrLysSerTyrGlnLeuAlaSerArgOC CysSer 1 CTCCAGCRTGCCAGCGSGAABCACTTACTCCGAAGAGGTACTAAAAGCTACCAACTGGCTTCAAGATAATGCTCA GACCTCGTACCGTCGCCCTTTGTGAATGACCCTTCTCCATGATTTTCGATGGTTGACCGAAGTTCTATTACGAGT GlnLeuPetRlaglaProphevalOC GluSerSerThrSerPheAlavlLeuGlnSerOP SerLeuAlaOP CysCysProLeuProPheCysLysSerProLeuProvalLeuLeuam TrpserAlagluLeuTyrHisGluPheAlaAlaHisCysArgServaiServelargPheLeuTyrAM PheSerGlyvalProLysLeuIleIleSerLeu LysLysHisSerLeuMetyrLeuLysHisLysLysSerIleOC MetGluLysLysLeuLeuGlyIleThrThr LysGluAlapheSerTyrvalPheLysihrGlnLysValAsnLeuAsnGlyLysGluIleAlaTrpAsnAsnTyr LysArgSerIleLeuLeuCysIleOC AsnThrLysSerGlnSerLysTrpLysArgAsnCysLeuGluOC Leu AAAAGAAGCATTCTCTTATGTATTTAAAACACAAAAAGTCAATCTAAATGGAAAAGAAATTGCTTGGAATAACTA TTTCTTCGTAAGAGAATACATAAATTTTGTGTTTTTCAGTTAGATTTACCTTTTCTTTAACGAACCTTATTGAT PheSerAlaAsnGAuOC ThrAsnLeuValCysPheThrLeuArgPheProPheSerIIeAlaGlnPheLeuAM LeuLeumMeArgLysHisIleDC PheVaiPheLeuOP AspLeuHisPheLeuPheGlpLysSerTyrSerCys PhePheCysGluarglleTyrLysPheCysLeuPheAspIleAM IleSerPhePheAsnSerProIleValval ThrLysIleGlnGlnMetArgLysOP OC ThrTyriysGluGluGlnLysHisHisGIyThrArgGlnGlnThr AsnLysAspThrThrAspAlaGluMetIleAsnLeuGlnArgGlyAlaGluyThrSerTrpAspGlnAlaThrAsp GlnGlnArgTyrAsnArgCysGlyasnAspLysProThrLysArgSerArgAsnlleMetGlyProGlyAsnArg 151 CAACAAAGATACAACAGATGCGGAAATGATAAACCTACAAAGAGGASCAGAAACATCATGGGACCAGGCAACAGA GTTGTTTCTATGTTGTCTACGCCTTTACTATTTGGATATTTCTCCTCGTCTTTGTAGTACCCTGGTCCGTTGTCT LeuLeuSerValValSerAlaSerIleIlePheArgCysLeuProalaSerValAspHisSerTrpAlaValSer CysLeuTyrLeuLeuHisProPheSerLeuGlyValPheLeuLeuLeuPheMetMetProGlyProLeuLeuCys ValPhelleCysCysIleArgPheHisTyrValAM LeuserSerCysPheCysOP ProValleuCysCysVal TABLE I cont d. TrpAsnGlyAsnGlnLysSerThrPlaSerGl AsnGlyLysTyrOP PheLeuThrLeuLeuLeuLysAsnVal MetGluTrpGluSerGlulleAspSerLeuThrLysArgGlnValLeuIlePheAspSerLeuValLysLysCys HisGlyMetGlylleArgAsnArgGlrProHisLysThrAlaSerThrAspPheOP LeuSerCysOC LysMet 226 CATGGAATGGGAATCAGAAATCGACACCCTCACAAAACGGCAAGTACTGATTTTTSACTCTCTTGTTAAAAAATG GTACCTTACCCTTAGTCTTTAGCTGTCGGAGTGTTTTGCCGTTCATSACTAAAAACTGAGAGAACAATTTTTTAC MetSerHisSerAspSerIleSerLeuArgValPheArgCysThrSerlleLysSerGluArgThrLeuPhaHis ProllsProlleLeuPheArgCysGlyOP LeuValAlaLeuValSerLysGlnSerGluGlnOC Phelleasp HisPheProPheOP PheAspValAlaGluCysPheProLauTyrGlnAsnLysValArgLysAsnPhePheThr SerLeuLysValTyrCysLysArgThrOC ValGlnValThrAlaThrGlySerTyiSerMetAsnMetVaelLys LeuPheGIuGlylleLeuGlnLysAsnLeuSerProSerAspCysTyrTrpPheLeuGlnHisGluHisGlyGln SerLeuOP ArgTyrIlaAleLysGlOProLysSerLysOP LeuLeuLeuValLeuThrAlaOP ThrTrtpSEr 301 TCTCTTTGAAGGTATATTGCAAAAGAACCTAAGTCCAAGTGACTGCTACTGGTTCTTACAGCATGAACATGGTCA AGAGAAACTTCCATATAACGTTTTCTTGGATTCAGGTTCACTGACGATGACCAAGAATGTCGTACTTGTACCAGT ArgLysSerProIleAsnCysPhePheArgLeuGlyLeuSerGlnAM GlnAsnLy sCysCysSerCysProOP ArgGlnLeuTyrIleAlaPheSerGlyLeuAspLeuHisSerSerSerThrArgValAlaHisValHisAspLeu GluLysPheThrTyIGlnLeuLeuValAM ThrTrpThrValalsValProGiuGC LeuMetPheMetThrLeu IleLeuAlaIleThrAlaMetTyrTyrAM ValGloLysAlaTyrAsnLysGlnTrpGluasnGly TyrGlyuAsn AspThrGlyTyHisCysHisValLeuLeuGlyGlyLysGlyLeuSlnGlnAlaMetGlyLysTrpLeuArgLys ArgTyrTrpLeuSerLeuProcysThrThrArgTrpLysArgLeuThrThrSerAsnGlyLysMetvalThrLys 376 AGATACTGGCTATCACTGCCATGTACTACTAGGTGGAAAASSSTTACAACAAGCAATGGGAAAATGGTTACGAAA TCTATGACCSATAGTGACGGTGCATGATGATCCACCTTTTCCGAATGTTGTTCSTTACCCTTTTACCAATGCTTT SerValProAM OP GlnTrpThrSerSerProProPheProLysCysCysAleIleProPheHisAsnArgPhe TyrGlnSerAspSerGlyHisValValLecHisPheLeuSerVaiValLeuLeuProPheIleThrValPheval IleSerAlaIleValAlaMatTyrAM AM ThrSerPheAleDC LeuLeuCysHisSerPheProOC SerPhe TABLE I cont d. AsnCC ThrIleTyrGlyVal aspGlyOP IleIleAsnAlaLysTyrLeuOC NisGlnLeuLysGluOC Asn GlnLeuAsnAsnLeuTrpSerArgTrpLeuasnAsnGlncysLysValProLeuThrProValGluArglleLys ThrIleLy sGlnPheMetsluAM MeValGluOC SerMetGlnSerThrSerAsnThrSerOP LysAsnLys 451 ACAATTAAACAATTTATGGAGTAGATGGTTGAATAATCAATGCAAAGTACCTCTAACACCAGTTGAAAGAATAAA TGTTAATTTGTTAAATACCTCATCTACCAACTTATTAGTTACGTTTCATGGAGATTGTGGTCAACTTTCTTATTT CysAsnPheLeuyLysHisLeuLeuHisAsnPheLeuOP HisLeuThrGlyArgValGlyThrSerLeuIlePhe IleLeuCysAsnIleSerTyrllethrSertyrAspIleCysLeuValGluLeuValLeuGlnPhePhaLeuIle LeuOC ValIleOC ProThrSerProSlnLleIleLeuAlaSheTyIArgAM CysTrpAsnPheSerTyrPhe Oc GlyAsnAM GlnArgMetValSerGlyTyrArgTyrOC ProThrLeuthrAsnLysLeuLysAsnAsnIle LeuArgGluLeuAlaGluAspGlutrpValSerLeuLeuthtTyrThrHisLysClnThrLysLysGlnTyr IleLysGlyIleSerArgGlyTrpOP ValGlyIleAlaThrAsnLecHisSerGlnThrAsnCC LysThrIle 526 ATTAAGGGAATTAGCAGAGGATGGTGAGTGGGTATCGCTACTAACCTACACTCACAAACAAACTAAAAAACAATA TAATTCCCTTAATCGTCTCCTACCACTCACCCATASCGTAGATTGGATGTGAGTGTTTGTTTGATTTTTTGTTAT AsnLeuSerAsnAlaSerSerProSerHisThrAspSerSerValAM ValOP LeucysValLeuPheCysTyr LeuProIleLeuLeuProHisHisThrProIleAlaValLeluArgCysGloCysValPheAM PhaVallleTyr OC ProPheOC CysLeuIleThrLeuProTyrArgAM AM GlyValSerValPheLeuSerPhePheLeuIle GlnLysOP LeuIleLeuGluIleOP LeuLeuThrThrSerOC IleLysLysGluArgGlnLeyuLysGluSEr ThrLysMetThrHisPheGlyAS MetIleAlatyrTyrPheLeuAsPlysLysARgLysThrThrgluArgGlu TyrLysAsnAspSerPhetrpLystyrAspCysLeuLueLeuProLysCC LysLysLysAspAsnOP LysArg 601 TACAAAAATGACTCATTTTGGAAATATGATTGCTTACTACTTCCTAAATAAAAAAAGAAAGACAACTGAAAGAGA ATGTTTTTACTGAGTAAAACCTTTATACTAACGAATGATGAAGGATTTATTTTTTTTCTTTCTGTTGACTTTCTCT ValPheIleValOP LysProPhelleeAlaOC AM LysArgPheLeuPheLuePheValValSerLeuSer LeuPheSerGluAsnGlnPheTyrSerGlnLysSerSerGlyLeuTyrPhePhePheSerLeuglnPheleuAla CysPheHisSerMetLysSerIleHisAsnSerValValGluAM ilePHePheSerLeuCysSerPheSerLeu TABLE I cont d. MetAspIleIleSerAleSlnileLeuAlaSerCP GlnIIeSerOC LysLysgleArgAspThrAM SerVal HisGlyTyrTyrLeuSerSerAspSerGlyPheMet ThtAsDPheLevLysGluGlyGluArgHisLeuValSer AlaTioIleLeuSerGlnLeuArgPheTrpLeuHisAspLysPheLeuLysArgArgargGlu hrLeuSerGiin 676 GCAYGGATATTATCTCAGCTCAGATTCTGGCTTCATGACAAATTTCTTAAAAGAAGGGGAGAGACACTTAGTCAG CGTACCTATAATAGAGTCGAGTCTAAGACCGAAGTACTGTTTAAAGAATTTTCTTCCGCTCTCTGTGAATCAGTC CysProTyrOC TroL euGluSerGluProLysMetVelPbeLysLysPheSerProSerLeuCysLysThrLeu HislleAsnAspOP SerleuAsnGlnSerOP SerLeuAsnArgLeuLecLeuArgSerValSerLeuOP Asp MetSerIleIleGluAlsOP IleArgalsGluHisCysiLeGluOS PheFheAleLeuSerValCC AspThr ThrTyrLeuLeuLysGlnIleGsnLeuLysLeuTrpLysGlnArgLeuLeuGlnLeuArgLysPheProGlsAle NisLeuPheThrSluAleAsnLysProCluThrValGluThrThrValThzThrAlaGlnGluValFrpArgGly SarProIleTyrOP SerLysOC ThrOP AsnCysGlyAsnAsnGlyTyiTyISerSerGlySerSerProArg 751 TCACCTATTTACTGAAGCAAATAAACCTGAAACTGTGGAAACAACGGTTACTACTGCTCAGGQAAGTTCCCCGAGG AGTGGATAAATGACTTCGTTTATTTGGACTTTGACACCTTTGTTGCCAATGATGTCGAGTCCTACAASGGGCTCC OP ArgAsnValSerAlaPheLeuGlySerValThrSerValValThrValValAlsOP SerThrGlyArgPro GlyIleOC GlaLeuLeuTyrValGlnPheGlnPrPheLeuProDC AM LeuGluProLeuGluGlyLeuCys ValAM LysSerPheCysIlePheArgPheSerHisPheCy sArgAsnSerCysSerLeuPheAsnGlySerAle GlsTyRLysGlaLysLysLysDC AlsOC AsnAleGlnDC GluThrTnpLeuIleLysAspValLeuAlaAM ArgIleGlnThrLysLysGluValSerIleLysCySThrIleArgAspLeuValAsnLysArgCysThrSerIle GlnAsnThrAsnLysLySargSerLysNisLysMetHisAsnLySArgLauGlyOC OC LysMetTyrAM Fis 826 CAGAATACAAACAAAAAGAAGTAAGCATAAAATGCACATAAGAGACTTGGTTAATAAAAGATGTACTAGCAT GTCTTATGTTTGTTTTTTTCTTCATTCGTATTTTACCTGTTATTCTCTCAACCAATTATTTTCTACATGATCGTA LeuIleSysValPhePheSerThrLeumetPhePisValIleLeuSerLysPhrLeuLeuLeuHisValL euMet PheValPhsLeuPheLauleuLevCysLeuIleCysLeuLeuLeuSerProOC tyIPteIleTyrAM CysLe SetTyrLeuCysPhephePheTyrAlaTyrPheAleCysTyrSerValGlnAsnIisPheSecThrSerAleTyr TABLE I cont d. LysAlaGlyValOP GlnIleGinThrValIleAM LysOP TrpL euL y sProGluGlUL ysIleOC SerLys GluGlyTrpSerMetThrAspProAsDSerTyrIleGluMetmetAlaGlnThrGlyGlyGlUAsnLeuIleLys ArgArgLeuGluTyrAspArgSerArgGlnL euTyrArgAsnAspGlySerAsnArgArgArgLsPheAsnGln 901 AGAAGCCTGGAGTATGACAGATCCAGACAGTTATATAGAAATGATGGCTCAAACCGGAGGAGAAAATTTAATCAA TCTTCCGACCTCATACTGTCTAGGTCTGTCAATATATCTTTACTACCGAGTTTGGCCTCCTCTTTTAAATTAGTT SerProGlnLeuIleValSerGlySerLeuOC IleSerIleIleAlaOP ValPrioProSerPheLysIleLeu LsuSerSerTyrSerLeuAspLeuCysAsntyrLeuPheSerProGluPheArgLeuLeuPheAsnLeuOP Phe PheAlaProThrHisCysIleTrPValThrIleTyrPheHisHisSerLeuGlySerSerPheIleOC AspPhe IleHisAM LysOC GlnLeuLeuLeuAM GlnGluGlnLysGlnhisMetThrOC TyrLeuLysArgGlnAsn AsnThrLeuGluIleThrThrLeuThrLeuAlaArgThrLysThrAlaTyrAspLeuIleLeuGluLysAlaLys LysTyrThrArgAsnAsnAsnSerTyrSerSerLysAsnLysAsnSerIleOP LeuAsnThrOP LysGlyLys 976 AAATACACTAGAAATAACAACTCTTACTCTAGCAAGAACAAAAACAGCATATGACTTAATACTTGAAAAGGCAAA TTTATGTGATCTTTATTGTTGAGAATGAGATCCTTCTTGTTTTTGTCGTATACTGAATTATGAACTTTTCCGTTT PheValSerSerIleValValArgValArgAlaLeuValPheValAlsTyrSerLysIleSerSerPheAlaPhe TyrValLeuPheLeuLeuGluOC GluleuleuPheleuPheleumetHisSerLeuValGlnPheProLeuVal IleCysAM PheTyrCysSerLysSerAM CysSerCysPheCysCysIleValOC TyrLysPheLeuCysPhe GlnAlaCysTyrGlnHisLeuIleLeuAlaIleGlnGluHisValLysTyrSerAlaCysThrIleGlyThrThr ThrLysHisAleThrAsnIleOC TyrAM GInTyrLysAsNMetOC AsnIleGlnHisAsnTrpAsnTyr 1051 ACCAAGCATGCTACCAACATTTAATATTAGCAATACAACAACATGTAAAATATTCAGCATGCACAATTGGAACTA TGGTTCGTACGATGGTTGTAAATTATQAATCGTTATGTTCTTGTACATTTTATAAGTCGTACGTGTTAACCTTGAT GlyLeuMetSerGlyValAsnLeuIleLeuLeuVelieuValHisLeuileAsnLeuMatCysLeuGlnPheAM LeuCysaleValLeuMetOC TyrOC CysTyrLeuPheMetTyrPheIleOP CysAlsCysAsnSerSerCys TrpAlaHisAM TrpCysLysIleAsnAlaIleCysSerCysThrPheTyrGluAlaHisValIleProValVal TABLE I cont d. LeuLysSerAlaMetLeuOC LeuValTyrOP AsnArgGlnGlyGlyLysArgAstThrIleLeuPheHisVal IleLysValCysHisAlaIleThrCysValLeuLysGlnThrArgArgLysLysLysTyrAsnSerIleSerCys HisOC SerLeuProCysTyrAsrLeuCysThrGluThrAspLysGluGluLysGlulleGlnPheTyrPheMet 1126 CATTAAACTCTGCCATGCTATAACTTGTGTACTGAAACAGACAAGGAGGAAAAAGAAATACAATTCTATTTCATG GTAATTTCAGACGGTACGATATTGAACACATGACTTTGTCTGTTCCTCCTTTTTCTTTATGTTAAGATAAAGTAC MetLeuThrGlnTrpAlaIleValGlnThrSerPheCysValLeuLeuPhePhePhetyrLeuGluIleGluHis OC LeuArgGlyHisAM LeuLysHisValServalSerLeuSerSerPheSerIleCysAsnAM LysMetAsp AsnPheAspAlaMetSerTyrSerThrtyrGlnPheLeuCysProPheLuePheValIlEArgAsnOP Thr MethGlyGlnHisGlnGlnGluLysValOC LeuLeuAsnThrLeuGolnThrAM LeuValMetLeuValaAlaThr HisGlyPropAlaSerThrGlyLysSerIleIloAlaGlnHisIleAleAsnLeuValGlyAsnValGlyCysTyr SerTrpAleserIleAsnArgLysLysTyrAsnCysSerThrHisCysLysLeuSerTrpOC CysTrpLeuLeu 1201 TCATGGGCCAGCATCAACAGGAAAAAGTATAGTTGCTCAACACATTGCAAACTTACTTGGTAATGTTGGTTGCTA AGTACCCGGTCGTAGTTGTCCTTTTTCATATTAACGAGTTGTGTAACGTTTGAATCAACCATTACAACCAACGAT OP ProGlyAlaAspValProPheLeuIleIleAlaOP CysMetAlaPheLysThrProLeuThrProGlnAM HisAlaLeuMetLeuLeuPhePheTyrLeuGlnGluValCysGlnLueSerLeuGlnTyrHisGlnAsnSerCys MetProTrpCysOP CysSerPheThrTyrAsnSerLeuValAsnCysValOC AsnThrIleAsnThrAlaVal MetGlnProMetOP ThrPheHisLeuMeTjhrValGlnIleLysThrOC TyrGlyLeuLysLysGlnGluThr AsnAlaAlaAsnValAsnPheProPheAsnAspCysThrAsLysAsnLeuIleTrpIleGluGluAlaGlyAsn GlnCysSerGlnCysSluLuSerIlOC OP LeutyLysOC LysLeuAsnMetaspOP ArgSerArgLys 1276 CAATGCAGCCAATSTGAACTTTCCATTTAATGACTGTACAAATAAAAACTTTAATATGGATTGAAGAAGCAGGAAA GTTACGTCGGTTACACTTGAAAGGTAASATTACTGACATGTTTATTTTTGAATTATACCTAACTTCTTCGTCCTTT LeuAlaAlaLueThrPheLysGlyAsnLeuSerGlnValPheLuePheLysIleHisIleSerSerAleProPhe HisLeuTrpHisSerSerGluMetOC HisSerTyrLeuTyrPheSerLeuIleSerGlnLueLeuLeuhesSer IleCysGlyIleHisValLystrpLysIlevalThrCysIlePhevalOC TyrProAsnPhePheCysSerVal TABLE I cont d. SerLeuThrLysOC ThrAsnSerLysProTyrValGlnValLysGlnLueGluLeuThrLysLysValLysGlu PheserAsnGlnVelAsnGlnPhalysAlafleCysSerGlyGlnIhrIleArgIleAspGlnLysGlyLysGly LeuLeuDC ProSetLysFroIleGlnSerHisMetPheArgSerAsnAshAM AsnOP ProLysArgOC Arg 1351 CTTCTCTAACCAAGYAAACCAATTCAAACCCATBTGTTCAGGTCAAACAATTQGAATTGACCAAAAAGGTAAAGG GAAGAGATTGGTTCATTTGGTTAAGTTTGGGTATACAAGTCCACTTTGTTAATCTTAACVGGTTTTTCCATTTCC LysCluLeuTrpThrPheTipAsnLeuAlMetHisGluProOp ValIleteuIleSetTrpPheProLeuPro ArgAM GlyLeuLeuGlylleOP LeuTvpIleAsnLeuAspPHeLeuCC PteGloGlyPHeteuTyrLeuPhe GluAigVelKLeuTyrValleuGluPHeGlyTyrThrOP ThrleuCysAsnSerAsnValLeuPheThrPheSer AleAsrLySteuAsnGlnLeuLeuOc OC OP LeuGlnMwtLysThrOC LeuLYsLeuGluAM AspAlaArg SerLysGlnGluProThrProValIleMetThrThrAsnGluAspIleThrLysValArgIleGlyCysGlu LysGInThrAsnOP ThrAsnSerCysAsnAsnAspTyiLysOp ArgHisAsnCC SerAM AsnArgMetArg 1426 AAGCARACAAATGAACCARCTCCTGTRATAATGACTACAAATGAACACATAACTAAAGTTAGAATAGGATGCGA TTCGTTTGTTTAACTTGGTTGAGGACATTATTACTGATGTTTACTTCTGTATTGATTTCAATCTTATCCIACCT LeuLeuCyslkeSerGlyValGlyThrlleIleValValPhaSerSerMetValLeuThrLeuIleProHisSer CysValPheGlnvelLeuGluGlnOevLeuSerAm LeuHisLeuCysteuAm LeuDC PheleuIleAroPro AlsPheLeuAsnPheTrpSerArgTyrTyrHisSerCysIlePheVelFyrSerPheAsnSerTyrSerAlaLeu LysAspGlnAsnIleHisAsnGlnOC GluthrGluCysOC ThrTyrThrOC ProGluAsnCysGlnValIle GluArgPzoGluHisTbrGlnProIleArgAsop AigMetLeuAsnIleHisteuThrArgLysLeuProGlyAsp GlyLysThrArgThrTyiThrThrAsnLysArgGlnAsnVelLysHisThrProAsnGIntysThrAlaArgop 1501 GGAAAGACCAGAACATACACAACCAATAACACACAGAATGTTAAACQTACACCTAACCAGAAAACTGCCAGGTACT CCTTTTCTGGTCTTGTAOGOGTTGCTTATUCUCTGGCITACAATTTGTATGTGGATTGGGTCTTTTGACCCTCCACT SerleuGlySerCysValCysGlyIleLeu5erLeulleAsnPheMetCysArgValLeuPheSerGlyProSer PheValLeuVal TyrValValLeuLeuleuCysPheThrLeuCysValGlyLeuTrpPheValAlateuHisAsn PheSerTrDPheMetCysLeuTrpTyrSerValSerHisOc ValTyiValAm GlySerPheGlnTrpThrile TABLE I cont d. LeuAspPheAM LysLysLeuAsnGlyHisOC TyrValLeuGlyTrpOC ArgLysValThrLysGlnGlnTrp PheGlyLeuLeuGluGluThrGluTrpProLeuIleCysAlaTrpLeuValLysLysGlyTyrGlnAlaThrMet PheTrPThrPheArgargAsnOP MetAlaThrAsnMetcysLeuValGlyLysGluArgLeuProSerAsnAsn 1576 TTTTGGACTTTTAGAAGAAACTGAATGGCCACTAATATGTGCTTGGTTGGTAAAGAAAGGTTACCAAGCAACAAT AAAACCTGAAAATCTTCTTTGACTTACCGGTGATTATACACGAACCAACCATTTCTTTCCAATGGTTCGTTGTTA LysProSerLysSerSerValSerHisGlySerIleHisAlaGlnAsnThrPhePheProOC TrpAlaValIle GloValLysLeuleuPheGlnIlenlaValLeuIleHisLysthrProLsuSerLeuAsnGlyLeuLeuLeuPro LysSerLysOC PhePheSerPheProTrpAM TyrthrSerProGlnTyrLeuTheThrValLeuCysCysHis LeuAlaiLeCysIleIleGiyGluMetTyrLeuIleGlyGlnLysAsnTrpArgSerGlnLysCyIleProGln AleSerTytMetHisHisTrpGlyAsnValProAstrpSerGluLysLeuGluLuproLysMetHisSerPro GlyAM LeuTrrAlaSerLeuGlyLysCysThrOp LeuValArgLysIleGlyGlyAlaLyswAsnAlaphePro 1651 GGCTAGCTATAGCATCATTGGGGAAATGTACGTAGATTGCTCAGAAAAATTGGAGGAGCCAAAAATGCATTCCCC CCGATCGATATACGTAGTAACCCCTTTACATGGACTAACCAGTCTTTTTAGCCTCCTCCGTTTTTACGTAAGGGG AlaLeuAM IleCysOP GlnProPheThrGlySerGlnAspSerPheAsnSerSerGlyPhelleCysGluGly AM SerTyrAlaAspAsnProPheHisValGlnAsnThrLuePheIleProProoAlaLeuPheAlaAsnGlyleu SerAlaIleHisMetMetProSerIleTyrArgIleProOP PhePheGlnLeuLeuTrpPheHiMetGlyTrp Oc IleHisGlnGlnThrLeuArgPheProHisGlnOP LysLeuArGlnArtgThrSerThrThrglnGlnLeu IleAsnThrProThrAspSerGlnIleSerThrSerValLysThrSerProAlaAspIleAsnTyrAlaAlaThr AsnLysTyrThrAsnArgLeuSerAspPheHisIleSerGluAsnPheAlaSerGlyHisGlnLeuArgSerAsn 1726 AATAAATRCACCAACAGACTCTCAGATTTCCACATCAGTGAAAACTTCGCCAGCGGACATCAACTACGCAGCAAC TTATTTATGTGGTTGTCTGAGAGTCTAAAGGTGTAGTCACTTTTGAAGCGGTCGCCTGTAGTTGATGCGTCGTTG IlePheValGlyValSerGluOP IleGluValAspThrPheValGluglyAlaSerMetLeuAM AlaAlaVal LeuTyrvelLeuleuSerGluSerLysTrpMetLeuSerPheLysAlaLeuProCysOP SerArgLeuLeuGlu TyrIleCysTrpCysValAIgLeuAsnslyCysOP HisPheSerArgTrpArgValAspValValCysCysSer TABLE I cont d. GlntyrArgArgThrtrpIleAM LeuAM ProTrpSerArgGlyAlaSerGlnGlnHisGlnLeuSerProThr ProIleGlnGluAspLeuAspLeuAlaLeuAlsLeuGluProTrpSerGluproThrThrProThrPhethrAsn SerAsnThrGlyGlyProGlyPheSerPheSerLeuGlyAlaValGluArgAlaAsnAsnThrAsnPheHisGln 1801 TCCAATACAGGAGGACCTGGATTTACCTTTAGCCTTGGAGCCCTGGAGCGAGCCAACAACACCAACTTTCACCAA AGGTTATGTCCTCCTGGACCTAAATCGAAATCGGAACCTCGGCACCTCGCTCGGTTGTTGTGGTTGAAAGTGGTT GlylIeCysSerSerArgSerLysAlaLysAlaLysSerGlyHisLeuSerGlyValValGlyValLysValLeu LeuValProProGlyProAsnLeuLysLeuArgProAleThrSerArgAlaLeuLeuValLeuLysOP TrpGly TrpTyrLeuLeuValGlnIleOC SerOC SerOC GlyGlnLeuArgProAlaLeuTrpCysCysTrpSerGluGlyVal CysThrOC leuGlnHisArgGlnIleGlnGlnTyrGlyHisGlnValGlnLeuGlyArgLysAM LysProThr LeuHisLeuThrProThrProProAspSerAlaIleArgThrProserProthrTrpSerGluIleGluTrAsp PxoAlaLeuAsnSerAsnThrAlaArgPheSerAsnThrAspThrLysSerAsnLeuValGlyAsnArgAsnArg 1876 CCTGCACTTAACTCCAACACCGCCAGATTCAGCAATACCGACACCAAGTCCAACTTGGTCGGAAATAGAAACCGA GGACGTGAATTGAGCTTGTGGCGGTCTAACTCCTTATGCCTGTGGTTCAGGTTGAACCAGCCTTTATCTTTGGCT ArgCysLysValGlyValGlyGlySerGluAlaIleArgValGlyleuGlyValGlnAspSerIleSerValser AlaSerLeuGluLeuValAlaLeuAsnLeuleuValSerVelLeuAspLeuLysThrProPheLeuPheArgCys glnValOC SerTrPCysArgTrpIleOP CysTyrProCysTrpThrTrpSerProArgPheTyrPheGlyVal OC GluProAlalEuValLysThrValHisHisAsnLysProOP IleArgAM AspglyvalSerCysLysLys IleArgAlaCysPheGlyGluAsnCysAlaProGlnglnThrLeuAsnLysValGlyTrpArgLeuLeuGlnLys HisLysSer5LeuLeuTrpOP LysLeuCysThrThrTrhAsnLeuGluOC GlyArgMetAlaSerProAlaLys 1951 CATAAGAGCCTGCTTTGGTGAAAACTGTGCACCACAACAAACCTTGAATAAGGTAGGATGGCGTCTCCTGCAAAA GTATTCTCGGACGAAACCACTTTTGACACGTGGTGTTGTTTGGAACTTATTCCATCCTACCGCAGAGGACGTTTT MetLeuAlaGlnLysProSerPheGlnAlaGlyCysCysValLysPheLeuThrProHisArgArgArgCysPhe LeuLeuArgSerGloHisPheSerHisValVelvalPheArgSerTyrProLeuIleAlaAspGlyAlePhele TyrSerGlyAlalysThrPhevalThrCysTrpLeuLeuGlyGlnIleLeuTyrSerProThrGluGlnLeuPhe TABLE cont d. SerLysArgOC GlyAM PheOC GlyGlyGlyGlyHisThrTyrLysThrAsnCysLysOC PhePheTyrIle GluGlnGluValArgValvalleuArgGlyTrpTrpAlaTyrIleOC AsnOC LeuGlnIleIlePheleuTyr ArgAlaArgGlyLysGlySerPheLysGlyValValGlyIleHisIleLysLeuThrAlaAsnAsnPhePhelle 2026 AGAGCAAGAGGTAAGGGTAGTTTTAAGGGCGTGGTGGGCATACATATAAAACTAACTGCAAATAATTTTTTTATA TCTCGTTCTCCATTCCCATCAAAAATTCCCCCACCACCCGTATGTATATTTTGATTGACGTTTATTAAAAAAAAT SerCysSerThrLeuThrThrLysLeuProHisHisAlaTyrMetTyrPheAM SerCysIlelleLysLysTyr AlaLeuProleuProLeuLysLeuProThrThrProMetCysilePheSerValAlaPheLeuLysLysIleTyr leuLeuLeuTyrProTyrAsnOC ProProProProCysValTyrleuValLeuGlnLeuTyrAsnLysOC Ile LeuGlnAspOC LeuTyrGlnAspThrAsnThrleuValGlnGluThrHisAM ThrlysGluAsnGlnLeuIle IleThrGlyLeuThrLeuProGlyTyrLysTyrleuGluProGlyAsnSerLeuAspGlnglyGluProThrAsn TyrtyrArgThrAsnSerThraArgIleGlnIleProTtpserArgLysLeuThrArgProArgArgThrAsnOC 2101 TATTACACGACTAACTCTACCAGGATACAAATACCTTGGTCCAGGAAACTCACTAGACCAAGGAGAACCAACTAA ATAATGTCCTSATTGAGATGGTCCTATGTTTATGGAACCAGGTCCTTTGAGTGTCTGGTTCCTCTTGGTTGARTT IleValProSerValArgSlyProTyrLeutyrArgProGlyProPheGluSerSerTrpProSerGlyValLeu OC LeuVaLeugluvalLeuIleCysIleGlyGlnAspleuPheSerValleuGlyeluLeuValLeuAM Asp AsnCysSerAM SerAM TrpSerValPheValLysThrTrpSerValOP AM ValLeuSerPheTrpSerIle HisglnthrProGlnglnLysAsThrthrLysProthrThrAsnThrOC AsnLeugluLysIleHisThrSer ProSerAsoAlaAlaAlaLysGluHisAspgluAl aTyrAspLysTyrIleLysSerGlylysAsnProTyrPhe SerIleArgArgArgSerLysArgThrArgArgSerLauArgGlnIleHisLysIleTrpLysLysSerLieLeu 21767 TCCATCAGACGCCGCAGCAAAAGAACACGACGAAGCCTACGACAAATACATAAAATCTGGAAAAAATCCATACTT AGGTAGTCTGCGGCGTCGTTTTCTTGTGCTGCTTCGGATGCTGTTTATGTATTTTAGACCTTTTTTAGGTATGAA GlyAspSerAlaAleAlaPheSerCysSerSerAlaAM SerLeuTyrMetpHeAsPProPhePheglytyrLys MeLeuArgArgLeuLeuLeuValArgArgLeuArgArgCysIleCysLeuIleGluPhePheAspMeSerArg TroOP.ValSlyCysCysPhePheValValPheGlyValValPheValTyrPheArgSerPhelletrpValGlu TABLE I cont d. ThrSerGlnGlnLeuMetLysAsnSerOC LysLysLeluAsnThrGlnbLysThrThrGluValLysLeuAspIle tyrPheSerAlaAlaAspGluLysPheIlaLysGluthrGluHisAlaLysAspTyrGlyGlyLyslleGlyHis LeuLeuLeuSerSerOP OP LysIleHisLysArgAsnOP ThrArgLysArGlleuArgArgOC ASnTrpThr 2251 CTACTTCTCAGCAGCTGATGAAAAATTCATAAAAGAAACTGAACACGCAAAAGACTACGGAGGTAAAATTGGACA GATGAAGAGTCGTCGACTACTTTTTAAGTATTTTCTTTGACTTGTGCGTTTTCTGATGCCTCCATTTTAACCTGT AM LysCluAlaAlaSerSerPheAsnMetpHeSerValSercysAlapHeSerAM ProProLeuIleProCys SerArgLeuLeuGlnHisPhelleOP LeuLeuPheGlnValArgLeuLeuSerArgLeuTyrPheGlnValAsn ValGluOP CysSerIlePhepHeGlutyrPhePheSerPheValCysPheValValSerthrPheAsnSerMet ThrSerSerGluglnSerValProLeuLeuGlnAsnCysGlnLysGlnThrHisGlnLeuHisLeuAsnAsnGln TyrPhePheArcalaLysArgAlePheAlaProLysLeuSer5GluThrAspSerProthrThrSerGlnGlnPro LeuleueluglnSerLysAlaCysLeuCysSerLytsthrValArpAsnArgLeuaThrAsnTyrIleSerThrThr 2326 TTACTTCTTCAGAGCAAAGCGTGCCTTTCCTCCAAAACTGTCAGAAACAGACTCACCAACTACATCTCAACAACC AATSAAGAAGTCTCGTTTCGCACGGAAACGAGGTTTTGACAGTCTTTGTCTGAGTGGTTGATGTAGACTTGTTGG OC LysLysLeuAlaPheArgAlaLyAleGlyPheSerAspSerValSerGluGluValValAspOP CysGly SerArgOP LeuLeuAlaHisArgGlnGluLeuValThrLeuPheLeuSerValLeuAM MeGluValValLeu ValGlugluSerCysLeuThrGlyLysSerTrpPheGluOP PheCysValOP TrpSerCysArgLeuleuTrp ArgOC GluAspArgArgGluAsnthrGluGluLeuAspHisgluGluLysAspLueLueGlnAspIlePheLeu GlyuValArgArgSerProArgLysHisProGlySerLysProProGlyLysArgProAleProArgHisIlePhe ArgGlyLysLysIleAlagluLysThrProArgValOC ThrThrArgLysLysThrCysSerLyThrThrPhe 2401 AGAGGTAAGAAGATCCCCGAGAAAACACCCAGGGTCTAAACCACCAGGAAAAACACCTGCTCCAAGACATATTTT TCTCCATTCTTCTAGCGGCTCTTTTGTGGGTCCCAGATTTGGTGGTCCTTTTTCTGGACGAGGTTCTGTATAAAA SerThrLeuleuAspGlyLeuPheCysClyProAspLeuGlyGlyProPheLueGlyAlaGlyLeuCysIleLys ProLeuPheIleAlaSerPhevalGlyleuThrAM ValVaiLeuPhePheValGlnGluLeuValTyrLysOC LeuTyrSerSerArgArgSerPheVaiTrpProArgPhe TrpTrpSerphesSerArgSerTrpSerMetAsnLys TABLE I cont d. OC ThrAM leuLysLySLysLeuLysGlyuHisLeuIl eGlnThrLeuThrGlnOP ValLysmetTrpAsnAsn IlensnLeuAlaLysLysLysAleLysGlythrSerAsnThrAsnSerAsnSerMetSerGlnAsnVelGluGln TyrLysLeuSerOC LysLysSerOC ArgArspIleOC TyrLysLeuOC LeuAspGluSerLysCysGlyThr 2476 TATAAACTTAGCTAAAAAAAAAGCTAAAGGGACATCTAATACAAACTCTAACTCAATGAGTCAAAATGTGGAACA ATATTTGAATCGATTTTTTTTTCGATTTCCCGTAGATTATGTTTGAGATTGAGTTADCTCAGTTTTACACCTTGT IlePheLysAlaLeuPhePheAlaleuProvalAspleuValPheGlul euGluIleLeuOP PheThrSerCys LeuSerLeuAM PhePheLeuAM LeuSerMetAM TyrLeuSerAM SerLeuSerAspPheHisProValval TyrValOC SerPhePhePheSerPheProSysArgIleCysGValArgvalOP HisThrLeuLeHisPheLeu ThrThrLeuLeuMetGlnAlaLeuAsnCysLeuGlnGluMethsnLeuGlyValGlyAlaAlavalAlaGly HisAsnProIleAsnAlaGlyThrGluLeuSerAlaThrGlyAsnGluSerGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyGlygly thrglnProTyrOC CysArgHisOP IleValCysAsnArgLysOP IleTrpGlyTrpGlyArgArgTrpArg 2551 ACACAACCCTATTAATGCAGGCATTGAATTGTCTGCAACAGGAAATGAATCTGGGGGTGGGGGGGGGGGTGGGGG TGTGTTGGGATAATTACGTCCGTGACTTAACACACGTTGTCCTTTACTTAGACCCCCACCCCCACCGCCACCCCC CysLeuGlyIleLeuAleProValSerAsnaspAlavlaProPheSerAsProPrtoProProProProPropro CysGlyAM OC HisLeuCysGlnIleThrClnLeuLeuPheHisIleGlnProHisProProArgHisArgPro valValArgAsnIleCysAlaSerPheGinArgCysCysSerIlePheArgProThrProAlaAlaThrAlaPro VelglyvalLeuglyGlyLeuValCysLueGlNValLeuSerIlelleLysGlnAsnPheAsnThrTrpGlyArg GlygrgGlyAlaGlyGlyValGlyValSerThrglyThrPheAsnAsnGlnThrGluPheGlnTyrLeuGlyTGlu GlyaM GlyCysTrogGlyGlyTrpCysValTyrArgTyrPheGlnOC SerAsnArgIleSerIleLeuGlyGly 2626 GGGTAGGGGT6GCTGGGGGGGTTGGTGTGTCTACAGGTACTTTCAATAATCAAACAGAATTTCAATACTTGGGGGA CCCATCCCCACCACCCCCCCCAACCACACAGATGTCCATGAAAGTTATTAGTTTGTCTTAAAGTTATGAACCCCCT ProLeuProAlaProProThrProThrAspValproValLysLeuLeuOP ValSerAsnOP TyrLysPOroSer TyrProHisGlnProProGlnHisThrAM leuTyrLysOP TyrAsgPheLeuIleGluIleSerProPorPro ThrProThrSerProProAsnThrHisAroCysThrSerGluIleLeuCysPheLysLeuValGlnProLeu TABLE I cont d. AlaTrpLeuGluserLeuHisThrMisGlnAspSerTyrIleOC IleCysGlnAsnThrLysHisThrLysGlu glyLeuValArgIleThrAlaHisAlaSerArgLeuIlaHisLeuAsnMetProGluMisGluthrTyrLysArg GlyLeuGlyAM AsnHisCysThrArgIleLysThrHisThrSerLysTyrAlaArgThrArgAsnIleGlnLys 2701 GGGCTTGGTTAGAATCACTGCACACGTCATCAAGACTCATACATCTAAATATGCCAGAACACGAAACATACAAAAG CCCGAACCAATCTTAGTGACGTGTGCGTAGTTCTGAGTATGTAGATTTATAGGGTCTTCTGCTTTGTATGTTTTG ProLysThrLeuIleValAlaCysAlaAspleuSerM,etCysArgPheIleGlySerCysSerValTyrLeuleu SerProOC PheOP GlnVelArgMetl. euVaiOP ValAsPLeuTyrAlLeuValArgPheMetCysPhePhe AlaglnasnSerAspsercysValCysOP SerGluTyrMehAM IleHisTropHevelpahCysValPheSer TyrMetTyrOC IleGlnAsnGlnGlyTrpAargAspLysTrplyrTysThrMetHisThrHisLysThpOC His IleHisValLeuAsnSerGluserGlyuvalAlaGlyGlnMevalGlnAspAspAlaHisThrGlnMetValThr AsnThrCysthrLysPheArgtIleArgGlyGlyGlyThr5AsnglyThrArgArgCysThrHisThrAsnGlAsn 2776 AATACATGTACTQAAATTCACAATCAGGGGTGGCGGGACAAATGGTACAAGACGATGCACACACACACAAATGGTAAC AATACATGTACTAAATTCACAATCAGGGGTGGGGGGACAAATGGTACAAGACGATGCACACACACACAAATGGTAAC IleCysThrSerPheGluSerAspRoiTh5rAlaporCyIleThrCysSerSerAlaCysValCyIleThrVal ValHisValLeuAsnLeuIleLeuProporporValPheProValLeuArgHisValCysValPheProLeuVal TyrMetTyrAM IleOP PheOP ProHisArgSerLeuHisTyrLeuVallieCysValcysLeuaHisTyrCys LeuGlyHisOC AM MeLusThrHisGlucyglySerIleglnArgThrGlySerOC TyrProThrThr ProTrpserLeuIleAspAlaAsnAleTrgGlyValTroPheAsnProAlaAsptrpGlnLeuIleSerAsnAsn thrLeuVelThrAsnArgysOC ArgMetGlySerValVelGlaSerSerGlyLeuAlaValAsnIleGlnGln 2851 ACCTTGGTCACTAATAGATGCTAACGCATGGGGAGTGTGGTTCAATCFCACCGGACTCCAGTTAATATCCAACAA TGGAACCAGTCATTATCTACGATTGCGTACCCTCACACCAAGTTAGCGTCGCCTGACCGTCAATTATAGGTTGTT GlyGlgAspSerIieSerAlaLueAlsHisProthrHisAnsLeuGlyAlaSerGlnCysAsnIleAspLeuleu LysThrValLeuLeuHisAm ArgMetProLeuThrThrOP AspLeuProSerAsaThrLeuIleTrpCysCys ArgProOP AM TyrIleSerValCysProSerHisproGluIleTrpArgValproLeuOC TyrGlyValval TABLE I cont d. OP GlnLysOC ThrAM LeuValLeuAsnLysLysTyrSerMetAM TyrLeuLysGlnLeuGlnAsnGlnGln MetThrGiulleAsnLeuValSerPheGluGlnGluIlePheAsnValValLeuLysThrleThrGluSerAla HisAspArgAsnLysLeuSerAM PheOP ThrArgAsrIleGlnCysSerThrOC AsnasnTyrArgileSer 2926 CATGACAGAAATAAACTTAGTTAGTTTTGAACAACAAATATTCAATGTAGTACTTAAAACAATTACAGAATCAGC GTACTGTCTTTATTTCAATCAATCAAAACTTGTTCTTTATAACTTACATCATGAATTTTGTTAATGTCTTAGTCC MetvalSerIlePheLySThrLeuLysSerCysSerIleAsnLeuThrThrSerLeuValIleValSexAspAla SerLeuPheLeuSerLeuDC AsnGlnValLeuPheIleUp HisLeuVaLOC PheLeUCC LeuI1eLeuLeu HisCySPheTyrValOC AsnThrLysPheLeuPheTyrGluIleTycTyrLysPhaCysAsnCysPheOP Cys ProHisHisGlNProLySTyrIleIleIlemMeTIleOC LeuGlnAlaOC TrpSerGlnAM ThrProIleThrHis ThrSerProProThrLysIleTyrAsnAsnAsplLeuThrAlaSerLeuMetvalAleIleAspThrAsnasnThr AsnLeuThrThrAsnGlnAsnIleOC OC CP SerAsnCysLysLeuAsnGlyArgAsnArgHisGlnOC His 3001 AACCTCACCACCAACCAAAATATATAATAATGATCTAACTGCAAGCTTAATGGTCGCAATAGACACCAATAACAC TTGGAGTGGTGGTTGGTTTTATATATTATTACTAGATTGACGTTCGAATTACCAGCGTTATCTGTGGTTATTGTG ValGluGlyGlyValLeuIleTyrLeuLeuSerArgvalAlElSuLysIleThrAlaIleSerVaiLeuLeuVal ArgValValLeuTrppheIleTyrTyrHisAspLeuGloLeuSerLeuProArgLeuleuCystfptptyrCysval GlyOP TrPTrpGlyPheTyRileIleIlelleAM SerCysAlsOC HisAspCysTyrValGlyIleValCys PheHisThrHisGlnGlpHisLeuGluVaIlYsHisLeuValPHelleHisGlyTyrLeuGlnAsnGlnLeuAsn LeuProTyrThrProAlaAlProArgSerGluThrLeuGlyPhetyrProTrpLeuProThrLysProThrGln ThrserIleHisThrSerSerThrAH LysOP AsnThrTrPPheleuSerMetVaIThrTyrLysThrAsnSer 3076 TGAAGGTATGTGTGGTCGTCGTGGATCTTCACTTTGTGAACCAAAAATAGGTACCAATGGATGTTTTGGTTGAGT SerGlyTyrValGlyAlaAlaGlyLeuLeuSerValSerProLysOC GlyHisAsnGlyValPHeGlyValOP GluMetCySValLeuLeuValAM PheHisPHevalGlnAsnLySAspMetThrValAm LeuValleuGluIle LysTrpValCysTrpCysCysArgSerThrPheCysLysThrLysIlewTrpproDC ArgCysPhetcpSerLeu TABLE I cont d. ThrAspIleThrTyrHisAlaSerGluThrOC IleHisGlnHisThrLeuAspAsnHisAsnLysOC GlnThr TyrArgTyrTyrleuSerCysIleAIgAsnLeuAsnProProThrTyrThrglyGlnSerGlnGlnIleThrAsp IleGlnIleLeuProIleMetHisGlnLysProLysSerThrAsnIleHisTrpThrIleThrThrAsnAsnArg 3151 ATACAGATATTACCTATCATGCATCAGAAACCTAAATCCACCAACATACACTGGACAATCACAACAAATAACAGA TATGTCTATAATGGATAGTACGTAGTCTTTGGATTTAGGTGGTTGTATGTGACCTGTTAGTGTTGTTTATTGTCT TyrleuTyrOC ArgAspHisMetLeuPheArgPheGlyGlyValTyrValProCysAspCysCy sIleValSer ValSerIleValAM OP AlaAspSerValAM IleTrpTrpCYsValSerSerLeuOP LeuLeuTyrCysVal GlnTyrLysGlnAspTyrThrValThrLeuCysSerThrGlnAM LysMetGlnTyrGlnPheIlePheOC Glu SerIleGlnThrTGlyLeuHisSerAspIleMetPheTyrThrIleGluAsnAlaValProIleHisLeuLeuArg LeuAsnThrAsnArgThrThrGlnOP HisTyrValLeuHisAsnArgLysCysSerThrAsnSerSerSerLys 3226 CTCAATACAAACAGGACTACACACTGACATGTATGTTCTACACAATACAAATGCAGTACCAATTCATCTTCTAAG GAGTTATGTTTGTCCTGATGTGTCACTGTAATACAAGATGTCTTATCTTTTACGTCATGGTTAAGTAGAAGATTC GluIleCysValProSerCysLeuSerMetIleAsnAM ValIlESerPheAleThrGlyIleOP ArgArgLeu LeuValPheLeuValValCysHisCysOC ThrArgCysLeuLeuPheHisLeuValLeuGluAspGluLeuPhe OP TyrLeuCysSerAM ValThrValAsnHisGluValCysTyrPheIleCysTyrTrpAsnMetLysAM Ser GlnGluMetAsnSerProGlnGluTyrIleThrLeuThrGlnAsnHisOC AsnOC LeuThjrHisGly LysGln ThrGlyAspGluPheSerThrGlyIleTyrHisPheAspThrLysProLeuLysLeuThrHisSerTrpGlnThr AsnArgArgOP IleLeuHisArgAsnIleSerLeuOP HisLysThrThrLysIleAsnSerLeuMetAlaAsn 3301 AACAGGAGATGAATTCTCCACAGGAATATATCACTTTGACACAAAACCACTAAAATTAACTCACTCATGGCAAAC TTGTCCTCTACTTAAGAGGTGTCCTTATATAGTGAAACTGTGTTTTGGTGATTTTAATTGAGTGAGTACCGTTTG ValProSerSerAsnGluValProIleTyrOP LysSerValPheGlySerPheAsnValOP GluHisCysVal LeuLeuHisIleArgTrpLeuPheIleAspSerGlnCysLeuValValLeuIleLeuGluSErMetAslaPheLeu CysSerIlePheGluGluCysSerTyrIleValLysValCysPheTroAM PheOC SerValOP ProLeuCys TABLE I cont d. ThrAspLeuAM AspCysLeuGlnAsnTyrOCLeuAsnLeuProGlnLysGluThrAsnSerGlnGluHisTyr AsnArgSerLeuGlyuleuProProLysLeuLeuThrGluProThrThrGluGlyAspGlnLeuProGlyThrLeu LysglnIleSerArgThrAlaSerLysThrThrAsnOP ThrTyrHisArgArgArgProThrProArgASnThr 3376 AAACAGATCTCTAGGACTGCCTCCAAAACTACTAACTGAACCTACCACAGAAGGAGACCAACTCCCACCAACACT TTTGTCTAGAGATCCTGACGGAGGTTTTGATGATTAACTTGGATGGTGTCTTCCTCTGGTTGAGGGTCCTTGTGA PheLeuAspArgProSerGlyGlyPheSerSerValSerGlyValValSerProSerTrpSerGlyProValSer CysIleGluLeuValAlaGluLeuValValLeuGlnValAM TrpLeuLeuLeuGlyVelGlyLeuPheValVal ValSerArgAM SerGlnaRgTrpPheAM AM SerPheArgglyCysPheSerValLeuagluTrpSerCysAM GlnGlnLeuThrGlnGlyLysValIleThrLysGlnLeuIleIleAlaThrGl uLysGlnGngolnLeuGly ThrSerSerOC HisLysLysArgLeuSerProAsnasnOC OC AM LeuHisArgSerAsnSerAsnAM Ala 3451 ACCAGCACCTAACACAAGAAAAGGTTATCACCAAACAATTAATAATAGCTACACAGAACCAACAGCAATTAGGGC TGGTCGTCGATTGTGTTCTTTTCCAATACTGGTTTGTTAATTATTATCGATGTGTCTTCGTTGTCGTTAATCCGG GlyAlaAlaLeuValLeuPheProOC OP TrpValIleLeuLeuLeuAM ValSerAlaValAlaIleLeuGly LeuLeuAM CysLeuPheLeuAsnAsnGlyPheLeuOC TyrTyrSerCysLeuLeuLeuLeuLeuOC Ala TrpCysSerValCysSerPheThrIleValLeuCysAsnIleIleAlaValCysPheCysCysCysAsnPro Table I sets out in capital letters the continuous sequence of base pairs of porcine parvovirus RFDNA, as identified, commencing with approximately the 300th base of the 5 kb PPV genome i.e., commencing at about the Pstl restriction site to the left in Figure 1 and through approximately 3400 bases thereafter i.e., to the HaeIII restriction site to the right in Figure 1 .Flanking the DNA sequence are six possible amino acid sequences into which the DNA could be translated, depending upon the reading frame. Stop codons are designated as OC, or OP, or AM. More specifically, the three amino acid sequences above the DNA sequence represent three left to right translations of the upper DNA strand and the sequences below represent the three possible right to left translations. Later sequence confirmation of the continuous sequence of base pairs of porcine parvovirus RF DNA disclosed in Figure 2 of U.S. Patent Application SerialNo. 459,203, revealed that four bases originally present in Figure 2 sequence were not confirmed and are hence absent from the sequence in Table I herein 130 bases were omitted from the original sequence and have been inserted herein and 9 bases were incorrectly identified in Figure 2 of the parent application and are corrected in Table I herein. The specific corrections are noted in the sequence of Table I as follows 1 At reference No. 199 of the sequence ofTable I, the parent application indicated the presence of an A T pair, which was not confirmed upon sequence verification 2 At reference Nos 273 through 401 of the sequence of Table I is a sequence of 129 bases omitted from Figure 2 of the parent application 3 At reference No 488 of the sequence ofTable I, the parent application indicated the presence of a G C pair, which was not confirmed upon sequence verification 4 At reference Nos 494 496 of the sequence of Table I, Figure 2 of the parent application indicated the presence of three T A pairs, which upon sequence verification were shown to be A T pairs 5 At reference No. 520 of the sequence ofTable I, Serial No. 459,203 indicated the presence of an additional A T pair whose presence was not confirmed upon sequence verification 6 At reference No. 557 of the sequence ofTable I, Serial No. 459,203 failed to indicate the presence of a G C pair revealed upon sequence verification 7 At reference No. 702 of the sequence ofTable I, Serial No. 459,203 indicated the presence of aT A pair, which was not confirmed upon sequence verification and 8 At reference Nos. 816 through 821 of the sequence of Table I, Serial No. 459,203 indicated the presence of the following sequence 5 CCAAAA 3 D GGTTTT 5 which, upon sequence verification was determined to be 5 TTCCCC 3 3 AAGGGG 5 Examination of the entire sequence of Table I in all possible reading frames reveals the presence of one major coding phase in the direction predicted by hybridization data, left to right in Figure 1. This open frame extends from positions 0.82 through and possibly beyond 3.85 kb with the exception of a small region near 2.2 kb. A computer search of the sequence also revealed the existence of several canonical RNA splicing junction sequences. Left hand splice sites AGGTA are found at 7 positions and right hand sites TT any CAGE at 2 positions.Since these sequences are only 5 unique nucleotides in length, they would be expected to occur randomly about once every 1000 nucleotides therefore their presence only indicates the possibility of splicing events occurring. Splicing is known to occur, however, in a closely related parvovirus, H1, wherein S1 nuclease mapping experiments indicated that 4.7, 3.0 and 2.8 kb viral transcripts were the product of the splicing of a common 2.6 kb segment to smaller non continguous segments. See,Green, et al., Cell 17, 967 1979 . Preliminary results suggest an analogous situation in PPV.Hybridization of total polyA RNA from PPV infected cells to the negative strand genomic DNA produced 2 major S1 resistant duplex bands on a neutral agarose gel with lengths 2.8 and 2.6 kb and a less intense band at 4.7 kb. In addition, some hybrids viewed in the electron microscope appear to be the result of DNA hybridization to spliced RNA, although such evidence is not conclusive. Table II sets out in capital letters the DNA sequence of Table I, together with the coded amino acid sequence having the highest probability of being duplicative of the translational result of porcine parvovirusDNA directed viral protein manufacture. TABLE II CysSerMetAlaAlaGlyAsnThrTyrSerGluGluValLeuLysAlaThrAsnTrPLeu 10 20 30 40 50 60 Bbvl Bbvl Mboll Rsal Alul 2 TGCAGCATGGCAGCGGGAAACACTTACTCGGAAGAGGTACTAAAAGCTACCAACTGGCTT ACGTCGTACCGTCGCCCTTTTGAATGAGCCTTCTCCATGAATTTTCGATGGTTGACCGAA Fnu4hl Fnu4hl Mnl GlnAspAsnAlaGlnLysGluAlaPheSerTyrValPheLysThrGlnLysValAAsnLeu 10 20 30 40 50 60 62 CAAGATAATGCTCAAAAAGAAGCATTCTCTTATGTATTTAAAACACAAAAAGTCAATCTA GTTCTATTACGAGTTTTTCTTCGTAAGAGAATACATAAATTTTGTGTTTTTCAGTTAGAT AnsGlyLysGluIleAlaTrpAsnAsnTyrAsoLysAspThrThrAspAlaGluMetIle 10 20 30 40 50 60 Asull SfaNl 122 AATGGAAAAGAAATTGCTTGGAATAACTACAACAAAGATACAACAGATGCGGAAATGATA TTACCTTTTCTTTAACGAACCTTATTGATGTTGTTTCTATGTTGTCTACGCCTTTACTAT TABLE II cont d. AsnLeuGlnArgGlyAlaGluThrSerTrpAspGlnAlaThrAspMetGluTrpGluSer 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mnl AsulEcorll Hinfl 182 AACCTACAAAGAGGAGCAGAAACATCATGGGACCAGGCAACAGACATGGAATGGGAATCA TTGGATGTTTCTCCTCGTCTTTGTAGTACCCTGGTCCGTTGTCTGTACCTTACCCTTAGT Avall GluIleAspSerLeuThrLysArgGlnValLeuIlePheAspSerLeuValLysLysCys 10 20 30 40 60 Taql Mnl Rrul Hinfl 242 GAAATCGACAGCCTCACAAAACGGCAAGTACTGATTTTTCACTCTCTTGTTAAAAAATGT CTTTAGCTGTCGGAGTGTTTTGCCGTTCATGACTAAAAACTGAGAGAACAATTTTTTACA Resl LeuPheGluglyIleLeuGlnLysAsnLeuSerProSerAspCysTyrTrPheLeuGln 10 20 30 40 50 60 302 CTCTTTGAAGGTATATTGCAAAAGAACCTAAGTCCAAGTGACTGCTACTGGTTCTTACAG GAGAAACTTCCATATAACGTTTTCTTGGATTCAGGTTCACTGACGATGACCAAGAATGTC HisGluHisGlyGlnAspThrGlyTyrHisCysHisValLeuLeuaGlyGlyLysGlyLeu 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal 362 CATGAACATGGTCAAGATACTTGGCTATCACTGCCATGTACTACTAGGTGGAAAAGGCTTA GTACTTGTACCAGTTCTATGACCGATAGTGACGGTACATGATGATCCACCTTTTCCCGAAT TABLE II cont d. GlnGlnAlaMetGlyLysTrpLeuArgLysGlnLeuAsnAsnLeuTrpSerArgTrpLeu 10 20 30 40 50 60 422 CAACAAGCAATGGGAAAATGGTTACGAAAACAATTAAACAATTTATGGAGTAGATGGTTG GTTGTTCGTTACCCTTTTACCAATGCTTTTGTTAATTTGTTAAATACCTCATCTACCAAC AsnAnsGlnCysLysValProLeuThrProValGluArgIleLysLeuArgGluLeuAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal 482 AATAATCAATGCAAAGTACCTCTAACACCAGTTGAAAGAATAAAATTAAGGGAATTAGCA TTATTAGTTACGTTTCATGGAGATTGTGGTCAACTTTCTTATTTTAATTCCCTTAATCGT GluAspGlyGluTrpValSerLeuLeuThrTyrThrHisLysGlnThrLysLysGlnTyr 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mnl Hph 542 GAGGATGGTGAGTGGGTATCGCTACTAACCTACACTCACAAACAAACTAAAAAACAATAT CTCCTACCACTCACCCATAGCGATGATTGGATGTGAGTGTTTGTTTGATTTTTTGTTATA ThrLysMetThrHisPheGlyAsnMetIleAlaTyrTyrPheLueAsnLysLysArgLys 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl Asull 602 ACAAAAATGACTCATTTTGGAAATATGATTGCTTACTACTTCCTAAATAAAAAAAGAAAG TGTTTTTACTGAGTAAAACCTTTATACTAACGAATGATGAAGGATTTATTTTTTTCTTTC TABLE II cont d. ThrThrGluargGluHisGlyTyrTyrLeuSerSerAspSerGlyPheMetThrAsnPhe 10 20 30 40 50 60 Odel Oder 662 ACAACTGAAAGAGAGCAGCATATTATCTCAGCTCAGATTCTGGCTTCATGACAAATTTC TGTTGACTTTCTCTCGTACCTATAATAGAGTCAGTCTAAGACGGAAGTACTGTTTAAAG Alul Hinfl LeuLysGluGlyGluArgHisLeuValSErHisLeuPheThrGluAlaAsnLysProGlu 10 20 30 40 50 60 722 TTAAAAGAAGGCGAGAGACACTTAGTCAGTCACCTATTTACTGAAGCAAATAAACCTGAA AATTTTCTTCCGCTCTCTGTGAATCAGTCAGTGGATAAATGACTTCGTTTATTTGGACTT ThrValGluThrThrValThrThrAlaGlnGluValProArgGlyArgIleGlnThrLys 10 20 30 40 50 60 782 ACTGTGGAAACAACGGTTACTACAGCTCAGGAAGTTCCCCGAGGCAGAATACAAACAAAA TGACACCTTTGTTGCCAATGATGTCGAGTCCTTCAAGGGGCTCCGTCTTATGTTTGTTTT TABLE II cont d. LysgluvalSerIleLysCysThrIleArgAspLeuValAsnLysArgCysThrSerIle 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal 842 AAAGAAGTAAGCATAAAATGCACAATAAGACTTGGTTAATAAAAGATGTACTAGCATATA TTTCTTCATTCGTATTTTACGTGTTATTCTCTGAACCAATTATTTTCTACATGATCGTAT GluGly TrpSerMetThrAspProaspSerTyrIleGlymetmeAetAlaGlnThrGlyGly Xholl Hpall 902 GAAGGCTGGAGTATGACAGATCCAGACAGTTATATAGAAATGATGGCTCAAACCGGAGGA CTTCCCACCTCATACTGTCTAGGTCTGTCAATATATCTTTACTACCGAGTTTGGCCTCCT Mbol Mnl GluAsnLeuIleLysAsnThrLeugluIleThrThrLeuThrLeuAlaArgThrLysThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 962 GAAAATTTAATCAAAAATACACTAGAAATAACAACTCTTACTCTAGCAAGAACAAAAACA CTTTTAAATTAGTTTTTATGTGATCTTTATTGTTGAGAATGAGAGTCGTTCTTGTTTTGT AlaTrAspLeuIleLeuGluLysAlaLysProSerMelLueProThrPheAsnIleSer 10 20 30 40 50 60 1022 GCATATGACTTAATACTTGAAAAGGCAAAACCAAGCATGCTACCAACATTTAATATTAGC CGTATACTGAATTATGAACTTTTCCGTTTTGGTTCGTACGATGGTTGTAAATTATAATCG TABLE II cotn d. AsnThrArgThrCysLysIlePheSerMetHisAsnTrpAsnTyrIleLysValCysHis 10 20 30 40 50 60 Sphl Asull 1082 AATACAAGAACATGTAAAATATTCAGCATGCACAATTGGAACTACATTAAAGTCTGCCAT TTATGTTCTTGTACATTTTATAAGTCGTACGTGTTAACCTTGATGTAATTTCAGACGGTA AlaIleThrCysValleuLysGlnThrArgArgLysLysLysTyAsnSerIleSerCys 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal Mnl 1142 GCTATAACTTGTGTACTGAAACAGACAAGGAGGAAAAAGAAATACAATTCTATTTCATGT CGATATTGAACACATGACTTTGTCTGTTCCTCCTTTTTCTTTATGTTAAGATAAACTACA HisGlyProAlaSerThrGlyLysSErIleIleAlaGlnHisIleAlaAsnLueValGly 10 20 30 40 50 60 Asul Ddel 1202 CATGGGCCAGCATCAACAGGAAAAAGTATAATTGCTCAACACATTGCAAACTTAGTTGGT GTACCCGGTGGTAGTTGTCCTTTTTCATATTAACGAGTTGTGTAACGTTTGAATCAACCA Haelll TABLE II cotn d. AsnValGlyCysTyrAsnAlaAlaAsnvalkAsnPheProPheAsnAspCysThrAsnLys Fnu4hl Rsal 1262 AATGTTGGTTGCTACAATGCAGCCAATGTGAACTTTCCATTTAATGACTGTACAAATAAA TTACAACCAACGATGTTACGTCGGTTACACTTGAAAGGTAAATTACTGACATGTTTATTT Bbvl AsnLueIleTrpIleGluGluAlaGlyAsnPheSerAsnGlnValAsnGlnPheLysAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 1322 AACTTAATATGGATTGAAGAAGCAGGAAACTTCTCTAACCAATTAAACCAATTCAAAGCC TTGAATTATACCTAACTTCTTCGTCCTTTGAAGAGATTGGTTCATTTGGTTAAGTTTCGG IleCysSerGlyGlnThrIleArgIleAspGlnLysGlyLysGlySerLysGlnIleGlu 10 20 30 40 50 60 1382 ATATGTTCAGGTCAAACAATTAGAATTGACCAAAAAGGTAAAGGAAGCAAACAAATTGAA TATACAAGTCCAGTTTGTTAATCTTAACTGGTTTTTCCATTTCCTTCGTTTGTTTAACTT ProThrProValIleMetThrThrAsnGluAsplleThrLysValArgIleGlyCysGlu 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mboll SfaNIMe 1442 CCAACTCCTGTAATAATGACTACAAATGAAGACATAACTAAAGTTAGAATAGGATGCGAG GCTTGAGGACATTATTACTGATGTTTACTTCTGTATTGATTTCAATCTTATCCTACGCTC TABLE II cont d. GluArgProgluHisThrGlnProIleArgAspArgMetLeuAsnIleHisLeuThrArg 10 20 30 40 50 60 1 1502 GAAAGACCAGAACATACACAACCAATAAGAGACAGAATGTTAAACATACACCTAACCAGA CTTTCTGGTCTTGTATGTGTTGGTTATTCTCTGTCTTACAATTTGTATGTGGATTGGTCT LysLeuProglyaspPheGlyLeuLeugluGluthrgluTrproLeuIleCysAlaTrp 10 20 30 40 50 60 Ecorll Mboll Haelhaelll 1652 AAACTGCCAGGTGATTTTGGACTTTTAGAAGAAACTGAATGGCCACTAATATGTGCTTGG TTTGACGGTCCACTAAAACCTGAAAATCTTCTTTGACTTACCGGTGATTATACACGAACC LeuValLysLysglyTyrGlnalaThrMetAlaSerTyrMetHisHisTrpGlyAsnVal 10 20 30 40 50 60 Bstell alul Avalll Rs 1622 TTGGTAAAGAAAGGTTACCAAGCAACAATGGCTAGCTATATGCATCATTGGGGAAATGTA AACCATTTCTTTCCAATGGTTCGTTGTTACCGATCGATATACGTAGTAACCCCTTTACAT TABLE II cont d. ProAspTrpSerGluLysLeuglugluProLysMetHisSerProIleAsnthrProThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mnl Avalll 1682 CCTGATTGGTCAGAAAAATTGGAGAGCCAAAAATGCATTCCCCAATAAATACACCAACA GGACTAACCAGTCTTTTTAACCTCCTCGGTTTTACGTAAGGGGTTATTTATGTGGTTGT AspSerGlnIleSerThrSerValLysThrSerProAlaAspilAsnTyrAlaAlaThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl Bbvl 1742 GACTCTCAGATTTCCACATCAGTGAAAACTTCCCCAGCGGACATCAACTACGCAGCAACT CTGAGAGTCTAAAGGTGTAGTCACTTTTGAAGCGGTCGCCTGTAGTTGATGCGTCGTTGA Odel Fnr4hl ProIleGlnGluaspLeuAspleuAlaLeualaLeuGl uProtrpserGluProThrThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 1802 CCAATACAGGAGGACCTGGATTTAGCTTTAGCCTTGGAGCCGTGGAGCGAGCCAACAACA GGTTATGTCCTCCTGGACCTAAATCGAAATCGGAACCTCGGCACCTCGCTCGGTTGTTGT AsulEoorll ProthrPheThrAsnLeuHisLeuaThrProThrProProAspSerAlaIleArgThrPro 10 20 30 40 50 60 1862 CCAACTTTCACCAACCTGCACTTAACTCCAACACCGCCAGATTCAGCAATACGGACACCA GGTTGAAAGTGGTTGGACGTGAATTGAGGTTGTGGCGCTCTAAGTCGTTATGCCTGTGGT TABLE II l cont d. SerProThrTrpSerGluIleGluThrAspIleArgAlaCysPheGluGluAsnCysAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hph HgiA 1922 AGTCCAACTTGGTCGGAAATAGAAACCGACATAAGAGCCTGCTTTGGTGAAAACTGTGCA TCAGGTTGAACCAGCCTTTATCTTTGGCTGTATTCTCGGACGAAACCACTTTTGACACGT ProGlnGlnThrLeuAsnLysValGlyTrpArgLeuLeuGlnLysgluglnGluValArg 10 20 30 40 50 60 1 Acyl Mnl 1982 CCACAACAAACCTTGAATAAGGTAGGATGGCGTCTCCTGCAAAAACAGCAAGAGGTAAGG GGTGTTGTTTGGAACTTATTCCATCCTACCGCAGAGGACGTTTTTCTCGTTCTCCATTCC ValValLeuArgGlyTrpTrpAlaTyrIleOC 10 20 30 40 50 60 2042 GTAGTTTTAAGGGGGTGGTGGGCATACATATAAAACTAACTGCAAATAATTTTTTTATAT CATCAAAATTCCCCCACCACCCCTATGTATATTTTGATTGACGTTTATTAAAAAAATATA TABLE II cont d. GlyleuThrLeuProglyTyrLystyrleuGlyProGlyAsnSerLeuAspGln 10 20 30 40 50 60 Ecorll AvallEcorll 2102 ATTACAGGACTAACTCTACCAGGATACAAATACCTTGGTCCAGGAAACTCACTAGACCAA TAATGTCCTGATTGAGATGGTCCTATGTTTATGGAACCAGGTCCTTTGAGTGATCTGGTT Asul GlyGluProThrAsnProSerAspAlaAlaAlaLysGluHisAspGluAlaTyrAspLys 10 20 30 40 50 60 AcylFnu4hlBbvl 2162 GGAGAACCAACTAATCCATCAGACGCCGCAGCAAAAGAACACGACGAAGCCTACGACAAA CCTCTTGGTTGATTAGGTAGTCTGCTTCGTCGTTTTCTTGTGCTGCTTCGGATGCTGTTT Mgal Fnu4hl TyrIleLysSerGlyLysAsnProTyrPheTyrPheSerAlaAlaAspGluLysPheIle 10 20 30 40 50 60 OdelFnu4hlAlul 2222 TACATAAAATCTGGAAAAAATCCATACTTCTACTTCTCAGCAGCTGATGAAAAATTCATA ATGTATTTTAGACCTTTTTTAGGTATGAAGATGAAGAGTCGTCGACTACTTTTTAAGTAT BbvlPvull LysgluThrGluHisAlaLysAspTyrglyGlyLysIleGlyHisTyrPhePeArgAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 2282 AAAGAAACTGAACACGCAAAAGACTACGGAGGTAAAATTGGACATTACTTCTTCAGAGCA TTTCTTTGACTTGTGCGTTTTCTGATGCCTCCATTTTAACCTGTAATGAAGAAGTCTCGT TABLE II cont d. LysArgAlaPheAlaProLysLeuSerGluThrAspSerProThrThrSerGlnGlnPro 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl 2342 AAGCGTGCCTTTGCTCCAAAACTGTCAGAAACAGACTCACCAACTACATCTCAACAACCA TTCGCACGGAAACGAGGTTTTGACAGTCTTTGTCTGAGTGGTTGATGTAGAGTTGTTGGT Hph GluVelArgArgSerProArgLysHisProglySerLysProProGlyLysArgProAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mnl MbollGdill Ecorll Ecorll 2402 GAGGTAAGAAGATCGCCGAGAAAACACCCAGGGTCTAAACCACCAGGAAAAAGACCTGCT CTCCATTCTTCTAGCGGCTCTTTTGTGGGTCCCAGATTTGGTGGTCCTTTTTCTGGACGA Nbol ProArgHisIlePheIleAsnLeuAlaLysLysLysAlaLysGlythrSerAsnThrAsn 10 20 30 40 50 60 2462 CCAAGACATATTTTTATAAACTTAGCTAAAAAAAAAGCTAAAGGGACATCTAATACAAAC GGTTCTGTATAAAAATATTTGAATCGATTTTTTTTTCGATTTCCCTGTAGATTATGTTTG Alul TABLE II cont d. SerAsnSerMetSerGlnAsnValGluGluHisAsnProIleAsnAlaGlyThrGluLeu 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl 2522 TCTAACTCAATGAGTCAAAATGTGGAACAACACAACCCTATTAATGCAGGCACTGAATTG AGATTGACTTACTCAGTTTTACACCTTGTTCTGTTGGGATAATTACGTCCGTGACTTAAC SerAlaThrGlyAsngluSErGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyGlyArgglyAlaGly 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl Fnu4hl 2582 TCTGCAACAGGAAATGAATCTGGGGGTGGGGGCGGCGGTGGCGGGGGTAGGGGTGCTGGG AGACGTTGTCCTTTACTTAGACCCCCACCCCCGCCGCCACCGCCCGCCATCCCACGACCC GlyValGlyValSerThrGlyThrPheAsnAsnGlnThrgluPheGlnTyrLeuGlyGlu 10 20 30 40 50 60 2642 GGGGTTGGTGTGTCTACAGGTACTTTCAATAATCAAACAGAATTTCAATACTTGGGGGAG CCCCAACCACACAGATGTCCATGAAAGTTATTAGTTTGTCTTAAAGTTATGAACCCCCTC TABLE II cont d. GlyLeuValArgIleThrAlaHisAlaSerArgLeuIleHisLeuAsnMetProGluHis 10 20 30 40 50 60 1 Hinfl Hinfl 2702 GGCTTGGTTAGAATCACTGCACACGCATCAAGACTCATACATCTAAATATGCCAGAACAC CCGAACCAATCTTAGTGACGTGTGCGTAGTTCTGAGTATGTAGATTTATACGGTCTTGTG GluThrTyrLysArgIleHisValLeuAsnSerGluSerGlyValAlaGlyGlnMetVal 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal Hinfl R5 2762 GAAACATACAAAAGAATACATGTACTAAATTCAGAATCAGGGGTGGCGGGACAAATGGTA CTTTGTATGTTTTCTTATGTACATGATTTAAGTCTTAGTCCCCACCGCCCTGTTTACCAT GlnAspAspAlaHisThrGlnMetValThrProTrpSerLeuIleAspAlaAsnAaTrp 10 20 30 40 50 6f0 al SfaNl SfaNl 2822 CAAGACGATGCACACACACAAATGGTAACACCTTGGTCACTAATAGATGCTAACGCATGG GTTCTGCTACGTGTGTGTGTTTACCATTGTGGAACCAGTGATTATCTACGATTGCGTACC GlyValTrpPheAsnProAlaAspTrpGlnLeuIleSerAsnAsnMetThrGluIleAsn 10 20 30 40 50 60 2882 GGAGTGTGGTTCAATCCAGCGGACTGGCAGTTAATATCCAACAACATGACAGAAATAAAC CCTCACACCAAGTTAGGTCTGCTGACCGTCAATTATAGGTTGTTGTACTGTCTTTATTTG TABLE II cont d. LeuVelSerPheGluGlnGluIlePheAsnValValLeuLysThrIleThrgluSerAla 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rrul Hinfl 2942 TTAGTTAGTTTTGAACAAGAAATATTCAATGTAGTACTTAAAACAATTACAGAATCAGCA AATCAATCAAAACTTGTTCTTTATAAGTTACATCATGAATTTTGTTAATGTCTTAGTCGT Rsal ThrSerProProthrLysIleTyrAsnAsnAspLeuThrAlaSerleuMetValAlaIle 10 20 30 40 50 60 Mnl Mbol Hindill 3002 ACCTCACCACCAACCAAAATATATAATAATGATCTAACTGCAAGCTTAATGGTCGCAATA TGGAGTGGTGGTTGGTTTTATATATTATTACTAGATTGACGTTCGAATTACCAGCGTTAT Hph Alul AspThrAsnAsnThrLeuProTyrThrProAlaAlaProArgSerGluThrLeuGlyPhe 10 20 30 40 50 60 3062 GACACCAATAACACACTTCCATACACACCAGCAGCACCTAGAAGTGAAACACTTGGTTTT CTGTGGTTATTGTGTGAAGGTATGTGTGGTCGTCGTGGATCTTCACTTTGTGAACCAAAA Bbvl TyrProTrpLeuProThyrLysProThrGlnTyrArgTyrTyrleuSerCysIleArgAsn 10 20 30 40 50 60 Bstell Avalll 3122 TATCCATGGTTACCTACAAAACCAACTCAATACAGATATTACCTATCATGCATCAGAAAC ATAGGTACCAATGGATGTTTTGGTTGAGTTATGTCTATAATGGATAGTACGTAGTCTTTG TABLE II cont d. LeuAsnProProThrtyrThrGlyGlnSerGlnGlnIlethrAspSerIleGlnThrGly 10 20 30 40 50 60 Hinfl 3182 CTAAATCCACCAACATACACTGGACAATCACAACAAATAACAGACTCAATACAAACAGGA GATTTAGGTGGTTGTATGTGACCTGTTAGTGTTGTTTATTGTCTGAGTTATGTTTGTCCT leuHisSerAspIleMetPheTyrThrIleGluAsnAlaValPorIleHisLeuLeuArg 10 20 30 40 50 60 Rsal Mboll 3242 CTACACAGTGACATTATGTTCTACACAATAGAAAATGCAGTACCAATTCATCTTCTAAGA GATGTGTCACTGTAATACAAGATGTGTTATCTTTTACGTCATGGTTAAGTAGAAGATTCT Ddel ThrGlyAspgluPheSerThrGlyIleTyrHisPheAspThrLysProleuLysLeuThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 Ecorl 3302 ACAGGAGATGAATTCTCCACAGGAATATATCACTTTGACACAAAACCACTAAAATTAACT TGTCCTCTACTTAAGAGGTGTCCTTATATAGTGAAACTGTGTTTTGGTGATTTTAATTGA TABLE II cont d. HisSerTrpGlnthrAsnArgSerLeuGlyleuProProLysLeuLeuThrGluProThr 10 20 30 40 50 60 DXhollMbol Mnl 3362 CACTCATGGCAAACAAACAGATCTCTAGGACTGCCTCCAAAACTACTAACTGAACCTACC GTGAGTACCGTTTGTTTGTCTAGAGATCCTGACGGAGGTTTTGATGATTGACTTGGATGG Bglii ThrGluGlyAspglnLeuProGlyThrLeuProAlaAlaAsnThrArglysGlyTyrHis 10 20 30 40 50 60 Ecorll BbvlAlul Hph 3422 ACAGAAGGAGACCAACTCCCAGGAACACTACCAGCAGCTAACACAAGAAAAGGTTATCAC TGTCTTCCTCTGGTTGAGGGTCCTTGTGATGGTCCTCGATTGTGTTCTTTTCCAATAGTG Fnu4hl GlnThrIleAsnAsnSerTyrThrGluAlaThrAlaIleArg 10 20 30 40 Alul Hae 3482 CAAACAATTAATAATACCTACACAGAAGCAACAGCAATTAGGCC GTTTGTTAATTATTATCGATGTGTGTTCGTTGTCGTTAATCCGG Note that the amino acid sequence corresponds to that shown in the middle sequence above the DNA strand in Table I.Correspondingly, the DNA sequence ofTable II lacks the initial base pair C C illustrated in Table I. Table II also illustrates computer deduced recognition sites for cleavage by common restriction endonucleases. The sequence disclosed in Table II corresponds to Figure 3 of U.S. Patent Application Serial No.459,203 except for the changes indicated above for the sequence of Table 1 However, because the bese chances, deletions and insertions made to the sequence of Figures z and 3 of Serial No. 459,203 appearing in Tables I and 11, respectively, totalled 2 number of bases divisible by three, the changes did not effect the reading frame of Table II, which is identical to that of Figure 3.Only the reference numbers were changed to reflect the information obtained upon later sequence verification.Additionally, the last change made to the sequence ofFigures 2 and 3 of the parent application occurred at reference numbers Ei6 through 821 of Tables I and II, which is prior to the coding regions of the polypeptides employed in the following examples. Table III sets out in capital letters the DNA sequence of porcine parvovirus RF DNA, as identified, commencing with approximately the 4200th base of the 5 kbPPV genome i.e., commencing at about the 2nd Bgl II restriction site to the right in Figure 1 and through approximately 400 bases thereafter i.e., to the 2ndAce I restriction site to the right in Figure 1 . Illustrated with the DNA sequence is an amino acid sequence revealed by an open reading frame and most likely to duplicate that present in the carboxy terminus of one or more PPV capsid proteins. This amino acid sequence shows substantial homolly to the carboxy terminus proposed by Astrell, et al. 1983 supra. TABLE III AspleuLysProArgLeuHisValThrAlaProPheValCysLys 1 G TCTAAAACCTAGACTACATGTTACAGCTCCATTTGTTTGTAAA CTAGATTTTGGATCTGATGTACAATGTCGAGGTAAACAAACATTT AsnAsnProProGlyGlnLeuPheValLyslleAlaProAsnLeu 46 AACAATCCACCAGGACAACTATTTGTAAAAATAGCACCAAACCTA TTGTTRGGTGGTCCTGTTGATAAACATTTTTATCGTGGTTTGGAT ThrAspAspPheAsnAlaAspSerProGlnglnProArgIleIle 91 ACAGATGATTTCAATGCTGACTCTCCTCAACAACCTAGAATAATA TGTCTACTAAAGTTACGACTGAGAGGAGTTGTTGGATCTTATTAT ThrTyrSerAsnPheIlpthrpLysglyThrLeuThrPheThrAla 136 ACTTATTCAAACTTTTGGTGGAAAGCAACACTAACATTCACAGCA TGAATAAGTTTGAAAACCACCTTTCGTTGTGATTGTAAGTGTCGT LysM,etArcSer5erAsnMetTrpAsnP oSerGlnGlnHisThr 181 AAAATGAGATCCAGTAATATGTGGAACCCTAGTCAACAACACACA TTTTACTCTAGGTCATTATACACCTTGGGATCAGTTGTTGTGTGT ThrThrAlaGluAsnIleGlyAsnTyrIleProthrAsnIleGly 226 ACRACAGCAGAAAACATTGGTAACTATATTCCTACAAATATTGGT TGTTGTCGTCTTTTGTAACCATTGATATAAGGATGTTTATAACCA GlyIleArgMetPheProGluTyrSerGlnLeuIleProIleLys 261 GGCATAAGAATGTTTCCAGAATATTCACAACTTATACCAATAAAA CCGTATTCTTACAAAGGTCTTATAAGTGTTGAATATGGTTATTTT LeuTyrAM 306 TTATACTAGAAATAACTCTGTAAATAAAAACTCAGTTACTTGCTT AATATGATCTTTATTGAGACATTTATTTTTGAGTCAATGAACCAA 351 AATCATGTACTACTATCATTGTATAC TTAGTACATGATTGTAGTAACATATG The information set out in Tables I to III makes possible, for the first time, the clonino of geno mic fragments from PPV genome coding regions in the correct sense and translational frame allowing for microbial expression of polypeptides which duplicate amiho acid sequences present in parvovirus proteins.The sequence data also makes possible the manufacture by, e.g., chemical synthesis of selected, relatively low molecular weight polypeptides which, by virtue of their amino acid sequence similarities to parvovirus, can be expected to sh2re biological properties of parvovirus proteins such as antigeniclty and immunogeni city. Also provided by the information set out inTables I to III is a basis for prediction of relatively highly hydrophilic regions within selected parvovirus duplicative polypeptides to be manufactured, which regions are likely to incorporate antigen. deter minants. See, e.o., Hopp, et al. P.N.A.S., 78, 3824 1981 and Kyte, et al., J.Mol.Biol., 157, 105 1982 . By way of illustration, the amino acid sequence of Table II was subjected to computerized analysis for hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions according to theHopp, et al. method by means of 2 program and designated PEP Reference µ6.7 made available by Intelligenetics, Inc., 124 University Avenue, Palo Alto,California. Referring to Table III, the amino acid sequence consisting of the series, Thr Aro Aro Lys Lys lys Tyr, coded for by base pairs numbered 1166 through 1186, comprises the most highly hydrophilic region of the total sequence. This polypeptide sequence, or a sequence which substantially duplicates it, would be expected to be of substantial immunological significance.It appears, however, that the DNA sequence coding for this polypeptide sequence resides in an intron region not likely to be translated into a capsid protein. The following example relates to the construction of a representative DNA vector according to the present invention. EXAMPLE 5 As graphically depicted in F oure 2, 2 DNA vector pSS17 was constructed to contain a fragment of thePPV genome under the control of a trp promoter sequence.The initial procedure involved excision of a PPV gnomic fragment of approximately 780 base pairs by digestion of the 5kb PPV monomer replicative form with restriction endonuclease enzymes Pvull and HindIII. PvuII cleaves at a site indicated at position 2.56 on the 5 kb restriction map illustrated in Figure 1. The specific sequence involved in PvuII cleavage is illustrated within the DNA sequence adjacent reference numeral 2262 of Table II. HndIII cleaves at 2 site indicated at position 3.35 on Figure 1 and specifically illustrated adjacent reference numeral 3050 of Table II . The fragment was inserted into Mi3mp9 between the HincIlI and hinoIIi restriction endonuclease enzyme recoonition sites. The DNA was then digested withHindIII and BamHI to yield a fragment duplicating the original PPV fragment plus a few nucleotides of Ml3. A pBR322 derived plasmid p41 retaining the gene for ampicillin resistance and containing the trp operon of E.coli operatively associated with the entire trpE structural gene and 2 portion of the trpD structural gene Cheng, et al. Gene, 14, 121 130 1981 was digested with BulII and HindlII. The aforementioned BolII cut digestion occurred at a first site in the p41 vector 1398 bases downstream of a PvuII site. TheHindIII BemHI PPV fragment was then inserted into digested p41, formino plasmid pSS17 which includes a fusion protein comprising the first 320 amino acids of trpE and 260 amino acids coded for by PPV DNA. Transformation of the plasmid pSS17 into E. coli strain n HB101 yielded drug resistant colonies which were screeched for the presence of derived PPV sequences by hybridization to a probe radiolabelled by nick translation of total oenomic PPV. The presence of PPV sequences was also conformed by restriction endonuclease mapping of the insert usino Accl, PvuII and HindIll. Bacterial lysates prepared from E. coli strain AM7Er cells transformed with plasmid pSS17 isolated from the above transformed HB101 strain did contained detectable but not appreciable amounts of the projected trpE PPV fusion polypeptide. The following Example relates to the construction of another DNA vector according to the present invention for the expression of the projected trp PPV fusion polypeptide of Example 5. EXAMPLE 6 Further manipulations were performed in an attempt to generate an expression vector which would provide for high levels of E. coli expression of the desired fusion protein. These manipulations involved use of c plasmid which is the subject of co owned, copending U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 521,964, byMorris, entitled DNA Vertor , The disclosures of said application are specifically incorporated by reference herein. Briefly noted, plasmid pCFM414 A.T.C.C. 40076 , employed in the construction, includes a temperature sensitive mutation in the copy control region. Upon transformation with this vector, host cell cultures grown at 34 C will have a low number of copies of the plasmid. The plasmid copy number increases fifty fold i.e., runs away within the host cells upon elevation of the culture temperEture above 34 C.Growth at 37C will ordinarily be lethal to the cells. The specific manipulations involved in construction of c vector using A.T.C.C. 40076 were as follows. Plasmid pSS17 was digested with HindIll andPvuII to generate a fragment including the PPV structural gene and the associated trp promoter operator. Plasmid pCFM414 was digested with HindIII and HDaI and the large fragment was isolated. The HindIII PvuII blunt ended fragment containing the trp PPV gene was then listed with the large HindIII Hoal fragment of pCFM4 to generate plasmid p H6. While this construction retained an intact Hindlil recognition site, libation of thePvuII site with the Hoal terminus did not restore either recognition site. E. coli strain Am7O r cells transformed with plasmid p H6 produced measurable amounts of the trpE PPV fusion pdiypsptide estimated to be on the order of 8 mo OD liter of cells. The following Example relates to the construction of another DNA vector employing another PPV fragment according to the present invention. EXAMPLE 7 A second fragment of approximately 350 base pairs of the PPV oenome was excised from the 5 kb PPV monomer replicative form by double digestion with restriction endonuclease enzyme Sau3A. Sau3A cleaves at two sites indicated at positions 3.33 and 3.68 on the 5 kb restriction endonuclease map of Figure 1. The specific sequence involved in Sau3A cleavage is illustrated within the DNA sequence adjacent reference numerals 3034 and 3383 of Table II. Following amplification in M13mp8, this Sau3A fragment was inserted into a pBR 322 derived plasmid, pINTy trp17 previously digested with BamHI. Plasmid pINTy trpl7 is disclosed in co owned co pending U.S.Patent Application Serial No. 483,451 by Alton, et al., entitled The Manufacture and Expression of LargeStructural Genes . The disclosures of said reference are specifically incorporated by reference herein.Briefly noted, pINTytrpl 7 was constructed in the following manner. Plasmid PVvI purchased from StanforoUniversity, Palo Alto, California was digested with pvuII and using standard procedures an EcoRI recoonition site was inserted in the plasmid at. a PvuII site.Copies of this hybrid were then digested with EcoRI and Hoal to provide a 245 base pair sequence including a portion of the trp promoter operator region. By stan dard procedures, a DNA sequence subunit of the sequence for human interferon, IF 4, was added to the hpaI site in order to incorporate the remaining 37 base pairs of the complete trp translational initiation signal and bases providing codons for the initial four amino acids of immune intarferon Dys TyI Dys Gln . The resulting assembly was then inserted into pINT3, a pBR322 derivative, which had been digested with EcoRI andBamHI to yield plasmid pINTy trp17. When the Sau3A Sau3A PPV fragment is inserted into BamHI digested pINTy trp17, the libation of the complementary sticky ends of Sau3A and BamHI did not restorethe BamHI restriction site. The resulting plasmid containing the PPV genome behind G trp promoter and four amino acids of y interferon, was designated S S3. E. coli strain AM.70r cells transformed with plasmid pS 53 produced measurable amounts of the vf IFN PPV fusion polypeptide, estimated to be on the order of 5 mg OD litre of cells. The following example relates to the construction of yet another DNA vector employing a third fragment of the PPV genome according to the present invention. EXAMPLE 8 A third fragment of approximately 479 base pairs of the PPV genome was excised from the 5 kb PPV monomer replicative form by digestion with restriction endonuclease enzymes HindIII and HaeIII. HindlII cleaves at E site indicated at position 3.35 of Figure 1 and specifically illustrated adjacent reference numeral 3050 of Table II. HaeIII cleaves at site indicated at position 3.82 on Figure 1 and the specific sequence involved in HaeIII cleavage is illustrated within the DNA sequence adjacent reference numeral 3524 of Table II. The fragment was inserted for amplification into K13mp9 between the Hincll and HindIII restriction endonuclease enyzme recognition sites, thereby elimi meting both the Hincll and HaeIII sites. The DNA is then digested with EcoRI to yield a fragment ouplicating the original PPV fragment plus a few nuclentioes of M13 at the former HaeIII terminus of the fragment and minus 269 PPV nucleotides located between the EcoRI andHindIII sites of the PPV fragment. Plasmid p41 described previously in Example 5 and containing the ss galactosidase gene was also cleaved with EcoRI and the PPV fragment inserted therein, resulting in plasmid pE H2.5 containing a ss gal PPV fusion gene. E. coli strain AM7 cells stransformed with plasmid pE H2.5 produced measurable amounts of the fusion polypeptide in bacterial lysate, estimated to be on the order of 15 mg OD liter. The following example relates to the development of a synthetic PPV polypeptide according to the present invention. EXAMPLE 9 The amino acid sequence of the region of the 5 kb PPV monomer replicative form which provided the coding regions for the above described PPV fragments i.e,, from approximately position 2.5 to 5.û was sub3ected to computerized analysis for hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions according to the Hopp, et al. method by means of a program and designated PEPReference 46.7 made available by Intelligenetics, Inc., 124 University Avenue, Palo Alto, Cal. Two peptide sequences had a hydrophilicity profile that predicted c possible surface orientation in the native PPV molecule NH2 Asn leu Ala Lys Lys LysAla Lys Gly Thr Ser Asn Thr Asn Ser COOH and NH2 Thr Thr Ser Gln Gln Pro Glu Val Aro Aro Ser Pro Arg Ly s COOH. Table IV balow indicates the hydropaticity and hydrophilicity of the amino acid sequence so analyzed. TABLE IV Table II Reference Nos. Hydropathicity 2309 through 2602 Hydrophilicity Amino Acid Values Gly 8 Gly 3 Lys 2 Ile 1 Gly 2 His 7 Tyr 17 Phe 8 Phe 9 Are 3 Ala 6 Lys 10 Arg 10 Ala 3 Phe 4 Ala 4 Pro 4 Lys 2 Leu 7 Ser 7 Glu 13 Thr 8 Asp 11 Ser 10 Pro 3 Thr 5 Thr Ser Gln Cln 6 TABLE IV cont d. Table II Reference Nos.Hydropathicity 2309 through 2602 Hydrophilicity Amino Acid Values Pro 4 Glu 8 Val 14 Arg 14 Arg 14 Ser 14 Pro 22 Arg 16 Lys 10 His 10 Pro 10 Gly 10 Ser 5 Lys S6 Pro 6 Pro 11 Gly 16 Lys 11 Arg 10 Pro 10 Ala 15 Pro 9 Arg His 4 Ile 6 Phe 6 Ile 15 Asn 15 Leu 6 Ala 3 TABLE IV cont d. Table I1 Reference Nos.Hydropathicity 2309 through 2602 Hydrophilicity Amino Acid Values Lys 11 Lys 20 Ala 21 Lys 14 Gly 9 Thr 4 Ser 4 Asn Thr Asn 1 Ser 1 Asn 1 Ser Met Ser Gln 3 Asn 1 Val 4 Glu 2 Gin 2 His 2 Asn 2 Pro 3 Ile 4 Asn 3 Ala 4 Gly TABLE IV cont d. Table II Reference Nos, Hydropathicity 2309 through 2602 Hydrophilicity Amino Acid Values Thr Glu 1 Leu 1 Ser Ala 1 Thr 4 Gly 4 Asn 4 Glu 6 Ser 9 A second analysis was performed on the first peptide from Ref Nos. 2480 to 2524 to determine its hydropathicity when it was separated from the adjacent amino acid sequences. This peptide, designated TJ l, proved to be highly hydrophilic as shown in Table V below and was therefore selected for synthesis. TABLE V Hydropathi ci ty Amino Acid Hydrophilicity Values Asn 11 Leu 3 Ala 13 Lys 19 Lys 17 Lys Ala 32 Lys 22 Gly 15 Thr 7 Ser 7 Asn Thr Asn 2 Ser 1 Peptide TJ l was chemically synthesized according to the Merrifield resin bound procedure described in Sterwart, et 21., Solid Ph2se PeDtideSvnthesis, W. H. Freeman, San Francisco, 1969 . Briefly put, peptides were constructed by means of a series of amino acid additions to an initial, column bound residue selected to form the carboxy terminal residue of the peptide.THE selected carboxyl terminal amino acid is coupled to the polystyrene resin as E BOC protected amino acid.All subsequent amino acid additions are carried out with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide using the appropriate BOC amino acid with side chain protecting groups as follows threonine as O benzyl threonine lysine as 2 chiorocarbo benzoxy lysine asparagine as xanthyl asparagine and, serine as O benzyl serine. Finished protected peptides are cleaved from the resin with simultaneous deprotection using anhydrous HF. The Peptide was purified by 2 com bination of chromatography on Sephadex G25 and preparative thin layer chromatography. The desired product was isolated as a stable lyophilized white powder.Composition was dtermined by amino acid analysis after HCl digestion as described in Protein Sequence Determination page 197 S. Needleman, ed., Sprinbger verlag, 1975 . Sequence verification was performed by automated amino acid analysis. Purified products migrated 2s a single spot onTLC. An Rf value of 0.23 was determined for TJ l with a pH 4 4.5 solvent comprising butanol, acetic acid, water and pyridine 15 3 12 10 . The following example relates to the use of thePPV fusion polypeptides and synthetic peptide described above in producing antisera to PPV. EXAMPLE 10 Isolates from AM cultures containing plasmiosE H 2.5, S S 3 and PH6 as described above, 2 columnpurified isolate of PH6 and two preperations of the synthetic peptide T3 1 were employed to produce antisera for use in plate binding and neutralization assays. One of the T3 1 preparations was covalently cross linked to keyhole limpet hemocy2nin KLH using gluteraldehyde according to the procedure of Baron, et al., Cell, 28, pp. 395 404 1 82 while the other was linked. Antiser2 were specifically produced by injectino rabbits with each isolate or peptide preparation according to the following protocol. Initially, preimmune sera was collected from each animal. The first inoculation contained the amount of antigen indicated inTable VI below with 0.5 ml of Freund s complete adju vant. Succeeding inoculations contained the antigens and 0.25 ml of Freund, s incomplete adjuvant. The animals were bled on days 28 and 63. TABLE VI Amounts of Inoculum g tinked to Column KLH Purlfied UnlinkedAntigens E H 2.5 PH6 S S 3 T3 1 PH6DAYS 1 150 150 250 250 250 250 7 75 75 125 125 125 250 21 75 75 125 125 125 250 35 75 75 125 125 125 250 56 75 75 125 125 125 250 The following example relates to tests performed on the antisera obtained with PPV fusion polypeptides and the synthetic peptide described above to determine their immunogenicity. EXAMPLE 11A. Plate Bindig Assay A plate binding assay was performed according to the procedures of Engvall, et al., J.Immunol., 109, 129 135 1972 and Von Weemen, et al. FEBS Letters, 24, 77 81 1972 testing the antisera produced in Example 10 against the antigen used to produce them and againstPPV. In addition, anti PPV serum from an infected pig was tested against each antigen. The titers shown inTable VII below are the serum dilutions Et which the binding between antibodies in the antisera and the indicated antigens fell to one half the saturation level. TABLE VII ImmunizingAntibody Antioen PPVAnti E H 2.5 7.5 x 103 1.5 xAnti T31 KLH linked 1.6 x 105 3.0 x 104Anti P H6 6.25 x 103 102 Anti PPV E K2.5 l.0 x 102 1.38 x 104 T31 2.0 x 102 P H6 4.0 x 10ê These results indicate that the antisera raised to the synthetic TJ1 was capable of binding its own antigen as well as native PPV in infected pig serum when compared to the other fusion peptides. B. Plaoue Reduction Assay The antisera were further tested in a plaque reduction assay, according to the procedures of 11A Manual of Basic Virological techniques, Rovozzo, et al. pp.94 103 Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.O. 1973 to determine their ability to neutralize PPV infection.Results for Anti T31 are reported in Table VIII below.Only T3 1 antisera proved to be neutralizing in the assay, having 2 titer several orders of magnitude lower than anti PPV serum from natural infaction. ST cells were plated at a density of 1,5 x 106 cells per 60 mm dish and the assay was performed after six hours. TABLE VIII Plaoue Reduction By Anti TO l PlateDilutions Nos. Preimmune Sere Immune Sera 1 25 25 178 116 1 100 25 113 202 1 25 26 128 20 1 100 26 213 153 1 25 27 124 110 1 100 27 168 140 1 25 28 92 79 1 100 28 166 145 These results indicate that antisera raised to the synthetic peptide TJ l was capable of neutralizing the infectivity of PPV by causing 2 consistent reduction in plaques formed in a serum culture infected with PPV. Polypeptides of the invention, including the fusion polypeptides of the foregoing Examples 6 and 7 and the synthetic peptides of Example 8 are expected to display significant value as immunogenic constituents of vaccine compositions for administration to animals susceptible to parvovirus infection and to provoke protective immune responses in vaccinated animals. Vaccine compositions according to the invention therefore comprise immunsloc cally effective qusntities of polypeptides of the invention in combination with immunolo gically acceptable diluent, adjuvants and carriers.Like the prior art killed and modified parvovirus vac cines, they are expected to be optimally useful when edministered parenterallyl. While polypeptides made available according to the inventon are at least in part duplicative of amino acid sequences extant in porcine parvovirus proteins, expected homologies between PPV proteins and those of parvoviruses specific for other host species are expected te make the polypeptides useful in development of vaccinal immunity against infection by other parvovirus species other than PPV pe.g., canine or bovine parvovirus . OwIng to their structural similarity to native parvovirus proteins, the polypeptides of the invention are also expected to be useful as reagents in assays directed to quantitative determination of antiparvovirus antibodies in fluid samples such as animal serum. While the presently preferred method for manufacture of immunologically active polypeptldes of the invention is through microbial expression of DNA sequences which are wholly or partially duplicative of sequence ces extant in the parvovirus genome, it will be understood that manufactured DNA sequences which are the transiational equivalent5 of parvovirus genome sequences may also be employed in microbial production processes.It is within the comprehension of the invention that the specific and immunologically active PPV polypeptides be manufactured by way of microbial expression of manufactured DNA sequences coding for the identical amino acid sequences as PPV genomic fragments put by means of alternate codons which may be the subject of transcriptional or translational preference in organism selected fsr production. See, e.g., U.S.Letters Patent No. 4,356,270. It will be clear to those skilled in the art that the present invention comprehends chemical or biological synthesis employing well known methods of polypeptide assembly of immunologically active polypeptides of substantial length such as coded for by the 780 base pair sequence of PPV DNA in pSS17 as well as shorter sequences which may possess significant immunologicel activity. As a general rule, biologically or chemically synthesized polyeptides of the invention may include 6 or more amino acids. Numerous modifications and vat actions in the invention as described in the abve detailed description are expected to be apparent to those skilled in the arts of immunology and the use of recombinant methods for the arts of immunology and the use of recombinant methods for the manufacture of polypeptides. As one example, the polypeptide which is designated as the subject of expression of the PPV DNA sequence of plasmid pH 6 will be â fusion peptide. As such it may be cleaved from association with E. côli trpE amino acids before being put to use or it may te used as an immunologically active agent in the form of a fusion protein of PPV polypeptide and G nop iral polypeptide.Alternately, of course, the PPV derived DNA of pH 6 may be incor ported into any suitable transformation vector having â promoter regulator sequence other than the trp operon and the vector may be designed to permit direct expression of the PPV DNA directed sequence. As another example, polypeptides of the invention or monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies thereto are expected to useful either with or without detectable labels such as radiolabels in immunoassays such as RIAs and ELISAs for the detection of porcine and other species parvovirus antigens and or antibodies in fluid samples. Similarly, DNA sequences provided by the invention e.g.,PPV DNA sequences provided in amplified form as inserts in autonomously replicating viral or circular plasmid DNA ,vectors are expected to provide useful sources of single stranded DNA for incorporation in DNA DNA hybridi zation procedures for the detection of porcine and other species prvovrus DNA in tissue samples. In view of the above, only such limitations should be placed upon the invention as appear in the appended claims. The features disclosed in the foregoing description, in the following claims and or in the accompanying drawings may, both separately and in any combination thereof, be material for realising the invention in diverse forms thereof.