# Azetidinone derivatives.

## Abstract
There are disclosed azetidinone derivatives of the gener al formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An azetidinone derivative of the general formula EMI26.1 wherein R1 is an acyl group, a hydrogen atom or an amino protecting group, and X is a hydrogen atom, an alkyloxy group, an aralkyloxy group, an aryloxy group, the group OH, the group OSO3M wherein is is a cation, or the group SO3 M wherein wherein N is SO3 M a cation. 2. A derivative according to claim 1, whereinX is the group OSO3H or the group SO3H in a salt form. 3. A derivative according to claim 1 or 2, wherein R1 is an acyl group of the formula R2 CO wherein R2 is a lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenyl group, a heterocyclic group, or an optionally substituted benzoyl group. 4. A devivative according to claim 1 or 2, wherein R1 is an acyl group of the formula EMI26.2 wherein R3 is a hydrogen atom, an optionally substituted amino acid residue, an amino protecting group, a group of the formula R4 CH2 n, CO wherein R4 is an optionally substituted heterocyclic group, an optionally substituted phenyl group, an optionallysubstituted lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenylthio group, or an optionallysubstituted lower alkylthio group, n is 0 or an integer of 1 to 4, and CH2 n, may optionally contain one or more substituents , a group of the formulaEMI27.1 wherein R4 and R4 are the same or different and each is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower alkylcarbamoyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenylcarbamoyl group, or an optionallysubstituted sulphonic acid group, or R4 and R4 together are a cyclic hydrocarbon ring which may optionally contain one or more nitrogen atoms and or one or more oxygen atoms and or one or more other hetero atoms and whose carbon atom s and or nitrogen atom s may optionally contain substituents , or a group of the formula R4 SO2 wherein R411 is an optionally substituted lower alkyl group andR5 is a hydrogen atom, an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, an optionally substitued phenyl group, an optionally substituted heterocyclic group, a cycloalkenylene group, or a combination of a heterocyclic ring and carbonylamino group which heterocyclic ring and carbonylamino group may optionally be combined via an optionally substituted alkylene group. 5. A derivative according to claim 1 or 2, wherein R2 is an acyl group of the formula R6 R7 CO wherein R6 is a group of the formula R8 C N X Rg wherein X is an oxygen or sulphur atom, R8 is an optionally substituted heterocyclic group or an optionally substituted phenyl gorup, and Rg is a hydrogen atom, an optionally substituted phenyl group, an optionally substituted lower acyl group, an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, or a group of the formula R 10 R11 wherein R10 is a lower alkylene group or a lower alkenylene group, and R11 is a carboxyl group, a carboxylic ester group or a heterocyclic group and R7 is a single bond or a group of the formulaEMI28.1 wherein R12 is a lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenyl group or an optionally substituted heterocyclic groupl. 6. A derivative according to claim 1 or 2, wherein R2 is an acyl group of the formula EMI28.2 wherein R13 is a hydroxyl group, a hydroxysulphonyloxy group, a carboxyl group, an optionally substituted suphamoyl group, a sulphonic acid group, a benzyloxycarbonyl group, a formyloxy group, an azido group, or a halogen atom, and R14 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a halogen atom, an azido group, a nitro group or a hydroxyl group. 7. 3 D d 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1piperazinecarboxamido oC phenyl acetamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid, or a salt thereof. 8. 3 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl Z 2 methoxyiminoacetamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid, or a salt thereof.

## Description
AZETIDINONE DERIVATIVES The present invention relates to azetidinone derivatives useful as antibiotics and as intermediates for the production of such antibiotics. The present invention provides 4 trifluoromethylazetidinone derivatives including salts thereof of the general formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is an acyl group, a hydrogen atom or an amino protecting group, and X is a hydrogen atom, an alkyloxy group, an aralkyloxy group, an aryloxy group, the group OH, the group OS03Mt wherein M is a cation, or the group SO3M wherein M is a cation. Examples of the cation M areEMI1.2 The derivatives are novel, and are useful as highly active 8 lactam antibiotics or as intermediates.Thus, the derivatives wherein Rt is an acyl group have been found to have a wide antibacterial spectrum against Gram negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Gram positive bacteria, and are useful as antibiotics, while the derivatives wherein R1 is a hydrogen atom or an amino protecting group are useful as intermediates in the production of derivatives wherein R1 is an acyl group. Examples of the acyl group R1 include acyl groups, substituted at the 6 position, of conventional penicillin derivatives, and acyl groups, substituted at the 7 position, of cephalosporin derivatives, for example, the following acyl groups 1 Acyl groups of the formula R2CO wherein R2 is a lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenyl group, a heterocyclic group, or an optionally substituted benzoyl group. 2 Acyl groups of the formula EMI2.1 wherein R5 is a hydrogen atom, an optionallysubstituted amino acid residue, an amino protecting group, a group of the formula R4 CH2 n, CO whereinR4 is an optionally substituted heterocyclic group, an optionally substituted phenyl group, an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenylthio group, or an optionallysubstituted lower alkylthio group, n is O or an integer of 1 to 4, and CH2 n, may optionally contain one or more substituents , a group of the formulaEMI2.2 wherein R4 and R4 are the same or different and each is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a lower alkylcarbamoyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenylcarbamoyl group, or an optionallysubstituted sulphonic acid group, or R4 and R 4 together are a cyclic hydrocarbon ring which may optionally contain one or more nitrogen atoms and or one or more oxygen atoms and or one or more other hetero atoms and whose carbon atom s and or nitrogen atom s may optionally contain substituents , or a group of the formula R4 S02 wherein R4110 is an optionally substituted lower alkyl group and R5 is a hydrogen atom, an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, an optionally substituted phenyl group, an optionally substituted heterocyclic group, a cycloalkenylene group, or a coXbination of a heterocyclic ring and carbonylamino group which heterocyclic ring and carbonylamino group may optionally be combined via an optionally substituted alkylene group. Specific examples of acyl groups of this type are 4 substituted 2,3 dioxy 1 piperazinecarboxamido arylacetyl groups of the formula EMI3.1 wherein R16 is an aromatic group e.g. a carbocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon group, e.g. of the formulaEMI3.2 or the like, wherein R17 is a hydroxyl group, a halogen atom, a cyano group, a nitro group, an amino group or a mecapto group , or a substituted or unsubstituted 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1, 2, 3 or 4 nitrogen and or oxygen and or sulphur atoms, and R15 is an alkyl group, a substituted alkyl group e.g. an alkyl group containing one or more halogen atoms, cyano groups, nitro groups, amino groups or mercapto groups an arylmethyleneamino group Ee.g. N CHRI6 wherein R16 has the same definition as for R16 above , an arylcarbonylamino group e.g.EMI4.1 wherein Rkt6 has the same definition as for R16 above , or an alkylcarbonylamino group. Preferred examples thereof are those derivatives wherein R15 is an ethyl group and R16 is a phenyl group or a p hydroxyphenyl group 3 Acyl groups of the formula R6 R7CO I wherein R6 is Åa group of the formula R8 C N X R8 C N X Rg therein X is an oxygen or sulphur atom, R8 is an optionally substituted heterocyclic gorup or an optionally substituted phenyl group, and Rg is a hydrogen atom, an optionally substituted phenyl group, an optionally substituted lower acyl group, an optionally substituted lower alkyl group, or a group of the formula R10 R11 wherein R10 is a lower alkylene group or a lower alkenylene group, and R1l is a carboxyl group, a carboxylic ester group or a heterocyclic group , and R7 is a single bond or a group of the formulaEMI4.2 therein R12 is a lower alkyl group, an optionallysubstituted phenyl group or an optionallysubstituted heterocyclic group . Specific examples of acyl groups of this type are 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl Z substituted oxyiminoacetyl groups of the formula EMI4.3 wherein R18 is a hydrogen atom or a straight chain or branched chain alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group which contains up to 12 carbon atoms and which may optionally be substituted. Preferred examples thereof are those wherein R18 is methyl. Further specific examples of the acyl groups of this type are 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl Z 2substituted oxyiminoacetyl groups of the formula EMI5.1 wherein R19 and R20 are the same or different and each is a C1 C4 alkyl group or R19 and R20 are combined together with the carbon atom to which they are attached to form a C3 C7 cycloalkylidene group. Preferred examples thereof are those whereinR19 and R20 are both methyl. 4 Acyl groups of the formula EMI5.2 wherein R13 is a hydroxyl group, a hydroxysulphonyloxy group, a carboxyl group, an optionally substituted sulphamoyl group, a sulphonic acid group, a benzyloxycarbonyl group, a formyloxy group, an azido group, or a halogen atom, and R14 is a hydrogen atom, a lower alkyl group, a halogen atom, an azido group, a nitro group or a hydroxyl group. The term lower herein means a group preferably containing from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Examples of the amino protecting group R1 include aromatic acyl groups such as phthaloyl, p nitrobenzoyl, p tert butylbenzoyl and p tert butylbenzene sulphonyl groups aliphatic acyl groups such as formyl, acetyl, propionyl, monochloroacetyl, dichloroacetyl and trichloroacetyl groups esterified carboxyl groups such as methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, t butoxycarbonyl, isopropoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl and p methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl groups trityl groups and 2 nitrophenylthio groups. Examples of the alkyl group in the alkyloxy group X include lower alkyl such as methyl, ethyl and butyl groups. Examples of the aralkyl group in the aralkyloxy group include benzyl, phenetyl and p nitrobenzyl groups. Examples of the aryl group in the aryloxy group X include phenyl and p nitrophenyl groups. The derivatives wherein R1 is an aminoprotecting group, may be produced by, for example, the following process. 1 A compound of the general formulaEMI6.1 is reacted with titanium trichloride in water or in a mixed solvent of water and alcohol to obtain an azetidinone derivative of the general formula EMI6.2 The thus obtained derivative is reacted with sulphuric anhydride or a reactive derivative thereof to obtain an azetidinone derivative of the general formula EMI7.1 wherein M is a cation. 2 A compound of the general formula EMI7.2 is reacted with sulphuric anhydride or a reactive derivative thereof to obtain an azetidinone derivative of the general formula EMI7.3 wherein M is a cation. A compound of the general formula EMI7.4 may be produced by subjecting a compound of the general formula EMI8.1 which is obtained by, for example, protecting the amino group of 2 amino 3 hydroxy 4,4,4 trifluorobutanoic acid see Journal of American ChemicalSociety, 80, 187 192 1958 and reacting this with an O alkyl or O aralkylhydroxylamine using a carbodiimide as a condensing agent to a dehydrocyclization reaction using triphenylphosphine and diethyl azodicarboxylate. In the above, R is as defined above, and R21 is an alkyl group, an aralkyl group or an aryl group. Specific examples of the amino protecting group used for protecting the free amino group include conventional amino protecting groups, such as groups forming a urethane group with the amino group e.g.t butoxycarbonyl, cyclopentyloxycarbonyl, 2,2,2trichloroethoxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl, p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, diphenylmethoxycarbonyl, etc. , a trityl group, etc., among which t butoxycarbonyl is particularly preferred.Condensation of a compound of the following formula EMI8.2 wherein the amino group is protected, with anO alkyl or O aralkylhydroxylamine may be effected in a mixed solvent such as water and tetrahydrofuran THF or dimethylformamine DMF and water, and the reaction temperature is usually 5 to 400C, preferably 0 to 200C. As the condensing agent, a carbodiimide may be used in particular, 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide is preferred.The hydroxylamine is preferably used, relative to the starting material, in an amount of from 1 to 2.0 molar, more preferably from 1 to 1.5 molar, and the carbodiimide is preferably used in an amount of from 1 to 2.0 molar, more preferably from 1 to 1.5 molar. The dehydrocyclization reaction of the compound VIII may be effected in an inert etheric solvent such as tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether, dioxane, etc., among which tetrahydrofuran is particularly preferred. The triphenylphosphine is preferably used, relative to the compound VIII , in an amount of from 1 to 3 molar, more preferably from 1 to 1.5 molar, and the diethyl azodicarboxylate is preferably used in an amount of from 1 to 3 molar, more preferably from 1 to 1.5 molar. The reaction temperature usually is from 300C to the refluxing temperature of the solvent, preferably from 100C to 25 C. The reaction time is usually from 1 to 30 hours, preferably from 15 to 20 hours.The compound II may be produced by subjecting the compound VII wherein R21 in the general formula is benzyl or p nitrobenzyl to a hydrogenation reaction in a solvent such as ethyl acetate, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, methanol, ethanol, etc., in the presence of a hydrogenating catalyst such as platinum metal or its oxides, 10 Pd C, 30 Pd BaCO3, etc., preferably at O to 200C for 5 minutes to 2 hours under a hydrogen pressure of from 1 to 10 atmospheres.The compound III may be produced by reducing the compound II in a mixed solvent of alcohol and water under neutral conditions. The reaction temperature is preferably 0 to 300C, more preferablyO to 10 CC, and the reaction time is usually 1 to 2 hours. The compounds IV and VI may be produced by reacting the compound II or III with, for example, sulphuric anhydride or a reactive derivative of sulphuric anhydride. Examples of the reactive derivatives of sulphuric anhydride are adducts such as sulphuric anhydride pyridine, sulphuric anhydride i picoline, sulphuric anhydride dimethylformamide, sulphuric anhydride dioxane, chlorosulphonic acidpyridine, chlorosulphonic acid oC picoline, etc.The reaction is usually effected by adding about 1 to about 5 moles, preferably about 1 to about 2 moles, of sulphuric anhydride or a reaction derivative of sulphuric anhydride per mole of the compound II or III . The reaction temperature is usually 10 to 800C, preferably 0 to 300C. As the reaction solvent, ethers such as dicxane, THF, diethyl ether, etc. , esters such as ethyl acetate, ethyl formate, etc. , halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform, methylene dichloride, etc. , hydrocarbons such as benzene, n hexane, etc. , dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, etc., are preferably employed, either singly or in combination.After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture may be treated by known purifying and separating mens, such as solvent extraction, recrystallization, chromatography, etc., to obtain a product of a desired purity. The cationic moieties of the sulphonic acid salts of the azetidinone derivatives IV and VI may be derived from either an organic or an inorganic base. Examples of such cationic moieties include the following ions ammonium substituted ammonium such as alkylammonium e.g. tetra n butylammonium , etc. alkali metal such as lithium, sodium, potassium, etc. alkaline earth metal such as calcium, magnesium, etc. pyridinium and dicyclohexylammonium. The compounds X wherein R1 is hydrogen EMI11.1 wherein X is as defined above may be obtained by removing the amino protecting group from compounds of the general formula I wherein R1 is an aminoprotecting group. The method used in this respect may be one conventionally employed in peptide synthetic chemistry, for example, the method described in Tanpakushitsu Kagaku 1, Amino san Pepuchido ProteinChemistry 1, Amino Acid Peptide ed. by Akabori,Kaneko and Narita, Kyoritsu Shuppan, 1969. In a particular, the compounds XI and XII wherein X is SO3H or OSO,H EMI11.2 are important as nuclei for novel, highly active ç lactam antibiotics. For the production of compounds wherein R1 is an acyl group, there are preferably used the following two processes, namely a process which comprises synthesizing the compound X wherein R1 is H and therea. ter acylating it, and a process which comprises synthesizing the compound IX or VII wherein R1 is acyl and thereafter cyclizing it. Examples of the acylating agent include acid halides, in particular, acid chlorides and bromides.Such acylating agents may be prepared by reacting an acid or a salt thereof with a halogenating agent such as phosphorus pentachloride, thionyl chloride, oxalyl chloride, etc. The acylation using an acid halide may be effected in an aqueous or non aqueous solvent at a preferred temperature of from 50 to 50 C, more preferably from 30 to 200C, in the presence of an acid binding agent. Examples of suitable reaction solvents include aqueous ketones such as aqueous acetone, esters such as ethyl acetate, halogenated hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride, amides such as DMF, nitriles such as acetonitrile, ethers such as THF, and mixtures of two or more thereof.Examples of suitable acid binding agents include tertiary amines e.g. triethylamine, dimethylaniline, diisopropylethylamine, etc. , inorganic salts e.g. sodium bicarbonate, calcium carbonate, etc. and oxylanes such as lower 1,2 alkylene oxides which combine with the hydrogen halide liberated during the acylation reaction e.g.ethylene oxide and propylene oxide . In addition, a carboxylic acid per se may be used as the acylating agent. The acylatation using a carboxylic acid may be effected in the presence of a condensing agent, for example, a carbodiimide such as N,N dicyclohexylcarbondiimide, 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide, etc., a carbonyl compound such as carbonyldiimidazole, or an isoxazolium salt such as N ethyl 5 phenylisoxazolium perchlorate. The acylation may also be effected by reacting a reactive derivative of other carbonyl groups.Specific examples thereof include reactive derivatives with an acid anhydride, a mixed acid anhydride, an active ester, an acid azide, Vilsmeier reagent, etc. Examples of the mixed acid anhydride include mixed acid anhydrides with carbonic acid monoalkyl esters such as monoethyl carbonate, monoisobutyl carbonate, etc., mixed acid anhydrides with optionally halogenated lower alkanoic acids such as pivalic acid, trichloroacetic acid, etc., mixed acid anhydrides with alkylsulphonic acids such as methanesulphonic acid, ethanesulphonic acid, etc., and the like. Examples of the active ester include substituted phenyl esters, benzotriazole esters, succinimide esters, etc.Examples of the reactive derivative with a reagent include reactive derivatives with Vilsmeier reagent obtained by reacting an acid amide such as N,N dimethylformamide,N,N dimethylacetamide, etc. with an acyl halogenating agent such as phosgene, thionyl chloride, phosphorus trichloride, phosphorus oxychloride, trichloromethyl chloroformate, etc. Examples of suitable solvents employed in the reactions with these reactive derivatives include ethers such as diethyl ether, THF, etc., halogenated hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride, chloroform, etc., aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, etc., ketones such as acetone, etc., and mixtures of two or more thereof.Further, the reaction may also be effected in the presence of a base. Examples of the base include tertiary amines such as triethylamine, dimethylaniline, diisopropylethylamine, etc. While the reaction temperature and the reaction time are not particularly restricted, it is preferred to effect the reaction at 50 to 300C, and at that temperature, the reaction is usually completed in several hours. Furthermore, the aforesaid acylated reaction may also be effected in the presence of a catalyst such as 4 dimethylaminopyridine. Of the compounds of the general formula I according to the present invention, those derivatives wherein R1 is an acyl group have been found to have a wide antibacterial spectrum against Gram negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, andGram positive bacteria, and thus can be used as antibiotics. The compounds of the present invnetion also include their salt forms, as described above.Cations for forming these salts are those know in this art, and examples thereof include alkali metal ions such as lithium, sodium, potassium, etc.alkaline earth metal ions such as magnesium, calcium, etc., and optionally substituted ammonium ions such as ammonium, tetra n butylammonium, pyridinium, dicyclohexylammonium, etc. Furthermore the derivatives of the present invention may exist in the form of optical isomers, and in such a case, the respective isomers and also their mixtures are within the scope of the present invention. That the compounds of the present invention have the above described chemical structures has been confirmed by elementary analysis, infrared absorption spectrum, nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum, etc. In the production of the derivatives of the present invention, the method of protecting the amino group and the method of removing the protecting group may be one of the methods conventionally employed in peptide synthetic chemistry, for example the method described in Tanpakushitsu Kagaku 1, Amino sanPepuchido Protein Chemistry 1, Amino Acid . Peptide ed. Akabori, Kaneko, and Narita, Kyoritsu Shuppan, 1969. The present invention is illustrated by the following Examples. Example 1Production of 3 t butoxycarboxamido 1 benzyl oxy 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone a Production of 2 t butoxyearboxamido 3 hydroxy 4,4,4 trifluorobutanoic acidEMI15.1 2 Amino 3 hydroxy 4, 4, 4 trifluorobutanoic acid 2 g, 11.6 mbl was dissolved in a mixed solvent of 10 ml of THF and 20 ml of water. Triethylamine 1.62 ml, 11.6 mM and di t butyl dicarbonate 3.2 g, 14.7 mM were added thereto, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 15 hours. After completion of the reaction, the THF was distilled off under reduced pressure, and the pH was adjusted to 2.5 with 1N hydrochloric acid, with ice cooling. The resulting aqueous solution was extracted three times with 30 ml of ethyl acetate, and the organic layers were combined, washed with 40 ml of water, and then washed with 30 ml of saturated brine. The solution was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, the solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the residue was re precipitated with n hexane to obtain the crude title compound 2.2 g, yield 70 . IR maScm 3300, 1730, 1645, 1520, 1258, 1160, 1140. NMR DMSO dg,ppm 1.40 S, 9H , 4.20 m, 2H . b Production of O benzyl 2 t butoxycarboxamido3 hydroxy 4,4,4 trifluorobutanohydroxamateEMI16.1 2 t Butoxycarboxamido 3 hydroxy 4 , 4, 4 trifluoro butanoic acid 1.90 g, 6.96 mM was dissolved in a mixed solvent of 15 ml of THF and 15 ml of water, and then O benzylhydroxylamine hydrochloride 1.33 g, 8.36 mM was added. The pH of this solution was adjusted to 4.0 5.0 with a saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution, and then an aqueous solution of 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylamino propyl carbodiimide hydrochloride water soluble carbodiimide 1.46 g, 7.64 mM was added dropwise thereto, with ice cooling.The pH of the solution during the addition, and the reaction, was adjusted to 4.5 5.0 with 1N hydrochloric acid. The reaction was effected with ice cooling for 20 minutes and then at room temperature for 30 minutes. Then, the THF was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the residue was extracted three times with 40 ml of ethyl acetate. All of the organic layers were combined, washed with a 0.5M aqueous citric acid solution, then with 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and further with saturated brine. The solution was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and the ethyl acetate was evaporated off to obtain 1.88 g yield 70 of the crude title compound. IR cm 3400, 3300, 3200, J max 1680, 1660, 1520, 1300, 1260, 1160, 1120, 740, 960. NMR DMSO d6,ppm 1.41 S, 9H , 4.20 m, 2H , 4.82 S, 2H , 6.40 broad S, 1H , 7.35 S, 5H . c Production of 3 t butoxycarboxamido 1 benzyloxy 4 trifluoro methy 1 2 azetidinone EMI17.1 O benzyl 2 t butoxycarboxamido 3 hydroxy 4,4,4 trifluorobutanohydroxamate 0.70 g, 1.85 mM and triphenylphosphine 0.58 g, 2.21 mM were dissolved in 15 ml of dry THF in a nitrogen stream. A solution of diethyl azodicarboxylate 0.35 g, 2.03 mM dissolved in 10 ml of dry THF was added dropwise thereto with ice cooling over 30 minutes. After 30 minutes, this was allowed to warm to room temperature, and stirred at the same temperature for 20 hours. The solvent was evaporated off, and the residue was then subjected to silica gel chromatography.Elution with a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane 1 3 gave 0.21 g yield 30 of 3 t butoxycarboxamido 1benzyloxy 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone as crystals. IR maxcm 3320, 1805, 1698, 1523, 1285, 1160, 1140. NMR DMSO d6,ppm 1.40 s, 9H , 4.80 m, 1H , 4.94 S, 2H , 5.15 m, 1H , 7.40 S, 5H , 8.00 d, 1H .Example 2Production of 3 t butoxyearboxamido 1 hydrody 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone EMI18.1 3 t Butoxycarboxamido 1 benzyloxy 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 70 mg, 0.19 mM was dissolved in 10 ml of methanol, and, after adding 10 Pd C 20 mg , the mixture was stirred at normal temperature and normal pressure in a hydrogen stream for 45 minutes. The catalyst was filtered off, and the solvent was evaported off under reduced pressure to obtain 38 mg yield 72 of the title compound. IRymaicm 3310, 1780, 1752, 1690, 1517, 1290, 1160, 940, 870. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.42 S,9H , 4.33 m, 1H , 5.11 dd, 1H . The obtained compound may be converted to the free form by treating with trifluoroacetic acid.Example 3Production of 3 t butoxycarboxamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 a zetidinone EMI18.2 3 t Butoxycarboxamido 1 hydroxy 4 trifluoro methyl 2 azetidinone 140 mg, 0.52 mM was dissolved in a mixed solvent of 8ml of methanol and 12 ml of water, and ice cooled in a nitrogen stream.Sodium acetate 0.6g was added and dissolved, and, while maintaining the pH at 7.5 6.0, 20 aqueous titanium trichloride solution 1.8 ml was added dropwise with ice cooling. The reaction was effected at 0 50C for 30 minutes and then at room temperature for 30 minutes. After completion of the reaction, extraction with 20 ml of ethyl acetate was conducted three times. The organic layers were then combined, and washed with 30 ml of a 0.5M aqueous citric acid solution, then with 5 aqueous NaHCO3 solution and further with saturated brine. The solution was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and the ethyl acetate was evaporated off to obtain 110 mg yield 83 of the crude title compound. IR maicm 3300, 1780, 1690, 1520, 1280, 1150, 1070, 850. NMR DMSO d6, ppm 1.39 s, 9H , 4.38 m, lH , 5.20 dd, 1H , 7.92 d, 1H , 8.87 s, 1H .Example 4Production of 3 t butoxyearboxamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulfonic acid tetrabutylammonium saltEMI19.1 3 t Butoxycarboxamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 100 mg, 0.39 mM was dissolved in 20 ml of dry methylene chloride in a nitrogen stream.An o picoline sulphuric anhydride complex 0.30g was added thereto, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 days. The reaction mixture was added to 20 ml of 0.5M aqueous KH2PO4 solution, and extracted into the aqueous layer. The methylene chloride layer was further extracted with 20 ml of 0.5M aqueous KH2PO4 solution. The aqueous layers were then combined, and, after adding 0.13 g of tetrabutylannonium hydrogensulphate, extracted with 40 ml of methylene chloride. The aqueous layer was further extracted with 40 nl of methylene chloride.The organic layers were then combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and the methylene chloride was evaporated off to obtain 130 mg yield 60 of the crude title compound as an oil. IR maxneat cm 1 3300, 2950, 2850, 1790, 1720, 1280, 1250, 1160, 1140, 1045. NMR CDCl3, ppm 1.00 m, 12H , 1.45 m, 17H 1.65 m, 8H , 3.25 m, 8H 4.55 m, 1H , 5.08 d, 1H , 5.35 dd, 1H . Example 5Production of 3 amino 4 trifluoromethyl 2 a zetidinone 1 sulphonic acidEMI20.1 n Bu4N 3 t Butoxycarboxamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid tetrabutylammonium salt 100 mg, 0.18 in4 was dissolved in 3 ml of dry methylene chloride in a nitrogen stream. With ice cooling, 0.5 ml of anisole and 1 ml of trifluoroacetic acid were added thereto, and the mixture was stirred at 0 50C for 40 minutes.The methylene chloride and the trifluoroacetic acid were evaporated off under reduced pressure, and diethyl ether was added to precipitate the product, namely 23 mg yield 65 of a zwitter ion of the title compound. IR maxKBr cm 1 3400, 3000, 1800, 1320, 1300, 1270, 1200, 1150. NMR D2O, ppm 5.50 m, 1H , 5.15 d, 1H .Example 6Production of 3 t butoxycarboxamido 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone ioxysulphonic acid tetrabutylammonium saltEMI21.1 3 t Butoxycarboxamido 1 hydroxy 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 100 mg, 0.37 mM was dissolved in 20 ml of dry methylene chloride in a nitrogen stream. An d picoline sulphuric anhydride complex 0.30g was added thereto, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for a day. The reaction mixture was added to 20 ml of 0.5M aqueous KH2POt solution. The aqueous layers were combined, and, after adding 0.13 g of tetrabutylammonium hydrogensulphate, extracted with 40 ml of methylene chloride. The aqueous layer was further extracted with 40 ml of methylene chloride.The organic layers were combined, dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and themethylene chloride was evaporated off to obtain 157 mg yield 72 of the crude title compound. neat 1 IRax cm 3300, 2950, 2850, 1800, 1710, 1280, 1150, 1050. NtE CDCl3, ppm 1.00 m, 12H , 1.45 m, 17H , 1.65 m, 8H , 3.25 m, 8H , 5.00 m, 2H , 5.30 dd, 1H . Example 7Production of 3 D alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinecarboxamido oc phenylacetamidol 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid tetrabutylammonium saltEMI22.1 In a nitrogen stream, D alpha 4 ethyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinecarboxamido phenylacetic acid 95 mg, 0.28 mM was dissolved in dry methylene chloride, 76 mg of oxalyl chloride and one drop of dimethylformamide were added with ice cooling, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for an hour. The solvent was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and 4 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added to obtain an acid chloride solution.Separately, in a nitrogen stream, 3 amino t tri fluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid 30 mg, .15 mM and dimethylaminopyridine 5 mg, 0.04 mM ere dissolved in 1 ml of dry dimethylfornamide, and diisopropylethylamine 55 mg, 0.5 nM was added thereto to obtain a uniform solution. This solution was cooled to 10 to 50C, and the solution of the acid chloride in tetrahydrofuran obtained above was added dropwise thereto. The reaction was effected at 100 to 50C for 30 minutes and further at room temperature for an hour. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was poured into 10 ml of ice water, the pH was adjusted to 6.5 7.0 with aqueous NaHCO3 solution, the tetrahydrofuran was evaporated off under reduced pressure, and the aqueous layer was washed with 10 ml of ethyl acetate. The pH of the aqueous layer was adjusted to 2.5 with 5 hydrochloric acid, and was then washed twice with 10 ml of ethyl acetate.The pH of the aqueous layer was adjusted to 6.5 7.0, then 50 mg of tetrabutylammonium hydrogensulphate were added, the extraction with 15 ml of methylene chloride was conducted three times. The methylene chloride layers were combined, washed with 10 ml of water, dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate, and the solvent was evaporated off. Diethyl ether was added to the residue to precipitate the product, namely 63 mg yield 55 of the crude title compound as an oil. neat 1 IRxmax cm 3300, 2950, 2850, 179O, 1670, 1250, 1150, 1035. NMR CDCl3 ppm 1.00 m, 12H , 1.20 t, 3H , 1.45 m, 8H , 1.65 m, 8H , 3.25 m, 8H , 3.55 q, 2H , 3.60 4.20 m, 4H , 4.65 m, 1H , 5.57 d, 1H , 5.70 dd, 1H , 7.30 7.40 m, 5H , 7.59 d, 1H .Example 8Production of 3 12 2 aminothiazol 4 yl Z 2 methoximinoacetaminol 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid EMI24.1 In a nitrogen stream, 2 2 aminothiazol 4 yl Z 2 methoximinoacetic acid 136 mg, 0.68 mM was suspended in 4 ml of dry methylene chloride, 210 mg of phosphorus oxychloride and 59 mg of dimethylformamide were added, and reaction was effected at 150 to 100C for 2 hours. To this reaction mixture was added dropwise a mixed solution of 3 amino 4 trifluoromethyl 2 azetidinone 1 sulphonic acid 102 mg, 0.50 mM , 6 ml of dry methylene chloride and 240 jil of diisopropylethylamine.Reaction was effected at 100C for an hour, and then at room temperature for 2 hours. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was dissolved in 20 ml of ice water, the pH was adjusted to 7.0 with 20 ml of ethyl acetate, and the aqueous layer was concentrated to 5 ml under reduced pressure. The aqueous layer was then purified by column chromatography using Amberlite XAD 2 a highly porous polymer produced by Rohm Haas Co. and a mixture of tetrahydrofuran and water 1 10 as an eluting agent, and by freeze drying to obtain 29 mg yield 15 of the title compound. IRxmacm 1 1795, 1650, 1280, 1150, 1040. NMR DMSO d6,ppm 3.95 s, 3H , 4.75 m, 1H , 5.40 dd, 1H 6.95 s, 1H . We have confirmed that the compounds obtained by the aforegoing Examples 7 and 8 show a wide antibacterial spectrum against Gram negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, andGram positive bacteria.