# Aldose reductase inhibiting 5 2 alkoxyphenyl thiazolidinediones.

## Abstract
A series of 5 2 alkoxyphenyl thiazolidinediones and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful as hypo glycemic agents, aldose reductase inhibitors and as ther apeutic agents for the treatment of chronic diabetic compli cations intermediates therefore and processes for prepara tion of said compounds.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound selected from the group consisting of aryl thiazolidinedone darivatives of the formula EMI26.1 and the base salts thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable cations, wherein R IS alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms X is fluoro, chloro or bromo and Y is hydrogen, chloro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. 2. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms, X is fluoro and Y is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 3. A compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having frpm one to four carbon atoms, X is chloro and Y is hydrogen or lower alkyl. 4. 5 6 Fluoro 2 methoxyphenyl thiazolidine2,4 dione. 5. 5 6 Chloro 2 methoxyphenyl thiazolidine2,4 dione. 6. 5 5 Chloro 2 methoxyphenyl thiazolidine 2 , 4 dione . 7. 5 5 Chloro 2 methoxy 3 methylphanyl thiazolidine 2, 4rdione. 8. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a compound of claim 1. 9. A compound of claim 1 usable in the treat nient of a diabetic host for diabetes associated complications. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A process for making a compound of the formula I EMI28.1 and the base salts thereof with pharmaceutically acceptable cations, wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms X is fluoro, chloro or bromo and Y is hydrogen, chloro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy which comprises reacting an alpha 2 alkoxyphenyl alpha chloroacetic acid alkyl ester of the formulaEMI28.2 wherein each of X, Y and R is as defined above and R1 is C1 4 alkyl, with thiourea in a reaction inert solvent at a temperature of at least 750C, followed by acid hydrolysis of the product of said reaction and if desired, forming a pharmaceutically acceptable cation salt of said formula I compound. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms, X is fluoro and Y is hydrogen. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms, X is chloro and Y is hydrogen. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms, X is chloro and Y is lower alkyl. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms, X is fluoro and Y is lower alkyl. 6. A process according to claim 2 wherein R is methyl, Y is hydrogen and X is 6 fluoro. 7. A process according to claim 3 wherein R is methyl, Y is hydrogen and X is 6 chloro. 8. A process according to claim 4 wherein R is methyl, Y is hydrogen and X is 5 chloro. 9. A process according to claim 5 wherein R is methyl, Y is methyl and X is 5 chloro.

## Description
ALDOSE REDUCTASE INHIBITING 5 2 ALKOXYPHENYL THIAZOLIDINEDIONES This invention relates to novel 5 2 alkoxy phenyl thiazolidlnediones and to pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof useful as hypoglycemic agents, inhibitors of aldose reductase and as therapeutic agents for the treatment of chronic diabetic complications Despite the widespread use of insulin and of the availability of a large number of synthetic hypoglycemic agents such as the sulfonylureas e.g.chlorpropamide, tolbutamide, acetohex2mide and biguanides e.g. phenformin , the search for improved hypoglycemic agents continues More recently, efforts have been directed to controlling certain chronic complications of diabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. Such efforts have given rise to development of aldose reductase inhibitors, compounds which inhibit the activity of the enzyme aldose reductase which is primarily responsible for regulating reduction of aldoses to the corresponding polyols.In this way, unwanted accumulation of galactitol in the lens of galactosemic subjects and of sorbitol in the lens, kidney and peripheral nervous cord of various diabetic subjects is prevented or reduced. References which describe aldose reductase inhibitors are U.S. 3,821,383 1,3 dioxo 1H benz d,a isoquinoline 2 3H acetic acid and related compounds U.S. 4,200,642 spiro oxazolidine 2,4 diones U.S.4,117,230, 4,130,714 4,147,797 4,210,756 4,235,911 and 4,282,229, each of which describes certain spirohydantoins. Belgian Patents 889,757 and 889, 758 describe 5 substituted phenyl oxazolidine 2,4 diones as hypoglycemic agents. European Patent Application 33,617 publishedAugust 12, 1981 describes certain 5 disubstituted phenyl thiazolidine 2,4 diones which exhibit activity to control chronic diabetic complications. A variety of 5 4 alkoxybenzyl thiazolidine 2,4 diones having hypolipidemic and hypoglycemic activities are disclosed in European Patent Application 8203 publishedFebruary 20, 1980. Sohda et al., Chem. Pharm. Bull. 30, 3601 16 1982 report on the hypoglycemic and hypolipedemic properties of thiazolidine 2,4 diones having at the 5position one or two substituents such as phenyl, heteryl or alkyl. Many of the same compounds are disclosed in Japanese Patent Application 57,028,073, published February 15, 1982. It has now been found that certain 5 2 alkoxyphenyl thiazolidinediones of formula I below and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are useful as hypoglycemic agents, aldose reductase inhibitors and as therapeutic agents for the prevention and or alleviation of chronic diabetic complications. The present invention is concerned with compounds of the formulaEMI2.1 and the base salts thereof with pharmacologically acceptable cations, wherein R is alkyl having from one to four carbon atoms X is fluoro, chloro or bromo . and Y is hydrogen, chloro, lower alkyl or lower alkoxy. The prererred compounds are those wherein X is fluoro or chloro Y is hydrogen or methyl, and R is methyl. Because of the acidic hydrogen atom in the thiazolidinedione ring of the compounds of fornula I, salts can be formed with pharmaceutically acceptable cations by conventional methods. Thus, these salts may be readily prepared by treating the compound of formula I with an aqueous solution of the desired pharmaceutically acceptable cation and evaporating the resulting solution to dryness, preferably under reduced pressure Alternatively, a lower alkanol solution of the compound of formula I may be mixed with an alkoxide of the desired metal and the solution subsequently evaporated to dryness.Suitable pharma cynically acceptable cations for this purpose include, but are not limited to, potassium, sodium, ammonium, calcium and magnesium, aluminum, benzathine, piperazine, N methylglucamine and procaine, Also embraced by the present invention are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically ncceptibre carrier and a compound cf formula in an amount effective for the treatment of hyperglycemia and diabetes associated complications, including diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy. Preferred compounds for use in such pharmaceutical compositions are those having the preferred substituents asdefined above. The present invention further includes a method of treatment of hyperglycemia and diabetes associated complications, including diabetic cataracts, neuropathy and retinopathy, which comprises administering to a subject in need of treatment an effective amount of a compound of formula I, preferably a compound having the preferred substituents as defined above The novel compounds IV of this invention are prepared according to the reaction sequence presented below. EMI5.1 A favored procedure comprises reaction of the appropriate alpha 2 alkoxyphenyl alpha chloroacetic acid alkyl ester III with thicurea in a reactioninert solvent, e.g. ethanol, isopropanol, sulfolane, at a temperature of 75O or higher. The 5 2 alkoxy phenyl 2 irninothiazolidin 4 one thus produced is then hydrolyzed with dilute aqueous acid, such as 2 6N EC1, in a solvent such as ethanol, to produce IV which is isolated by known procedures. The alpha0 2 alkoxyphenyl alpha chloroacetic acid alkyl esters III required as starting materials are prepared by hydrolysis of the appropriate 5 2alkoxyphenyl oxazolidine 2,4 dione I under alkaline conditions in a suitable solvent such as ethanol at or near the reflux temperature. The hydrolysis reaction is usually complete in 2 to 4 hours. The alpha 2alkoxyphenyl alpha hydroxy acetic acid 11 is recovered by acidification of the reaction mixture and extraction of the desired product with, for example, ethyl acetate. The thus obtained acid II is then reacted with thionyl chloride or Pod3 to produce the corresponding alpha chloroacetic acid chloride derivative which is then esterified by reaction with the appropriate C1 4 alcohol to afford III . Many of the 5 2 alkoxyphenyl oxazolidine 2,4 dione reactants are described in Belgian Patent 889,757. Alternatively, the alpha 2 alkoxyphenl alpha chloroacetic acid alkyl esters are prepared from the appropriate benzaldehyde V . The procedure comprises conversion of the benzaldehyde to the cyanohydrin VII via the bisulfite adduct which is reacted with cyanide in a two phase, aqueous organic solvent system. In a modification of this procedure, the aldehyde is first converted to the trimethylsilyl cyanohydrin VI by reaction with trimethylsilylcarbonitrile, in the presence of a catalytic amount of a Lewis acid, e.g., zinc iodide. A reaction inert solvent e.g. methylene chloride, ether is generally used when the aldehyde is a solid, but is optional when the aldehyde is a liquid.The temperature of the reaction is not critical, it being conveniently made up at reduced temperature e.g. 0 25 .C and allowed to proceed at room temperature for a matter of hours or days, as necessary to achieve complete reaction. The tritnethylsilyl ether is then hydrolyzed to cyanohydrin VI , conveniently at reduced temperature e.g. 0 C in a two phase strong aqueous acid organic solvent system. The cyanohydrin VII is conveniently hydrolyzed to the corresponding hydroxy acid by reaction with excess concentrated hydrochloric acid in formic acid, generally at the reflux temperature of the solvent system. Likewise the trimethylsilyl cyanohydrin may be hydrolyzed directly to the hydroxy acid by the above formic acid procedure. The hydroxy acid is isolated by known methods. It is converted to the alpha chloro acetic acid alkyl ester III according to the procedure described above for converting 11 to III . The aldehydes V required for the above syntheses are broadly available either commercially, or by literature methods, such as those described in BelgianPatent 889,757. The compounds of formula I and the pharmaceuticaily acceptable salts thereof are useful as inhibitors of the enzyme aldose reductase m the treatment i.e.prevention and alleviation of chronic complications of diabetes, such as diabetic cataracts, retinopathy and neuropathy. They are adninistered alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers in single or multiple doses to a subject in need of treatment by a variety of conventional routes of administration, including oral, parenteral and topical, including ophthalmic. In general, these compounds will be administered orally or parenterally at dosages between about 0.25 and 25 mg kg body weight of the subject t6 be treated per day, preferably from about 1.0 to 10 mg kg. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert solid diluents or fillers, sterile aqueous solution and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions formed by combining the novel compounds of formula I and the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are then readily administered in a variety of dosage forms such as tablets, powders, lozenges, syrups, injectable solutions and the like. These pharmaceutical compositions can, if desired, contain additional ingredients such as flavorings, binders, excipients and the like. Thus, for purposes of oral administration, tablets containing various excipients, disintegrants, binding agents and lubricating agents can be used. Solid compositions of a similar type can also be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules.Preferred materials for this include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration, the essential active ingredient therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents, together with diluents such as water, ethanol, propylene glycol, glyercine and combinations thereof. For parenteral administration, solutions of the novel compound of formula lin sesame or peanut oil, aqueous propylene glycol, or in sterile aqueous solution can be employed. Such aqueous solutions should be suitably buffered if necessary and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for Intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and intraperitoneal administration. In this. connection, the sterile aqueous media employed are all readily available by standard techniques known to those skilled in the ar.t. Preparations suitable for ophthalmic use, especially for treatment of diabetic cataracts, will contain a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a concentration from about 0.1 to about 5 by weight, preferably from about 0.5 to about 28 in a pharmaceutically acceptable solution, suspension or ointment. Ophthalmic preparations, prepared in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice, will preferably be in the form of a sterile aqueous solution containing, if desired, additional ingredients, for example preservatives, buffers, tonicity agents, antioxidants and stabilizers, nonionic wetting or clarifying agents, viscosity increasing agents and the like.Regardless of the route of administration used, some variation in the concentration ranges specified herein will necessarily occur, depending on the particular compound used and the condition of the person to be treated. In any event, the person responsible for administration will determine the appropriate dose for the individual subject. The activity of the compounds of the present invention as agents for the control of chronic diabetic complications can be determined by a number of standard biological or pharmacological tests. Suitable tests include 1 measuring their ability to inhibit the enzyme activity of isolated aldose reductase 2 measuring their ability to reduce or inhibit sorbitol accumulation in the sciatic nerve of acutely streptozotocinized i.e diabetic rats 3 measuring their ability to reverse already elevated sorbitol levels in the sciatic nerve and lens of chronic s,reptozotocin insuced diabetic rats 4 measuring their ability to prevent or inhibit galactitol formation in the lense of acutely galactosemic rats and 5 measuring their ability to delay cataract formation and reduce the severity of lens opacities in chronic galactosemic rats. Suitable experimental procedures are described in U.S. Patent No. 3,821,383 and the references cited therein. The compounds of the present invention are readily adapted to clinical use as antidiabetic agents. The hypogl ycem c activity required for tis clinical use is defined by the glucose tolerance test procedure which follows. Intact male albino rats are fasted approximately 18 24 curs, then weighed, numbered and recorded in groups of five or six as needed. Each group of animals is then dosed intraperitoneally with glucose one gram per kilogram and orally with either water controls or compound at a level usually selected from the range 0.1 to 100 mg kg . Blood glucose levels mg 100 ml are measured in tail blood samples over a period of 3 hours in both control and treated groups, With equivalent zero hour blood glucose levels in control and treated groups, the lowering of blood glucose at 0.5 hour, 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours is calculated as Control Blood Glwcose Treated Blood Glucoses x 100 Control Bloqd Glucose Clinically useful hypoglycemic agents show activity in this test. A blood glucose lowering of 9 or greater generally reflects statistically significant hypoglycemic activity in this test They are clinically administered to mammals, including man, via either the oral or the parenteral route. dministration by the oral route is preferred, being convenient and avoiding the possible pain and irritation of injection. However, in circumstances where the patient cannot swallow the medication, or absorption following oral administration is impaired, as by disease or other abnormality, it is essential that the drug be administered parenterally.By either route, the dosage is in the range of about 0.25 to about 25 mg body weight of the subject per davy, preferably about 1.0 to about 10 mg kg body weight per day administered singly or as a divided dose. The reactions employed to prepare the compounds of this invention can generally be monitored by standard tic methods, employing commercially available plates. Suitable eluants are common solvents such as chloroform, ethyl acetate or hexane or suitable combinations thereof which will differentiate starting materials, products, by products, and in some cases intermediates. Applying these methods, which are well known in the art, will permit further improvement in the methodology of the specific examples detailed hereinafter, e.gv the selection of more optimal reaction times and temperatures, as well as aid in the selection of optimal processes. In the examples which follow, no effort was made to optimize the yields of a given reaction EXAMPLE 1 5 6 Chloro 2 Methoxyphenyl Thiazolidine 2,4 Dione A mixture of methyl alpha chloro alpha 6 chloro 2 methoxyphenyl acetate 1.37 g, 5.5 mmoles , thiourea 0.84 g, iO.O mmoles and ethanol 10 ml was refluxed for 16 hours. Concentrated hydrochloric acid 4 ml was added to the mixture and refluxing continued for an additional 16 hours. An additional 2 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid was added and the mixture refluxed for 16 more hours. The yellow solution was then cooled to room temperature and poured.into 150 ml of water. The title product was isolated by extraction of the aqueous mixture with ethyl acetate 2 x 150 ml .The extract was washed with water 1 x 50 ml and brine 1 x 50 ml , then dried MgSO4 and concentrated in vacuo to a brown oil 0.91 g . Trituration of the oil in hexane 50 ml gave a solid which was recrystallized from ethanol water 1 1 as a white solid, 0.0719 g. M.P. I95l970 C The compounds tabulated were prepared in like manner from the appropriate methyl alpha chloroalpha 2 alkoxyphenyl acetate reactant.EMI14.1 EMI14.2 tb SEP Reactant SEP Z CH CI COOCH3 SEP Product tb Ex. SEP Z SEP GMS SEP X SEP Y SEP GMS SEP MF SEP C tb SEP 2 SEP 6 P 2 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 1.19 SEP 6 F SEP H SEP 0.0723 SEP 127.0 128.5 tb SEP 3 SEP 5 Cl 2 OCH3 C6H3 SEP 1.00 SEP 5 Cl SEP H SEP 0.3018 SEP 237 238 tb SEP 4 SEP 5 Cl 2 OCH3 3 CH3 C6H2 SEP 0.92 SEP 5 Cl SEP CH3 SEP 0.032 SEP 160 163 tb EXAMPLE 5 Following the procedure of Example 1, the compounds tabulated below are prepared from the appropriate reactants of Preparation F.EMI15.1 R Y XC2H5 H 6 FCH3 H 5 BrC2H5 H 5 ClC2H5 H 5 FCH3 Cl 5 FC2H5 H 5 BrCH3 OCH3 5 BrCH3 H 4 ClCH3 H 5 Cl EXAMPLE 6 The sodium salts of the products of Examples 1 5 are prepared by dissolving said compound n water containing an equivalent amount in moles of sodium hydroxide and then freeze drying the mixture. In this way, the desired alkali metal salt of the thiazolidinedione is obtained in the form of an amorphous powder which is freely soluble in water. In like manner, the potassium and lithium salts are also similarly prepared. PREPARATION A Methyl alpha Chloro alpha 6 Chloro 2 Methoxyphenyl Acetate A mixture of 5 6 chloro 2 methoxyphenyl oxazo lidine 2,4 dione 2.20 g, 9.10 mmoles , aqueous sodium hydroxide 5.4 ml of 6N, 32.3 mmoles and ethanol 6 ml was heated in a 90 C oil bath for 24 hours, then stirred at room temper2ture for 48 hours. The black reaction mixture was then poured into 150 ml of water and the pH of the aqueous ,ixture adjusted to pa 2 by addition of 1N HC1. Extraction of the acidified aqueous solution with diethyl ether 2 x 150 ml , followed by washing the combined extract with brine 2 x 200 ml , drying MgSO4 and concentration of the dried extract gave a brown oil.Trituration of the oil with hexane 2 x 100 ml gave 0.69 g of a tan solid m.p. 139.5 1420C, the acid form of the title compound. Additional acid was isolated by extraction cf the acidified aqueous solution with ethyl acetate 2 x 200 ml . The pooled ethyl acetate extracts were washed with brine 1 x 100 ml , dried MgS04 and concentrated to an oil. Trituration of the oil with hexane 2 x 100 ml gave a white solid 0.75 g . The combined acid product 1.40 g, 6.46 mmoles was reacted with thionyl chloride 5.0 ml at 300C for five hours after which the excess thionyl chloride was stripped under reduced pressure. Methanol 5.0 ml was added and the red solution stirred at ambient.temperature for ten minutes. Water 50 ml was then aided and the resulting solution extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 100 ml . The extracts were combined, washed successively with 5 sodium bicarbonate solution 2 x 50 ml , water 1 x 50 ml and brine 1 x 50 ml , and then dried MgSO4 , Concentration of the dried extract gave the title product as a brown oil 1.37 g . It was used as is. By means of the above procedures, the compounds tabulated below ere prepared as brown oils from the appropriate 5 2 alkoxyphenyl oxazolidine 2,4 dione.They were used directly without purification to prepare the 5 2 alkoxyphenyl thiazolidine 2,4 diones of Examples 2 and 3 methyl alpha chloro alpha 6 fluoro 2 methoxyphenyl acetate methyl alpha chloro alpha 5 chloro 2 methoxyphenyl acetate. PREPARATION B The following compounds are prepared from the corresponding 5 2 alkoxyphenyl oxazolidine 2,4 diones according to the procedure of Preparation A.EMI19.1 R Y XC2H5 H 6 FCH3 H 5 BrC2H5 H 5 Cl C2H5 H 5 FCH3 Cl 5 F PREPARATION C 2 Methyl 4 Chloroanisole To a suspension of 2 methoxy 5 chlorobenzaldehyde 34.5 g, 0.202 mole in bis 2 hydroxyethyl ether 225 ml was added hydrazine hydrate 17.7 g, 0.353 mole and the mixture heated on a 125 C oil bath. for 15 minutes. It was then cooled to 500C and powdered potassium hydroxide 15.5 g of 85 , 0.24 mole added. The mixture was heated on a 1650C oil bath for 30 minutes. After it had cooled to room temperature it was poured into water 600 ml and the aqueous solution acidified by addition of 6N HCl. Carbon tetrachloride 4 x 100 ml extractions of the acid solution, followed by washing the pooled extracts with brine 1 x 100 ml , drying MgSO4 and concentration in vacuo gave a clear viscous oil which crystallized upon addition of a small volume of petroleum ether and chilling in an ice bath. The white crystals were filtered and dried in vacuo . Yield 24.7 g 78 m.p. 35 37 C. PREPARATION D 5 Chloro 2 Methoxy 3 Methylbenzaldehyde Titanium tetrachloride 21,6 g, 0.114 mole was added to a solution of 2 rnethyl 4 chloroan sole 9 g, 0.057 mole in methylene chloride at OOC. Then, 1,1dichloromethyl ethyl ether 7.24 g, 0.063 mole was added dropwise over a three minute period and the reactIon mixture stirred at 0 C for 30 minutes. The reaction was quenched by carefully pouring it into water 600 ml . The organic layer was separated and te aqueous phase extracted with methylene chloride 2 x 100 ml . The combined organic layer and extracts was washed with brine, dried MgSO4 and concentrated under reduced pressure to a pale yellow solid 10.1 g . The crude product was purified by column chromatography in an 80 mm diameter flash column packed with 10 of 230 400 mesh silica gel. Elution of the column with 90 hexane 10 ether gave the title product 3.65 g m.p. 92 940C. PREPARATION E alpha Hydroxy 2 Methoxy 3 Methyl 5 Chlorobenzyl cyanide To a solution of sodium bisulfite 676 mg, 6.50 mmoles in water 6 ml at 600C was added 5 chloro 2 methoxy 3 methylbenzaldehyde 10 g, 5.42 mmoles . The mixture was stirred for one hour, cooled to 00C, and ether 6 ml added. Sodium cyanide 292 mg, 5 96 mmoles in water 6 ml was added to the reaction mixture dropwise with stirring. The reaction was stirred for two hours during which time it was allowed to reach room temperature. The ether layer was separated, and the aqueous phase extracted with ether 2 x 50 ml .The combined ether extracts were dried MgSO4 and concentrated to give 970 mg 84 of the cyanohydrin product which was used directly for preparing the corresponding acid. PREPARATION F alpha Hydroxy alpha 5 Chloro 2 Methoxy 3 Methylphenyl Acetic Acid The cyanohydrin, Preparation E, 970 mg, 4.58 mmoles in t solution or formic acid 3.5 ml and concentrated hydrochloric acid 2.5 ml was refluxed overnight. It was then poured into water 50 ml , the pH adjusted to 14 by addition of 6N NaOH solution and then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 100 ml . The basic aqueous solution was acidified to pri 1 by addition of 6N HC1 then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 x 100 ml . The pooled extracts were dried MgSO4 and concentrated to give a tan solid which was washed with hexane and dried 800 mg 73 . It was converted to methyl alpha chloro alpha 5chloro 2 methoxy 3 methylphenyl acetats by the chlorination esterification procedure of Preparation A. The product was used directly to prepare the thiazolidine2,4 dione of Example 4. PREPARATION G Utilizing the procedures of Preparations C F, the following compounds are obtained from the appropriate benzaldehyde reactant.EMI24.1 R Y XCH3 CH3 5 BrC2H5 CH3 5 Br PREPARATION H The procedures of Preparations E and F are employed to prepare the following compounds from appropriate benzaldehyde reactants.EMI25.1 R Y XC2H5 H 5 BrCH3 OCH3 5 BrCH3 H 4 ClCH3 H 5 Cl