# Methods of improving the resistance of insulating surfaces to tracking.

## Abstract
The resistance to tracking failure of an insulating surface of a plastics material based on a carbon chain polymer that is exposed to an electrical stress of at least 10⁴ V m is increased by constituting a substantial fraction of its area of at least one stable species of low reactivity standard free energy of decomposition at least 1 eV capable of reversible addition reaction with energetic nucleophiles but substantially free of any irreversible reaction therewith. Preferably the reversible reaction is accompanied by a major change in geometry of the species, so that energy is efficiently transferred from energetic nucleophiles among breakdown products in the gaseous phase to the stable species. Preferred stable species is the carbonate ion.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of increasing the resistance to tracking failure of an insulating surface of a plastics material, based on one or more than one carbon chain polymer, that is exposed to an electrical stress of at 4 least 10 V m comprising constituting a substantial fraction of the area of the surface of at least one species of low reactivity that has a standard free energy of decomposition of at least 1 eV at 3000K and is capable of a reversible addition reaction with energetic nucleophiles but substantially free of any irreversible reaction therewith. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 distinguished by constituting at least fifteen per cent of the area of the surface of the said species of low reactivity. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 distinguished by using as the stable species one which undergoes a major change of geometry on its reversible reaction with an active nucleophile. 4. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 distinguished by using as the stable species a carbonate ion. 5. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 distinguished by using as the stable species the carbonate anion of calcium carbonate. 6. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 distinguished by using as the stable species the anion of calcium sulphate, calcium orthophosphate, barium sulphate, strontium carbonate or barium carbonate.

## Description
METHODS OF IMPROVING THE RESISTANCE OF INSULATING SURFACES TO TRACKING This invention relates to methods of improving the resistance of insulating surfaces of plastics material to tracking under conditions in which electrical stress is applied along the surface, tracking being a breakdown mode in which electrically conductive paths are formed by carbonisation of the plastics material. Previous workers have concentrated, with some degree of success, on three approaches firstly they have sought to chose polymeric materials such as the cycloaliphatic epoxy resins and silicone resins that contain large numbers of heteroatoms in the polymer chain and consequently have a reduced carbonisation tendency an approach that restricts the physical properties that can be achieved secondly they have used inert mineral fillers merely to reduce the concentration of carbonisable material which also restricts the physical properties that can be achieved and thirdly they have used catalytic materials, such as labile hydroxides and transition metal oxides especially alumina trihydrate and iron III oxides to encourage reactions that compete with carbonisation an approach that may risk precipitating failure by gross erosion or other mechanism. The present invention is founded on the realisation that the initial effect of the solid surface is to concentrate stresses only, and that electrical breakdown will normally commence in the gaseous phase and should be countered as far as possible before it progresses into the solid phase. More specifically, under practical conditions initial breakdown will take place in moist air containing various contaminants notably ammonia and or hydrogen chloride under standard test conditions as well as in service and has the effect of producing among other things a multiplicity of energetic and highly reactive nucleophiles such as ozone O3 , oxygen atoms 0 , activated oxygen molecules 02 1 hydroxyl ions and radicals HO , HO , chlorine atoms C1 , chloride ions C1 , immine radicals NH2 and various oxides of nitrogen a sizeable fraction of which will impinge on the solid surface. If they impinge on polymeric material, the most likely reaction is the abstraction of a pendant atom or radical, typically a hydrogen atom or ion in the case of a predominantly hydrocarbon polymer or a halogen atom in the case of a halogenated polymer if a number of atoms are abstracted before the resulting acteive centre is neutralised by reaction with a low energy atom or ion or in some other way hereinafter called a repair reaction , then carbonisation is inevitable. If on the other hand the active species impinges on an inert filler particle, it will be reflected into the gaseous phase without substantial energy loss, and may subsequently impinge on the surface again and in any event, if charged or if energetic enough to produce ionisation contributes to the gaseous breakdown phenomenon. It is therefore an object of the invention to reduce the concentration of energetic reactive nucleophiles present in the gaseous phase under actual or incipient breakdown conditions and or to increase the concentration of low energy reactive species available for repair reactions. In accordance with the invention, the resistance to tracking failure of an insulating surface of a plastics material, based on one or more than one carbon chain polymer, that is exposed to an electrical stress of at 4 least 10 V m is increased by constituting a substantial fraction of the area of the surface of at least one species the stable species of low reactivity that has a standard free energy of decomposition of at least 1 eV at 3000K and is capable of a reversible addition reaction with energetic nucleophiles but substantially free of any irreversible reaction therewith. It will be evident that the said stable species should be bound to a solid phase present in the surface at least after weathering or other superficial erosion strongly enough to resist any tendency to volatilisaton of the temporary product or transition state of the reversible reaction and should have as large as possible a collision cross section this points to a compound anion composed of atoms of low atomic number, say below 18 and preferably below 10. Preferably the stable species is one which undergoes a major change in geometry on its reversible reaction with an active nucleophile, for example from trigonal to tetrahedral or tetrahedral to pyramidal, as this makes for efficient coupling between the translational energy. at least of the nucleophile and the vibrational energy of the internediate transition state and so for the maximum transfer of energy from the nucleophile to the stable species that is consistent with avoiding decomposition of the stable species. Exclusion of anions that do not form useful water insoluble compounds gives a limited choice from which the carbonate ion is very much preferred. Of the insoluble carbonates, calcium carbonate is much preferred on account of ready availability, low cost, and the low collision cross section of its cation. Other options include calcium sulphate, calcium orthophosphate, barium sulphate, strontium carbonate and barium carbonate.Magnesium carbonate is unsuitable because its standard free energy of decomposition is only around 0.7 eV. Although the stable species is effective only where it forms a part of the exposed surface, there is unlikely to be any disadvantage in its being present in the body of the plastics material and the constituent which provides it hereinafter called the characteristic filler will usually be dispersed throughout the body. The or each polymer may be any carbon chain polymer i.e. a polymer not containing any significant number of hetero atoms in the main polymer chain that is compatible with the characteristic filler and adheres to it strongly enough to retain filler particles that are exposed at the surface naturally however polymers or polymer mixtures that also have inherently good tracking resistance are preferred. Preferred, at least when the characteristic filler is calcium carbonate, are hydrocarbon chain polymers with side chain hetero atoms to enhance adhesion and loading capacity, and the most preferred side chains are esters and other carboxylic groups. Typical preferred polymers are the semi crystalline copolymers.of ethylene with vinyl acetate, ethyl acrylate, methyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, and acrylic acid. Preferably the stable species itself forms at least fifteen per cent of the surface of the plastics material, at least after weathering, and desirably much more provided this is consistent with required physical and other properties. Artificial weathering can be used, if necessary, to remove any polymer rich skin that may be formed. Since the characteristic filler needs to be exposed at the surface of the plastics body, the use of coupling agents that adhere tenaciously to its particle surfaces is precluded, but the use of dispersion aid such as calcium stearate that will be removed on weathering is acceptable and may often be useful. The presence of inert fillers is clearly detrimental, but small amounts may be tolerated if they are needed to satisfy other requirements e.g. flame retardance some pigments may be used but others notably titanium dioxide degrade tracking resistance and careful choice is needed. The use of additives that dissolve in the polymer phase e.g. crosslinking agents and or promoters, antioxidants, stabilisers and processing aids is relatively unrestricted. EXAMPLE 1 An insulating body made of the semi crystalline ethylene 15 ethyl acrylate copolymer sold under the designation DPDM 6182 was compounded with 0.5 by weight of the antioxidant sold under the trade mark Flectol H, a polymerised dihydroquinoline, and moulded into an insulating body suitable for testing tracking resistance.then tested according to the method of ASTH specificationD 2303, failure by erosion was observed at 2.5 kV and ultimate breakdown by flame failure occurred at about 3.0 kV. In accordance with the invention, calcium carbonate fillers were now added to the formulation, usingSnowcal 7ML, an uncoated natural calcium carbonate of average particle size 2.9 micrometre or Winnofil S, a precipitated calcium carbonate of nominal average particle size 75 nanometre coated with calcium stearate as a dispersing agent. Separate insulating bodies were made using loadings of 60, 80 and 100 parts by weight of each filler, so that the proportion of surface formed by carbonate ions is in both cases approximately 18, 23, and 27 respectively.In all six cases the ultimate breakdown voltage was raised above 3.5 kV erosion inception was not observed below about 3.5 kV a value of 3.25 being the normal specification limit of the test , except in the case of the composition containing 100 parts of Winnofil S for which it was observed at 2.75 kV the reason for this relatively poor performance has not been established with certainty, but may be connected with the coating on this particular calcium carbonate. EXAPLE 2 Similar results were obtained with compositions based on the semi crystalline ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer sold under the trade mark Evatane 28 05. The compositions of the preceding examples, especially those with 80 parts of either of the calcium carbonates, are suitable for the manufacture of heatshrink components for high voltage electrioal applications. They can be extruded to form simple tubular shapes or injection moulded to obtain more complex shapes and are crosslinked to the required degree by high energy irradiation to a dose of about 20 Mrad. They may then be expanded 2 to 3 times by pre heating to about 140 C and blowing into a cold mould, so obtaining products with a recovery temperature of about 1400. Compositions similar to those of Example 1 but containing 120 and 150 parts of Snowcal 7ML achieved erosion inception voltages around 3.3 kV, and a similar figure was obtained using 80 parts of a crushed limestone specified only as passing wholly through No. 200 BritishStandard mesh sieve.