# Plasmids and plasmid vectors.

## Abstract
Novel plasmid vectors have been prepared and trans formed into suitable hosts from which they can be retrieved and then used as cloning vehicles. The plasmids are named pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080. Advantageously, these plasmids are shuttle vectors which can be used to clone genes in E. coli and Streptomyces.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. E. coli RRI pUC1072 having the deposit accession number NRRLB 15278. 2. E. coli RRI pUC1078 having the deposit accession number NRRLB 15279. 3. E. coli RRI pUC1080 having the deposit accession number NRRLB 15280. 4. Recombinant plasmid pUC1072, characterized as shown by the restriction map in Figure 1 of the drawings. 5. Recombinant plasmid pUC1078 characterized as shown by the restriction map in Figure 2 of the drawings. 6. Recombinant plasmid pUC1080 characterized as shown by the restriction map in Figure 3 of the drawings. 7. E. coli RR1 pUC1075 having deposit accession number NRRLB 15527. 8. E. coli RR1 pUC1079 having deposit accession number NRRLB 15526. 9. R 4 Recombinant plasmid pUC1075, characterized as shown by the restriction map in Figure 7 of the drawings. 10. Recombinant plasmid pUC1079, characterized as shown by the restriction map in Figure 8 of the drawings.

## Description
PLASMIDS AND PLASMID VECTORS The development of plasmid vectors useful for recombinant DNA genetics among microorganisms is well known. This technology is now being applied to industrially important microorganisms of the genusStreptomyces. Pertinent references to the Streptomyces work are as follows 1 Bibb, M. J., Ward, J. M., and Hopwood, D. A. Transformation of plasmid DNA into Streptomyces at high frequency. Nature 274 1978 398 400. 2 Bibb, M.J., Schottel, J.L. and Cohen, S.N. A DNA cloning system for interspecies gene transfer in antibiotic producing Streptomyces. Nature 284 1980 526 531. 3 Bibb, M.J. Ward, J.M., Kieser, T., Cohen, S.N., and Hopwood, D.A. Excision of chromosomal DNA sequences from Streptomyces coelicolor forms a novel family of plasmids detectable in Streptomyces lividans. howl. Gen. Genet. 184 1981 230 240. 4 8ibb, M.J. and Cohen, S.N. Gene expression in Streptomyces construction and application of promoter probe plasmid vectors in Streptomyces lividans. Mol. Gen. Genet. 187 1982 265 277. 5 Chater, K.F., Bruton, C.J., Springer, W. and Suarez, J.E. Dispensible sequences and packaging constraints of DNA from Streptomyces temperate phage C31. Gene 15 1981 249 256. ร Chater, K.F., Bruton, C.J., King, A.A. and Suarez, J.E. The expression of Streptomyces and Escherichia coli drug resistance determinants cloned into the Streptomyces phage C31. Gene 19 1 82 21 32. 7 Chater, K.F., Hopwood, D.A., Kieser, T., and Thompson, C.J. Gene cloning in Streptomyces. In Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology, Vol. 96, Hofschneider, P.H. and Goebel, W. eds , pg 69 96, Springer Verlag, Berlin 1982 . 8 Kieser, T., Hopwood, D.A., Wright, H.M., ana Thompson, C.J. pIJ101, a multi copy broad host range Streptomyces plasmid functional analysis and development of DNA cloning vectors. Vol Gen. Genet. 185 1982 223 238. 9 Richardson, M.A., Mabe, 3.A., Beerman, N.E., Nakatsukasa, W.M. and Fayerman, J.T. Development of cloning vehicles from the Streptomyces plasmid pFJ 103. Gene, 20 1982 451 457. 10 Schottel, J.L., Bibb, M.J., and Cohen, S.W. Cloning and expression in Streptomyces lividans of antibiotic resistance genes derived from Escherichia coli. J. Bacteriol. 146 1981 360 368. 11 Suarez, J.E. and Chater, K.F. DNA cloning in Streptomyces a bifunctional replicon comprising pBR322 inserted into a Streptomyces phage. Nature 286 1980 527 529. 12 Thompson, C. J., Ward, J. M., and Hopwood, D. A. DNA cloning in Streptomyces resistance genes from antibiotic producing species. Nature 286 1980 525 527. 13 Thompson, C.J., Kieser, T., Ward, J.M., and Hopsood, D.A. Physical analysis of antibiotic resistance genes from Streptomyces and their use in vector construction. Gene 20 1982 51 62. 14 Thompson, C.J., Skinner, R.H., Thompson, J., Ward, J.M., Hopwood, D.A. and Cundliffe, E. Biochemical characterization of resistance determinants cloned from antibiotic producing streptomycetes. J. Bacteriol. 151 1982 678 685. 15 Thompson, C.J., Ward, J.M., and pwood, D.A. Cloning of antibiotic resistance and nutritional genes in streptomycetes. J. Bacteriol. 151 1982 668 677. Plasmid pUC6 was isolated from Streptomyces espinosus biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439. Its characteristics have been described in U.S.Patent 4,273,87. Plasmids pBR322 and pBR325 are well known plasmids which can be obtained from E. coli RR1, NRRL B 12014 and NRRL B 15295, respectively. The restriction endonuclease maps for plasmids pBR322 and pBR325 are published Sutcliff, J. G. pBR322 restriction map derived from the DNA sequence accurate DNA size markers up to 4361 nucleotide pairs long. Nucleic Acids Research 5, 2721 2728, 19783 and Bolivar, F. Construction and characterization of new cloning vehicles, III. Derivatives of plasmid pBR322 carrying unique FcoRT. sites for selection of EcoRI generated recombinant molecules. Gene 4 1978 121 136. , respectively. These maps are incorporated herein by reference to the above publications.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Plasmid pUC1072 is an ampicillin resistance APR plasmid that is obtained by the in vitro covalent linkage of the E. coli plasmid pBR322 to the S. espinosus plasmid pUC6. Plasmid pUC1078 is a derivative of pUC1072 having a TaqI fragment carrying the ribosome binding side and structural gene for E. coli chloramphenicol acetyltransferase cat in the orientation that allows expression chloramphenicol resistance CmR from the anti tet promoter of pBR322 Covarrubias, L. and Bolivar, F. Construction and characterization of new cloning vehicles. VI. Plasmid pBR329, a new derivative of pBR328 lacking the 482 base pair inverted duplication. Gene 17 1982 79 89. . Plasmid pUC1080 is a derivative of pUC1078 which carries an 1.9 K.b.BamHI fragment containing a viomycin resistance gene vph , phenotype designation VmR, fromStreptomyces vinaceus inserted into the BamHI site of pUC1078. These recombinant plasmids can be used for cloning in either E. coli or Streptomyces. Plasmids pUC1072 and pUC1078 are critical intermediates in the construction of pUC1080. Plasmid pUC1080 is a combination promoter probe shuttle vector. The antibiotic resistances ApR, CMR VmR can be selected in E. coli hosts. The antibiotic resistance VmR can be selected in Streptomyces.The single ClaI, BglII and HindIII sites in pUC1080 can be used for cloning. Advantageously, the Hindili site is useful in cloning sequences which can function as operator promoter regions in Streptomyces by selecting for CmR transformants in Streptomyces hosts.Similarly, the HindIII site of pUC1078 alone or in combination with the Bam HI site can be used to clone operator promoter regions inStreptomyces by selecting CmR transformants. Plasmid pUC1075 is an ApRCmR plasmid obtained by the covalent linkage of the E. coli plasmid pBR325 to the S. espinosus plasmid pUC1061. Plasmid pUC1079 is a derivative of pUC1075 having an 1.9 KbBamHI fragment containing a vph gene from S. vinaceus inserted into the BawHI site of pUC1075. Plasmid pUC1075 is a critical intermediate in the construction of pUC1079. Plasmid pUC1079 is a shuttle vector carrying antibiotic resistances ApR, CmR and ymR which are selectable markers in E. coli hosts. The antibiotic resistance vmR can be selected in Streptomyces. Plasmid pUC1079 has single sites for endow nucleases EcoRI, Claim HindIII and BglII which can be used for cloning of DNA sequences.Advantageously, recombinants at the EcoRI site inactivate the cat gene, whereas insertion of DNA into the ClaI or HindIII sites will diminish vph gene expression in E. coli. Full vph gene expression can be detected in Streptomyces hosts. Similarly, the single EcoRI, Clal, HindIII, BamHI and BglII sites of pUC1075 can be used for cloning of DNA sequences in E. coli hosts. Any gene cloned into pUC1075 can be tested for expression in Streptomyces even though pUC1075 lacks an antibiotic resistance gene known to express in this host.REFERENCE TO THE DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map of plasmid pUC1072. FIGURE 2 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map for plasmid pUC1078. FIGURE 3 Restriction endonuclease cleavage map of plasmid pUC1080. FIGURE 4 Construction of recombinant plasmid pUC1072. FIGURE 5 Construction of recombinant plasmid pUC1078. FIGURE 6 Construction of recombinant plasmid pUC1080. FIGURE 7 Restriction endonuclease map of plasmid pUC1075. FIGURE 8 Restriction endonuclease map of plasmid pUC1079. FIGURE 9 Construction of recombinant plasmid pUC1075. FIGURE 10 Contruction of recombinant plasmid pUC1079. The maps are constructed on the basis of plasmids pUC1071, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 having molecular weights of ca.9.0, 8.7, 9.5, 10.1 and 10.8 megadaltons, respectively, or molecular lengths of ca. 13.6, 13.2, 14.4, 15.2 and 16.3 kilobases, respectively. The restriction endonuclease abbreviations are all standard and well known. In Figures 1, 2 and 3 the bold lines correspond to pBR322 DNA and the light lines to pUC6 DNA. The doubly bold lines in Figures 2 and 3 correspond to the TaqI fragment from pBR325 carrying the cat gene. InFigures 7 10, the bold lines correspond to pBR325 DNA and the light lines to pUC1061 DNA. In Figures 3, 8 and 10 the segmented line corresponds to the BamHI fragment carrying the viomycin resistance gene.In all figures the numbers in parentheses correspond to the kilobase coordinates of a particular restriction site relative to the singleBglII site. The dashed lines bracketing the notation 2 SphI indicates that two unmapped SphI sites lie within theviomycin resistance BamHI fragment. pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 can be used to create recombinant plasmids which can be introduced into host microbes by transformation. The process of creating recombinant plasmids is well known in the art. Such a process comprises cleaving the isolated vector plasmid at a specific site s by means of a restriction endonuclease, for example, BglII, HindIII and the like. The plasmid, which is a circular DNA molecule, is thus converted into a linear DNA molecule or molecular fragments by the enzyme which cuts the two DNA strands at a specific site s . Other non vector DNA is similarly cleaved with the same or a different enzyme.Upon mixing the linear vector or portions thereof and non vector DNAs, their single stranded or blunt ends can pair with each other and in the presence of a second enzyme known as polynucleotide ligase can be covalently joined to form a single circle of DNA. The above procedure also can be used to insert a length of DNA from a higher animal into pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 or pUC1080. For example, the DNA which codes for ribosomal RNA in the frog can be mixed with pUC1080 DNA that has been cleaved. The resulting circular DNA molecules consist of plasmid pUC1080 with an inserted length of frog rDNA. The recombinant plasmids containing a desired genetic element, prepared by using pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 or pUC1080, can be introduced into a host organism for expression. Examples of valuable genes which can be inserted into host organisms by the above described process are genes coding for somatostatin, rat proinsulin, interferon, and proteases. The usefulness of plasmids pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 is derived from their capacity to function as plasmid vectors in industrially important microorganisms, e.g., Streptomyces. Also, pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 are especially useful because of their single restriction sites. Hence, cloning of genetic information from Streptomyces into these plasmids provides a means of increasing the production of commercially important products from these organisms, e.g., antibiotics. A part of the utility of pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 is that they consist of DNA sequences from very different bacterial hosts, i.e. hosts that have not been shown capable of exchanging genetic information by normal physiological means. As such, pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUCIOBO can function as vectors into both of these organisms i.e. E. coli and Streptomyces .Plasmids pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 may also be used as recombinant DNA vectors in conjunction with pUC6 or pUC1061 to transform Streptomyces whereby, in vivo recombination between pUC6 or pUC1061 and a recombinant derivative of pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 or pUC1080 can give rise to a stable nonchromosomal gene system in the recipient streptomycete. As a vector, pUC1072 contains single sites for endonucleasesBamHI, BgIII, EcoRI and HindIII. Though it has two ClaI sites, unexpectedly, one of these i.e., at 11.6 kb is blocked by methylation of an adenine nucleotide in DNA adenine methylase proficient dam E.coli hosts. In this manner one, advantageously, can obtain a pUC1072 molecule having one cleavable ClaI site. Plasmid pUC1072 can readily be obtained from various E. coli hosts. Plasmid pUC1072 has a molecular weight of 9.0 x 106 daltons. By comparison, plasmid pUC1078 has a molecular weight of 9.5 x 106 daltons and has single cleavage sites for endonucleases BamHI, BglII, HindIII and ClaI. The Clal site is available for cloning only in dam hosts. Plasmid pUC1078 carries a CMR gene in addition to the ApR gene of pUC1072.Because of its construction, pUC1078 can be used to clone DNA sequences which can function as operator promoter regions in Strepto maces. This can be accomplished by the insertion of DNA at theHindIII site of pUC1078 followed by selection of CR transformants inStreptomyces. Plasmid pUC1080 has single sites for endonucleasesHindIII, BglII and Clay. The ClaI site is available for cleavage onlyDNA propagated in dam hosts. Plasmid pUC1080 has a molecular weight of 10.8 x 106 daltons and can be used like pUC1078 for cloning ofDNA sequences at the HindIII that will function as operator promoter regions in Streptomyces. pUC1080 has the advantage that it also carries a gene for viomycin resistance which expresses in either E.coli or Streptomyces. This allows selection of transformants inStreptomyces in the absence of easily detectable phenotypes conferred by cloned DNA sequences. Like pUC1072, pUC1075 contains single sites for endonucleasesBamHI, BglII, EcoRI and HindIII. Unlike pUC1072, pUC1C75 contains a single ClaI site which is not blocked by methylation in dam hosts.Consequently, the plasmid, advantageously, has a single ClaI site for cloning in either dam or dam hosts. Plasmid pUC1075 can readily be obtained from various E. coli hosts and it has a molecular weight of 10.1 x 106 daltons. By comparison, plasmid pUC1079 has a molecular weight of 10.1 x 106 daltons and has cleavage sites for EcoRI, ClaI, Hindlil and BglII. As with pUC1075, the pUC1079 ClaI site is available for cleavage in both dam and dam hosts. Insertion of foreign DNA into the EcoRI site of either pUC1075 or pUC1079 disrupts the CmR gene. Insertion of foreign DNA into the ClaI or HindIII sites of pUC1079 diminishes expression of viomycin resistance.Hence, plasmids pUC1075 and pUC1079 are uniquely suited vectors and can readily be used for cloning DNA sequences which do not express or express poorly in E. coli by looking for insertional inactivation of genes or increased sensitivity to viomycin. Expression of such cloned genes can then be tested in Streptomyces. In plasmids pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 theClaI sites can be used to clone DNA cleaved by endonucleases ClaI,TaqI, HpaII, AccI, AcyI, AsuII. The BamHI and or BglII sites of the plasmids are compatible with cloning BamHI, BglII, BclI, MboI or Sau3A digested DNA. Any of the single sites can be modified by means well known in the art to accept either blunted DNAs or DNAs that have been tailed with synthetic linkers. This approach is compared to the concept of cloning genes for antibiotic production into the well characterized Escherichia coliK 12 host vector system. The E. coli system has the disadvantage that it has been found that genes from some Gram positive organisms, e.g.,Bacillus, do not express well in the Gram negative E. coli host.Similarly, reports have appeared that indicate Streptomyces DNA is not expressed in E. coli without coupling to E. coli regulatory sequences.Likewise, piasmids from Gram negative organisms are not maintained inGram positive hosts, and Gram negative genetic information is either expressed poorly or not at all in Gram positive hosts. This clearly argues for the advantage of a Gram positive host vector system and argues the usefulness of plasmids pUC1รป72, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 or pUCIOb0 in such a system. Because pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC108รป are also capable of replication and maintenance inE. coli, they are desirable vectors for those situations where cloning a gene s in E. coli is a desirable first step before transferring that gene to say Streptomyces. In general, the use of a host vector system to produce a product foreign to that host requires the introduction of the genes for the entire biosynthetic pathway of the product to the new host. As discussed above, this may lead to problems of genetic expression, but may also generate new and or increased problems in the fermentation of the microorganisms and in the extraction and purification of the product.A perhaps more useful approach is to introduce a plasmid vector into a host which normally produces the product and clone onto that plasmid the genes for biosynthesis of the product. At the very least,problems of fermentation and product extraction and purification should be minimized. Additionally, in this cloning system it may not be necessary to clone and amplify all the genes of the biosynthetic pathway, but rather it may be necessary only to clone regulatory genes or genes coding for the enzymes that are rate limiting in product biosynthesis.Since pUC1072, pUC1075, pUC1078, pUC1079 and pUC1080 are recombinant plasmids which contain DNA from organisms that do not normally exchange genetic information, they can be used to clone DNA sequences in E. coli or within the genera of Streptomyces and Micromonospora, as well as within other microbes.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONThe Microorganisms and Plasmids The following microorganisms are available from the permanent collection of the Northern Regional Research Laboratory, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Peoria, Illinois, U.S.A. Deposited 1 NRRL B 12014 E. co7i RR1 pBR322 Known and available before the filing date of the subject applica tion 2 NRRL B 12186 E. coli RR1 Known and available before the filing date of the subject applica tion 3 NRRL 15276 S. lividans 1326 February 4, 1983 4 NRRL 15277 S. lividans 1326 February 4, 1983 rpuclueu, 5 NRRL B 15278 E. coli RR1 pUC1072 February 7, 1983 6 NRRL B 15279 E. coli RR1 pUC1078 February 7, 1983 7 NRRL B 15280 E. coli RR1 pUC1080 February 7, 1983 8 NRRL B 15295 E. coli RR1 pBR325 February 16, 1983 9 NRRL 11439 S. espinosus biotype 23724a Known and available before the filing date of the subject applica tion 10 NRRL 12488 S. espinosus biotype 23724a TpUC1061 Known and available before the filing date of the subject applica tion 11 NRRL 15528 S. lividans 1326 July 18, 1983 ThU 12 NRRL B 15527 E. coli RRI July 19, 1983 TpdFIC75 13 NRRL B 15526 E. coli RR1 July 19, 1983 to 9 These deposits are available to the public upon the grant of a patent to the assignee, The Upjohn Company, disclosing them. The deposits are also available as required by foreign patent laws in countries wherein counterparts of the subject application, or its progeny, are filed. However, it should be understood that the availability of a deposit does not constitute a license to practice the subject invention in derogation of patent rights granted by governmental action. The following examples are illustrative of the process and products of the subject invention but are not to be construed as limiting. All percentages are by weight and all solvent mixture proportions are by volume unless otherwise noted.Example 1 Isolation of Vector pBR322 or pBR325 DNA from E. coli NRRL B 12014 or E. coli NRRL B 15295, respectively A 100 ml. culture of E. coli RR1 pBR322 or E. coli RRI pBR325 is grown overnight in L broth which consists of the following ingredients Bacto tryptone Difco 10 g. liter Bacto yeast extract Difco 5 g. liter NaCl 5 g. liter Ampicil lin 50 mg. liter The cells are recovered by centrifugation at 17,000 x g. for 10 minutes in a refrigerated centrifuge. The pellet is suspended in 2.5 ml. 50 mM Tris buffer pH 8 containing 25 sucrose. One half ml. of lysozyme stock solution is added 5 mg. ml. in TES buffer . The mixture is allowed to stand in ice for 5 minutes. At this point 1 ml.EDTA 0.25 M, pH 8 is added and the mixture is again allowed to stand in ice for 5 minutes. One and a quarter ml. of 5 M NaCl and 1 ml. 10 SDS sodium dodecyl sulfate are then added. The mixture is shaken on a Vortex and incubated at 370C. for 20 minutes. Then 10 vl of ribonuclease 20 mg. ml. is added and the sample is again incubated at 370C. for 20 minutes. The mixture is then kept in ice overnight and then centrifuged at 35,000 x g. for 30 minutes in a refrigerated centrifuge. 2 ml. of the supernatant solution lysate are carefully removed with a pipette. Four and one half ml. of TES buffer 30 mM Tris.HCl, pH 8, 5 mM EDTA.Na2, 50 mM NaCl are mixed with 1.5 ml. EtBr ethidium bromide stock 1 mg. ml. in TES buffer and 7.5 g. solidCsCl.After the salt has dissolved, 2 ml. of the lysate, described above, is added and the mixture is transferred into a polyallomer tube fitting a titanium 50 50 Ti head Beckman ultracentrifuge . The tubes are filled to the top with mineral oil and centrifuged in aBeckman ultracentrifuge at 40,000 rpm in a 50 Ti head at 150C. for at least 2 days. The DNA is located under a long wave UV lamp and the heavier band containing the plasmid DNA is removed with a syringe by puncturing the tube wall from the side. The samples are extensively dialyzed against 200 volumes of TES buffer at 40C. Following dialysis, 1 10 sample volume of a 3 M NaAcetate stock solution is added and the plasmid DNA is precipitated by the addition of 2 volumes of cold ethanol.The resulting pellet is then lyophilized and redissolved in 200 iil 10 XM Tris buffer, pH 7.8 containing 1 mM EDTA.Na2 and frozen for storage.Example 2 Isolation of Plasmid pUC6 or pUC1O6i DNA from Biologically Pure Cultures of Streptomyces espinosus, biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439 or NRRL 12488, respectively The spores from a biologically pure culture of Streptomyces espinosus biotype 23724a, NRRL 11439 pUC6 or NRRL 12488 pUC1061 are inoculated into 10 ml of the following Difco Antibiotic Medium No. 3 Broth Difco Labs., Detroit, Michigan 0.15 Beef extract 0.15 yeast extract 0.5 peptone 0.1 glucose 0.35 NaCl 0.368 K2HPO4 0.132X KH2PO4. The medium has previously been sterilized in a 50 ml. Erlenmeyer flask. After inoculation, the flask is incubated at 37aC. for about 36 to 48 hours on a Gump or New Brunswick rotary shaker operating at 100 250 rpm. Upon completion of the incubation, the mycelia broth suspension in the flasks is homogenized under sterile conditions and is then mixed in a sterile 125 ml. Erlenmeyer flask containing 10 ml.of the above medium and also, advantageously 68 w v sucrose and 1 w v glycine. The addition of sucrose and glycine facilitates the subsequent lysing of the cells. The amounts of sucrose and glycine in the medium can be varied by routine adjustments with the goal being to facilitate the subsequent lysing of the cells. The flask is then incubated further for another 36 to 48 hours at 370C. on a Gump rotary shaker, as above. After this incubation, the mycelia are separated from the broth by low speed centrifugation, for example, at 6000 x g.for 15 minutes at 40C. and decantation of the supernatant from the mycelial pellet. The supernatant is discarded and the pellet is resuspended in 1.5 ml. of an isotonic buffer containing ethylenediaminotetraacetic acid EDTA and sucrose, e.g., TES buffer ego.03 M tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane Tris , 0.005 M EDTA and 0.05 M NaCl pH 8.0 containing 20 w v sucrose. Next, 1.5 ml. of a 5 mg. ml. solution of lysozyme in the same buffer is added and the mixture is incubated at 370C. for 30 minutes with occasional mixing. Then, 1.5 ml. of 0.25 M EDTA pH 8.0 is added and this mixture is incubated 15 minutes at 370C.Subsequently, the cell suspension is lysed by the addition of 2.5 ml.of a lytic mixture, e.g. 1.0 w v Brij 58 a detergent sold byPierce Chem. Co., Rockford, Illinois , 0.4 w v deoxycholic acid, 0.05 M Tris pH 8.0 and 0.06 M EDTA and incubation of this mixture at 37 C. for 20 minutes. The lysate is then sheared by passing it 5 0 times through a 10 ml. pipette. The sheared lysate is then digested with ribonuclease 140 pg ml. and pronase 300 l,g ml. for an additional 20 minutes at 370C. Alternatively, the cell lysozymeEDTA mixture can be digested with ribonuclease and pronase before lysis with a lytic agent such as 2 sodium dodecyl sulfate in water. This crude lysate material is then mixed with a salt, for exam pie, cesium chloride preferred , and cesium sulfate, and the inter calating dye ethidium bromide to give a solution of density p 1.550.This solution is centrifuged to equilibrium at 145,000 x g. isopycnic density gradient centrifugation . The covalently closed circular plasmid DNA is then visible in the centrifuge tube under 4ong wave ultraviolet 320 nm illumination as a faint fluorescent band below the intensely fluorescent band of linear chromosomal and plasmid DNA s. Covalently closed circular plasmid DNA is prepared for characterization by removing it from the isopycnic gradients, extracting the ethidium bromide by two treatments with one third volume of isopropyl alcohol and then dialyzing the aqueous phase against an appropriate buffer, e.g., 0.1 x SSC buffer 0.015 M NaCl, 0.0015 M sodium citrate pH 7.4 to yield essentially pure pUC6 or pUC1061. Characteristics of pUC6 and pUC1061 These are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,273,875, and are published Omanis, J.J. and Highlander, S.K. Partial characterization of a small, multi copy plasmid from Streptomyces espinosus and the derivation of a high copy number deletion mutant. Gene 18 1982 13 20. . Characteristics of pBR322 These are published Sutcliffe, J.G. Complete nucleotide sequence of the Escherichia coli plasmid pBR322. In Cold SpringHarbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology. Viol. 43, pg 77 90, ColdSpring Harbor Laboratory, New York.Characteristics of pBR325 Plasmid pBR325 has been described Bolivar, F. Construction and characterization of new cloning vehicles III. Derivatives of plasmid pBR322 carrying unique EcoRI sites for selection of EcoRI generated recombinant DNA molecules. Gene 4 1978 121 136 and Prentki, P.,Karch, F., Iida, S. and Meyer, J. The plasmid cloning vector pBR325 contains a 482 base pair long inverted duplication. Gene 14 1981 289 299 . Example 3 Preparation of Recombinant Plasmid pUC1072 and Transformation into E. coli RR1. Plasmids pUC6 and pBR322, prepared as described above, are linearized by digestion with restriction endonucleases ClaI. PlasmidDNAs are digested with ClaI restriction enzyme by mixing 50 vl. ofDNA 0.5 Fg solution in TE buffer 0.01 M Tris .HCI, 0.001 M Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 with 50 vl of 2X restriction buffer 20mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0 20mM MgCl2 and 4 units of ClaI enzyme preparation. This mixture is incubated at 370C. for 1 hour. The digest is then applied to a 1 preparative low melting point agarose gel and electrophoresed for 3 hours at 50 volts and 40C.The resolved DNA fragments are visualized by ethidium bromide staining and long wave ultraviolet light illumination. The region of the gel containing the DNA is excised from gel and heated to 650C. in the presence of 1.5 ml. of TE buffer to melt the gel and release the DNA from the gel matrix. This suspension is chilled and centrifuged at 37,000 xg to pellet the agarose. The supernatant is decanted and saved. The agarose pellet is extracted a second time with TE buffer. The two supernatants are pooled and ethanol precipitated by the addition of 0.1 volume of 3 MNa Acetate and 2 volumes 95 ethanol at 200C. The DNA precipitate is collected by centrifugation at 85,000 xg at 40C. for 60 minutes. The precipitate is redissolved in 100 wl of TE buffer. This sample is used for ligation as described below. For ligation, 25 ul of ClaI digested pBR322 DNA, 25 ul of ClaI digested pUC6 DNA and 20 ul DD H20 are combined. Ten ul 100 mM DDT, 10 1 50 mM MgCl2 and 10 ul of 0.5 rrJul ATP are combined with the restricted DNA mixture. Finally, 1.0 u of T4 DNA ligase is added and the sample is kept in ice for 1 2 days or incubated 1 2 hrs at room temperature 220 C . The ligated sample is ethanol precipitated and used to transformE. coli culture RR1 to ampicillin resistance Apr , For transformation into E. coli RR1, an inoculum is grown overnight in L broth and diluted 1 100 into fresh L broth the next day.The cells are incubated at 370C. and allowed to grow to an OD650 of 0.2. At this point 50 ml. of culture is centrifuged in the cold, the pellet resuspended in 20 ml. cold 100 mM CaCl2, incubated at OOC. for 20 25 minutes and centrifuged again. The pellet is then resuspended in 0.5 ml. cold 100 mM CaCl2 solution and kept at 0 40C. for 24 hours. Dagert, M. and Ehrlich, S. D. 1979, Gene 6 23 28 One hundred pl of ligation mixture see above is mixed with 500 iil cell suspension. This mixture is kept in ice for 10 minutes, and then at 37 C. for 5 minutes. Ten to 20 ml. of L broth is added and the cell suspension is incubated 1 2 hours at 370C.Next, 100 lil aliquots are plated on freshly prepared agar plates containing 25 ml. of L broth, 1.5 agar, and 50 vg of ampicillin ml. Colonies are selected and scored for tetracycline sensitivity. Suspected recombinant DNA containing transformants are then grown in 25 ml. cultures. Cleared lysates are prepared by pel7eting the cells from the culture medium at 10,000 xg. The pellet is resuspended in 10 ml. of cold TES buffer 30 rtt Tris.HCl, 5 mM Na2 EDTA and 50 mM NaCl, pH 8.0 and pelleted again.This pellet is resuspended in 1 ml. of TES buffer containing 20 sucrose. 0.2 ml. of lysozyme solution 5 mg. ml. in TES is added and incubated on ice 15 minutes at which time 0.4 ml. of 0.25 M Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 is added and the incubation continued 15 minutes. 1.6 ml. of a lytic mix 1 Brij 58, 0.4 Na deoxycholate, 0.05 M Tris.HCI, 62.5 mM Na2 EDTA pH 8.0 is added and the lysate incubated an additional 15 minutes at 4 C. The lysate is sheared by passage 5 times through a 10 ml. pipette. The bulk of the cellular DNA and debris are removed by centrifugation at 48,000 xg for 30 minutes.The cleared lysate is digested successively for l5 minute intervals with pancreatic RNAse A 100 mcg. ml. and Pronase 200 mcg. ml. at 370C. These lysates are then centrifuged in CsClethidium bromide isopycnic density gradients. Plasmid DNA isolated from these gradients is characterized by digestion with restriction endonucleases.Example 4 Isolation of Plasmid pUC1072 From NRRL B 15278 E. coli RRI pUC1072 Plasmid pUC1072 can be isolated from its E. coli host by well known procedures, e.g., using the cleared lysate isopycnic density gradient procedures. Once transformants containing pUC1072 are identified, they are separated as pure entities in a pure culture.This plasmid can be differentiated as a distinct entity by its unique restriction patterns as would be predicted by its restriction map Fig. 1 . Note When plasmid pUC1072 is maintained in a DNA modification proficient host such as E. coli RR1, the BclI restriction sites and the ClaI site at 11.6 kb are modified such that they can not be detected by endonuclease digestion. However, maintenance of pUC1072 in an adenine methylase deficient host allows the demonstration of the presence of BclI and the 11.6 kb Clal restriction sites.Example 5 Preparation of Recombinant Plasmid pUC1078 and Transformation into E. coli RR1. Plasmid pUC1072 can be obtained as described in Example 4. The pUC1072 DNA is then digested with ClaI using the procedures disclosed in Example 3. The resulting linear DNA fragment is purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, also as described in Example 3.Similarly, pBR325, a chloramphenicol resistant derivative of pBR322, can be isolated as described in Example 2 from an E. coli host. ThisDNA is subjected to digestion by endonuclease TaqI. The third largestTaqI fragment is isolated from a preparative agarose gel as described in Example 3. This fragment is mixed with linear ClaI digested pUC1072 DNA, ligated with T4 DNA ligase and used to transform E. coliRR1 to ampicillin resistance. These procedures also are as described in Example 4. Recombinant plasmids were characterized by cleavage with restriction endonucleases. Restriction endonucleases were obtained as commercial preparations from Miles Laboratories, Bethesda ResearchLaboratories and New England Biolabs. Enzyme digestions were prepared in accordance with the conditions specified by the suppliers using at least a two fold excess of endonuclease. The digested samples were applied to 0.7 1 agarose gels and were electrophoresed for 2 hours at a constant applied voltage of 10 15 v cm of gel height. Sharp, P.A., Sugden, J. and Sambrook, J. 1973. Detection of two restriction endonuclease activities in Haemophilus parainfluenzae using analytical agarose ethidium bromide electrophoresis. Biochemistry 12, 30553063 . The molecular weights of restriction fragments were determined relative to the standard migration patterns of bacteriophage lambdaDNA digested with enzyme HindIII Murray, K. and Murray, N. E. 1975. Phage lambda receptor chromosomes for DNA fragments made with restriction endonuclease III of Haemophilus influenzae and restriction endonuclease I of Escherichia coli. 3. Mol. Biol. 98, 551 564 orEcoRI Helling, R. B., Goodman, H. M. and Boyer, H. W. 1974. Analysis of endonuclease RYE TRI fragments of DNA from lambdoid bacteriophages and other viruses by agarose gel electrophoresis.11 J.Virology 14, 1235 1244 .Example 6 Preparation of Recombinant Plasmid pUC1080 and Transformation into E. coli RR1 and S. lividans 1326. Recombinant plasmid pUC1078 can be prepared from E. coli cultures in a manner analogous to that described for preparation of plasmid pUC1072 in Example 4. Plasmid pUC1078 is linearized by digestion with endonuclease BamHI and the linear fragment isolated by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis as described in Example 3. S. vinaceus chromosomal DNA can be isolated by means well known in the art. S.vinaceus is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,633,445 with the accession number NRRL 2285. It is also available as NCIB 8852 from the NationalCollection of Industrial Bacteria, Aberdeen, Scotland. ChromosomalDNA is digested with endonuclease BamHI and the fragments separated by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis. The DNA banding at 1.9 kb on the gel is extracted as described in Example 3. A viomycin resistance gene vph is carried on a 1.9 kb BamHI fragment from S. vinaceus chromosomal DNA EThompson, C.J., Skinner, R.H., Thompson, J., Ward,J.M. Hopwood, D.A. and Cundlitte Biochemical characterization of resistance determinants cloned from antibiotic producing streptomycetes. J. Bacteriol. 151 1982 678 6853. The 1.9 kb fragments and the BamHI linearized puC1078 DNA are mixed together 0.5 pg of each is used , ligated and transformed intoE. coli RR1 as described in Example 3. Transformants are selected fromm CmmR resistance to chloramphenicol and viomycin, respectively on media containing 20 ugiml chloramphenicol and 1000 pg ml viomycin.These are subsequently tested for ampicillin resistance and tetracycline sensitivity. From this transformation plasmid pUC1080 Fig.3 was isolated. pUC1080 was characterized in a manner similar to pUC1078 described in Example 5. Plasmid pUC1080 can be isolated from E. coli hosts in a manner analogous to pUC1072 as described in Example 4. This DNA can be used to transform Streptomyces cultures in the following manner. S.lividans culture 1326 NRRL 15276 is Inoculated from a spore preparation into 10 ml of S medium Okanishi, M., Suzuki, K. and Umezawa, H. Formation and reversion of streptomycete protoplasts cultural condition and morphological study. J. Gen. Microbiol. 80 1974 389 400 3 and grown 24 36 hrs at 280 C on a rotary shaker. The suspension is ground in a sterile homogenizer and brought to 0.5 glycine by addition of an equal volume of S medium containing 1.0 glycine. The incubation is continued for 18 24 hrs at 280 C with shaking. The mycelia are harvested by centrifugation and washed with 5 ml of sterile 0.3 M sucrose. The pellet is resuspended in 5 ml of 0.3 M sucrose and sonicated in a Branson sonic water bath for 15 30 min to break up the mycelia.This suspension is pelleted and resuspended in 5 ml of sterile medium P rOkanishi, M., Suzuki, K and Umezawa, H. Formation and reversion of streptomycete protoplasts cultural condition and morphological study. J. Gen. Microbiol. 80 1974 389 4003 containing 5 mg ml lysozyme. This suspension is incubated at 370 C for 1 4 hrs to form protoplasts. The protoplasts are separated from the mycelia by decanting and filtration through compressed cotton. The filtered protoplasts are pelleted at 2000 g in a clinical centrifuge and washed twice with sterile medium P. Finally, the protoplasts are resuspended in 1.0 ml of medium P.A sample of pUC1080 DNA in TE buffer N1.0 pg in 0.1 ml is added followed immediately by the addition of 1.0 ml of medium P containing 20 w v polyethylene glycol PEG 6000. This is mixed quickly and allowed to incubate 1 5 min at room temperature. Five ml of medium P is then added and the protoplasts are pelleted, resuspended in 1.0 ml of medium P and plated onto R2 medium LOkanishi, M., Suzuki, K. and Vmezawa, H. Formation and reversion of streptomycete protoplasts cultural condition and morphological study. J. Gen. Microbiol. 80 1974 389 400 using an R2 soft agar medium overlay.After the protoplasts have generated and formed spores at 280 C, the spores are collected and plated onto Hickey Tresner agar containing 100 200 vg ml viomycin. The VmR clones are checked for plasmid DNA as described inExample 3 and the plasmid is characterized as described in Example 5.Example 7 Preparation of Recombinant Plasmid pUC1075 and Trans formation into E. coli RR1 Plasmids pUC1061 and pBR325, prepared as described in Examples 1 and 2, are linearized by digestion with restriction endonucleases XhoI and SalI, respectively. Plasmid DNAs are digested with XhoI by mixing 50 pl of DNA 0.5 9 solution in TE buffer with 50 ul of 2x restriction buffer 16mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4 12 mM MgCl2 300 mM NaCl, 12 mM 2 mercuptoethanol and 4 units of XhoI enzyme preparation.Endonuclease SalI digests are done in a similar manner and with identical buffer systems except that the 2x restriction buffer is pH 7.9. The resulting linear DNAs are purified by agarose gel electrophoresis as described in Example 3. The purified linear plasmids are mixed, ligated with T4 DNA ligase and used to transform E. coli RR1.These procedures are also described in Example 4. Transformants exhibiting ApRCmR and TcS tetracycline sensitivity are selected by plating on medium containing the appropriate antibiotics. It is possible to isolate SalI XhoI recombinants of pUC1061 and pBR325 in this manner because the single stranded ends of produce by cleavage ofDNA with these two endonucleases will base pair and allow ligation to occur. Recombinant plasmids were isolated from various transformants as described in Examples 3 and 4. They were characterized by endonuclease digestion as described in Example 5 to insure the correct construction and to determine the orientation of the two plasmids with respect to one another. Plasmid pUC1O75 was obtained from several transformants. pUC1075 can be obtained in pure form from culture NRRL B 15527 by the procedures described in Example 4.Example 8 Preparation of Recombinant Plasmid pUC1079 and Trans formation into E. coli RR1 and S. lividans 1326 Recombinant plasmid pUC1079 can be prepared from E. coli cultures in a manner analogous to that described for preparation of plasmid pUC1072 in Example 4. Plasmid pUC1075 is linearized by digestion with endonuclease BamHI and the linear fragment isolated by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis as described In Example 3. S. vinaceus chromosomal DNA can be isolated by means well known in the art. S.vinaceus fs disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,633,445 with the accession number NRRL 2285. It is also available as NCIB 8852 from the NationalCollection of Industrial Bacteria, Aberdeen, Scotland. That chromosomal DNA is digested with endonuclease BamHI and the fragments separated by preparative agarose gel electrophoresis. The DNA banding at 1.9 kb on the gel is extracted as described in Example 3. A viomycin resistance gene vph is carried on a 1.9 kb BamHI fragment from S.vinaceus chromosomal DNA EThompson, C.J., Skinner, R.H., Thompson, J.,Ward, J.M., Hopwood, D.A. and Cundlitte Biochemical characterization of resistance determinants cloned from antibiotic producing streptomycetes. J. Bacteriol. 151 1982 678 6853. The 1.9 kb fragments and the BamHI linearized pU1075 DNA are mixed together 0.5 9 of each is used , ligated and transformed intoE. coli RR1 as described in Example 3. Transformants are selected for ApRCm0VmR resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol and viomycin, respectively on media containing 20 Vg ml chloramphenicol and 1000 pg ml viomycin. These are subsequently tested for tetracycline sensitivity. From this transformation plasmid pUC1079 Fig. 3 was isolated. pUC1079 was characterized in a manner similar to pUC1078 described in Example 5. Plasmid pUC1079 can be isolated from E. coli hosts in a manner analogous to pUC1072 as described in Example 4. This DNA can be used to transform Streptomyces cultures by the procedures described inExample 6. Examples of other hosts for the vectors are any E. coli K 12 derivative Bacteriological Reviews, Dec. 1972, pages 525 557 these are listed as approved hosts in the NIH Guidelines and yeasts, other fungi, or other bacteria. It is recognized that these latter hosts would also have to fill the criteria for approved hosts as described in the NIH Guidelines.