# Diesel fuels.

## Abstract
A surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous fuel composition containing a diesel fuel, water, a C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof and a C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, as well as the use thereof in diesel engines.

## Claims
Claims 1. A surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel composition having a cloud point of OOC or below and consisting essentially of a a diesel fuel, b 0.1 to 1.0 weight percent water, c 1 to 19 weight percent of a C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, and d I to 18 weight percent of a C4 to C8 alcohol or mixtures thereof. 2. A composition as defined in claim 1, wherein the component c is isopropanol and wherein the composition contains up to about 0.7 weight percent water, 3. A composition as defined in claim 2, wherein the component d is selected from the group consisting of n butanol, isobutanol, 2 methyl1 butanol, 3 methyl 1 butanol, n pentanol and 2 ethylhexanol, or mixtures thereof. 4. A composition as defined in claim 3, wherein the component d is isobutanol or n butanol or a mixture of n butanol and isobutanol or a mixture of primary amyl alcohols or 2 ethylhexanol,or n pentanol0 5. A composition as defined in claim 1 to 4 wherein the component c is methanol or ethanol or a mixture of methanol and ethanol. 6. A composition as defined in claim 1 to 5 wherein an alkyl nitrate cetane improver is also present in said composition0 7. The use of the surfactant free, phasestable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel composition as claimed in claim 1 6 for use in diesel engines0

## Description
DIESEL FUELS Brief Summary of the InventionTechnical Field This invention pertains to tuel compositions for use in diesel engines.Background or the Invention The use ot diesel fuel compositions to power light duty and heavy duty engines and their importance throughout the world is well known.However, it is also well known that there is a definite need to decrease the exhaust emissions from such diesel powered engines, especially in the area ot visible smoke particulates and oxides or nitrogen NO , In addition to satisfying obvious environmental concerns and related EnvironmentalProtection Agency regulations, it is important to achieve a reduction in smoke particulate formation because of its relationship to lubricating oil deterioration and attendant accelerated engine wear. Moreover, diesel ruels are sensitive to water contamination and upon such contamination exhibit no phase stability for water even at temperatures ot well above 0 C. Operational problems attendant with such water contamination are well knewe,kn the art. Thus there is also a need to improve the aqueous phase stability or diesel fuels and rhereby eliminate or at least minimize the obvious operating problems that may be associatea with the utilization or water contaminated diesel fuels. Consequently, the discovery of a diesel fuel composition that would not only exhibit decreased particulate emissions, and would also exhibit improved phase stability not only upon storage, but towards water as well, would obviously be or no small importance to the state of the art. The search for improved diesel fuel compositions is.a constant one as seen, e.g. by the following prior art. The article Diesel Fuel Aqueous Ethanol Microemulsions by A.W. Schwab et al appearing in J.Dispersion Science and Technoloay, 3 1 , pp. 45 60 1982 which relates to a study of two phase mixtures of diesel fuel and aqueous ethanol as well as a detergentless system of a diesel fuel, aqueous ethanol and butanol. U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 256,206 filed April 21, 1981 entitled diesel Fuel AqueousAlcohol Microemulsions by A.W. Schwab available from the National Technical Information Service,PB81 248619, which is directed to hybridizing diesel fuel with high levels of water and a C1 to C3 alcohol which are held in a stable microemulsion at law temperatures by means of a surfactant. The article Hicroemulsions as DieselFuels by G. Gillberg total in Am. Chem. Soc.Symposium of the 172 Meeting of the AmericanChemical Society, San Francisco, Aug. 31 Sept. 1, 1976 pp 221 to 231 which discloses that emulsifiers can be used to reduce exhaust emissions in diesel fuels. U.S. Patents 4,162,143 4,182,614 and 4,244,701 all of which disclose methods for reducing exhaust emissions of fuel oils using aqueous emulsified fuels. Society of Automotive Engineers SAE Technical Paper Series 790925 1979 , which discloses the use of water and alcoholic diesel fuel emulsions to reduce particulate exhaust emissions. SAE Technical Paper Series t790956 1979 which discloses a review of alcohol diesel fuels. SAE Technical Paper Series 810250 1981 which discloses a study of the effect of water in diesel fuels. SAE Technical Paper Series 810254 1981 which discloses a study on the use of alcohol in diesel fuel emulsions. SAE Technical Paper Series 700736 1970 which discloses a study on the effects of emulsified fuels and water induction on diesel combustion. It has now been discovered, for the first time, that phase stable aqueous diesel alcohol fuel compositions can be prepared having a cloud point of OOC or below without the aid of surfactant emulsification and that certain of such surfactant free, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel compositions have also exhibited improved anti pollutant characteristics.Disclosure of this Invention Thus it is an object of this invention to provide novel surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel compositions having improved anti pollutant characteristics. Another object of this invention is to provide a novel method process for preparing said diesel alcohol fuel compositions. More specifically, this invention is directed to a surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel composition having a cloud point of OOC or below, and consisting essentially of 0.1 to 1.0 weight percent water, 1 to 19 weight percent of a C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, and 1 to 18 weight percent of a C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, the remainder of said composition consisting essentially of diesel fuel. Alternatively, this invention may be described as a method for preparing a surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel composition suitable for use in diesel engines, which comprises mixing a diesel fuel with water, a C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereor and a C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, wherein said composition has a cloud point of OOC or below, and consists essentially of 0.1 to 1.0 weight percent water, 1 to . 19 weight percent of said C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereor, and 1 to 18 weight percent of said C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol or b 8 mixtures thereof, the remainder or said composition consisting essentially of said diesel fuel. Detailed Description The primary component of the diesel alcohol fuel composition of this inventions is of course a base diesel fuel which is present in a major amount. The base diesel fuel component employable in the present invention can be any conventionally known diesel fuel oil, including hydrocarbon fuel oil mixtures having a diesel boiling range ot 1750C to 4000C. Such diesel fuel oils and or methods for their preparation are well known in the art. The C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohol employable in the present invention includes methanol, ethanol, n propanol and isopropanol, the most preferred lower alcohol being isopropanol. Ot course mixtures of said C1 to C3 aliphatic alcohols can also be employed if desired. The C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol employable in the present invention includes butanols, pentanols, hexanols, heptanols and octanols, as well as mixtures of such alcohols, if desired. The more preferred higher alcohols are the primary alcohols of said C4 to C8 alcohols, especially n butanol, isobutanol, n pentanol, 2 methyl 1 butanol, 3 methyl l butanol, 2 ethylhexanol, and mixtures thereof. It is to be understood that the surfactant free, phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel compositions or this invention are single phase, clear, transparent, homogeneous mixtures which are charatterized by their thermodynamic stability over a wide range of temperatures as seen by the fact that they possess a cloud point of at leash 00C or below. As employed herein the term cloud point represents that temperature at which the fuel composition changes from a clear and transparent fluid to one which is cloudy.Moreover as noted above, the diesel alcohol fuel compositions of this invention are surfactant free , i.e., no surfactant is necessary for the aqueous diesel alcohol fuel composition of this invention to achieve a cloud point or at least OOC or below. Accordingly, the aqueous diesel alcohol ruel compositions of this invention are not to be confused with emulsions, or even microemulsions, or diesel fuels which depend upon the presence of a surfactant to obtain their aqueous cloud point stability. The components of the diesel alcohol fuel compositions of this invention may be employed singularly or as mixtures and mixea in any order using any mixing or blending apparatus and technique desired. Indeed the ruel compositions of this invention are characterized by their spontaneous formation upon the proper choice and amounts or components employed. Moreover, while the selection of the various fuel composition component amounts required to achieve the results desired will be dependent upon one s experience in the utilization of the subject invention, only a minimum measure or experimentation should be necessary in oraer to ascertain those component amounts which will be surricient to produce the desired results for any given situation. For instance, in general the amount of C to C3 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof present in the fuel compositions or this invention may generically range rom 1 to 19 weight percent based on the total weight of the fuel composition. Likewise the generic range of the remaining components of the tuel compositions of this invention, based on the total weight of the particular fuel composition desired, include from 0.1 to 1.0 weight percent of water, the more prererred upper limit of water being about 0.7 weight percent, and from 1 to 18 weight percent of a C4 to C8 aliphatic alcohol or mixtures thereof, tne remainder of the fuel composition consisting essentially of the base diesel fuel employed. More specifically, preferred phase stable fuel compositions having a cloud point of at leash OOC or below and containing up to 0.7 weight percent water may be obtained when the composition contains from 1 to 19 weight percent of isopropanol and about 1 to 18 weight percent of a butanol or a penianol and when the composition contains from 10 to 18 weight percent of isopropanol and 2 to 7 weight percent of 2 ethylhexanol. In fuel compositions that contain a 50 50 weight percent mixture of methanol and ethanol as the lower aliphatic alcohol, preferred phase stable compositions having a cloud point of at least OOC or below and containing up to 0.4 weight percent water may be obtained when the composition contains from 1 to 5 weight percent of said methanol ethanol mixture and 10 to 18 weight percent of a butahol when the composition contains 1 to 7 weight percent of said methanol ethanol mixture and 7 to 18 weight percent of a pentanol and when the composition contains from 1 to . 7 weight percent of said methanol ethanol mixture and 10 to 18 weight percent of 2 ethylhexanol. In fuel compositions that contain methanol as the lower aliphatic alcohol, preferred phase stable fuel compositions having a cloud point of at least or below and containing up to 0.25 weight percent water may be obtained wherein the composition contains 1 to 5 weight percent methanol and 10 to 18 weight percent of a butanol when the composition contains 1 to 8 weight percent of methanol and 7 to 18 weight percent of a pentanol and when the composition contains 1 to 8 weight percent of methanol and 12 to 18 weight percent of 2 ethylhexanol. In fuel compositions that contain ethanol as the lower aliphatic alcohol, preferred phase stable fue compositions having a cloud point of at least OOC or below and containing up to 0.5 weight percent water may be obtained wherein the composition contains 1 to 7 weight percent ethanol and 10 to i8 weight percent of a butanol when the composition contains 1 to 9 weight percent of ethanol and 8 to 18 weight percent of a pentanol and when the composition contains 5 to 10 weight percent of ethanol and 7 to 12 weight percent of 2 ethylhexanol. The subject invention is indeed unique and beneficial in that it prbvides surfactant free, highly phase stable, aqueous diesel alcohol fuel compositions suitable for routine utilization in diesel engines of conventional design. Moreover, it is a common occurrence for certain unadulterated diesel fuels to appear slightly hazy on pouring, and upon standing for a few days to form a darker sediment like layer on the bottom of the fuel which could cause operational problems such as plugging or fuel filters and injector nozzles. However, an added benefit of the diesel alcohol fuel compositions of this invention is their clear and transparent characteristics and the fact that they have not been found to form such sediment even upon long periods of storage. Further, in addition to the excellent thermodynamically stable characteristics cloud point or at least 00C or below of the diesel alcohol fuel compositions of this invention, isopropanol containing diesel alcohol compositions of this invention have been found to substantially reduce the amount of visible smoke and particulates as well as oxides of nitrogen NOx in the exhaust emissions of the ruel compositions as compared to that of the unadulterated base diesel ruel employed. Such excellent anti pollutant characteristics snould also translate into better engine wear characteristics as well. Moreover, wnile the diesel alcohol fuel compositions or this invention do possess a lower cetane number ignition quality than the base diesel fuel per se, such a drawback should be able to be overcome by the additional use of small amounts or any suitable conventional cetane improver such as an alkyl nitrate, if desired. Thus it is to be understood that, if desired, the fuel compositions of this invention may contain minor amounts i.e.less than 1 weight percent of any conventional cetane improver, as well as such amounts of any suitable conventional corrosion inhibitor, metal deactivator or antioxidant. The following examples are illustrative of the present invention and are not to be regarded as limitative. It is to be understood that all of the parts, percentages and proportions referred to herein and in the appended claims are by weight unless otherwise noted. EXAMPLE 1 A series of fuel compositions were prepared wherein various amounts ot a diesel fuel, 2 Gulf which had an unadulterated cloud point of 15 C, were mixed with various amounts or isopropanol, water and a 50 50 weight percent mixture of n butanol and isobutanol and the cloud point of each composition determined as outlinea below Mixture of Diesel Isopro n butanol BR Fuel panol water isobutanol CloudComposition wt. wit. wt. wt. Point C a 84.13 8.74 0.59 6.54 9 b 81.84 8.50. 0.57 9.09 15 c 85.66 5.43 0.72 8.20 6 d 84.79 5.38 0.71 9.13 5 e 83.94 5.32 0.70 10.04 12 f 83.60 5.30 0.70 10.40 15 Of the above compositions, composition f was most preferred because of its low cloud point and high water content. Compositions corresponding to d , e , and f were subsequently prepared using a diesel fuel IH CAT Caterpillar lGlH Reference Fuel from Howell, Hydrocarbons Inc. l that had an unadulterated cloud point of 30C and the aqueous cloud points of the three compositions so prepared were round to be 50C, 2 C and 50C, respectively.In addition a fuel composition containing about 84.78 grams 90.4 wt. 6 of said 2 Gulf diesel fuel which had an unadulterated cloud point of 150C, about 8.45 grams 9.0 wt. isopropanol and 0.56 grams 0.6 wt. water was cloudy at room temperature indicating that the contained water was not in stable form. Example 2 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Gulf whicn had an unadulterated cloud point of 150C, with various amounts of isopropanol, water, and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt. total primary amyl alcohol 66.14 wt. n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl l butanol and 3 methyl l butanol . The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Mixture of Diesel Isopro primary amyl Fuel panol Water alcohols CloudComposition wt. wit. wt. wt. Point OC a 86.91 8.66 0.58 3.85 4 b 84.92 8.82 0.59 5.66 9 c 82.59 8.59 0.56 8.26 13 d 85.33 8.86 0.60 5.21 6 e 78.75 10.75 0.66 9.84 12 f 84.13 8.74 0.59 6.54 15 9 85.73 8.90 0.60 4.76 3 Above compositions Zb , f and g were subsequently prepared using another diesel fuel IH CAT Caterpillar lGlH Reference Fuel from HowellHydrocarbons Inc. having an unadulterated cloud point of 30C. The cloud points of these three compositions so prepared were 30C, 70C and 10C, respectively. Example 3 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Gulf which had an unadulterated cloud point of 150C, with various amounts of isopropanol, water and iso butanol. The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel Isopro Fuel panol Water Isobutanol CloudComposition wt. wit. wt. wt. Point C a 86.91 8.66 0.58 3.85 5 b 85.73 8.91 0.60 4.76 2 c 84.92 8.83 0.58 5.66 4 d 84.13 8.74 0.59 6.54 7 e 82.59 8.59 0.56 8.26 14 f 81.84 8.50 0.57 9.09 15 9 81.74 7.36 0.68 10.22 12 Three compositions corresponding to composition e above were prepared wherein the isobutanol was replaced with n butanol, n pentanol and 2 ethylhexanol, respectively, and their respective cloud points were found to be 130C, 140C and 70C. Example 4 A series of fuel compositions were prepared consisting of 81.78 wt. of a diesel fuel, 2 Gulf having an unadultered cloud point of 150C, and 8.56 wt. of anhydrous 200 proof ethanol, 0.57 wt. water and 9.09 wt. of a higher alcohol. The cloud points of said compositions were as rollows.Higher Alcohol Cloud Point C n butanol 14 iso butanol 17 n pentanol 2 Mixture of primary amyl alcohols 1 2 ethylhexanol 2 Analysis 98.7 wt. u total amyl alcohol 66.14 wt. t n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl 1 butanol and 3 methyl l butanol . Example 5 Two fuel compositions were prepared by mixing a diesel fuel, 2 Gulf which had an unadulterated cloud point of l50C, with methanol, water and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt. u total amyl alcohols 66.14 wt. 96 n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl 1 butanol and 3 methyl 1 butanol .The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as. follows Mixture of Diesel Meth primary amyl Fuel anol Water alcohols CloudComposition wt. wt. wt. wt. Point C a 84.04 4.17 0.28 11.50 9 b 75.59 7.92 0.53 15.97 6 Another fuel composition consisting of 74.38 wt. diesel fuel, 2 Gulf which had an unadulterated cloud point of 150C, 7.75 wt. methanol, 0.52 wt. 96 water and 17.36 wt. sst isobutanol, had a cloud point of only 200C. Example 6 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, X2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of isopropanol, water and iso butanol. The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel Isopro Fuel panol Water Isobutanol CloudComposition wt. wit. wit.8 wt. Point C a 81.43 3.97 0.7 13.90 18 b 84.41 3.97 0.7 10.92 14 c 80.44 15.89 0.7 2.98 3 d 83.42 7.94 0.7 7.94 8 e 95.19 3.27 0.12 1.42 17 f 94.80 3.24 0.18 1.78 3 9 94.24 3.22 0.18 2.36 8 h 93.67 3.21 0.18 2.94 16 i 93.33 3.77 0.20 2.70 16 j 95.22 3.72 0.12 0.94 9 k 95.19 2.79 0.12 1.90 12 1 94.91 2.78 0.12 2.19 17 m 95.17 1.86 0.12 2.85 16 n 95.15 0.93 0.12 3.80 16 o 94.20 3.72 0.18 1.90 5 Example 7 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts 05 a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of isopropanol, water, and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt. t total primary amyl alcohol , 6Ç.14 wt. 5s n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl 1 butanol and 3 methyl 1 butanol .The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows fixture of Diesel Isopro primary amyl Fuel panol Water alcohols CloudComposition wit. wt. wt. wt. Point OC a 82.00 5.30 0.70 12.00 17 b 82.00 14.30 0.70 3.00 6 c 85.50 6.80 0.70 7.00 17 d 86.00 11.30 0.70 2.00 18 e 86.00 8.30 0.70 5.00 5 f 94.55 4.30 0.15 1.00 10 g 94.07 4.29 0.15 1.49 3 h 93.62 4.26 0.15 1.97 13 i 95.19 2.H 0.12 1.90 17 Example 8 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel ruel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point ot 180C, with various amounts or isopropanol, water and 2 ethylhexanol.The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel Isopro 2 Ethyl Fuel panol Water hexanol CloudComposition wt. wit. wit. wt. Point C a 82.00 11.30 0.70 6.00 17 b 81.00 17.30 0.70 1.00 2 c 83.00 13.30 0.70 3.00 6 d 84.00 10.30 0.70 5.00 4 Another fuel composition consisting of 86.25 wt. is diesel fuel, t2 Gulf having an unadulterated cloud point of 150C, 8.60 wt. isopropanol, 0.57 wt. 4 water and 4.58 wt. 2 ethylhexanol had a cloud point of only 150C. Example 9 A series of fuel compositions were prepared wherein various amounts of diesel fuel, 2 PhillipsPetroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 18aC, were mixed with various amounts of a 50 50 weight percent mixture of methanol and ethanol, water and isobutanol and the cloud point of each composition determined as outlined below Diesel Iso CloudCompo Fuel Methanol Ethanol Water butanol Point sition wt. wt. twt.96 wit. wit. C a 80.18 2.24 2.24 0.40 14.94 9 b 87.64 0.80 0.80 0.40 10.36 4 c 87.64 1.50 1.50 0.40 8.96 15 Example 10 A series of fuel comp itions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, d2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of a 50 50 wt. 96 mixture of methanol and ethanol, water and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt. total amyl alcohol 66.14 wt. n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl l butanol and 3 methyl l butanol . The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows Mixture of primary Diesel amyl CloudCompo Fuel Methanol Ethanol Water alcohols Point sition wit. wt. wit. wit. wt. C a 80.68 2.49 2.49 0.40 13.94 18 b 87.14 1.25 1.25 0.40 9.96 18 c 85.66 1.99 1.99 0.40 9.96 12 d 82.16 3.74 3.74 0.40 9.96 8 Example 11 A series of fuel compositions were prepared wherein various amounts of a diesel fuel, t2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, were mixed with various amounts of a 50 50 weight percent mixture of methanol and ethanol, water and 2 ethylhexanol and the cloud point of each composition determined as outlined below Diesel 2 Ethyl CloudCompo Fuel Methanol Ethanol Water Hexanol Point sition wit. wt. wit. wit. wt. C a 80.27 2.79 2.79 0.40 13.75 17 b 82.66 3.49 3.49 0.40 9.96 8 c 81.68 1.99 1.99 0.40 13.94 7 d 81.67 2.49 2.49 0.40 12.95 4 e 80.87 3.39 3.39 0.40 11.95 16 Example 12 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of methanol, water and isobutanol.The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel Fuel Methanol Water Isobutanol CloudComposition wit. wt. wt. wt. Point C a 86.78 2.00 0.25 10.97 16 b 81.79 3.99 0.25 13.97 10 c 84.79 2.99 0.25 11.97 8 d 85.78 4.99 0.25 8.98 27 Example 13 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of methanol, water and 2 ethyhexanol. The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel 2 Ethyl Fuel Methanol Water hexanol CloudComposition wit.8 wit. wit. wit. Point C a 79.80 6.98 0.25 12.97 16 b 81.79 3.99 0.25 13.97 17 c 83.79 3.99 0.25 11.97 8 d 84.79 3.99 0.25 10.97 1 e 81.80 6.98 0.25 10.97 6 Example 14 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 18 .C, with various amounts of methanol, water and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt. total primary amyl alcohol 66.14 wt.9 n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl l butanol and 3 methyl l butanol . The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. fixture Diesel of primary Cloud Fuel Methanol Water amyl alco PointComposition wt. wt. wit.8 hols wt. OC a 89.77 1.00 0.25 8.98 15 b 81.19 6.68 0.25 11.88 18 c 86.00 3.75 0.25 10.00 12 d 90.00 2.25 0.25 7.50 10 e 89.78 2.99 0.25 6.98 5 f 88.78 2.99 0.25 7.98 10 9 81.00 7.75 0.25 11.00 7 h 81.83 5.99 0.20 11.98 12 i 81.76 5.98 0.30 11.96 2 j 85.83 3.99 0.20 9.98 13 k 85.74 3.99 0.30 9.97 4 Example 15 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts or a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 18SC, with various amounts of ethanol, water and isobutanol.The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel Isobu Fuel Ethanol Water tanol CloudComposition wt. wt. wt. wt. Point OC a 80.59 1.00 0.50 17.91 18 b 87.55 1.00 0.50 10.95 10 c 85.56 2.99 0.50 10.95 6 d 83.58 3.98 0.50 11.94 11 e 85.57 3.98 0.50 9.95 2 t 79.60 5.97 0.50 13.93 13 Example 16 A series of fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel fuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of ethanol, water and a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wit. total primary amyl alcohol 66.14 wt.l n pentanol and 32.56 wt. 2 methyl 1 butanol and 3 methyl 1 butanol .The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Mixture Diesel of primary Cloud Fuel Ethanol Water amyl alco PointComposition wt. wt. wt. hols wt. C a 80.59 1.00 0.50 17.91 17 b 86.56 1.99 0.50 10.95 17 c 79.59 8.96 0.50 10.95 16 d 81.58 8.96 0.50 8.96 5 e 85.56 4.98 0.50 8.96 12 f 85.57 5.97 0.50 7.96 2 Example 17 A series or fuel compositions were prepared by mixing various amounts of a diesel tuel, 2 Phillips Petroleum which had an unadulterated cloud point of 180C, with various amounts of ethanol, water and 2 ethylhexanol. The compositions so prepared along with their cloud points were as follows. Diesel 2 Ethyl Fuel Ethanol Water hexanol CloudComposition wit. wt. wt. wt. Point C a 82.58 6.97 0.50 9.95 17 b 83.57 6.97 0.50 8.96 4 c 81.59 9.95 0.50 7.96 2 d 83.57 8.96 0.50 6.97 8 Example 18 A fuel composition designated D4, which consisted of 83.60 wt. of a diesel fuel IB CAT Caterpillar lGlH Reference Fuel from Howell Bydrocarbon Inc. which had an unadulterated cloud point of 3 C, 5.30 wt. of isopropanol, 0.70 wt. water and 10.40 wt. of 50 50 wt. mixture of n butanol and isobutanol, said composition D4 having a cloud point of 5 C., along with another composition designated D5 which consisted or 85.73 wt.8 of the same diesel fuel employed in composition D4, 8.90 wt. of isopropanol, 0.60 wt. water and 4.76 wt.S of a mixture of primary amyl alcohols analysis 98.7 wt, total amyl alcohol 66.14 wit. n pentanol and 32.56 wit. 2 methyl 1 butanol and 3 methyl l butanol , said composition D5 having a cloud point of 10C., were prepared and evaluated versus the same unadulterated base diesel fuel employed in preparing each composition D4 and D5 in terms of exhaust emissions and fuel economy. The performance tests were conducted on a 6 cylinder diesel engine geared to a dynamometer capable of loading the engine to 500HP wet gap. The performance of fuel composition D4 was compared with the performance or the base diesel fuel at two engine modes a 1200 RPM 251 kg 557 Ibs. load which corresponds to an engine operation in a very rich fuel excess fuel Mode and b 1400 RPM 600 Ibis. 270 kg load which corresponds to a normal operation of the engine under considerable load e.g. climbing a hill . The performance of fuel composition D5 was also compared with the performance of the base diesel fuel at engine modes a 1200 RPM 560 lbs. 252 kg 272 kg load and b 1400 RPM 272kg 605 lbs. load.In addition the performance of composition D5 was assessed at an engine mode c 2090 RPMZ 214kg 475 1bs. load as compared to the base diesel fuel at an engine mode of 2084 RPM 229kg 508 1bs. load which corresponds to an engine operation at high speed and high load . The test results are reported below all fuel economy values being an average of five measurements all smoke measurements being an average of five measurements and all particulate measurements being an average ot three measurements. Fuel Consumption lbs. hour kg hOperating Mode Base Diesel Fuel Comp. Fuel Comp. RPM lbs kq Fuel D 4 D 5 1200 557 251 83.20 37,44 87.02 39,16 1200 560 252 83.10 37,39 84.91 38,21 1400 600 270 101.98 45,89 105.14 47,31 1400 605 272 100.36 45,16 101.99 45,90 2084 508 229 132.51 59,63 2090 475 214 127.5 57,37 Particulates Grams Operating Mode Base Diesel Fuel Comp. Fuel Comp. RPM 1bs kq Fuel D 4 D 5 120057 251 0.0163 0.0174 1200A560 252 o.0175 0 .0167 1400A600 270 0.0104 0.0061 1400A605 272 0.0140 0.0143 2084A508 229 0.0024 2090A475 214 0.0014 Smoke Opacity Operating Mode Base Diesel Fuel Comp. Fuel Comp. RPM lbs kg Fuel D 4 D 5 1200 557 251 12.74 11.9 1200 560 252 12.74 11.8 1400 600 270 9.30 5.06 1400 605 272 9.38 7.52 2084 508 229 2.18 2090 475 214 1.64 The above data shows that operation of the engine with fuel compositions D4 and D5 of this invention resulted in a significant reduction in both smoke opacity and particulate content of the exhaust over that shown when employing the base diesel fuel if the engine is not strained to a maximum.As seen the average decrease in smoke opacity for D4 at modes 1200 251 557 and 1400 270 600 was 6.3 and 45 and for D5 at modes 1200, 252 560 and 1400 272 605 was 7.1 and 20.2 . Likewise the average decrease in particulate content for D4 at mode 1400 270 600 was 41.3 mode 1200 251 557 showing an average increase of 6,7 and for D5 at mode 1200, 252 560 was 4.6 mode 1400 272 605 showing an average increase of 2.1 . It should be noted that smoke and particulate formation is a complex phenomena, so these measurements will not necessarily always coincide.However, it is possible to have both reduced opacity in smoke emission, and at the same time, a decrease in particulate emission. Moreover due to the inherent difficulties with particulate analysis one should consider trends in the data and not absolute values, While operation with D4 at modes 1200 251 557 and 1400 270 600 showed an average loss in fuel economy of 4.6 and 3.05 respective12µ and operation of D5 at modes 1200 560 and 1400v 605 showed an average loss in fuel economy of 2.2 and 1.6 respectively. However, with D4 the variation in fuel consumption is good compared to what industry accepts as a variation. Moreover the engine ran quite well with the D4 and D fuels. Moreover, while s one to one comparison 214 between the data of D5 at ode 22090 214 475 and the 229 base diesel fuel at mode 84 508 cannot be made since the data can not be normalized because the fuel consumption of D wa less than the base fuel and D was not pulling the same engine load as the base fuel and thus had a different power performance, which makes it difficult to say just how large the effect is, nonetheless it is clear that D exhibited a significant positive effect on smoke and particulate emission and also on the fuel consumption as seen by its unnormalized average increase of 3.8 in fuel economy and unnormalized average decreases of 27.3 in smoke opacity and 42 in particulate content of the exhaust. Example 19 The physical properties as listed inASTM D975, except for cetane number, water and sediment, of fuel compositions D4 and D5 as well as of the base diesel fuel IH CAT employed inExample 18 are listed below. Physical Properties D 4 D 5 IH CATFlash Point, C 7 13 77Cloud Point, C 8 8 7Carbon Residue, 0.21 0.21 0.06Ash, wt. 0.01 0.005 0.003Viscosity at 40 C,mmê S 2.97374 2.95754 3.31 100 C Sulfur,wt. 0.3717 0.3608 0.399Copper Strip Corrosion 1 A 1 A 1 ADistillation. Cc Initial Boiling Point, Cc 79 80 200 10 Evaporated 102 93 240 20 Evaporated 182 182 253 50 Evaporated 260 260 269 90 Evaporated 305 305 321End Point, C 335 321 350 Recovered 98 97.5 99.0 Residue 1.5 1.5 1.0 Loss 0.5 1.0 0 The above evaluation shows that fuel compositions D4 and D5 of this invention meet all the standard specifications for No. 2 diesel fuels ASTM D 975 except for the flash point.Another evaluation of the flash points of D 4, D 5 and the IH CAT showed 26,5 , 20 and 76 C respectively. Example 20 A fuel composition designated D6 consisting of about 83.60 wt. of a diesel fuel, 182 Phillips Petroleum which had a cloud point of 180C, 5.30 wt. of isopropanol, 0.70 wt. water and , 10.40 wt. of a 50 50 wt. 96. mixture of n butanol and isobutanol said composition having a cloud point of 180C, along with a fuel composition designated D7 which was the same as composition D6 , but also contained 0.15 wt. of a commercial cetane improver an alkyl nitrate were prepared and evaluated versus the same unadulterated base diesel fuel employed in preparing each composition D6 and D7 in terms of exhaust emissions and fuel economy.The performance tests were conducted on a chassis mounted 5.7 literOldsmobile and followed standard cold start FederalTest Procedures CFR, Title 40, Part 86, SubPartB . The results of said tests based on an average of duplicate runs for each fuel were as follows km EMISSIONS g mile cetane Hydro carbon Fuel Number Particulates NOx Carbons Monoxide MPGBase Diesel 48 O.3890,243 1.34 , 37 o.327 0,204 1.21 0,756 21.3 13,3D6 40 0 311 0,194 1.27 0,794 0,390 0,244 l.46 0,912 21.2 13.2D7 46 0.322 0,201 1.27 0.794 0,386 0,241 1.40 0,875 21.4 13,4 The above results show that operation of the engine with fuel compositions D6 and D7 of this invention resulted in a significant reduction in both particulates and oxides of nitrogen in the exhaust over that shown when employing the base diesel fuel while fuel economy remained essentially the same.