# Methods of manufacturing dense high quality carbon products.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a process of manufacturing a green carbon product from fine particulate bituminous coal. The process involves filling a mould cavity with fine particulate bituminous coal of an acceptable kind, keeping the particulates within the mould in an oxygen free atmos phere at a controlled critical temperature at or adjacent the maximum contraction of incipient carbonisation to allow compaction of the particulates to a density level acceptable for further processing to produce high quality forms of carbon. Usually, pressure is sustained on the material within the mould. Where the shape of the product is important heating of the material within the mould to a level of about 700 C follows soaking at the critical temperature so as to minimise cracking during cooling. Such a process is considered suitable for the production of carbon electrodes.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process of manufacturing a green carbon product comprising the steps of filling a mould cavity with fine particulate bituminous coal having a percenfage of impurities acceptable for the final use to which the carbon product is to be put, keeping the particles within the mould In an oxygen free atmosphere at a controlled temperature herelnafter referred to as the critlcal temperature at or adjacent the maximum contraction of incipient carbonisation to allow compaction of the particles to a density level acceptable for further processing to produce hish quality forms of carbon. 2. A process as claimed In claim 1 wherein a pressure is applied to the content of the mould. 3. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said green carbon Is removed from said mould after coollng and used in a similar way as petroleum coke after the product has been subjected to appropriate size reductlon. 4. A process according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said green carbon product after soaking at the critical temperature and having attained its dense form Is heated in said mould to a level of about 700 C so as to develop strength sufficient to prevent cracking during cooling. 5. A process according to claim 1 which Includes using a suitable mould material and raising the temperature of the green carbonIn the mould to the temperature required for calcination to provide a final carbon form. 6. A process according to claim 5 wherein said carbon product is finally subjected to calcination at a temperature of above about 12000C. 7. A process according to claim 1 which includes the preliminary step of admixing of said fine bituminous coal with recycled distillation products from said carbonisation process. 8. A process according to claim 1 wherein said material charged to said mould Is at about ambient temperature. 9. A process according to claim 1 wherein said material charged to said mould is preheated. 10. A process according to claim 1 wherein said bituminous coal particles are treated by one or more beneficiation processes to reduce the ash, iron and other impurities to an acceptable level prior to filling said mould cavity. 11. A process according to claim 1 wherein there is used a bituminous coal having a low natural ash content. 12. A process according to claim 1 wherein said mould temperature is control led at a critical temperature range within the limits of 360 C to 4100C and is held at this temperature for a period of up to two days. 13. A process according to claim 2 wherein said pressure is applied by means of a weight resting on the top of the coal.

## Description
METHODS OF MANUFACTURING DENSE HIGH QUALITY CARBON PRODUCTS This invention relates to a method of manufacturing from bituminous ccal dense high quality carbon suitable for use in various artefacts, such as electrodes or in other applications requiring such carbon. It is already known to produce carbon electrodes from bituminous coal. A process for such electrode productlon is disclosed in United States patent specification No. 2594226.Large quantities of carbon electrodes are used In the manufacture of aluminium. Electrode carbon requires a high level of purity and a high density. The standards required have been difficult to achieve using coal as the raw material. It is also known from United Kingdom patent specifications 561,498 595,759 595,760 and 849,414 to produce carbon artefacts or moulded articles from bituminous coal. An overview of such processes and the applications for the products is found in Fuel 1981, Vol.60, pp889 896. The present invention relates to a method of manufacture of high quality carbon from bituminous coal and particularly with the aim of satisfying the standards specified for electrodes used in the manufacture of aluminium or for other forms of carbon and in the manufacture of carbon artefacts. Accordingly the invention may broadly be said to consist in a process of manufacturing a green carbon product comprising the steps of filling a mould cavity with fine particulate bituminous coal having a percentage of impurities acceptable for the final use to which the carbon product is to be put, keeping the particles within the mould In an oxygen free atmosphere at a controlled temperature hereinafter referred to as the critical temperature at or adjacent the maximum contraction of Incipient carbonisation to allow compaction of the particles to a density level acceptable for further processing to produce high quality forms of carbon. The critical temperature is not necessarily a single value. Indeed it is more likely to be a temperature range. Preferably a pressure preferably slight is applied to the content of the mould. In one method the green carbon is removed from the mould after cooling and used in a similar way as petroleum coke after the product has been subjected to appropriate size reduction. In an alternative process according to the present invention the green1 carbon product after soaking at the critical temperature and having attained its dense form is heated in said mould to a level of about 7000C so as to develop strength sufficient to prevent cracking during cooling. As a varlatiofl of the method assuming suitable mould material is used the temperature of the 1,greentt carbon in the mould can be raised to the temperature required for calcination to provide the final carbon form. Preferably the carbon product is finally subjected to calcination of temperatures of above about 12000C. in one preferred embodiment the material charged to the mould cavity is fine bituminous coal. In another embodiment suitable for improving the carbon quality or for achieving a more suitable carbon structure the fine bituminous coal is admixed with recycled distillation products from the carbonisation process. Normally the material charged to the mould will be at about ambient temperature but in order to increase thermal efficiency or to increase throughput or for other reasons preheating of the charge may be warranted. The bituminous coal particles are normally treated by one or more beneficiation processes to reduce the ash, iron and other impurities to an acceptable level. For acceptable economic realisation the bituminous coal selected should have a low natural ash content. To achieve the required density the temperature is controlled to a critical specific level, which varles with the coal but which normally lies within the limits of 360 to 410C This temperature is maintained for a period of from about 17 hours to about two days although this may vary with the type of coal employed and with the form of the carbon required. A slight pressure Is preferably applied to the particulate bituminous coal contained in the mould for instance by means of a weight resting on the top of the coal. The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the fol lowing gives examples. One preferred form of the present invention will now be decribed. In the preferred form of the present invention bituminous coal, preferably a coal having a low natural ash content such as is available in the Stockton area of the Buller coal field on the illest Coast of New Zealand, is used as a raw material Ana lysis of a typical coal employed is given in table 2, example 1. In general the process of the invention comprises the following steps. 1. Coal is crushed to approximately minus 500um if nct already this size. 2. A quantity of this coal is packed into the retort. Two sizes have been used, a 60mm diameter cylindrical retort and a 90 x 190mm cross section rectangular retort . 3. A weight equivalent to a pressure of approximately 3 kPa to 5 kPa is placed on top of the compacted coal charge. 4. The retort is heated to a critical specific temperature normally lying between the limits of 360 410 C,and held at that temperature for a specified length of time, normally between 17 and 48 hours. 5. A high volatile approximately 20 30s volatile matter green coke is formed. This green coke can be calcined to give a dense coke. Parameters which affect the density of the resultant coke were 1. time at the soak temperature. 2. soaking temperature. 3. coal granulometry. The density of the coke was most sensitive to the coking temperature parameter. For the coal studled the temperature had to be controlled to between 370 and 380 C. The particles of the bituminous coal may have been improved in purity to the required level using any of a number of beneficiation processes. The coal is placed into a mould cavity which is heated to a controlled temperature In an oxygen free atmosphere while being subjected to a slight pressure of the order 10 kPa. The temperature selected is that at which the bituminous coal undergoes a high degree of contraction with appropriate development of fluidity. This critical temperature normally lies between the limits of 3600 to 41hand the time taken for the process to complete is normally from 17 hours to 2 days. The contraction which occurs with a bituminous coal in the initial stages of carbonising and before the mass starts to swell, is illustrated by a dilatometer curve such as that produced by an Audibert Arnu dilatometer which also records the temperatures at which the contraction occurs, given a standard heating rate of 3oC per minute. The critical temperature required for maximum density of the carbon produced in the patented process will not be the same as the temperature indicated in a dilatometer test, if the heating rates are different. However, the data from the standard dilatometer test can provide some indication of the optimum temperature required in the patented process. Similar coals varying in their state of oxidation may exhibit different critical temperatures. plinth an oxidised coal, a higher temperture will be required for maximum densification but the soaking time will be reduced. Coal after mining, can be oxidised artificially in a simple process to reproduce the effect described above for an oxidised coal. The mould cavity selected will to scne extent depend upon the particular form of the process which is to be effected, In one form the object is to secure a dense carbon product which after being reduced in size using appropriate equipment will be a substitute for petroleum coke in conventional electrode manufacture. In such a process the shape of the mould is nct critical and small or large blocks may be produced. Particulate carbon of the desired particle size would then bused in a mix with pitch to form the electrodes as are normally now produced using petroleum coke. These electrodes would then be compressed in a mould and be subjected to calcining in the usual way. In another aspect of the present invention where the carbon is required in a monolithic form, the carbon is placed in the mould and a light pressure applied. After achieving the degree of density required by soaking at the critical temperature, the temperature of the carbon in the mould remaining in the furnace, is raised to a significantly higher level to improve the strength characteristics of the carbon. In this technique it is necesssary to select a mould cavity which Ts consistent with the shape and size of the carbon finally required. It is also necessary to control the temperature to which the product is elevated to something that can be withstood by the mould. A temperature of approximately 7000C Is an acceptable temperature having regard to all of the controlling parameters.The strengthened product which is then removed from the mould would normally be subjected to calcining in a manner similar to that used currently with the electrode blocks using petroleum coke. In an alternative method of the present invention, subject to appropriate selection of materials for the mould, the process is completed by calcining in the mould cavity. The optimum temperature for calcining is above about 12000C, preferably 1290 C. In Table 1 a comparison is made between the properties of an optimum anode made by the process of the present invention and a typical anode made by a conventional process. Table 1 COMPARISON BETWEEN THE PROPERTIES OF TYPICAL CONVENTIONAL ANODES AND AM OPTIMU M1 ANODE PREPARED BY THE METHOD OF THE PRESENT INVENTION Optimum by Property Tvpical Anode Present Process Geometric density kg m3 1,550 1,650 1,500 1,550 Electrical Resistivity ohm mm 0.045 0.060 0.041 0.057 Open porosity S 20 30 5 14 Closed porosity 4 12 8 17 Electrolytic consumption 110 indicates 108 mean of theoretical very good elec trode 120 indicates poor electrode EXAMPLE 1 PREPARATION OF 30 kg OF GREEN COKE A A coal sample analysis table 2 was beneficiated by tabling to give a product coal with 0.14 ash.The coal was crushed to a granulometry table 3 and packed into a steel retort of cross sectional dimension 90 x 190 mm. A weight equivalent to a pressure of 6kPa was placed on top of the moderately compacted by hand pressure coal charge. The retort was placed in a furnace which was previously heated to 375 C. The retort remained in the furnace for a total coking time of 48 hours.Approximately 3500 g of coal was coked in each batch. Apparent density of some representative green coke samples was measured.One batch was calcined for calcined coke apparent density determination.Results. Green coke approximate volatile matter 20 apparent density g cm3 1.07 1.11 Calcined coke apparent density g cm3 1.49 1.52 Table 2 Coal Analysis Air Dried Analysis Moisture 1.2 Ash 0.3 Volatile Matter dp 35.3 Fixed Carbon 63.2 Sulphur 0.7 Crucible Swelling No. 9 Ultimate Analysis dry, ash free basis C 86.1 H 5.6 N R 1.3 S 0.7 O diff 6.3Table 3 Coal Granulometrv Size Fraction um 850 0.8 850 425 6.9 425 212 17.8 212 106 26.7 106 47.9Table 4 Gieseler Plastometer Coal Sample e Example 1 A Temperatures Initial Softening 1 ddpm C 406 Fusion 5 ddpm C 423 Maximum Fluidity C 450 Resolidification C 482 Range Softening to Resolidification C 76 Fluidity Maximum dial divisions per minute 581 Expressed as log10 2.76Note The measurement was performed 13 months from the date the sample was collected. The sample which was measured was stored in a deep freeze at 18 mm size. The 4.75 mm coal fraction had a maximum fluidity of 897. This is probably nearer to the original value for the fresh coal. The coke was prepared two months after the date of sample collection, that Is eleven months befcre the Gieseler plastometer test was performed. EXAtIPLE 2 An air dried coal sample analysis Table 5 was crushed to two different granulometries Table 6 . The crushed coal was coked 400 g at a time In 61 rm diameter stainless steel retorts.A weight equivalent to a pressure of 3 kPa was placed on top of the moderately compacted by hand pressure coal charge. The retorts were placed in a furnace which was previously pre heated to the desired cokIng temperature. The two different coal granulometries were coked at various temperatures and times. Sample weight loss, green apparent densities and some selected calcined coke apparent densities were measured. Green coke was calcined by first baking at 600C per hour up to 7000C, followed by calcination at 13000C for approximatelyI hour. The heat up rate and time to reach thermal equilibriun of the coal charge was also measured. A brief investigation of the effect of increasing the weight on top of the coal charge on the density, was carried out at the temperature which gave the best density coke for the 3 kPa weight 375 C . A weight equivalent to a pressure of 3OkPa was used for this purpose. Results The centre of the coal charge reached equilibrium temperature within toC over the whole charge in five hours. a Weight loss during coking Table 7 The coal continued to lose weight due to decomposition after thermal equilibrium had been reached. The rate of weight loss decreased after twenty four hours. This effect was consistent for all the temperatures studied. The weight loss after twenty four hours at 3800C was 13 compared with 8s at 3600C. This effect Is significant when considering the maximum heating rate which can be applied to the green coke without it puffing up to form a low density coke. The greater the weight loss of the sample, that is the lower the residual volatile matter of the green coke, the faster the green coke can be coked to remove the remaining volatiles. b Green Coke Apparent Density Table 8 i Coking temperature The greatest green coke apparent density was obtained by coking at 3750C, both coal granulometries. The apparent densities for the green cokes were similar within the range of 370 to 380cC. At 380cC the maximum apparent density was achieved faster compared with lower temperatures. At 3850C some greater degree of carbonisation produced a low density swollen green coke. ii Coking time At lower working temperatures, dense coke formation is greatly affected by time. At higher temperatures, for example 375 and 3800C, the effect of time was significant onlX In the initial coking period. From 3700C to 3800C there wastlittle difference in green coke apparent density for coking times of 17 and 24 hours. iii Coal granulometry After 17 and 24 hours coking, coke made from the finer coal granulometry had a higher apparent density compared with coke made from the coarse granulometry. For times of 5 and 6 hours, and for temperatures of 360 and 3650C the opposite is true that is the coarse coal granulometry gives rise to the highest green coke apparent density. c Calcined Coke Apparent Densitv i Coking temperature Maximum calcined coke apparent density was achieved for temperatures 375 and 380cC, with 370C coke density being slightly less. At 360 and 365C coking temperature, the calcined coke density was considerably reduced. ii Coal Granulometry The highest apparent density 1.60 1.63 is achieved when the coke Is made from the finer coal granulometry. This effect is the most significant at 380 C, where an increase from 1.53 g cm3 to 1.61 g cm3 was achieved. For the lower temperatures, 360 and 3650C, the coke trade from the coarse granulcmetry coal has the higher apparent density. iii Weight on Coal Charge The increased pressure from 3 kPa to 30 kPa did not result in an improvement of apparent density. Conclusions 1. Coal decomposition was a function of both time and temperature in the temperature range studied. 2. Dense green coke formation was a functicn of time and temperature. It Is probable the dense coke formation was related to coal decomposition. 3. Finer coal granulometry gave rise to a higher green coke density within a limited temperature and coking time range. 4. The density of the coke produced, green or calcined was very sensitive to temperature of coking. For the coal studied, a temperature range of approximately 100C will result in coke of similar green and calcined density. 5. The maximum calcined coke density produced by this method was 1.63 a cm3. Generally, this method of coking resulted in a coke of density approximately 1.6 g cm3 providing coal granulometry and coking temperature were controlled. Table 5 COAL ANALYSIS Sample 30 365 Air Dried Analysis Moisture 1.0 Ash 0.2 Volatile Matter S 34.8 Fixed Carbon 64.0 Suiphur 1.00 Crucible Swelling No. 9 Ultimate Analysis dry, ash free C 85.8 H ff 5.5 N 1.3 S 1.0 O diff. 6.3Table 6 COAL GRANULOMETRY Size Fraction um Gran.1 Gran.2 d ff p p 850 425 11.1 0 425 212 35.9 5.4 212 150 13.0 14.4 150 106 11.5 23.7 106 75 7.1 22.8 75 21.3 33.5 Table 7 COAL WEIGHT LOSS DURING COKING Temp. C Coking Time Weight Loss hr. Gran.1 360 5 3.5 6 4.0 17 7.1 24 8.1 365 5 4.1 6 4.7 17 8.6 24 9.4 370 5 4.5 6 5.3 17 9.7 24 10.8 375 5 5.3 6 6.1 17 11.4 24 11.7 380 5 6.2 6 7.2 17 12.1 24 13.0 Table 8. GREEN COKE APPARENT DENSITY Coke Apparent Density g cm Temp. C Coking Gran. 1 Gran. 2 Time hrs 360 5 1 1 6 1 1 17 1.02 1.03 24 1.08 1 365 5 1 1 6 1 1 17 1.08 1.07 24 1.08 1,03 370 5 1.01 1 6 1.04 1 17 1.12 1.14 24 1.14 1.14 375 5 1.09 1.08 6 1.13 1.05 17 1.14 1.18 24 1.16 1.18 380 5 1.14 1.13 6 1.13 1.11 17 1.10 1.17 24 1.13 1.16 385 5 1 1 6 1 1 17 1 1 24 1 1 Table 9 CALCINED COKE DENSITY Coke Apparent Density g cm3 Temp. C Coking Gran. 1 Gran. 2 Time hrs 360 17 24 1.48 1.39 365 17 1.53 24 1.50 1.45 370 17 1.55 24 1.57 1.56 375 17 1.61 24 1.58 1.58 1.60 380 17 1.63 24 1.53 1.61 375 300 g cm 24 1.60 1.63 Table 10 GIESELER PLASTOMETER COAL SAMPLE EXAMPLE 2 Temperatures Initial Softening 1 ddpm C 407 Fuslon at 5 ddpm OC 428 Maximum Fluidity C 454 Resolidificatlon C 481 Range Softening to Resolidification C 76 Fluidity Maximun dial divisions per minute 170 Expressed at log10 2.24Note This test was performed seven months from the date the sample was collected and five to six months from the dates that the coking experimental work was carried out. It is possible that the original coal fluldity may have been higher, but not greatly so, as a measurement on plus 6 nm coal less susceptible to oxidation deterioriatlon gave maximum fluidity of 212 ddpm.