# Double sided adhesive sticker.

## Abstract
A double sided adhesive sticker which is used to stick posters, pictures, etc, to a wall or album, has a carrier part 1 made of sheet or film of paper or synthetic resin and an adhesive coating 2 on each side of the carrier part 1 . At least one edge margin region 4 on each side of the carrier part 1 is left free of adhesive to provide a non adhesive portion grippable between the fingers so that the sticker can be pulled off from the release paper and stuck to the wall, etc. without touching the ahdesive coating with the fingers and also can easily be peeled off from the wall, etc. after use.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A double sided adhesive sticker having a sheet or film carrier part 1 carrying an adhesive coating 2 on both sides thereof, characterised in that at least one edge margin region 4 on each side of the carrier part 1 is left free of adhesive coating to provide a nonadhesive portion of the carrier part 1 grippable between the fingers for attaching or detaching the sticker to or from a surface. 2. A sticker as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that the carrier part 1 is made of paper, non woven fabric, cellophane or synthetic resin. 3. A sticker as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that the adhesive coating 2 is provided at the centre of each side of the carrier part 1 . 4. A sticker as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the non adhesive portion extends completely or partially around the sticker periphery. 5. A sticker as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that the non adhesive portion 1 projects from or is connected to the periphery of the carrier part 1 .

## Description
Double sided Adhesive Sticker This invention concerns a double sided adhesive sticker which can be stuck to a surface without touching the adhesive part in use and easily peeled off after use. When posters, etc are stuck to a wall or when pictures, etc are stuck in an album, conventional so called double sided adhesive tape cut to an appropriate length may be used. However, since this double sided adhesive tap is made adhesive all over on both sides, it is not easy to remove the release paper from the adhesive faces of the tape. Additionally touching the ahdesive part with the fingers when the release paper is removed decreases the adhesive power or the touched part bends thus causing unsatisfactory adhesion.Furthermore, when the double sided tape stuck on the wall, etc.is subsequently to be peeled off, it is not easy to do so because it is completely stuck to the wall. Therefore, when the conventional double sided adhesive tape is used, the utmost care must be taken and fingers must be used delicately. This is difficult for children and aged people who cannot use their fingers so delicately. There is thus a need for a double sided adhesive sticker which can be easily handled when the posters, pictures, etc.are to be stuck to a wall, album, page or the like. An object of this invention is to provide double sided adhesive stickers which can be handled without decreasing the adhesive power of the adhesive face. Still another object of this invention is to provide doublesided adhesive stickers which can easily be peeled off from the wall, albums, etc. after use. According to the present invention there is provided a double sided adhesive sticker having a sheet or film carrier part carrying an adhesive coating on both sides thereof, characterised in that at least one edge margin region on each side of the carrier part is left free of adhesive coating to provide a non adhesive portion of the carrier part grippable between the fingers for attaching or detaching the sticker to or from a surface. For a better understanding of the invention, reference will now be made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a sticker according to one embodiment of the invention, Figure 2 is a longitudinal sectional view showing the double sided adhesive sticker of Figure 1 cut through its centre, Figure 3 is a plan view of a double sided adhesive sticker according to another embodiment of this invention, Figure 4 is a longitudinal sectional view showing the lamination of the double sided adhesive sticker of Figure 1, and release paper, Figure 5 is a plan view of double sided adhesive stickers of Figure 1 arranged on a tape like release paper and the release paper attached to them, Figure 6 is a plan view of double sided adhesive stickers of Fig 1 arrangement on a sheet like release paper and the release paper attached to them, andFigure 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21 are plan views of double sided adhesive stickers according to other embodiments of this invention. As shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2, a double sided adhesive sticker of this invention consists of a carrier part 1 and adhesive coatings 2 coated on the center of both sides of the carrier part 1. The carrier part 1 is made of sheet or film of paper, nonwoven fabric, cellophane or synthetic resin. In this embodiment, the shape of the sticker is round. However any shape such as a triangle, square, pentagon, hexagon, or irregular shape such as cloud shape, etc. can be used. That is, any shape will do, so long as there is a space big enough to form an adhesive face 3 at the center of both sides and at least one edge margin region 4 on each side of the carrier part 1 to provide a non adhesive portion on the periphery of both sides. In order to satisfy children, it is also possible to print some design, pattern, etc. on the carrier part 1. The adhesive coatings 2 form the adhesive face 3 of an appropriate size on the center of both sides of the part 1 using a suitable adhesive. In this embodiment the adhesive coating 2 is round to make a shape similar to the round shape of the carrier part 1. It goes without saying that any shape such as a square can be used. In this embodiment the adhesive face 3 does not cover the full periphery on both sides of the carrier part 1 leaving the region 4 as a non adhesive portion but it is also possible, for example, to make the adhesive coating 2 as a pentagram as shown in Figure 3 partially covering the periphery of both sides of the carrier part 1 whilst leaving the edge margin regions 4 free of adhesive. The important thing is to form the adhesive face 3 of an appropriate size at the center of both sides of the carrier part 1 and the non adhesive portion on the periphery of both sides of the carrier part 1. The adhesive coating 2 can be formed by a coloured adhesive so that the area of the adhesive face 3 can be easily recognized. A double sided adhesive sticker formed as above will have release papers attached to the adhesive faces 3. These release papers are to protect the surface of the adhesive faces 3 and to prevent them from sticking to other objects when packed, transported etc. If, as shown in Figure 4, a plurality of double sided adhesive stickers of the invention are laminated using release papers 5 of the same size as the carrier part 1, many doublesided adhesive stickers can be formed into a block for easy handling. The release paper 5 can be made larger than the carrier part 1 or can be made smaller than the carrier part 1 but larger than the adhesive face 3. If, as shown in Figure 5, double sided adhesive stickers of the invention are arranged on another narrow and long tapelike release paper Sa, a plurality of double sided adhesive stickers can be formed into a wound tape for easy handling. In this case a release paper 5 of the same size as the carrier part 1 can be attached on the supper adhesive face 3. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 6, double sided adhesive stickers of the invention can be arranged on another wide sheetlike release paper Sb. In this case it is advantageous to attach a release paper 5 of the same size as the carrier part 1 on the upper adhesive face 3. It will be convenient for use if the sheet likerelease paper 5b is perforated as required. A double sided adhesive sticker of the invention as described above can be used as follows. For example, in the case of the embodiment shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2, i.e. the double sided adhesive sticker shown in Figure 4, the release paper 5 is removed from one adhesive face 3 of the adhesive coatings 2 on the center of the carrier part 1 leaving the release paper 5 intact on the other adhesive face 3. Thus for handling the non adhesive portion formed by the margins 4,is gripped by the fingers which do not touch the adhesive face 3. With the non adhesive portion gripped between the fingers, the adhesive face 3 is attached to a desired place and pressed. In this case, if it is pressed on the release paper 5 of other side, i.e. back side, the adhesive face 3 is not touched by the fingers, and therefore, the original adhesive power is not decreased. When a double sided adhesive sticker is to be removed from the wall, etc. the non adhesive portion margin 4 is raised and gripped between the fingers and the sticker peeled off the wall. In such a case, since the nonadhesive poriton is not stuck to the wall surface, the margin 4 forming the nonadhesive portion part can easily be raised from the wall surface. If the place to which the sticker is to be re attached has a clean surface then the original adhesive power will not be decreased, partially because the adhesive face 3 is not touched by the fingers. Figures 7 to 21 show double sided adhesive stickers according to other embodiments of this invention. The double sided adhesive stickers of these embodiments are basically the same as those of the embodiments already described. That is, the double sided adhesive stickers of these embodiments also consist of the carrier part 1 and the adhesive coatings 2 coated on both sides of the carrier part 1. The formation of the carrier part 1 is also same as in the aforementioned embodiments except that the shape of the carrier part 1 is varied. In the embodiments shown in Figures 19, 20 and 21, a projection 1 forming the non adhesive portion or margin 4 is connected to or projects from the periphery of the carrier part,1 The adhesive face 3,nonadhesive portion and adhesive coatings 2 for formed on both sides of the carrier part 1 as in the aforementioned embodiments.But the adhesive face 3 is not limited to the center of the carrier part 1 so that the nonadhesive portion formed by the margins 4 is provided at one or more parts of the edge or periphery on both sides of the carrier part 1 The line dividing the margin 4 forming tho nonadhesive portion from the adhesive coating 3 is not always a straight line.For example, it can be a circular arc as shown in Figure 13 or can be any other shape line. Additionally it is not necessary that the nonadhesive portion be formed around the whole periphery of the carrier part 1. It is necessary, however, that the nonadhesive margins 4 are formed in mutually corresponding places on both sides of the carrier part 1 so as to know from one side the position of the nonadhesive portion on the other side inhen gripped by the fingers thus preventing the adhesive face 3 from being touched by the fingers. But it is also acceptable that the nonadhesive margins 4 are not exactly but approximately in a mutually corresponding position on both sides of the carrier part 1.The important thing is that the nonadhesive portion which can be gripped between the fingers be formed at one or more corners or sides on both sides of the carrier part 1. The other embodiments described above have an advantage that the production cost is lower than the previously described embodiments. That is, in the case of the embodiment shown inFigure 1, the adhesive must be nspot coated to form the adhesive coatings 2, but in the case of the embodiments shown in Figure 7 and after, allover coating is enough. Therefore, the adhesive coating 2 can be economically formed and does not increase the cost of the double sided adhesive sticker. Also, the other embodiments can have a variety of shapes for the carrier part i and have the advantage of meeting the taste requirements of users, especially children. As explained, the double sided adhesive sticker of this invention has an advantage that it can easily be handled when calendars, pictures, ect. are to be stuck to the wall, albums, etc, because the adhesive face is formed on one portion and the nonadhesive face on the remaining portion on both sides of a carrier part. It has another advantage that since the adhesive face is not touched by hand when it is used, the adhesive power of the adhesive face is not decreased. Furthermore, when the sticker is peeled off from the wall album, etc, after use, it can easily be done because the nonadhesive portion can be gripped between the fingers.