# Pesticidal composition and method of combating pests.

## Abstract
There is provided a pesticidal composition comprising, as active ingredients, a a pyrethroid insecticide of formula I The composition has been shown to have surprising activity against dipterous insects.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pesticidal composition characterised in that the active ingredient comprises a combination of a a pyrethroid insecticide of formula I EMI13.1 wherein A is an optionally substituted aralkyl, alkyl, cycloalkyl or arylaminoalkyl group, and B is a group of formulaEMI13.2 wherein R is hydrogen, cyano or ethynyl, X is alkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl or aryloxy and n is 1 to 5 or B is a 3,4,5,6 tetrahydrophthalimidomethyl group and b an Q amino acid derivative of formula III EMI13.3 wherein R1 is an optionally substituted phenyl group or a methoxymethyl group, R2is hydrogen or methyl, R3 is C2 11 alkyl, each Y is independently halo, methyl or trifluoro methyl and n is 1 to 5. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 further characterised in that in the insecticide of formula I A is a substituted benzyl group of formula IV EMI14.1 wherein Z represents a halogen atom, or a C1 alkoxy group and Q represents a C 1 6 alkyl group, and B is a group of formula II. 3. A composition according to Claim 1 or 2 further characterised in that in the insecticide of formula I A is isopropyl ls chlorobenzyl, R is hydrogen or cyano, n is 1 and X is 3 phenoxy and R is a group of formula II. 4. A composition according to Claim 1 further characterised in that in the insecticide of formula I A is a cyclopropyl group of formula V EMI14.2 wherein Ra and Rb are independently C 1 6 alkyl groups or halogen atoms or R and P together represent a C26 alkylene group, a or Ra is hydrogen and Rb is a C26 alkenyl group, or a C 2 6 haloalkenyl group containing 1 to 3 chlorine or bromine atoms Rc and Rd are independently C1 6 alkyl groups or R and Rd together represent a C 6 alkylene group, and B is a group of formula II. 5. A composition according to Claim 1 or 4 further characterised in that in the insecticide of formula I A is 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl cyclopropyl or 2,2,3, 3 tetramethyl cyclo propyl, B s hydrogen or cyano, n is 1 and X is 3 phenoxy and B is a group of formula II. 6. A composition according to Claim 1 further characterised in that in the insecticide of formula I A is 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methyl l propenyl cyclopropyl and B is a 3,4,5,6 tetrahydro phthalimidomethyl group. 7. A composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 6 further characterised in that in the compound of formula III R1 is unsubstituted phenyl or methoxymethyl, and R3 is C2 8 alkyl. A composition according to Claim 7 further characterised in that in the compound of formula III R2 is methyl, n1 is 2 that in the compound of formula III R2 is methyl, n1 is 2 and each Y is selected from fluoro, chloro and methyl. A composition according to Claim 7 or 8 further characterised in that in the compound of formula III Y n1 is 3,4 dichloro, 3 chloro 4 fluoro, or 2,6 dimethyl. A method of combating pests at a locus characterised by applying to the locus a pesticidal composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 9.

## Description
Pesticidal composition and method of combating pests This invention relates to a pesticidal composition and a method of combating pests. A class of insecticides commonly referred to in the art as pyrethroid insecticides is known and various examples of pyrethroid insecticides are described, together with their preparation, in UK Patent Specification No. 1,413,491 andUS Patents Nos. 3,268,398, 3,835,178 and 3,996,2he. The Applicant has found that a composition including certain pyrethroid insecticides and members of a class of amino acid derivatives, some of which are known as herbicides or as fungicides, possess synergistic activity with respect to insects, that is to say the activity of the combination of the two pesticides produces a more than additive pesticidal effect. According to the present invention there is provided a pesticidal composition comprising, as active ingredients, a a pyrethroid insecticide of formula I 0 ii A C O B I wherein A is an optionally substituted aralkyl, alkyl, cycloalkyl or arylaminoalkyl group, and B is a group of formulaEMI1.1 wherein R is hydrogen, cyano or ethynyl, X is alkyl, alkenyl, aralkyl or aryloxy and n is 1 to 5 or B is a 3,4,5,6 tetra hydropbthalimidomethyl group and b an Ot amino acid derivative of formula III EMI2.1 wherein R is an optionally substituted phenyl group or a methoxy methyl group, R2is hydrogen or methyl, R3 is C2 11 alkyl, each Y is independently halo, methyl or trifluoro methyl and n is 1 to 5. It should be noted that optical isomers, cis trans isomers and other kinds of geometric isomers of the compounds of formulaI and, where appropriate, of the compounds of formula III, are within the scope of this invention as well as racemates and mixtures of isomers of one or more of the compounds of formula I or, where appropriate, of the compounds of formula III. In the compounds of formula I, generally an alkyl, cycloalkyl or alkenyl group represented by A or X preferably contains up to 6 carbon atoms, and an aralkyl or aryloxy group represented by A or X preferably contains up to 12 carbon atoms. When A represents an optionally substituted aralkyl group in formula I and B represents a group of formula II, preferred compounds are those containing a substituted benzyl group of formula IV EMI2.2 wherein Z represents a halogen, preferably chlorine, atom, or a C1 4 alkoxy or haloalkoxy group, e.g. methoxy or difluoromethoxy, and Q represents a C16 alkyl group, especially a branched alkyl group such as an isopropyl group. Examples of compounds of formula I wherein A is a group of formula IV are those where A is i isopropyl 4 chlorobenzyl, R is hydrogen or cyano, n is 1, and X is 3 phenoxy, e.g. o cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl o isopropyl 4 chlorophenyl acetate. When A represents an optionally substituted cycloalkyl group in formula I and B represents a group of formula II, preferred compounds are those containing a cyclopropyl group of formula V EMI3.1 wherein R and a a are independently Cl6 alkyl groups, especially methyl, or halogen, especially chlorine, bromine or fluorine, atoms or R and Rb together represent a C26 alkylene group, especially an alkylene group containing 3 carbon atoms or R a is hydrogen and Rb is a C26 alkenyl group, especially isobutenyl, a C26 haloalkenyl group containing 1 to 3 chlorine or bromine atoms, especially mono chloro or mono bromo vinyl or dichloroor dibromovinyl or a C26 haloalkyl group containing 2 to 5 chlorine and or bromine atoms, especially a tetrachloroethyl, tetrabromomethyl or dibromo dichloroethyl group or R and Rb a together with the interjacent carbon atom represent an unsaturated carbocyclic ring system of up to 12 carbon atoms, especially an indenylidene group R and R are independently C1 6 alkyl c d 1 6 yl groups, especially methyl, or R and Rd together represent a C26 alkylene c group, especially an alkylene group containing 3 carbon atoms.Examples of compounds of formula I wherein A is a group of formula V are those where A is 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl cyclopropyl or 2,2,3,3 tetramethyl cyclopropyl, R is hydrogen or cyano, n is 1 and X is 3 phenoxy. When A represents an optionally substituted arylaminoalkyl group in formula I and B represents a group of formula II, A preferably represents a substituted anilinomethyl group of general formula VI EMI3.2 wherein 1 and Y each independently represents a halogen, preferably chlorine, atom, or a Clh alkyl or haloalkyl group, for example a trifluoromethyl group, and Q represents a C1 Ó alkyl group, especially a branched chain group, for example an isopropyl group. Preferably Y is a chlorine atom in the 2 position of the 9 benzene ring and Y is a trifluoromethyl group in the 4 position on the benzene ring. wh n B is a 3,4,5,6 tetrahydrophthalimidomethyl group, A is preferably a 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 methyl 1 propenyl cyclopropyl group. In the compounds of formula III, when R1 is optionally substituted phenyl, the optional substituents are 1 to 5 substituents selected from such groups es halo, e.g. chloro or bromo, C1 4 alkyl, e.g. methyl, C1 4 alkoxy, e.g. methoxy, nitro or trifluoromethyl.Preferably R in formula III is unsubstituted phenyl or methoxymethyl. R in formula III is advantageously methyl. ruin formula II is preferably C2 3 8 alkyl, e.g. 1 propyl,2 ethylhexyl or ethyl. It is preferred for n1 to be 2, and for each Y to be selected from fluoro, chloro and methyl. For example Y 1 may advantageously be 3,4 dichloro, 3 chloro 4 fluoro or 2,6 dimethyl. Mary of the compounds of formula III are known as herbicides, e.g. ethyl N benzoyl N 3, dichlorophenyl 2 aminopropionate benzoylprop ethyl and isopropyl N benzoyl N 3 chloro O fluorophenyl 2 aminopropionate flamprop isopropyl , and may be prepared as described in rJK Patent Specification No. 1,164,160 or W. German O.S. No. 2650434, or are known as fungicides, e.g. methyl N methoxyacetyl N 2,6 dimethylphenyl 2 aminopropionate, and may be prepared as described in UK Patent Specification No.1,500,581, or the compounds of formula III may be prepared by analogous methods to those described in UK Patent SpecificationsNos. 1,164,160 and 1,500,5O1 and W. German O.S. No. 265034. The amino acid compounds of formula III have a surprising synergistic effect on the pesticidal activity of the pyrethroid insecticides of formula I, particularly with respect to dipterous insects, e.g. houseflies and sheep blowfly. Such mixtures are thus of considerable potential utility in the domestic, agrochemical and animal health fields. The weight ratio of pyrethroid insecticide of formula I to VC amino acid of formula III will normally be in the range 5 1 to 1 50. The pesticidal composition according to the invention preferably also comprises a carrier, especially at least two carriers, at least one of which is a surface active agent. A carrier may be a solid or liquid material, which may be inorganic or organic and of synthetic or natural origin. Typical solid carriers include natural and synthetic clays and silicates, for example, natural silicas, for example diatomaceous earths, and aluminium silicates, for example kaolinites, montmorillonites and micas. Typical liquid carriers are ketones, for example methylcyclohexanone, aromatic hydrocarbons, for example methylnaphthalenes, petroleum fractions, for example petroleum xylenes and light mineral oils, and chlorinated hydrocarbons, for example carbon tetrachloride. Mixtures of liquids are often suitable. One or more surface active agents and or stickers can be included in the composition. A surface active agent may be an emulsifying agent or a dispersing agent or a wetting agent it may be non ionic or ionic. Any of the surface active agents usually applied in formulating insecticides may be used. Examples of suitable surface active agents are the sodium and calcium salts of polyacrylic acids and lignin sulphonic acids the condensation products of fatty acids of aliphatic amines or amides containing at least 12 carbon atoms in the molecule with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide fatty acid esters of glycerol, sorbitol, sucrose or pentaerythritol, condensates of these with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide condensation products of fatty alcohols or alkyl phenols, for example poctylphenol or p octylcresol, with ethylene oxide and or propylene oxide sulphates or sulphonates of these condensation products alkali or alkaline earth metal salts, preferably sodium salts, of sulphuric or sulphonic acid esters containing at least 10 carbon atoms in the molecule, for example sodium lauryl sulphate, sodium secondary alkyl sulphates, sodium salts of sulphonated castor oil, and sodium alkylaryl sulphonates, such as sodium dodecylbenzene sulphonate and polymers of ethylene oxide and copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. The composition of the invention may for example be formulated as a wettable powder, microcapsules, a dust, granules, a solution, an emulsifiable concentrate, an emulsion, a suspension concentrate or an aerosol. The composition may have controlled release properties, or may be suitable for use as a bait. Wettable powders usually contain 25, 50 or 75 w of active ingredient and may contain, in addition to inert solid material, 3 10 w of a dispersing agent and, where necessary, 0 10 w of a stabiliser, a penetrant and or a stickler. A dust is usually formulated as a dust concentrate having a composition similar to that of a wettable powder but without a dispersant, and is diluted in the field with further solid carrier to give a composition usually containing 2 10 w of active ingredient. Granules usually have a size in the range of from 10 to 100 BS mesh 1.676 0.152 mm and may be manufactured by agglomeration or impregnation techniques. Generally, granules will contain 2 25, e1 w active ingredient and 0 10 w of additives, for example a stabiliser, slow release modifier and or a binding agent. Emulsifiable concentrates usually contain, in addition to a solvent, and, when necessary, co solvent, 10 50 w active ingredient, 2 20 w v emulsifier and 0 20 w v of other additives, for example a stabiliser, a penetrant and or a corrosion inhibitor.A suspension concentrate is a stable, non sedimenting, flowable product and usually contains 10 75 w active ingredient, 0.5 15 w of dispersing agent, 0.1 10 w of suspending agent, for example protective colloid and or a thixotropic agent, and 0 10 w of other additives including, for example, a defoamer, a corrosion inhibitor, a stabiliser, a penetrant and or a sticker, and as dispersant, water or an organic liquid in which the active ingredient is substantially insoluble certain organic additives and or inorganic salts may be dissolved in the dispersant to assist in preventing sedimentation or as anti freeze for water. The aqueous dispersions and emulsions formed by diluting a wettable powder or an emulsifiable concentrate of the invention with water, also lie within the scope of the present invention.Such dispersions and emulsions may be of the water in oil or of the oil in water type, and may have a thick mayonnaise like consistency. A composition of the invention may also contain other ingredients, for example, one or more other compounds possessing pesticidal, herbicidal or fungicidal properties, or attractants, for example pheromones or food ingredients, for use in baits and trap formulations. The invention also includes a method of combating pests at a locus characterised in that a pesticidal composition according to the invention is applied to the locus. The invention will be further understood from the following examples which illustrate the usefulness of the invention. The compounds of formula II employed in the tests had negligible insecticidal activity but acted as synergists in enhancing the performance of the various compounds of formula I. Activity tests against housefly Mus a domestica were effected by the following procedure. The LD s the lethal 50 dose of compound of formula I to kill 50ras of the insects were calculated by employing a series of acetone solutions of the compounds of formula I alone and with compounds of formula II at varying concentrations. Two to three day old adult female houseflies Musca domestica were anaesthetised with carbon dioxide, and I jil of the test solution was applied by means of a micrometer syringe to the ventral side of the abdomen of each fly, 20 flies being tested. The treated flies were heid in glass jars covered with paper tissue held by an elastic band. Cotton wool pads soaked in dilute sugar solution were placed on top of the tissue as food. After 24 hours the percentage of dead and moribund flies were recorded for each test. From these results the LD50 S in micrograms of active material and hence synergist ratios were calculated. Synergist ratio LD, n compound of formula I alone LD50 compound of formula I in mixture The compounds of formula I used in the Examples were as follows EMI8.1 tb Comound SEP A SEP Cd SEP 3 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 0 tb SEP CR SEP CN SEP tb SEP C1 SEP CO SEP cox SEP SEP CO SEP tb Comoound SEP B tb CH3CH3 SEP CN SEP tb SEP C I3 SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CR tb SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Compound CEMI8.2 Compound DEMI8.3 Compound EEMI8.4 EMI9.1 tb Compound SEP F SEP SEP CH3 tb SEP H SEP CH SEP tb SEP CR3 tb CO SEP L SEP SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP N tb Cn SEP CO SEP SEP O SEP SEP CH2 SEP W SEP X tb The compounds of formula II used in the Examples were as follows EMI9.2 tb Compound SEP P tb SEP O SEP n tb SEP VC SEP tb Cl SEP SEP N SEP SEP CR SEP SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP CH tb SEP SEP 2 SEP 3 tb SEP CR tb SEP 3 tb SEP C1 tb Compound SEP Q SEP 0 SEP tb Cl SEP n SEP N SEP SEP CH SEP SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CK SEP SEP CH tb SEP 2 SEP CH3 tb SEP 3 tb SEP Cl tb isomerCompound REMI9.3 Compound SEMI10.1 tb SEP 0 tb SEP C SEP CII tb SEP SEP CII tb F SEP co SEP SEP o SEP CO SEP 0 tb SEP SEP CR3 SEP CII tb SEP 3 tb SEP Cl SEP SEP isomer tb Comoound TEMI10.2 tb SEP ovc tb SEP N SEP N SEP SEP CH SEP SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CH SEP SEP CH tb Compound SEP U SEP 0 tb SEP C tb SEP F SEP N SEP SEP CH SEP SEP CO SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP CH2CH CH2 3CH3 tb SEP CII tb SEP Cl SEP 3 SEP CX2CH3 tb Compound V EMI10.3 Example 1 Combinations of Compound A with Compounds P to V were tested by the procedure described above. In all cases the compound of formula II was dosed at a level of 5 pg per fly. The results are given in Table 1. TABLE 1EMI11.1 tb Compound SEP of SEP formula SEP I SEP Compound SEP of SEP formula SEP II SEP Synergist SEP Ratio tb SEP A SEP P SEP 12.0 tb SEP A SEP Q SEP 12.2 tb SEP A SEP R tb SEP A SEP S SEP 14.2 SEP tb SEP A SEP T SEP 1.5 tb SEP A SEP U SEP 12.0 tb SEP A SEP V SEP 3.3 tb Example 2 Combinations of compounds A to E with Compound Q were tested by the procedure described above. In all cases the Compound Q was dosed at a level of 5 pg per fly. The results are given inTable 2. TABLE 2EMI11.2 tb Compound SEP of SEP formula SEP I SEP Compound SEP of SEP formula SEP II SEP Synergist SEP Ratio. tb SEP A SEP Q SEP 12.2 tb SEP B SEP SEP Q SEP 4 SEP tb SEP C SEP Q SEP 1.3 tb SEP D SEP Q SEP 6.7 tb SEP E SEP Q SEP 2.1 SEP tb Example 3 Combinations of Compound A with Compound P were tested at various dosage levels of the Compound P. The results are given in Table 3. TABLE 3EMI12.1 tb Dosage SEP level SEP of SEP Compound SEP P SEP g SEP per SEP fly SEP Synergist SEP Ratio tb SEP 5 SEP 12 tb SEP 2 SEP 11.5 tb SEP 0.6 SEP 7.7 tb SEP 0.2 SEP 1.8 tb Example 4 Combinations of Compound F with Compound P were tested following the procedure used in Examples 1 and 2, the CompoundP being dosed at a level of 5 rg per fly. A synergist ratio of 8.7 was obtained.