# A sintered aluminous material having high hardness and toughness.

## Abstract
A sintered aluminous material having high hardness and toughness is composed principally of Al2O3 and conatining ZrO2 in an amount of not more than 60 and Y2O3 in amount of 0.5 4.5 by mole based on ZrO2, the crystal structure of the material being predominantly tetragonal. It is made by adding Y2O3 to a base material comprising Al2O3 and ZrO2, which is sintered under strictly controlled sintering conditions, so that the crystal form of ZrO2 dispersed in Al2O3 becomes predominantly tetragonal. High hardness and toughness result from the stress inducing transformation of the crystal structure from tetragonal form to monoclinic form.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A sintered aluminous material having high hardness and toughness, comprising Al2O3 as principal component and containing ZrO2 in an amount of not more than 60 S by mole and Y203 in amount of 0.5 to 4.5 by mole based on ZrO2, and having the crystal structure predominantly of t phaseZrO2. 2. The sintered aluminous material according to Claim 1, wherein the content of A1203 is not less than 70 by mole, and not more than 70 of the crystal structure of ZrO2 is in t phase. 3. The sintered aluminous material according to Claim 1, wherein the content of Zr02 is 15 to 30 by mole and the amount of Y203 is 1.5 2.5 by mole based on ZrO2 and not less than 90 of the crystal structure of ZrO2 is in t phase. 4. The sintered aluminous material according to any one of the preceeding claims containing 0.15 to 0.30 by weight of MgO as a sintering adjuvant. 5. A process for the production of a sintered aluminous material as defined in any one of Claims 1 4 comprising adding Y203 to a base material comprising A1203 and ZrO2 and optionally MgO and sintering the resulting product at 15000 17000C.

## Description
A SINTERED ALUMINOUS MATERIAL HAVING HIGH HARDNESS AND TOUGHNESSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION FIELD OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an improvement on sintered aluminous materials used for structural members which are required to have high hardness and toughness, or as electronic base materials which are required to have a good workability. DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART The sintered aluminous materials are used for machine tools, structural members such as valves, or as a base material for various types of thin film electronic devices. However, conventional sintered aluminous materials had the problems in their strength quality such as chipping resistance and crack resistance in their use for the structural members. They also has the problem of chipping loss in the course of working such as cutting, grinding or polishing in their use as a base material for various types of thin film devices.It is known that these problems are mostly attributable to the lack of toughness of the sintered aluminous materials, and the improvement on this respect has been desired. As a solution to such problem, it has been proposed to add ZrO2 to the sintering materials composed principally of A1203, thereby permitting the sintered body to have the microcracks produced by a volume expansion during the phase transformation of ZrO2, that is, the change of its crystal structure from tetragonal t phase to monoclinic phase m phase , which takes place in the course of cooling of the sintered body, thereby to improve the toughness of the sintered aluminous material see, for example, DT OS No. 2,549,652 andJournal of the American Ceramic Society, 59, 1 2, p.49 . According to the above procedure, the microcracks stay dispersed finely in the body of the product, and they act to scatter the breaking stress in the product to improve its toughness. Therefore, the amount of ZrO2 to be added and contained for optimizing the amount and distribution of microcracks is definitely specified to be about 16 by volume as shown in Fig. 1, and it is also specified that the crystal structure of ZrO2 should principally be m phase. There have been also proposed the materials formed with the microcracks by addition of ZrO2 to said crystal structure and further addition of MgO, NiO, Y203,Cr203 or the like well known as an adjuvant for sinteringA1203 see Japanese Patent Publication No. 33187 83 .However, in these methods there is found such a defect that the materials obtained from these methods, though improved in fracture toughness which is a measure of toughness of sintered materials, are reduced in bending strength as is seen from Fig. 1. According to another conventional art for improving the toughness, the crystal particles of ZrO2 dispersed in A1203 are controlled to a small size range to allow stabilized existence of t phase, and a stressinducing transformation of crystal structure from t phase to m phase is caused in use of the material to thereby increase its toughness. This technique includes a method using MgO as an adjuvant for sintering A1203 see Japanese Patent Kokai Laid Open No. 61215 79 and a method using as the adjuvant at least one compound selected from MgO, Y203, Crit3 and NiO see Japanese Patent Kokai Laid Open No. 100976 82 . The patent specifications concerning these methods teach that for allowing the existence of ZrO2 in the crystal form of stabilized t phase in A1203, the particle size of ZrO2 must be within the range of 0.05 to 2 um in the former method and less than 1 Vm in the latter. The present inventors have made a further and closer study on the relation between crystal form and particle size of ZrO2 staying dispersed in A1203 with reference to the techniques disclosed in said patent specifications and, as a result, they have reconfirmed that the particle size of ZrO2 must be 0.3 0.4 pm or less for allowing the stabilized existence of ZrO2 as t phase.It has been thus decided that the above mentioned conventional art for improving the toughness by controlling said particle size to allow existence of ZrO2 as t phase involves great difficulties in its industrial application and is also not always suited for mass production. So, the realization of a more advantageous technique has been desired.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The object of this invention is to provide an industrially useful sintered aluminous material having high hardness and toughness and free of the above mentioned problems of the prior art. According to the present invention, Y203 is added to an A1203 ZrO2 material where A1203 is the major component, and the mixed material is sintered under the strictly controlled sintering conditions so that the crystal form of Zero2 dispersed in A1203 will become predominantly t phase, and the desired high hardness and high toughness are provided by the stress inducing transformation of crystal structure from t phase to phase. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a graph showing the relation between the amount of ZrO2 volume percent and the fracture toughness and bending strength for a known material. Fig. 2 is a graph showing the results of experiments on the relation between the amount of ZrO2 added and the bending strength and amount of t phase in the crystal structure. Fig. 3 is a metallographic transmission electron microscopical observation which shows the phase forms of ZrO2 in an A1203 20 mol ZrO2 material. Fig. 3 1 shows ZrO2 transformed to m phase, and Fig. 3 2 shows Zero2 non transformed and retained as t phase. Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relation between the amount of ZrO2 added and the bending strength and ratio of transformation to phase. Fig. 5 is a graph showing the relation between the amount of ZrO2 and the bending strength and Vickers hardness in a material where ZrO2 has been stabilized by the addition of Y203. F1g. 6 is a graph showing the relation between the MgO content and the relative density for an A1203 15 mol ZrO2 0.23 mol Y203 material. Fig. 7 is a graph showing the relation between the amount of ZrO2 stabilized by Y203 addition and the fracture toughness and bending strength for the material according to this invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The present inventors have made a close study and experiments on various types of oxides which are known by way of phase diagrams in the art of sintered aluminous materials and, as a result, they have found that addition of Y203 to sintering materials is most effective for stabilizing ZrO2 and that the strict control of the amount of Y203 added makes it possible to let t phase be retained stably in the materials, regardless of the particle size of ZrO2 and other matters, and to improve bending strength as well as fracture toughness of the sintered materials.This invention was completed on the basis of such finding. In this invention, the content of ZrO2 in the sintering materials is specified to be less than 60 by mole, because the greater the amount of ZrO2 dispersed, the less becomes the hardness of the material. The ZrO2 content should be less than 30 by mole where an especially high hardness is required. In this invention, in order that ZrO2 dispersed may have principally the t phase crystal form, it is suggested to add Y203 in an amount of 0.5 to 4.5 by mole based on the ZrO2 content. For obtaining an ever better effect, it is recommended to add Y203 in an amount of 1.0 to 3.0 by mole based on the ZrO2 content. The best effect of this invention is obtained when the Y203 content in the range of 1.5 to 2.5 by mole. The reasons for the above definition on the respective components in this invention will be explained more particularly below based on the substantial data. Fig. 2 shows the results of the study and experiments on the relation between the amount of ZrO2 in an A1203 ZrO2 material and the bending strength. The results reveal that the amount of ZrO2 existing as t phase and the bending strength well correspond to each other.Fig. 3 shows an example of transmission electron microscopical observation of the crystal form of ZrO2 in the A1203 20 mol ZrO2 material shown in Fig. 2. This micrograph clearly shows that the crystal form of ZrO2 dispersed in A1203 is transformed into m phase when the particle size thereof is outside the range of 0.3 0.4 pm. From these results, it has been found that for allowing ZrO2 in A1203 to be retained stably as t phase, it needs to regulate the particle size of ZrO2 after sintering within the range of as small as 0.3 0.4 pm, but it is difficult with the conventional industrial techniques to regulate the particle size of ZrO2 to such small values. So, in order to determine the possibility of stabilization of ZrO2 in A1203 by the addition of a third component, the present inventors have made extensive studies on the additives such as MgO, CaO, Y203 and TiO2 which are known to have a stabilizing effect in terms of phase diagram and, as a result, it has been found that these compounds do not act in the same manner and thatY203 is the most effective as described below. Fig. 4 depicts the results of actual measurements of bending strength as provided when the amount ofY203 contained in an A1203 25 mol ZrO2 material was changed. It is apparent from these results that when the amount of Y203 added exceeds 0.5 by mole based on the molar quantity of ZrO2, the t phase is stabilized, and when the amount of Y203 is 1.08 by mole, the t phase holds a major portion of the crystal structure of ZrO2. When the Y203 content is 1.5 by mole based on ZrO2 , about 99 of Zero2 exists as t phase. It is noted that bending strength is maximized when the amount of Y203 added based on ZrO2 is within the range from 1.5 by mole, at which the t phase stabilization is substantially attained, to 2.5 by mole. Fig. 5 is a graph showing the results of the experiments for deciding the optimum amount of ZrO2 to be stabilized by adding Y203 to A1203. In these experiments, the amount of Y203 added based on ZrO2 was specified to be 2 by mole. It is seen that the bending strength rises sharply when the amount of ZrO2 exceeds 15 by mole. The bending strength drops when the amount of Zero2 becomes greater than 50 by mole. This is considered attributable to the fact that the thermal stress which influences the stability of ZrO2 is decreased because of the increased amount of ZrO2, bringing the properties of the material close to those of PSZ partially stabilized zirconia . The material, however, is practically usable if the ZrO2 content is not greater than 60 by mole. However, since the primary object of this invention is to improve the low material strength without imparing the innate hardness of A1203, it is desirable in view of the above shown experimental results that the amount of ZrO2 to be added is not greater than 30 by mole at which the drop of hardness is small. In this invention, it is also desirable to addMgO which is known since long as adjuvant for sinteringA1203. The reason is that MgO has the effect of improving the sintered density even in the Y203 addedA1203 ZrO2 composite ceramics of this invention as shown in Fig. 6. The optimum amount of MgO to be added is from 0.15 to 0.30 by weight. In this invention, however, the addition of MgO in said amount range does not contribute to the stabilization of ZrO2. In this invention, in order that Y203 may be well incorporated as a solid solution in ZrO2 in the sintering process, it is desirable to control the sintering temperature strictly within the range of 1,500 1,7000C. If the sintering temperature is below said range, the reaction between ZrO2 and Y203 may not be effected in a satisfactory way, while if the sintering temperature is above said range, there may take place a reaction between A1 03 and Y203 to decrease the amount of Y203 dissolved in ZrO2, resulting in a reduction of the rate of t phase in the crystal structure. In this invention, use of conventionally knownHIP is also an effective means for increasing the density of the sintered material, and such technique may be incorporated in the process of this invention. This invention will be further described below with reference to the examples thereof.Example 1 A specimen of sintering material composed predominantly of A1203 and ZrO2 and containing Y203 added thereto in an amount of 2 by mole based on ZrO2 was prepared, and the change of fracture toughness and bending strength of the specimen with change of the amount of ZrO2 was examined, the results being shown in Fig. 7.The sintering was conducted at 1,6000C under normal pressure in the atmospheric air for a period of 30 minutes.It is apparent from comparing Fig. 1 and Fig. 7 that the present sintered material is phenomenally improved not only in fracture toughness but also in bending strength.Example 2 The content of ZrO2 was specified to be 20 by mole far strictly controlling the crystal structure of Zero2 dispersed in the composition while the amount of Y203 added based on ZrO2 was changed, and the changes in the ratio of transformation from t phase to m phase and in bending strength were examined. The results are shown inFig. 4. The sintering conditions were 1,5500C and 2 hours in vacuo. The ratio of transformation from t phase to m phase was determined by an X ray method. As is seen from Fig. 4, the maximum bending strength of 90 kg mm2 was obtained when the amount ofY203 added was about 2 by mole based on ZrO2. It was also found that when the amount of Y203 is less than 0.5 by mole, the majority of the crystal structure is composed of m phase and the material strength is reduced by the microcracks, while when the amount of Y203 exceeds 4.5 by mole, c phase becomes predominant, decreasing the amount of t phase which contributes to the improvement of toughness. It can be learned from this figure that when the amount of Y203 is within the range of 1 3 by mole based on ZrO2, a bending strength of 65 kg mm2 can be maintained, a marked improvement of strength over the A1203 material which showed a bending strength of 30 40 kg mm2.Example 3 A comparative test was made on the properties of the sintered material according to this invention and the properties of the known ceramic materials used for a cutting tool which is a typical example of use where a high hardness and high toughness of the material are required. The results are shown in Table 1. The material of this invention was composed ofA1203, ZrO2 and Y203, and the amount of Y203 was 2 by mole based on ZrO2. There were prepared two types ofcompositions differing in the amount of ZrO2 based onA1203, said ZrO2 amount being 20 by mole in one composition material A of this invention and 50 by mole in the other material B of this invention . Each composition was sintered at 1,6000C under normal pressure in the atmospheric air for one hour to produce a sintered material. The tools made of the comparative ceramic materials included the commercially sold ones and the experimental products produced in the same way as in the case of the material of this invention. The bending strength of each product was measured by cutting out a 4 x 3 x 7 mm test piece from the throwaway tool. The differences between the properties of the material of this invention and the properties of the conventional materials relating to the microcrack toughening mechanism are evident from Table 1. Table 1EMI12.1 tb SEP Hard SEP Bending SEP tb SEP Type SEP ness SEP strength tb SEP kg mm2 SEP tb SEP A SEP tb Al2O3 SEP company SEP 1700 SEP 45 SEP tb SEP B SEP 1670 SEP 48 tb SEP corn SEP an tb SEP C SEP 1780 SEP 38 SEP tb SEP company tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP C SEP 1950 SEP 56 SEP tb SEP C tb SEP 1900 SEP 58 tb SEP company SEP tb SEP C tb SEP Al2O3 SEP SEP ZrO2 SEP 1700 SEP 48 SEP tb SEP C SEP 1550 SEP 37 tb SEP Compagny tb Al2O3 SEP SEP 20 SEP mol SEP ZrO2 SEP 1450 SEP 45 tb Experimental SEP product SEP by SEP our SEP company tb ZrO2 SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP mol SEP Y2O3 SEP 1150 SEP 100 tb Experimental SEP product SEP by SEP our SEP company tb Product SEP of SEP this SEP invention SEP 1600 SEP 95 tb Product SEP of SEP this SEP invention SEP 1450 SEP 105 tb As understood from the foregoing descripticns, this invention has the following advantages over the conventional products 1 The strength of the sintered aluminous material is about two times greater over the conventional materials. 2 Since A1203 is used as base, the production cost can be about one figure reduced from the cost required in the case of using other ceramic materials such as Si3N4,SiC, ZrO2 Y203, etc. , and the produced sintered material can be readily used industrially for large size structural members. 3 Since the material can be produced by normalpressure sintering, the production is easy and no special apparatus such as hydraulic press is required. Alto, the large sized special shapes can be produced easily as compared with the conventional production system using a hot press or like apparatus.