# Avirulent Vibrio Cholerae and methods for its production

## Claims
Avirulenter

## Description
This application relates to a avirulent The cholera vaccines that have been developed can be broadly divided into two categories those aiming to stimulate antitoxic immunity and those intending to induce antibacterial immunity. Experiments with animal models support a protective role for either or both antitoxic and antibacterial immunity. It has been suggested that when both types of immunity work in unison, there is a synergistic effect. Holmgren, J. et al. For almost a century, killed whole By use of adjuvants, it has been possible to maintain a vaccine efficacy of approximately 70 for up to one and one half years with parenteral vaccine see, e.g., Saroso, J.S. et al. Killed whole vibrios administered orally stimulate the appearance of local intestinal antivibrio antibody. Freter, R. Immunizing agents intended to prevent cholera by means of stimulating antitoxic immunity include Treatment of purified cholera toxin Methods have been developed for the large scale preparation of a glutaraldehyde treated cholera toxoid that is essentially free of contaminating somatic antigen Rappaport, E.S. et al. The use of glutaraldehyde treated cholera toxoid as an oral vaccine has been investigated on the assumption that toxoid given by this route might be more efficient by stimulating intestinal antitoxin Levine, M.M. et al. Cholera enterotoxin is composed of two subunits designated A and B. The A subunit induces the enzymatic changes which lead to fluid secretion, while the non toxic B subunit is the immunogenic moiety that binds to the receptor for toxin GMl ganglioside on intestinal epithelial cells Holmgren, J. The major advantages of B subunit oral vaccine to stimulate antitoxic immunity include its complete safety there is not potential for reversion to toxin as exists with toxoids and retention of its capacity to adhere to toxin receptors on enterocytes. Animal studies suggest that it is less potent than native holotoxin in stimulating antitoxin Pierce, N.F., It will be understood that the purified B subunit can be used, if at all, in conjunction with e.g. oral killed vibrios as a combination oral vaccine intended to stimulate both antibacterial and antitoxic antibodies. Procholeragenoid is the large molecular weight toxoid ca. 1,000,000 MW that results when cholera enterotoxin is heated at 65 As an oral antigen procholeragenoid is more immunogenic when given in the form without formaldehyde treatment. In dogs, untreated procholeragenoid is tolerated as well as an oral vaccine oral doses with NaHCO₃ up to 500 mcg do not cause diarrhea. Five 500 mcg doses spaced over 42 days stimulate significant protection in dogs against oral challenge with pathogenic It will be understood that procholeragenoid can be used in conjunction with e.g. killed vibrios or other relevant antigens capable of stimulating antibacterial immunity so that the antitoxic immunity induced by procholeragenoid is enhanced. The major attraction of non living, oral cholera vaccine is its safety. An oral vaccine consisting of a combination of antigens, intending to stimulate both antibacterial and antitoxic immunity, would be most likely to succeed for the following reasons Toxoid vaccines that stimulate purely antitoxic immunity have not been shown to be efficacious in protecting man against cholera, although they may protect animal models. In addition, oral or parenteral killed whole cell vaccines that stimulate no antitoxic immunity provide significant protection against cholera in man, albeit for a short period of time. Furthermore, combinations of antigens such as crude cholera toxin, or toxin plus lipopolysaccaride that stimulate both antitoxic and antibacterial immunity, give synergistic protection. Two studies so far have been carried out in many with combination vaccines. In the first, nine volunteers who ingested glutaraldehyde treated cholera toxoid 2 mg weekly for four weeks plus killed El Tor Inaba vibrios 10¹⁰ vibrios twice weekly for four weeks were challenged after one month with 10⁶ pathogenic El Tor Inaba vibrios, along with six unimmunized controls. Diarrhea occurred in only two of nine vaccinees, versus four of six controls vaccine efficacy 67 and illness was clearly attenuated in the two ill vaccinees. More pertinent, perhaps, is the observation that More recently, three doses of B subunit killed whole cell vaccine was given to adult volunteers who participated in a vaccine efficacy challenge. The combination vaccine was given on days 0, 14, and 28. Each of the three doses of vaccine contained 0.5 mg of purified B subunit and 2 x 10¹¹ killed A group of eleven volunteers immunized with this combination vaccine were challenged one month after their last dose with 10⁶ pathogenic Thus, results of studies with oral toxoid killed whole cell vaccine combinations demonstrate a measurable degree of efficacy. The protective vaccine efficacy, however, is only moderate 55 65 and multiple doses are required to induce the protection. Both classical and El Tor clinical cholera infections stimulate a high degree of protective immunity for at least three years in North American volunteers Cash, R.A. et al., Non toxigenic Classical Inaba 569B has been mutagenized with nitrosoguanide NTG and a hypotoxinogenic mutant isolated Finkelstien, R.A. et al. El Tor Ogawa 3083 has also been mutagenized Honda, T. et al. Texas Star SR has been extensively evaluated in volunteers see, e.g., Levine M.M. et al. Significant rises in serum antitoxin were detected in only 29 of the vaccinees however, 93 manifested significant rises in serum vibriocidal antibody and the titers were substantially close to those encountered following infection with pathogenic It is clear that the use of attenuated strains has intrinsic advantages since such strains Applicants of the present invention have isolated, by novel methods, The genes for According to one aspect of the invention there is provided an avirulent According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing an avirulent The One Abbreviations for restriction endonuclease sites in the drawings are as follows The principle of the present invention is the isolation of a The starting material for the vaccine was the toxigenic The resulting strain, The final version of the vaccine strain, JBK70, was produced by substituting resistance to ampicillin, a therapeutically useful antibiotic, with resistance to mercury. This substitution was accomplished by cloning a gene for mercury resistance directly into the ampicillin resistant gene of pJBK55, thereby inactivating ampicillin resistance and conferring mercury resistance. The resulting plasmid, pJBK66 was also incompatible with R702 and was transferred to The vaccine strain If antibacterial immunity is insufficient for protection, then an antitoxic component can be added by adding back the genes for production of cholera toxin B but not A subunit. This has been accomplished by cloning the B subunit gene into the cloning vector pMS9. The resulting plasmid, pJBK51, produces high levels of B subunit and was reintroduced into the nontoxic vaccine strain The vaccine strains of the present invention are derived For example, applicants have produced another Construction of CVD101 followed in general the principles outlined Production of vaccine strains can be performed by a variety of methods, including the following The With regard to safety, the major concern is that the vaccine strain does not revert to toxigencity i.e., produce intact cholera toxin which could cause disease. The two major assays for testing toxin are the Y l adrenal cell assay Sack, D.A. et al. In the examples that follow, many of the techniques, reactions, and separation procedures are already well known in the art. All enzymes, unless otherwise stated, are available from one or more commercial sources, such as New England BioLabs Beverly, Massachusetts Collaborative Research Waltham, Massachusetts Miles Laboratories Elkhart, Indiana Boehringer Biochemicals Inc. Indianapolis, Indiana and Bethesda Research Laboratory Rockville, Maryland, to mention a representative few. Buffers and reaction conditions for restriction of enzyme digestion are used according to recommendations supplied by the manufacturer for each enzyme, unless indicated otherwise. Partial digestions with restriction enzymes are carried out using a reduced enzyme concentration which must be predetermined from preliminary experiments for each enzyme batch. Standard methodology for other enzyme reactions, gel electrophoresis separations, and The strains of this invention have been deposited at the American Type Culture Collection, located in Rockville, Maryland, prior to execution of the present application. The strains deposited are The plasmid JBK16 contains a 4 kb To insure the specific insertion into the chromosome of the deletion in pJBK21, approximately 7,000 bp of additional DNA was added to each end of the The modified chromosomal region was then cloned into a plasmid which can be readily mobilized into The mutant toxin genes, after conjugal gene transfer as described in Example 2, now existed extrachromosomally in The antibiotic resistance encoded on R702 was eliminated by selecting a spontaneously cured derivative lacking the plasmid this occurred at a frequency of about 1 in 2,000 . To eliminate the ampicillin resistance, a derivative of pJBK55 was constructed in which genes encoding resistance to mercury Hg from R100 were cloned into the If both antibacterial immunity and antitoxic immunity are desired for synergy, a derivative of JBK70 can be made to produce the B subunit of cholera toxin only. To accomplish this end, a toxin derivative was made that produces B only and lacks the genes for A Figure 8 . A Suckling mice 2.0 3.5g. were removed from their mothers and starved for 3 to 8 hours. Four of them were then inoculated on day 1 per os to stomach using a 22g animal feeding needle. The inoculum was about 10⁸ Subsequent inoculations involved mouse to mouse MXM , or alternatively, mouse to plate to mouse MXPXM , but required different procedures to prepare the inoculum compared to the Baselski protocol for the inoculation on day 1. To prepare MXM inoculum, the gut was dissected from stomach to anus under sterile precautions. The gut was weighed, placed in a glass homogenizer tube, and about 0.5 ml BHI broth added. The mixture was homogenized briefly with a Teflon pestle until tissue was liquified. The resulting suspension was used to inoculate about 10⁸ CFU into each infant mouse. It was checked for purity by streaking on MEA meat extract agar plates. No Evans blue dye was added. To prepare MXPXM inoculum, a sterile loop was used to transfer cells from an MEA plate to BHI broth. About 10¹¹ CFU ml were added to about 1 ml of BHI so that a dense suspension was formed. The mixture was vortexed to homogeneity, and 0.05 0.1 m. about 10¹⁰ CFU inoculated per os into each infant mouse. No evans blue dye was added. For all inoculations, mice were held in beakers at room temperature of 73 76 F. Beakers were placed in a plastic box which was loosely covered in order to maintain the mice at slighly above ambient temperature, about 78 F. As the results in Table I indicate, there were sufficient cells in the intestine to inoculate the next animal, as checked by streaking on MEA plates. The Another classical strain chosen for attenuation was The first step involved the cloning and mapping of the two toxin gene copies of 395. Southern blot analysis revealed two Plasmids pCVD14 and pCVD15 were then mapped with restriction endonucleases. An The lack of a selectable marker in the toxin deletion mutation in pJBK108 necessitated a modification of the method previously used to attenuate El Tor N16961 To accomplish the deletion of the A₁ genes from 395, the The entire DNA sequence of the toxin genes of While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification and this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth, and as follows in the scope of the appended claims.