# Pumpable water purifying compositions containing iron II sulphate, and a method for their manufacture.

## Abstract
A pumpable dispersion for water purifying purposes contains iron II sulphate, the iron II sulphate being dispersed in a water phase having a dispersing agent comprising bentonite. The best dispersion properties are obtained with bentonite contents of 1 2 and with Fe³ ions present in the composition. The amount of FeSO₄ heptahy drate present may be about 80 of the composition, The invention also relates to a method for producing the composition.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A dispersion for water purifying purposes containing iron II sulphate, characterized in that the iron II sulphate is dispersed in a water phase with a dispersing agent comprising bentonite. 2. A dispersion according to claim 1, characterized in that the water phase 2 one 3 mornorions 3 contains one or more of ions Feê , Fe and Al 3. A dispersion according to claim 2, characterized in that the water phase comprises mainly a solution containing iron III . 4. A dispersion according to anyone of claims 1 3, characterized in that said dispersion includes up to about 80 solid iron II sulphate, calculated as heptahydrate on the total weight of the composition. 5. A dispersion according to anyone of claims 1 4, characterized in that the dispersing agent is present in an amount of 0.2 4 by weight of the total composition. 6. A dispersion according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that said dispersion contains about 35 80 iron II sulphate, calculated as heptahydrate, and about 1.1 1.5 bentonite in an aqueous solution of iron llI containing ions. 7. A dispersion according to anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the dispersion also contains an oxidation agent, for the oxidation of 2 Fe to Fe . 8. A method for preparing the dispersion according to claims 1 7, beginning from solid iron II sulphate, characterized in that finely divided iron II sulphate heptahydrate in slurried form is admixed with a dispersing agent having the form of an aqueous dispersion of up to 25 bentonite, whereafter the entire mixture is thoroughly agitated to form a stable dispersion. 9. A method according to claim 8, characterized by permitting the bentonite dispersion to age for at least 5 hours prior to adding said dispersion. 10. A method according to claims 8 9, characterized in that the oxidant for oxidizing Fe2 to Fe3 is added to the dispersion mixture.

## Description
PUMPABLE WATER PURIPYING COMPOSITIONS CONTAININGIRON II SULPHATE, AND A METHOD FOR THEIR MANUFACTUREDescriptionTechnical FieldThe invention relates to a water pyrifying composition containing divalent iron sulphate, and to a method for manufacturing said compositionBackground ArtDivalent iron sulphate in the form of FeSO4 7 H2O, i.e. iron II sulphate heptahydrate is a fatal product which is obtained, inter alia, in pickling baths in which iron and steel are treated with sulphuric acid, and when producing titanium oxide from titanium ores which contain iron, primarily ilmenite, the iron sulphate being removed from the sulphate solution by freezing.It is necessary to dump each day large quantities of iron ll sulphate heptahydrate thus obtained, which, because the heptahydrate readily dissolves in water, constitutes serious environmental problems, and consequently special protective measures must be taken, to prevent the contamination of the soil and water at the dumping site. Moreover, because the physical properties of iron II sulphate heptahydrate are so poor, the handling of said heptahydrate becomes problematic, since when handled it forms a substantially tacky mass which cannot be simply stored in conventional storage locations of, for example, the silo type. Neither can the heptahydrate be transported, dispensed, or fed through conventional devices and appliances intended for solid, pulvurent products.Even though it were possible to find a large market for the use of iron II sulphate heptahydrate as a water purifying agent, it has been found that the demand is limited on the part of waterpurification works, which is probably due to the problems associated with the handling of the product. One way of making the product more attractive as a water purifying agent, is to heat the product so as to form a monohydrate, which exhibits far better physical referred to has not always been found to be completely stable when transported over long distances, where the concentrate is constantly subjected to vibration, and consequently has not fully met the requirement of the market.SE A 8204162 5 discloses a method of dispersing iron II sulphate heptahydrate in an aqueous solution of calcium chloride, the aqueous solution containing iron III chloride. Although this dispersion is, in itself, stable and can contain large quantities of iron, the dispersion has an excessively low pH about 0 , which can cause serious corrosion problems in respect of the equipment used for handling and dispensing the product. The product is extremely efficient, however, in purifying alkaline water.Disclosure of the InventionThe object of the present invention is to provide a concentrated water purifying agent containing large quantities of divalent iron from a solid iron II sulphate starting material, which can be handled, transported, stored and dispensed without encounting those difficulties mentioned in the introduction. A further object of the invention is to provide a market for the waste product iron II sulphate heptahydrate.It has now surprisingly been found possible to produce in accordance with the invention a concentrate, which has a much higher Fe content than was previously possible, and which remains completely stable during transportation, the concentrate according to the invention comprising a composition which contains iron II sulphate and is characterized in that the iron Il sulphate is dispersed in a water phase with a bentonite dispersing agent. Thus, the composition according to the invention comprises a pumpable suspension of solid iron II sulphate in a water phase. Subsequent to adding the aforementioned dispersing agent, the suspension exhibits but slight settling tendencies, even when the solid sulphate has the form of relatively large particles, and hence it is not necessary to grind the sulphate or to degradate the same in any way prior to forming the dispersion.Such stable suspensions are normally referred to as dispersions.An important advantage afforded by the invention is that the composition can be readily made still more effective, by maintaining in the water phase of the composition a sufficient quantity of one or more of the ions Foe2, Fe3 and Awl3 , to effectively purify the water being treated. For example, the water phase may advantageously contain an aqueous solution of iron III ions, such as in the form of sulphatochloride, this solution being commersially available and used for water purifying purposes. In addition to the effect afforded by Fe II in water purifying processes, it is also possible, in this way, to obtain an additional waterpurifying effect, through the action of the components Fe III and or A1 III .The properties of these latter ions are such as to render them efficient precipitating agents for, inter alia, phosphate ions, heavy metals, bacteria, virus and the eggs of intestinal worms, and because of their good flocculating properties, such ions produce a clear output water. In this respect, all material suspended in the water is also flocculated outThe pH of the composition is about 0.5 2, depending upon the content of iron sulphatochloride solution and the process by which it has been produced.Certain iron chloride solutions at present available on the market are produced from pickling baths based on hydrochloric acid, and consequently have a low pH.It has also been found that the ingoing bentonite has a positive effect on the growth of flocs, when the composition is dispersed into a body of water to purify the same. The resultant flocs become better and more stable, and have been found able to reform when broken up.In the case of small scale sewage water purification works of lower oxidation capacity, it is suitable to supply a given quantity of iron III salt, since it is primarily iron llI ions which produce the flocs, and the iron II ions must be further oxidized to iron III in order to provide good flocculation.Thus, the composition comprises a dispersion of good stability, which means that it can be handled, stored and dispensed in liquid form, for example by means of pumps, which is an obvious advantage in the case of a water purifying agent. A further obvious advantage afforded by the composition according to the invention is that it can contain relatively high contents of active iron ll product, calculated on the total weight, in comparison with an aqueous solution of iron II sulphate. When the solid iron II sulphate content is increased, however, the viscosity of the dispersion also increases, which gives rise to a practical limit, above which the dispersion cannot be handled without some disadvantage.Consequently, the composition used preferably contains less than about 80 solid iron II sulphate calculated as heptahydrate on the total weight of the composition. The amount of dispersion agent required to obtain an effective dispersion is surprisingly low, and is suitably balanced against the requirements placed on the durability and stability of the dispersion. Thus, the composition preferably contains a dispersing agent in an amount of 0.5 4 by weight, preferably 1 2 by weight. When this upper limit is exceeded, there is obtained a highly viscous product, which may be difficult to dispense or meter in certain plants, while quantities below the 0.2 by weight limit do not result in a sufficiently durable dispersion.It has been found that a particularly stable dispersion is obtained with a composition containing about 35 iron II sulphate calculated as heptahydrate, and at least 1 bentonite calculated on the total composition, and about 54 aqueous solution of iron III sulphatochloride 12 Fe . A composition thus prepared will contain 13.1 iron in total, of which 50 is Fe II in iron sulphate and 50 is Fe III in the solution. Thus, the total iron content of the composition according to the invention is considerably higher than in an aqueous solution of iron II sulphate, which as previously mentioned is only 2.9 iron in saturated solution. The composition is initially prepared from an aqueous slurry of iron II sulphate heptahydrate, optionally containing iron III sulphatochloride. Added to the slurry, while stirring, is an aqueous dispersion of bentonite about 10 20 bentonite in the water , the dispersion being allowed to ripen so as to swell the bentonite, whereafter the entire mixture is vigorously stirred, in order to break down the larger bentonite aggregates. The ingoing bentonite preferably has a particle aggregate size of beneath 44 1us. The invention will now be described in more detail with reference to a number of examples concerning experiments made in the manufacture of a dispersion of solid iron II sulphate heptahydrate in various ways. Example 1 545 kg of fatal FeSO4Cl containing 12 Fe and about 50 H2O were mixed with 364 kg FeSO4 7H2O to form a thick porridge. A dispersion of 77 kg water and 13.6 kg bentonite VOLCLAY was then added to the porridge while stirring, and the mixture was allowed to stand for 5 hours to enable the bentonite to swell, whereafter the entire mixture was vigorously agitated. There was obtained a stable dispersion of iron II suIphate, which had shown no sedimenta tion tion tendencies after 7 days. The dispersion contained 13.1 Fe 50 Fe 50 Fe .Example 2 280 kg fatal FeSO4Cl containing 12 Fe and about 50 H20 were mixed with 564 kg FeSO4 7H2O to form a thick porridge. The porridge was then admixed with 93 kg of a dispersion of 79 kg water and 14 kg bentonite, where after the mixture was vigorously agitated. A stable dispersion containing 13.4 Fe 75 Fe2 25 Fe3 was obtained.Example 3 302 kg of fatal FeSO4Cl containing 12 Fe and about 50 H2O were mixed with 604 kg FeS047H2O and 19 kg water, to form a thick porridge. The porridge was admixed, while stirring, with a dispersion of 64 kg water and 11.3 kg bentonite, whereafter the total mixture was vigorously agitated.There was obtained a stable dispersion of iron ll sulphate, which contained 14.5 Fe 75 Fe2 25 Fe3 . Example 9 748 kg FeSO4 7H2 0 were admixed with 159 kg water to form a thick porridge.The porridge was admixed, while stirring, with a dispersion of 79 kg water and 14 kg bentonite, whereafter the entire mixture was vigorously agitated.A stable dispersion containing 13.4 Fe was obtained. pH 2.5. Example 5 798 kg FeSO4 7H2O were mixed with 118 kg water to form a thick porridge.The porridge was then admixed with a dispersion of 71 kg water and 12.6 kg bentonite, whereafter the entire mixture was vigorously agitated. A stable dispersion containing 14.4 Fe was obtained. pH 2.5.Example 6 480 kg of fatal FeSO4Cl containing 12 Fe and about 50 H2O were mixed with 320 kg FeSO4 7H2 0 to form a thick porridge. The porridge was then mixed, while stirring, with a dispersion of 170 kg water and 30 kg bentonite, whereafter the entire mixture was vigorously agitated. A stable dispersion containing 11.4 Fe 50 Fe , 50 Foe3 was obtained.Example 7 1200 g av a pickling bath containing 7 Fe were mixed with 3900 g of FeSO4 7H20, to form a thick porridge. The porridge was admixed, while vigorously agitating the porridge, with a dispersion of 45 g bentonite VOLCLAY, SS 100, retailed by Ahlsell, Stockholm and 255 g H20 to form a stable dispersion containing 15 Fe.Example 8 75 kg of a pickling bath solution containing 7 Fe were mixed with 200 g of FeS04 7H2 0, to form a thick porridge. The porridge was then admixed, while vigorously agitating the porridge, with a dispersion of 5 g bentonite and 25 g 1120, to form a stable dispersion of iron II sulphate containing 12.8 Fe. The dispersion was then admixed with 5 g NaClO3 to oxidate Fe2 to Fe3 . The residual content of Fe2 was 6.9 .As before mentioned, the ingoing Fe ions can be oxidized to Foe3, by simply adding NaClO3. Consequently, NaClO3 in respective amounts of 0.5 and 1 was added to a stable dispersion of iron II sulphate 100 Fe2 with 13.4 Fe, the amount Fe2 being reduced respectively to 11.6 Fe2 and 9.9 Fe2 instead, i.e. the dispersions contained 1.8 and 3.5 Fe3 respectively. In the aforegiven examples, the bentonite dispersion has normally contained 15 20 bentonite. The bentonite dispersion should stand for 5 24 hours, to enable the bentonite to swell fully.In those cases where solely FeSO4 7H2O was included it is necessary to supply additional water, in order to compensate for the liquid water drop through the exclusion of FeSO4Cl solution. When a higher pH than 2.5 is desired, it is possible to add calcium carbonate, as illustrated above, or some other source of calcium.