# Blends of polyethylene and polybutene and films made from the blends.

## Abstract
A polymer blend consists of a 90.0 98.0 wt. of polyethylene or copolymers of ethylene with 1.0 9.0 wt. vinyl acetate having a melt index of 0.3 7.0g 10 mins. and a density of 917 933 kg m3 and b 10.0 2.0 wt. of polybutene of m.wt. 1000 2000, esp. 1300 or 700 1000, esp. 900. Films of the blend are also claimed. The films have excellent cling and tack props. making them suitable for use in self sealing stretch wrapping and self sealing packaging and providing interlayer adhesion between layers of film.

## Claims
CTe 1. A polymer blend consisting essentially of a from 90.0 to 98.0 per cent by weight of a polymer selected from polyethylene and copolymers of ethylene with from 1.0 to 9.0 per cent by weight of vinyl acetate, having a melt index in the range of 0.3 to 7.0 grams per 10 minutes and a density in the range of 917 to 933 kg m3, and b from 10.0 to 2.0 per cent by weight of polybutene wherein said polybutene has a molecular weight of 1000 to 2000. 2. A polymer blend according to Claim 1, in which component a is a copolymer of ethylene and vinyl acetate and component b has a molecular weight of 700 to 1000. 3. A polymer blend according to Claim 2, in which component f has a molecular weight of 900. 4. A polymer blend according to Claim 1, in which component a is polyethylene and component b has a molecular weight of 1300. 5. A blend according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, which consists entirely of the two components a and b as specified. 6. A film made from a blend as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5.

## Description
BLENDS OF POLYETHYLENE AND POLYBUTENE AND FILMS MADE FROMTHE BLENDS This invention relates to blends of either low density polyethylene or ethylene vinyl acetate EVA copolymers with certain polymers of butene and to films from such blends that are suitable for use as self sealing stretch wrapping film and self sealing packaging film. One technique for utilizing packages such as pallet loads is known as rotary stretch wrapping. This technique uses film which is wound under tension around the package by either rotating the package on a turntable or by winding the film around a stationary package. The films used for this technique are made from a variety of polymers including low density ethylene homopolymer LDPE , ethylene vinyl acetate EVA copolymers containing from 2 to 12 by weight vinyl acetate and plastized polyvinyl chloride PVC . The preferred characteristic of film used in rotary stretch wrapping is the ability to cling to itself sufficiently thereby self sealing the wrap without the use of an adhesive or a heat sealing operation. Other important characteristics of film used in rotary stretch wrapping are toughness, stretchability and stress retention. Self sealing packaging films are used for wrapping display foods such as fresh meat cuts, bakery products and produce in supermarkets and for wrapping of various foods in the home such as sandwiches and salads. Self sealing packaging films are made from a variety of resins including LDPE, EVA copolymers containing from 2 to 12 by weight vinyl acetate and plasticized PVC. The most important characteristic of self sealing packaging films is its ability to cling to itself sufficiently to provide a wrap which does not require the use of an adhesive or heat sealing operation. It is an object of this invention to provide blended polymeric olefinic materials of superior properties.Another object is to provide suon blended materials which may be easily compounded in that they are comprised of a basic po ymeric olefinic resin and G single modifier. The blends of this inventios insist essentially of a from 90.0 to 98.0 per cent t weight of a polymer selected frcm polye hyle e and copolymers of ethylene with from 1,0 to 90 per cent by weigbt of vinyl acetate, having a melt index M in the range cf 0.3 to 7.0 grams per 1C minutes anc a density in the range of 917 to 933 kg m3, and bj from 10.0 to 2.0 per cent by weight of polybutene having a molecular weight of 700 to 2000. A blend consisting entirely of the two components a and b as specified above provides excellent mechanical and cling properties. However additives may be incorported if desired, e.g. antioxidants, UV stabilisers, des cr pigments and antistatic additives.The antioxidants an. UV stabilisers can prolong the life of films even though they do not improve its mechanical properties. Dyes and pigments can be used when coloured film is needea. If film becomes charged it may attract dust and this can be reduced by incorporating antistatic additives . It is emphasised that these additives affect only subsidiary properties they do not affect the cling properties with which this invention is concerned. Any conventional method affording products of suitable density1 melt index and or molecular weight may be used to prepare the two components of the blends. Polyethylene having a melt index of about 2 g 10 minutes and a density of about 921 kg m3 and EVA copolymer containing about 2.0 per cent by weight of VA have been found to provide the best results. The blends of this invention may be prepared by many known lending methods. The two polymers may, for example, be suitably blended by mixing at a temperature above their softening points on a device such as a roll mill or a Banbury mixer or an extruder mixer. Additives such as antiox id ants and antifogging agents may be incorporated at the compounding stage. Transformation of the blends into films with the desired cling and tackiness can be accomplished either by conventional blown tubular film extrusion or by chill roll cast film extrusion. Film extruded by the blown tubular method can be cooled by air blowers where the air is supplied either externally to the bubble, circulated within the bubble or a combination of both. The film can also be cooled by passing the extruded film tubular or flat through a water bath system. The water bath system or the chill roll cast method produces films that are more tacky, more elastic and have be ter optical properties. Film extruded by the blown tubular method is normally slit along both edges thereby producing the two sheets of film. The two sheets are then separated and wound individually. The disadvantage of previously known films which exhibited cling and tackiness is the difficulty of separating and winding the two sheets of film. The films made from blends of this invention exbihit a delayed development of tackiness such that the ultimate tackiness is not achieved until approximately 24 hours after extrusion. This delay in development of tackiness allows for easier separation of the two sheets of film and thus easier handling during extrusion. Films of suitable thickness, e.g. 10 to 200 microns preferably 20 to 50 microns, are thus obtained which, by virtue of their cling property are particularly useful in rotary stretch wrapping. During rotary stretch wrapping, 2 or more layers of films are overlapped. The cling characteristic of the film made from the blends of this invention help it to hold the film layers together b adhering one layer of the wrap to the next. This inter layer adhesion ailows the multi layers of wrap to behave a single, thicker layer thereby reinf rcing it and incre ng its toughness. EXAMPL 1 A blend was prepared with the following composition Polyelhylene 96 by weight Polyb tene 4 by weightThe polyethylene was a con enti film forming polymer with MS 2.3 and density 921 kg 3 The polybutene had a molecular weigrt of 1300 and it was derived from isobutene, i.e. CH2 C CH3 2These items were mixed using a conventional internal blade a ixe . The blend defin d aoove was conventionally converted into tubular film and slit into slit flat film 25 microns thick. S f film was used on a commercial rotary stretch wrap machine. It performed satisfactorily adhering to itself without the use of any ad sive. EXAMPLE 2 A series of nine blends were prepared using varying amounts cf polyethylene or EVA copolymer and polybutenes with the view to illustrating the above defined ranges of melt index, density, molecular weight and VA content.Each blend was thereafter extruded into tubular blown film about i mil thick. The cling property of each film was then determined by the method described in A.S.T.M.D 3354. The particular features of each of the nine blends and the cling property of the films obtained are shown in the following Table, TABLEEMI5.1 tb Blend SEP Basic SEP Polybutene SEP Cling tb SEP No. SEP Polymer SEP by SEP weight SEP Property tb SEP Newtons tb SEP 1 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 5 SEP 0.16 tb SEP 3.5 SEP VA SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP M SEP SEP 0.8, SEP 0.92 tb SEP 2 SEP Polyethylene SEP 2 SEP 0.13 tb SEP MI SEP 2.0 SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP d. SEP 918 tb SEP 3 SEP Polyethylene SEP SEP 0.70 tb SEP MI SEP 2.0 SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP d.918 tb SEP 4 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 5 SEP 1.60 tb 2 SEP VA SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP MI SEP 2.0, SEP d.9 tb SEP 5 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 4 SEP 1.50 tb 6.5 SEP VA SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP MI SEP 3.0, SEP d.931 tb SEP 6 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 10 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 2 SEP VA SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP MI SEP 0.3, SEP d.925 tb SEP 7 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 10 SEP 2.0 tb SEP 3.5 SEP VA SEP MV SEP 50 tb SEP MI SEP 2.0, SEP d.926 tb SEP 8 SEP EVA SEP copolymer SEP 2 SEP 2.3 tb SEP 9.0 SEP VA SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP MI SEP 3.0, SEP d.931 tb SEP 9 SEP Polyethylene SEP 5 SEP 1.6 tb SEP MI SEP 7.0 SEP MW SEP 900 tb SEP d. SEP 917 tb MI melt index d densityMW molecular weight