# Interleukin 2.

## Abstract
A method for the preparation of mature human IL 2 by direct expression of a synthetic gene coding therefor in a transformed microorganism, corresponding DNA se quences, expression vehicles and microorganisms therefor,

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A double stranded polydeoxyribonucleotide coding for mature human IL 2 and having cohesive ends each one representing a part of an endonuclease recognition site. 2. A polydeoxyribonucleotide according to claim 1 wherein the ends represent parts of recognition sites of different endonucleases. 3. A polydeoxyribonucleotide according to claim 2 wherein the end coding for the amino terminus of said mature human IL 2 belongs to an EcoRl recognition site and the end coding for the carboxy terminus of IL 2 belongs to a SalI recognition site. 4. A polydeoxyribonucleotide according to claim 1 of the DNA sequence given in Figure 2 hereinbefore. 5. A DNA sequence coding for mature human IL 2 operably linked with a DNA sequence capable of effecting microbial expression of said mature human IL 2. 6. A structural gene coding for mature human IL 2 of the DNA sequence given in Figure 3 hereinbefore. 7. A replicable microbial expression vehicle capable, in a transformant microorganism, of expressing mature human IL 2. 8. The expression vehicle of claim 7 characterized in that it contains a promoter and operator derived from bacteriophage lambda, a hybrid ribosome binding site and aDNA sequence coding for mature human IL 2. 9. The expression vehicle of claim 8 wherein the promoter and operator are PL and OL. 10. The expression vehicle of claim 9 which is pRC 23 EcoRl SalI into which has been inserted a structural gene coding for mature human IL 2. 11. A microorganism transformed with an expression vehicle as claimed in claims 7 10. 12. The microorganism according to claim 11 which is a transformed E. coli strain. 13. Human Met IL 2. 14. A method for the production of recombinant mature human IL 2 comprising growing a microorganism as claimed in claim 11 or 12, inducing expression of the IL 2 gene, lysing the microorganism upon completion of the induction period and separating said mature human IL 2 from the cellular constituents of said microorganism. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said microorganism is grown at a temperature in the range of about 30 to 360C and gene expression is induced by raising the temperature to about 42 C. 16. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein said microorganism expresses human Met IL 2.

## Description
Interleukin 2 Human interleukin 2 IL 2 is a soluble protein which is capable of modulating lymphocyte reactivity and promoting the long term in vitro culture of antigen specific effectorT lymphocytes mitogenesis and, in the past, has been produced by stimulating mouse, rat or human lymphocyte cells with a mitogen. IL 2 purified from mouse, rat and human normalT lymphocytes has been found to exhibit different types of biological activities and may be useful in cases of T cell depletion or to stimulate the formation of cytotoxicT cells in some forms of cancer Journal of The American Medical Association, Vol. 249, pages 166 171 January 14, 19833 . Human IL 2 derived from induced human malignant cells has recently been purified to homogeneity using multiple high performance liquid chromatography HPLC steps S. Stern at the Third International Symposium of HPLC ofProteins, Peptides and Polynucleotides, November 14 16, 1983, Monte Carlo, Monaco. Title Reverse phase supports for the separation of polypeptides Purification to homogeneity of IL 2 from a human T cell leukemia. . The purified human IL 2 exhibits potent activity promoting the long term in vitro culture of antigen specific effector T lymphocytes and modulating lymphocyte reactivity.A final purification of 500,000 fold was obtained with a specific activity of about 10 U mg and the following amino acid composition Asx 12.4 Ma a 5.9 Tyr 3.0 Thr 11.6 Cys 3.3 Phe 5.8 Ser 7.4 Val 4.0 His 3.8 Glx 16.5 Met 4.0 Lys 10.6 Pro 7.4 Ile 8.5 Arg 4.9 Gly 2.4 Leu 20.8 Trp N.D. Dr. Taniguchi of the Cancer Research Institute, Tokyo,Japan, reported on the cloning and sequencing of the IL 2 gene and expression of the immature form of human interleukin 2 at the third Annual Recombinant DNA Congress inPhiladelphia, Pennsylvania, on February 9, 1983. The cDNA from which the amino acid sequence of the IL 2 protein was derived was obtained from mRNA obtained from Jurkat cells induced with Con A. The full length cDNA clone is 800 base pairs long and codes for a protein of 153 amino acids.While Dr. Taniguchi provided a proposed amino acid sequence for the mature IL 2 protein and the sequence for the preceding signalpeptide, no suggestion was made for a method for converting the natural gene into a gene capable of expressing the mature form of the protein directly. Additionally, it should be noted that no convenient restriction sites were noted on the DNA sequence near the amino terminus portion. On March 24, 1983 Taniguchi et al. published in Nature 302, 305 310 on the structure and expression of a cloned cDNA for human IL 2. Summary of the Invention The present invention deals with human interleukin 2 and a method of preparing it. More specifically the present invention provides a structural gene coding for mature human IL 2, a double stranded polydeoxyribonucleotide coding for mature human IL 2 having cohesive ends, each one representing a part of an endonuclease recognition site, replicable microbial expression vehicles capable, in a transformant microorganism, of expressing mature human IL 2, microorganisms transformed with these expression vehicles, mature human IL 2 with methionine as the first amino acid of the sequence Met IL 2 and a process for preparing structural genes and expression vehicles coding for mature human IL 2 and effecting the direct expression thereof in transformed micro organisms respectively. The method of preparing structural genes coding for mature human IL 2 comprises a preparing a first series of oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragments which, when joined in the proper sequence, yield a DNA coding strand for the amino acid sequence of the mature human IL 2 b preparing a second series of oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragments which, when joined in the proper sequence, yield a DNA strand complementary to the coding strand c effecting hydrogen bonding between mutually complementary portions of the first and second series of fragments to form a double stranded structure and d completing the respective strands by ligation. Finally, the present invention involves the isolation and purification from the fermentation broth of the desired recombinant mature human IL 2 so as to provide human IL 2 essentially free of bacterial protein and thus suitable for use as a therapeutic agent. Brief Description of the Drawinqs The accompanying drawings illustrate aspects of preferred embodiments of the invention. Figure 1. A schematic outline is described of the process by which a preferred cloning and expression vector promoting gene expression is derived from the bacteriophage lambda PL promoter. This vector, identified as pRC23, is constructed by ligating synthetic oligonucleotides containing a consensus computer generated ribosome binding site Scherer et al., Nucleic Acids Research 8, 3895 1980 to a 250 bp Bgl II Hae III fragment containing the PL promoter and inserting the ligation product into the plasmid pRC2. For further details concerning the construction of expression vector pRC 23 see European published patent application 99084. Figure 2 shows the double stranded gene with restriction endonuclease termini at either end coding for mature human IL 2. This gene is suitable for insertion directly into the expression vector. Figure 3. The amino acid sequence of mature human IL 2 is shown along with a DNA sequence coding therefore. Figure 4 shows a restriction map of the synthetic structural gene for IL 2. It is seen that by proper selection of codons forming the synthetic gene a substantial number of restriction sites are available throughout the structural gene which is distinguishable from the natural gene. Figure 5. A series of 40 oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragments which are employed in the construction of the synthetic gene for mature human IL 2 with restriction site termini is shown. The fragments with the odd numbers represent the coding strand the fragments with the even numbers the complementary gene strand Figure 6 shows the construction of the amino terminus portion of the synthetic gene for mature human IL 2. This portion is obtained by step wise ligation of fragments 1 24. Figure 7 shows the construction of the carboxy terminus portion of the synthetic gene for mature human IL 2. This portion is constructed utilizing fragments 25 40. Figure 8. The ligation of the amino and carboxy terminal fragments of the synthetic gene for mature human IL 2 is schematically shown. A 6 base overhang is employed to effectuate the ligation. Figure 9. A flow chart for the construction of a recombinant plasmid capable of expressing mature human IL 2 beginning with the parenteral plasmid pRC 23 is shown. The gene for human IL 2 obtained in Figure 8 is inserted into the plasmid. Ampr denotes the gene for ampicillin resistance. The relative positions of various endonuclease restrictioq sites are shown. The gene for tetracycline resistance tear normally found in pRC 23 is eliminated when the restriction cut at the SalI site is made. Thus the recombinant plasmid exhibits only ampicillin resistance for screening. Figure 10. A schematic outline of the loading of the glass support utilized in the solid support phosphite methodology employed in the synthesis of oligonucleotides is described. The procedure is adapted from Matteucci andCaruthers, J.Am. Chem. Soc. 103, 3185 1981 . Figure 11. A schematic outline of the oligonucleotide synthesis using the solid support phosphite method is shown. Figure 12. A schematic outline of deprotection and release of oligonucleotides from the solid support in the solid support phosphite method is depicted. Figure 13. A generic representation of the functional intermediates used in the solid support triester methodology for the preparation of oligonucleotide fragments is shown. The procedure is adapted from Dembek et al., J. Am.Chem. Soc. 103, 706 1981 . Figure 14. A schematic outline of the reaction scheme employed in the construction of oligonucleotide fragments by the solid support triester method is shown. Detailed Description of the InventionPreparation of Genes Coding for Mature Human IL 2 Synthetic DNA coding for mature human interleukin 2 may be prepared by choosing codons according to the genetic code. For ease in preparation and purification, oligodeoxyribonucleotide fragments of, for example, from about 18 to about 24 nucleotides each are prepared separately, and assembled to provide the desired sequences. The first series, when jdined in proper sequence, yield the DNA coding strand for expression of mature human interleukin 2 see Figures 5 7, fragments 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37 and 39 . The second series when likewise joined in proper sequence, yield the strand complementary to the coding strand see Figures 5 7, fragments 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 24, 36, 38 and 40 .The fragments of the respective strands preferably overlap such that complementat ion promotes their self assembly through hydrogen bonding of the chohesive termini of fragment blocks. Following assembly, preferably in a two step approach seeFigures 6 and 7 the structural gene is completed by ligation in the conventional manner as depicted in Figure 8. The degeneracy of the genetic code permits substantial freedom in the choice of codons for any given amino acid sequence so that different synthetic structural genes coding for the same compound can be constructed. For present purposes, however, a majority of codons was used known to be preferred in the expression of microbial genomes. Thus the E. coli codon preferences were judiciously combined with preferred codons for yeast expression so that the genes will be suitable for bacterial and yeast expression vectors. The gene sequence selected also provides convenient restriction sites which facilitate its subsequent analysis. Furthermore, the selected sequence for mature human interleukin 2 was computer scanned to ensure the absence of self complementary and repeated sequences which might interfer with proper ligation of the oligonucleotides during assembly. For expression in E. coli, the coding sequence for the interleukin 2 polypeptide is preceded by an ATG initiation codon and followed by a single TGA translational stop codon. EcoRl termini were placed at the beginning and at the end of the gene for convenient insertion into expression vectors. A SalI site was aLso included following the coding sequence as an alternative site for insertion into the expression vector and to facilitate rapidMaxam Gilbert sequencing of the gene once it is cloned. Preparation of the Expression Vector A plasmid, phage DNA or other DNA sequence which is able to replicate in the host cell and transform may be referred to herein as an expression vehicle, expression vector, or vector for the purposes of this invention. These vectors are characterized by one or a small number of endonuclease recognition or restriction sites at which DNA sequences may be cut in a determinable fashion without attendent loss of an essential biological function of theDNA, e.g., replication, production of coat proteins or loss of promoter or rikosomal binding sites, and which contain a marker suitable for use in the identification of transformed cells, e.g., ampicillin resistance. Preferred expression vectors used in the practice of the present invention further comprise hybrid ribosome bin ding sites. Ribosome binding sites RBS from which the hybrid RBS are derived, comprise RNA sequences encoded by the DNA. RBSs are necessary for the initiation of translation in a host cell and consist essentially of 1 anATG translation initiation codon for the amino acid methionine all known E. coli gene products begin with the amino acid methionine which may or may not be subsequently cleaved off 2 a sequence of 3 to 9 bases which are complementary to bases at the 3 end of 16S ribosomal RNA known as Shine Delgarno SD sequence see Nature 254, 34 1975 and 3 a sequence of bases between these two known as linker region. The expression vectors forming the preferred embodiment of this invention are derivatives of the plasmid pBR 322 containing the PL promoter isolated from bacterio R lambda DNA and ininserted between the tetR and the R phage lambda DNA and inserted between the tet and the amp genes. Put, is the promoter of choice since it is a very strong promoter that can be controlled efficiently and conveniently by the lambda cI repressor. The gene encoding the repressor carries a mutation, cIts2 or cIts857, which renders the repressor temperature sensitive. At 30 C the repressor functions normally, and from about 37 C to about 42 C it is inactivated. Thus, the PL promoter is repressed turned off at 300C and derepressed turned on at 420C.The ability to control the PL promoter allows one to grow the culture at about 30 C to about 36 C without expression of the gene product and to produce the desired mature humanIL 2 by shifting the temperature to about 37 42 C at an optimal moment. The preferred vector used in the present invention also contains an EcoRl restriction site distal downstream in the 3 direction to the SD sequence, providing a means of constructing different hybrid RBSs. Once the hybridRBS is constructed using the EcoRl site to join the SD sequence to the ATG coding sequence of the IL 2 coding gene, it can be further modified by restricting with EcoRl, filling in the termini with Klenow Polymerase I and joining the two resulting ends by blunt end ligation with T4 DNA ligase. It is also within the skill of the art to utilize other control elements to produce alternative expression vectors in conjunction with the novel structural gene for mature human IL 2 provided by the present invention.Obviously some modification may be required in the termini provided to allow insertion of the gene into the requisite plasmids. Suitable systems for use in bacteria in accordance with the broadest aspect of this invention include the lac promoter operator system, the arabinose operon phi 80 dara or the colicine El, galactose, alkaline phos phatase or tryptophan operons. Similarly the ADH system can be employed to provide expression in yeast. The Microorganism A large number of unicellular microorganisms are known in the art as being suitable for transformation. Particular microorganisms include bacteria, fungi, and algae. Preferred organisms for transformation include bacteria such as strains of E. coli bacillaceae, such as Bacillus subtilis and the like. Yeasts form a further preferred group of microorganisms for transformation. In a preferred embodiment of this invention, the microorganism employed as the recipient in the transformation procedures is E. coli K 12 strain 294 as described inBritish Patent Publication No. 2055382A. Strains of this microorganism have been deposited with the American TypeCulture Collection, ATCC Accession Nos. 31446 and 31448 deposited October 28, 1978. Other suitable E. coli strains may also be employed, such as E. coli MA 210 or RR I. The present invention is further illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 Plasmid pRC23 was constructed by ligating synthetic oligonucleotides comprising a consensus RBS Scherer et al., Nucleic Acids Research, 8, 3895 1980 to a 250 bpBglII HaeIII fragment containing the lambda PL promoter, and inserting the ligation product into plasmid pRC2 as shown in Figure 1. The details of this construction are described below. In order to isolate the 250 base pair bp DNA fragment containing the lambda PL promoter, 1 ug of a 450 bpBglII HpaI DNA fragment from bp No. 35260 to 35710 of the November 1981 version of the lambda DNA sequence was digested with HaeIII and the products were isolated by preparative gel electrophoresis in 5 polyacrylamide. About 200 ng of the 250 bp BglII HaeIII fragment was ligated to 60 pmoles each of the synthetic oligonucleotides shown inFigure 1 which comprise most of the consensus ribosomebinding site sequences generated by computer analysis as described by Scherer et al. loc. cit. . The ligated molecules were digested with BglII and EcoRI to eliminate oligomers and purified by gel electrophoresis.The ligated products were then ligated into pRC2 which also had been digested with BglII and Eco1, pRC2 is a derivative of pBR322 with a BglII site located adjacent to the EcoRl site see Figure 1 . Transformation of strainRRl pRK248cIts was performed using standard methods and transformants were selected on media containing ampicillin 50 ug ml at 30or. 50 transformants were obtained, DNA was isolated from 8 of those and analyzed by digesting withHincII. 6 of the 8 showed the expected restriction pattern and Maxam Gilbert nucleotide sequence analysis of one of these confirmed the expected construction designated pRC23 . As outlined in Figure 6, the oligonucleotides are assembled in two stages. Oligonucleotides 1 24 are ligated following the scheme in Figure 6 to generate fragment IL 2 N, the amino terminal portion of the IL 2 gene. Likewise, oligonucleotides 24 40 are ligated to generate fragmentIL 2 C, the carboxy terminal portion of the gene as seen in Figure 7. Specific procedures for the aforesaid ligations are set forth below 20 pmoles each of the synthetic fragments 1 40 are phosphorylated with 5 units of polynucleotide kinase in 10 ul reaction mixtures containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgC12, 0.1 mM EDTA, 5 mM DTT, 0.1 mM spermidine HCl, 12.5 m ATP, and 37.5 uC y 32p ATP carrier free at 37 C for 30 minutes. The reactions are terminated by heating at 65 C for 5 min. followed by the addition of 5 ul of 0.5 MEDTA, 5 ul of 10 mg ml tRNA, and 190 ul of 5 M ammonium acetate.The nucleic acids are ethanol precipitated, resuspended in 200 ul of 0.3 M sodium acetate, ethanol precipitated again, dried under a vacuum and resuspended in 10 1 of 1 mM Tris pH 7.4 , 0.1 mM EDTA 0.1 x TE . The two portions of the IL 2 gene IL 2 N and IL 2 C are assembled separately following the schemes outlined inFigures 6 and 7. 8 pmoles of each of the phosphorylated oligonucleotides are ligated with 4 units of T4 DNA ligase in reaction mixtures containing 50 mM Tris pH 7.4 , 10 mM MgCl21 10 mM ATP at 15 C for 30 to 60 minutes. At the end of the sequential ligations, an additional 200 units of ligase is added and incubation is continued at 4 C for 2 days. The ligation reactions are terminated by heating at 65 C for 5 minutes, then chilled on ice. The ligated molecules are digested with EcoRl, ethanol precipitated, and separated by electrophoresis on a 8 polyacrylamide gel.The 250 bp product comprising the N terminal portion of the IL 2 gene, and the 170 bp product comprising theC terminal portion are identified following autoradiography, recovered from the gel, ethanol precipitated twice, dried, and resuspended in 10 ul of 0.1 x TE. For direct expression of the IL 2 gene product inE. coli, the EcoR1 SalI fragment containing the IL 2 gene is inserted into the expression vector pRC23 which has been digested with EcoRl and SalI. pRC23 is a derivative of pBR322 containing the bacteriophage lambda PL promoter and a synthetic SD sequence adjacent to the EcoRI site seeFigure 1 . Joining the IL 2 sequence at this EcoR1 site creates a very favorable ribosome binding site for efficient translation initiation. Transcription initiation from the strong PL promoter is conveniently and efficiently controlled by the temperature sensitive cI repressor encoded by the low copy number plasmid pRK248 cIts. Specific procedures for constructing the aforesaid recombinant plasmid are set forth below 2 ul of the purified IL 2 N and IL 2 C fragments are ligated together in a 10 ul reaction mixture as described above with 200 units of T4 DNA ligase at 15C for 15 hrs.The reaction is terminated by heating the mixture to 65 C for 5 minutes, then chilled on ice. The ligated molecules are digested with EcoRl and SalI, and then ligated as described above to 200 ng of the vector pRC23 which has also been digested with EcoRl and SalI . The ligation mixture is used to transform strain RRI pRK248cIts following standard procedures. Transformants are selected on media containing ampicillin 50 ug ml . The transformants containing the IL 2 sequence inserted into the vector as expected are determined by restriction analysis of the isolated plasmid DNA The entire IL 2 coding sequence cloned in the expression vector is then confirmed by MaxamGilbert nucleotide sequence analysis. To test for expression of the cloned synthetic IL 2 gene, two approaches are taken 1 analysis of the cell free translation products encoded by pRC23 IL 2 and 2 assay of lysates of induced cells containing pRC23 IL 2 for IL 2 bioactivity. The details of these experiments are described below.1 Purified pRC23 IL 2 DNA along with control DNA is added to a coupled in vitro transcription translation system Kung et al., Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 195, 396 1979 35 containing S methionine and the resulting products are analyzed by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by fluorography.2 Strain RRI pRK248cIts, pRC23 IL 2 is grown in M9glucose media at 30 C to about 2 x 108 cells ml, then induced at 42 C for 2 hrs. 1 ml samples are taken and the cells are collected by centrifugation. The cells are resuspended in 50 ul of 50 mM Tris pH 7.4 , 10 sucrose and quickly frozen in a dry ice ethanol bath. The cells are thawed and kept at 0 4 C. 5 ul of lysis mix 1 vol of 5 m NaCl1 1 vol 0.5 M EDTA, 1 vol 1 M spermidine HCl, and 2 vol 5 mg ml lysozyme is added, and after 30 minutes on ice, the mixture is incubated at 37 C for 2 minutes. Lysis is complete after an additional cycle of freezing and thawing. Cell debris is removed by centrifugation and the lysates are quickly frozen in a dry ice ethanol bath. The lysates are assayed for IL 2 biological activity as described by Gillis et al., J. Immunol. 120, 2027 1978 . Purification of mature human IL 2 from the lysate can be accomplished using chromatography procedures well known in the art. Such procedures include affinity chromatography employing IL 2 polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies, column chromatography or preferably reverse phase HPLC procedures see A. Stern, loc. cit. . Combination of such chromatography methods may also be employed. In this manner, recombinant mature human IL 2 can be obtained in homogeneous form suitable for inclusion in dosage form for therapeutic use. The recombinant protein when expressed may have a methionine as the amino terminal amino acid. However, in the presence of enzymes in the host microorganism the methionine may be partially or even completely cleaved from the produced product. Example 2Standard Method for Preparation of 3 O Succinylnucleotides The 5l O dimethoxytrityl and N protected deoxynucleoside 2.5 mmole is dissolved in dry pyridine 5 ml andN,N dimethylaminopyridine 0.3 g . Succinic anhydride 2.0 mmole, 0.2 g is added and the solution is stirred at room temperature for 24 hrs. After the reaction is completed, solvent is evaporated under vacuum and the dry gum is coevaporated with toluene 10 ml each time twice.The residue is dissolved in methylene chloride 30 ml and the solution extracted with citric acid ice cold . The organic phase is washed twice with water 15 ml each and then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. In order to avoid any detritylation of the product, about 0.3 ml of pyridine is added to the methylene chloride solution. The methylene chloride solution is concentrated to about 10 ml and the succinylated nucleoside is isolated by precipitation into hexane ether 1 1, v v 250 ml . The precipitate is collected by filtration and dried in vacuo. Example 3Standard Method for Preparation of p Nitrophenyl Esters ofSuccinylated Nucleosides As seen in Figure 10 succinylated nucleoside 1 mmole is dissolved in dry dioxane 3 ml containing pyridine 0.3 ml . To the above solution is added dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC, dv5 mmole, 900 mg and p nitrophenol 0.22 g, 1 mmole . The solution is stirred for 2 hrs. The precipitate of dicyclohexylurea is removed by centrifugation. The supernatant is directly used for coupling to the resin as described in the next Example. Example Condensation of Succinylated Nucleosides to the Resin forSolid Support Phosphite Methodology A 25 ml 10 g sample of Pierce CPG Long Chain alkylamine controlled pore glass support pore diameter 500 particle size 125 177 fL is suspended in 25 ml dry dimethylformamide DMF . The solution containing the p nitrophenyl ester of the succinylated nucleoside is added to the above suspension. The mixture is shaken for 24 hrs. The derivatized resin is isolated, washed with dry DMF 3 times, 30 ml each , dioxane 5 times, 30 ml each , methanol 3 times, 30 ml each and finally with anhydrous ether 3 times, 30 ml each .Any unreacted amino functions are blocked by reacting the support with a solution of dry pyridine 25 ml , N,N dimethylamino pyridine 250 mg and acetic anhydride 5 ml for 2 hrs. at room temperature.The solid support is filtered and washed successively with methanol 5 times, 30 ml and anhydrous ether 2 times, 30 ml .Determination of Nucleoside Loading on the Support Approximately a 1 mg sample of the nucleoside loaded resin is treated with 0.1M toluenesulfonic acid in acetonitrile 1 ml . The trityl carbonium ion released from the resin as a red orange color is collected and diluted appropriately with acetonitrile. Then the optical density is measured at 498 um. An average of 4 such measurements provided the extent of loading on the support. The range of loading obtained from several different resin loading experiments was 22 25 umole of nucleoside g of the solid support. Example 5Standard Preparation of 5 O Dimethoxytrityl 3 O phosphoroamidite Derivatives of Nucleosides As seen from Figure 11 and following the procedure ofBeaucage and Caruthers, Tetrahedron Letters 22, 1859 1981 , a sample of 5 O dimethoxytrityl nucleoside 5 mmole is dissolved in dry and acid free chloroform. To the solution is added diisopropylethyl amine 2.74 ml, 15.74 mmole followed by a gradual addition of dimethylamino methyl phosphonomonochloridite CH3OP C1 N CH3 2 over 1 2 minutes. The reaction mixture is transferred to a separatory funnel with 175 ml of ethyl acetate. The organic mixture is extracted with saturated brine 4 times, 75 ml . The ethyl acetate phase is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate.The solution is concentrated to an oil and then redissolved in dry ethyl acetate to obtain 50 ml of the solution. This solution is added dropwise to precooled ice acetone temperature n hexane 250 ml for precipitation of the product which is then filtered and dried under high vacuum for 17 hrs. at room temperature. For all four nucleoside derivatives yields of about 80 have been achieved. The samples of the dimethylamino phosphoroamidites were stored under argon at 14oC. Example 6Solid Support Synthesis of Fraqment No. 1 5 AATTCTATGGCTCCGACTT 3 by Phosphite Methodology Step 1 A sample of 5 O dimethoxytritylthymidineloaded glass support 435 mg, 20 llmole of dimethoxytrityl thymidine g of support is detritylated with 0.2 M dichloroacetic acid in dichloromethane 2 ml by shaking the suspension for 1.5 minutes. The support is washed with dichloromethane 2 times, 5 ml . Dichloroacetic acid treatment is repeated for a few seconds to insure completion of detritylation. The Support is washed successively as follows a with 1 triethylamine in dichloromethane 2 times, 5 ml b with anhydrous acetonitrile 9 times, 3 ml . Step 2 A solution of dimethylaminophosphoramidite derivative of dimethoxytrityl thymidine 100 mole in 2 ml anhydrous acetonitrile is added to the support followed by the addition of tetrazole solution 250 umole in 2 ml of acetonitrile . The suspension is shaken for 2 minutes, vacuum filtered and washed with anhydrous acetonitrile 4 x 5 ml . Step 3 A 2 ml solution of acetic anhydride 0.4 ml in pyridine containing about 10 mg of N,N dimethylaminopyridine is shaken with the support for 2 minutes to block any unreacted hydroxyl functions and then the blocked support is washed with acetonitrile 4 times, 5 ml . Step 4 A solution of iodine 0.2 M in tetrahydrofuran water 2,6 lutidine 2 1 1, v v is shaken with the blocked support for 0.5 minute, washed with dry acetonitrile 6 times, 5 ml and washed with dichloromethane 2 times, 5 ml . Step 1 is then repeated with the product of Step 4.Step 2 is then repeated with the phosphoroamidite derivative of 5 O dimethoxytrityl deoxycytidine. Steps 3 and 4 are then repeated. The cycle of Steps 1 through 4 are then repeated over and over with the addition of each successive nucleoside derivative, thus extending the chain in the 5 direction by adding corresponding phosphoramide derivatives of deoxyadenosine dA , deoxyguanosine dG , deoxycytidine dC , dC, thymidine T , dC, dG, dG, T, dA, T, dC, T, T, dA and dA respectively to yield the desired fragment. Example 7Deprotection and Release of the Oligonucleotides from theSupport A sample of the oligonucleotide bound support obtained in Example 6 150 mg is treated with a mixture of 1,4dioxane 0.25 ml , 0.25ml anhydrous triethylamine and 0.125 ml thiophenol for 30 minutes at room temperature.The resin is filtered, washed with methanol 4 x 2 ml and hydrolyzed with concentrated ammonium hydroxide for 17 hours at 50at. The resin is pelleted and the supernatant concentrated under vacuum and redissolved in water 1 .ml . The solution of the oligonucleotides is passed through a 0.45 micron filter and then fractionated on an HPLC system using a C 18 reverse phase Microbondapak Waters Assoc. column under a gradient of acetonitrile 10 30 in 0.05 M triethylammonium acetate, pH 7.0 at 500C. The well separated dimethoxytrityl containing product is collected, concentrated and treated with 80 aqueous acetic acid for 0.5 hr.at room temperature. After evaporation of acetic acid, the sample is dissolved in water and extracted with ether to remove trityl alcohol. The aqueous layer containing the desired oligonucleotide is separated and examined for its purity on HPLC. A second purification at this stage may be necessary to obtain a homogeneous product. Final criterium of purity is analysis of the 5 32P labeled oligonucleotide on acrylamide gel electrophoresis under denaturing conditions. The nucleotide sequence of the fragments can be ascertained by the Maxam Gilbert method, Proc. Natal. Acad.Sci. USA 74, 560 1977 . Following the same approach as described above, synthesis of fragments 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the IL 2 gene is accomplished. Example 8Standard Method for Phosphotriester Solid Phase Synthesis of Nonadecanucleotide d CAAGTTCTACCAAGAAGAC , Fragment 3 of IL 2 Gene All numbers of compounds referred to in this Example relate to Figures 13 and 14. The method involves the following steps a Synthesis of suitably blocked mono and dinucleotides of the general structure 1 and 2 respectively.b Preparation of aminomethyl polystyrene resin 5 . c Loading of succinate 7 on to the aminomethyl poly styrene resin 5 and masking of any unreacted amino group with acetic anhydride pyridine.d Removal of 5 dimethoxytrityl group from polymer supported nucleoside 8 with 0.2 M dichloroacetic acid DNA in CH2Cl2 to afford resin 9 with a 5 hydroxy function for the coupling reaction.e Condensation of the triethylammonium salt of the dimer 10 with 9 to provide polymer supported tri nucleotide 11 . Any unreacted 5 OH groups from 9 are masked with 10 acetic anhydride in pyridine.f Detritylation of 11 with 0.2 M DCA to generate a new 5 OH group for the next coupling. The aforesaid suitably protected mono dinucleotides are synthesized according to procedures known in the art with slight modifications. 3 succinate 7 of 5 dimethoxytrityl deoxycytidine 6 is prepared according to the method published by Miyoshi et al., Nucleic Acids Research 8, 5491 1980 .Aminomethyl Polystyrene Resin 5 A slurry of commercially available chloromethyl polystyrene 1 cross linked, 0.32 mmol g C1, 30 g, 9 mmol and potassium phthalimide 2.77 g, 15 mmol in DMF 250 ml is heated at 120 C for 20 hours. The resin is then filtered while hot and washed consecutively with hot DMF 200 ml , water 4 x 50 ml , dioxane 3 x 80 ml , ethanol 3 x 80 ml and ether 3 x 50 ml to give the phthalimide derivative 4 which is suspended in ethanol 350 ml and refluxed with hydrazine 5 ml for 5 hrs. The reaction mixture is filtered and washed with hot ethanol 4 x 70 ml , hot DMF 2 x 70 ml , water 3 x 70 ml , ethanol 3 x 70 ml and ether 3 x 80 ml . The resin is then dried 28 g to give aminomethyl polystyrene 5 . Picric acid titration showed an amino group concentration of 0.21 mmol g.Loading of 5 Dimethoxy 3 O succinyl deoxycytidine 7 on to the Aminomethyl Resin 5 To a slurry of 5 g of aminomethyl resin 5 in dryCH2Cl2 30 ml is added monosuccinate 7 0.97 g, 1.5 mmol DCC 0.927 g and dimethylaminopyridine DMAP 50 mg and the reaction mixture is allowed to stir at room temperature for 4 hrs. After filtering, the resin 8 is washed with CH2Cl2 4 x 15 ml , MeOH 4 x 15 ml , CH2Cl2 4 x 15 ml and ether 3 x 10 ml . After drying the resin under vacuum 0.1 mm Hg , the concentration of the loaded nucleoside is determined by measuring the absorption of the liberated DMTOH from the support in a 1 BSA solution in CHCl3 x 498, E 921001. Masking of the unreacted amino groups in resin 5 , present along with resin 8 , is achieved by reacting the mixture with 10 acetic anhydride pyridine 30 ml containing DMAP 30 mg for 30 minutes at room temperature.The resin is then washed with CH2Cl2, MeOH, CH2Cl2 and ether. The concentration of the loaded nucleoside may again be determined as described before.Detritylation of the Resin 8 with 0.2 M DichloroaceticAcid in CH2Cl2 Table 1 below shows the conditions which may be used for the detritylation of each of the dimethoxytritylated nucleoside. A typical experiment can be effected as follows The resin is swollen in dry CH2Cl2 2 ml for about 30 seconds in a small column 1.3 x 10 cm and then shaken with 10 ml of 0.2 M DCA for 30 40 seconds followed by a very quick filtration and very quick wash with CH2C12 3 4 ml . This process is repeated until the washings do not show any color due to DMTOH see Table 1 . The washings are collected and the absorption is measured to determine the concentration of the DMTOH which reflects the concentraton of the loaded mono or dinucleotide. After complete detritylation has been achieved, the resin 9 is washed with 0.5 M Et3N solution in CH2C12, with CH2C12 3 X 10 ml and wtith pyridine 3 x S ml . Table 1EMI21.1 tb DMT, SEP N SEP Treatment SEP Duration SEP SEP lashings SEP tb SEP with SEP 0.2 SEP M SEP DCA SEP of SEP treatment SEP with SEP CH2C12 SEP tb SEP T SEP S SEP x SEP 10 SEP ml SEP 20 SEP see. SEP 1 SEP x SEP 3 SEP ml tb SEP C SEP S SEP SEP x SEP 10 SEP ml SEP 20 SEP sec. SEP . SEP 1 SEP x SEP 3 SEP ml tb SEP G SEP 3 SEP x SEP 10 SEP ml SEP .15 SEP sec SEP 1 SEP x SEP 3 SEP ml tb SEP A SEP 4 SEP x SEP 10 SEP ml SEP 15 SEP sec SEP I SEP x SEP 3 SEP ml tb Coupling of GA Dimer 10 with S1 Hydroxy polystyrene Support 9 to give the Polymer supported GAC Trimer 11 The 5 hydroxy resin 9 57 mg, 0.01 mmol which has been washed with pyridine is dried under high vacuum 0.005 mm Hg and by blowing hot air on the column from a heat gun for 2 minutes. The vacuum is carefully released by letting in dry air or argon.To the resin is then added a pyridine solution 0.7 ml of triethylammonium salt of theGA dimer 10 0.06 mmol followed by the addition of mesitylenesulfonyl 3 nitro triazole MSNT 0.18 mmol The column is properly stoppered and heated at 40 C for 50 min. The reaction mixture is filtered and washed with pyridine 3 x 3 ml . Unreacted 5 OH groups are masked by reacting the resin with 10 Ac20 Py containing DMAP 10 mg for 3 minutes at room temperature. The resin is filtered and successively washed with pyridine 2 x 2 ml , CH2Cl2 2 x 5 ml , MeOH 2 x 5 ml and again with CH2Cl2 2 x 5 ml to afford the polystyrene polymer supported GAC trimer 11 . The 5 dimethoxytrityl group of the resin bound trimer 11 is removed with 0.2 M DCA as described above Table 1 and 5 unprotected resin bound trimer 12 resulting therefrom is extended to the desired nonadecamer by repeating each cycle with a dimer or a monomer of choice.Deblocking and Purification After the last coupling reaction, the resin 50 mg is treated with a 0.5nolar solution of N1,N11N3,N3 tetra methylguanidinium pyridine 2 carboxaldoximate I mli in 80 dioxane H2 0 for 15 hours at room temperature according to the procedure of Reese et al., Tet. Letters 19, 2727 1978 .The solvent is then evaporated, the residue left is treated with concentrated ammonia 28 , 4 ml at 60 C for 8 hrs.After centrifugation, the supernatant is concentrated to a volume of ca 0.5 ml which is dissolved in 0.05 M TEAB 1.5 ml and passed through a Sephadex G 50 column using 0.05 M TEAB as the mobile phase. Fractions of 6 ml are collected and the absorption is measured on a Beckman UV spectrophotometer Model 34. Fractions 30 33 containing the product were collected to give 100.8 ODs. 50 ODs of this product was purified by HPLC on a microbondapak C18 column using a linear gradient of 7.5 to 37.5 acetonitrile pH 7.8 over a period of 12 minutes. Peak 2 eluting with 31 CH3CN contained the dimethoxytrityl product and was collected to give 30.2 ODs. The solvent was evaporated, and the residue was detritylated with 80 acetic acid 20 minutes at room temperature .The acetic acid was evaporated and the residue coevaporated with toluene 3 x 1 ml to remove residual acetic acid. The resulting residue was then dissolved in water 2 ml and extracted with ether 3 x 3 ml to remove any organic impurities. The aqueous solution was carefully concentrated to a volume of 400 ul, filtered and purified on a microbondapak C18 HPLC column using a linear gradient of 7.5 37.5 acetonitrile. The peak eluting with 20.6 acetonitrile was collected and further purified by electrophoresis on an acrylamide gel in the presence of 7 M urea. The slowest moving band was eluted with buffer and 32 after labelling the 5 hydroxyl group with y P ATP the sequence of the nonadecanucleotide fragment obtained was confirmed by Maxam Gilbert sequence analysis. Following the same procedure as described above fragments 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40 of the IL 2 gene were synthesized.