# Process for reducing the residual acrylonitrile monomer content of acrylonitrile copolymer resins.

## Abstract
The addition of at least one aliphatic amine to acrylonitrile copolymer resins prior to melt mixing serves to reduce the measurable free acrylonitrile monomer content of the resins.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for reducing the residual acrylonitrile monomer content of an acrylonitrile copolymer resin comprises adding to said resin an aliphatic amine and then melt processing said resin. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the aliphatic amine is selected from alkylamines, alkanolamines, alkylene diamines, alkylene polyamines and mixtures of two or more of these. 3. A process according to claim 2 wherein said aliphatic amine is at least one of ethanolamine, triethanolamine, l,3 bis aminomethyl cyclohexane, ethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine and tetraethylenepentamine. 4. A process according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the amount of said amine is from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight per hundred parts by weight of said resin. 5. A composition comprising an acrylonitrile copolymer resin and from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight of an aliphatic amine, per hundred parts of said resin. 6. A composition according to claim 5 wherein the aliphatic amine is selected from alkylamines, alkanolamines, alkylene diamines, alkylene polyamines, and mixtures of at least two of these. 7. A composition according to claim 6 wherein the aliphatic amine is at least one of ethylene diamine, l,3 bis aminomethyl cyclohexane, ethanolamine, triethanolamine, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetraamine and tetraethylenepentamine.

## Description
PROCESS FOR REDUCING THE RESIDUAL ACRYLONITRILE MONOMER CONTENT OF ACRYLONITRILE COPOLYMER RESINS This invention relates to a process for reducing the residual acrylonitrile monomer dissolved in acrylonitrile copolymer resin, and more particularly to a process for scavenging residual acrylonitrile monomer from such resins during melt processing. Acrylonitrile is employed in the preparation of a wide variety of commercially important resins including for example nitrile rubbers, styrene acrylonitrile copolymer resins, ABS graft copolymer thermoplastic molding resins and in numerous acrylonitrile containing graft copolymer impact modifier resins. These copolymers are most often prepared by polymerization in aqueous systems using any of a variety of conventional emulsion and suspension polymerization processes. Even where the polymerization is substantially complete there remains an undesirable amount of unpolymerized acrylonitrile monomer both in the aqueous phase and in the polymer which is removed incompletely and with great difficulty and expense by physical processes such as stripping by steam or vacuum.The presence of residual acrylonitrile monomer in the copolymer is detrimental to the color stability of the resin and may restrict its use due to toxicological considerations and concomitant restrictions imposed by regulation. Various methods for scavenging residual monomers from the polymer and the aqueous component separately and in combination have been developed in recent years. For example, in U.S. 4,278,582 there is disclosed a process for reducing residual acrylonitrile to levels below 100 ppm by treating the mixtures with ammonium or thio compounds or with a variety of inorganic salts. In U.S. 4,251,412 there is disclosed a method for treating acrylonitrile latices with at least a stoichiometric amount of an alkyl or alkanol amine to reduce the residual monomer content. Although these processes are effective, the remaining unreacted scavenger compound as well as its adducts with acrylonitrile remain in the aqueous phase. This in turn increases the level of non aqueous volatiles NAV present in the aqueous phase and may well present further environmental problems. A process for scavenging the residual acrylonitrile monomer from acrylonitrile copolymers during the melt processing stage rather than in the latex would minimize the NAV level in resin without increasing theNAV level of the aqueous effluent and would thus be a useful advance in the art. This invention is a process for scavenging residual acrylonitrile monomer from acrylonitrile copolymer resin during a melt processing step such as during milling, melt mixing or extrusion compounding comprising adding to the resin an aliphatic amine such as an alkylamine, an alkanolamine, or an alkylene polyamine and melt mixing or melt processing the resin amine mixture. The acrylonitrile copolymer resins useful in the present invention are obtained by polymerizing acrylonitrile alone, or more normally with other vinylidene comonomers to form copolymers, for example with about 50 weight percent or more of butadiene as in nitrile rubbers up to about 50 weight percent acrylonitrile with about 50 95 weight percent styrene as in SAN resins about 50 5 weight percent acrylonitrile with about 1 99 weight percent each of an alkyl acrylate such as methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate and the like, styrene and butadiene as in the well known ABS type graft copolymer resins and other copolymers. Typically, the polymerizable comonomers in addition to butadiene, styrene and an alkyl acrylate or alkacrylate wherein the alkyl group contains 1 to 8 carbon atoms will be vinylidene monomers having at least one terminal CH2 C group. Polymerizable comonomers useful in the present invention include other vinyl aromatics such as alpha methylstyrene and chlorostyrene alphaolefins such as ethylene, propylene and isobutylene vinyl halides such as vinyl chloride, vinyl bromide, vinyl fluoride, vinylidene chloride, and vinylidene fluoride vinyl esters such as vinyl acetate other alpha,beta olefinically unsaturated nitriles as methacrylonitrile alkyl vinyl ethers such as methyl vinyl ether, isopropyl vinyl ethers n butyl vinyl ether, isopropyl vinyl ether, and haloalkyl vinyl ethers as 2 chloroethyl vinyl ether n octyl methacrylate, dodecyl methacrylate, methyl ethacrylate, ethyl ethacrylate, haloalkyl acrylates as chloropropyl acrylate, amino acrylates and methacrylates and the like vinyl ketones, vinyl pyridine, alpha,beta olefinically unsaturated amides such as acrylamide, Nmethyl acrylamide, N t butyl acrylamide, N cyclohexyl acrylamide, diacetone acrylamide methacrylamide, andN ethyl methacrylamide alpha,betaolefinically unsaturated N alkylol amides such as N methylol acrylamide, N ethylol acrylamide, N propylol acrylamide,N methylol methacrylamide, and N ethylol methacrylamide polyfunctional compounds such as methylene bis acrylamide, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, diethylene glycol diacrylate, allyl pentaerythritol and divinyl benzene alpha,beta olefinically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomers containing from 3 to 10 carbon atoms such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, crotonic acid, betaacryloxypropionic acid, hydrosorbic acid, sorbic acid, alpha chlorosorbic acid, cinamic acid, beta styrylacrylic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, mesaconic acid, glutaconic acid, aconitic acid and the like.The preferred acid monomers are the alpha,beta monoolefinically unsaturated monocarboxylic acids such as acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, and the like, as are known to those skilled in the art. Mixtures of one or more of the above mentioned monomers may be employed if desired. Generally, up to about 20 by weight of other polymerizable vinylidene comonomers may be employed. The acrylonitrile copolymer resins may be prepared by any of a variety of conventional polymerization processes. For example, such resins may be prepared in latex form by a conventional emulsion process. Such processes employ an emulsifier, which may be charged at the outset of the polymerization or may be added incrementally or by proportioning throughout the run.Any of the general types of anionic, cationic or nonionic emulsifiers may be employed, however, best results are generally obtained when anionic emulsifiers are used. Typical anionic emulsifiers which may be used include those types known to those skilled in the art, for example, as disclosed beginning on page 102 in J.Van Alphen s Rubber Chemicals , Elsevier, 1956, for example, the alkali metal or ammonium salts of the sulfates of alcohols containing from 8 to 18 carbon atoms such as, for example, sodium lauryl sulfate alkali metal and ammonium salts of sulfonated petroleum or paraffin oils sodium salts of aromatic sulfonic acids such as dodecane l sulfonic acid and octadiene 1sulfonic acid alkyl aryl sulfonates such as sodium isopropyl benzene sulfonate and sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate alkali metal and ammonium salts of sulfonated dicarboxylic acid esters such as sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate and disodium N octadecyl sulfo succinamate alkali metal or ammonium salts of the free acids of complex organic mono and diphosphate esters and the like. So called nonionic emulsifiers are octylor nonylphenyl polyethoxyethanol and the like. Useful as emulsifiers are the alkali metal salts of the aromatic sulfonic acids and the sodium salts of the aromatic sulfonic acids and the sodium salts of the alkyl aryl sulfonates. In addition to the above mentioned emulsifiers it may be desirable and advantageous to add post polymerization emulsifiers and stabilizers to the polymeric anionic latex binders in order to improve the latex stability if it is to be stored for prolonged periods prior to use. Such post polymerization emulsifiers may be the same as, or different than, the emulsifier employed in conducting the polymerization but preferably are anionic or nonionic surface active agents. To initiate the polymerization free radical catalysts are employed. The use of such catalysts, although in certain systems not absolutely essential, ensures a more uniform and controllable polymerization and a satisfactory polymerization rate. Commonly used free radical initiators include the various peroxygen compounds such as the persulfates, benzoyl peroxide, t butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide azo compounds such as azodiisobutyronitrile, and dimethyl azodiisobutyrate and the like. Especially useful as polymerization initiators are the water soluble peroxygen compounds such as hydrogen peroxide and the sodium, potassium and ammonium persulfates. The alkali metal and ammonium persulfate catalysts may be employed by themselves or in activated redox systems. Typical redox systems include the persulfates in combination with a reducing substance such as a polyhydroxy phenol and an oxidizable sulfur compound such as sodium sulfite or sodium bisulfite, a reducing sugar, a diazomercapto compound, a ferricyanide compound, dimethylaminopropionitrile and the like. Heavy metal ions such as silver, cupric, iron, cobalt, nickel and others may also be used to activate persulfate catalyzed polymerizations. In general the amount of free radical initiator employed will range between about 0.1 to 5 based on the weight of the total monomers.The initiator is generally completely charged at the start of the polymerization, however, incremental addition or proportioning of the initiator throughout the polymerization is often desirable. In conducting the polymerization for the emulsion of the resins of the present invention the monomers are typically charged into the polymerization reactor which contains the water and the emulsifying agent. The reactor and its contents are then heated and the polymerization initiator added. The temperature at which the polymerization is conducted is not critical and may range from about 0 C and 800C or higher. Excellent results, however, have been obtained when the polymerization temperature is maintained between 50C and 700C. Polymerization modifiers such as the primary, secondary, and tertiary mercaptans, buffers, electrolytes and the like may also be included in the polymerization. The polymers are isolated from their latices by a variety of conventional methods including coagulation with acid or an aqueous electrolyte or by mixing with a coagulant such as an alcohol. The coagulated resin is then dried, and may be further processed by melt mixing in such conventional equipment as a Banbury mixer, a heated mill or an extrusion compounder, and diced or pelletized.For the purposes of this invention, the dry resin may be treated with the scavenger compound as set forth herein below either as the dry powder obtained on coagulation and drying or after a melt processing and pelletizing or dicing step. As is well known in the art, acrylonitrile copolymer resins may also be prepared by a variety of other methods including bulk, suspension and solution polymerization processes. The dry, powdered or pelletized resins produced by such processes may also be employed in the process of this invention to provide resins having a low residual acrylonitrile monomer content. The amines useful in the practice of this invention are aliphatic amines and include alkylamines, alkanolamines, alkylene polyamines, and mixtures thereof. The alkylamines include the C3 C10 alkylamines, however the preferred alkylamines will be those having a high boiling point at atmospheric pressure, preferably greater than 150 C, in order to minimize loss through volatilization during melt processing. The alkanolamines useful in the practice of this invention include ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine and the like, and the alkylene diamines and alkylene polyamines useful for the purposes of this invention include for example ethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine tetraethylene pentamine and the like, as well as higher alkylene analogs thereof such as 1,3bis aminomethyl cyclohexane, and mixtures thereof. The amount of amine employed will depend in part upon the level of residual acrylonitrile monomer present in the resin. In general the amount of amine used will be less than the stoichiometric molar equivalent of the amount of residual acrylonitrile monomer. The amine may be added to the acrylonitrilecontaining resin directly or by adsorbing the amine on the surface of a small amount of solid resin and dispersing the mixture thoroughly throughout the bulk of the untreated resin. In general, the amount of amine scavenging compound used may be in the range of from about .01 to 10 parts by weight of amine per hundred parts of dry acrylonitrile copolymer resin. In most applications, the amount of amine will be from about 0.1 to about 2 parts by weight per hundred parts of resin.Other methods for combining the amine scavenger and the resin include steeping the resin in the presence of the amine, and injecting the amine scavenger into the molten resin during the melt processing or mixing operation.Melt processing, for the purposes of this invention, includes any of the conventional means for processing the acrylonitrile copolymer resins set forth above wherein the resin is converted to a melted state including mastication, milling, Banbury mixing, extrusion, injection molding and the like. The resin may of course be subjected to several such operations such as for example to a milling or similar compounding step followed by a thermoforming step such as an extrusion or injection molding operation. The scavenger amine compound may be introduced prior to any of such steps, however the admixing will preferably be done prior to the initial compounding or melt mixing step. The practice of the process of this invention will be better understood by consideration of the followingExamples. Examples 1 16. In the following examples, summarized in Table I, 1300 g portions of dry, powdered Cycolac R 211 ABS resin containing 565 ppm residual acrylonitrile monomer as received were combined with 6.5 g magnesium stearate lubricant and compounded by fluxing at 120 0C 2500F , then mixing at 180 0C 350 0F for 30 sec. on a Banbury mixer. The indicated amount of scavenger was added to the bath in the mixer during the compounding operation. The batch was dropped, milled for 30 sec., and cut into strips. Residual non aqueous volatiles NAV were determined by dissolving a 0.5 g sample of resin in 9.5 g of dimethylacetamide, then measuring the acrylonitrile monomer content of the solution by vapor phase chromatography. The results are summarized in Table I. Table IEx Amine 1 wt. 2 AN 3 No pphr PPM 1 None 0 168 2 EA 0.05 143 3 0.1 133 4 n 0.5 53 5 BAC 0.05 139 6 0.1 158 7 n 0.5 83 8 TEPA 0.05 127 9 n 0.1 113 10 n 0.5 75 11 DETA 0.05 133 12 n 0.1 162 13 N 0.5 22 14 TETA 0.05 162 15 n 0.1 147 16 n 0.5 60Notes 1. EA ethanolamine BAC 1,3 bis amino methyl cyclohexane TEPA tetraethylene pentamine DETH diethylenetriamine TETA triethylenetetramine. 2. wt of scavenger amine, parts per hundred resin. 3. Acrylonitrile concentration in pellets after compounding, ppm, detn d by VPC see text. Examples 17 21. As an alternative method for mixing the amine scavenger, 13.0 g of the selected amine were thoroughly mixed with 50 g of resin. The mixture was then added to 1250 g of resin in the Banbury mixer and compounded as before. The residual AN contents for each, determined as in examples 1 16, are summarized in Table II. Table IIEx Amine 1 wt 2 AN 3 No pphr PPM 17 DETA 1.0 10 18 EA 1.0 10 19 TETA 1.0 10 20 TETA 1.0 10 21 TEA 1.0 37Notes 1. see note 1, Table I. TEA triethanol amine. 2,3 see notes 2 and 3, Table I. It will be apparent from a comparison of examples 2 21 with control example 1 that reduction in residual acrylonitrile monomer content by as great as 90 and more can be accomplished by adding the amine scavenger to the resin during the melt mixing or compounding process. This invention will thus be seen to be a process for reducing the residual acrylonitrile content of acrylonitrile copolymer resins comprising adding to the resin an aliphatic amine selected from the group consisting of alkylamines, alkanolamines, alkylene diamines, alkylene polyamines and mixtures thereof and melt processing the mixture, and a composition comprising an acrylonitrile copolymer resin and from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight per hundred parts resin of an amine selected from the group consisting of alkylamines, alkanolamines, alkylene diamines and alkylene polyamines. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the resin compositions may further comprise conventional lubricants, stabilizers, pigments, dyes, fillers and as is commonly practiced in the compounding art.EMI14.1 EMI14.2