# Vehicle body structure.

## Abstract
A vehicle body structure for guiding a window glass 22 during upwards and downwards movement thereof. The front guide member 24 for the window glass 22 is mounted within a door 20 , and cannot be seen from the outside.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A vehicle body structure for a vehicle door, having a front frame member 202 having a. channel 24a therein, a top frame member 204 connected to the front frame member 202 at the front end thereof and including a channel therein, a rear frame member 208 connected to the other end of the top frame member 204 , the rear frame member including a channel 206a therein, a door body 20 connected to the front and rear frame members 202,208 and concealing a lower portion of the rear frame member, a window glass 22 mounted within the door body 20 such that the window glass 22 can be moved upwards and downwards, a window regulator means 30 mounted within the door body 20 , the window regulator means 30 being adapted to move the window glass 22 by an operation thereof by a passenger, characterized in that guide means 24 for guiding directly a front end portion 22b of the window glass 22 during movement thereof is mounted within the door body 20 , and in that a slider 40 , connected to a rear end portion 22c of the window glass 22 extends into a channel 206a provided in the rear frame member 208 . 2. A vehicle body structure as claimed inClaim 1, wherein an outer surface of the front, top and rear frame members 202,204,208 are flush with an outer surface 22a of the window glass 22 . 3. A vehicle body structure as claimed inClaim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the front and top frame members 202,204 have a weatherstrip 42 secured in said channels in the front and top frame members 202,204 , and wherein the window glass 22 contacts the weatherstrip 42 in the fully closed position of the window glass 22 . 4. A vehicle body structure claimed in any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein cushion means 206b are fitted into the channel 206a of the rear frame member 208 and said guide means 24 includes cushion means 24b for receiving and contacting the window glass 22 . 5. A vehicle body structure as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein said guide means 24 extends in a parallel relationship to the rear frame member 208 .

## Description
VEHICLE BODY STRUCTURE The present invention relates to a vehicle body structure, and particularly to a vehicle body structure which locates an outer surface of a window glass of a vehicle door, in a position flush with an adjacent outer surface of the door frame. In order to reduce undesirable air resistance and wind noise generated during running of the vehicle and to improve the aesthetic appearance of the vehicle body, it is known to instal a door therein, with an outer side surface of a door window glass designed to be almost flush with an outer side face of the door frame. One example of such a door is disclosed inJapanese laid open utility model Sho 56 143477 Japanese utility model Application No. Sho 55 42886 , which is shown in Figures 9 and 10 of the accompanying drawings. According to the door structure thereof, not only is a rear portion of the door fixed with respect to a slider 40 but also a front portion of a door window glass 12 is fixed to the slider 40. The slider 40 extends from the front portion 12b of the door window glass 12 to a guide rail 108. The guide rail 108 is formed between a front frame member 102 and a garnish element 104. The garnish element 104 is fixed to a lower portion of the front frame member 102.The slider 40 is guided by the guide rail 108, whereby the door window glass 12, whose outer surface 12a is tWaintained almost flush with the outer surface 106 of the door frame 100, is accordingly moved upwards and downwards. However, as the garnish element 104, which is of a triangle form, is fixed to the lower portion of the front frame member 102, this results in a narrowed field of vision and impairs the aesthetic appearance of the vehicle body. The present invention was made in view of the above described construction and to overcome or minimize the aforesaid disadvantages thereof.It is an object of this invention to provide a vehicle body structure which locates an outer surface of a window glass of a vehicle door in a position substantially flush with an adjacent outer surface of the door frame without the front upper portion of which being provided witn any obstacles such as a slider member or a garnish element. To attain the above object, a vehicle body structure according to the present invention includes a vehicle door with a window glass and door body.The door has front, upper and rear frame members which define a window aperture. The door body has a guide by which the front end portion of the window glass is guided for upwards and downwards movement of the window glass therein. As the guide is mounted within the door body, the guide is not seen from the outside. The rear end portion of the window glass is guided by the rear frame member during movement of the window glass. The above object, features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Fig. 1 is a side view of a vehicle employing a vehicle body structure according to the present invention Fig. 2 is an enlarged view of a vehicle door shown in Figure 1 Fig. 3 is a cross sectional view taken along the line 111 111 of Figure 2 Fig. 4 is a cross sectional view taken along the line IV IV of Figure 2 Fig. 5 is a cross sectional view taken along the line V V of Figure 2 Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view taken along the line VI VI of Figure 2 Fig. 7 is a cross sectional view taken along the line VII VII of Figure 2 Fig. 8 is a side view of a window regulator for mounting a window glass upward and downward Fig. 9 is a perspective view of a prior art vehicle body structure and, Fig. 10 is a cross sectional view of the door of the body structure of Figure 9. The present invention is now described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings which illustrate an embodiment of the present invention. Figure 1 shows a side view of a vehicle having a body structure according to the present invention.The vehicle has a front door 10 and a rear door 20. Front and rear window glasses 12 and 22 are mounted within the front and rear doors 10 and 20, respectively. The enlarged detailed view of the vehicle doors of Figure 1 as illustrated inFigure 2. The vehicle body structure according to the present embodiment is employed in the rear door. The detailed structure of the rear door is illustrated in Figures 3 through 8. The rear door 20 has a front frame member 202, a top frame member 204, an intermediate frame member 206 and a rear frame member 208. The rear window glass 22 is mounted in the rear door 20 such that the rear window glass 22 can be moved upwards and downwards by actuation of a window regulator 30 whose detailed structure is shown in Figure 8. A window glass 23 is mounted between the intermediate frame member 206 and the rear frame member 208. The window glass 23 is fixed in the space defined between the frame members 206 and 208. The intermediate frame member 206 extends downwards as far as the lower portion of the rear door 20. The intermediate frame member 206 has a channel 206a as shown in Figures 4 and 7. A cushion member 206b, consisting of a resilient member such as a rubber, is fitted into the channel 206a. A slider 40 is secured by adhesives to the rear end 22c of the rear window glass 22. The slider 40 extends substantially parallel to an outer surface 22a of the rear window glass 22.The rear end of the slider 40 fits into the cushion member 206b. The rear end of the rear window glass 22 is guided by the slider 40 moving in the channel 206a, during upwards and downwards movement of the glass. A front end 22b of the rear window glass 22 is guided by a guide rail 24. The guide rail 24 is mounted within the body of the rear door 20, and extends in a parallel relationship to the intermediate frame 206. The guide rail 24 does not extend above the line W W shown inFigure 2. Hence, the guide rail 24 does not narrow the field of vision nor does it impair the aesthetic appearance of the vehicle bod y. The guide rail 24 has a cross sectional form of a U shape as shown in Figure 3, to define a channel 24a therein. A cushion member 24b, consisting of a resilient member such as a rubber, is fitted into a channel 24a. The front end 22b of the rear window glass 22 is fitted into the cushion member 24b, and is guided by the guide rail 24, during upwards and downwards movement of the glass. The front frame member 202 and the top frame member 204 have a weatherstrip 42 made of rubber.When the rear door glass 22 is moved upwards, the rear window glass 22 contacts the weatherstrip 42 of the front door frame member 202. The numeral 44 shown in Figure 5 designates a centre pillar of a vehicle body. Further, when the window glass 22 is moved up to fully close the window aperture defined between the frame members 202, 204 and 206, the top portion of the rear window glass 22 contacts with the weatherstrip 42 of the top frame member 204. As shown in Figure 8, the lower portion of the rear window glass 22 is secured by a channel member 302 to the window regulator 30. The structure of the window regulator 30 is illustrated in Figure 8. When an operator rotates a window regulator handle not shown in drawings , a pinion 31 is rotated. The rotation of the pinion 31 is transferred to a gear 32 which constantly meshes with the pinion 31. A main arm 33 is secured to the gear 32 such that the main arm 33 can be rotated around a pin 34. The main arm 33 has a roller 34a at its upper end. the roller 34a is inserted into a horizontal slot 35a which is defined in a bracket 50. The bracket 50 supports the rear window glass 22 through the channel member 302. Auxiliary arms 36 and 37 are mounted on the main arm 33 such that the auxiliary arms 36 and 37 rotate around a pin 38 secured to the main arm 33.The auxiliary arms 36 and 37 have rollers 34b and 34c at each end.The roller 34b of the auxiliary arm 36 is inserted into a horizontal slot 35b which is defined in a bracket 52. The bracket 52 is secured to the rear door 20. The roller 34c of the auxiliary arm 37 is inserted into a horizontal slot 35c which is defined in the bracket 50. When an operator rotates the window regulator handle, this rotates the pinion 31. The rotation of the pinion 31 rotates the gear 32. As the main arm 33 is secured to the gear 32, the main arm 33 is rotated by the rotation of the gear 32. By this rotation of the main arm 33, the main arm 33, the auxiliary arms 36 and 37 are forced to slide in the slots 35a, 35b and 35c, respectively. Thus, the rear window glass 22 is moved upwards and downwards by the operation of the window regulator 30. In operation, when an operator rotates the window regulator handle in order to lift the rear window glass from the position A indicated by a two dot chain line shown in Figure 2, the front end 22b and rear end 22c of the rear window glass 22 are guided by the guide rail 24 and the channel 206a of the intermediate frame member 206, respectively.Thus, the rear window glass 22 is lifted, and reaches the fully closed position B shown in Figure 2. According to this embodiment of the present invention, the vehicle body structure is applied to the rear door. However, it may be applied to a front door. While the present invention has been described in its preferred embodiment, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto, and may be otherwise embodied within the scope of the following claims.