# Ink jet printing ink containing iodine and potassium iodide.

## Abstract
An ink composition for marking paper having starch com prising a solution of iodine and a solvent for the iodine.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. An ink composition for marking papers carrying starch comprising a solution of iodine and a solvent for the iodine. 2. An ink composition comprising iodine and a source of iodide ion plus a solvent for both. 3. An ink composition for marking papers carrying starch comprising a solution of iodine, a solvent for the iodine and a colorant. 4. An ink composition in accordance with Claim 1 further comprising a preparatory solution of iodine, potassium iodide and water to make 300 ml of solution, a viscosity enhancer and wetting agent to make 400 ml of solution, and a water soluble dye in liquid to produce 300 ml of solution wherein the resulting composition has a viscosity of 6.3 cps and a specific resistivity of 100 cm. 5. An ink composition in accordance with Claim 1 further including a solvent comprising a mixture of propylene carbonate and a dye colorant which is added to the potassium iodide andodine mixture as by stirring resulting in a viscosity of 4.1 cps at 760 F and a specific resistivity of 430 Q Cm. 6. The ink formulation in accordance with Claim 4 wherein said solvent comprises a mixture of 95 diethylene glycol and 5 water to produce 80 ml of solution to which is added pontamine black sp l dye 38 ml and isopropanol approximately 8 ml said dye being treated with said propanol to provide a surface tension of 40 dynes cm, thereafter potassium iodide 6 gms and iodine 1.2 gms is added to provide a viscosity of 22.0 cps and a specific resistivity of 330 Q cm. 7. The ink formulation in accordance with Claim I wherein said preparatory solution further comprises iodine 3.2 , potassium iodide 9.6 and 87.2 water by weight to produce 300 ml of solution.

## Description
INK JET PRINTING INK CONTAINING IODINE AND POTASSIUM IODIDEBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of The Invention The present invention relates to printing inks, and more particularly to a new and improved printing ink for use in ink jet printing apparatus.2. Description of The Prior Art Certain problems attendant to ink jet printing apparatus have caused the industry to constantly experiment to develop an extremely fast, efficient, reliable and quiet ink jet printing system. One such problem is ink penetration of the paper item so as to produce a clear, crisp, clean, sharp copy such as is normally expected from a standard impact printer. Where penetration is low blotting, smearing, and smudging are readily apparent. Another problem associated with ink jet printing is the clogging of the miniscule ink jet orifices due to the viscosity of the ink. This causes stoppages in work flow and necessitates the use of costly solvents and the time consuming task of cleaning each ink jet where multiple jets are employed. Common bond and cotton filled papers have a relatively high starch content which is ordinarily utilized as a binder material for the paper fibers.This is in contrast to the specialty papers which do not employ starch as a binder and which are generally a much flimsier paper in terms of handling and durability. Although generally they are highly ink absorbent and thus receive most inks without problems. Unfortunately, when ordinary inks are employed with non specialty papers such as the common bond and cotton filled papers the inks penetrate the papers staining the internal fibers but leave the external fibers white. Thus, the print quality and legibility is extremely poor and generally quite unusable. This reaction results from the high starch content of the papers. In addition the inks used tended to spread and refuse to produce a clean, crisp clear spot or dot on the paper. It is an important object therefore of the present invention to produce an ink or inks which will stain or mark a starch content paper. xerographic papers, bond papers, cotton filled papers all have a high starch content . It is also an object of this invention to provide an ink which will mark or stain high starch content papers yet will be of suitable viscosity for use in ink jet printing apparatus. It has been suggested to use acid to dissolve away a little starch so as to cause the fibers to be exposed then, stain the exposed fiber. However, the mechanical system of the ink jet will not tolerate the acid content of the ink. It is also suggested to provide a reactive mixture in the ink which would cause a chemical reaction to neutralize the starch but this required an involved chemical formulation for the ink to be practical.Patent Art In the known prior art, for example, patent 4,176,361 which relates to ink jet printing generally and specifically to an ink composition for ink jet printing describes an aqueous ink composition comprising 2 12 by weight of a water soluble dye, 35 80 by weight of duly hydric alcohol containing from 2 6 carbon atoms, and water. While this formulation may be compositionally good, the ink will not adequately color highly starched fibers. Also a preservative bacteriocide is required to prevent bacteria growth. Patent 4,142,905 relates to a waterless ink for non impact jet printers consisting of Ethylene glycol 89 93 by weight Sodium nitrite 3 6 by weight Nigrosine black dye, water soluble 3 6 by weight Although the glycol is a good wetting agent the formulation does not provide good coloring on office papers of high starch content. Patent 3,705,043 relates to InfraredAbsorptive Jet Printing Ink Composition consisting of Calcocid black American Cyanamid 2.0 by weight water dispersed carbon black aquablack Columbia Carbon dry basis 0.5 by weight Polyethylene glycol Ac. MW 200 carbowax 200 15.0 by weight Water 80.5 by weight While this formulation provides a useful ink jet printing ink it cannot function adequately to color high starch content papers and does not employ a bacteriocide or perservative. Patent 3,870,528 realtes to an Infrared andVisible Dual Dye Jet Printer Ink which employs an absorptive ink in the infrared range consists of Nigrosine W5B Acid black commat 2.0 by weight Carbowax 1500 2.0 by weight Butyl carbitol 0.5 by weight Distilled water including 0.1 concentration of sodium omadine 88.5 by weight Phenamine black rw concentrate c120245 or direct black 4 4.0 by weight methyl 2 pyrrolidone 3.0 by weight Although the sodium omadine is stated to act as fungicide or anti bacterial agent no additional coloring of the high starch content of the office papers is provided. Patent 3,776,742 relates to a Non ColoringConductive Ink consisting of dye sulfo rhodamine B Red color 0.25 by weight salt calcium chloride 5 by weight polyol ethylene glycol 10 by weight organic crystalline material ethylene urea 10 by weight water balance Good printability on high starch papers is questionable as is the absence of a fungicide or bacter iocide. Patent 3,846,141 relates to Jet Printing InkComposition in which various humectants are described and claimed. Although dioxin is referred to and incorporated in the formulation there is not mention of a capability of dyeing a high starch paper.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a new and improved ink composition for use in ink jet printing comprising an aqueous soltion of a water soluble dye a starch staining combination and a viscosity enhancer. It has been determined that printing inks formulated in accordance with this invention have the desired viscosity for use in jet printing and that the ink is useful with the generally available starch based papers producing clean, clear, crisp black copy. The new ink provided by this invention has a number of important advantages over prior art ink formulations. Increased optical density of printed dot, achieved by the sum of tinctorial effects of dye on celulose and KI l2 starch sizing reaction. Omission of bacteriocide, algaecide, due to relatively high iodine concentration. Easy filterability for lack of polymer addition to ink. Good printability on high cotton containing and heavily sized office bond papers. Increased water and light permanency compared to direct dye s containing inks.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT Generally available commercial inks as applied to commercially available papers The majority of the latter having high starch content , when employed in an ink jet printing environment produce less than desirable copy. The printing suffers from low density, nonuniformity and lack of crispness or sharpness. It has been observed with respect to these papers, that the ink is received into the paper to stain the interior or internal fibers but the exterior surface of the paper remains unstained. This is a direct result of the high starch content of the paper and inability of the commercial inks to color or stain the starched fibers. Starch makes the paper hydrophobic so that when the ink drop strikes the paper it is repelled by the starch and the external fibers are not stained whereas the internal fibers take up the color of the ink due to the lowered starch content. The ink also has a tendency to spread and refuse to produce a clear, regularly formed dot or spot. The following is an example of an ink formulation in accordance with the present invention. EXAMPLE IEMI7.1 tb SEP emp SEP Chemicals tb SEP oom SEP Solvent SEP 3.2 SEP I SEP 2 SEP and SEP 9.6 SEP KI SEP with tb SEP W SEP H20 SEP ml SEP 300 tb SEP 0. SEP Elemental SEP Iodine SEP 12 SEP and SEP solid SEP KIsalt tb SEP Ethylene SEP glycol SEP 2 SEP ml SEP 400 tb SEP Pontamine SEP black SEP SP SEP SEP 1 SEP liquid SEP ml tb SEP rl tb SEP TOTAL SEP ml SEP 1,000 tb SEP room SEP StirriFlg SEP mixer SEP 4 SEP hours tb SEP room SEP Mlilpore SEP dise SEP filtering SEP system tb SEP a, SEP Prefilter SEP mitec SEP telfon, SEP LC, SEP 10 SEP microns tb Prefilter SEP mitec SEP telfon, SEP LS tb rl tb SEP room SEP Resistivity SEP SEP cm SEP 100 tb U SEP Spec. SEP gravity SEP density SEP gl.cm3 SEP 1.114 tb SEP Viscosity SEP cP SEP 6.3 tb SEP Surface SEP tension SEP 5Dynes cm SEP 46.5 tb Ptt SEP SEP adjust SEP to SEP 7. SEP SEP o SEP units tb ri tb SEP Total SEP solids SEP commat SEP 110e SEP g g SEP 17.6 tb cr tb rl tb 3 SEP Papers SEP Xerox SEP 4023DP SEP SEP control tb Burroughs SEP t SEP 3011135 SEP 1.42 tb 25 SEP cotton SEP erasable SEP 1.45 tb 25 SEP cotton SEP office SEP bond SEP 1.48 tb SEP Savin SEP copier SEP paper SEP 1.48 tb d tb d tb as measured on MacBeth Densitometer The ink formulation Example I is described in relation to an ink on demand system in which the ink is pulsed as needed. Section 1 labeled chemicals comprises the formula for the novel ink formuation, the solvent is 3.2 I 2 and 9.6 KI and 87.2 H20. 300 ml of this solvent is mixed at room temperature with 400 ml of ethylene glycol and 300 ml of Pontamine Black SP 1 a commercial liquid dye to produce a total of 1000 mls. Thereafter the mix is placed in a stirring mixer and again mixed for 4 hours at room temperature to insure uniform stability. Section 2 is the filter section. The stirred mix is next filtered down to 5 microns through a millipore disc filtering system.This step removes any ink conglomerates, coagulates that might tend to cause blockage within the nozzle of the ink jet printing system 25 40 microns ink jet nozzle . The filters include a 10 micron and a 5 micron Mitex millipore filter. Section 3 covers the liquid quality control for the present formulation. Resistivity in ohms centimeter 100 Specific gravity which technically has no units but realistically is taken as density in grams per cubic centimeter or groms per mil 1.114 viscosity in centipoises 6.3 surface tesion in dynes per centimeter 46.5 PH factor 7.6 total solids baking off solvents commat 110c for 24 hours gram gram 17.7 remaining out of total . Section 4 optical density by drawn down utilizing a number 12 Meyer Rod and 5 drops of the ink formulation. The optical density is measured at room temperature on a Macbeth densitometer and compared to a standard density unit varying from 1.3 to 1.38 for a noniodine containing ink formulation . The test results set forth in Section 4 demonstrates quite clearly that the iodine potassium iodide formulation does indeed produce a significant and dramatic increase in optical density over the so called standard. What is even more noticeable and significant is that the combination herein described and claimed I2 KI3 radical ion combination reacts with the starch in the paper to produce an organic complex that has a very deep blue color. Providing a clean, crisp clear spot for printing as desired. The following ink formulations are useful in ink jet printing environments. EXAMPLE IIEMI10.1 tb SEP room SEP Chemicals tb SEP room SEP SEP Propylene SEP Carbonate SEP Ink SEP ml SEP 30 tb SEP Potassium SEP Iodide SEP KI SEP Gms SEP 1.5 tb SEP Iodine SEP I2 SEP Gms SEP 0.3 tb room SEP Stirring SEP mixer SEP 2 SEP hours tb SEP room SEP Millipore SEP Disc SEP Filtering SEP System tb SEP Prefilter SEP Mitec SEP Teflon, SEP LC, SEP 10 SEP microns tb SEP Prefilter SEP Mitec SEP Teflon, SEP LS, SEP 5 SEP microns tb SEP room SEP Resistivity SEP SEP 80 SEP oF SEP 430 SEP cm tb SEP Viscosity SEP SEP 76 SEP F SEP 4.1cps SEP tb SEP Surface SEP Tension SEP 43 SEP dynes cm tb as measured on MacBeth densitometer solvent 1000 ml propylene carbonate dye 50 Gms acetosol black rls EXAMPLE IIIEMI11.1 tb SEP Temp SEP Chemicals tb SEP room SEP SEP Solvent SEP ml SEP 80 tb W SEP SEP SEP Dye SEP 38 tb 3 SEP SEP SEP Isopropanol SEP SEP Approx SEP ml SEP 8 tb SEP KI SEP Gms SEP 6 tb a SEP Gms SEP 1.2 tb a tb SEP room SEP Stirring SEP mixer SEP vpne SEP 90 SEP min. tb SEP room SEP Stirring SEP mixer SEP 90 SEP min. tb W SEP room SEP 0 SEP microns tb SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP microns tb E tb SEP room SEP Resistivity SEP z SEP cm SEP 330 tb SEP Specific SEP Gravity SEP Density SEP GL.cm3 SEP 1.140g cm3 tb Q SEP Viscosisty SEP cp SEP 760F SEP 22.0cps tb O SEP pH SEP 6.25 tb Surface SEP tension SEP dynes cm tb rl tb SEP room tb 3 tb 3 tb Ov tb 95 diethylene glycol, 5 H Pontamine Black SPL Titrate dye and solvent with isopropanol to a surface tension of 40 dynes cm The properties of the inks resulting from the foregoing ink formulations Examples II and III have been demonstrated to be excellent for continuous ink jet printing and, in addition, the KI I2 acts as a colorant and as a conductor to lower resistivity.