# Optical recording disc.

## Abstract
Optically readable information disc having a glass sub strate plate 1 and a recording layer 3 in which on the side of the recording layer the surface of the substrate plate is pro vided with a transparent layer 2 of a material which impedes the diffusion of Na and or K from the substrate plate to the recording layer or in which the said surface is provided with a transparent layer of a cross linked synthetic resin on which the layer of the diffusion impeding material is provided.

## Claims
1. Optical recording disc having a glass substrate plate which on one side has a recording layer in which optic ally readable ingormation bits can be formed rv exposure to pulsated laser light which is focused on the recording layer via the substrate plate, characterized in that a transparent layer of a material wiiich impedes the diffusion of Na and or Kfrom the substrate plate to the recording layer is provided directly on the surface of the substrate on the side of the recording layer, in which transparent layer no information bits are formed, or that the surface of the substrate plate is first provided with a transparent layer of a cross linked syntrletic resin and the above layer of a material which impedes the diffusion of Na and or K is provided he eon. 2. An optical recording disc as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that a transparent, diffusion impeding or diffusion inhibiting layer is used manufactured from an inorganic oxide, nitride or fluoride. 3. An optical recording disc as claimed in Claim 2, characterized in that the transparent layer is mann factured froin a nitride or oxide of Ti or Si , an oxide of Al, Y or Ge or from calcium fluoride0 4. An optical recording disc as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the recording layer comprises a chalcogenide. 5. An optical recording disc as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the surface of the substrate plate is first provided ifith the transparent diffusion impeding layer, a transparent layer of a cross lied synthetic resin is provided here on in which an optically readable guide track is present and a recording layer is provided on the transparent layer of the cross liniced synthetic resin.

## Description
Optical recording disc. The invention relates to an optical recording disc having a glass substrate plate which a one side has a recording layer in which optically readable information bits can be formed by exposure to pulsated laser light which is focused on the recording layer via the substrate plate. Such a recording disc is disclosed, for example, in published Netherlelds Patent Application No. 80 05 693 PEf 9861 in the name of Applicants. In this known recording disc a tellriIiin alloy is used as a recording materials a result of the exposure to pulsated laser light holes or recesses are formed at the exposed places. These information bits can be read by means of laser light. The dia netrical dimensions of the information bits are small and are, for example, from 0.3 3 The recording material has a good stability and a good sensitivity to laser light. It is the object of the present invention to provide an optical recording disc in which the stability of the recording layer is furth.i inproved. This object is achieved by means of an optical recording disc of the type mentioned in the opening paragraph which is characterized in that a transparent layer of a material which impedes the diffusion of Na and or IC from the substrate plate to the recording layer is pro. vided directly in the surface of the substrate on the side of the recording layer, in which transparent layer no information bits are formed, or that the surface of the substrate plate is first provided with a transparent layer of a cross linked synthetic resin and the above layer of a material which impedes the diffusion of Na and or K is provided here on. From this characteristic feature it appears that the invention is based on the recognition gained by Applicants that the diffusion of sodium ions and or potassium ions from the substrate plate to the recoeding layer reduces the stability of t Fie recording layer. Tho sensitivity of the recording layer also decreases and the quality of the recorded information bits or information bits still to be recorded is reduced. Due to the above mentioned diffusion the signal to noise ratio is also adversely influenced. In Applicants opinion the influence rlp the sodium ions and or potassium inns on the stability of the recording laxer snay have various causes.Firstly, said ions may serve as a catalyst in the degradation, for example, by oxidation or hydrolysis, of the material of the recording layer. Secondly, the anions, usually OH ions, dragged along ith the sodium ions or potassium ions, may produce an intensified hydrolysis, oxidation or decomposition of tne recording material.Hence a degradation caused by NaO or KOH. Thirdly, tiere may be the formation of stable compounds by reaction ofNa and or K i t,.i constituents from the recording layer, which compounds havelowlight sensitivities. An example thereof is the formation of Na2Te, Na2Se, IC2Te and K2Se compounds in a recording material which comprises a tellurium selenium alloy. Of course the signaled degradation phenomena are stronger when the glass substrate plate has a higher content of Na and or K. A glass substrate plate is fre quently used in optical recording discs. A glass substrate plate as compared with a substrate plate o a synthetic resin presents the advantages of an excellent nan defor mability, resistance to scratches, temperatire resistance and moisture resistance.In contrast with a synthetic resin, glass does not pass moisture. This p enomenon can easily be demonstrated by means of a closed bottle of sslthetic resin filled with a liquid, for example milk.In the course of time the liquid level will Pall in contrast to that of a liquid filled glass botta A glass substrate plate is usually chosen in particular due to the fact that glass does not pass or absorb moisture. It is striciag to establish that just with a glass substrate plate, a comparatively considerable transport of NaOH and or IC H ta3ces place fro, the class to the recording layer. Materials which prevent or impede the transport of Na ions or K ions are known as such. Far example, a liquid crystal indicator is known from Japanese PatentApplication No. 16815 Kokai No. 54 103795 which comprises two glass plates and a liquid crystal composition provided between the plates. The plates are coated on the inside with a layer of SiO2 or silicon nitride by which the transport of Na from the glass to the liquid crystal composition is prevented and consequentoy no white spots are formed as a result of the reaction of Na with a com ponent of the liquid crystal composition. Examples of readily useful materials which impede or inhibit the diffusion of Na and or K are Al203,SiO2, SiO, GeO2, Y2O3, ZrO2, WO3, MoO3, Sb2O3, In2O3, ZnO, zNO2, MgO, CeO2, SnO2, TiO2, CaF2, TiC, Si3N4, CeF3,TiN, ThF3, BiF3, and MgF2. In a preferred form of the recording disc in accordance with the invention, a transparent layer is used which is manufactured from an inorganic oxide, nitride or fluoride. Dependent on the layer thickness, the above materials are sufficiently transparent to allow the recording layer to be exposed via the substrate plate. In the case of borides, nitrides and carbides, t ne layer thickness must generally be smaller than or equal to 20 nm. However, there are exceptions1 for example, Si3N4, which may be used in a thicker layer. In the case of fluorides and oxides, a considerably thicker layer may be used which has a maximum thickness, for example, from 100 to 300 nm, depending on the type of oxide or fluoride. In a further preferred form of the recording disc in accordance with the invention. the transparent diffusion impeding or diffusion inhibiting layer is manufactured from a nitride or oxide of titanium or silicon, an oxide of aluminum, yttrium or germanium or from calcium fluoride The diffusion impeding or diffusion inhibiting layers are provided in the usual manner, for example, by means of a vapour deposition process, a sputtering process, a C chemical vapour deposition process or a liquid deposition process. An example of thelast mentioned process is the manufactatre of a layer of Y203.For this purpose the substrate plate is provided with a solution of yttriuia ac etylacetonate in an ether. The ether is evaporated and the substrate plate is heated at approximately 550 C,Y203 being farmed. A variety of recording materials may be used in te recording layer of the recording dise in accordance with the invention, for example, dyes, polyners, metals, chalcogenides and magneto optical materials, for example ferrites. It will be evident that the invention offers particular advantages by maiming it possibly to use recording materials which are otherwise attractive except that they are degraded by NaOH ir KOH, for example due to decomposition, oxidation or hydrolysis. The advantages according to the nvention occur in particular when chalocogenides are used, in particular when tellurium is used or alloys of tellurium with, for example, Se, Sb, As,S, O, Bi, Sn and Ge.Examples hereof are Te 60Se25 b10S5, TeZtSe1 Sb S , Te Se12 Sb2Se, Te01Ge15As and Te6eGe10As10. In the recording disc according to the invention the substrate plate may first be provided with a transparent layer of a cross linked synthetic resin on which the transparent diffusion impeding layer is previded, In this embodiment tile laser light energy required to forn an information bit is reduced. The syntetic resin is, for example, a light crosslinked acrylate synthetic resin. Preferably an optically readable guide track is provided in the synthetic resin layer. The guide track has the rorm, for example, of a groove which can be followed by the laser light upon recording or reading information. The groove nay cc prise recessed portions which forn an optically readable information track, sometimes termed head in. The heading comprises, for example, information for the control of the recording lase light beam. A further preferred embodinent of the recording disc according to the invention is characterized in that the surface of the substrate plate is first provided with the transparent diffusion impeding layer, a transparent layer of a cross linked synthetic resin is provided here an in which an optically readable guide track is present and a recording layer Is provided on the transparent layer of the cross linked synthetic resin. With this preferred embodiment it is achieved that the quality of the guide track is independent of the diffusion impeding layer and is particular of the thickness of the diffusion impeding layer. In the embodinent described hereinbefore, in which the substrate plate is first provided with a layer of a cross linked synthetic resin in which a guide track may be present, and the diffusion impeding layer is provided here an, there is some relation bet áen the guide track and the diffusion impeding layer. Far example, the tnicEless of the diffusion impeding layer may not be too large and may be, for example, at most 50 100 nm because otherwise the guide track is masked and the laser light car.w no longer follow said track. The invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to the following embodiment and the dratfing, in which Fig. 1 is a cross sectional vie of a recording disc according to the invention, Fig. 2 is a tangential sectional view of a preferred embodiment of a recording disc,. Fig. 3 is a tangential sectional vie. of another embodiment of a recording disc in accordance with the invention and Figures 4 and 5 are graphs. Reference numeral 1 in Fig. 1 denotes a glass substrate plate having a thickness of 1.2 mm and a diameter of 30 cin. .ne substrate plate is coated on one side with a layer 2 of a material which has been specified hereinbefare and which impedes or inhibits the diffusion of Na and K .rom the substrate plate 1. A layer 3 of a chalcogenide recording material having the composition Te75Se15SbfS5 is provided on the layer 2. Information bits 4 are formed in the recording layer 3 by exposure to pulsated laser light power of the laser 10 mW, pulse time 5 x 10 9 sec which is focused on the recording layer 3 via the substrate plate 1 and the layer 2. The bits have the form of a recess or hole having a thickened edge portion 5. The dimensions of the bits are small. The area of the bits is in the order of magnitude of 1 um . At the area of the bits the reflection of the recording layer is reduced and the transmission is increased. The bits can be read optically in reflection or in transmission. Fig. 2 shows a preferred form of a recording disc in accordance with the invention. The recording disc comprises a substrate plate of glass which is referenced 6 and which has on one side a layer 7 of a material which impedes or inhibits the diffusion of Na and K from the substrate plate 6.A layer 8 ofacross linked acrylate synthetic resin obtained by light curing a liquid monomer composition is provided on the layer 79 The monomer composition comprises the following ingredients 10 e o by weight of trimethylolpropane triacrylate 5r ss by weight of tripropylene glycoldiacrylate 29 0A by weight of N vinylpyrrolidone 4 ss by weight of initiator benzil dimethyl ketal . The layer of synthetic resin 8 comprises an optically readable guide track in the form of a groove 9 which locally has recessed portions lOo The recessed portions 10 together afith intermediate portions 11 constitute an optically readable structure which, for example, comprises inçorvnation for the control of the laser light beam upon recording. The surface of the disc is indicated by broken line 12. A recording layer 13 of the same composition ar, used in the Fig. 1 disc is provided on the synthetic resin layer 8. The optical structure 10, 11 is exposed to weak laser light, no information bits being formed in the layer 13.The laser light is focused on the optical structure 10, 11 via the substrate plate 6.The structure is read in reflection on the basis of phase differences. The reading laser light foll OXf S the groove also on the basis of phase differences. When information is recorded, pulsated energyintensive laser light is used the intensity of which is, for example, a factor of 10 higher than that of the reading laser light. The laser light beam is pulsated in accordance with the information to be recorded. As a result of the exposure, information bits which have the form of a recess or hole having a thicknened edge portion 15 are formed in the recording layer 13. The bits are preferably provided in the portions of the recording layer present above the groove. Reference numeral 16 in Figure 3 denotes a glass substrate plate which on one side has a transparent layer 17 of a light cured acrylate synthetic resin. An optically readable guide track 18 which comprises a heading 19 is provided in the surface of layer 17. Guide track and heading are analogous to those of Figure 2. The surface of layer 17 is coated with a transparent layer 20 of TiN having a thickness of 10 nm. A recording layer 21 of the compositionTe75 Se15 Sb5 S 5 is provided hereon. The heating 19 is read in reflection via the substrate plate 16 against the recording layer , the weak laser light following track 18. Upon recording information, energy intensive laser light is used which is pulsated in accordance with the date to be recorded and which is focused on the recording layer 21 via substrate plate 16. Inforination bits are forined in the exposed places. The bits are read in re flection by means of weak laser light. The discs according to the invention have been subjected to an ageing test, the so called climate test.According to the climate test the recording layer is suz jected per 24 hours at a relative humidity of 95 3 to the following temperature cycle storing at 25 C for 12 hours, heating from 2500 to 6500 over a period of 2 hours, storing at 65 C for 2 hours, cooling from 6500 to 2500 over a period of 2 ho xrs, heating from 250C to 65 C over a period of 2 hours, storing at 6500 for 2 hours, and cooling from 6500 to 250C over a period of 2 hours. After the climate test the transmission T of the recording layer was determined and compared with the transmission prior to the climate test To . The increase afthe transmission T is a measure of the degra dation of the recording layer as a result of the oxidation to transparent tellurium oxides. In the graphs of Figs. 4 and 5 the number of days of the climate test is plotted on the horizontal and the ratio T To is plotted on the vertical. In Fig. 4 the lines indicated by letters refer to a substrate plate of glass, without diffusion impeding layer, b substrate plate of glass with 10 nm thick layer ofTiN, c substrate plate of glass having a 100 nm thick layer of Si3N4, d substrate plate of glass having a 200 um thick layer of Si2N,. In Fig. 5 the lines indicated by letters refer to a substrate plate of glass without diffusion impeding layer, b substrate plate of glass having a 20 nm thick layer of Y203, c substrate plate of glass having a 40 nm thick layer of Y2O3, d substrate plate of glass having a 60 nm thick layer of Y Y9 3s 0 3 e substrate plate of glass having a 80 nm thick layer of Y2O3. Analytical investigations by means of ESCA Electron Spectroscopy for Chemical Analysis and R3S Rutherford Back . Scattering after the climate test have furthernore demonstrated that the recording layers provided on glass substrates not having a diffusion impeding layer comprise Na up to a maximum concentration of 20 at. and comprise K up to a maximum concentration of 15 at. When a diffusion impeding or diffusion inhibiting layer of a sufficient thic rness is used, no Na and or K could be demonstrated in the recording layer.