# Herbicidal compositions and their use to control undesirable weeds.

## Abstract
Herbicidal compositions containing the DPE CHEM together with one or more of dicamba, mecoprop and ioxynil show a surprising herbicidal effect, especially on weeds commonly found amongst cereal crops. The ioxynil can be partly or completely replaced by bromoxynil and the mecocrop can be partly or completely replaced by dichloroprop and or MCPA. Useful commercial ratios of DPE ioxynil and or bromoxynil are 20 to 30 200 to 400, of DPE mecoprop and or dichloroprop and or MCPA are 20 to 60 800 to 1600 and of DPE dicamba are 30 to 60 45 to 75. Methods of controlling the growth of weeds wherein the compositions are applied to growing weeds or to a growth medium prior to weed emergence are also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A herbicidal composition comprising the DPE compoundEMI20.1 together with one or more of dicamba, mecoprop and ioxynil with the proviso that some or all of the ioxynil may be replaced by bro .oxvnii and or some or all of the mecoprop may be replaced by dichloroprop and or MCPA, and agronomically acceptable salts and or esters thereof. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 containing 20 to 98i by weight active herbicidal components, said composition being in the form of a wettable powder, dispersible granules or flowable formulation. 3. A cc position according to Claim 1 or 2 containing theDPE and ioxynil andZor bromoxynil in the ratio 10 to 120 200 to 400 by weight. 4. A composition according to Claim 3 in which the ratio is 20 to 30 200 to 400. 5. A composition according to any preceding claim containing the DPE and mecoprop and or dichloroprop and orMCPA in the ratio 10 to 120 500 to 2000 by weight. 6. A composition according to Claim 5 in which the ratio is 20 to 60 800 to 1600. 7. A composition according to any preceding claim containing the DPE and dicamba in the ratio 10 to 120 30 to 120 by weight. 8. A composition according to Claim 7 in which the ratio is 30 to 60 45 to 75. 9. A method of combating weeds which comprises applying to growing weeds or to the surface of a growth medium prior to emergence of weeds therefrom, a composition as claimed in any preceding claim in an amount sufficient to control the growth of weeds. 10. A method as claimed in Claim 9 which comprises the use of the composition as a post emergence herbicide on a cereal crop.

## Description
HERBICIDAL COMPOSITIONS AND THEIR USE TO CONTROLUNDESIRABLE WEEDS.This invention is concerned with herbicidal compositions and their use to control undesirable weeds. The compositions of the invention comprise mixtures of known herbicides which mixtures surprisingly demonstrate synergistic herbicidal effect over the individual herbicides on certain weeds commonly found amongst cereal crops.The compoundEMI1.1 is a diphenylether herbicide mentioned among many others inEuropean Patent Application No. 0020052 which also describes its preparation and herbicidal efficacy, formulations containing it and Procedures for applying it as a herbicide.We have now surprisingly found that this particular diphenylether, which for convenience we will refer hereinafter as DPE, demonstrates a synergistic herbicidal effect when used in herbicidal compositions in conjunction with a limited number of other herbicides which, in contrast to DPE are of known commercial activity. The preferred among these other herbicides are a dicamba which has the chemical names 3,6 dichloro O anisic acid by IUPAC and 3,6 dichloro 2 methoxybenzoic acid by CA usage and b mecoprop which is 2 4 chloro O tolyloxy propionic acid by IUPAC . The terms ndicambaM and mecoprop as used herein also includes salts and esters of the parent acids, such as the potassium and amine salts of dicamba and the potassium and amine salts of mecoprop and esters of mecoprop.Another, but less preferred, other herbicide is ioxynil which is 4 hydroxy 3,5 di iodobenzonitrate by IUPA . The term ioxynil as used herein also includes salts of the parent phenolic compound e.g. the alkali metal salts and amine salts and ester octanoate.Also useful are compositions in which the herbicides other than DPE are wholly, or preferably partially, replaced by other herbicides of the same family and or with which they are known to be efficacious when used in combination on weeds in cereal crops. For example mecoprop is a member of the aryloxypropionic acid family of herbicides which also includes dichloroprop and similar herbicides such as 2 4MCPA. Further ioxynil is a representative of benzonitrile herbicides including bromoxynil with which ioxynil is often combined in use. Dicamba is often used in combination with 2,4 D and 2,4 MCPA. Further the herbicides dicamba, mecoprop and ioxynil are known useful as mixtures of two or more of them sometimes with one or more of the other herbicides uust rentiÏned, e.g. a mixture of mecoprop, dicamba and bromoxynil.Such mixtures are also encompassed within this invention when they further include DPE.The mixtures of the invention contain the herbicides in the following exemplary active ingredient ratios by weight.DPE ioxynil 10 to 120 200 to 400, preferably 10 to 60 200 to 300 more preferably 20 to 60 200 to 300, most preferably 20 to 30 200 to 300. A useful commercial ratio would be 20 to 30 200 to 400.DPE mecoprop 10 to 120 500 to 2000, preferably 10 to 60 500 to 2000 more preferably 20 to 60 500 to 1000. A useful commercial ratio would be 20 to 60 800 to 1600.DPE dicamba 10 to 120 30 to 120, preferably 10 to 60 30 to 120, more preferably 30 to 60 30 to 120. A useful commercial ratio would be 30 to 60 45 to 75.Advantage may be taken of the noted synergism in two ways.The mixtures may be used in the above weight ratios but in total doses grams active ingredient per hectare less that those hitherto used to give control to weeds at reduced cost.Alternatively use of the active ingredients at doses grams hectare according to the ratios of active ingredients given above will give enhanced weed control.The compositions of the invention are useful as postemergence herbicides on cereal crops, although in the cases of maize and sorghum directed spray application to minimise contact with the crop itself is recommended. They may also be used to control weeds in crop free ground prior to sowing which may take place two to four months later. This is especially useful when the crop to be sowed requires an undisturbed root system for best yield. One example is sunflower.In its broadest aspect therefore the invention comprises herbicidal compositions comprising DPE together with one or more of dicamba, mecoprop and ioxynil with the proviso that instead of ioxynil bromoxynil may be used and instead of mecoprop dichloroprop and or MCPA may be used. The compositions may also include other herbicides such as are known to be useful with one or more of dicamba, mecoprop, ioxynil, bromoxynil, dichloroprop and or MCPA. Dichloroprop is 2 2,4 dichlorophenoxy propionic acid and is frequently used as an alkali metal, particularly potassium, or amine salt.MCPA is 4 chloro O tolyloxy acetic acid and is frequently used as a salt particularly the sodium salt, or as an ester.Bromoxynil is 3,5 dibromo 4 hydroxybenzonitrile and is frequently used as an alkali metal salt or as octanoate ester. 2,4 D is 2,4 dichloro phenoxy acetic acid and is often used as the amine salt.In all of these cases use of the common name herein is intended to include the useful salts and or esters. The compositions will usually be used in conjunction with an agronomically acceptable carrier or diluent and optionally a surfactant so as to provide a herbicidal composition which, in general, will contain from 0.1 to 99.9 more usually 1 to 99 and even more usually 5 to 95 by weight of active herbicidal components.These herbicidal compositions may be in the form of ready for use dusts, aqueous emulsions, suspensions, granules or pellets alternatively they may be in the form of concentrated solutions, wettable powders, water dispersible granules, flowable liquid suspensions, pastes or dust concentrates each for dilution with, as the case may be, water or finely divided solids to give diluted aqueous solutions, suspensions, emulsions, or dusts which are then directly usable as herbicidal compositions. It is important that the amount of organic solvent in ready to use liquid formulations be kept very low for application on cereal crops and emulsifiable concentrates and flowable emulsion concentrates are of interest only in this context for dilution with water.By the term agronomically acceptable carrier or diluent as used above is meant a substance which can be utilized to dissolve, disperse, diffuse or otherwise dilute the active ingredient without impairing the effectiveness of the active ingredient and which does no permanent damage to such loci as soil, equipment and agronomic crops. It is usually desirable in post emergence application to include adjuvants, such as wetting agents, spreading agents, dispersing agents, stickers, adhesives, and the like, in accordance with known agricultural practices. Examples of adjuvants which are commonly used in the art can be found in tr Oohn w. McCuzcheon, inc. publication Detergents and Emulsifiers 1969 Annual .Wettable powders or dispersible granules or flowable formulation suitable for spaying, can be prepared by aamlxlng the compound with a finel divided solid, such as clays, inorganic silicates and carbonates, and silicas and then incorporating wetting agents, sticking agents, and or dispersing agents. The concentration of active ingredients in such fcrmulations is typically in the range of from about 20 to about 98 by weight, and, preferably, from about 40 to about 75 by weight. A dispersing agent can constitute about 0.5 to about 38 by weight of the composition, and a wetting agent can constitute from about 0.18 to about 5 by weight of the composition. Dusts can be prepared by mixing the herbicides with finely divide inert solids which may be organic or inorganic in nature. Materials useful for this purpose include, for example, botanical flours, silicas, silicates, carbonates and clays. One convenient method of preparing a dust is to dilute a wettable powder with a finely divided carrier.Dust concentrates containing from about 20 to about 80 by weight of the active ingredient are commonly made and are subsequently diluted to about 1 to about 10 by weight use concentration.The herbicides can also be mixed with fertilizers or fertilizing materials before their application. In one type of solid fertilizing composition in which the diphenyl ethers can be used, particles of a fertilizer or fertilizing ingredients, such as ammonium sulfate, ammonium nitrate, or ammonium phosphate, can be coated with one or more of the ethers. The solid herbicides diphenyl and solid fertilizing material can also be admixed in mixing or blending equipment, or they can be incorporated with fertilizers in granular formulations. Any relative proportion of herbicide and fertilizer car. be used which is suitable for the crops ana weeds to be treated. rle her cide will commonly be present in an amount from about 5 to about 25 by weight of the fertilizing composition.These compositions provide fertilizIng r.ateri2is which roro te the rapid growth of desired plants, and at the same time control the growth of undesired plants. The herbicides can be applied as herbicidal sprays by methods commonly employed, such as conventional high gallonage hydraulic sprays, low gallonage sprays1 airblast spray, aerial sprays and dusts. For low volume applications a solution of the compound is usually used. The dilution and rate cf application will usually depend upon such factors as the type of equipment employed, the method cf application, the area to be treated and the type and stage cf development of the weeds.The application cf the herbicidal compositions to cereals, especially, wheat, barley and rye can be by conventional methods. In the case of maize and sorghum directed spray application is recommended. The mixtures of the invention can be formed in situ by sequential application of the active herbicidal components. Weeds most commonly found in such cereal crops include weeds of the Botanical species Polygonium, Matricaria andStellaria and the following Examples demonstrate synergism in respect of these weeds. In none of the exemplified field tests was undue phytotoxicity of the crop winter wheat evident.ExamplesFormulationsA. Solid Ready For Use Preparations Dust by weight a A.I. 0.01 Talc 99.99 b A.I. 15.0 Talc 85.0B. Liquid Ready For Use Preparations B.l Emulsions by weight a Emulsifiable concentrate 0.05 of D.2 a below Water 99.95 B.2 Suspensions by weight a Wettable powder of C.l b below 0.02 Xanthan gum long chain poly 0.05 saccharine obtained by the fermentation of molasses Propylene glycol 5.0 Water 94.93 b Wettable powder of C.l b below 20.0 Xanthan gum 0.05 Propylene glycol 5.0 Water 74.75C. Solid Concentrates C.1.Wettable Powders by weight a A.I. 1.0 Kaolin 93.7 Silica precipitated 2.0 Sodium nonylnaphthalenesulfonate 3.0 Sodium lauryl sulfate 0.3 b A.I. 50.0 Kaolin 21.5 Silica precipitated 25.0 Sodium nonylnaphthalenesulfonate Sodium lauryl sulfate 0.5C.2 Dust Concentrates z bv weiaht a A.I. 10.0 Talc 90.0 b A.I. 50.0 Silica precipitated 40.0 Tale 10.0 D.Liquid Water Soluble or Dispersible Concentrates D.1 Solutions by weight a A.I 10.0 Octylphenoxypoly ethyleneoxy 15.0 ethanol containing an average of 9 ethyleneoxy groups surfactant Dimethylformamide 40.0 b A.I. 25.0 Surfactant as in D.l a above 35.0 Dimethylformamide 40.0D.2 Emulsifiable Concentrates for aqueous dilution bv weight a A.I. 1.0 Calcium dodecylbenzene sulfonate 2.5 Surfactant as in D.l a above 2.5 Xylene 94.0 b A.I. 50.0 Calcium dodecylbenzene sulfonate 5.0 Surfactant as in D.l a above 5.0 Xylene 40.0D.3 Flowable Emulsion Concentrate or aqueous dilution bv weight a Emulsifiable concentrate as in D.2 b above 2.0 Water 98.0 D.4 Flowable Liquid Suspensions especially preferred by weight a A.I. 10.0 Surfactant as in D.1 a above 1.0 Sodium polyacrylate 0.5 Xanthan gum 0.05 Propylene glycol 5.0 Water 83.45 b A.I. 50.0 Surfactant as in D.l a above 2.0 Sodium polyacrylate 0.5 Xanthan gum 0.05 Propylene glycol 5.0 Water 42.45D.5 Pastes bv weight A.I. 75.0 Propylene glycol 5.0 Xylene 3.0 Surfactant as in D.l z above 15.0 Calcium stearate 2.0 In these biological tests two series of tests were carried out, one in a glasshouse on weeds growing in pots and the other in the open field by the application of the herbicides post emergence on winter wheat and weeds.Pot TrialsThe weeds Polygonum lapathifolium and Matricaria chamomilla as indicated in Tables I and II hereinafter were sown in pots containing garden soil which had not previously been treated with a herbicide. After the sowing the soils were maintained moist by regular watering at a temperature cf from 8 to 12 C. The herbicides were sprayed in a carrier liquid when the weeds had attained the two to four leaf stage Trite liquid volume used was 300 litres per hectare and the doses of each active ingredient in grams per hectare were 25 indicated in the following Tables.The composition sprayed was formulated from a wettable powder containing 5 by weight of the DPE and wettable powders of mecoprop as the bu. lglyccl ester and of ioxynil as the octanoate each containing 25 by weight of the active ingredient. The dicamba was incorporated from a 500 grams per litre aqueous solution of its amine salt. The spray composition was made by the usual tank mix procedures that is to say that the wettable powders were r,ixed Fnto a thick paste with water and or the dicamba solution when appropriate, and this paste was then extended with more water to form a sprayable dispersion.To demonstrate synergism each pot was sown with three species of weeds. Three pots were left untreated with herbicide, three pots were treated with a mixture of the two herbicides as indicated and each of three pots were treated only with the individual herbicides. The pots were observed for four weeks after the treatment and the weed populations counted two weeks after the treatment. The results and further details of the tests are given inTables 1 and 2 hereinafter.Field TrialsField trials were carried out in up to three different locations on plots two metres by ten metres in area sown with winter wheat and beaning weeds as indicated in TablesIII to V hereinafter, with adjacent control plots and with two repetitions. The herbicides were applied by liquid suspension, made as in the pot trials, at a rate of 600 litres per hectare.Application of the herbicides was carried out at id tillering stage 3 to 4 on the Large scale, Plant Pathology 1954 Volume 3 pages 128 to 129 .As in the pot trials, the plots were observed over a period of four weeks and the weed counts taken two weeks after treatment.The results and further details of the treatment are given in tables III to V hereinafter. Svnerqism The results are expressed as a percentage of weeds destroyed in two ways the actual observed percentage R and the calculated percentage C on the basis of the herbicidal activity measured when each of the two herbicides was used individually on the basis of the Limpel fcrmula C X Y XY in which X equals weed destroyed by 100 the first herbicide alone Y weeds destroyed by the second herbicide alone C weeds expected to be destroyed by the combination of the two herbicides assuming no synergism. When the difference between R and C is positive synergism is demonstrated. If it is negative antagonism is demonstrated. Support for this basis of measurement of synergism is to be found in the articles by Limpel, Schulot and Lamont, 1962, Proc. NEW cc, Volume 16 pages 48 to 53 and Colby, Weeds, January 1967 pages 20 to 22. TABLE 1 POT TRIALS EMI14.1 Application SEP Trial SEP 1 SEP Trial SEP 2 tb Rate SEP Grams tb Herbicide SEP Active SEP in SEP Matricaria SEP Polygonum SEP Matricaria SEP Polygonum tb gredient SEP par SEP Chamomilla SEP lapathilfolium SEP Chamomilla SEP lapathilfolium tb gredient SEP par tb hoctars SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP tb OPE SEP 10 SEP 12 SEP 50 SEP 32 SEP 30 tb 30 SEP 22 SEP 62 SEP 35 SEP 40 tb 60 SEP 20 SEP 65 SEP 42 SEP 60 tb 120 SEP 42 SEP 70 SEP 58 SEP 70 tb Mecoprop SEP 500 SEP 0 SEP 42 SEP 20 SEP 40 tb 1000 SEP 25 SEP 50 SEP 40 SEP 40 tb 2000 SEP 40 SEP 55 SEP 68 SEP 45 tb Mecoprop SEP OPE SEP 500 SEP SEP 10 SEP 37 SEP 12 SEP 25 SEP 53 SEP 71 SEP 18 SEP 90 SEP 46 SEP 44 SEP 50 SEP 58 SEP 8 tb 500 SEP SEP 30 SEP 42 SEP 22 SEP 20 SEP 73 SEP 78 SEP 5 SEP 95 SEP 48 SEP 47 SEP 90 SEP 64 SEP 26 tb 500 SEP SEP 60 SEP 57 SEP 20 SEP 37 SEP 75 SEP 80 SEP 5 SEP 90 SEP 54 SEP 36 SEP 90 SEP 76 SEP 14 tb 1000 SEP SEP 10 SEP 62 SEP 34 SEP 28 SEP 67 SEP 75 SEP 8 SEP 95 SEP 60 SEP 35 SEP 70 SEP 58 SEP 12 tb 1000 SEP SEP 30 SEP 90 SEP 42 SEP 48 SEP 82 SEP 81 SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 62 SEP 33 SEP 95 SEP 64 SEP 31 tb 1000 SEP SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 87 SEP 82 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 66 SEP 34 SEP 95 SEP 76 SEP 19 tb 2000 SEP SEP 10 SEP 87 SEP 47 SEP 40 SEP 87 SEP 77 SEP 10 SEP 95 SEP 80 SEP 61 SEP 19 tb 2000 SEP SEP 30 SEP 93 SEP 53 SEP 40 SEP 89 SEP 83 SEP SEP 98 SEP 98 SEP 67 SEP 31 tb 2000 SEP SEP 60 SEP 98 SEP 52 SEP 46 SEP 92 SEP 85 SEP 7 SEP 95 SEP 95 tb TABLE II pot trials EMI15.1 Application SEP Trial SEP II tb Rate SEP Grams tb Herbicides SEP Active SEP In SEP Matricaria SEP chamomilla tb gredient SEP par tb hectare SEP R SEP C SEP tb Ope SEP 10 SEP 37 tb 30 SEP 39 tb 60 SEP 47 tb 120 SEP 58 tb Dicamba SEP 30 SEP 15 tb 60 SEP 40 tb 120 SEP 45 tb Dicamba SEP SEP OPE SEP 30 SEP SEP 10 SEP 75 SEP 44 SEP 31 tb 30 SEP SEP 30 SEP 80 SEP 45 SEP 35 tb 30 SEP SEP 60 SEP 87 SEP 51 SEP 36 tb 60 SEP SEP 10 SEP 85 SEP 45 SEP 40 tb 60 SEP SEP 30 SEP 88 SEP 61 SEP 27 tb 60 SEP SEP 60 SEP 92 SEP 66 SEP 26 tb 120 SEP SEP 10 SEP 95 SEP 64 SEP 31 tb 120 SEP SEP 30 SEP 95 SEP 66 SEP 29 tb 120 SEP SEP 60 SEP 92 tb TABLE III FIELD TRIALS EMI16.1 Application tb Trial SEP I SEP Trial SEP II SEP Trial SEP III tb Rate SEP Grams tb Herbicides SEP Active SEP inMatricaria SEP Stellaria SEP Polygonum tb gredient SEP par SEP Chamomilla SEP M dia SEP Aviculare tb hectare SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP tb OPE SEP 20 SEP 42 SEP 30 SEP 30 tb 30 SEP 48 SEP 40 SEP 55 tb 60 SEP 60 SEP 56 SEP 75 tb Mecoprop SEP 500 SEP 20 SEP 20 SEP 30 tb 1000 SEP 34 SEP 58 SEP 48 tb 1500 SEP 57 SEP 85 SEP 82 tb Mecoprop SEP OPE SEP 500 SEP SEP 20 SEP 75 SEP 54 SEP 21 SEP 75 SEP 44 SEP 31 SEP 70 SEP 59 SEP 11 tb 500 SEP SEP 30 SEP 80 SEP 58 SEP 22 SEP 85 SEP 52 SEP 33 SEP 75 SEP 69 SEP 6 tb 500 SEP SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 68 SEP 22 SEP 90 SEP 65 SEP 25 SEP 83 SEP 83 SEP 0 tb 1000 SEP SEP 20 SEP 88 SEP 62 SEP 22 SEP 90 SEP 71 SEP 19 SEP 75 SEP 64 SEP 11 tb 1000 SEP SEP 30 SEP 92 SEP 66 SEP 24 SEP 95 SEP 75 SEP 20 SEP 88 SEP 78 SEP 10 tb 1000 SEP SEP 60 SEP 95 SEP 74 SEP 21 SEP 95 SEP 83 SEP 12 SEP 94 SEP 87 SEP 7 tb 1500 SEP SEP 20 SEP 90 SEP 76 SEP 14 SEP 92 SEP 90 SEP 2 SEP 85 SEP 87 SEP 2 tb 1500 SEP SEP 30 SEP 95 SEP 79 SEP 16 SEP 94 SEP 91 SEP 3 SEP 88 SEP 92 SEP 4 tb 1500 SEP SEP 60 SEP 99 SEP 83 SEP 16 SEP 95 SEP 95 SEP 0 SEP 93 SEP 95 SEP 2 tb TABLE IV FIELD TRIALS EMI17.1 Application SEP Trial SEP I SEP Trial SEP II SEP Trial SEP III tb Rate SEP Grms tb Herbicides SEP Active SEP in SEP Matricaria SEP Stellaria SEP Polygonum tb Chamomilla SEP Media SEP Aviculare tb gredient SEP per tb hectars SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP tb OPE SEP 20 SEP 42 SEP 30 SEP 30 tb 30 SEP 48 SEP 40 SEP 55 tb 60 SEP 60 SEP 56 SEP 75 tb Ioxynil SEP 200 SEP 40 SEP 50 SEP 20 tb 300 SEP 52 SEP 60 SEP 35 tb 400 SEP 88 SEP 85 SEP 43 tb Ioxynil SEP OPE SEP 200 SEP SEP 20 SEP 75 SEP 65 SEP 10 SEP 65 SEP 65 SEP 0 SEP 40 SEP 41 SEP 1 tb 200 SEP SEP 30 SEP 80 SEP 68 SEP 12 SEP 72 SEP 70 SEP 2 SEP 55 SEP 64 SEP 9 tb 200 SEP SEP 60 SEP 85 SEP 76 SEP 9 SEP 92 SEP 78 SEP 14 SEP 80 SEP 80 SEP 0 tb 300 SEP SEP 20 SEP 78 SEP 72 SEP 6 SEP 80 SEP 72 SEP 8 SEP 75 SEP 55 SEP 20 tb 300 SEP SEP 30 SEP 90 SEP 75 SEP 15 SEP 90 SEP 76 SEP 14 SEP 85 SEP 71 SEP 14 tb 300 SEP SEP 60 SEP 95 SEP 83 SEP 12 SEP 95 SEP 72 SEP 23 SEP 90 SEP 84 SEP 6 tb 400 SEP SEP 20 SEP 85 SEP 83 SEP 2 SEP 90 SEP 90 SEP 0 SEP 75 SEP 70 SEP 5 tb 400 SEP SEP 30 SEP 95 SEP 94 SEP 1 SEP 95 SEP 91 SEP 4 SEP 82 SEP 75 SEP 7 tb 400 SEP SEP 60 SEP 100 SEP 95 SEP 5 SEP 100 SEP 94 SEP 6 SEP 90 SEP 86 SEP 4 tb TABLE V FIELD TRIALS EMI18.1 Application SEP Trial SEP I SEP Trial SEP II tb Rate SEP Grams tb Herbicides SEP Active SEP in SEP Matricaria SEP Stellaria tb Chamomilla SEP Media tb gredient SEP per tb hectars SEP R SEP C SEP SEP R SEP C SEP tb OPE SEP 20 SEP 42 SEP 30 tb 30 SEP 48 SEP 40 tb 60 SEP 60 SEP 56 tb Dicamba tb 30 SEP 30 SEP 25 tb 60 SEP 42 SEP 32 tb 120 SEP 45 SEP 40 tb Dicamba SEP SEP OPE SEP 30 SEP SEP 20 SEP 45 SEP 60 SEP 15 SEP 65 SEP 47 SEP 18 tb 30 SEP SEP 30 SEP 52 SEP 64 SEP 12 SEP 72 SEP 57 SEP 15 tb 30 SEP SEP 60 SEP 65 SEP 72 SEP 7 SEP 85 SEP 67 SEP 18 tb 60 SEP SEP 20 SEP 75 SEP 65 SEP 10 SEP 82 SEP 52 SEP 20 tb 60 SEP SEP 30 SEP 78 SEP 70 SEP 8 SEP 92 SEP 59 SEP 23 tb 60 SEP SEP 60 SEP 85 SEP 78 SEP 7 SEP 92 SEP 70 SEP 22 tb 120 SEP SEP 20 SEP 75 SEP 69 SEP 6 SEP 92 SEP 58 SEP 24 tb 120 SEP SEP 30 SEP 80 SEP 71 SEP 9 SEP 95 SEP 66 SEP 29 tb 120 SEP SEP 60 SEP 90 SEP 78 SEP 12 SEP 95 SEP 74 SEP 21 tb These results clearly demonstrate synergism in respect of binary mixtures of DPE and ioxynil on Matricaria chamomilla,Stellaria media and Polygonum aviculare and, to a greater extent of DPE and dicamba on Matricaria chamomilla andStellaria media and between DPE and mecoprop on Matricaria chamomilla, Polygonum lapathifolium, Polygonum aviculare andStellaria media. The level of synergism indicated also justifies the preferred ratios and dosages of the herbicides given hereinbefore.