# Penem derivatives and precursors.

## Abstract
A compound of formula II Processes for preparing these compounds and phar maceutical compositions containing them are also described.

## Claims
Claims 1 A compound of formula II EMI126.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof, wherein one of Rl or R2 is hydrogen, and the other is a group of subformula a EMI126.2 wherein R4 is a substituent group, X is an oxygen atom, a sulphur atom or an NR5 group wherein R5 is hydrogen hydrocarbon or a nitrogen protecting group, and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 and R3 represents hydrogen or an organic group. 2 A compound according to claim 1 wherein one of R1 or R2 is a group of sub formula a in which n is zero. 3 A compound according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein one of Ri or R2 is 2 furyl, 3 furyl, 2 thienyl or 3 thienyl. 4 A compound according to claim 3 wherein one of R1 or R2 is 2 furyl. 5 A compound according to any one of the preceding claims wherein R3 is hydrogen or a group of formula Ra or SRa wherein Ra is an optionally substituted C1 10 hydrocarbon or heterocyclic group. 6 A process for preparing a compound of formula II as defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof which process comprises the elimination of the elements H Z from a compound of formula III EMI127.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined as claim 1 Z is hydroxy or a leaving group R6 is C1 6 alkyl, aryl or aryl C1 6 alkyl R7 is hydrogen or an N protecting group or R6 and R7 are joined together to form a penem ring such that the compound is of formula IV EMI127.2 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are as defined in claim 1, Z is as defined above and R1 is a carboxy blocking group and thereafter if necessary carrying out one or more of the following steps i joining R6 and R7 to complete the penem ring of formula II ii removing the carboxy blocking group Rx and iii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester. 7 A process for preparing a compound of formula II wherein R3 is a group SRa, which process comprises reacting a sulphoxide of formula X EMI128.1 wherein Rl and R2 are as defined in claim 1 and Rx is as defined in claim 6 and R18 is an organic group different to the group Ra with a thiol of formula XI Ra SH XI or a reactive derivative thereof and thereafter carrying out one or more of the following steps i removal of any carboxyl blocking group RX ii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester group. 8 A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula Il as defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 9 A pharmaceutical compoisition according to claim 8 and which further comprises a penicillin or cephalosporin. 10 A compound of formula II as defined in claim 1 or a pharmaceutially acceptable salt or ester thereof for use in the treatment of bacterial infection. 11 A compound of formula IXa EMI129.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in claim 1, R15 isC1 6 alkyl, aryl or aryl C1 6 alkyl and R16 is hydrogen or an N protecting group.

## Description
NOVEL COMPOUNDS This invention relates to ss lactam compounds and in particular to a class of 6 alkylidene penems which have antibacterial and ss lactamase inhibitory properties. The compounds are therefore useful in the treatment of antibacterial infections in humans or animals, either alone or in combination with other antibiotics. European Patent Publication No 0041 768 corresponding to US Serial No 257 481 discloses 6 alkylidene 2 penems of the general formula I EMI1.1 wherein Ra, and Rb represent hydrogen or an optionally substituted hydrocarbon or heterocyclic group, and Re represents hydrogen or an organic group, which possess antibacterial activity. The compounds also inhibit lactamases and have a synergistic effect in combination with other 13 lactam antibiotics.The Applicants have found that certain of these compounds have better activity than others within the class According to the present invention there is provided a compound of formula 11 EMI2.1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof, wherein one of R1 or R2 is hydrogen, and the other is a group of subformula a EMI2.2 wherein R4 is a substituent group, X is an oxygen atom, a sulphur atom or an NR5 group wherein R5 is hydrogen, hydrocarbon or a nitrogen protecting group, and n is O, 1, 2 or 3 and R3 represents hydrogen or an organic group. Suitable substituent groups R4 include C1 6 alkanoyl, C1 6 alkanoyloxy in particular acetoxy, heterocyclyl, amino, C1 6 alkanoyl amino, mono, di and tri C1 6 alkylamino, hydroxy, Cl 6 alkoxy, sulpho, mercapto, C1 6 alkylthio, C16 alkylsulphinyl, C16 alkyl sulphonyl, heterocyclyl thio, arylthio, sulphamoyl, carbamoyl, ami di no, guanidino, nitro, halogen, carboxy and salts and esters thereof, arylcarbonyl or heterocyclylcarbonyl, or optionally substituted C1 6 alkyl, C2 6 alkenyl, C2 6 alkynyl, aryl, and aryl C1 6 alkyl wherein the optional substituent s are those mentioned above for R4 itself. When R4 is a salt or ester of carboxy, it is suitably a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt br pharmaceutically acceptable ester such as the methyl ester. Suitable substituent groups R4 include acetoxymethyl, bromo, sodium salt of carboxy or methyl ester of carboxy. Preferably n is zero. The term heterocyclyl includes single or fused rings comprising up to four hetero atoms in the ring selected from oxygen, nitrogen and sulphur and optionally substituted with up to three halogen, C1 6 alkyl, C1 6 alkoxy, halo C1 6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, carboxy, C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl, C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl or oxo groups. When used herein the term aryl includes phenyl and naphthyl optionally substituted with up to five, preferably up to three, groups selected from halogen,C1 6 alkyl, phenyl, C1 6 alkoxy, halo C1 6 alkyl, hydroxy, amino, nitro, carboxy, C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl,C1 6 alkoxycarbonyl C1 6 alkyl, C1 6 alkylcarbonyloxy, or C1 6 alkylcarbonyl groups. The term hydrocarbon includes groups having up to 18 carbon atoms, suitably up to 10 carbon atoms, conveniently up to 6 carbon atoms. Suitable hydrocarbon groups include C16 alkyl, C26 alkenyl, C26 alkynyl, C37 cycloalkyl, C37 cycloalkyl C1 6 alkyl, aryl, and aryl Cl 6 alkyl. Preferably R1 or R2 is a 2 furyl, 3 furyl, 2 thienyl or 3 thienyl group.When R5 is a nitrogen protecting group it is suitably one which is well known in the art such as carboxyethyl, p ni trobenzyloxycarbonyl, benzyloxycarbonyl or SO2Rq wherein Rq is a hydrocarbon group. Suitably R5 is hydrogen or a C16 alkyl group in particular methyl. Suitably R3 represents hydrogen or an organic group linked through a sulphur or carbon atom. For example R3 may represent hydrogen or a group of formulaRa or SRa where Ra is an optionally substituted Cl lO hydrocarbon or heterocyclic group. Preferably, R3 represents hydrogen, optionally substituted C1 10 alkyl or optionally substituted C1 10 alkylthio, wherein the substituent is hydroxy, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkanoyloxy, halogen, mercapto, C1 6 alkylthio, heterocyclylthio, amino, mono or di C1 6 alkylamino, C1 6 alkanoylamino, carboxy, or C1 6 alko,xycarbonyl. Pharmaceutically acceptable in vivo hydrolysable esters are those esters which hydrolyse in the human body to produce the parent acid or its salt. Such esters may be identified by administration to a test animal such as a rat or a mouse by intravenous administration and thereafter examining the test animal s body fluids for the presence of the compound of the formula II or its salt. Suitable esters groups of this type include those of part formulae b , c and d EMI5.1 wherein Al is hydrogen, methyl, or phenyl, A2 is C1 6 alkyl, C16 alkoxy. or phenyl or A1 and A2 together or two methoxy groups. A3 represents C1 6 alkylene optionally substituted with a methyl or ethyl group A4 and A5 independently represent C1 6 alkyl A6 represents C16 alkyl. Examples of suitable in vivo hydrolysable ester groups include acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a acetoxyethyl, a acetoxybenzyl, a pivaloyloxyethyl , ethoxycarbonyloxymethyl, alpha ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl, dimethylaminomethyl, diethylaminomethyl, phthalidyl and dimethoxy phthalidyl groups. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the 3 carboxylic acid group of the compound of formula II include metal salts, eg aluminium, alkali metal salts such as sodium or potassium, alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium or magnesium, and ammonium or substituted ammonium salts for example those with lower alkylamines such triethylamine, hydroxy lower alkylamines such as 2 hydroxyethylamine, bis 2 hydroxyethyl amine or tri 2 hydroxyethyl amine, cycloalkylamines such as bicyclohexylamine, or with procaine, dibenzylamine,N,N dibenzylethylenediamine, l ephenamine,N ethylpiperadine, N benzyl ss phenethylamine, dehydroabietylamine, N,N bishydroabietylethylenediamine, or bases of the pyridine type such as pyridine, collidine or quinoline, or other amines which have been used to form salts with known penicillins. Suitable groups for R3 include hydrogen, or methyl, ethyl, propyl, methylthio, ethylthio, methylsulphinyl, ethylsulphinyl, hydroxymethyl, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, acetoxymethyl, 1 , or 2 acetoxyethyl, aminomethyl, 2 ami noethyl, acetamidomethyl, 2 acetamidoethyl, carboxymethyl, hydroxymethylthio, i hydroxyethylthio, methoxymethylthio, 2 methoxyethylthio, acetoxymethylthio, aminomethylthio, 2 aminoethylthio, acetamidomethylthio, 2 acetamidoethylthio, carboxymethylthio, 2 carboxyethylthio or pyridylthio. Particular groups for R3 are hydrogen aminomethyl, aminoethyl, methylthio, ethylthio, 2 aminoethylthio, 2 hydroxyethylthio, 2 carboxyethylthio, methyl, ethyl, acetamidoethyl, pyridylthio, and ethylsulphinyl. The compounds of formula 11 may exist in two optically active forms and it is to be understood that both such forms as well as racemic mixtures thereof are embraced by the present invention. It is believed that the more active form is that of structure IIa EMI7.1 wherein R1 is the group of sub formula a as hereinbefore defined. Suitable compounds of formula CI include 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 Furfurylidenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 Furfurylidenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl 2 Ethylthio 6 furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium 2 Ethylthio Z 6 furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 Furfurylidene 2 2hydroxyethylthio penem3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 Furfurylidene 2 2 hydroxy ethylthi o penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfur furylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfur ylidene 2 ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfurylidene 2 ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl 2 6 5 Z 2 methoxy carbonylvinylfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 5 t Z 2 methoxycarbonyl vinylfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 2 thienyl methylenepenem3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 2 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS Sodium E 6 2 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS Sodium E 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl E 6 furfurylidenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 furfurylidenepenem 3carboxylate 5 RS Sodium E 6 furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylate 5 RS 2 2 Carboxyethylthio 2 6 furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylate, Di sodium salt 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 Bromofurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 5 Bromofurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl E 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3 carboxylate 5 RS Sodium E 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3carboxylate 5 RS Sodium Z 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3carboxylate 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 p Nitrobenzyloxy carbonyl furfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate and 5 RS Z 6 5 Carboxyfurfurylidene penem 3carboxylate, Di sodium salt.Further according to the present invention there is provided a process for preparing a compound of formulaII as defined in relation to formula II or a pharmaceutically acceptble salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester thereof which process comprises the elimination of the elements H Z from a compound of formula III EMI9.1 wherein R1 and R2 are as defined in relation to formula II Z is hydroxy or a leaving group R6 is C1 6 alkyl, aryl or aryl C1 6 alkyl R7 is hydrogen or an N protecting group or R6 and R7 are joined together to form a penem ring such that the compound is of formula IV EMI9.2 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are as defined in relation to formula II , Z is as defined above and Rx is a hydrogen or carboxy blocking group and heleaftel lf uelessaly cartying syut une on mole of following steps i joining R6 and R7 to complete the penem ring of formula II ii removing the carboxy blocking group Rx and iii converting the product into a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester. The compounds of this invention may be prepared by dehydration of a compound of formula V EMI10.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are as defined with respect to formula II above and Rx representshydrogen, or a carboxyl blocking group, and thereafter if necessary carrying out one or more of the following steps i removal of any carboxyl blocking group Rx ii converting the product to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester group. Suitable carboxyl blocking derivatives for the group Co2RX in formulae IV and V include salts, ester, and anhydride derivatives of the carboxylic acid. The derivative is one which may readily be cleaved at a later stage of the reaction. The salts may not be pharmaceutically acceptable. Suitable salts include inorganic salts, for example metal salts such silver or mercuric salt, or alkali metal salts such as the lithium or sodium salt, tertiary amine salts, such as thos with tri lower alkylamines, N ethylpiperadine, dimethylpiperazine. A preferred salt is with triethylamine. Suitable ester forming carboxyl protecting groups are those which may be removed under conventional conditions. Such groups for Rx include benzyl, p methoxybenzyl, 2,4, 6 trimethylbenzyl, 3,5 di t butyl 4 hydroxy benzyl, benzoylmethyl, p nitrobenzyl, 4 pyridylmethyl, 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, 2,2,2 tribromoethyl, allyl, acetonyl, t butyl, t amyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl, adamantyl, 2 benzyl oxyphenyl, 4 methylthiophenyl, tetrahydrofur 2 yl, tetrahydropyran 2 yl, pentachlorophenyl, p toluene sulphonylethyl, methoxymethyl, a silyl, stannyl or phosphorus containing group, an oxime radical of formula N CHRo where RO is aryl or heterocyclic, or an in vivo hydrolysable ester radical such as defined above. The carboxyl group may be regenerated from any of the above esters by usual methods appropriate to the particular Rx group, for example, acid and base catalysed hydrolysis, or by enzymically catalysed hydrolysis, or by hydrogenation. The hydrolysis must of course be carried out under conditions to which the groups on the rest of the molecule are stable. When it is desired to produce a compound of formula IlY in the form of a free acid or salt by the process of this invention, a compound of formula V is generally employed wherein RX is a carboxyl blocking group. For the preparation of a compound of formula II in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable ester, it is convenient to employ a compound of formula V wherein Rx represents the desired ester group. The dehydration process of this invention may be carried out by treating a compound of formula V with a compound of formula VI R802C N N COzR9 VI wherein R8 and R9 are independently aryl, or C16 alkyl optionally substituted with aryl and a compound of formula VII EMI12.1 wherein a, b and c are independently 0 or 1, and R10, Rll and R12 are independently aryl or C1 6 alkyl optionally substituted with aryl. In the compounds of the formula VI R8 and R9 are preferably selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, phenyl, and benzyl, the ethyl and t butyl groups being preferred. Thus a preferred compound of formula VI is diethyl azodicarboxylate. It is often convenient that R8 and R9 represent the same group. Preferred compounds of the formula VII include triarylphosphines and trialkylphosphites. Preferred groups R10, Rll and R12 include methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, benzyl, phenyl and methoxyphenyl.Conveniently, R10, R11 and R12 represent the same group. A particularly preferred compound of the formula VII is triphenylphosphine. Generally, approximately two equivalents of the compounds of the formulae VI and VII are used per mole of compound V . The elimination reaction is generally carried out at non extreme temperature, such as 200C to 100oC. We have found it convenient to begin the reaction at a depressed temperature, such as 0 C, and then to allow the temperature to rise to about room temperature. The reaction is performed in an inert aprotic organic solvent. Suitable solvents include tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, ethyl acetate, benzene, dichloromethane and the like. Alternatively, the dehydration process of this invention may be carried out by converting compound V into a compound of formula VIII EMI14.1 and eliminating the elements of a compound of formulaH X therefrom, wherein R1, R2, R3 and Rx are as defined with respect to formula V above, and X is a leaving group. Suitable groups for the leaving group X include halogen a group of formula O SO2 O n R13 or O CO O n R13 wherein n is zero or 1 and R13 is aryl or C16 alkyl optionally substituted with aryl and a group of formula OPO 0R14 2 wherein R14 is C16 alkyl or aryl. Preferred groups of formula OCO O nRl3 are those wherein n is zero and R13 is C16 alkyl, in particular acetoxy. The elimination of the elements of a compound of the formula H X is most conveniently brought about by treatment of a compound of the formula VIII with a base in an aprotic medium. Suitable bases include powdered inorganic bases such as alkali metal carbonates, bicarbonates or hydroxides, for example powdered potassium carbonate, or alkali metal hydrides. Also suitable are organic bases of low nucleophilicity, for example, 1,8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene. Suitable solvents for use in this reaction include dimethylformamide, hexamethylphosphoramide, dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran and the like. The elimination may be effected at a low temperature such as 70 to 700C, for example 40 toOoC. The compounds of formula VIII may be prepared from the compounds of formula V by replacing the hydroxy group by a group X. Alternatively the group X can be introduced into the molecule at an earlier stage in the synthesis of the penem nucleus. In particular the groups OSO2 O nR13 and OCO O nR13 can be introduced at the beginning of, or at any stage during, the synthesis of the penem. In each case, the group X is introduced by replacing a hydroxyl group.One particular intermediate useful for the synthesis of compound of formula VIII is the compound of formula IX EMI15.1 wherein Rl and R2 are as defined with respect to formula II above, R15 represents C1 6 alkyl, aryl or aryl C1 6 alkyl, and R16 represents hydrogen or anN protecting group, and X is as hereinbefore defined. Suitably R15 is triphenyl methyl. Suitable mild oxidising agents include perbenzoic acid, hydrogen peroxide, selenium dioxide or sodium metaperiodate. Suitable perbenzoic acids such as m chloroperbenzoic acid are most preferred. The compounds of formula II where R3 representsSRa may also be prepared by a process which comprises reacting a sulphoxide of formula X EMI16.1 wherein R1, R2 and Rx are as defined above and R18 represents an organic radical different to the groupRa with a thiol of formula XI or a reactive derivative thereof Ra SH XI and thereafter carrying out one or more of the following steps i removal of any carboxyl blocking group RX ii converting the product to pharmaceutically acceptable salt or in vivo hydrolysable ester group.Suitable organic radicals for R18 include those described above for R3. The process may be carried out in any inert solvent such as acetonitrile, N,N dimethylformamide DMF , tetrahydrofuran THF , dioxane, hexamethylphosphoramide HMPA or glyme. The solventDMF is preferred. A low temperature is preferred, suitably below 0 C, preferably below 200C especially from about 300C to about 700C. Alternatively we have found it useful to use a phase transfer catalyst. Particularly suitable phase transfer catalysts include tetra n butyl ammonium bromide, cetyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride and cetyltriethyl ammonium chloride. Suitable solvents include halogenated water immiscible solvents such as chloroform or dichloromethane in the presence of water. When using a phase transfer catalyst, it is preferable to conduct the reaction between OOC and ambient temperature. When the thiol compound of formula XI itself is employed, the reaction is generally carried out in the presence of a base, although this is not essential.Examples of suitable bases include sodium hydride, potassium hydroxide, sodium amide, potassium amide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, sodium ethoxide, soduim methoxide, potassium butoxide, triethylamine, tripropylamine and diisopropylethylamine.Advantageously, the base is used in an amount of at least 0.9 equivalent, preferably 1.0 to 1.2 equivalents, per mole of the thiol compound. Instead of using the base in the reaction, a reactive derivative of the thiol compound of formula XI may be used. Preferably the reactive derivative is a salt of the thiol XI , in particular a salt with an alkali metal, preferably sodium or potassium. The amount of the thiol compound of formula XI or its reactive derivative is not critical. Generally, however, it is used in an amount of at least 1.0 mole, preferably from 1 to 3, per mole of the compound of formula X . Compounds of formula X may be prepared byS oxidation of a compound of formula XII EMI18.1 wherein R1, R2, R18 and Rx are as defined with respect to formula X above with a mild oxidising agent. Suitable mild oxidising agents include perbenzoic acid, hydrogen peroxide, selenium dioxide or sodium metaperiodate. Suitable perbenzoic acids such as m chloroperbenzoic acid are most preferred.The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of this invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.The compositions of the invention include those in a form adapted for oral, topical or parenteral use and may be used for the treatment of the infection in animals especially mammals including humans. Suitable forms of the compositions of this invention include tablets, capsules, creams, syrups, suspensions, solutions, reconstitutable powders and sterile forms suitable for injection or infusion. Such compositions may contain conventional pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as diluents, binders,c olours, flavours, preservatives, disintegrant and the like in accordance with conventional pharmaceutical practice in the manner well understood by those skilled in the art of formulating antibiotics.The injectable solution of the compound of this invention may be made up in a sterile pyrogen free liquid such as water, aqueous ethanol or the like.An alternative approach to administering the compounds of this invention is to utilise an injectable suspension. Such suspensions may be made up in sterile water sterile saline or the like and may also contain suspending agents such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, lecithin or the like. For use in such suspensions the compounds of this invention should be in the form of fine particles. Injctable or infusable compositions of a compound of the invention are particularly suitable as high blood levels of the compound can occur after administration by injection or infusion. Thus, one preferred composition aspect of this invention comprises a compound of the invention in sterile form and most suitably in sterile crystalline form.Alternatively, such compostions may be prepared in an acceptable oil suspending agent such as arachis oil or its equivalent. For use in such suspensions the compounds of this invention should be in the form of fine particles.Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for oral administration form a further suitable composition aspect of this invention.Unit dose compositions comprising a compound of this invention adapted for topical administration are also presented by this invention.The compound of the formula may be present in the composition as sole.therapeutic agent or it may be present together with other therapeutic agents such as, for example, a penicillin or cephalosporin.Considerable advantages accrue from the inclusion of a penicillin or cephalosporin which shows instability to ss lactamases since the resulting composition shows enhanced effectiveness synergy . Suitable penicillins, cephalosporins or other ss lactam antibiotics for inclusion in such synergistic compositions include not only those known to be highly susceptible to R lactamases but also those which have a degree of intrinsic resistance to 13 lactamases. Suitable penicillins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include benzylpenicillin, phenoxymethylpenicillin, carbenicillin, azidocillin, propicillin, ampicillin, amoxycillin, epicillin, ticarcillin, cyclacillin, pirbenicillin, azlocillin, mezlocillin, sulbenicillin, piperacillin, and other well known penicillins including pro drugs thereof such as their in vivo hydrolysable esters such as the acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, a ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl or phthalidyl esters of ampicillin benzylpenicillin or amoxycillin, and aldehyde or ketone adducts of penicillins containing a 6 a aminoacetamide side chain such as hetacillin, metampicillin and analogous derivatives of amoxycillin or esters of carbenicillin or ticarcillin such as their phenyl or indanyl a esters.Suitable cephalosporins for inclusion in the compositions of this invention include, for example, cefatrizine, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephalexin, cephacetrile, cephapirin, cephamandole nafate, cephradine, 4 hydroxycephalexin, cefaparole, cephaloglycin, cefoperazone, and other well known cephalosporins or pro drugs thereof as well as newer broad spectrum cephalosporins such as cefotaxin and ceftazidine. Such compounds are frequently used in the form of a salt of hydrate or the like. Naturally if the penicillin or cephalosporin present in the composition is not suitable for oral administration then the composition will be adapted for parenteral administration. Highly favoured penicillins for use in the compositions of this invention include ampicillin, amoxycillin, carbenicillin and ticarcillin. Such penicillins may be used as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt such as the sodium salt. Alternatively the ampicillin or amoxycillin may be used in the form of fine particles of the zwitterionic form generally as ampicillin trihydrate or amoxycillin trihydrate for use in an injectable suspension, for example, in the manner hereinbefore described for a compound of this invention. The preferred penicillin for use in the synergistic composition is amoxycillin, for example as its sodium salt or trihydrate. Particularly suitable cephalosporins for use in the compositions of this invention include cephaloridine and cefazolin which may be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, for example the sodium salt.When present together with a cephalosporin or penicillin, the ratio of a compound of the invention to the penicillin or cephalosporin agent may vary over a wide range of ratios, such as from 10 1 to 1 10, for example about 3 1, 2 1, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5 or 1 6 wt wt, based on pure free antibiotic equivalent .The total quantity of a compound of the invention in any unit dosage form will normally be between 25 and 1000 mg and will usually be between 50 and 500 mg, for example about 625, 100, 125, 150, 200 or 250 mg. Compositions of this invention may be used for the treatment of infections of inter alia, the respiratory tract, the urinary tract and soft tissues in humans.Normally for adult 70kg human treatment between 50 and 3000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered each day of treatment. This corresponds to a dosage of 0.7 to 50mg kg per day. More usually between 100 and 1000 mg of the compounds of the invention will be administered per day, corresponding to from 1.5 to 15 mg kg per day, for example at 1 6 doses, more usually as 2, 3 or 4 doses. However for the treatment of more severe systemic infections or infections of particularly intransigent organisms higher doses may be used in accordance with clinical practice. The penicillins or cephalosporin in the synergistic composition of this invention will normally be present at approximately the amount at which it is conventionally used which will usually be expected to be from about 62.5 to 3000 mg per dose, more usually about 125, 250, 500 or 1000 mg per dose.One particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of amoxycillin as the trihydrate or sodium salt and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention.A further particularly favoured composition of this invention will contain from 150 to 1000 mg of ampicillin or a pro drug thereof and from 25 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention.Most suitably this form of composition will contain ampicillin trihydrate, ampicillin anhydrate, sodium ampicillin, hetacillin, pivampicillin, hydrochloride, bacampicillin hydrochloride or talampicillin hydrochloride. Most suitably this form of the composition will contain a compound of the formula II when in crystalline form.Most suitably the preceding composition will contain from 200 to 700 mg of the penicillin component. Most suitably the preceding composition will comprise from 50 to 250 mg of a compound of the formula II preferably in crystalline form.Such compositions may be adapted for oral or parenteral use except when containing an in vivo hydrolysable ester of ampicillin or amoxycillin in which case the compositions will not be adapted for parenteral administration. Another particularly favoured compositions of this invention will contain from 200 to 2000 mg of carbenicillin, ticarcillin or a pro drug thereof and from 50 to 500 mg of a compound of this invention.Suitably this form of composition will contain di sodium carbenicillin. Suitably this form of the composition will contain di sodium ticarcillin.More suitably this form of the composition will contain from 75 to 250 mg of a compound of the formula II preferably in crystalline form. Such compositions containing do salts of carbenicillin and ticarcillin will be adapted for parenteral administration.The present invention also provides a method of treating bacterial infections in animals, in particular humans or domestic mammals, which comprises the administration of a composition of this inventionCommonly the infection treated will be due to a strain of Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella aerogenes,Escherichia coli, Proteus sp., Bacteroides fragilis or the like. The organisms believed to be most readily treated by an antibacterially effective amount of a compound of this invention is Staphylococcus aureus.The other organisms named are more readily treated by using a synergistically effective amount of the compound of this invention and a penicillin or cephalosporin. The administration of the two components may take place separately but in general we prefer to use a composition containing both the synergist and the penicillin or cephalosporin. The indications for treatment include respiratory tract and urinary tract infections in humans.The following Examples illustrate this invention. Preparation l a 1 t Butyldimethylsilyl 3 C 2 furyl hydroxymethylg 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one A solution of n butyl lithium 2.5M in hexane, 9.6 ml was added to a stirred solution of diisopropylamine 3.35 ml in dry tetrahydrofuran THF 100 ml at 300C under dry argon. After stirring at 300C for 10 minutes the mixture was cooled to 76 0C and treated, dropwise over 5 minutes, with a solution of l t butyldimethyl silyl 4 tritylthio azetidin 2 one 1 9.18g Bristol Myers Patent GB2042515Al in dry TBF 50 ml . After a further 15 minutes at 76 the stirred mixture was treated, dropwise over 5 minutes, with a solution of furfuraldehyde 2.50g in dry THF 10 ml .After 20 minutes at 76 C the stirred mixture was treated with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 50 ml and was allowed to attain Xoom temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 500 ml and washed with brine 3 x 50 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give three fractions.The least polar fraction 2.48g contained an approximately 2 1 mixture of trans Isomer A and cis Isomer B isomersof the title azetidinones 2 w max CHC13 3600 3200, 1745 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 0.22 and 0.23 4H, each s, SiMe2 Isomer A , 0 36 and 0.37 2H, each s SiMe2 Isomer B , 0.91 and 0.97 9H, each s , 1.50 1.70 br 2 3H,M, exch.D2O , 2.70 2.85 br H,m,exch.D2O , 3.45 3.55 lhH,m , 3.61 3.76 br 8H,m,collapses to 3.68,d,J3Hz on exch.D2O , 4.43 H,d,J2Hz , 4.79 2 3h,d,J42 3HZ , 6.19 6.33 2H,m , 7.10 7.60 1 6H,m .The second fraction 6.31g contained a pure trans azetidinone 2 Isomer C , v max CHC13 3600 3150, 1735 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 0.09 3H,s , 0.83 9H,s , 2,58br 1H, d,J9Hz , 3,70 1H, dd, J7. Oand 1.7Hz , 3.80 4.10br lH,m,collapses to d, J 7.OHz on irradiation at 2.58 ppm , 3.99 lH,d,J1.7Hz , 5.92 6.00 lH,m , 6.196.27 lH,m , 7.15 7.50 16R,m , 1 MeSi signal was obscured by the TMS signal Found MNH 2Bt2 , e 629, Et2NH CI .The most polar fraction 444mg contained a pure cis azetidinone 2 Isomer D , v max CHC13 3600 3200, 1740 cm , 6 ppm CDCl3 0.88 9H,s , 1.85 2.25 1H, broad signal, exch D20 , 3.64 lH,dd,J4.8 and 8.0Hz , 4.30 4.60 2H,m,collapses to 4.38,d,J4.8z and 4.39,d,J8.0Hz on exch D2O , 6.15 6.35 2H,m , 7.20 7.60 16H,m , both SiMe2 signals were obscured by the TMS signal Found MNH2Et2 , e 629, Et2NH CI .The compounds described in Preparations l b to 3 b andExamples l a to 3 b are derived from Isomer C. Preparation l b 3RS,4SR 3 FAcetoxy 2 furyl methyls l tbutyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazotidin 2 oneThe trans azetidinone 2 Isomer C 111 mg fromPreparation l a was dissolved in dry dichloromethane 4ml , cooled in an ice bath, and treated with 4dimethylaminopyridine 2mg , triethylamine 24mg and acetic anhydride 24mg . After stirring at room temperature for 4 hours the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 20ml and washed with 5 citric acid 2ml , brine 2ml , saturated NaECO3 2ml and brine 2ml .The dried MgSo4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title acetate 3 103mg as a gum, v max CHCl3 1745 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 0.04 3H,s , 0.07 3H,s , 0.82 9H,s , 1.93 3H,s , 3.76 3.90 2H,m , 5.17 lH,d,J7H2 , 6.02 lH,d,J3Hz , 6.21 lH,dd,J2 and 3Hz , 7.12 7.50 16H,m Found MNH2Et2 , 671, Et2NH CI . Preparation l c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA solution of the acetate 3 58 mg from Preparation 1 b in methanol 3 ml was cooled to 20 C and treated with a solution of potassium fluoride 6.4 mg in methanol 0.5 ml .After stirring for 45 minutes at 200C the mixture was evaporated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 25 ml and washed with brine 3 x 2 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title azetidinone 4 40 mg as a solid, m.p. 167 168 C rods ex ethyl acetate hexane v max CHCl3 3390, 1770 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 2.02 3H,s , 3.63 1H, ddd, J5.5, 2.7 and 1.0 Hz , 4.21 br lH,s , 4.52 lH,d,J2.7Hz , 6.14 lH,d,J 5.5 Hz , 6.356.40 2H,m , 7.14 7.50 16H, m Found C,72.1 H,5.5 N,2.8 S,6.9.C29 H25 NO4S requires C, 72.1 H,5.2 N, 2.9 s, 6.6 Preparation l d 3RS, 4SR 3 rAcetoxy 2 furyl methyl 1 1 P nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneThe azetidinone 4 483 mg from Preparation l c and p nitrobenzyl glyoxylate monohydrate 250 mg were heated in ref fluxing benzene 20 ml with provision for the azeotropic removal of water Dean and Stark apparatus containing molecular sieves 4A for 1 hour. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and treated with triethylamine 10 mg .After stirring at room temperature for 40 minutes the mixture was evaporated te give a crude hydroxycster 5 as a gum max CHCl3 3500 br, 1775, 1760 sh. cm 1 A solution of the crude hydroxyester 5 in dry THF 15 ml was cooled to l00C and treated with 2,6 lutidine 160 mg and thionyl chloride 178 mg . After stirring at 100C for 10 minutes the mixture was filtered and evaporated. The residue was re evaporated from dry toluene 2 x 3 ml to give a crude chloroester 6 as a gum, v max CHCl3 1780 cm . A mixture of the crude chloroester 6 , triphenylphospheine 1,05 g and 2,6 lutidine 128 mg were heated in dry dioxan 20 ml at 100 C under dry argon for 15 hours.The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 ml and washed with N. hydrochloric acid 5 ml , brine 5 ml , saturated NaHC03 5 ml and brine 3 x 5 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title phosphorane 7 378 mg as yellow amorphous solid, v max CHC13 1750, 1615, 1605 sh.cm 1. Preparation l e 3RS, 4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitropbenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoran ylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolateThe phosphorane 7 378 mg from Preparation l d was dissolved in methanol 8 ml and treated with pyridine 41 mg and silver nitrate 3.5 ml of a 0.15 M. solution in methanol . After 30 minutes at room temperature the stirred mixture was cooled in an ice bath for 10 minutes and filtered. The residue was washed with cold methanol 2 ml and dry ether 3 x 2 ml and dried under vacuum to give the title silver thiolate 8 270 mg as a buff coloured solid1 v max Nujol 1760 br., 1600 br.cm1. Preparation 1 f 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 cetox 2 furyl methyls penem 3 carboxylateA stirred, ice bath cooled, suspension of the silver thiolate 8 from Preparation 1 e , 200 mg in dry dichloromethane 5 ml was treated with acetic formic anhydride 0.2 ml , 4 dimethylamino pyridine 27 mg , and triethylamine hydrochloride 343 mg . The ice bath was removed and the mixture stirred for a further 10 minutes.The mixture was filtered through Kieselguhr and the residue was washed with ethyl acetate 20 ml . The combined filtrates were washed with 5 citric acid 5 ml , brine 5 ml , saturated NaHC03 5 ml and brine 3x5 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was heated under argon at 500C for 30 minutes. The mixture was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title penem 9 90 mg as a solid, m.p. 146 1480C plates ex ethyl acetate hexane X max EtOH 262 Em 13,050 and 315 nm 8580 v max CHC13 1795, 1745, 1720 cm 1 6 ppm CDC13 2.07 3H,s , 4.34 1H, ddd, J 4.3, 2.0 and 1.0Hz , 5.22 and 5.43 2H, ABq, J14Hz , 6.02 lH,d,J2.0Hz , 6.24 1H,d,J4.3Hz , 6.3 6.5 2H,m , 7.31 lH,d,Jl.OHz , 7.35 7.45 lH,m , 7.57 2H,d,J9Hz , 8.21 2H,d,J9Hz Found C,54.4 H,3.7 N,6.3 S,7.4. C20H16N208S requires C,54.0 H,3.6 N,6.3 S,7.2 .ExamPle l a 5 RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 Furfurylidenepenem 3carboxyl ateA solution of 1,8 diazabicyclo t5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU 61 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was added, dropwise over 1 minute, to a stirred solution of the penem 9 118 mg from preparation 1 f in dry dichloromethane 5 ml at 40 C. The mixture was stirred at 400C for 10 minutes during which a yellow solid precipitated. The solid was redissolved by addition of dichloromethane 20 ml and the mixture was washed with 5 citric acid 3 ml , brine 3 ml , saturated NaHCO3 3 ml and brine 3 x 3 ml . The dried Mg SO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures to give the title penem ester 10 96 mg as an orange yellow solid, m.p. 181 1840C microcrystalline ex ethyl acetate hexane X max EtOH 265 Em 11,710 and 315 nm 31,250 v max CHC13 1780, 1720, 1670 cm 1 6 ppm CDC13 5.29 and 5.47 2H,ABq, J 13Hz , 6.56 lH,dd,J2 and 4Hz , 6.59 lH,d,J 1.5Hz , 6.74 1H, a, J4Hz , 6.96 lH,br.s, sharpens to d, J 1.5 Hz on irradiation at 7.62 ppm , 7.38 lH,s , 7.58 7.65 3H,m , 8.24 2H,d, J9Hz Found C,56.1 H, 3.3 N, 7.2 S,9.0. C18H12N2O6S requires C,56.3 B, 3.1 N, 7,3 S, 8.3 .Example 1 b 5 RS Sodium Z . 6 Furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxyl ateThe penem ester 1 30 mg from Example l a was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and was hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 45 mg at S.T.P. for 40 minutes. Further catalyst 30 mg was added and the hydrogenation continued for 40 minutes,A 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 0.66 ml was added and the mixture filtered through Kieselguhr the residue being washed with a little aqueous dioxan. The combined filtrates were evaporated and the residue chromatographed onBiogel P2 eluting with water.The appropriate fractions were evaporated and the residue re evaporated from ethanol 1 ml and dry toluene 2 x 1 ml to give, after trituration with dry ether, the title sodium salt 11 9.5 mg as an orange coloured amorphous solid X max H2O 308 nm Em 21,020 6 ppm D2O 6.61 1H, dd, J 3.5 and 2.0 Hz , 6.64 lH,s , 6.89 lH,d,J 3.5 Hz , 7.06 lH,s , 7.08 lH,s , 7.73br lH,d, J approx.2Hz . Preparation 2 a 3RS, 4SR 3 LAcetoxy 2 furyl methyl 3 4 ethylthiothiocarbonylthio 1 l p nitrobenzyl oxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one A stirred, ice bath cooled, suspension of the silver thiolate 8 200 mg from Preparation l e in dry dichloromethane 5 ml was treated with pyridine 59 mg and ethyl dithiochloroformate 70 mg . The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was filtered through Kieselguhr and the residue was washed with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The combined filtrates were washed with 5 citric acid 3 ml , brine 3 ml , saturated NaHCO3 3 ml and brine 3 x 3ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title phosphorane 12 134 mg as a yellow amorphous solid v max CHC13 1765, 1625, 1610 sh. cm Preparation 2 b 5RS, 6SR and 5RS, 6RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 LAcetoxy 2 furyl methy11 2 ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylateThe phosphorane 12 132 mg from Preparation 2 a was heated in ref fluxing xylene 65 ml under argon for 7 hours. The mixture was cooled, evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with dichioromethane ethyl acetate mixtures to give two title products.The less polar product the cis penem ester 14 5 mg was obtained as an amorphous solid X max EtOH 259 Em 15880 and 333 nm 10,520 9 max CHCl3 1800, 1750, 1695 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 1.41 3H,t,J7H2 , 2.08 3H,s , 2.91 3.17 2H,m ,4.72 1H,dd,J4.0 and 10.0 Hz , 5.19 and 5.43 2H, ABq,J13Hz , 5.86 lH,d,J 4.0Hz , 6.27 1H,d,J0.0hz , 6.42 lH,dd,J3 and 2Hz , 6.55 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.48 lH,d,J2Hz , 7.58 2H,d,J9Hz , 8.20 2H,d,J9Hz Found MNH4 , m e 522, NH3CI .The more polar product the trans penem ester 13 25 mg was obtained as an amorphous solid X max EtOH 259 Em 15890 and 337 nm 10,095 v max CHC13 1795, 1745, 1695 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 1.39 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.09 3H,s , 2.88 3.12 2H,m , 4.29 lH,dd,J4.5 and 2.0Hz , 5.26 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J12Hz , 5.95 lH,d,J2.0Hz 6.28 1Hd,J4.5Hz , 6.40 lH,dd,J2 and 3Hz , 6.47 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.41 lH,d,J2Hz , 7.61 2H,d,J8Hz , 8.22 2H,d,J8Hz Found CMNH4 , m e 522, NH3 CI . In a second experiment the phosphorane 12 1.365g was heated in ref fluxing xylene 700 ml containing hydroquinone 100 mg under argon for 10 hours. Work up as described above gave the cis penem 14 136mg and the trans penem 13 465 mg . Example 2 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 2 Ethylthio 6 furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylateA solution of DBU 27 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was added, dropwise over 1 minute, to a stirred solution of a mixture of the penem esters 13 and 14 60 mg from Preparation 2 b in dry dichloromethane 3 ml at 40 C After 10 minutes at 40 C the mixture was worked up as for Example l a to give a m,ixture of Z and E isomers of the title penem 15 53 mg which on trituration with ether gave the Z isomer 36 mg as a yellow solid X max EtOH 260 Em 16370 and 319 nm 36,060 v max CHCl3 1775, 1690 sh, 1670 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 1.36 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.75 3.20 2H,m , 5.21 and 5.50 2H, ABq,J14Hz , 6.44 lH,s , 6.52 lH,dd,J2 and 3Hz , 6.70 lH,d,J3Hz , 6.90 lH,s , 7.56 7.70 3H,m , 8.21 2H,d,J9Hz Found M , 444.0460. C20H16 N2O6S2 requires M,444.0448 . Example 2 b 5RS Sodium 2 Ethylthio Z 6 furfurylidenepenem 3carboxylateThe penem ester 15 Z isomer 34 mg from Example 2 a was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and was hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 51 mg at S.T.P. for 40 minutes. Further catalyst 34 mg was added and the hydrogenation continued for 40 minutes. A 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 0.64 ml was added and the mixture was worked up as for Example l b to give the title sodium salt 16 7.6 mg as an orange yellow amorpous solid A max, H2O 238 Em 7420 and 315 nm 24,770 Preparation 3 a 5 RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 2 ethylsulphinylpenem 3 carboxylate A solution of m chloroperbenzoic acid 16.5 mg in dichloromethane 1 ml was added in one portion to a stirred, ice bath cooled, mixture of the trans penem 13 37 mg from Preparation 2 b , dichloromethane 2 ml and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 2 ml . The mixture was stirred vigorously at ice bath temperature for 10 minutes and diluted with dichloromethane 10 ml .The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 3 x 2 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title sulphoxide 17 20 mg , an approximately 1 1 mixture of isomers, as an amorphous solid v max CHC13 1800, 1745, 1705 cm 5 ppm CDC13 1.40 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.05 3H,s , 2.90 3.25 2H,m , 4.43 lH,dd,J2 and 4Hz , 5.22 and 5.45 2H, ABq,J14Hz , 6.00 H,d,J2Hz , 6.10 H,d,J2Hz , 6.24 lH,d,J4Hz , 6.316.49 2H,m , 7.39br lH,s , 7.57 and 7.59 2H,each d,J8Hz , 8.22 2H,d J8Hz . Preparation 3 b 5RS,6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 LAcetoxy 2 furyl methyls 2 2 hydroxyethylthio penem 3 carboxylateA solution of diisopropylethylamine 5 mg in dry acetonitrile 0.5 ml was added, dropwise over 0.5 minute, to a stirred solution of the sulphoxide 17 from Preparation 3 a 20 mg and 2 mercaptoethanol 6 mg in dry acetonitrile 1 ml at 40 C. After stirring at 40 C for 10 minutes the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 10 ml and washed with 5 citric acid 2 ml , brine 2 ml , saturated NaHCO3 2 ml , and brine 3 x 2 ml .The dried Mg SO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title penem ester 18 10 mg as an amorphous solid v max CHC13 3600 3100, 1790, 1740, 1690 elm 6 ppm CDC13 2.02 lH,t,J5.9Hz, collapses to S on irradiation at 3.9 ppm , 2.09 3H,s , 3.12 lH,dt, J13.9 and 6.2Hz, collapses to d,J 13.9Hz on irradiation at 3.9 ppm , 3.22 lH,dt,J13.9 and 6.0Hz, collapses to d, J13.9Hz on irradiation at 3.9 ppm , 3.85 3.95 2H,m , 4.30 lH,dd,J4.5 and 1.8Hz , 5.26 and 5.46 2H,ABq, J13.8Hz , 5.96 lH,d,Jl.8 Hz , 6.28 lH,d,J4.5Hz , 6.39 lH,dd,Jl.9 and 3.4 Hz , 6.48 lH,d,J3.4Hz , 7.41 lH,d,J 1.9Hz , 7.62 2H,d,J 8.7Hz , 8.22 2H,d,J8.7Hz . Example 3 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl z 6 Furfurvlidene 2 2 hydroxyethylthio penem 3 carboxylateA solution of DBU 29 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was added, dropwise over 1 minutes, to a stirred solution of the penem ester 18 67 mg from Preparation 3 b in dry dichloromethane 3 ml at 40 C.After stirring at 40 C for 10 minutes the mixture was worked up asExample l a to give the title penem 19 54 mg , mp 157 159 0C fine needles ex ethyl acetate hexane X max EtOH 262 Em 15900 and 320nm 35020 v max CHC13 1770, 1670 em 6 ppm CDC13 1.93 lH,t,J6.2Hz , 3.08 3.26 2H,m , 3.84 3.92 2H,m , 5.26 and 5.50 2H,ABq, J13.8 Hz , 6.46 1H, d,J1.OHz . 6.56 lH,dd,J3.5 and 1.9Hz, 6.75 lH,d,13.5Hz , 6.94 lH, slightly broadeneds , 7.61 br lH,d,Jl.6Hz , 7.67 2H,d,J8.8Hz , 8.24 2H,d,J8.8Hz . Found C,52.1 H,3.8 N,6.0 S,13.4. C20H16N2O7S2 requires C,52.2 H,3.5 N,6.1 S,13,9 Example 3 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 Furfurvlidene 2 2 hydroxyethylthio penem 3 carboxylateThe penem ester 19 48 mg from Example 3 a was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 72 mg at S.T.P. for 45 minutes.A 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 0.88 ml was added and the mixture was worked up as for Example l b to give the title sodium salt 20 18.1 mg as an orange coloured amorphous solid A max H2O approx 370 inflection Em3940 , 314 23600 , 236 nm 7380 6 ppm D20 2.94 3.20 2H,m , 3.88 3.95 2H,m , 6.52 lH,s , 6.63 lH,dd,J3 and l Hz , 6.90 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.08 lH,s , 7.74 br lH,s .Preparation 4 a 3 5 Acetoxvmethyl 2 furyl hydroxymethyl butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA solution of n butyl lithium 2.5 M. in hexane, 0.48 ml was added to a stirred solution of diisopropylamine 0,17 ml in dry THF 8 ml at 30 C under dry argon.The mixture was stirred at 30 for 10 minutes, cooled to 76 C, and treated with a solution of the azetidinone 1 459 mg used in Preparation 1 a in dry THF 4 ml .After a further 15 minutes at 76 C the stirred mixture was treated with a solution of 5 acetoxymethyl 2furaldchyde 185 mg in dry THF 1 ml . The mixture was stirred at 76 C for a further 20 minutes and worked up as for Preparation l a to give two fractions. The less polar fraction 104 mg contained an approximately 1 1 mixture of trans Isomer A and cis Isomer B isomers of the title azetidinone 21 v max CHC13 3600 3200, 174 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 0,95 9H, s , 1.67 1 2H, d,J6Hz, exch.D2O , 2.04 3H,s , 2.78 iH,d,J 6Hz,exch.D2O , 3.40 3.70 2H,m, simplifies on exch.D2O , 4.45 H,d,J 1 Hz , 4.78 H,d,J5Hz , 4.95 2H,s , 6.20 6.30 2H,m , 7.10 7.60 15H,m , the SiMe2 signals were obscured by theTMS signal. The more polar fraction 168 mg contained a pure trans azetidinone 21 Isomer C , m.p. 121 1230C rhombs ex ethyl acetate hexane u max CHC13 3600 3200, 1740 cm 6 8 ppm CDCl3 0.82 9H,s , 2.00 3H,s , 2.54 1H, broad signal, exch.D2O , 3.69 lH,dd,J2 and 6Hz , 3.85 4.05 br lH,m,collapses to 3.93,d,J6Hz on exch.D2O , 4.10 1H,d,J 2Hz , 4.88 2H,s , 5.99 lH,d,J3Hz , 6.24 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.10 7.60 15H,m , the SIMe2 signals were obscured by the TMS signal Found C,68.7 H,6.6 N,2.2 5,5.1 C36H41NO5SSi requires C,68.9 H,6.5 N,2.2 S,5.1 . The compounds described in Preparations 4 b to 6 e andExamples 4 a to 6 b are derived from Isomer C fromPreparation 4 a .Preparation 4 b 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 acetoxymethyl 2 furyl methyl 1 t butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneThe trans azetidinone 21 Isomer C 180 mg , fromPreparation 4 a 4 dimethylaminopyridine 3 mg , triethylamine 35 mg , and acetic anhydride 35 mg were stirred in dry dichloromethane 5 ml at room temperature for 6 hours.The mixture was worked up as for Preparation l b to give the title diacetate 22 114 mg as a solid, m.p. lll 1120C chunks ex ethyl acetate hexane v max CHCl3 1745 cml 8 ppm CDCl3 0.4 and 0.6 SiMe2 , 0.82 9H,s , 1.91 3H,s , 2.00 3H,s , 3.83 lH,dd,J2.0 and 6.1 Hz , 3.93 lH,d,J2.0Hz , 4.89 2H,s , 5.18 1H,8,J6,1Hz , 6.04 1H,d,J3Hz , 6.24 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.107.50 15H,m . Found C,68.2 H,6.6 N,2.1 S,4.9.C38H43NO6SSi requires C,68.2 H,6.4 N,2.1 S,4.88 . Preparation 4 c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 acetoxymethyl 2 furyl methyl 4 ritylthioazetidin 2 one A mixture of the diacetate 22 90 mg from Preparation 4 b , anhydrous potassium fluoride 16 mg and 18 crown 6 7 mg was stirred in dry THF 3 ml at room temperature for 22 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 15 ml and washed with brine 3 x 3 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane to give the title azetidinone 23 67 mg as a solid, m.p. 133 134 C chombs ex ethanol hexane v amx CHCl3 3375, 1770, 1740 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 1.97 3H,s , 2.05 3H,s , 3.69 lH,dd,J3 and 6Hz , 4.25 br lH,s , 4.49 lH,d,J3Hz , 5.04 2H,s , 6.14 lH,d,J6Hz , 6.33 and 6.40 2H, each d, J3iHz , 7.20 7.50 15H,m Found C,69.2 H,5.4 N,2.4 S,6.1. C32H29NO6S requires C,69.2 H,5.2 N,2.5 S,5.8 . Preparation 4 d 3RS, 4SR 3 Acetoxy 50acetoxymethyl 2 furyl emthyl 1 l p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl l triphenylphosphoranyl idenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneThe azetidinone 23 110 mg from Preparation 4 c and p nitrobenzyl glyoxylate monohydrate 50 mg were heated in ref fluxing benzene 5 ml followed by treatment with triethylamine 2 mg as for Preparation l d gave a hydroxyester 24 as a crude solid v max CBCl3 3600 3200, 1770, 1745 cm . The crude hydroxyester 24 was treated with 2,6 lutidine 32 mg and thionyl chloride 36 mg in dry THF 5 ml at 100C as for Preparation l d to give a crude chloroester 25 as a gum, max CHCl3 1780, 1745 cm 1.The crude chloroester 25 , triphenylphosphine 210 mg and 2,6 lutidine 24 mg were heated in dry dioxan 5 ml under dry argon at 90 C for 18 hours and then at 1000C for a further 8 hours. Work up of the mixture as for Preparation 1 d gave the title phosphorane 26 60 mg as a yellow amorphous solid V amx CHCl3 1750, 1615, 1605 sh. cm 1. Preparation 4 e 3RS,4SR Silver 3 FAcetoxy 5 acetoxymethyl 2 furyl methyl l l p nitrobenzyloxycarboyl l triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4thiolateThe phosphorane 26 400 mg from Preparation 4 d was dissolved in methanol 8 ml and treated with pyridine 41 mg and silver nitrate 3.4 ml of a 0.15 M. solution in methanol as for Preparation l e to give the title silver salt 27 312 mg as an amorphous solid v max CHCl3 1740, 1600 cm Preparation 4 f 5RS,6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 fAcetoxy 5 acetoxymethyl 2furyl methyls penem 3 carboxylateA stirred, ice bath cooled, suspension of the silver thiolate 27 200 mg from Preparation 4 e in dry dichloromethane 5 ml was treated with acetic formic anhydride o.18 ml , 4 dimethylaminopyridine 25 ml , and triethylamine hydrochloride 315 mg followed by heating the product as for Preparation l f to give the title penem 28 90 mg as an amorphous solid X max EtOH 262 Em 13100 and 314 nm 10,845 v max CHC13 1795, 1740 br.cm l 6 ppm CDC13 2.07 6H,s , 4.33 lH,ddd,J 4.2,2.1 and approx lHz , 5.00 2H,s , 5.22 and 5.43 2H, ABq,J14Hz , 6.05 1H,d,J 2.1Hz , 6.21 lH,d,J4.2Hz , 6.35 and 6.41 2H, each d, J3 Hz , 7.30 lH,d,J approx 1Hz , 7.56 2H,d,J9Hz , 8.21 2H,d,J9Hz . Example 4 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylateA solution of the penem 28 97 mg from Preparation 4 f in dry dichloromethane 5 ml was treated with DBD 43 mg et 40 C as for Example 1 a to give the title penem 29 72 mg as a yellow solid, m.p. 140 142 C fine needles ex ethyl acetate hexane X max EtOH 262 Em 12700 and 317 nm 34940 v max CHC13 1785, 1745, 1720, 1670 cm 6 ppm CDC13 2.10 3H,s , 5.07 2H,s , 5.25 and 5.47 2H,ABq, J14Hz , 6.50 and 6.67 2H, each d,J 31 2Hz , 6.57 lH,s , 6.89 lH,s , 7.36 lH,s , 7.59 2H,d, J9Hz , 8.21 2H,d,J 9Hz . Found C,55.4 H,3.9 N,6.2 S,7.2. C21H16N208S requires C,55.3 H,3.5 N,6.1 S,7,0 Example 4 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylateThe penem ester 29 40 mg from Example 4 a was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and was hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 60 mg at S.T.P. for 40 minutes. Further catalyst 40 mg was added and the hydrogenation continued for 20 minutes. A 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 0.74 ml was added and the mixture was worked up as for Example l b to give the title sodium salt 30 13.7 mg as a yellow solid X max H2O 311 nm Em 20960 6 ppm D2O 2.14 3H,s , 5.12 and 5.21 2H,ABq, J14 Hz , 6.61 lH,s , 6.65 lH,d,J4Hz , 6.84 lH,d,J4Hz , 7.04 2H,s . Preparation 5 a 3RS, 4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 acetoxymethyl 2 furyl methyl 4 ethylthiothiocarbonylthio 1 l p nitrobenzyloxy carbonyl l triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 oneA stirred, ice bath cooled, suspension of the silver thiolate 27 460 mg from Preparation 4 e in dry dichloromethane 10 ml was treated with pyridine 125 mg and ethyl dithiochloroformate 148 mg .The ice bath was removed and the mixture stirred for 45 minutes to give, after work up as for Preparation 2 a , the title phosphorane 31 370.mg as a yellow amorphous solid v max CHCl3 1760, 1745 sh, 1620, 1605 shecm 1, Preparation 5 b 5RS,6SR and 5RS,6RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 KAcetoxy 5acetoxymethyl 2 furyl methyl 2 ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylateA solution of the phosphorane 31 370 mg fromPreparation 5 a in Xylene 160 ml was heated under reflux in an atmosphere of argon for 7 hours.Work up as for Preparation 2 b gave a yellow amorphous solid 93 mg , a 3 1 mixture of the title trans and cis penems 32 and 33 v max CHCl3 1795, 1745, 1690 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 1.38 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.07 6H,s , 2.78 3.18 2H,m , 4.26 iH,dd,Jl.8 and 4.9Hz , 4.75 iH,dd,J4.0 and 10.3Hz , 5.00 and 5.02 2H, each s , 5.10 5.60 2H,m , 5.82 1 2H, d,J4.OHz . 5.90 iH,d,Jl.8Hz , 6.14 6.55 3H,m , 7.55 and 7.59 2H, each d, J9Hz , 8.17 and 8.19 2H, each d, J9Hz . Example 5 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 5 Acetopxymethylfurfurylidene 2ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylateA solution of DBU 40 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was added, dropwise over 1 minute, to a stirred solution ofa mixture of the penem esters 32 and 33 3 1, 100 mg from Preparation 5 b in dry dichloromethane 5 ml at 400C.After 10 minutes at 400C the mixture was worked up as for Example l a to give a mixture of the title Z and E penems 34 85 mg which on crystallisation from chloroform ether afforded the Z isomer 65 mg as fine yellow needles, m.p. 204 2050C X max EtOH 259 Em 14950 and 323 nm 32490 v max CHCl3 1775, 1740, 1685, 1670 cm 6 ppm CDC13 1.37 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.10 3H,s , 2.60 3.25 2H,m , 5.08 2H,s , 5.22 and 5.51 2H,ABq, J14Hz , 6.43 lH,s , 6.49 lH,d,J4Hz , 6.64 lH,d,J4Hz , 6.86 lH,s , 7.65 2H,dJ9Hz , 8.21 2H,d,J9Hz Found C,53.3 H,4.0 N,5.4 S,12.7 M , 516.0710. C23H20N208S2 requiresC,53.5 H,3.9 N,5.4 S,12.4 M, 516.0660 . Example 5 b 5RS Sodium z 6 5 Acetoxymethylfurfurylidene 2 ethylthiopenem 3 carboxylateThe penem ester 34 Z isomer 40 mg from Example 5 a , was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and was hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 60 mg at S.T.P. for 40 minutes.Further catalyst 40 mg was added and the hydrogenation continued for 20 minutes. Al sodium bicarbonate solution 0.65 ml was added and the mixture was worked up as for Example l b to give the title sodium salt 35 11.4 mg as an orange coloured amorphous solid X max H2O approx. 235 Em 7430 , 315 23250 and approx. 385 nin 3410 6 ppm D20 1.34 3H,t,J7Hz , 2.18 3H,s , 2.88 3.10 2H,m , 5.17 and 5.27 2H,ABq,J14Hz , 6.52 lH,s , 6.69 lH,d,J3Hz , 6.88 lH,d,J3Hz , 7.07 lH,s . Preparation 6 a 3RS,4SR 3 EAcetoxy 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl l triphenylphosphoranyli denemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneAqueous sodium hydroxide 1.0 ml of O.1N was added, dropwise over 2 minutes, to a stirred solution of the phosphorane 26 101 mg from Preparation 4 d in a mixture of THF 2 ml and methanol 0.4 ml at ice bath temperature. The mixture was stirred for a further 15 minutes at ice bath temperature, treated with 5 citric acid 1 ml and diluted with ethyl acetate 15 ml . The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 2 ml , saturated NaHCO3 2 ml and brine 3 x 2 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title alcohol 36 65 mg as an amorphous solid v max CHC13 3600 3100, 1750, 1625, 1605 sh. cm . Preparation 6 b 3RS,4SR 3 acetoxy 5 formyl 2 furyl methyls 1 l p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl l triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA solution of the alcohol 36 50 mg from Preparation 6 a in a mixture of dimethyl sulphoxide 0.5 ml and acetic anhydride 0.5 ml was kept at room temperature for 6 hours. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 15 ml and washed with saturated NaHCO3 2 ml and brine 3 x 2 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title aldehyde 37 33 mg as an amorphous solid v max CHC13 1750, 1680, 1620, 1605 sh.cm 1. Preparation 6 c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy C5 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl 2furyl j methyl 1 l p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA mixture of the aldehyde 37 32 mg from Preparation 6 b and carbomethoxymethylenetriphenylphosphorane 22 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was kept at room temperature for 16 hours. The mixture was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title phosphorane 38 31 mg as an amorphous solid v max CHC13 1750, 1705, 1630 sh., 1615, 1605 sh.cm 1. Preparation 6 d 3RS,4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy L5 2 methoxecarbonylvinyl 2 furyl methyl 1 i p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl l triphenylphosPhoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4thiolateThe phosphorane 38 202 mg from Preparation 6 c was dissolved in a mixture of methylene chloride 3 ml and methanol 3 ml and was treated with pyridine 20 mg and silver nitrate 1.72 ml of a 0.15M. solution in methanol .After stirring at room temperature for 30 minutes the mixture was evaporated to low volume and filtered. The residue was washed with cold methanol 2 ml and dry ether 2x2 ml and dried under vacuum to give the title silver thiolate 39 169 mg as a buff coloured amorphous solid. Preparation 6 e 5RS,6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 fAcetoxy L5 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl 2 furyl 2 methyl penem 3 carboxylateA stirred, ice bath cooled, suspension of the silver thiolate 39 169 mg from Preparation 6 d in dry dichloromethane was treated with acetic formic anhydride 0.15 ml , 4 dimethylaminopyridine 21 mg and triethylamine hydrochloride 263 mg followed by heating the product as for Preparation l f to give the two title products.The less polar product the Z isomer 40 5 mg was obtained as a gum v max CHC13 1790, 1740 sh 1715 cm 6 ppm CDC13 2.11 3H,s , 3.77 3H,s , 4.36 lH,ddd,J4.1,2.0 and 1.0Hz , 5.28 and 5.42 2H,ABq,J13.6Hz ,5.81 lH,dJ12.9Hz , 6.07 lH,d,J2.0Hz , 6.26 1H,d,J4.1Hz , 6.55 lH,d,J3.6Hz , 6.69 lH,d,J12.9Hz , 7.33 1H,d,J1.OHz , 7.59 2H,d,J8.6Hz , 7.60 lH,d,J3.6Hz , 8.24 2H,d,J8.6Hz .The more polar product the E isomer 41 77 mg was obtained as a solid, m.p. 160 163 C rods ex ethyl acetate hexane A max EtOH 304 nm Em24000 v max CHC13 1790, 1740 sh., 1710 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 2.12 3Hs , 3.79 3H,s , 4.38 lH,ddd,J4.3,2.0 and 1.1Hz , 5.29 and 5.43 2H,ABq,J13.6Hz , 6.09 lH,d,J2.0Hz , 6.25 lH,d,J43Hz , 6.28 1H,d,J15.7Hz , 6.55 lH,d,J3.4Hz , 6.59 lH,d,J3.4Hz , 7.34 lH,d,Jl.lHz , 7.39 1H,d,J15.7Hz , 7.59 2H,d,J8.8Hz , 8.24 2H,d,J8.8Hz Found C,54.6 H,3.7 N,5.1 S,6.1. C24H20N2010S requires C,54.6 H,3.8 N,5.3 S,6.1 . Example 6 a 5RS . p Nitrobenzyl z 6 50 z 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl furfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate A solution of the penem 41 64 mg from Preparation 6 e in dry dichloromethane 3 ml was treated with DBU 28 mg at 40 C as for Example 1 a to give the title penem 42 51 mg as an orange coloured solid X max EtOH 249 Em 19380 and 359 nm 14845 v max CHC13 1775, 1710, 1660, 1630 cm 6 5 ppm CDCl3 3.82 eH,s , 5.30 5.47 2H,ABq, J13.6Hz , 6.46 lH,d,J15.7Hz , 6.65 18,d,j0,9Hz , 6.72 lH,d,J3.6Hz , 6.79 lH,d,J3.6Hz , 6.92 lH,d,J0.9Hz , 7.38 lH,s , 7.42 1H,d,j15.7Hz , 7.63 2H,d,J8.8Hz , 8.25 2H,d,J8.8Hz . Example 6 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 5 L Z 2 methoxycarbonylvinyl furfurylidenej penem 3 carboxylateThe penem ester 43 40 mg from Example 6 a was dissolved in a mixture of dioxan 8 ml and water 2 ml and was hydrogenated over 5 palladium charcoal catalyst 60 mg at S.T.P. for 45 minutes. A 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 0.72m1 was added and the mixture worked up as for Example l b to give the title sodium salt 43 12.7 mg as an orange yellow amorphous solid X max H2O 365 Em 18745 and 252 nm 19960 6 ppm D2O 3.80 3H,s , 6.50 1H,d,J15.7Hz , 6.71 lH,s , 6.88 and 6.92 2H,each d,J 3.7Hz , 7.04 lH,s , 7.06 lH,s , 7.46 lH,d,J15.7Hz . Preparation 7 a 1 t btuyldimethysilyl 3 2 thienyl hydroxymethyl 4tritylthioazetidin 2 one The title compounds were prepared as described in preparation 1 a from 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one 1 9.18 g, 20 mmol and thiophene 2 carboxaldehyde 2.46 g, 22 mmol . Chromatography of the crude reaction product gave two fractions.The less polar fraction 3.7 g, 32 contained an approximately 4 1 mixture of trans isomer A and cis isomer B isomers of the title azetidinones 44 as an amorphous solid. v max. DCM 3650 3350, 1745 cm 1, 8 CDCl3 inten atia for tnans isomer A 0.21 3H, s , 0.24 3H, s , 0.93 9H, s , 1.51 1H, d, J 6.3 Hz , 3.55 1H, dd, J 2.0 and 2.2 Hz 7 3.85 1H, dd, J 2.3 and 6.2 Hz , 4.51 1H, d, J 1.9 Hz 8 CDCl3 inten atia for cis isomer B 0,38 3H, S , 0,39 3H, s , 1.00 9H, s , 3.03 1H d, J 4.6 Hz , 3.49 1H, dd, J 1.2 and 4.6 Hz , 4.85 1H, d, J 4.5 Hz . Found MN 572 . The more polar fraction contained the trans azetidinone 44 isomer C 4.8 g, 42 m.p. 127 8 plates Qx Ether Hexane v max. DCM 3600 3250, 1740 cm 8 CDCl3 0.26 3H, s 0.05 3H, s , 0.83 9H, s , 2.48 1H, d, J 9.0 Hz, 3.71 1H, dd, J 1.7 and 6.6Hz , 4.07 4.15 2H, m , 6.65 6.72 1H, m , 6.86 6.93 1H, m , 7.14 7.50 16H, m , Found C, 69.4, H, 6.4 N, 2.6 S, 11.4. C33H37N02S2Si requires C , 69.4 H, 6.5 N, 2.5 S, 11.2 . The trans azetidinone 44 isomer C was contaminated with 3 of a cis azetidinone 44 isomerD 8 CDCl3 inten atia 4.30 d, J 3.6 Hz . Preparation 7 b 3R5,4SR 3 Acetoxy 2 thienyl mchtyl 1 t butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The title compound 45 was prepared as described in preparation 1 b from the tnans azetidinone 44 Isomer C 4.8 g, 8.41 mmol from preparation 7 a . Chromatography of the crude reaction product gave two fractions. The less polar fraction 4.47 g, 87 contained tnans acetate 45 Isomer C , m.p. 143 4 plates ex. MeOH v max DCM 1750 cm 8 CDC13 excluding Me2Si signals 0.80 9H, s , 1.97 3H, s , 3.86 1H, dd, J 2, 6 Hz , 3.99 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 5.34 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 6.67 7.02 2H, m , 7.16 7.67 16H, m . The more polar fraction 155 mg, 3 contained the cid acetate 45 Isomer D white amorphous solid max DCM 1745 cm 8 CDCl3 excluding Mc2Si signals 0.92 9H, s , 1.66 3H, s , 3.73 1H, dd,J 6.0 and 6.7 Hz , 4.50 1H, d, J 6.0 Hz , 5.85 1H, d, J 6.7 Hz , 6.89 7.65 18H, m . Preparation 7 c 3RS, 4SR 3 Acetoxy 2 thienyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one A solution of the acetate 45 Isomer C 4.29 g, 7 mmol from preparation 7 b in THF 50 ml under argon at room temperature was treated with potassium fluoride 812 mg, 14 mmol and 18 crown 6 370 mg, 1.4 mmol .After 40 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 250 ml and washed with brine 2 x 50 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title azetidinone, 46 Isomer C 2.89 g, 83 m.p. 173 4 plates ex. ethyl acetate hexane , v max DCM 3380, 1770 cm 1 6 CDCl3 2.08 3H, s , 3.56 3.80 1H, m , 4.36 1H, bs , 4.39 1H, d, J 2.5 Hz , 6.41 1H, d,J 6.5 Hz 7.03 7.65 18H, m . Preparation 7 d 9 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 2 thienyl methyl 1 1 p nitro benzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The azetdinones 46 Isomer C 2.50 g, 5.0 mmol from preparation 7 c and p nitrobenzyl glyoxylate monohydrate 1.36 g, 6.0 mmol were heated in ref fluxing benzene 100 ml followed by treatement with triethylamine 70 p1 as for preparation 1 d to give the hydroxyesters 47 as an amorphous solid. This material was treated with 2,6 lutidine 0.9 ml, 7.5 mmol and thionyl chloride 0.55 ml, 7.5 mmol in dry THF 70 ml under argon at 200C as for preparation 1 d to give the crude chloroester 48 as an amorphous solid.This material, triphenylphosphine 5.25 g, 20 mmol and 2,6 lutidine 0.7 ml, 6 mmol were dissolved in dry dioxan 5 ml and stirred under argon at room temperature for 4 days. Work up of the mixture as for preparation 1 d gave the title phosphorane 49 Isomer C 3.4 g, 71 as a light yellow amorphous solid. M max. DCM 1740 br , 1610 cm Preparation 7 e 3RS,4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy 2 thienyl methyl 1 1 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyi 1 triphenylphosphoranylidene methyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolate The title compound 50 was prepared as described in preparation 1 e from the phosphorane 44 310 mg, 0.32 mmol from preparation 7 d yield 289 mg, buff solid. Preparation 7 f 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 acctoxy 2 thienyl emthyl penem 3 carboxylate The title compound 51 was prepared as described in preparation 1 f from the silver thiolate 50 0.32 mmol from preparation 7 e yield 78 mg, 53 m.p. 125 6 plates ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max. DCM 1795, 1740 sh , 1720 cm 1 , 8 CDCl3 2.08 3H, s , 4.32 1H, dd, J 2, 5 Hz , 5.22 and 5.41 2H, ABq,J 13 Hz , 5.91 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.48 1H, d, J 5 Hz , 6.87 7.37 4H, m , 7.55 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.21 2H, d, J 9 Hz Found MNH 4 478 . Example 7 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 2 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate A mixture of Z and E isomers of the title compound 52 were prepared as described in Example 1 a from the penem ester 51 918 mg, 2 mmol from preparation 7 f .Chromatography of the crude reaction product on silica eluting with dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures gave two fractions. The less polar fraction contained the E isomer 52 40 mg, 5 m.p. 199 200 C yellow needles ex. dichloromethanc hexane v max CHCl3 1770, 1720, 1665 cm 1 8 CDCl3 , 5,31 and 5.46 2H,ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.45 1H, d, J 0.6 Hz , 6.77 lH, s , 7.13 u1, dd, J 3.8, 5.0 Hz 7.42 1H, s , 7.56 1H, d,J 5.1 Hz , 7.63 1H, d, J 8.9 Hz , 7.74 1H, d, J 3.5 Hz 8.25 1H, d, J 8.7 Hz , The more polar fraction 667 mg, 83 contained the Z isomer 52 , m.p. 190 2 yellow needles ex. dichloromethane v max DCM 1780, 1720, 1665 cm 8 CDCl3 6.48 1H, s , 7. 7.05 7.45 5H, m , 7.60 2H, d, J 8 Hz , 8.23 2H, d,J 8 Hz Found M 400.0190. C18H12N205S2 requiresM 400.0188 . Example 7 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 2 thienyl methylenepenem 3 carboxylate The title compound 53 was prepared as described in Example 1 b from the Z penem 52 40 mg, 0.1 mmol from Example 7 a . After chromatography on Biogel P2 the appropriate fractions were freeze dried to give the sodium salt 53 12.6 mg, 46 as a yellow solid max H2O 308 nm m 17,600 6 D20 6.60 1H, s , 7.06 1H, s , 7.24 1H, dd, J 3.8, 4,9 Hz , 7.46 1H,d,J 3.3 Hz , 7.50 1H, s , 7.77 1H, d, J 5.1 Hz . Example 7 c 5RS Sodium E 6 2 thienyl methylenepencm 3carboxylate The title compound 54 was prepared as described in Example 1 b from the E penem 52 35 mg, 0.088 mmol , from Example 7 a . After chromatography onBiogel P2 the appropriate fractions were freeze dried to give the sodium salt 54 10 mg, 41t as a yellow solid X max. H20 317 nm 11,570 6 D20 6.47 1H, s , 7.04 1H, s , 7.13 1H, s , 7.18 1H, dd,J 3.7, 5.0 Hz , 7.67 1H, d, J 3.4 Hz , 7.70 1H, d,J 5.0 Hz . Preparation 8 a 1 Butyldimethylsilyl 3 3 thienyl hydroxymethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The title compounds 55 were prepared as described in preparation 1 a from 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one 1 459 mg, 1 mmol and thiophen 3 carboxaldehyde 123 mg, 1.1 mmol . Chromatography of the crude reaction product gave three fractions.The least polar fraction 28 mg, 5 contained a eis isomer Isomer A of the title azetidinone 55 m.p. 20 2 prisms ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max. DCM 3600 3400, 1750 cm 1 a CDCl3 0.38 3H, s , 0.39 3H, s , 0.99 9H, s , 2.95 1H, d, J 4.4 Hz, exch. with D2O , 3.41 1H, dd,J 1.1, 4.6 Hz , 3.42 1H, bd, J 4.6 Hz, collapses to bs on D2O exchange , 4.85 1H, d, J 4.5 Hz , 6.92 7.05 1H, m , 7.12 7.19 2H, m 7.27 7.38 9H, m , 7.46 7.55 6H, m Found tM Et2NH2 645 The second f raction 130 mg, 28 contained a isomer Isomer B of the title azetidinone 55 m.p. 173 5 needles ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max. DCM 3600 3400, 1745 cm a CDCl3 0.20 3H, s , 0.23 3H, s , 0.93 9H, s , 1.38 1H, d, J 6.0 Hz , 3.50 1H, t, J 2.1 Hz , 3.79 1H, dd, J 2.3, 6.0 Hz, collapses to d, J 2.3 z on irradiation at 6 1,38 , 4.45 1H, d, J 2.0 Hz , 7.02 1H, dd, J 1.3, 4.9 Hz , 7.15 7.36 11H, m , 7.40 7.53 6H, m . The more polar fraction 268 mg, 47 contained a isomer Isomer C of the title azetidinone 55 m.p. 101 2 rods ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max DCM 3600 3400, 1740 cm a CDCl3 0.08 3H, s , 0.09 3H, s , 0.88 9H, s , 2.55 1H, d, J 9 Hz, exch. withD2O , 3.80 1H, dd, J 1.8, 6.5 Hz , 4.02 1H, d,J 1.7 Hz , 4.15 1H, dd, J 6.5, 8.9 Hz, collapses to d, J 6.5 Hz on D2O exchange , 6.81 1H, dd, J 1.2, 5.0 Hz , 6.88 1H, dd, J 0.7, 2.4 Hz , 7.28 7.45 10H, m , 7.47 7.54 6H, m Found tM Et2NH2 645. Preparation 8 b 3RS,4SR 3 Hydroxy 3 thienyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one A solution of alcohol 55 Isomer C 4.1 g, 7.18 mmol from preparation 8 a in methanol 40 ml at 200C under argon was treated with a solution of anhydrous potassium fluoride 500 mg, 8.62 mmol in methanol 10 ml . After one and a half hours the reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 250 ml and washed with brine 2 x 50 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue triturated with dichloromethane and then filtered to give the title azetidinone 56 Isomer C 2.54 g, 77 . The filtrate was evaporated and chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give a further amount 0.27 g, 8 of the title azetidinone 56 Isomer C m.p. 1990 prisms ex.ethyl acetate M max. CHC13 3600 3400, 3380, 1760 cm 1 6 CDCl3 , 2.72 1H, bs, exch. with D20 , 3.56 1H, t, J 3.0 Hz , 4.20 1H, bs , 4.49 1H, dJ 2.8 Hz , 5.27 1H, bd. J 3.2 Hz, sharpens to d,J 3.2 Hz on D20 exchange . 7.05 7.52 18H, m . Preparation 8 c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 3 thienyl methyl 4 tritylthio azetidin 2 one A solution of the alcohol 56 Isomer C 2.7 g, 5.9 mmol from preparation 8 b in dichloromethane 100 ml at room temperature under argon was sequentially treated with triethylamine 0.99 ml, 7.08 mmol , 4 dimethylaminopyridine 86 mg, 0.71 mmol and acetic anhydride 0.67 ml, 7.08 mmol . After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 100 ml and washed with 1N hydrochloric acid solution 20 ml , saturated NaHCO3 20 ml and brine 50 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give, after trituration with ether, the title azetidinone 57 Isomer C 2.69 g, 91 as a solid, m.p. 168 90 prisms ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max. DCM 3380, 1775, 1745 cm a CDCl3 2.05 3H, s , 3.61 1H, dd,J 2, 6 Hz , 4.29 1H, bs , 4.35 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.23 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 7.05 7.55 18H, m . Preparation 8 d 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 3 thienyl mthyl 1 1 p nitro benzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The title compound 60 Isomer C was prepared from the azetidinone 57 Isomer C 2.095 g, 4.2 mmol from preparation 8 c vea the hydroxy ester 58 and the chloro ester 59 as described in preparation 7 d yield 2.91 g, 73 light yellow amorphous solid v max DCM 1750, 1610 cm 1 Preparation 8 e 3RS,4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy 3 thienyl methyl 1 I p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolate The title compound 61 Isomer C was prepared from the phosphorane 60 Isomer C 2.9 g, 3.05 mmol from preparation 8 d as described preparation 1 e yield 2,49 g, 100 , white solid. Preparation 8 f 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 3 thienyl methyl penem 3 carboxylate The title compound 62 Isomer C was prepared from the silver thiolate 61 Isomer C 2.49 g, 3.05 mmol from preparation 8 e as described in preparation 1 f yield 983 mg, 70 , m.p. 140 2 plates ex. ethyl acetate hexane v amx. DCM 1795, 1740, 1720 cm 1 CDCl3 2.08 3H, s , 4.32 1H, dd, J 2, 5 Hz , 5.22 and 5.41 2H, ABq, J 13 Hz , 5.91 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.48 1H, d, J 5 Hz , 6.87 7.37 4H, m , 7.55 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.21 2H, d, J 9 Hz Found MNB4 478 . Example 8 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem 3 carboxylate A mixture of Z and E isomers of the title compound 63 were prepared as described in Example 1 a from the penem ester 62 820 mg, 2 mmol from preparation 8 f . Chromatography of the crude reaction product on silicaeluting with dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures gave two fractions.The less polar fraction 130 mg, 16 contained the E isomer 63 m.p. 156 70 ycllow needles ex. dichloromethane hexane max EtOH 306 nm em 24,220 v max. DCM 1770, 1720, 1665 cm1 a CDCl3 5.30 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.44 1H, d, J 0.59 Hz , 6.69 1H, s , 7.37 1H, dd, J 2.9, 5.0Hz , 7.43 1H, s , 7.63 2H, d, J 8.8 Hz , 7.83 1H, dd,J 1.1, 5.1 Hz , 7.97 1H, dd, J 1.0, 2.7 Hz , 8.25 2H, 3, J 8.8 Hz .The more polar fraction 645 mg, 81 contained the Z isomer 63 , m.p. 182 3 yellow needles ex dichloromethane X max EtOH 295 nm 1 24,240 v max. DCM 1785, 1720, 1675 cm 6 CDCl3 5.30 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.57 1H, d, J 1.0 Hz , 7104 1H, dd, J 1.2, 5.1 Hz , 7.22 1H, bs , 7.36 1H, s , 7.45 1H, dd, J 3.2, 5.1 Hz , 7.53 1,H, dd, J 1.2, 3.0 Hz , 7.63 2H, d, J 8.9 Hz , 8.25 2H, d, J 8.8 Hz . Found M 400.0190. C18H12N2O5S requires M 400.0188 . Example 8 b 5RS Sodium 2 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate The title compound 64 was prepared as described in Example 1 b from the Z penem 63 75 mg, 0.19 mmol from Example 7 a . After chromatography on Biogel P2 the appropriate fractions were combined and freeze dried to give the sodium salt 64 30 mg, 55 as a yellow solid X max. H2O 296 nm em 22,510 6 D2O 6.69 1H, s , 7.04 1H, s , 7.18 lH, d, J 5.0 Hz , 7.27 1H, bs , 7.57 1H, dd, J 3.0, 5.0 Hz , 7.76 1H, bs . Example 8 c 5RS Sodium E 6 3 thienyl methylenepenem 3carboxylate The title compound 65 was prepared as described in Example 1 b from the E penem 63 40 mg, 0.1 mmol from Example 8 a . After chromatography on Biogel P2 the appropriate fractions were freeze dried to give the sodium salt 65 15 mg, 528 as a yellow solid X max. H2O 298 nm m 14,980 D2O 6.47 1H, s . 6.90 1H, s , 7.13 1H, s , 7.51 1H, dd, J 3.0, 5.0 Hz , 7.80 1H, d, J 5.0 Hz , 8.01 1H, bs . Preparation 9 a 3RS,4SR and 3RS,4RS 3 acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 1 butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The mixture of tnane Isomer A and cez Isomer B azetidinones 2 9.33 g from Preparation 1 a was treated as for Preparation 1 b to give the title compounds 66 4.09 g , a 3 2 mixture of tnans and cib isomers, as an amorphous solid, v max CBCl3 1745 cm 8 8 ppm CDCl3 0.90 and 1.00 9H, each s, ratio 3 2 , 1.84 and 2.00 3H, each s, ratio 3 2 , 3.44 0.4H, dd, 41 2 and 1 Hz , 3.69 0.6H, dd, J 2 and 2 Hz , 4.09 0.6H, d, J 2 Hz , 4.69 0.4H, d, J 1 Hz , 4.79 0.4H, d, J 4 Hz , 5.08 0.6 H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.15 6.45 2H, m , 7.10 7.60 16H, m , both SiMe2 signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Preparation 9 b 3RS,4SR and 3RS,4RS 3 FAcetoxy 2 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The mixture of tnans and eis azetidinones 66 6.1 g from Preparation 9 a was treated as forPreparation 1 c to give the title compounds 67 3.41 g , a 3 2 mixture of trans and eis isomers, as an amorphous solid, v max CHCl3 3380, 1765 cm 1, 8 ppm CDCl3 2.03 3H, s , 3.73 0.4H, dd, J 9 and 3 Hz , 4.04 0.6H, dd, J 6 and 6 Hz , 4.21 d, J 3 Hz and 4.28 br s together 1H, 4.51 d, J 6 Hz and 4.72 br s together 1H, 6.12 d, J 9 Hz and 6.29 d, J 6 Hz together 1H, 6.35 6.65 2H, m , 7.10 7.50 16H, m . Preparation 9 c 3RS,4SR and 3RS,4RS , 3 Acetoxy 2 Furyl methyl 1 1 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranyl idenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The mixture of trans and cis azetidinones 67 3.95 g from Preparation 9 b was treated as forPreparation 1 d to give a mixture of the title compounds 68 4,77 g as an amorphous solid, v max. CHCl3 1750, 1620 sh, 1615, 1605 sh cm Preparation 9 d 3RS,4SR and 3RS,4RS Silver 3 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitropbenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenyl phosphoranyl dendemethyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolate The mixture of phosphoranes 68 4.77 g fromPreparation 9 c was treated with silver nitrate as inPreparation 1 e to give the title silver salts 69 1.18 g as a buff coloured amorphous solid, M max Nujol 1750, 1600 cm 1 Evaporation of the filtrate and trituration of the residue with dry ether gave a further crop of the silver salt contaminated with silver nitrate 3,32 g . Preparation 9 e 5RS,6SR and 5RS,6RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl penem 3 carboxylate The mixture of silver salts 69 4.50 g, containing silver nitrate as contaminant fromPreparation 9 d was treated as for Preparation 1 f to give the title penems 70 1.85 g , a 3 1 mixture of trans and cis isomers, as an amorphous solid, v max, CHCl3 1800, 1740 sh., 1720 cm 8 8 ppm CDC13 2.10 3H, s , 4.41 0.75B, dd, J 6 and 2 Hz , 4.64 0.25H, dd, J 11 and 4 Hz , 5.20 and 5.40 2H, ABq, J 14 Hz , 5.64 d, J 2 Hz and 5.71 d, J 4 Hz together lH, 6.25 6.60 3H, m , 7.25 7.45 2H, m , 7.55 2H, d,J 9 Hz , 8.19 2H, d, J 9 Hz . Example 9 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl E 6 Furfuryldienepenem 3carboxylate and 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 Furfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate The mixture of tnans and cis penems 70 fromPreparation 9 e 1.70 g was treated as for Example 1 a to give two products after chromatography on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures.The less polar product, the E penem 71 631 mg was obtained as an orange microcrystalline solid, m.p.156 159 C ex, ethyl acetate hexane max EtOH 325 em 23,142 and 262 nm 14,775 l max CHCl3 1770, 1715, 1665 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 5.24 and 5.45 2H, ABq.J14 Hz , 6.41 1H, s , 6.53 2H, s , 7.39 1H, s , 7.45 7.70 4H, m , 8.22 2H, d, J 8 Hz . Found C, 56.1 H, 3.1 N, 7.2 S, 8.2 M , 384.0418. C18H12N206S requires C, 56.3 H, 3.1 N, 7.3 S, 8.3 M, 384.0416 . The more polar isomer, the Z penem 10 528 mg was obtained as an orange yellow solid. Example 9 b 5RS Sodium E 6 Furfurylidenepenem 3 carboxylate The E penem 71 100 mg from Example 9 a was treated as for Example 1 b to give, after chromatography on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title sodium salt 72 27.4 mg as a yellow amorphous solid, X max H2O 318 nm m 13335 v max. KBr 3700 2700, 1750, 1665, 1610, 1560 cm 6 ppm D2O 6.45 1H, s , 6.63 1H, dd, J 3.3 and 1.7 Hz , 6.73 1H, s , 7.10 7.15 2H, m , 7.70 br 1H, s . Preparation 10 a 5RS,6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 2 furyl methyl 2 2 p nitrobenztloxycarbonylethylthio penem 3carboxylate The penem sulphoxide 17 80 mg from Preparation 3 a was treated with p nitrobenzyl 2 mercaptopropionate 74 mg and diisopropylethylamine 20 mg under the conditions described in Preparation 3 b to give the title penem 73 62 mg as a pale yellow amorphous solid, X max EtOH 262 20,267 and 335 nm 8181 1 max. CHCL3 1795, 1740, 1690 cm ppm 3 2.03 3H, s , 2.65 3.40 4H, m , 4.26 1H, dd, J 5 and 2 Hz , 5.19 and 5.42 ABq, J 14 HZ and 5.21 s together 4H, 5.90 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.22 1H, d, J 5 Hz , 6.30 6.45 2H, m , 7.35 7.65 5H, m , 8.18 4H, d,J 8 Hz . Example 10 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 Furfuzylidenep 2 2 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonylethylthio penem 3 carboxylate The penem 73 55 mg from Preparation 10 a was treated as in Example 1 a to give the title penem 74 42 mg as a yellow amorphous solid, X max, EtOH 262 13,939 and 329 nm 17,480 vmax CHCl3 1770, 1735, 1685 sh., 1670 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 2.85 2H, t, J 7.2 Hz , 3.14 3.36 2H, m , 5.24 2H, s , 5.25 and 5.51 2H, ABq, J 13.8 Hz , 6.48 1H, d, J 1.0 Hz , 6.57 1H, dd, J 3.5 and 1.9 Hz , 6.75 1H, d,.J 3.5 Hz , 6.94 1H, slightly broadened s , 7.51 2H, d, J 8.7 Hz , 7.60 1H, d, J 1.6 Hz , 7.67 2H, d, J 8.7 Hz , 8.22 and 8.23 4H, each d, J 8.7 Hz . Example 10 b 5RS 2 2 Carboxyethylthio Z 6 furfurylidencpenem3 carboxylate Disodium Salt The penem 74 40 mg from Example 10 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b , Treatment of the reaction mixture with 1 sodium bicarbonate solution 1.08 ml followed by work up as for Example 1 b gave, after chromatography on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title disodium salt 75 13.1 mg as an amorphous red brown solid, X max. H2O 312 nm 6 ppm D2O 2.56 2.65 2H, m , 2.98 3.25 2H, m 6.56 1H, d, J 0.9 Hz , 6.65 1H, dd, J 3.5 and 1.8 Hz , 6.91 1H, d, J 3,5 Hz , 7,09 br 1H, s , 7.76 lH, d, J 1.8 Hz . Preparation 11 a 3 5 Bromo 2 furyl hydroxymethyl 1 butyldimethyl silyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one A solution of n butyl lithium 1.6 M in hexane, 0.75 ml was added to a stirred solution of diisopropylamine 0.17 ml in dry THF 8 ml at 300C under dry argon. After 10 minutes at 300C the stirred mixture was cooled to 760C and treated with a solution of 1 butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one 1 459 mg in dry THF 4 ml . After 15 minutes at 760C the stirred mixture was treated with a solution of 5 bromofurfuraldehyde 192 mg in dry THF 1 ml . The mixture was stirred at 760C for a further 10 minutes, treated with saturated ammonium chloride solution 5 ml , and worked up as for Preparation 1 a to give two fractions. The less polar fraction 168 mg contained an approximately 1 1 mixture of tnans Isomer A and t Isomer B isomers of the title azetidinone 76 , v max CHCl3 3600 3100, 1740 cm 8 ppm CDCl3 0.90 and 0.94 9H, each s , 1.3 1.9 iH, broad signal, exch. D20 , 3.35 3.65 2H, m, sharpens on exch. D2O , 4.44 0.5H, d, J 2 Hz , 4.75 0.5H ,. d, J 5 Hz , 6.06 6.34 2H, m , 7.10 7.60 15H, m , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal.The more polar fraction 326 mg contained a single tnans isomer Isomer C of the title azetidinone 76 , v,max. CHCl3 3600 3100, 1730 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 0,92 9H, s , 2.45 2.66 br 1H, m, exch. D2O , 3.66 1H, dd, J 7 and 2 Hz , 3.75 4.00 1H, m, collapses to 3.85, d, J 7 Hz on exch. D2O , 4.10 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 5.99 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 6.13 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7.15 7.55 15H, m , theMe2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Prepaation 11 b 3RS, 4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 bromo 2 furyl methyl 1 butyl dimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The tnans azetidinone 76 Isomer C 2.19 g from Preparation 11 a was acetylated as for Preparation 1 b to give the title compound 77 2.08 g as an amorphous solid, v max. CHC13 1740 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 0.83 . 9H, s , i.93 3H, s , 3.84 1H, dd,J 6 and 2 Hz , 3.92, 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 5.12 1H, d,J 6 Hz , 6.05 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 6.14 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7.00 7.70 15H, m , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Preparation 11 c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 bromo 2 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The acetate 77 1.80 g from Preparation 11 b was treated with potassium fluoride and 18 crown 6 as for Preparation 4 c to give the title azetidinone 78 1.49 g as an amorphous solid, v amx. CHCl3 3380, 1770 cm 8 8 ppm CDCl3 2,07 3H, s , 3.60 br 1H, dd, J 6 and 3 Hz , 4.20 br 1H, s , 4.56 1H, d,J 3 Hz , 6.06 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 6.26 and 6.37 2H, each d, J 3 Hz , 7.10 7.60 15H, m . Preparation 11 d 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoy S bromo 2 furyl methyl l l nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The azetdinone 78 1.49 g from Preparation 11 c was treated as for Preparation l d to give the title phosphorane 79 1.58 g as an amorphous solid, max CRCl3 1750, 1620, 1610 sh. cm Preparation 11 e 5RS,6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 5 bromo 2 furyl methylJpenem 3 carboxylate The phosphorane 79 200 mg from Preparation 11 d was dissolved in a mixture of methanol 2 ml and dichloromethane 2 ml and treated with pyridine 20 mg and silver nitrate 1.71 ml of a 0.15M solution in methanol .After stirring at room temperature for 30 minutes the mixture was evaporated to low volume and diluted with dry ether. The precipitated solid was filtered, washed with dry ether 2 x 5 ml and dried under vacuum to give crude silver thiolate 80 184 mg as an amorphous solid. The crude silver thiolate 80 was treated as forPreparation 1 f to give the title penem 81 78 mg as a pale yellow amorphous solid, X max EtOH 261 5398 and 312 nm 3246 v max. CHCl3 1795, 1740 sh, 1720 cm 8 ppm CDCl3 2.06 3H, s , 4.30 1H, dd, J 2 and 5 Hz , 5.20 and 5.41 2H, ABq,J 14 Hz , 5.99 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.14 1H, d, J 5 Hz , 6.26 1H, d, J 4 Hz , 6.40 1H, d, J 4 Hz , 7.29 lH, s , 7.65 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.20 2H, d, J 9 Hz . Example 11 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 Bromofurfurylidene penem3 carboxylate The penem 81 69 mg from Preparation 11 e was treated as for Example 1 a to give the title penem 82 52 mg as a photolabile yellow solid, X max EtOH 262 m 10,635 and 320 nm 23,242. v max. CHCl30 1775, 1710, 1660 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 5.28 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.49 1H, d, J 3.5 Hz , 6.58 1H, d, J 1.0 Hz , 6.68 1H, d, J 3.5 Hz , 6.85 1H, d, J 1.0 Hz , 7.38 1H, s , 7.62 2H, d, J 8.7 Hz , 8.25 2H, d, J 8.7 Hz . Found M , 461.9522.C18H11N2O6SBr requires M, 461,9522 . Example 11 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 5 Bromofurfurylidene penem 3carboxylate The penem 82 48 mg from Example 11 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b to give the title sodium salt 83 6.7 mg as a yellow brown amorphous solid, I max. H2O 310 nm 8 ppm D20 6.64. d.J 3.6 Hz and 6.66 d, J 1.0 Hz together 2H, 6.87 1H, d, J 3.6 Hz , 7.02 1H, slightly broadened s , 7.09 1H, s . Preparation 12 a 3RS,4SR 1 Butyldimethylsilyl 3 3 furoyl 4 trityl thioazetidin 2 one A solution of n butyl lithium 1.6M in hexane, 0.75 ml was added to a stirred solution of diisopropylamine 0.17 ml in dry THF 8 ml at 300C under dry argon. After stirring at 300C for 10 minutes the mixture was cooled to 760C and treated tith a solution of 1 butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one 459 mg in dry THF 4 ml . After 15 minutes at 760C the stirred mixture was treated with a solution of ethyl 3 furoate 80 mg in dry THF 1 ml .The mixture was stirred at 760C for a further 30 minutes, treated with saturated ammonium chloride 5 ml , and worked up as for Preparation 1 a to give the title ketone 84 457 mg as a solid, m.p. 150 1510C ex. hexane , v max CHC13 1745, 1670 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 0.93 9H, s , 3.84 1H, d, J 2 Hz 5.02 1H, d,J 2 Hz , 6.55 6.65 1H, m , 7.00 7.60 16H, m , 7.75 7.85 lH, m , the Me2Si signals were observed by the TMS signal. Found C, 71.3 H, 6.3 N, 2.5 S, 5.7. C33H35NO3SSi requires C, 71.6 H, 6.4 N, 2.5 S, 5.8 . Preparation 12 b 3RS,4SR 1 Butyldimethylsilyl 3 3 furyl hydroxy methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one Sodium borohydride 27 mg was added to a stirred, ice bath cooled, solution of the ketone 84 100 mg from Preparation 12 a in a mixture of dry THF 2 ml and ethanol 2 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours, carefully diluted with brine 5 ml and 5 citric acid 5 ml , and extracted with ethyl acetate 25 ml . The organic layer was seprated and washed with brine 3 ml , saturated NaHCO3 solution 3 ml , and brine 3 x 3 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give two isomers of the title tnans azetidinone 85 . The less polar isomer Isomer A 17. mg was obtained as a solid, m.p.182 183 C chunks ex. etbyl acetate hexane . v max. CHCl3 3600 3100, 1740 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 0.92 9H, s , 1.41 br 1H, s, exch. D2O , 3.40 1H, dd,J 2 and 2 Hz , 3.58 3.72 1H, m, sharpens to d,J 2 Hz, on exch. D20 , 4.45 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 6.40 6.50 1H, m , 7.15 7.65 17H, m , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signals. Found C, 71.3 H, 6.7 N, 2.6 S, 5.6. C33H37N 3SS requires C, 71.3 H, 6.7 N, 2.5 S, 5.8 .The more polar isomer Isomer B 60 mg was obtained as a solid, m.p. 120 1210C plates ex. hexane , v max CHCl3 3600 3100, 1730 cm bppm CDC13 0.83 9H, s , 2.18 br 1H, s, exch. D20 , 3.69 1H, dd,J 6 and 2 Hz , 3.90 4.10 2H, m, collapses to a d,J 6 Hz, and a d J 2 Hz on exch. D2O , 6.11 6.20 1H, m , 7.04 7.13 lH, m , 7.20 7.60 16H, m , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Found C, 71.1 H, 6.7 N, 2.4 S, 5.6. C33H37N0355i requires C, 71.3 H, 6.7 N, 2.5 s, 5.8 . Preparation 12 c 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 1 butyldimethyl silyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The azetidinone 85 Isomer B 125 mg fromPreparation 12 b was treated as for Preparation 1 b to give the title acetate 86 108 mg as a solid, m.p. 152 1530C chunks ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max CHCl3 1745 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 0.81 9H, s ,1.92 3H, s , 3.81 dd, J 6 and 2 Hz and 3.83 d, J 2 Hz together 2H, 5.14 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 6.15 6.25 1H, m , 7.05 7.60 17H, m , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Found C, 69.8 H, 6.4 N, 2.3 S, 5.1. C35H39NO4SSi retries C, 70.3 H, 6.6 N, 2.3 S, 5.4 . Preparation 12 d 3RS,4SR , 3 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 3 one The azetidinone 86 86 mg from Preparation 12 c was treated as for Preparation 4 c to give the title azetidinone 87 68 mg as a solid, m.p. 159 1600C prisms ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max. CHCl3 3380, 1770 cm 6 ppm CDCl3 2.05 3H, s , 3.58 1H, ddd, J 6, 3 and approximately 1 Hz , 4.36 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 4.44 1H, broad signal , 6.12 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 6.36 6.48 1H, m , 7.15 7.60 17H, m . Found C, 72.0 H, 5.3 N, 2.8 S, 6.1. C29H25NO4S requiresC, 72.0 H, 5.2 N, 2.9 S, 6,6 . Preparation 12 e 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitroben oxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosporanylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The azetidinone 87 966 mg from Preparation 12 d was treated with p nitrobenzyl glyoxylate monohydrate and triethylamine followed by thionyl chloride and 2,6 lutidine as for Preparation 1 d to give the crude chloroester 88 . The crude chloroester 88 and triphenylphosphine 2,1 g were dissolved in dry dioxane 5 ml . The mixture as concentrated to approximately half volume and treated with 2,6 lutidine 0.28 ml . The resulting viscous oil was stirred at 400C under dry argon for 36 hours.The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 30 mlj and washed with 5 citric acid 5 ml , brine 5 ml , saturated NaHCO3 solution 5 ml , and brine 3 x 5 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane to give the title phosphorane 89 1.27 g as an amorphous solid, v max. CElC13 1745, 1610 br. cm 1 Preparation 12Of 3RS,4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 1 1 pnitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidene methyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolate The phosphorane 89 1.34 g from Preparation 12 e was treated as for Preparation 1 e to give the title silver salt 90 1.12 g as an amorphous solid, v max CHCl3 1750 cm Preparation 12 g 5RS,6SR p Nirtobezyl 6 Acetoxy 3 furyl methylpenem 3 carboxylate The silver salt 90 400 mg from Preparation 12 f was treated as for Preparation 1 f to give the title penem 91 176 mg as an amorphous solid, max. CHCl3 1795, 1720 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl30 2.08 3H, s , 4.24 1H, ddd, J 6, 2 and approximately 1 Hz , 5.21 and 5.41 2H, ABq, J 14 Hz , 5.75 1H, d,J 2 Hz , 6.20 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 6.39 1H, br. s , 7.28 1H, d, J approximately 1 Hz , 7.40 1H, dd, J 11 2 and 11 2 Hz , 7.48 1H, br.s , 7.55 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.21 2H, d, J 9 Hz . Found M , 444.0622.C20H16N2085 requires M, 444. 0627 . Example 12 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3 carboxylate and 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 3 Furyl methylene penem 3 carboxylate The penem 91 156 mg from Preparation 12 g was treated as for Example 1 a to give two fractions aftr chromatography on silica gel eluting witch dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures. The less polar fraction contained the title E penem 92 . 19 mg , an amorphous solid, X max. EtOH 300 Em 17,250 and 262 nm 16,500 v max CHCl3 1770, 1710, 1670 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 5.30 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.42 1H, s , 6.57 1H, s , 7.42 1H, s , 7.46 1H, br.s , 7.62 2H, d, J 8.8Hz , 7.89 1H, br. s , 8.25 2H, d, J 8.8 Hz , the signal for 1 proton was apparently obscured by the CHCl3 signal. Found M , 384.0418.C18H12N205S requires M, 384.0416 . The more polar fractioncontained the title Z penem 93 97 mg , a solid, m.p. 170 185 C slow decomposition fine needles ex. ethyl acetate hexane X max EtOH 295 nm em 23,000 v max. CHCl3 1780, 1720, 1680 cm 6 8 ppm CDCl3 5.29 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.6 Hz , 6.34 6.35 1H, m , 6.53 1H, d, J 1.1 Hz , 7.11 1H, s , 7.35 lH, s , 7.52 7.53 1H, m , 7.62 2H, d,J 8.8 Hz , 7.71 1H, s , 8.24 2H, d, J 8.8 Hz . Found C, 56.0 H, 3.1 N, 7.3 S, 8.3 M , 384.0414 C18H12N2O6S requires C, 56.2 H, 3.1 N, 7.3 S, 8.3 M , 384.0416 . Example 12 b 5RS Sodium H 6 3 Furylemthylene penem 3carboxylate The E penem 92 17 mg from Example 12 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b to give, after chromatograpny on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title sodium salt 94 2.8 mg as an amorphous pale yellow solid, max. H20 296 nm em 16,015 . Example 12 c 5RS Sodium 2 6 3 Furylmethylene penem 3carboxylate The Z penem 93 70 mg from Example 12 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b to give, after chromatography on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title sodium salt 95 25 mg as an amorphous pale yellow solid, X max H2O 291 nm cm 17,977 v max. KBr 3700 2500, 1757, 1678, 1596, 1559 cm 1 8 ppm D2O 6.55 1H, d, J 1,8 Hz , 6.68 1H, d, J 0.9 Hz , 7.09 1H, 5 r 7.22 1H, br.s , 7.63 7.65 1H, m , 7.92 1H, br. s . Preparation 13 a 2 5 p Nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 2 furyl 1 ,3 dioxolane A solution of n butyl lithium 1.64 M in n hexane, 6,1 ml was added to a stirred solution of 2 2 furyl 1,3 dioxolane 1.40 g in dry THF 20 ml at 7G C under dry argon. After 30 minutes at 760C the stirred mixture was treated withdry carbon dioxide gas for 3 minutes the gas was dried by passage through aDrierite drying tower and introduced to the reaction vessel through a wide bore tube close to the surface of the reaction mixture . The cooling bath was removed and the mixture allowed to stand for 30 minutes whilst it attained room temperature. The mixture was diluted with water 50 ml and washed with ethyl acetate 10 ml . The aqueous layer was acidified with 5 citric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 x 20 ml .The combined extracts were washed with brine 2 x 5 ml , dried MgSO4 , and evaporated to give crude 2 5 carboxy 2 furyl 1,3 dioxolane 96 857 g as a solid. The crude acid 96 was dissolved in dry dimethylformamide 10 ml and treated with achydroux potassium carbonate 321 mg and p nitrobenzyl bromide 1.01 g . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours, diluted with ethyl acetate 60 ml , and washed with brine 3 x 15 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give, after crystallisation from ethyl acetate hexane, the title acetal 97 1.00 g m,p.93 940C rods max. CHCl3 1720 cm l 6 ppm CDC13 4.07 4H,s 5.42 2H, s , 5.98 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.25 2H, d,J 9 Hz . Found C, 56.2 H, 4.2 N, 4.3 C15H13N07 requires C, 56.4 H, 4.1 N, 4.g 3 Preparation 13 b p Nitrobenzyl 5 Formyl 2 furoate A mixture of the acetal 97 319 mg fromPreparation 13 a , pyridine p toluene sulphonate 25 mg , acetone 5 ml , and water 0.5 ml were heated under reflux for 24 hours. The mixture was evaporated to low volume , diluted with ethyl acetate 15 ml , and washed with brine 3 x 3 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue crystallised from ethyl acetate hexane to give the title aldehyde 98 186 mg m.p. 100 1010C plates , v max CHCl3 1725, 1690 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 5.51 2H, s , 7.25 7.45 2H, m , 7.65 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 8.29 2H, d, J 9 Hz , 9.83 1H, s . Found C, 56.8 H, 3.5 N, 5.0. C13HgNO6 requires C, 56.7 H, 3.3 N, 5.18 . Preparation 13 c 1 Butyldimethylsilyl 3 hydroxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxy carbonyl 2 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one A solution of n butyl lithium 1.6 in n hexane, 0.73 ml was added to a solution of diisopropylamine 0.17 ml in dry THF 8 ml at 300C under dry argon.After stirring at 300C for 10 minutes the mixture was cooled to 760C and treated with a solution of 1 t butyldimethylsilyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one 1 459 mg in dry THF 4 ml . After 15 minutes at 760C the stirred mixture was treated with a solution of the aldehyde 98 330 mg from Preparation 13 b in dryTHF 2 ml . After a further 20 minutes at 760C the stirred mixture was treated with saturated ammonium chloride solution 5 ml and worked up as for Preparation 1 a to give two fractions. The less polar fraction contained a tnans isomer Isomer A of the title azetidinone 99 180 mg , a solid, m.p. 185 89 C plates ex. ethyl acetate hexane v max CHCl3 3600 3100, 1735 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 0,93 9H, s , 1.86 1H, d, J 7 Hz, exch. D20 , 3.44 1H, dd , J 2 and 2 Hz , 3.61 1H, dd, J 7 and 2 Hz, collapses to d, J 2 Hz on exch. D20 , 4.49 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 5.39 2H, s , 6.49 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7.08 7.63 18H, m , 8.23 2H, d, J 8 Hz , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal, The more polar fraction contained a tnans isomer Isomer B of the title azetidinone 99 237 mg , an amorphous solid, v max. CHCl3 3600 3100, 1730 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 0.80 9H, s , 2.62 1H, d, J 10 Hz, exch. D2O , 3.72 1H, br.d, J 6 Hz , 4.03 1H, br. dd, J 6 and 10 Hz, collapses to d, J 6 Hz on exch.D2O , 4.21 1H, br.s , 5.35 2H, br.s , 6.19 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 7,00 7.65 19H, m , 8.18 2H, d, J 8 Hz , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Preparation 13 d 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 2 furyl methyl 1 butyldimethlsilyl 4 tritylthio azetidin 2 one The tnans azetidinone 99, Isomer B 147 mg fromPreparation 13 c was treated as for Preparation 1 b to give the title acetate 100. 90 mg as an amorphous solid v max. CHCl3 1740 cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 0,84 9H, s ,1.94 3H, s , 3.93 1H, dd, J 6 and 2 Hz , 4.11 1H, d, J 2 Hz , 5.28 1H, d, J 6 Hz , 5.43 2H, s , 6.32 1H, d, J 4 Hz , 7.10 7.75 18H, m , 8.28 2H, d,J 9 Hz , the Me2Si signals were obscured by the TMS signal. Preparation 13 e 3RS,4SR 3 acetoxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 2 furyl methyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The acetate 100 90 mg from Preparation 13 d was treated as for Preparation 4 c to give the title azetidinone 101 61 mg , an amorphous solid, V max. CHCl3 3390, 1775, 1730 sh. cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 2.10 3H, s , 3.81 1H, slightly broadened dd, J 7 and 3 Hz , 4.40 1H, br.s , 4.53 1H, d, J 3 Hz , 5.45 2H, s , 6.21 1H, d, J 7 Hz , 6.57 1H, d, J 4 Hz , 7.20 7.70 18H, m , 8.25 2H, d, J 9 Hz . Preparation 13 f 3RS,4SR 3 Acetoxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 2 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitropbenzyloxycarbonyl 1 tri phenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 one The azetidinone 10J 1.65 g from Preparation 13 e was treated as for Preparation 12 e to give the title phosphorane 102 2.05 g as an amorphous solid, max. CHC13 1755, 1620 sh., 1605 cm Preparation 13 g 3RS.4SR Silver 3 Acetoxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl2 furyl methyl 1 1 p nitrobezyloxycarbonyl 1 tri phenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolate The phosphorane 102 2.05 g from Preparation 13 f was dissolved in a mixture of dichloromethane 30 ml and methanol 10 ml and treated with silver nitrate pyridine as for Preparation 1 e to give the title silver thiolate 103 1.51 g as a pale yellow amorphous solid, v max. CHC13 1750, 1620 slight shoulder, 1610 cm . Preparation 13 h 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 5 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 2 furyl methyl penem 3 carboxylate The silver thiolate 103 490 mg from Preparation 13 g was treated as for Preparation 1 f to give the title penem 104 281 mg as a solid, m.p. 178 1790C microcrystalline ax. ethyl acetate hexane v max. CHCl3 1795, 1725 cm S ppm CDCl3 2.08 3H, s , 4.38 1H, ddd, J 5, 2 and approximatly 1Hz , 5.22 and 5.42 2H, ABq, J 14 Hz , 5.40 2H, s , 6.06 1H, d,J 2 Hz , 6.24 1H, d, J 5 Hz , 6.59 3H, d, J 4 Hz , 7.19 1H, d, J 4 Hz , 7.30 1H, d, J approximately 1Hz , 7.57 and 7,58 4H, each d, J 9 Hz , 8.20 and 8.22 4H, each d, J 9 Hz . Found C, 54.0 H, 3.7 N, 6.6 S, 4.9. C28H21N3O12S requires C, 53,9 H, 3,4 N 6.7 S, 5.1 . Example 13 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl Z 6 5 p Nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl furfurylidene penem 3 carboxylate The penem 104 240 mg from Preparation 13 h was treated as for Example 1 a to give the title Z penem 105 159 mg as an orange yellow solid, Vmax. Nujol 1770, 1720, 1705, 1680 sh. cm 1 8 ppm CDCl3 5.30 and 5.46 2H, ABq, J 13.4 Hz , 5.41 and 5.50 2H,ABq, J 13.3 Hz , 6.63 1H, d, J 0.8 Hz , 6.80 lH, d,J 3.7 Hz , 6.97 1H, br.s , 7.31 1H, d, J 3.7 Hz , 7.38 1H, s , 7.62 4H, br.d, J approximately 8.2 Hz , 8.25 d, J 8.4 Hz and 8.26 d, J 8.8 Hz , together 4H Example 13 b 5RS Z 6 5 Carboxyfurfurylidene penem 3 carboxylateDisodium Salt The penem 105 120 mg from Example 13 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b to give, after chromatography on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title disodium salt 106 65 mg as an orange yellow amorphous solid, X max. H2O 318 nm m 19233 v max. Nujol 3700 2000, 1755, 1660 sh., 1600 br., 1560 sh. cm 6 ppm D2O 6.76 1H, s , 6.90 1H, d, J 3.6 Hz , 7.06 1H, d,J 3.6 Hz , 7.09 2H, s . Preparation 14 a 3RS 1 1 allyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenyl phosphoranylidenemethyl 4tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA solution of 4 tritylthiioazetioin 2 ono Bristol Mcyers GB20425 15A 4.35g, 12.6 maol in dry DMF 60 ml was treated with glyoxylie acid hydrate 1.39g, 15.13 trimol . The mixture was stirred with dried 4A molecular sieves for 24h. The reaction mixture was then treated with potassium carbonate 1.04g, 7.56 mmol and allyl bromide 1.31 ml, 15.13 mmol and stirred for a further 16 h. The reaction mixture was filtered through kieselguhr, washing the pad well with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was diluted with ethyl acetate, washed well with dilute HCl, and brine then dried MgS04 and evaporated.The residue was chromatographed on silica eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the hydroxy esters 107 4,8g, 8A as a white amorphous solid. vmax CH2C12 3500, 1770, 1750 cm A stirred solution of the hydroxy esters 107 4,8g, 10.5 mnol in dry ThF 70 ml under argon at 200 was sequentially treated with 2,6 lutidine 1.82 ml, 15.7 mmol and thionyl chloride 1.15 ml, 15.7 mmol . After 15 minutes the mixture was filtered and evaporated.The residue was then dissolved in toluene, treated with charcoal ang after 5 minutes filtered and evaporated to give the crule chloroester 108 as a yellow amorphous solid. The crude chloroester 108 was dissolved in dioxane 100 ml , treated with triphenylphosphine 4,11g, 15.7 mmol and 2,6 lutidine 1,46 ml, 12.5 mmol and stirred at 1000 for 2 h, 16n at 75 and then a further 2 h at 1000. The mixture was evaporated dissolved in ethyl acetate and washed with dilute HCl, dilute NaHC03 solution and brine then dried MgSO4 and evaporated. Chromatography on silica eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures gave the title phosphorane 109 3.9g, 535 as a buff amorphous solid vmax CH2Cl2 1745, 1610 cm 1. Preparation 14 b 3 Hydroxy N methylpyrrol 2 yl methyl 1 1 allyloxycarbonyl 1triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 tritylthioazetidin 2 oneA stirred solution of diisopropylamine 1.12 ml, 8 mmol in ThIF 40 ml under argon at 30 was treated with a solution of n butyl lithium 1,4M, 5.68 ml, 8 mmol . After 15 minutes the mixture was cooled to 700 and treated dropwise with a solution of the phosphorane 109 2.8g, 4 mmol from preparation 14 a in THF 110 ml .After a further 10 minutes the red mixture was treated with a solution of N methylpyrrole 2 carboxaldehyde 1,31g, 12 mmol in THF 4 ml .After a further 10 minutes the reaction mixture was quenched with a saturated aqueous solution of ammonium chloride, and allowed to attain room temperature. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with brine then dried MgSO4 and evaporated. After chromatography on silica eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures the later fractions major low RF spot on t.l.c. were combined and evaporated to give the title alcohols 110 470 mg, 14 as a light yellow amorphous solid vmax CE2Cl2 3600 3300, 1750, 1610 cm 1 1H nmr CDCl3 shows material contains 2 major isomers ie, inten 63.42 s and 3.44 s NMe in about 1 1 ratio. Preparation 14 c Silver 3 Hydroxy N methylpyrrol 2 yl emthyl 1 1 allyloxycarboxyl1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl azetidin 2 one 4 thiolateA stirred solution of the phosphorane 110 470 mg, 0.58 nrnol from preparation 14 b in methanol 8 ml with treated with pyridine 61 ul, 0.75 mmol and a solution of silver nitrate 0.15M, 5 ml, 0.75 mmol in MeOH. After 30 minutes the reaction mixture was evaporated to low volume and treated dropwise with ether. The precipitate was collected and dried under vacuum to give the crude title silver thiolate 111 460 mg, 100 as a buff solid. This material was pure enough for further synthetic work and was estimated to be 85 pure. Preparation 14 d 3 Hydroxy N methypyrrol 2 yl methyl 1 1 allyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphoranylidenemethyl 4 acetylthioazetidin 2 oneA stirred solution of the crude silver thiolate 111 360 mg, 85 pure, 0.625 mmol in dry acetonitrile 36 ml was treated with a solution of acetyl chloride 60 yl, 0.812 mmol in acetonitrile 0.5 ml . Within 1 minute precipitation occurred. After a further 2 minutes the mixture was filtered through Kieselguhr, washing the pad well with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with dilute NaHC03 solution and brine. The dried MgSO4 organic phase was evaporated and chromatographed on silica eluting ethyl acetate hexane mixtures and then ethyl acetate. The later fractions, containing a polar material, were combined ard evaporated to give the title thioester 112 50 mg, 13 as a light yellow amorphous solid vmax CH2Cl2 3600 3200, 1750, 1695, 1620 cm Preparation 14 e Allyl 6 Hydrcocy N methylpyrrol 2 yl methyl 2 methylpenem 3 carboxylateA stirred solution of the thioester 112 50 mg from preparation 14 d in toluene 50 ml was heated at 1100 under argon for 1 hour.The cooled reaction mixture was evaporated to volume and chrorratographed on silica eluting with 40 ethyl acetate hexane to give the title penem 113 6.4 mg as a light yellow amorphous solid max CH2C12 3600 3300, 1785, 1710, 1590 cm 1 1H Nmr showed that the material was essentially a single trans isomer 6 CDCl3 2.05 1H, d,J 6.7Hz 2.38 3H, s , 3.69 3H, s , 4.24 1H, dd, J1.7, 7.1Hz , 4.66 1H, dd, J 5.6, 13.4Hz , 4.79 1H, dd, J 5.4, 13.4Hz , 5.10 1H, t,J 6.9Hz , 5. 6 1H, dd, J 1.4, 10.4Hz , 5.39 1H, dd, J 1.4, 17.2Hz , 5.43 1H, d, J 1.6Hz , 5.96 1H, ddd, J 5.5, 10.11, 17.2Hz , 6.08 1H, dd, J 2.8, 3.5Hz , 6.24 1H, dd, J 1.5, 3.5Hz , 6.64 6.66 1H, m . The presence of a cis isomer 5 was indicated by inter alia 6 2.35 s , 3.711 s , 4.36 dd, J 6.4, 16. Hz 5.66 d, J 6.4 Hz . Example 14 5RS Allyl 2 methyl 6 N methylpyrrol 2 ylmethylenepenem 3 carboxylateA stirred solution of the penem 113 8.4 mg, 0.025 mmol from preparation 14 e in dry dichloromethane 1 ml at 00 under argon was sequentially treated with a solution of triethylamine 7 l, 0.050 mmol in dichloromethane 0.1 ml and a solution of methanesulphonyl chloride 3.9 lul, 0.050 mmol in dichloromethane 0.1 ml . After 30 minutes the mixture was treated with further qunatities of triethylamine 3.5 l, 0.025 mmol in dichloromethane 0.05 ml and methanesulphonyl chloride 1.95 pl, 0,025 mmol in dichloromethane 0.05 ml .After a further 30 minutes the mixture was again treated a solution of triethylamine 3.5 11, 0.025 mmol in dichloromethane 0.05 ml and methanesulphonyl chloride 1.95 l, 0.025 mmol in dichloromethane 0.05 ml . After a further 30 minutes the yellow reaction mixture was diluted with dichloromethane, washed with 5 citric acid solution, dilute NaHCO solution and brine then dried MgSO4 and evaporated.The residue was chromatographed on silica eluting with 30 ethyl acetate hexane to give the title penem 114 5 mg as a 6 1 mixture of E 2 isomers vmax CH2Cl3 1765. 1710. 1650, 1590 cm 1 5 CDCl3 an approx. 6 1 ratio of E Z isomers 2.360 s and 2.37 s together 3H , 3.680 s and 3.70 s together 3H3, 4.70 1H, dd,J5.6, 13.4Hz , 4.82 1H, dd, J 5.4, 13.4Hz , 5.27 1H, dd, J 1.4, 10.4Hz , 5.45 1H, dd, J 1.4, 17.2 Hz , 6.00 1H, ddd, J 5.5, 10.4, 17.2Hz , 6.22 s overlaying 6.18 6.27 m together ZH , 6,46 6 7H, s , 6.75 6.77 6 7H, m , 6.83 6,85 1 7H, m 7.06 1 7H, s , 7.60 1H, dd, J 1.5, 4.THz . Preparation 15 a t Butyldiphenyl silyloxyacetyl chloride Oxalyl chloride 2.27 ml was added to a solution of 0 t butyl diphenylsilylglycollic acid Beecham, GB 2037277B 6.28g and dimethylformamide 3 drops in dry dichloromethane 30 ml at OOC The mixture was kept at room temperature for 1 hour and treated with a further portion 3 drops of dimethylformamide. The mixture was stirred until the reaction was complete infra red monitoring . The mixture was evaporated to give the title acid chloride 115 6.2g as an oil, vmax CH2Cl2 1810 cm 1 appm CDCl3 1.10 9H,s , 4,50 2H, s , 7.0 8.0 1, m . Preparation 15 b 3RS, 2ssR 3 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 4 t butyldiphenylsilyloxy acetylthio I 1 p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl 1 triphenylphosphorany lidenemethyl azetidin 2 one The acid chloride 115 250 mg from Preparation 15 a was added to a stirred, ice bath cooled, mixture of the silver salt 90 200 mg. from Preparation 12 g and pyridine 59 mg in dry dichloromethane 5 ml . After stirring at ice bath temperature for 10 minutes the mixture was filtered through Kieselguhr and the residue was washed with ethyl acetate 2 x 10 ml . The combined filtrate were washed with 1N. hydrochloric acid 2 ml , brine 2 ml , saturated NaHCO3 solution 2 ml and brine 3 x 2 ml .The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title phosphorane 116 189 mg as an amorphous solid, vmax CHC13 1760. 1690, 1620, 1605 sh. cm . Preparation 15 c 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 2 t butyl d iphenylsilyloxymethylpenem 3 carboxylate The phosphorane .116 189 mg from Preparation 15 b was heated in refluxing toluene 40 ml under argon for 2 hours. The mixture was evaporated and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title penem 117 106 mg as an amorphous solid, Xmax EtCH CHCl3 259 Em 12572 , 263 12610 and 319 nm 8727 vmax CHCl3 1790, 1740, 1705 cm dppm CDC13 1.05 9H, s , 2.11 3H, s , 4.23 1H, dd,J6.2 and 1.8Hz , 4.84 2H, s , 5.11 and 5.27 2H, ABq, J13.8Hz , 5.59 1H, d, J1.8Hz , 6.21 1H, d, J6.2Hz , 6.42 m, d, J1.1Hz , 7.3 7.7 14H, m , 6,13 2H, d, J8.7Hz . Preparation 15 d 5RS, 6SR p Nitrobenzyl 6 Acetoxy 3 furyl methyl 2 bydroxymethyl penem 3 carboxylate The penem 117 300 mg from Preparation 15 c was dissolved in dry ThF 10 ml , cooled in an ice bath, and treated with glacial acetic acid 76 mg and tetra n butylammonium fluoride 0.55 ml of a 1M. solution in THF . After 30 minutes at ice bath temperature the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 40 ml and washed with brine 3 ml , saturated NaHCO3 solution 3 ml and brine 3 x 3 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel eluting with ethyl acetate hexane mixtures to give the title penem 118 182 mg as a solid, mp. 138 1400C rhomboids ex ethyl acetate hexane max EtOH CHC13 262 Em 12223 and 319 nm 9312 umax CHCl3 3600 3100, 1795, 1740. 1705 cm 1 6 ppm CDCl3 2.10 3H, s , 3.23 1H, t, J6.8Hz , 4.25 1H, dd, J6.0 and 1.7Hz , 4,63 4,66 2H, m , 5.26 and 5.43 2H, ABq, J13.8Hz , 5.61 1H, d, J1.7Hz . 6.21 1H, d, J6.0Hz , 6.40 br 1H, s , 7.43 1H, dd,J1.5 and 1.5Hz , 7.50 br 1H, s , 7.61 2H, d, J8.6Hz , 8.24 2H, d, J8.6Hz . Example 15 a 5RS p Nitrobenzyl 6 3 Furylmethylene 2 hydroxymethylpenem 3 carboxylate A solution of DBU 80 mg in dry dichloromethane 1 ml was added, dropwise over 1 minute, to a stirred solution of the penem 118 100 mg form Preparation 15 d in dry dichloromethane 4 ml at 40 C. After stirring at 40 C for 30 minutes the mixture was diluted with dichloromethane 5 ml and washed with 5 citric acid 1 ml , brine 1 ml , saturated NaHCD3 solution 1 ml and brine 3 x 1 ml . The dried MgSO4 organic layer was evaporated to give a mixture of the E and Z isomers of the title penem 119 .Careful chromatography of the mixture on silica gel eluting with dichloromethane ethyl acetate mixtures allowed the separation of the Z isomer of the title penem 119 63 mg , a solid, mp. 168 1690C fine needles ex chloroform hexane max EtOH CHCl3 293 nm Em 25,697 vmax CfCl3 3500 2500, 1790, 1685, 1670 cm 1 6ppm CDCl3 3.15 1H, t, 36.9Hz , 4,62 4,68 2H, m , 5.28 and 5.50 2H,ABq, J13.7Hz , 6.33 br 1H, s , 6.37 1H, d, J0,9Hz , 7.10 1H, s , 7.52 1H, dd, J1.7 and 1.7Hz , 7.67 2H, d, J8.8Hz , 7.71 1H, s , 8.25 2H, d, J8.8Hz . Found C, 54.8 H, 3.5 N, 6.5 S, 7.7. C19H14N2O7S requires C, 55.1 H, 3.4 N, 6.8 S, 7.7 . Example 15 b 5RS Sodium Z 6 3 Furylmethylene 2 hydroxymethylpenem 3 carboxy late The Z penem ester 119 48 mg from Example 15 a was hydrogenated as for Example 1 b to give, after chromatography on Biogel P2 eluting with water and freeze drying, the title sodium salt 120 21 mg as a pale yellow amorphous solid, Xmax H20 288 nm Em 15127 , vmax KBr 3650 2600, 1755, 1680, 1600, 1570 6ppm D20 4.54 and 4.76 2H, ABq, J14.9Hz , 6.51 1H, s , 6.55 br 1H, s , 7.21 1H, s , 7.63 br 1H,s , 7.91 br 1H, s . The following tables illustrate the activity of the compounds. Although many broad spectrum cephalosporins are generally active against many organisms which are traditionally regarded as resistant, certain strains have been emerging recently which are resistant to these newer cephalosporins also. Table 3 illustrates how the present compounds render these strains sensitive. Table 1The Effect of Alkylidene penems on the MIC of Amoxycillin and Cephaloridine Against ss Lactamase Producing OrganismeEMI123.1 tb SEP MIC SEP g ml SEP of SEP antibiotic SEP against tb SEP Conc tb SEP of SEP S SEP Aureus SEP kleb SEP E.coli SEP E.coli tb SEP Inhib SEP Russell SEP aerogenes SEP RTEM SEP JT410 tb tibiotic SEP Alone SEP SEP 500 SEP 500 SEP 2000 SEP 62 125 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0,31 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 1b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 3.1 SEP 1.0 SEP 4.0 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0.25 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 2b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 40 SEP 12.5 SEP 6.2 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0.16 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 3b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 50 SEP 16 SEP 8.0 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0,16 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 5b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 100 SEP 12.5 SEP 16 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0.6 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 7b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 25 SEP 4,0 SEP 8.0 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0,3 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 8b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 3.1 SEP 2.0 SEP 8.0 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 2.5 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 9b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 3.1 SEP 8.0 SEP 16 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 1.25 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 11b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 12.5 SEP 8.0 SEP 31 tb tibiotic SEP SEP Compound SEP of SEP 1.0 SEP 0.6 SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Example SEP 12b SEP 5.0 SEP SEP 12.5 SEP 2.0 SEP 8.0 tb ncentration of inhibitor in vg ml added to antibiotic.oxycillin used against S. aureus Russell, Klebsiella aerogenes and E. coli JT39 RTEM phaloridine used against E. coli JT410 ne inhibitors had no activity alone at the concentrations tested i.e. 5 and 1 vg ml Table 2Antibacterial Activity of Alkylidene penems Against Staphylococci MIC g ml EMI124.1 tb Compound tb of SEP Exaple SEP No SEP Russell SEP Oxford tb SEP Ib SEP 16.0 SEP 16.0 tb SEP 2b SEP 10.0 SEP . SEP 5.0 tb SEP 3b SEP 12.5 SEP 12.5 tb SEP 5b SEP 412.5 SEP 3.1 tb SEP 7b SEP 50 SEP 100 tb SEP 8b SEP 12.5 SEP 50 tb SEP 9b SEP 125 SEP 62 tb SEP lIb SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP 12b SEP 50 SEP 100 tb Table 3Acetivity of Compound of Example 1b with Broad Spectrum Cephalosporins against a range of resistant strains MIC Cephalospcrin g ml Organism Strain Cefotaxime Ex 1b Ex 1b Ceftazidine Ex 1b alone 20 g ml 5 g ml alone 20 g ml 5 g mlPs.aeruginosa Charlier 80 20 20 80 20 20 Badia IR 80 20 20 80 5 20S. marcescens V697 80 0.6 2.5 80 1.25 2.5 HCN 3956 80 2.5 2.5 5 2.5 5C. freundil T1739 40 0.08 0.15 80 0.15 0.3 423 40 0.15 0.15 80 0,3 0.3 T562 40 0.08 0,3 80 0.3 0.6M. Morganil 978 80 0.08 0.08 2.5 0.15 0,3E. colacae 4508 80 0.6 2.5 80 0.6 2.5 V692 80 80 0.6 2.5 80 1.25 2.5 P383 80 0.6 2.5 80 0.6 1.25 159 167 80 1.25 5 80 1.25 2.5 Dokt 5 80 0.6 2.5 80 0.6 1.25E. aerogenes 53 80 0.15 0.2 80 0.6 1.25 55 80 0.3 0.3 80 0.6 1.25 P99 80 0.08 0.3 80 0.3 0.6Microtitre technique dilution in TSBInoc approx 2E6 efU ml approx 2E5 CFU well MIC Ex 1b alone 80 g ml