# Lead wire bond attempt detection.

## Abstract
A method and circuits are described for sensing and detecting bond attempts and weld attempts during bonding and welding of lead wire. The method and circuitry are par ticularly applicable for detecting missed ball bonds and mis sed wedge bonds during bonding of lead wire between the die pad of a microcircuit chip and the lead frame on which the chip is mounted. A sensor or sensing circuit 42 senses the differ ent characteristic electrical condition of the lead wire 11 following a ball bond attempt and following a wedge bond attempt. A bond attempt indicator 45 indicates high resis tance in the lead wire following a missed ball bond while weld attempt indicator 46 indicates low resistance in the lead wire 11 following a missed wedge bond. The lead wire 11 is isolated from uncontrolled contacts with ground potential while the lead wire is held in the bonding tool and bonding machine. Switching circuit 38 electrically switches and cou ples the lead wire to a controlled ground coupling during ball formation or to a ground isolating voltage source for deliver ing current to the lead wire and establishing a bond sensing and detecting mode following the ball bonding operating mode and wedge bonding operating mode of the bonding machine. The switching circuit 38 is actuated by a control signal 40 from the control signal circuitry of the bonding machine or from independent control circuitry. Time sequence circuitry may also be provided for the control signals.