# Battery electrode.

## Abstract
Battery electrode materials are described which have superior resistance to destructive corrosion of an electrode formed from such material and which comprise suitable amorphous metal alloys, such as FeB Cr, FeSi, CoTi, MiB, PbZn, ZnB, FeC, FeBe, MgZn, AgB, AgP, AgC, FeB, etc.

## Claims
Claims I. A battery electrode characterized in that it comprises a metallic material having alloyed therewith an amount of one or more amorphousness inducing constituents such that, upon exposure to corosive dissolution during battery operation, non uniform dissolution of the electrode is substantially retarded. 2. The battery electrode of claim 1, wherein said metallic material is one selected from the group consisting of Ni, Pb, Zn, Fe, Mg, Ag, Co, and alloys thereof. 3. The battery electrode of claim 1, wherein said amorphousness inducing constituent is one selected from the group consisting of B, Zn, C, Be, P, and mixtures thereof. 4. The battery electrode of claim 3, wherein said amorphousness inducing constituent or constituents are alloyed with said metallic material in an amount of from about 15 to 35 at. . 5. The battery electrode of claim 1, wherein said electrode is in the form of a film. 6. The battery electrode of claim 1, wherein said metallic material is selected from the group consisting of Fe and alloys thereof and said amorphousness in ducing constituent is Si present in an amount of from about 15 35 at. . 7. The battery electrode of claim I, wherein said metallic material is selected from the group consisting of Co and alloys thereof and said amorphousness inducing constituent is Ti present in an amount of from about 15 35 at. .

## Description
Battery ElectrodeThis invention relates to metallic battery electrodes of longer life. The battery industry now employs a wide variety of metals and metal alloys as electrodes in various types of batteries and there is a continuous search for improved electrode materials that will contribute to extended battery life without the sacrifice of other properties.According to the present invention it is proposed to improve battery life by utilizing as electrode materials metallic alloys to which constituents are added to impart an amorphous non crystalline structure to the metallic electrode material.U.S. Patent 4,207,245, Halbert, discloses metallic compounds useful as battery electrodes cathodes , e.g., intercalates of the structure MXaYb Z c in which M isTi, Va, Cr, Mn, Fe or In and X and Y are chalcogenides or halides Z is an organometallic compund. The compounds are disclosed as being useful for a number of applications, including as battery cathodes. A material within the scope of the Halbert disclosure isFeSaClb where a and b vary from 0 to 2 and a b is about 2. Halbert does not suggest the production of amorphous materials.A variety of metallic electrode materials is disclosed in U.S. Patent 2,013,379, Drumm. These include nickeliron and cobalt iron alloys to which may be added Cr,Mo, W, Mg, Zn, Cd, Cg, Mn, Va, or Ta. According to theDrumm patent 0.15 C and 0.2 Si may be alloyed withFeNi and FeNiCr, but these are mere traces of C andSi and there is no teaching of an amorphous material being produced. None of the foregoing references has observed or disclosed the subject matter of this invention which provides battery electrode material which is expected to exhibit longer life when utilized in batteries.The present invention is disclosed in the attached claims.According to this invention a battery electrode is prepared by employing amorphous metal alloys as electrode materials. Improved performance in terms of longer electrode life and therefore longer battery life is expected to result from the fact that the amorphous structure produces a uniform, fine pattern of corrosion, as opposed to irregular corrosive attack at cyrstal grain boundaries and sites of crystal defects. As a result, during the process of electrode dissolution the surface of the metallic electrode materal remains smooth and the structural and functional integrity of the electrode is extended. The invention is not limited to particular amorphous metallic alloys.While the seldtion of a particular alloy system will depend on many factors including battery type, electrode structure, electrolyte composition, etc., the following are illustrative of alloys which are believed to be suitable FeB Cr PbZn MgZn FeSi ZnB AgB CoTi FeC AgP NiB FeBe AgC FeBThe elements are formulated in ratios which give amorphous materials generally the additional constituent s which induce amorphousness in the normally crystalline metal or alloy, such as B, Si, Ti, Zn, Be,P, C, etc., will be present in the range of from about 15 to 35 at. . Specific materials which have actually been prepared and tested for corrosion rate and uniformity include FeB19 92Cr8, CoTi26 and FeSi25. Numerical subscripts designate atomic percentage at. of the element in the alloy.It is believed that the invention will be particularly useful in batteries incorporating thin metallic film electrodes.Batteries using the electrode material of this invention have not actually been constructed, but those of ordinary skill in the art will readily know how to substitute these new electrode materials in a variety of conventional battery structures.An object of this invention, therefore, is to provide metallic electrode materials which are less susceptible to gross electrode material loss due to corrosion, and therefore are characterized by extended life.Another object of the invention is to provide superior thin film battery electrodes which comprise metallic electrode materials.A further object of the invention is to provide battery electrode material which is more resistant to pitting corrosion and corrosion associated with crystal structure, and which, although corroding at a similar rate to crystalline metallic electrode material, exhibits extremely uniform corrosion and hence longer life.An additional object fo the invention is to provide amorphous thin metallic electrode films which are resistant to irregular corrosive attack allowing use of less electrode material in a battery of given useful life and permitting savings in a raw materials and battery weight. A further object of the invention is to provide amorphous thin metallic electrode films which allows for higher densities of electrode packing and equivalent power in smaller volume. Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment of the InventionThe metal alloy electrode materials of this invention may be prepared by conventional sputtering or electron beam co evaporation procedures. ExampleOn a silicon substrate on which had been thermally grown a silicon dioxide layer about 1000t thick there was sputtered a crystalline alloy film of FeCr A crystalline alloy film of Fear8 6 was prepared as follows Sputtering was conducted using a 1000 V D.C. bias in a pressure of 20 microns of argon at a rate of 6A min. A film about IOOOA was deposited. The Fear8 6 film showed a corrosion rate in a mild solution of sulfuric 5 2 acid pH about 3 of nearly 10 A cm A similarly prepared film of FeB19 92Cr8, rendered amorphous by the addition during sputtering of boron, showed a very similar corrosion rate, but the nature of the surface attack is dramatically altered. Where the Fear8 6 crystalline film showed pronounced attack at grain boundaries and crystallographic effects, its amorphous counterpart, FeB19 92Cr8, showed a surface indistinguishable from a fresh uncorroded surface. Rendering the metallic electrode material amorphous slows down the rate of non uniform dissolution of the electrode during operation of the battery. The result is that the surface of the electrode remains smooth during the process of dissolution. This is believed to result because the grain boundaries in conventional crystalline metallic electrodes permit attack along grain boundaries extending down into the electrode, and produce perforations which destroy the electrode prematurely.