# Novel expression plasmids and their use in the method for expressing prochymosin coding gene in E. coli.

## Abstract
Improved methods are provided for replication and expression of prochymosin coding gene in E. coli. Novel expression plasmids having prochymosin coding gene op eratively attached to the E. coli trp operon have been devel oped. These plasmids have been inserted into E. coli host cells by transformation, providing new strains to E. coli with high expression capability. The techniques for preparing such expression plasmids and E. coli strains derived there from are described. The modified cells, under appropriate cultivation conditions, produces a substantial amount of prochymosin which on activation viz., in the form of chy mosin displays milk clotting activity. The genetically engi neered new strains of E. coil have been deposited with the Fermentation Research Institute, Ibaragi, Japan under the Budapest Treaty. The methods are thus useful in the mas sive production of prochymosin by fermentation, and are superior to the known art in the field.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method for expressing a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from a recombinant plasmid containing cloned prochymosin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene attaching by ligation a transcriptional promoter and a translational initiation codon thereto to form an expression plasmid introducing the expression plasmid into host cells by transformation and selecting transformed cells that have high levels of expression of prochymosin, said gene having at least from the fifth coding codon to the end of the coding sequence 365th codon for prochymosin. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said recombinant plasmid is plasmid pCR 301 said host cells are E. coli c 600 rkm km k and said transcriptional k promoter is the E. coli trp operon promoter. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said expression plasmid is pCR501, pCR6O1 or pCR701. 4. A method for expressing a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from a recombinant plasmid containing cloned prochymosin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene ligating onto said gene a synthetic oligonucleotide carrying a complementary portion of the prochymosin coding sequence which has been deleted from said gene attaching thereto by ligation a transcriptional promotor and a translational initiation codon when not present in said synthetic oligonucleotide to form an expression plasmid introducing the expression plasmid into host cells by transformation and selecting transformed cells that have high levels of expression of prochymosin, said synthetic oligonucleotide optionally carrying a translational initation codon. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein said recombinant plasmid is pCR301 plasmid said host cells are E. coli c 600 r km k and said transcriptional promoter is the E. coli trp operon promoter. 6. A method according to claim 4 wherein said expression plasmid is pCR701. 7. An expression plasmid comprising a prochymosin coding gene and a vector operatively attached thereto, said vector being originally derived from pBR322 plasmid and containing a transcriptional promoter and a translational initiation codon. 8. An expression plasmid according to claim 7 wherein said prochymosin coding gene is the nucleotide sequence from the fifth codon to the end of the coding sequence 365th codon said transcriptional promoter is the E. coli trp operon promoter and said translational initiation codon is ATG codon. 9. An expression plasmid according to claim 7 wherein said prochymosin coding gene is a nucleotide sequence from the first codon to the end of the coding sequence 365th codon for prochymosin and said transcriptional promoter is the E. coli trp operon promoter. 10. An expression plasmid according to claim 8 wherein said translational initiation codon is within the trp L or trp E region. 11. An expression plasmid according to claim 10 wherein said coding gene is fused to the following DNA sequence at its 5 end 5, AGAGAATTACAATGCAAACACAAAAACCGACTGGGGAATTC 3, SD 12. An expression plasmid according to claim 10 wherein said coding gene is fusd to the following DNA sequence at its 5 end 5, AAGGGTATCGACAATGAAAGCAATTTTCGTGGAATTC 3, SD 13. An expression plasmid according to claim 9 wherein said translational initiation codon is within the trp L region. 14. An expression plasmid according to claim 13 wherein said translational initiation codon proceeds the first codon of the prorennin coding sequence. 15. An expression plasmid according to claim 14 wherein said coding gene is fused to the following DNA sequence at its 5 end 5 AAGGGTATCGATAAGCTATG 31 SD 16. Prochymosin gene comprising a nucleotide sequence from the fist codon GCT to the 365th ATC codon. 17. Prochymosin gene according to claim 16 which further comprising ATG codon proceeding said first codon. 18. Prochymosin gene comprising a nucleotide sequence from the fifth codon CGG to the 365th codn ATC . 19. A method for making pTREl plasmid which comprises the steps of 1 partially digesting pOCT2 with EcoRI in order to cut the EcoRI site closer to the Apr gene portion 2 repairing the cut single stranded DNA parts by means of DNA polymerase and 3 combining the repaired cut ends together by ligation using T4 DNA ligase. 20. A method for making pTRL 1 plasmid which comprises the steps of a digesting pOCT2 with EcoRI and partially with RsaI to produce a linear DNA segment b ligating thereto the kinased EcoRI linker followed by digestion with EcoRI to produce DNA segment 1 c digesting pBR322 plasmid with EcoRI followed by treatment with MATE BAP to produce DNA segment 2 and d ligating DNA segments 1 and 2 by means of T4 DNA ligase. 21. A method for making pTRPl plasmid which comprises the steps of a digesting pTREl plasmid with HpaI and ClaI successively to produce DNA segment 3 b digesting pTREl with HpaI and TaqI suc cessively to produce DNA segment 4 and c ligating DNA segments 3 and 4 by means of T4 DNA ligase. 22. A method for making pCR501 plasmid which comprises the steps of a digesting pTRE 1 plasmid with EcoRI and S1 successively to produce a linear DNA segment with blunt ends b ligating the EcoRI linker thereto followed by digestion with EcoRI and SalI to produce linear DNA segment a c digesting pCR 301 with KpnI and EcoRI suc cessively to produce linear DNA Segment b d independently digesting pCR301 with KpnI plus SalI to produce DNA segment c and e ligating DNA segments a , b and c together by means of T4 DNA ligase. 23. A method for making pCR601 plasmid which comprises the steps of a digesting pTREl plasmid with HpaI and SalI successively to produce linear DNA segment d b digesting pTRLl plasmid with HpaI and EcoRI successively to produce linear DNA segment e c digesting pCR301 plasmid with KpnI plus EcoRI, and with KpnI plus Sal I respectively to pro duce DNA segment b and segment c and d ligating DNA segments b , c , d and e together by means of T4 DNA ligase. 24. A method for making pCR701 plasmid which comprises the steps of a digesting pTRPl plasmid with HindIII and SalI successively to produce linear DNA segment f b digesting pCR501 plasmid with SalI and par tially with BamHI to produce DNA segment g c obtaining a synthetic oligonucleotide DNA segment h having the nucleotide sequence of 3 5 AGCTTATGGCTGAGATCACCAG ATACCGACTCTAGTGGTCCTAG 5 3 and d ligating DNA segments f , g and h together by means of T4 DNA ligase. 25. A recombinant plasmid found in E. coli FRIAccession number FERM BP 262. 26. A Recombinant plasmid found in E. coli FRIAccession number FERM BP 263. 27. A Recombinant plasmid found in E. coli FRIAccession number FERM BP 264. 28. A method for producing prochymosin by means of expression of a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from a recombinant plasmid containing cloned prochymosin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene attaching by ligation a transcriptional promoter and a translational initiation codon thereto to form an expression plasmid introducing the expression plasmid into host cells by transformation selecting transformed cells that have high levels of expression of prochymosin and growing said cells in a nutrient medium. 29. A method according to claim 28 wherein said recombinant plasmid is pCR301 plasmid said host cells are derived from E. coli C 600 rusk and said transcriptional promoter is the E. coli trp operon promoter. 30. A method according to claim 28 wherein said expression plasmid is selected from the group consisting of pCR501, pCR601, and pCR701 and said host cells are derived from E. coli C 600 rkmk. 31. A method according to claim 28 wherein said transformed cells are found in a deposited E. coli strain selected from the group consisting of Accession number FERM BP262, FERM BP263 and FERM BP264. 32. Calf Prochymosin produced by the method of claim 28. 33. E. coli strain capable of producing prochymosin which contains an expression plasmid, said plasmid being selected from the group consisting of pCR501, pCR601 and pCR701. 34. E. coli strain as deposited in the FRIAccession number FERM BP262. 35. E. coli strain as deposited in the FRIAccession number FERM BP263. 36. E. coli strain as deposited in the FRIAccession number FERM BP264.

## Description
NOVEL EXPRESSION PLAIDS AND THEIR USE IN THE METHOD FOR EXPRESSING PROCHYMOSIN CODING GENE IN E. coliBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates in general to GeneticEngineering, and more specifically to the production of recombinant DNA containing prochymosim coding gene, and to the utilization of the same to produce microorganisms for the volume production of prochymosin. The term, HGenetic Engineering refers to the in vitro technique of forming recombinant DNA containing exogenous genes and a suitable vector, selecting a DNA on the basis of the desired genetic information, and introducing the selected DNA into a suitable host microorganism, whereby the foreign genetic information becomes part of the genetic complement of the host. The genetically engineered microorganism prepared by this technique is capable of expressing the foreign gene in its cells under appropriate conditions of cultivation, and producing a substance e.g. enzymes, proteins, hormones or the like for which the gene will code. The enzymatic protein chymosin is also known as rennin. It is the major proteolytic protein found in the stomach of the pre ruminant calf, and is responsible for clotting milk. Chymosin has therefore long been used for coagulating milk case in in cheese making. It has 323 amino acids and a molecular weight of 35,652. It is recognized that two forms of chymosin A and B are possible. These two forms differ at amino acid codon 286 nucleotide 857 . The codon GAT in chymosin A would be codon GTT in chymosin B. Prochymosin prorennin is a precursor of chymosin having 42 additional amino acids at the amino terminus of the chymosin molecule, and it is converted to chymosin under acidic conditions by losing the additional amino acids. Prochymosin has 365 amino acids and a molecular weight of 40,777. The complete amino acid sequence of prorennin has been described in B. Foltmann et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 74,231 1977 . The published sequence later proved to be incorrect at a number of amino acid sites. The revised sequence is therefore given in FIG. 1. Since chymosin is secreted by the mucous membrane of the abomasum of a newly born calf, it is obtained from the stomachs of calves in commercial production. There are several serious problems associated with the obtaining of chymosin from calves this process involves a number of complicated procedures which present many difficulties when attempting to secure large amounts. It is also costly, and has not been able to meet commercial demands in recent years. For these reasons, some substitutes for chymosin have become acceptable in cheese making. One such substitute is a microbial rennet which is produced by Mucor pusillous, Mucor miehei or Endothia parasitica. However, this microbial rennet has moderately strong proteolytic activity and is not as suitable in cheese ripening as chymosin itself which has a specific yet weak proteolytic activity. Accordingly, there is still great significance in the supply of a large amount of chymosin from a commercial point of view.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The process of this invention employs novel expression plasmids which are formed by isolating DNA inserts having prochymosin coding genes from previously constructed recombinant plasmids, and inserting said DNA into suitable vectors. The expression plasmids are then used to transform susceptible microorganisms under conditions where transformation can occur. The microorganism is grown under conditions which will favor the harvesting of transformants which contain the recombinant expression plasmid. Once a host microorganism has been properly transformed, microbial cells can be repeatedly multiplied by culturing the microorganism in an appropriate growth medium, which will express the prochymosin coding gene to produce prochymosin in their cells.Thus, the volume production of prochymosin by microorganisms in fermentation culture will become feasible and provide calf chymosin at reasonable cost. References relating to this invention are U.S.Pat. No. 4,237,224 Cohen and Boyer , Japanese PatentApplication Sho 56 131,631 to T. Beppu, K. Nishimori, et al, Gene, 19,337 1982 , Ehnwxan Patent Application Publication No.68691 to Celltech Ltd. and Eurt Application Edblicafion No. 57350 to Collaborative Research Inc. Particularly, in the copending application Japanese Patent ApplicationSho 56 131,631 corresponding to Japanese PatentApplication Kokai No. 32896 83, filed August 24, 1981 and assigned to the same assignee, an expression plasmid containing the lac W promoter and almost entire sequence of prochymosin cDNA fued to the N terminal amino acids of E. coli beta glactosidase is disclosed. One of the objects of this invention is to provide specific prochymosin genes for use in the construction of novel expression plasmids. Another object of this invention is to provide such novel expression plasmids and utilize them to obtain a high expression of prochymosin in microbial host cells. Another object of this invention is to provide methods for producing novel expression plasmids. Another object of this invention is to employ the E. coil tryptophan operon promoter in place of theE. coli lac operon promoter. Still another object of this invention is to obtain genetically engineered microorganisms which will be capable of producing substantially greater amounts of prochymosin than could be produced by the hitherto known microorganisms. A still further object of this invention is to provide a method for producing prochymosin using genetically engineered microorganisms. One more object of this invention is to provide prochymosin iteself produced according to the above mentioned methods. Throughout the Specification, prochymosin gene is defined as any sequence of nucleotides which will encode the prochymosin molecule. Any portion of the nuclotide sequence as described in FIG. 1 can be used. In accordance with a method of this invention, the expression of prochymosin in host cells and their production can be accomplished in terms of the following steps 1. Specific prochymosin genes are isolated from known recombinant plasmids as described pre viously by digestion with appropriate restric tion enzymes. 2. The prochymosin genes are ligated together with a vector and a translational initiation codon to form an expression plasmid. If the ligated prochymosin genes do not cover the entire coding sequence for prochymosin, an additional synthetic oligonucleotide carrying a missing portion of the coding sequence can be fused to the ligated genes. The synthetic DNA piece may also carry a translational codon preferably preceeding the tip of the prochymo sin gene portion. 3. Suitable host cells are transformed with the expression plasmid by calcium chloride treat ment. 4. Ampicillin resistant transformed cells are selected. 5. The transformed cells are grown by standard culturing techniques. 6. Crude extracts of the cells are tested for the presence of prochymosin by the radio immunoassay or protein blotting method. One recombinant plasmid of particular interest is referred to as pCR301, and is described in Nishimori et al., Gene, 19, 337 1982 . Descriptions of methods for constructing other plasmids carrying prochymosin cDNA may be found in Nishimori et al., J. Biochem., 90, 901 1981 and other references previously referred to.These plasmids are useful as a source of the prochymosin genes and normally are constructed in the manner described below 1. Messenger RNA mRNA of the prochymosin gene is isolated from the fourth calf stomach. 2. The mRNA is converted to double stranded DNA by conventional means. 3. Synthetic linkers are attached to both ends of the double stranded cDNA. 4. The cDNA molecule is integrated into a suitable vector plasmid e.g. pBR 322 . 5. The recombinant plasmid is then introduced into host cells by transformation. 6. Recognition of correct clones is accomplished by the method of colony hybridization and hybrid arrested translation. 7. DNA inserts in the clones are sequenced by the method of Maxam and Gilbert. Protein resulting from a prochymosin coding gene devoid of some tip portion of the coding sequence may be called prochymosin like protein. Prochymosin having methionine attached to its N terminus may be called N terminal methionyl prochymosin. Throughout theSpecification, both may be referred to as prochymosin. As will be later described in detail, by reterring to preferred embodiments, it should be understood that this invention provides 1. A method for expressing a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from transformants containing cloned prochymosin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene from the transformants attaching by ligation a transcriptional pro moter and a translational initiation codon thereto to form an expression plasmid and selecting transformed cells that have high levels of expression of prochymosin, N terminal methionyl prochymosin or prochymosin like protein, said gene having at least from the fifth coding codon to the end of the coding sequence for prochymosin in addition to being fused to the N terminal portion of the tro L or trp E gene.2. A method for expressing a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from transformants containing cloned prochymosin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene from transformants ligating onto said gene a synthetic oligo nucleotide carrying a complementary portion of the prochymosin coding sequence which has been deleted from said gene attaching thereto by ligation a transcriptional promoter and a translatinal initiation codon when not present in said synthetic oligonucleotide to form an expression plasmid transforming host cells with the expression plasmid and selecting transformed cells that have high levels of ex pression of prochymosin or N terminal methionyl prochymosin, said synthetic oligo nucleotide optionally carrying a translational initiation codon. 3. A method for producing prochymosin by means of expression of a prochymosin coding gene in E. coli host cells, wherein said gene is derived from transformants containing cloned prochymo sin cDNA, said method comprising isolating said gene from the transformants attaching by ligation a transcriptional pro moter and a tranlational initiation codon thereto to form an expression plasmid trans forming host cells with the expression plasmid selecting transformed cells that have high levels of expression of prochymosin, and cultivating the transformed cells in an appro priate nutrient medium. 4. An expression plasmid comprising a prochymosin coding gene and a vector operatively attached thereto, said vector being derived from pBR32 plasmid and containing a transcriptional pro moter and a translational initiation codon. It is also to be understood that this invention encompasses specific prorennin coding gene, coding sequences containing them, methods for constructing novel expression plasmids transformed microorganisms and prochymosin produced therefrom.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING FIG. 1 shows the complete nucleotide sequence for prochymosin coding gene. FIG. 2 shows restriction enzyme maps for vector plasmids used in this invention. FIG. 3 shows restriction enzyme maps for expression plasmids used in this invention. FIG. 4 shows the DNA sequence in the vicinity of the trp promoter in pOCT2 plasmid. FIG. 5 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pTREl from pOCT3 by way of pOCT2. FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pTRLl from pOCT2 and pBR322. FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pTRPl from pTREl. FIG. 8 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR5Ol from pCR301 and pTREl. FIG. 9 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR601 from pCR301, pTREl and pTRLl. FIG. 10 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR701 from pCR501 and pTRPI.DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTHost Microorganism Any microrganism capable of accepting and replicating the desired vector plasmids can be used but, for practical reasons, derivatives of E. coli c 600 are used in this invention. Particularly preferred strain is E. coli c600 rk mk Cells are grown under conventional culturing conditions.For example, culture media for the E. coli strain can be L Broth per liter Bacto Tryptone 10g Difco Lab., Detroit Bacto Yeast Extracts 5g Difco Lab., Detroit NaCl 10g Glucose 2g M9 Broth per liter Na2HPO4 6g KH2PO4 3g NaCl 5g NH4C1 1g Caul2 15mg MgSO4.7H2O 0.lg B1 thiamine HC1 5mg if required Casamino acid 2.5g Glucose 5g Ampicillin 50mg 3 beta Indolylacrylic acid 15mg Conventionally, transformation experiments are conducted in LB medium containing 50 ug ml of ampicillin according to the method of Norgard Gene, 3, 279 1978 .In standard techniques, E. coli cells are grown to a density of from 10 to 30x1012 cells per liter at a temperature of from 300C to 400C.Promoter In order to have cloned genes expressed in host cells, it is necessary to equip vector plasmids with a suitable promoter several promoters can be used to obtain expression as long as they are compatible with the host cells. Desirably, the E. coli tryptophan operon promoter is used in this invention. Recombinant Plasmids pCR301 In accordance with this invention, genes are conveniently available from the primary recombinant plasmids as described previously. These plasmids contain a prorennin coding gene with variable sizes and some of them have been mapped precisely by restriction enzyme digestion. Therefore, by cutting with appropriate restriction enzymes, useful portions of the prorennin coding genes can be separated, and used as a source of DNA for a second cloning into a vector plasmid. A representative of such plasmids is pCR301.Plasmid pCR301 contains the lactose operon promoter and almost entire prochymosin gene sequence from nucleotide 13 to 1095 only devoid of the first four codons. This plasmid is derived from pBR322 plasmid F. Bolvar et al., Gene, 2, 95 1977 . The necleotide sequence between the initiation codon ATG and the beginning of the cloned procymosin gene is illustrated below this sequence coresponds to the nucleotide coding for the tenN terminal amino acids of beta glactosidase ATG GCC ATG TTA ACG GAT TCA CTG Met beta glactosidase GAA TTC CGG Arg prochymos in A restriction enzyme map for pCR301 is shown in FIG. 3. pOCT2 Plasmid pOCT3, the precursor of pOCT2, is a pBR322 plasmid into which a DNA fragment having the trp promoter operator, trp L and trp E has been integrated at its EcoRI site. Said trp promoter operator portion 0.5 Kb is originally extracted from plasmid p trpED5 1 R.A. Hallewell and S. Emtage, Gene, 9, 27 1980 . This DNA is filled in by means of T4 D polymerase, to which a EcoRI linker is annexed. The resulting DNA fragment is inserted into the EcoRI site of pBR 322. Plasmid pOCT3 was kindly provided byProfessor K. Matsubara at Osaka University, School ofMedicine. The trp operon DNA is cut out from pOCT3 by digestion with EcoRI and, once isolated, it is then put back to the EcoRI site of pOCT3 in such a manner that the cut ends become switched around, leading to pOCT2.Thus the transcriptional direction of pOCT3 is opposite to that of pOCT2 it is clockwise in pOCT2 5 to 3 whereas counterclockwise in pOCT3. Fig. 4 shows theDNA sequence about 300 bases in the vicinity of the trp promoter in pOCT2 plasmid. Fig. 5 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pOCT3 from pOCT2. A restriction enzyme map for pOCT2 is shown in FIG. 2. PYRE1 Plasmid pTREl is derived from pOCT2 and has a single EcoRI site since the other EcoRI site near the ampicillin resistant region has been removed from pOCT2.This plasmid contains the intact trp operon part of pOCT2 as shown in FIG. 2. The construction of pTRE1 is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pOCT2 is partially digested withEcoRI, resulting in the cleavage of the EcoRI ite near the ampicillin resistant region. The single strandedport ions are then repaired by means of DNA polymerase and the repaired ends are joined using T4 DNA ligase to produce pTREl. A restriction enzyme map for PETREL is shown inFIG. 2. Fig. 5 shows a schematic diagram for the construction of pTREl from pOCT2. pTRLl Plasmid pTRLl has a DNA portion from pOCT2 bounded by EcoRI and RSaI sites. This portion comprises 360 base pairs from an unidentified EcoR site to RSaI site in the trp L region , some of which are sequenced as shown in FIG. 4. The construction of pTRL1 is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pOCT2 is cleaved with EcoRI and then partially digested with RSaI to yield a 360 base pair fragment containing the trp promoter region trp L .This fragment is ligated with the EcoRI linker at the cut RSaI site. Digestion with EcoRI produces a fragment with cohesive ends. This fragment is then inserted into the EcoRI site of pBR322 to afford two kinds of recombinant plasmids. Plasmid pTRL1 is the one wherein the transcriptional direction from the trp promoter is counter clockwise. A restriction enzyme map for pTRL1 is shown inFIG. 2. FIG. 6 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pTRLl from pOCT2. pTRPl Plasmid pTRP1 has a DNA portion from pTRE1 bounded by HpaI and ClaI sites. This portion comprises about 4640 base pairs originally derived from pBR322.The plasmid has also another DNA portion from pTRE1 bounded by HpaI and TaqI sites. This portion comprises 32 base pairs corresponding to the trp L promoter. The construction of pTRPl is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pTREl is cleaved with HpaI and ClaI to yield an about 4640 bp linear DNA fragment. Both fragments are joined together by ligation to produce pTRPl. A restriction enzyme map for pTRPl is shown inFIG. 2. FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram for the construction of pTRPl from pTREl.Expression Plasmids Again using standard techniques as outlined previously, a desired DNA fragment containing the cloned prochymosin gene is extracted from a transformant, and cleaved with restriction enzymes the vector plasmid is similarly cleaved and the fragments are mixed and ligated. These steps have led to the construction of expression plasmids, pCR50l, pCR60l, and pCR701 which are designed to facilitate to obtain expression of prochymosin in E. coli. pCR501 Plasmid pCR5Ol contains a DNA portion of pTREl fused to about 1,000 nucleotides from pCR301, which code for the procymosin molecule. The construction of pCR5Ql is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pTREl is cut with EcoRI and singlestranded portions are removed by means of S1 nuclease.The EcoRI linker GGATTTCC CCTTAAGG is linked to the blunt end using T4 DNA ligase. This DNA is next digested with EcoRI and SalI to produce linear DNA segment a ca. 4210bp . Plasmid pCR301 is cut withEcoRI and KpnI to obtain DNA segment b . This DNA segment is a 246 bp sequence containing the prochymosin gene fused to the residual beta glactosidase coding gene. Similarly, pCR301 is cut with KpnI and SalI to obtain DNA segment c . This DNA is a 1025 bp sequence of the prochymosin gene including its C terminus. EachDNA segment is ligated together by means of T4 DNA ligase. E. coli strain C600 is transformed with the ligated DNA, and ampicillin resistant colonies pCR501 are selected. As shown in FIG. 3, analysis of pCR501 by restriction enzyme clevage has revealed that pCR501 contains the trp operon promoter and about 1,000 nucleotides coding for prochymosin nucleotide 13 to the end of the gene, viz. 5th codon to 365th . FIG. 8 shows a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR501 from pCR301 and pTREl. Following the method of Maxam Gilbert, the nucleotide sequence between the initiation ATG codon and the beginning of prochymosin gene 5th codon has been analyzed to be EcoRI V ATG CAA ACA CAA AAA CCG ACT GGG GAA TTC CGG 3 Met Arg trp E region prochymosin Transformed cells carrying the plasmid will express the cloned gene and produce prochymosin under the control of the trp E promoter. The prochymosin produced in this manner lacks an amino acid sequence of the genuine prochymosin which corresponds to that from the 1st to the 4th amino acid at the N terminus, but contains, in its place, eight amino acids methionine and others resulting from the above stated trp E promoter coding sequence as well as two amino acid residues resulting from betaglactosidase. This prochymosin is therefore called prochymosin like protein. pCR601 Plasmid pCR601 contains a DNA portion of pTRE1 and a 56 bp fragment from pTRLl fused to the same coding sequence for prochymosin present in pCR501. The construction of pCR601 is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pTREl is cut with HpaI and SalI to produce a linear 4010 bp segment DNA d . Next, plasmid pTRLl is cut with HpaI and EcoRI to produce a 56 bp segment DNA e containing the trp L promoter.both segments are mixed and ligated together with DNA b and c both obtained previously from pCR301 , by means of T4 DNA ligase. E. coli strain c 600 is transformed with the resulting ligated DNA and ampicillin resistant colonies pCR 601 are selected. As shown in FIG. 3, analysis of pCR601 by restriction enzyme cleavage has revealed that pCR601 contains the trp L promoter and about 1,000 nucleotides coding for prochymosin nucleotide 13 to the end of the gene, viz, 5th codon to 365th . FIG. 9 shows a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR601 from pCR301, pTRE1 and pTRLl. Following the method of Maxam Gilbert, the nucleotide sequence between the initiation ATG codon and the beginning of prochymosn gene 5th codon has been analyzed to be EcoRI V ATG AAA GCA ATT TTC GTG GAA TTC CGG 3 Met Arg prochymosin trp L region Transformed cells carrying the plasmid will express the cloned prochymosin gene and produce prochymosin under the control of trp L promoter. The prochymosin produced in this manner lacks an amino acid sequence of the genuine prochymosin which corresponds to that from the 1st to the 4th amino acid at the N terminus, but contains, in its place, six amino acids methionine and others resulting from the abovestated trp L promoter coding sequence as well as two amino acid residues resulting from beta glactosidase.This prochymosin is therefore called prochymosin like protein. pCR701 Plasmid pCR701 contains a DNA portion of pTRPI and a synthetic nucleotide piece fused to a prochymosin coding sequence from pCR501. The construction of pCR701 is accomplished in the following manner. Plasmid pTRPl is cut with Hind III and Sal I to obtain liner DNA segment f about 4050 bp .Plasmid pCR501 is cut with BamHI and SalI to obtain liner DNA segment g 1264 bp . A synthetic oligonucleotide having a 22bp is synthesized, which is the sequence of 5 AGCTTATGGCTGAGATCACCAG 3 3 ATACCGACTCTAGTGGTCCTAG 5 This DNA segment f makes up for the nucleotide sequence that has been removed by digestion with Bam HI which cuts the 14th nucleotide of prochymosin gene. The three segments f , g and h are ligated together by means of T4 DNA ligase. E. coli c600 is transformed with the ligated DNA and ampicillin resistant colonies pCR701 are selected. As shown in FIG. 3, analysis of pCR701 by restriction enzyme cleavage has revealed that pCR701 contains the trp L promoter and the entire prochymosin coding sequence i.e. nucleotide 1 to the end of the gene, v12, 1st codon to 365th . FIG. 10 shows a schematic diagram for the construction of pCR701 from pTRPl and pCR501. As determined by the method of maxam Gilbert, the SD Shinon and Delgarno region is located 13 nucleotides away from the ATG initiation codon preceeding the 1st codon of the prochymosin gee see below . TaqI HindIII 5 AAGG GTA TCGATAAGCTT ATG GCT SD Met Ala ClaI Transformed cells carrying the plasmid will express the prochymosin gene and produce prochymosin under the control of the trp L promoter. The prochymosin produced in this manner is Nterminal methionylprochymosin in which methionine arising from the initiation codon ATG is fused to the N terminus of the genuine prochymosin.Expression of prochymosin in E. coli A portion of the full growth culture in LB medium of E. coli cells transformed with the expression plasmids is grown in M9 broth containing 3 beta indolylacrylic acid 15 yg ml and ampicillin 50 yg ml . Cells are harvested when propagation reaches maximum. The cells are then destroyed by sonication treatment and a cell free extract is obtained. This extract is subjected to electrophoresis in a polyacrylamide gel containing SDS. The product protein is detected by the protein blotting method. Following the above procedures or radioimmunoassay, each transformant strain containing pCR5Ol, pCR601 or pCR701 has been tested for its ability to produce prochymosin.Analysis by autoradiography Nishimori, Gene, 19, 337 1982 has revealed that every strain gives a protein band the size of which is equal to that of the authentic prochymosin.In addition, the level of production of prochymosin has been estimated to be more than 300,000 molecules per cell. Similar results have been obtained by an analysis using radioimmunoassay. These results have shown that prochymosin is produced in E. coli cells carrying plasmid pCR501, pCR601 or pCR701 under the transcriptional control of the E. coli trp operon promoter and that the levels of production are substantially greater than those previously reported under the control of the E. coli lac operon. Even higher levels of production will be possible by using the same scheme in accordance with this invention and by obtaining fusions of the trp promoter closer to the initiation codon of prochymosin which preferably proceeds the tip of the prochymosin gene. E. coli strains prepared by processes according to this invention are exemplified by cultures deposited with the Fermentation Research Institute,Ibaraki, Japan under the Budapest Treaty, and are identified by the Accession number designated to each strain. This invention will be described in some detail by way of illustration and example nevertheless, it should be understood that certain changes and modifications be practiced within the scope of the invention.EXAMPLE Throughout the following examples, TEN buffer solution is meant to be a solution containingTris HCl 20mM , NaCl SOmM and EDTA lmM with a pH of about 7.5.Example 1.Preparation of pTREl Plasmid Plasmid pOCT2 was partially digested withEcoRI by incubation at 200C for 7.5 min in a 30 ul solution containing Plasmid 1.5 pg in 15 p1 TEN , EcoRI 2.5 U, 0.5 iil TEN , EcoRI buffer 3 p1 , and H2O 11.5 After After argarose gel electrophoresis, the desiredDNA was isolated in 40 ul TEN and this was heated at 600C for 5 min. To this DNA solution 40 p1 was addedDNA polymerase I 4 U, 4 ul TEN , 16 mM ATP 4 l , polymerase buffer solution 6 ill , and H2O 2 l .The resulting mixture a total volume of 60 1 was incubated at 250C for 30 min. After addition of 0.25 M EDTA solution 4 l followed by phenol and ether treatment,DNA was precipitated with ethanol. The precipitate was dissolved in a solution 10 p1 contaiing T4 DNA ligase 1 U, 1 l , 3 mM ATP 2 l , ligase buffer solution 2 1 and H2O 5 l , and this was incubated at 220C for 2 h. After incubation, the DNA was precipitated with ethanol and dissolved in TEN solution. This solution was used to transform the calcium treated E. coli C 600 strain. One of twelve colonies, there was obtained two transformants containing pTREl.Example 2Preparation of pTRLl Plasmid i Preparation of DNA Segment 1 Plasmid pOCT2 was cut with EcoRI at 37C C for 2 h in a 120 l solution containing Plasmid 10.6 g in 100 l of TEN , EcoRI buffer 12 l , and EcoRI 40 U, 8 l of TEN . After incubation, the DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 50 iil of TEN. The cut DNA was partially digested with RsaI by incubation at 200C for 10 min in a 60 l solution containing DNA 49 l of TEN , BamHI buffer 6 p1 , H2O 3 1 , and RsaI 20 U, 2 l of TEN . The doubly cutDNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 20 l of TENt The dissolved solution was then applied to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.After electrophoresis, a 364 bp linear DNA 0.16 g in 40 l of TEN was isolated. Meanwhile, EcoRI linker was kinased with T4 polynucleotide kinase at 370C for 1 h in a 20 l reaction mixture containing the linker 5 g, 5 l TEN , ATP 3mM, 2 u1 , kination buffer 2 l , H2O 9 p1X, and the kinase 22U in 2 iil TEN . The kination mixture 20 l was added to the above DNA solution 35 p1 , followed by addition of T4 DNA ligase 5U, 5p1 TEN , ligase buffer 4 p1 , and ATP 6mM, 7 l . The total mixture 71 1 was ligated together by incubation at 220C for 2 h.The ligated DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 50 l TEN.To the dissolved solution 45 p1 was added EcoRI 350 U in 70 ijl TEN , EcoRI buffer 20 p1 and H2O 65 l .The resulting mixture 200 l was incubated at 370C for 3 h. Incubation was terminated by phenol treatment andDNA was extracted with ether, precipitated with ethanol, and dissolved in 40 l of TEN. The dissolved solution was applied to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.After electrophoresis, the DNA segment 1 with cohesive ends 0.1 jig in 240 l of Tris acetate buffer was isolated. ii Preparation of DNA Segment 2 from pBR322 Plasmid pBR322 was cut with EcoRI by incubation at 370C for 1 h in a 30 jil solution containing plasmid 4.5 jig in 20 jil TEN , EcoRI buffer 3 l , H2O 3 l , and EcoRI 20 U in 4 l TEN . Incubation was terminated by phenol treatment and DNA was extracted with ether, precipitated with ethanol, and dissolved in 40 jil of 10 mM Tris HCl buffer. The dissolved solution was treated with 10 jil of MATE BAP by incubation at 650C fr 1 h. After incubation, MATE BAT was removed by washing the incubated mixture with 20 l of l0mM Tris HCl buffer.Thus the DNA segment 2 4.2 pg was recovered in 60 jil of 10 mM Tris HCl buffer. iii Ligation of DNA Segment 1 and 2 Segment 1 0.05 jig in 120 l of Tris acetate buffer and Segment 2 0.14 jig in 2 jil of 10 mMTris HCl buffer were mixed and the mixed solution was treated with ethanol. The resulting precipitate was dissolved in 50 p1 of TEN. Forty microliters of the dissolved solution was subjected to ligation usingT4 DNA ligase 0.9 U in 1 jil TEN , ligase buffer 5 1 and ATP 6 mM, 5 l TEN by incubation a 51 l solution at 220C for 2 h. The ligated DNA was precipitated with ethanol and dissolved in 50 1 of TEN. iv Transformation Twenty microliters of the above ligated DNA solution was used to transform competent cells of strainE. coli C 600. About one thousand five hundred transformants were found to be amplicillin resistant.Restriction enzyme analysis demonstrated that one out of twenty transformants contained pTRLl plasmid.Preparation of pTRl Plasmid i Preparation of DNA Segment 3 from pTREI Plasmid Plasmid pTREl was cut with HpaI by incubation at 370C for 1.5 h in a 40 l solution containing Plasmid 2.46 jig in 30 jil TEN , HpaI buffer 4 l , and HpaI 30U in 6 jil TEN . The cut DNA was further cut with ClaI by adding the DNA solution to a 10 jil solution con taining ClaI buffer 5 p1 and ClaI 25 U, 5 jil TEN , and by incubating at 370C for 1.5 h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 40 jil of TEN. The dissolved solution was applied to agarose gel electrophoresis.After electrophoresis, the 4640 bp linear DNA Segment 3 2.35 jig in 80 jil TEN was isolated. ii Preparation of DNA Segment 4 from pTREl Plasmid Plasmid pTREl was cut with HpaI at 370C for 1.5 h in a 120 l solution containing Plasmid 8.2 jig in 100 jil TEN , HpaI buffer 12 l , and HpaI 57 U in 8 jil TEN . To the above mixture was added a solution containing TaqI 80 U in 9 l TEN and HpaI buffer 12 l , and HpaI 57 U in 8 l TEN . To the above mixture was added a solution containing TaqI 80 U in 9 l TEN andHpaI buffer 1 l . The resulting mixture 130 p1 was incubated at 650C for 1 h. After incubation, the doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 40 l TEN. The dissolved solution was applied to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.After electrophoresis, the 32 bp linear DNA segment 4 0.054 jig in 40 jil TEN was isolated. iii Ligation of DNA Segment 3 and 4 The mixture containing DNA Segment 3 0.29 jig in 10 jil TEN , Segment 4 0.014 jig in 10 l TEN was subjected to ligation using T4 ligase 3.6 U in 4 l TEN , ligase buffer 3 p1 , and ATP 6 mM, 3 I1 TEN . The ligation mixture 30 1 was incubated at220C for 2 h. The ligated DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 40 jil TEN. iv Transformation Thirty microliters of the above TEN solution containing the ligated DNA was used to transform competent cells of strain E. coli C600. About eight hundred and forty transformants were found to be ampicillin resistant. All the transformants contained pTRPl plasmid.Example 4Construction of pCR501 Plasmid i Preparation of DNA Segment a from pTRE1 Plasmid Plasmid pTRE1 was cleaved by incubation at 37aC for 2 h in a 120 p1 reaction mixture containingPlasmid 8.2 jig in 100 l TEN , EcoRI buffer 12 l , H2O 3 l , and EcoRI 25 U in 5 l TEN . After phenol extraction, ether extraction, ethanol precipitation, and dissolution in 50 jil TEN, the cut DNA was further cut with S1 nuclease at 22 C for h in a 50 p1 reaction mixture containing DNA 25 1 TEN , SI buffer 5 p1 , H2O 10 l , and SI nuclease 100 U, 10 l .Incubation was terminated by phenol treatment and DNA was extracted with ether and precipitated with ethanol.In the meantime, EcoRI linker was kinased with T4 poly nucleotide kinase at 370C for 1 h in a 20 jil reaction mixture containing the linker 5 jig, 5 l , ATP 3mM, 2 l , kination buffer 2 l , H2O 9 p1 and Kinase 22 U in 2 l TEN . The kination mixture 20 l containingEcoRI linker was added to the ethanol precipitated cutDNA along with ATP 3 mM, 5 p1 plus 4.5 units of T4 ligase 5 lTEN . The mixture 30 p1 was incubated at 220C for 2 h. The product DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 60 jil TEN.To the DNA solution 50 p1 was added EcoRI 500 U in 50 jil TEN , EcoRI buffer 20 l , and H2O 80 l . The resulting mixture 200 l was incubated at 370C for 2 h. Incubation was terminated by phenol treatment andDNA was extracted with ether and precipitated with ethanol. The precipitated DNA was cut with SalI by incubation at 370C for 1.5 h in a 110 l solution containingSalI 100 U, 20 l , SalI buffer 10 l , H2O 80 l .After incubation, the cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and dissolved in 60 jil TEN.The DNA was subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis, yielding 3.5 jig of the purified linear DNA a 4210 bp in 100 l TEN. ii Preparation of DNA Segment b from pCR301 Plasmid Plasmid pCR301 was cut with KpnI by incubation at 370C for 1.5 h in a 120 l solution containingPlasmid 7.3 jig in 100 l TEN , KpnI buffer 12 l , H2O 2 l , and KpnI 35 U, 6 jil TEN . To the mixture was added EcoRI buffer solution 14 1 containing EcoRI 30 U, 6 jil TEN . The 140 l mixture was incubated at 370C for I h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 60 ul TEN.The dissolved solution was applied to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. After electrophoresis, the 246 bp DNASegment b 0.03 jig in 4 l TEN was isolated. iii Preparation of DNA Segment c from pCR301 Plasmid Plasmid pCR301 was cut with KpnI by incubation at 370C for 1.5 h in a 120 l solution containingPlasmid 15 jig in 100 jil TEN , KpnI buffer 12 l , H2O 2 yl , and KpnI 35 U, 6 jil TEN . A 14 l SalI buffer solution plus SalI 32 U, 4 l TEN , H2O 2 yl was added to the above incubated mixture. The 140 l mixture was further incubated at 370C for 1 h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 60 l TEN. The dissolved solution was applied to agarose gel electrophoresis. After electrophoresis, the 1025 bp DNA Segment c 2.15 jig in 180 l TEN was isolated. iv Ligation of DNA Segments a , b and c The mixture containing DNA Segment a 1 ttg in 30 l TEN , Segment b 0.03 jig in 4 l TEN , andSegment c 0.4 jig in 30 jil TEN was lypophilized.After lypophilization, the precipitate was rinsed with ethanol. Each precipitated segment was ligated together in a 20 jil solution containing ligase buffer 4 l , ATP 3 mM, 4 l , H2O 1 l and T4 ligase 0.9 U, 1 l .Incubation was continued for 2 h at 22 C. The ligatedDNA was precipitated with thanol and dissolved in 40 jil TEN. v Transformation The TEN buffer solution 30 p1 containing the above ligated DNA was employed for transformation of E.coli strain C600. Twenty transformants were found to contain plasmid pCR501. One of them was deposited with the FRI as E. coli C600 rk mk pCR501 FERM BP 262.Example 5Construction of pCR601 Plasmid i Preparation of DNA Segment d from pTRE1 Plasmid Plasmid pTREl was cut with HpaI by incubation at 37 C for 1 h in a 40 jil solution containing Plasmid 2.46 jig in 30 l TEN , HpaI buffer 4 l , and HpaI 35U, 6 l TEN . To the incubated mixture was then added a 10 l solution containing SalI buffer 5 p1 and SalI 20 U, 5 l TEN . The mixture 50 1 was further incubated at 37 C for 1 h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 40 jil TEN. The dissolved solution was applied to agarose gel electrophoresis.After electrophoresis, the 4010 bp Segment d 2.0 jig in 40 jil TEN was isolated. ii Preparation of DNA Segment e from pTRLl Plasmid Plasmid pTRLl was cut with HpaI by incubation at 370C for 1.5 h in a 120 l solution containingPlasmid 15.4 jig in 100 l TEN , HpaI buffer 12 l , and HpaI 25 U, 5 Frl TEN , and H2O 3 l . To the incubated mixture was then added a 20 l solution containing EcoRI buffer 914 jil and EcoRI 30 U, 6 jil TEN . The mixture 140 p1 was further incubated at 370C for 1 h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 40 l TEN.The dissolved solution was applied to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. After electrophoresis, the 56 bpSegment e 0.18 jig in 40 jil TEN was isolated. iii Preparation of DNA Segment b from pCR301 Plasmid By repeating the procedure of Example 4, but using 32 units of KpnI and 30 units of EcoRI, plasmid pCR301 was cut with KpnI and then with EcoRI to afford 0.46 jig in 40 l TEN of the 246 bp DNA segment after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. iv Preparation of DNA Segment c from pCR301 Plasmid By repeating the procedure of Example 4, but using 30 units of KpnI and 24 units of SalI, plasmid pCR301 was cut with RpnI and then with SalI to afford 3.9 jig in 40 jil TEN of the 1025 bp DNA segment after agarose gel electrohporesis. v Ligation of DNA Segments b , c , d and e The mixture containing DNA Segment b 0.06 jig in 5 jil TEN Segment 9c 0.49 jig in 5 jil TEN , Segment d 0.5 jig in 10 l TEN , and Segment e 0.49 jig in 5 l TEN was subjected to ligation usingT4 ligase 5.5 U in 6 l TEN and ligation buffer 4.5 1 plus ATP 6 mM, 4.5 l . The ligated mixture 45 p1 was incubated at 220C for 2 h. The ligated DNA was precipitated with ethanol and dissolved in 60 l TEN. vi Transformation The TEN buffer solution 20 ul containing the above ligated DNA was used to transform E. coli C600 rk m strain. Twenty seven ampicillin resistant k transformants were obtained after transformation. Eight transformants were found to contain pCR601 as determined by restriction enzyme digestion. This strain E. coliC600 rk mk pCR601 was deposited with the FRI as FERMBP263.Example 6Construction of pCR701 Plasmid i Preparation of DNA Segment f from pTRP 1 Plasmid Plasmid pTRPl was cut with HindIII by incubation at 370C for 1 h in a 120 jil solution containingPlasmid 25.2 g in 100 jil TEN , Hind III buffer 12 l , and Hind III 48 U, 8 jil TEN . To the incubated mixture was added SalI 24U, 6 Frl TEN and SalI buffer 14 l . The resulting 140 jil solution was incubated at 370C for 2 h. The doubly cut DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 60 jil TEN.The dissolved solution was applied to agarose gel electrophoresis. After electrophoresis, the 4051 bp linear DNA Segment f 8.2 jig in 120 jil TEN was isolated. ii Preparation of DNA Segment g from pCR501 Plasmid Plasmid pCR5Ol was cut with SalI by incubation at 370C for 1 h in a 120 jil solution containing Plasmid 39 jig in 100 jil TEN , SalI buffer 12 l , and SalI 32U, 8 jil TEN . The cut DNA was partially digested withBamH I by addition of BamH I 25 U, 5 l TEN to the above mixture and by incubation at 220C for h. The product DNA was precipitated with ethanol and the precipitate was dissolved in 60 jil TEN. This dissolved solution was applied to agarose gel electrophoresis. After electrophoresis, the 1264 bp DNA Segment g 2 jig in 80 l TEN was isolated. iii DNA Segment h A synthetic oligonucleoide having the following sequence was obtained 5 AGCTTATGGCTGAGATCACCAG 3 ATACCGACTCTAGTGGTCCTAG 5 iv Ligation of DNA Segments f , g and h The mixture containing DNA Segment f 0.68 jig in 10 jil TEN , Segment g 0.25 jig in 10 jil TEN , and Segment h 0.046 jig in 10 jil TEN was subjected to ligation using T4 DNA ligase 1.8 U, in 2 jil TEN and ligation buffer 4 p1 plus ATP 6 mM, 4 jil TEN . The ligated mixture DNA was precipitated with ethanol and dissolved in 50 l TEN. v Transformation Twenty microliters of the above ligation reaction mixture was used to transform competent cells of E. coli C600. Eight ampicillin resistant transformants were obtained and, by restriction enzyme analysis, four of these transformants were found to have pCR701. This strain E. coli C600 rk mk pCR701 was deposited with the FRI as FERM BP 264.Example 7Expression of Prochymosin in E. coli E. coli strain harboring pCR501, pCR601 or pCR701 was preliminarily cultivated in LB at 370C overnight. One mililiter of the culture broth was then transferred to M9 medium 10 ml , and cultivated for 1 h. Cultivation was continued at 370C for additional 3 to 4 h aftr 3 beta indolylacrylic acid 15 mg l was added to the medium. Cells were harvested by centrifugation at 15,000 rmp for about 15 min, and suspended in 3 ml of PBS buffer 150 mM NaCl in 20 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0 which contains 1 mM PMSF phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride . To this suspention was added 60 jil of 250 mM EDTA and 30 jil lysozyme 10 ml l and the mixture was kept at OOC for 92 h.The resulting sheroplasts were disrupted by sonication and to this was added 3.09 ml of 8 M urea. The cell lysate mixture was incubated at 370C for 1 h. After centrifugation at 3000 rmp for t h, the supernatant solution was dialyzed against PBS. The dialysate was applied to the binding competitive radioimmunoassay see, Nishimori et al.,Gene . By radioimmunoassay prochymosin was immunoprecipitated and the amount of the radioactive elemnt 1251 was measured with a gamma ray counter. In the meantime, calibration curves were prepared by varying the concentration of authentic prochymosin. By comparing the count of the immunoprecipitated prochymosin with the calibration curves, the amount of prochymosin in the cell lysate was determined.This experiment demonstrated that the expression level of prochymosin was highest with the culture broth from E. coli containing pCR501 about 300,000 molecules per host cell and lowest with that from E. coli containing pCR70l. Independantly, the above sonicated cell free extract was treated with 4M urea. After centrifugation, the supernantant solution was applied toSDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and the migrated proteins were then blotted onto nitrocellulose filters. These filters were analyzed on autoradiography as previously described in Nishimori et al., Gene. t each bacterial extract, a distinctive band corresponding to that of prochymosin was observed. By comparing the density of these bands, it was determined that E. coli containing pCR501 plasmid produced about 300,000 prochymosin molecules per cell.The ability of each expression plasmid containing host cell to produce prochymosin was evaluated to be in the order of pCR501 PCR60l pCR701. This trend is well in accord with the results from the radioimmunoassay method.Renaturation and Activation of Bacterial Prochymosin andMilk Clotting Activity Total sonicates of plasmid containing bacteria were treated with 8M urea and dialyzed against 25 mM sodium bicarbonate pH 10.0 in order to remove urea.After another dialysis against 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 , dialysates were activated by addition of 0.4 M glycin pH 2.3 and by maintaining the solution at room temperature for 15 min. The milk clotting activity of each bacterial extract was tested according to the method of Foltman B. Foltman, Prochymosin and Chymosin Methods inEnzymology, 19, 42 1972 . In this test, the milkclotting activity to coagulate 10 ml of skim milk within 100 sec at 30 may be defined as one chymosin unit CU .For each bacterial extract derived from the expression plasmids, the milk clotting activity was measured after activation of the prochymosin so produced viz. conversion of bacterial prochymosin to chymosin the activity for pCR501 was 9.3 CU mg and 3.7 CU mg for pCR701. It should be recognized that a bacterial extract harboring no expression plasmid displayed no milk clotting activity at all as determined by the above testing procedures.