# Container.

## Abstract
A container, for cosmetic creams of the like, comprises a hollow body 1 having a base 3 and a side wall 4 defining an opening, and a closure 2 for the opening, the side wall 4 being of single thickness construction, and there being a sleeve 9 secured about the side wall 4 to provide an outer surface flush with a depending portion 11 of the closure 2 which fits over a portion of the side wall 4 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A container comprising a hollow body 1 having a base 3 and a side wall 4 defining an opening, and a closure 2 for the opening, characterised in that the side wall 4 is of single thickness, there being a sleeve 9 closely fitted over the side wall 4 , and the closure 9 having a depending portion 11 fitting over a portion of the side wall 4 of the body 1 and lying flush with the outer surface of the sleeve 9 . 2. A container as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that the closure 2 is a screw cap, there being complimentary threads 6,5 on the inner surface of the depending portion 11 of the closure 2 and on the underlying portion of the side wall 4 of the body 1 . 3. A container as claimed in Claim 1 orClaim 2, characterised by means for locking the sleeve 9 in position on the side wall 4 of the body 1 . 4. A container as claimed in Claim 3, characterised in that the means for locking comprises a cicrumferential rib 8 on the outer surface of the side wall 4 of the body 1 and a corresponding groove 10 in the inner surface of the sleeve 9 , which groove 10 receives the rib 8 . 5. A container as claimed in Claim 4, characterised in that the outer surface of the side wall 4 of the body 1 is formed with a further circumferential rib 7 against which an end of the sleeve 9 abuts. 6. A container as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised by means to inhibit rotation of the sleeve 9 about the body 1 . 7. A container as claimed in Claim 6, characterised in that the means for preventing rotation comprises serrations on the outer surface of the side wall 4 of the body 1 and in the inner surface of the sleeve 9 . 8. A container as claimed in Claim 4 orClaim 6, characterised in that said means comprises cooperating screw threads on the inner surface of the sleeve 9 and on the outer surface of the side wall 4 of the body 1 . 9. A container as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the sleeve 9 is transparent. 10. A container as claimed in any preceding claim, characterised in that the body 1 is of polypropylene and the sleeve 9 is of polystyrene.

## Description
CONTAINER This invention relates to a container, and particularly to a container comprising a hollow body having a base and a side wall defining an opening, and a closure for the opening. Cosmetic creams have traditionally been packaged in double walled containers, such a construction facilitating the provision of a container, such as a jar, in which the closure, when closing the opening, lies flush with the outer surface of the body. Further, such a construction facilitates the use of different materials for the inner and outer surfaces of the body. For example, a material such as polypropylene compatible with the ingredients of cosmetics can be used for the inner wall, while a material such as polystyrene providing a more acceptable surface from the point of view of finish, feel and compatibility with printing, can be used for the outer wall. However, the traditional double walled container for cosmetics is now falling into disuse, not least because of a belief that they constitute what is called deceptive packaging . Thus, there is a need for a new construction of a container offering the above discussed advantages of double walled containers but without such a construction. According to the present invention a container comprising a hollow body having a base and a side wall defining an opening, and a closure for the opening, is characterised in that the side wall is of single thickness, there being a sleeve closely fitted over the side wall, and the closure having a depending portion fitting over a portion of the side wall of the body and lying flush with the outer surface of the sleeve. The container of this invention thus provides the advantages of traditional double walled containers in that different materials such as polypropylene and polystyrene can be used for the body and sleeve respectively, with the closure being of the same material as the sleeve, while the objections against the traditional construction are overcome in that the interior and exterior dimensions of the container are closer than with a double walled container of traditional construction. Preferably the sleeve is an injection moulding whereby it can have a pleasing smooth outer surface. The closure can be a screw cap, there being complimentary threads on the inner surface of the depending portion of the closure and on the underlying portion of the side wall of the body. Preferably means are provided for locking the sleeve in position on the side wall of the body, such as interlocking formations on the inner surface of the sleeve and on the outer surface of the side wall of the body. Means can be provided to inhibit rotation of the sleeve about the body such as serrations on the outer surface of the side wall of the body and on the inner surface of the sleeve. Alternative means for positively locating the sleeve on the body may be adopted, such as cooperating screw threads on the inner surface of the sleeve and the outer surface of the side wall of the body. The sleeve may be transparent and decorative, and informational material may be visible therethrough. For instance, a printed label may be inserted between the sleeve and the body. The sleeve may be in either the same colour as the body or may be in a contrasting colour. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the drawing which shows a container embodying the invention, the left hand side being shown in section. The container shown is circular in crosssection and comprises a hollow body 1 and a closure 2. The body 1 comprises a base 3 and a side wall 4 defining an opening, the base 3 being indented upwards centrally. The side wall 4 has screw threads 5 which cooperate with corresponding threads 6 on the inner surface of a depending portion 11 of the closure 2. The side wall 4 also has a pair of different size circumferential ribs 7 and 8 immediately below the closure 2, the larger rib 7 lying above the smaller rib 8. A sleeve 9 is a close fit over the side wall 4 of the body 1, the sleeve 9 having a circumferential groove 10 in its inner surface in which the rib 8 on the side wall 4 engages. In assembly, the sleeve 9 is slid over the side wall 4 of the body 1 from the base end until the groove 10 receives the rib 8 and the leading edge of the sleeve 9 abuts the rib 7. Means not shown such as serrations are present on the inner surface of the sleeve 9 and on the outer surface of the side wall 4 to inhibit mutual rotation of the sleeve and body. The sleeve 9 and the closure 2 are formed of polystyrene, suitably by injection moulding. The base 3 and side wall 4 constituting the body 1 of the container are formed from polypropylene.