# Method for intimately connecting and sealing a glass pane to a mouldable polymeric material structure, and the product obtained thereby.

## Abstract
For qualitatively and functionally improving the connec tion of a glass pane K to a load bearing structure SR of a polymeric material, especially a car body element structure for motor vehicles such as a door and the like, a preliminary attachment to a glass pane K of a peripheral rubber insert G bonded thereto by molecular chemical adhesion is carried out during the dimensional conformation stage of the rubber, and formation on the bonded insert G of one or more grip profiles 10 and co moulding incorporation of the adhesion bonded insert to the glass pane in the frame border of the load bearing structure in such a way that the resin thereof spreads into the grip profiles 10 to copenetrate them in interlocking relationship.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for intimately connecting and sealing a glass pane to a mouldable polymeric material structure, characterized in that it comprises, in succession, the following processing steps providing the glass pane with a peripheral rubber insert adhesion bonded thereto by chemical molecular adhesion during the dimensional conformation stage of the rubber providing on said adhesion bonded insert, during the dimensional conformation stage thereof, one or more, continuous or non continuous, section member profiles effective to allow the later applied polymeric material to be gripped thereon and incorporating by co moulding and at least in part, the insert adhesion bonded to the glass pane, into the frame of the polymeric material load bearing structure, said structure being moulded in a mould limited at least to the contour of the insert intended for incorporation to the polymeric material. 2. A method according to Claim 1, wherein said insert has at least one portion adapted for incorporation into the polymeric material of said load bearing structure and provided with at least one grip profile for said polymeric material. 3. A method according to Claims 1 and 2, wherein said insert has at least one portion adapted to remain exposed to the outside against which the closure of the polymeric structure mould makes a seal. 4. A method according to the preceding claims, wherein said load bearing structure is injection moulded. 5. A method according to the preceding claims, wherein said load bearing structure is moulded from an optionally filled thermoplastic resin. 6. A method according to Claim 1, characterized in that it also comprises a further intermediate step of surface treating said rubber insert with a primer and or adhesive effective to establish a chemical and physical bond between said insert rubber and structure resin during the moulding step of the latter. 7. A method according to Claim 6, wherein said primer and or adhesive are compatible both with the rubber and resin polymers. 8. A product obtained with the method of Claims 1 to 5, characterized in that it comprises a polemic material structure SR having a port filled by a glass pane K , wherein the glass pane holding and mounting frame border surrounding said port incorporates a rubber insert G adhesion bonded to a corresponding peripheral portion of said glass pane K , and wherein the rubber of said bonded insert G is provided with grip profiles iso whereinto, during the moulding step, the structure resin spreads to co penetrate said profiles in mutual interlocking relationship. 9. A product according to Claim 8, characterized in that it comprises an adhesive layer interposed between said insert rubber and structure resin incorporating it. 10. A product according to Claims 8 and 9, char acterized in that it embodies a motor vehicle door member having a port filled by a fixed glass pane.

## Description
METHOD FOR INTIMATELY CONNECTING AND SEALING A GLASSPANE To A MOULDABLE POLYMERIC MATERIAL STRUCTURE, ANDHE PRODUCT OBTAINED THEREBY This invention relates to a method for intimately connecting and sealing a glass pane to a mouldable polymeric material structure, and the product obtained thereby. It is known that a current trend in the manufacture of motor vehicle car bodies favours the use of polymeric materials in lieu of sheet metal. Polymeric materials are generally employed to fabricate such movable non supporting parts of a car body as bonnet covers, doors, etc In the actual fabrication of such car body elements, problems arise in carrying out a sealed connection between fixed glass panes and the frame portions provided by respective load bearing structures. In fact, the use for this purpose of ordinary elastomeric gaskets is discouraged both by the difficulty of forming on 8 moulded structure the thin blade like frame edges which are required for gripping the gaskets thereon, and the excessive deformability of such frame edges resulting in the gasket being easily disengaged therefrom and the glass pane becoming dislodged. Likewise, mere cementing of the glass pane to the structure with the interposition of an adhesive, even where this can provide an adequately strong bond and seal, involves costly and elaborate manual process ing of the glass pane, quite unsuitable for mass production techniques, and the end results are aesthetically unsatisfactory. This invention sets out essentially to obviate such drawbacks. In particular, an important object of this invention is to provide a method whereby it becomes possible, with simple operations meeting the requirements of glass production techniques, to achieve a reliable water and hair tight rigid connection of the glass pane to the polymeric material load bearing structure, while 2 high aesthetic quality final product is afforded. Another important object of this invention is to provide a method whereby a connection can be achieved between the glass pane and load bearing structure which has such characteristics of mechanical cohesion as to ensure substantial participation of the glass pane material in the forming of the structure rigidity, with attendant significant simplification of the stress resistant shaped section members of the structure, savings in materials, and reduction in the final product weight. In achieving these and other objects, such as will be apparent from ensuing description, this invention starts from the teachings of theco applncantls priorBritish patent application No. 83 27878 filed onOctober 18 1983. This prior application discloses a method for bond or adhesion moulding rubber on a glass pane whereby a chemical molecular bond or adhesion of rubber to glass is achieved during the dimensional formation of the rubber and concurrent transformation from the plastic phase to the elastic phase produced under the effects of time, temperature and o r pres sure. Starting from the teachings of said prior bonding or adhesion method, tilts invention provides a further method for intimately connecting and sealing a glass pane to a mouldable polymeric material structure, characterized in that it comprises, in succession, the following processing steps providing the glass pane with a peripheral rubber insert adhesion bonded thereto by chemicalmolecular adhesion during the dimensional conformation stage of the rubber providing on said adhesion bonded insert, during the dimensional conformation stage thereof, one or more, continuous or non continuous, section member profiles effective to allow the later applied polymeric material to be gripped thereon and incorporating by co moulding and at least in part, the insert adhesion bonded to the glass pane, into the frame of the polymeric material load bearing structure, said structure being moulded in a mould limited at least to the contour of the insert intended for incorporation to the polymeric material. The product obtained with the inventive method accordingly comprises a generic structure of a mouldable polymeric material, in particular a motor vehicle door, having a port closed by a glass pane, wherein the glass pane holding and mounting frame border surrounding said port incorporates a rubber insert previously adhesion bonded to a corresponding peripheral portion of said glass pane, and wherein for gripping purposes the adhesion bonded insert rubber has section member profiles in which the resin of the structure spreads during the moulding step by co penetrating said profiles in interlocked rela tio nahip. Further features, object and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description, to be read in conjunction with the accompanying illustrative drawings, where Figure 1 isa perspective view of a passenger car rear door having a fixed glass pane bonded to the door structure with the bonding method of this invention Figure 2 is an enlarged sectional view taken along the line II II of Figure 1, showing the connection area of the glass pane to the door structure as obtained in accordance with the inventive method Figures 2a to 2e are enlarged sectional views, similar to Figure 2, but showing respective modified embodiments of the connection and Figure 3 is a fragmintary, schematical sections view taken through a mould for implementing the method of this invention. In the drawing views, K denotes the glass pane,SR the load bearing structure of a mouldable polymeric material, such as a thermoplastic material reinforced with various fillers, and G a rubber insert surrounding the periphery of the glass pane continuously The insert G has been previously mounted around the glass pane with a method of adhesion bond moulding as disclosed in the cited British prior patent application No. 83 27878, and consisting of producing the chemical molecular bond of rubber to glass during the dimensional conformation moulding of the rubber and concurrent transformation from the plastic phase to the elastic phase. To this aim, the glass pane is previously degreased, a primer is then applied followed by an adhesive, over the area intended for application of the rubber, and the moulding is carried out of the elastomeric compound, all as described in one of the examples given in the cited prior patent application. According to this invention, during the moulding step, the rubber insert G is contoured, for example as shown in Figure 2 where it is seen that it is provided for gripping purposes with a plurality of section member profiles 10 in the form of continuous channels having a trapezoidal cross sectional configuration. The opposite side of the insert is formed with a lip 11 adapted to define a sealing frame border in full view. A variety of gripping profiles for the insert are shown, by way of example, in the subsequent Figures 2a to 2e. In Figure 2a, the lip 11 widens out at the outside of the glass pane and is terminated in an inclined plane type transition frame border 12. In figure 2b, the insert has a U like shape and a lip 13 to be left in full view, as explained herein below. The insert, moreover, has a continuous bead 14 adapted to react to tensive stresses in the plane of the glass pane E. Figures 2c and 2d show inserts G having grip profiles 10a 10b on either faces, as well as lips and frames, such as 11 and 12, to be left in full view.Figure 2e shows an in view insert having a grip element formed by a single continuous rib 15 of substantially T like shape. After mould removal, the glass pane K with the respective insert G provided with the grip profiles carried out with any of the shapes shown, or other equivalent ones as dictated by individual applicational requirements, are positioned into a mould ST for forming the load bearing structure SR. This mould is configured as shown in Figure 3 to make a seal over the region Z onto the lip portion 11 of the insert to be left exposed to the outside, and to enclose internally that portion of the insert G which is to be incorporated by co moulding into the material of the load bearing structure. Upon closing the mould, the structure forming resin, e.g. a thermoplastic resin including optional reinforcing fillers, is injected with any suitable conventional method. Upon mould removal, a finished product is obtained in which the frame border which encircles the glass pane filled port incorporates the insert C firmly held in the resin of the load bearing structure, which resin has spread during the plastic moulding stage into the grip profiles 10 provided in the insert and co penetrating them to establish an interlocked relationship. The resulting mechanical bond affords a substantial contribution by the glass pane to the rigidity of the final structure, while providing a stable, reliable, and perfectly tight connection. It will be apparent, moreover, how on account of the method used for moulding the frame border, this will appear after mould removal free of any surface uneveness, which makes the use of capping trims unnecessary and imparts the manufactwred article with high quality aesthetic characteristics. Further, the preliminary formation of the insert G along the peripheral area of the glass pane avoids expensive and critical glass grinding operations, and makes handling and storage of the glass pane easier. While the mechanical cooperation of the resin of the structure SR and rubber insert G is in itself adequate to provide the aforesaid mechanical strength features, the inyçntion also provides for a chemical and physical adhesion bond between said resin and rubber during the resin moulding step. This is accomplished by treating the insert G prior to the co moulding step thereof, with a primer andZòr adhesive which is compatible with the polymers present both in the resin and rubber. The nature of said primer and adhesive will, therefore, vary according to the nature of the elastomeric mixture or compound used for forming the insert G and composition of the resin forming the load bearing structure. Of course, within the ssae principle of this invention, the implementation details of this method and embodiments of the resulting product may divert from what has been described and illustrated in the foregoing by way of example only, without departing from the true scope of the invention.