# A PROCESS FOR DIRECTLY DETERMINING APURINIC AND APYRIMIDINIC SITES IN DNA

## Claims
Verfahren zur direkten Bestimmung von Apurin und Apyrimidin Stellen in der DNA, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß die zu testende DNA Probe mit einem spezifischen Überschuß von ¹⁴C Methoxyamin ausreichend lange bei einem pH Wert von etwa 6,8 bis 7,4 umgesetzt wird, daß das nicht umgesetzte ¹⁴C Methoxyamin dann in einem sauren Medium abgetrennt wird und dadurch, daß die Radioaktivität des DNA ¹⁴C Methoxyamin Reaktionsproduktes bestimmt wird.

## Description
Apurinic and apyrimidinic sites AP sites in DNA are defects which can be produced in different ways see T. Lindahl and S. Ljungquist, Molecular Mechanisms for Repair of DNA, publishers P.C. Hanawalt and R.B. Setlow, Part A, pages 31 38, Plenum Press, New York, 1975, and T. Lindahl, Progress in Nucleic Acids Research and Molecular Biology, publishers W.E. Cohn, Vol. 22 1979 , pages 135 192, Academic Press, New York. AP sites may form even at normal pH by spontaneous hydrolysis of the sugar bond between the deoxyribose group and the purine base or pyrimidine base. Moreover, AP sites appear after modification of the bases which weaken the glycosyl bond, for instance alkylation of the purines, saturation of the C₅ C₆ bond of the pyrimidines and fragmentation of the heterocyclic ring. Moreover, a part of the damaged bases can also be removed by specific DNA glycosylases. Finally, AP sites in DNA can also be produced by some antitumor antibiotics, such as Bleomycin see W.E.G. Müller and R.K. Zahn Progress in Nucleic Acids Research and Molecular Biology Publishers W.E. Cohn, Vol. 20 1977 , pages 21 57, Academic Press, New York. AP sites are serious DNA defects. They may cause mutations see R.M. Schaaper, B.W. Glickman and L.A. Loeb, Cancer Research, Vol. 42 1982 , page 3480 3485 and R. M. Schaaper, B.W. Glickman and L.A. Loeb, Mutation Research, Vol. 106 1982 , pages 1 9. AP sites are non coding defects. So far, only intact AP sites have been determined, the determination was effected in an indirect manner. The assay is based on the determination of strand breaks nicks after chemical or enzymatic cleavage of a phospodiester bond adjacent to the AP site. Moreover, it is known that apurinic acid, that is the purine free DNA derivative obtained after treating DNA with dilute mineral acid, can be reacted with aldehyde reagents, such as hydroxylamine, semicarbazide, phenyl hydrazine or ¹⁴C methoxyamine see N.M. Coombs and D.C. Livingston, Biochim. Biophys. Acta, Vol. 174 1969 , pages 161 173, in particular page 172. The different known methods for determining the AP sites in DNA have several disadvantages. Some methods are time consuming and labor intensive, other methods are not sufficiently sensitive. Finally, there are methods which are restricted to a limited number of AP sites. Moreover, all methods require two steps breaking of the DNA and analysis of the breaks and only determine intact AP sites. Consequently, it is the object of the invention to develop a process for directly determining all AP sites, be they intact or associated with strand breaks, the process being based on the reaction of the aldehyde group s of the deoxyribose group s with ¹⁴C methoxyamine, said aldehyde groups being formed after a purine or pyrimidine loss. The subject matter of the invention thus is a process for directly determining apurinic and apyrimidinic sites AP sites in DNA, the process being characterized in that the DNA sample to be examined is reacted with a specific excess amount of ¹⁴C methoxyamine for a sufficiently long time at a pH value of about 6.8 to 7.4, the unreacted ¹⁴C methoxyamine is subsequently separated in acid medium and the radioactivity of the DNA ¹⁴C methoxyamine reaction product is determined. The process of the invention also lends itself to the determination of DNA glycosylases, in particular of Uracil DNA glycosylases. In this case, a DNA sample can be reacted under the above specified conditions with a specific excess amount of ¹⁴C methoxyamine and with the DNA glycosylase to be determined, since the DNA glycosylase activity is not influenced by ¹⁴C methoxyamine. The AP sites formed by the DNA glycosylase react with ¹⁴C methoxyamine and are determined in the manner described above. When a polydeoxyribonucleotide containing uracil is incubated with a uracil DNA glycosylase, a number of methoxyamine reactive sites which is proportional to the amount of the enzyme and the incubation period is formed in the DNA. These sites are practical equal to the amount of liberated uracil. The reaction is preferably carried out with ¹⁴C methoxyamine at pH 7.2 and at 37 C. The process according to the invention is fast, simple and sensitive. It requires neither the use of DNA having a specific configuration nor specific processes of analysis. The process is suitable as routine method for determining DNA defects and for determining reagents which modify the DNA, for instance cancerogenic or mutagenic substances. Methoxyamine hydrochloride was obtained from Serva, methyl methane sulfonate from I.C.N. Pharmaceuticals Inc., Escherichia coli DNA was purchased from Worthington, Biochemical Corp. E. coli ³H DNA 0.29 µCi µg , ¹⁴C methoxyamine hydrochloride 3.13 µCi mole and Omnifluor were obtained from New England Nuclear. Insta Gel solution was bought from Packard Instrument Company and glass fiber paper of the type GF C from Whatman. All other chemicals were analytical grade products. Uracil DNA glycosylase was prepared from calf thymus see M. Talpaert Borlé et al., J. Biol. Chem., Vol. 254 1979, pages 6387 to 6391 and Vol. 257 1982 , pages 1208 to 1214. Uracil containing polydeoxyribonucleotides dA ₂₃₀. dT,dU ₂₃₀ dT dU 9 and dA ₂₃₀ . dT, ³H dU ₂₃₀ 150 µCi umole Uracil dT dU 9 were prepared according to the method described in J. Biol. Chem., Vol. 254 1979 , pages 6387 to 6391. Apyrimidinic sites were introduced in dA ₂₃₀ . dT, ³H dU ₂₃₀ with dT dU 9 by uracil DNA glycosylase according to the method by M. Talpaert Borlé et al., Eur. J. Biochem., Vol. 124 1982 , pages 435 to 440. The reaction was performed at a concentration of 0.56 mM as total nucleotides with 4.5 enzyme units ml. After 3 hour incubation at 37 C, the release of ³H uracil was practically complete. The reaction was stopped and the polydeoxyribonucleotide having about 50 AP sites per 1000 nucleotides was isolated. Unlabelled and tritium labelled 100 µl calf thymus DNA solution 200 ug in 0.15 M NaCl, 15 mM sodium citrate buffer, pH 7.0 and 220 µl 7.5 perchloric acid solution were added to 10 µl aliquots of the radioactive DNA solutions. After agitation, the mixture was left in ice for 10 minutes. Subsequently, the mixture was centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 10 minutes. A portion of the supernatent was made up with water to 0.4 ml, supplemented with 4 ml of Insta Gel solution and placed into a liquid scintillation spectrometer. The reaction mixture in 0.1 M sodium borate buffer, pH 7.2 contained 100 to 200 µg ml of DNA or synthetic polydeoxyribonucleotides and 3 to 7 mM, preferably 5 mM of ¹⁴C methoxyamine final concentration . The condensation reaction was carried out at 37 C for 30 minutes. Aliquots of the reaction mixtures were placed on glass fiber discs which were immediately dipped into ice cold l M of hydrochloric acid. The free ¹⁴C methoxyamine was separated from the acid insoluble ¹⁴C methoxyamine DNA by washing the glass fiber discs 5 times with 10 ml each of l M hydrochloric acid for each disc. The discs are then washed 3 times with ethanol. The glass fiber discs are then dried, placed into 4 ml of toluene containing 16 mg of Omnifluor and are counted in a liquid scintillation spectrometer. The values for the ¹⁴C methoxyamine bound to the acid insoluble DNA were corrected, since minor amounts of free ¹⁴C methoxyamine are retained at the glass fiber discs. This remainder amounted to about 0.05 of the total radioactivity on the glass fiber disc. Alkylated depurinated DNA contains some groups which bind methoxyamine in a reaction depending on the pH see Fig. 1. The reaction occurs mainly in the acidic pH range and drops sharply at a pH greater than 8. On the other hand, methoxyamine does not react significantly with untreated DNA In the pH range 3 to 6 slight incorporation of methoxyamine takes place. The lowest ratio of the unspecific retention of ¹⁴C methoxyamine to the labelling of specific reactive sites in the alkylated depurinated DNA is at a pH of 7.2. Fig. 2 shows the amount of ¹⁴C methoxyamine taken up by untreated and alkylated depurinated DNAs as a function of the reagent concentration after incubation at 37 C for 30 minutes and at a pH value of 7.2. The incorporation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine in untreated DNA remains negligible, even with increasing reagent concentrations. Alkylated depurinated DNA retains a significant amount of radioactivity, which depends on the reagent concentration. When the final ¹⁴C methoxyamine concentration reaches 5 mM, the incorporation curve levels off. It appears that the reactive sites of the alkylated depurinated DNA are progressively occupied. At a concentration of 5 mM, these sites have taken up 57 molecules of ¹⁴C methoxyamine per 1000 nucleotides. The unspecific retention of the free ¹⁴C methoxyamine on the glass fiber discs used for measuring the incorporation of the radioactive compound in the acid insoluble DNA increases with increasing reagent concentration. To keep the background radiation at an acceptable level, the lowest concentration of ¹⁴C methoxyamine still allowing complete reaction with the AP sites within a reasonable time, i.e. 5 mM of ¹⁴C methoxyamine final concentration must be used in the assay. Fig. 3 shows the fixation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine by untreated and alkylated depurinated DNA at two different reagent concentrations as a function of time incubation at 37 C and at a pH value of 7.2 . A longer incubation with 5 mM ¹⁴C methoxyamine does not produce a significant labelling of the untreated DNA. In contrast to this, the fixation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine by alkylated depurinated DNA increases with time and the reaction speed depends on the reagent concentration. The incorporation curves corresponding to 1 and 5 mM methoxyamine reach the same maximum. This suggests that the reaction of the alkylated depurinated DNA with methoxyamine goes to completion after a sufficiently long incubation time. The insert of Fig. 3 gives the logarithm of the number of specific reactive sites which have not yet reacted at a methoxyamine concentration of 5 mM, as a function of time. It is a linear realationship. From the inclination of the straight line, the value of the kinetic constant of 34.4 M ¹ min ¹ is calculated. The speed of the reaction depends on the temperature. It proceeds 8 times more rapidly at 37 C than at 0 C the values are not shown . An incubation at 37 C for 30 minutes with a final methoxyamine concentration of 5 mM which leads to a complete reaction of all reactive sites was chosen for the standard assay. Under these conditions, the amount of bound methoxyamine is proportional to the number of the specific reactive AP sites in the alkylated depurinated DNA see Fig. 4. To detect the stability of the complex after reacting the alkylated depurinated DNA with ¹⁴C methoxyamine, the free labelled reagent was dialyzed away and optionally replaced by 10 mM of unlabelled methoxyamine final concentration . The results are shown in Fig. 5. In the absence of unlabelled methoxyamine, the radioactive complex is practically stable. In the presence of 10 mM methoxyamine at 37 C and pH 7.2, the alkylated depurinated DNA progressively loses the bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine. A semi logarithmic plot of the results yields a straight line, from which a half life of 42 minutes for the bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine can be deduced. This corresponds to a dissociation rate constant of 0.0167 min ¹. This dissociation rate constant depends on the concentration of the unlabelled methoxyamine not shown suggesting that the loss of radioactivity from the alkylated depurinated DNA results from the substitution of the bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine by unlabelled methoxyamine. Methoxyamine does not cause the alkylated depurinated DNA to degrade. If alkylated depurinated ³H DNA is incubated with. the methoxyamine at pH 7.2 and at 37 C, the radioactivity of the acid soluble fraction does not increase. Alkylated depurinated ³H DNA 100 µg ml was incubated at 37 C with 0.2 M sodium hydroxide solution or 5 Mm methoxyamine being optionally added. After the times indicated in Table I, the radioactivity of the acid soluble fraction is determined in the manner described above. The results are shown in Table I. Fig. 6 shows that ¹⁴C methoxyamine reacts with the apyrimidinic sites introduced by uracil DNA glycosylase into a polydeoxyribonucleotide containing uracil. With a reagent concentration of 5 mM, the reaction proceeds rapidly and, after incubation at 37 C for 30 minutes, reaches a maximum corresponding the saturation of the apyrimidinic sites. As in the case of alkylated depurinated DNA the reaction with 1 mM methoxyamine final concentration requires a longer reaction time than with 5 mM methoxyamine final concentration . Moreover, the uracil containing control polydeoxyribonucleotide does not retain ¹⁴C methoxyamine. From the insert of Fig. 6, which gives the logarithm of the unreacted sites at a methoxyamine concentration of 5 mM as a function of time, a kinetic constant of 58.3 M ¹ min ¹ can be calculated. It has been shown by experiments that alkylated DNA containing apurinic sites and a synthetic double stranded DNA containing apyrimidinic sites fix considerably more ¹⁴C methoxyamine than the corresponding control samples, i.e. untreated DNA or the corresponding homologous DNA having no apyrimidinic sites. Reaction conditions have been detected at which the ratio of specific to unspecific binding of ¹⁴C methoxyamine is highest. At a 30 min incubation at 37 C with 5 mM ¹⁴C methoxyamine and at pH 7.2 practically all specific reactive sites AP sites of alkylated depurinated DNA and synthetic DNA containing apyrimidinic sites react with the ¹⁴C methoxyamine. Moreover, the reaction rates for the apurinic and apyrimidinic sites, although they are in very different macromolecules, are nearly the same. Moreover it was found that the reaction of methoxyamine with AP sites is not accompanied by the formation of a strand break so that the bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine can be measured by the simple determination of the radioactivity of the acid insoluble fraction. The reaction of ¹⁴C methoxyamine with specific reactive sites of alkylated depurinated DNA goes to completion, if the reaction is performed for a sufficiently long time. The reaction has been found to be irreversible. The complex cannot be hydrolyzed at pH 7.2. Subsequent incubation with unlabelled methoxyamine is, however, associated with a decrease in radioactivity. This is an index of the bound methoxyamine being replaced by the free methoxyamine. The process according to the invention thus permits the direct determination of apurinic and apyrimidinic sites in DNA, the characterization of substrates for AP endodeoxyribonucleases, the discovery of new DNA glycosylases and the determination of their activity. At the times indicated in Fig. 7, the enzymatic reaction is stopped by the addition of 0.5 M KCl end concentration and the reaction mixture is heated to 70 C for 5 minutes. The liberated uracil is calculated from the radioactivity of the acid soluble fraction Fig. 7A . The number of the AP sites is calculated from the radioactivity of the acid insoluble fraction bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine after incubation under standard conditions pH 7.2 37 C 5 mM ¹⁴C methoxyamine Fig. 7B. The comparison of curves a and b reveals that free uracil and apyrimidinic sites reacting with ¹⁴C methoxyamine are formed in practically the same amounts. The number of liberated uracil molecules corresponds to the number of bound ¹⁴C methoxyamine molecules. The reaction mixtures contain 200 µg ml of either untreated curve a or alkylated depurinated DNA curve b . The reaction mixtures are incubated with 5 mM ¹⁴C methoxyamine end concentration for 30 minutes at 37 C. The pH values indicated are obtained after extensive dialysis against 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM potassium phosphate at different pH values or after addition of hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide solution. The incorporation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine in DNA is determined in the manner described above. The reaction mixtures contain 200 mg ml of either untreated or alkylated depurinated DNA in 0.1 M borate buffer, pH 7.2. They are incubated at 37 C for 30 minutes with the indicated concentrations of ¹⁴C methoxyamine. The ¹⁴C methoxyamine quantities bound to untreated curve a and to alkylated depurinated DNA curve b were determined in the manner described above, after previous precipitation with hydrochloric acid. The reaction mixtures contain 200 µg ml of either untreated or alkylated depurinated DNA. Incubation was performed at 37 C and pH 7.2 with 1 mM curve a or 5 mM curve b ¹⁴C methoxyamine for the alkylated depurinated DNA and with 5 mM curve c for the untreated DNA. At the indicated times, the incorporation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine in DNA is determined in the manner described above. The number of unreacted sites F as a function of time. The number of unreacted sites F is calculated by substracting the number of the reacted sites from the number of total sites. Both are computed from the amount of incorporated ¹⁴C methoxyamine. The graph represents the variation of lnF with time. The reaction mixtures contain different amounts of reactive sites which are obtained by mixing different amounts of untreated and alkylated depurinated DNA at a concentration of 115 µg ml. The reactions are performed under standard conditions, i.e. 5 mM ¹⁴C methoxyamine, 0.1 M borate buffer, pH 7.2, at 37 C for 30 minutes. The incorporation of ¹⁴C methoxyamine in DNA is determined in the manner described above. Alkylated depurinated DNA 200 µg ml is incubated with ¹⁴C methoxyamine under the standard conditions. Unreacted excess reagent is separated by extensive dialysis against 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM potassium phosphate, pH 7.2. The resultant DNA contains 55 molecules N The reaction mixtures contain 174 µg ml of either dA ₂₃₀ . dT, ³H dU ₂₃₀ treated with uracil DNA glycosylase or untreated dA ₂₃₀ . dT, dU ₂₃₀. Incubation is performed at 37 C and pH 7.2 with 1 mM curve a or 5 mM curve b ¹⁴C methoxyamine for the polymer with apyrimidinic sites and with 5 mM curve c for the untreated polymer. At the indicated times the incorporation of the ¹⁴C methoxyamine in the polymer is determined in the manner described above.