# Electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure.

## Abstract
An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure comprises an inorganic resin material film as an interlayer insulation film 14 between a lower wiring 13 and an upper wiring 15 , an organic insulative material film such as polymide as a protection film 17a, 17b for protecting an uppermost wiring and resin mold 19 for molding the elec tronic device.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure comprising an inorganic insulative material film as an interlayer insulation film 14 between a lower wiring 13 and an upper wiring 15 and an organic resin material film as a protection film 17a, 17b for protecting an uppermost wiring. 2. An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure comprising an inorganic insulative material layer as an interlayer insulation film 14 between a lower wiring i3 and an upper wiring 15 , an organic resin material layer as a protection film 17a, 17b for protecting an uppermost wiring and a resin mold 19 for molding said electronic device. 3. An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure according to Claim 2 wherein said resin mold is formed by a transfer molding technique. 4. An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure which comprises a substrate 10 having formed thereon a first metal layer of wiring 13 an interlayer insulation layer 14 disposed on said first metal layer, said interlayer insulation layer being composed of a plasma insulation film, an insulative glass film and a phosphorus silicate glass film a second metal layer of wiring 15 disposed on said interlayer insulation layer, a phosphorus silicate glass film 17a disposed on said second metal layer a polyimide resin film 17b disposed on said phosphorus silicate glass film and a sealing resin 19 covering said polyimide resin film. 5 An electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure according to Claim 4, wherein an insulative glass film 17c is interposed between said polyimide resin film and said phosphorus silicate glass film.

## Description
ELECTRONIC DEVICE HAVING A MULTI LAYER WIRING STRUCTURE The present invention relates to a wiring technique, more particularly to a technique particularly effective to a multi layer wiring, and to an electronic device having a multi layer wiring structure such as a resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device having a multi layer wiring structure. A semiconductor device having a multi layer wiring structure has been well known by, for example, U.S.Patent 4,001,870. In this patent, an organic material such as polyimide is used as an inter layer insulation film. The polyimide resin, however, has a shortcoming in that it includes moisture and aluminum, if it is used as a wiring material, is corroded by the moisture. Further, since it is difficult to form a thin layer, contact holes in the inter layer insulation film polyimide resin film are necessarily large. As a result, the minituarization is hard to attain. Accordingly, a semiconductor integrated circuit device having a high reliability and a high density cannot be obtained. In order to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit device having a high reliability and a high density wiring structure, the inventors of the present invention studied the use of an inorganic material such as CVD PSG chemical vapor deposition phosphorus silicate glass as an interlayer insulation film 4 and a protection payer 6 to protect the topmost wiring layer second level wiring 5 as shown in Fig. 1. However, the following new problem occurred. in order to reduce a cost of the semiconductor integrated circuit device, resion was used as a packaging molding material and the resin was package molded by a well known transfer mold method. However, since the softened resin is press inserted into a mold in the transfer mold method, pressures Pl, P2 and P3 are applied to the protection layer 6 as shown in Fig. l, and the protection layer 6 and the inter layer insulation film 4 are cracked by a stress created when the resin is cured and a thermal stress created during a heat cycle test after the resin molding. The cracks occurred at areas B and C of the interlayer insulation film 4 and particularly at a stepped areaA. in the stepped area A, many cracks occurred at regions where an edge of the second level wiring 5 runs closely to an edge of a first level wiring 3. As a result, moisture penetrated from a portion of the cracked protection layer 6 or a portion of the cracked inter layer insulation film 4 and it eroded the aluminum wirings 3 and 5 and shorted the first level wiring 3 and the second level wiring 5, and the semiconductor integrated circuit device having the high reliability was not provided. In Fig. 1, numeral 1 denotes a semiconductor Si substrate and numeral 2 denotes a thermal oxidization film SiO2 film . It is an object of the present invention provide a electronic device having a highly reliable multi layer wiring structure. It is another object of the present invention to provide a highly reliable and high density resinmolded semiconductor integrated circuit device. It is another object of the present invention to provide a compact resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device. It is another object of the present invention to provide a bipolar semiconductor integrated circuit device having a high reliability and a high density. It is another object of the present invention to provide a MIS metal insulator semiconductor semiconductor integrated circuit device having a high reliability and a high density. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for manufacturing an electronic device having a highly reliable multi layer wiring structure. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for manufacturing a highly reliable semiconductor integrated circuit device. It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for manufacturing a highly reliable resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device. The above and other objects and novel features of the present invention will be apparent from the following description of the invention and the accompanying drawings. In accordance with a representative aspect of the present invention, an inorganic insulative material which does not contain moisture and can be formed into a thin layer is used as the interlayer insulation film between the upper wiring layer and the lower wiring layer to prevent the erosion of the wiring and enable a fine structure formation of fine through holes , and an organic material such as polyimide resin is used for a final possivation film to absorb a pressure applied during the resin molding and a thermal stress during a heat cycle after the resin molding so that the cracking of the inorganic inter layer insulation film is prevented and the electronic device having the highly reliable and high density multilayer wiring structure is provided. The present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. l is a partial sectional view of a semiconductor integrated circuit device considered prior to the present invention, Fig. 2 is a partial sectional view of a resinmolded semiconductor integrated circuit device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the resin molde semiconductor integrated circuit device an external view of a package of the present invention Fig. 4 is a perspective view of a semiconductor wafer of the present invention Fig. 5 is a partial, enlarged sectional view of the semiconductor wafer shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 6 is a partial sectional view of a semiconductor integrated circuit device before the resin molding in accordance with other embodiment of the present invention. Fig. 2 shows a partial sectional view of a semiconductor integrated circuit device having a two layer wiring structure, which is a most typical embodiment of the present invention. In Fig. 2, numeral 10 denotes a substrate of an electronic device. For a bipolar semiconductor integrated circuit device, it is a semiconductor substrate, and more specifically it is an N type epitaxial semiconductor layer formed on a P type silicon substrate not shown . Numeral 11 denotes a P type semiconductor region selectively formed in the N type epitaxial semiconductor layer 10 by a conventional diffusion technique or ion implantation technique. In an actual semiconductor integrated circuit device, not only the P type semiconductor region 11 but also an isolation region and a buried region are formed, although those regions are omitted in Fig. 2. An example of the present semiconductor integrated circuit device is an LS TTL low power Schottky transistor transistor logic circuit. Numeral 12 denotes a silicon dioxide SiO2 film formed by thermally oxidizing the surface of the epitaxial semiconductor layer 10. The SiO2 film 12 is used as a mask for selectively forming the P type region 11. A first level wiring 13 having a thickness of 1.0 1.4 m is formed on the SiO2 film 12. A portion of the wiring 13 contacts to the P type semiconductor region 11.Pure aluminum is used for the wiring 13. An insulation film 14 is formed as an interlayer insulation film on the entire surface of the epitaxial semiconductor layer or the semiconductor substrate 10 to protect the wiring 13.The interlayer insulation film 14 is an inorganic laminated structure of a CvD PSG film shaving a thickness of 6000A , an SOG spin on glass film having a thickness of 2000A0 and a P SiN plasma nitride film shaving a thickness of o 2400A . The P SiN film is first formed to cover the wiring 13. The P SiN film is used as the interlayer insulation film because of a low defect density such as pinholes. The P SiN film is also effective to prevent hillrock of the aluminum wiring 13 . After the formation of the wiring 13, heat treatment called contact alloying for example, at 470 4900C for 15 minutes is usually carried out to assure a perfect ohmic contact between the wiring 13 and the semiconductor region. During the heat treatment contact alloying , the hillrock of the aluminum occurs.However, when the P SiN film is formed and then the contact alloying is carried out, the hillrock is prevented by the P SiN film. The thickness of the P SiN O O film is preferably 1000A 3000A. The SOG film or the insulative glass film is formed on the P SiN film by a rotating coating method. If the SOG film is too thick, a crack will occur therein. Accordingly, the thickness O O is preferably 800A 2000A. The CVD PSG film is formed on the SOG film. The CVD PSG film is used to passivate the semiconductor surface by a gettering effect of phosphorous. The thickness of the CVD PSG film is preferably O O 5000A 10000A. A concentration of P205 contained in theCVD PSG film is preferably 4 6 mol . In the present embodiment, it is 6 mol . A second level wiring 15 having a thickness of 1.7 2.0 ijm and a bonding pad 16 formed by simultaneous patterning with the wiring 15 are formed on the laminated interlayer insulation film 14. Aluminum containing Si is used for the wiring 15 and the bonding pad 16 for anticorrosion purpose. The aluminum containing the Si is deposited by a sputtering method to improve a step coverage.A CVD PSG film 17a having a thickness of 1200A is formed as a final passivation layer on the wiring 15, and an organic resin film 17b such as a polyimide resin film having a thickness of approximately 3.8 um is formed on the CVD PSG film in accordance with the feature of the present invention, polyimide isoindro quinazlindiome PIQ, trademark of Hitachi Chemical Co., Ltd. is preferable for the polyimide resin film 17b. The CVD PSG film 17a is formed as the underlying final passivation for the polyimide resin film 17b in order to prevent the second level wiring 15 by the relatively hard passivation film so that it is not broken by the pressure during the molding. It also serves to enhance anti humidity property If the polyimide resin is deposited directly on the second level wiring 15, the wiring 15 may be broken by displacement by the pressure during the molding because the polyimide resin is soft. Further, since the polyimide resin contains moisture, the aluminum may be eroded. Accordingly, the CVD PSG film 17a is formed on the wiring 15 to prevent the above problems. A concentration of P205 contained in the CVD PSG film 17a to prevent the deterioration of the anti humidity property is 4 mol which is lower than the concentration of P205 in the CVD PSG used as the interlayer insulation film.While not shown, a CVX SiO2 film having o a thickness of approximately 2000A is formed between theCVD PSG film 17a and the polyimide resin film in order to further prevent the deterioration of the anti humidity property and maintain an appropriate hardness. The thickness of the polyimide resin film need not be very large and preferably 4 6 pm, taking an etching time into consideration. The CVD PSG film 17a and the polyimide resin film 17b are selectively etched through a common pattern mask to expose the bonding pad 16. An Au wire 18 or an Al wire is bonded to the bonding pad 16 by a nail head bonding or ultrasonic bonding method. The other end of the wire is bonded to an end of a lead not shown . This will be readily understood from the explanation of Fig. 3 to be made later.The wire bonded electronic device or semiconductor pellet is molded or packaged by a thermo setting resin 19 such as epoxy resin composition. The packaging made be done by a well known transfer mold method. Fig. 3 shows a perspective view of the resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device of the present invention.Fig. 3 shows a thin package called an SOP small outline package and leads 23 are coated with solder. Numeral 20 denotes a semiconductor pellet having a multi layer wiring structure and numeral 21 denotes a tab for supporting the semiconductor pellet 20. The semiconductor pellet 20 is bonded to the tab 21 by Ag paste. Numeral 22 denotes a wire and numeral 24 denotes the resin mold formed by the transfer molding method. The resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device of the present embodiment was subjected to a reliability test such as a temperature cycle lifetime test. 1 Test method Temperature cycle lifetime Samples to be tested were alternately placed in a high temperature chamber 150 C and a low temperature chamber 55 C and the occurrence of cracks in the inter layer insulation film was examined. 2 Samples tested and the number of samples tested. Samples A comparative samples having final passivation films consisting of the CVD PSG ...30 Sample 3 inventive samples having the final passivation films of the two layer structure of CVD PSG and PIQ 30 3 Test result Samples A Samples B 200 cycles 13 30 0 30 500 cycles 7 17 0 30 1,000 cycles 4 10 0 30 2,000 cycles 1 6 0 30 The test result shows the number of cracked samples I number of samples tested. As seen from the above test result, according to the present invention, the soft polyimide resin absorbs the stress created between the molding resin and the semiconductor pellet by the thermal stress and reduces the stress applied to the interlayer insulation film under the polyimide resin. As a result, no crack occurs in the inorganic interlayer insulation film 14 and the CVD PSG film 17 final passivation . Since no crack occurrs in the interlayer insulation film at a step D, the first level wiring 13 lower wiring and the second level wiring 15 upper wiring do not short to each other. Another reason for no cracking at the step D may be that the inter layer insulation film includes the SOG deposited by coating.By the use of the SOG film, the step of the interlayer insulation film can be relieved and the crack at the stepD is further prevented. Accordingly, the present embodiment provides the semiconductor integrated circuit device having a high reliability and a high density wiring structure. Since the anti thermal stress property is enhanced by the present embodiment, the resin molded semiconductor integrated circuit device may be dipped in a solder both when the leads are soldered. In the present embodiment, the polyimide resin film 17b is formed on an entire main surface of a semiconductor wafer 100 shown in Fig. 4, except on scribe line areas 101 and bonding pad areas not shown . A square block 102 encircled by the scribe lines 101 corresponds to the semiconductor pellet or called a semiconductor chip 20 shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 5 shows a partial enlarged sectional view taken along a line X X of the semiconductor wafer shown in Fig. 4 of the semiconductor water 100 in the vicinity of the scribe line 101. As shown in Fig. 5, the edges of the SiO2 film 12 and the interlayer insulation film 14 in the vicinity of the scribe line 101 are coated with the final passivation film comprising the CVD PSG film 17b and the polyimide resin film 17b. Accordingly, the penetration of the moisture from the edge is prevented and the anti humidity property is improved. The present embodiment further offers the following advantages. When the semiconductor wafer 101 is divided into the semiconductor pellets 20, it is diced along the scribe lines 101. Fine particles of the semiconductor wafer scatter during this work, but the second level wiring 15 is protected by the polyimide resin film 17b. Since the polyimide resin film 17b is the soft organic resin film, no crack occurs therein by the fine particles. Since the main surface of the semiconductor pellet is protected by the soft organic resin film, the handling of the semiconductor pellet is very easy. While the preferred embodiment of the present invention has been described in detail, the present invention is not limited to the above embodiment but various modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, the following modifications may be made. a Fig. 6 shows a partial sectional view of a semiconductor integrated circuit device having a multi layer wiring structure in accordance with other embodiment of the present invention. In the semiconductor integrated circuit device of Fig. 6, an insulative glass film such as SOG film 17C is interposed between the CVD PSG film 17a and the polyimide resin film 17b. By interposing the glass film 17c t the step is relieved so that the cracking in the inter layer insulation film is further prevented.This final passivation structure 17a, 17c, 17b is effectively applicable to the three layer or multi layer wiring structure having a steep step. b In the above embodiment, the polyimide resin is formed prior to the wire bonding. In the present embodiment, the final passivation comprises only the CVD PSG film, and the polyimide resin is coated by potting on the main surface of the semiconductor pellet after the wire bonding and before the molding c In the above embodiment, the semiconductor region formed in the semiconductor substrate forms the bipolarIC. Alternatively, the semiconductor region may form aMIS IC or also called MOS IC . It may also form a BiMOS IC which contains the bipolar IC and the MOS IC in one semiconductor substrate. The multi layer wiring structure of the semiconductor integrated circuit device which contains MIS FET s such as the MIS IC or the BiCMOSIC is explained with reference to Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, the thickness of the first level wiring 13 and the second level wiring 15 bonding pad 16 is 0.8 pm. The interlayer insulation film 14 is an inorganic insulative film having a three layer structure of a plasma SiO2 film having a thickness of 2,000 A , anSOG film having a thickness of 1,150 A and a CVD PSG film having a thickness of 6,000 , from the bottom to the top. In the semiconductor integrated circuit device which contains the MIS FET s, the plasma SiO2 P SiO2 film is used instead of the P SiN film in order to prevent the variation and the deterioration of the electrical characteristic of the MIS FET s. Like the P SiN film, the P SiO2 film is formed to prevent the hillrock of the aluminum. The thickness of the CVD PSG film 17a used as the final passivation is 2,000 A, and the thickness of the polyimide resin film 17b, for example, PIQ is approximately 2.3 3.75 pm. A P SiN film having a thickness of 1.1 pm is interleaved between the CVD PSG film 17a and the polyimide resin film 17b in order to improve the antihumidity property. d Photosensitive polyimide may be used for the polyimide resin film 17b. No photo resist is required for the photosensitive polyimide in the selective etching process. Accordingly, the number of steps can be reduced by the use of the photosensitive polyimide. e One resin selected from silicone resin, imide silicone resin, tefron and polyethylene, or a combination thereof may be used as the final passivation film 17b to form the multi layer structure film. f The packaging material of the present invention is not limited to the resin composition. For example, hermetic sealing materials such as glass, metal or ceramic may be used. While the present invention has been particularly described and shown in connection with the multi layer wiring structure of the semiconductor device, the present invention is not limited thereto but it is equally applicable to an electronic device having a thin film multilayer wiring structure having a ceramic, glass or bakelite substrate.