# Polycarbonate resin composition.

## Abstract
Polycarbonate resin composition comprising A polycarbonate resin, B saturated polyester resin, C polyole fin resin, and D acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resin or acrylate methacrylate resin. The polycarbonate resin com position is superior in physical properties such as chemical resistance, fluidity, colorability, coating properties, plating properties, etc.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A polycarbonate resin composition comprising A 20 to 94.6 by weight of a polycarbonate resin, B 50 to 5 by weight of a saturated polyester resin, C 15 to 0.28 by weight of a polyolefin resin, and D 15 to 0.2 by weight of an acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resin or an acrylate methacrylate resin. 2. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed inClaim I, wherein the polyolefin resin is polyethylene. 3. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed inClaim I, wherein the component D is an acrylate rubbercontaining polyvinyl resin prepared by polymerizing at least one vinyl monomer in the presence of a rubberlike polymer composed mainly of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate. 4. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the alkylacrylate or alkyl methacrylate is one having an alkyl group of from 2 to 10 carbon atoms. 5. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed in Claim 3, wherein the rubber like polymer composed mainly of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate is a polymer prepared by reacting not less than 70 by weight of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate and not more than 30 by weight of other vinyl monomer copolymerizable with said alkyl acrylate and alkyl methacrylate. 6. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed inClaim 3, wherein the rubber like polymer composed mainly of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate is a polymer prepared by adding polyfunctional monomer selected from the group consisting of divinyl benzene, ethylene dimethacrylate, triallyl cyanurate and triallyl isocyanurate to the alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate and other vinyl monomers. 7. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed inClaim 3, wherein the component D is acrylate methacrylate resin prepared by using acrylate which is an ester of saturated, straight aliphatic hydrocarbon having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms and acrylic acid, and methacrylate which is an ester of saturated, straight aliphatic hydrocarbon having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms and methacrylic acid. 8. The polycarbonate resin composition as claimed inClaim 7, wherein the acrylate is one selected from the group consisting of methylacrylate, ethylacrylate, isobutyl acrylate and n butyl acrylate, and the methacrylate is one selected from the group consisting of methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate and n butyl methacrylate.

## Description
POLYCARBONATE RESIN COMPOSITIONBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Polycarbonate resins are engineering resins superior in heat resistance and impact resistance, but have disadvantages in that fluidity is bad, chemical resistance is poor, and thickness dependency of impact resistance is large. It is known, as described in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 129246 1978, that in order to improve the above described disadvantages of polycarbonate resins, saturated polyester resins and polymers containing acrylate rubbers are compounded thereto. These resin compositions, however, are still poor in impact resistance at low temperatures although improved to a certain extent in fluidity and chemical resistance. Thus they are limited in practical application.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION An object of the present invention is to provide polycarbonate resin composition which is free from the above described problems. The present invention relates to a polycarbonate resin composition comprising A 20 to 94.6 by weight of a polycarbonate resin, B 50 to 5 by weight of a saturated polyester resin, C 15 to 0.2 by weight of a polyolefin resin, and D 15 to 0.2 by weight of an acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resin or an acrylate methacrylate resin. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ThE INVENTION Polycarbonate resins to be used as Component A of the resin composition of the present invention are not limited by their methods of preparation various types of polycarbonate resins can be used. Typical examples are a polycarbonate resin prepared from bisphenol A and phosgene by the phosgene process and a polycarbonate resin prepared from bisphenol A and carbonic acid diester, such as diphenyl carbonate, by the ester exchange process. The molecular weight of polycarbonate resins is usually from 10,000 to 100,000 and preferably from 20,000 to 40,000. These polycarbonate resins can be used singly or in combination with each other. Suitable examples of polycarbonate resins are described in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open No. 200445 1982. The amount of polycarbonate resins being compounded as Component A should be from 20 to 94.6 by weight, preferably from 40 to 9.0 by weight based on the total weight of the resin composition. If the amount of polycarbonate resins compounded is less than 20 by weight, superior characteristics that the polycarbonate resins possess inherently cannot be exhibited, whereas if it is in excess of 94.6 by weight, it is not possible to modify the polycarbonate resins sufficiently satisfactorily. Saturated polyester resins which can be used asComponent B of the resin composition of the present invention include polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polytetramethylene terephthalate, and their mixtures. These polyester resins can be prepared by known procedures, such as by reacting dimethyl terephthalate and ethylene glycol or 1,4butanediol. If desired, diols such as 1,3 propanediol and dicarboxylic acids such as isophthalic acid may be added and copolymerized. Preferred are those saturated polyester resins having an intrinsic viscosity measured at 250C in a mixed solvent consisting of equal volumes of tetrachloroethane and phenol of 0.4 to 1.5, preferably 0.8 to 1.4. The amount of saturated polyester resins being compounded should be from 50 to 5 by weight, preferably from 46 to 9 by weight based on the total weight of the resin composition. If the amount of saturated polyester resins compounded is in excess of 50 by weight, the low temperature impact resistance of the resin composition drops, whereas if it is less than 5 by weight, the solvent resistance of the resin composition decreases. As polyolefin resins to be used as Component C of the resin composition of the present invention, polyethylene and polypropylene are preferably used. Various types of polyethylene can be used, including low density polyethylene, linear low density polyethylene, medium density polyethylene, and high density polyethylene.As these polyethylene and polypropylene, copolymers can be used as well as homopolymers. These polyolefin resins have a melt index MI of not more than 4 grams per 10 minutes, preferably not more than 2 grams per 10 minutes. A preferred example of polyolefin resins is polyethylene. Especially preferred are low density polyethylene having a density of 0.910 to 0.940, linear low density polyethylene, and medium density polyethylene. These polyolefin resins should be compounded so that they constitute 15 to 0.2 by weight, preferably 7 to 0.5 by weight of the resin composition. If the amount of polyolefin resins compounded is in excess of 15 by weight, flow marks are likely to appear in articles molded using the resulting resin composition, whereas if it is less than 0.2 by weight, the low temperature impact resistance of the resin composition undesirably drops. As acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resins to be used as Component D of the resin composition of the present invention, any suitable ones prepared by known procedures can be used. An example of such acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resins is prepared by polymerizing at least one vinyl monomer in the presence of a rubber like polymer composed mainly of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate. The alkyl group of these alkyl acrylate and alkyl methacrylate preferably has from 2 to 10 carbon atoms. Suitable examples of such alkyl acrylate and alkyl methacrylate are ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, and n octyl methacrylate.The term rubber like polymer composed mainly of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate t is used herein to mean polymers prepared by reacting not less than 70 by weight of alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate and not more than 30 by weight of other vinyl monomers copolymerizable with said alkyl acrylate and alkyl methacrylate, such as methyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile, vinyl acetate, and styrene. This term further includes polymers prepared by adding suitable amounts of polyfunctional monomers such as divinyl benzene, ethylene dimethacrylate, triallyl cyanurate, and triallyl isocyanurate to the above described alkyl acrylate and or alkyl methacrylate and other vinyl monomers. Vinyl monomers to be polymerized in the presence of the above described rubber like polymers include aromatic vinyl compounds such as styrene and c methylstyrene acrylic acid esters such as methyl acrylate and ethyl acrylate and methacrylic acid esters such as methyl methacrylate and ethyl methacrylate. These vinyl monomers are polymerized singly or in combination with each other and, furthermore, may be polymerized in combination with other vinyl monomers, such as vinyl cyanide compounds e.g., acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile and vinyl esters e.g., vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate . This reaction can be performed in any suitable manner, such as by bulk polymerization, suspension polymerization, or emulsion polymerization.Especially preferred are those rubber like polymers prepared by emulsion polymerization. It is necessary for the acrylate rubber content of acrylate rubber containing polyvinyl resins as prepared above to be at least 20 by weight. Acrylate methacrylate resins to be used as Component D of the resin composition of the present invention are polymers composed mainly of acrylate and methacrylate. This acrylate includes esters of saturated or unsaturated, straight or branched aliphatic hydrocarbons having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, preferably from 2 to 8 carbon atoms, and acrylic acid. Suitable examples are methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, isobutyl acrylate, n butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, n octyl acrylate, 1,3butylene diacrylate, and 1,4 butanediol diacrylate. Of these compounds, butyl acrylate is preferred. In addition, acrylate copolymers prepared from acrylate and not more than 30 by weight, preferably not more than 10 by weight of vinyl monomers copolymerizable with acrylate, such as acrylonitrile, vinyl acetate and styrene, can be used. Moreover, acrylate copolymers prepared by adding suitable amounts of polyfunctional monomers such as divinylbenzene, ethylene dimethacrylate, triallyl cyanurate, and triallyl isocyanurate can be used. The methacrylate includes esters of saturated or unsaturated, straight or branched aliphatic hydrocarbons having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, preferably from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and methacrylic acid. Suitable examples are methyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, 1,3butylene dimethacrylate, n butyl methacrylate, and ethyl methacrylate. Of these compounds, methyl methacrylate is preferred Acrylate methacrylate resins can be prepared from the above described acrylates and methacrylates by various procedures. Usually an acrylate polymer is first prepared by the usual method and then a methacrylate monomer is polymerized in the presence of the acrylate polymer to prepare the acrylate methacrylate resin.If desired, small amounts of vinyl cyanide compounds such as acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile, or of vinyl esters such as vinyl acetate and vinyl propionate can be added and copolymerized. The process of polymerization can be performed by various techniques such as bulk polymerization, suspension polymerization, and emulsion polymerization. In particular, those resins prepared by emulsion polymerization are suitable. These acrylate methacrylate resins are composed of 50 to 95 by weight, preferably 60 to 80 by weight of acrylate and 50 to 5 by weight, preferably 40 to 20 by weight of methacrylate. The amount of Component D compounded should be controlled within the range ranging between 15 and 0.2 by weight, preferably between 7 and 0.5 by weight. If the amount of Component D compounded exceeds 15 by weight, colorability of the resin composition becomes poor, whereas if it is less than 0.2 by weight, low temperature impact resistance of the resin composition undesirably drops. The polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention comprises, as described above, Components A , B , C and D . In addition, if desired, higher fatty acids and or higher fatty acid esters can be added to the resin composition in an amount of at least 0.1 part by weight, preferably 0.1 to 2 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the resin composition. Moreover, inorganic fillers and various additives can be added. Inorganic fillers which can be used include glass fiber, calcium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, dolomite, silica, diatomonaceous earth, alumina, titanium oxide, iron oxide, zinc oxide, magnesium oxide, pumice powder, calcium sulfate, magnesium sulfate, barium sulfate, calcium sulfite, talc, clay, mica, asbestos, glass baloon, glass bead, calcium silicate, glass powder, mpntmorillonite, bentonite, carbon black, graphite, iron powder, lead powder, aluminum powder, and molybdenum sulfide. These compounds can be used singly or as mixtures comprising two or more thereof. The amount of inorganic fillers being used is from 0.1 to 80 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight of the polycarbonate resin,Component A .In amounts less than 0.1 part by weight, the stiffness of the resin composition is improved only insufficiently, whereas in amounts more than 80 parts by weight the impact resistance of the resin composition drops As additives, commonly used ones such as flame retarders, releasing agents, weathering stabilizers, antioxidants, antistatic agents, heat stabilizers, colorants, plasticizers, reinforcing agents, surface active agents, lubricants, and nucleators can be used.These additivies are chosen appropriately and added in suitable amounts, taking into account, for example, the purpose for which the resin composition is used. A method of mixing the above described ingredients to prepare the resin composition of the present invention is not critical and can be performed in any suitable manner, such as by the use of tumblers, ribbon blenders, high speed mixers, V type blenders, kneaders, and pelletizers. The resin composition of the present invention can be molded into various articles by various known techniques such as injection molding, extrusion molding, press moulding, and rotary molding. In addition, it is suitable for use in large sized injection molding. The polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention as prepared by compounding the above describedComponents A , B , C and D in the specified amounts have various advantages over conventional polycarbonate resin compositions. Especially significant advantages of the present resin composition are that low temperature impact resistance is greatly high and thickness dependency of the impact resistance is small since it contains specified amounts of polyolefin resins. Furthermore, the present resin composition is superior in physical properties such as chemical resistance, fluidity, colorability, coating properties, and plating properties.Even after being colored, its physical properties such as impact resistance, chemical resistance and fluidity hardly drop. Hence the polycarbonate resin composition of the present invention is suitable for use in fabrication of car parts such as a bumper, an instrumental panel, and a door handle housing of domestic electric appliances such as a radio and a TV set, and so forth. The present invention is described in greater detail with reference to the following Examples andComparative Examples.EXAMPLES 1 TO 6, AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLES 1 TO 5 Components A , B , C and D in the amounts shown in Table 1 and 3 parts by weight of an anthraqui none perylene perinonemixed dye were dry blended and pelletized and, thereafter, injection molded resin temperature 2800C to produce molded articles. These articles were tested, and the results are shown inTable 1. Table 1Izod Impact Strength SolventResin Composition parts by weight kg.cm cm 1 Resistance 2Run No. Appearance 3Component Component Component Component critical A B C D 10 C 0 C 10 C 20 C strain PC Resin PET Polyethy MAS leneEx. 1 82 15 LDPE1 1.5 1.5 91 88 75 28 0.45 good 2 70 25 2.5 2.5 87 84 70 28 0.52 3 58 35 3.5 3.5 81 75 69 29 0.67 4 70 25 LPDE2 2.5 2.5 83 48 29 26 0.46 5 70 25 LLDPE 2.5 2.5 89 85 70 27 0.52 6 70 25 HDPE 2.5 2.5 87 45 30 25 0.46 Comp.Ex. 1 25 35 LDPE1 20 20 58 50 45 40 1.0 hazy 2 94 3 1.5 1.5 95 85 77 69 0.31 3 65 15 18.5 1.5 76 66 63 58 0.60 4 65 15 1.5 18.5 73 65 59 50 0.60 somewhat hazy and poor coloration 5 70 25 5 25 17 17 14 0.43 somewhat hazy PC Resin Bisphenol A type polycarbonate resin average molecular weight 27,100 PET Polyethylene terephthalate intrinsic viscosity as measured in a mixed solvent consisting of equal volumes of ethane tetrachloride and phenol at 250C 1.2 LDPE1 Low density polyethylene density 0.920 gram per cubic centimeter g cm3 MI 0.4 gram per 10 minutes g 10 min LDPE2 Low density polyethylene density 0.921 gram per cubic centimeter g cm3 MI 3.5 grams per 10 minutes g 10 min LLDPE Linear low density polyethylene density 0.926 gram per cubic centimeter g cm3 MI 2.0 grams per 10 minutes g l0min butene l content 1.7 by weight HDPE High density polyethylene density 0.942 gram per cubic centimeter g cm3 MI 2.0 grams per 10 minutes g 10 min MAS Methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate styrene copolymer Metablen W 529 manufactured by Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. 1Izad Impact Resistance Measured using a notched test specimen of thickness 1 8 inch according to ASTM D256. 2 Solvent Resistance Indicated in the critical strain as determined by the 1 4 ellipsoid process Nakatsuji etal., Shikizai Colorants , 39, 455 1966 using a mixed solvent of toluene and isooctane 40 60 by volume . 3 Appearance Evaluated by flow marks appearing at the gate portion of plates thickness 3.2 millimeters width 80 millimeters length 80 millimeters .EXAMPLES 7 TO 12, AND COMPARATIVE EXAMPLES 6 TO 10 The procedure of each of Examples 1 to 6 and Comparative Examples 1 to 5 as described above was repeated wherein a methyl methacrylate n butyl acrylate copolymer MA KM 330 manufactured by Rohm Haas Co., methyl methacrylate content 30 by weight n butyl acrylate content 70 by weight was used in place of the methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate styrene copolymer MAS . The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2Resin Composition parts by weight Izod Impact Strength Solvent kg.cm cm 1 Resistance 2Component Component Component Component Appearance 3Run No. critical A B C D 10 C 0 C 10 C 20 C strain PC resin PET Polyethy MA leneEx. 7 82 15 LDPE1 1.5 1.5 91 89 76 30 0.46 good 8 70 25 2.5 2.5 89 85 75 30 0.53 9 58 35 3.5 3.5 82 75 70 31 0.67 10 70 25 LDPE2 2.5 2.5 84 60 40 26 0.47 11 70 25 LLDPE 2.5 2.5 90 86 72 29 0.53 12 70 25 HDPE 2.5 2.5 88 48 40 26 0.47 Comp.Ex. 6 25 35 LDPE1 20 20 58 51 47 41 1.0 hazy 7 94 3 1.5 1.5 95 86 78 70 0.31 good 8 65 15 18.5 1.5 75 68 64 58 0.60 hazy 9 65 15 1.5 18.5 74 66 59 50 0.60 somewhat hazy and poor coloration 10 70 25 5 26 18 17 15 0.43 somewhat hazy 1, 2, 3 same as in Table 1