# Control switch and limiter.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a control switch and limiter espe cially for use in an explosive environment, comprising an outer housing 1 made of insulating material, a switch chamber 19 in the outer housing 1 including switching means, an actuator 16 connected to and actuating the switching means, and a movable contact 3 changing its position between fixed contacts 2, 2a in the said switching means for switching, wherein the improvement is that the actuator 16 comprises a magnetic element generating magnetic forces outside of the outer housing 1 , and inside of the outer housing 1 an inner permanent magnet 8 is cou pled with the magnetic element and said inner permanent magnet 8 is interconnected with an insulating body 7 guided for actuating the movable contact 3 . The device according to the invention ensures higher life duration than the devices according to the art and may be used also in explosive or agressive environment without the risk of break ing down or involving explosion.

## Claims
1. Control switch and limiter, comprising an outer hous ing rnade of insulating material, a switch chamber in the outer housing including switching means, an actuator connected to and actuating the switching means, and a movable contact altering its position between fixed contacts belonging to the switching means for switching, characterized in that the actuator 16 comprises a magnetic element generating magnetic forces outside of the outer housing 1 , inside of the outer housing 1 an inner permanent magnet 8 is coupled with the magnetic element and the inner permanent magnet 8 is coupled with the magnetic element and the inner permanent magnet 8 is interconnected with an insulating body 7 guided for actuating the movable contact 3 . 2. A control switch and limiter according to claim 1, characterized in that the outer housing 1 comprises a separation wall 6 closing the outer housing 1 between the magnetic element and the inner permanent magnet 8 . 3. A control switch and limiter according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the actuator 16 comprises a permanent magnet 12 guided by means of a pretensioned ring 13 in a shell 4 formed on the outer housing 1 . 4. A control switch and limiter according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the actuator 16 Includes an electromagnet 20 . 5. A control switch and limiter according to any of the claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the inner permanent magnet 8 is incorporated in the insulating body 7 . 6. A control switch and limiter according to any of the claims 1 to 5, characterized in that in the outer housing 1 the switch chamber 19 is filled with neutral gas. 7. h control switch and limiter according to any of the claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the outer housing 1 is arranged in a switch clad 21 . 8. The contact switch and limiter according to claim 7, characterized in that the switch clad 21 is filled with insulating synthetic resin 23 around the outer housing 1 . 9. The contact switch and limiter according to any of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that a rubber plug 5 is arranged in the insulating material of the outer housing 1 .

## Description
The invention relates to a control switch and limiter, comprising according to the art an outer housing made of in insulating material, a switch chamber in the outer housing including switching means, an actuator connected to and actuating the switching means and a movable contact altering its position between fixed contacts belonging to the switching means for realizing the switch operation. The control switch and limiter according to the present invention can be used in e plosive or dangerous environment and has long life duration. In the control technics there are used control switch and limiter units capable of switching currents with power up to 1,5 kW. The construction of these units called further switches must correspond to requirements accepted everywhere over the world and they should be arranged in a clad thereby they are capable of carrying out switch operations in defined space positions in order to control currents, movements. The switches of the mentioned construction generally work in outdoor units, in explosive or and wet, dampy environment. The exposure to danger is the basis of the fact that the main technical features of the switches are determined not only by the electric power to be switched over, but by their conformity to the requirements set under aspects of the protection of life and property. The last are in close connection with the proof and the protection level of the device.The first means the explosion proof, the protection of the switch against the gases penetrating the inner parts of the construction and the second the contact protection, the protection a a1nst penetration of the switch by solids and liquids. In order to ensure the required level of protection the actuating means of the switches should be arranged in a clad and therein the elements of the switching mechanism should be connected in a way which corresponds to the related requirements under this aspect. In this feature all of the known constructions are disadvantageous. It is the general practice to ensure protection in explosive environment by selecting dimensions of the clearances around the actuators in order to prevent possibility of blowing out of the arc. The dimensions should be maintained during operation of the switch this is a requirement laid down in national and international standards. The clearances are ex posed during work to different influences causing the increase of their dimensions, and therefore from a moment the switch fails to be not dangerous in explosive environment, it becomes a source of explosion risk, causing the increase of damages to health and equipment. In order to ensure protection against penetration to different solids and liquids, further to ensure underwater protection it is common to use stuffing boxes sealed in known manner or diaphragms. The sealing compounds should be chosen according to the expected kind of the damage caused to them by the environment when projecting a switch according to the art, the sealing compounds should correspond to the requirements set by the high temperature, dusty, wet, aggressive or intensively sunny environment. The construction of the sealing has to be selected in order to assure a not rigid way force characteristics that doesn t show any change during work.The isadvantageous features of the knon switches cause that they can not work so long as expected, thus, instead of more million operations they can carry out only up to about three four hundred thousand, The disadvantages of the switches built up according to the art follow from the fact that the conditions of protection against solids and liquids cannot be satisfied by measures taken up in order to ensure safety of work also in explosive or aggressive gaseous environment. The invention is aimed to avoid the mentioned disadvantages and to elaborate a solution whereby it becomes possible to create a switch that by novel features is capable of ensuring protection against penetration of solids or liquids and of worming in explosive environment, and that is of longer life duration than the known switches according to the art. The invention is therefore a control switch and limiter, especially for use in explosive environment, comprising an outer housing made of insulating material, a. switch chamber in the outer housing including switching means, an actuator connected to and actuating the switching means, and a movable contact altering its position between fixed edcontacts belong ing to the switching means for carrying out swS ching operations, wherein the improvement is that the actuator comprises a magnetic element generating magnetic forces outside of the outer housing, inside of the outer housing an inner permanent magnet is coupled with the magnetic element and the inner permanent magnet is interconnected with an insulating body guided for actuating the movable contact. The magnetic element and the inner permanent magnet are arranged advantageously on two sides of a separation wall closing the outer housing. The magnetic element can be e.g. an outer permanent magnet which is guided by means of a pretensioned ring in a shell formed on the outer housing, wherein the outer and the inner pernanent magnets are arranged with like poles against one another. It is also advantageous to create the magnetic element by neans of an electromagnet fixed on the outer housing. The inner permanent magnet and the insulating body advantageously create a unit, wherein the insulating body made e.g. of synthetic resin incorporates the magnet. The switch according to the invention can be hermetically closed and it is advantageous to apply a rubber plug in the insulating material of the outer housing, whereby the switch chamber can be exhausted and filled with neutral gas. In explosive or aggressive environment it is especially advantageous to close the outer housing of the switch in a clad filled with insulating synthetic resin. The control switch and limiter according to the invention can be sealed hermetically and filled with neutral gas or liquid or exhausted to vacuum, and thereby it is possible to use it in explosive or agressive environment with long live duration. It is especially important that the actuator has no mechanical contact to the actuated contacts. The invention will be further described in more detail by way of example and with reference to preferred embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein Figure 1 shows a cross section of the control switch and limiter according to invention, Figure 2 is a cross section of a preferred embodiment of an actuator of the proposed device, and Figure 3 is a cross section of a preferred embodiment of the proposed device with switch chamber filled with gas and comprising a transmission body for use in explosive environment. A hígh sensitive control switch and limiter is shown inFig. 1. The elements of the construction are arranged in or around an outer housing 1 made of insulating material, sur rounding a switch chamber 19. The switch chember 19 comprises an upper and 2 lower fixed contact 2, 2a, further a movable contact 3 built up on a contact plate 9. The movable contact 3 rests always at one of the fixed contacts 2, 2a and ensures thereby closing one of two circuits. On the surface of the outer housing 1 hermetically sealed in the wall thereof there is a shell 4. An actuator 16 is connected to the outer housing 1 and comprises a magnetic element coupled with an inner permanent magnet 8 arranged inside the switch chamber 19.The inner permanent magnet 8 is interconnected with an insulating body 7 and form therewith an element for actuating the movable contact 3 supported if desired by means of a pressure spring 11 connected to a spring support sa. They are guided insidethe outer housing 1. Between the actuator 16 and the inner permanent magnet 8 with insulating body 7 there is advantageous 13 a separation wall 6 closing hermetically the outer housing 1. The insulating body may be advantageously supported by the contact plate 9 in its upper position in this case there is no play before realizing the switching operation by the movable contact 3.In the wall of the outer housing 1 there is advantageously a rubber plug 5 applying a syringe therethrough it is possible to exhaust the switch chamber 19 and either to fill it with desired neutral gas or liquid either to leave it under vacuum. After removing the syringe the little hole can be sealed also if desired by applying resin. The actuator 16 comprising a magnetic element as mention ed above can be constructed in different ways. The proposed solutions include a permanent magnet 8 or an electromagnet 20 Pig. 1 and 2 . If using a permanent magnet 8 it should be arranged with like pole oppositely to the inner permanent magnet 12 in order to force its movement when nearing to it.The permanent magnet 12 can be guided by means of a pretensioned spring 13 arranged along an axle 17 inside a body 13a guided in the shell 4. Inside of the shell 4 a stop pin 14 and a stop ring 15 limit the movement of the actuator 16 and of the pretensioned spring 13. The permanent magnet 8 can.co operate also with further permanent magnets forcing its movement when the actuator 16 is applied. As shown in Fig. 2, another advantageous solution is to apply an electromagnet 20 placed in the shell 4 and or fixed to the outer housing 1.The electromagnet should be connected of course to an outer electric supply. An embodiment of the control switch and limiter according to the invention is shown in Fig. 3 for use in explosive environment. The actuator 16 can include in this case the permanent magnet 12 in order to avoid possibility of electric sparks hen using an electromagnet. The outer housing 1 is arranged in a switch clad 21 comprising insulating synthetic resin 23 surrounding the outer housing 1. In the insulating synthetic resin there are arranged the wires of a cable 22.The switch clad 21 is connected to a transmission body 24 by axle 25 cooperating with a pression roll 26 supported by the actuator 16 and fixed by a tension spring 29. The axle 25 is connected also to an arm 27 equipped with a stop roll 28. Over the arm 27 to limit the way of movement thereof there is a stop dog 30. By using. the insulating synthetic resin it is possible to realize a control switch and limiter which can be closed with the highest reliability. The elements where electric sparking can take place are hermetically closed in a space wherein either vacuum, either liquid or neutral gas can be applied. It is clear also that the number of switching operations had no influence on the increase of the possibility of sparking because the change of the dimensions of the shell 4 and of the actuator 16 has nothing to do with the damage of sparking at all. The control switch and limiter according to the invention operates as follows The actuator 16 makes the inner permanent magnet 8 and the insulating body 7 move in direction of the movable contact under influence of magnetic forces. The actuator 16 equipped with the electromagnet 20 generates the magnetic forces when connected to a supply. The actuator 16 of mechanical node of operation should be pressed in direction of axle 17. In this moment the pretensioned spring 13, the body 13 and the stop ring 15 are forced to move and they push the permanent magnet 12 in direction of the separation wall 6. The like poles of the electromagnet 20 or permanent magnet 12 and the inner permanent magnet 8 are arranged oppositely to one another and therefore a pushing force is generated. The insulating body 7 makes the contact plate 9 move under influence of this force.The pressure spring 11 connected to the spring support 10 ensures the reliable jump of the movable contact 3 from the upper fixed contact 2 to the lower one 2a. After releasing the actuator 16 the contact plate 9 returns under influence of the resilient forces to the upper fixed contact 2. The operation of the movable contact 3 appears at the beginning of the movement of the actuator 16 or in the moment when a current begins to flow in the electromagnet 20. The above description should make it clear that the proposed switch and limiter includes no construction element or clearance whereby a spark can be transmitted from the switch chamber 19 tt the environment. Because the switch chamber 19 can be hertetically closed the life duration of the switching elements can be prolongated to at least some million switching operations by applying selected gaseous or liquid filling. It is also important that the hermetically closed switch chamber 19 allows to switch higher electric powers than the knows solutions according to the art. From the above description it should be understood that control switch and limiter devices equivalent to those given above will be within the scope of the claimed invention and such devices will have magnetic elements and mechanic system dependent on the field of application and the given operation al circumstances.