# Improvements in or relating to antibiotic or germicide layered implants.

## Abstract
An improved solid, cylindrical, subcutaneous implant of the type containing a biocompatible inert core having a diameter of from about 2 to about 10 mm. and a biocompat ible coating having a thickness of from about 0.2 to about 1 mm., the composition of the coating being from about 5 to about 40 percent by weight of estradiol and from about 95 to about 60 percent by weight of a dimethylpolysiloxane silicone rubber, in which the improvement comprises an effective layer of an antibiotic or germicide on said coating is useful for extending implant retention times. This invention also includes a method for the administra tion of estradiol to a ruminant animal, especially a steer, to improve the retention rate of the implant, placing the implant of this invention under the skin of the animal.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A solid, cylindrical, subcutaneous implant containing a biocompatible inert core having a diameter of from about 2 to about 10 mm. and a biocompatible coating having a thickness of from about 0.2 to about 1 mm. and said coating comprising from about 5 to about 40 percent by weight of estradiol and from about 95 to about 60 percent by weight of dimethylpolysiloxane silicone rubber and an effective layer of an antibiotic or germicide on said coating. 2. An implant as claimed in claim l in which the biocompatible inert core is a silicone rubber. 3. An implant as claimed in claim 1 or 2 in which the diameter of the inert core is from about 3.5 to about 4.5 mm., the thickness of the coating is from about 0.25 to about 0.5 mm., and the concentration of estradiol in the coating is from about 15 to about 25 percent. 4. An implant as claimed in any one of claims l to 3 in which the concentration of estradiol in the coating is about 20 percent. 5. An implant as claimed in claim 4 in which the effective layer is formed with antibiotic. 6. An implant as claimed in claim 5 wherein the amount of antibiotic used is from about 0.1 mg. to 2 about 2.1 mg. per cm 7. An implant as claimed in claim 6 in which the antibiotic is oxytetracycline hydrochloride. 8. An implant as claimed in claim 4 in which the effective layer is formed with a germicide. 9. An implant as claimed in claim 8 in which the germicide is betadine, iodine, nitrofurazone, or silver nitrate. 10. An implant as claimed in claim 9 in which the amount of betadine is from about 0.5 mg. to about 5.2 mg. per cmê. 11. An implant as claimed in claim 9 in which the amount of nitrofurazone is from about 2.0 pg. to 2 about 8.3 pg. per cm 12. A method for improving the rate of weight gain of ruminant animals which comprises the subcutaneous implantation of an implant according to any one of claims 1 to 11.

## Description
IMPROVEMENTS IN OR RELATING TO ANTIBIOTIC OR GERMICIDE LAYERED IMPLANTS This invention relates to an improvement of nondegradable animal implants, which release a drug contained within the implant at a substantially con stant rate. The improvement involved is an antibiotic or germicide layer or coating covering the implant, and which ultimately results in lowered implant loss rates upon implantation. During implantation1 conditions are typically sanitary, causing infection which often results in the loss of implants. Use of an antibiotic or ger micide layer or coating on the implant has been dis covered to improve the implant retention, thereby allowing continued controlled release cf the drug from the implant, even under unsanitary conditions. In addition, this invention allows for easy application of the implants under unsterile conditions because cleaning of the implant needle, animal, and implanter are no longer needed. The use of controlled release implants for drug delivery has been described in the literature and in U.S. Patents 3,279,996 4,096,239 and 4,191,741. In addition, other instruments for insertion within an animal body, for example, catheters, vaginal sup positories, and sutures, which may contain antibiotics, germicides, or other drugs, have also been described in the the literature. An improved solid, cylindrical, subcutaneous implant of the type containing a biocompatible inert core having a diameter of from about 2 to about 10 mm.and a biocompatible coating having a thickness of from about 0.2 to about 1 mm., the composition of the coating being from about 5 to about 40 percent by weight of estradiol and from about 95 to about 60 percent by weight of a dimethylpolysiloxane silicone rubber in which the improvement comprises an effective layer of an antibiotic or germicide on the coating has been discovered. This invention also includes a method for the administration of estradiol to a ruminant animal, especially a steer, by placing the implant of this invention under the skin of the animal. The inserted implant may be removed from the animal prior to slaughter. Estradiol 17 B estradiol is a naturallyoccurring estrogen that can be administered to ruminant animals to improve the rate of weight gain of the animals.For optimum results, estradiol should be administered at a substantially constant daily rate. When an implant as described in U.S. Patent 4,191,741 is placed under the skin of a ruminant animal, an effective amount of estradiol is released from the implant at a substantially constant rate. The estradiol causes the animal to gain weight at a greater than normal rate. At the end of the growing period, the implant, because it remains intact within the animal, can be easily and completely removed, allowing a withdrawal period prior to slaughter. The present invention, because it helps prevent infection, improves the retention rate of the implants. This improved implant, which contains an antibiotic or germicide layer or coating, remains within the animal until removal at a designated time, rather than being lost earlier due to infection. The layer or coating may be composed of one or more antibiotics and or one or more germicides in one or more layers. Typical antibiotics which may be used in this invention include aminoglycosides, such as gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, paromomycin, streptomycin, or tobramycin ansamycins, such as rifamycin, or rifampin cephalosporins, such as cephalexin, cephaloridine, cephalothin, cefazolin, cephapirin, cephradine, or cephaloglycin chloramphenicols macrolides, such as erythromycin, tylosin, oleandomycin, or spiramycin penicillins, such as penicillin G V, phenethicillin, methicillin, oxacillin, cloxacillin, dicloxa cillin, floxacillin, nafcillin, ampicillin, amoxicillin, or carbenicillin sulfonamides tetracycilnes, such as tetracycline, oxytetracycline, chlortetracycline, methacycline, demeclocycline, rolitetracycline, doxycycline, or minocycline trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole polypeptides, such as bacitracin, olymyxins, tyrothricin, or vancomycin and miscellaneous antibiotics, such as lincomycin, clindamycin, or spectinomycin. The preferred antibiotic, however, is oxytetracycline hydrochloride. Typical germicides which may be used in this invention include phenols cresols resorcinols substituted phenols aldehydes benzoic acid salicyclic acid iodine, iodophors, such as betadine chlorophors, such as hypochlorites peroxides such as hydrdgen peroxide and zinc peroxide heavy metals and their salts, such as merbromin, silver nitrate, zinc sulfate surfaceactive agents, such as benzalkonium chloride furan derivatives, such as nitrofurazone sulfur and thiosulfates salicylanilides and carbanilides. Preferred germicides include betadine, iodine, silver nitrate and furan derivatives, such as nitrofurazone. An effective amount of the antibiotic or germicide is used and is that amount which reduces the implant loss rate. This amount varies with the type of antibiotics or germicides used, the implanting conditions, the method of coating application, the size and surface area of the implant, and the implant retention time desired. For example, the amount of antibiotic can range from about 0.1 mg. per cm2 to about 2.1 mg. per cm2, with a preferred range being from about 0.2 mg. to about 0.6 mg. per cm2. The typical range of the amount of germicide used is exemplified by betadine, which has a range of about 0.5 mg. to about 5.2 mg. per cmê and by nitrofurazone, which has a range of about 2.0 g. to about 8.3 g. per cmê.The preferred ranges of betadine and nitrofurazone are about 0.5 mg. to about 1.0 mg. per cmê and about 2.1 g. to about 4.1 g.per cmê, respectively. The effective amount of oxytetracycline hydrochloride ranges from about 0.1 mg.to 2.1 mg. per cmê. Preferably the amount of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per implant is from about 0.1 to about 1.0 mg. per cmê and still more preferably from about 0.14 to about 0.5 mg. per cmê. The untreated implant is that described inU.S. Patent 4,191,741. Typically, the implant is a cylinder of from about 0.5 to about 6 cm. in length containing an inert, biocompatible core of about 2 to about 10 mm. in diameter with an estradiol containing coating of dimethylpolysiloxane of about 0.2 to about 1 mm. thickness. The inert, biocompatible core material may be any of a number of substances, but silicone rubber is preferred. The coating is also a silicone rubber, with dimethylpolysiloxane silicone rubbers preferred. The concentration of estradiol in the coating may vary within the range of from about 5 to about 40 . A preferred range is from about 15 to about 25 .A concentration of 20 of estradiol in the dimethylpolysiloxane has been found to be most preferred. An effective amount of the estradiol is released from a cylindrical implant having a length of from about 0.5 to about 6 cm. Preferably the cylindrical implant is from about 2 to about 4 cm. in length and still more preferably from about 2.5 to about 3.5 cm. in length. The most preferred length of such a cylindrical implant is about 3 cm. The diameter of the inert core in such a cylindrical implant is within the range of from about 2 to about 10 mm. A preferred diameter of the inert core is from about 3 to about 5 mm. with the most pre ferred diameter being about 4.76 mm. The thickness of the coating applied to the inert core may vary from about 0.2 to about 1, m., and, preferably from about 0.25 to about 0.5 mm. while it is preferred that the thickness of the coating be uniform, this is not critical. The rate of release of the estradiol is directly related to the surface area of the implant.The greater the surface area, the greater the rate of release. An implant that is 3 cm. long and 4.76 mm.in diameter with a 0.25 mm. thick coating has a surface area for release of 4.56 cm2. The release kinetics of the controlled release implant may be improved by washing the implant in a solvent, removing the peripheral layer of estradiol prior to the addition of the antibiotic or germicide.This results in establishing a zone of crystalline estradiol depletion in the silicone rubber coating and decreases the initial burst release of estradiol. The overall release rate profile is enhanced because the continuous release of estradiol is more constant. Wash solvents may include organic solvents such as alcohols, methylene chloride, chloroform, acetone, or dioxane and aqueous surfactant solutions such as sodium lauryl sulfate, and the like. Preferred wash solvents include the alcohols, such as methanol or ethanol. Preferred wash solutions and residence times are 30 minutes in a 95 5 ethanolXmethanol solution or 30 40 seconds in a 75 25 methanol ethanol solution. The zone of crystalline estradiol depletion can vary in thickness dependent upon the wash solvent used and the length of time in contact with the wash solvent. Beneficial effects on the estradiol release profile can be obtained from zones of depletion from 2 pm. to 25 pm. Preferably the zone of crystalline estradiol depletion is between 10 to about 20 pm. in thickness. The preferred thickness of the zone of crystalline estradiol depletion is about 12 pm. The untreated controlled release implants are then dusted or coated with the antibiotic or germicide, such as oxytetracycline hydrochloride, by using a coating pan. The implants are coated to excess with the antibiotic or germicide and transferred to a vibrating bowl or screen and vibrated for approximately 5 to 10 minutes to remove the excess antibiotic or germicide. Preferred residence times in the coating pan and the vibrating bowl or screen are 10 minutes and 5 minutes, respectively. Preferably, the antibiotic or germicide used should range in particle size from about 325 mesh 45 pm. to 60 mesh 250 pm. and still more preferably from about 325 mesh 45 pm. to 200 mesh 75 pm. . The preferred antibiotic or germicide particle size is 325 mesh 45 pm. .It is preferred to operate the washing procedure as a continuous batch, in which the implants are still in.a continubus rod.After being washed the rod is cut into the desired implant lengths and then the implants are coated or layered with the antibiotic or germicide. Altérnative methods of applying the antibiotic or germicidal coating such as aerosols, emulsions, solutions, electrostatic spraying, or dry blending are known to those skilled in the art. After the implants are coated, they arë usually placed subcutaneously in the posterior median surface of the animals ear using an implanter fitted with a sharpened hollow tube or needle. Implanters which can be used are known to those skilled in the art. A preferred implanting system includes an implanter and cartridge like container for a plurality of implants. The cartridge is transparent and encloses a plurality of enlongated implants arranged side to side, transverse to the central axis of the cartridge. The implants may be moved manually along the central axis of the cartridge toward one end and stopped in alignment parallel with the end of the cartridge and with one implant aligned with a pair of openings in the cartridge, one at each end of the implant. The implanter carries a sharpened tubular needle and a plunger, slidable along an axis aligned with the central axis of the tubular needle. The implanter has an opening into which the cartridge may be fitted and retained.The implanter and cartridge have interfitting surfaces to position the cartridge with its pair of openings lying upon the central axis of the hollow needle and to retain the cartridge in the implanter so that the plunger may be passed repeatedly through the pair of openings in the cartridge and move the implants, one after the other, through the sharpened tubular needle into the animals. Two modifications which improve its sharpened end can be made to the tubular needle. The first modification, which allows a clean slicing of the ear, is made by sandblasting the flattened surfaces of the needle opening leaving a sharp and pointed tip. The sharpened tip slices the ear to allow insertion of the implant, but the sandblasted, dulled surfaces prevent the ear from being oversliced. Therefore, a small incision is made in the animals ear by the needle modification. The second modification is accomplished by placing two projections inside the hollow portion of the needle. These projections prevent the accidental ejection or falling out of the implants from the implanter. The projections do not obstruct the passage of implants through the needle when the plunger is used they only prevent accidental movement or loss.An indentation is made on the outside of the hollow portion of the needle, which forms a projection on the inside of the needle. The effectiveness of the implant of this invention in lowering the loss rate is demonstrated in the following trials Trial 1 One hundred twenty Hereford steers, weighing approximately 800 pounds and implanted in both ears using 20 COI IPLTDOSE 200 implants 24 mg. estradiol controlled release implants, Elanco Products Company, a Division of Eli Lilly and Company , were used to evaluate two dosages of oxytetracycline hydrochloride dusting on estradiol controlled release implants. The steers were divided into three groups for treatment with untreated control implants implants with approximately 0.5 mg. of oxytetracycline hydrochloride dusting and implants with approximately 1.0 mg. of oxytetracycline hydrochloride dusting. The implanting procedure used was as follows All ears were coated with a manure slurry just prior to implanting and each implant was placed subcutaneously using an implant needle, in the middle third of the dorsal side of the ear. All animals were fed a growing ration ad libitum.Implant retention and site infection were recorded on days 7, 15, and 28. On day 1, only implant retention was recorded. The results are shown below Implant Retention Cumulative Treatment Implants Lost Coating oxytetracycline No. Day Day Day Day hydrochloride mg. Obs. 1 7 15 28 0 80 0 6 37 43 0.5 80 0 2 21 27 1.0 80 0 1 16 20 Implant Site Infection Sites Infected Day 7 Day 15 Day 28Treatment No. No. No. Control 74 a 26 35.1 43 a 8 18.6 37 a 5 13.5 0.5 mg. 78 13 16.7 59 7 11.9 53 5 5.7 1.0 mg. 79 4 5.1 64 4 6.2 60 1 1.7 aNo. of implants remaining Trial 2 Ninety six steers, weighing approximately 450 pounds, were implanted in one ear with COMPUDOSE 200 to evaluate the effect of dusting the implants with oxytetracycline hydrochloride powder upon retention in the ear.The implanting procedure used was similar to that described in Trial 1, except that the ears were palpated 1 and 56 days after implanting. Untreated control implants were compared with implants dusted with 1.5 mg. 1.3 1.7 mg. range per implant of oxytetracycline hydrochloride. The results are as follows Implants Retained, Lost, Infected No. 1st day 56th dayTreatment Steers Retained Inf. Retained Lost Inf.Oxytetracycline 48 48 0 43 5 1 hydrochlorideControl 48 48 0 34 14 1 The following trial was conducted as described in Trial 2. Trial 3 used 1.5 mg 1.3 1.7 mg. range per implant of oxytetracycline hydrochloride. Steers forTrial 3 weighed between 500 and 525 pounds Trial 3 Implants Retained, Lost, Infected No. 1st day 28th day 56th dayTreatment Steers Retained Inf. Retained Lost Inf. Retained Lost Inf.Oxytetracycline 78 78 0 59 19 5 59 19 2 hydrocylorideControl 80 80 0 32 48 10 31 49 11 Trial 4 Following the procedure outlined in Trial 2, 240 Hereford steers were used and divided into three groups control oxytetracycline hydrochloride treated implants with from 1.6 to 2.6 mg. per implant 2.2 mg.mean and TYLAN Neomycin treated implants. The preparation of TYLAN and Neomycin was applied to the tip of the implant needle, so that approximately 70 mg. per implantation was present on the needle tip prior to implanting. The preparation is delivered directly to the ear during the implanting process and is not on the implant. Implant retention and site infection were recorded on days 4 and 26 and are recorded below Trial 4 Implants Retained, Lost, Infected No. 4st day 26th dayTreatment Steers Retained Lost Inf. Retained Lost Inf.Control 80 77 3 15 68 12 5TYLAN NeomycinÚ 80 79 1 4 78 2 4 oxytetracycline 80 80 0 2 77 2 2 hydrochlorideê ÚPreparation applied to needle point. êOxytetracycline hydrochloride dusted on implant approximately 2.2 m gimplant . Two implants lost, one steer died and implant data not covered. The following trial was conducted according to the procedure of Trial 2, except that the steers, which weighed about 500 pounds, were submerged in a dipping vat, a common infection source, immediately after implanting, rather than coating the ears with a manure slurry. The implants with oxytetracycline hydrochloride were dusted with about 1.5 mg. 1.3 1.7 mg. range per implant. Trial 6 Implants Retained, Lost, Infected No. 1st day 28th day 56th dayTreatment Steers Retained Inf. Retained Lost Inf. Retained Lost Inf.Oxytetracycline 67 67 0 66 1 4 64 3 3 hydrochlorideControl 67 67 0 62 5 10 58 3 9