# Plant gene expression.

## Abstract
There is provided a DNA shuttle vector comprising T DNA having inserted therein a plant gene comprising a plant promoter and a plant structural gene, the plant promoter being adjacent to the 5 end of the plant structural gene and the plant structural gene being downstream from the plant promoter in the direction of transcription.

## Claims
1 83 CLAIMS 1. A DNA shuttle vector comprising T DNA having inserted therein a plant gene comprising a plant promoter and a plant structural gene, the plant promoter being adjacent to the 5 end of the plant structural gene and the plant structural gene being downstream from the plant promoter in the direction of transcription. 2. A vector according to Claim 1 wherein the inserted plant structural gene comprises an intron. 3. A vector according to Claim 1 wherein the plant gene is inserted at a site within the tml gene of the T DNA. 4. A vector according to Claim 1 wherein the plant promoter and the plant gene are derived from different genes and combined to form a functional composite plant gene. 5. A vector according to Claim 1 wherein the plant structural gene comprises cDNA. 6. A vector according to Claim 1 wherein the T DNA is modified, the modification comprising a mutation in tms or tmr. 7. A bacterial strain containing and replicating a DNA vector according to any one of Claims 1 6. 8. A bacterial strain according to Claim 7 comprising Agrobacterium tumefaciens or Agrobacterium rhizogenes. 9. The bacterial strain of Claim 7 wherein the DNA vector is selected from the group p529 2, p529 8, p539 5, p539 9, pC58 nop KBA3, or pC58 nop KB num 5. 10. A method for genetically modifying a plant cell, comprising the steps of a inserting a plant gene comprising a plant promoter and a plant structural gene into 1 DNA, thereby forming a T DNA plant gene combination, the plant promoter being adjacent to the 5 end of the plant structural gene and the plant structural gene being downstream from the plant promoter in the direction of transcription and b transferring the T 9HA plant gene combination into a plant cell. 11. A method according to Claim 10, further comprising after execution of step b the step of c detecting expression of the plant structural gene in a plant cell containing the T DNA plant gene combination. 12. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the structural gene comprises one or more introns. 13. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the plant gene encodes a seed storage protein. 14. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the plant gene encodes phaseolin. 15. A method according to Claim 10 wherein the T DNA plant gene combination is maintained and replicated prior to step b as part of a shuttle vector. 16. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the plant gene is inserted into octopine type T DNA in tml or the 1.6 region. 17. A method according to Claim 10, wherein the cell is from a dicotyledonous plant. 18. A method according the Claim 17, wherein the dicotyledonous plant is a member of the Compositeae or the Leguminoseae. 19. A plant, a plant tissue, or a plant cell produced according to the method of any of Claims 10 18.

## Description
PLANT GENE EXPRESSIONBACKGROUNDShuttle Vectors Shuttle vectors, developed by Ruvkun and Ausubel 1981 Nature 298 85 88, provide a way to insert foreign genetic materials into positions of choice in a large plasmid, virus, or genome. There are two main problems encountered when dealing with large plasmids or genomes. Firstly, the large plasmids may have many sites for each restriction enzyme. Unique, site specific cleavage reactions are not reproducible and multi site cleavage reactions followed by ligation lead to great difficulties due to the scrambling of the many fragments whose order and orientation one does not want changed. Secondly, the transformation efficiency with large DNA plasmids is very low.Shuttle vectors allow one to overcome these difficulties by facilitating the insertion, often in vitro, of the foreign genetic material into a smaller plasmid, then transferring, usually by in vivo techniques, to the larger plasmid. A shuttle vector consists of a DNA molecule, usually a plasmid, capable of being introduced into the ultimate recipient bacteria. It also includes a copy of the fragment of the recipient genome into which the foreign genetic material is to be inserted and a DNA segment coding for a selectable trait, which is also inserted into the recipient genome fragment. The selectable trait marker is conveniently inserted by transposon mutagenesis or by restriction enzymes and ligases. The shuttle vector can be introduced into the ultimate recipient cell typically a bacterium of the genus Agrobacterium by a tri parental mating Ruvkun and Ausubel, supra , direct transfer of a self mobilizable vector in a bi parental mating, direct uptake of exogenous DNA by Agrobacterium cells transformation , using the conditions of M. Holsters et al. 1978 Molec.Gen. Genet. 163 181 187 , by spheroplast fusion of Agrobacterium with another bacterial cell, by uptake of liposorneencapsulated DNA, or infection with a shuttle vector that is based on a virus that is capable of being packaged in vitro. A tri parental mating involves the mating of a strain containing a mobilizable plasmid, which carries genes for plasmid mobilization and conjugative transfer3 with the strain containing the shuttle vector. If the shuttle vector is capable of being mobilized by the plasmid genes, the shuttle vector is transferred to the recipient cell containing the large genome, e.g.the Ti or Ri plasmids of Agrobacteriun strains. After the shuttle vector is introduced into the recipient cell, possible events include a double cross over with one recombinational event on either side of the marker. This event will result in transfer of a DNA segment containing the marker to the recipient genome replacing a homologous segment lacking the insert. To select for cells that have lost the original shuttle vector, the shuttle vector must be incapable of replicating in the ultimate host cell or be incompatible with an independently selectable plasmid preexisting in the recipient cell. One common means of arranging this is to provide in the third parent another plasmid which is incompatible with the shuttle vector and which carries a different drug resistance marker.Therefore, when one selects for resistance to both drugs, the only surviving cells are those in which the marker on the shuttle vector has recombined with the recipient genome. If the shuttle vector carries an extra marker, one can then screen for and discard cells that are the result of a single cross over between the shuttle vector and the recipient plasmid resulting in cointegrates in which the entire shuttle vector is integrated with the recipient plasmid.If the foreign genetic material is inserted into or adjacent to the marker that is selected for, it will also be integrated into the recipient plasmid as a result of the same double recombination. It might also be carried along when inserted into the homologous fragment at a spot not within or adjacent to the marker, but the greater the distance separating the foreign genetic material from the marker, the more likely will be a recombinational event occurring between the foreign genetic material and marker, preventing transfer of the foreign genetic material. Shuttle vectors have proved useful in manipulation of Agrobacterium plasmids see D. J. Garfinkel et al. 1981 Cell 27 143 153, A. J. M. Matzke and M. D. Chilton 1981 J. Molec. Appl. Genet. 1 39 49, and J. Leemans et al. 1981 J. Molec. Appl. Genet. 1 149 164, who referred to shuttle vectors by the tern intermediate vectors .Agrobacterium Overview Included within the gram negative bacterial family Rhizobiaceae in the genus Agrobacterium are the species A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes. These species are respectively the causal agents of crown gall disease and hairy root disease of plants. Crown gall is characterized by the growth of a gall of dedifferentiated tissue. Hairy root is a teratoma characterized by inappropriate induction of roots in infected tissue. In both diseases, the inappropriately growing plant tisssue usually produces one or more amino acid derivatives, known as opines3 not normally produced by the plant which are catabolized by the infecting bacteria. Known opines have been classified into three families whose type members are octopine, nopaline, and agropine.The cells of inappropriately growing tissues can be grown in culture, and, under appropriate conditions, be regenerated into whole plants that retain certain transformed phenotypes. Virulent strains of Agrobacterium harbor large plasmids known as Ti tumor inducing plasmids in A. tumefaciens and Ri root inducing plasmids inA. rhizogenes. Curing a strain of these plasmids results in a loss of pathogenicity. The Ti plasmid contains a region, referred to as T DNA transferred DNA , which in tumors is found to be integrated into the genome of the host plant. The T DNA encodes several transcripts. Mutational studies have shown that some of these are involved in induction of tumorous growth.Mutants in the genes for tml, tmr, and tms, respectively result in large tumors in tobacco , a propensity to generate roots, and a tendency for shoot induction. The T DNA also encodes the gene for at least one opine synthetase, and the Ti plasmids are often classified by the opine which they caused to be synthesized. Each of the T DNA genes is under control of a T DNA promoter. The T DNA promoters resemble eukaryotic promoters in structure, and they appear to function only in the transformed plant cell. The Ti plasmid also carries genes outside the T DNA region. These genes are involved in functions which include opine catabolism, oncogenicity, agrocin sensitivity, replication, and autotransfer to bacterial cells. The Ri plasmid is organized in a fashion analogous to the Ti plasmid. The set of genes and DNA sequences responsible for transforming the plant cell are hereinafter collectively referred to as the transformation inducing principle TIP . The designation TIP therefore includes both Ti and Ri plasmids. The integrated segment of aTIP is termed herein WT DNA I, whether derived from a Ti plasmid or an Ri plasmid. Recent general reviews of Agrobacterium caused disease include those by D. J.Merlo 1982 , Adv. Plant Pathol. 1 139 178 L. W. Ream and M. P.Gordon 1982 , Science 218 854 859, and M. W. Bevan and M. D. Chilton 1982 ,Ann. Rev. Genet. 16 357 384 G. Kahl and J. Schell 1982 Molecular Biology of Plant Tumors.Agrobacterium Infection of Plant Tissues Plant cells can be transformed by Agrobacterium in a number of methods known in the art which include but are not limited to co cultivation of plant cells in culture with Agrobacterium, direct infection of a plant, fusion of plant protoplasts with Agrobacterium spheroplasts, direct transformation by uptake of free DNA by plant cell protoplasts, transformation of protoplasts having partly regenerated cell walls with intact bacteria3 transformation of protoplasts by liposomes containing T DNA, use of a virus to carry in the TDNA, microinjection, and the like. Any method will suffice as long as the gene is reliably expressed, and is stably transmitted through mitosis and meiosis. The infection of plant tissue by Agrobacterium is a simple technique well known to those skilled in the art for an example3 see D. N. Butcher et al. 1980 in Tissue Culture Methods for Plant Pathologists, eds. D. S. Ingrams and J. P. Helgeson, pp. 203 208 . Typically a pl ant is wounded by any of a number of ways, which include cutting with a razor, puncturing with a needle, or rubbing with abrasive. The wound is then inoculated with a solution containing tumor inducing bacteria. An alternative to the infection of intact plants is the inoculation of pieces of tissues such as potato tuber disks D.K. Anand and G. T. Heberlein 1977 Amer. J. Bot. 64 153 158 or segments of tobacco stems Binns, et al. . After induction, the tumors can be placed in tissue culture on media lacking phytohormones. Hormone independent growth is typical of transformed plant tissue and is in great contrast to the usual conditions of growth of such tissue in culture A. C. Braun 1956 CancerRes. 16 53 56 . Agrobacterium is also capable of infecting isolated cells and cells grown in culture, Marton et al. 1979 Nature 277 129 131, and isolated tobacco mesophyll protoplasts. In the latter technique, after allowing time for partial regeneration of new cell walls, Agrobacterium cells were added to the culture for a time and then killed by the addition of antibiotics. Only those cells exposed to A. tumefaciens cells harboring the Ti plasmid were capable of forming calli when plated on media lacking hormone. Most calli were found to contain an enzymatic activity involved in opine anabolism. Other workers R.B. Horsch and R. T. Fraley 18 January 1983 15th Miami Winter Symposium have reported transformations by co cultivation, leading to a high rate greater than 10 of calli displaying hormone independent growth, with 95 of those calli making opines. M. R. Davey et al. 1980 in Ingram and Helgeson, supra, pp. 209 219, describe the infection of older cells that had been regenerated from protoplasts. Plant protoplasts can be transformed by the direct uptake of TIP plasmids. M. R. Davey et al. 1980 Plant Sci. Lett. 18 307 313, and M. R.Davey et al. 1980 in Ingram and Helgeson, supra, were able to transformPetunia protoplasts with the Ti plasmid in the presence of poly L and ornithine to a phenotype of opine synthesis and hormone independent growth in culture. It was later shown J. Draper et al. 1982 Plant and CellPhysiol. 23 451 458, M. R. Davey et al. 1982 in Plant Tissue Culture 1982, ed A. Fujiwara, pp. 515 516 that polyethelene glycol stimulated Ti uptake and that some T DNA sequences were integrated into the genome. F. A. Krens et al. 1982 Nature 296 72 74, reported similar results using polyethelene glycol following by a calcium shock, though their data suggests that the integrated T DNA included flanking Ti plamid sequences. An alternative method to obtain DNA uptake involves the use of liposomes. The preparation of DNA containing liposomes is taught byPapahadjopoulos in Os Patents 4,078,052 and 4,235,871. Preparations for the introduction of Ti DNA via liposomes have been reported T. Nagata et al. 1982 in Fujiwara, supra, pp. 509 510, and T. Nagata 1981 Mol. Gen. Genet.184 161 165 . An analogous system involves the fusion of plant and bacterial cells after removal of their cell walls. An example of this technique is the transformation of Vinca protoplast by Agrobacterium spheroplasts reported byS. Hasezawa et al. 1981 Mol. Gen. Genet. 182 206 210. Plant protoplasts can take up cell wall delimited Agrobacterium cells iS. Hasezawa et al. 1982 inFujiwara, supra pp. 517 518 . T DNA can be transmitted to tissue regenerated from a fusion of two protoplasts, only one of which had been transformed G. J. Wullems et al. 1980 Theor. Appl. Genet. 56 203 208 . As detailed in the section onRegeneration of Plants3 T DNA can pass through meiosis and be transmitted to progeny as a simple Mendelian trait. Agrobacteri um Regeneration of Plants Differentiated plant tissues with normal morphology have been obtained from crown gall tumors. A. C. Braun and H. N. Wood 1976 Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 73 496 500, grafted tobacco teratomas onto normal plants and were able to obtain normally appearing shoots which could flower. The shoots retained the ability to make opines and to grow independently of phytohormones when placed in culture. In the plants screened, these tumor phenotypes were not observed to be transmitted to progeny, apparently being lost during meiosis R. Turgeon et al. 1976 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73 3562 3564 .Plants which had spontaneouly lost tumorous properties, or which were derived from teratoma seed, were initially shown to have lost all their T DNA F. M.Yang et al. 1980 In Vitro 16 87 92, F. Yang et al. 1980 Molec. Gen.Genet. 177 707 714, N. Letters et al. 1980 J. Mol. Biol. 144 353 376 .However, later work with plants that had become revertants after hormone treatment Img l kinetin showed that plants which had gone through meiosis, though losing T DNA genes responsible for the transformed phenotype, could retain sequences homologous to both ends of T DNA F. Yang and R. B. Simpson 1981 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78 4151 4155 . G. J. Wullems et al. 1981 Cell 24 719 724, further demonstrated that genes involved in opine anabolism were capable of passing through meiosis though the plants were male sterile and that seemingly unaltered T DNA could be inherited in a Mendelian fashion G. Wullems et al. 1982 in A. Fujiwara, supra . L. Otten et al. 1981 Molec. Gen. Genet. 183 209 213, used Tn7 transposon generated Ti plasmid mutants in the tms shoot inducing locus to create tumors which proliferated shoots. When these shoots were regenerated into plants, they were found to form self fertile flowers. The resultant seeds germinated into plants which contained T DNA and made opines. Similar experiments with a tmr rootinducing mutant showed that fult length T DNA could be transmitted through meiosis to progeny, that in those progeny nopaline genes could be expressed3 though at variable levels, and that cotransformed yeast alcohol dehydrogenaseI gene was not expressed K. A. Barton et al. 1983 Cell 32 1033 1043 . It now appears that regenerated tissues which lack T DNA sequences are probably descended from untransformed cells which contaminateX the tumor G. Ooms et al. 1982 Cell 30 589 597 . Roots resulting from transformation from A. rhizogenes have proven relatively easy to regenerate into plantlets M. D. Chilton et al. 1982 Nature 295 432 434.Agrobacterium Genes on the TIP Plasmids A number of genes have been identified within the T DNA of the TIP plasmids. About half a dozen octopine plasmid T DNA transcripts have been mapped S. B. Gelvin et al. 1982 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79 76 80, L.Willmitzer et al. 1982 EMBO J. 1 139 146 and some functions have been assigned J. Leemans et al. 1982 EMBO J. 1 147 152 . The four genes of an octopine type plasmid that have been well defined by transposon mutagenesis include tms, tmr, and tml D. J. Garfinkel et al. 1981 Cell 27 143 153 .Ti plasmids which carry mutations in these genes respectively incite tumorous calli of Nicotiana tabacum which generate shoots, proliferate roots, and are larger than normal. In other hosts, mutants of these genes can induce different phenotypes see Ghilton, M. D., Ann. Rev. Genet. 1982 . The phenotypes of tms and tmr are correlated with differences in the phytohormone levels present in the tumor. The differences in cytokinin auxin ratios are similar to those which in culture induce shoot or root formation in untransformed callus tissue D. E. Akiyoshi et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 80 407 411 . T DNA containing a functional gene for either tms or tmr alone, but not functional tml alone, can promote significant tumor growth. Promotion of shoots and roots is respectively stimulated and inhibited by functional tml L. W. Ream et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 80 1660 1664 . Mutations in T DNA genes do not seem to affect the insertion of T DNA into the plant genome J. Leemans et al. 1982 supra, L.W. Ream et al. 1983 supra . The ocs gene encodes octopine synthetase, which has been sequenced by H. De Greve et al. 1982 J. Mol. Appl. Genet. 1 499511. It does not contain introns intervening sequences commonly found in eukaryotic genes which are posttranscriptionally spliced out of the messenger precursor during maturation of the mRNA . It does have sequences that resemble a eukaryotic transcriptional signal TATA box and a polyadenylation site. As plant cells containing the enzyme octopine synthetase detoxify homo arginine, the ocs gene may prove to be a useful selectable marker for plant cells that have been transformed by foreign DNA G. M. S. Van Slogteren et al 1982 Plant Mol. Biol. 1 133 142 . Nopaline Ti plasmids encode the nopaline synthetase gene nos , which has been sequenced by A. Depicker et al. 1982 J. Mol. Appl. Genet. 1 561 573.As was found with the ocs gene, nos is not interrupted by introns. It has two putative polyadenylation sites and a potential TATA box . In contrast to ocs, nos is preceeded by a sequence which may be a transcriptional signal known as a CAT box . J. C. McPhersson et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 77 2666 2670, reported the in vitro translation of T DNA encoded mRNAs from crown gall tissues. Transcription from hairy root T DNA has also been detected L. Willmitzer et al. 1982 Nol. Gen. Genet. 186 16 22 . Functionally, the hairy root syndrome appears to be equivalent of a crown gall tumor incited by a Ti plasmid mutated in tmr F. F. White and E. W. Nester 1980 J. Bacteriol. 144 710 720. In eukaryotes, methylation especially of cytosine residues of DNA is correlated with transcriptional inactivation genes that are relatively undermethylated are transcribed into mRNA. Gelvin et al. 1983 Nucleic AcidsRes. 1 159 174, has found that the T DNA in crown gall tumors is always present in at least one unmethylated copy. That the same genome may contain numerous other copies of T DNA which are methylated suggests that the copies of T DNA in excess of one may be biologically inert. See also G. Ooms et al. 1982 Cell 30 589 597. The Ti plasmid encodes other genes which are outside of the T DNA region and are necessary for the infection process. See N. Holsters et al. 1980 Plasmid 3 212 230 for nopaline plasmids, and H. De Greve et al. l981 Plasmid 6 235 248, D. J. Garfinkel and E. W. Nester 1980 J. Bacteriol 144 732 743, and G. Ooms 1980 J. Bacteriol 144 82 91 for octopine plasmids . Most important are the onc genes, which when mutated result in Ti plasmids incapable of oncogenecity. These loci are also known as vir, for virulence. The onc genes function in trans, being capable of causing the transformation of plant cells with T DNA of a different plasmid type and physically located on another plasmid J. Hille et al. 1982 Plasmid 7 107 118, H. J. Klee et al. 1982 J.Bacteriol 150 327 331, M. D. Chiltpn 18 January 1983 15thMiami Winter Symp. Nopaline Ti DNA has direct repeats of about 25 base pairs immediately adjacent to the left and right borders of the T DNA which might be involved in either excision from the Ti plasmid or integration into the host genome N. S. Yadav et al. 1982 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79 6322 6326 , and a homologous sequence has been observed adjacent to an octopine T DNA border R. B. Simpson et al. 1982 Cell 29 1005 1014 . Opine catabolism is specified by the occ and noc genes, respectively of octopine and nopalinetype plasmids. The Ti plasmid also encodes functions necessary for its own reproduction including an origin of replication. Ti plasmid transcripts have been detected in A. tumefaciens cells by S. B.Gelvin et al. 1981 Plasmid 6 17 29, who found that T DNA regions were weakly transcribed along with nonT DNA sequences. Ti plasmid determined characteristics have been reviewed byMerlo, supra see especially Table II , and Ream and Gordon supra.Agrobacterium TIP Plasmid DNA Different octopine type Ti plasmids are nearly 100 homologous to each other when examined by DNA hybridization T. C. Currier and E. W. Nester 1976 J. Bacteriol. 126 157 165 or restriction enzyme analysis D. Sciaky et al. 1978 Plasmid 1 238 253 . Nopaline type Ti plasmids have as little as 67 homology to each other Currier and Nester, supra . A survey revealed that different Ri plasmids are very homologous to each other P. Costantino et al. 1981 Plasmid 5 170 182 . N. H. Drummond and M. D. Chilton 1978 J.Bacteriol. 136 1178 1183, showed that proportionally small sections of octopine and nopaline type Ti plasmids were homologous to each other. These homologies were mapped in detail by G. Engler et al. 1981 J. Mol. Biol.152 183 208. They found that three of the four homologous regions were subdivided into three overlapping the T DNA , four containing some onc genes , and nine having onc genes homologous sequences. The uninterrupted homology contains at least one tra gene for conjugal transfer of the Ti plasmid to other bacterial cells , and genes involved in replication and incompatibility. This uninterrupted region has homology with a Sym plasmid involved in symbiotic nitrogen fixation from a species of Rhizobium, a different genus in the family Rhizobiaceae R. K. Prakash et al. 1982 Plasmid 7 271 280 . The order of the four regions is not conserved, though they are all oriented in the same direction. Part of the T DNA sequence is very highly conserved between nopaline and octopine plasmids M. D. Chilton et al. 1978 Nature 275 147 149, A. Depicker et al. 1978 Nature 275 150 153 . Ri plasmids have been shown to have extensive gemology among themselves, and to both octopine F. F. White and E. W. Nester 1980 J.Bacteriol. 144 710 720 and nopaline G. Risuleo et al. 1982 Plasmid 7 45 51 Ti plasmids, primarily in regions encoding onc genes. Ri T DNA contains extensive though weak homologies to T DNA from both types of Ti plasmid L.Willmitzer et al. 1982 Mol. Gen. Genet. 186 3193 3197 . Plant DNA from uninfected Nicotiana glauca contains sequences, referred to as cT DNA cellular T DNA , that show homology to a portion of the Ri T DNA F. F. White et al. 1983 Nature 301 348 350 . It has been shown that a portion of the Ti M. D. Chilton et al. 1977 Cell 11 263 271 or Ri M. D. Chilton 1982 Nature 295 432 434, F. F. White et al. 1982 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79 3193 3197, L. Willmitzer 1982 Mol. Gen. Genet. 186 16 22 plasmid is found in the DNA of tumorous plant cells. The transferred DNA is known as T DNA. T DNA is integrated into the host DNA N. F. Thomashow et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 64486452, N. S. Yadav et al. 1980 Nature 287 458 461 in the nucleus M. P. Nuti et al. 1980 Plant Sci. Lett. 18 1 6, L. Willmitzer et al. 1980 Nature 287 359 361, M. D. Chilton et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 4060 4064 . M. F. Thomashow et al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77 6448 6452, and M. F. Thomashow et al. 1980 Cell 19 729 739, found the T DNA from octopine type Ti plasmids to have been integrated in two separate sections,TL DNA and TR DNA, left and right T DNAs respectively. The copy numbers of TR and Th can vary D. J. Merlo et al. 1980 Molec. Gen. Genet. 177 637 643 . A core of T DNA is highly homologous to nopaline T DNA Chilton et al. 1978 supra and Depicker et al. 1978 supra , is required for tumor maintenance, is found in TL, is generally present in one copy per cell, and codes for the genes tms, tmr, and tml. On the other hand TR can be totally dispensed with M. De Beuckeleer et al. 1981 Mole. Gen. Genet. 183 283 288, G. Ooms et al. 1982 Cell 30 589 597 , though found in a high copy number D. J. Merlo et al. 1980 supra . G. Ooms et al. 1982 Plasmid 7 15 29, hypothesized that TR is involved in T DNA integration, though they find that when TR is deleted from the Ti plasmid, A. tumefaciens does retain some virulence. G. Ooms et al. 1982 Cell 30 589 597, showed that though T DNA is occasionally deleted after integration in the plant genome, it is generally stable and that tumors containing a mixture of cells that differ in T DNA organization are the result of multiple transformation events. The ocs is found in Th but can be deleted from the plant genome without loss of phenotypes related to tumorous growth.The left border of integrated TL has been observed to be composed of repeats of T DNA sequences which are in either direct or inverted orientations R. B.Simpson et al. 1982 Cell 29 1005 1014 . In contrast to the situation in octopine type tumors, nopaline T DNA is integrated into the host genome in one continuous fragment M. Lemmers et al. 1980 J. Mol. Biol. 144 353 376, P. Zambryski et al. 1980 Science 209 13851391 . Direct tandem repeats were observed. T DNA of plants regenerated from teratomas had minor modifications in the border fragments of the inserted DNA Lemmers et al., supra . Sequence analysis of the junction between the right and left borders revealed a number of direct repeats and one inverted repeat. The latter spanned the junction Zambryski et al. 1980 supra . The left junction has been shown to vary by at least 70 base pairs while the right junction varies no more than a single nucleotide P. Zambryski et al. 1982 J. Molec. Appl. Genet. 1 361 370 . Left and right borders in junctions of tandem arrays were separated by spacers which could be over 130 bp. The spacers were of unknown origin and contained some T DNA sequences.T DNA was found to be integrated into both repeated and low copy number host sequences. N. S. Yadav et al. 1982 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79 6322 6326, have found a chi site, which in the bacteriophage x augments general recombination in the surrounding DNA as far as 10 kilobases away, in a nopaline Ti plasmid just outside the left end of the T DNA. R. B. Simpson et al. 1982 Cell 29 1005 1014, have not observed a chi sequence in an octopine Ti plasmid, though the possible range of action does not eliminate the possibility of one being necessary and present but outside of the region sequenced. The significance of the chi in the Ti plasmid is not known. If the chi has a function, it is probably used in Agrobacterium cells and not in the plants, as chi is not found within the T DNA.Agrobacterium Manipulations of the TIP Plasmids As detailed in the section on Shuttle Vectors, technology has been developed for the introduction of altered DNA sequences into desired locations on a TIP plasmid. Transposons can be easily inserted using this technology D. J. Garfinkel et al. 1981 Cell 27 143 153 . J. P. Hernalsteen et al. 1980 Nature 287 654 656, have shown that a DNA sequence here a bacterial transposon inserted into T DNA in the Ti plasmid is transferred and integrated into the recipient plant s genome. Though insertion of foreign DNA has been done with a number of genes from different sources, to date the genes have not been expressed under control of their own promoters. Sources of these genes include alcohol dehydrogenase Adh from yeast K. A. Barton et al. 1983 , AdhI 3. Bennetzen, unpublished and zein from corn, interferon and globin from mammals, and the mammalian virus SV40 J. Schell, unpublished .M. Holsters et al. 1982 Mol. Gen. Genet. 185 283 289, have shown that a bacterial transposon Tn7 inserted into T DNA could be recovered in a fully functional and seemingly unchanged form after integration into a plant genome. Deletions can be generated in a TIP plasmid by several methods. Shuttle vectors can be used to introduce deletions constructed by standard recombinantDNA techniques Cohen and Boyer US Pat. 4,237,224 . Deletions with one predetermined end can be created by the improper excision of transposons B.P. Koekman et al. 1979 Plasmid 2 347 357, 6. Ooms et al. 1982 Plasmid 7 15 29 . J. Hille and R. Schilperoot 1981 Plasmid 6 151 154, have demonstrated that deletions having both ends at predetermined positions can be generated by use of two transposons. The technique can also be used to construct wrecombinant DNAw molecules in vivo. The nopaline synthetase gene has been used for insertion of DNA segments coding for drug resistance that can be used to select for transformed plant cells. M. Bevan reported by N. D. Chilton et al. 18 January 1983 15thMiami Winter Symp., see also J. I. Marx 1983 Science 219 830 and R. Horsch et al. 18 January 1983 15th Miami Winter Symp., see Marx, supra, have inserted the kanamycin resistance gene neomycin phosphotransferase from Tn5 behind under control of the nopaline promoter. The construction was used to transform plant cells which in culture displayed resistance to kanamycin and its analogs such as G418. J.Schell et al. 18 January 1983 15th MiamiWinter Symp. see also Marx, supra , reported a similar construction, in which the methotrexate resistance gene dihydrofolate reductase from Tn7 was placed behind the nopaline synthetase promoter. Transformed cells were resistant to methotrexate. As plant cells containing octopine synthetase are resistant to the toxic chemical homo arginine, G. N. S. Van Slogteren et al. 1982 PlantMol. Biol. 1 133 142, have proposed using that enzyme as a selectable marker. M. D. Chilton et al. 1983 supra, reported that A. Defremeux has constructed a mini Ti plasmid. In the nopaline T DNA there is normally only one site cut by the restriction enzyme KpnI. A mutant lacking the site was constructed and a KpnI fragment, containing the entire nopaline T DNA, was isolated. This fragment together with a kanamycin resistance gene was inserted into pRK290, thereby resulting in a plasmid which could be maintained in A. tumefaciens and lacked almost all non T DNA Ti sequences. By itself, this plasmid was not able to transform plant cells. However when placed in an A. tumefacien strain containing an octopine Ti plasmid, tumors were induced which synthesized both octopine and nopaline.This indicated that the missing nopaline Ti plasmid functions were complemented by the octopine Ti plasmid, and that the nopaline mini Ti was functional in the transformation of plant cells. Chilton et al. 1983 supra also reported on the construction of a micro Ti plasmid made by resectioning the mini Ti with SmaI to delete essentially all of T DNA but the nopaline synthetase gene and the left and right borders. The micro Ti was inserted into a modified pRK290 plasmid that was missing its SmaI site, and employed in a manner similar to mini Ti, with comparable results. H. Lorz et al. 1982 in Plant Tissue Culture 1982, ed A. Fujwara, pp. 511 512, reported the construction of a plasmid vector, apparently independent of the TIP system for DNA uptake and maintenance, that used the nopaline synthetase gene as a marker.Phaseolin and gene regulation In general the genes of higher eukaryotes are highly regulated. A multicellular organism, such as a plant, has a number of differentiated tissues, each with its own specialized functions, each of which requires specialized gene products. One such tissue is the cotyledon. In legumes, the cotyledons usually serve as the storage tissue for the seed, holding reserves of lipid, carbohydrate, minerals, and protein until the seed needs them during germination. In Phaseolus vulgaris L. also known as the French bean, kidney bean, navy bean, green bean and other names , the major storage protein is known as phaseolin. This protein comprises a small number of molecular species that are extremely homologous and equivalent to one another.Phaseolin contributes most of the nutrition value of dried beans, often comprising more than 10 of the weight of a dried bean. Phaseolin is highly regulated during the life cycle of P. vulgaris. The protein is made essentially only while seed is developing within the pod.Levels rise from the limit of detection to as much as half the seed s protein content, following genetically determined schedules for synthesis. At its peak, phaseolin synthesis can account for over 80 of a cotyledon cell s protein synthesis. At other times and in other tissues, phaseolin synthesis is undetectable. The extreme nature of phaseolin s regulation, coupled with its worldwide nutritional importance, has lead to much interest in the study of phaseolin, its properties, and its regulation. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention disclosed herein provides a plant comprising a genetically modified plant cell having a plant gene introduced and expressed therein.Further, the invention includes plant tissue comprising a plant cell whose genome includes T DNA comprising a plant gene, said plant gene being expressible in the plant cell. Also provided are novel strains of bacteria of the genus Agrobacterium containing and replicating T DNA, as defined herein, the T DNA being modified to contain an inserted plant gene expressible in a plant cell. Further, the invention provides novel plasmids having the ability to replicate in E. coli and comprising T DNA, and further comprising a plant gene inserted within T DNA contained within the plasmid. The experimental work disclosed herein is believed to be the first demonstration that plant genes are expresssible in plant cells after introduction via T DNA, that is to say, by inserting the plant genes into TDNA and introducing the T DNA containing the insert into a plant cell using known means. The disclosed experiments are also believed to provide the first demonstration that plant genes containing introns are expressed in plant cells after introduction via T DNA. These results are suprising in view of the fact that all genes previously known to be expressible in T DNA, either endogenousT DNA genes or inserted foreign genes, lacked introns so far as is presently known.The results are unexpected also in view of the fact that the art has never previously been able to demonstrate that a promoter exogenous to the genes of T DNA could function to control expression in a plant when introduced into T DNA. The invention is useful for genetically modifying plant tissues and whole plants by introducing useful plant genes from other plant species or strains. Such useful plant genes include, but are not limited to, genes coding for storage proteins, lectins, resistance factors against disease, insects and herbicides, factors providing tolerance to environmental stress, genes for specific flavor elements, and the like. The invention is exemplified by the introduction and expression of phaseolin, a major seed storage protein of beans, into sunflower and tobacco plant tissues. Once plant cells expressing a plant gene introduced via T DNA are obtained, plant tissues and whole plants can be regenerated therefrom by means of methods known in the art.The regenerated plants are then reproduced by conventional means and the introduced genes can be transferred to other strains by conventional plant breeding techniques. The introduction and expression of the phaseolin gene, for example, can be used to enhance the protein content and nutritional value of forage crops such as alfalfa. Other uses of the invention, exploiting the properties of other genes, introduced into other plant species, will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The invention in principle applies to any introduction of plant genes into any plant species into which T DNA can be introduced and in which T DNA can remain stably replicated.In general these species include, but are not limited to, dicotyledonous plants, such as sunflower family Compositeae , tobacco familySolanaceae , alfalfa, soybeans and other legumes family Leguminoseae and most vegetables. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The following definitions are provided, in order to remove ambiguity as to the intent or scope of their usage in the specifications and claims. T DNA A segment of DNA derived from the transformation inducing principle TIP which becomes integrated in the plant genome. As used herein, the term includes DNA originally derived from any tumor inducing strain of Agrobacterium including A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes, the latter sometimes referred to in the prior art as R DNA. In addition, as used herein the term T DNA includes any alterations, modifications, mutations, insertions and deletions, either naturally occurring or introduced by laboratory procedures, the only structural requirement being that sufficient of the right and left ends of naturally occurring T DNAs be present to ensure the expected function of stable integration which is characteristic of all T DNA. plant gene As used herein includes both structural and regulatory elements of a plant gene said elements being exogenous to the genes of T DNA itself. As used herein, a plant gene is one in which both the promoter a region of the gene which provides for and may regulate the initiation of transcription and the initiation of translation and the structural gene the region which codes for a protein and which may or may not contain one or more introns are introduced into T DNA from a plant source. The plant gene may also include a 3 untranslated region which may function to regulate termination of transcription, and post transcriptional RNA processing. The promoter and structural gene elements may be derived from the same, or different pre existing genes and may be derived from the same or different plant sources.For example, a plant gene could be, as exemplified herein, a plant gene with its own promoter, or it could be an in vitro construct comprising the coding region with or without introns of one gene and the promoter of another, derived from the same or different plant species. The coding region of a plant gene, as herein defined, may include a cDNA copy of the structural portion of a plant gene. The promoter and coding regions may also include modifications, either naturally or artificially induced, and may include chemically synthesized segments. The coding segment may itself be a composite of segments derived from a plurality of sources, naturally occurring or synthetic, coding for a composite protein. plant tissue Includes differentiated and undifferentiated tissues of, and derived from higher plants including roots, shoots, pollen, seeds, tumor tissue, such as crown galls, and various forms of aggregations of plant cells in culture, such as embryos and calluses. plant cell As used herein includes plant cells in planta, and plant cells and protoplasts in culture.Production of a genetically modified plant expressing a plant gene introduced via T DNA combines the specific teachings of the present disclosure with a variety of techniques and expedients known in the art. In most instances, alternative expedients exist for each stage of the overall process. The choice of expedients depends on variables such as the choice of the basic TIP, the plant species to be modified and the desired regeneration strategy, all cf which present alternative process steps which those of ordinary skill are able to select and use to achieve a desired result. The fundamental aspects of the invention are the nature and structure of the plant gene and its means of insertion into T DNA.The remaining steps to obtaining a genetically modified plant include transferring the modified T DNA to a plant cell wherein the modified T DNA becomes stably integrated as part of the plant cell genome, techniques for in vitro culture and eventual regeneration into whole plants, which may include steps for selecting and detecting transformed plant cells and steps of transferring the introduced gene from the originally transformed strain into commercially acceptable cultivars. A principle feature of the present invention is the construction of T DNA having an inserted plant gene, as defined supra. Location of the plant gene insertion site is not critical as long as the transfer function of sequences immediately surrounding the T DNA borders are not disrupted, since these regions appear from prior art studies to be essential for insertion of the modified T DNA into the plant genome. Preferred insertion sites are those which lie in areas that are most actively transcribed, in particular the tml gene and an area designated 1.6 lying in the HindIII f fragment, and spanning map section 13, as shown in Fig. 2. No phenotype has been associated with the latter transcript. The term 1.6 is used herein to designate this actively transcribed region of T DNA. T DNA is obtained from any of the TIP plasmids.The plant gene is inserted by standard techniques well known to those skilled in the art. The orientation of the inserted plant gene, with respect to the direction of transcription and translation of endogenous T DNA genes is not critical, either of the two possible orientations is functional. Differences in rates of expression may be observed when a given gene is inserted at different locations within T DNA, possibly because of such factors as chromatin structure. Readily detectable levels of expression of the phaseolin gene have been obtained where that gene was inserted in a SmaI site within the tml gene of pTi159, an octopine type plasmid of A.tumefaciens. A convenient means for inserting a plant gene into T DNA involves the use of shuttle vectors, as described supra, having a segment of T DNA that segment into which insertion is desired incorporated into a plasmid capable of replicating in E. coli. The T DNA segment contains a restriction site, preferably one which is unique to the shuttle vector. The plant gene can be inserted at the unique site in the T DNA segment and the shuttle vector is transferred into cells of the appropriate Agrobacterium strain, preferably one whose T DNA is homologous with the T DNA segment of the shuttle vector. The transformed Agrobacterium strain is grown under conditions which permit selection of a double homologous recombination event which results in replacement of a pre existing segment of the Ti plasmid with a segment of TDNA of the shuttle vector. Following the strategy just described, the modified T DNA can be transferred to plant cells by any technique known in the art. For example, this transfer is most conveniently accomplished either by direct infection of plants with the novel Agrobacterium strain containing a plant gene incorporated within its T DNA, or by co cultivation of the Agrobacterium strain with plant cells. The former technique, direct infection, results in due course in the appearance of a tumor mass or crown gall at the site of infection. Crown gall cells can be subsequently grown in culture and, under appropriate circumstances known to those of ordinary skill in the art, regenerated into whole plants that contain the inserted T DNA segment.Using the method of co cultivation, a certain proportion of the plant cells are transformed, that is to say have T DNA transferred therein and inserted in the plant cell genome. In either case, the transformed cells must be selected or screened to distinguish them from untransformed cells. Selection is most readily accomplished by providing a selectable marker incorporated into the TDNA in addition to the plant gene. Examples include either dihydrofolate reductase or neomycin phosphotransferase expresssed under control of a nopaline synthetase promoter. These markers are selected by growth in medium containing methotrexate or kanamycin, respectively, or their analogs.In addition, the T DNA provides endogenous markers such as the gene or genes controlling hormone independent growth of Ti induced tumors in culture, the gene or genes controlling abnormal morphology of Ri induced tumor roots, and genes that control resistance to toxic compounds such as amino acid analogs, such resistance being provided by an opine synthetase. Screening methods well known to those skilled in the art include assays for opine production, specific hybridization to characteristic RNA or T DNA sequences, or immunological assays for specific proteins, including ELISA, acronym for enzyme linked ammunosorbent assay radioimmune assays and western blots. An alternative to the shuttle vector strategy involves the use of plasmids comprising T DNA or modified T DNA, into which a plant gene is inserted, said plasmids being capable of independent replication in anAgrobacterium strain. Recent evidence indicates that the T DNA of such plasmids can be transferred from an Agrobacterium strain to a plant cell provided the Agrobacterium strain contains certain trans acting genes whose function is to promote the transfer of T DNA to a plant cell. Plasmids that contain T DNA and are able to replicate independently in an Agrobacterium strain are herein termed sub TIP 1 plasmids. A spectrum of variations is possible in which the sub TIP plasmids differ in the amount of T DNA they contain. One end of the spectrum retains all of the T DNA from the TIP plasmid, and is sometimes termed a mini TIP plasmid. At the other end of the spectrum, all but the minimum amount of DNA surrounding the T DNA border is deleted, the remaining portions being the minimum necessary to be transferrable and integratable in the host cell. Such plasmids are termed micro TIP . Sub TIP plasmids are advantageous in that they are small and relatively easy to manipulate directly. After the desired gene has been inserted, they can easily be introduced directly into a plant cell containing the trans acting genes that promote T DNA transfer.Introduction into anAgrobacterium strain is conveniently accomplished either by transformation of the Agrobacterium strain or by conjugal transfer from a donor bacterial cell, the techniques for which are well known to those of ordinary skill. Regeneration is accomplished by resort to known techniques. An object of the regeneration step is to obtain a whole plant that grows and reproduces normally but which retains integrated T DNA. The techniques of regeneration vary somewhat according to principles known in the art, depending upon the origin of the T DNA, the nature of any modifications thereto and the species of the transformed plant. Plant cells transformed by an Ri type T DNA are readily regenerated, using techniques well known to those of ordinary skill, without undue experimentation. Plant cells transformed by Ti type T DNA can be regenerated, in some instances, by the proper manipulation of hormone levels in culture. Preferably, however, the Ti transformed tissue is most easily regenerated if the T DNA has been mutated in one or both of the Tmr andTms genes.Inactivation of these genes returns the hormone balance in the transformed tissue towards normal and greatly expands the ease and manipulation of the tissue s hormone levels in culture, leading to a plant with a more normal hormone physiology that is readily regenerated. In some instances, tumor cells are able to regenerate shoots which carry integrated TDNA and express T DNA genes, such as nopaline synthetase, and which also express an inserted plant gene. The shoots can be maintained vegatatively by grafting to rooted plants and can develop fertile flowers. The shoots thus serve as parental plant material for normal progeny plants carrying T DNA and expressing the plant gene inserted therein. The genotype of the plant tissue transformed is often chosen for the ease with which its cells can be grown and regenerated in in vitro culture. Should a cultivar of agronomic interest be unsuitable for these manipulations, a more amenable variety is first transformed. After regeneration, the newly introduced foreign plant gene is readily transferred to the desired agronomic cultivar by techniques well known to those skilled in the arts of plant breeding and plant genetics. Sexual crosses of transformed plants with the agronomic cultivars yielded initial hybrid. These hybrids can then be back crossed with plants of the desired genetic background. Progeny are continuously screened and selected for the continued presence of integrated TDNA or for the new phenotype resulting from expression of the inserted plant gene.In this manner, plants can be produced having a genotype essentially identical to the agronomically desired parents with the addition of the inserted plant gene, after a number of rounds of back crossing and selection.Examples The following Examples utilize many techniques well known and accessible to those skilled in the arts of molecular biology and manipulation of TIPs andAgrobacterium such methods are not always described in detail. Enzymes are obtained from commercial sources and are used according to the vendor s recommendations or other variations known to the art. Reagents, buffers and culture conditions are also known to those in the art. Reference works containing such standard techniques include the following R. Wu, ed. 1979 Meth. Enzymol. 68 J. H. Miller 1972 Experiments in Molecular Genetics R.Davis et al. 1980 Advanced Bacterial Genetics and R. F. Schleif and P. C.Wnesink 1982 Practical Methods in Molecular Biology. With the exception of the plasmid IIc, plasmids, and only plasmids, are prefaced with a sup , e.g., p3.8 or pKS4. Cells containing plasmids are indicated by identifying the cell and parenthetically indicating the the plasmid, e.g., A. tumefaciens pTil59 or K802 pKS4 KB . Table 1 provides an index useful for identifying plasmids and their interrelationships. Table 2 provides an index of deposited strains. Fig. 1 provides a useful comparison of the constructions described in Examples 5, 6 and 8.Example 1 The purpose of this example is to teach the expression of a non T DNA eukaryotic gene under control of its own promoter.1.1 Preparation of special plasmid derivatives A restriction site was removed from the plasmid pBR322 by digestion withHindIII filling in the single stranded sticky ends by DNA polymerase I, bluntend ligation, transformation into K802, selection for tetracycline resistance, plasmid isolation from the drug resistant clones, and characterization with restriction enzymes to confirm elimination of the appropriate restriction site. The plasmid was labeled p350 pBR322 HindIII . 1.2 Preparation of shuttle vectors p203 was digested with BamHI and the T DNA Bam 17 fragment see Fig. 2 was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis followed by elution from the gel. This fragment was mixed with and ligated to BamHI linearized p350 and the reaction was transformed into K802. Plasmid isolated from ampicillin resistant transformants was characterized by restriction mapping, digested with SmaI, and blunt end ligated to HindlII linkers. After the HindIII sticky ends were unmasked by trimming with HindIII and the linearized plasmid was circularized by ligation to itself, the plasmid transformed into K802.Plasmid isolated from ampicillin resistant transformants was characterized by restriction mapping and a plasmid having a structure as shown in Fig. 3 was labeled p395. p376, to be discussed below, was also isolated at this point Fig. 3 . p395 was digested with BamHI, and the Baml7 T DNA fragment, which had had its SmaI site converted to a HindIII site, was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis followed by elution. This Baml7 fragment was mixed with and ligated to BglII linearized pRK290. The reaction mixture was transformed intoK802, and after selection, transformants were used to prepare plasmids which were characterized by restriction mapping. The appropriate plasmid was labeled p490 8 14. p376, whose derivation was described above in this example, was found to contain a deletion of about 0.8kbp running to the right from the SmaI, now converted to the specificity of HindIII. As was done with p395 above, theBamHI T DNA fragment corresponding to Baml7 was isolated and spliced into Bil 11 linearized pRK29O. After transformation, selection, and plasmid isolation and characterization, the appropriate plasmid was labeled p458 1. 1.3 Insertion of the kanamycin resistance and phaseolin genes The phaseolin gene carrying fragment was purified from HindIII digested pKS KB3.8 by agarose gel electrophoresis. This fragment was mixed with and ligated to HindIII linearized p490 8 14. Kanamycin resistant transformants ofK802 were used to prepare plasmids which were then restriction mapped. Two constructions were isolated p499 6 7 had bean sequences to the right of the kanamycin resistance Fig. 4 , and p499 6 8 had the opposite orientation Fig.5 . The purified HindIII fragment of pKS KB3.8 carrying the phaseolin gene was also mixed with and ligated to HlndItI linearized p458 1. Plasmids were again prepared from kanamycin resistant transformants of K802 and restriction mapped. Again both orientations were isolated p496 2 Fig. 6. and p496 1 Fig. 5. respectively had phaseolin to the right and left of the kanamycin resistance gene.1.4 Double homologous recombination with Ti plasmids The phaseolin and kanamycin genes were integrated into Ti plasmids harbored within Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells as described in Example 14. Two Ti plasmids were used as recipients pTil59, an octopine type plasmid and pTiA66, a strain derived from the A6 octopine type plasmid which has a nonfunctional tms gene due to a natural insertion of an Agrobacterium IS insertion sequence. pTi159 plasmids containing the constructions defined by p499 6 7, p499 6 8, p496 2, and p496 1, are respectively labeled p529 8, p5297, p529 11 and p529 2. The same constructions in pTtA66 are respectively labeled p539 6, p539 5, p539 2, and p539 1. 1.5 Infection of plants A. tumefaciens cells containing the Ti plasmids of the p529 and p539 series were used to infect stems of sunflower plants by puncture with a needle followed by injection of the appropriate bacterial cells.1.6 Detection of phaseolin Phaseolin protein sequences were detected to galls by ELISAs as described in Example 14. All galls tested were found to contain phaseolin the level varied between 20 ng and 0 ng per gram tissue fresh weight, with the average being about 10 ng g. Analysis by western blots of denaturing protein gels SDS polyacrylamide showed discrete bands, of high apparent molecular weight, though significantly smaller than native phaseolin. The exact number and sizes of the bands varied between host plants, indicating that they were the results of host specific post translational processing. Phaseolin mRNA sequences were detected in galls as described in Example 12. All galls tested were found to contain phaseolin sequences in the poly A 5 4RNA fraction the level averaged about 0.005X of total poly A RNA.Analysis by northern blots of denaturing DNA gels methyl mercury agarose showed a descrete band of high molecular weight the same size as natural phaseolin mRNA 1.6kbp . Phaseolin was also detected by ELISA in shoot tissue derived from cells infected with a pTiA66 based vector. Detection levels of both phaseolin protein and phaseolin mRNA signals were significantly and substantially above the noise levels found when assaying galls transformed by A. tumefaciens cells harboring unmodified pTi159 and unmodified pTiA66.Example 2 This example teaches the insertion of complete phaseolin gene into T DNA analogous to that taught in Example 1. This construction utilizes a shuttle vector designed to carry inserted sequences into a nopaline Ti plasmid, pTiC58, in the region of the nopaline synthetase gene.2.1 Construction of a shuttle vector The nopaline type plasmid, pTiC58 Fig. 8a was digested with SmaI, and a fragment encoding the nopaline synthetase gene was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. This fragment was blunt end ligated to BglII linkers, which were then unmasked by digestion with BglII. The resulting DNA fragment was mixed with and ligated to BglII linearized pRK290 Fig. 10 . Transformation into K802 was followed by selection with tetracycline, plasmid isolation, and restriction mapping. The appropriate plasmid was labeled pCF44A Fig. 8b . The four ClaI sites were reduced to a single ClaI susceptable site by serially resectioning pCF44A twice. The plasmid was digested with XhoI, religated to itself, and transformed into K802. After tetracycline selection, plasmid isolation, and restriction mapping, the appropriate plasmid having a deletion of an XhoI fragment which carries two ClaI sites was digested withClaI, religated to itself, and transformed into K802. After selection, plasmid isolation, and restriction mapping the appropriate plasmid having a second deletion, this time of the Clal fragment which carries all but the 5 end of the nos gene, was labeled pKS nopIV Figs. 9, 8, 8c . 2.2 Insertion of the kan bean genes pKS KB3.8 Fig. 11 was digested with ClaI, and the 6.0kbp fragment carrying the kanamycin resistance and phaseolin genes was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. This fragment was mixed with and ligated to ClaIlinearized pKS nopIV, and transformed into K802. Plasmids isolated from transformants resistant to kanamycin and tetracycline and sensitive to ampicillin were restriction mapped and one having the structure shown in Fig. 8d was labeled pKS noplV KB3.8 num 5. A similar clone oriented with the phaseolin gene to the left of the kanamycin resistance was found and labeled pKS nopKB3.8 3. 2.3 Transfer to Ti plasmids and infection of plants The triparental mating technique see Background and Example 14 was used to transfer the constructions to pTiC58, a nopaline type Ti plasmid. Ti plasmids C58 nopKBA3 and pC58 nop KBA5 , the results of matings of pKS nopIVKB3.8 num 3 and num 5, respectively with pTiC58 were characterized by restriction site mapping and Southern blot analysis. Bacteria containing either of the two plasmids, having either orientation of the kanamycin resistance phaseolin gene fragment nested within sequences from the 5 end of the nos gene and the nos gene s 3 flanking sequences, were used separately to infect stems of sunflower plants by puncture followed by injection of bacteria. 2.4 Detection of expression Phaseolin gene expression was detected in sunflower gall tissue byELISAs, as in Example 13.5Example 3 This example teaches manipulations of a gene for phaseolin, the major seed storage protein of the bean Phaseolus vulgaris L., preparatory to further manipulations which insert the phaseolin gene into vectors described in various other examples.3.1 Subcloninq of a phaseolin gene A genomic clone of phaseolin in a Charon 24A AG PVPh177.4 or 177.4 S.M. Sun et al. 1981 Nature 289 37 41, J. L. Slightom et al. 1983 Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80 Fig. 14 was digested with BglII and BamHI. The 3.8kbp fragment carrying the phaseolin gene and its flanking sequences, isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis, was mixed with and ligated to BamHIlinearized pBR322 Fig. 12 . The mixture was transformed into HB101, and colonies resistant to ampicillin and sensitive to tetracycline were selected. Plasmid isolated from these clones was restriction mapped. A plasmid having the structure shown in Fig. 13 was selected and labeled AGpPVPh3.8 or alternatively, p3.8 . The ligation of St II and BamHI sites with each other inactivates both sites. Another subclone of 177.4 was constructed by digestion with EcoRI, isolation of a 7.2kbp fragment containing extensive 3 flanking sequences and all but the extreme 5 end of the phaseolin gene, and isolated after ampicillin selection of HB101 transformants were restriction mapped. A plasmid having the insert oriented so that the HindlIl site of pBR322 was adjacent to the 5 end of the phaseolin gene and distal to the 3 untranslated region was labeled AG pPVPh7.2 or p7.2 Fig. 15 Sun et al. and Slightom et al., supra .3.2 Cloning and isolation of a kanamycin resistance gene pRZ1O2 R. A. Jorgenson et al. 1979 Mol. gen. Genet. 177 65 72 , aColE1 plasmid carrying a copy of the transposon Tn5, was digested with BamHI and HindIII, mixed with pBR322 previously linearized with the same two enzymes, ligated, and transformed into K802. Plasmids, isolated from transformants selected for resistance to both ampicillin and kanamycin were restriction mapped and one having the structure shown in Fig. 16B was labeled pKS 4.3.3 Linkage of the phaseolin gene with a kanamycin resistance p3.8 was digested with ClaI and BamHI, and a 4.2kbp fragment containing the phaseolin gene and some pBR322 sequences was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. This was mixed with a ClaI BamHI fragment of Tn5 carrying a kanamycin resistance neomycin phosphotransferase II, NPTII gene from pKS4 Fig. 16 and pBR322 Fig. 12 which had been linearized with ClaI. The mixture was ligated and transformed into K802. After selection of colonies resistant to ampicillin and kanamycin, plasmids were isolated and restriction mapped. A colony having the structure shown in Fig. 11 was labeled pKS KB3.8. p7.2 was digested with EcoRI and BamHI, and a 3.0kbp fragment carrying all but the 5 end of the phaseolin gene was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. This was mixed with a HindIII BamHI fragment of Tn5 carrying a kanamycin resistance gene from pKS4 Fig. 16 and pBR322 Fig 12C which had been linearized with HindilI. The mixture was ligated and transformed intoK802. After selection of colonies resistant to ampicillin and kanamycin, plasmids were isolated and restriction mapped. A colony having the structure shown in Fig. 17 was labeled pKS4 KB3. In pKS4 KB, phaseolin is missing sequences encoding the extreme 5 end of the gene, and all 5 flanking regions see Fig. 14 .Example 4 This example teaches a method of removing the introns from a gene. This is the same as placing a cDNA in a genomic environment. Restriction enzyme sites are found, or created by site specific mutagenesis, in exons on both the 5 and 3 extremities of the unprocessed transcript. These sites exist in both the genomic clones and cONA. The intervening intron containing DNA can be removed from the genomic clone and be replaced with the corresponding intronless cDNA clone fragment spanning the two sites. The reverse operation is also possible intron containing genomic sequences can be placed in a cDNA environment. One inserts an internal fragment of the genomic clone into a corresponding gap cut out of a cDNA clone.This latter strategy is analogous, though often technically more difficult as the introns may contain sites susceptable to the enzymes chosen to create the exchanged fragment. This difficulty can be overcome by careful selectipn of conditions of partial digestion and by purification of the desired fragment by agarose gel electrophoresis. Further elaborations of this strategy include the manipulation of individual introns within a gene while leaving other introns and exons unaffected, and the stepwise exchange of sequences when inconvenient intervening restriction sites are present within introns as discussed above.4.1 Replacement of a fragment containing phaseolin s introns with cDNA p3.8, a plasmid clone of the phaseolin gene and its flanking sequences, was digested respectively partially and to completion with EcoRI and SacI, and a 6.4kbp fragment, containing the pBR322 vector and both the 5 and 3 ends of the gene, was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. pcDNA31, a pBR322 plasmid clone of cDNA made from phaseolin mRNA, was digested respectively partially and to completion with SacI and EcoRI, and a 1.33kbp fragment, containing the entire phaseolin cDNA except for sequences at the extreme 5 and 3 ends, was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis.These two fragments were ligated together and transformed into HB101. After selection of colonies, growth of cells, and plasmid isolation, restriction mapping identified a plasmid having the desired structure. This plasmid was labeled p3.8 cDNA Fig. 22 . The entire construction is diagrammed in Fig. 18.4.2 Use of p3.8 cDNA Note that p3.8 cDNA can substitute for the genomic DNA source, e.g., p3.8, used in all other Examples, and that when so used will result in analogous constructions differing in that they are lacking introns.Alternatively, this strategy can be used to remove introns from constructions already made.Example 5 The purpose of this example is to generate a Ti plasmid with a deletion from the tms shooting locus through the tmr rooting locus of pTil59 and other octopine Ti plasmids. This derivative is useful because cells transformed by it are easier to regenerate to whole plants than cells transformed by pTi159 with intact tms and tmr genes. The tms tmr deleted pTil59 is ultimately changed in two ways the in activation of tms tmr and the insertion of a foreign gene. Should these two changes be located at different points of the T DNA, each change is inserted independently by different shuttle vectors. Each shuttle vector dependent change is selected independently which will necessitate use of at least two markers selectable in Agrobacterium. In addition to the usual kanamycin resistance, this example utilized a chloramphenicol resistance derived from pBR325. 5.1 Construction of a chloramphenicol resistance gene clone pBR325 is digested with HincII and blunt end ligated with HindIII linkers. The resultant preparation is digested with HindIII, religated, selected for chloramphenicol resistance cam , and labeled pKS 5 which will serve as a source of the HindIII BclI fragment which contains the cam gene Fig. 193. 5.2 Construction of a pBR322 clone of T DNA with a deletion and a cam gene A 9.2kbp linear DNA fragment is isolated from a complete HindIII and partial BamHI digest of p203 Fig. 31 . The fragment carrying the cam gene is isolated from pKS 5, mixed with the 9.2kbp linear fragment, ligated, transformed into E. coli, selected for chloramphenicol resistance, and labeled pKS oct.Cam203 Fig. 20 . pKS oct.Cam203 is a plasmid clone that can now be used to construct a number of deletion TL mutants of pTi159. It contains the right hand arm of Th and a resistance gene to the left of the right arm. Various left hand arms of TL can be attached to the left of the cam gene HindllI site . For instance, if plO2 is attached the deletion is 5.2kbp long and includes all of tms and tmr. If p103 is attached the deletion is 3.2kbp long and includes part of tms and all of tmr. See Fig. 2. pKS oct.Cam203 is digested with HindIII. p102 or p1O3 is digested withHindIII and the 2.2kbp or 2.0kbp T DNA fragment is isolated and ligated with the linearized pKS oct.Cam203, transformed, isolated yielding pKS oct.del II Fig. 2 or pKS oct.delI Fig. 22 respectively. These constructions are moved into A. tumefaciens by mating, homologous recombinations, and selection for chloramphenicol resistance. Alternatively, one moves the constructions into pRK290 by use of established methods by linearizing the construction carrying plasmids with BamHI and ligating into the BglII site of pRK290. Example 6 The Ti plasmid is mutated in this example by deleting the T DNA between the HpaI site in tmr to the Smal site in tml. The Ti plasmids that can be modifed include pTil59, pTiB6, pTiA66 and others. This construction is diagramed in Fig. 23.6.1 Isolation of the cam gene pKS 5 Fig. 19 is digested with HindIIl and,BclI. The smallest fragment is isolated after separation on an agarose gel, as taught in Example 5. 6.t Construction of a pBR322 clone of T DNA with a deletion The right hand arm of the T DNA deletion is constructed by insertion of BslII sites into the SmaI sites of p203 see Fig. 2 . p203 is digested bySmal, ligated with BglII linkers, digested with BglII, religated, and transformed into K802. In an alternative construction, BamHI linkers are substituted for BslII linkers and the appropriate BamHI partial digest products are isolated. The resultant plasmid is labeled p203 BglII, and is digested with BglII and HindIII. The large et3lII HindIII vector containing fragment is ligated with the chloramphenicol resistance fragment whose isolation was described in Example 6.1. Chloramphenicol resistance is selected for after transformation into K802.The resultant plasmid is labeled p2f Fig. 23 .6.3 Construction of left hand arm of T DNA deletion clone HindIII sites are inserted into the HpaI site of p202 by digestion withHpaI and ligation with HindIII linkers. After unmasking of the HindIII sticky ends by digestion with that restriction enzyme, the 2kbp HpaI fragment which now bears HindIII ends is isolated. HindIII digested HindIII ended HpaI fragment and transformed into K802. After a colony containing the desired construction is isolated, and characterized, the plasmid is labeled p3e Fig.24 .6.4 Construction of the T DNA deletion clone The left hand arm of the clone is obtained by purifying a 2kbp fragment of a HindIII digest of p3e by elution from an agarose gel after electrophoresis. p2f is cut by HindIII, treated with alkaline phosphatase, mixed with the 2kbp fragment, ligated, transformed into K802, and selected for chloramphenicol resistance. Plasmids are isolated from individual colonies and characterized by restriction mapping. A plasmid having the two arms in the desired tandem orientation is chosen and labeled pKS oct.delIII Fig. 25 . pKS Oct.delIII is moved into A. tumefaciens by mating, and homologous recombinants are selected by selection with chloramphenicol. Sunflower and tobacco roots and shoots are inoculated as described in other Examples and the tumors generated are tested for opines. Example 7 This example teaches a construction deleting tmr and tml that provides an alternative to that taught in Example 6.7.1 Construction of a chloramphenicol resistant fragment with a BglII site pBR325 is digested with HincII, blunt end ligated with BglII linkers, digested with BgIII, and religated Fig. 26 . Chloramphenicol resistance is selected for after transformation of either K802 or GM33. The resultant plasmid, pKS 6 serves as a source of the Bglfi BclI fragment carrying the cam gene.7.2 Construction of the tmr, tml deletion clone p203 is digested with HpaI and Smal. After blunt end ligation with BglII linkers, is it digested with BglII to expose the BglII sticky ends, religated, and transformed into K802. The desired construction is identified and labeled p2 Fig. 27 .7.3 Construction of the T DNA deletion clone pKS oct.delIIIa The BglII fragment carrying the cam gene is isolated from pKS 6 and ligated into BglII cut pZ. Chloramphenicol resistance is selected for after transformation of K802. The resultant plasmid is labeled pKS oct.delIIIa Fig. 28 , and is tested as described in Example 6.4.Example 8 The purpose of this construction is to provide an example of the mutation of the tmr locus only at the Hpa site by insertion of the chloramphenicol resistance gene. This gene is isolated as the BglII BclI fragment from pKS 6, and is ligated into the HpaI site of p203 after that site is changed to aBglII site.8.1 Conversion of the Hpa site to a BglII site p203 is digested with Hpa, ligated to BglII linkers, trimmed with BglII and religated. After transformation of K802, colonies are selected and screened by restriction mapping for insertion of BglII sites Fig. 29 . 8.2 Isolation of the cam gene pKS 6 is digested with X II and BclI. The smallest fragment is isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis.8.3 Construction of the mutated T DNA clone The modified p203 from Example 8.1 is digested with BglII, ligated with the purified cam gene from Example 8.2, and transformed into K802.Chloramphenicol resistance is selected for, and after isolation from the resistant transformants and characterization by restriction enzyme mapping the plasmid is labeled pKS oct.tmr Fig. 30 .Example 9 Regeneration in this example involves carrot tumors incited by an Ribased TIP plasmid and is effected essentially as described by M. D. Chilton et al. 1982 Nature 295 432 434.9.1 Infection with hairy root Carrot disks are inoculated with about 109 bacteria in 0.1ml of water.One to 1.5 cm segments of the ends of the roots obtained are cut off, placed on solid 1 1.5 agar Monier medium lacking hormones D. A. Tepfer and J. C.Tempe 1981 C.R. Hebd. Seanc. Acad. Sci., Paris 295 153 156 , and grown at 250C to 270C in the dark. Cultures uncontaminated by bacteria are transferred every 2 to 3 weeks and are subcultured in Monier medium lacking hormones and agar. 9.2 Regeneration of roots to plants The cultured root tissue described in Example 9.1 is placed on solidified 0.8 agar Monier medium supplemented with 0.36M 2,4 D and 0.72M kinetin.After 4 weeks, the resulting callus tissue is placed in liquid Monier medium lacking hormones. During incubation at 22 to 250C on a shaker 150 rpm for one month, the callus disassociates into a suspension culture from which embryos differentiate, which, when placed in Petri dishes containing Monier medium lacking hormone, develop into plantlets. These plantlets are grown in culture, and after hardening by exposure to atmospheres of progressively decreasing humidity, are transferred to soil in either a greenhouse or field plot. 9.3 Use of non hairy root vectors Ti based vectors which do not have functional tmr genes are used instead of the Ri based vectors as described in Examples 9.1 and 9.2. Construction of suitable deletions is described in Example 6, 7, and 8.Example 10 Regeneration in this example involves tobacco tumors incited by a Tibased TIP plasmid and is effected essentially as described by K. A. Barton et al. l983 Cell 32 1033 1043.10.1 Infection with crown gall Tobacco tissue is transformed using an approach utilizing inverted stem segments first described by A. C. Braun 1956 Canc. Res. 16 53 56. Stems are surface sterilized with a solution that was 7 commercial Chlorox and 80 ethanol, rinsed with sterile distilled water, cut into lcm segments, placed basal end up in Petri dishes containing agar solidified MS medium T.Murashige and F. Skoog 1962 Physiol. Plant. 15 473 497 lacking hormones.Inoculation is effected by puncturing the cut basal surface of the stem with a syringe needle and injecting bacteria. Stems are cultured at 250C with 16 hours of light per day. The calli which develop are removed from the upper surface of the stem segments, are placed on solidified MS medium containing 0.2 mg ml carbenicillin and lacking hormones, are transferred to fresh MScarbenicillin medium three times at intervals of about a month, and are tested to ascertain whether the cultures had been ridden of bacteria. The axenic tissues are maintained on solidified MS media lacking supplements under the culture conditions 25 C 16 her. 8 hr. light dark described above. 10.2 Culture of transformed tissue Clones are obtained from the transformed axenic tissues as described byA. Binns and F. Meins 1979 Planta 145 365 369. Calli are converted into suspensions of cells by culturing in liquid MS having 0.02 mg l naphtalene acetic acid NAA at 25 C for 2 or 3 days while being shaken at 135 rpm, and filtering in turn through 543 and 213 vm stainless steel meshes. The passed filtrate is concentrated, plated in 5m1 of MS medium containing 0.5 melted agar, 2.0 mg l NAA, 0.3 mg l kinetin and 0.4 g l Difco yeast extract at a density of about 8 x 103 cells ml. Colonies reaching a diameter of about lmm are picked by scalpel point, placed onto and grown on solidified MS medium having 2.0 mg l NAA and 0.3 mg l kinetin.The resulting calli are split into pieces and tested for transformed phenotypes.10.3 Regeneration of plants Transformed clones are placed onto solidified MS medium having 0.3 mg l kinetin, and cultured as described in Example 10.1. The shoots which form are rooted by putting them on a solid 1.0 agar medium containing 1 10 strengthMS medium salts, 0.4 mg l thiamine, lacking sucrose and hormones, and having a pH of 7.0. Rooted plantlets are grown in culture, hardened as described inExample 9.2, and are transferred to soil in either a greenhouse or field plot.10.4 Vectors used The methods described in Examples 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 are suitable Tibased vectors lacking functional tmr genes., Construction of suitable deletions is described in Examples 6, 7, and 8. these methods are also effective when used with Ri based vectors. The method described in Example 10.1 for infection of inverted stem segments is often useful for the establishment of TIP transformed plant cell lines.Example 11 Phaseolin is the most abundant storage protein approximately 50 of the total seed protein of Phaseolis vulgaris. Transfer of the functional phaseolin gene to alfalfa plants and translation of the phaseolin m RNA into stored phaseolin is of significant economic value since it introduces storage protein synthesis into leaf material to be used as fodder. Alfalfa is a valuable plant for the transfer and expression of the phaseolin gene because of its acceptance as cattle fodder, its rapid growth, its ability to fix nitrogen through Rhizobial symbiosis, its susceptibility to crown gall infection and the ability to regenerate alfalfa plants from single cells or protoplasts. This example teaches the introduction of an expressible phaseolin gene into intact alfalfa plants. 11.1 Construction of shuttle vector Alfalfa plants are regenerated from crown gall tissue containing genetically engineered Agrobacterium plasmids as described hereafter. In the first step we construct a shuttle vector containing a tmr and a tms T DNA mutant linked to a functional phaseolin gene. This construction is, in turn, linked to a nopaline synthetase promoter which has a functional neomycin phosphotransferase NPTII structural gene kanamycin resistance downstream reported by M. D. Chilton, et al. 18 January 1983 15th Miami WinterSymposium see also J. L. Marx 1983 Science 219 830 and R. Horsch et al. 18January 1983 15th Miami Winter Symposium . This type of construction is illustrated in Example 1.11.2 Transfer to Agrobacterium and plant cells The shuttle vector is then transformed by conventional techniques Example 14 into a strain of Agrobacterium containing a Ti plasmid such as pTi15955. Bacteria containing recombinant plasmids are selected and cocultivated with alfalfa protoplasts which are regenerated cell walls Marton et al. 1979 Nature 277 129 131 G. J. Wullems et al. 1981 Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci. USA 78 4344 4348 and R. B. Horsch and R. T. Fraley 18 January 1983 15Miami Winter Symposium . Cells are grown in culture and the resulting callus tissue is tested for the presence of the appropriate mRNA by Northern blotting Example 12 and for the presence of the appropriate proteins by ELISA tests see J. L. Marx 1983 Science 219 830 R. B Horsch and R. T. Fraley 18 January 1983 15th MiamiWinter Symposium .11.3 Plant regeneration Alfalfa plants are then regenerated from callus tissue by methods similar to those previously used by A. V. P. Dos Santos et al. 1980 Z.Pflanzenphysiol. 99 261 270 T. J. McCoy and E. T. Bingham 1977 Plant Sci.Letters 10 59 66 and K. A. Walker et al. 1979 Plant Sci. Letters 16 2330. These regenerated plants are then propagated by conventional plant breeding techniques forming the basis for new commercial varieties. Example 12 In all Examples, RNA was extracted, fractionated, and detected by the following procedures.12.1 RNA extraction This procedure was a modification of Silflow et al. 1981 Biochemistry 13 2725 2731. Substitution of LiCl precipitation for CsCl centrifugation was described by Murray et al. 1981 J. Mol. Evol. 17 31 42. Use of 2M LiCl plus 2M urea to precipitate was taken from Rhodes 1975 J. Biol. Chem. 25 80888097. Tissue was homogenized using a polytron or ground glass homogenizer in 45 volumes of cold 50mM Tris HCl pH8.0 containing 4 p amino salicylic acid, 1 tri isopropyl napthalene sulfonic acid, 10mM dithiothreitol freshly made and 10mM Na metabisulfite freshly made . An octanol was used as needed to control foaming. An equal volume of Tris saturated phenol containing 1 8hydroxyquinoline was added to the homogenate which was then shaken to emulsify and centrifuged at 20,000 30,0009 for 15 minutes at 40C. The aqueous upper phase was extracted once with chloroform octanol 24 1 and centrifuged as above. Concentrated LiCl urea solution was then added to a final concentration of 2M each and the mixture was left to stand at 2O0C for several hours.The RNA precipitate was then centrifuged down and washed with 2M liCi to disperse the pellet. The precipitate was then washed with 70 ethanol 0.3MNa acetate and dissolved in sufficient sterile water to give a clear solution. One half volume of ethanol was added and the mixture put on ice for 1 2 hour, after which it was centrifuged to remove miscellaneous polysaccharides. The RNA precipitate was then recovered and redissolved in water or in sterile no salt poly U buffer.12.2 Poly U Sephadex chromotography Two poly u Sephadex trademark Pharmacia, Inc., Uppsala, Sweden buffers were used the first with no salt containing 20mM Tris, 1mM EDTA and 0.1X SDS, and the second with 0.1M NaCl added to the first. In order to obtain a good match at A260, a 2x stock buffer should be made and the salt added to a portion. After adjusting the final concentrations, the buffers are autoclaved. Poly U Sephadex was obtained from Bethesda Research laboratories and 1gm poly U Sephadex was used per 100vg expected poly A RNA. The poly U Sephadex was hydrated in no salt poly U buffer and poured into a jacketed column. The temperature was raised to 600C and the column was washed with no salt buffer until the baseline at 260mm was flat. Finally the column was equilibrated with the salt containing poly U buffer at 400C. The RNA at a concentration of less than 500V9 ml was then heated in no salt buffer at 650C for 5 minutes, after which it was cooled on ice and NaCl added to a concentration of O.1M. The RNA was then placed on the column which was run at no more than 1ml min until the optical density had fallen to a steady baseline.The column temperature was then raised to 600C and the RNA was eluted with no salt poly U buffer. The RNA usually washed off in three column volumes. The eel muted RNA was then concentrated with secondary butanol to a convenient volume after addition of NaCl to 10mM, and precipitated with 2 volumes ethanol. The ethanol precipitate was dissolved in water and NH4acetate added to 0.1M, followed by re precipitation with ethanol. Finally theRNA was redissolved in sterile water and stored at 70 C. 12.3 Formaldehyde RNA gels and Northern blots The method used followed that of Thomas 1980 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 77 5201, and Hoffman, et al. 1981 J. Biol. Chem. 256 2597. 0.75 1.5 agarose gels containing 20mM Na phosphate pH 6.8 7.0 were cast. If high molecular weight aggregate bands appeared, then the experiments were repeated with the addition of 6 or 2.2M formaldehyde use stock solution of 36 to the gels. The formaldehyde caused visualization with ethidium bromide to be very difficult. The running buffer was 10mM Na phosphate pH 6.8 7.0 . Prior to electrophoresis, the RNA was treated with a denaturing buffer having final concentrations of 6 formaldehyde, 50 formamide, 20mM Naphosphate buffer and 5mM EDTA. The RNA was incubated in the buffer at 6O0C for 10 20 minutes. The incubation was terminated by addition of stop buffer. For a 201 sample, 4 1 50X glycerol, 1OmM, EDTA, 5mM Na phosphate and bromphenol blue were added. Submerged electrophoresis was used. The RNA was loaded before the gel was submerged, and run into the gel at 125mA for 5 minutes. The gels were then submerged and the current reduced to 30mA overnight or SOmA 6 8 hours . The buffer was recirculated and the electrophoresis was done in a cold room.12.4 Northern blots If the gel was to be blotted to detect a specific RNA, it was not stained a separate marker lane was used for staining. Staining was with 5pg ml ethidium bromide in 0.1M Na acetate and destaining was for several hours in 0.1M Na acetate. Treatment in water at 60 7O0C for 5 10 minutes prior to staining helped visualization. A gel to be blotted was soaked for 15 minutes in lOx standard saline citrate SSC 3 formaldehyde. If large RNA molecules were not eluting from the gel then a prior treatment in 50mM NaOH for 10 30 minutes helped to nick the RNA. If base treatment was used, the gel was neutralized and soaked inSSC formaldehyde before blotting. Transfer of the RNA to nitrocellulose was done by standard methods. Prehybridization was done at 420C for a minimum of 4 hours in 50 formamide, 10 dextran sulfate, 5x SSC, 5x Denhardt s, 100g ml denatured carrier DNA, 2011g ml poly A , 40mM Na phosphate pH 6.8 7.0 and 0.2 SDS.Hybridization was done by addition of the probe to the same buffer with overnight incubation. The probe was not used at more than approximately 5 x 105 cpm ml. After hybridization, the nitrocellulose was washed a number of times at 420C with 2x SSC, 25mM Na phosphate, 5mM EDTA and 2mM Na pyrophosphate followed by a final wash for 20 minutes at 640C in lx SSC. Best results were obtained if the filter was not dried prior to autoradiography and the probe could be removed by extensive washing in lmM EDTA at 640C.Example 13 Western blots, to detect antigens after SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, were done essentially as described by R. P. Legocki and D. P.S. Verma 1981 Analyt. Biochem. 111 385 392. Micro ELISA enzyme linked immuno sorbant assay assays were done usingImmulon 2 type plates with 96 wells by the following steps 13.1 Binding antibody to plates On Day 1, the wells were coated with 1 1000 dilution of antibody rabbit antiphaseolin IgG in coating buffer. 200pl well incubated at 370C for 2 4 hours. The plates were covered with Saran Wrap. Then the plates were rinsed three times with phosphate buffered saline Tween PBS Tween allowing a 5minute waiting period between each rinse step. Then 1X bovine serum albumin BSA was added to rinse and, after addition to the well, left to sit for 20 minutes before discarding. Rinsing was repeated five times more with PBSTween.13.2 Tissue homogenization The tissue was sliced up into small pieces and then homogenized with a polytron using lgm of tissue ml phosphate buffered saline Tween 2S polyvinyl pyrollidone 40 PBS Tween 2 PVP 40 . All samples were kept on ice before and after grinding and standard phaseolin curves were obtained. One standard curve was done in tissue homogenates and one standard curve was also done in buffer to check the recovery of phaseolin when ground in tissue. Following centrifugation of the homogenized samples, 10owl of each sample was placed in a well and left overnight at 40C. To avoid errors, duplicates of each sample were done. The plates were sealed during incubation. 13.3 Binding enzyme After the overnight incubation, the antigen was discarded and the wells were washed five times with PBS Tween allowing 5 minutes between each rinse. A conjugate rabbit anti phaseolin IgG alkaline phosphatase linked was then diluted 1 3000 in PES Tween 2 PVP containing 0.2 BSA and 15owl was added to each well followed by incubation for 3 6 hours at 370C. After the incubation, the conjugate was discarded and the wells were rinsed five times with PBS Tween, allowing five minutes between each rinse as before.13.4 Assay Immediately before running the assay, a 5mg tablet of p nitrophenyl phosphate obtained from Sigma and stored frozen in the dark was added per 10ml substrate and vortexed until the tablet was dissolved. 200V1 of the room temperature solution was quickly added to each well. The reaction was measured at various times, e.g. t O, 10, 20, 40, 60, 90 and 120 minutes, using natech Micro ELISA reader. When p nitrophenyl phosphate, which is less, was hydrolysed by alkaline phosphatase to inorganic phosphate and itrophenol, the latter compound gave the solution a yellow color, which id be spectrophotometrically read at 410 nm. The lower limit of detection less than 0.1ng. mple 14 Triparental matings were generally accomplished as described below other rations known to those skilled in the art are also acceptable. E. coliK802K290 based shuttle vector was mated with E. coli pRK2013 and an A. efaciens strain resistant to streptomycin. The pRK2013 transferred to the tittle vector carrying strain and mobilized the shuttle vector for transfer the Agrobacterium. Growth on a medium containing both streptomycin and the ig to which the shuttle vector is resistant, often either kanamycin or loramphenicol, resulted in the selection of Agrobacterium cells containing little vector sequences. A mating of these cells with E. coli pPHIJI sulted in the transfer of pPH1J1 to the Agrobacterium cells. pPHIJI and 290 based shuttle vectors cannot coexist for long in the same cell. Growth gentamycin, to which pPH1J1 carries a resistance gene, resulted in lection of cells having lost the pRK290 sequences.The only cells resistant streptomycin, gentamycin, and either kanamycin or chioramphenicol are those ich have Ti plasmids that have undergone double homologous recombination th the shuttle vector and now carry the desired construction. The strains listed in Table 2 all resemble their parent strains morphology. Similarly, the physiological characteristics of the sted strains are generally those of the parent strains, except .ere otherwise indicated in any of the foregoing description, ble 1 and the Figures. EMI40.1 Plasmid, Bacterium Strain, Etc. Made or Used Shown in Made Out Of References, Comments, or Synonyms in Example Figure pKS K83.8 3.3 11 pBR322, pKS 4, p3,8 pKS noply 2.1 9, 8 pCF44a, pRK290 pKS noplV KB3.8 num 3 2.2 8 pKS K83.8, pKS nopIV pKS nopIV KB3.8 num 5 2.2 9, 8 pKS KB3,8, pKS nopIV pKS oct.cam203 5.2 23, 20 pKS 5, p203 pKS oct.delI 5.2 22, 1 pKS oct.cam203, p103 pKS oct.delII 6.2 21, 1 pKS oct,cam203, p102 pKS oct.delIII 6.4 25, 1 p2f, p3e p2f rt. p3e 1ft.pKS oct.delIIIa 7.3 28 pKS 6, p2 pKS oct.tmr 30, 1 pKS 6, p203 pKS4 3.2 16 pBR322, pRZ102 pKS4 KB 3.3 17 pBR322, pKS4, p7.2 pKS4 3.0KB, pKS4 K83.0 pKS 5 5.1 19 pBR325 pKS 6 7.1 26 pBR325 EMI41.1 Plasmid, Bacterium, Strain, Etc. Made or Used Shown in Made Out Of References, Comments, or Synonyms in Example Figure pPH101 14 used to eliminate shuttle vector, same exclusion group as pPK290, carries gene for resistance to gentaycin, P.R. Hirsh 1978 Thesis, Univ. E. Anglia. pRK290 10 pCF44A, pKS nopIV, G, Ditta et. al. 1980 Proc. Natl. Acad. pKS nopV, pKS DS KB3.0 Sci. US to 77 7347 7357. pKS111, pRK290 R, p458 1, p490 8 14 pRK290 pRK2013 14 used to mobilize the shuttle vector, carrie tra genes that mobilize a mob site on pRK25 for conjugational transfer of pRK290 to Agrohaterium, D.H. Figurski D.R. Helinst 1979 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76 1648 1 pRZ102 3.2 ColEl, Tn5 pTiA66 1 octopine type plasmid, pTiA6 with a natural insertion in tms pTiC58 2u 8 nopaline type plasmid pTi15955 1 H EMI42.1 Plasmid, Bacterium, Strain, Etc. Made or Used Shown in Made Out Of References, Comments, or Symonyms in Example Figure p2 7.1. 27 p203 p2f 6.2. 23 pKS5, p203 BglII pKs oct.cam203 p2f rt p3e 1ft. pKS oct. deIIII p2f rt. p102 1ft. 6.b 1 p2f, p102 p24 rt. p103 1ft. 6.6 1 p2f, p103 p3e 6.3 24 pBR322, p202 p3.8 3.1 18,13 pBR322, 177.4 pJS3.8 p3.8 cDNA 4.1 18 pcONA31, p3.8 p7.2 3.1 15 pBR322. 177.4 pSS7.2, S.M.Sun et. al, 1981 Nature 289 32 41 p102 5.1 6.5 H def pBR322, pTi15955 p103 5.1 6.5 H def, M def pBR322, pTi15955 p202 6.3 24 pBR322, pTi15955 p203 1, 5, 6, 7, 23, 27, 29, pBR322, pTi15955 8 31 p203 BglII 6 23 p203 EMI43.1 Plasmid, Bacterium, Strain, Etc. Made or Used Shown in Made Out Of References, Comments, or Synonyms in Example Figure p350 1.1 pBR322 p376 1.2 3 p203, p350 p395 3 p203, p350 p458 1 1.2 pRK290, p376 p490 8 14 1.2 pRK290, p395 p496 1 1.3 7 pKS KB3.8, p458 1 p496 2 1.3 6 pKS KB3.8, p458 1 p499 6 7 1.3 4 pKS KB3.8, p490 8 14 p499 6 8 1.3 5 pKS KB3.8, p490 8 14 p529 2 1.4 pTil5955, p496 1 p529 7 1.4 pTi15955, p499 6 8 p529 8 1.4 pTi15955, p499 6 7 p529 11 1.4 pTi15955, p496 2 p539 1 1.4 pTiA66, p496 1 EMI44.1 Plasmid, Bacterium, Strain, Etc.Made or Used Shown in Made Out Of References, Comments, or Synonyms in Example Figure p539 2 1.4 pTiA66, p496 2 p539 5 1.4 pTiA66, p499 6 8 p539 6 1.4 pTiA66, p499 6 7Tn5 3.2 source of kan, kanamycin resistance 177.4 T.A. 14 Charon 24A phas, gene AG PVPh177.4, S.M. Sun et al, 1981 Nature 289 37 41.Charon 24A 3.1 bacteriophage vector based onColEl 3.2GM33 3.2 E. coliHB101 3.2, 4.1 E. coliK802 ubiquitous E. coli, W.B. Wood 1966 J. Mol. Biol, 16 118 pBR322 12 F. Bulivar et al 1978 Gene 2 95 1 pBR325 26,19 F. Bulivar 1978 Gene 4 121 136. pcONA31 18,14 pBR322 phas cONA equivalent to pMC6 pCF44A 2.1 8 pRK290, pTiC58 TABLE 2NRRL B 15372 A.tumefaciens p529 2NRRL B 15373 A.tumefaciens p529 8NRRL B 15374 A.tumefaciens p539 5NRRL B 15375 A. tumefacl.ens p539 9 NRRL B 15377 A.tumefaciens pC58 nop KB num 3NRRL B 15378 A.tumefaciens pC58 non KB num 5NRRL 8 15381 E.coli. K802 pKS 05 KB3.0NRRL B 15382 E.coli K802 pKS nopIV KB3.8 num 3NRRL B 15383 E.coli K802 pKS nopIV KB3.8 num 5NRRL B 15379 A.tumefactens p529 11NRRL B 15384 E.coli K802 p499 6 7NRRL B 15385 E.coli K802 p499 6 8NRRL B 15386 E.coli K802 p490 6 2NRRL B 15388 E.coli K802 p490 6 1NRRL B 15389 E.coli K802 p395NRRL B 15390 E.coli K802 p376