# Single lip rotary die.

## Abstract
Disclosed is a single lip tubular extrusion die in which a plurality of separate melt streams passing through respective annular flow paths are fed to a common annular flow passage extending axially to and terminating at a die orifice. The annu lar flow passage is connected to the annular flow paths through respective groups of holes spaced annularly about the die axis. Each group of holes has its openings to the common annular flow passage spaced a different radial dis tance from the die axis to allow the separate melt streams to be layered in the common annular flow passage and co extruded. One of the die lips is rotatable so that each melt stream produces a uniform layer of polymer in the extruded film while imparting a molecular orientation to the extruded film in the transverse direction TD . An extruder type seal be provided adjacent a gap between a rotating and stationary part of the die to force melt attempting to penetrate the gap into the annular flow passage.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A tubular extrusion die for producing a tubular extruded film from a plurality of melt streams comprising an outer die wall and an inner wall respectively defining outer and inner lips of an annular outlet orifice for the extrusion of a polymer melt film an annular flow passage extending axially of the die for supplying a polymer melt to the outlet orifice a plurality of annular melt inlet passages for supplying separate streams of a melt to the annular flow passage a plurality of groups of annularly arranged holes, each group being arranged around the inner wall and interconnecting a respective melt inlet passage with the flow passage and, means for rotating one of the inner wall and outer die wall relative to the other for imparting transverse molecular orientation of a melt extruded through the outlet orifice and a uniform layering of melt from the melt streams in the extruded film. 2. A tubular die as in Claim 1, wherein openings into tne annular flow passage for one of the groups of holes are arranged on a first common radius from a center of the die and openings into the annular flow passage for at least one of the other groups of holes are arranged on a second common radius from the center of the die which is different from the first common radius. 3. A tubular die as in Claim 2, further comprising respective melt inlets connected to each of the annular melt inlet passages. 4. A tubular die as in Claim 2, wherein the openings into the annular flow passage of one group of holes is shifted circumferentially and radially offset relative to the openings into the annular flow passage of another group of holes. 5. A tubular die as in Claim 2, wherein the openings of the holes into the annular flow passage of each group of holes are equally spaced. 6. A tubular extrusion die as in Claim 2, wherein three annular melt inlet passages are provided and three groups of holes are provided, each group of holes interconnecting a respective annular melt inlet passage with the annular flow passage, and the openings for each group of holes into the annular flow passage are arranged on a different common radius from the center of the die. 7. A tubular extrusion die as in Claim 1, further comprising a stationary cylindrical inner support member extending axially of the die, at least one extruder flight channel on the outer circumference of the cylindrical support member, the rotary wall defining one side of the annular flow passage, the opposite side of tne rotary wall from the annular flow passage surrounding the cylindrical support member to form, with the extruder flight channel, an extruder seal for forcing melt entering into a space between the cylindrical support member and rotary wall from the annular flow passage back into the annular flow passage. 8. A tubular extrusion die as in Claim 7, further comprising a central shaft connected to the rotary wall and means for rotating the shaft, the stationary member surrounding the shaft. 9. A tubular extrusion die comprising an outer die wall and an annular rotary wall defining between them an annular flow passage extending axially of the die and terminating at an outlet orifice at least one passage means for supplying a polymer melt to the annular flow passage a stationary cylindrical inner support member extending axially of the die containing at least one extruder flight channel formed like a screw thread on Its outer circumference and the annular wall having an inner periphery surrounding the extruder flight channel to form therewith an extruder seal for forcing a melt escaping into a space between the rotary wall and stationary member from the annular flow passage back into the annular flow passage. 10. A tubular extrusion die for producing a tubular extruded film from a plurality of melt streams comprising an outer die wall and an inner wall respectively defining outer and inner lips of an annular outlet orifice for the extrusion of a polymer melt film an annular flow passage extending axially of the die for supplying a polymer melt to the outlet orifice a plurality of annular melt inlet passages for supplying separate streams of a melt to the annular flow passage and, a plurality of groups of annularly arranged holes, each group being arranged around the inner wall and interconnecting a respective melt inlet passage with the flow passage, the openings into the annular flow passage for one of the groups of holes being arranged on a first common radius from a center of the die and the openings into the annular flow passage for at least one of the other groups of holes being arranged on a second common radius from the center of the die which is different from the first common radius, the openings of the one group of holes into the annular flow passage being circumferentially shifted and radially offset from those of another group of holes. 11. A method of forming a tubular extruded film comprising the steps of extruding at least one thermoplastic material through a tubular die, the tubular die comprising an outer die wall and an inner wall respectively defining outer and inner lips of an annular outlet orifice for the extrusion of a polymer melt film an annular flow passage extending axially of the die for supplying a polymer melt to the outlet orifice a plurality of annular melt inlet passages for supplying separate streams of a melt to the annular flow passage a plurality of groups of annularly arranged holes, each group being arranged around the inner wall and interconnecting a respective melt inlet passage with the flow passage and, rotating one of the inner wall and outer die wall relative to the other during extrusion of the thermoplastic material to impart a transverse molecular orientation to, and cause a uniform layering of, the thermoplastic material in the extruded film. 12. A method as in Claim 11, wherein the thermoplastic material is a high molecular weight high density polyethylene. 13 A method of forming a tubular extruded film comprising the steps of extruding at least one thermoplastic material through a tubular die, the tuoular die comprising an outer die wall and an inner wall respectively defining outer and inner lips of an annular outlet orifice for the extrusion of a polymer melt film an annular flow passage extending axially of the die for supplying a polymer melt to the outlet orifice a plurality of annular melt inlet passages for supplying separate streams of a melt to the annular flow passage and, a plurality of groups of annularly arranged holes, each group being arranged around the inner wall and interconnecting a respective melt inlet passage with tne flow passage, the openings into the annular flow passage for one of the groups of holes hoeing arranged on a first common radius from a center of the die and the openings into the annular flow passage for at least one of the other groups of holes being arranged on a second common radius from the center of the die which is different from the first common radius, the openings of the one group of holes into the annular flow passage being circumferentially shifted and radially offset from those of another group of holes, the thermoplastic material being formed into stripped layers by the hole openings with weld lines of adjacent layers of the thermoplastic material being obliquely oriented with respect to inner and outer surfaces of the extruded film. 14. A tubular extruded film comprising a plurality of layers of thermoplastic material forming the wall thereof, the plurality of material layers each having a substantially uniform thickness and extending at an oblique angle from one other surface of the wall to an opposite inner wall surface to form a stripped pattern of layers around the circumference of the film, the weld line between adjacent material layers having an orientation which oblique with respect to the outer and inner surfaces of the wall.

## Description
SINGLE LIP ROTARY DIE The present invention relates to a tubular extrusion die and, more particularly, to a single lip rotary tubular extrusion die for making a multi layer co extruded plastic film. It is known that a tubular extruded thermoplastic film has a high degree of molecular orientation in the machine direction D and a relatively low degree of molecular orientation in the transverse direction TD also known as cross direction CD , causing an extruded thermoplastic film to have a low mechanical strength in the transverse direction. It is also known that a tubular extruded thermoplastic film can be stretched, as by blown expansion, to improve the molecular orientation, structural integrity and strength properties in the transverse direction.However, the amount of transverse direction orientation which can be imparted to an extruded film by blown expansion is limited by the degree to which the film can be stretched without breaking. In general, it would be desirable to increase the amount of transverse direction orientation of a thermoplastic film prior to expansion to increase its strength in that direction. Attempts have been made to rotate a tubular die during extrusion to partially orient the molecular chains in a transverse direction to help offset the general machine direction orientation of the molecules which normally occurs during extrusion. One such attempt is illustrated in U. S. Patent No. 4,358,330. However, it is generally difficult to rotate an entire die requiring a complex and expensive die supporting structure. Moreover, since orientation inherently takes place outside of the die, there is a limit to how much transverse direction orientation can be imparted to the film because of the location of the frost line. Furthermore, too much twisting of the plastic melt will cause collapse of the tubular film, making this method of obtaining transverse direction orientation difficult to properly implement. Another problem typically associated with tubular extrusion dies is the attainment of a uniform distribution of melt circumferentially of the die which is required if a uniform extrusion of melt in the thermoplastic film is desired. Prior art dies require the use of high internal pressure drops to circumferentially distribute the melt about the die which in turn requires very close internal tolerances in the flow paths, making machining tolerances very critical and further adding to the cost and complexity of the die. These high pressure drops also limit the output of material through a die. It is also frequently desired to impart particular structural properties to an extruded film by layering melts of the same or different therooplastic materials in the extruded film.This too requires a complex die construction which must be machined to a high tolerance to ensure a uniform layering of the various melts in the extruded film. Prior art extrusion dies are also typically constructed to produce a single type of extruded film product from a particular thermoplastic material. For extrusion of different types of films, using different melts, different dies are required, which adds to the expense of an extrusion plant. Another problem particularly associated with dies which contain a rotary part is that they must be sealed at various locations between rotating and acn rotating parts to prevent the escape of a melt during extrusion. Seals capable of withstanding high extrusion pressures are particularly complicated and expensive. The present invention is directed to a unique die construction which is designed to improve upon and overcome the deficiencies noted above with respect to prior art dies. In particular, the present application is directed to a tubular extrusion die for producing a tubular extruded film from a plurality of melt streams comprising an outer die wall and an inner wall respectively defining outer and inner lips of an annular outlet orifice for the extrusion of a polymer melt film an annular flow passage extending axially of the die for supplying a polymer melt to the outlet orifice a plurality of annular melt inlet passages for supplying separate streams of a melt to the annular flow passage a plurality of groups of annularly arranged holes, each group being arranged around the inner wall and interconnecting a respective melt inlet passage with the flow passage and, means for rotating one of the inner wall and outer die wall relative to the other for imparting transverse molecular orientation of a melt extruded through the outlet orifice and a uniform layering of melt from the melt streams in the extruded film. Fig. 1 shows a partially cutaway side sectional view of a tubular extrusion die constructed in accordance with the teachings of the invention. Fig. 2 shows a sectional view of the Fig. 1 die taken along the line 2 2. Fig. 3 is a partly schematic representation of the Fig. 1 die showing the molecular orientation of a film produced therewith. Fig, 4 shows one side of a tubular film produced Dy the die of Fig. 1 and its molecular orientation. Fig. 5 shows a three layer polymer film produced by theFig. 1 die. Fig. 6 shows a perspective view of a portion of a unique three layer polymer film produced by the Fig. 1 die. The die includes an outer die body 15 having an interior peripheral wall 65 which defines one side of an annular flow passage 41. The other side of annular flow passage 41 is formed by an outer peripheral surface 67 of a rotary wall 45. The annular flow passage 41 terminates at a die orifice formed by an inner die lip 11 and an outer die lip 13 respectively provided at the rotary wall 45 and outer die body 15. A thermoplastic polymer melt is introduced into the annular flow passage 41 by a plurality of annular melt inlet passages 59a, 59b and 59c. These annular melt inlet passages are formed in a distribution plate 35 and a melt seal distribution block 37 and are respectively connected to melt inlet orifices 69a, 69b and 69c. The polymer melt flows into the annular flow passage 41 from the annular melt inlet passages 59a, 59b and 59c through respective groups of holes 6lea, 61D and 61c provided in the melt seal distribution block 37. These holes, which have openings into annular flow passage 41 equally spaced in each group, are shown in greater detail in Fig. 2. Each group of holes is on a fixed common radius from the die axis. The different groups of holes 6lea, 61b and 61c are each on a different radius, as shown in Fig. 2.In addition, the holes of one group are shifted, in a circumferential direction radially offset relative to the holes of another group, so that respective holes 6ova, 60b and 60c from all three groups align on line 62, as illustrated in Fig. 2. The arrangement of the groups 61a, 61b and 61c of holes in the melt distribution block 37 causes polymer melts respectively introduced at inlet orifices 69a, 69b and 69c to be layered in the annular flow passage 41 to thus form a layered co extrusion of the melts. The manner in which this layering is achieved, and the manner in which it is affected by die rotationS will be described in greater detail below. Distribution plate 35 includes a bearing 29 which provides thrust support and radial location of a rotary wall input shaft 17. The die further includes the rotary wall input shaft 17 in which is formed a gas passage 19 which extends throughout the entire axial length of the die. Gas passage 19 is used to blow and expand an extruded polymer film and is well known in the art. A sprocket 21 is attached to the rotary wall input shaft 17 so that the former drives the latter in rotation. A suitable driving source not shown is coupled to sprocket 21 by means of a driving chain. A bearing retainer 27 is provided which supports both the bearing 29 and the sprocket 21. Driving movement of shaft 17 by rotation of sprocket 21 in turn causes rotation of rotary wall 45. The stationary melt seal distribution clock 37 which surrounds shaft 17 is connected with the distribution plate 35. The melt seal distribution block 37 has a cylindrical upper portion which has on its outer circumferential periphery a screw thread 39 forming flight channels of an extruder type seal. The other part of the extruder type seal is formed oy the inner peripheral surface 73 of the rotary wall 45. The screw threads 39 and wall 73 are arranged such that rotation of rotary wall 45 by shaft 17 causes an extruder effect which forces any polymer melt tending to escape from the annular flow passage 41 through a gap 55 existing between the bottom of rotary wall 45 and top of melt seal distribution block 37 back into the annular flow passage 41. The extruder type seal is highly effective in preventing loss of polymer melt even when it is under consideraoly high pressure. A die orifice adjustment ring 47 is provided which is fixed to the outer die body 15 and is adjustable in position to properly set the width existing between the inner die lip 11 and outer die lip 13 about the entire die orifice. As noted, the holes which are provided in the melt seal distribution block 37 open into the annular flow passage 41 in the manner illustrated in Fig. 2. Each group of holes is respectively fed from one of the annular melt inlet passages 59a, 590 and 59c which are connected to respective melt inlet orifices 69a, 69b or 69c. As a result, different polymer streams respectfully emanate from each of the groups of noles 61a, 61b and 61c. This causes a layering of the polymer streams in the annular flow passage 41. If the Fig. 1 die is used as a straight tubular flow through die, without rotation of wall 45, the polymer streams which are combined in the annular flow passage 41 will cause an overlapping stripped polymer stream pattern in the extruded polymer film, as shown in Fig. 6.The weld line 81, or line of material juncture caused by the holes 61a, 61b, 61c, is not perpendicular to the film surface as is normally the case, but forms a long diagonal line through the thickness of film 85. That is, the stripped layers 87, 89, 91 are oriented obliquely with respect to the inner and outer surfaces of the film wall In this way the weld line is as strong as the surrounding material, showing no tear propensity. If rotation is imparted to rotary wall 45, the respective polymer streams will be uniformly distributed in flow passage 41 circumferentially of the die, but will form individual layers 87, 89, 91 within annular flow passage 41, which appear in the extruded film 85, as shown in Fig. 5. As a result, an extruded polymer film is produced having a number of layers of uniformly distributed melt corresponding to the number of melt streams introduced into annular flow passage 41. In the die illustrated in Fig. 1, three such flow streams will De present. However, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the number of flow streams hole groups and annular flow paths may be reduced or increased depending on the layering effect desired in the extruded film. It is found that even a moderate degree of rotation of rotary wall input shaft 17, such as approximately 2 RPM, is sufficient to produce the uniform layering of the polymer streams in the extruded film shown in Fig. 5. Because a uniform layering of the melt streams is produced upon rotation of the rotary wall 45, the layer ratios or thickness of the extruded polymer streams can be controlled solely by the flow rates of the polymer streams through the melt inlet orifices 69a, 690 and 69c. Additional, complex, internal die structures are not required to regulate layer thickness or distribute a melt circumferentially. The melt pressure in gap 55 which serves to load bearing 29 also has a tendency to cause melt to be squeezed out of the die and into the space between the stationary support member 49 and the inner peripheral surface 73 of rotary wall 45. If high melt pressures are involved, this would be a difficult leakage path to seal. To seal this path, the present invention employs the extruder type seal with the screw threads 39 provided on the outer peripheral surface of melt seal distribution flock 37 cooperating with the rotating inner peripheral surface 73 of the rotary wall 45. The inner peripheral surface, in effect, acts as the barrel of an extruder during rotation forcing any melt in the area between the stationary block 37 and movable wall 45 back through gap 55 and toward the annular flow passage 41.A seal 57 may be employed to prevent the passage of melt beyond the extrusion type seal only at times of no rotation. That is, when the extruder type seal is not effective. In addition to its ability to uniformly distribute a plurality of melt streams, the die as illustrated in Fig. 1 has several other unique characteristics associated with rotation of wall 45, one of which is the ability to impart a transverse direction TD orientation of the polymer molecules during the extrusion process, thus improving the TDSMD orientation balance of the extruded product. When rotation is employed, the extruded film has improved TD MD orientation balance, thereby reducing the required blow up ratio BUR to attain a particular desired transverse molecular orientation. The Fig, 1 die is particularly useful in extruding a high molecular weight material, such as high density high molecular weight polyethylene, as a desired MD TD molecular orientation balance can be attained without employing a high stalk extrusion process. rig. 3 is a schematic representation of a portion of the annular flow passage 41 of the Fig. 1 die along the line 3 3 Fig. 3 illustrates what happens to a polymer melt in the die during extrusion and upon rotation of the movable wall 45. A particular point in the extruded film shown as 75 in Fig. 3 during extrusion will move not only in a machine direction, but will also move in a circumferential direction of the die to a point illustrated as 75 .Likewise, a point 77, on an opposite side of the extruded film, will move during extrusion to a point illustrated as 77 . This directional movement causes a transverse direction molecular orientation in the extruded film. Fig. 4 illustrates the extruded tubular film 85 and shows the directional molecular orientation imparted to a wall thereof. Strength tests conducted on films produced with the Fig. 1 die with wall 45 rotating illustrate how a more balanced MD TO orientation in the walls of an extruded film is achieved. In these tests a single thermoplastic resin, either a low density polyethylene LOPE or a high density high molecular weight polyethylene HDMWPE , was extruded through annular flow passage 41 with varying rates of rotation of wall 45. A standard ncn high stalk extrusion was employed. For the LOPE the melt temperature was 2040C 400 F , the melt was extruded at the rate of 58.97 kg hr 130 lb hr and a blow up ratio of 2.2 was employed. For the HDHMWPE the melt temperature was 249or 480oF , the melt was extruded at the rate of 83.91 kg hr 185 lb hr and a blow up ratio of 3.1 was employed. The tests for the respective resins are summarized in the Table below. TABLE MO STRENGHT TD STRENGHT ELEMENDORF ELEMENDORF ROTATION GAUGE MAX KPA ELONG TEAR GAUGE MAX KPA ELONG TEARMATERIAL SAMPLE num RPM M MILS AT BREAK AT BREAK GM MIL M MILS AT BREAK AT BREAK GM MILLPDE A 0 38.4 1.51 22587 264 NO DATA 38.4 1.51 15775 656 NO DATA B 5 41.4 1.62 20381 269 40.4 1.59 17168 616 C 10 41.7 1.64 19822 368 40.9 1.61 18250 595 D 15 40.6 1.60 18836 401 43.7 1.72 17623 571 E 20 43.7 1.72 17864 474 45.0 1.77 16857 510HDHMWPE A 2.5 23.4 .92 58530 491 11.3 23.9 .94 28331 715 740 B 5 23.1 .91 55262 480 13.4 22.9 .90 34653 788 633 C 7.5 22.6 .89 55095 552 19.7 23.6 .93 35432 795 626 D 10 23.9 .94 48891 525 20.8 24.6 .97 36715 819 367 E 15 24.1 .95 46478 497 24.8 24.4 .96 35480 667 235 F 17.5 24.6 .97 47484 533 29.1 24.9 .98 34874 683 147 G 5 17.0 .67 65755 428 11.6 16.5 .65 31661 680 644 H 10 17.0 .67 61515 445 14.9 17.5 .69 29330 553 656 I 15 19.0 .75 50810 433 21.5 19.0 .75 31082 606 408 As illustrated in the above table, as the rate of rotation of rotary wall 45 increases, the strength properties of the extruded film in the MD and TD directions converge toward one another the MD strength decreasing, the TO strength increasing so that a greater degree of MD TO molecular balance is achieved in the extruded film.As also shown, a near balance of MDJTD molecular orientation can oe achieved with high rate of rotation. When different polymer melt streams are introduced into theFig. 1 die, the rotary movement of movable wall 45 causes a uniform distribution of the various melt streams in the extruded product without requiring any particular internal die structures to induce pressure drops to ensure uniform melt distribution. Thus, the melt streams can flow through the die with reduced melt pressure. Moreover, since the die illustrated in Fig 1 does not use particular internal structures to induce pressure drops, it can be used with many different types of polymer melts having different flow characteristics without difficulty. The Fig. 1 die can also be used to construct specialty type extruded films. For example, if the movable wall 45 is not rotated during extrusion, the stripped effects in the wall of the extruded film shown in Fig. 6 can be obtained. The extrusion type seal ensures that even with very high extrusion pressures, there will be no leakage of the melt from the die, thus allowing high extrusion pressures to be used. The die of the invention may be used to extrude many different thermoplastic materials including polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene and others.