# Process for preparing polyurethanes with the use of a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide as curative.

## Abstract
This invention includes polyurethane elastomer products formed by curing a mixture of an NCO terminated methane prepolymer and a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide, a cur able polyurethane composition, which gives improved adhe sives on curing, comprising an NCO urethane prepolymer and, as the curative therefor, a mixture of an aliphatic hydroxy compound and a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide, and a heat curable polyurethane composition comprising a blocked NCO prepolymer and a hydroxyl curative containing a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Polyurethane compositions consisting of A. A polyurethane elastomer product of an NCO terminated elastomer prepolymer formed from a polyol selected from the class consisting of polyhydroxy functional polyethers and poly esters cured with a curative containing a polyhydroxyalkyl phosphine oxide curative of the formula EMI29.1 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cyclo alkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 to 3,B. A curable polyurethane composition comprising an NCO terminated urethane prepolymer from a polyol selected from the class consisting of polyhydroxy functional polyethers and poly esters and a polyhydroxy aliphatic curative system, the improvement of incorporating in the curative system from about 10 to about 60 based on the weight of the curative system of a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI29.2 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cyclo alkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 to 3, andC. A heat curable polyurethane coating composi tion comprising a blocked urethane NCO pre polymer and a hydroxy curative at least part of which is a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI30.1 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is an alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer to 2 or 3. 2. A polyurethane elastomer product of an NCO terminated elastomer prepolymer formed from a polyol selected from the class consisting of polyhydroxy functional polyethers and polyesters cured with a curative containing a polyhydroxyalkyl phosphine oxide curative of the formula EMI30.2 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 to 3. 3. A curable polyurethane composition comprising an NCO terminated urethane prepolymer from a polyol selected from the class consisting of polyhydroxy functional polyethers and polyesters and a polyhydroxy aliphatic curative system, the improvement of incorporating in the curative system from about 10 to about 60 based on the weight of the curative system of a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI30.3 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 to 3. 4. A heat curable polyurethane coating composition comprising a blocked urethane NCO prepolymer and a hydroxy curative at least part of which is a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI30.4 16. The composition of claim 4 wherein the phosphine oxide is EMI31.1 17. The composition of claim 4 wherein the phosphine oxide is HOCH2CH2CH2 3P0 18. A cured polyurethane adhesive from the curable composition of claim 4. 19. The cured polyurethane adhesive from the curable composition of claim 19. 20. The cured polyurethane adhesive from the curable composition of claim 20. wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is an alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 or 3. 5. The elastomer product of claim 2 wherein theNCO terminated prepolymer is formed by reacting the polyol with toluene diisocyanate. 6. The elastomer product of claim 2 wherein theNCO terminated prepolymer is formed by reacting the polyol with 4,4 diphenylmethanediisocyanate. 7. The elastomer product of claim 2 wherein the curative is the compound EMI32.1 8. The elastomer product of claim 2 wherein the curative is a mixture of a major amount of EMI32.2 and a minor amount of EMI32.3 9. The elastomer of claim 2 wherein the curative is the compound HOCH2CH2CH2 3P0 10. The composition of claim 3 wherein a portion of the hydroxyl curative is a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide. 11. The composition of claim 3 wherein the sole hydroxyl curative is a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide. 12. The composition of claim 12 wherein the polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide is tris 3 hydroxypropyl phosphine oxide. 13. A coating produced by heat curing the coating composition of claim 3. 14. A coating produced by heat curing the coating composition of claim 12. 15. A coating produced by heat curing the coating composition of claim 13.

## Description
POLYURETHANE COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING A POLYHYDROXYALKYLPHOSPHINE OXIDE This invention relates to polyurethanes, particularly to improved polyurethane compositions and their preparation for use as coatings, elastomers and adhesives. Polyurethanes comprise a well known class of commercial polymers, the characteristic structural unit of H which is the urethane linkage, N C O O . Broadly, such polymers are produced by condensing a polyisocyanate with a multifunctional hydrogen donor such as an organic polyol, commonly a polyester or polyether having free hydroxy groups. Both cellular and solid forms of the polymer can be obtained, depending on the choice of reaction conditions. To produce cellular or, what is more familiarly referred to as polyurethane foam, the socalled one shot process is normally employed. In this procedure, all of the ingredients are combined simultaneously in the presence of a blowing agent and the resultant mixture transferred to a mold or form and allowed to foam up and solidify.Flexible foams are obtained by including as one of the components, a small quantity of water which hydrolyzes some of the isocyanate to generate carbon dioxide which acts as the blowing agent rigid foams are produced using halogenated hydrocarbons as the blowing agent. Non cellular polyurethanes are normally made without a blowing agent.In the prepolymer or two component method of manufacturing non cellular polyurethanes, the technique with which the invention is generally concerned, an excess of polyisocyanate is first reacted with the polyol to form an intermediate prepolymer. The latter is then contacted with an active hydrogen compound commonly referred to as a curative which reacts with residual NCO groups to engender a solid polyurethane system. Amines and hydroxy compounds are the usual curatives.An outline of polyurethane chemistry is set forth in the following scheme EMI2.1 tb SEP OCN SEP SEP R SEP SEP NCO SEP SEP HO SEP SEP R SEP SEP OH tb SEP Di or SEP polyiso SEP Di or SEP polyhydroxy tb SEP cyanates SEP functional SEP poly tb SEP ether SEP ether SEP or SEP polyester tb Water SEP to SEP SEP Halohy SEP Prepolymer tb generate SEP SEP drocarbon SEP s SEP Chain tb CO SEP blowing SEP agent SEP SEP extender tb SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP Curative tb Flexible SEP Rigid SEP Elasto SEP Coating SEP Adhesive tb Foam SEP Foam SEP mer tb Cellular Non CellularBy varying R, for example, aliphatic or aromatic, the molecular and or equivalent weight of the reactants, functionality of active hydrogen donors, for example, polyols and curatives as well as the nature of other minor though important ingredients such as catalysts, surfactants and the like, a large variety of products having widely differing properties can be realized. One important line of polyurethane products is known as elastomers. These are substantially linear polyurethanes having varying degrees of rubberlike properties. They are usually formed by reacting excess diisocyanate with linear long chain polyols, such as a polyether or polyester, and curing the resulting NCO terminated prepolymer with a low molecular weight diamine, diol, triol or their admixtures. In the manufacture of polyurethane elastomers made by the prepolymer or two component method, one of the standard curatives for toluene diisocyanate TDI based prepolymers is MOCA, the acronym for the name of the difunctional amine 4,4 methylene bis 2 chloroaniline . However, because of possible carcinogenicity, the production and availability of MOCA has been considerably curtailed. Other amine curatives have been used such as Polacure 740M trimethylene glycol di p amino ben zoate It is also known to produce polyurethane elastomers using low molecular weight polyhydroxy compounds as curatives. An example of such curatives, particularly for commercial purposes, is a blend, by weight, of 6 trimethylolpropane TMP and 94 1,4 butanediol BD . Although generally satisfactory as a curative for MDI based prepolymers, TMP BD gives soft, very low strength elastomers with TDI prepolymers compared to corresponding MOCA cured polymers.Other curatives which have been reported include mixtures of 1,4 butanediol and butynediol for RIM injection molded polyurethane elastomers and hydroquinone di beta hydroxyethyl ether HQEE for sheet molded polyurethane elastomers SMUC . Curable adhesives are another valuable class of products which have been developed based on polyurethane resin technology. A curable polyurethane adhesive with which the present invention is particularly concerned, consists of a separate twocomponent system, one of which contains an NCO terminated prepolymer and the other of which is a low molecular weight aliphatic dihydroxy curative compound, 1,4 butanediol being commonly used. A trihydroxy compound, such as trimethylolpropane TMP , may also be included as a modifier but the quantity is normally rather small, lest excessive cross linking occur. A further valuable and important use of polyurethanes is in the manufacture of coatings. Although numerous formulations have been developed over the years, polyurethane coatings normally fall within the five general types which have been classified by theAmerican Society for Testing Materials ASTM . Except for ASTM Type I, all are derived by curing a reactive precursor material in the form of an NCO terminated prepolymer. The latter is formed by condensing an excess of a polyisocyanate with an organic polyol, commonly a polyester or polyether having free hydroxy groups curing of the NCO terminated prepolymer is effected by reacting it with a hydrogen donor, for example, moisture, polyhydroxy compound or amine to give the final polymer product.ASTM Type II is a one package moisture curable urethane prepolymer having a free NCO content of around 3 to 4 , at a non volatile level of about 40 to 50 . The remaining isocyanate reacts with atmospheric moisture after it has been applied to give a film containing a large percentage of urea groups. ASTM Type III is a prepolymer having a high level of NCO which is tied up with a phenol to prevent subsequent reaction at ambient temperature.This type of material is known as a blocked urethane and is extensively used in coatings which are baked after application. The phenol splits off at temperatures in excess of about 350 F, after which curing of the coating proceeds very rapidly owing to the vigorous reaction between the available NCO and the hydrogen donor which could not occur as long as the NCO was combined with the phenolic blocking agent. ASTM TypeIV is a two package urethane, one of which contains theNCO prepolymer, the other of which contains a highly reactive diamine plus other ingredients to promote flow, bubble release and other minor components. ASTMType V is also a two package formulation where the first component is the NCO prepolymer and the second component is a polyol. Of the ASTM classified urethane, Type III is emerging as the most important in the coating field.It is a single package, prepolymer system which provides many of the advantages of two component urethanes while devoid of the mixing and proportioning problems associated with two component materials. Blocked urethanes are moisture insensitive, stable over long periods, and generally easy to transport, use and handle, requiring only that they be protected from undue heat. Although coatings must exhibit various chemical and physical properties, for example, resistance to marring, cracking, solvent attack, moisture penetration, discoloration, corrosion, U.V. breakdown strength and hardness are also important. However, good adhesion to a substrate is perhaps the most fundamental requisite. In accordance with the present invention, polyurethane compositions have been developed embracing new classes of elastomers, adhesives and coatings which exhibit excellent chemical and physical properties. The polyurethane elastomers of the invention can be produced by curing an NCO terminated prepolymer derived from a polyhydroxy polyether or polyester or mixtures in which the curative contains a polyhydroxy alkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI5.1 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is an alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 or 3. In general, polyurethane elastomers of the invention are prepared generally in the known manner except that the herein polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxides are used in place of the prior art curatives. Typically, the NCO prepolymer and the curative are each degassed, mixed together and cured at about 80 C post curing is usually at about 1000C. The prepolymers employed in the practice of the invention are known chemical entities, the description and preparation of which are extensively documented in treatises dealing with urethane elastomer technology.Such intermediates are obtained by condensing an excess of an organic diisocyanate or polyisocyanate with various polyhydroxy containing polyesters and polyethers.The percentage of NCO available in the resulting isocyanate terminated prepolymer will vary with the amount of excess isocyanate employed. Solvent free prepolymers are commonly made up at an available NCO percen tage of about 3 to 20 . In the well known treatise The Development and Use of Polyurethane Products byE. N. Doyle McGraw Hill Book Company at page 35, the characteristics of some prepolymers derived from polyfunctional polyethers and polyesters in which the diisocyanate is TDI are as follows 1. TDI polyester, with 2.5 equivalent weight excess TDI, with the polyester having an equivalent weight of 810 lightly branched polyethylene succinate . 2. TDI polyether, with 2.5 excess TDI, with the polyether having an equivalent weight of 325 polyether diol . 3. TDI polyether, with 2.5 TDI, with the polyether having an equivalent weight of 980 polyoxypropylene triol . 4. TDI polybutadiene homopolymer, with 3.0 excessTDI. The equivalent weight of the homopolymer is 1,150. 5. TDI plus 0.75 equivalent weight of polyester with equivalent weight of 280, plus 0.25 equivalent weight polyether, with an equivalent weight of 960.3.0 excess TDI was used. The polyester was propylene fumarate and the polyether a diol. 6. TDI plus 0.75 equivalent weight of polyoxypropylene glycol triol, with an equivalent weight of 1,000, plus 0.25 equivalent weight hydroxy ethyl acrylate. 2.5 excess TDI was used. The hydroxy ethyl acrylate had an equivalent weight of 116. 7. TDI plus 0.75 equivalent weight of polyoxypropylene glycol same as in No. 6 plus 0.25 equivalent weight sorbitol. Excess TDI was 3.0. Exemplary phosphine oxides within the ambit of the formula aforesaid include HOCH2CE2CH2 3PO EMI7.1 Polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxides are a known class of chemical compounds which are described in the technical literature. They may be prepared by first forming the intermediate phosphine by reacting an excess of an olefinic compound with a phosphine compound in the presence of a free radical catalyst. The phosphine adduct is then contacted with an oxidizing agent such as hydrogen peroxide to give the phosphine oxide.Generally speaking, polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxides are hydrolytically very stable. The polyurethane adhesive systems aforesaid can be realized by including as part of the low molecular weight dihydroxy curative, a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide of the formula EMI8.1 wherein R is alkylene of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, R1 is an alkyl of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl of 6 to 12 carbon atoms and n is an integer of 2 or 3. Exemplary phosphine oxides within the ambit of the formula aforesaid include HOCH2CH2CH2 3PO EMI8.2 EMI9.1 In preparing the polyurethane adhesive compositions of the invention, an NCO terminated prepolymer is mixed with a low molecular weight, aliphatic polyhydroxy curative compound in the normal manner of preparing a polyurethane curable adhesive composition except that there is included therewith a quantity of a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide aforesaid and the mixture placed between support plates and allowed to cure. Normally, curing is facilitated by heating at about 2000C. The plates are pressed together during curing pressure does not usually exceed about 100 lbs m2 45.4Kg m2 . After curing for about one hour, the adhesive joint is conditioned at room temperature for about 24 hours. So far as can be ascertained, the extent of improved bonding of the cured adhesive depends on the quantity of polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide in the polyurethane curable adhesive formulation. Generally speaking, the polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide will run about 10 to about 608 by weight of the total hydroxy curing system. Moreover, the combination of an aliphatic diol and trihydroxyalkylphosphine oxide has superior adhesion compared with the prior art aliphatic diol triol combination such as the commercial mixture of 1,4 butanediol BD and trimethylolpropane TMP . The polyurethane curable adhesive compositions of the invention are particularly useful and valuable in that on curing they bond extremely well to aluminum.In some instances, bonding to aluminum was practically the same as on steel. This is unusual and unexpected as good adhesion to aluminum surfaces is recognized in the adhesive art as often being a problem. It has now been discovered that the enumerated desiderate aforesaid can be realized to a marked degree from heat curable NCO prepolymer hydroxy curative com position in which at least part of the hydroxy curative is a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide and the provision of said heat curable composition and the heat cured polyurethane coating produced therefrom constitutes the principal object and purpose of the invention. Other objects and purposes will become manifest subsequently. In carrying out the invention, polyurethane coatings are preferably produced in the known manner of using and formulating ASTM Type III urethanes by applying to a substrate a mixture of a blocked NCO prepolymer and a hydroxy curative containing a trishydroxyalkylphosphine oxide, and the so treated substrate baked to drive off the blocking agent and promote curing. In the case of phenolic blocked urethane prepolymer, baking is usually effected at temperatures around 350 C 350 C. Blocked urethanes are well known chemical entities, the description and preparation of which are extensively documented in the patent and technical literature. Generally, an NCO prepolymer is first prepared by reacting excess diisocyanate with a hydrogen donor, for example, polyether or polyester polyol, until maximum reaction is reached as indicated by the desired available NCO percentage after which the blocking agent is introduced to completely block the remaining NCO. To insure complete stability, most formulations include 1 to 2 excess blocking agents. To the blocked prepolymer is then added the equivalent amount of hydrogen donor, for example, amine or polyhydroxy compound to give the heat curable, blocked NCO prepolymer composition. For further details on blocked urethanes and their use in coating formulations, reference is made to the well known treatise, The Development and Use of Polyurethane Products by F N.Doyle published by McGraw Hill, Inc. 1971 . Urethane based coatings may be employed using conventional plant procedures such as dipping, electro static spray, corona electric spray, airless spray, flow or curtain coating and other known techniques. Reference is now made to the following examples and procedures. Examples Of Polyurethane Elastomer Compositions Example 1 To 127.5 g of Vibrathane 8011 a diisocyanate terminated prepolymer of TDI and a polyester polyol NCO 3.3, equivalent weight 127.5, sold byUniroyal , was added 10 g of xylene and the mixture heated to 850C and degassed. The so treated prepolymer was then reacted with 10.5 g of a mixture consisting by weight of 15 tris 3 hydroxypropyl phosphine oxide THPPO and 85 sec. butyl bis 3 hydroxypropyl phosphine oxide BflPPO . The mixture was poured onto a metal sheet previously treated with a silicone release agent and then degassed under vacuum. The cast sheet was post cured for 24 hours at 1100C. Example 2 An NCO prepolymer was prepared by adding in portions 2 moles of melted MDI 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate to 1 mole of Polymeg 1000, previously degassed and dried overnight at 900C at 1 mm Hg. Polymeg is a difunctional polyether having an equivalent weight of 502.2 and sold by BASF Wyandotte. After the addition, the reagents were allowed to react for one hour at no higher temperature than about 800C. The resulting prepolymer was kept under dry N2 until ready for use. The prepolymer aforesaid was mixed at room temperature with sec. butyl bis hydroxypropyl phosphine oxide at an NCO OH ratio of 1.05 in the presence of dibutyltin dilaurate as a catalyst. The blended components were poured into a preheated mold at 1000C and held for one hour under 5000 lb. force and then 0 post cured in an oven at 120 C overnight. The re sulting elastomer was conditioned in a desiccator for one week prior to testing. Prior Art MOCA The procedure of Example 1 was repeated using 13 g 958 of stoichiometric of MOCA 4,4 methylenebis 2 chloroaniline as the curative. Prior Art TMP BD The procedure of Example 1 was repeated using, as the curative, 4.27 g of a mixture of 6 TMP trimethylolpropane and 948 BD 1,4 butanediol . Elastomer Test Procedures The polyurethane elastomers of the examples were evaluated using the following standard test procedures a. Shore hardness ASTM D 2240 75 Three pieces of elastomer slabs were compiled and the hardness measured by Durometer D. b. Stress Strain Properties ASTM D 412 75 The tensile modulus, tensile strength at break and ultimate elongation were measured by Instron TableModel 1130 at room temperature. The test results of the examples are summarized inTable I. Examples Of Polyurethane Adhesive Compositions An NCO terminated prepolymer was prepared by adding in portions 2 moles of melted MDI 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate to 1 mole of Polymeg 1000, previously degassed and dried overnight at 90 0C at I mmHg. Polymeg is a difunctional polyether having an equivalent weight of 502.2 and sold by BASF. After the addition, the reagents were allowed to react for one hour at no higher temperature than about 80 C. The resulting prepolymer was kept under dry N2 until ready for use. A curable adhesive composition was prepared by mixing the prepolymer aforesaid with a polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide curative of the invention in the presence of dibutyltin dilaurate as a catalyst. The thoroughly blended mixture was spread on the surface of 0.5 x 1 degreased metal strips by means of a spatula.Another metal strip was placed with its clean side in contact with the coating. The resulting assembly was inserted in a press, clamped under pressure of not more than about 100 lbs m2 45.4Kg m2 and heated at 2000C for one hour and then allowed to condition at room temperature for 24 hours. Using the procedure aforesaid, various adhesive formulations of the prepolymers and curative were prepared and tested. These examples and the shear strength data are set forth in Table I. Testing of Adhesives Lap Shear Strength ASTM D 3164 a. Testing machine was adjusted in such a way that breaking load for the specimens fell between 15 85 of full scale. b. A rate of loading 8.27 9.65 KPa min. was applied. c. Speed of crosshead 0.05 in min.Failing stress was calculated as pounds force in2 area Turning to Table II, it will be observed that where 1,4 butanediol BD is used in combination withBHPPO alone or with THPPO, Examples 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10, excellent adhesion to steel and aluminum was achieved.With higher amounts of BHPPO7 adhesion increased Examples 4, 5 and 6. Improved adhesion likewise resulted with increased amounts of THPPO. The best adhesion resulted when both BHPPO and THPPO were both used in the curative system. Example 10 is particularly noteworthy in that the adhesion to aluminum was excellent, virtually as good as to steel. Example 11, the THPPO triol of the invention was replaced with the prior art control TMP triol. The adhesion to aluminum dropped to 2011.0 kPa compared with 3734.2 kPa of Example 9 containing THPPO triol. The prior art with BD and TMP compositions a. and b. give much lower shear strengths than were obtained with the polyhydroxyalkylphosphine oxide curatives of the invention. Examples Of Polyurethane Coating CompositionsIdenti Chemical Mol. Eq. Supfication Composition Wt. Wt. plierHydroxylComponentsTHPPO Tris 3 hy 224.0 74.66 FMC droxypropyl Corp. phosphine oxideDesmophen Hydroxy termi 215.00 Mobay 650 nated polyester Chem. resinCrelan Hydroxy termi 1133.30 MobayU 502 nated poly Chem. ester resinEpoxy Resin Epoxy hydroxy 1000.0 500.00 ShellEpon 1001 terminated resinTrimethylol Trifunctional 134.0 44.60 propane hydroxyl com pound I socyanate ComponentsCrelan Hard Blocked aro 672.0 336.0 Mobay ener U T matic diiso Chem.m.temp. 600C cyanate adduct Crelan Hard Blocked ali 730.4 365.2 Mobay ener U I phatic diiso Chem. cyanate adductOtherComponentsCatalyst T 12 Dibutyltin dilaurate M T DBTDL Chem. Inc.Modaflow Monflow agent santoSilicone Union fluid L Car522 flow agent bide MER Solvent Methylethylketone The examples of the invention and the prior art were formulated using one of the following mixing procedures. Mixing Procedures A. Dibutyltin dilaurate DBTDL catalyst is dissolved in methylethylketone ,MEW and the solution sprayed over a pulverized blend of the NCO and OR components. The solvent is removed after which the solidified residue is ground in a ball mill for 24 hours. A solids fraction passing through a 150 mesh sieve was collected and the powder sprayed on grounded metal panels with an electrostatic spray gun and the resulting layer baked at 2000C. B. The OH components, DBTDL catalyst and flow agent are mixed and melted to give a homogeneous blend.After solidifying, the blend is crushed and mixed with the NCO component. The solids are transferred to a ball mill and ground for 24 hours. A fraction passing a 150 mesh sieve was sprayed with an electrostatic spray gun on grounded metal panels which were baked at 2000C. C. The catalyst DBTDL , flow agent, pulverizedNCO and OH components are melted together at 900C and mixed until a homogeneous blend is obtained. On cooling to room temperature, the solidified mass is crushed and ground in a ball mill for 48 hours. A portion passing through a 150 mesh sieve is collected.This fraction is sprayed on grounded metal panels with an electrostatic spray gun and baked at 2000C. D. Dibutyltin dilaurate DBTDL catalyst, OH andNCO components and modaflow flow agent are mixed at room temperature in a blender for 2 minutes. The solids are then crushed and ground in a glass bowl by hand for 10 to 20 minutes. The ground powders are sifted through a 150 mesh sieve and the sifted portion sprayed on grounded metal panels with an electrostatic spray gun and the resulting coating baked at 200 0C. Coating Test Procedures 1. Appearance of powder is observed visually determining smoothness of flow, orange peel on the surface, etc. 2. Mar proofness is determined by just scraping under pressure with a reverse nail over the surface of the film. If no residual scraping mark was left, the film is considered to be mar proof. 3. Discoloration after baking is determined visually. 4. Solvent Resistance, ASTM D 2792 60. Small cotton balls are placed on the coated panel and were soaked with a solvent. The films are checked every hour for softening, swelling, blistering and solubility. 5. Impact Strength. Impact test is run onBonderite 37 steel panels according to ASTM D 2794 69.A Gardner impact test is used containing a 4 lb. steel rod, 1 2 diameter male punch and 9 16 diameter die. 6. Sward Hardness. The Sward hardness is measured with a Sward rocker on glass panels, according to ASTM D 1684. Example 11 Equiva Equiv. lents of Parts by inNCO Component NCO or OH Weight OH Comp.Aromatic blocked 1.05 100.0 diisocyanate,Crelan Hardener U THydroxyl ComponentTHPPO 0.64 14.0 64.0Desmophen 650 0.23 14.0 23.0Epoxy Resin 1001 0.13 21.5 13.0 100.00Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 00.7Modaflow flow agent 2.0 MER 40.0Curing Conditions Baking Temp. Time 2000C, 6 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking yellowing 3. Solvent Resistance a. Toluene no effect b. Isopropanol no effect Joule In. lb.4. Impact Strength a. Direct 5.2 46 b. Reverse 2.9 26 5. Sward Hardness 44 Mixing procedure A was followed Example 12 Equiva Equiv. lents of Parts by inNCO Component NCO or OH Weight OH Comp.Aliphatic blocked 1.05 100.00 diisocyanate, Crelan Hardener U I Hydroxyl ComponentsTHPPO 0.64 12.83 64.0Desmophen 650 0.23 12.83 23.0Epoxy Resin 1001 0.13 17.12 13.0 100.0Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.75Modaflow flow agent 2.00 MER 40.00Curing Conditions Baking Temp. Time 2000C, 10 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor 3. Solvent Resistance a. Toluene no effect b. Isopropanol no effect c. Ethyl Acetate no effect Joule In. lb.4. Impact Strength a. Direct 8.6 76 b. Reverse 5.2 46 5. Sward Hardness 42 Mixing procedure A was followed Example 13 Equiva Equiv. lents of Parts by inNCO Component NCO or OH Weight OH Comp. Aliphatic blocked 1.05 100.0 diisocyanate, CrelanHardener DI Bydroxyl ComponentTHPPO 0.70 14.0 70.0Desmophen 650 0.25 14.0 25.0Epoxy Resin 1001 0.05 7.0 5.0 100.0Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.5 Modaflow flow agent 1.50Curing Conditions Baking Temp. Time 2000C, 15 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor 3. Solvent Resistance a. Toluene no effect b. Isopropanol no effect c. Ethyl Acetate no effect Joule In. lb.4. Impact Strength a. Direct 6.8 60 b. Reverse 3.4 30 5. Sward Hardness 50 Mixing Procedure B was followed Example 14 Equiva Equiv. lents of Parts by inNCO Component NCO or OH Weight OH Comp.Aliphatic blocked 1.050 100.00 diisocyanate, Crelan Hardener U I Hydroxy ComponentTHPPO .775 17.03 77.5Desmophen 650 .175 10.22 17.5Epoxy Resin 1001 .050 6.81 5.0 100.0Other Additives T 12, catalyst 0.50Modaflow flow agent 2.00Curing Conditions Baking Temp. Time 2000C, 10 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Solvent Resistance a. Toluene no effect b. Isopropanol no effect c. Ethyl Acetate no effect 3. Impact Strength 2. Direct 11.3 100 b. Reverse 9.0 80 4. Sward Hardness 64 Mixing procedure C was followed In following examples 15 17 and prior art formulations a and b mixing procedure D was used. Example 15 Equivalent of Parts byNCO Component NCO or OH WeightAliphatic blocked 1.05 25.56 diisocyanate, Crelan Hardener, U IHydroxyl ComponentTEPPO 0.50 2.56Crelan U 502 0.40 30.42Epoxy Resin 1001 0.10 3.33Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.15Modaflow flow agent 0.28 0.8 Curing Conditions Baking Temp. and Time 2000C, 10 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor Joule In. lb.3. Impact Strength a. Direct 18.1 160 b. Reverse 18.1 160 4. Sward Hardness 36 5. Solvent Resistance TimeSolvent Hr. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7Toluene Soft Soft Soft Soft Soft Soft Soft Isopro No No No No No No Soft panol EffectEthyl Soft BlisAcetate tering In the following Examples 16 17, mixing procedureD was followed. Example 16 Equivalent of Parts byNCO Component NCO or OH WeightAliphatic blocked 1.05 50.00 diisocyanate CrelanHardener, U IHydroxyl ComponentTHPPO 0.7500 7.81Crelan U 502 0.1875 27.70Epoxy Resin 1001 0.0625 4.07Other Additives T 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.375Modaflow flow agent 1.000 2.5 Curing Conditions Baking Temp. and Time 2000C, 10 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor Joule In. lb.3. Impact Strength a. Direct 13.6 120 b. Reverse 5.6 50 4. Sward Hardness 38 5. Solvent Resistance TimeSolvent Hr. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7Toluene No No Soft S S S S Effect Isopropanol No No No No No No NoEthyl Acetate Soft Blis tering Example 17 Equivalents of Parts byNCO Components NCO or OH WeightAliphatic blocked 1.05 30.00 diisocyanate, CrelanHardener, U IHydroxyl ComponentTHPPO 1.00 6.01 Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.225Modaflow flow agent 0.60 lQ.08 Curing Conditions Baking Temp. and Time 2000C, 10 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor Joule In. lb. 3. Impact Strength a. Direct 5.6 50 b. Reverse 1.7 15 4. Sward Hardness 36 5. Solvent Resistance TimeSolvent Hr. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7Toluene No No No Soft S S SIsopropanol No No No Soft S S SEthyl Acetate Soft S S S S S S Prior Art a Equivalent of Parts byNCO Component NCO or OH WeightAliphatic blocked 1.05 20.00 diisocyanate, CrelanHardener, U ICrelan U 502 0.80 47.28Epoxy Resin 1001 0.20 5.22Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.15Modaflow flow agent 0.40 0.88 Curing Conditions Baking Temp. and Time 2000C, 12 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b. Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor Joule In. lb.3. Impact Strength a. Direct 18.1 160 b. Reverse 18.1 160 4. Sward Hardness 38 5. Solvent Resistance TimeSolvent Hr. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7Toluene No Soft S S S S S EffectIsopropanol No No No No No No NoEthyl Acetate Soft Blis tering Prior Art b Equivalents of Parts byNCO Component NCO or OH WeightAliphatic blocked 1.05 50.000 diisocyanate, CrelanHardener, U IHydroxyl ComponentTrimethylolpropane, 0.80 4.653TMP Crelan, U 502 0.20 29.554Other AdditivesT 12, catalyst DBTDL 0.375Modaflow flow agent 0.630 1.8 Curing Conditions Baking Temp. and Time 2000C, 12 min.Testing Results 1. Appearance of Film a. Flow good b Mar proofness good 2. Discoloration After Baking Does not discolor Joule In. lb.3. Impact Strength a. Direct 9.0 80 b. Reverse 5.6 50 4. Sward Hardness 38 5. Solvent Resistance TimeSolvent bur. 1 2 3Toluene Soft Dissolving DIsopropanol Soft Dissolving DEthyl Acetate Soft Dissolving D TABLE I Elastomer Properties Hardness Tensile Elongation ModulusExample Shore A MPa kPa 1 50 17.24b 700 2 33 3.33 640.63 806.4 100 1108.8 200 1411.2 300 PRIOR ART MOCA 80 6260 393 TMP BD 48 523a 714 6 94 a Jaw break b Sample pulled out of jaws TABLE II Steel AluminumExample Formulation Strip Strip 3 1,4BD, eq. wt. 80 BHPPO by eq. wt. 20 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.25 0.25 BHPPO, g 0.06 0.06 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 4309.2 3519.1 4 1,4BD by eq. wt. 60 BHPPO by eq. wt. 40 polyurethane, prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.22 0.22 BHPPO, g 0.15 0.15 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 4757.4 4550.5 5 1,4BD by eq. wt. 40 BHPPO by eq. wt. 60 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.17 0.17 BHPPO, g 0,26 0.26 NCO OH 1 10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 5458.3 5171.1 6 1,4BD by eq. wt. 90 THPPO by eq. wt. 10 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 l,4BD, g 0.26 0.26 BHPPO, g 0.03 0.03 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 3171.6 1578.9 TABLE II continued Steel AluminumExample Formulation Strip Strip 7 1,4BD by eq. wt. 80 THPPO by eq. wt. 20 polyurethane, prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.24 0.24 THPPO, g 0.06 0.06 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 4688.4 4274.7 8 1,4BD by eq. wt. 70 BHPPO by eq. wt. 20 THPPO by eq. wt. 10 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.22 0.22 BHPPO, g 0.06 0.06 THPPO, g 0.03 0,03 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 5108.9 3734.6 9 1,4BD by eq. wt. 60 BHPPO by eq. wt. 20 THPPO by eq. wt. 20 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.20 0.20 BHPPO, g 0.07 0.07 THPPO, g 0.07 0,07 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 5309.9 5102.1 TABLE II continued Steel AluminumExample Formulation Strip Strip 10 l,4BD by eq. wt. 70 BHPPO by eq. wt. 20 TMP by eq. wt. 10 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.21 0.21 BHPPO, g 0.06 0.06 TMP, g 0.03 0.03 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 3874.8 2011.2 PRIOR ART a 1,4BD, eq. wt. 100 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.27 0.27 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 3016.5 2011.2 b 1,4BD by eq. wt. 90 TMP by eq. wt 10 polyurethane prepolymer, g 5.00 5.00 1,4BD, g 0.24 0.24 TMP, g 0.03 0.03 NCO OH 1.10 1.10 Lap Shear, strength, kPa 2011.0 1436.5BD 1,4 butanediolTMP trimethylolpropaneTHPPO tris 3 hydroxypropyl phosphine oxideBHPPO sec. butyl bist3 hydroxypropyl phosphine oxide