# Fire protective structural component.

## Abstract
A fire protective material 24 comprising a a porous, non metallic, inorganic carrier material of at least approxi mately 5 millimeters in thickness, b said material being at least partially impregnated with an intumescent first retarding substance, and a fire resistant component 12 which com prises a a porous, non metallic, inorganic carrier material of at least approximately 5 millimeters thickness, at least par tially impregnated with intumescent fire retardant substance sandwiched between two surfaces of said component.

## Claims
Claim 1. A fire protective material comprising a a porous, noll metallic, inorganic carrier material of at least approximately 5 millimeters in thick ness, b said material being at least partially impregnated with an intumescent fire retarding substance. 2. The fire protective material according to claim 1, wherein the carrier material is rock wool or aluminium silicate. 3. Fire protective material according to claim I or 2, wherein the carrier material is fibrous. 4. The fire protective material of any of claims 1 to 3, having a thickness of at least 25 mm, preferably at least 50 mm, and at most 100 mm, preferably at most 75 yi uílo 5. The fire protective material of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the carrier material is substantially impregnated. 6. The fire protective material of any of claims I to 5, wherein the intumescent material is generally evenly dispersed throughout the pores pf the carrier material. 7. The fire protective material of any of claims I to 6, wherein the intumescent material serves as a binder, preferably for the fibers. 8. The fire protective material of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the carrier material is in the form of a batt or of a blanket. 9. The fire protective material of any of claims 1 to 8, produced by the process of depositing the intumescent material on the carrier material, preferably the fibers, prior to manufacture of the carrier material. 10. A fire resistant component which comprises a fire protective material, of any of clams 1 to 9 sandwiched between two surfaces of said component. 11. The component according to claim 10, wherein the component is a door and said surfaces are the front and rear surfaces of said door.

## Description
PIRE PROTE LvE MATERIALBackground of the Invention A continuing need exists to find new, better and or more economical means to improve the resistance to fire of buildings, their contents, nnd other structures and objects which can be damaged by fire. These include ships, mobile homes, electrical circuits, shipping containers, record protective equipment and the like. While the fire itself, i.e., combustion pyrolysis is obviously the primary danger, the heat transfer from a Elre alrcady in progrcss to areas which nt that given moment might not be directly subjected to flames, is in many situntions equally cause of great concern. There are many types of fires and their progress may differ in many ways, but they all have three basic elements in common. These three elements are indispensable for practically. all fircs a fuel subject to combustion b heat sufficient to start the ignition and support combustion of the given fuel c oxygen.If any of the above indispensable elements is cut off, a fire stops because, in principle, the process of combustion cannot continue. Most, if not all methods of suppression of fire are based on this premise. However, confining or even extinguishing a fire does not elizninate the danger in many situations because heat from the fire might have been transferred to adjoining areas, and reached a temperature at which materials start to burn, or at which an explosion can pecur The invention of this application makes. possible great improvements in both of the above aspectsj in many applications it prevents or reduces spread of fire, and reduces thermal conductivity and transfer of heat, thus contributing to the safety of life and property in cases of fire. . Efforts to provide fire resistant materials are in many situations mandated by the building codes and other authorities having jurisdiction, as well as by insurance and legal considerations. Many known materials and means of fire protection which presently satisfy existing regulations and requirements, provide less than optimal protection.For instance, fire doors, which are often used to safeguard scape routes such as fire stairs, are sources of considerable potential danger. Typically, If one side of a metal fire door is exposed to fire, the unexposed side of the door may become very hot, even red hot, thus generating considerable radiant heat, which not only might ignite combustible materials on the unexposed side, but might make corridors or stairways so hot that they are unusable as escape routes. Duc to the present limitation in the statc o UIe art , our I3uilding Codes and testing sturdards either do not require the measurements of temperatures on the unexposed side of fire doors, or, for most severe applications, the temperatures on the unexposed side are measured only during the first 30 minutes of the test of such fire door. This is due to the fact that building codes can require no better than the nstate of thc artt technology. Generally, the requirements are that the temperature rise on the unexposed side of the door does not exceed 4500 and for most critical fire doors . .the temperature rise does not exceed 250 F during the first thirty minutes. There is, therefore, a need for substantial improvements in developing fire resistant materials which, preferably, should provide also a lower thermal conductivity in case of fire. Various means of protection against The effects of fire and high temperatures have been attempted. In one approach, liquid fire retardants are applied as coatings to wooden doors and the Hke But the benefit of this approach is very limited if such door is subjected to the test in accordance with the ASTME 152 Standard UL lOB . A study by the National Bureau of Standards Doors asBarriers to Fire and Smoke , H. Shoub and D. Gross, Building Science Series 3, NBS, 1966 shows that a hollow door with hardboard facings, coated with two coats of an intumescent fire r etardant coating will burn through in 11 minutes and 15 second.An identical door coated with a gloss enamel not fire retardant will burn through in 5 minutes, 10 seconds. ktumescent liquids have also been applied to metal and other lattices, as described in Fryer, et al. Patent No. 4,292,358. These coated lattices are usually used singly or in multiples, to protect objects from a distance. The Fryer patent discloses theconcept of using coated lattices on the inside of a ddor, but this technique has not met with commercial acceptance due to its obvious deficiencies it produces a door of only quite limited fire endurance, and the cost of producing such lattices and fitting them into fire doors is cxtremely high.Also, the meshes tend not to absorb sound, so that a mesh insulted door is a poor noise insulator and, therefore, an inadequate door. The con wept of using intumescent conted, temperature resistant glass lattices in walls is disclosed in Billing, et al. Patent No. 4,069,075. Another previous fire protective approach has been to insulate fire doors and other objects with an inorganic material such as rock wool . however, this approach provides less than desired protection since the thermal conduetivities of rock wool and similar materials, although less thnn those of metals, arc, nevcrtileless, considerable. Moreover, when such insulating materials are of low density and or fibrous and porous, like rock wool , heat travels readily through the insulation to the unexposed side of the object. Summary of the Invention The invention provides a material which, through inexpensive and of light weight, imparts substantially improved fire and heat rcsistance properties to structural and bther components in which it is used.In par ticular, use of the material of the invention results in a drastic decrease in heat transmitted, as reflected in lower temperatures and a lower rate of increase in temperature on the side of the material which is not exposed to fire. The invention comprises a non metallfc, fibrous or porous, inorganic material, preferably rock wool , which is treated by being substantially impregnated with a substance which intumesces upon exposure to elevated temperatures. The material of the invention may, in many cases, be sandwiched between two faces of a component structure, e.g., the front and back surfaces of a door. Upon exposure to elevated temperatures, the coating substance in the crevices of the fibrous material or in the pores intumesces and fills voids, pores and crevices with an intumescent char. The low heat conductivity and the closed cell structure of the intumescing material reduces the passage of oxygen and of heat. That is, heat conduction is impeded by filling up of the air space in the fibrous and or porous material with the Intumescent cellular structure, which is of very low thermal conductivity. The inorganic material serves as a carrier body for the intumcsccnt substance and as an insulator. That is, it fills the hollow arca of thc structure e.g., a door so that the structure can continue to function to insulate against hcnt, cold and noise. The combination of the insulation carrier and the intumcscent material is an advantageous One in that the solid, inorganic, non metallic insulator protects rearwardly disposed portions of the intumescent material from the effects of heat.It is believed that the outstanding fire and heat protective characteristies of the invention result in part from the fact that. the rearward portions of the intumescent material protected by the rock wool or other material of the invention are available to resist fire and heat if they persist through the forward aspects of, for example, the door. The usefulness of the material of the invention is not limited to doors. For example, as mentioned above, the material of the invention can be used in construction of fire resistant record protection equipment. Magnetic tapes, floppy discs and related computer records can be ruined if exposed to the temperatures aboye 125 0F. The material of the invention can be used to line portable boxes which protect against destruction of the discs by such temperature incrcase, and yet can be carried from desk to desk. Another advantageous use of the material of the invention can occur in attics and the like, where flexible fire insulation material is needed. In many localities, the building cedes or local laws require that attics be subdivided with a material which affords fire protection.Because of the irregular shapes of attic ceilings, it may be advantageous to use the flexible treated rock wool or other material prepared according ta the invention which can be readily adapted to irregular shapes. Similar advantages and uses can be found in ships, boats and other vessels, mobile homes, transportation containers, storage structures for storage of heat sensitive or hazardous materials, and the like. A large number of other applications are possible, including filing cabinets, safes, elevators, floors, ceilings and walls, wall partitions, electrical circuits, etc. For a more complete understanding of the above and other features and advantages of the invention, rcfcrcnce should be mnde to the following dctnilcd description of the preferred cmbodimcnts and to the accompanying drawing.Description of the Drawing Fig. 1 is a, cross section of a door insulated with the fire protective material of the invention.Detailed Description of the Invention The preferred embodiment comprises, a door 12, which is, insulated in accordance with the invention. The door comprises a wooden base 14 and n wooden upper portion 16. The upper portion meets and is coextensive with the metal fire stop the rebat on the door frame not shown . The door has two wooden panels, a first panel 18 and a second panel 20. Within the panels is an arca 22 which is hollow prior to insertion of the material of the invention.The area 22 is filled with a sheet 24 of rock wool treated with an intumescent liquid such as Albert DS Clear available from the American Vamag Company, of 1061 Linden Avenue Ridgefield, New Jersey 07657. Typical dimensions for the door would be a total thickness of 1 3 4 inches and a thickness of 1 8 inch each for panels 18 and 20. As may be necessary when a non self supporting material, such as rock wool, is employed, the treated sheet is secured at its top and sides by stapling not shown , so that if one part of the sheet loses its integrity, the rest of the sheet remains in position Other means to secure the sheet will, of course, be apparent to one skilled in the art. Upon exposure to elevated temperatures, the intumescent material foams up. As a result of the presence of the inorganic carrier material and the intumescing material, the heat conductance of the door is dramatically less than otherwise and the door greatly resists the passage of heat, flame and smoke. The carrier material of the invention is at least partially impregnated with with the intumescent material. Preferably, the carrier material is substantially or completely impregnated. Many, techniques for treating the carrier material with intumescent substance, such as coating, spraying, dipping, soaking, may be used provided the carrier is at least partially impregnated. It is important that the intumescent substance be applied to the carrier material itself as distinguished from adjacent walls, etc in order to achieve the maximum effect of The invention.It is preferred that the carrier matcrial be impregnated in such a way that the intumescent material is more or less cvenly dispersed throughout the pores andzor crevices of the carrier materiaL It is particularly preferred in this respect to obtain a regular dispersal of a substantial amount of the intumescent substance within the carrier material by impregnating the carrier material with the intumescent substance. Impregnation of the carrier material in accordance with the invention can be accomplished in several ways. One way is to dip the carrier material into liquid intumescent material and pcrmit it to soak until it is impregnated. A sccond approach, which can be used where the carrier material is suffilcicntly nexible, is to coat the surface of the carrier material with the intumescent substance and compress the carrier materiaL The compressed portion of the carrier material is then released, thereby drawing th intumesccnt liquid into the carrier material, as with a sponge. The intumescent material may also be deposited on the fibers rock wool, for instance , prior to manufacture of a blanket or batt.Rock wool and similar fibrous inorganic materials are usually sold in blankets or batty. To keep the fibers together, a cetain amount of binding resin is generally used during manufacture of the batt or blanket. The intumescent substance may he deposited on the fibers prior to manufacture of the batt, etc. instead of the binding rcsin, thereby fulfilling the dual role of intumescent and binder. It is prcterred, for impregnation, that the carrier material be fibrous, as wen as porous2 like rock wooL Rock wool is particularly preferred because it is Iight and inexpensive. By porous it is meant that the material is capable of absorbing liquids.The term Xorouµ includes fibrous material capable of absorbing Liquid Non fibrous, inorganic, non metallic materials may also be used, provided that the carrier material its porous enough to absorb the intumesc,ent materiaL Other carrier materials suitable for utilization in accordance with the invention include aluminum silicate blankets and other porous and or fibrous ceramic materials comprised of fibrous glass. Appropriate thickness for the carrier matcrinl would be at least nbout 5 millimeters, preferably 10 millimeters and most .suitably 25 millimeters and could range up to 3 or 4 inches or more. The fact that the instant carrier material is porous andlor fibrous distinguishes the material of the invention from lattices, such aPtlisse described in the Fryer and Billing patents, mentioned above. Morcovcr, lattices and other materials having large voids do not provide adequate insulation and intumescent protective effeets. In its prc ferred ,embodiment, the material of the invention is snrdwiiied between two faces of the structural or protective component of which it is a part.Suitable structural components in, which the invention may be used include doors, including metal and wooden doors , walls, ccilings, floors, and airplane parts. Rock wool and other flexible lightweight fibrous nonmetaIlie inorganic carriers are used with particular advantage in airplanes where it is important to minimize the weight of components, and in doors where flexibility and compressibility of the carrier material permits the construction of lighter weight and greatly improved fire resistant material Indeed, some previous insulated doors, particularly in Europe, were thicker than the standard door, thereby requiring that other components, e.g., the door frames be custom made at considerable expense to conform to the thickness of the fire door.In contrast, two 1 inch thick sheets of treated rock wool prepared in accordance with the invention fit conveniently within a hollow wooden door of standard 1 3 4 inch total thickness to provide exceptional fire preventive characteristics. While the preferred embodiment involves sandwiching the carrier material between two surfaces of the component, e.g., the door, the treated carrier material may be self supporting in certain circumstances. It may be particularly appropriate for the carrier material to be self supporting where the material is inherently rigid, e.g., a board. v Protective components for which the material, of the invention would be useful include elevators, safes, safe deposit boxes and filing cabinets. The intumesccnt material must be such that nt elevated temperaturcs it foams up. The foamcd material must have a low heat conductnncc. Together with the non metallic, inorganic, carrier material, the foamed material impedes for substantial periods of time the passage of heat nnd or flame through the component. Known intumescent materials useful in the practice of the invention include, but are not limited to, the products classified and tested by Underwrite s Laboratories under the names DS Clear, PR Clear, PR White and DS 11 Clear which are available from the American Vamag Company 1061 Linden Acnuer Ridgefield1 New Jersey 07657.Example Two insulated wooden doors Door A and Door B were constructed and tested in accordance with ASIWM standard E 152 . Each door comprised a front and a back standard Lauan plywood panel iZ8 inch thick, having a hollow area irebetween. The hollow area of each door was filled, as described below. The total thickness of each door was the standard 1 3L4 inches The doors were both mounted on steel frames. A A sheet of rock wool having a thickness slightly in excess of 1 1 2 inches and impregnated according to the invention with PR Whiten intumescent liquid w squeezed into the hollow of Door A, thereby filling it. The hollow of Door B was similarly filled with a 1 112 inch thick sheet of rock wool, except that the rock wool was not treated with any intumescent substance.Thus, the two door assemblies were identical, except that Door A contained treated rock wool in accordance with the invention, whereas Door 3 contained untreated rock wool and, therefore, was not prepared in accordance with the inventions The doors were both sealed with plywood and mounted on steel framer Each test assembly was positioned against the face of the furnace. TwÏ thermocouples were positioned on the unexposed face of each door to measure the temperature rise there. The burners were ignited and the temperatures within the furnace were made to follow the temperature time curve of ASTM standard E 119. The results are as follows Average Temp Average Tcmp 2 Thermocouples 2 Thermocouples Elapsed Avg Furnace Unexposed Side Unexposed Side Time Tcmp Door A Door B 5 10000F 15 1399 F 123 F 412 F 18 Flames Burn through Test Halted 30 1550 F 1580F 40 1613 0F 168 0F 45 16380F 198 0F 50 16610F 167 0F 55 1681 F 166 F 57 174 F 58 60 1700 F Flames begin to burn through Exact furnace temperatures are for test of Door A. Temperatures for test of Door B were comparable and also in accordance with ASTM Standard E 119. Test halted due to failure of glue holding the plywood together, not due to burn through. Note that at 57 minutes, before the failure, the temperature of the unexposed side was 174 F which is far less than the 412 F temperature prior to burn through of, Door B. As is evident from this comparative test, use of the material of the invention results in drastically improved protection from the affects of heat and fire. This is reflected in two critical features I the time it takes for fire breakthrough to occur is markedly extended frond 18 minutes in Door B to at least 57 minutes in Door A and 2 the rate of temperature rise over this period of time is quite low. The extension of the period of protection to 57 minutes with the relatively inexpensive material of the invention is exceptional. Indeed, the period can casily be extended by better gluing to 60 minutes. In fact, it is believed that protection of 90 minutes or more are achievable. This will be apparent in view of the low temperature for the unexposed side of Door A at 57 minutes which, of course, is substantially less than the temperature at which flames began to burn through the untreated rock wool Door B. The low temperature increases revealed by the test of Door A over a period of almost one hour are no less remarkable. The average temperature increase in 57 minutes assuming initial room temperature of 72 F is only 1020F. It will be noted that at 45 minutes the average temperature for the unexposed side of DoorA was 198 0F but at 50 minutes the temperature was 1670F. It is believed that this decrease in temperature is due to the effect mentioned earlier, wherein forward aspects of the coated rock wool protect the rearward aspects from high temperature, sothat eventually when elevated temperatures reach the rearward portions1 the Thtumescent liquid will still be available to foam and provide protection It should be understood, of course, that the specific form of the invention herein illustrated and described is intended to be representative only, as ccrtain changes may be made therein without departing from the clear teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly, reference should be made to the following appended claims in determining the full scope of the invention. The amount of intumescent material with which the carrier material is impregnated should be sufficient that upon exposure to elevated temperatures in case of fire the intumescent material foams up and fills the voids, pores and crevices with an intumescent char.