# Method of separating domestic waste.

## Abstract
A method of separating domestic waste comprises the steps of shredding the waste, separating the shredded waste in a first wind sifter 2 into a heavy fraction and a light fraction which comprises mainly paper, plastics sheet and organic material, screening the light fraction so as to obtain a through flow mainly comprising organic material and an overflow mainly comprising paper and plastics sheet, and separating the overflow in a second wind sifter 7 into a heavy fraction comprising mainly paper and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet. To provide a clean plastics fraction suitable for re use, the light fraction from the first wind sifter 2 is screened on a coarse screen 5 having a screen opening size smaller than the average dimension ofthe plastics sheet in the waste after shredding so that the throughflow mainly com prises organic material and smaller pieces of paper and the overflow comprises mainly plastics sheet and larger pieces of paper and cardboard, and, after separation of the overflow from the coarse screen in the second wind sifter 7 into a heavy fraction comprising mainly larger pieces of paper and card board and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet contaminated with light paper, this light fraction from the second wind sifter is wetted and then cleaned in a plastics afterseparator so as to provide a first fraction which contains clean plastics sheet and a second fraction which contains wet paper fibres. To form a combustible fuel the heavy fraction from the first wind sifter is separated by screening into an inert fraction and a combustible fraction, and this combustible fraction is combined with the heavy fraction from the second wind sifter.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Method of separating domestic waste, comprising the steps of shredding the waste, separating the shredded waste in a first wind sifter into a heavy fraction and a light fraction which comprises mainly paper, plastics sheet and organic material, screening the light fraction so as to obtain a throughflow mainly comprising organic material and an overflow mainly comprising paper and plastics sheet, and separating the overflow in a second wind sifter into a heavy fraction comprising mainly paper and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet, characterised in that the light fraction from the first wind sifter is screened on a coarse screen having a screen opening size smaller than the average dimension of the plastics sheet in the waste after shredding so that the throughflow mainly comprises organic material and smaller pieces of paper and the overflow comprises mainly plastics sheet and larger pieces of paper and cardboard, and in that after separation of the overflow from the coarse screen in the second wind sifter into a heavy fraction comprising mainly larger pieces of paper and cardboard and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet contaminated with light paper, this light fraction from the second wind sifter is wetted and then cleaned in a plastics after separator so as to provide a first fraction which contains clean plastics sheet and a second fraction which contains wet paper fibres. 2. Method according to claim 1 wherein the screen opening size of the coarse screen is in the range 30 80 mm. 3. Method according to claim 2, wherein the screen opening size of the coarse screen is in the range 40 50 mm. 4. Method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the coarse screen is a shaking screen. 5. Method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the throughflow from the coarse screen is separated on a fine screen into an overflow comprising mainly paper and a throughflow comprising mainly organic material. 6. Method according to claim 5 wherein the fine screen is a rotary screen. 7. Method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the heavy fraction from the first wind sifter is separated by screening into an inert fraction and a combustible fraction, and this combustible fraction is combined with the heavy fraction from the second wind sifter to form a fuel. 8. Method according to claim 7 as dependent on claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the said fuel also includes the overflow from the said fine screen.

## Description
METHOD OF SEPARATING DOMESTIC WASTE The invention relates to a method of separating domestic waste, comprising the steps of shredding waste, separating the shredded waste in a first wind sifter into a heavy fraction and a light fraction which comprises mainly paper, plastics sheet and organic material, screening the light fraction so as to obtain a throughflow mainly comprising organic material and an overflow mainly comprising paper and plastics sheet, and separating the overflow in a second wind sifter into a heavy fraction comprising mainly paper and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet. The method described above is disclosed in De Ingenieur , Vol. 86, 1974, pp 131 133. In this method, the most important products of separation are a paper fraction, a plastics sheet fraction and the organic material which is extracted from the light fraction from the first sifter. This method is however primarily directed at recovering a paper fraction for re use in paper industry. In particular, the organic material is first screened from the light fraction by a rotary screen, and then the remaining mixture of paper and plastics sheet is separated in a second sifter. The paper fraction thus obtained can then either be pulped in or for a paper mill, or can be dried and pressed into bales. The plastics sheet fraction is still. considerably contaminated with paper. At present the possibilities of selling the recovered paper fraction to the paper industry are only slight, but the possibility of commercial disposal of the recovered plastics sheet fraction is good.An alternative possible use for the recovered paper fraction is as a fuel. An object of the invention is to provide an improved separation method by which a clean plastics fraction can be obtained and by which preferably a fuel with a high calorific value can be obtained also. According to the invention, in the method described initially, the light fraction from the first wind sifter is screened on a coarse screen having a screen opening size smaller than the average dimension of the plastics sheet in the waste after shredding, so that the throughflow mainly comprises organic material and smaller pieces of paper and the overflow comprises mainly plastics sheet and larger pieces of paper and cardboard, and after separation of the overflow from the coarse screen in the second wind sifter into a heavy fraction comprising mainly larger pieces of paper and cardboard and a light fraction comprising mainly plastics sheet contaminated with light paper, the light fraction from the second wind sifter is wetted and then cleaned in a plastics after separator so as to provide a first fraction which contains clean plastics sheet and second fraction which contains wet paper fibres. The screen opening ize of the coarse screen should preferably be in the range 30 80 mm, more preferably in the range 40 50 mm. r good result may be achieved if the coarse screer L5 a shaking screen also called an oscillating or reci rocating screen . In this way, an overflow of 15 tr 35 of the screen feed can be obtained which contains 60 to 80 of the quantity of plastics sheet in the screen feed, larger pieces of light paper, heavy cardboard and textile material.This mixture is separated in the second wind sifter.The light fraction obtained in the second wind sifter, comprising mainly plastics sheet, is contaminated with light paper and the heavy fraction, comprising mainly larger pieces of light paper and heavy cardboard, has a normal moisture content. To remove the light paper from the light fraction of the second wind sifter, this fraction is first wetted to a moisture content in the range 40 80 and subsequently cleaned in the plastics after separator so that a plastics sheet fraction is for example obtained which consists of about 90 of polyolefin material HPE,LPE and PP . This plastics fraction is, after washing and granulating, very suitable for re use. It is for instance possible to blow plastic bags from it. The throughflow from the coarse screen should preferably be separated on a fine screen into an overflow comprising mainly paper and a throughflow which is mainly organic. A satisfactory result is particularly obtained if the fine screen is a rotary screen. The organic material can be composted. It is now commonplace for domestic waste to be burnt in an incinerator. A mixture especially favourable for this combustion is provided in the method of the invention if the heavy fraction from the first wind sifter is separated by screening into an inert fraction and a combustible fraction, and if the heavy fraction from the second sifter, and optionally the overflow from the above mentioned fine screen if provided is added to the combustible fraction. Compared with the unprocessed domestic waste, the mixture thus produced has a higher calorific value and a lower ash residue. An embodiment of the invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Figure 1 is a schematic process diagram of the previously disclosed method discussed above, and Figure 2 is a schematic process diagram of the method embodying the invention. In Figures 1 and 2, the reference numbers indicate the following parts of the apparatus 1 feed belt 2 first wind sifter 3 cyclone 4 fan 5 coarse screen in Fig 2 in the form of a shaking screen 6 fine screen in Fig. 2 in the form of a rotary screen 7 second wind sifter 8 cyclone 9 fan 10 wetting device 11 plastics after separatorAs can be seen, not all these parts are present inFig. 1, and their arrangement is different. The feed flow and product flows are denoted by the following Roman numerals I shredded domestic wasteII heavy fraction from the first wind sifter inert and combustible material III organic material and fine inert materialIV heavy fraction from second wind sifter paper and cardboard V plastics sheet fraction VI overflow from fine screen paper fraction VII paper fibresVIII clean plastics sheet In the method of Figure 1, the light fraction from the first wind sifter 2, comprising mainly paper, plastics sheet and organic material, is separated in the rotary screen 6 into organic material and fine inert material product flow III, throughflow and into a mixture of paper and plastics sheet overflow .This mixture is separated in the second wind sifter 7 into a plastics sheet fraction considerably contaminated with paper product flow V and paper and cardboard product flow IV . In the method of Figure 2, on the other hand, the light fraction from the first wind sifter 2 is separated in a coarse screen 5, which in this example is a shaking screen, into an overflow comprising mainly plastics sheet and larger pieces of paper and cardboard and a throughflow. The overflow is then separated in the second wind sifter 7 into a light fraction mainly consisting of plastics sheet and light paper and a heavy fraction consisting mainly of relatively dry paper and cardboard product flow IV . The light fraction is then wetted in the wetting device 10 and finally cleaned in the plastics after separator 11 to produce paper fibres product flow VII and very clean plastics sheet product flow VIII . The throughflow from the coarse screen 5 is separated in the fine screen 6, which in this example is a rotary screen, into organic and fine inert material product flow III and a paper fraction product flow Vl . The heavy fraction product flow II from the first wind sifter 2 is separated by screening not indicated in Figure 2 into inert material and combustible material. This combustible material is combined with the unwetted paper and cardboard product flow IV from the second wind sifter and the paper fraction product flow VI , to produce a material useful as a fuel.