# Supported vanadium dihalide ether complex catalyst.

## Abstract
A vanadium dichloride ether complex is carried on a por ous support. This complex can be produced by either forming VC1₂ and thereafter complexing the material with an ether or forming an ether complex with VC1₄ or VC₃ and thereafter reducing the vanadium compound to VC1₂. It is also possible to carry out the complexing reaction and the reduction essen tially simultaneously. The resulting catalyst in combination with a cocatalyst is capable of giving high activity in olefin polymerization and demonstrates good sensitivity to molecu lar weight control agents, thus allowing the production of a broad spectrum of polymers so far as molecular weight is concerned.

## Claims
Claims 1. A catalyst composition comprising a vanadium dihalide ether complex on a porous solid support. 2. The composition of claim 1 characterized in that said halide is chloride in particular wherein said complex is formed from a cyclic ether in particular wherein said cyclic ether is tetrahydrofuran. 3. The composition of claim 1 or 2 characterized in that said support is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 4. The composition of any of the preceding claims characterized by comprising in addition a cocatalyst in particular wherein said cocatalyst is an organoaluminum compound or an organoboron compound in particular wherein said organoaluminum compound is triethylaluminum in particular wherein said organoboron compound is triethylborane. 5. A process for making a catalyst composition characterized by forming a VX2 complex sith an ether, X being a halogen and combining said complex with a porous solid support in particular wherein X is chlorine in particular wherein said complex is formed by carrying out an electrolytic reduction of VAC13 in alcohol to produce a VC12 alcohol complex which is then reacted with an ether to produce a VCl2 ether complex 6. A process for making a catalyst composition characterized by contacting a cyclic ether with a vanadium compound selected from VX4 and VX3 wherein X is a halogen to form a complex contacting said complex with a reducing agent at least a part of which is selected from zinc metal and organozinc compounds to reduce the valence of said vana dium to 2 and combining the thus produced VX2 ether zinc complex with a porous support in particular wherein said vanadium compound is VC14 and said VC14 is reacted in a chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent with said ether, said ether being tetrahydrofuran THF , to give a VC14 THF complex thereafter said VCl4 THF complex is contacted with a reducing agent selected from at least one of zinc metal and organozinc compounds to give a product compri sing VC12 . ZnCl2 . 4THF in particular wherein said chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent is dichloromethane. 7. The process of claim 6 characterized in that prior to con tacting said VCl4 ether complex with said zinc metal or an organozinc compound, the Vac14 is reduced to VC13 with a separate reducing agent in particular wherein said sepa rate reducing agent is selected from organoboron compounds and organoaluminum compounds in particular wherein said separate reducing agent is triethylborane. 8. The process of claim 6 characterized in that said vanadium compound is VC14 and said VC14 is dissolved in said ether as the only solvent to form said VC14 ether complex in particular wherein said vanadium compound is VC13 and said 1 complex is prepared by contacting said VC13 and said ether in the presence of a catalyst in particular wherein said catalyst is sodium hydride. 9. The process of any of claims 4 to 8 characterized in that said ether or support is as defined in any of claims 2 and 3. 10. A polymerization process comprising contacting at least one mono 1 olef in having 2 to 8 carbon atoms with a catalyst as defined in any of claims 1 to 9 in the presence of a cocatalyst in particular wherein said olefin is selected from ethylene, propylene, 1 butene, and 1 hexene in particular wherein said olefin comprises ethylene in particular wherein said polymerization process is carried out at a temperature within the range of 66 .1100C in particular wherein said cocatalyst present during said polymerization is an organometal compound in particular wherein said cocatalyst is triethylaluminum in particular wherein an activator is present during said polymerization in particular wherein said activator is a ahlogenated hydrocarbon in particular wherein said activator is CFCl2 2 in particular wherein hydrogen is utilized as a molecular weight control agent in particular wherein hydrogen is used as a molecular weight control agent.

## Description
SUPPORTED VANADIUM DIHALIDE ETHER COMPLEX CATALYST Background of the Invention This invention relates to supported vanadium catalysts for olefin polymerization. Vanadium compounds display catalytic activity in a number of diverse chemical reactions. Since vanadium is closely related to both chromium and titanium in the Periodic Table, it is only natural that it has been tried in place of chromium or titanium as a catalyst for the polymerization of mono l olefins, such as ethylene. Peters et al, U. S.3,371,079 discloses silica supported vanadium pentoxide with a cocatalyst for polymerizing ethylene. Kearby, U. S. 3,271,299 discloses aluminum phosphate supported vanadium pentoxide as a hydrogenation catalyst and suggests aluminum phosphate as a support for chromium or molybdenum for polymerizing ethylene and propylene. However, vanadium catalysts have not been as commercially successful as titanium or chromium catalysts for olefin polymerization. Supported vanadium catalysts have been particularly disappointing. The closest vanadium has come to being commercially viable as an olefin polymerization catalyst has been in systems more analogous to unsupported titanium systems, i.e., VOCl3, VC14 or VC13 used with a reducing agent such as an aluminum hydride.However, the natural tendency of vanadium to catalyze reactions other than polymerization has been a constant problem limiting its usefulness in olefin polymerization. Yamaguchi et al, U. S. 4,202,958 and Natta et al, U. S. 3,260,708 disclose unsupported vanadium halide ether complexes as catalysts, but such unsupported systems tend to cause reactor plugging. It would be desirable for sole applications to produce polymer having different characteristics from that produced with the chromium systems, such as for instance, polymer with a different particle shape.Also, it would be desirable to be able to obtain in non titanium systems the molecular weight sensitivity to hydrogen displayed by titanium catalyst systems. Suinsary of the Invention It is an object of this invention to provide a vanadium catalyst capable of operating without reactor fouling It is a further object of this invention to provide a vanadium catalyst capable of giving high activity It is yet a further object of this invention to provide a catalyst system capable of giving ultra high molecular weight polymer and It is a further object of this invention to provide a catalyst having outstanding sensitivity to molecular weight control agents such as hydrogen at high activity rates. In accordance with this invention, a vanadium dihalide ether complex is carried on a porous support. Description of the Preferred Embodiments There are two routes to obtaining the supported vanadium dihalide ether complex of this invention. These are 1 Form VX2 and thereafter complex this material with an ether. 2 Form an ether complex with VX4 or VX3 and thereafter reduce the vanadium compound to VX2. There are certain advantages to each of the two methods set out hereinabove but in each instance, the resulting catalyst is a truly remarkable material capable of overcoming the disadvantages historically associated with vanadium catalysts. The following describes in greater detail the two methods set out hereinabove for achieving the catalyst of this invention. Since the preferred halide is chloride, the following description assumes X to be chlorine, but fluorides, bromides, and iodides, particularly bromides can also be used in each instance where chloride is indicated. The first route is briefly described as involving the formation of VC12 and thereafter complexing with an ether. SinceVC12 is difficult to form, requiring reactions at 5000C or above and since VC12 does not appear to react directly with common ethers to form a complex, the adduct must be prepared from an intermediate such as a VC12 alcohol complex which can be obtained by electrolytic reduction of VC13 in alcohol. For instance, VCl2. 2CH3OH can be produced by electrolytic reduction of VC13 in methanol as is known in the art. This is shown in J. H. Seifert, and T. Auel, Journal of Inorganic and Nuclear Chemistry, 30, 2081 2086 1968 , the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.The resulting VCl2 alcohol complex can then be reacted with an ether to form the ether complex. J. H. Seifert and T. Auel also disclose preparation of VBr2. 2CH3OH in Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem., 360, 50 61 1968 , the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.By these means, VX2.ether is produced as described below. Suitable ethers are 1,3 dioxane and those ethers of the general formula R OCH2CH2 nOB where R and R are the same or different and represent hydrocarbon groups with 1 to 12 carbon atoms and n is o or 1. The R and B groups may be bonded together to form a ring. Exemplary compounds include aliphatic ethers such as diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, di n propyl ether, isopropyl ethyl ether, di n butyl ether, ethyl n butyl ether, di n amyl ether, di n octyl ether, di n decyl ether and di n dodecyl ether. Suitable cyclic ethers include tetrahydrofuran THY and tetrahydropyran withTHE being preferred.The ether and the alcohol adduct can be reacted by contacting the methanol complex with excess ether at ambient temperature to slightly above, although temperatures of OOC to about 500C can be used. The second and presently preferred route for producing the vanadium dichloride ether complex is to form a vanadiumtetrachloride or vanadium trichloride ether complex and thereafter to reduce the vanadium of the complex to VCl2. In this embodiment, the ether is selected from the ethers described hereinabove except that it must be cyclic. Again, the preferred ether is tetrahydrofuran. The reason for this is that when straight chain ethers are reacted with VCl4 which is then reduced, a complex is formed with vanadium in the 3 state which is difficult to further reduce. The starting material for forming the complex can be either VC14 or VC13, both of which are commercially available materials. The formation of the complex can be achieved simply by contacting the ether with the vanadium tetrachioride or vanadium trichloride at room temperature. If desired an elevated or reduced temperature can be used, i.e., from 100 to 2000C but this is not necessary in view of the suitability of room temperature. Alternatively, a solvent can be utilized. Suitable solvents include hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, dichloromethane, trichloromethane chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. An inert solvent including a mixture of halogenated and aromatic components may offer a slight advantage over other solvents. A catalytic agent may be utilized to speed up the reaction forming the complex Suitable catalysts include elemental zinc, elemental magnesium, sodium borohydride and sodium hydride, preferably sodium hydride.With VCl4 lower temperatures are preferred than with VCl3. Most preferred with VC14 is a temperature of O to 200C with no solvent. If a solvent is used with VCl4 higher temperatures can be used because the solvent will carry away some of the heat from the exothermic reaction but are not necessary. With VC13 it is also preferred not to use a solvent but slightly higher temperatures are preferred. Operating in ether with no solvent at reflux temperatures 650C for THE is particularly suitable with VC13 although on a commercial scale it is likely that slightly higher temperatures and a slight pressure would be used sufficient to keep the ether in the liquid state. After formation of the vanadium tetrachloride or vanadium chloride complex with the cyclic ether, the vanadium of the resulting complex is reduced so as to give vanadium dichloride. Some of the reduction can be carried out using any conventional reducing agent such as organoaluminum and organoboron compounds. Examples of such compounds are those of the formula R3A1, 9 EX, RAIN, and B3B where R is a 1 to 12, preferably 2 to 4 carbon atom hydrocarbyl radical, most preferably ethyl, propyl or butyl and X is chlorine, fluorine or bromine preferably chlorine.However, at least the last part of the reduction is carried out using zinc metal or alkyl zinc compounds of the formula R2Zn where R is as described above. The preferred material is elemental zinc in a fine powdered form.The zinc or zinc compounds are capable of reducing vanadium to the 2 valence and give a vanadium zinc ether complex product that is easily dispersed on the support and which is enhanced by the presence of the support. With VC14 there seems to be an advantage to stepwise reduction from V 4 to V 3 to V 2. It is preferred, however, to start with vanadium trichloride rather than vanadium tetrachloride simply because less zinc is required and thus less zinc is left in the final catalyst. The presence of the zinc has a detrimental effect on the activity and hence the preference for the vanadium trichloride as the starting material. These principles can be summarized as follows Preparation of 2VCl2. ZnC1 STHF is best done from VCl3.3THE with d gram atom Zn metal or d mole Et2Zn diethylzinc per gram atom V, preferably at about 900C. The VCl3.3TIfF may be prepared from VC13 THE and Nail catalytic amount or from VC14 in THE and 1 3 Et3B triethylborane The Et3B reduction proceeds more rapidly with heating to 800C. Thus, vanadium trichloride when extracted with tetrahydrofuran in the presence of sodium hydride yields VC13.3THF. This red orange compound may be further reduced to a green compound of the formula 2VCl2. ZnCl2. 5THF. This is accomplished with the reducing agents disclosed hereinabove. Broadly, reaction conditions when starting with VC13 are as follows Anhydrous VC13 and a catalytic amount of catalyst such as sodium hydride .1 mol are refluxed several hours in THE until a burgundy red solution is obtained. Without isolating VC13.3THF, one half equivalent of Zn dust is added and refluxing continued for an additional hour. After cooling to room temperature, 2VCl2.ZnCl2.5THF is observed as a green, microcrystalline mass in the bottom of the reactor vessel. The reaction solvent is decanted and the product washed once, with cold THE and once with pentane, then dried under vacuum at room temperature. As with the formation of the complex, the reduction in a commercial scale operation will advantageously be carried out at a temperature slightly above reflux and under slight pressure. Thus temperatures of 20 to 1300C and pressures ranging from atmospheric to 100 psig can be used so as to maintain the ether in liquid condition. Generally, conditions are chosen so that only moderate pressure is required. Times are generally from 15 minutes to two hours or more. With VC14 the ether brings about a reduction toVC13 at higher temperatures. This offers both advantages and disadvantages. Operating at lower temperatures is more simple because the amount of reducing agent can be determined precisely. If some unknown amount of reduction occurs at the high temperature, this makes it more difficult to calculate the reducing agent such as zinc metal or organozinc compounds needed to go to V 2 but under these circumstances less zinc is in the final catalyst which is good. When VC14 is used as a starting material, the situation is thus somewhat more involved than with VCl3. A complex between VCl4 and the ether, such as THE of the formula VC14.2THF, may be prepared by reaction in a solvent such as hexane, heptane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, dichloromethane, trichloromethane chloroform and carbon tetrachloride. Aromatic and halogenated solvents may be preferred.Alternatively, the ether may be the only solvent thus eliminating the step of solvent removal. In the reduction of VC14.2tHz with zinc metal or a zinc compound such as diethylzinc, the Zn V atom ratio determines the product mix. Thus, for Zn V atom ratio 0.5, the major product is VC13.ZnC12.5THF with some VCl3. 3THF. For Zn V atom ratio 1.0, the major product is VCl2. ZnCl2.4THF but also some of the same compounds formed at the lower ratio are also produced here. Thus Zn V ratios in the catalyst can vary from zero to 1 in the final product, generally 0.1 to 1, more generally 0.5 to 1.The ratio of Zn to V used to make the product can vary from 0.5 1 or less to 2 1 or more but generally will be in the 0.5 1 to 1 1 range. The structural formula and atom ratios shown here for the final product are composite or average figures and the exact compound shown may or may not exist in any great quantity. This is true when using either Zn metal or Et2Zn. Cooling the reduction mixture evidently favors V 3 over V 2. 2By using 1 3 mole of a reducing agent such as triethylborane, VCl4.2THF may be reduced at room temperature over several days time or at 80 C for one hour to the red orange VCl3 . 3TilF. Instead of the organoboron reducing agent, an organoaluminum reducing agent as defined above may be used. The products of reactions using a zinc component as the sole reducing agent consist of a mixture of three compounds with the formulae VC13.ZnC12.5THF, VC12.ZnC12.4THF and VCl3. 3THF which are light green, aqua and red orange in color, respectively.The relative proportion of these products depends upon the amount of reducing agent such as zinc and the reaction conditions chosen. For instance, higher zinc levels,Zn V atom ratio 1 favor the VC12 compound while lower zinc levels,Zn V atom ratio 0.5 favor the L13 products. Cooling the mixture seems to stop the reduction at VC13 as in the zinc reduction of VC13.3THi, reduction to V 2 occurs slowly at temperatures below 600C as determined by visual observation of the color change. Thus when the starting material is VCl4, preferably at least a part of the reaction is carried out at a temperature of at least 600C, preferably 650 to 1300C, most preferably 650C to 1000C. The catalyst is preferably formed and thereafter combined with the support, although it is possible to first combine the support with the ingredients and thereafter carry out the complexing and or reducing reactions. Reduction after combination with the support would preferably be carried out using a hydrocarbon soluble reducing agent such as a dialkyl zinc compound, i.e. a solid reducing agent which is not soluble could not be used. In some instances, it may be desirable to carry out the reduction and the formation of the ether complex essentially simultaneously. This is accomplished by simply combining the reducing agent as defined above in ether with VC13 or VCl4. The formation of the vanadium complex from VC13 and ether may be accelerated by the presence of a catalytic agent such as sodium hydride, the same as in the first route.Alternatively, the starting material can be VC14 and the presence of an adequate stoichiometric amount of reducing agent such as triethylborane to bring the vanadium to the 3 oxidation state alone or with the principal reducing agent to give VC13 and ultimately VCl2. In this case, R2Zn is not suitable as the principal reducing agent because of the following reactionsEMI7.1 The second reaction which is not desirable does not occur with zinc metal. The simultaneous complex formation and reduction reaction is carried out at a temperature of 200 to 1300C with 700 to 1000C preferred and at atmospheric to moderate pressure to maintain the ether as a liquid. The reagents must be added slowly or incrementally with adequate time for stepwise reduction to occur. Reduction with triethylborane at room temperature takes several days, while at 900C the reaction is complete in one hour. The support can be any porous support conventionally utilized in catalytic reactions. However, the presence of a support is absolutely essential since the unsupported material, while active as a catalyst, is of no practical utility because it causes reactor fouling. Suitable supports include catalytic grade silica such as Davison 952 nS, alumina such as Ketjen Grade B, magnesium oxide, aluminum phosphate or phosphated alumina Aluminum phosphate having a phosphorus to aluminum ratio of about 0.6 1 to 0.9 1 and phosphated alumina prepared by treating alumina with a phosphating agent such as orthophosphoric acid can also be used.Generally, the phosphorus to aluminum ratio on the surface will be within the range of 0.1 1 to 1 1, preferably 0.2 1 to 0.9 1. Suitable phosphoruscontaining bases are disclosed in detail in McDaniel et al, U. S. 4,364,841 December 21, 1982 , the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. The support is generally calcined or otherwise treated generally in an oxygen containing ambient such as air at an elevated temperature to dry and or activate same as is well known in the art before being treated with catalyst. Generally activation temperatures of 150 80O0C, preferably 400 600 C are utilized with the aluminum phosphate bases. Silica, alumina and phosphated alumina bases generally are activated at a temperature of 450 1000 C. Subsequent to the activation, the base and the catalyst are combined. By porous base is meant a substrate having a surface area within the range of 100 to 600, preferably 300 to 500 square meters per gram. The vanadium complex catalyst is incorporated in the support preferably in an amount where the support is saturated. With aluminum this is about 3 weight percent vanadium based on the weight of the support with activity failing off at 1 percent or less. Broadly 0.1 to 10, preferably 0.5 to 3 weight percent is used. The vanadium complex catalyst component and the support can be combined in any suitable manner which assures dispersal of the catalyst component on the surface of the support. Generally this will be done by forming a slurry of the catalyst component and the support in a solvent for the catalyst component, and separating the thus impregnated supported catalyst from excess solution. Preferred solvents are polar non protic normally liquid materials such as dichloromethane or chloroform, preferably dichloromethane. This can be done by filtering and then washing with the solvent and optionally thereafter with a hydrocarbon such as pentane, hexane, heptane or any normally liquid volatile aliphatic hydrocarbon. The slurry can be formed by first dissolving the vanadium complex and slurrying with the silica or by mixing the solids and then adding solvent.Any inert liquid, which will dissolve the vanadium complex can be used with methylene chloride being particularly suitable.Remaining solvent after the wash step can be removed under gentle conditions and in an inert atmosphere such as vacuum or a flowing nitrogen or argon stream . Room temperature up to 500C is suitable.Optionally, it can be left as a slurry in the hydrocarbon wash liquid. The catalysts of this invention can be used to polymerize at least one mono l olefin containing 2 to 8 carbon atoms per molecule.The catalysts will also catalyze other reactions as is well known with vanadium catalysts but one of the advantages of this invention is that the catalysts are effective in producing olefin polymer without undesirable side reactions. The catalysts are of particular applicability in producing ethylene homopolymers and copolymers of ethylene and one or more comonomers selected from 1 olefins containing 3 to 8 carbon atoms per molecule such as propylene, l butene, l pentene, 1 hexene and 1 octene. If it is the object to produce a copolymer, 0.5 to 20 mole percent comonomer or more can be used, enough to give 0.4 to 3 weight percent incorporation of comonomer being preferred. These polymers can be produced by solution polymerization or slurry polymerization using conventional equipment and contacting processes. Contacting of the monomer or monomers with the catalyst can be effected in any manner known in the art of solid catalysts. One convenient method is to suspend the catalyst in an organic medium and to agitate the mixture to maintain the catalyst in suspension throughout the polymerization process. The catalyst of this invention is particularly suitable for these slurry polymerization systems and is capable of giving a complete spectrum of polymer 8o far as melt flow is concerned, including ultra high molecular weight polymer, utilizing a single catalyst. While hydrogen is known as a molecular weight control agent, the catalysts of this invention display an extraordinary sensitivity to hydrogen so that by controlling the amount of hydrogen utilized everything from ultra high molecular weight polymer through polymers of molding or even injection molding grade can be produced. When hydrogen is used in the prior art, it is generally used at partial pressures up to 120 psia 0.8 MPa , preferably within the range of 20 to 100 psia 0.14 to 0.69 MPa . These same amounts of hydrogen can also be used in this invention, although because of the high sensitivity to hydrogen, it may be preferred in the present invention to use 5 to 20 psia when relatively high molecular weight polymer is desired. When hydrogen is utilized it does tend to reduce activity and in such instances, it is desirable to use an adjuvant activator .Suitable adjuvants include dibromomethane, bromochloromethane, dichloromethane, 1,1,3 trichlorotrifluoromethane, 1,2 dichlorotetrafluoroethane and dichlorodifluoromethane. A particularly suitable material is 1,2 difluorotetrachloroethane. Of course these adjuvants can be used in the absence of hydrogen but their use is not necessary generally because of the extraordinarily high activity of the catalyst. The activator is generally used in an amount within the range of 1 to 5000 ppm based on the solvent in the polymerization zone, different ranges apply to different activators. With CFC12CFC12, C12, 20 to 500 ppm is preferred. With slurry polymerization of ethylene and predominantly ethylene copolymer systems, the preferred temperature range is generally about 200 2300F 93 1100C although 66 110 C can be used.The catalysts of this invention do not have any undesirable induction time between the initial contact with the monomer and the initiation of polymerization. Suitable polymerization solvents or diluents include straight chain and cyclic hydrocarbons such as normal pentane, normal hexane, cyclohexane and other conventional polymerization solvents. The catalysts of this invention are used in conjunction with a cocatalyst. The cocatalyst is an organometal compound including organoboron compounds. Suitable compounds include 1 organoaluminum compounds of the formula R A1X where R is a hydrocarbon group of 1 to 12 carbon atoms, X is hydrogen or a halogen atom or an alkoxy group, and m is 1 3 inclusive, 2 organoboron compounds of the formula R3B where R is as defined above , and 3 organomagnesium compounds of the formula R2Mg where R is as defined above, with 2 to 6 carbon atom dialkyl magnesium compounds being preferred. The preferred cocatalysts are alkylaluminum compounds of the above formula wherein R is a 2 to 4 carbon atom alkyl radical, most preferably triethylaluminum. The cocatalyst is utilized in an amount so as to give an atom ratio of metal or boron to vanadium within the range of 1000 1 to 1 1, preferably 200 1 to 10 1. Based on the solvent in the polymerization zone, the amount of metal compound cocatalyst is generally within the range of 1000 to 1, preferably 500 to 10 parts by weight per million parts by weight of the solvent or diluent, these amounts being based on the total reactor contents when no solvent or diluent is used. The cocatalyst can be premixed with the catalyst or added as a separate stream or both. Example 1 Catalyst Preparation Unsupported A. Comparison Catalysts 1. VCl3. 3ThF THF is tetrahydroduran . A mixture of zinc dust, 1.58 g 24.1 mmoles and VC14.2THF, 16.26 g 48.2 mmoles was placed in a glass pressure bottle in a glove box and while cooling in a ice bath, 50 mL 425 mmoles of THE was added resulting in a vigorous reaction and formation of a red slurry. The reaction mixture was warmed to about 250C and then heated for one hour at 800C. After cooling overnight, the mixture was filtered yielding red and green solids weighing 18.7 g. The crude product was slurried in 150 mL of THE, heated to reflux and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated slightly resulting in the formation of red crystals which were collected and weighed 2.76 g. Analysis indicated the product to be VCl3. 3THE. 4Atom ratio V Zn0 2. 2. VCl3. ZnCl2.5ThF. A three neck flask fitted with a condenser was charged with 16.5 g 49.0 mmoles of VCl4.2ThF and THE to form a suspension. The mixture was heated to reflux and 3.20 g 49.0 mmoles of zinc dust was slowly added resulting in a vigorous reaction. The reaction mixture refluxed for one hour and filtered hot. A light blue solid was collected, which analysis subsequently showed to be VC12.ZnC12.4THF also in supported form invention catalyst 2 and a light green solid slowly crystallized in the filtrate. The green solid was collected, washed with THE and dried under vacuum and found to weigh 5.81 g.Analysis subsequently indicated the green product to be VC13.ZnC12.5THF. Atom ratio V 4 Zn0 1.B. Invention Catalysts. 1. 2VCl2.ZnCl2.5TEF. A glass pressure bottle placed in a glove box dry box was charged with 10.0 g 26.8 mmoles of VC13.STHF, 0.88 g 13.4 mmoles of zinc dust and 40 mL 340 mmoles of THE. The bottle was then placed in an oil bath at 900C for 30 minutes and then cooled yielding a forest grass green crystalline solid. The solid was recovered and dried under a vacuum. Analysis indicated the product to be 2VC12. ZnCl2. STIfF. 3 0 Atom ratio V 3 Zn 2. 2. VC12.ZnC12.4THF. Described earlier under comparison catalyst 2. 3. VC12 ZnC12.4TEF. A glass pressure bottle was charged with 18.14 g 53.8 mmoles of VCl4. 2TItF, 3.52 g 53.8 mmoles of zinc dust and 50 mL 425 mmoles of THE was added. A vigorous reaction occurred following which the bottle and reaction mixture were heated for one hour at 700C. A tancolored solid was filtered off in a glove box and washed with THE leaving a pale green solid. A portion of the solid, 15.95 g, was extracted in a soxhiet with 200 mL of THE. An aqua colored, crystalline solid weighing 4.1 g was isolated from .............. the extract. Analysis indicated the product to be VCl2. ZnC12. 4mF. Atom ratio V ZnD 1. Any or all of the previous catalysts can be supported individually on a support as described earlier in the specification. For example, 1 g of Ketjen Grade B alumina, previously calcined at 6000C, was added to a schlenk tube under argon with 0.40 g of invention catalyst 1, 2VC12.ZnC12.5THF. The tube was shaken to mix the contents, 20 mL of methylene chloride was added and the mixture was stirred briefly. The tube was transferred to a glove box and the colorless supernatant liquid removed by filtration. The product was washed several times with 20 mL portions of fresh methylene chloride and then dried by gentle heating in a nitrogen stream to yield a pale green catalyst.Since the impregnated catalyst retained the color of the divalent vanadium compound employed, it is believed that impregnation, per se, does not alter the valence state of the vanadium. Example 2 Ethylene Polymerization With Unsupported Catalysts Ethylene was polymerized in a 1 gallon 3.8 L stirred, stainless steel reactor at 1000C for 1 hour using 2 L of isobutane as diluent, 2.0 mmoles of 1,2 difluorotetrachloroethane CFC12CFC12 , when employed as an exemplary halocarbon activator, 1.0 mmole of triethylaluminum TEA dissolved in n heptane as cocatalyst, unless specified otherwise, and 80 psi 0.55 MPa of hydrogen, when employed.In each run, the diluent, cocatalyst, CFC12CFC12, if employed, catalyst and hydrogen, if employed, were charged to the dry, clean reactor at about 200C. The temperature was then raised to 1000C and sufficient ethylene was charged to obtain a differential pressure of 230 psi 1.6 MPa and the run was started. The total reactor pressure in the runs ranged from about 505 to 555 psia 3.5 to 3.8 HPa as shown and it was maintained at the desired pressure by additional ethylene from a pressurized reservoir as needed. In the various runs, the atom ratio of aluminum in the TEA to the vanadium contained in the catalyst ranged from a low of about 17 1, to a high of about 102 1, but mostly from about 17 1 to about 70 1. The weight of TEA per 1,000,000 parts isobutane diluent ranged from about 50 ppm TEA in Run 2 to about 100 ppm TEA in Runs 2 14. The differences in the amounts of TEA employed over the above ranges are deemed to be not critical in evaluating the polymerization results. Each polyethylene recovered from the reactor was dried, weighed to ascertain the yield and the melt index determined in accordance with ASTM D 1238 65, Condition E MI and Condition F HINDI . The results are set forth in Table I. Table I Unsupported Catalysts Run Catalyst Productivity H2 a EmployedComparison No. Compound Wt. g g PE g cat hr psi CFCl2CFCl2MI HLMI 1 VC13.3THs 0.0411 1,000 0 No 0 b 0 2 2 VC13.3THF 0.0142 3,310 0 Yes O 0 It 3 VC13.3THF 0.0209 23,800 80 Yes 1.3 51 4 VCl3.ZnCl2.5THE 0.0064 2,660 0 Yes O 0 5 5 VCl3.ZnCl2.5THF 0.0138 4,640 80 Yes 1.6 61 6 2VC12.ZnC12.5THF 0.0155 23,700 0 Yes 0 0 7 2VCl2.ZnCl2.5THF 0.0214 31,100 80 Yes 0 0 8 2VCl2.ZnCl2.5TEF 0.0036 34,800 80 Yes 2.1 95 9 VCl2.ZnCl2.4ThF 0.0317 725 80 No 2.2 131 10 VC12.ZnC12.4THF 0.0281 24,000 80 Yes 1.0 119 11 11 VCl2.ZnCl2. 4THF 0.0080 15,300 80 Yes 6.8 190 12 VCl2. ZnCl2. 4TIfF 0.0181 1,900 0 No O 0 13 VC12.ZnC12.4TEF 0.0179 335 80 No O 0 14 VCl2. ZnCl2. 4TIfF 0.0097 17,300 80 Yes 6.3 187 a. Hydrogen was measured as the pressure drop from a 0.325 L vessel. b. This run used 0.5 mmole of TEA. All of the catalysts employed in Table I caused reactor fouling when run with or without CFCl2CFCl2 as an activator and or with or without hydrogen to regulate molecular weight of the polymer. In Run 3, using comparison catalyst 1 VC13.3THF and in Runs 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 14 using the invention catalysts, good productivities are obtained when the activator is present. The catalysts containing divalent vanadium appear to be slightly more active than the trivalent vanadium contained in the comparison catalysts. Example 3 Ethylene Polymerization With Vanadium Compounds Supported On Alumina Ketjen Grade B alumina, a commercial material having a pore volume of about 1.7 cc g and a surface area of about 320 m ig, was employed as the support in this example. Before contacting with the vanadium compound, in a typical activation process, 50 g of the support were fluidized with air in a quartz tube at 6000C for 3 hours. After cooling to 4000C, the air stream was supplanted with dry nitrogen and the sample was allowed to cool to about 250C. It was then stored under nitrogen in a sealed flask. The supported catalysts in a typical preparation were prepared by contacting 1.0 g of the calcined alumina and 10 mL of methylene chloride in a schlenk tube under argon and to it was added about 0.3 g of the vanadium compound and the mixture was mixed well by shaking. The impregnated catalyst was recovered in a glove box by filtration and washed several times with 20 mL of fresh methylene chloride. In preparing the supported catalysts, sufficient vanadiumcontaining mixture was used to insure that the support was saturated.The final product was dried by gentle heating under a nitrogen stream.Plasma emission analysis of the catalysts showed them to contain from about 2 to 3 weight percent vanadium. The impregnated catalysts retained the colors of the vanadium compounds used in preparing them. Ethylene was polymerized in one hour runs at 1000C with the supported catalysts in the reactor described in Example 2. In each instance, 2 L of isobutane was used as diluent, 1.0 mmole of TEA was employed as cocatalyst, 2.0 mmoles of CFC12CFC12 as activator, 80 psi hydrogen, if employed, and an ethylene differential pressure of 230 psi. The total reactor pressure in the runs varied from 515 to 535 psia 3.6 to 3.7 MPa . The results obtained and the melt index values determined for the various polymers are given in Table II. Table II Alumina Supported Catalysts Run Catalyst Productivity 112 a Comparison No. Compound Wt. g g PE g cst hr psi MI HLMI 1 VCl3.3THF 0.0137 9,490 0 0 0 2 VCl3.3THF 0.0803 2,590 80 0.02 2.1 3 b VCl3.ZnCl2.STIfF 0.0238 2,520 0 0 0 4 b VCl3.ZnC12.5ThF 0.1182 948 80 0.07 5.8Invention 5 2VCl2.ZnCl2.5THF 0.0241 40,500 0 0 0 6 2VC12.ZnC12.5ThF 0.0818 3,020 80 0.92 41 7 VCl2.ZnCl2.4THF 0.0183 8,740 0 0 0 8 8 VCl2.ZnCl2.4THF 0.0206 10,200 0 0 0 VC12 ZnC12.4fHF 0.0576 1,490 80 0.22 11 10 VC12.ZnC12.4TEF 0.0936 3,020 80 0.11 6 a. Hydrogen was measured as the pressure drop from a 0.325 L vessel. b. Some polymer build up on reactor walls. The A1 V atom ratio in these runs varies from about 15 to 109, assuming each supported catalyst contains 3 weight percent vanadium. For 2 weight percent vanadium, the Al V atom ratios vary from about 22 to 164. The results in Table II show that the addition of hydrogen significantly depresses catalyst activities of the vanadium compounds supported on alumina. The influence of catalyst support on activity is disclosed in more detail in Example 4. A comparison of similar runs for each vanadium oxidation state indicates that increasing the zinc content of the catalyst results in a lowering of catalyst activity. For example, with trivalent vanadium as in Run 1, in the absence of hydrogen and the absence of zinc, the catalyst productivity is 9,490 g PE g catalyst hour. In Run 3, in the absence of hydrogen with the trivalent vanadium compound containing a calculated Zn content of about 10 weight percent, and an atom ratio ofV Zn of 1, the catalyst productivity is 2,520 g PElg catalystlhour. With diva lent vanadium, a similar trend is observed in comparing the productivity figure of Run 5, 40,500 g PE g catalyst hour, with that ofRun 7, 8,740 g PElg catalyst hour, or with Run 8, 10,200 g PE g catalyst hour. The Run 5 catalyst contains a calculated Zn content of about 8.8 weight percent with an atom ratio of V Zn of 2 whereas the Run 7 or 8 catalyst contains a calculated Zn content of about 12 weight percent with an atom ratio of V Zn of 1. A fairer comparison of the effect of the oxidation state of vanadium on catalyst activity can be obtained by comparing catalysts containing the same V Zn atom ratio. For example, the trivalent vanadium catalyst used in Run 3 has a calculated V Zn atom ratio of 1 and produced 2,520 g PE g catalyst hour and the divalent vanadium catalysts of Runs 7 or 8 having calculated V Zn atom ratios of 1, produced 8,740 and 10,200 g PE g catalyst hour, respectively, under identical reaction conditions. Also, in comparing the trivalent vanadium catalyst of Runs 1, 2 no zinc , with the divalent vanadium catalyst of invention Runs 5 and 6 V Zn atom ratio of 2 , it is apparent that the divalent catalyst is more active. Example 4 Ethylene Polymerization With Vanadium Compounds Supported On Various Substrates The supports used in this Example were selected from commercially obtained materials from the group Ketjen Grade B alumina disclosed in Example 3 , Davison high pore alumina having a surface area 2 of 540 mê g and a pore volume of 2.0 cc g, and Davison 952 silica having a surface area of 300 mê g and a pore volume of 1.6 cc g and an experimental AlPO4, P A1 atom ratio of 0.9, having a surface area of 350 m2 g and a pore volume of 0.8 cc g. The phosphated alumina, P A1203, was prepared by treating a previously calcined 6000C sample of the Davison alumina with a methanolic solution of H3P04 at the concentration needed to provide the P A1 atom ratio of 0.1 desired. The excess methanol was removed by suction filtration and the support dried under vacuum at 800C for 12 hours. The catalysts consisting of either 2VC12.ZnC12.5THF or VCl3.3TBF and the specified support were made by impregnation as previously described. Ethylene polymerization was carried out in a 2 L stirred, stainless steel reactor containing 1.25 Ibs. about 567 g or 1 L of isobutane as diluent. Charge order, method of maintaining reactor pressure, which in these runs was about 565 psia 3.9 MPa , and polymer recovery was followed as described before. The weights of catalysts charged, polymerization temperature employed, hydrogen and halocarbon activator used, if any, and polymer results obtained are set forth in Tables IIIA, and IIIB.One mmole of cocatalyst was used in each run, generally TEA, except where diethylaluminum chloride is specified. Table IIIA Run Parameters And Results For Supported Vanadium Catalysts Catalyst ViscosityRun V Cat. Wt. Productivity H2 CFC1 2 Density Intrinsic MeltNo. Cpd. Support g g PE g cat hr psi mmole HIMI g cc g dl M pois 1 a A AlPO4 b 0.0428 3,620 20 2.0 16 h 0.9636 2.44 2 A A120 d 0.0357 4,340 20 2.0 38 i 0.9651 1.78 3 A SiO2 d 0.0270 2,040 20 2.0 113 j 0.9687 g 4 A A1203 d 0.0727 1,620 0 0 0 0.9273 90 5 A A12O3 C 0.0930 1,540 0 0 0 0.9294 95 6 A A12O3 c 0.0681 2,470 0 0 0 0.9282 130 7 f B A1203 c 0.0374 4,810 0 0 0 0.9297 92 8 f B AlPO4 b 0.0458 3,100 0 0 0 0.9285 80 A is 2VC12.Zn 12.5THF. B is VCl3.3THF control . a 1 mmole TEA cocatalyst in all runs except 7 and 8. b P A1 atom ratio of 0.9, calcined at 6000C in air for 3 hours. c Ketjen Grade B alumina calcined at 6000C in air for 3 hours. d Davison 952 silica calcined at 7000C in air for 3 hours. e Davison high pore volume alumina calcined at 6000C in air for 3 hours. f Used 1 mmole diethylaluminum chloride as cocatalyst. g Dash signifies no determination made. h MI 0.23. i MI 0.52. j MI 2.0. The heterogeneity index Mw Mn as determined from gel permeation chromatography for the Run 1 polymer is 11, Run 2 is 8.7 and Run 3 is 17. These results show moderately broad to broad molecular weight distribution polymer is made. The nature of the support also plays an important role in catalyst selection since catalyst productivity and sensitivity to the presence of hydrogen and halocarbon activator are affected by the nature of the support. For example, in considering catalyst productivity and polymer HIAMI for Runs 1 to 3 using AlPO4, A1203 andSiO2 as supports, the results show using the same divalent vanadium compound, that order of catalyst activity is A1203, AlPO4 SiO2.On the other hand, sensitivity to hydrogen gives the ranking in decreasing order of Si02, Awl203 and AlP04 as supports. In the absence of hydrogen, the polymers made are high molecular weight in nature having zero HLMI values based on Runs 4 6.Generally, absence of a halocarbon activator also significantly diminishes catalyst activity. Without an activator, there is no clear preference for the invention, catalysts using the vanadium di chloride complex versus the control catalysts using the vanadium trichloride complex, and in some instances the trichloride can even give higher productivity as a comparison of Runs 6 and 7 shows. However, the invention catalysts are far more sensitive to the presence of an activator and the invention catalysts are more sensitive to the presence of hydrogen. Table IIIB Run Parameters And Results For Vanadium Phosphated Alumina Catalysts Catalyst TEA Cocatalyst Polymer Properties Unless Otherwise Noted ViscosityRun V Catalyst Productivity H2 CFC1 2 Density Intrinsic MeltNo. Cpd. Wt. g g PE g Cat hr psi mmole HIMI g cc g dl H poise 9 A 0.0978 3,350 0 0 0 0.9285 119 10 A 0.0237 28,000 a 0 1.0 0 11 A 0.0156 31,500 b 0 0.1 0 0.9284 134 12 A 0.0357 6,330 50 1.0 high e 0.9693 13 A 0.0340 3,240 50 1.0 high f 0.9688 14 A 0.0625 3,580 C 20 1.0 high g 0.9710 15 A 0.0634 7,260 d 1 1.0 0 0.9395 34.5 16 A 0.0294 6,730 10 1.0 4.8 h 17 A 0.1040 1,970 80 2.0 51 i 0.9662 18 A 0.0201 34,200 0 2.0 0 0.9253 28.6 19 B 0.1141 3,820 80 2.0 0.6 i 0.9555 20 B 0.0347 17,200 0 2.0 0 0.9271 29.4 A is 2VCl2.ZnCl2.STHF. B is VC13.3TffF a 14,000 productivity for 30 minutes, for 60 minutes assuming linear response calculated productivity equals 14,000 x 60 . 30 28,000. b 16,800 productivity for 32 minutes, see note a for correcting to 60 minutes. c 3,700 productivity for 62 minutes, see note a . d 4,730 productivity for 39.1 minutes, see note a . e HI is 140. f MI is 209. g HI is 15.1. h HI is 0.08. i MI is 1.2. j HI is 0. The atom ratio of Al or B V employed in the runs set forth in Tables IIIA and IIIB ranged from about 14 to 123, assuming each supported catalyst contains 2 weight percent vanadium. For 3 weight percent vanadium, the corresponding atom ratios range from about 17 to 102. The results in Tables IIIA and IIIB taken together show that the nature of the support has a marked effect on the hydrogen sensitivity of the divalent vanadium catalysts employing the support. For example, comparing the 0.52 melt index of the Run 2, Table IIIA polymer with the melt index of 15 obtained with the polymer of Run 14 of Table IIIB in which a phosphated alumina, P A1 atom ratio of 0.1, is employed in preparing the catalyst, clearly shows the advantage for the vanadium phosphated alumina combination. In the absence of reactor hydrogen and halocarbon activator, phosphated alumina, vanadium halide catalysts show reasonably good activity, e.g., 3,350 g PE g catalyst hour, and ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE having densities about 0.928 g cc as shown in Run 9, is produced. In the absence of reactor hydrogen but addition of from 0.1 to 2 mmoles of a halocarbon activator such as CFC12CFC12, Runs 10, 11 and 18 demonstrate that catalyst activity is substantially increased, e.g., about 8 to 10 fold based on Run 9, while UHMWPE is produced having densities of about 0.928 g cc. In the presence of 1.0 mmole CFC12CFC12 and hydrogen varying from 1 to 50 psi, Runs 12 16 demonstrate that a spectrum of polyethylenes can be prepared ranging from UHNWPE at 1 psi hydrogen inRun 15 to low molecular weight polymer having a melt index of 209 inRun 13. Run 15 also shows that a small amount of hydrogen in the reactor along with 1.0 mmole halocarbon significantly increases the polymer density, e.g., from about 0.928 g cc in absence of hydrogen and halocarbon Run 9 to about 0.940 g cc, yet UHMWPE is the product. In comparing invention Run 17 with control Run 19 of TableIIIB, both run in the presence of 80 psi hydrogen and 2.0 mmoles activator, it is apparent that the invention catalyst is much more sensitive to hydrogen since the polymer made has a HIMI of 51 vs.0.6 for Run 19 polymer. Under the conditions employed, however, the invention divalent vanadium catalyst has about one half the activity of the control trivalent vanadium catalyst based on productivities. In the absence of reactor hydrogen but in the presence of 2.0 mmole activator, the invention divalent vanadium catalyst in Run 18 has about twice the activity of the control trivalent vanadium catalyst used in Run 20. Both catalysts produced UHMWPE of approximately similar molecular weights. However, the polymer made with the invention catalyst has a slightly lower density, 0.925 g cc vs.0.927 g cc. Melt viscosity data are obtained by means of a RheometricsDynamic Spectrometer RDS at 2300C using parallel plate geometry.Strain amplitude is 5 , nitrogen gas is used in the sample chamber and the oscillatory frequency is varied from 0.1 to 500 radian second. The data obtained give storage modulus and loss modulus as a function of oscillatory frequency. From these data in turn can be calculated dynamic complex viscosity q as described in Chapter 1 of the t Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers1,, by Ferry, published in 1961 by Wiley. The values obtained are directly related to polymer molecular weight. The higher the value the higher the molecular weight. It has been shown for a commercially available ZWLIWPE that g when determined at 0.1 radian second and 1900C has a value of about 30 MPoise. Higher values then indicate even higher molecular weight polymer.The values obtained in Runs 4 8 of Table IIIA andRuns 9, 11 and 15 of Table IIIB are indicative that UHWPE has been prepared. The polymer of Run 15, Table IIIB has about the same value as that of a commercially obtained UHMWPE identified as Hostalen GUR,American Hoechst . Intrinsic viscosities are determined in accordance with ASTMD 4021 81, modified by using 0.015 weight percent dissolved polymer rather than 0.05 weight percent. The change is made to obtain better dissolution of the UHMWPE samples, which can be difficult to dissolve.Currently, URMiPE is defined as one having an intrinsic viscosity of about 20 or higher. The polymers of Runs 18 and 20 of Table IIIB give intrinsic viscosities of 28.6 and 29.4, respectively. In summary, the polymers made in invention Runs 4 6 of TableIIIA and invention runs 9 11, 15 and 18 of Table IIIB can all be characterized as UHSiPE. While this invention has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration, it is not to be construed as limited thereby but is intended to cover all changes and modifications within the spirit and scope thereof. The following part of the description are prefeiments 1 to 47 presented in the format of claims. 1. A composition comprising a vanadium dihalide ether complex on 8 solid porous carrier. 2. A composition according to claim 1 wherein said halide is chloride. 3. A composition according to claim 2 wherein said complex is formed from a cyclic ether. 4. A composition according to claim 3 wherein said cyclic ether is tetrahydrofuran. 5. A composition according to claim 4 wherein said porous carrier is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 6. A composition according to claim 2 wherein said carrier is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 7. A composition according to claim 2 comprising in addition a cocatalyst. 8. A composition according to claim 7 wherein said cocatalyst is an organoaluminum compound. 9. A composition according to claim 8 wherein said organoaluminum compound is triethylaluminum. 10. A composition according to claim 7 wherein said cocatalyst is an organoboron compound. 11. A composition according to claim 10 wherein said organoboron compound is triethylborane. 12. A method comprising forming a VX2 complex with an ether, X being a halogen and combining said complex with a porous solid support. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein X is chlorine. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said complex is formed by carrying out an electrolytic reduction of VC13 in alcohol to produce a VC12 alcohol complex which is then reacted with an ether to produce a VC12 ether complex. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said ether is a cyclic ether. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said ether is tetrahydrofuran. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said support is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 18. A method according to claim 13 wherein said support is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 19. A product produced by the method of claim 12. 20. A method comprising contacting a cyclic ether with a vanadium compound selected from VX4 and VX3 wherein X is a halogen to form a complex contacting said complex with a reducing agent at least a part of which is selected from zinc metal and organozinc compounds to reduce the valence of said vanadium to 2 and combining the thus produced VX2 ether zinc complex with a porous support. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein said ether is tetrahydrofuran. 22. A method according to claim 20 wherein said vanadium compound is VC14 and said VC14 is reacted in a chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent with said ether, said ether being THF, to give a VCl4 THF complex thereafter said VCl4 THE complex is contacted with a reducing agent selected from at least one of zinc metal and organozinc compounds to give a product comprising VCl2. ZnC12. 4mF. 23. A method according to claim 22 wherein said ether is tetrahyd rofuran. 24. A method according to claim 22 wherein prior to contacting said VC14 ether complex with said zinc metal or an organozinc compound, the VAC14 is reduced to VCl3 with a separate reducing agent. 25. A method according to claim 24 wherein said separate reducing agent is selected from organoboron compounds and organoaluminum compounds. 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein said separate reducing agent is triethylborane. 27. A method according to claim 22 wherein said chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent is dichloromethane. 28. A method according to claim 20 wherein said vanadium compound is VC14 and said VC14 is dissolved in said ether as the only solvent to form said VC14 ether complex. 29. A method according to claim 20 wherein said vanadium compound is VC13 and said complex is prepared by contacting said VC13 and said ether in the presence of a catalyst. 30. A method according to claim 29 wherein said catalyst is sodium hydride. 31. A method according to claim 30 wherein said ether is tetrahydrofuran. 32. A method according to claim 20 wherein said ether is tetrahydrofuran. 33. A method according to claim 20 wherein said support is selected from at least one of silica, aluminum phosphate, phosphated alumina, and alumina. 34. A product produced by the process of claim 20. 35. A polymerization process comprising contacting at least one mono l olefin having 2 to 8 carbon atoms with a catalyst of claim 1 in the presence of a cocatalyst. 36. A method according to claim 1 wherein said olefin is selected from ethylene, propylene, 1 butene, and 1 hexene. 37. A method according to claim 35 wherein said olefin comprises ethylene. 38. A method according to claim 35 wherein said polymerization process is carried out at a temperature within the range of 66 1100C. 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein said cocatalyst present during said polymerization is an organometal compound. 40. A method according to claim 39 wherein said cocatalyst is triethylaluminum. 41. A method according to claim 35 wherein an activator is present during said polymerization. 42. A method according to claim 41 wherein said activator is a halogenated hydrocarbon. 43. A method according to claim 42 wherein said activator is CFC12 2. 44. A method according to claim 43 wherein hydrogen is utilized as a molecular weight control agent. 45. A method according to claim 35 wherein hydrogen is used as a molecular weight control agent. 46. A polymerization process comprising contacting at least one mono l olefin having 2 to 8 carbon atoms per molecule with the catalyst of claim 19 in the presence of a cocatalyst. 47. A polymerization process comprising contacting at least one mono l olefin having 2 to 8 carbon atoms per molecule with the catalyst of claim 34 in the presence of a cocatalyst.