# Mainly brick shaped piece of fat containing food product packed in a wrapper and wrapper therefor.

## Abstract
A mainly brick shaped piece 1 of fat containing food product having a tacky surface packed in a wrapper 2 of a flexible packaging material, which wrapper 2 is wrapped around the contour of the piece 1 formed by the two largest 3, 4 and the two smallest faces 7, 8 thereof while the wrap per is being folded up at the two faces 5, 6 of intermediate size. A wrapper 2 for packaging such piece provided with a scale 15 which is visible on the side of the wrapper which is to come into contact with the piece.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Mainly brick shaped piece of fat containing food product having a tacky surface, packed in a wrapper of a flexible packaging material, which wrapper is wrapped around the piece with its two ends overlapping and which is folded up at two opposite sides, characterized in that the wrapper 2 is wrapped around the contour of the piece 1 formed by the two long, wide 3,4 and the two short, wide 7,8 faces of said piece while the wrapper is folded up at the long, narrow faces 5,6 . 2. Packed piece according to Claim 1, characterized in that the outer end 10 of the wrapper is positioned in the vicinity of the intersecting line 11 of a long, wide 3 or 4 and a short, wide face 7 , while the free end thereof is directed towards said intersecting line. 3. Packed piece according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the end 9 of the wrapper 2 directly lying on a long, wide face 3 of the piece 1 covers at most one third of the length of the piece. 4. Packed piece according to any of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that the end 9 of the wrapper 2 directly lying on a long, wide face 3 of the piece 1 covers at most one fifth of the length of the piece. 5. Packed piece according to Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the overlapping ends of the wrapper are arranged against one of the short, wide end faces 7,8 of the piece 1 . 6. Packed piece according to any of the Claims 1 to 5, characterized in that the free outer end 10 of the wrapper 2 is at a distance of from one fifth to one twentieth of the dimension in the direction as defined in Claim 1 of the face against which the said free end is positioned away from the near by intersecting line 11 with the adjacent face in said direction. 7. Packed piece according to any of Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the piece comprises a fat suitable for consumption. 8. Packed piece according to Claim 7, characterized in that the piece contains at least a considerable proportion of margarine. 9. Packed piece according to Claim 7, characterized in that the piece comprises frying fat. 10. Packed piece according to any of the Claims 1 to 9, characterized in that the wrapper 2 is provided with a scale 15 which is visible on the side of the wrapper coming into contact with the piece 1 and which is arranged in the vicinity of the folding line 16 between the long and wide face 4 where the overlapping ends 9,10 do not meet and one of the long and narrow faces 5,6 . 11. Wrapper for a packed piece according to Claim 10, provided with a scale 15 which is visible on the side of the wrapper which is to come into contact with the piece, which scale is arranged in the vicinity of the place where the folding line 16 between the long and wide face 4 where the overlapping ends 9,10 do not be meet and one of the long and narrow faces 5,6 will be made. 12. Wrapper according to Claim 11, characterized in that it is transparent.

## Description
Mainly brick shaped piece of fat containing food product packed in a wrapper and wrapper therefor.The invention relates to a mainly brick shaped piece of fat containing food product having a tacky surface, packed in a wrapper of a flexible packaging material, which is wrapped around the piece with its two ends overlapping and which is folded up at two opposite sides.Such a packed piece is known, e.g. as a pack of margarine, butter or sandwich paste, and is usually shaped as a rectangular parallelepiped of three different main dimensions and is indicated in this specification and claims with brick shaped . The packaging wrapper in this known case is wrapped around the smallest contour of the piece and is folded up at the smallest or end faces.Opening the pack is generally troublesome since the folded up portions are to be opened first and only thereafter can the outer end of the wrapper be removed.Additionally separating a predetermined amount of the food product with an acceptable precision is difficult.After separating an amount of food product one or several times, in practice the remaining amount appears to be in an unattractive condition.In order to remove or diminish these and other disadvantages, the invention provides a packed piece as hereinbefore described, which is characterized in that the wrapper is wrapped around the contour of the piece formed by the two long, wide and the two short, wide or end faces, while the wrapper is folded up at the long, narrow faces.For opening the package, in this case pulling the upper end of the wrapper away from the piece is usually sufficient, whereby the piece becomes accessible and can be divided, for instance, in transverse direction. In order to have the greater part of the piece available after this operation, preferably the outer end of the wrapper is positioned in the vicinity of the intersecting line of a long, wide and short, wide face, while the free end thereof is directed towards said intersecting line. Particularly the end of the wrapper which is directly lying on a long, wide face of the piece covers at most one third and preferably at most one fifth of the length of the piece.For having the largest possible packaging surfaces available for decorating and advertisement purposes, it is advisable that the free outer end should be at a distance of from one fifth to one twentieth of the dimension in the hereinbefore defined direction of the face against which said free end is positioned away from the near by intersecting line with the adjacent face in said direction, which is quite compatible with the preceding preferred requrements.Although the overlapping ends preferably are arranged in the vicinity of one of the long wide faces1 since in that case the opening procedure will be easiest, it might be attractive to arrange the overlapping ends of the wrapper against one of the short, wide end faces of the piece, for the purpose of the layout of the printing on the wrapper.The invention is particularly advantageously applicable for products which are used in the kitchen directly from the package, such as margarine and frying fat in particular.For separating a predetermined amount of the contents of the package with an acceptable precision, the wrapper is advantageously provided with a scale which is visible on the side of the wrapper coming into contact with the piece and which is arranged in the vicinity of the folding line between the long and wide face where the overlapping ends of the wrapper do not meet and one of the long and narrow faces.The invention also relates to a wrapper for a packed block, which wrapper is provided with a scale as described hereinbefore. This scale may simply be provided on the outer side of the wrapper when applying the usual decoration and text, provided the wrapper material is transparent.The invention will be exemplified in the drawing showing some embodiments and in the following description.Fig. 1 shows a packed block according to the invention in a perspective view.Fig. 2 shows the packed block of Fig. 1 while it is being opened.Fig. 3 shows an alternative embodiment of the packed block of the invention in a perspective view.Fig. 4 shows a wrapper according to the invention for wrapping a block.Fig. 1 and 2 show a packed block 1 of a tacky, fatcontaining material packed in a wrapper 2. This wrapper is wrapped around the two long, wide 3,4 and the two short, wide or end faces 7,8, such that the inner end 9 of the wrapper is situated near one of the end faces 7 while the outer end 10 overlapping this inner end 9 is still closer to this end face 7. The free end 10 of the wrapper 2 is consequently situated in the vicinity of the intersecting line 11 between one of the long, wide 3 and one of the short, wide faces 7 and is directed towards said intersecting line 11. The wrapper 2 is folded up at both diametrical sides against the two long narrow sides. For opening the pack the free end 10 of the wrapper 2 is to be pulled, roughly in the direction of the arrow 12, for obtaining the situation as shown in Fig. 2.Then the free end of the wrapper is to be pivoted further, whereafter the upturned sides of the wrapper can be laid flat. Hereafter the required portion of the block of foodstuff may be separated by cutting in transverse direction. The marks 15, forming a scale, can be helpful. Since this scale is arranged in the vicinity of te folding line between the long, wide face 4 and the long, narrow face 5 and is therefore next to the block, the requested amount of foodstuff to be separated can be estimated quite easily.After use the free end of the block can be refolded over the block.Fig. 3 shows an alternative embodiment of the invention.This Fig., in a similar way as Fig. 1, shows a block of fat containing food material having a tacky surface, which block is wrapped in a wrapper of flexible packaging material. In this case the wrapper is applied in a similar manner, with one single difference, namely that the inner end 9 of the wrapper is applied against an end face 7 of the block, while the free outer end 10 of said wrapper is arranged in the vicinity of the intersecting line 11 of said end face 7 and a long, wide face 4 of the block and is directed towards said intersecting line. The remaining features correspond to those as shown in Fig. 1. For opening the package, the free outer end 10 is to be pulled outwards in the direction of the arrow 13 and subsequently upwards and to the left as shown in the situation of Fig. 3 in the direction of the arrow 14.This embodiment can be advantageous in connection with the decoration to be applied on the wrapper and has the additional advantage that, after opening the package, the entire block is accessible and is not covered at its upper side by packaging material.Fig. 4 shows a wrapper for wrapping a brick shaped block. The marks forming the scale 15 are arranged along the line which is to become the folding line 16 between the long and broad face 4 of the block where the overlapping ends 9 and 10 of the wrapper do not meet and one of the long and narrow faces 5,6 of the block.