# ULTRASONIC MEDIUM CHARACTERIZATION

## Claims
Verfahren zur Charakterisierung eines Mediums mittels Ultraschall, mit den folgenden Schritten

## Description
The present invention relates to the measurement of values of n and β of a medium using reflected ultrasonic waves, where β is a proportionality constant called the attenuation slope describing the attenuation constant of the medium, which constant is proportional to βf f is the frequency of the ultrasonic wave , and where n is a power exponent constant called the reflection power exponent describing the reflection coefficient of the medium, which is proportional to the frequency of the ultrasonic wave raised to the power n. Two methods for obtaining the proportionality constant β that is, the attenuation slope have been previously proposed by Dr. Miwa et al. The above mentioned methods are based on the assumption that the reflection coefficient does not depend on frequency. Actual experimental evidence proves that, for example in living body tissue, the reflection coefficient is proportional to the frequency raised to the power n, where n is a constant within the range from 0 to 6 depending on the specific tissue type and indicates a particular characteristic of the tissue. Thus, because of the above mentioned assumptions related to the reflection coefficient, the above mentioned previously proposed methods can provide measurements which are subject to error. Another method for obtaining the values of β and n by analyzing reflected ultrasonic waves where the values β and n are combined, has been proposed by Dr. Miwa et al. in a method which utilizes three frequencies. This method is an extension of the energy ratio method mentioned above and is disclosed in Japanese Patent Application JP A 58 173539 having corresponding European Patent Application EP A2 0091768. This method is effective for analyzing living body tissue but has a drawback in that errors due to local fluctuation of the spectrum can be introduced. The local fluctuation of the spectrum results from the mutual interference of overlapped pulse echoes, which is known as scalloping and is due to the narrow frequency bands used in the three frequency method. This method has a further disadvantage in that a large number of calculations are necessary because of the various combinations of the three frequencies within the effective frequency band that must be performed to provide an ensemble of n and β values for statistical processing. According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided an ultrasonic medium characterization method, comprising the steps of The method of the present invention utilizes the entire spectrum of a reflected pulse waveform and is called a spectrum shape method. The present invention can also provide a system for separately determining n and then β by analyzing the shape of the power frequency spectrum of a reflected ultrasonic wave. That is, according to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a measuring system for ultrasonic characterization of a medium, comprising a transducer or transducers for transmitting pulses into the medium and for receiving reflected pulse waveforms from the medium, and a processor, the measuring system being operable by The present invention can also provide an easy method for calculating n and β. The present invention can also provide a method enabling rapid calculation of β for a plurality of points along a scan line in living tissue, so that a tomographic image of the tissue can be rapidly produced by shifting the scan line in the tomographic plane. The present invention can also provide a method which can produce n and β free from errors due to scalloping. The present invention can also provide a method in which a β and or n tomographic image can be combined with a reflection intensity tomographic image or others to produce enhanced diagnostic images. The present invention can provide an effective non invasive tissue diagnostic method. A method embodying the present invention includes transmitting an ultrasonic pulse and receiving the reflected pulse. The reflected pulse is converted into frequency analysed data and the power frequency spectrum of the reflected pulse is produced using a Fourier Transform method. The power frequency spectrum is normalised and the frequency of the maximum value of the power spectrum curve is obtained. Upper and lower frequencies at which the power spectrum reaches one half the maximum value half power points , are also obtained. The half power point frequencies are normalised by the maximum value frequency to determine upper and lower frequency ratios. The upper and lower frequency ratios are then used to calculate n, or a table look up method using the upper and lower frequency ratios as indexes is used to obtain n. The attenuation slope is calculated using n, the maximum value frequency, the sound velocity and the time difference of the echo between two sampling points. In relation to living body tissue a plurality of attenuation coefficients β and or n can be obtained to form a tomographic image of the living tissue. The β and or n tomographic image or others can be combined with a reflection intensity tomographic image or others to produce enhanced diagnostic images. Reference is made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Methods embodying the present invention will be described below in connection with the characterization of living body tissue. It will be understood, however, that methods embodying the present invention can be used for the characterization of other media. A method embodying the present invention provides for the determination of the characteristic values of a living body tissue transfer function frequency spectrum as a function of n and the normalised frequency only, not as a function of n and β. The present method determines the value of n without using the n and β complex by recognizing that the normalised frequency spectrum response at points corresponding to upper and lower frequency ratios can be expressed as a function of n. The upper frequency ratio y is f f Fig.1 illustrates how an ultrasonic pulse, having a centre frequency f₀ and a bandwidth 2Ω is transmitted into a living body 12 in the direction Z by a transducer 3 positioned against a surface of the living body 12. The pulse reaches different tissue regions i at the velocity of sound C, while the reflected waves from each tissue boundary travel in the Z direction at the velocity of sound C and are received by transducer 3. When the characteristics of the tissue at the depth Z are to be measured, the pulse passes through i different tissue regions and the velocity of sound C is assumed to be constant. The sound pressure of the pulse transmitted into the living body 12 is attenuated in accordance with the attenuation constant α Transducer 3, after transmitting the ultrasonic pulse, receives the reflected waves from the different tissue regions as the transmitted ultrasonic wave passes deeper into the tissue. The reflected wave corresponding to the depth z, reaches the transducer after a time t 2z C determined from the instant of original pulse transmission. Thus, a tissue characteristic at the depth z or for the region i can be obtained by analyzing the reflected waveform which arrives at the transducer 3 during a short period of time τ around the time t. Living tissue analysis can be performed by looking at sound pressure, power and other parameters, however, the present invention uses the power spectrum. The power spectrum P In order to obtain a normalised power spectrum the power spectrum P₀ f of the measuring system must be obtained for the received waveform. The power spectrum P₀ f of the measuring system is obtained by immersing the transducer 3 in a water bath and receiving a pulse echo from a standard reflector at a distance z from the transducer. The reflected wave is Fourier transformed and the power spectrum P₀ f is obtained. The normalised power spectrum R f mes, or square of the transfer function of the living body tissue, can be obtained by dividing the power spectrum P where k is a constant independent of f and A single transducer cannot obtain a meaningful value for R f mes outside its effective bandwidth. Therefore, it is recommended that a plurality of transducers of different frequency bandwidths be used to obtain R f mes for a sufficiently wide frequency range. During actual measurements, the shape of the frequency spectrum suffers local irregularity due to interference caused by overlapped reflected waves from adjacent reflectors and spectrum scalloping can result, producing errors in measurement. As explained in the preceding patent applications by Miwa et al., to prevent such error it is necessary to employ statistical data processing techniques such as data averaging temporally and spatially around a tissue portion of interest that is, around a point z . The average data should be taken from the front, back, right, left, upper and lower portions of the tissue around the point z and R f mes can be obtained as explained above. From equation 1, the frequency, f When the frequency is normalised in accordance with equation 3, When R is replaced with The method of the present invention, where n is first determined and then β is obtained based on equation 7 is explained hereinafter. Equation 1 describes a curve which has a maximum value of R From equations 7 and 8, S From equation 9, since y and y can be obtained from actual measurements n can also be obtained. A system for performing the above mentioned sampling and calculating is illustrated in Fig.2. The signals transmitted and received by the system are graphically illustrated in Figs.3 A 3 D . A timing clock pulse P The collected data is transferred to the frequency analyzer 7 wherein the Fast Fourier Transform is performed, and the resulting data is transferred to data memory 8. As a result of the Fast Fourier Transform frequency analysis, a reflected wave power spectrum , as illustrated in Fig.4 A , or a reflected spectrum from a standard reflector, as illustrated in Fig.4 B , is obtained. An arithmetic operation processor 9 performs the operations necessary to normalize the frequency spectrum and to obtain n. That is, the power spectrum P Fig.7 is a flow chart illustrating the calculation method of the above embodiment of the present invention used to obtain n. First the normalised power spectrum R is obtained using the received data tissue spectrum P The maximum value frequency point f Fig.5 is a block diagram of an alternate system for performing the method of the present invention in which a table 10 is connected to arithmetic operation processor 9. The arithmetic processor 9 calculates y y after executing the necessary operations which are similar to those in the device illustrated in Fig.2. The table 10 has stored therein a correspondence table of the y y and n values, for example as tabulated in Table I below. The value for n can be obtained by referring to this table without executing the necessary calculations for obtaining the log of the frequency ratios required in the device illustrated in Fig.2. The table data can also be located in arithmetic operation processor 9 as part of its internal memory. Fig.8 is a flow chart illustrating the table look up method of the above embodiment of the present invention used to obtain n. The steps for obtaining the half power frequencies f and f and the maximum power frequency f A rearrangement of equation 2 results in equation 10 The left side of equation 10 contains f In equation 10, the value of β As set forth in equation 11, β z can be obtained by differentiating it with respect to z and equation 13 results. As shown in equation 10 or 11, the linear integration of the attenuation slope is obtained along the path length. If the linear integrations for various paths are obtained, it is clear that an image reconstruction algorithm well known in X ray CT Computer Tomography can be applied to reconstruct a β image instead of using equations 12 or 13. Systems as illustrated in both Figs. 2 and 5 can be used to obtain values of β . The operation of the system as shown in Fig.5 may be as follows, to obtain β. Timing controller 1 generates the time gate pulse P Fig.9 illustrates how β is obtained using n determined as in Fig.7 or 8. As illustrated multiple values of the maximum power frequency f From the above explanation, n z and β z can be obtained at every depth z in the direction z along the ultrasonic wave beam or scanning line. Thus, it is possible to obtain the distribution of n and β on a tomographic plane and display the values for n and β by successively shifting the scanning line in the scan plane. It is also possible to reconstruct the distribution of β z , that is, construct a tomographic image, by a well known algorithm such as an X ray computer tomography algorithm when the linear integrations, set forth in equation 10 or equation 11, for all directions are obtained. The above mentioned living body tissue characteristic parameters are very effective for detecting diseased portions of the human body such as cancer or to observe the progress of such a disease. This method of tissue analysis is a non invasive measurement method that can be realized by contacting the ultrasonic probe against only the surface of the human body. A reflected ultrasonic wave also has a reflection intensity value or coefficient. The reflection intensity coefficients for ultrasonic waves beamed from different tissue points can be combined to create a reflection intensity tomographic image using the well known tomographic imaging processing programs. More precise and reliable diagnostic information can be obtained by combining the image of the method of the present invention with the image from methods such as the ultrasonic reflection intensity Xray, Xray CT, NMR and Radiosotope imaging methods and displaying the two of the tomographic images on a superimposed basis. It should be recongized by those of skill in the art that the use of the half power point 3db as the point for determining the upper and lower frequencies of the power spectrum is an arbitrary selection made because it is a well recognized engineering breakpoint, and other arbitrarily selected power spectrum values can be selected as the upper and lower frequency points. The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the detailed specification, and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the method which fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims. Further, since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described, accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the Claims.