# Reactivation of phosphorus vanadium catalysts and process for the manufacture of maleic anhydride catalysts treated with alkyl esters of orthophosphoric acids in the presence of water.

## Abstract
A process for the reactivation of vanadium phosphorus oxygen catalyst with alkyl esters of phosphoric acid and water. The catalysts are useful for the manufacture of maleic anhydride from butane feedstock.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A continuous process for the vapor phase oxidation of butane feedstock to form maleic anhydride in which butane is contacted in the presence of molecular oxygen or air with a vanadium phosphorus oxygenwater catalyst wherein the catalyst is regenerated continuously or batchwise by contacting it during the vapor phase oxidation with an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula Ro 3P o where R is hydrogen or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being aC1 to C4 alkyl, wherein the amount of water added is about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent of the catalyst feedstream. 2. A process according to Claim 1 wherein the alkyl ester is mixed with the butane feedstock prior to oxidation. 3. A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the alkyl ester is triethylphosphate. 4. A process according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the alkyl ester is trimethylphosphate. 5. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the reaction temperature is about 650 Z. to about 900oF. 6. A process according to any preceding claim wherein a fixed bed catalyst is used and the feedstock contains about 0.2 to about 1.7 mole percent butane. 7. A process according to any preceding claim wherein a vanadiumphosphorus oxide promoter catalyst is reactivated. 8. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the catalyst comprises a vanadium phosphorus oxygen water catalyst promoted by a metal. 9. A process according to any preceding claim wherein the catalyst comprises a vanadium phosphorus oxygen water catalyst promoted by zinc or molybdenum. 10. A continuous process for color stabilizing maleic anhydride obtained by the vapor phase oxidation of butane over a phosphorousvanadium oxygen water catalyst which process comprises regenerating continuously or batchwise the catalyst by contacting it during the vapor phase oxidation with an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula R0 3P 0 where R is hydrogen or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being a C1 to C4 alkyl, wherein the amount of water added is about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent of the catalyst feed stream. 11. A process according to Claim 10 wherein the catalyst is a phosphorus vanadium catalyst promoted by a co metal, preferably zinc or molybdenum. 12. A continuous or batch process for the reactivation of a vanadium phosphrous oxygen water catalyst which process comprises applying in situ alkyl esters of orthoposphoric acid and water wherein the amount of water added is about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent of the catalyst feedstream. 13. A process for the reactivation of a vanadium phosphorus oxygenwater catalyst promoted with co metals which process comprises applying an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula R0 3P 0 where R is hydrogen or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being a C1 to C4 alkyl, wherein the amount of water added is about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent of the catalyst feedstream. 14. A process according to Claim 12 or Claim 13 wherein the alkyl ester is triethylphosphate. 15. A process according to Claim 12 or Claim 13 wherein the alkyl ester is trimethylphosphate. 16. A process according to any of Claims 12 to 15 wherein the co metals are molybdenum or zinc. 17. A process according to any of Claims 12 to 16 which process comprises applying continuously about 4 X 10 4 to about 10 grams of an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula RO P 0 where R is hydrogen or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being aC1 to C4 alkyl per kilogram of the catalyst per hour and water, wherein the amount of water added is about I X 10 5 to about 0.1 kilograms per hour per kilogram of catalyst.

## Description
REACTIVATION OF PHOSPHORUS VANADIUM CATALYSTS AND PROCESS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF MALEIC ANHYDRIDE CATALYSTS TREATED WITH ALKYL ESTERS OF ORTHOPHOSPHORIC ACIDS IN THE PRESENCE OF WATERField of the Invention The field of this invention relates to reactivation of phosphorus vanadium catalysts, with a hydrocarbon ester of phosphoric acid, in the presence of water and to the color stabilization of the maleic anhydride produced by the vapor phase oxidation of butane in the presence of the catalyst.Background Maleic anhydride is of significant commercial interest throughout the world and is extensively used in the production of alkyl resins. It is also a versatile intermediate for chemical synthesis. Consequently, large quantities of maleic anhydride are produced each year to satisfy these needs. The production of maleic anhydride by the catalytic oxidation of benzene has, until recently, been the principal method for the manufacture of maleic anhydride. However, because of the inherent toxicity of benzene the trade has commenced to eliminate the utilization of benzene as a feedstock and newer facilities tend to utilize butane oxidation processes for the production of maleic anhydride. In general, catalysts utilized for the oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride are based upon vanadium and phosphorus. Various metal activators have been used to enhance the phosphorus vanadium catalyst. The difficulty with the phosphorus vanadium metal promoted catalysts is that they tend to deactivate quite quickly. In this connection, U.S. Patents 4,002,174 4,094,816 and 4,089,807 teach that carbon tetrachloride can be used to improve the vanadium phosphorus metal promoted catalyst reactivation. In U.S. Patent 3,296,282 and U.S. Patent 3,474,041 there is described a method for the regeneration of vanadium phosphorus oxidation catalysts used in the oxidation of olefines to make maleic anhydride.These references disclose the process of treating the catalyst with a phosphine, phosphite or phosphonate by periodically or continuously passing the phosphorus compound to the reactor, with or without interrupting the oleo in feed flow. British Patent Specification 1,464,198 teaches regeneration of phosphorus complexes with certain phosphates. This reference does not disclose vanadium phosphorus, or vanadium phosphorus co metal catalysts in the presence of about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent water in the feedstream as capable of being regenerated by organic phosphates and this reference does not suggest that the phosphates used in regeneration improved the color stability of the resulting maleic anhydride. We have now discovered a method for regenerating in situ vanadium phosphorus and vanadium phosphorus co metal catalyst complexes used in the vapor phase oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride. According to our process, the vapor phase oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride is conducted by contacting the butane in the presence of a vanadium phosphorus oxygen catalyst or a catalyst promoted with metals. Suitable co metals are zinc, molybdenum, zirconium, niobium, cerium, chromium, manganese, nickel and uranium. The preferred co metals are molybdenum and zinc. The catalyst i s regenerated continuously or by batch method as desired during the vapor phase oxi day ion of butane with an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula RO 3P O, wherein R is hydrogen, or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being a C1 to C4 alkyl.The preferred method is to regenerate the catalyst continuously because significantly better maleic anhydride yields are obtained. The catalyst to be reactivated can be prepared in various ways including the one disclosed in U.S. Patent 3,862,146, issued January 21, 1975, having Edward M. Boghosian as its inventor. The catalyst prepared according to the process disclosed inU.S. Patents 4,418,003 4,416,802 and 4,416,803. Alternatively, the catalyst to be reactivated can suitably be prepared from an alcohol solution which has been reacted with phosphoric pentoxide and has been saturated with an inorganic acid, such as hydrogen chloride. Other ways to prepare the catalyst are disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,328,126 wherein the catalyst is made from an organic solvent system.Precipitation of the phosphorus vanadium zinc mixed oxide can suitably be effected by azeotropic distillation of the organic solvent and the water of reaction and the subsequent evaporation of the organic solvent. The atomic ratio of vanadium to phosphorus can suitably be in the range of about 0.5 1 to about 1.25 1, preferably, in the range of about 0.6 1 to about 1 1.The total atomic ratio of zinc or molybdenum to vanadium is advantageously in the range of about 0.005 1 to about 0.25 1. The atomic ratio of phosphorus to vanadium is suitably in the range of about 2 1 to about 0.8 1, preferably about 1 1 to about 1.7 1. The reactivation of the catalyst can also be suitably conducted by dissolving the alkyl ester of phosphoric acid in water and applying this solution in a uniform manner to the catalyst to be regenerated. This method is particularly suitable in continuous processes which utilize multi tubular upflow reactors. In this process, the alkyl ester, in an aqueous medium comprising about 0.01 to about 100 weight percent, more preferably about 25 to about 75 weight percent of the alkyl ester, is sprayed as a liquid into the feed gas stream flowing to the reactor.This process has great advantages over conventional additions of regenerating agents, which entail plant shutdowns, since, in our novel process, the reactivation is conducted in situ without interrupting production or utilizing a hot oil vaporizer which tends to decompose alkyl phosphates. Our continuous process for color stabilizing maleic anhydride obtained by the vapor phase oxidation of butane over a phosphorus vanadium oxygen catalyst promoted by a metal selected from the group consisting of zinc, molybdenum, niobium, tungsten, uranium, chromium and tin comprises regenerating the catalyst by contacting it during the vapor phase oxidation with an alkyl ester of orthophosphoric acid having the formula RO 3P O where R is hydrogen, or a C1 to C4 alkyl, at least one R being a CI to C4 alkyl. The continuous reactivation is applicable to phosphorus vanadium catalysts and to phosphorus vanadium catalysts promoted by metals, which are disclosed hereinabove. Suitable metals include molybdenum, zinc, tungsten, tin, and bismuth, etc. This invention also comprises a process for oxidizing butane to maleic anhydride by contacting it in the presence of oxygen with the continuously reactivated catalyst in the presence of about 0.001 to about 50 percent water based on the total weight of the feedstream and for improving the color and color stability of maleic anhydride produced by our novel process employing continuous or batch catalyst regeneration. The reactivation is conducted at a temperature of about 6500 to about 9000F. The alkyl phosphate in a water medium comprising about 0.001 to about 100 weight percent, more preferably about 0.001 to about 50 weight percent of the solution, is contacted with the feed gas stream flowing to the reactor.Alternatively, the alkyl phosphate and water may be added directly to the butane feed prior to the mixing of the butane and air reactants. The oxidation of butane to maleic anhydride may be accomplished by contacting n butane in low concentration in oxygen with the described catalyst. Air is entirely satisfactory as a source of oxygen, but synthetic mixtures of oxygen and diluent gases such as nitrogen may also be employed. Air enriched with oxygen may be used. The gaseous feedstream to the oxidation reactors will normally contain air and about 0.2 to about 1.7 mole percent of n butane. About 0.8 to about 1.5 mole percent of n butane is satisfactory for optimum yield of maleic anhydride for the process of this invention. Although higher concentrations may be employed, explosive hazards may be encountered. Lower concentrations of butane, less than about one percent, of course, will reduce the total yield obtained at equivalent flow rates and, thus, are not normally employed for economic reasons. The flow rate of the gaseous stream through the reactor may be varied within rather wide limits, but preferred range of operations is at the rate of about 100 to about 4000cc of feed per cc of catalyst per hour and more preferably about 1000 to about 2400cc of feed per cc of catalyst per hour.Residence times of the gas stream will normally be less than about four seconds, more preferably less than about one second, and down to a rate where more efficient operations are obtained. The flow rates and residence times are calculated at standard conditions of about 760mm of mercury and at about 25 C. A variety of reactors will be found to be useful and multiple tube heat exchanger type reactors are quite satisfactory. The tops of such reactors may vary in diameter from about onequarter inch to about three inches, and the length may be varied from about three to about ten or more feet. The oxidation reaction is an exothermic reaction and, therefore, relatively close control of the reaction temperatures should be maintained.It is desirable to have the surface of the reactors at a relatively constant temperature and some medium is needed to conduct heat from the reactors, such as lead and the like, but it has been found that eutectic salt baths are completely satisfactory. One such salt bath is a sodium nitrate, sodium nitrite potassium nitrate eutectic constant temperature mixture. An additional method of temperature control is to use a metal block reactor whereby the metals surrounding the tube act as a temperature regulating body. As will be recognized by one skilled in the art, the heat exchanger medium may be kept at the proper temperature by heat exchangers and the like. The reactor or reaction tubes may be iron, stainless steel, carbon steel, nickel, glass tubes such as vycor and the like.Both carbon steel and nickel tubes have excellent long life under the conditions of the reaction described here in. Normally, the reactors contain a preheat zone under an inert material such as one quarter inch Alundum pellets, inert ceramic balls, nickel balls, or chips and the like present at about one half to one tenth the volume of the active catalyst present. The temperature of reaction may be varied within some limits, but normally the reaction should be conducted at a temperature within a rather critical range.The oxidation reaction is exothermic and once reaction is underway, the main purpose of the salt bath or other media is to conduct heat away from the walls of the reactor and control the reaction. Better operations are normally obtained when the reaction temperature employed is no greater than about 200 to about 500F above the salt bath temperature. The temperature of the reactor, of course, will also depend to some extent upon the size of the reactor and the butane concentration. The reaction may be conducted at atmospheric, superatmospheric or below atmospheric pressure. The exit pressure will be at least slightly higher than the ambient pressure to ensure a positive flow from the reaction. The pressure of the inert gases must be sufficiently higher to overcome the pressure drop through the reactor. Maleic anhydride may be recovered by a number of ways well known to those skilled in the art. For example, the recovery may be by direct condensation or by absorption in suitable media, with specific operation and purification of the maleic anhydride. The following examples will serve to provide a fuller understanding of the invention, but it is to be understood that these examples are given for illustrative purposes only and should not be interpreted as limiting the invention in any way.In the examples, the terms conversion selectivity and yield are defined as follows Conversion Moles n butane reacted X 100 Moles n butane in feedSelectivity Moles maleic produced x 100 Moles n butane feed consumedYield Wt. Conversion X Selectivity X 169Example 1A vanadium oxygen phosphorus catalyst promoted with Zn gave a yield of 87 wt. at 7920F, 2000 volume hourly space velocity VHSV , and 1.5 n butane. The feed contained 10,000 ppm water at this time. After 524 additional hours on stream, at the above conditions, and at 7800F, the catalyst gave an 80 wtt yield of maleic anhydride. Triethylphosphate, 1.6 ppm, was added to the feed stream 48 hours later. After another 192 hours, the yield had improved to 85 wt. at 7990F and the same conditions.The water was removed from the feed stream 521 hours later while continuing with 1.4 ppm of triethylphosphate addition. After another 160 hours the yield declined to 73 wt. at 7790F and the same flow conditions. Upon increasing the triethylphosphate addition to 3.2 ppm 194 hours later, the yield declined further. 336 hours after this, the yield was only 55 wt. at 7800F and the same flow conditions.Water was reintroduced after 24 hours at 10,000 ppm and the alkylphosphate addition was discontinued. After 120 hours the yield had improved to 77 wt. . This example illustrates that a combination of water and alkylphosphate ester is necessary for the optimum regeneration of catalysts. Note that without water addition the alkylphosphate addition actually resulted in a yield decline with this particular catalyst.Example 2 A used phosphorus vanadium oxygen catalyst gave a yield of 55 wt. at 7820F, 2000 VHSV, and 1.5 n butane at 115 hours on stream in a pilot plant. Addition of 1.6 5.0 ppm of triethylphosphate to the feed stream produced a maximum yield of 71 wt. at 8130F and the same flow conditions at 1090 hours on stream. The yield then declined to 61 wt at 2496 hours on stream at 818OF with 7.4 ppm of triethylphosphate addition. The phosphate addition was then discontinued after 2497 hours. After 3048 hours the yield was 58 wt. at 7970F, 2000 VHSV, and 1.5 n butane. Water was then added to the feed at a concentration of 10,000 ppm along with 1.5 13 ppm of triethylphosphate.After 4756 hours on stream this catalyst gave a maximum yield of 73.6 wt. at 8450F, 2000 VHSV, 1.5 n butane, 10,000 ppm of water, and 13 ppm of triethylphosphate. In this example, the alkylphosphate ester produced a yield increase without water present. Then the treatment resulted in a yield decline. However, adding the alkylphosphate with water produced a higher maximum yield and continued treatment gave no yield decline. Prolonged addition of phosphate without the co addition of water results in a yield decline. This decline is dependent on the catalyst used. Again, the use of water and alkylphosphate esters gi ves better results when compared to the use of alkylphosphates without water.Example 3 A 6cc load of a vanadium phosphorus zinc catalyst having an atomic ratio of 1 1.2 0.18 in the form of 3 16 inch cored cylindrical tablets was used to oxidize n butane to maleic anhydride in a 0.62 inch diameter minireactor. A 1.05 n butane in air mixture was passed through the catalyst at greater than 1700 VHSV at a temperature between 7500 7900F. Under these conditions after 1056 hours of continuous reaction, the yield of maleic anhydride was 84 wt. at 77 butane conversion and 65 selectivity. Under the same conditions after 3048 hours of operation, the yield of maleic anhydride was 75 wt. at 80 butane conversion and 55 selectivity. After 3384 hours of operation, 0.16cc of a fifty fifty by volume mixture of trimethylphosphate in water was passed through the reactor by means of injection into the feedstream over a 20 second period.The yield of maleic anhydride after 4008 hours of operation was 82.4 wt. at 77 conversion and 64 selectivity.Example 4 A load in excess of 1000g of a vanadium phosphorusmolybdenum catalyst having an atomic ratio of 1 1.3 0.03 in the form of 3 16 inch cored cylindrical tablets was used to oxidize butane fo maleic anhydride in a large pilot plant reactor. A 1.5 n butane in air mixture was passed through the catalyst at up to 2000 VHSV at a temperature of between 720a 7690F. Under these conditions after 1050 hours, the yield of maleic anhydride was 86 wt. at 84 conversion and 61 selectivity. After 1863 hours of operation, the yield of maleic anhydride was 81 wt. at 84 conversion and 57 selectivity. After 1870 hours of operation an aqueous solution containing 5.lg of triethylphosphate per liter of water was placed in the feedstream before the reactor. The feedstream was passed through this solution so as to saturate the feed under selected conditions.After an additional twenty four hours, the saturator solution was reduced to 0.5g of triethylphosphate per liter of water and for the remaining time on stream, the reaction was operated under these conditions. After 2400 hours of continuous operation, the yield of maleic anhydride was 86 wt. at 80 conversion and 64 selectivity. Example 5 After 4400 hours on stream, the yield of the catalyst bed, described in Example 3, was 84 wt. at a conversion of 78 mole and selectively of 64 mole , with a feed gas saturated with a solution of 0.5 grams triethylphosphate per liter of water. The reaction conditions were 1.5 mole n butane in air at 2,000 VHSV and a salt bath temperature of 7200 7690F. To demonstrate a different method of adding the phosphate ester to the catalyst, the saturator was shut off and triethylphosphate was added directly to the liquid butane feed prior to the mixing of the air and butane. The concentration was 1.3 X 1O g triethylphosphate g butane. After 10 days at the same reactor conditions, the yield was 83 wt. at a conversion of 78 mole and selectivity of 63 mole .Example 6 A 6cc sample, 5.79g, of spent phosphorus vanadiumoxygen catalyst gave a 25 wt. yield of maleic anhydride with a conversion of 91 mole and a selectivity of 17 mole in a mini reactor operated at 831OF. and 1200 VKSV of 1.1 n butane in synthetic air. At the same conditions 0.05cc of trimethylphosphate was injected into the feedstream for 10 seconds. After 6 days at the same conditions, the yield was 69 wt. with a 72 mole conversion and a 57 selectivity.Example 7 A 6cc sample, 5.77g, of spent phosphorus vanadiumoxygen catalyst gave a 44 wt. yield of maleic anhydride with a 90 mole conversion and 29 mole selectivity in a minireactor at 8300F and a 1200 VHSV of 1.1 n butane in synthetic air. At the same reactor conditions, 0.08cc of triethylphosphate was injected into the feedstream for 10 seconds. After 3 days, the catalyst gave a yield of 64 wt. with a conversion of 85 mole and a selectivity of 44 mole at the same reactor conditions. Example 8 A 6cc sample, 6.2g, of spent phosphorus vanadium oxygen catalyst gave a 38 wt. yield of maleic anhydride with an 89 mole conversion and a 25 mole selectivity in a minireactor at 830OF. and 1200 VHSV of n butane in synthetic air. At these same conditions, 0.16cue of a 50 50 by volume mixture bf triethylphosphate and distilled water was injected into the feedstream and passed over the catalyst. After 8 days at the same conditions, the yield was 72 wt. with a conversion of 83 mole and a selectivity of 52 mole . More importantly, the yield, after 28 days, was 68 wt. with a 79 mole conversion and a 51 mole selectivity.The use of water with the triethylphosphate greatly enhanced the regenerative powers of the triethylphosphate both in terms of increased yield and the maintainance of the increased yield, which was unexpected.Example 9 A triethylphosphate solution in water containing 33 wt. triethylphosphate was pumped in a closed loop through a steam heat exchanger until the pressure reached about 55 psig at a temperature of 2750F. A slip stream of this solution was then injected for 30 minutes into the feed gas stream of a maleic anhydride reactor using a spray nozzle. The use of the spray nozzle and the flash evaporation of the water produced small droplets of triethylphosphate which are easily entrained in the feed gas. Using this procedure, 0.002g of triethylphosphate per g of catalyst was added to the reactor feed gas. The yield of maleic anhydride increased from 65 wt. to 70 wt. , and the selectivity increased from 48 mole to 51 mole .A second addition of 0.002g triethylphosphate per g of catalyst further increased the yield and selectivity to 78 wt. and 58 mole , respectively, at 1500 VHSV and 1.4 mole n butane feed. Example 10 Triethylphosphate was continuously added to the feed gas stream of a maleic anhydride reactor by passing a heated, pressurized inert gas stream through a heated vessel containing triethylphosphate and injecting this saturated inert gas stream into the feed gas. The addition rate of the triethylphosphate is controlled by varying the temperature and or the flow rate of the inert gas. The yield of maleic anhydride was increased from 80 wt. to 92 wt. and the selectivity was increased from 61 mole to 70 mole at 1200 VHSV and 1.4 mole n butane feed using this procedure to continuously apply 4 X 10 39 triethylphosphate per kg of catalyst per hour.Example 11 Triethylphosphate, 0.053g per g of catalyst, was continuously added to the feed gas of a maleic anhydride reactor by pumping it through a steam jacketed line and spraying it into the feed gas. Using this procedure, the yield of maleic anhydride increased from 71 wt. to 75 wt. after nine days at 1600 VHSV and 1.4 mole n butane feed. Example 12 Using the procedures described in Examples 8 and 9, triethylphosphate was added to a maleic anhydride catalyst. Before triethylphosphate addition, the maleic anhydride quality as measured by aged molten color averaged 65 APHA over a one month time period ranging from 25 300 APHA. After triethylphosphate was added1 the aged molten color averaged 35 APHA with a range of 20 60 APHA.Also, fractionator purges required to remove by products and color bodies from the crude maleic anhydride decreased from 4.7 to 1.9 of the net maleic anhydride produced.Example 13 A phosphorus vanadium oxygen catalyst containing no co metal or other promoter was prepared according to the method reported in U. S. 4,418,003. A 6cc sample, 5.60g, of this catalyst in the form of 3 16 inch by 3 16 inch cylindrical pellets was loaded into a 0.62 inch diameter minireactor. A 1.08 mole n butane in air mixture was passed through a saturator containing water and then over 0 the catalyst at 1200 VHSV and 730 750 F. In this manner, about 10,000 ppm of water are continuously added to the reactor feedstream. This catalyst gave a maximum yield of 96 wt. at 1200 VHSV and 7310F after three days on stream. The yield declined to 85 wt. at 1200 VHSV and 7380F after 21 days on stream. At this time the feedstream was passed through a saturator containing a 20 wt. aqueous solution of triethylphosphate. After 28 days on stream the yield improved to 88 wt. at 1200 VHSV and 7390F. This example illustrates that triethylphosphate and water can regenerate a phosphorus vanadium oxygen catalyst.