# Method of and means for controlling the condition of air in an enclosure.

## Abstract
The air in an enclosure, such as a greenhouse 10 , is dehumidified using a direct contact heat exchanger 16 utiliz ing concentrated brine, thereby converting latent heat of con densation to sensible heat. The sensible heat is accumulated during the day and is returned to the enclosure during the night without adding water vapor to the air. Periodically con densed water vapor is removed to reconstitute or regenerate the brine. In one technique, removal of water from the brine occurs in a seasonal cycle using an evaporating pond. In another technique, the diluted brine is regenerated in a fuel fired boiler 30 whose products of combustion, carbon diox ide and water vapor, are passed into the enclosure 10 . The products of combustion provide the desired level of carbon dioxide in the enclosure and the excess water vapor in the products of combustion as well as a significant portion of the water vapor produced by plants 12 , growing in the enclosure are removed by the hygroscopic concentrated brine.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for conditioning air in an enclosure, such as in a greenhouse subject to diurnal heat fluxes due, in part, to solar isolation and evapotranspiration of plants in the greenhouse during the day, and cooling during the night, the method including the steps of condensing water vapor in the air in the enclosure during the day thereby converting latent heat of condensation to sensible heat, characterized in that the sensible heat is accumulated during the day, and is returned to the air in the enclosure during the night without adding water vapor to the air. 2 A method according to claim 1 characterized in that concentrated brine is cycled, day and night, between a reservoir of brine and a direct contact, air brine vapor heat exchanger in the enclosure, contacting of the brine with the air during the day serving to condense water vapor onto the brine thus increasing its sensible heat, and during the night serving to return sensible heat to the air in the enclosure. 3. A method according to claim 2 characterized in that the brine is sufficiently concentrated, and the reservoir is sufficiently large, to maintain the temperature of the brine entering the heat exchanger during the day at a level at which the vapor pressure of the brine is less than the vapor pressure of the air in the enclosure. 4. A method according to claim 3 characterized in that water is periodically removed from the brine to reconcentrate it. 5. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that the removal of the water occurs in a seasonal cycle. 6. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that brine from the reservoir is heated to remove water therefrom. 7. A method according to claim 1 characterized in that a direct contact heat exchanger is utilized during the day and night. 8. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that reconcentration of the brine is carried out in a solar evaporating pond. 9. A method according to claim 2 characterized in that water in the brine in the reservoir is periodically removed to reconcentrate the brine. 10. A method according to claim 9 characterized in that the brine is heated to remove water therefrom. 11. A method according to claim 10 characterized in that a solar evaporator is used to reconcentrate the brine. 12. A method according to claim 9 characterized in that the brine is reconcentrated by evaporating water therefrom. 13. A method according to claim 9 characterized in that evaporation is accomplished by exposing the brine to ambient air. 14. A method according to claim 6 characterized in that the brine from the reservoir is heated in a boiler for producing steam and reconcentrating the brine, the boiler being fired by combustible fuel that produces carbon dioxide and water vapor which are supplied to the enclosure. 15. A method according to claim 14 characterized in that a heat exchanger is associated with the enclosure for receiving steam produced by the boiler. 16. A method according to claim 15 characterized in that the air in the enclosure is circulated through the heat exchanger. 17. A method according to claim 15 characterized in that heat in the steam is selectively stored or transferred to the heat exchanger. 18. A method according to claim 14 characterized in that the brine is contacted with the air in the enclosure by spraying the brine into the air. 19. A method according to claim 14 characterized in that the brine is contacted with the air in the enclosure by producing a film of brine that is in contact with the air. 20. A method according to claim 19 characterized in that the film of brine is created on web material that exhibits capillary action. 21. A method according to claim 1 characterized in that the source of water vapor in the air in the enclosure is from a warm water aquifer. 22. A method according to claim 1 characterized in that sensible heat is accumulated in heat storage means that includes gravel or crushed stone. 23. A method according to claim 4 characterized in that a direct contact, air brine vapor heat exchanger located outside the enclosure is used to remove water from the brine. 24. Apparatus for conditioning air in a enclosure utilizing a direct contact heat exchanger to which concentrated brine is supplied during the day characterized in the provision of a heat storage reservoir for storing heat transferred to the brine in the enclosure during the day, and means for supplying brine from the heat storage reservoir to the enclosure during the night for heating the enclosure. 25. Apparatus according to claim 24 characterized in the provision of means for periodically removing water from the brine to reconcentrate it. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25 chracterized in the provision of means for heating the brine from the reservoir to remove water from the brine to reconcentrate it. 27. Apparatus according to claim 25 characterized in that a solar evaporating pond is the reservoir. 28. Apparatus according to claim 25 characterized in the provision of means for supplying brine from the reservoir to the enclosure at night, and by the provision of a boiler for heating the brine to reconcentrate it and for producing steam which is used to heat the enclosure. 29. Apparatus according to claim 28 chracterized in that the boiler is heated by burning fuel and the products of combustion produced by the burning fuel are passed into the enclosure. 30. Apparatus according to claim 25 characterized in the provision of an air brine vapor direct contact heat exchanger located outside the enclosure for removing water from the brine to reconcentrate it.

## Description
2,405,169. Bere, a refrigeration system is proposed employing a brine spray, which is first exposed to atmospheric air from within an enclosure for absorbing moisture therefrom, and is then heated, as by a boiler, to enable it to release this moisture when sprayed in a regeneration chamber. In the system of U.S. Patent No.2,405,169, cooling is produced by passing air through a chamber wherein water is caused to evaporate due to the presence of concentrated brine adjacent thereto. This arrangement may be applicable to conditioning the air in a greenhouse, but it is very inefficient from an energy consumption standpoint. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved method of and apparatus for controlling the condition of air in an enclosure such as a greenhouse where the disadvantages of the prior art are substantially overcome or reduced. The present invention provides for conditioning air in a greenhouse subject to diurnal heat fluxes due, in part to solar isolation and evapotranspiration of plants in the greenhouse during the day and cooling at night. The invention involves condensing water vapor in the air in the greenhouse during the day such that the latent heat of condensation is converted into sensible heat accumulating the sensible heat during the day, and returning sensible heat to the air in the greenhouse during the night without adding water vapor to the air. Specifically, concentrated brine is cycled between a reservoir where brine is stored and a direct contact heat exchanger in the greenhouse where the brine is contacted with air.During the day, water vapor in the air condenses on the brine in contact with the air and the latent heat of condensation is absorbed by the brine whose temperature is thus raised increasing the sensible heat of the brine. During the night, the air contacted by the brine is cooler than the brine and is thus heated. The brine is sufficiently concentrated, and the reservoir is sufficiently large, to maintain the temperature of the brine entering the heat exchanger during the day at a level at which the vapor pressure at the air brine interface is less than the vapor pressure of the air in the greenhouse. As a result the brine will be hygroscopic and water vapor in the air will condense on the brine. Periodically, condensed water vapor is removed to reconstitute or regenerate the brine. In one technique, removal of water from the brine occurs in a seasonal cycle, e.g., from winter to summer using an evaporating pond. In another technique, brine in the reservoir is heated. The diluted brine produced when water vapor in the greenhouse condenses on the concentrated brine is, in accordance with one aspect of the invention, regenerated in a fuel fired boiler whose products of combustion are passed into the greenhouse. The products of combustion provide the desired level of carbon dioxide in the greenhouse during daylight for growing plants, and the excess water vapor in the products of combustion as well as a significant portion of the water vapor produced by the plants growing in the greenhouse are removed by the hygroscopic concentrated brine. Thus, the relative humidity of the air in the greenhouse can be controlled closely by controlling the concentration of the brine, the size of the direct contact heat exchanger, and the mass flow of air passing over the heat exchanger. Beating of the diluted brine in the boiler produces steam that is available to heat the interior of the greenhouse, if this is necessary or the steam can be used for other purposes. Thus, the steam, as it is produced, can be piped directly to a closed heat exchanger within the greenhouse to heat the same and to provide fresh water if the greenhouse is in an arid climate. Alternatively, the steam can be piped to a heat storage tank to provide a METHOD OF AND MEANS FOR CONTROLLING THE CONDITION OF AIR IN AN ENCLOSURE This invention relates to a method of and means for controlling the condition of air in an enclosure, and more particularly for controlling the temperature and humidity of air in an enclosure such as a greenhouse. Agricultural products, such as vegetables and flowers, are grown on a large scale in greenhouses throughout the world. During daylight hours, growing agricultural products introduce water vapor into the greenhouse and extract carbon dioxide from the air. The growth of such products is enhanced when excess carbon dioxide is introduced into the greenhouse during daylight hours. This can be accomplished, particularly if heat is needed during the day, by burningLPG or natural gas and passing the products of combustion directly into the greenhouse. Water heated by burning the fuel can be stored during the day to provide a reservoir of heat that can be released during the night time to heat the greenhouse. The primary deficiency with this approach is the water vapor contained in the flue gases.When this water vapor is added to the water vapor produced by the growing agricultural products, saturated, or nearly saturated conditions are created within the greenhouse.This condition of high humidity produces undesirable stress on all but tropical plans, and increases susceptibility of the plants to various diseases whose control requires periodic spraying or other treatment. As a consequence, considerable resistance has been encountered in applying this approach to greenhouse management. The prior art, U.S. Patent No. 4,265,300, provides for burning LPG or LNG to produce air at about 11000C which is mixed with air selectively drawn from both inside and outside ag reenhouse, the ratio of inside to outside air being determined by a valve arrangement under the control of a thermostat. With this arrangement, warm air in the range 50 to 350C can be supplied to the greenhouse when ambient conditions are as low as 450C. Prior to its injection with the greenhouse, the air is conditioned by adding an appropriate amount of oxygen by adding more heat or by extracting heat, and by dehumidification.Because the arrangement in this patent is not used in summertime, this patent does not address the basic problem of how to add excess carbon dioxide to a greenhouse during daylight hours in the summer without also adding excess water vapor which is deleterious to plant health. Furthermore, this patent does not address the problem of heating a greenhouse at night during the summer in arid regions of the world. Zamir Levav and Arbel From, of the Israel AgriculturalResearch Organization, P. O. Box 6, Beit Dagan, Israel, have proposed an arrangement suitable for arid environments where, during the summer, a greenhouse must be heated at night. They proposed continuously exchanging water between a fresh water reservoir and a spray head in the greenhouse.During the day, the sprayed water would be cooler than the air in the greenhouse causing excess water vapor in the greenhouse, created by evapotranspiration of plants therein, to condense on the cooler water spray thus dehumidifying the air in the greenhouse and simultaneously cooling it. Warmed water from the spray is returned to the reservoir and the water sprayed into the greenhouse at night is thus warmer than the air in the greenhouse. Consequently, heat absorbed by the water spray during the day for dehumidifying and cooling the greenhouse is returned to the greenhouse at night. This arrangement is very energy efficient, but is not satisfactory because, at night, the spray produces saturated conditions and the 1008 relative humidity has adverse effects on the plant. The use of a brine spray for dehumidification is well known and is illustrated, for example, in U.S. Patent No. reservoir of hot water that can be circulated into a heat exchanger in the greenhouse during the night, if heat is needed only at night. Preferably, a heat exchanger is provided by which the concentrated brine produced by the boiler is transferred to the diluted brine before it enters the boiler. Embodiments of the invention are shown in the accompanying drawings wherein Fig. 1 is a schematic block diagram illustrating apparatus for controlling the condition of air in a greenhouse in accordance with the present invention Fig. 2 is a schematic block diagram of an alternative arrangement for removing water vapor from a greenhouse and heating the greenhouse using a brine dehumidifier Fig. 3 is a schematic illustration of apparatus for controlling temperature and humidity within an enclosure constructed and operative in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention Figs. 4A and 4B each illustrate an alternative embodiment of the brine vapor air heat exchanger useful in the invention Figs. 5A, SB, 5C and 5D illustrate alternative embodiments of brine heat sources and vapor sinks useful in the invention and Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic illustration of cooling apparatus constructed and operative in accordance with the present invention. Referring now to Fig. 1 of the drawing, reference numeral 10 designates a greenhouse containing agricultural products 12 that absorb carbon dioxide during daylight hours and produce water vapor. At night, products 12 are quiescent. Associated with greenhouse 10 is apparatus 14 according to the present invention. Apparatus 14 comprises direct contact brine dehumidifier 16 to which concentrated brine is supplied by a conduit 18 from brine reservoir 20 and from which diluted brine is obtained by conduit 22.Dehumidifier 16 comprises a felt pad, or mat of woven jute material, for example, that provides a large surface area over which the concentrated brine is fed to form a thin film of brine exposed to the air. Thus, dehumidifier 16 operates as a thin film, direct contact heat exchanger as described below. Duct 24 contained within greenhouse 10, and within which brine dehumidifier 16 is located provides means for recirculating air in the greenhouse through the dehumidifier. Specifically, duct 24 contains fan 26 which draws humid air in the greenhouse through the dehumidifier and causes the air to pass through heat exchanger or radiator 28 before the air is reintroduced into the greenhouse. Boiler 30, associated with brine reservoir 20, is heated by fuel burned in burner 32 which is connected to source 34 of fuel. Diluted brine from conduit 22 is pumped or flows by gravity, through counter flow heat exchange 36 and enters boiler 30 where it is regenerated by being heated. The boiler concentrates the diluted brine by evaporating water therefrom producing steam. Conduit 38 carries the steam to valve 40 which selectively directs the steam into radiator 28 if the greenhouse must be heated , or into water tank 42 when the heat in the steam must be stored for use at a later time. Boiler 30 thus concentrates the diluted brine and the concentrated brine passes through heat exchange 36 into brine reservoir 20. The hot, concentrated brine produced by the boiler is cooled in heat exchanger 36 before being delivered to brine reservoir 20 and heat extracted from the concentrated brine is transferred to the incoming diluted brine. Preferably, the fuel burned in burner 32 is liquified petroleum gas or natural gas in order to limit the products of combustion to carbon dioxide and water vapor. The products of combustion produced by the burned fuel associated with burner 30 are piped by a ductwork 44 into greenhouse 10 such that the products of combustion, namely carbon dioxide and water, are transferred into the greenhouse. Agricultural products such as flowers or vegetables grow during daylight hours and actively absorb carbon dioxide from the air in the greenhouse. The active agricultural products also give off water vapor which adds to the water vapor introduced into the greenhouse by the products of combustion. In the absence of steps to the contrary, an almost saturated condition will result and the purpose of brine dehumidifier 16 is to dehumidify the air within the greenhouse. Additionally, dehumidifier 16 serves to increase the temperature of the air in the greenhouse in a manner explained below. Effectively, dehumidifier 16 is designed to maintain a humidity within the greenhouse at a level below 85 , and preferably between 80 and 85 .As explained below, the humidity of the air will be a function of the concentration of brine in the dehumidifier, the effective area of the brine dehumidifier, and the mass flow therethrough. If it is desirable, steam from boiler 30 can be introduced into heat exchanger 28 for purposes of further increasing the temperature in the air and in the greenhouse, or valve 40 can be selectively operated to direct the steam into heat storage 42 which acts as a reservoir to store heat. Storage 42 may be a tank of water which is heated by the condensation of steam produced by the boiler or storage 42 may also contain gravel or crushed stone that is heated by the condensed steam. At night, when excess carbon dioxide is not needed in the greenhouse, the operation of boiler 30 can be suspended and the heat stored in water tank 42 as a consequence of daytime operation of the boiler to produce carbon dioxide can be transferred to the air in the greenhouse.Alternatively, the steam produced by the boiler can be directed into a network of pipes buried in the ground beneath the greenhouse thus storing the heat in the ground. When the greenhouse is based on hydrophonic operation the steam produced by the boiler can be used to heat the liquids that are used in the hydrophonic process. Dehumidifier 16 may be conventional in sense that it is a direct contact heat exchanger in which concentrated brine is applied to a felt, jute or paper mat as a thin film.Alternatively the mat may be a capillary web through which the brine flows slowly. The vapor pressure at the air liquid interface of concentrated brine is small as compared with the saturated vapor pressure of water at the same temperature. Thus, when concentrated brine is exposed to the air in the greenhouse, water vapor in the air condenses on the brine. The latent of condensation supplied to the brine during evaporation of water vapor heats the brine film and the heated brine transfers its heat to the air flowing over the brine. This is an isentropic process in which the temperature of the brine remains substantially constant as the air is warmed and dried in passing through the dehumidifier. If the temperature in the greenhouse during the day is 270C, and if the brine temperature is about 300C both entering and leaving the dehumidifier, a flow rate of about 1.5 m3 per hour per 1000 m2 of a greenhouse would be required in order to maintain a rate of humidity of about 84 within the greenhouse. This arrangement provides about 200 kWh per 1000 m2 of greenhouse area of heating during daylight hours assuming that the brine concentration changes from about 50 concentration to about 30 concentration within the dehumidifier. At night, the flow rate of the brine can be reduced to a level that just keeps the mat wet.This would provide additional dehumidification at night. To obtain a high concentration of brine, calcium chloride is the preferred salt but other salts such as magnesium or mixtures of salts can be used. Dead Sea end brine can also be used. The fuel required to regenerate the brine and provide carbon dioxide during the day would be about 10 kg 1000 m2 of greenhouse area which will provide about 10 hours of operation per day. In some environments the operation can be carried out only for 3 to 4 hours during the day because the temperature within the greenhouse will become excessive so far as the agricultural products are concerned. This requires either the shutdown of the system or the introduction of outside air into the greenhouse. To provide suitable control over the operation of the system shown in Fig. 1, duct 44 may be provided with an adjustable butterfly valve 48 for controlling the rate in which the products of combustion are admitted into greenhouse 10 and a suitable valve not shown may be provided in duct 24 and in the greenhouse itself for purpose of controlling the flow air into the duct and into the greenhouse respectively. The present invention is also useful in drying agricultural products, such as tobacco. In such case, the products of combustion are discharged directly to the atmosphere by bypassing the enclosure. The heat in the steam produced during regeneration of the brine can be saved and used for drying the agricultural products or used by a consumer. For example, if the drier requires a temperature of 730C. and a humidity of 77 , the dehumidifier can deliver air at 880C. with a humidity of 25 . To achieve this, the temperature of the concentrated brine entering the dehumidifier should be about 920C. The vapor pressure of brine of density 1.5 at this temperature is only about 20 of the vapor pressure of water at this temperature. An airflow rate of only about 1 kg sec of air will remove vapor at the rate of 7 kg sec or 15 kW heat. Fig. 2 is an embodiment of the invention by which a brine dehumidifier according to the present invention is used to dehumidify the air in a greenhouse and to extract and store sensible heat from the air during the day, and to give back the sensible heat to the air during the night for the purpose of heating the greenhouse. In this embodiment, regeneration of the brine is achieved on an annual basis using solar energy rather than a boiler. Reference numeral 50 designated a greenhouse containing agricultural products 52 that produce water vapor during the day as indicated previously. Duct 54 contains brine dehumidifier 56 through which air in the greenhouse is recirculated by reason of the operation of fan 58.Dehumidifier 56 is similar to dehumidifier 16 in the sense that concentrated brine contained in a reservoir 60 is applied to the dehumidifier such that the brine and humid air come into direct contact. By reason of the hygroscopic nature of brine, water vapor in the air in the greenhouse condenses on the brine diluting the same. During daylight hours when the temperature within the greenhouse is some 100C. higher than the temperature at night, a considerable amount of sensible heat contained in the air in the greenhouse is absorbed by the brine which increases in temperature. At the same time, the brine also absorbs the latent heat of condensation of the water vapor contained in the air. For example, if the temperature within the greenhouse during the day is about 270cm and the brine temperature at the inlet is about 25 C., a 50C. increase in the brine temperature to about 300C. can occur.With a flow rate of about 30 s3 h per 1000 m2 of greenhouse area, about 1200 kWh of heat will be removed from the air and stored in the brine. The heated, diluted brine is delivered to reservoir 60. At night, when the temperature of the greenhouse drops by about l00C., the temperature of the concentrated brine entering the dehumidifier will be about 30 C. and in this case, the sensible heat from the brine is transferred to the air which is thus heated. About 5 C. temperature drop of the brine will occur and diluted brine, at about 25oC. is delivered to reservoir 60. Thus, at night, the brine will give up about the same amount of heat as was absorbed during the day. During the beginning of the winter season, the concentration of the brine may be about 50 . After the winter season it would be diluted to about 30 . This difference in salinity represents the latent heat of condensation made available for heating during nights of the winter and this heat must be restored to the brine in order to regenerate it. Regeneration is achieved during the summer. Reservoir 60 acts as an evaporator wherein the water vapor accumulated during the winter evaporates thereby concentrating the brine. Reference is now made to Fig. 3 which illustrates, in schematic form, apparatus for humidity and temperature control of an environment employing brine as the heat transfer medium in accordance with the present invention.The apparatus comprises a brine vapor air heat exchanger 110 disposed within enclosed environment 112, such as a room, greenhouse or vehicle, or in communication therewith. Brine is supplied to heat exchanger 110 from brine reservoir 114 which is associated with sources 116 and or sinks of heat and or humidity for governing the temperature and concentration of the brine supplied to the brine vapor air heat exchanger. The present invention involves a particular appreciation that, because the vapor pressure of the air brine interface is lower than that of water at the same temperature, brine may be used to heat an environment while at the same time absorbing moisture therefrom. The condensation of moisture from the surrounding environment on the brine converts the latent heat of condensation to sensible heat and further heats the brine. Extremely efficient heating of an environment is thus provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, reservoir 114 provides sufficient brine storage capacity to enable the brine to be concentrated by solar heat provided by diurnal temperature gradients over time in the ambient environment. These gradients may be relatively short term as between day and night, or between sun and shade, or alternatively they may be longer term, as between summer and winter. Reference is now made to Fig. 4A which illustrates an embodiment of brine vapor air heat exchanger constructed and operative in accordance with another aspect of the present invention and comprising brine spray heat 120 coupled to source of brine 124 which is coupled, in turn, to brine reservoir 126 which, typically, may be a solar evaporation pond. Removable covering 127 may be provided for protecting the pond from rain and resulting dilution of the brine stored therein. The cover also serves to retain heat in the brine when the brine is used for heating. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, particularly suitable for space heating of an enclosed environment, air first passes through water spray 128, or is otherwise exposed to a source of water vapor such as produced by growing plants. The air then passes through a spray of brine provided by spray head 120. The brine spray falls by gravity in direct contact with the air to be treated and collects in receptacle 129. Depending on the relative vertical orientation of the elements of the system, pump 130 may be provided to circulate the brine from the brine reservoir 126 through heat exchanger spray head 120. According to one embodiment of the invention, the brine reservoir may be located outside of the enclosed environment whose temperature and humidity it is desired to control.According to an alternative embodiment of the invention, the reservoir may be located within the enclosed environment. Water spray 128 may be supplied with water from any suitable source including, for example, warm water aquifer 131. Alternative, water spray 128 may be replaced by any other source of water vapor, such as growing plants located within the enclosed atmosphere. The presence of a vapor source is important when the brine vapor air heat exchanger is being used in a heating mode because it provides vapor for condensation on the brine, thus releasing latent heat of condensation, which is converted into sensible heat as the temperature of the brine is raised. When cooling is desired, the heat sources maintaining the vapor sources at a constant temperature would be eliminated, insofar as possible, and the heat of evaporation would be removed as quickly as possible from the enclosure. Reference is now made to Fig. 4B which illustrates a different type of brine vapor air heat exchanger comprising a plurality of elongated falling brine film assemblies 132 operating adjacent an elongated falling water film assembly 133. Each of the falling film assemblies comprises a supply trough 134 and a receiving trough 135 and supply and drainage conduits 136 and 138. The brine or water, as the case may be, falls from the supply troughs 134 through elongated slits formed in the bottom thereof in a generally planar film to the receiving troughs 135. According to a preferred embodiment of the invention a web of material, such as woven jute, may be provided to define the film path and to enable relatively slow travel of the brine film therealong. Alternatively, any other material having capillary characteristics for slowing the brine flow under gravity may be used. According to an alternative embodiment of the invention, the material may communicate with the top of supply trough 134 and thus eliminate the need for provision of slits in the bottom thereof. Pump 139 serves to circulate the brine as desired reservoir 140. Another pump 142 may be provided to circulate water from a vapor source such as a warm water aquifer 144 to assembly 133. The principle of operation of the apparatus of Fig. 4B is substantially similar to that of the apparatus of Fig. 4A.It is appreciated that in both cases, the water serving as the vapor source may be supplied at a temperature below the temperature of the environment, because the brine, having a lower vapor pressure than the water at the same temperature, acts as a heat pump in causing the vapor to evaporate on the brine, releasing the latent heat of condensation to the brine. Normally the vapor source should provide water at 100C. or more above ambient temperature. It is appreciated that in the course of circulation through the heat exchanger in contact with vapor, the brine will pick up moisture and become diluted. The more diluted it becomes, the more its vapor pressure will increase and approach that of water. Consequently, the ability of the diluted brine to pick up additional moisture and release latent heat of condensation decreases with time. Therefore, it is necessary to concentrate the brine so as to maintain its concentration at an acceptable level. It is a particular feature of the present invention that sufficient brine is provided for circulation through the heat exchanger such that the condensation heat capacity thereof is sufficient to provide desired heating over a period of time, say a season, without requiring other than seasonal concentration of the brine to restore its desired properties. It is also a particular feature of the invention that a brine reservoir of sufficient capacity is provided such that a sufficient quantity of brine at a desired temperature and concentration is available so that desired heat and humidity control can be effected without requiring the use of fossil fuels to reconstitute the brine ti.e., concentrate it . More particularly, it is a particular feature of the present invention that sufficient brine reservoir capacity is provided such that diurnal temperature gradients occurring naturally, such as day night, sun shade or seasonal temperature gradients can be used to reconstitute the brine. Reference ia now made to Figs. 5x 5D which illustrate various systems for concentrating brine in association with heat exchanger apparatus. In the embodiment of Fig. 5A, brine vapor air heat exchanger 150, comprises water and brine spray heads 152 and 153 arranged so as to define an air circulation path therepast such that the air travels parallel to the direction of the spray. Heat exchanger 150 is coupled to brine reservoir 154 which may comprise, or be connected to, solar evaporation pond 156. Typically, pond 156 comprises an open basic filled with brine and exposed to direct sunlight which causes heating and consequent evaporation of the brine. The rate of evaporation of the brine may be enhanced by circulation thereof through cooling tower 158.Such a cooling tower typically comprises apparatus for permitting the brine to contact air with a high surface area to volume ratio and may employ a brine spray. Referring now to Fig. 5B, flash evaporator and condenser 160 is employed for heating and concentrating brine in the presence of vapor source 162 coupled to a warm water reservoir 164. Condenser 160 is coupled to a brine reservoir 166 which in turn communicates with a brine vaporair heat exchanger 168 located within enclosure 170. Fig. 5C illustrates a solar distiller 172 for heating and concentrating brine supplied thereto from a brine reservoir 174. Fig. 5D illustrates an alternative embodiment of concentrated brine supply wherein brine aquifer 176 is employed as a virtually limitless supply of concentrated brine. The dilute brine is recycled from brine reservoir 177 to the aquifer via conduit 178, while concentrated brine is supplied to the reservoir via conduit 180. Fig. 6 shows apparatus, constructed and operative in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, for cooling an enclosure. Such apparatus comprises cooling assembly 190 located in communication with an enclosure to be cooled, brine evaporating apparatus 192, and reservoir 194, both located out of communication with the enclosure.The cooling assembly comprises air pathway 196 provided with fan 198 for forcing air therethrough. The incoming air first passes through water evaporator 1100 of conventional construction at which its temperature is reduced, typically from 220C, to 17 C and its humidity is increased, typically from a vapor concentration of 10 g kg to a concentration of 12 g kg. From evaporator 1100, the cooled air then passes through brine condenser 1102 which typically raises the temperature of the air to 200 C. while reducing its humidity to 10 g kg vapor concentration. It may be appreciated from the preceding discussion that the brine in brine condenser 1102 becomes diluted. The dilute brine is supplied to brine evaporator 192, such as a solar evaporation pond.Evaporation of vapor from the pond cools the brine therewithin to a temperature of approximately 300C. for resupply to the condenser. This cooled brine is first supplied to insulated brine reservoir 194 which does not permit direct contact between the brine and cooling air, so as to prevent condensation of vapors on the brine, and the consequent heating of the brine from the release of the latent heat of condensation. According to an alternative embodiment of the invention, a reservoir may be located at the inlet to the brine evaporator, particularly where that evaporator is not in the form of a solar evaporation pond. It is a particular feature of the present invention that the reservoir or reservoirs and the overall brine supply should be of sufficient capacity to enable evaporation and cooling of the brine to be carried out primarily by naturally occurring temperature gradients. In the preceding discussion, mention has been made of the significant energy storage potential of concentrated brine. The following brief discussion is intended to provide an illustration of the quantities of energy which can be stored in a typical application. It is known that evaporation of Dead Sea brine over a summer can increase its density from approximately 1200 to approximately 1350 Kg m3 at a temperature of about 350C. At a density of 1350 Kg m31 the brine has a vapor pressure which is 35 of that of water at the same temperature, while at a density of 1200 Kg m3, the brine has a vapor pressure which is 75 of that of water at the same temperature. The dilution of brine from 1350 Kg m3 involves the condensation of 650 Kg of water per m3 of brine. This condensation releases 440 Kwh of heat per m3 in the form of latent heat of condensation which is converted to sensible heat of the brine. It will be appreciated, therefore, that a reservoir of 1000 m3 of Dead Sea brine has a condensation heat capacity for operation in a humidity range of 35 75 of 440,000 Kwh.