# New factor VIII coagulant polypeptides and monoclonal antibodies to them.

## Abstract
Polypeptides have been discovered which exhibit high specific VIII C coagulant activity. Monoclonal antibodies to the polypeptides are also disclosed.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A factor VIII C coagulant containing one or more polypeptides characterized in that i one or more of the polypeptides exhibit a band at a point corresponding to an Mr of about 92,000 or bands at points corresponding to Mr values of about 92,000, about 80,000, and about 79,000 of about 92,000, about 72,000, and about 71,000 or of about 92,000, about 80,000, about 79,000, about 72,000, and about 71,000 when subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ii the coagulent exhibits specific coagulant activity higher than 1800 Units mg iii the coagulant exhibits the activity in step ii over a continuous period of at least about 10 minutes and iv the coagulant exhibits human factorVIII C antibody binding. capacity. 2. The coagulant of claim 1 wherein in part ii the specific activity is more than 5400 Units mg. 3. The coagulant of claim 1 or 2 further characterized in that it is free from C thrombin and equivalent proteases in active form. 4. The coagulant of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the coagulant is prepared by the digestion of human factor VIII C by thrombin or an equivalent protease. 5. The coagulant of any of claims 1 to 4 wherein the coagulant is essentially free of polypeptides exhibiting bands at Mr above 92,000. 6. A biological preparation containing a factor VIII C coagulant of any of claims l to 5 in an amount of about at least 1 by weight. 7. A biological preparation of claim 6 containing from 30 to 95 by weight of the coagulant. 8. A biological preparation of claim 6 or 7 containing from 60 to 90 by weight. 9. A biological preparation of any of claims 6 to 8 dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable saline solution. 10. The method of making a factor VIII C coagulant, comprising the steps of a digesting human factor VIII C in a digestion mixture with an effective amount of a protease under digestion conditions to form the coagulant of claim 1 b discontinuing the digestion of step a while the coagulant is still present in the digestion mixture and c recovering the resultant coagulant. ll. The process of claim 10 wherein the human factor VIII C has previously been purified. 12. A process for recovering the coagulant of claim 1 characterized by adsorbing the coagulant in active form to an immunoadsorbent containing a plurality of monoclonal antibodies to human factorVIII C epitopes and eluting the coagulant from the immunoadsorbent with an aqueous solution containing calcium ions under elution conditions effective to desorb the coagulant from the immunoadsorbent without denaturing the coagulant. 13. The process of Claim 12 wherein the solution contains up to about 1.0 M of calcium ion and the solution is applied to the imminoadsorbent at up to about 8 bed volumes per hour 14. A process according to Claim 12 or 13 wherein the monoclonal antibodies are of class IgG and are produced by a hybridoma formed by fusion of cells from a mouse myeloma and spleen cells from a mouse previously immunized with human factor VIII C, the antibodies react with human factor VIII C and exhibit one of the following reaction profiles with coagulant derived from human factor VIII C A reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 92,000 My 180,000 and greater and 54,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 44,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 B reacts with those polypeptides so derived of My 92,000 Mr 108,000 and greater and 44,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 54,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 C reacts with those polypeptides so derived of 79,000 and 80,000 and Mr 108,000 and greater and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 44,000 54,000, 71,000 72,000 nor 92,000 D reacts with those polypeptides so derived ofMr 108,000 and higher and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr less than 108,000 wherein the Mr values are determined by subjecting the polypeptides to sodium dodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 15. A monoclonal antibody of class IgG produced by a hybridoma formed by fusion of cells from a mouse myeloma and spleen cells from a mouse previously immunized with human factor VIII C, which antibody reacts with human factor VIII C and exhibits one of the following reaction profiles with polypeptides derived from human factor VIII C A reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 92,000 My 180,000 and greater and 54,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of My 44,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 B reacts with those polypeptides so derived of My 92,000 Mr 108,000 and greater and 44,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of My 54,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 C reacts with those polypeptides so derived of M 79,000 and 80,000 and Mr 108,000 and greater and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 44,000 54,000, 71,000 72,000 nor 92,000 D reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 108,000 and higher and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr less than 108,000 wherein the Mr values are determined by subjecting the polypeptides to soduim dodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 16. A monoclonal antibody according to claim 15 having profile B or C recited therein, further characterized in that it neutralizes the coagulant activity of human factor VIII C when said factorVIII C is bound to the antibody. 17. A biological preparation comprising an antibody exhibiting a reaction profile A of claim 15 which is essentially free from antibodies exhibiting the other three of said profiles, or b reaction profile B of claim 15 which is essentially free from antibodies exhibiting the other three of said profiles or c reaction profile C of claim 15 which is essentially free from antibodies exhibiting the other three of said profiles or d reaction profile D of claim 15 which is essentially free from antibodies exhibiting the other three of said profiles. 18. A biological preparation comprising a mixture of antibodies according to claim 15 which exhibit reactibn profiles A and B, which is essentially free from antibodies according to claim 15 which exhibit reaction profiles C and,D. 19. A biological preparation comprising a mixture of antibodies according to claim 15 which exhibit reaction profiles A, B and C, which is essentially free from antibodies according to claim 15 which exhibit reaction profile D. 20. An immunoadsorbent column comprising particles of a solid immunologically inert adsorbent material bound to an antibody exhibiting profile A , B , C , or Dt of claim 15. 21. A column according to claim 20 wherein the adsorbent material is agarose.

## Description
NEW FACTOR VIII COAGULANT POLYPEPTIDES AND MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES TO THEM This invention relates to new factor VIII polypeptides, that is, proteins, exhibiting coagulant activity. The invention therefore has utility in the therapy for classic hemophilia, and in the further study and characterization of the polypeptide or polypeptide complexes which provide desired clotting behavior to the blood of humans and other mammals. It has long been known that plasma factor VIII plays a crucial role in blood coagulation, and that thrombin activates the coagulant effect of factor VIII. Recent attempts to characterize factor VIII have postulated that factor VIII is a complex of at least two polypeptides, which are known as VIII C and VIII R, and have found coagulant activity to reside in theVIII C portion. Studies of the effect of thrombin on factorVIII C have led to the conclusion that thrombin activates this factor by breaking it down into several smaller polypeptides.However, no prior studies have been able to associate thrombin induced factor VIII activation in humans with any defined polypeptides formed from human factor VIII C. For instance, Hoyer and Trabold, in The effect of thrombin on human factor VIII , 3. Lab. Clin. Med. 97 50 64 1981 , sought to purify human factor VIII C by immunoadsorbent chromatography using a polyclonal antibody to factor VIII R raised in the rabbit. They then incubated the factor VIII C with purified human g thrombin, and determined that small amounts of the thrombin activated the factor VIII C whereas larger amounts activated it less or not at all. They also concluded that thrombin activation is accompanied by a decrease in the size of the protein, and they proposed a molecular weight of about 116,000 for the activated factor VIII C. Most significantly, they.could not identify specific polypeptides that retained factor VIII C activity and VIII C antigen determinants. Butcher, C.A. and Zimmerman, T.S. in Characterization of the human factor VIII procoagulant protein with a heterologous precipitating antibody1 , Proc. Natal. Acad. of Sci. USA, 79 1648 1652 1982 obtained highly purified human factorVIII C from plasma concentrate by passing the concentrate through a column containing a monoclonal antibody to factorVIII R, eluting the VIII C from the adsorbed VIII C VIII R complex, and concentrating the factor VIII C on a second column. The purified factor VIII C was then analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis hereafter, SDS PAGE , both before and after addition of thrombin to the purified material.The purified factor VIII C prior to thrombin addition showed a wide array of bands on SDS PAGE corresponding to polypeptides of various molecular weights Mr , including a relatively strong doublet at Mr of 80,000 and 79,000, and at least six additional faintly staining polypeptides with larger Mr including one at Mr about 92,000. Addition of thrombin to the purified factor VIII C caused the diminution or disappearance of all of the polypeptides shown prior to thrombin addition. The coagulant activity of the plasma concentrate rose following thrombin addition to a maximum of three times that of the material prior to thrombin addition, and then diminished.The coagulant activity of the purified factor VIII C also rose to a maximum of three times that of the pre activated material. That is, the thrombin had essentially the same activating effect on the factor VIII C in each case. Thus, whereas the purified factor VIII C possessed a reported specific activity some 3280 times that of the starting material, one skilled in this art would conclude that the increase in specific activity was due to the high degree of purification achieved. There is no basis in this article for ascribing activated coagulant activity to any specific one or more of the large number of polypeptides associated with the bands observed in the purified factor VIII C prior to activation with thrombin. The present invention relates to a factor VIII C coagulant containing one or more polypeptides characterized in that i one or more of the polypeptides exhibit a band at a point corresponding to an Mr of about 92,000 or bands at points corresponding to Mr values of about 92,000, about 80,000, and about 79,000 of about 92,000, about 72,000, and about 71,000 or of about 92,000, about 80,000, about 79,000, about 72,000, and about 71,000 when subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfatepolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ii the coagulent exhibits specific coagulant activity higher than 1800 Units mg iii the coagulant exhibits the activity in step ii over a continuous period of at least about 10 minutes and iv the coagulant exhibits human factorVIII C antibody binding capacity. Other aspects of the invention include biological preparations containing the coagulant, and the treatment of the clotting disorders of hemophilia by administering the coagulant or preparations thereof. Yet another aspect of the present invention comprises making the coagulant, or a concentrated preparation thereof, by digesting human factorVIII C withC thrombin, discontinuing the digestion while the coagulant described above is present, and recovering the coagulant. A further aspect of the invention is a process for recovering VIII C polypeptides, without losing coagulant activity, from an immunoadsorbent containing monoclonal antibodies to factor VIII C. In addition, the invention includes a monoclonal antibody of class IgG produced by a hybridoma formed by fusion of cells from a mouse myeloma and spleen cells from a mouse previously immunized with human factor VIII C, which antibody reacts with human factor VIII C and exhibits one of the following reaction profiles with polypeptides derived from human factor VIII C A reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 92,000 Mr 180,000 and greater and 54,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 44,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 B reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 92,000 Mr 108,000 and greater and 44,000 and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 54,000 71,000 72,000 79,000 nor 80,000 . C reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 79,000 and 80,000 and My 108,000 and greater and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 44,000 54,000, 71,000 72,000 nor 92,000 D reacts with those polypeptides so derived of Mr 108,000 and higher and does not react with those polypeptides so derived of Mr less than 108,000 wherein the Mr values are determined by subjecting the polypeptides to sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. As indicated, the present invention encompasses polypeptide coagulants which exhibit factor VIII C coagulant activity and factor VIII C immunological behavior, and which show characteristic Mr value s when analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis hereafter, SDS PAGE . By polypeptide complex hereinafter is meant a coagulant comprising combinations of two or more polypeptides known to be physically distinct, but also preparations containing only one discernible polypeptide, i.e., that which exhibits a band at an Mr of 92,000. The description below showing the preparation of the claimed coagulant utilizes human factor VIII C which has been highly purified, in order to free the identification and characterization of the novel product from the effects of extraneous polypeptides. It should be recognized, though, that the invention itself is not dependent on how the starting material has previously been treated, except where specifically indicated.The active factor VIII C polypeptides of the present invention can be prepared not only by digestion with thrombin as described in greater detail below, or with other similarly acting proteases such as Factor Xa, Factor IXa, orRussell s viper venom V, but also by recombinant DNA techniques in which the polypeptides of interest are produced by bacteria, yeast, or other cells into which one or more genes for producing the polypeptides of interest are inserted by techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Either process for producing the complex of interest can be expected to produce the complex in a mixture with one or more other polypeptides. Any plasma or plasma concentrate containing human factor VIII C can be employed to advantage. The novel coagulant can be prepared from human factorVIII C which has been ultrapurified in accordance with the process described in U.S. Patent No. 4,361,509, issued November 30, 1982, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In that process, a source of factor VIII C such as plasma or a plasma concentrate is passed through an immunoadsorbent column to which monoclonal antibodies to factor VIII R have been attached. The factor VIII R VIII C complex is adsorbed on the column, and then the factor VIII C is eluted and passed through a second column such as aminohexyl agarose.It should be noted that the second column can also be an immunoadsorbent containing antibodies to factor VIII C. The factor VIII C should be kept free of o thrombin and other proteases. The factor VIII C is conveniently stored in a saline, buffered solution containing, e.g., 0.3M calcium chloride, at a pH of about 6.8 to about 7.4. The human factor VIII C is then digested with o thrombin under conditions effective to form the polypeptide complex described below. The purified thrombin can be prepared by the procedure described by Fenton, J.W. II Fasco,M.J. Stackrow, A.B. Aronson, D.L. Young, A.M. andFinlayson, J.S. Human Thrombin. Production, Evaluation, andProperties of o Thrombin . J. Biol. Chem. 252 3587 3598 1977 . The d thrombin and the factor VIII C are combined in an aqueous system, preferably buffered at a pH of about 6.8 to about 7.4. The thrombin should be present in an amount relative to the factor VIII C that is sufficient to permit reaction with the factor VIII C, but not so high that the factor VIII C degrades to inactive polypeptides before the desired active polypeptide complex can be recovered. As an illustration, a preparation containing 200 400 units 0,2 mg mI of factor VIII C per ml should be digested with about 0.1 to about 0.5 unitslml of o thrombin. The digestion can proceed at room temperature too high a temperature can denature the polypeptides, and too. low a temperature can retard the progress of the digestion. The digestion is allowed to proceed for a time long enough to permit the formation of the desired polypeptide complex. The optimum time will be from 0.1 to about 60 minutes, with times from 0.1 to 30 minutes preferred. Times from 1 to 10 minutes have been found highly satisfactory, although it will be recognized that optimum times can be identified with minimal experimentation using aliquots of the factor VIII C starting material bering treated. An optimum time is that which forms the maximal amount of the polypeptide complex exhibiting an Mr of about 92,000, accompanied by the formation of a protein complex exhibiting an Mr doublet of about 79,000 and about 80,000, without degrading the Mr 92,000 polypeptide significantly.The Mr 79,000 80,0Q0 doublet may possibly function after it has undergone degradation to a complex exhibiting a doublet at Mr values of 71,000 72,000, The 71,000 72,000 doublet alone does not exhibit factor VIII C activity. The digestion is then discontinued by adding to the reaction mixture an effective amount of p amidinophenyl methanesulfonyl fluoride hereafter, p APtlSF or another thrombin inhibitor. The p APMSF prevents the s thrombin from reacting further with the factor VIII C proteins, without itself degrading those proteins. The amount of p APMSF to add should comprise about 1.5 to about 2.5 millimoles per unit of g thrombin activity initially present in the reaction mixture. p APMSF can be obtained through California Medicinal Chemistry Company, San Francisco, California, and its preparation is described in Laura, R. Robinson, D.J. and Bing, D.H. p Amidinophenyl mexthanesulfonyl Fluoride, an Irreversible Inhibitor of Serine Proteases , Biochemistry 1980 19, 4859 4864, at 4861. The reaction mixture can then be treated to concentrate the polypeptide complex comprising the present invention. Prefe,rably, the polypeptide complex is concentrated with respect to other factor VIII and non factor VIII proteinaceous material, to provide the complex in a form which affords the very high activity possessed by the complex in the purified form. Purification techniques include, for example, ultrafiltration, ultracentrifugation, ion exchange, gel permeation chromatography, preparative electrophoresis, isoelectric focusing, and gel and affinity chromatography. The desired complex can also be concentrated and or recovered by passing the reaction mixture, which can already have been concentrated by another technique, through an immunoadsorbent column containing anti human VIII C antibodies, or equivalent antibodies against VIII C other than human, that react with the polypeptide s of the complex. The antibodies are attached to agarose see Example I below . Several antibodies which can be used to concentrate the complex and or isolate certain of the polypeptides thereof are described below. The active VIII C complex adsorbs preferentially to the column, and is then eluted from the column with a solution of calcium ions e.g., CaC12 which can optionally also contain a non ionic surfactant. Suitable non ionic surfactants include alkyl phenyl polyoxyethylenes such as Triton X 100, N 101, or X 405 Eastman Chemical Co. Tween 20, 60 or 80 SigmaChemical Co. and Nonidet P 40 Sigma Chemical Co. all of these are well known articles of commerce having known chemical formulas. The amounts of calcium ion and surfactant to use should be high enough to desorb the polypeptide complex, but not so high that the eluant inactivates the polypeptide. A calcium ion concentration of up to about 0.5 M or even up to 1.0 M is satisfactory, and 0.25 M is preferred. A surfactant concentration of up to about 1 wt. Z is satisfactory, and about 0.1 wt. is preferred. The eluant is applied to the immunoadsorbent column at about 1 to about 8 bed volumes per hour, and preferably about 3 to about 4 per hour. Too high a flow rate risks disruption of the column and non absorption of the polypeptide complex. The skilled practitioner will readily adapt these guidelines to immunoadsorbent processes other than fixed bed columns. The VIII C polypeptide complex is recovered in a suitable buffer, at a pH of about 6.8 to 7.4, which also contains calcium ion and surfactant from the eluant solution.The calcium and surfactant concentrations can be lowered, and the surfactant preferably removed, such as by dialyzing the solution against a buffer such as the VIII C buffer used inExample 1 which contains a lower amount of calcium ion. The complex of this invention can be stored in this solution, or lyophilized. The complex can be administered to patients with hemophilic clotting disorders by adjusting the calcium content to be physiologically compatible and injecting a sterile saline solution thereof. tThen analyzed by SDS PAGE as shown below, the coagulant of this invention exhibits an Mr of about 92,000, and can normally contain material exhibiting an Mr doublet of about 79,000 and about 80,000, some of which can have undergone degradation to exhibit an Mr doublet of about 71,000 and about 72,000. In its purified form, this band or the group of these bands are essentially the only bands that appear.However, it will be appreciated that the present invention also encompasses biological preparations in which less than 100 , i.e., 95 , 90 , or even 80 , 70 or 60 , or even as little as 30 , 20 , 10 , or 1 of the proteinaceous matter present comprises the coagulant of the present invention. This invention thus encompasses preparations in which the factorVIII C activity is due to the presence of the coagulant. The protein complex of the present invention possesses specific VIII C coagulant activity that is, activity per milligram of all protein present higher than that exhibited by purified human factor VIII C, for instance human factor VIII C purified by the process disclosed and claimed in the aforementioned U.S. Patent No. 4,361,509. Indeed, the activity of the purified complex should be several times, e.g., 3 to 5 times, that of purified human factor VIII C, and is advantageously at least 10 times or even 50 times as active.Likewise, biological preparations comprising the complex of this invention in association with one or more other proteins can be prepared which exhibit higher specific activity than that afforded in previously known coagulant preparations. The specific activity of the complex, and of biological preparations containing it, is higher than 1800 Units mg, advantageously higher than 5400 Units mg, and in more advantageous embodiments exceeds 7,500 and even 10,000Units mg. Preferably, the specific activity of the inventive preparations exceeds that of the purified human factor VIII C used herein by a factor of 3 to 5, and more advantageously by at least 10 times, by 50, or even by 100 times. The protein complex of the present invent ion, and biological preparations thereof, are characterized in that the enhanced activity described above remains present over a continuous period of at least about 10 minutes and preferably at least about 30 minutes. Of course, activity will generally be stable for much longer. The complex also possesses the immunological characteristics of a factor VIII C protein, i.e., it binds to an antibody for human factor VIII C. This can be ascertained, for instance, by growing a monoclonal antibody to factor VIII C as described below, attaching the antibody to an agarose column, passing an aqueous solution of the complex through the column, and assaying the resultant solution for factor VIII C activity. A further desirable attribute of this invention is that the polypeptides of Mr 92,000 and Mr 79,000 80,000 are stable, relative to native human factor VIII C which is notoriously susceptible to proteolysis, degradation, and resultant loss of coagulant activity. This stability is demonstrated by the polypeptides ability to survive the treatment steps described herein. EXAMPLE I This Example shows how factor VIII C was purified from commercial concentrate and digested with purified o thrombin. A monoclonal antibody to factor VIII C was produced and used to identify VIII C polypeptides. At several selected points during the digestion, portions of the digestion mixture were assayed for VIII C coagulant activity, and for protein bands using SDS PAGE. Purification of VIII C. All steps were at room temperature. Chemicals were reagent grade. 40 bottles of commercial factor VIII concentrate provided by ArmourPharmaceutical were reconstituted in 1000 ml of VIII C buffer 0102 M imidazole 0.15M sodium chlorIde 0.1 M L lysine HC1 0.025 sodium azide, pH 6.8 . This sample, which contained a total of 17,000 units of VIII C activity, was applied to a 2.5 3.0 liter bed volume immunoadsorbent column. The column was cyanogen bromide activated agarose Sepharose 4B,Pharmacia, Piscataway, New Jersey , to which monoclonal antibodies to VIII R had been covalently bonded. The antibodies were raised and attached to the column as described in the aforementioned U.S. Patent No. 4,361,509.The antibodies were precipitated from ascites fluid using 50 ammonium sulfate, reprecipitated two more times, and then attached to the column at a density of 2 4 mg ml of Sepharose.The immunoadsorbent was pre eluted with 3M sodium thiocyanate, washed with VIII C buffer 0.02M imidazole HC1 pH 7.0, 0.15 MNaCI, 0.1 M L lysine HCl, 0.02 sodium azide , treated twice with 2mM di isopropyl fluorophosphate, and then the concentrate was added. The column was washed with 20 liters of VIII C buffer containing 0.15 M sodium chloride, and VZII C was then eluted from the VIII R with VIIl C buffer containing 0.35 M calcium chloride. Active fractions were pooled and concentrated under nitrogen pressure 100 fold in an Amicon stirred cell with a YM10 membrane. The concentrate was then diluted 1 10 in VIII C buffer and applied to a 4 ml column of aminohexyl Sepharose Pharmacia equilibrated in VIII C buffer conta ining 0.025 M calcium chloride, VIII C was eluted in high concentration withVIII C buffer containing 0.3 M calcium chloride at a flow rate of 10 ml hr.The concentrated immunoadsorbent pool was adjusted to 0.25 M calcium chloride and adsorbed twice for 1 h each time with 1 10 vol vol of a mixture of monoclonal anti fibrinjogen, anti fibronectin and anti vWF antibodies which had been coupled to cyanogen bromide activated Sepharose. Production of monoclonal antibody against VIII C. Monoclonal antibodies were produced as described in U.S. PatentNo. 4,361,509 using purified VIII C as immunogen. The antibodies were selected with a solid phase assay inLinbro Titertek Flow Laboratories, Inglewood, CA plates and an enzyme linked immunoadsorbent ELISA detection system described in Engvall, E. and Perlmann, P. Enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay ELISA , Quantitative assay of immunoglobulin G Immunochemistry 8 871 874 1971 using a peroxidase antibody conjugate Zymed Laboratories, Burlingame, CA . The plates were coated with 100 ng of purified VIII C per well. The ELISA positive culture supernatant of the clone selected for use in this study also inhibited plasma VIII C activity. Thrombin activation time course analysis of purifiedVIII C. Purified human o thrombin sp. act. 2534 U mg, final concentration 0.5 U ml , was added to the purified VIII C final concentration 167jig ml in imidazole saline buffer containing 0.04 M Caul2. Buffer alone was added to a control aliquot. The solutions were incubated at room temperature and at various time intervals samples of the VIII C thrombin mixture were added to tubes containing p APMSF CaliforniaMedicinal Chemistry Co. to inactivate the thrombin rapidly and irreversibly. In order to minimize hydrolysis of p APMSF, it was diluted 1 10 from a stock solution 100 mM in methanol into imidazole saline buffer 60 seconds before reaction with the VIII C thrombin samples. The final p APMSF concentration was 1 mM.The control aliquot was treated similarly with p APMSF at the start of the experiment. At the end of the 60 minute time course, all VIII C samples were assayed for VIII C activity using an activated partial thromboplastin time assay described in the literature and then prepared for SDS PAGE. SDS PAGE Procedure A Discontinuous SDS polyacrylamide slab gel electrophoresis was performed based on the procedure of The Procedure A followed is I. Sample Preparation 1. Dialyze the protein sample ideally 50 100 microliters containing 5 60 micrograms of protein against sample buffer overnight at room temperature. If the sample contains calcium ion, include 10 millimolar ethylenediamine tetracetic acid EDTA in the sample buffer. 2. Place the dialyzed sample in a tube and add 1 10 volume of 10 SDS. Cover the tube with aluminum foil. Heat the sample in a boiling waterbath for 10 minutes. 3. Remove the sample from the waterbath and add to it 1 10 volume of 500 millimolar dithiothreitol. Incubate it at 560C for 4 hours. 4. Allow the sample to cool to room temperature and prepare it for layering onto the gel by adding stock glycerol solution to 10 final concentration and stock bromophenol blue dye solution to 0,05 final concentration.II. Preparaion of gel solutions use deionized, distilled water 1. Stock glycerol solution 50 o glycerol 2. Stock bromophenol blue dye solution 0.5 bromophenol blue 3. Lower el stock solution 18.2 grams of Tris base 4 ml of 10 SDS final volume 100 ml. Adjust pH to 8.8 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. Filter. 4. Upper gel stock solution 6.1 grams of Tris base 4 ml of 10 SDS Final volume 100 ml Adjust pH to 6.8 with concentrated hydrochloric acid. Filter. 5. Sample buffer 0.01M sodium phosphate 1.0 SDS 10 millimolar disodium EDTA Final volume 1 liter pH adjusted to 7.0 with sodium hydroxide or phosphoric acid. 6. Acrylamide stock solution Dissolve 30 g of acrylamide in 50 ml of water and add 0.8 g of bisacrylamide and dissolve. Bring to 100 ml final volume. Filter the solution and store in the dark at 4 C. 7. Stock electrode buffer solution 30.3 g Tris base 144.1 g glycine final volume 1 liter 8. Electrode buffer 100 ml of stock electrode buffer solution 890 ml water 10 ml of 10 SDS 9. Stock Coomassie blue dye solution 1 Coomassie blue R 250 in water Dissolve with stirring for at least 30 minutes at room temperature and filter. 10. Ammonium persulfate solution 10 ammonium persulfate. Stored in dark at 4 C and made fresh every week.III. Gel Preparation and Running Final acrylamide concentration . L 1. Lower gel solution 20 ml of lower gel Stock lower gel solution 5 ml Stock acrylamide solution 5 ml Water 10 ml N,N,N ,N tetramethylethylenediamine .005 ml TOtED3 10 ammonium persulfate 0.1 ml 2. Upper gel solution 10 ml of upper gel Stock upper gel solution 2.5 ml Stock acrylamide solution 1.0 ml Water 6.5 ml N,N,Nt,N tetramethylethylenediamine 0.01 ml TEMED 10 ammonium persulfate 0.03 ml 3. Procedure a. Prepare the slab gel apparatus for a 14.5 cm x 9.0 cm x 0.8 mm slab gel. The apparatus is a standard gel electrophoresis apparatus, available, for instance, from Hoeffer Scientific Instruments, San Francisco, California.b. Mix all lower gel ingredients except the TEMED and ammonium persulfate in a 50 ml vacuum flask and de aerate. Then add the TEMED and ammonium persulfate, mix gently and pour the lower gel immediately. Layer the lower gel with water saturated butanol and allow it to polymerize undisturbed for at least 1 hour, preferably 2 6 hours.c. Pour off the butanol layer and rinse the top of the lower gel with the complete upper gel mixture. The upper gel mixture is prepared, de aerated and TEMED and ammonium per sulfate are added as for the lower gel above .d. Pour the upper gel and insert the comb into the upper gel allowing at least 1.0 cm between the bottom of the comb teeth and the upper gel lower gel interface Fill with upper gel solution as full as possible. Allow upper gel to polymerize at least 1 hour before running the gel.e. To remove the comb, pipet electrode buffer over the top of the upper gel and gently remove the comb. Rinse the upper gel wells with electrode buffer several times.f. Assemble the apparatus for running and add electrode buffer. Apply the sample s by layering it into the upper gel wells underneath the buffer layer. g. Run the gel using constant current 8 milliamperes while samples are in the upper gel and 15 milliamperes while samples are in the lower gel. Stop the electrophoresis when the bromophenol blue dye front is 1.0 cm from the bottom of the lower gel. IV. Fixing and Staining the gel Reference Fairbanks, G., Steck, T.L., and Wallach, D.F.N., Biochemistry 10, 2606 2617, 1971. 1. Fix the gel at least overnight in a sealed chamber in a solution containing 25 isopropanol, 10 acetic acid, 10 ml of 1 Coomassie blue stock solution, final volume 400 ml. 2. Next, soak the gel at least 1 hour in 10 isopropanol, 10 acetic acid and 1.0 ml of 15 Coomassie blue stock solution, final volume 400 ml. 3. Soak the gel about 4. hours in 10 acetic acid with changes or until completely destained. 4. The destained gel can be dried onto filter paper using a gel dryer to increase contrast.Approximately 5 2Q g of protein was applied to the gels.VIII C MrS were calculated for reduced samples by semi logarithmic plots of Mr versus migration Ristance, using reduced fibronectin Mr 200,000r, phosphorylase b Mr 95,000 , bovine serum albumin Mr 68,000 , and IgG heavy chain Mr 50,000 , and ovalbumin Mr 43,000 as standards. Scanning and integration of a photographic print of the finished gel was done using a Zeineh soft laser scanning densitometer. Results. The specific activity of the purified factorVIII C was 2000 units mg. Thrombin activation of purifiedVIII C activity was analyzed over a 60 minute time course.Before thrombin exposure the untreated VIII C sample showed the characteristic array of VIII C forms ranging from a doublet at Mr 79,000 80,000 to a band at Mr 188,000. A band aboveMr 188,000 and two bands below Mt 79,000 did not bind to the monoclonal anti VIlI C antibody immunoadsorbent. The bands between Mr 79,000 and Mr 188,000 did bind to the anti VIIf C antibody. During the first 5 minutes of the thrombin activation time course, all but one of the monoclonal anti VIII C antibody reactive bands with an Mr greater than 92,000 gradually disappeared and were undetectable when VIII C activity reached its peak at 5 minutes. A band at Mt 122,000 appeared thrombin resistant in only some experiments, but after extensive thrombin treatment neither this band nor any other band was reactive with the immobilized monoclonal anti VIII C antibody. A band at Mr 92,000 increased in intensity asVIII C activity increased. A doublet at Mr 79,000 and 80,000 appeared to be converted to a doublet at Mr 71,000 72,000, with the latter form predominant from 5 to 60 min. as VIII C activity decreased. Two bands, at Mr 54,000 and Mr 44,000, became clearly visible from 5 to 60 min.The Mr 44,000 band also appeared as a doublet in some experiments. The Mr 71,000 72,000 doublet, the Mr 54,000 band and the Mr 44,C00 band were not removed to a significant degree by the immobilized monoclonal anti VIII C antibody. Scanning and integration of the gel discussed above allowed correlation of changes in polypeptide concentration with changes in VIII C activity. The results are shown in theTable. As shown, the Mr 92,000 band increased and then decreased in concentration in parallel with VIII G activity.This suggests that the Mr 92,000 band is an active form ofVIII G whose concentration increased with thrombin activation.The Mr 54,000 and Mr 44,000 bands increased steadily in concentration between 1 and 40 min., even after activity of the mixture declined. Most of the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet was lost during the first 0.1 to 10 min. as VIII C activity peaked, while most of the Mr 71,000 72,000 doublet appeared during this time and predominated even as VIII C activity decreased.These data suggest that the Mr 71,000 72,000 doublet was derived from the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet and that the Mr 71,000 72,000 doublet is inactive by itself. These data are consistant with the retention by the Mr 71,000 72,000 doublet of the ability to complex with the Mr F 92,000 polypeptide this complex would also have activity. Direct evidence that the Mr 92,000 polypeptide is complexed with the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet derives from experiments utilizing the anti VIII C monoclonal immunoadsorbent. It was first shown that the monoclonal antibody reacts predominantly with the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet and not with the Mr 92,000 polypeptide. This was shown by electrophoretic transfer experiments. Then it was shown that the monoclonal anti immunoadsorbent removed both theMr 79,000 80,000 doublet and the Mr 92,000 polypeptide from the solution. The Mr 92,000 polypeptide could be eluted from the anti VIII C immunoadsorbent column with 10 mM EDTA, whereas the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet remained bound. The doublet could be subsequently eluted with 3M sodium thiocyanate.These experiments demonstrated that theMr 92,000 polypeptide bound to the immunoadsorbent because it was complexed with the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet and that it was this doublet which bound directly to the immunoadsorbent. Time min from addition of thrombin 0 0.1 1 2 5 10 20 30 40 60 to addition of p APMSF Activity of digestion mixture 300 900 1300 1350 1400 1250 800 375 250 100Amount of each polypeptide Mr present, as of total protein present Mr 92,000 7.3 9.5 11.1 11.5 11.8 9.6 7.3 6.7 4.9 4.4Mr 79 80,000 21.9 18.8 16.1 12.9 11.0 8.4 9.0 8.6 7.4 7.4Mr 71 72,000 0.0 9.0 11.2 12.9 16.5 15.9 15.7 18.8 18.2 20.4Mr 54,000 4.9 5.9 5.1 5.7 7.1 9.4 10.2 11.8 13.7 13.5Mr 44,000 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.1 3.7 5.9 6.1 7.2 7.8 7.6 Measurements just prior to addition of alpha thrombinActivity is in Factor VIII C units ml EXAMPLE II This Example describes the results of treating purified human Factor VIII C with purified human activated protein C hereafter, APC , a known anticoagulant enzyme.Human Factor VIII C was purified as described above. APC was purified by the procedure described in Marlar, R.A. et al., Mechanism of action of human activated protein C, a thrombin dependent anticoagulant enzyme. Blood, Vol. 59, 1067 1982 , except that a mono S column of a Pharmacia FPLC system was used to separate APC from thrombin. Assays Samples were assayed for VIII C activity as described above using an activated partial thromboplastin time assay with hemophilia A plasma substrate. Preparation of samples for electrophoresis Since calcium ios are required for APC activity, APC was stopped at various times by addition of 1 10 volume of 100 mM EDTA containing 10 uM DAPA to the VIII C APC aliquots as well as to the control VIII C and APC aliquots. A 1 10 volume of 10 sodium dodecyl sulfate was then added to these aliquots. They were then heated in a boiling waterbath for 5 minutes and subsequently dialyzed for SDS PAGE as described above. Discontinuous sodium dodecyl sulfate 7.5 polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis PAGE ,of reduced VIII C, staining with Coomassie blue R250 and scanning and integration of the gel were as described above. Sample preparation A 339 g sample of VIII C in 0.3 ml of VIII C buffer containing 0.3 M calcium chloride was dialyzed overnight against buffer 50 mH Tris chloride, 0.15 M sodium chloride, 5 mM calcium chloride, 0.02 sodium azide, pH 7.4 . To the dialyzed VIII C sample was added 1.095 ml of buffer, 90 l of rabbit brain cephalin Sigma Chemical Co., St.Louis, MD, reconstituted, stored and thawed according to manufacturer s instructions and 15 l of 1 mM dansylarginine N 3 Ethyl 1,5 pentanediyl amide DAPA , to give a final DAPA concentration of 10 ,uM. The DAPA was included to inhibit any trace amounts of thrombin present in the APC since l0iM DAPA does not significantly inhibit APC. The final volume of the sample was 1.5 ml and the final VIII C concentration was 226 g ml. Four hundred microliters of the 1.5 ml VIII C sample were withdrawn and set aside as a control designated VIII C . To the remaining 1.1 ml was added 20 1 10 ug of APC giving a final APO concentration of 9,ug ml designated VIII C APC .A second control sample was prepared containing all components at similar concentrations except that VIII C was omitted designated APC . Timepoints VIII C alone, the mixture of VIII C andAPC, and APC alone were placed in a 370 waterbath and at given timepoints aliquots were withdrawn for SDS PAGE and or VIII C activity assay. It was also determined in control thatAPC remained active in the hydrolysis of the synthetic substrate 5 2238 after prolonged incubation at 37 C. Results Digestion of purified VIII C with APC was associated with loss of approximately 85 of the control VIII C activity. APC inactivation of VIII C activity resulted in the diminution of all VIII C polypeptides of Mr between 92,000 and 188,000 and generation of a polypeptide of Mr 45,000, while leaving the doublet of Mr 79 80,000 intact. A time course inactivation of purified VIII C by APC showed the progressive d isappearance of specific VIII C polypeptides as VIII C activity decreased over a 360 minute time course. Scanning and integration of the gel showed that the polypeptide Mr 188,000 and the polypeptide of Mr 92,000 decreased in parallel with VIII C activity. One other polypeptide of intermediate Mr was cleaved by APC but it was not easily quantitated by gel scanning. In this experiment unlike the digestion with APC, some VIII C polypeptides of M 92,000 188,000 were resistant to the APC r digestion. However, as in the digestion with APC, the doublet polypeptide at Hr 79 80,000 was not proteolyzed by APC. A polypeptide of Mr 45,000 appeared to increase in concentration as the polypeptides of Mr 188,000 and 92,000 decreased suggesting that it is a proteolytic fragment derived from them. No other digestion products were visualized withCoomassie blue. As shown in Example I, during thrombin activation ofVIII C the Mr 92,000 polypeptide increased and decreased in parallel with VIII.C activity. In order to determine whether a linear relationship existed between proteolysis of the polypeptide of Hr 92,000 and the loss of VIII C activity, the data of this time course inactivation run were re plotted to examine percent VIII C activity versus percent of polypeptide of Mr 92,000. The amount of VIII C activity appeared to be proportional to the amount of the polypeptide ofMr 92,000. A further aspect of the present invention comprises monoclonal antibodies which are specific in an unforeseeable way to the various polypeptides which are formed by the reaction of factor VIII C with a protease such as alpha thronbin. Each antibody reacts with human factor VIII C which has not been activated nor digested with thrombin or equivalent proteases The antibodies are further characterized by their individual properties, as follows A One reacts with the Me 92,000 polypeptide described herein, with polypeptides of Mr 108,000 and larger, and with the polypeptide of Mr 44,000 which is present in terminal thrombin digests.It does not react with the polypeptide described herein which exhibits a doublet of Hr 79,000 80,000, nor with the polypeptide described herein which exhibits a doublet of Mr 71,000 72,000. B One reacts with the Mr 92,00Q polypeptide described herein, with polypeptides of Mr 108,000 and larger, and with the polypeptide of Mr 54,000 which is present in terminal thrombin digests. It does not react with the polypeptide described herein which exhibits a doublet of Mr 79,000 80,000, nor with the polypeptide described herein which exhibits a doublet of Mr 71,000 72,000. C One reacts with the doublet of Mr 79,000 80,000 and polypeptides of Mr 108,000 and greater, but not with the polypeptide of Mr 92,000, nor with the polypeptides of Mr 71,000 72,000, Mr 54,000, nor E1r 44000 D One reacts only with polypeptides of My 108,000 and greater. Each of these antibodies can be used to concentrate the complex described above, from mixtures which also contain other polypeptides. One such mixture is produced by partial digestion of human factor VIII C with g thrombin or an equivalent protease. Another such mixture is that produced by recombinant DNA techniques in which a desired polypeptide or complex is expressed by a microorganism and must be recovered from a mixture with other proteinaceous compounds. Antibody A , B , C or D , or a combination of two, three, or all of them, can be attached to an immunoadsorbent column in the manner described in Example 1, and a feed solution of the mixture containing the polypeptide s comprising the complex is poured through the column.Those polypeptides having M of 92,000, 79,000 80,000, and 71,000 72,000 which are present in the feed solution adsorb onto the column, from which they can be eluted as taught bereinabove after the source solution has been washed through the column. The resulting eluted solution is thereby concentrated in the desired activated VIII C complex compared to the feed solution. The new antibodies are also useful for analytical purposes, to detect the occurrence of the reaction of humanVIII C with thrombin or other proteases, because of their ability to react with products of that reaction. An antibody having profile B and an antibody having profile C have been found which neutralize VIII C coagulant activity when either is bound to factor VIII C This additional property can be of value in the diagnosis of hemophilia related disorders. The discovery of these antibodies also permits further characterization of the components of the polypeptide complex described herein. Thus, the polypeptide which exhibits a band of Mr 92,000 contains at least two epitopes i.e. antibody binding sites that are not destroyed by thrombin digestion and are not present on the polypeptides which exhibit the doublet of Mr 79,000 80,000 nor the doublet of M Mr 71,000 72,000. One of these epitopes is also present on the polypeptide ofMr 44,000, and the other on the polypeptide of Mr 54,000.Thus, the Mr 54,000, and Mr 44,000 polypeptides derive from the Mr 92,000 polypeptide. Also, the Mr 92,000 and Mr 79,000 80,000 polypeptides are derived from a common precursor or precursors. The discovery of antibodies having profile B and profile C each of which neutralizes factorVIII C coagulant activity is further support that the My 92,000 and Mr 79,000 80,000 polypeptides are important to the coagulant function. The polypeptides exhibiting the doublet of Mr 79,000 80,000 contain an epitope which is destroyed by thrombin digestion and which is not present on the polypeptide of My 92,000. These monoclonal antibodies can be prepared by the general steps of purification of human factor VIII C raising onoclonal antibodies to the purified VIII C partial digestion and activation of purified VIII C to produce the polypeptide complex described above, including identification of the specific polypeptides reaction of the anti VIII C antibodies with the products of the activation and characterization of an antibody by identification of the polypeptide s with which it reacted. This sequence is set forth in more detail in ExampleIII below.Alternatively, one can prepare an antibody by isolating the particular polypeptide of interest from the partial thrombin digestion products, for instance by immunoadsorbtion onto and then elution off of a column comprising agarose to which is coupled a monoclonal antibody known to react with the polypeptide of interest, and then raising a monoclonal antibody against that polypeptide using the procedure described in Example III. EXAMPLE III Honoclonal antibodies to human Factor YIII C were raised using the following procedure, starting from highlY purified VIII C which had been prepared by the process of U.S. Patent No. 4,361,509. Mice were injected with highly purified factor VIII C according to the following procedure. On day zero, the mice were injected intraperitoneally with a composition prepared by dissolving or suspending 10 Ug of the protein in 0.1 ml of buffer containing 0.05 M Tris, 0.15 M sodium chloride, 0.02 sodium azide, I mbI phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride, trasylol 10 units ml at pH 7.3, and shaking with an equal volume of complete Freund s adjuvant. On day 14, the mice were again injected with the same material except that incomplete Freund s adjuvant was substituted for complete Freund s adjuvant. On day 21, the injection of day 14 was repeated. On day 38, the mice were injected with purified VIII C only.On day 42, the spleens of the mice were removed and fused according to a standard procedure, of the type described by J. P. Brown et al Protein Antigens of Normal and Malignant Human CellsIdentified by Immunoprocipitation with N6noclonal Antibodies ,JOURNAL OF BIOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, Vol. 225, pp. 4980 4983 1980 . The standard technique was varied only to the extent that 35 polyethylene glycol 1000 was substituted for 50 polyethylene glycol. The antibodies were selected using the assay procedure described above in Example I, in the paragraph with the heading Production of monoclonal antibody against VIII C , except that antibodies which did not neutralize VIII C activity were also subcloned and treated as described below. The clones which were positive were subcloned twice and stable clones producing antibody to VIII C were then injected into the peritoneal cavities of Balb C mice which had been pretreated intraperitoneally with 0.5 ml of pristane at least four days prior to injection of cells. Hybridoma cells were injected at concentrations of approximately 5 x 106 cells per mouse in 0.5 ml of Delbecco s modified Eagle s medium without fetal bovine serum. The mice were tapped when bloated and ascites fluid was collected in heparin at approximately 10 units ml. Ascites fluid from multiple mice was pooled to provide a convenient volume for subsequent isolation of the monoclonal IgG. The antibodies were precipitated from ascites fluid using 50 ammonium sulfate, and then reprecipitated two more times.The anti VIII C antibodies so raised corresponding to B , C and D above were bound to agarose beads and shown to bind purified VIII C from solution. Separate batches of VIII C, C, one untreated and one subjected to thrombin proteolysis, were then analyzed by theSDS PAGE steps described in Example 1. Then, each band was transferred electrophoretically Western transfers from the gel onto a nitrocellulose sheet. The apparatus used was Bio Rad Trans Blot cell, and Bio Rad Model 160.1.6 power supply Bio Rad Laboratories, Richmond, California . The transfer buffer was 25 mM Tris with glycine added to pH 8.3, 20 methanol. Transfers were carried out over 16 24 hours at 90 volts and 100 milliamperes The specific polypeptides with which each of the antibodies reacted were determined using a procedure adapted from W. M.Burnette, Western Blotting ElectrophoreticTransfer of Proteins from Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate PolyacrylamideGels to Unmodified Nitrocellulose and Radiographic Detection with Antibodies and Radioiodinated Protein A , AnalyticalBiochemistry, Vol. 112, pp. 195 203 1981 . Buffer D was 10 mM Tris chloride, 0.15 M NaCl, 0.02 sodium azide, pH 7.4. All reactions were carried out at room temperature. 1. Place the nitrocellulose sheet with the transferred protein in a tray containing 100 ml of Buffer D and 0.25 gelatin. Place the tray on a rotary shaker and shake slowly for 30 minutes. 2. Then add the monoclonal antibody to the tray either 0.1 1 of ascites fluid or 1 mg of purified IgG .Shake for 120 minutes. 3. Wash the nitrocellulose sheet as follows a 10 minutes with 100 ml of Buffer D. b 30 minutes with 100 ml of Buffer D and 0.05 of Nonidet P 40, with changes at 10 and 20 minutes. c 10 minutes with 100 ml of Buffer D. 4. Soak the nitrocellulose sheet in Buffer D plus 0.25QL gelatin and I125 labelled purified rabbit anti mouseIgG for 30 minutes. 5. Wash the nitrocellulose sheet as follows a 10 minutes with 100 ml of Buffer D. b 16 24 hours with 100 ml of Buffer D plus 0.1 Nonidet P 40 and 0.5 M NaCl. c 10 minutes with 100 ml of Buffer D. 6. Blot the nitrocellulose sheet between two sheets of filter paper and then store the nitrocellulose sheet in a sealed plastic bag. 7. To determine which antibodies and polypeptides had reacted, a Prepare an autoradiograph of the nitrocellulose sheet, using standard procedures known in the literature. b Compare the autoradiograph with a nitrocellulose sheet onto which VIII C was transferred but which had been stained with Coomassie blue R250 rather than reacted with monclonal antibody. These steps demonstrated that the following distinct antibodies had been raised. Four antibodies reacted with the polypeptide of Mr 92,000, the Mr 108,000 and larger polypeptides, one or the other of the polypeptides of Mr 54,000 or 44,000 present in terminal thrombin digests, and no other polypeptides. This demonstrates the origin of these two latter polypeptides from the polypeptide of Mr 92,000 as the result of thrombin cleavage. It also shows that two epitopes on the Mr 92,000 polypeptide survive that cleavage, and that these epitopes are not present on the Hr 79,000 80,000 doublet. A fifth antibody reacted with the doublet of Mr 79,000 80,000, and with polypeptides of My 108,000 and greater, but not with the polypeptide of Mr 92,000 nor with any of the polypeptides present in terminal thrombin digests.This demonstrates that the Mr 79,000 80,000 doublet possesses an epitope which is not present on the Mr 92,000 polypeptide and that the epitope is destroyed by thrombin digestion of the Mt 79,000 80,000 doublet. The reaction profiles of these five antibodies indicate that the Mr 92,000 and Mr 79,000 80,000 polypeptides derive from a common precursor or precursors. A sixth antibody reacted only with polypeptides of Mr 108,000 and greater. Since it did not react with any polypeptides present in terminal thrombin digests, the epitope with which it reacted is destroyed by thrombin digestion. To prepare and store a biological preparation of one or more of these antibodies, the corresponding monoclonal IgG may be isolated from heparinized pooled ascites fluid immediately after collection or a frozen portion of the stored solution may be thawed. Regardless of whether fresh or frozen material is used, the solution is brought to 40C and treated with an equal volume of phosphate buffered saline solution PBS PBS 1.6 g sodium phosphate, monobasic monohydrate 8.4 g sodium phosphate, dibasic anhydrous S1.4 g sodium chloride water to 7 liters pH 7.2 . The diluted ascites is precipitated by dropwise addition with stirring at 4 0C. Centrifugations are preferably carried out at 14,000 rpm for 60 minutes 30,000 x g . The supernatant solution of ascites is precipitated twice more with SAS and the mixture of precipitate and supernatant liquid stirred and centrifuged in the same manner as in the first cycle. The pellets resulting from the third precipitation are resuspended in a volume of PBS equal to that of the diluted ascites fluid and then dialyzed exhaustively against PBS. Clots appearing in the dialysis bags are removed by centrifugation at 200C. The dialyzed IgG is adsorbed by stirring it with a 5 aqueous solution of aluminum hydroxide at room temperature and centrifuging at 20 0C after adsorption. The adsorption treatment is repeated at least three more times using 2.5 aluminum hydroxide solution for each treatment after the first. The adsorbed IgG is brought to 40C and reprecipitated once with SAS as described above. The precipitated pellets may be stored at 200C until used. Two preferred procedures for purifying the monoclonal antibodies and maintaining biological preparations containing them are described in P. L. Ey et al., Isolation of Pure IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2b Immunoglobulins from Mouse SerumUsing Protein A Sepharose. Immunochemistry, Vol. 15, pp.429 436 and in C. Bruck et al., One Step Purification ofMouse Monoclonal Antibodies from Ascitic Fluid by DEAE Affi Cel Blue Chromatography. J. Immunological Methods, Vol. 53, pp.313 319 1982 .