# Process for pasteurizing fibronectin.

## Abstract
A process for heat treatment of a fibronectin solution suf ficient to inactivate viruses therein while preserving its physical and biological properties in the presence of a polyol, a surface active agent and a chelating agent.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for heat treatment of a solution containing a protein to inactivate viruses therein while preserving its native character comprising heat treating the protein solution to effect pasteurization thereof in the presence of a polyol, a pharmaceutically acceptable surface active agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable chelating agent or antioxidant present in amounts sufficient to confer stability to the protein and preserve its native character. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the protein solution contains fibronectin, a polyol, a surface active agent and a chelating agent. 3. The process of claim I or 2 wherein the polyol is sucrose, maltose, lactose, glucose, mannose, galactose or glycerol. 4. The process of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the surface active agent is polyoxyethylene sorbitan mono and tri esters, alkyl phenyl polyoxyethylenes, bile salts, benzalkonium chloride or polyhydric alcohols. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein the polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters contain the fatty acids oleate, stearate, laurate, or palmitate. 6. The process of claim 4 wherein bile salt is sodium taurocholate, sodium cholate, sodium deoxycholate or sodium glycocholate. 7. The process of any of claims 1 to 6 within the chelating agent is ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, ethylenebis oxyethylenenitrile or orthophenanthrolene. 8. The process of any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the protein solution further comprises a sodium citrate buffer. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the concentration of the buffer is about 0.0005 to 0.2 molar. 10. The process of any of claims 1 to 9 wherein the polyol is present in an amount about 25 to 60 w v. 11. The process of any of claims I to 10 wherein the surface active agent is present in an amount of about 0.01 to 0.5 w v. 12. The process of any of claims 1 to 11 wherein the chelating agent is present in an amount of about 0.0005 to 0.2 M. 13. The process of any of claims 1 to 12 wherein the heat treatment is carried out for 5 to 20 hours. 14. The process of any of claims 1 to 13 wherein the heat treatment is carried out at a temperature of about 500 to 700C. 15. The process of any of claims 1 to 14 wherein the antioxidant is ascorbic acid or cysteine. 16. The process of claim 2 wherein the fibronectin solution is heat treated to effect pasteurization thereof in the presence of 30 to 50 w v of sucrose, maltose, lactose, glucose, mannose, glactose or glycerol 0.02 to 0.1 w v of polyoxy ethlene sorbitan mono and tri esters, benzalkonium chloride, soldium cholate, sodium taurocholate, sodium deoxycholate or sodium glycocholate and 0.001 to 0.005 molar of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, citric acid, ethylenehis oxyethylenenitrile or orthophenanthrolene.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PASTEURIZING FIL3ROIECTIN This invention relates to rendering fibronectin free of transmissible biological contaminants such as viruses and the like, and especially infectious hepatitis viruses, such as hepatitis virus B, and the Non A, Non B infectious virus es . Fibronectin is a large complex protein possessing important biological functions sffch as acting as a structural component of tissues and modulating the function of cells in the body. Its actions include control of normal growth, participation in the repair of damage, and involvement in defense against invading foreign substances and organisms.It is known by a variety of names that reflect its diverse biological activities including the names of large external transformation sensitive protein LETS cell surface protein CSP cell adhesion protein CAP opsonic 2 surface binding glycoprotein and cold insoluble globulin CIG . Pharmacological application of fibronectin includes treatment of septic shock and infective diseases. Due to its action of enhancing intercellular adhesive properties and its effect on the.morphology of cancer cells, it is a potential candidate for cancer treatment. Fibronectin is obtained from fractions of plasma protein or fibroblast culture fluid. Contamination by viruses may result from both the source material used and from the environment during the separation procedure. Although efforts are being made to utilize plasma which is negative to hepatitis virus B when tested using high sensitivity methods such..as radioimmunoassay or passive hemagglutination, the danger of such contanination still exists because the presence of the virus cannot be detected with certainty by any known procedure. In addition, there are no available in vitro test methods to detect the Non A, Non B,Hepatitis virus es . To be suitable for clinical application, fibronectin must be free of contaminants, especially infectious hepatitis viruses, it must possess a high degree of therapeutic activity, and it must have a good shelf life. It is known that plasma protein may be rendered free of infectious hepatitis viruses by deactivation with heat treatment for 10 hrs at about 600C. The problem confronting the prior art is the thermal instability of fibronectin heat treatment above 40 450C causes coagulation, denaturation and loss of activity therein It has been known for any years that certain polyols confer heat stability to proteins against denaturation during pasteurization sufficient to render hepatitis virus inactive. Such polyols include polyhydric alcohols and carbohydrates, such as arabinose, glucose, glactose, fructose, ribose, mannose, rhamnose, sucrose, maltose, raffinose, and the like. Fibronectin has also been stabilized during or prior to pasteurization by certain sugars, such as sucrose, and by the use of certain sugars in conjunction with some other stabilizing agents, such as neutral amino acids, hydrocarbon carboxylic acids, and hydroxyhydrocarhon carboxylic acids. While inactivation of infectious hepatitis viruses has been adequately attained and heat stability of proteins in general was markedly increased, the native character of such proteins has not been sufficiently preserved from denaturation. This lack of complete preservation of physical and biological activity is especially apparent in large scale production of protiens such as fibronectin. As opposed to the mechanically static conditions of laboratory scale procedures wherein, as a result of large surface area to small volume ratio, effective transfer of heat into the solution is easily attained without mechanical agitation, in large scale manufacturing procedures the surface to volume ratio of the liquid being processed is drastically reduced and extensive mechanical agitation is necessary to effect uniform temperature therein.It has been observed that when heat and mechanical agitation are applied simultaneously during pasteurization, carbohydrates will not fully protect fibronectin from denaturation and loss of yield. It has also been found that in large scale manufacturing operations, in addition to the denaturing forces of heat and mechanical stress, polymeric forms of fibronectin are generated as a consequence of the catalyzing action of certain metal ions which may be present in the solution being processed or in the sterilizing equipment used from which they leach out into the solution from such objects as vessel walls, valves and surfaces of the operating equipment of metal and nonmetal construction. An example of such an undesirable metal ion is Cu2 which causes polymerization of fibronectin via disulfide formation through a free sulfhydryl group in the fibronectin molecule.The presence of even a minute amount of metal ions is sufficient to cause the undesired polymerization of fibronectin during the prolonged heating and agitation. The present invention relates to a process for heat treatment of a solution containing a protein to inactivate viruses therein while preserving its native character by heat treating the protein solution to effect pasteurization thereof in the presence of a polyol, a pharmaceutically acceptable surface active agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable chelating agent or antioxidant present in amounts sufficient to confer stability to the protein and preserve its native character. According to the present invention, it has been found that the native character and biological properties of fibronectin may be preserved during an effective pasteurization procedure against viruses and without the formation of undesirable polymeric forms of fibronectin by utilizing in the aqueous solution containing fibronectin a heat stability conferring polyol a surface active agent which by the properties conferred on the solvent and its interaction with fibronectin diminishes the mechanical denaturing stresses resulting from agitation and a chelating agent to sequester and render inactive, polymerization catalyzing trace metals present in the fibronectin solution or in the sterilizing apparatus. Thus the present invention encompasses the process of heat treatment to inactivate viruses of an aqueous solution containing fibronectin comprising carrying out heat treatment effective to pasteurize the aqueous solution containing fibronectin, such as heat treatment at about 600C for about 10 hours in the presence of about 25 to 60 wZv of a polyol, about 0.01 to 0.5 w v of a pharmaceutically acceptable surface active agent, and about 0.0005 to 0.2 M of a pharmaceutically acceptable chelating agent. In general, to the aqueous solution containing fibronectin, appropriate amounts of polyol, surface active and chelating agents are added forming a suspension which is then heated for 10 hrs. at 600C. After pasteurization the viscous suspension is diluted and filtered through ion exchange columns or ligand affinity columns to remove the additives and non specifically bound proteins. The pure fibronectin is then formulated into appropriate dosages. In accordance with the present invention, fibronectin is pasteurized in the presence of a polyol, a surface active agent and a chelating agent, the combined effect of which insures that fibronectin is preserved in its native form during pasteurization. The heat treatment is carried out at a temperature and for a period of time which are sufficient to inactivate the viruses, especially infectious viruses such as hepatitis viruses, but at the same tme to retain the activity of fibronectin. Such heat treatment may be for 5 20 hrs, preferably for about 10 hours at about 500 700C, and most preferably at 600C for 10 hrs. For the purposes of the present invention, in addition to using a purified fibronectin, various starting solutions of fibronectin may be used, including impure forms of fibronectin such as human plasma, cryoprecipitate, the acid chill precipitate obtained from cryoprecipitate which is analogous to Fraction I O, or Fraction I. While, as indicated, the aqueous solution containing fibronectin to be used as starting material in the present invention may be in any stage of purification ranging from purified to unpurified aqueous solution, we prefer to use at least a partially purified aqueous fibronectin. Polyols In the present invention we prefer to use the disaccharide sucrose saccharose as the preferred agent for conferring heat stability to fibrdnectin during pasteurization.We have found that a concentration range of about 25 to 60 w v is effective for such stabilization, with the preferred concentration being about 30 to 50 w v. While on the one hand, even lower concentrations might be used for the stabilization, the yield of fibronectin tends to be affected at such lower concentration, and on the other hand, higher than the stated concentration limit will deleteriously affect subsequent processing of the pasteurized solution due to the high viscosity property rendered thereto by the large amounts of sugar present. Other polyols may be substituted for the disaccharide sucrose, such as other disaccharides, such as maltose and lactose monosaccharides, such as glucose, glactose and mannose certain polyhydric alcohols, such as glycerol and certain polymers such as polyethylene glycol. Surface Active Agents Surface active agents used to advantage in accordance with the present invention must have the criteria of pharmaceutical acceptability and capability of easy removal from the solution after pasteurization thereof. A small quantity of these surface active agents was found to be effective to provide stability to fibronectin when used in conjunction with a polyol which is unable to prevent at least a partial loss due to denaturation and polymerization of fibronectin due to the combination of heat treatment and mechanical agitation. It was found that the use of pharmaceutically acceptable surface active agents in a concentration range of about 0.01 to 0.5 w v is sufficient to lend the protective effect to the fibronectiA, while a concentration range of about 0.0N to 0.10 w v is preferred.It was further found that even though higher quantities of particular surface active agents would perform satisfactorily, the use of excessive amounts of same is undesirable for reason of difficulty encountered with removal thereof from the pasteurized solution. It was found that poly oxy alkylene mono and trisorbitan esters fatty acid esters of sorbitol and its anhydrides copolymerized with a varying number of moles of ethylene oxide , are well suited as surface active agents for the purposes of the present invention, such as Polysorbate 80 an oleate ester , Polysorbate 20 a laurate ester , Polysorbate 40 a palmitate ester , and Polysorbate 60 a stearate ester . Other surface active agents useful in the present invention include nonionic agents such as alkyl phenyl polyoxyenthylenes such as Triton and NonidetR anionic agents such as the bile salts sodium taurocholate, sodium cholate, sodium deoxycholate and sodium glycocholate cationic agents such as benzalkonium chloride and polyhydric alcohols with surface active properties such as the high molecular weight copolymers of propylene glycol and propylene oxide sold under the trade names of PluronicR F 38 and PluronicR F 68. Chelating Agents As previously indicated, in addition to the denaturing forces of heat and mechanical stress, a catalytic chemical action can contribute to the denaturation of the protein being sterilized. Heat and agitation tend to accelerate such catalytic chemical action resulting in the formation of polymeric forms of fibronectin. Trace quantities of certain metal ions, such as Cu2 , are sufficient to cause such an undesired result. It is believed that Cu2 , ion causes polymerization of fibronectin via disulfide formation through a free sulfhydryl group in the fibronectin molecule. Other metal ions known to be reactive with the sulfyhydryl moieties of proteins may cause similar activity or simply form insoluble sulfide salts Whereas these metal ions may not per se be present in the solution of protein being pasteurized, such various surfaces of the pasteurizing apparatus.To sequester these metal ions a chelating agent is used in the range of about 0.0005 to 0.2 molar preferably in the range of about 0.001 to .01 molar, such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA , ethylene bis oxyethylenenitrile EGTA , and orthophenanthrolene.Other chelating agents which are easily separated from the solution upon completion of pasteurization are also in the purview of the present invention. In combination with chelating agents, a buffer solution may also be employed to sequester trace metal ions, such as a sodium citrate buffer in 0.0005 to 0.2 molar concentration range. An alternative method for preventing the oxidation of the sulfhydryls may be the addition of 0.0005 to 0.2 molar of directly acting antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid or cysteine. The invention will be illustrated in more detail with reference to the following examples. EXAMPLE 1 5 kg Fraction I O or its equivalent derived from cryoprecipitate was resuspended and dissolved in 3 volumes of sodium chloride 0.15M , buffered with sodium citrate 0.01M and glycine 0.05M hereinafter cgs buffer at pH 7.3, by warming the solution at 370C with gentle stirring.The solution was clarified by ordinary filtration on non fiber releasing media such as Zetapo 4 AMF Cuno with a dia tomaceous earth filter aid coating. The resultant solution was diluted with approximately 24 volumes of the same buffer with concurrent addition of sufficient sucrose to make the final solution 50 w v, Polysorbate 80 was added to obtain a concentration of 0.05 wA followed by the addition of sufficient EDTA to make the final solution 0.005M. With vigorous mechanical agitation the solution of fibronectin in the impure form and comprising 115 liters was heated in a stainless steel tank of 50 gallon capacity with an integral heat exchange surface so as to achieve a temperature of 600C in a period of one to four hours. On achieving an internally recorded solution temperature of 59.5 C, the solution was held with agitation continued for 10 hours at 60 0.50C. It was then diluted with a chilled pasteurization medium, from which sucrose has been omitted, to a volume of about 230 liters, so as to effect the lowering of temperature to about 20 450C. At this stage a considerable precipitate in the form of denatured protein, which does not include fibronectin, will have formed as the result of the prolonged heating, and this was removed from the solution by ordinary filtration on media such as Zetapo ss using a diatom aceous earth filter aid. The filtrate from this process was retained at a temperature of about 200C to 400C until further purification was effected. EXAMPLE 2 Ten liters of human plasma, from which antihemophilic factor has been removed without loss of the ma jority of the fibronectin present in the native plasma, was adjusted to contain 50 sucrose w v of final solution in a final volume of 20 liters. The solution was made 0.01M in sodium citrate 0.05M in glycine, and 0.005M in EDTA without adjustment to the anticoagulant present during plasma collection. Polysorbate 80 was added to obtain a final concentration of 0.05 w v. The pH was adjusted to between 7.0 and 7.4.The resultant solution was heated with vigorous agitation in a stainless steel vessel of 15 gallon capacity, which contains an integral heat exchanger surface, so that a temperature of 600C O.5 C was reached in one to four hours. With continuous agitation, this temperature was maintained for a period of 10 hours. This solution was then diluted twofold with chilled pasteurization medium from which sucrose has been omitted so as to effect lowering the temperature to about 20 45 C. Denatured protein which does not include the desired fibronectin remains in suspension, and this is re moved by ordinary filtration on media such as Zetapo using a diatomaceous earth filter aid. EXAMPLE 3 5 kg of Acid Chill Precipitate obtained from human plasma is resuspended and dissolved in 3 volumes of cgs buffer at pH 7.3, by warming the solution at 370C with gentle stirring. The solution was clarified by ordinary fil tration on non fiber releasing media such as Zetapo AMF Cuno with a diatomaceous earth filter aid coating. The resultant solution was diluted with approximately 20 volumes of the same buffer with concurrent addition of sufficient sucrose to make the final solution 50 w v, Polysorbate 80 was added to obtain a concentration of 0.05 w v followed by the addition of sufficient EDTA to make the final solution 0.005M. With vigorous mechanical agitation the solution of fibronectin in the impure form and comprising 80 liters was heated in a stainless steel tank of 25 gallon capacity with an integral heat exchange surface so as to achieve a temperature of 600C in a period of one to four hours. On achieving an internally recorded solution temperature of 59.50C, the solution was held with agitation continued for 10 hours at 60 0.50C.It was then diluted with a chilled pasteurization medium, from which sucrose has been omitted, to a volume of about 160 liters, so as to effect the lowering of temperature to about 20 45 C. At this stage a considerable precipitate in the form of denatured protein, which does not include fibronectin, will have formed as the result of the prolonged heating, and this is removed from the solution by ordinary filtration on media such as Zetapo using a diatomaceous earth filter aid. The filtrate from this process was cooled to 50C 20C and retained at this temperature until further purification was effected. Next, the filtrate is warmed to 22 C and then applied at a flow rate of 20 ml cm2 hr to a Sepharos5 gelatin column that has been previously prepared by the cyanogen bromide activation method, followed by washing with deionized 8M urea in cgs buffer. Then the column containing fibronectin bound to the Sepharo gelatin was washed with IM deionized urea in cgs buffer. In this step EDTA, Tween 80R, sucrose and non specifically bound proteins are removed. Next, the fibronectin was eluted from the Sepharoseb gelatin with a solution of 8M urea in cgs buffer. The urea was removed from the fibronectin by passing the eluted fibronectin through a G25 Sephadex column that was previously equilibrated with a solution containing 0.05M NaCI and 2 mM sodium citrate at a pH of 7.3. The so obtained fibronectin solution was made into formulations and sterile filtered. A set of experiments using purified, unpasteurized fibronectin was performed to examine the effects of heat and agitation for varying periods of time on the properties of fibronectin. The experiments and results thereof are described in the examples that follow. EXAMPLE 4 This example demonstrates the agitation induced precipitation effect on fibronectin. Aqueous buffered solutions of fibronectin 1 mg ml having adducts indicated below were agitated on a wrist action shaker at 250C for 30 minutes.A fibrous white precipitate was visible in the samples denoted with . The protein lost from the solution was assayed hy measuring the optical density of the remaining clear solution at 280 nm and comparing it with a control.Additions to 1 mg ml Formation of Fibronectin Fibrous White Percent Protein Solution wiz Precipitate Lost None 1 50 Sucrose 46 0.05 Tween 80 0 50 Sucrose 0.05 Tween 8CQP O EXAMPLE 5 This example demonstrates the heat induced denaturation effect. Aqueous buffered solution of fibronectin lmg ml having adducts indicated below were heated without agitation for 30 minutes at 600C. Following dialysis against buffer, the samples were tested as follows. a Gelatin Binding Activity assayed by a method analogous to that of Engvall et al., J. Exp. Med. 147, 1584 1978 Percent Loss in GelatinAdditions to 1 mg ml Fibronectin Binding Activity Compared Solution w v with Unheated Control None 36.5 50 Sucrose 18.7 0.05 Tween 80 25.3 50 Sucrose 0.05 Tween 80 0 b Aggregates Detected by SDS Gel Electrophoresis.Additions to 1 mg ml Percent of Protein with Fibronectin Molecular Weight Greater Solution w v then 440,000 Daltons None 53 50 Sucrose 15 0,05 Tween 80 63 50 Sucrose 0.05 Tween 80 15 Unheated Control 19 c Fluorescence Emission Spectrum Shift in Emission SpectrumAdditions to lmg ml Fibronectin Relative to Unheated Solutions w v Control, nm None 3.5 50 Sucrose 0 0.05 Tween 8 4.5 50 Sucrose 0.05 Tween 80 0 EXAMPLE 6 This example demonstrates both the heat induced denaturation and agitation induced precipitation effects on fibronectin. The procedure of Example 4 was repeated as described therein, except the agitation continued for 10 hrs.at 580 600C. Percent Loss inAdditions to 1 mg ml Formation of Percent Gelatin BindingFibronectin Solution Fibrous White Protein Compared with w v Precipitate Lost Unheated Control 50 sucrose 36 36 0.05 Tween 80 0 100 50 sucrose 0.05 0 0Tween 80 As can be easily ascertained from the above examples the combination of a sugar and surfactant is nec essay to prevent both the agitation induced precipitation effect and the heat induced denaturation effect when the fibronectin solution is pasteurized by heat and agitation neither a sugar nor a surfactant along prevents both effects. EXAMPLE 7 This example demonstrates the metal ion induced aggregation of fibronectin. Solutions of fibronectin 5 mg ml in cgs buffer having adducts indicated below were dialyzed against buffered solutions 0.05 M Tris HCl, 0.1 MNaCl, pH 7.4 containing the same adducts for 24 hours at 250C. The extent of aggregation was measured by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Additions to Fibronectin Percent of Protein on SDS Polyacryl and amiae Gel with Molecular Weight Dialysis Buffer Greater than 440,000 Daltons None 5 0.1 mM Curl2 20 0.1 mM CuC12 5 mM EDTA 2 While the present invention has been described with reference to fibronectin, the pasteurizing stabiizing pro cedures are also applicable to proteins other than fibronectin behaving similarly to fibronectin.