# Anti skid control system for automotive brake system with sample control for sampling input timing of sensor signal pulses with required process identification and method for sampling.

## Abstract
An anti skid control system, according to the present in vention, samples the input timing of the first pulse of each group of a given number of sensor signal pulses, which given number is so adjusted that the difference between the dura tions of successive pulse groups is great enough to accurately perform the anti skid control operation based thereupon. Each of the sampling input timing values is provided a label identify ing the required processing operations for performing the anti skid control. The anti skid control system performs the sam pling operation as an interrupt routine intermittently interrupt ing a main job which derives a control signal for increasing, de creasing or holding constant the fluid pressure applied to the wheel cylinder. The main job contains a plurality of different routines for processing the sampled input data, one of which is to be identified and performed in accordance with the identifi cation in the label. A count of the occurrences of interruption is incremented whenever an interrupt occurs and is decrement ed upon completion of each cycle of the main job. The sam pling routine is performed in response to the first of each group of the given number of sensor signal pulses. When the difference between the durations of successive pulse groups is less than a predetermined value, then the number of sensor signals to be ignored before sampling the input timing of the first pulse of the next group is increased until the difference becomes greater than the predetermined value.