# Thermographic system using naphthoylated leuco phenazine dyes.

## Abstract
This invention involves thermographic imaging systems. The thermographic system under consideration comprises a leuco dye, a nitrate salt, and, optionally, an acid and stabilizing compound. Dyes in their reduced leuco form can provide the basis of color image forming systems. However, the leuco form of a given dye can often revert spontaneously to the colored form of the dye during manufacture unless the structure of the dye is altered to promote stability. In this invention, which in volves stabilization of the leuco dye, the stabilized leuco dye contains a phenazine nucleus with naphthoyl substituents on the 10 position and, optionally on one or both of the 3 and 7 positions through an amino group. In their oxidized form, the leuco dyes of this invention provide access to a range of red and magenta colors which ex hibit greater stability when subjected to light and temperatures characteristic of the stage of overhead projectors than that ex hibited by previously available leuco dyes of this color range.

## Claims
1. In a thermographic system comprising at least one leuco dye in reactive association with a nitrate salt, wherein the action of heat can oxidize said at least one leuco dye to give a change in color, the improvement wherein said at least one leuco dye consists of a phenazine dye in its reduced form having a structural formulaEMI26.1 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, alkoxy radicals, and aroyl radicals, R2 is selected from the group consisting of l naphthyl and 2 naphthyl, R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogens, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, and aromatic rings condensed on the 1,2 and 8,9 positions, Z is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, OH, SH, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, alkoxy radicals, NR5R6, and NR7R8, R5 and R6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, l naphthoyl radical, and 2 naphthoyl radical, provided that if either R5 or R6 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen, R7 and R8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, and aralykyl radicals, provided that iE either R7 or R8 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen. 2. A thermographic system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the said leuco dyes is selected from the group consisting ofEMI27.1 EMI28.1 EMI29.1 3. A thermographic system according to claim 1 further including an acid. 4. A thermographic system according to claim 3 wherein said acid is an organic acid having at least one carboxylic group. 5. A thermographic system according to claim 1 further including a stabilizing compound selected from the group consisting of phenidone, catechol, and hydroquinone. 6. A thermographic system according to claim 1 further including saran. 7. A thermographic system according to claim I wherein art least 0.10 mole of nitrate ion is present per mole of dye. 8. A thermographic system according to claim 7 wherein at least 0.50 mole of nitrate ion is present per mole of dye. 9. A thermographic system according to claim 3 wherein the acid is present in a ratio of from 0 to 10 times the amount of nitrate ion. 10. A leuco phenazine dye having the structural formulaEMI31.1 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, alkoxy radicals, and aroyl radicals, R2 is selected from the group consisting of l naphthyl and 2 naphthyl, R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogens, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, and aromatic rings condensed on the 1,2 and 8,9 positions, Z is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, OH, SH, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, alkoxy radicals, NR5R6, and NR7R8, R5 and R6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, l naphthoyl radical, and 2 naphthoyl radical, provided that if either R5 or R6 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen, R7 and R8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, and aralykyl radicals, provided that if either R7 or R8 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen. 11. A leuco phenazine dye having the structural formulaEMI32.1 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals, having 1 to 10 carbon atoms, aryl radicals having up to three condensed rings, alkoxy radicals, and aroyl radicals, R2 is selected from the group consisting of l naphthyl and 2 naphthyl, R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogens, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and aromatic rings condensed on the 1,2 and 8,9 positions, Z is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, OH, SH, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy radicals, NR5R6, and NR7R8, R5 and R6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, aryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, l naphthoyl radical, and 2 naphthoyl radical, pro vided that if either R5 or R6 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen, R7 and R8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and aralykyl radicals, provided that if either R7 or R8 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen. 12. A leuco phenazine dye selected from the group consisting ofEMI33.1 EMI34.1 EMI35.1

## Description
THERMOGRAPH IC SYSTEM USING NAPHTHOYLATED LEUCO PHENAZINE DYES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION It is well known that dyes in their reduced leuco form can provide the basis of color image forming systems. The leuco dyes may initially be relatively colorless, but can return to a colored form when oxidized, e.g., by air under acidic conditions. Examples of leuco dyes used in color image forming systems include triarylmethanes, xanthenes, styryl dyes, and azine dyes, such as, for example1 phenoxazines, phenothiazines, and phenazines. It is also known that the leuco form of a given dye can often revert spontaneously to the colored form of the dye, at the time of making the leuco form, unless the structure of the dye is altered to promote stability. In preparing transfer sheets and carbonless papers, where the leuco form of methylene blue 3,7 bis dimethylamino phenothiazine has frequently been used, stabilization has been brought about by acylation at the 10 position. For example, in U.S. Patent No. 2,646,367 benzoylated leuco methylene blue is disclosed for use in a carbonless paper system. U.S. Patent No. 2,783,227 discloses that benzoylated leuco methylene blue of U.S. Patent No.2,646,367, when used in carbonless papers, is not very light stable, i.e. it decomposes to the blue green color on exposure to light. Substitution of the l naphthoyl group or the 2 naphthoyl group in the 10 position provides more light stable derivatives of leucomethylene blue than does benzoylation in the 10 position. U.S. Patent No. 2,783,228 discloses that nitrobenzoylated leuco methylene blue is more light stable than the benzoylated leuco methylene blue. The foregoing patents concern acylated leuco methylene blue and explicitly mention substitution with naphthoyl groups. They do not involve acylation in the 3,7 positions of phenothiazine they involve acylation only of the ring nitrogen. Furthermore, they make no distinction between the usefulness of l naphthoyl groups and 2 naphthoyl groups. German Offenlegungsschrift 2154659 discloses leuco dyes for use in carbonless papers, which dyes are derived from dye nuclei of phenothiazines, phenoxazines, and phenazines by acylating the ring nitrogen with a substituent of the form V Q CO where Q is O or NH and V is an aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbon. Nucleus substituents on the 3 position are secondary or tertiary amino groups, and substituents on the 7 position are hydrogen, hydroxyl, amino, or substituted amino groups. Only the ring nitrogen is indicated as being acylated. German Offenlegungsschrift 2154660 discloses phenoxazines acylated on the ring nitrogen with a simple acyl radical preferably benzoyl .Substituents on the 3 and 7 position can be chosen from hydroxyl, amino, or substituted amino groups, and one of the substituents on the 3 and 7 positions can be hydrogen.The foregoing German patents concern acylated azine leuco dyes including phenazines. However, these patents are not concerned with acylation of the unsubstituted amine groups in the 3 and 7 positions. British Patent Specification 1,271,289 deals with stabilized leuco dyes derived from water soluble dyes containing azine or oxazine rings in the chromophore. It discloses that the stabilized leuco dyes of the invention have an acyl radical attached to a tertiary nitrogen atom in the reduced ring system, and that the acyl radical can be naphthoyl. However, this patent, like the foregoingGerman patents, ignores the possibility of acylating the unsubstituted amine groups in the 3 and 7 positions. Apart from their utility in transfer sheets and carbonless papers, acylated leuco forms of dyes, including phenothiazines and phenoxazines, have been found to be useful in thermographic imaging. systems. Japanese patent application JA49 60264 dated May 30, 1974, and published as an examined app lication asJA52 23806 on June 27, 1977 discloses a bilayer thermographic color imaging system in which one layer comprises a colorless leuco dye with an inorganic nitra te under acid conditions. The leuco dyes are of. the phenothiazine and phenoxazine classes, acylated in the 10 position to stabilize them. Only benzoyl, substituted benzoyl, and alkoxy carbonyl groups are used, and the 3,7 amino substituents are limited to tertiary amines. Japanese patent application JA49 67026 dated June 14, 1974, and published as an examined application asJA52 25330 on July 7, 1977 discloses leuco dyes having structural formulae directed to phenoxazine and phenothiazine leuco dyes with acylation of the 10 position nitrogen. Although only acyl groups from fatty acids are included, naphthoyl leuco methylene blue is listed therein. Current thermographic systems employing combinations of leuco dyes and nitrate salts are exemplified by assignee s copending applications U.S. Application SerialNo. 199,444, filed October 22, 1980, which discloses a system containing leuco r yoj, oxidizable to a colors form, in reactive association with a nitrate salt in a binder U.S. Application Serial No. 218,559, filed December22, 1980, which discloses a system containing a minimum of two leuco dyes in reactive association with a nitrate salt in a binder, said system capable of providing a black image, andU.S. Application Serial No. 352,053, filed February 24, 1982, which discloses a thermographic leuco dye nitrate salt system stabilized with a synergistic combination of antioxidants, e.g., phenidone plus catechol.Amongst the preferred classes of dyes for the systems of U.S.Application Serial No. 218,559 and U.S. Application Serial No. 352,053 are N acyl oxazine dyes, such as, for example, benzoylated leuco phenoxazine and N acyl thiazine dyes, such as, for example, benzoylated leuco methylene blue. In previous systems of thermography based on combinations of leuco dyes and nitrate salts, at least two approaches have been applied to address the problem of stability to both thermal and actinic effects. The thermal effect, with respect to thermographic processes for preparing transparencies for overhead projection, refers to the problem of attaining the highest possible thermal speed difference between temperatures ranging from 1000C to 2000C, which range is typical of the image exposure, and those temperatures ranging from 250C to 600C, which range is typical of the projector stage after prolonged operation. The actinic effect refers to problems associated with the high light intensity and elevated temperature to which the finished transparency is subjected on the proJector stage. One approach involves adding to the imaging system stabilizing compounds, which, in most cases, are normally mild antioxidants, such as, for example, phenidone or ascorhic acid. A second approach involves altering the structure of the leuco dye. Although the first approach has sometimes been successful, it often leads to loss of sensitivity at imaging temperatures. Therefore, the second approach is preferable. Although the previously mentioned, structurally altered leuco dyes are suitable for providing green and blue images, dyes for providing red and magenta images are so unstable that they require the addition of stabilizing compounds. Even in the presence of stabilizing compounds, their stability is often marginal. Examination of the prior art indicates that leuco dyes with a phenazine nucleus will provide image colors in the red region. These leuco dyes have been found to exhibit good stability when acylated in the 10 position.Further analysis indicates that a given leuco phenazine with no acyl substituent in the 10 position is not only unstable to light, but is even much more unstable to light than the analagous leuco phenothiazine which contains no acyl substituent in the 10 position. Although benzoylation in the 10 position improves the light stability of both leuco phenazines and leuco phenothiazines, such benzoylated leuco phenothiazines are useful compounds for thermographic imaging compositions, while the analagous benzoylated leuco phenazines are still far too unstable to be useful for similar types of thermographic imaging compositions. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to thermal imaging systems comprising stabilized leuco dyes in reactive association with nitrate salts in which the application of heat causes the reduced, relatively colorless form of the leuco dye to be oxidized to the colored dye form. 3 Amino or 3,7 diamino phenazine leuco dyes are provided with naphthoyl substituents in at least the 10 position and optionally on one or both amino groups. l Naphthoylation of such leuco phenazine dyes in the 10 position results in stabilities about an order of magnitude better than that of benzoylated or other acylated forms of the dyes. l Naphthoylation provides appreciably higher photo chemical stability than does 2 niphthoy tion, whish, i , provides higher stability than does benzoylation.As used in this application, the term l naphthoylationh means acylation with a l naphthoyl radical the term 2 naphthoylation means acylation with a 2 naphthoyl radical.Unsubstituted 3 amino and 7 amino groups can also be naphthoylated, resulting in additional advantages, such as, for example, improvement in control of wavelength of the absorption peak of the oxidized leuco dye. The dyes retain good thermal imaging speed while continuing to exhibit high stability to both thermal and actinic effects brought about by ambient and overhead projection conditions. The dyes cover a wide range of visible colors when oxidized, including reds, yellows, and magentas. Naphthoyl leuco phenazines are sufficiently light stable to provide usable stable red and magenta imaging dyes for the thermal imaging systems contemplated in this invention. DETAILED DESCRIPTION In the thermographic systems of this invention comprising a leuco dye, capable of being oxidized to give a change in color, in reactive association with a nitrate salt, wherein the cation does not react with the leuco dye, the leuco dye is a reduced form of a dye with a phenazine nucleus. As used herein, the term change in color includes 1 change from an uncolored or lightly colored state optical density less than 0.2 to a colored state an increase in optical density of at.least 0.2 units , and 2 substantial change in hue.The structure of the reduced form of the dye is represented by the following general formula EMI6.1 wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, alkoxy radicals, and aroyl radicals, R2 is selected from the group consisting of l naphthyl and 2 naphthyl, R3 and R4 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogens, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, and aromatic rings condensed on the 1,2 and 8,9 positions, Z is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, OH, Sn, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl radicals, alkoxy radicals, NR5R6, and NR7R8, R5 and R6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, aralkyl radicals, l naphthoyl radical, and 2 naphthoyl radical, provided that if either R5 or R6 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen, R7 and R8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl radicals, aryl radicals, and aralykyl radicals, provided that if either R7 or R8 is hydrogen, the other is not hydrogen. If R1 is an alkyl radical, it is preferred that it contain 1 to 10 carbon atoms. If R1 is an aryl radical, it is preferred that it only contain up to three condensed rings. If R3, R4, Z, R5, R6, R7, or R8 is an alkyl radical, it is preferred that it contain 1 to 4 carbon atoms. WhenR3, R4 or Z is an alkyl radical, it can contain various different substituents, so long as they are inert to the thermographic system and are not injurious to quality.Such substituents can include, but are not limited to halogen such as chloride, bromide, fluoride, and iodide, hydroxy, and alkoxy, and the like. Leuco dyes that are suitable for the thermal imaging systems described herein include max of oxidized form, nmEMI7.1 in acetone 575 542 442 in ethanol 577 543 446 EMI8.1 EMI8.2 in ethanol 576 EMI9.1 in ethano 44 Nitrate salts suitable for this invention are themselves well known. They may be supplied as various chemical compounds, but are desirably provided as a metal salt, and most preferably provided as a hydrated metal salt. Most means of supplying the nitrate salt into the imaging composition are satisfactory. For example, organic salts, metal salts, acid salts, mixtures of acids and salts, and other means of supplying the ion are useful.Nitrates of zinc, cadmium, potassium, calcium, zirconyl ZrO2 , nickel, aluminum, chromium, iron, copper, tin, magnesium, lead, and cobalt, ammonium nitrate, and cerous ammonium nitrate can be used. The nitrate salt component of the present invention must be present in a form within the imaging composition so that oxidizing quantities of HNO3, NO, N02, or N204 will be provided within the composition when it is heated to a temperature no greater than 2000C for 60 seconds and preferably no greater that 1600C for 60 or most preferably 30 seconds. The salt must be chosen so that the cation thereof is non reactive with the leuco dye. Non reactive salts are defined in the practice of the present invention as those salts the cations of which do not spontaneously oxidize the dyes that they are associated with at room temperature. Preferred salts are the hydrated metal salts such as nickel nitrate hexahydrate, magnesium nitrate hexahydrate, aluminum nitrate nonahydrate, ferric nitrate nonahydrate, cupric nitrate trihydrate, zinc nitrate hexahydrate, cadmium nitrate tetrahydrate, bismuth nitrate pentahydrate, thorium nitrate tetrahydrate, cobalt nitrate hexahydrate, gadolinium or lanthanum nitrate nonahydrate, and mixtures of these hydrated nitrates. Nonhydrated or organic nitrates may be admixed therewith. It is preferred to have at least 0.10 mole of nitrate ion per mole of dye. It is more preferred to have at least 0.30 or 0.50 mole of nitrate ion per mole of dye. The thermally stimulated oxidation of the leuco dye by the nitrate salt can be facilitated by the presence of an acid. The acids optionally useful in the thermographic system of this invention are acids as generally known to the skilled chemist. Organic acids, preferably those having carboxylic groups, such as phthalic acid, are preferred, but inorganic acids can also be used.The acid can be present in a ratio of from 0 to 10 times the amount of the nitrate ion. The leuco dye, nitrate salt, and acid, when employed, are dissolved in a binder, which binder is neither strongly basic nor strongly acidic but which is sufficiently polar to hold the constituents in solution.It is preferred that the binder be selected from polymeric materials. Such resins as polyvinyl acetals, e.g. polyvinyl butyral, polyvinyl resins, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyesters, polycarbonates, polyamides, polyacrylates, cellulose esters, copolymers and blends of these classes of resins, can be used. Saran, a vinyl chloride vinylidene chloride copolymer, is particularly preferred, Natural polymeric materials such as gelatin and gum arabic can also be used. The leuco dye should be present as at least 0.3 by weight of the binder, preferably as at least 1 by weight of the binder, and most preferably as from 2 to 10 or more by weight of the binder. The preparation of the naphthoylated leuco dyes suitable for this invention follow procedures well known in the art. U.S. Patent No. 2,909,520 discloses a process for preparing acylated leucomethylene blue wherein the starting compound, a phenazine dye, is reduced with a suitable reducing agent, e.g., sodium hydrosulfite or sodium dithionite, under aqueous alkaline conditions in the presence of a water immiscible solvent capable of dissolving the leuco dye, erg., methylene chloride or toluene. Naphthoyl chloride is then added to the reaction mixture, and the pH is adjusted to between 3 and 6, preferably about 4. After the rea7tisn has proceeded for several hours, the pH is raised to about 10, and the methylene chloride layer, which contains the leuco dye product, is separated.The naphthoylated leuco dye can be isolated from the solution by conventional separation techniques, including repeated decolorizing steps with active clays, such as, for example, attapulgus clay, or active carbon, recrystallizating from alcohol, or column chromatography on silica gel. The process of U.S. Patent No. 2,909,520 is useful not only for naphthoylating the 10 position of the leuco dye, but also for naphthoylating unsubstituted amino groups, such as, for example, those in the 3 or 7position or both. The process of that patent will result in the substitution of one of the hydrogen atoms in the amino group.Although not markedly improving the stability of the leuco dye further, naphthoylation of an unsubstituted amino group provides a further control of the wavelength of the absorption peak of the oxidized leuco dye compared with the starting dye, i.e., the dye before reduction to the leuco for. IR spectral investigations show a disappearance of the doublet due to the pair of hydrogens on the amino groups and the NMR spectra and molecular weights of the leuco dyes are consistent with the extra naphthoyl group or groups being present. A formulation which can be applied by conventional coating techniques can be produced by dissolving the stabilized leuco dye, the metal nitrate, and the polymeric binder, together with an organic acid, and, opeicnolly, a stabilizrng compound, in an inert organic solvent, such as, for example, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, or tetrahydrofuran. The formulation can be coated onto a support by methods well known in the art, such as, for example, wire wound rod, knife, or extrusion coating. Typical wet thickness of the layer can range from about 10 to about 100 micrometers from , and the layer can be dried in forced air at temperatures ranging from 200C to 500C. It is preferred that the coating thickness be selected to provide maximum image densities greater than 0.2, and more preferably in the range 0.5 to 1.5, as measured on a MacBeth ColorDensitometer Model TD 504 using the color filter complementary to the dye color. The support material can be selected from a wide range of materials, including paper, glass, polymeric film, and the like, depending upon the particular imaging requirement. Preferred materials include polymers having good heat stability, such as polyesters. A particularly preferred polyester is polyethylene terephthalate. The naphthoylated leuco phenazine dyes of this invention provide several valuable properties, including, for example a capability of changing color upon application of heat in thermal imaging systems based on oxidation by metal nitrate, b improvement in stability to projection conditions, c provision of colors of the red, yellow and magenta hue, said colors previously being available only with the trade off of very low stability to heat and radiation. With respect to stability to projection conditions, phenazine substituted with a naphthonyl group in the 10 position is better than phenazine substituted with a benzoyl group in th 10 position, and the l naphthoyl species is better than the 2 naphthoyl species. On oxidation in the thermographic system, the naphthoylated leuco phenazines lose the naphthoyl radical from the 10 position. However, no other naphthoyl radicals are lost, neither those on 3,7 amino groups nor the one in the 5 position in structure VIII. As stated previously, retention of these naphthoyl radicals is important because they influence the light absorption characteristics of the oxidized leuco dye. The coatings prepared from the leuco dyes of this invention were tested for stability by exposing films con taining imaged and unimaged areas on the stage of an overhead projector with the lamp switched on. Whereas benzoyl derivatives will generally exhibit unacceptable background density after a period of 3 to 4 hours, naphthoyl derivatives of the same leuco dyes will reach a similar unacceptable condition only after about 15 hours. Increase in background density is brought about mainly actinic effects, hut thermal effects also contribute somewhat. Preparations 1 5 demonstrate the method for preparing naphthoylated leuco dyes of structures I, III, V,VI, VII. Preparation 1 The dye diethylphenosafranine 0.05 mole along with 1.0 g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA were dissolved in 1 liter of deionized water, and the solution was stirred thoroughly in an inert atmosphere argon . The pH of the solution was about 3.5. Methylene chloride 500 mL was then added, and the pH was adjusted to 10.0 by the addition of 25 aqueous sodium hydroxide solution.Sodium dithionite 16 g was then added, and the pFI dropped rapidly to about 3. l Naphthoyl chloride 0.15 mole dissolved in 100 mL of methylene chloride was then added along with sufficient sodium hydroxide to maintain the pH between 3 and 4. The resulting mixture was stirred Eor about 5 hours, during which time the pH rose to about 5.5.The pll was adjusted to 10.O with iddltionzl podium hydroxide solution, and the resulting solution was stirred vigorously for one additicrnal hour. The methylene chloride layer was then separated, and the remaining aqueous layer extracted twice with methylene chloride. This layer was then combined with the original separated methylene chloride layer. To this combined volume was added 4 tablespoons of refined attapulgus clay Attagele 50 and magnesium sulfate to effect drying, and the mixture was allowed to stand overnight in a separating funnel. The solids were then collected by filtration and washed with methylene chloride. The combined liquid was decolorized two additional times with Attagels 50.The solvent, i.e., methylene chloride, was then stripped off under vacuum, leaving a yellow powder. This powder was purified several times by dissolving in ethyl alcohol with vigorous stirring, filtering the remaining solid, and stripping the alcohol from the filtrate. The resulting product was the leuco dye of Structure I, Preparation 2 The leuco dye of Structure III was prepared by the procedure used in Preparation 1, the only exception being that phenosafranine was used in place of diethylphenosafranine. Preparation 3 The leuco dye of Structure V was prepared by the procedure used in Preparation 1, the only exception being that amethyst violet was used in place of d iethylphenosafranine. Preparation 4 The leuco dye of Structure VI was prepared by the procedure used in Preparation 1, the only exception being that Magdala Red was used in place of 3iethylphenosafranine. Preparation 5 The leuco dye of Structure VII was prepared by the procedure used in Preparation 1, the only exception being that Safranine O was used in place of diethylphenosafranine. Preparation 6 The leuco dye of structure II was prepared by the procedure of Preparation 1, the only exception being that 2 naphthoyl chloride was used in place of l naphthoyl chloride. Preparation 7 The leuco dye of Structure IV was prepared by the procedure of Preparation 2, the only exception being that 2 naphthoyl chloride was used in place of l naphthoyl chloride. Preparation 8 The leuco dye of Structure VIII was prepared by the procedure of Preparation 1, the only exception being that Neutral Red was used in place of diethylphenosafranine. Preparations A E aenaoylvted vounterparts of the leuco dyes represented by Structures I, III, V, VII, and VIII were prepared by the procedures of Preparations 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8, respectively, the only exception being that benzoyl chloride was used in place of l naphthoyl chloride. The benzoylated counterparts of leuco dyes I, III, V, VII andVIII are hereinafter referred to as leuco dyes IX, X, XI,XII, and XIII, respectively. Preparation F A leuco dye was prepared according to the process of Preparation I, the onty exception being that biphenyl carbamoyl chloride was employed as the acylating compound.The leuco dye produced is hereinafter referred to as leuco dye XIV. Exposure of coated films for providing test images was carried out on a platen heated to 400C which had vacuum holddown to ensure good contact between the film and the platen. The film was then illuminated with a 1350 W infrared linear filament lamp with reflector situated 2.5 cm from the film, A cam drive travor.n he Film in Frolll of the lamp at a continuously varying speed, thus producing exposure varying continuously with distance along the film. Two models of 3M overhead projector were used in conducting the previously mentioned image stability tests.Model 66 had a high wattage bulb and gave a relatively high stage temperature. Model 213 had a lower wattage lamp together with a heat screen which gave a relatively lower stage temperature. These two projectors represent the range of stage conditions likely to be found in conventional usage. The following examples serve to illustrate the present invention and should not be deemed to be limitative thereof. All percentages are percent by weight unless otherwise indicated. Example I This Example demonstrates how images prepared from imaging compositions containing the leuco dyes oE the present invention exhibit increased life on the stage of an overhead projector. Formulations A and B were prepared by mixing the following ingredients in the amounts indicated A BIngredient Amount AmountBenzoyl leuco dye XI 0.07 g l Naphthoyl leuco dye V 0.077 g 1 Phenidone in tetrahydrofuran 0.80 g 0.80 g 5 Catechol in tetrahydrofuran 0.18 g 0.18 g Tetrahydrofuran 3.0 g 3.0 g 15 Methyl ethyl ketone 8.0 g n,n rj Formulation A and Formulation 13 were coated to a wet thickness of 3 mil 75 m onto 4 mil 100 m polyester TATS and dried for 5 minutes at ss9 C 1200F .Both dried formulations were top coated with a solution prepared from the following ingredients in the amounts indicated Ingredient Amount Ni NO3 2 0.13 g p Toluene sulfonic acid 0.075 g Water 3.0 g 5 Polyvinyl alcohol 8.0 g Elvanole 52 22 in waterProjector stage life results, i.e., background image density versus time on the stage of a 3M Model 66 overhead projector, are shown in Table I. Background image densities were measured with a MacBeth Densitometer Model TD504.Maximum image dye densities of about 1.0 were used in all cases. TABLE I Background Image Density vs Time on Stage DensitomeLer Background image densityTime hrs filter A B 0 Yellow 0.03 0.03 Red 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 Blue 0.04 0,04 I Yellow 0.14 0.03 Red 0.03 0.02 Green 0.12 0.03 Blue 0.07 3 Yellow 0.39 0.14 Red 0.05 0.04 Green 0.39 0.13 Blue 0.10 0.05The increased stability of Formulation B compared withFormulation A is clearly observable. Example II This Example demonstrates that l naphthoylation of a leuco dye provides an image formed from an imaging composition containing the dye with greater stability than does 2 naphthoylation of the same leuco dye. Formulations C and D were prepared by mixing the following ingredients in the amounts indicated C DIngredient Amount Amount l Naphthoyl leuco dye I 0.088 g 2 Naphthoyl leuco dye II 0.088 gNaphthoylated leuco dye 0.078 g 0.078 g 3,7 bis diethylamino 10 benzoyl phenoxazine 0.022 g 0.022 g 5 Catechol in tetrahydrofuran 0.12 g 0.012 g 1 Phenidone in tetrahydrofuran 0.60 g 0.60 gPhthalic acid 0.06 g 0.06 gTetrahydrofuran 5.0 g 5.0 gNi NO3 2 0.13 g 0.13 g 15 Saranl in methyl ethyl ketone 8.0 g 8.0 gFC 431 fluorochemical nonionic surfactant available from 3M, St.Paul, MN 1 drop 1 drop 1 Saran is a commercially available copolymer of vinyl chloride vinylidene chloride.Both formulations were coated to a wet thickness of 3 mil 75 pm on a 4 mil polyester film 100p m and dried at 520C 1250F for 4.5 minutes. Stability results are shown inTable II. TABLE II Background Image Density vs Time on Stagel Densitometer Background image densityTime hrs filter C D Yellow 0.03 0.03 0 Red 0.02 0.03 Green 0.03 0.03 Blue 0.04 0.04 Yellow 0.04 0.10 6 Red 0.04 0.05 Green 0.04 0.10 Blue 0.05 0.09 1 3M Model 66 Overhead ProjectorThe increased stability of Formulation C compared withFormulation D is clearly observable. Example III This Example demonstrates the enhancement of photochemical stability of an image brought about by replacing a given benzoyl phenazine leuco dye of an imaging composition with its l naphthoyl analog. Formulations E andF were prepared by mixing the following ingredients in the amounts indicated E FIngredient Amount AmountLeuco dye XV 0.023 g 0.023 gBenzoyl leuco dye X 0.050 g 0.050 gBenzoyl leuco dye IX 0.058 g l Naphthoyl leuco dye I 0.092 g 5 Catechol in tetrahydrofuran 0.12 g 0.12 gPhthalic acid 0.06 g 0.06 g 1 Phenidone in tetrahydrofuran 0.65 g 0.65 gNi NO3 2 0.12 g 0.12 g 15 Saran in methyl ethyl ketone 8.6 g 8.0 g Te trahydrofuran 5.0 g 5.0 gFC 431 1 drop 1 dropFormulations E and F were coated to a wet thickness of 3 mils 75 lIm onto 4 mil 100 pm polyester TATS and dried for 5 minutes at 490C 1200F . Stability results are shown in Table III. TABLE III Background Image Density vs Time on Stage2 Time Densitometer Background image density hrs filter E F 0 Yellow 0.03 0.03 Red 0.03 0.03 Green 0.03 0.03 Blue 0.04 0.04 5 Yellow 0.08 0.04 Red 0.04 0.03 Green 0.10 0.05 Blue 0.11 0.07 8 Yellow 0.22 0.09 Red 0.06 0.05 Green 0.26 0.10 Blue 0.24 0.12 2 3M Model 66 Overhead Projector. The increased stability of Formulation F compared smith Formulation E is clearly observable. Example IV This Example demonstrates that photochemical stability of an image is further enhanced when both phenazine dyes of the imaging composition are present in the l naphthoyl leuco forms. Formulation G was prepared by mixing the following ingredients in the amounts indicated GIngredient AmountLeuco dye XV 0.023 g l Naphthoyl leuco dye III 0.075 g l Naphthoyl leuco dye I O,Q92 g 5 Catechol in tetrahydrofuran 0.075 gPhthalic acid 0.06 g 1 Phenidone in tetrahydrofuran 0.70 gNi N03 2 0.13 g 15 Saran in methyl ethyl ketone 8.0 gTetrahydrofuran 5.0 gFC 431 1 dropFormulation G was coated to a wet thickness of 3 mils 75 pm on a 4 mil 100 pm polyester film and dried at 49QC 120OF for 5 minutes. Stability results are shown in TableIV. TABLE IV Background Image Density vs Time on Stage3 Background Densitometer image densityTime hrs filter G 0 Yellow 0.04 Red 0.03 Green 0.03 Blue 0.04 5 Yellow 0.03 Red 0.03 Green 0.03 Blue 0.04 13 Yellow 0.05 Red 0.04 Green 0.04 Blue 0.06 19 Yellow 0.07 Red 0.05 Green 0.07 Blue 0.08 3 3M Model 213 Overhead Projector Upon comparison with the results in Table III, it can be observed that a further considerable improvement in stability has occurred by employing a second naphthoylated phenazine dye in the image forming system. Example V This Example illustrates the improvement in image stability resulting from the use of naphthoylated leuco dyeI in the imaging composition in place of the equivalent p phenyl benzoyl leuco dye XIV. Formulations H and I were prepared by mixing the following ingredients in the amounts indicated H IIngredient Amount AmountPergascript turquoise 0.023 g 0.025 gNaphthoyl diazine yellow 0.07 g 0.07 gTetrahydrofuran 5.0 g 5.0 g 18 Phenidone in tetrahydrofuran 0.6 g 0.6 g 5 Catechol in tetrahydrofuran 0.12 g 0.12 gPhthalic acid 0.06 g 0.06 gNi NO3 2 0.14 g 0.14 g 15 Saran in methyl ethyl ketone 8,0 g 8.0 gFC 431 1 drop 1 dropLeuco dye I 0.09 gLeuco dye XIV 0.09 g Formulations H and J were coated to a wet thickness of 3 mils 75 pm on 4 mil 100 pm polyester film and dried at 520C 125OF for 5 minutes. The coated films were tested on the Model 213Overhead Projector. The results are shown in Table V. TABLE VDensitometer Background image density filter Film H4 Film H5Yellow 0.07 0.12Red 0.06 0.07Green 0.08 0.12Blue 0.10 0.13 4 Time on stage was 13 1 2 hours. 5 Time on stage was 6 hours. The naphthoylated leuco dye showed substantial advantage over the analagous p phenyl benzoylated leuco dye. This result demonstrates that the effectiveness of the naphthoyl radical is not due to its molecular weight being higher than that of the benzoyl radical. The p phenyl henzoylated leuco dye exhibits stability more similar to that exhibited by the benzoylated leuco dye than to that exhibited by the naphthoylated leuco dye. Various modifications and alterations of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention, and it should be understood that this invention is not to be unduly limited to the illustrative embodiments set forth herein.