# Agricultural compositions, methods of preparing agricultural compositions, and methods of using agricultural compositions.

## Abstract
An emulsifiable concentrate pesticide composition which composition comprises a miscible combination of a polar solvent, e. g. methyl pyrrolidone and a non polar solvent, e. g. xylene, an agriculturally effective compound for example an acyl urea, which is at most only sparingly soluble in water, but which is soluble in the combination of polar and non polar solvents, an emulsifier to generate an emulsion having an average droplet size not exceeding 10 microns, and a polymeric material e. g. ethyl cellulose, which is soluble in the polar solvent, and adapted to remain within the dispersed phase on emulsification of the concentrate and to form a solid or semi solid matrix to prevent coalescence of the emulsion parti cles. The composition may also comprise an additional pesticide, e.g. chlorpyrifos. The composition may be emulsified and diluted with water and used as an insecticide or herbicide.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An emulsifiable concentrate composition which composition comprises a miscible combination of a polar and a nonpolar solvent, an agriculturally effective compound which is at most only sparingly soluble in water, but which is soluble in the combination of polar and non polar solvents, at least one emulsifier such as to cause or permit on emulsification of the concentrate with water the formation of an emulsion having an average droplet size not exceeding 10 microns, and a polymeric material, which is soluble in the polar solvent, and adapted to remain within the dispersed phase on emulsification of the concentrate and to form a solid or semi solid matrix to prevent coalescence of the emulsion particles. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the polymeric material comprises ethyl cellulose. 3. A composition as claimed in claim 2 wherein the ethyl cellulose has an ethoxy group content of from 2.0 to 2.6 ethoxy units per anhydroglucose unit. 4. A composition as claimed in claim 3 wherein the ethyl cellulose has an ethoxy group content of from 2.25 to 2.58 ethoxy units per anhydroglucose unit. 5. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the agriculturally effective compound is a pesticide. 6. A compostion as claimed in claim 5, wherein the pesticide is an acyl urea. 7. A composition as claimed in claim 6, wherein the acyl urea is a compound of the formula R. CO. NH. CX. NH. R I X is Oxygen or Sulphur, and R and R are each independantly an optionally substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic group. 8. A composition as claimed in claim 7, wherein R is an optionally substituted phenyl or an optionally substituted pyridyl group. 9. A composition as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8, wherein R is an optionally susbstituted phenyl, optionally substituted pyridyl , or optionally substituted pyrizinyl group. 10. A composition as claimed in claim 7, wherein R and R are each independantly, an optionally substituted phenyl group. 11. A composition as claimed in claim 7, wherein the acyl urea is 1 4 2,2 dichloro 1,1 difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea, 1 4 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea, l 4 chlorophenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea, 1 3,5 dichloro 4 2 chloro 1,1 difluoroethoxy pheny 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea, 1 3,5 dichloro 4 2,2 dichloro l,l difluoro ethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea, 1 3, 5 dichloro 4 5 trifluoromethyl 3 chloro 2 pyridyloxy phenyl 3 2, 6 difluorobenzoyl urea, or l 3, 5 dichl oro 4 l ,1 , 2, 2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea. 12. A composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the agriculturally effective compound is a herbicide. 13. A composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, comprising an additional pesticide component. 14. A composition as claimed in claim 13, wherein the additional pesticide component includes an organophosphorus, a pyrethroid or a carbamate insecticide. 15. A composition as claimed in claim 14, wherein the additional pesticide is chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos methyl, or cypermethrin. 16. A composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the polar solvent is Nmethylpyrrolidone, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulphoxide, isophorone, cyclohexanone, acetone, or a mixture of two or more thereof. 17. A composition as claimed in claim 16, wherein the polar solvent is N methylpyrrolidone. 18. A composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the non polar solvent is xylene, dioctyl phthallate, a chlorinated hydrocarbon, an aliphatic hydrocarbon, a mineral oil, a polybutene, a glycol ether, or a combination of two or more thereof. 19. A composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the emulsifier is such as to produce an emulsion having an average droplet size not exceeding 5 microns. 20. A composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising one or more agronomically acceptable diluents. 21. A method of preparing an agriculturally effective composition, which process comprises emulsifying a composition as claimed in any one of the preceding claims with water. 22. An aqueous agricultural composition prepared by a method as claimed in Claim 21. 23. A method of killing or controlling pests or weeds which method comprises applying to the pests or weeds or to the locus of the pests or weeds a composition as claimed in claim 22.

## Description
AGRICULTURAL COMPOSITIONS, METHODS OF PREPARING AGRICULTURAL COMPOSITIONS, AND METHODS OF USING AGRICULTURAL COMPOSITIONS This invention relates to emulsifiable concentrate formulations, containing agricultural chemicals, in particular pesticides, for example, insecticides, or herbicides. A number of pesticidal, in particular insecticidal and herbicidal substances are desirably utilised in the form of very small particles, preferably less than 10 microns in diameter, and more preferably less than 5 microns in diameter. Examples of such insecticidal substances are acyl urea which term as used herein includes acyl thiourea insect growth regulators, for example diflubenauron, which are used extensively for the control of the mixed pest population including the many lepidopterous species, and whitefly, which are generally known as the cotton pest complex. Many such compounds are notoriously insoluble in water, and thus, to provide the bulk necessary for efficient field application, must be formulated into some form of dispersion in water. Generally the approach adopted with such insoluble compounds in the past has been the formulation of wettable powders, in particular for mixtures of acyl ureas with other insecticides, for example, chlorpyrifos, because of the poor solubility of acyl urea in conventional solvents used in the preparation of emulsifiable concentrates. Improvements in formulation technology have resulted in liquid formulations being developed, wherein the acyl urea is suspended in an emulsifiable concentrate, which may contain an additional pesticide component, for example chlorpyrifos. Other aqueous suspension concentrates, together with appropriate emulsifiers are also known. Such formulations are prepared so as to produce a small particle size for the acyl urea, e.g. less than 5 microns. One of the limitations on the utility of suspension concentrate formulation is the solubility of the suspended active pesticide in the formulation.In order to ensure that over the period of shelf life of a product, normally at least two years, the physical performance of the product does not vary, the solubility of the suspended active product in the solvent system should be as low as possible, preferably less than lOOppm parts per million active product in solvent . Should the solubility be excessive, crystal growth will be observed in the concentrate known as Ostwald ripening , leading to physical disruption of the suspension concentrate.With products such as the acyl urea insecticides which are dependent upon a small particle size for optimum biological activity, the need to minimize this Ostwald ripening is very important, and careful choice of solvent systems is necessary. Even in pesticide systems in which particle size is not so important as in the acyl ureas, it is believed that particle sizes of less than 10 microns may be important in providing increased utility, and the same has been found for certain sparingly soluble herbicides. For some acyl ureas, when a mixture is required comprising the acyl urea with another pesticide, the solvent system for such suspension concentrate gives solubilities of acyl ureas which are too high for a satisfactory suspension formulation because they give rise to Ostwald ripening, and yet are insufficient to produce conventional emulsifiable concentrates. The production of effective emulsifiable concentrates from highly water insoluble agricultural compounds, e.g.,the acyl ureas, has in the past been very difficult. Very polar solvents are necessary in addition to the non polar solvent forming the dispersed phase of the emulsion in order to maintain such compounds in solution in concentrations suitable for shipment and storage. However, when such concentrates are emulsified by addition to water, in preparation for their use, the active compound tends to crystalize from the emulsions produced. This crystallisation tends to produce particles of the active compound having a size larger than that required for optimum biological activity.It is a relatively easy matter to include in an emulsifiable concentrate composition appropriate emulsifiers so that the initial droplet size is within the desired range. However, on dilution, the emulsion particles tend to coalesce, to produce particles of the active compound having an undesirably large size. We have now found that if certain additives, which are soluble in the combination of polar and nonsolvents and remain in the dispersed phase on emulsification of the concentrate to form a solid or semi solid matrix, are formulated into the emulsifiable concentrates of such agricultural compositions it is possible to control the crystal growth of insoluble compounds such as acyl ureas and other agricultural compounds and thereby maintain the particle size of such pesticides at or near the optimum biologically active size. According to this invention, there is provided an emulsifiable concentrate composition which composition comprises a miscible combination of a polar solvent and a non polar solvent, an agriculturally effective compound, for example a pesticide such as insecticide or herbicide, which is at most only sparingly soluble in water, but which is soluble in the combination of polar and non polar solvents, at least one emulsifier such as to cause or permit on emulsification of the concentrate with water the formation of an emulsion having an average droplet size not exceeding 10 microns, and a polymeric material, which is soluble in the combination of polar and non polar solvents and adapted to remain within the dispersed phase on emulsification of the concentrate and to form a solid or semi solid matrix to prevent coalescence of the emulsion particles. The preferred additives are polymeric materials which can be used for shell or matrix formation for example ethyl cellulose and ethyl hydroxyethyl cellulose, for example those sold under the Trade MarkETHOCEL. Preferred ethyl cellulose materials may contain from 2.0 to 2.6 ethoxyl groups per anhydroglucose unit, for example those sold under theTrade Mark ETHOCEL, and having a viscosity of from 3 to 300cp, preferably approximately IOcp measured as a 5 w w solution in a mixture of 80 20 toluene ethanol w w . Particularly preferred are the products sold under the Trade Mark ETHOCEL containing from 2.25 to 2.58 ethoxy groups per anhydroglucose unit, corresponding to an ethoxy content of from 45.0 to 49.5 .The polymeric material is preferably incorporated in an amount of from 0.1 to 10 , preferably from 0.1 to 5 , more preferably from 0.5 to 2 by weight of the emulsifiable concentrate composition. The mechanism by which such additives prevent coalescence is believed to be as follows. On initial emulsion formation, droplets are formed of the concentrate material. On standing, the polar solvent migrates into the aqueous phase, decreasing the solubility of both the acyl urea, and the polymeric material. If no polymeric material is present, microcrystals of the acyl urea form in the liquid droplets and grow as liquid drops coalesce. In the presence of the polymeric material, however, a matriX of the polymeric material is formed within or around the droplets, before significant coalescence of the droplets can occur. It is therefore important that the solubility of the polymeric material in the non polar solvent should be such that matrix formation occurs before substantial crystallisation of the pesticidal material. The choice of an appropriate polymeric material may be made bearing in mind the respective solubilities of the material and of the pesticide in the solvents utilised. Suitable materials may include cellulose acetate butyrate CAB as an alternative to ethyl cellulose. Methyl cellulose has however been shown to be ineffective, and it is believed that this is due to its preferential solubility in the aqueous phase with respect to the non polar solvent. Suitable polar solvents for use in the concentrate are highly polar solvents such asN methylpyrrolidone, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulphoxide, isophorone, cyclohexanone and acetone. The solvent used must be an effective solvent for the acyl ureas and also for the polymeric additive. A sufficient amount of the polar solvent must be employed to maintain the insoluble pesticide and the polymeric material in solution. The amount used will therefore vary depending on the nature and amount of those materials, and in particular on the nature and amount of the insoluble pesticide. Generally, the amount used will fall in the range of from 1 to 80 , more usually from 5 to 40 , preferably from 10 to 25 by weight of the emulsifiable concentrate composition. Suitable non polar solvents are those conventionally used in pesticide formulations and include aromatic solvents such as xylene or mixed napthalene fractions, dioctyl phthallate, chlorinated hydrocarbons, aliphatic solvents such as kerosene, mineral oils, polybutenes, glycol ethers and their mixtures or any other appropriate solvent. The preferred solvent is xylene. There is no particular restriction on the amount of the non polar solvent which should be employed, and in general this will amount to the balance of the compositions, sufficient to make the composition up to the desired volume. Generally, the non polar solvent will amount to from 5 to 90 by weight of the composition. The emulsifiers to be used can be chosen from the range of anionic, nonionic and cationic emulsifiers available and well known to those skilled in the art.Suitable list for, reference may be found in McCutcheon s Emulsifiers and Detergents 1981Edition . Examples of anionic surfactants are the calcium and amine salts of dodecylbenzene sulphonic acid and sodium diisooctylsulphosuccinate. Examples of nonionic surfactants are the condensation products of fatty acid esters, fatty alcohols, fatty acid amides or fatty amines with ethylene and or propylene oxide, alkyl , alkenyl, or polyaryl substituted phenols with ethylene and or propylene oxide, fatty esters of polyhydric alcohol ethers e.g. sorbitan fatty acid esters, condensation products of such esters with ethylene oxide, e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, ethoxylated lanolin alcohols or ethoxylated lanolin acids.Examples of a cationic agent include, for instance, an aliphatic mono , dior polyamine as an acetate or oleate. Anionic nonionic blends are preferred and are often advantageously chosen as preblended systems for ease of handling, reproducibility and cost effectiveness. Such systems are well known to those skilled in the art and include TENSIOFIX BS and CS,ATLOX 4855B and t4851B. TENSIOFIX and ATLOX are TradeMarks . The emulsifier or emulsifier blend is chosen such as to produce on emulsification of the concentrate an emulsion having a droplet size not exceeding 10 microns, and preferably not exceeding 5 microns. The choice of suitable emulsifiers to achieve this is well within the capabilities of one skilled in the art. The amount of emulsifier will generally be in the range of from 1 to 50 , preferably from 5 to 20 , more preferably from 7 to 15 by weight of the composition. As indicated above, compositions according to the invention are particularly valuable when the compound at most only sparingly soluble in water is an acyl urea, which term, as indicated above, is intended to include acyl thioureas. Particularly suitable compounds are compounds of the formula R. CO. NH. CX NH. R I X is Oxygen or Sulphur, and R and R are each independantly an optionally substituted aromatic or heteroaromatic group, preferably X is Oxygen and R is optionally substituted phenyl or pyridyl, or prizinyl, more preferably, both R and R are optionally substituted phenyl, although in general any of the known acyl ureas may be employed. Particular examples, are described in British Patent Specification Nos.1,324,293 1,5O,6O7 and 1,575,799 German PatentSpecification No. 2,926,480 and in U.S. Patents Nos.4,148,902 4,173,637 and Reissue 30563, and summarised in British Patent Specification 2,082,913A, and all those compounds indicated in British PatentSpecification No. 2,O82,913A as preferred are considered preferred in the compositions of the present invention. In particular, preferred acyl ureas are a 1 4 2,2 dichloro 1,1 difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea. b l 4 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea. c l 4 chlorophenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea. d l 3,5 dichloro 4 2 chloro l,l difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea. e 1 3,5 dichloro 4 2,2 dichloro l,l difluoro ethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea. f l 3,5 dichloro 4 5 trifluoromethyl 3 chloro 2 pyridyloxy phenyl 3 2, 6 difluorobenzoyl urea. g l 3,5 dichloro 4 l,l,2,2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea. The aforesaid acyl ureas are preferably utilised in an amount of from 0.1 to 20 , more preferably 0.5 to 10 , still more preferably from 1 to by weight of the emulsifiable concentrate composition. When other somewhat less insoluble pesticides are utilised, for example herbicides as hereinafter exemplified, the amount utilised may be as high as 60 or 70 by weight of the composition. The compositions according to the invention may preferably comprise one or more additional pesticide components, for example organophosphorus, pyrethroid or carbamate insecticides. Furthermore, one or other of the polar and non polar solvents may itself have pesticidal properties. For example, the non polar solvent may be a pesticidal compound which is a liquid at normal temperatures such as malathion. Suitable additional pesticide components for acyl ureas are any pesticides which fit biologically to control the various pests present in the pest complex.Examples of such pesticides are chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifosmethyl, cypermethrin, permethrin, lannate, triazophos, acephate, parathion, malathion, sulprofos, mephospholan, mecarbam and phospholan. Preferred pesticides are chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifosmethyl and cypermethrin. The amount of the additional pesticide may vary within wide limits depending upon its nature. For example, when the additional pesticide is a liquid such as malathion. It will fulfil a function as a non polar solvent, and thus relatively large amounts may be employed. In general, the amount of the additional pesticide, when used, will be generally from 0.1 to 90 , preferably from 1 to 60 , more preferably from 5 to 50 by weight of the composition. The compositions of the invention may in addition comprise one or more agronomically acceptable diluents. The invention provides emulsifiable concentrates possessing the following advantages i ease of preparation. ii control of particle size for optimum biological efficacy. iii ease of dilution and application under adverse field conditions consistent with normal emulsifiable concentrate advantages. The invention is illustrated by the following examples Example 1 An emulsifiable concentrate formulation was prepared containing 480g litre chlorpyrifos and 30g litre 1 4 2,2 dichloro 1,1 difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea using Nmethyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar co solvent. The formulation details were as follows. ETHOCEL S.10 ethyl cellulose produced by DowChemical Company and having a mean viscosity designation of locp, measured as a 5 w w solution in 80 20 w w toluene ethanol was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea was dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 112Qg . The amount of Ethocel S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate. Chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre N methyl pyrrolidone 150g litre calcium dodecyl benzene 30g litre sulphonate emulsifier ethoxylated octyl phenol 30g litre emulsifier ethoxylated poly aryl 40g litre phenol emulsifier Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 2 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. It could therefore be seen that the ethyl cellulose had formed a semi solid matrix within the emulsion droplets to prevent them from coalescing.The emulsion droplets thus contained the acyl urea, chlorpyrifos, and xylene in a matrix of ethyl cellulose, the matrix thus preventing crystal growth of the acyl urea through the emulsion oil water interface. The emulsion drop size was of the order 2 3 microns showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Comparative Example 1 Example 1 was repeated, except that the ETHOCELS.10 was omitted. When the composition was emulsified and allowed to stand, the acyl urea crystallised and fell to the bottom. The crystalline fraction was collected, washed with water and suspended in electrolyte solution. The particle size distribution was then measured with the Coulter Counter Model TA II. Coulter Counter is a Trade Mark . The particles showed a mass median diameter in microns of between 8 and 9 microns with more than 60 w w greater than 5 microns. Comparative Example 2 Example 1 was repeated, using a methyl celluloseMETHOCEL MC 25 cps grade instead of ethyl cellulose. The composition was found on dilution in water to exhibit the same properties as the composition of comparative Example 1, and a crystalline precipitate of relatively large particle size was observed. It is believed that the reason for the failure to produce the desired result in this example was due to the preferential solubility of the methyl cellulose in water rather than xylene, which resulted in no protective matrix being formed.Example 2 One litre approximately 1120g of an emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 l4 2ffi2 dichloro l, l difluoroethoxy phenyli 3 2 chloro benzoyl urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. The emulsifiable concentrate was formulated as inExample 1 but employing ETHOCEL S.4 ethyl cellulose having a mean viscosity designation of 4cp, measured as a 5 w w solution in 80 20 w w toluene ethanol instead of ETHOCEL S.10. Thus,a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaC03 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 3 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro l,l difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chloroben zoyl urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g L was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as a non polar solvent. The formulation details were as follows ETHOCEL M.50 Ethyl cellulose having a mean viscosity designation of 50cp, measured as a 5 w w solution in 60 40 w w toluene ethanol was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 1120g . The amount of ETHOCELM.50 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate. chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre N methyl pyrrolidone 150g litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated nonyl phenol emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated castor oil emulsifier 40g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaC03 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets I to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle stze to be below this figure.Example 4 One litre approximately 1120g of an emulsifiable concentrate was prepared as in Example 1 but employingETHOCEL HE 10 ethyl cellulose having a mean viscosity designation of lOcp, measured as a 5 w w solution in 80 20 w w toluene ethanol instead of ETHOCEL S. 10. Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as Cacao3 at 30µC and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 5 An emulsifiable concentrate was prepared as inExample 3 but employing cellulose acetobutyrate instead of ETHOCEL M.50. Thus, a storage table emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Examples 6 8 show different acyl ureas in combination with chlorpyrifos.Example 6 An emulsifiable concentrate containing l 4 chlorophenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea log litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. An emulsifiable concentrate composition was formulated as in Example 1, using ETHOCEL 5. 10. This was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution.Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to l litre apprbximately 1115g . The amount of ETHOCELS.10 was such aslto produce a concentration of lOg litre in the emulsifiable concentrate chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea lOg litre N methyl pyrrolidone 180g litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated octyl phenol emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated polyarly phenol emulsifier 40g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaC03 at 30tC and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 7 One litre approximately 1118g of an emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 3,5 dichloro74 5 trifluoromethyl 3 chloro 2 pyr idyloxy phenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea 20g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent.The composition was formulated as in Example 6 but replacing the acyl urea of Example 6 with that above. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle sixe to be below this figure.Example 8 One litre approximately 1120g of an emulsifiable concentrate containing l 3, 5 dichloro 4 l, 1,2, 2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyll 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea 30g litre and chloropyrifos 480g litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent.The composition was formulated as in Example 6 but replacing the acyl urea of Example 6 with that above.Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as Cacao3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets l to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Example 9 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro l,l difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea 30g litre and chloropyrifos 480g litre was prepared using dimethyl formamide as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in dimethyl formamide by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to a litre approximately 1120g .The amount of ETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate chlorpyrifos 430g litre acyl urea 30g litre dimethyl formamide 150g litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated octyl phenol emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylated polyaryl phenol emulsifier 40g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 10 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro 1,1 difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using dimethylsulphoxide as polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in dimethylsulphoxide by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 1120g . The amount ofETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre dimethyl sulphoxide lOOg litre Emulsifiers as Example 9 lOOg litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm asCaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 11 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 3,5 dichloro 4 1,1,2,2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyl urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using isophorone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in isophorone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 1140g . The amount of ETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate. chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre isophorone 250g litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate emulsifier 20g litre Ethoxylate alkyl phenol emulsifier 30g litre Ethoxylate castor oil emulsifier 50g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm asCaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with Åa size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Example 12 and 13 illustrate use of different pesticides in combination with acyl urea insecticide.Example 12 An emus viable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro 1, 1 difluroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoy1 urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos methyl 480g litre was prepared usingN methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos methyl were then added in the proportions given and xylene to make up to 1 litre. The amount ofETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate. chlorpyrifos methyl 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre N methyl pyrrolidone 150g litre Emulsifiers as Example 1 100g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm asCaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Example 13 An emulsifiable concentrate containing l 3,5 dichloro 4 1,1,2,2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl1 3 2,6 difluorobenzoyI urea 30g litre and cypermethrin 50 litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers and cypermethrin were then added in the proportions given below and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 950g . The amount of ETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate cypermethrin 50g litre acyl urea 30g litre N methyl pyrrolidone lOOg litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate emulsifiers 40g litre Ethoxylated castor oil emulsifiers 60g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as Cacao3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 2 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Example 14 illustrates the use of a non polar solvent other than xylene.Example 14 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro l,l difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea 30g litre and chlorpyrifos 480g litre was prepared using N methyl pyrrolidone as a polar solvent and a l,l,l trichloroethane xylene mixture as a non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.10 was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the, solution. Emulsifiers and molten chlorpyrifos were then added in the proportions given below and l,l,l trichloroethane and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 1200g . The amount of ETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of lOg litre in the concentrate. chlorpyrifos 480g litre acyl urea 30g litre N methyl pyrrolidone 150g litre l,l,l trichloroethane 250g litre Emulsifiers anionic nonionic blend 100g litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm asCaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Examples 15 and 16 illustrate the invention without the addition of a second pesticide to the oil phase.Example 15 An emulsifiable concentrate containing 1 4 2,2 dichloro l.l difluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2 chlorobenzoyl urea 50g litre was prepared using a combination of cyclohexanone and dimethyl sulphoxide as polar solvents and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.IO was dissolved in cyclohexanone and dimethyl sulphoxide by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers were added and xylene to make up to 1 litre approximately 970g .The amount of ETHOCEL S.10 was such as to produce a concentration of 20g litre in the concentrate Acyl urea 50g litre cyclohexanone 200g litre dimethyl sulphoxide 200g litre TENSIOFIX B7453 lOOg litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm as CaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 3 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure. Comparative Example 3 Example 15 was repeated, omitting the ETHOCEL S.10. When the concentrate was emulsified and allowed to stand for 24 hours at 300C, a deposit of crystalline material identified as typical acyl urea crystals was seen. The crystals by microscope examination were estimated to have a particle size of 10 microns or greater. Example 16 An emulsifiable concentrate containing l 3,5 dichloro 4 l,l,2,2 tetrafluoroethoxy phenyl 3 2,6,difluorbenzoyl urea SOg litre was prepared using a N methyl pyrrolidone as polar solvent and xylene as non polar solvent. ETHOCEL S.IO was dissolved in N methyl pyrrolidone by vigorous stirring and the acyl urea dissolved in the solution. Emulsifiers were added and xylene to make up to l litre approximately 950g . The amount of ETHOCELS.10 was such as to produce a concentration of 20g litre in the concentrate. Acyl urea SOg litre N methyl pyrrolidone 200g litre anionic nonionic emulsifier blend 100 litre Thus, a storage stable emulsifiable concentrate was produced. The emulsifiable concentrate was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm asCaCO3 at 30 C and the emulsion was allowed to stand for 24 hours. No crystalline acyl urea could be separated and microscopic examination indicated the presence of no particles with a size greater than that of the emulsion droplets 1 to 2 microns , showing the acyl urea particle size to be below this figure.Example 17 An emulsifiable concentrate was prepared ofAcetic Acid 4 amino 3,5 dichloro 6 fluoro 2 pyridinyl oxy l methyl heptyl ester. This is a herbicide which is only very sparingly soluble in water, and which has been found to have increased effectiveness when a very small particle size is utilised. The composition of the concentrate was as follows above herbicide 534g litre dimethyl formamide 160g litre ethoxylate castor oil llOg litre Calcium dodecyl benzene sulphonate 45g litre Ethocel S.10 20g litre xylene balance The composition was formulated by dissolving the herbicide in a mixture of the dimethyl formamide and xylene, addding the ETHOCEL S.10, and then the remainder of the constitutents.The composition was storage stable. The emulsifiable concentrate composition was tested by emulsification in standard hard water 342ppm CaCO3 at 30 C and 1 v v dilution, and allowed to stand for 8 hours. No crystals bigger than the emulsion droplet size less than l micron were observed.Comparative Example 4Example 17 was repeated, omitting the ETHOCEL 5.10. On emulsification gross crystallisation was observed on microscopic examination.