# STABILIZED AQUEOUS FORMULATIONS OF SULFONYLUREAS

## Claims
Stabilisierte wäßrige Zusammensetzung, die ein landwirtschaftlich geeignetes Salz einer Carbonsäure oder einer anorganischen Säure oder Mischungen solcher Carbonsäure oder anorganischen Säuresalze umfaßt, mit der Maßgabe, daß die Wasserlöslichkeit der Carbonsäure oder anorganischen Säuresalze bei 5 C und einem pH Wert von 6 bis 10 größer als oder gleich 3 ist und mit der weiteren Maßgabe, daß der pH Wert einer 0,1 molaren Lösung des Carbonsäure oder anorganischen Säuresalzes zwischen 6 und 10 liegt, sowie 1 bis 50 einer oder mehrerer Verbindungen mit einer Teilchengröße von 1 bis 20 Mikron, ausgewählt aus

## Description
This invention relates to stabilized aqueous compositions, said compositions comprising a sulfonylurea or its agriculturally suitable salt with an effective amount of a salt of a carboxylic or an inorganic acid, or with mixtures of such carboxylic or inorganic acid salts, provided that the water solubility of carboxylic or inorganic acid salts at 5 C and a pH of about 6 10 is greater than or equal to 3 and further provided that the pH of a 0.1 molar solution of the carboxylic or inorganic acid salt is between 6 and 10. Sulfonylureas are known in the literature. For instance, U.S. Patents 4,127,405 and 4,169,719 teach herbicidal sulfonylureas. The aqueous suspension formulations of these herbicides may be stabilized by the technique of the instant invention. The above mentioned patents and others disclose sulfonylureas which are highly effective as herbicides. There is however, a need to store agriculturally suitable formulations of such sulfonylureas for long periods of time after they are produced. Maintaining the stability of formulations of such herbicides is extremely important since an unstable formulation will be considerably less effective when utilized. That is to say, the active ingredient must be maintained intact in the formulation if herbicidal effect is to be maximized. M. Chiba J. Agric. and Food Chem. According to the instant invention, a formulation has been discovered, described below, which serves to maintain the stability of sulfonylurea herbicides. This invention relates to a stabilized aqueous suspension which comprises from 1 to 50 of one or more compounds of Formula I or its agriculturally suitable salt of Formula, II each having a particle size of 1 20 microns, with an effective amount of a salt of a carboxylic or an inorganic acid, or with mixtures of such carboxylic or inorganic acid salts, provided that the water solubility of carboxylic or inorganic acid salts at 5 C and at pH 6 10 is greater than or equal to 3 and further provided that the pH of a 0.1 molar aqueous solution of the carboxylic or inorganic acid salt is between 6 and 10. All parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The compositions of this invention may contain more than one compound of Formula I or more than one compound of Formula II. In addition, the compositions may contain compounds of both Formula I and Formula II, simultaneously. The compositions of this invention may also optionally contain other herbicides. Preferred for reasons of their greater stability and or their more favorable physical properties are Specifically preferred for reasons of their greatest stability and or greatest utility are compositions containing compounds of Formula II selected from the agriculturally suitable salts of and compositions containing carboxylic or inorganic acid salts preferably selected from and compositions containing This invention relates to stable and readily dispersible concentrated liquid suspensions of compounds of Formula I or their agriculturally suitable salts of Formula II in aqueous salt solutions. Compounds of Formula I are useful herbicides and their preparation is known in the art. See, for example, U.S. Patents 4,127,405 and 4,169,719. Agriculturally suitable salts of Formula II are also useful herbicides and can be prepared by a number of ways known to the art. For example, metal salts can be made by treating the compounds of Formula I with a solution of an alkali metal salt having a sufficiently basic anion e.g., hydroxide, alkoxide, carbonate or hydride . Ammonium and substituted ammonium salts can be made by similar techniques. Salts of Formula II can also be prepared by exchange of one cation for another. Cationic exchange can be effected by direct treatment of an aqueous solution of a salt of Formula II e.g., alkali metal or ammonium salt with a solution containing the cation to be exchanged. This method is most effective when the desired salt containing the exchanged cation is insoluble in water and can be separated by filtration. Exchange may also be effected by passing an aqueous solution of a salt of Formula II e.g., an alkali metal or ammonium salt through a column packed with a cation exchange resin containing the cation to be exchanged. In this method, the cation of the resin is exchanged for that of the original salt and the desired product is eluted from the column. This method is particularly useful when the desired salt is water soluble. Liquid concentrates are desirable because of the ease with which they can be measured, poured, handled or diluted in preparing aqueous slurries for spraying. Some of the compounds of Formula I and salts of Formula II do not have high solubility in water or other inexpensive solvents and moreover they are chemically unstable over long periods of time in many of these solvents. When dissolved in water alone, either partially or completely, hydrolysis and or crystal growth can occur in storage so that stable solutions or suspensions cannot be formulated. It has been found that stabilized aqueous suspensions of compounds of Formula I or salts of Formula II can be prepared when the aqueous suspending medium contains ammonium, substituted ammonium or alkali metal salts of a carboxylic acid or an inorganic acid or mixtures of such salts provided that the solubility of those salts at pH 6 10 is greater than or equal to 3 at 5 C and further provided that the pH of a 0.1 molar aqueous solution of the carboxylic or inorganic acid salt is between 6 and 10. The stabilization which is achieved with these compositions is evident in several ways. First, the chemical stability of the compounds of Formula I or the salts of Formula II in an aqueous suspension is markedly improved which allows formulation of such a suspension that is relatively stable in storage. Second, crystal growth of active ingredient is reduced and a controlled degree of flocculation is imparted to the particles of active herbicide which prevents formation of a hard to resuspend cake during storage. Third, the density of the suspending medium may be up to 30 higher than that of water which reduces the settling tendency of the suspended particles. Fourth, the dissolved salts act as an antifreeze which maintains the fluidity of the compositions at temperatures down to 6 C and below. Another advantage of these compositions is that, although the compounds of Formula I and the salts of Formula II are relatively insoluble in the suspending medium, when diluted with water in the spray tank they quickly and completely dissolve at the more dilute spray concentrations, provided the pH of the spray solution is about 7.0 or above. The salts which are preferred in the aqueous medium are ammonium, substituted ammonium or alkali metal salts of a carboxylic or an inorganic acid which are soluble in water at 3 or more at 5 C. The useful concentration range is from 3 to the saturation point at 5 C. The preferred salts of the invention will further possess a pH between 6 and 10 for a 0.1 molar aqueous solution. Examples of these salts are diammonium hydrogen phosphate, ammonium acetate, lithium acetate, sodium thiocyanate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, or compatible mixtures of these. Diammonium hydrogen phosphate and sodium acetate are preferred for compositions containing the ammonium and sodium salts, respectively, of the salts of Formula II. The useful pH range of these compositions is 6 10 although 7 9 is preferred. In most cases, the salts described above will automatically produce a formulation with the desired pH. The anion of the carboxylic or inorganic acid salt may act as an acid acceptor and generate, The formulations of this invention contain about 1 to 50 preferably 10 to 40 of the compounds of Formula I or the salts of Formula II suspended in an aqueous solution which contains from 3 to the salt saturation amounts of an agriculturally suitable salt of a carboxylic or an inorganic aced or mixtures thereof as described above. Preferred concentrations of these carboxylic or inorganic acid salts are in the range of about 10 40 in the aqueous phase. The formulation may also contain about 0.1 to 20 of surfactants. Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable and can be achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Among the surfactants used in these compositions are common wetting and dispersing agents such as trimethylnonyl polyethylene glycol ether, sodium alkylnaphthalenesulfonates, sodium alkylbenzenesulfonates, sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate, sodium dodecyl sulfate, the ammonium and sodium salts of lignosulfonic acid and formaldehyde condensates of naphthalenesulfonic acid. More specific examples are sodium ligninsulfonate and ammonium ligninsulfonate. Optionally, the formulations may also contain about 0.01 5.0 of thickening or suspending agents such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, polysaccharide gums, natural and refined smectite type clays and synthetic silicas. The compositions of this invention may contain more than one compound of Formula I or more than one compound of Formula II. In addition, the compositions may contain compounds of both Formula I and Formula II, simultaneously. The compositions of this invention may also optionally contain other herbicides. The following herbicides are examples of materials which may be particularly useful in such combinations The methods for making the stabilized compositions of this invention are well known and include ball milling, bead milling, sand milling, colloidmilling and air milling combined with high speed blending. A preferred technique for the preparation of stabilized compositions of Formula II involves suspending a compound of Formula I in water containing surfactants and thickening or suspending agents followed by neutralization with the desired base such as ammonium or sodium hydroxide to a pH of 6.0 10.0, preferably 7.0 9.0, followed by addition of the solid insolubilizing salt to the formulation with agitation. The technique of adding the insolubilizing salt is important. It is best to add the salt in increments to the neutralized conjugate acid in order to develop the precipitate more slowly otherwise, a tacky solid or gum can form. The resulting suspension is then colloid milled or bead milled to a particle size of 1 20 microns, preferably 2 8 microns. The resulting stable aqueous suspension is suitable for use in herbicidal applications. The following example illustrates an The sodium ligninsulfonate and sulfonamide were added with stirring to the phosphate solution. The mixture then was ground in a sand mill to give particles of essentially less than five microns. The pH of the composition was 8.25. A sample aged for 2 weeks at 45 C showed 0.47 relative decomposition of active component while a composition containing no phosphate showed 6.0 relative decomposition of the same component. No appreciable settling of the stabilized, aged composition was seen and it was easily fluidized with agitation. A stable suspension of the ammonium salt of the sulfonylurea, 2 4 Chloro 6 methoxypyrimidin 2 yl aminocarbonyl aminosulfonyl benzoic acid, ethyl ester, was prepared as described in Example 2 using the same percentages of ingredients. The pH of the composition was 7.95. A sample aged for 2 weeks at 45 C showed a 0.4 relative decomposition of active component while a composition without phosphate showed 4.0 relative decomposition of the same component. Settling of the aged composition was slight and it was readily fluidized with agitation. With stirring, the sodium ligninsulfonate and sodium hydroxide were dissolved in the water and the sulfonylurea was added in portions and allowed to react to form the water soluble sodium salt. To the solution was added one fourth of the sodium acetate and, 5 minutes later, another one fourth. The remainder of the sodium acetate was added after precipitation of the sulfonylurea salt was observed to be occurring rapidly, after about 15 minutes. The percentage of sodium acetate in the aqueous phase was 25.0. The resulting composition was ground in a sand mill to produce particles essentially under five microns in size. The polysaccharide thickener was added several minutes before completion of the milling operation. The pH of the composition was 9.03. On aging at 45 C for 3 weeks, suspended solids did not settle and the formulation could be readily fluidized with shaking. No detectable decomposition of active ingredient occurred while a composition without acetate showed 30 decomposition over the same accelerated aging period. In the following examples, stable suspensions of sulfonylureas are prepared as described in Example 4 using salts as stabilizers against chemical decomposition and to prevent crystal growth A stable suspension of the lithium salt of the sulfonylurea was prepared as described in Example 4. The lithium acetate concentration in the aqueous phase was 35 . The pH of the composition was 7.9. A sample aged at 45 C for 3 weeks showed no loss of active ingredient while the loss of the same ingredient from a composition without lithium acetate aged in the same manner was over 20 . The ammonium salt of the sulfonamide of Example 1 is air milled to give a product with a particle size essentially less than five microns then dispersed with good agitation in a mixture of the remaining components of the formulation of Example 1. The suspension behavior and chemical stability are essentially as described in Example 1.