# Microprocessor.

## Abstract
A microprocessor data processing system 1700 includes system units 50, 1704 connected to a bus 1702 , with a bus arbiter 1712 and a protocol for assigning bus access to the system units 50, 1704 . The microprocessor 50 executes both arithmetic operations and floating point operations. A microcontrol store 162 stores common instructions usable in different floating point operations. A PLA 180 supplies ad dresses to microcontrol store 162 and provides a signal indi cating floating point instruction type. The microprocessor 50 includes a pending interrupt register 250 connected to mask and enable logic 268 . The mask and enable logic 268 is con nected to a priority encoder 278 , which is connected to an interrupt latch 282 . The latch 282 supplies outputs to gen erate a current state storage address. Branch control logic 1938 receives branch conditions inputs and branch control information and generates control signals for a next microad dress multiplexer 1934 in a pipelined instruction path. Micro instructions for the microprocessor 50 are stored for different operations in a microcontrol store 16 with common usage of identical microinstructions for the different operations. A 17th bit auxiliary ALU 1062 in combination with a 16 bith ALU 62 Booth encoder 1074 and overflow logic 1152 implements the modified Booth two shift multiply algorithm. A reduced size constants ROM 120 is provided by generating 28 required constants in the microprocessor with only 5 stored constants through use of a shifter 1066 and a mask 1068 . Latches 632 and 634 may be made transparent to reduce execu tion times in restarts and sequential single microcycle instruc tions. ALU 62 modifies addresses in instruction counter 200 by subtracting an identifying portion of an aborted micro instruction. Microcode addresses for different types of opera tions are stored in a mapping PLA 150 by utilizing unused por tions of one type of operation address for storing another type of operation address.