# MEDICATION INFUSION SYSTEM

## Claims
Medikamenten Infusionssystem mit einem einem Patienten implantierbaren eingeschlossenen Medikamenten Vorratsbehälter 22 und einem Gehäuse 60 , das den Medikamenten Vorratsbehälter sowie eine Vorrichtung zur Anzeige des Vorliegens vorbestimmter Systembedingungen beinhaltet, wobei die Vorrichtung umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to apparatus for detecting selected conditions, including deviations in nominal performance, in a system for dispensing medication to a living being. Although mainly intended for use with human patients requiring infusions of a drug, such as insulin, morphine, heparin, or any of various other chemotherapeutic agents, the invention may be, used in any living body such as domestic animals and for the infusion of any liquid such as blood or colloidal suspension, or gas or granulated solid, which may be dispensed by the system and may provide a curative or healing effect. The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under NASA Contract No. NDPR S 6383B and is subject to the provisions of Section 305 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 72 Stat. 435 42 U.S.C. 2457 . Various techniques and devices have been suggested and are currently under study which address the problem of dispensing a drug or other medicative liquid into a living body. Of these techniques and devices, however, the provision of redundant safety features and the indication of certain vital operation conditions are rarely addressed and then to only a limited extent. One liquid infusion device discussed in U.S. Patent No. 4,077,405 by Haerton et al discloses a controllable dosing arrangement which provides for human operator interaction. A syringe forces liquid through a pressure valve into a supply reservoir and a bellows pump forces drug from the reservoir through a flow limiter into the body. The Haerton et al patent teaches an overpressure technique where liquid in the reservoir is at a pressure above that at the discharge point. This device fails to address various safety problems such as leakage, excessive pumping, and excessive requests for drug. In particular, should the input control valve in this patented device leak, a flood of liquid would enter the body because of the pressure differential and the lack of any backup safety mechanism. No provision for detecting leaks in the device, for signalling selected deviation in nominal performance, for restricting the number of or quantity of drug doses, or for monitoring proper operation of the device is suggested. Like Haerton et al, Ellinwood in U.S. Patent No. 3,692,027 teaches an implanted, self powered drug dispenser having a bellows pump which is fed through and expels drug through valves, in particular one way valves. The Ellinwood device is not programmable it varies dosage by opening and closing portals or selecting a dose of medication from one of a plurality of pumps having different dosage volumes and or different medications stored therein. System operation relating to pressure integrity checks during filling, leakage problems, patient and doctor interaction with the dispenser, and dosage input programming, and informational outputs which correspond to such system operation conditions are not considered. An invention of Blackshear U.S. Patent No. 3,731,681 shows another infusion pump without such features. While disclosing an implanted bellows pump arrangement fed through a self sealing plug, the Blackshear pump does not look for pressure integrity before filling the device with drug. Further, because there is no input check valve and because the pressure in the device is above that of the body in which it is implanted, leakage in Blackshear can be dangerous. This is particularly true because the full reservoir will typically contain a lethal dose of medication if delivered over a short period of time. It is thus particularly significant that no means for indicating to a patient either proper or non optimal performance is provided. Richter U.S. Patent No. 3,894,538 considers, in a medicine supplying device, one safety feature an exit plug for preventing contaminants from entering the device and for limiting drug outflow. However, redundant safety backed up by an informational signal providing feature is absent. A device by Jacob U.S. Patent No. 4,033,479 provides a bellows pump which maintains drug in a chamber at a constant internal pressure. A valve opens to release drug from the chamber into a body. The bellows varies the chamber volume to maintain constant pressure. It is not of importance to Jacob how much pressure there is in the chamber it is above body pressure but, rather, the concern is to keep pressure constant. Leakage out from the valve and the spurting of drug into the body under relatively high constant pressure would appear to be problems inherent in the Jacob device. Apparatus informing a patient of such conditions or other such conditions is not present. Portner in U.S. Patent No. 4,126,132 discusses the use of alarms in an intravenous delivery system. Sensors for detecting air in the delivery lines by making pressure measurements and sensors for detecting the amount of fluid in a supply bottle provide input to an audible or visual alarm. The use of alarms for a broad variety of conditions which alarms would increase the safety of the system is not discussed. Furthermore, the application of alarms to implantable medication release systems is not considered. Franetzki et al Patent No. 4,191,181 suggests the use of negative pressure, external to the medication reservoir, as a safety feature in a medication dispensing unit. However, this reference has no teaching of means for detecting and alerting the patient and or physician regarding the structural and operational state of the unit, so as to provide information regarding e.g. leaks detected within the unit, excessive medication requests, stored medication level, blockage of the medication dispenser s output, etc. Several recent publications have also underscored the advantages of a medication infusion device which is implantable. Two articles by Rhode et al One Year of Heparin Anti coagulation Furthermore, an article by Spencer For Diabetics an electronic pancreas Finally, US A 4 350 155 discloses a body implantable medical infusion system comprising a housing, an infusate reservoir, means for regulating infusate discharge and catheter means for delivering discharged infusate to a desired infusion site. Means are provided for preventing an unregulated infusate discharge, said means including a normally open valve, a sensor for sensing the presence of unregulated infusate and means responsive to the sensor for closing the valve. This reference fails to disclose any means for alerting the patient in case of malfunction of the implanted device and does not disclose any particular type of sensor. In a field where safety and reliability are paramount, the present invention provides extensive redundancy to prevent and, if appropriate, inform a patient of less than optimal system performance. This aim is achieved due to a medication infusion system having a patient implantable, enclosed medication reservoir and a housing containing the medication reservoir, an apparatus for indicating the presence of predetermined system conditions, said apparatus comprising The first warning signal may be a subcutaneous electrical stimulation to the patient or an audible alarm. The second warning signal is preferably an audible alarm detectable by the patient. Preferred embodiments of the medication infusion system according to the invention are given herebelow. The housing has an inner surface facing the medication reservoir, the two electrical contacts comprising two metallic films disposed along the inner surface of the housing with the gap therebetween. The medication infusion system further includes The medication infusion system further includes In that case the medication infusion system may further include an extra corporeal transmitter for sending a command signal to set the intensity of said acoustical signal and said infusion apparatus further includes a receiver means operably coupled to said patient alerting means for detecting said command signal and said patient alerting meansincludes a means for setting the intensity of said acoustical signal in response to said received command signal. The medication infusion system may further include The pulse modulated signals may comprise pulse duration modulation signals occuring at preselected intervals. Figure 1 is an illustration showing a general block diagram of a medication infusion system employing the present invention. Figures 2 and 3 are illustrations showing a front cutaway and a top perspective view, respectively, of a medication dispensing unit in a medication infusion system. Figure 4 shows, in detail, a top view of a combination moisture detector switching unit which senses when various predetermined operating conditions exist. Figure 5 is a cross section side view of the combination moisture detector switch unit shown in Figure 4. Figure 6 shows one embodiment of an informational signal generator. Figure 7 is a cross section view of one embodiment of a pump which may be included in the present system. Figure 8 is a block diagram showing electronic components of the system. Figure 9 shows signals representing various pulse coded alarm patterns used in informing a patient of various deviations from normal operating conditions. Referring to Figure 1, the various portions of a programmable medication infusion system are shown. A medication dispensing unit 10 implantable in or external to a patient s body can be programmed either by the medication programming system 12 or by the patient s programming unit 14. Commands from the medication programming system 12 emitted from the communication head 16 are transmitted to electronics in the medication dispensing unit 10 in order to program and effectuate the infusion of medication into the body in a safe, controlled fashion. Furthermore, the communication head, 16, is used to receive signals telemetered out of the implanted unit 10. Thus, the communication head, 16 is really a command transmitting antenna and a telemetry receiving antenna. This antenna might typically be a few hundred turns of fine copper wire having approximately the same diameter as a similarly configured antenna in the implanted medication dispensing unit 10. The communication head 16, might also provide a source of an alternating magnetic field coupled to the similar coil in the implanted unit 10, to provide energy for recharging a rechargeable cell contained in 10. Furthermore the inductively coupled energy could be used to power the command and telemetry systems of the implanted unit 10. The medication programming system 12 is also capable of reading information telemetered out from the medication dispensing unit 10, which information relates to the amount of medication dispensed over a specified time period as well as other data of value to the physician. Further, the medication programming system 12 is capable of calibrating the medication per pulse which is dispersed by the medication dispensing unit 10. A medication injection unit 18 is connected to a double hypodermic syringe 20 which is used to provide medication to a medication reservoir 22 shown in Figure 2 included within the medication dispensing unit 10. Fill commands to the medication injection unit 18 emanate from a medication programming unit 24. A patient s programming unit 14 which may also communicate, by inductive transmission for example, with the medication dispensing unit 10 is controlled by the user typically the patient to request doses of medication, i.e. to obtain self medication. The dispensing of dosage requests is limited by various elements included in the programmable memory units shown in Figure 8 as 106 and 108 and in the hard wired limit controls shown at 110 and 112 in Figure 8 all of which are found in the medication dispensing unit 10. To recharge a power cell 26 see Figure 8 contained within the medication dispensing unit 10 when the power cell 26 is a rechargeable type , an external charging head 28 connected to a battery charging unit 30 is included. The need for the charging head 28 and battery charging unit 30 can be obviated by the inclusion in the medication dispensing unit 10 of a power cell 26 such as a lithium cell which is of sufficient lifetime to negate the need for recharging. Where the implantable portion 10 is, in fact, not implanted but is employed externally other methods of recharging or even replacement of the power cell may be employed. The medication programming unit 24 provides output to a paper printer 32 which provides hard, readable output that can be readily interpreted by a physician. Referring now to Figures 2 and 3, the medication dispensing unit 10 of an implantable programmable medication infusion system is shown. Medication is provided to the medication dispensing unit 10 by means of a hypodermic syringe 20 which penetrates the skin 34 and passes through a conical aperture 35 and a self sealing septum 36, preferably made of medical grade silicone rubber or the like, which covers an antechamber 38 in leak proof fashion. Medication is introduced into the antechamber 38 through syringe 20 at atmospheric pressure or under pressure the level of which is controllable externally. A medication reservoir 22, in which the medication is stored under relatively constant pressure, is fed from the antechamber 38 via a ceramic filter 42 and a one way inlet pressure valve 44 which permits flow only from the antechamber 38 into the medication reservoir 22 when the pressure differential between them exceeds a predetermined threshold. The inlet ceramic filter 42 surrounds the antechamber 38 and performs various functions which enhance the safety of the implantable portion 10 particularly in an implant environment. Besides filtering contaminants from medication being fed into the medication reservoir 22, the ceramic filter 42 serves to limit the rate of medication flow from the antechamber 38 into the reservoir 22 or, conversely, from the reservoir 22 into antechamber 38 should the inlet pressure valve 44 leak. Should the septum 36 leak, the ceramic filter 42 together with the inlet pressure valve 44 prevents the inflow of body fluids into the medication reservoir 22. Further, should the inlet pressure valve 44 and the septum 36 both leak or otherwise deviate from optimal performance, the filter 42 would permit only a slow flow of body fluids to enter the medication reservoir 22, until body ambient pressure is achieved, at which time some medication could diffuse through the ceramic filter 42 but at a rate that would not be hazardous to a typical patient in which the system would be implanted. Furthermore, when this occurs an informational signal would be generated. A liquid vapor pressurant chamber 45 is separated from medication reservoir 22 by a flexible diaphragm 46 Included in the liquid vapor chamber 45 is a combined diaphragm position switch moisture detector unit 46 shown enlarged in Figures 4 and 5 comprising a ceramic insulator substrate 47 to which is attached a movable electrical contact 48, and deposited metal surfaces 50, 51, 52 and 53. When the medication reservoir is being filled, the flexible diaphragm 46 If body fluids leak into the medication reservoir 22, the flexible diaphragm 46 In the presence of Freon 113, but in the absence of moisture, the electrical resistance between the deposited metal surfaces 52 and 53 which collectively form the moisture detector 54 see Figure 8 is greater than 1 megohm. If however, moisture is released into the liquid vapor chamber 45, either through a leaky flexible diaphragm 46 The medication reservoir 22 and liquid vapor chamber 45 are separated from the other portions of the medication dispensing unit 10 by wall 55 forming the top of reservoir 22, as viewed in Figure 2 and fluidically isolated from the other elements of the system by means of the inlet pressure valve 44 and a pump inlet valve 73 see Figure 7 which connects the reservoir 22 to a pulsatile pump 57 shown in detail in Figure 7 . The remaining elements of the implantable medication dispensing unit 10 are shown in Figure 2 above and isolated from the reservoir 22 by wall 55 and include an electronics compartment or section 56 containing a power cell subsection 58. As is readily seen in Figure 2, an outer cover 60 isolates the medication reservoir chamber 22 and liquid vapor pressurant chamber 45 as well as the pump 57 and the electronics compartment or section 56 and the power cell subsection 58 from the external environment. A moisture detector 59, of the same design as detector 54 described above, would be located in an electronics section 56 of Figure 2 so that it could detect and provide an informational signal to the patient if either a medication leak occurs through the wall 55 or body fluids penetrate the top portion of the sealed outer cover 60. An informational signal generator 70, such as that shown in Figure 6, can be used in signalling or alerting a patient of a predetermined condition or in checking the medication dispensing unit 10 of Figure 2 . The generator 70 has a plurality of inputs A Fig. 7 illustrates a pulsatile pump 57. Medication from medication reservoir 22 enters the pulsatile pump 57 via an interface pressure valve 73 when the differential in pressure between the reservoir chamber 22 and a medication storing means 80 inside the pulsatile pump 57 reaches a level sufficient to open the inlet pressure valve 73. In the preferred embodiment shown in Fig 7, this differential in pressure is caused by the expansion of a spring bellows in response to an electrical pulse introduced to a pulsing coil 79 which surrounds a plate which is attached to the spring bellows. In an output chamber of the pump 57 is a transducer 78 which senses when a pulsatile dose of medication is dispensed. Transducer 78 detects pressure build up in the output chamber of pump 57. It may be noted that other types of transducers are available which can detect a pulsatile flow through an output tube. Each pulse of medication is communicated by the transducer 78 as an electrical pulse and therefore, based upon prior knowledge of the volume of medication in reservoir 22 when full and the volume of medication dispensed for each actuation of pump 57, it is obvious that at any given time the current volume of medication remaining in the reservoir 22 can be determined merely recording a count of the number of pulses produced by transducer 78. To promote a pulse of medication, a coil 79 or other similar means of reciprocating a variable volume pump storage chamber 80 is provided with a pulse of electrical energy. By comparing the number of electrical pulses to the coil 79 with the number of electrical pulses produced by the transducer 78, an operational check is performed and indicates, for example, that the output of the medication dispensing system is clogged. Thus, as seen in Figure 8, electrical pulses from the transducer 78 and a count of electrical pulses to the coil 79 are communicated to and stored in a pulse recorder 82. The output of the transducer 78 is also applied to a pulse rate detector 84. The pulse rate detector 84 provides a hard wired insufficient rate command input which provides a programmable lower medication dispensing limit. That is, when less than a physician prescribe minimum of medication is delivered to the body, the rate detector 84 signals information signal generator 70 than an informational alert signal to the patient is to be generated. To effect this signal an input, line 84 For example, the pulse rate detector 84 sends transducer pulse rate information to the pulse recorder 82, which information is compared by comparator circuitry in the pulse recorder 82 to the electrical pulses over the same period from the coil 79. A discrepancy between the two counts results in a signal to the information signal generator 70 over line 82 As seen in Figure 8, the electronics portion of medication dispensing unit 10 enclosed by dashed line 56 of Figure 8 communicates with a communication head 16 which is external to the body for both implanted and external embodiments . Communication may be by wire for external embodiments or, for implantable or external embodiments, by radiant energy in electromagnetic, alternating magnetic, or other remote signal forms . The communication head 16, in the Figure 8 embodiment, provides both power and command inputs, as well as receiving telemetry output. More specifically, input power is provided by means of an alternating filed, e.g. a magnetic field, which is communicated to a pickup coil 92 which is connected to other elements of the electronics section 56. The pickup coil 92 receives a power signal and passes it on to a full wave rectifier 94. One rectified output from the full wave rectifier 94 enters a battery charge control 96 which provides a fixed DC charging signal to a power cell 26. The power cell 26 can be a nickel cadmium cell which is readily rechargeable off a rectified signal at a typical frequency of 20 kHz. Alternatively, a lithium type solid state battery can be used instead of the nickel cadmium cell in which case the charging circuitry could be eliminated, the lithium type battery providing sufficient power over a long term, thereby obviating the need for recharging. The power cell 26 provides a biasing voltage to a switch 98, the output of which enters the pulsing coil 79 previously described. In addition to providing power to the power cell 26, rectified power is also introduced to a DC to DC converter 100 the purpose of which is to provide power at the proper levels to the various loads in the system. In addition to the AC power signal, pickup coil 92 may also receive a train of serial digital bits, e.g. from the communication head 16. The digital bits comprise commands for programmable inputs which are conveyed, via the pickup coil 92 to a command receiver 102. The signals from the command receiver 102 enter a command decoder 104 which determines if the digital bits are in a proper format and, if so, what action in the system the commands dictate. To allow remote verification of the information decoded in command decoder 104, the decoded signals are transmitted back to the communication head 16 by means of a telemetry transmitter 105 and a telemetry coil 107. It should also be noted that the full wave rectifier 94, the battery charge control 96, the command receiver 102, the command decoder 104 and telemetry transmitter 105 could be powered only when an AC signal is picked up by the pickup coil 92. As seen if Figure 8, for example, the command receiver 102 receives operating power from the full wave rectifier 94 enabling it to convey signals from the coil 92 to the command decoder 104. It should be obvious that a power savings is achieved by only powering the command receiver etc. when necessary and, moreover, prevents the possibility of detecting stray signals as commands. To be sure, the power savings achieved could make possible the use of the aforementioned lithium cell which would not require recharging. From the command decoder 104, programmable inputs and other commands can be provided to a number of elements. A programmable base rate is entered into a base rate memory unit 106 which stores a value indicating the number of pulses of medication which are to be provided to a patient during a normal preselected period of time. A second programmable input is provide to a patient controlled rate memory unit 108 which stores a value indicating a number of pulses of medication that are requested by the patient with a patient programming unit 14 to be introduced into the body. Associated with the base rate memory unit 106 is a hardwired base rate limit control 110 which sets a maximum rate than can override requests of the base rate memory unit 108 which are excessive. Similarly, a hardwired patient controlled rate limit control 112 provides a fixed maximum number of pulses which can be provided at a time after a meal or at other times and under other conditions such as exercise. As long as the base rate and patient controlled rate values stored in memory units 106 and 108 respectively, do not exceed the hardwired values fixed within limit controls 110 and 112, respectively, an output pulse is provided to the switch 98 to stimulate a pulse output from pulsing coil 79. Should the rate of either memory unit 106 or 108 exceed the hardwire limits in the limit control elements 110 or 112, respectively, a rate request exceeds limit signal is fed from the limit control element 110 or 112 into the programmable information signal generator 70 which provides an electrical signal to the load R It should be noted that the signal to the load R A particularly significant feature of the invention resides in the programmability of the information signal generator 70 based on input commands from the command decoder 104. The voltage produced by the signal generator 70 across the load R In addition, in order to check the proper operation of the system, the command decoder 104 can receive test signals which can stimulate actual occurrences to determine whether the circuitry in the electronic section 56 is operating properly. For example, extra pulses from the command decoder 104 can be entered into the hardwired limit control elements 110 and 112. These extra pulses can be added to the pulses provided by the base rate and the patient controlled rate memory units 106 and 108, in order to exceed the hardwired base rate and the hardwired patient controlled rate, respectively. When the rates are exceeded, the information signal generator 70 can be used to check the operation of the limit control elements 110 and 112, inform the physician of operational problems via means V The programmable information signal generator 70 also receives inputs from the movable electrical contact 48 and the moisture detectors 54 and 59 see Figures 2 and 4 . If body fluids leak into the medication reservoir 22, the movable electrical contact 48 will make electrical contact with 51, indicating this fault condition to the patient by activating the information signal generator 70. If the patient was unconscious, voltage levels on the patient s skin at the site of the medication dispensing unit 10 could be used by the physician to detect if a deviation has occurred and could, with a pulse coded embodiment, indicate which selected deviation in nominal performance it was. Further, as previously described, should fluid leak out of the medication reservoir 22 or if body fluid should leak in through the enclosure 60, the moisture detector 54 would sense such leakage and, as shown in Figure 8, would provide input to the information signal generator 70. Similarly, moisture detector 59 would signal the presence of medication or body fluid in the electronics compartment 56. Still another input to the information signal generator 70 comes from the power cell 26 associated with the transistor switch 98. The voltage level of the power cell 26 is thus communicated to the signal generator 70 a stimulation signal being generated when the battery voltage is below a predetermined level. It should be noted that the various mentioned conditions in the system result in stimulations each of which may all be the same or which may be different in stimulation pulse amplitude, duration, periodicity, interpulse spacing or other coding. For example, the stimulation may range between one to ten volts may vary in frequency over a wide range and, most importantly, a variety of unique pulse patterns may be used to indicate the various selected conditions or deviations in nominal performance. As discussed previously, additional signals to initiate an informational signal to the patient are derived from pulse count information in the pulse recorder 82 and pulse rate detector 84 of Figure 8 and might also be derived from any of a variety of optical, capacitive, inductive, liquid crystal, or other reservoir level measuring elements which might be utilized to inform the patient or physician when say only 10 or a 5 days supply of the medication remains in the reservoir. Referring to Figure 9, three pulse coded deviation signals are illustrated. In figure 9 A , two 1.5 second signals five seconds apart are repeated at fifteen minute intervals to indicate insufficient medication rate. In Figure 9 B , two 1.5 second signals ten seconds apart are repeated at thirty minute intervals to indicate a moisture leak. In Figure 9 C , two 1.5 second signals fifteen seconds apart are repeated every forty five minutes to indicate that the medication reservoir contains body fluids. Similar coding or a variation thereof can also be employed to indicate low battery voltage and undesirably high medication rate requests. It may also be desirable to have the same pattern for all alarms, but have a unique informational signal be provided only for the physician to determine the specific cause of that alarm. If that was done, then any one of the signal formats of Figure 9 could be used as the alarm pattern for the patient. Various other modifications, adaptations and alterations are of course possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore, it should be understood at this time that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.