# Reactive plastisol dispersion.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising 1 at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form, which is insoluble in the plasticizer at room temperature and plasticizable at a temperature at or above fluxing temper ature, and which thermoplast has a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 100 and 200 C 2 a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin hav ing on average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins in combination with a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula The plastisol dispersion after fluxing can form a ther moset sealant, coating or adhesive on exposure to heat.

## Claims
I CLAIM 1. A reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising 1 at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form, which is insoluble in the plasticizer at room temperature and plasticizable at a temperature at or above fluxing temperature and which thermoplast has a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 1000 and 2000C 2 a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having an average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins in combination with a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI33.1 wherein R is H or CH, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI33.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 3 an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin, which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts and, optionally, 4 a curing agent for the plasticizer group member comprising a free radical thermal initiator. 2. A fluxed reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising 1 at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast having a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 100 and 2000C 2 a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having an average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins in combination with a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI35.1 wherein R is H or CH, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI35.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 3 an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin, which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts and, optionally, 4 a curing agent for the plasticizer group member comprising a free radical thermal initiator. 3. The process for adhering two substrates or for sealing of folded seams which comprises 1 applying between the substrates to be bonded or to the folded seams to be sealed a reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising a at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form, which is insoluble in the plasticizer at room temperature and plasticizable at a temperature at or above fluxing temperature and which thermoplast has a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 1000 and 2000C b a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having on average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins and c an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts 2 heating the composition to its fluxing temperature below the melting point of the thermoplast to obtain a fluxed solid having handling strength and, thereafter, 3 heating the fluxed solid to a temperature for a time sufficient to obtain a thermoset bond or seal. 4. The process according to Claim 3 wherein the plasticizer contains in addition a member pf the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI38.1 wherein R is H or CH, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI38.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 5. The process according to Claim 4 wherein the composition contains a free radical thermal initiator for the plasticizer group member. 6. The process for adhering two substrates or for sealing of folded seams which comprises 1 applying between the substrates to be bonded or to the folded seams to be sealed a reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising a at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form b a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having on average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins and c an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts 2 heating the composition to a temperature below the melting point of the thermoplast for a time sufficient to flux and cure the composition and obtain a thermoset bond or seal. 7. The process according to Claim 6 wherein the plasticizer contains in addition a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI40.1 wherein R is H or CH, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI40.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 8. The process according to Claim 7 wherein the composition contains a free radical thermal initiator for the plasticizer group member. 9. The process for adhering two substrates or for sealing of folded seams which comprises 1 applying between the substrates to be bonded or to the folded seams to be sealed a fluxed, reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising a at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form having a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 100 and 2000C b a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having on average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins and c an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts 2 heating the composition to a curing temperature below the melting point of the thermoplast for a time sufficient to obtain a thermoset bond or seal. 10. The process according to Claim 9 wherein the plasticizer contains in addition a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI42.1 wherein R is H or CH, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI42.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 11. The process according to Claim 10 wherein the composition contains a free radical thermal initiator for the plasticizer group member. 12. The process according to Claim 3 wherein the heating in fluxing step 2 is carried out by electromagnetic heating. 13. The process according to Claim 12 wherein the electromagnetic heating is by dielectric heating. 14. The process according to Claim 12 wherein the electromagnetic heating is by induction heating.

## Description
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to a thermosettable adhesive sealant or coating plastisol dispersion composition which, on heating at or above the fluxing temperature but below the flow temperature of the thermoplast, rapidly provides handling strength and which can be crosslinked to give a thermoset seal, bond or coating on further heating. The invention also relates to a process for forming a crosslinked bond, seal or coating.2. Description of Prior Art In general, a plastisol is composed of a high molecular weight polymer dispersed in a plasticizer which is a material incorporated in a plastic to increase its workability. Upon heating, the plastisol turns to a pregelled dispersion, to a gelled dispersion and then to a fused dispersion. The viscosity of a plastisol decreases with the increase of temperature at the beginning. At a certain temperature, suddenly, the viscosity increases sharply and the liquid dispersion turns to an opaque solid, a gelled dispersion. This temperature is called minimum fluxing temperature defined as the temperature at which a plastisol develops sufficient physical integrity to permit being lifted from the fusion plate. Upon further heating at a higher temperature, the plastisol turns to a clear plasticized plastic. To prepare a plastisol, two basic ingredients, a high molecular weight polymer powder and a liquid plasticizer, are required to form a stable dispersion after blending.Physically, the plasticization process of a plastisol is the permeation of the plasticizer into the polymer particle to solvate the polymer molecules. The permeation rate P depends on the diffusion speed of the plasticizer D and the interaction between the plasticizer and the polymer S P DxS Under the assumption that a polymer is compatible with a certain plasticizer, two important factors, the molecular weight size and the structure of polymer and plasticizer, should contribute to the stability of a plastisol which is determined by the diffusibility of the plasticizer upon aging. A stable dispersion should not allow the diffusion to occur at or below storage temperature. To prevent a plasticizer from diffusing, the size of the plasticizer molecules has to be larger than that of the polymer free volume.Upon heating, the free volume increases with temperature and allows the plasticizer molecule to diffuse into a polymer particle when the temperature is high enough. Besides the kinetic process of plasticization, the capability of plasticization also depends on thermodynamic parameters. The plasticization should not occur when the free energy of mixing is greater than or equal to zero Gm 0 , even if the size of the plasticizer is as ideal as described above. Poly vinyl chloride and its copolymers, because of their low degradation temperature, eliminate hydrogen chloride and form a colored product below their melting temperature. Therefore, to use a melt process for these polymers without adding a plasticizer is difficult. The invention of plastisol technology has allowed these polymers to have excellent applicability and become the major polymers used in the plastisol industry.Unfortunately, the degradation of these polymers in service conditions is still an unacceptable problem in some applications due to hydrogen chloride elimination which promotes corrosion in metal and a reduction of polymer strength. To stabilize PVC plastisols in service and to enhance their service life, a crosslinkable, secondary plasticizer has been incorporated with a primary plasticizer for plastisol preparation. The secondary crosslinkable plasticizer includes reactive vinyl compounds such as trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate and tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate Dainippon, JP80 52,335 1980 G. F. Cowperthwalte, SPE Journal, 29, 56, 1973 , unsaturated polyesters Dainippon, JP80 21,474 1980 , diallyl compounds Shin Nippon Rika, JP72 40,853 1972 , and epoxy resins Dunlop, JP81 100,841 1981 . To further improve the structural properties and eliminate the problem of hydrogen chloride release of thePVC plastisol, the plastisol technology was extended to acrylic polymers for the preparation of thermally fusible acrylic plastisols. B. Graham Germ. Offenl. DE 28 12 016 1978 used esters as plasticizers and polyol acrylates as reactive diluents to prepare various reactive acrylic plastisols which formed a plasticized semiinterpenetrating network after crosslinking reactions. U. S. 4,020,966 teaches a plastisol composition containing as a resin component a copolymer of a normal alpha olefin and maleic anhydride in combination with a reactive polyepoxide plasticizer. In U. S. 4,332,713 a liquid or pasty thermosetting adhesive which can be pregelled is formed from poly vinyl acetal powder, dispersed in a liquid epoxy resin, heated above its melting point and, subsequently, cooled to room temperature to form a non tacky coating. However, the adhesive, which is subsequently cured by heating after the parts are joined together, becomes a liquid again i. e., no handling strength since the curing temperature is higher than the melting point of the dry pregelled coating. This invention concerns the preparation of an ideal reactive plastisol which is a system containing a reactive or non reactive polymer powder dispersed in a thermosetting plasticizer. The ideal reactive plastisol converts to a fused plastisol at minimum fluxing temperature, turns to a clear plasticized polymer at clear point and changes to a thermoset material after the crosslinking reaction. The characteristics of the reactive plasticizer thus include wide compatibility with polymer low vapor pressure high plasticization efficiency excellent aging stability upon storage and crosslinkability upon curing. This invention particularly concerns a class of reactive plastisols prepared from a polyvinyl acetal thermoplast and a combination of reactive plasticizers.Poly vinyl acetals , synthesized from poly vinyl alcohol and aldehydes, are being used in the laminate industry for making safety glass because of their excellent impact resistance. Poly vinly acetals have also been formulated into one package epoxy systems for coatings, adhesives, laminates and other applications by dissolving the ingredients in organic solvents Y. Mikogami et al. Eur. Pat 31,904 1981 Chisso, JP80 06,672 1980 J. V. Crivello, Germ. Offenl. 27 30 725 1978 A. Sato et al, JP 74 01,461 1974 Hitachi JP81 104,979 1981 M. Naps, U. S. 2,986,546 1961 J. N. Schurb, U. S.3,931,455 1976 . The powdered poly vinyl acetals have also been blended with a powder solid epoxy resin for a powder coating application K. Iko et al, JP79 29,338 1979 1. Furthermore, a mixture of poly vinyl acetals and liquid epoxy resin have also been processed into a film for an adhesive application by a melt process which requires heating the material above its melting temperature T. Kobayashi et al, JP74 126,734 1974 I. Motoki et al, JP75 20,575 1975 l. To use the reactive plastisol technology, which is a combination of plastisol and thermosetting technologies, the dispersion fuses into a plasticized solid at a temperature much lower than the melting point. Because the fluxing process is extremely quick, the thermosetting material provides a handling strength or B stage strength in a few seconds. The final cure can then be made to occur either right after fluxing or by subsequent heating to the cure temperature. OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION One object of the instant invention is to produce a novel process and composition. Another object of the instant invention is to produce a plastisol composition which is useful as an adhesive or sealant. Yet another object of the instant invention is to produce a plastisol composition which on curing substantially minimizes or precludes exuding or extraction of the plasticizer. Still another object of the invention is to produce a plastisol composition which on heating to the fluxing temperature acquires handling strength and cures to a thermoset at or above said fluxing temperature.A further object of the instant invention is to produce a process which comprises heating a reactive plastisol composition to at least its fluxing temperature but below the flow temperature of the thermoplast to flux the plastisol and develop handling strength and, thereafter, obtain a thermoset material by heating above its curing temperature. Other objects will become apparent from a reading hereinafter. DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a reactive plastisol dispersion composition comprising 1 at least one polyvinyl acetal thermoplast in powder form, which is insoluble in the plasticizer at room temperature and plasticizable at a temperature at or above fluxing temperature, and which thermoplast has a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of between 1000 and 2000C 2 a liquid plasticizer comprising an epoxide resin having on average more than one epoxide group in the molecule or a mixture of said epoxide resins in combination with a member of the group consisting of a at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer, oligomer or prepolymer of the formula EMI6.1 wherein R is H or CH3, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, b at least one unsaturated polyester containing the group EMI6.2 wherein R2 and R3 are organic moieties, x is 0 20 and y is 1 20, and c a mixture of a and b 3 an effective amount of a latent curing agent for said epoxide resin, which is inactive in the epoxide resin at room temperature and which is selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts and, optionally, 4 a curing agent for the plasticizer group member comprising a free radical thermal initiator.The plastisol dispersion after fluxing can form a thermoset sealant, coating or adhesive on exposure to heat. The plastisol of the invention operates in the same method as conventional plastisols. That is, herein the term plastisol11 refers to dispersions of finely divided thermoplastic resin particles in a liquid non volatile plasticizer in which the resin is insoluble and cannot be swollen by the plasticizer at room temperature. However, at elevated temperatures, the resin fluxes, i. e., is substantially completely plasticized by the plasticizer so that a homogeneous, solid solution is obtained which forms a rubbery thermoplastic mass. At this point the plastisol has handling mechanical strength. Further heating at or above the fluxing temperature results in a thermoset material with ultimate structural strength. If only the plasticizer is reactive, it will crosslink to a thermoset and form a semi interpenatrating network.If the reactive plasticizer reacts with the thermoplast, a crosslinked material results. In addition to the resin thermoplast and the plasticizer, the formulation may also contain latent curing agents, electrically conductive particles, fillers, pigments, stabilizers and various conventional compound ingredients. The plastisol compositions herein are formed by admixture of 100 parts by weight of the resin particles with about 50 to 2,000 parts by weight of plasticizer per 100 parts of resin and, when necessary, 0.5 to 20 parts by weight of a latent thermal initiator. Thereafter, the pasty plastisol admixture is heated at a temperature at or above the fluxing temperature which is lower than the melting point of the thermoplast resin for a time sufficient to plasticize the resin by the plasticizer to obtain a homogeneous, solid solution which is a rubbery mass. The fluxed product and pasty plastisol are both useful as adhesives or sealants.For example, the solid fluxed thermoplastic material can be placed between two adherends and heated at or above a temperature whereat either the thermal initiator decomposes and initiates curing of the plasticizer or the plasticizer, per se, initiates polymerization which results in a cured thermoset adhesive. The pasty plastisol dispersion can also be placed between two adherends and heated at or above the decomposition temperature of the initiator to flux and initiate the polymerization at the same time. The polyvinyl acetals used as a thermoplast in the instant invention are prepared from aldehydes and polyvinyl alcohols. Polyvinyl alcohols are high molecular weights synthetic resins containing various percentages of hydroxyl and acetate groups produced by hydrolysis of polyvinyl acetate. Polyvinyl alcohols are usually classified as partially hydrolyzed 15 30 polyvinyl acetate groups and completely hydrolyzed 0 58 acetate groups . Both types, in various molecular weight grades, are used in producing commercially available polyvinyl acetals. The conditions of the acetal reaction and the concentration of the particular aldehyde and polyvinyl alcohol used are closely controlled to form polymers containing predetermined proportions of hydroxyl groups, acetate groups and acetal groups. The final product may be represented by the following stylized structure EMI9.1 wherein R is H, CnH2n 1 wherein n is 1 10, unsaturated olefin or aryl groups. The poly vinyl acetals may be made either from poly vinyl alcohol or directly from poly vinyl acetate without separating the alcohol. The two most widely used polyvinyl acetals are polyvinyl formal and polyvinyl butyral. In the preparation of polyvinyl formal the direct process is normally used. That is, in a typical process, 100 parts of polyvinyl acetate are added to a mixture of 200 parts acetic acid and 70 parts water, which has been warmed to about 700C and stirred to complete solution.60 parts 40 formalin and 4 parts of sulfuric acid catalyst are added and the reaction is carried out for 24 hours at 700C. Water is added to the mixture with rapid agitation to precipitate the granules which are then washed free from acid and dried. Commercially available polyvinyl formal can have weight average molecular weights ranging from about 10,000 to about 40,000, a hydroxyl content expressed as percent polyvinyl alcohol ranging from 5.0 to 7.0, an acetate content expressed as percent polyvinyl acetate ranging from 9.5 to 30 and a formal content expressed as percent polyvinyl formal ranging from 68 to 82 . In a typical process for forming polyvinyl butyral, 140 parts of fully hydrolyzed polyvinyl alcohol are suspended in 800 parts of ethanol. 80 parts of butyraldehyde and 8 parts of sulfuric acid are added and the reaction is carried out at about 800C for 5 to 6 hours.The solution of polyvinyl butyral is diluted with methanol and the polymer precipitated by the addition of water during vigorous agitation. The polymer is then stabilized, washed and dried. Commercially available polyvinyl butyrals have weight average molecular weights ranging from 30,000 to 270,000, a hydroxyl content ranging from 9to 21 , an acetate content ranging from 0 to 2.5 and a butyral content ranging from 80 to 88 . Although these two polyvinyl acetates are the most widely used because of their commercial availability, other polyvinyl acetals such as polyvinyl propional, polyvinyl acetal and polyvinyl benzal are also operable herein. The polyvinyl acetal resin component of this invention is not restricted to any particular type of polyvinyl acetal resin. It may be made in accordance with conventional methods from polyvinyl acetate by a hydrolysis reaction followed by reaction with an aldehyde to form the acetal. Such methods are disclosed, for example, in U. S. Patent 2,307,588, incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Generally, polyvinyl acetal resins are made with the lower aldehydes, such as formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and butyraldehyde. Preferred as the polyvinyl acetal resin component of this invention is polyvinyl formal since it gives an adhesive of great toughness and heat resistance. In order to avoid ambiguity in terminology of the acetal resins, the term polyvinyl acetal resin l will be used to describe all the resins made from lower aldehydes. When it is desired to designate the polyvinyl acetal resin that is made from acetaldehyde, the sub generic term polyvinyl acetal from acetaldehyde will be used. The other specific polyvinyl acetal resins will be called by their conventional names. For example, the polyvinyl acetal resin made from the aldehyde formaldehyde will be called simply polyvinyl formal. The polyvinyl acetal particles used herein have a particle size in the range from about 0.1 to about 1,500 microns and flow temperatures at 1,000 psi in the range 100 2000C. The epoxy resin to be used in the composition of the invention comprises those materials possessing more than one epoxy, i.e.,EMI11.1 group. These compounds may be saturated or unsaturated, aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic and may be substituted with substituents, such as chlorine, hydroxyl groups, ether radicals and the like. The term epoxy resin when used herein and in the appended claims contemplates any of the conventional monomeric, dimeric, oligomeric or polymeric epoxy materials containing a plurality, more than one, e. g., 1.1,, epoxy functional groups. Preferably, they will be members of classes described chemically as a an epoxidic ester having two epoxycycloalkyl groups b an epoxy resin prepolymer consisting predominately of the monomeric diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A c a polyepoxidized phenol novolak or cresol novolak d a polyglycidyl ether of a polyhydric alcohol e diepoxide of a cycloalkyl or alkylcycloalkyl hydrocarbon or ether or f a mixture of any of the foregoing.To save unnecessarily detailed description, reference is made to the Encyclopedia ofPolymer Science and Technology, Vol. 6, 1967, Interscience Publishers, New York, pages 209 271, incorporated herein by reference. Suitable commercially available epoxidic esters are preferably, 3, 4 epoxycyclohexylmethyl 3,4 epoxycyclohexanecarboxylate Union Carbide ERL 4221, Ciba Geigy CY 179 as well as bis 3,4 epoxy 6 methylcyclohexyl methyl adipate Union Carbide ERL 4289 and bis 3,4epoxycyclohexylmethyl adipate Union Carbide ERL 4299 . Suitable commercially available diglycidyl ethers of bisphenol A are Ciba Geigy Araldite 6010, Dow Chemical DER 331, and Shell Chemical Epon 828 and 826. A polyepoxidized phenol formaldehyde novolak prepolymer is available from Dow Chemical DEN 431 and 438, and a polyepoxidized cresol formaldehyde novolak prepolymer is available from Ciba Geigy Araldite 538. A polyglycidyl ether of a polyhydric alcohol is available from Ciba Geigy, based on butane 1,4 diol,Araldite RD 2 and from Shell Chemical Corp., based on glycerine, Epon 812. A suitable diepoxide of an alkylcycloalkyl hydrocarbon is vinyl cyclohexene dioxide, Union Carbide ERL 4206. Other examples include the epoxidized esters of the polyethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic acids, such as epoxidized linseed, soybean, perilla, oiticica, tung, walnut and dehydrated castor oil, methyl linoleate, butyl linoleate, ethyl 9,12 octadecadienoate, butyl 9,12,15octadecatrienoate, butyl eleostearate, monoglycerides of tung oil fatty acids, monoglycerides of soybean oil, sunflower, rapeseed, hempseed, sardine, cottonseed oil and the like. In the instance when a portion of the reactive plasticizer is an acrylate, i. e., an acrylate terminated polyene, of the formula EMI13.1 wherein R is H or CH3, R1 is an organic moiety and n is 1 or more, the compound can be made by various reactants and methods. One of these acrylate terminated materials is a polyether polyol urethane polyacrylate formed by reacting a polyether polyol with a polyisocyanate and end capped with a hydroxyalkyl acrylate. Another material may be a polyester polyol urethane polyacrylate formed by reacting a polyester polyol with a polyisocyanate and end capped with a hydroxyalkyl acrylate. Still another material in this category is an epoxy acrylate formed by reacting a diepoxide with acrylic acid. Acrylate or methacrylate ester of an epoxy resin used herein are commercially available materials.One of such materials is Shell Co. sEpocryl Resin 370 having the idealized structure EMI13.2 n 0.2This material has a viscosity of 9,000 poises at 250C and contains 0.02 equivalents epoxide 100 g. The material is formed from the reaction of one mole of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A reacted with two moles of acrylic acid. Aside from substituted and unsubstituted acrylic acid being used to form the compound herein, hydroxyalkyl acrylate half esters of oxalic, malonic, succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic, suberic, azelaic, sebacic, phthalic, terephthalic, isophthalic acid and mixtures thereof are also operable. Thus, a generalized reaction for forming substituted or unsubstituted acrylate esters of an epoxy resin is as follows EMI14.1 wherein m is O or 1 n is 1 to 4 Rn and Rn are H orCH3 R4is CH CH ,EMI14.2 or p is 0 to 6 and R1 is an organic moiety with the valence of n.Examples of acrylate terminated polyenes operable herein include, but are not limited to, 1,3 butylene glycol diacrylate, diethylene glycol diacrylate, 1,6 hexanediol diacrylate, neopentyl glycol diacrylate, polyethylene glycol 200 diacrylate, tetraethylene glycol diacrylate, triethylene glycol diacrylate, pentaerythritol tetraacrylate, tripropylene glycol diacrylate, ethoxylated bisphenol A diacrylate, trimethylolpropane triacrylate, di trimethylol propane tetraacrylate, triacrylate of tris hydroxyethyl isocyanate, dipentaerythritol hydroxypentaacrylate, pentaerythritol triacrylate, ethoxylated trimethylolpropane triacrylate, triethylene glycol dimethacrylate, ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate, polyethylene glycol 200 dimethacrylate, 1,6 hexanediol dimethacrylate, neopentyl glycol dimethacrylate, polyethylene glycol 600 dimethyacrylate, 1,3 butylene glycol dimethacrylate, ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate, trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate, diethylene glycol dimethacrylate, 1,4 butanediol diacrylate, diethylene glycol dimethacrylate, pentaerythritol tetramethacrylate, glycerin dimethacrylate, trimethylolpropane dimethacrylate, pentaerythritol trimethacrylate, pentaerythritol dimethacrylate and pentaerythritol diacrylate.Monoacrylates such as n hexyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate and tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate are also operable as reactive plasticizers herein. Mixtures of the acrylate terminated polyenes with each other or with the unsaturated polyester plasticizers of the instant invention are also operable in weight ratios of 1 to 99 to 99 to 1. The acrylate terminated polyenes are admixed with the epoxy resin in amounts ranging from 2 to 95, preferably 5 to 50 by weight of the plasticizer. In the case where the reactive plasticizer is an unsaturated polyester, conventional unsaturated polyesters can be used, such as those described in Kirk Othmer,Encylopedia of Chemical Technology, 2nd Ed., Vol. 2, pp. 791 839, incorporated herein by reference. That is, conventional unsaturated polyesters operable herein are a class of soluble, linear, low molecular weight macromolecules which contain both carboxylic ester groups and carbon carbon double bonds as recurring units along the main chain. These resins are usually prepared by condensation of a ethylenically unsaturated dicarboxylic acids or anhydrides to impart the unsaturation, b saturated dicarboxylic acids to modify the resin and c diols.They are represented by the structural formula EMI16.1 wherein R2 and R3 are alkylene or arylene radicals in the diol and saturated acid respectively, and x and y are variable numbers which depend upon the composition and condensation conditions. Polyester alkyds can be diluted to a fluid state with methacrylates or other vinyl monomers. These mixtures are capable of very rapid copolymerization to produce strong solids. This freeradical initiated reaction proceeds via an addition mechanism involving the double bonds of both materials and leads to formation of a highly crosslinked structure. The diol can be propylene glycol, dipropylene glycol, diethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, polycaprolactone diol, butandiol polybutylene glycol or mixtures of glycols. When maleic anhydride is used, care must be paid to ensure isomerization of the maleate to fumarate.Maleate can be isomerized to fumarate catalytically or by the application of heat. However, use of isomerization catalysts can lead to crosslinking or other undesirable effects on the product. Fortunately, the polyesterification reaction is normally carried out at 2000C or slightly higher, and at these temperatures isomerization is concurrent with polyesterification.Typical polyester cook times range from 6 to 16 hours at temperatures from 1800C to as high as 2300C. Reaction temperatures much above 2200C can be detrimental, leading to side reactions and poor color of the product. Generally, substitution of fumarate for maleate as the unsaturated portion leads to higher flexural strength and modulus, higher hardness values, higher heat distortion temperatures and better chemical resistance in the cured systems. However, faster polymerization rates are also obtained. These differences can be equated to a higher crosslink density from the fumarate unsaturation. Acid catalysts such as sulfuric acid or p toluenesulfonic acid increase the rate of both esterification and isomerization, but usually cause color formation and other detrimental side reactions. For this reason catalysts are generally not used in high temperature reactions.However, metal salts or organometallic compounds are used as catalysts for direct esterification. Numerous metal salts have been used for catalyst action including, but not limited to, tetrabutyl or tetraoctyl titanate or zirconate or stannous oxalate in combination with sodium and zinc acetates. The unsaturated polyesters are admixed with the epoxy resin in amounts ranging from 1 to 95, preferably 5 to 35 by weight of the plasticizer. The addition of the acrylate terminated polyene, polyester or combination thereof to the plasticizer yields greatly improved handling strength on fluxing as will be shown in examples hereinafter. The thermal initiators used herein for curing the acrylate terminated polyene or the polyester portion of the reactive plasticizer are free radical initiators selected from substituted or unsubstituted pinacols, azo compounds, thiurams, organic peroxides and mixtures thereof. The organic peroxides operable are of the general formula R O O 1 n wherein n O or 1, R is independently selected from hydrogen, aryl, alkyl, aryl carbonyl, alkaryl carbonyl, aralkyl carbonyl and alkyl carbonyl and R1 is alkyl or aryl, said alkyl groups containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Examples of operable organic peroxides include, but are not limited to 2,5 dimethyl 2,5 di t butylperoxy hexane, 1,3 bis t butylperoxyisopropyl benzene, 1,3 bis cumylperoxyisopropyl benzene, 2,4 dichlorobenzoyl peroxide, caprylyl peroxide, lauroyl peroxide, t butyl peroxyisobutyrate, benzoyl peroxide, p chlorobenzoyl peroxide, hydroxyheptyl peroxide, di t butyl diperphthalate, t butyl peracetate, t butyl perbenzoate, dicumyl peroxide, l,l di t butylperoxy 3,3,5 trimethyl cyclohexane and di t butyl peroxide. The organic peroxide is added to the composition in an amount ranging from 0.01 10 , preferably 0.1 5 , by weight based on the weight of the acrylate terminated polyene and or polyester porticn of the reactive plasticizer. Examples of azo compounds operable herein include, but are not limited to, commercially available compounds such as 2 t butylazo 2 cyanopropane 2,2 azobis 2,4 dimethyl4 methoxy valeronitrile 2,Z azobis isobutyronitrile 2,2 azobis 2,4 dimethylvaleronitrile and l,l azobis cyclohexanecarbonitrile . The azo compound is added to the composition in an amount ranging from 0.001 5E, preferably 0.01 2 by weight based on the weight of the acrylate terminated polyene and or polyester portion of the reactive plasticizer. The thiurams operable as thermal initiators herein are of the formulaEMI18.1 wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 taken singly can be hydrogen, linear or branched alkyl having from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms, linear or branched alkenyl having from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having from 3 to about 10 ring carbon atoms, cycloalkenyl having from 3 to about 10 ring carbon atoms, aryl having from 6 to about 12 ring carbon atoms, alkaryl having from 6 to about 12 ring carbon atoms, aralkyl having from 6 to about 12 ring carbon atoms and, when taken together, R1 and R2 and R and R4 can each be a divalent alkylene 3 4 group CnH2n having from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, a divalent alkenylene group , CnH 2n 2 group having from 3 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkadienylene group CnH2n 4 having from 5 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkatrienylene group CnH2n having from 5 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkyleneoxyalkylene group , C H2xOC H2x t having a total of from 4 to x 2x about 12 carbon atoms or a divalent alkyleneaminoalkylene group EMI19.1 having a total of from 4 to about 12 carbon atoms. Operable thiurams include, but are not limited to, tetramethylthiuram disulfide, tetraethylthiuram disulfide, di N pentamethylenethiuram disulfide, tetrabutylthiuram disulfide, diphenyldimethylthiuram disulfide, diphenyldiethylthiuram disulfide and diethyleneoxythiuram disulfide and the like. The thiuram is added to the composition in an amount ranging from 0.005 5.0 by weight of the acrylate terminated polyene and or polyester portion of the reactive plasticizer. The substituted or unsubstituted pinacols operable herein as a thermal initiator have the general formula EMI20.1 wherein R1 and R3 are the same or different substituted or unsubstituted aromatic radicals, R2 andR4 are substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic or aromatic radicals and X and Y which may be the same or different are hydroxyl, alkoxy or aryloxy. Preferred pinacols are those wherein Rlr R2 R3 and R4 are aromatic radicals, especially phenyl radical and X and Y are hydroxyl. Examples of this class of compounds include, but are not limited to, benzopinacol, 4,4 dichlorobenzopinacol, 4,4 dibromobenzopinacol, 4,4 diiodobenzopinacol, 4,4 ,4 ,4 tetrachlorobenzopinacol, 2,4 2 ,4 tetrachloro benzopinacol, 4,41 dimethylbenzopinacol, 3,3l dimethyl benzopinacol, 2,2 dimethylbenzopinacol, 3,4 3 ,4l tetra methylbenzopinacol, 4,4 dimethoxybenzopinacol, 4,4 , 4 ,4 , tetramethoxybenzopinacol, 4,4 diphenylbenzopinacol, 414 dichloro 4 T,4 , dimethylbenzopinacol, 4,4 dimethyl 4 ,411 diphenylbenzopinacol, xanthonpinacol, fluorenonepinacol, acetophenonepinacol, 4,4 dimethylacetophenone pinacol, 4,4 dichloroacetophenonepinacol, 1,1,2 triphenyl propane 1,2 diol, 1,2,3,4 tetraphenylbutane 2,3 diol, 1,2 diphenylcyclobutane 1,2 diol, propiophenone pinacol, 4,4 dimethylpropiophenone pinacol, 2,2 ethyl 3,31 dimethoxypropiophenone pinacol, 1,1,l,4,4,4 hexafluoro 2,3 diphenyl butane 2,3 diol. As further compounds according to the present invention, there may be mentioned benzopinacol mono methylether, benzopinacol mono phenylether, benzopinacol and monoisopropyl ether, benzopinacol monoisobutyl ether, benzopinacol mono diethoxy methyl ether and the like. The pinacol is added to the composition in amounts ranging from 0.01 10 , preferably 0.1 5 , by weight based on the weight of the acrylate terminated polyene and or polyester portion of the reactive plasticizer. The thermal initiators employed for the epoxy resin are thermal initiators selected from dicyandiamide, melamine, guanamine, polycarboxylic acid polyhydrazides, carboxylic acid imides, imidazole derivatives, BF3 adducts and diaryliodonium salts. The BF3 adducts used herein as thermal initiators include, but are not limited to, C6H5NH2 BF3, 2,6 Et2C6H3NH2 BF3, EtNH2bBF3, sec Bu2NH BF3, Et2NH.BF3, C6H5 3P BF3, C6H5NMe2 BF3, Pyridine BF3 and Et3N.BF3, Et20.BF3, HOCH2CH2 3NBF3 and the like. The diaryliodonium salts operable herein as thermal initiators those set out in U. S. 4,238,587, and it is understood that so much of the disclosure therein relative to the diaryliodonium salts is incorporated herein by reference. That is, the diaryliodonium salts which can be utilized in the practice of the invention are shown as follows R a R1 bI Y 1 where R is a C 6 13 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, R1 is a divalent aromatic organic radical, and Y is an anion, a is equal to O or 2, b is equal to O or 1 and the sum of a b is equal to 1 or 2. Preferably, Y is an MQd anion where M is a metal or metalloid, Q is a halogen radical and d is an integer equal to 4 6. Radicals included within R of formula 1 can be the same or different aromatic carbocyclic radicals having from 6 to 20 carbon atoms, which can be substituted with from 1 to 4 monovalent radicals selected fromC 1 8 alkoxy, C 1 8 alkyl, nitro, chloro, etc. R is more particularly phenyl, chlorophenyl, nitrophenyl, methoxyphenyl, pyridyl, etc. Radicals included by R1 of formula 1 are divalent radicals such asEMI22.1 where Z is selected from O , S ,EMI22.2 R2is is 8 alkyl or C 6 13 aryl, and n is an integer equal to 1 8 inclusive. Metals or metalloids included by M of formula 1 are transition metals such as Sb, Fe, Sn, Bi, Al, Ga, In, Ti,Zr, Sc, V, Cr, Mn, Cs, rare earth elements such as the lanthanides, for example, Cd, Pr, Nd, etc., actinides, such as Th, Pa, U, Np, etc., and metalloids such as B, P,As, Sb, etc. Complex anions included by MQd are, for example, BF4 , PF6 ff AsF6 SbF6 , FeC14 SnCl6, SbCl6 , BiCl5 , etc. Some of the diaryliodonium salts which can be used in the practice of the invention are as follows EMI23.1 These thermal initiators are added to the system in an amount ranging from 1 to 10 by weight of the epoxy resin. Accelerators for the epoxy resin thermal initiators such as monuron, chlorotoluron and similar substances are also operable and can be added in amounts ranging from 0.1 to 10 parts by weight of the epoxy resin plasticizer. In practicing the invention, it is sometimes possible to use a thermal initiator for curing the plasticizer which decomposes at a temperature lower than the fluxing temperature of the plastisol, especially when the composition is quickly heated to the fluxing temperature.This is due to the fact that the fluxing rate is much faster than the curing rate at the fluxing temperature.Thus, one can heat quickly to the fluxing temperature, flux the plastisol and cool down below the decomposition temperature of the thermal initiator before curing occurs, thereby obtaining a thermoplastic plastisol ready to be cured to a thermoset adhesive on reheating. The heating step to cure the fluxed solid plastisol is usually carried out for a period of 10 seconds to 30 minutes at a temperature of 100 3000C, preferably 120 200 C which is sufficient to fully cure the composition to a solid thermoset adhesive, coating or sealant product. The heating step using a thermal initiator to cure the fluxed plastisol resin composition can be accomplished in several ways. In simple systems, the adhesive composition can be applied by manual means to an adherend, contacted with another adherend and the assembled system heated in a forced air oven until a thermoset bond results. Additionally and preferably, electromagnetic heating can be utilized as a faster and more efficient means of curing, especially where the substrates to be bonded are plastic materials. In addition to the formation of high strength bonds, electromagnetic bonding techniques aid in a fast bond setting times, and b automated part handling and assembly. In practicing the instant invention, electromagnetic heating can be employed with the adhesive composition herein to adhere 1 plastic to plastic, 2 plastic to metal and 3 metal to metal. For example, dielectric heating can be used to bond 1 and 2 supra if the adhesive composition contains sufficient polar groups to heat the composition rapidly and allow it to bond the adherends. Inductive heating can also be used to bond 1 , 2 and 3 . That is, when at least one of the adherends is an electrically conductive or ferromagnetic metal, the heat generated therein is conveyed by conductance to the adhesive composition thereby initiating the cure to form a thermoset adhesive.In the instance where both adherends are plastic, it is necessary to add an energy absorbing material, i. e., an electrically conductive or ferromagnetic material, preferably in fiber or particle form 10 400 mesh to the adhesive composition. The energy absorbing material is usually added in amounts ranging from 0.1 to 2 parts by weight, per 1 part by weight of the adhesive plastisol resin composition prior to fluxing. It is also possible to impregnate the plastic adherend at the bonding joint with particles of the energy absorbing material in order to use inductive heating, but care must be exercised that the plastic is not distorted. The particulate electromagnetic energy absorbing material used in the adhesive composition when induction heating is employed can be one of the magnetizable metals including iron, cobalt and nickel or magnetizable alloys or oxides of nickel and iron and nickel and chromium and iron oxide. These metals and alloys have high Curie points 7300 2,0400F Electrically conductive materials operable herein when inductive heating is employed include, but are not limited to, the noble metals, copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc as well as carbon black, graphite and inorganic oxides. There are two forms of high frequency heating operable herein, the choice of which is determined by the material to be adhered. The major distinction is whether or not the material is a conductor or non conductor of electrical current. If the material is a conductor, such as iron or steel, then the inductive method is used. If the material is an insulator, such as wood, paper, textiles, synthetic resins, rubber, etc., then dielectric heating can also be employed. Most naturally occurring and synthetic polymers are non conductors and, therefore, are suitable for dielectric heating. These polymers may contain a variety of dipoles and ions which orient in an electric field and rotate to maintain their alignment with the field when the field oscillates. The polar groups may be incorporated into the polymer backbone or can be pendant side groups, additives, extenders, pigments, etc. For example, as additives, lossy fillers such as carbon black at a one percent level can be used to increase the dielectric response of the plastisol adhesive. When the polarity of the electric field is reversed millions of times per second, the resulting high frequency of the polar units generates heat within the material. The uniqueness of dielectric heating is in its uniformity, rapidity, specificity and efficiency. Most plastic heating processes such as conductive, convective or infrared heating are surface heating processes which need to establish a temperature within the plastic by subsequently transfering the heat to the bulk of the plastic by conduction. Hence, heating of plastics by these methods is a relatively slow process with a non uniform temperature resulting in overheating of the surfaces. By contrast, dielectric heating generates the heat within the material and is therefore uniform and rapid, eliminating the need for conductive heat transfer. In the dielectric heating system herein the electrical frequency of the electromagnetic field is in the range 1 3,000 megahertz, said field being generated from a power source of 0.5 1,000 kilowatts. Induction heating is similar, but not identical, to dielectric heating. The following differences exist a magnetic properties are substituted for dielectric properties b a coil is employed to couple the load rather than electrodes or plates and c induction heaters couple maximum current to the load. The generation of heat by induction operates through the rising. and falling of a magnetic field around a conductor with each reversal of an alternating current source. The practical deployment of such field is generally accomplished by proper placement of a conductive coil.When another electrically conductive material is exposed to the field, induced current can be created. These induced currents can be in the form of random or eddy currents which result in the generation of heat.Materials which are both magnetizable and conductive generate heat more readily than materials which are only conductive. The heat generated as a result of the magnetic component is the result of hysteresis or work done in rotating magnetizable molecules and as a result of eddy current flow. Polyolefins and other plastics are neither magnetic nor conductive in their natural states.Therefore, they do not, in themselves, create heat as a result of induction. The use of the eletromagnetic induction heating method for adhesive bonding of plastic structures has proved feasible by interposing selected eletromagnetic energy absorbing materials in an independent adhesive composition layer or gasket conforming to the surfaces to be bonded, electromagnetic energy passing through the adjacent plastic structures free of such energy absorbing materials is readily concentrated and absorbed in the adhesive composition by such energy absorbing materials thereby rapidly initiating cure of the adhesive plastisol composition to a thermoset adhesive. Electromagnetic energy absorbing materials of various types have been used in the electromagnetic induction heating technique for some time. For instance, inorganic oxides and powdered metals have been incorporated in bond layers and subjected to electromagnetic radiation. In each instance, the type of energy source influences the selection of energy absorbing material. Where the energy absorbing material is comprised of finely divided particles having ferromagnetic properties and such particles are effectively insulated from each other by particle containing nonconducting matrix material, the heating effect is substantially confined to that resulting from the effects of hysteresis. Consequently, heating is limited to the Curie temperature of the ferromagnetic material or the temperature at which the magnetic properties of such material cease to exist. The electromagnetic adhesive composition of this invention may take the form of an extruded ribbon or tape, a molded gasket or cast sheet. In liquid form it may be applied by brush to surfaces to be bonded or may be sprayed on or used as a dip coating for such surfaces. The foregoing adhesive plastisol composition, when properly utilized as described hereinafter, results in a one component, solvent free bonding system which permits the joining of metal or plastic items without costly surface pretreatment. The electromagnetically induced bonding reaction occurs rapidly and is adaptable to automated fabrication techniques and equipment. To accomplish the establishment of a concentrated and specifically located heat zone by induction heating for bonding in accordance with the invention, it has been found that the electromagnetic adhesive plastisol compositions described above can be activated and a bond created by an induction heating system operating with an electrical frequency of the electromagnetic field of from about 5 to about 30 megacycles and preferably from about 15 to 30 megacycles, said field being generated from a power source of from about 1 to about 30 kilowatts, and preferably from about 2 to about 5 kilowatts. The electromagnetic field is applied to the articles to be bonded for a period of time of less than about 2 minutes. As heretofore mentioned, the electromagnetic induction bonding system and improved electromagnetic adhesive compositions of the present invention are applicable to the bonding of metals, thermoplastic and thermoset material, including fiber reinforced thermoset material. The following examples will help to explain, but expressly not limit, the instant invention. Unless otherwise noted, all parts and percentages are by weight. The lap shear strengths of the adhesives were measured on an Instron Tensile Tester using the method set out inASTM D 1002. Example 1 3 g of polyvinyl formal having a flow temperature at 1,000 psi of 160 1700C 1,000 microns particle sizeFormvar 15 95E from Monsanto and 0.4 g of dicyandiamide were dispersed in 7 g of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A Epon 828 from Shell . This dispersion was applied between two overlapped steel substrates and fluxed at 1400C for 10 minutes. The sample had a handling lap shear strength of 970 psi at room temperature. After curing at 1700C for 30 minutes, the overlapped sample developed a lap shear strength of 3,100 psi at room temperature. Example 2 The dispersion from Example 1 was applied between two overlapped fiber reinforced polyester SMC substrates and fluxed at 1400C for 10 minutes. A handling lap shear strength of 290 psi was obtained at room temperature. After curing at 1700C for 30 minutes, a structural lap shear strength of 620 psi measured at room temperature was obtained. Examples 3, 4 and 5 By replacing part of Epon 828 with varying amounts ofEpocryl 12 a methacrylate of Epon 828, commercially available from Shell and using the dispersions as adhesives, as in Examples 1 and 2, a significant improvement in lap shear strength after fluxing the sample at 1400C for 10 minutes was obtained. Additionally, the dispersions of Examples 1 and 2 and 3, 4 and 5 per se were formed into a plate between 2 pieces of release paper and fluxed by heating at 1400C for 10 minutes. A fluxed, rubbery product resulted in all cases. 4 samples of each of the fluxed products were measured for mechanical strength, i. e., tensile modulus psi. , tensile stress psi. and percent elongation. The lap shear strength of the adhesives after fluxing and curing and the mechanical strength of the fluxed material per se of the various dispersions in Examples 1 and 2 and 3, 4 and 5 are shown in TABLE I TABLE IExample 1 and 2 3 4 5Formvar 15 95E 30 30 30 30Epon 828 70 62.5 55 475Epocryl 12 7.5 15 22.5Dicyandiamide 4.2 3.8 3.3 2.9Benzopinacol 0.3 0.6 0.9Lap Shear psi for Steel SubstrateAfter fluxing 220 2,390 2,530 2,120 b 3,100 2,600 2,200 1,730After curing Lap Shear psi for SMC SubstrateAfter fluxing 290 380 380 410 After curing b 620 530 570 Substrate FailureMechanical strength of dispersion per seTensile modulus psi 340 3,930 19,000 149,000Tensile stress psi 310 600 678 1,220Elongation 8 284 164 104 1.18 a 1400C for 10 minutes b 1700C for 30 minutes Example 6 The dispersion from Example 1 was also used to evaluate how the handling strength of the reactive plastisol per se changes at various fluxing temperatures. TABLE II summarizes the handling strength of the dispersion after being fluxed at various temperatures for 10 minutes TABLE IIHeating Temperature OC 100 110 120 130 140Handling Lap Shear psi 80 100 150 180 970 Example 7 The dispersion from Example 1 was applied between two .2 steel substrates having a 1 2 in overlapping area. The sample was fluxed using an inductive heater manufactured by Cycle Dyne having 3 kw of power output. At 32 of power load, the dispersion was fluxed in 2 seconds to provide a handling lap shear strength of 1,500 psi, measured at room temperature.This fluxed adhesive developed a structural lap shear of 3,600 psi after further curing in an oven at 1700C for 30 minutes. Example 8 1.5 g of an unsaturated polyester, Dion 6694GA fromKoppers, was dissolved in 5.5 g of Epon 828. Into this solution, 3.0 g of Formvar 15 95E, 0.3 g of dicyandiamide and 0.06 g of benzopinacol were dispersed. Using this dispersion as an adhesive 35 mil thickness for cold roll steel substrates, having a 1 in2 overlap, a handling lap shear strength of 310 psi was obtained after fluxing at 1400C for 10 minutes. Similarly, this dispersion also provided 250 psi of handling lap shear strength to SMC at the same fluxing conditions. Example 9 Into a solution containing 0.9 g of an unsaturated polyester Dion 6694GA , 0.9 g of tetraethyleneglycol dimethacrylate and 5.2 g of Epon 828 were dispersed 3 g ofFormvar 15 95E, 0.3 g of dicyandiamide and 0.1 g of benzopinacol. The dispersion was used as an adhesive 35 2 mil thickness in a 1 in overlap for steel and SMC. After fluxing at 1400C for 10 minutes, the dispersion provided a handling lap shear strength of 860 psi to steel and 300 psi to SMC.