# Rubber to metal adhesion promoting compositions and the use thereof.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to new organic and inor ganic rubber to metal adhesion promoting compositions an their use. The compositions comprise metal salts, such as salts of cobalt or nickel, applied to a powdered, adsorbing carrier, such as a zeolite or a silica. Preferred organic adhesion promoting compositions comprise metal carboxy lates having from 1 to 22 carbon atoms. Especially suitable inorganic compositions are obtained by heating metal metaborate silica blends and or metal orthoborate silica blends resulting in metal polyborosilicates. The present compositions display very good adhesion properties, hardly or do not affect rubber properties and effec tively inhibit corrosion of the metal elements in the rubber.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of bonding rubber to metal elements contained therein by vul canizing, with the rubber containing a composition promoting the adhe sion to the metal elements, said composition comprising a metal ap plied to a powdered adsorbing carrier, which carrier does not dissolve in rubber and is physically and chemically stable at the vulcanization temperature of the rubber. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the carrier con sists of a zeolite. 3. A method according to claim 2, characterized in that the metal con sists of cobalt ions or nickel ions. 4. A method according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that the metal is used in an amount of 0,5 to 50 per cent by weight, calculated on the adhesion promoting composition. 5. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the carrier con sists of silica. 6. A method according to claim 5, characterized in that the silica has a specific surface area of 50 250 m2 g, a pore volume of 0,5 2,5 ml g and a water content of up to 3 10 by weight, calculated on the silica. 7. A method according to claim 5 or 6, characterized in that the metal is cobalt or nickel. 8. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that the adhesion pro moting composition comprises a cobalt or nickel carboxylate having in the range of from 1 to 22 carbon atoms applied to the silica carrier. 9. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that the adhesion pro moting composition is obtained by applying cobalt or nickel metaborate and or cobalt or nickel orthoborate to the silica carrier and heating the resulting blend, to from a polyborosilicate. 10. A composition comprising a cobalt or nickel carboxylate having in the range of from 1 to 22 carbon atoms applied to a silica carrier. 11. A composition obtainable by applying cobalt or nickel metaborate and or cobalt or nickel orthoborate to a silica carrier and heating the resulting blend to form a polyborosilicate. 12. Shaped objects entirely or partly consisting of vulcanized reinforced rubber obtained by the method of any one of the claims 1 to 9.

## Description
Rubber to metal adhesion promoting compositions and the use thereofThe present invention relates to a method of bonding rubber to metal elements contained therein by vulcanizing, with the rubber containing an adhesion promoting composition. A great many adhesion promoters have been proposed in the past.One of the promoters used in actual practice is cobalt naphthenate recommended in German Patent Specification 895 371.This substance as such can hardly be processed into a fine, loose powder.It is therefore difficult to mix into rubber.Further, U.S. Patent Specification 4 203 874 proposes as adhesion promoter a cobalt compound of the formula R 002 CoO 3B, wherein R represents an alkyl radical having 9 12 carbon atoms. This widely used adhesion promoter is commercially available under the trade name Manobond C from Wyrough and Loser Inc., Trenton, N.J. . As Manobond C is a liquid, it also is difficult to mix into rubber. Moreover, commonly used adhesion promoters such as Manobond C and cobalt naphthenate dissolve in the rubber, as a result of which the vulcanization and the aging properties of the rubber are adversely affected.The present invention does not show these drawbacks and relates to a method of the type indicated above, with the rubber containing a composition promoting the adhesion to the metal elements, said composition comprising a metal applied to a powdered, adsorbing carrier which does not dissolve in rubber and is physically and chemically stable at the vulcanization temperature of the rubber.The compositions display adhesion results that are not so much equivalent as superior to those obtained with the usual promoters. Moreover, the compositions to be prepared can readily be varied to suit them to the end use envisaged their effect on the rubber vulcanization rate is practically nil and they reduce the influence on adhesion of water contained in rubber. Furthermore, the compositions effectively inhibit corrosion of the metal elements. The carrier material should be in the form of a powder, be capable of adsorbing, be insoluble in rubber, be physically and chemically stable at the vulcanization temperature generally 1500 1800C and release the metals applied to it only gradually. If the carrier material should melt or decompose during vulcanization, a high proportion of the metals ap plied would be released at the same time. The resulting accelerated aging and loss of long lasting effectiveness would have a negative effect on the rubber properties. Suitable carrier materials are silica, alumina, silica alumina, zirconia, zeolites, talc, kaolin, diatonite, carbon black, chalk, gypsum and porous polymers that are stable at vulcanization temperature. It is preferred that use should be made of a zeolite or silica.As a zeolite there is preferably used a crystalline alumino silicate, more particularly one of the type A, X or Y. The metal is generally included in the zeolite by ion exchange. Of course, also part of the metal compound used for the ion exchange may be left in the pores of the zeolite. As a rule, the zeolite contains 0,5 50 by weight, more particularly 5 30 by weight of the metal, calculated on the total composition.The silica to be used as carrier material generally has a specific sur face area of 10 800 mê g, preferably 50 250 mê g measured by theBET method with nitrogen and a pore volume of 0,1 3,0 ml g, preferably 0,5 2,5 ml g measured by the water adsorption method . Although the silica may be present in the composition in the dried form, it has been found that the use of silica containing 40 by weight, and preferably 3 108 by weight of water, leads to very good results.The metal may be applied to the carrier in a simple way, for instance by impregnating or by spraying. Generally, the silica contains 0,5 30 by weight, preferably 1 15 by weight of the metal, calculated on the total composition. For the composition to be properly mixed into the rubber it must be in the form of a fine, non or hardly dusting powder.The particles should generally be s r. ler than 200 pm. It is preferred that the particle size should be in h range of 1 to 50 pm, more particularly 5 to 25 p m. Examples of suitable adhesion promoting metals include cobalt, nickel, zinc, lead and tin. Preference is given to the use of cobalt or nickel.The metals may be applied in the form of inorganic or organic compounds.As examples of suitable inorganic compounds may be mentioned metal salts, such as metal sulphates, metal phosphates, metal nitrates, metal nitrites, metal chromates, metal orthoborates, metal metaborates and metal sulphonates. It is preferred that use should be made of those salts of which also the anion plays an active corrosion inhibiting role, such as nitrites, chromates and metaborates. Of course, also mixtures of these salts may be applied.The usefulness of the sulphates and nitrates is surprising particularly in that these inorganic salts as such do not act as adhesion promoters see Rubber Chem. Technol. 32 1979 605 675 .Suitable organic compounds are metal carboxylates in which the carboxylate group has in the range of from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, such as formiates, acetates, propionates, naphthenates, stearates, resinates, abietates, 2 hexyl hexanoates, octanoates, versinates, cekanoates or mixtures thereof. Very suitable are mixtures containing 6 to 10 carbon atoms, in particular cobalt cekanoate, nickel cekanoate or mixtures thereof. The organic anions, too, play an active role in inhibiting corrosion.A particularly suitable organic composition according to the invention compromises cobalt cekanoate or nickel cekanoate applied to a silica carrier having a spercific surface area of 50 250 mê g, a pore volume of 0,5 2,5 ml g, and a water content of 3 10 by weight, calculated on the silica. The metal content of the composition is generally up to 0,5 30 , preferably 2 10 by weight.A particularly suitable inorganic composition according to the invention can be prepared by applying cobalt or nickel metaborate and or cobalt or nickel orthoborate to a silica carrier and heating the blend to form a polyborosilicate. The metal content of these polyborosilicates is generally 0,5 30 , preferably 10 158 by weight.The present compositions prepared can be widely varied with the end use envisaged. In the case of the non zeolitic carrier materials the metal compounds can be applied by impregnating or spraying. If the metal com pound is solid, it will first have to E dissolved. The solvent is of course dependent on the type of metal compounds. For an inorganic compound, for instance, water will be the most preferred solvent. For organic compounds use may be made of, for example, white spirit, oxytol and butyl carbitol.After the metal compound has been applied, the solvent may be removed by heating. In the case of the organic compositions according to the invention there is often no need for that. However, for the preparation of the inorganic compositions according to the invention, it is usually necessary for the carrier provided with the metal compound to be heated to a temperature of1000 800BC, preferably 1000 2000C, for a sufficiently long period to remove the solvent usually 0,1 to 24 hours .For instance, cobalt or nickel metaborate and or cobalt or nickel orthoborate may be dissolved in water being slightly acidic . The adhesionpromoting composition may be prepared by contacting a silica carrier with said solution and removing the water by heating the blend during 0,1 24 hours, preferably 6 20 hours, at a temperature of 1000 8000C, preferably 1000 2000C, whereby due to a polycondensation reaction a polyborosilicate is formed. Contacting can be effected by spraying the solution onto the silica or by impregnating the latter with this solution.Alternatively, this composition may be prepared by adding such amounts of a highly soluble metaborate salt, e.g. sodium metaborate, and a highly soluble cobalt or nickel salt, e.g. cobalt or nickel sulphate, to an aqueous slurry of a silica carrier as will cause cobalt or nickel metaborate to precipitate directly onto the silica, followed by isolating the metaborate silica blend and heating it to remove the water and to convert the blend into a polyborosilicate. Cobalt or nickel orthoborate may likewise be precipitated onto a silica carrier by adding appropriate amounts of a highly soluble cobalt or nickel salt, e.g. cobalt or nickel sulphate, and boric acid to an aqueous alkaline slurry of the silica carrier. After isolating and heating the orthoborate silica blend a polyborosilicate results. If water has been used as a solvent, the water content should generally be reduced to 40 by weight or less and preferably to up to 10 by weight calculated on the silica.It has been found that with the present invention only part of the metal is used up during vulcanizing. As a result, the promoter still has a favourable effect on rubber to metal adhesion during aging of the final shaped product. This is in contrast to rubber soluble adhesion promoters such as Manobond C, which during vulcanization is completely converted into compounds that do not contribute to adhesion, or corrosion protection.Moreover, the properties of the present composition may be optimized in a simple manner for any rubber formulation by adapting the metal content, the water content, the choice of the metal compound and the type of carrier material.The present composition serves to promote the rubber to steel adhesion, more particularly the adhesion of rubber to brass or zinc plated steel cord. Reinforced rubber compositions are used in the manufacture of a great many products, such as automobile tyres, conveyor belts and hose.The rubber to be used must be vulcanizable with sulphur. Examples of suitable rubbers include natural rubber, synthetic rubbers such as polybutadiene, EPDM, copolymers of butadiene and styrene, polyisoprene and mixtures thereof.The present composition may be mixed into the rubber in an amount of 0,1 50 parts, preferably 0,5 10, and more particularly 1 5 parts per 100 parts of rubber.In the rubber there may, of course, also be incorporated other components. For further particulars reference is made to US Patent Specification 4 203 874.The following examples serve to illustrate the invention. Examples 1 to 8Preparation of adhesion improving compositions 1. CoSo4 on silica Promoter I 281 g of CoSo4.7H2O were dissolved in 1 liter of demineralized water. Into a L5diger mixer there were charged 596 g of silica. This silica was of the KS 300 type marked by Akzo Chemie and had a specific surface area of 130 mê g, a pore volume of 1,0 ml g. Only 0,2 of the particles was greater than 40 m the average particle size was about 20 pm. Subsequently, 886,8 q of the CoSO4 solution were sprayed onto the silica. After homogenization the composition was dried for 16 hours at 1050C. The cobalt content of the composition was 7,8 by weight, its water content 5 by weight.2. Co NO3 2 on zeolite of the A SySe Promoter II 3200 g of Co NO3 2.6H2O were added to 2000 g of a zeolite of the Na A type. The pore diameter was 4 Angstroms, the average particle size 5 pm. The mixture was made up to 10 litres with water. Sodium ions were exchanged for cobalt ions with stirring for 3 hours at 700C. Subse quently, the zeolite was filtered, washed with water and again sub jected to an exchanging treatment as indicated above. After fil tration and washing the zeolite was dried for 24 hours at 1050C. The cobalt content of the composition was 26 by weight, its water con tent 1 .3. Ni NO3 2 on zeolite of the A type Promoter III The preparation was carried out in the manner indicated under 2, with the exception that instead of 3200 g of Co NO3 2.6H2O 3200 g of Ni NO . 6H2O were added to 2000 g of the Na A type. 32 The nickel content of the resulting composition was 24 by weight, its water content 1t. 4. Co naphthenate resinate on silica Promoter IV A mixture of 70 by weight of cobalt naphthenate, 23 by weight of cobalt resinate and 7 by weight of cobalt acetate was prepared as described in Example I of US 4 340 515. Of this mixture 100 g were dissolved in 200 g of butyl carbitol. After 240 g of silica of the KS 300 type from Akzo Chemie had been charged into a Lödiger mixer, the above mentioned solution was added to it with stirring. Subsequently, the mixture was homogenized for 10 minutes. The composition contained 1,94 by weight of cobalt and 1 by weight of water.5. o a t p lybor s 1 c te Promoter V 500 ml of an aqueous solution containing 7,75 g of CoSO4 were added dropwise to a vigorously stirred mixture of 500 ml of water containing 6,6 g of NaBO2 and 16,7 g of silica KS 300 ex Akzo Chemie over a period of 20 min. and at a temperature of 600C. The resulting slurry, which was kept at 600C, was stirred for 30 minutes and filtered. The filter cake was washed twice with 500 ml of water pH 7 and finally dried for 24 hrs at 1800C. During this drying stage the initially formed cobalt metaborate silica blend was quan titatively converted into cobalt polyborosilicate. The cobalt content of the composition was 15 by weight, its water content 2 by weight.6. Nickelolyborosilicate Promoter VI This preparation was carried out as described in Example 5, except that instead of 7,75 g of CoSO4 there were added 7,75 g of NiSO4. The nickel content of the composition was 15 by weight, its water content 2 by weight.7. Cobalt cekanoate on silica Promoter VII 294 g of cekanoic acid acid number 381,5 and 228,4 g of white spirit were charged to a reactor and heated to 800 900C, with stirr ing. After portionwise addition of 249,9 g of cobalt acetate. 4H2O 23,58 Co to this stirred mixture the reactor was closed and purg ed with nitrogen. The temperature was raised to about 105 C, while passing a continuous stream of nitrogen through the reaction mix ture to avoid foaming. Subsequently, water, acetic acid and white spirit were distilled off. The white spirit that had separated was returned to the reaction mixture. The reaction temperature was gradually increased to 1600C with refluxing. When no longer any reflux was observed, the reactor was slowly evacuated up to renewed refluxing to remove last traces of acetic acid.When there was no longer any separation of acetic acid, the vacuum was released, the reaction mixture cooled to 800C and discharged, resulting in 631 g of a reaction product consisting of cobalt cekanoate and white spirit. 551,3 g of the obtained reaction product were mixed with 448,7 g of silica Silica KS 300 ex Akzo Chemie and the mixture was homogen ized with a dissolver. The metal content of the resulting composi tion was 5,0 , its water content 3 by weight.8. Nickel cekanoate on silica Promoter VIII The preparation of nickel cekanoate was carried out in the same way as described in Example 7, except that instead of 249,9 g cobalt acetate there were used 249,0 g of nickel acetate.4H2O 23t588 Ni . The amount of reaction product, consisting of nickel cekanoate and white spirit, was 616 g. 543,5 g of this reaction product were applied to 456,5 g of silica using the procedure described in the last part of Example 7. The metal content of the resulting composition was 5,0 , its water con tent 3 by weight.Example 9Use in rubber mixtureThe adhesion promoting compositions were added to a rubber formulation made up as follows natural rubber 100 parts carbon black LS HAF type 55 parts Zn O 10 parts stearic acid 2 parts N 1,3 dimethyl butyl N phenyl p phenylene diamine antioxidant 2 parts process oil 5 parts sulphur 4 parts morpholino thio benzothiazole sulphenamide accelerator 0,8 partsIn each case the adhesion promoting composition had been added in an amount such that expressed in metal content the rubber compound contained 0,16 parts by weight, calculated on 100 parts by weight of rubber.The rubber formulation and the adhesion promoting composition were mixed at 700C.For comparison compounds were prepared containing no adhesion promoting composition control and compounds containing Manobond C. Manobond C has a Co content of 16 wt. .The rubber compounds were reinforced with brass plated steel cord fromEnka , type 4 x 0,25 mm, with 68,4 Cu and 4,5 g kg brass plating weight.The length of embedment was 10 mm. The compounds were vulcanized at 1500C for the optimum vulcanization time determined with a Monsanto rheometer tCgo . The t 90 is the time in minutes required to attain 90 of the maximum modulus.The adhesion of rubber to steel cord was measured in conformity withASTM D 2229 73 specifications. Of series of 24 pulls each the pull out forces were averaged. Of the cords pulled out also the rubber coverage was determined.The adhesion of the rubber to the steel cord was determined in 3 different ways immediately after vulcanization test A after vulcanization followed by aging for 8 hours at 1200C in satur ated steam itest B after vulcanization following 14 days storage of the unvulcanized embedded cords at 400C and 98 relative humidity green aging test C . The results are listed in the table below EMI10.1 tb SEP tc90 SEP adhesion tb SEP in SEP test SEP A SEP test SEP B SEP test SEP C tb SEP min SEP pull out SEP rubber SEP SEP pull out SEP rubber SEP pull out SEP rubber tb SEP Promoter SEP force SEP cover SEP SEP force SEP cover SEP force SEP cover tb SEP age SEP age SEP age tb SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP SEP tb control SEP 11,6 SEP 290 SEP 50 SEP 220 SEP 0 SEP 155 SEP 20 tb Manobond SEP C SEP 9,2 SEP 390 SEP 70 SEP 320 SEP 30 SEP 175 SEP 20 tb SEP I SEP 10,8 SEP 395 SEP SEP 70 SEP 260 SEP 30 SEP 170 SEP 30 tb SEP II SEP 11,8 SEP 360 SEP 80 SEP SEP 300 SEP 50 SEP 220 SEP 40 tb SEP III SEP 11,9 SEP 360 SEP SEP 80 SEP 320 SEP 40 SEP 210 SEP 40 tb SEP VII SEP 11,2 SEP 445 SEP 90 SEP 360 SEP 50 SEP 275 SEP 60 tb The above results show that the present organic compositions affect the rubber properties to a lesser degree than Manobond C cf. tc90 and display equivalent or even better adhesion results. Moreover, the present compositions can be mixed into rubber at 700C more satisfactorily thanManobond C.Example 10Use in rubber mixturePromoters V and VI were subjected to the tests A and B described in Example 9. The adhesion tests also comprised compounds containing 0,32 parts of metal per 100 parts of rubber. The results are listed in the table below. EMI11.1 tb SEP rheometer SEP adhesion tb SEP test SEP A SEP test SEP B tb SEP Promoter SEP 0,16 SEP pe SEP rts SEP of SEP 0,32 SEP parts SEP of SEP metal SEP 0,16 SEP parts SEP of SEP metal SEP 0,32 SEP parts SEP of tb SEP pull SEP rubber SEP pull SEP rubber SEP pull SEP rubber SEP pull SEP rubber SEP tb SEP tcgg SEP out SEP cover SEP out SEP cover SEP out SEP cover SEP out SEP cover tb SEP force SEP age SEP force SEP age SEP force SEP age SEP force SEP age tb SEP min SEP N lOmm SEP SEP N lOmm SEP SEP N lOmm SEP 8 SEP N lOmm SEP SEP tb SEP control SEP 11,5 SEP 390 SEP 90 SEP 370 SEP 70 SEP 300 SEP 30 SEP 270 SEP 30 tb Manobond SEP C SEP 9,0 SEP 440 SEP 100 SEP 380 SEP 70 SEP 290 SEP 40 SEP 240 SEP 20 tb SEP V SEP 11,5 SEP 400 SEP 90 SEP 415 SEP 90 SEP 350 SEP 70 SEP 360 SEP 80 tb SEP VI SEP 11,5 SEP 400 SEP 90 SEP 410 SEP 90 SEP 340 SEP 60 SEP 360 SEP 70 tb Promoter V was also tested for improvement of the rubber to steel adhesion after vulcanization followed by immersion in a 5 wt. NaCl solution in water at 900C for 72 hrs test D . For these tests the rubber compounds were reinforced with cord of the 4 x 0,25 mm type containing 68 Cu and 3,5 g kg plating weight, which is a well known steel cord displaying maximum possible inherent corrosion resistance. Addition levels of 0,16 and 0,80 parts of metal per 100 parts of rubber were used.The results are listed in the table below. EMI12.1 tb SEP adhesion tb SEP test SEP A SEP SEP test SEP B SEP test SEP D tb SEP 24 SEP hrs, SEP 120 C tb SEP pull SEP out SEP rubber SEP pull SEP out SEP rubber SEP pull SEP out SEP rubber tb SEP Promoter SEP force SEP cover SEP force SEP cover SEP force SEP cover tb SEP age SEP age SEP age tb SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP SEP N 10 SEP mm SEP tb SEP control SEP 280 SEP 90 SEP 280 SEP 30 SEP 95 SEP 10 tb SEP anobond SEP C tb SEP 0,16 SEP parts SEP Co SEP SEP 400 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 270 SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP 20 tb anobond SEP C tb SEP 0,80 SEP parts SEP Co SEP 355 SEP 70 SEP 110 SEP 0 SEP 80 SEP 0 tb SEP V tb 0,16 SEP parts SEP Co SEP 300 SEP 70 SEP 315 SEP 60 SEP 85 SEP 0 tb SEP V SEP tb 0,80 SEP parts SEP Co SEP SEP 350 SEP SEP 90 SEP SEP 300 SEP SEP 60 SEP SEP 210 SEP SEP 50 SEP tb From the results in the tables of this Example it can be observed that un like Manobond C the present inorganic compositions do not affect the rubber properties cf. tc90 . Moreover they result in a marked improvement both of steam aged adhesion and adhesion following corrosion in salt solutions.The present compositions become increasingly effective with increasing level of addition of up to a level of 0,80 parts of metal per 100 parts of rubber. At high levels even initial adhesion is found to improve cf. testA . This is indicative of the occurrence of corrosive side effects even in the early stage of bonding.