# A DNA transfer vector, a microorganism modified by said vector and the synthesis of a eucaryotic protein by the modified microorganism.

## Abstract
A deoxyribonucleic acid DNA transfer vector is provided which comprises a nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein joined to a procaryotic control fragment, the respective reading frames being in register, and the respective directions of transcription being the same. By connecting a eucaryotic gene to a gene for a pro tein normally compartmentalized or protected from intra cellular degradation in some manner, the stability of a chimeric protein may by enhanced. A eucaryatic gene may be linked to a gene which has desirable genetic properties. In addition to the DNA transfer vector, the invention also provides a microorganism transformed by the transfer vec tor, a protein synthesised by such a microorganism, and a method of synthesising a protein.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A DNA transfer vector comprising a nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein joined to a procaryotic control fragment, the reading frame of said nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein being in register with the reading frame of said control fragment, and the direction of transcription of said nucleotide sequence coding for a eucaryotic protein being the same as the direction of transcription of said control fragment. 2. The transfer vector of claim 1 wherein, upon transformation of a microorganism therewith, a chimeric protein is synthesized comprising an N terminal amino acid sequence coded by the procaryotic control fragment joined to the eucaryotic protein as the C terminal amino acid sequence. 3. The transfer vector of claim 1 wherein the eucaryotic protein is insulin. 4. The transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the chimeric protein synthesized comprises an N terminal amino acid sequence coded by the procaryotic control fragment joined to insulin as the C terminal amino acid sequence. 5. The transfer vector of claim 3 wherein the eucaryotic protein is human insulin. 6. The transfer vector of claim 1 wherein the eucaryotic protein is growth hormone. 7. The transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the chimeric protein comprises an N terminal amino acid sequence coded by the control fragment joined to growth hormone as theC terminal amino acid sequence. 8. The transfer vector of claim 6 wherein the eucaryotic protein is human growth hormone. 9. The transfer vector of claim 2 wherein the procaryotic control fragment is that portion of the E. coli lactose operon comprising the initiator of transcription and initiator of translation regions thereof. 10. The transfer vector of claim 7 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises that portion of the. E. coli beta lactamase gene coding for the initiation of transcription and the initiation of translation regions thereof. 11. A transfer vector according to any one of claims 1 10, contained, replicated and expressed in a microorganism. 12. A transfer vector according to claim 2 wherein the transfer vector is the plasmid pLRI Z. 13. A transfer vector according to claim 2 wherein the transfer vector is the plasmid pExRGH. 14. A microorganism containing and expressing a eucaryotic gene. 15. The microorganism of claim 14 wherein the eucaryotic gene codes for insulin. 16. The microorganism of claim 14 wherein the eucaryotic gene codes for growth hormone. 17. The microorganism of claim 15 wherein the microorganism is Escherichia coli. 18. The microorganism of claim 17 transformed by the plasmid pLRI 2. 19. The microorganism of claim 16 wherein the microorganism is. Escherichia coli. 20. The microorganism of claim 19 transformed by the plasmid pExRH, . 21. A protein, synthesized by a microorganism, comprising the amino acid sequence of a eucaryotic protein. 22. The protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of insulin. 23. The protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of human insulin.. 24. The protein of claim 22, synthesized by Escherichia coli, comprising additionally a portion of the N terminal amino acid sequence of Escherichia coli beta galaEbosidase. 25. A protein according to claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of a growth hormone. 26. The protein of claim 21 comprising the amino acid sequence of human growth hormone. 27. The protein of claim 25, synthesized by Escherichia coli, comprising additionally a portion of the N terminal amino acid sequence of Escherichia coli beta lactamase. 28. A method for synthesizing a protein coded by a eucaryotic gene in a microorganism comprising the steps of, a selecting an expressable bacterial gene comprising a region controlling initiation of transcription and initiation of translation, b providing a purified nucleotide sequence comprising the eucaryotic gene, c cleaving the bacterial gene and the nucleotide sequence thereby producing a procaryotic control fragment comprising a region controlling the initiation of transcription and initiation of translation and a nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene, d joining the control fragment and nucleotide sequence fragment in such orientation that the direction of transcription is the same for both fragments, transcription is initiated beginning with the control fragment and the reading frames of both fragments are in register, thereby producing a fused gene comprising a fragment of a bacterial gene and a fragment of a nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene. e incorporating the fused gene into a transfer vector, thereby producing an expression transfer vector, f transforming a microorganism with the expression transfer vector, g selecting colonies of microorganisms containing the expression transfer vector, and h growing the selected microorganism containing the expression transfer vector under conditions permitting expression of the fused gene, whereby the eucaryotic gene is expressed. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the bacterial gene contains a restriction site, the gene is cleaved in step c with a restriction endonuclease, the control fragment thereby produced is modified by exonuclease digestion of unpaired ends and the modified control fragment is further modified by the addition of a synthetic restriction site linker sequence at one or both ends. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the microorganism is the bacteria Escherichia coli, the bacterial gene is E. coli beta galactosidase, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene is the insulin fragment pAU 1 and the resulting expression fragment is pLRI 1. 31. The method of claim 28 wherein the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene has a restriction site, the nucleotide sequence is cleaved with a restriction endonuclease, the nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene produced in step c is modified by exonuclease digestion to remove unpaired ends, and the modified fragment is further modified by the addition of synthetic restriction site nucleotide sequences at one or both ends. 32, The method of claim 31 wherein the microorganism is the bacterium E. coli, the eucaryotic gene fragment comprises the insulin gene fragment formed by combining pAU 1 and pAU 2 at their common Alul site and the expression transfer vector formed in step f is the plasmid pLRI 2. 33. The method of claim 28 wherein the bacterial gene has a restriction site, the gene is cleaved in step c with a restriction endonuclease, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene has the same restriction site as in the bacterial gene, and the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene is cleaved in step c with a restriction endonuclease to produce a nucleotide sequence fragment comprising the eucaryotic gene. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the microorganism is the bacteria Eschirichia coli, the bacterial gene comprises the beta lactamase gene, the nucleotide sequence comprising a eucaryotic gene comprises the rat growth hormone gene and the expression transfer vector formed in step e is the plasmid pExRGH. 35. The transfer vector of claim I wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of a structural gene for a protein normally protected from intracellular degradation by compartmentalization. 36. The transfer vector of claim 35 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of the structural gene for a protein normally excreted into the growth medium. 37. The transfer vector of claim 35 wherein the procaryotic control fragment comprises a portion of the structural gene for beta lactamase. 38. The bacteria Eschirichia ooli strain CSH 20 containing and replicating plasmid pLRI 2. 39. The bacteria Eschirichia coli strain P678 54 containing and replicating plasmid pExRGH.

## Description
SYNTHESIS OF A EUCARYOTI C PROTEIN BY A MICR OORG ANISM The following applications are incorporated herein by reference Serial No. 897,709, filed April 19, 1978, SerialNo. 897,710, filed April 19, 1978 and Serial No. 898,887, filed April 21, 1978. The Government has rights in this invention pursuant toGrants No. AM 21344, CA 14026 and AM 19997 awarded by theDepartment of Health, Education and Welfare. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Developments in recombinant DNA technology have made it possible to isolate specific genes or portions thereof from higher organisms, such as man and other mammals, and to transfer the genes or fragments to a microorganism species, such as bacteria or yeast. The transferred gene is replicated and propagated as the transformed microorganism replicates. As a result, the transformed microorganism may become endowed with the capacity to make whatever protein the gene or fragment encodes, whether it be an enzyme, a hormone, an antigen or an antibody, or a portion thereof. The microorganism passes on this capability to its progeny, so that in effect, the transfer has resulted in a new strain, having the described capability..See, for example, Ullrich, A. et al., Science 196, 1313 t1977 , and Seeburg, PWH., et al., Nature 270, 486 19776. A basic fact underlying the application of this technology for practical purposes is that DNA of all living organisms, from microbes to man, is ehemically similar, being composed of the same four nucleotides. The significant differences lie in the sequence of these nucleotides in the polymeric DNA molecule. The nucleotide sequences are used to specify the amino acid sequences of proteins that comprise the organism. Although most of the proteins of different organisms differ from each other, the coding relationship between nucleotide sequence and amino acid sequence is fundamentally the same for all organisms.For example, the same nucleotide sequence which codes for the amino acid sequence of growth hormone in human pituitary cells, will, when transferred to a microorganiam, be recognized as coding for the same amino acid sequence. Abbreviations used herein are given in Table 1. Table I DNA deoxyribonucleic acid A Adenine RNA ribonucleic acid T Thymine cDNA complementary DNA G Guanine enzymatically synthesized C Cytosine from an mRNA sequence U Uracil mRNA messenger RNA Tris 2 amino 2 dATP. deoxyadnosine tri hydroxyethyl 1 1, phosphate 3,propanediol dGTP deoxyguanosine tri EDTA ethylenediamine phosphate tetraacetic acid dCTP deoxycytidine tri ATP adenosine tri phosphate phosphate FISCS Human chorionic soma TTP thymidine tri tomammotropin phosphate TCA Trichloroacetic acid RGH Rat growth HGH Human growth hormone hormone The coding relationships between nucleotide sequence inDNA and amino acid sequence in protein are collectively known as the genetic code, shown in Table 2. Table 2 Genetic Code Phenylalanine Phe TTK Histidine His CAK Leucine Leu XTV Glutamine Gln CAJ Isoleucine Ile ATM Asparagine Asn AAK Methionine Met ATG Lysine Lys AAJ Valine Val GTL Aspartic acid Asp GAK Serine Ser QRS Glutamic acid Glu GAJ Proline Pro CCL Cysteine Cys TGK Threonine Thr ACL Tryptophan Try TGG Alanine Ala GCL Arginine Arg WGZ Tyrosine Tyr TAK Glycine Gly GGL Termination signal TAJ Termination signal TGAKey Each 3 letter triplet represents a trinucleotide of mRNA, having a 5 end on the left and a 3 end on the right. The letters stand for the purine or pyrimidine bases forming the nucleotide sequence. A adenine J A or G G guanine K T or C C cytosine L A, T, C or G T thymine M A t A, C or T X T or C if Y is A or G X C if Y is C or T Y A, G, C or T if X is C Y A or G if X is T W C or A if Z is A or G W C if Z is C or T Z i A, G, C or T if W is C Z A or G if W is A QR TC if S is A, G, C or T QR AG iE S is T or C S A, G, C or T if QR is TC S 4 T or C if QR is AG An important feature of the code, for present purposes, is the fact that each amino acid is specified by a trinucleotide sequence, also known as a nucleotide triplet. The phosphodiester bonds joining adjacent triplets are chemically indistinguishable from all other internucleotide bonds inDNA.Therefore the nucleotide sequence canrot be read to code for a unique amino acid sequence without additional information to determine the reading frame, which is the term used to denote the grouping of triplets used by the cell in decoding the genetic message. Many recombinant DNA techniques employ two classes of compounds, transfer vectors and restriction enzymes, to be discussed in turn. A transfer vector is a DNA molecule which contains, inter alia, genetic information which insures its own replication when transferred to a host microorganism strain. Examples of transfer vectors commonly eased in bacterial genetics are plasmids and the DNA of certain bacteriophages. Although plasmids have been used as the transfer vectors for the work described herein, it will be understood that other types of transfer vector may be employed. Plasmid is the term applied to any autonomously replicating DNA unit which might be found in a microbial cell, other than the genome of the host cell itself. A plasmid is not genetically linked to the chromosome of the host cell.Plasmid DNA s exist as double stranded ring structures generally on the order of a few million daltons 8 molecular weight, although some are greater than 10 daltons in molecular weight. They usually represent only a small percent of the total DNA of the cell, Transfer vector DNA is usually separable from host cell DNA by virtue of the great difference in size between them. Transfer vectors carry genetic information enabling them to replicate within the host cell, in some cases independently of the rate of host cell division. Some plasmids have the property that their replication rate can be controlled by the investigator by variations in the growth conditions. Plasmid DNA exists as a closed ring.However, by appropriate techniques, the ring may be opened, a fragment of heterologous DNA inserted, and the ring reclosed, forming an enlarged molecule comprising the inserted DNA segment. Bacteriophage DNA may carry a segment of heterologous DNA inserted in place of certain non essential phage genes. Either way, the transfer vector serves as a carrier or vector for an inserted fragment of heterologous DNA. Transfer is accomplished by a process known as trans formation. During transformation, bacterial cells mixed with plasmid DNA incorporate entire plasmid molecules into the cells. Although the mechanics of the process remain obscure, it is possible to maximize the proportion of bacterial cells capable of taking up plasmid DNA and hence of being transformed, by certain empirically determined treatments. Once a cell has incorporated a plasmid, the latter is replicated within the cell and the plasmid replicas are distributed to the daughter cells when the cell divides. Any genetic information contained in the nucleotide sequence of the plasmid DNA can, in principle, be expressed in the host cell. Typically, a transformed host cell is recognised by its acquisition of traits carried on the plasmid, such as resistance to certain antibiotics. Different plasmids are recognizable by the different capabilities or combination of capabilities which they confer upon the host cell containing them. Any given plasmid may be made in quantity by growing a pure culture of cells containing the plasmid and isolating the plasmid DNA therefrom. Restriction endonucleases are hydrolytic enzymes capable of catalyzing site specific cleavage of DNA molecules.The locus of restriction endonuclease action is determined by the existence of a specific nucleotide sequence. Such a sequence is termed the recognition site for the restriction endonuclease. Restriction endonucleases from a variety of sources have been isolated and characterized in terms of the nucleotide sequence of their recognition sites. Some restriction endonucleases hydrolyze the phosphodiester bonds on both strands at the same point, producing blunt ends.Others catalyze hydrolysis of bonds separated by a few nucleotides from each other, producing free single stranded regions at each end of the cleaved molecul8f. Such single stranded ends are self cctementary, hence cohesive, and may be used to rejoin the hydrolyzed DNA. Since any DNA susceptible of cleavage by such an enzyme must contain the same recognition site, the same cohesive ends will be produced, so that it is possible to join heterologous sequences of DNA which have been treated with restriction endonuclease to other sequences similarly treated. See Roberts, R.J., Crit, Rev. Biochem. 4, 123 1976 .Restriction sites are relatively rare, however, the general utility of restriction endonucleases has been greatly amplified by the chemical synthesis of double stranded oligonucleotides bearing the restriction site sequence. Therefore virtually any segment of DNA can be coupled to any other segment simply by attaching the appropriate restriction oligonucleotide to the ends of the molecule, and subjecting the product to the hydrolytic action of the appropriate restriction endonuclease, thereby producing the requisite cohesive ends.See Heyneker, H.L., et al., Nature 263, 748 1976 andScheller, R.H , et al., Science 196, 177 1977 . An important feature of the distribution of restriction endonuclease recognition sites is the fact that they are randomly distributed with respect to reading frame. Consequently, cleavage by restriction endonuclease may occur between adjacent codons or it may occur within a codon. More general methods for DNA cleavage or for end sequence modification are available. A variety of nonspecific endonucleases may be used to cleave DNA randomly, as discussed infra. End sequences may be modified by addition of random sequences of dA dT or dG dC, to create restriction sites without the need for specific linker sequences. Using recombinant DNA techniques, as described in application Serial No. 897,710 and by Seeburg, P.H., et al., supra, the gene coding for rat growth hormone has been isolated, purified, incorporated into a plasmid transfer vector and transferred to the microorganism Escherichia coli, therey creating a strain of E. Coli having the genetic capacity to make rat growth hormone. The existence of such an organism is of great potential value in the pharmaceutical industry. The growth hormones of mammalian species are closely related in structure and amino acid sequence. Although the hormones from some species are active in other species, this is not always the case.Most non primate growth hormones, for example, are ineffective in humans. The hormone is synthesized by the pituitary gland in tiny quantities. Until now, supplies of any growth hormone, and especially human growth hormone, have been extremely small. Clinical and investigational availability is very limited. The means for producing growth hormones of humans and animal species is of enormous significance in pharmacology, human medicine, veterinary medicine and animal husbandry. Human growth hormone has medical utility in the treatment of several defects of human growth and development.The hormone may be obtained from human cadavers and is used in the treatment of severe cases of pituitary dwarfism. The cost of treatment is currently estimated to be 5000.00 per year per patient. More than 1000 new patients require treatment each year although the great expense limits availability of treatment to the most severe cases. If an adequate supply of hormone were available at reasonable cost an estimated additional 10,000 patients with less severe growth hormone deficiency or with certain other growth problems would be treatable. In addition, there is evidence that human growth hormone may be useful for treating a number of other medical problems such as gastrointestinal hemmorhage, fracture healing, metabolic bone disease and wound healing.There is presently insufficient hormone to rigorously . determine the utility of such therapy. Animal growth hormones have commercial utility, particularly in the case of animals raised four slaughter, where rapid maturation and large size are desirable attributes, and where maximum conversion of feed into protein is economically beneficial. By transferring the growth hormone gene to a microorganism, it is possible to develop a fermentation technology capable of producing growth hormone in the desired quantities, from the desired source, at a fraction of the current cost. However, it was observed that when the growth hormone gene was initially transferred to the microorganism, it was not expressed detectable levels of growth hormone synthesis by the microorganism were not observed. Using recombinant DNA techniques, as ascribed in application Serial No. 897,709 and by Ullrich, A., supra, the gene coding for rat insulin has been isolated, purified, incorporated into a plasmid transfer vector and transferred to the microorganism Escherichia coli,therby creating a strain of E. coli having the genetic capacity to make rat insulin. The existence of such an organism is of great potential value in the pharmaceutical industry and in the field of medicine. Heretofore, diabetics requiring insulin have been dependent upon insulin extracted from the pancreas glands of animals obtained at slaughter. However, the world wide demand for insulin is projected to exceed the supply. Furthermore, some patients develop allergic reactions to bovine or porcine insulin commonly used. Therefore a means for manufacturing human insulin in quantity is highly desirable. By transferring the insulin gene to a microorganism, it is possible to develop a fermentation technology capable of producing insulin in the desired quantities, from the desired source. However, it was observed that the insulin gene, as initially transferred to the microorganism, was not expressed. The term expression is used in recognition of the fact that an organism seldom if ever makes use of all its genetically endowed capabilities at any given time. Even in relatively simple organisms such as bacteria, many proteins which the cell is capable of synthesizing are not synthesized, although they may be synthesized under appropriate environmental conditions. When the protein product, coded by a given gene, is synthesized by the organism, the gene is said to be expressed. If the protein product is not made, the gene is not expressed. Normally, the expression of genes in E. coli is regulated as described generally, infra, in such manner that proteins whose function is not useful in a given environment are not synthesized and metabolic energy is conserved.A number of hypotheses could be advanced to account for the initial failure to observe expression eucaryotic genes in E. coli. Many differences between procaryotic and eucaryotic gene expression and control have been noted. The discovery of hitherto unsuspected non coding intervening sequences which interrupt the coding sequences of many eucaryotic genes, has raised the possibility of yet other structural differences which might adversely affect the ability of procaryotes to expressed eucaryotic DNA. See e.g. Tilghman, S.M., et al., Prbc. Nat.AcadY S ci . USA 74, 4406 1977 , and Jeffreys, A.J. Flavell, R.A. Cell 12, 1097 1977 . It is possible that the eucaryotic DNA has nucleotide sequences which would be misinterpreted by the bacterial transcription or translation enzymes.While the universality of the genetic code is an accepted fact, the observation that certain codons seem to be preferred in eucaryotic DNA is not satisfactorily explained. It is well known that the controlling elements which regulate the timing add amount of expression of genes in living cells are much different in the cells of higher eucaryotes, such as the rat or man, than they are in procaryotes such as E. coli. The means by which gene expression is controlled in E.coli is well understood, as the result of extensive studies over the past twenty years. See, generally, Hayes, W., TheGenetics of Bacteria And Their. Viruses, 2d edition, JohnWiley Sons, Inc., New York 1968 , and Watson, 3.0.. The Molecular Biology of the Gene, 3d edition, Benjamin, Menlo Park,California 1976 . These studies have revealed that several genes, usually those coding for proteins carrying out related functions in the cell, are found clustered together in continuous sequence.The cluster is called an operon. All genes in the operon are transcribed in the same direction, beginning with the codons coding for the N terminal amino acid of the first protein in the sequence and continuing through to the Cterminal end of the last protein in the operon. At the beginning of the operon, proximal to the N terminal amino acid codon, there exists a region of the DNA, termed the control region, which includes a variety of controlling elements including the operator, promoter and sequences for the ribosomal binding sites. The function of these sites is to permit the expression of those genes under their control to be responsive to the needs of the organism. For example, those genes coding for enzymes required exclusively for utilization of lactose are not expressed unless lactose or an analog thereof is actually present in the medium.The control region functions that must be present for expression to occur are the initiation of transcription and the initiation of translation. Expression of the first gene in the sequence is initiated by the initiation of transcription and translation at the position coding for the N terminal amino acid of the first protein of the operon. The expression of each gene downstream from that point is also initiated in turn, at least until a termination signal or another operon is encountered with its own control region, keyed to respond to a different set of environmental cues. While there are many variations in detail on this general scheme, the important fact is that, to be expressed in a procaryote such as E. coli, a gene must be properly located with respect to a control region having initiator of transcription and initiator of translation functions. It has been demonstrated that genes not normally part of a given operbnn can be inserted within the operon and controlled by it. The classic demonstration was made byJacob, F., et al., J. Mol. BioI u 43, 704 1965 . In that experiment, genes coding for enzymes involved in a purine biosynthesis pathway were transferred to a region controlled by the lactose operon. The expression of the purine biosynthetic enzyme was then observed to be repressed in the absence of lactose or a lactose analog, and was rendered unresponsive to the environmental cues normally regulating its expression. In addition to the operator region regulating the initiation of transcription of genes downstream from it, there are known to exist codons which function as stop signals, indicating the C terminal end of a given protein. See Table 2. Such codons are known as termination signals and also as nonsense codons, since they do not normally code for any amino acid. Deletion of a termination signal between structural genes of an operon creates a fused gene which could result in the synthesis of a chimeric protein consisting of two amino acid sequences coded by adjacent genes, joined by a pep tide bond. That such chimeric proteins are synthesized when genes are fused was demonstrated by Benzer, S , andChampe, S.P., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 48 , 114 1962 . A recombinant plasmid transfer vector has been constructed containing that portion of the lactose operon comprising the operator, promoter and substantial portion of the structural gene for the first enzyme in the operon, betagalactosidase. See Polisky, B., et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 73, 3900 1976 . The parent plasmid was designated pSF2124, a derivative of ColE1, So, M., et al., Mol...Gen, Genet. 142, 239 1975 . The lactose operon region was derived from lambda plac 5, Shapiro, J., et al., Nature 224,768 1969 . Joining the 285 ribosomal DNA of Xenopus laevis immediately subsequent to the beta galactosidase gene fragment resulted in the production of RNA capable of hybridizing with Xenopus 28S DNA in the presence of an inducer of the lactose operon. In addition, it was reported that certain cultures produced a form of beta galactosidase of higher molecular weight than the wild type enzyme, suggesting the synthesis of a chimeric protein. Expression of lower eucaryotic genes from yeast transferred to E. coli has been inferred from the experiments ofRatzkin, B. and Carbon, J., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA .74, 487 1977 and of Struhl, D. and Davis, R.W. ,. Proc. Nat. Acad.Sci.USA 74, 5255 1977 . In those experiments, certain cloned yeast genes were able to complement a deficiency in the transferree bacteria, although other yeast genes were unable to do so. The transferred yeast genes included their own control region. The means of achieving expression of those transferred yeast genes which were expressed therefore appears to depend upon the rare ocdurance of transfer of the entire structural get2e9tther with its control region. Furthermore, there may exist only a limited set of yeast control regions capable of fundioning within a bacterial cell. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention includes a DNA transfer vector containing an expressible eucaryotic gene, a microorganism containing and expressing a eucaryotic gene, a minicell containing and expressing a eucaryotic gene and methods for making said plasmid, microorganism and minicell. The term expression transfer vector is used to denote a transfer vector comprising a eucaryotic gene so located with respect to a control region, that expression of the gene can occur in a microorganism containing the transfer vector. The essential feature of an expression transfer vector is that the heterologous gene, whose expression is desired, is joined to a procaryotic control fragment.The control fragment, as the term is used here, may consist of no more than that part of the control region providing for initiation of transcription and initiation of translation, and may additionally include a portion of a structural gene. The heterologous DNA must be joined to the control fragment such that their reading frames are in register. The reading frames are defined as in register if the same group of nucleotides by threes results in correct amino acid assignments in both the control fragment and the heterologous gene. If the heterologous gene is joined in such a way that the normal reading frame in the gene is maintained, expression of genes controlled by the control region will result in the synthesis of a chimeric protein in which the normal gene product is fused with the heterologous gene product. Within this framework, there are two basic strategies embodied in the present invention. By connecting the eucaryotic gene to a gene for a protein normally compartmentalized or protected from intracellular degradation in some manner, the stability of the chimeric protein may be enhanced. Preferably, the chimeric protein is transported through the cell membrane and excreted into the growth medium. In that case, there is an added advantage that the extracellular protein will be easier to purify. The second general strategy is to link the eucaryotic gene to a gene which has desirable genetic properties, such as a gene whose control region has advantageous properties which may facilitate construction of the expression transfer vector, its maintenance in the host cell or the rate of synthesis of the chimeric protein. The first general strategy is exemplified in the case of rat growth hormone. The rat growth hormone gene was connected to the E. coli beta lactamase gene involved in conferring ampicillin resistance. When the described transfer vector is used to transform a microorganism, the latter can synthesize a chimeric protein having the amino acid sequence of a portion of beta lactamase connected to the amino acid sequence for rat pre growth hormone, pre RGH. Similarly, the rat pre proinsulin gene was fused to the E. coli beta galactosidase gene on a plasmid. A chimeric protein was expressed. The basic requirements for functionality of the present invention are as follows There must be generated a cleavage site within the gene normally expressed under a control region.Similarly, there must be generated a cleavage site in the heterologous DNA at or near but outside the nucleotide sequence coding for the N terminal amino acid of the protein whose synthesis is desired. Joining of the procaryotic gene DNA with the heterologous DNA must occur such that the reading frame of the procaryotic gene is the same as the reading frame of the heterologous DNA. Most conveniently, cleavage will be accomplished with restriction endonucleases, the restriction sites chosen will be sensitive to the same restriction enzyme and will be in register with respect to their respective reading frames. Therefore, when joined,i both the procaryotic DNA and the heterologous DNA have the same reading frame. It is entirely feasible to join randomly cleaved procaryotic and heterologous DNAs, then selecting for the desired result by appropriate criteria. The chance of in register joining if 1 3, the chance of correct orientation is 1 2, so that potentially expressible fused genes should occur in 1 6 cases, a result well within the power of presently known selection methods. Therefore, with the methods of the present invention, it would be possible to join any eucaryotic gene or gene fragment to a suitably chosen procaryotic gene or control fragment thereof, to construct an expression transfer vector. DETAILED DESCRIPTIDN OF THE INVENTION Several conditions must be satisfied in order to transfer a segment of heterologous DNA to a locus on a transfer vector influenced by a control region that expression of the heterologous DNA occurs yielding a chimeric protein. First, it is necessary to choose a functional gene on the transfer vector into which the heterologous DNA will be inserted. The choice of operon fragment will be governed by considerations of convenience in the light of overall goals.For example, the use of the ampicillin resistance operon, coding for the enzyme beta lactamase, is attractive because the operon is already present on many plasmids commonly used in recombinant DNA work and also because of the fact that substantial amounts of the enzyme are found in the periplasmic space and released by apheroplast formation. If the same behavior is observed with the chimeric protein, transfer to the periplasmic space or even secretion from the cell sequesters the protein from the internal milieu of the cell, and may help stabilize the protein. In addition, its purification would be greatly simplified. The, lac operon is attractive because it has been extensively studied genetically and a wide variety of mutants is available with which to modify the rate of gene expression under control of the lac operator. Other considerations include the possibility of the biosynthesis of chimeric proteins capable of being readily cleaved by enzymic or chemical means, to separate the desired segment from the chimeric protein. The gene to which the heterologous DNA is to be joined may be cleaved by non specific or specific means. Non specific cleavage is accomplished by any of a variety ofknown endonucleases, or by sonication. Since cleavage is essentially random, unique molecules will result Whether an expression plasmid ultimately results must then be determined by appropriate microbiological screening and selection techniques.Any particular desired outcome will be rare among many possible outcomes. Therefore the use of non specific cleavage places more of a burden on the selectivity and sensitivity of the selection and screening techniques. Preferably, specific cleavage is employed, using a selected restriction endonuclease acting at a known restriction site. Preferably there should be another restriction site, either for the same or a different restriction endonuclease, which will permit a segment of the plasmid to be removed and replaced by a new segment containing the heterologous DNA. Regardless of how the procaryotic gene is initially cleaved, it is possible to modify the ends by adding or subtraction nucleotides for the purpose of generating or altering restriction site specificity at the ends, or to facilitate blunt end ligation. A variety of exonuclease enzymes are known, which hydrolyze phosphodiester bonds at 3 and 5 termini. Many restriction endonucleases make staggered cuts in double stranded DNA, resulting in short single stranded tails at the cleaved ends. The unpaired, single stranded regions can be removed, if desired by exonucleases, such asSl nuclease, having the proper substrate specificity.Alternatively, fully paired ends may be generated by extending the complementary strand by the synthesis of a short segment of new DNA to fill the unpaired region. DNA polymerase may be used for this purpose. Still another alternative is to add nucleotides randomly. For example, random addition of deoxyguanylic acid dG and deoxycytidylic actd dC can generate a sequence GGCC, reading from 5 to 3 left to right.This is the sequence of the HaeIII recognition site. The use of random nucleotide additions can therefore generate new restriction sites, although they will be randomly located with respect to the original end and with respect to reading frame. A powerful and specific technique for modifying ends is provided by the synthesis of linker oligonucleotides as described by Scheiler, R.H. et al., Science. 196 ,, 177 1977 . Any desired mucleotide sequence can be added to the ends of DNA molecules by this technique. Therefore any desired restriction site could be added. Longer nucleotide sequences could be added, in principle. It seems likely that it will be possible to synthesize the control region sequences that control initiation of transcription and trans lotion and that such a sequence could be added directly to the heterologous DNA. The same techniques used to modify the ends of the procaryotic operon fragment are also applicable to the heterologous DNA. It will be understood that such treatments should not alter or modify the coding sequence for the protein to be synthesized. The heterologous DNA fragment to be transferred should not contain the sequence of a procaryotic control function and preferably contains appropriate restriction sites lying outside the region, to be expressed. Preferably these sites will be susceptible to the same restriction endonucleases used to excise a region of the plasmid into which the heterologous DNA is to be transferred. The foregoing requirement is not absolute and can be circumvented if necessary by resort to such techniques as the use of chemically synthesized linkers, and blunt end ligation.It is essential that the cleavage points of the operon and of the heterologous DNA to be attached thereto, be in register with respect to the reading frame. This condition is necessary in order to provide for correct reading of the heterologous codons. For example, if the break point in the operon is between triplets then the corresponding break in the heterologous DNA must also be between triplets. If the break point in the operon is after the first nucleotide from the 3 end of a triplet, the break point of the heterologous DNA niust be two nucleotides from the 5 end of a triplet, and so on. It is additionally necessary that the heterologous DNA must be inserted in the proper orientation. The direction of transcription of the heterologous gene must be the same as that of the operon. Otherwise, the heterologous DNA information will be read in reverse and will be meaningless.In some cases it may be possible to determine whether the insertion is properly oriented. In others, it may be necessary i select, after the fact for the proper orientation, which should occur with 5ûS probability. It is also necessary to provide for a selection system to identify, among the products of a DNA ligase catalyzed reaction, those recombinant transfer vectors containing the correct combination of polynucleotide fragments. The generally described procedures will be better understood by a general description of specific techniques employed in represent invention. Figure 1 diagrams the steps used to construct a plasmid containing most of the rat proinsulin gene joined to the control region and a short portion of the structural gene of beta galactosidase. In Figure 1 4, doublestranded DNA is represented by a single line, and plasmid DNA, in the closed loop form, is represented by a circle. The approximate locations of relevant restriction sites are indicated. The relevant genes, lactose operon lac , ampicillin resistance taps coding for beta lactamase and tetracycline resistance Tcr are shown as arcs drawn parallel to their approximate locations relative to the restriction sites and to each other.Arrowheads indicate the direction of transcription for each gene. A plasmid, pBH20, having incorporated a lactose operon fragment, AplacS cleaved at a HaeIII site near the control region, was previously constructed. See Itakua, K., et al.,Science 198, 1077 1977 . Treatment of pBH2O with EcoRI restriction endonuclease produced a linear plasmid molecule with single stranded, self complementary cohesive ends. The single stranded ends were digested away by SI nuclease treatment. The resulting blunt ended molecule was joined byDNA ligase to a synthetic nucleotide decamer containing aHindIII restriction site. Blunt end ligation has been reported by Sgaramella, V., et al.,Proc.Nat. Acad Sci USA 67, 1468 1970 . The purpose of adding the HindIlI site was to enable a specific joining reaction with a HindIII site on the proinsulin gene fragment. Joining by DNA ligase results in higher yields of joined molecules if the ends are cohesive. The proinsulin gene fragment, pAU 1, contained all of the proinsulin structural gene except the first 2 N terminal amino acids, and was flanked by Hind III linkers. From knowledge of the nucleotide sequence of the lac gene fragment of pAU 1 and of the linkers permitted, it could be shown that the proinsulin gene would be in register with respect to reading frame with the lac fragment. The lac sequence in the region of the EcoRI cleavage was 5 GGATTCACTGG 3 3 CCTAAGTGACCTTAA 5 S1 nuclease digestion should remove only the terminal unpaired TTAA sequence. Sometimes, S1 nuclease digests additional residues from the chain, an undesirable result since the expected reading frame registration may be lost.In the present instance, if the S1 digestion was proper, the addition of the HindIII linker would generate an HaeIII site at the junction of the linker and the lacDNA lac HindlIl linker 5 GGATTCACTGGCCAAGCTTGG 3 CCTAAGTGACCGGTTCGAACC HaeIII siteTherefore it was possible to test for the correct product independently of any expression, by testing for the newHaeIII site.The proinaulin fragment and the lac gene fragment were each treated with. HindIlI to generate cohesive ends and joined by the action of T4 DNA ligase. E. colicells were transformed with the ligase products. Transformants were selected by their ability to grow in the presence of ampicillin. Transformants having an inserted proinsulin gene fragment were not resistant to 20 pg ml tetracycline. The pAU 1 sequence in pLRI 1 is flanked by HindIII sites, which were used for its insertion. Location of the pAU 1 sequence on pLRI 1 is such that the heterologous DNA interrupts a portion of the promoter for the tetracycline resistance gene, thereby lowering its rate of expression.However, if the pAU 1 sequence is oriented such that the poly dA dT portion of the gene ts adjacent the remaining promoter sequence there will be a low level of expression of the tetracycline resistance gene. Consequently, pAU 1 inserted in desired orientation can confer resistance to low levels of tetracycline , 5 pg ml, on bacteria carrying this transfer vector. This fact was used to select correctly oriented insertion. Finally, the transformed colonies were screened for the existence of a new HaeIII site by isolation of plasmids, treatment withHaeIII and analysis of the size distribution of the HaeIIIproduced fragments on gel electrophoresis. A plasmid satisfying all criteria was chosen for further studies of expression and designated pLRI 1, shown schematically in Figure 2. Two assays for expression of the proinsulin gene of pLRI 1 were employed. In the first, the sizes of proteins synthesized by pLRI 1 transformed cells were compared on sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS acrylamide gel electrophoresis with those synthesized by pBH20 trsnsformed cells. The size region of the expected chimeric protein was crowded with many bands, so that any chimeric protein could not be detected. A second attempt was made using transformed minicells. The latter are produced in the course of growth by the mutant E.coli P678 54. See Adler, H.I., et al.,. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 57, 321 1966 . In addition to normal cell division, P678 54 cells undergo aberrant division which results in formation of minicells, much smaller than the parent cells and lacking pateotal cell DNA. Consequently, minicells are not endowed with capability to carry out DNAdirected protein synthesis. Otherwise the minicells appear normal, have a normal appearing cell wall and cytoplasmic contents apparently identical with normal cell cytoplasm.When transformed by a plasmid, the strain produces minicells containing copies of the plasmid. Such minicells have a limited capacity to express plasmid genes. The number of possible proteins made by such minicells is greatly restricted compared to normal cells and this fact forms the basis for analysis of plasmid coded proteins on SDS acrylamide gel electrophoresis. See Meagher, R.B., et al., Cell 10, 521 1977 . Results of such analysis with pLRI 1 transformed minicells weee also negative. The results so far obtained with pLRI 1 indicate a low level of detectable expression with this plasmid. The çhimeric protein is a novel substance with a new amino acid sequence.At the present time, it is impossible to predict details of the folding configuration or functional properties of proteins, from their amino acid sequence. The response of the cell to the new protein cannot .be predicted. The chimeric protein may be unstable in the intracellular milieu for unknown reasons. The protein may be degraded by intracellular proteases, or it may associate with insoluble cell components.The length of beta galactosidase gene contributing to the chimeric protein does not appear to be the sole factor, since expression of ovalbumin attached to the same length of betagalactosidase has been observed. What appears to be critical is the nature and properties of the specific chimeric protein expressed. Consequently since pLRI 1 is known to be properly constructed with respect to reading frame and orientation, it is expected that an appropriate test will ultimately reveal the existence of expression of the proinsulin gene. In a second type of study, a larger heterologous DNA was used, comprising the entire proinsulin gene as well as 13 amino aes of the pre insulin sequence. Figure 3 shows the construction scheme of the plasmid into which the rat preproinsulin gene was inserted. Plasmid pBGP12O Polinsky, B., et al.,. supra was used as the source of a lac operonn fragment coding for approximately 1000 amino acids. Plasmid pBR322, Bolivar, F., et al., Gene 2 95 1977 was used as a carrier for the lac operon fragment by virtue of its smaller size and ell characterized ease of handling during transformation, growth and isolation. Both plasmids were. cleaved with combined HindIII and EcoRI restriction endonucleases, yielding two fragments from each plasmid, with molecular weights as shown in Figure 3. The mixed fragments were joined with T4 Dt A ligase, yielding both parental plasmids, single cross products and possibly more complex forms. All possible combinations could be distinguished by size by agarose gel electrophoresis. Transformants were selected on XGal plates Miller, J., Experiments in Molecular Genetics Cold Spring HarborLaboratory, 1972 containing ampicillin. Colonies having beta galactosidase are blue on XGal plates and only those strains that a Apr will grow at all. In order to test for correct plasmid size, several blue colonies were picked, small cultures were grown from each, the plasmids reisolated and screened for proper size 6.5x106 daltons, on agarose gel electrophoresis. To further confirm the structure of the desired plasmid the sizes of the combined HindIII,EcoRI digestion fragments were measured by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The resulting plasmid, designated pTS 1, is diagrammed in Figure 4. In order to construct an insulin gene fragment coding for the entire proinsulin sequence, two previously cloned fragments whose nucleotide sequences were known, pAU 1 and pAU 2 were combined. See Ullrich, A., supra. The tworfrag ments overlap in their sequences and have a common AluI site in the overlapping region which was used as the point of cleavage. Pretreatment with alkaline phosphatase removed their terminal phosphate groups. Alul cleavage produced blunt ends and since the cleavage site was in the region of common sequence, blunt end ligation would join the fragments and reconstitute the entire gene. The larger two fragments whose joining was desired, were purified by gel electrophoresis prior to the ligase treatment.After ligase treatment, the three possible joined products were fractionated by gel electrophoresis, and the desired middle sized fragment was isolated. Both pAU 1 and pAU 2 were originally inserted via HindIII linkers. The remaining ends of the combined DNA molecule have HindIII type cohesive ends. The combined molecule was therefore readily inserted at the HindIII site of pBR322, and transformants carrying the combined plasmid could be used to provide ample supplies of the combined insulin gene for the remaining steps of the procedure. The combined insulin gene was released from the plasmid by HindIII digestion and purified. The end groups were modified by treatment with S1 nuclease to remove the singlestranded ends and further modified by addition of a synthetic linker having the sequence TGAATTCA ACTTAAGT providing EcoRI specificity. See Greene, P.J., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 99,. 237 1975 . The modified DNA was then treated withEcoRI and inserted into the EcoRI site of pTS 1. Correct reading frame is preserved for this EcoRI site insertion in the betagalactosidase gene, see Polisky, B., et al., supra. Screening for correct orientation of the inserted insulin gene was carried out by taking advantage of a HaeIII site in the inserted insulin gene that ïasymmetrical1y placed with respect to other HaeIII sites on the plasmid. Correct orientation produces a predictable size distribution upon HaeIII digestion and gel electrophoresis.The resulting plasmid having a correctly inserted insulin gene was designated pLRI 2 and is diagrammed in Figure 2. A similar strategy may be devised for constructing a human insulin expression plasmid, operating within the general principles described. The reaction sequence for joining the rat growth hormone gene to the beta lactamasegene provides an additional example of the foregoing generally described process. Reference is made toFigure 5 which provides a diagrammatic outline of stages of the process. In Figure 5 double stranded DNA is represented by a single line and plasmid DNA, in the form of a closed loop, is represented by a circle. The approximate locations of the relevant restriction sites are indicated. The relevant genes, rat growth hormone RGH , ampicillin resistance AMP coding for beta lactazase,and tetracycline resistance TET , are shown as boxes occupying their approximate locations with respect to the restriction sites and to each other. The original recombinant plasmid carrying the RGH gene was derived as described in U.S.Serial No. 897,710 and by SeeburgP.H., et al., Nature 270, .486 1977 , and is designated pRGH 1. The rat growth hormone nucleotide sequence contained in pRGH 1 has been determined and has been correlated with those portions of the rat growth hormone amino acid sequence that are known. The plasmidRGH nucleotide sequence is approximately 800 base pairs long and includes nucleotide coding for the 26 amino acid prepeptide as well as 29 nucleotides comprising part of the 5 untranslated region of growth hormone mRNA. In addition, the sequence contains approximately 100 nucleotides comprising all of the 3 untranslated region.A rebognition site for the restriction enzyme PstI exists between the 23rd and 24th amino acids of the pre RGH sequence. A Pstf.site also exists in the ampicillin resistance gene of plasmid pBR322 and of pMB9. The RGH sequence in pRGH 1 is flanked by HindlII sites, which were used for its insertion. The 800 base pair RGH gene was isolated by Hin dIII digestion of pRGH 1, and was purified by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Plasmid pMB9, which contains a single Hind III site in the promoter of the tetracycline resistance gene was cleaved with HindIlI and treated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase to prevent self ligation in subsequent steps. See, application Serial No. 898,887 and Ullrich, A., et al, supra. A mixture of the cleaved plasmid DNA and theRGH DNA segment was treated with DNA ligase to produce a recombinant plasmid designated pMB9 RGH , as diagrammed inFigure 5. The resulting. plasmids were used to transform E.coli and recovered by selection of colonies resistant to 5 1g ml tetracycline. Two possible orientations of the RGH sequence were possible. The desired orientation could be distinguished by preparation of radioactively labeled plasmids from single colony isolates followed by digestion with a combination or EcoRI and Pati endonucleases. The size of labeled fragments produced could be determined by gel electrophoresis. Orientation of the RGH segment in the opposite direction would have the result of placing the PstI site closer to the EcoRI site yielding a smaller fragment upon digestion with the combined restriction enzymes than that expected for the desired orientation. The following purification of the correctly oriented pMB9 RGH the plasmid was digested with a combination of PstI and BamHI endonucleases. Plasmid pBR322, shown in Figure 5, was similarly digested with. Pstl and BamHI. In pBR322, thePstI site occurs between amino acids 182 and 183 from the Nterminus of the beta lactamase gene, counting from the first of 23 amino acids of the beta lactamase precursor protein.The BamHI site is in the tetracycline resistance gene in exactly the same plave as in pMB9, since this. region of pBR322 was derived from pMBS, see Bolivar, R., suSra. After digestion pBR322 was treated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase to prevent self ligation. The fragments were then joined, via DNA ligase, to the cleaved pMB9 RGH . The resulting plasmid structure is shown in Figure 1, designated pExRGH, to indicate its role as an expression plasmid. After transformation with the ligase reaction products, transformed bacteria were selected for resistance to high levels of tetracycline, 20 ig ml. Since the parent plasmid, pMB9 RGH was resistant only to 5 pg ml tetracycline and pBR322 was prePented lfrom self ligation by phosphatase treatment, as well as electrophoretic separation of the small fragment, the only colonies obtained have the structure of the expression plasmid.The plasmid is tetracycline resistant due to reformation of a complete tetracycline resistance gene at the BamHI site.Derivation of each region of the plasmid is therefore as follows the region clockwise from the single PstI site, through the EcoRI and HindIII sites to the BamHI site comes from pBR322 from the BamHI site through the next EcoRI until the Hindtll site is derived from pMB9, and finally the region marked RGH from the HindIII site to the PstI site originated from pRGH 1. The complete DNA nucleotide sequences of the growth hormone insert and the beta lactamase gene of pBR322 are known. See, Seeburg, P,, et al., supra, and Sutcliffe et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. US A 75, 1978 . Rezonstruction of these two sequences by joining them at their respective PstI sites uniquely determines the phase of the pre RGH sequence since the orientation of the RGH insert in pB9 was determined.Figure 6 shows the sequence in the region of the PstI site in pExRGH, and shows that the correct reading frame of preRGH is maintained. Therefore, the product expected to be coded for by this region of the plasmid is a chimeric poly peptide consisting of the N terminal 182 amino acids of beta lactamase of which the first 23 are part of the pre sequence, followed by 23 amino acids of the pre sequence of RGH and 190 amino acids of RGH itself. Electrophoretic and immunochemical assay data as given in the following examples, demonstrate that such a protein is in fact synthesized in E.coli cells transformed by pExRGH. As a practical matter, there are two general difficulties encountered with the expression of proteins coded by plasmids. First, as a general problem, the expressed protein must be obtained in pure form either from the growth medium or from cell extracts. A variety of techniques may be employed in combination. In certain instances, specific proteins are secreted into the medium. Such may be the case with betalactamase, a large portion of which is released into the medium when cells are converted to spheroplasts. However, the intracellular transport behavior of chimeric proteins cannot be predicted on the basis of the behavior of either of the proteins that make up its structure. Examination on sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gels of the polypeptides synthesized in the minicell producing strain P678 54 containing pExRGH or pBR322 shows several differences as would be expected for two similar but different plasmids.Most strikingly, a new polypeptide of about 47,000 molecular weight is observed with pExRGH containing minicells. This is within experimental error of the expected molecular weight for the chimeric protein containing the beta lactamase fragment and pre RGH, 44,300. At the same time, minicells containing pExRGH fail to make two polypeptides corresponding to pre beta lacta mase and beta lactamase, which are present in minicells containing pBR322. The details of this experiment are found in Example 2. The foregoing strategy is suitable for congtructing an expression plasmid containing the human growth hormone gene.At present, only a fragment of the HGH gene has been cloned, comprising all of the structural gene of the hormone but the first 23 amino acids. The HGH fragment was inserted into a plasmid via HindIlI linkers and may therefore be isolated with HindIII. See Seeburg et al,., supra and applicationSerial N.897,710. The ends may thus be modified by filling the unpaired region using. a DNA polymerase catalyzed reaction.The resulting blunt ended HGH fragment may be joined to a similarly blunt ended beta lactamase fragment created byHincII digestion. The technique for constructing an expression plasmid containing the entire HGH sequence will be similar in principle, once a full length sequence, coding for the hormone, is cloned. Within the framework and general strategy of the described methods, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that other expression transfer vectors for other proteins can be constructed. For example the expression of human growth hormone will be achievable as generally described, as will be the expression of bovine, porcine Åand ovine growth hormones. Similarly, the described techniques may be employed in appropriate combination to achieve expression of the human insulin gene, as well as insulins of other species. Because the method is a general method, it may be applied to achieve the synthesis, by a microorganism, of any eucaryotic protein, barring obvious inoperability, such as a protein toxic to the microorganism. In order to further illustrate the disclosed transfer vector, microorganisms and process, and to demonstrate their effectiveness in providing expression of the RGH gene and the rat insulin gene in a microorganism, the following examples are provided. EXAMPLE 1 The following methods have been used to construct expression transfer vectors and to test for chimeric protein synthesis. A. Growth, isolation and purification of plasmids is accomplished by growing a suitable volume, e.g. 500 ml, of transformed cells in an overnight culture, with shaking, at 37 OC. Optionally, cultures transformed with ColEI derived plasmids such as pBR322, may be treated with 170 sg ml chloramphenicol for 12 16 hours, to amplify the plasmid content. Cells are harvested by centrifugation, washed in 0.01M Tris, 0.001M EDTA, pH 8, resuspended in 10 ml cold 25 sucrose in 0.O5M Tris, 0.001M EDTA, pH 8. Lysozyme, 2 ml, 5mg ml in 0.25M Tris, pH , is added, followed by 4 ml 0.25M EDTA pH 8.After 5 10 minutes incubation on ice, the cells are lysed by the addition of 0.1S v v Triton X 1nn, Trademark, Rohmer and Haas Corp. Rutherford, N.J., in Tris EDTA buffer, pH 8.After gentle mixing, the mixture its incubated about 15 minutes on ice. The lysate is centrifuged at 20,000 rpm for 25 min in the SS34 rotor of a Sorval centrifuge, Dupont Instruments,Wilmington, Del. The supernatant is decanted and further purified by chromatography on Sephadex G 100, Trademark Pharmacia Chemical Corp.,Uppsala, Sweden, eluted with 0.2M NaC1, 0.05M Tris and 0.001M EDTA, pH 8. The eluted DNA detected by absorbanceat 260 nm, is precipitated by addition of 2 volumes cold 95S w v ethanol, 0.03 volumes 3M sodium acetate and standing at 200C overnight.The precipitate is collected, resuspended in Tris EDTA buffer and centrifuged to equilibrium in CsC1 containing ethidium bromide or propidium iodide. A 1 2 in x 2 in centrifuge tube contains 2.2 g CsC1, 2.1 ml sample and 0.15 ml propidium iodide, 2 mg ml in water. The tubes are centrifuged at 36,000 rpm for 18 24 hr at 200C in a SW39 rotor, Beckman Instrument Co.,Fullerton, Calif., or the equivalent. Fractions containingDNA are passed through a cation exchange column to remove propidium iodide and dialyzed against 0.01M Tris, 0.001M EDTA, pH 8 and 0.3M sodium acetate to remove residual CsCl. B. Transformation of E. coli RR 1 is carried out by growing a 10 ml culture in L broth overnight at 370C, diluting 1 50 by volume and growing 25 ml diluted culture until about 2 5x108 cells ml are present mid log phase . The cells are harvested by centrifugation resuspended in 25 ml 10 mM NaC1, centrifuged again and resuspended in 25 ml 30mM cold Cad2. The cells are kept at ice temperature 20 minutes, then harvested cold and resuspended in 1 ml 30 mM Cad2. To 0.2 ml cells are added 0.1 ml DNA, 10 pg ml in 30 mM Caul2, 0.01M Tris, 0.OOlM EDTA, pH 7.5.The mixture is incubated on ice for I hour, then transferred to 420C for 90 sec, then transferred back to ice. A rich medium such as L broth, 3 ml, is added and the cells grown at 370C for 3 12 hours before plating. Transformation of E. coli X1776 is carried out similarly, as described in application Serial No. 897,709. C. Restriction endonucleases are available from a variety of commercial sources, as described in Ullrich, A. et al., supra and by Seeburg, P.H. et al., supra, and in applications 897,709 and 897,710. These references also described incubation conditions for restriction endonuclease cleavage of DNA. D. T4 DNA ligase may be obtained commercially from BethesdaResearch Labs, Rockville, Md. The conditions for DNA joining are described in Ullrich A. et al., supra, Seeburg, P.H. et al., supra, Sgaramella et al., supra and applications Serial No. 897709 and 897,710. E. Gel electrophoresis was performed as described byDingman, C.W. and Peacock, A.C., Biochemistry 7, 659 1968 and by Maniatis, T. et al., Biochemistry 14,3787 1975 . F. Antibody and antigen purification, for immunoassay, was sometimes necessary to rule out potential interference caused by any impurities present in the material used as antigen either directly or to immunize the source animals.Affinity chromatography was employed, in which the column stationary phase was Sepharose 48, Trademark PharmaciaChemical Corp., Uppsala, Sweden, having antibody or antigen covalently bound by cyanogen bromide treatment. See March,S.C., et al., Anal. Biochem. 60, 149 1974 . The sample to be purified was loaded on the column in phosphate buffered saline, washed with 15 column volumes of the same buffer, 5 column volumes of 0.05M sodium acetate, pH 4.5, and eluted with 0.05M glycine HC1, pH 2.2. G. A radioimmunassay was used to detect a chimeric protein comprising insulin or growth hormone. Lysates of cells transformed by an expression plasmid were tested, either as crude lysates or after partial purification by standard techniques. A dilution series of the lysate was made, to which antibody was added against bovine insulin Miles Laboratories, Elkhardt, Ind. , against insulin Cpeptide See Yanaihara, C., et al., Symposium on Proinsulin, Insulin and C Peptide, Tokushima, Japan, 1978, coordinated by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. or against rat growth hormone prepared by immunizing male Rhesus monkeys against purified rat growth hormone .The labeled antigens added were 125I labeled insulin New England Nuclear Corp.,Boston, Mass. , 1251 labeled tyrosylated rat C peptide Yanaihara, et al., supra . or E125I labeled growth hormone.The assay was essentially a modification of the method ofMorgan and Lazarow, Diabetes 12, 115 1963 , modified according to Kesslert S.W., J. Immunol. 1 15, 1617 1975 in which Staphyloccocus atreus C C cells were used instead of a second antibody, to precipitate antigen antibody complexes. H. Immune screening for expression was performed essentially as described byErlich, H.A., et al., Cell 10, 681 1978 or by Broome, S. and Gilbert W., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 75, 2746 1978 . EXAMPLE 2 Analysis of labeled proteins synthesized by transformed cells. Proteins were labeled by addition 35S metrionine, or of 3N or 14C labeled amino acids to the growth medium.Crude or partially purified lysates were prepared and the proteins were fractionated by gel electrophoresis on sodium dodecyl sulfate acrylamide gels as described by Laemmli, U.K.,Nature 227, 680 1970 , or by two dimensional gel electrophoresis isoelectrofocusing described by O Farrell, P.H., et al., J. Biol. Chem. 250, 4006 1975 . The first method fractionates proteins according to molecular weight, the second additionally fractionates on the basis of total ionic charge. Bands of radioactive proteins were detected by autoradiography as described by Ullrich, A., et al., supra orSeeburg, P.H. et al., supra and by applications Serial No.897,709 and 897,710. To reduce the number of labeled proteins, lysates of transformed minicells were used in some experiments. The E.coli strains X1776 and P678 54 make minicells and are suitable for such studies. Fig. 7 shows gel electrophoresis bands resulting fromX1776 minicells. Band a was obtained from non transformed X1776. Band b was obtained from Xl 776 transformed with pBR322. Band c is X1776 transformed by pTS 1 and band d , is X1t76 transformed by pLRI 2. The band of beta galactosidase indicated by arrow number 2, could be seen in pTS l transformed cells, while an additional band, arrow number 1, is seen in pLRI 2 transformed minicells.An 18 w v acrylamide gel was used in the foregoing experiment. Resolution was improved in later experimelhts by the use of 6 w v gels. Fig. 8 shows the results of partial purification from whole cell lysates of E. coli DG 75 transformed cells. Cells were grown to an optimal density of 1.0 at 650 nm, 1 cm path length, harvested by centrifugation and frozen. Frozen cells were ground at OOC in a precooled mortar with alumina, 7g for cells from 1 liter of culture, in the presence of phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF , a proteolytic enzyme inhibitor. Broken cells from 1 of culture er resuspended in 100 ml O.02M Tris pH 7.5, 0.01 HgC12, 0.1M NaC1 and 1 ml PtlSF 1 w v in dimethyl sulfoxide. Ammonium sulfate was added to 33 Ó w v final concentration. Precipitated protein was centrifuged and dialyzed against 40mM Tris pH 8.0. lmM EDTA, AnM MgC12 and 5nm beta mercaptoethanol. DG 75 possesses a chromosomal beta galactosidase gene which has a deletion near the N terminal end that renders the enzyme inactive. However, transformation with pLRI 2 yields active enzymes, presumably due to complementation.In this instance, the beta galactosidase which is a tetramer, can be active in the form of a mixed tetramer composed of individually inactive proteins. The tetramer is dissociated under the gel electrophoresis conditions. Bands a and j are markers of commercially purified beta galactosidase Boehringer MannheimCorp., New York, N.Y. indicated by the arrows. Band d is the pattern of bands obtained from 33 ó w v ammonium sulfate precipitable protein. The partially purified protein was.fractionated by chromatography on DEAE BioGel, Trademark BioRad Laboratories, Richmond, Calf. In 4ûmM Tris, pH 8.0, lmM EDTA, ImM 9C12, 5mtl beta mercaptoethanol, beta galactosidase was bound to the column but.most of the chimeric galactosidasepre proinsulin was not. The proteins that did not bind under the above conditions were run on gels b and c . The column was then eluted with a linear NaC1 gradient. Beta galactosidase activity was assayed and fractions eluting at and near the activity peak were analyzed in bands e i. Peak activity was associated with band g .As expected, the active peak was primarily composed of normal beta galactosidase protein, but contained a minor compound. of chimeric beta galactosidase proinsulin, as judged by the band density. Fig. 9 shows gel electrophoresis in 18S w v polyacrylamide gels, of unfractionated lysate proteins from single colony isolates of.5. coli CSH20. The CSH2O strain was described by Miller, J.j supra. There is a large deletion in the chromosomal beta galactosidase gene in CSH20. Consequently no l pnotein of that size is made in such cells unless they also carry a plasmid having the gene. A culture of CSH20 transformed with pLRI 2 was plated on XGal plates containing ampicillin. Both white and blue colonies were observed. Lane 28 shows the protein banding pattern of a white colony isolate and lane 29 was protein from a blue colony. While lane 29 clearly displays the chimeric protein band at arrow 1, the isolate of lane 28 appears to have lost the ability to synthesize the chimeric protein. This behavior of expression plasmidtransformed cells is not explained. Similar behavior is observed in pTS 1 transformed cells. Lanes 30 and 31 represent single white and blue colony isolates, respectively.The presence of a substantial amount of synthesis of nonfunctional protein may be selected against under certain growth conditions, although the mechanism is not known.Lane 32 shows the banding pattern of a lysate of E. coli CSH17 See Miller, J., supra which has only a small deletion in beta galactosidase. Lane A is a control of purified betagalactosidase. The data shown in Figs. 7 9 indicate the synthesis of a chimeric protein comprising a portion of the beta galactosidase sequence and the proinsulin sequence. This conclusion was confirmed by nucleotide sequence analysis of the fused gene in pLRI 2. The nucleotide sequence was that coding for the expected chimeric protein. Fig. 10 shows gel electrophoresis of protein made by minicells of E. coli P678 54 transformed by pExRGH, or pBR322. The latter is shown in lane A. The dark band at arrow 2 is beta lactamase, as shown by the control, Lane C, of extracellular secreted beta lactamase. In lane 8, the band of pattern of pExRGH is shown. The beta lactamase band is absent and a new band is observed, at arrow 1. The estimated molecular weight of the new band was 47,000.The calculated molecular weight of the chimeric protein was 44,300, so that the measured value was well within the 103 error of the method. EXAMPLE 3 Fig. 11 shows the results of radioimmune screening of colonies transformed with pExRGH or pBR322. In this technique, referenced in Example 1, H., the colonies of transformed bacteria are partially lysed by exposure to chloroform vapor, then overlayed with a plastic film having anti grov th hormone antiserum, adsorbed thereto. The film is then exposed to E1 5I labeled anti growth hormone, which may bind, as in an immunochemical sandwich assay, to sites occupied by any growth hormone, or an immunologically related chimeric protein.After washing, the film is then used to expose an autoradiographic plate. As shown in Fig. 11, all colonies transformed with pExRGH tested for positive growth hormone synthesis while those having pBR322 were negative. The reliability and sensitivity of the immunoscreening technique are demonstrated in Fig. 12. Under the heading Additions , colonies of bacteria containing expression plasmid pExRGH, pBR322 or no plasmid were grown, as shown. In the left hand column, the screen, as previously described, was run, with the result previously shown. When excess unlabeled growth hormone was added, the 125I labeled antibody was completely bound, preventing any attachment to the colonies and demonstrating that the observed attachment was the result of anti growth hormone and not some impurity in the antibody preparation. In a second control, normal non immune monkey serum was used instead of anti growth hormone. In the right hand column, indicated amounts of RGH were spotted on a test surface to determine sensitivity limits.Although a positive test was repeatedly observed with 8 ng, there was no reaction with lower levels. The reason for the unexpected cutoff is not known. The immunoscreening test was used to confirm the identity of the beta galactosidase insulin chimeric protein of Figs.7 9. Proteins isolated by gel electrophoresis were treated with CNBr, then spotted on immunoscreen gels. Results are shown in Fig.13. At A, the large protein previously identified as a beta galactosidase, insulin was spotted. At B, betagalactosidase itself, and at C, an insulin control. The result demonstrates that the chimeric protein contains the insulin sequence, and that the insulin sequence was reactive with anti insulin antibody after CNBr treatment. Furthermore, in the case of the insulin immunoscreen assay, the sensitivity curve was normal, i.e., no cutoff was observed. While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth, and as follows in the scope of the appended claims.