# Seasoning composition.

## Abstract
A seasoning composition was prepared by admixing 100 weight parts of potassium chloride, 1.5 to 30 weight parts of edible organic acid calcium salt and 1 to 30 weight parts of glutamic acid salt or and 0.01 to 5 weight parts of nucleotide seasoning material. The composition is characterized in that the irritating and disagreeable taste of potassium chloride is muffled and it has a round, delicious taste, and can be used as a seasoning in applications similar to those of sodium chloride.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A seasoning composition, which comprises 100 weight parts of potassium chloride, 1.5 to 30 weight parts of edible organic acid calcium salt and 1 to 30 weight parts of glutamic acid salt or and 0.01 to 5 weight parts of nucleotide seasoning material. 2. The seasoning composition according to Claim 1, wherein the ratio of edible organic acid calcium salt is 2 to 15 weight parts and the ratio of glutamic acid salt is 3 to 20 weight parts or and the ratio of nucleotide seasoning material is 0.05 to 20 weight parts, relative to 100 weight parts of potassium chloride. 3. The seasoning composition according to Claim 1, wherein the edible organic acid calcium salt is the calcium salt of a hydroxycarboxylic acid having 3 to 9 carbon atoms. 4. The seasoning composition according to Claim 1, wherein the edible organic acid calcium salt is calcium lactate. 5. The seasoning composition according to Claim 1, wherein the nucleotide seasoning material is an edible salt of 5 inosinate and or 5 guanylate. 6. The seasoning composition according to Claim 5, wherein the edible salt is a mixture containing 50 weight parts of sodium 5 inosinate and 50 weight parts of sodium 5 guanylatt . 7. The seasoning composition according to Claim I, wherein the glutamic acid salt is monosodium L glutamate. 8. The seasoning composition according to Claim 1, wherein sodium chloride is further contained. 9. A process for seasoning composition, which comprises admixing 100 weight parts of potassium chloride, 1.5 to 30 weight parts of edible organic acid calcium salt and 1 to 30 weight parts of glutamic acid salt or and 0.01 to 5 weight parts of nucleotide seasoning material.

## Description
Seasoning Composition This invention relates to a seasoning composition containing potassium chloride, edible organic acid calcium salt and a glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning material in suitable proportions. It has recently become clear that an excessive intake of common salt tends to cause hypertension, heart disease and kidney disease and there has been a mounting awareness of the problem by the general consumers. Under the circumstances, potassium chloride came to be used as a substitute for common salt, i.e. sodium chloride, and has been used as an ingredient OJI table salt and many other processed foods. However, having a distinctly irritant, bitter and uncomfortable taste, potassium chloride is not a satisfactory substitute fcr common salt, and particularly in such applications as table salt where it is directly added to foods, the irritating and uncomfortable taste of potassium chloride inevitably becomes prominent. For the purpose of overcoming these drawbacks, the present inventors investigated the means of removing the irritating and undesirable taste of potassium chloride and found that if an edible organic acid calcium salt is mixed with potassium chloride in suitable proportions, the irritating taste of potassium chloride is mitigated and that if a glutamic acid salt, which is a seasoning agent, or and a nuleotide seasoning material are further admixed with the above mixture, the bitter and undesirable taste mentioned above is also remarkably improved, with the result that such a composition can be used as a satisfactory substitute for common salt or in combination with common salt. The above findings were followed by further studies, which have resulted in the completion of this invention. This invention, therefore, relates to a seasoning composition comprising 100 weight parts of potassium chloride, 1.5 to 30 weight parts of edible organic acid calcium salt and 1 to 30 weight parts of glutamic acid salt or and 0.01 to 5 weight parts of nucleotide seasoning material. The potassium chloride, edible organic acid calcium salt, glutamic acid salt and nucleotide seasoning material may all and respectively be those used commonly for food applications today. For example, such potassium chloride may be isolated and purified from any of naturallyoccurring potassium chloride containing rock salts e.g.Syerinite, Carnallite, Kainite, etc. . The edible organic acid calcium salt mentioned above is preferably the calcium salt of a hydroxycarboxylic acid containing 3 to 9 carbon atoms, and this carboxylic acid preferably contains 1 to 3 carboxyl groups and 1 to 5 hydroxyl groups. Examples of such edible organic acid calcium salt include calcium citrate, calcium lactate, calcium pantothenate, calcium gluconate, calcium malate, etc., with calcium lactate being particularly desirable. The glutamic acid salt includes monosodium L glutamate, monopotassium L glutamate, calcium L glutamate, etc. The nucleotide seasoning material includes sodium 5 inosinate, sodium 5 guanylate, etc. as well as a 1 1 by weight mixture of sodium 5 inosinate and sodium 5 guanilate, for instance.Further there may be mentioned calcium 5 inosinate, calcium 5 guanylate or their mixture, potassium 5 inosinate, potassium 5 guanylate or their mixture. The proportions of potassium chloride, edible organic acid calcium salt and glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning material in the seasoning composition of this invention have been mentioned hereinbefore. Preferably, however, the composition comprises 100 weight parts of potassium chloride, 2 to 15 weight parts of edible organic acid calcium salt and 3 to 20 weight parts of glutamic acid salt or and 0.05 to 2 weight parts of nucleotide seasoning material. If the proportion of edible organic acid calcium salt is less than the specified range, the desired effect of mitigating the irritating taste of potassium chloride will not be as great as desired, while an excess of the calcium salt over the specified range makes the irritating taste of the very organic acid calcium salt outstanding, thus failing to provide a satisfactory seasoning composition. If the proportions of glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning agent are below the specified range, the bitter taste of potassium chloride will be felt, while an excess of either of them results in an excessively savory taste and does not provide a satisfactory salty taste.Thus, the composition of this invention is characterized in that by virtue of the inclusion of potassium chloride, edible organic acid calcium salt and glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning agent in the specified proportions, the irritating, bitter and uncomfortable taste of potassium chloride is eliminated or mitigated to give a delicious salty taste. The process for production of the seasoning composition of this invention is not particularly limited but any production procedure may be employed provided potassium chloride, an edible organic calcium salt and glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning material can thereby be admixed in the specified proportions. 9he composition may be provided in various forms such as poXfiers, granules, grains, etc. An especially desirably tasteful composition can be provided by coating crystals of potassium chloride with one or more members of said edible organic acid calcium salt, glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning material,Regarding the coating method, the following processes may be mentioned as examples. Thus, fine crystals of potassium chloride are floated in a hot current of air and a solution or suspension of edible organic acid calcium salt, glutamic acid salt and nucleotide seasoning material is sprayed onto the potassium chloride crystals The conventional pan coating process may also be employed. The grain size of the seasoning composition of this invention may be selected by reference to the fluidity of the composition desired for actual use, for instance.For use as table salt, the seasoning composition desirably has a grain size of 48 to 32 meshes Standard Sieve of JapaneseIndustrial Standards . As long as the seasoning composition contains potassium chloride, edible organic acid calcium salt and glutamic acid salt or and nucleotide seasoning material in the aforementioned proportions, various other edible additives may further be added for the purpose of improving its flavor, etc. For example, a still desirable flavor may be imparted by adding sodium chloride to the above composition. While the level of addition of sodium chloride is not particularly limited, the use of an excess would jeopardize the object of reducing the sodium chloride content. Usually, sodium chloride is used in a proportion of 1 to 50 weight parts to each 100 weight parts of potassium chloride. The flavor of the composition of this invention can be further improved by adding succinic acid or its salts such as mono or disodium succinate, for instance. Its proportion is preferably 0.01 to 1 weight part relative to 10D weight parts of potassium chloride. The seasoning composition of this invention is characterized in that the iriitating and disaqreeable taste of potassium chloride is muffled and in that it has a rounded, delicious taste, and can be used as a seasoning in applications similar to those of sodium chloride. A particularly suitable application is table salt, but the composition can also be used in cooked foods such as soups. The following experimental and working examples are further illustrative of this invention. Experimental Example 1 Potassium chloride and several kinds of calcium salts were blended in various proportions as indicated inTable 1 to give samples, and these samples were compared with a sample made 100 of potassium chloride by a panel of 20 tasters. The panellists were instructed to see if the irritating taste of potassium chloride had been mitigated.Thus, in this sensory evaluation, the panellists were specifically asked to compare Sample A 100 potassium chloride with each of Sample B mixtures of potassium chloride with various calcium salts , choose the lessirritating one and also comment on the flavor of each sample. Table 1 EMI6.1 Sample SEP A SEP Sample SEP B SEP Number SEP of SEP panellists tb SEP who SEP judged SEP that SEP Panel s tb SEP Sample SEP B SEP is SEP less SEP comment tb SEP irritating tb SEP Potassium SEP 100 SEP wt. SEP Calcium SEP 1 SEP wt. SEP part SEP 12 tb SEP chloride SEP pats SEP lactate tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 15 tb Potassium SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 16 tb chloride SEP SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 17 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 17 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 17 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 40 SEP 18 SEP Very SEP bitter tb SEP Potassium SEP 100 SEP wt. SEP Calcium SEP 1 SEP wt. SEP part SEP 9 tb SEP chloride SEP parts SEP citratc tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 16 tb Poitassium SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 15 tb chloride SEP SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 17 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 17 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 16 tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 40 SEP 16 SEP Very SEP bitter tb Table 1 continued EMI7.1 SEP Potassium SEP 100 SEP wt. SEP Calcium SEP 1 SEP wt. SEP part SEP 11 tb SEP chloride SEP parts SEP carbonate tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 8 tb SEP Potassium SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 13 tb SEP chloride SEP SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 12 SEP Powdery, SEP unbalanced SEP salty tb SEP taste SEP not SEP tastful tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 17 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 40 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP Potassium SEP 100 SEP wt. SEP Tricalcium SEP 1 SEP wt. SEP 10 tb SEP chloride SEP parts SEP phosphate tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 10 tb SEP Potassium SEP SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 12 tb SEP Powdery, SEP unbalanced SEP salty tb SEP chloride SEP SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 14 SEP taste SEP not SEP tastful tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 20 SEP 15 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 30 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP SEP 40 SEP 16 SEP tb Panel 20 tasters, paired comparison test Significant difference at 5 level. Significant difference at 1 level. Significant difference at 0.1 level. As will be seen from Table 1, the addition of 2 weight parts or more of calcium lactate or calcium citrate to 100 weight parts of potassium chloride mitigates the irritating taste but the addition of more than 30 weight parts results in an intense bitter taste. As to calcium carbonate and tricalcium phosphate, the addition of 20 weight parts mitigates the irritating taste but causes the composition to become powdery, less salty and untasteful It is thus clear that the addition of 1.5 to 30 weight parts of organic acid calcium salt is effective. Experimental Example 2 To a control mixture of 100 weight parts of potassium chloride and 5 weight parts of calcium lactate was added monosodium L glutamate or and sodium 5 ribonucleotide a 50 50 mixture of sodium 5 inosinate and sodium 5 guanylate in various proportions, and the samples so prepared were subjected to a sensory evaluation by a panel of 20 tasters to see whether the bitter taste was mitigated by the addition of the latter additive or and additives. The results are shown in Table 2. Table 2 EMI9.1 SEP Sample SEP B SEP Number SEP of SEP panelists tb SEP Sample SEP A SEP who SEP judged SEP that SEP Panel s SEP comment tb SEP Sample SEP A SEP Mono SEP sodiumL SEP sodium SEP 5 SEP Ribo SEP Sample SEP B SEP is SEP less SEP wt.parts SEP glutamate SEP nucleotide SEP irritating tb SEP wt. SEP parts SEP wt. SEP parts tb 100 SEP wt. SEP parte SEP 105 SEP 0.5 SEP SEP 12 SEP Bitter SEP and SEP untasteful tb of SEP potassium SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 15 SEP Good SEP salty SEP taste tb chloride SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP 16 SEP tb 5 SEP wt. SEP parts SEP SEP 5 SEP SEP 16 SEP Excellent SEP salty SEP taste tb of SEP calcium SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP 17 SEP tb lactate SEP SEP 20 SEP SEP 17 SEP tb SEP SEP 30 SEP SEP 17 SEP Slightly SEP too SEP savory SEP but SEP good tb SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP 40 SEP SEP 20 SEP Too SEP savory SEP and SEP unbalanced SEP taste tb SEP 105 SEP SEP 0.005 SEP 9 SEP Bitter SEP and SEP untasteful tb SEP SEP SEP 0.01 SEP 15 SEP Good SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 15 SEP Excellent SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP SEP 0.1 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 15 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP 16 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP 5 SEP 17 SEP Slightly SEP too SEP savory SEP but SEP good tb SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP 18 SEP Too SEP savory SEP and SEP unbalanced SEP taste tb Table 2 continued EMI10.1 SEP 105 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.005 SEP 14 SEP Bitter SEP and SEP untasteful tb SEP SEP 1 SEP 0.01 SEP 17 SEP Good SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 0.05 SEP 17 SEP Excellent SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP 5 SEP 0.5 SEP 19 SEP tb SEP SEP 10 SEP 0.1 SEP 18 SEP tb SEP SEP 20 SEP 0.2 SEP 19 SEP tb SEP SEP 30 SEP 0.3 SEP 19 SEP Slightly SEP too SEP savory SEP but SEP good tb SEP salty SEP taste tb SEP SEP 30 SEP 3 SEP 20 tb SEP SEP 40 SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP Too SEP savory SEP and SEP unbalanced SEP taste tb Panel 20 tasters, paired comparison test Significant difference at 5 level. 1 0.1 As will be seen from Table 2, the addition of 1 to 30 weight parts of monosodium L glutamate to a mixture of 100 weight parts of potassium chloride and 5 weight parts of calcium lactate gives a seasoning composition with the irritating and bitter tastes considerably mitigated. A particularly satisfactory composition was obtained when 3 to 20 weight parts of monosodium L glutamate was included. As to sodium 5 ribonucleotide, the addition of 0.01 to 5 weight parts, particularly 0.05 to 2 weight parts, to a mixture of 100 weight parts of potassium chloride and 5 weight parts of calcium lactate gives a good seasoning composition. The combined use of sodium glutamate and sodium 5 ribonucleotide also resulted in improved flavor and taste. Example 1 A fluidized bed granulating coating equipment FlowCoater Model Fl b, manufactured by Freund Ind. Co. Ltd.,Japan was charged with 1 kg of potassium chloride 297 p to 500 p and 1 kg of a mixed aqueous solution of 3 weight of calcium lactate, 8.5 weight E of monosodiumL glutamate and 0.5 weight 8 of sodium 5 ribonucleotide was sprayed. The procedure gave a granular seasoning composition. This product can be used as table salt equivalent to common salt. Example 2 The same equipment as that used in Example 1 was charged with 1 kg of potassium chloride 297 p to 500 p , and 2 kg of a suspension of 5 wt. of calcium lactate and 1.5 wt. of sodium 5 ribonucleotide was sprayed to give a granular seasoning composition. This product can be used as table salt equivalent to common salt. Example 3 A small coating pan was charged with 3 kg of potassium chloride and while 150 g of fine powders of calcium citrate was dusted, water was sprayed over the contents to effect uniform coating. The coated mixture was dried with a hot draft of air. Of this material, a 2.2 kg portion that passed a 32 mesh sieve but did not pass a 48 sieve was taken and uniformly admixed with 400 g of crystalline monosodiumL glutamate of the comparable grain size to give a seasoning composition. This product is suitable as a seasoning salt for use at the table. Example 4 A small coating pan was charged with 2 kg of potassium chloride and 0.9 kg of sodium chloride and while a suspension 500 g of 8 wt. z of calcium lactate, 30 wt. of monosodium L glutamate and 4 wt. of sodium 5 inosinate was sprayed over the contents, and the whole contents were dried with a hot draft of air to give a granular seasoning composition. This product can be used as table salt, and also for imparting a desirable taste to soups and other foods through addition during cooking in the same manner as common salt. Example 5 In a NAUTA mixer Vertical cone type mixer, NAUTA Co.,Holland , 88 kg of potassium chloride was stirred and a solution suspension of 2 kg of calcium lactate, 7.5 kg of monosodium L glutamate, 0.5 kg of sodium 5l ribonucleo tide, 1.2 kg of sodium chloride and 0.8 kg of succinic acid in 12 liters of water was sprayed over the potassium chloride to give a homogeneous mixture. This mixture was taken out and dried in a hot air dryer to give a granular seasoning composition. This product can be used as a flavorant table condiment. Example 6 In aNAUTA mixer, 88 ka of potassium chloride was stirred and a solution suspension of 2 kg of calcium lactate, 7.5 kg of monosodium L glutamate, 0.5 kg of the mixture consisting of 50 weight parts of sodium 5 inosinate and 50 weight parts of sodium 5 guanylate, 1.2 kg of sodium chloride and 0.8 kg of disodium succinate hexahydrate in 12 liters of water was sprayed over the potassium chloride to give a homogenous mixture. This mixture was taken out and dried in a hot air dryer to give a granular seasoning composition. Example 7 The seasoning compositon 8.5 kg obtained byExample 6 was homogeneously mixed with 1.5 kg of sodium chloride to give a seasoning composition.