# AUTORADIOGRAM MARKING PROCESS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Markierung von Autoradiogrammen, umfassend die Bildung von Markierungen aus einem Material, das Strahlung emittieren kann, auf einem Substrat, das radioaktiv markiertes Material enthält, Belichten eines Röntgenfilms mit diesem Substrat und Entwickeln dieses Röntgenfilms so daß ein Röntgenfilm mit einem Abbild entsteht, das Markierungen enthält, die den Markierungen auf dem Substrat entsprechen, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß das Material, das Strahlung emittieren kann, ein Leuchtstoff ist, der ein Zinksulfid vom Typ des hexagonalen Wurtzits, dotiert mit Spurenmetallen umfaßt, sowie dadurch, daß dieses Verfahren das Bestrahlen der auf dem Substrat gebildeten Markierungen mit aktinischer Strahlung umfaßt, um den Leuchtstoff aufzuladen, ehe der Röntgenfilm mit dem Substrat belichtet wird.

## Description
This invention relates to a process for marking indicia onto a substrate to be autoradiographed to produce corresponding indicia on the resulting autoradiogram, and in particular to a process wherein said indicia are produced by the emissions from a phosphorescent material. In a number of scientific disciplines, radioactive materials are detected by autoradiography, a process wherein the substrate is placed in superposition over a piece of X ray film and the radiation exposes the silver halide. Sometimes this is enhanced by using a phosphor screen behind the film. Sometimes it is done at low temperature to increase sensitivity. A common need is a means of marking the substrate in order for the researcher to be able to clearly identify his system and, very importantly, to facilitate proper match up of the areas on the substrate with their corresponding exposed areas on the film. Most research laboratories achieve this by preparing some sort of radioactive marker these usually take the form of a colored ink to which is added appropriate amounts of outdated radiolabeled materials. Application is often by adaptation of commercial pens or simple dotting devices. The disadvantages of this are many including We have now found that all of the radioactivity associated disadvantages cited above can be avoided by marking the substrate to be autoradiographed with a phosphorescent material, such as an ink, containing a carefully selected phosphor with a decay time adequate to allow convenient and effective application. It will be noted that phosphorescent markers per se are known. Thus, US A 2 396 219 discloses a phosphescent marking crayon using a zinc cadmium activated by copper phosphor. Furthermore, photographic film exposure using phosphorescent light sources is also known per se. Thus, US A 3 631 243 discloses a device for marking indicia on photographic film in a housing involving insertion into and withdrawal from the housing of a unit bearing the indicia and a phosphorescent source of light to expose the film. In one aspect the invention thus provides a process for marking autoradiograms comprising forming on a radioactively tagged material containing substrate indicia of a material capable of radiative emission, exposing an X ray film to said substrate and developing said X ray film to provide an X ray film bearing an image containing indicia corresponding to the indicia formed on said substrate, characterized in that said material capable of radiative emission is a phosphor comprising a hexagonal Wurtzite form of zinc sulfide doped with trace metals and in that said process comprises exposing said indicia formed on said substrate to actinic radiation to charge said phosphor before exposing said X ray film to said substrate. The present invention relates to a process of marking autoradiograms with the emissions from a phosphorescent material, preferably an ink, which contains a doped zinc sulfide phosphor, and optionally a visible pigment, a vehicle and a binder. The ink is marked onto the surface of a substrate to form indicia which then are used to provide activating radiation to form a latent photographic image in the photosensitive layer of an X ray film which is developed along with the latent photographic image formed by exposure to the substrate. In a further aspect, the invention provides a phosphorescent marking ink containing a hexagonal Wurtzite form of zinc sulfide doped with trace metals, a vehicle and optionally a visible pigment and a binder. The ink used in the present invention is based on phosphors which are of the hexagonal Wurtzite C6mC form of zinc sulfide doped with various trace metals. Suitable metal dopants include, but are not limited to, silver, boron, barium, calcium, cadmium, copper, magnesium and silicon. Generally several but not all of the above metal dopants are present in the zinc sulfide phosphor. Generally the amount of individual metal dopants present will vary from 5 1000 ppm. There are two major requirements for the phosphor to function adequately in the present invention. The radiation emission light decay must be long enough to allow appropriate manipulations to be performed in the darkroom prior to film placement. Secondly, the most important, there must be adequate emission of light at the appropriate wavelength to expose the film. The major high speed autoradiography film in use today is primarily sensitive to blue light e.g., Kodak XAR 5 . We have found no blue emitting phosphor which has a sufficiently long radiation emission decay time to work satisfactorily in the present invention. However, surprisingly it has been found that some green emitting phosphors peak radiation wavelength from 507 517 nm can be used satisfactorily with the commonly used blue sensitive X ray film as well as with green sensitive X ray film. This is particularly surprising as there is very little emission of the green phosphor under 450 nm while the sensitivity of these films is dramatically reduced at wavelengths over 450 nm. The preferred green emitting phosphors are ones based on hexagonal Wurtzite zinc sulfide doped with 200 1000 ppm barium, 200 1000 ppm calcium, 50 250 ppm copper, 50 250 ppm magnesium and 20 100 ppm silicon and another one based on hexagonal Wurtzite zinc sulfide doped with 5 25 ppm silver, 100 500 ppm cadmium, 50 250 ppm copper, 50 250 ppm magnesium and 50 250 ppm silicon. Generally the phosphor will have a particle size distribution peak between 10 and 15 microns. The particular ink formulation is not particularly critical and both water immiscible organic solvent based inks and aqueous acrylic inks have been used satisfactorily. Generally the ink should contain from 5 20 weight percent of the phosphor. A wide variety of substrates are commonly evaluated for radioactivity detection and location in the research laboratory. Although application to slab gel electrophoresis detection is the most common, considerable work is done in the autoradiography and or fluorography of tissue sections and thin layer chromatograms to name a few. In the autoradiography of electrophoresis materials, the gel itself may be evaluated normally after drydown or the radiolabeled materials in the gel transferred to an adsorptive membrane such as in the procedures described by Southern, E.M., After marking the substrate with the phosphorescent ink to form indicia, the entire matrix bearing the phosphorescent ink is exposed to actinic light to charge up the phosphor contained therein. Ordinary light as found in a typical laboratory is satisfactory for this excitation and little is to be gained by using high intensity illumination of the substrate bearing the phosphorescent indicia. In fact, fairly low intensity light can be used and generally a very brief exposure less than a minute to actinic radiation is adequate to activate the phosphor. After exposure to actinic radiation, the long decay phosphor allows considerable time to ensue before the radiolabeled matrix must be superimposed on the X ray film. The indicia marked on the autoradiogram serve several purposes including identification matching to the original substrate, orientation and registration. The device used to apply the phosphor containing ink to the substrate preferably is a capillary pen or a ball point pen although other means such as typewriter ribbons, hard graphite compositions, etc. can be used. In another aspect, the invention provides a marking pen for use in the marking process of the invention charged with a phosphorescent marking ink according to the invention. The following Examples are provided to illustrate the present invention without restricting the scope of protection sought therefor An ink base is prepared by blending 98 volume percent of a white ink containing 9.81 weight percent titanium dioxide pigment, 28.84 weight percent aluminum silicate clay, 19.22 weight percent chlorohydrocarbons consisting principally of 1,1,1 trichloroethane, 23.07 weight percent aromatic hydrocarbons, 3.2 weight percent wax resin, 14.42 weight percent mixed resins and 0.8 weight percent fumed silica, and having a volatility of 50 and a specific gravity of 1.4 with 2 volume percent of a green ink containing 10.9 weight percent lead chromate, 1.6 weight percent polychlorinated copper phthalocyanine, 4.1 weight percent wax resin, 16.22 weight percent mixed resins, 28.9 weight percent aluminium silicate clay, 17.0 weight percent chlorohydrocarbons consisting principally of 1,1,1 trichloroethane and 20 6 weight percent aromatic hydrocarbons, and having a volatility of 50 and a specific gravity of 1.4. The green ink prepared according to Example A is blended with the following phosphor in a ratio of 10 g phosphor per 100 g ink. The phosphor is a hexagonal Wurtzite C6mC form of zinc sulfide doped with about 450 ppm barium, about 450 ppm calcium, about 100 ppm copper, about 100 ppm magnesium and about 50 ppm silicon. A capillary type marking pen is filled with the resulting phosphorescent ink. A dried gel prepared from an electrophoretogram of radioactive proteins is marked on its gel surface with the pen both to identify the radiogram and to provide a plurality of location markers. The gel, in the light, is wrapped with a polyvinylidene chloride film and under a safe light mounted in an X ray film cassette using Kodak XAR 5 film where the X ray film is exposed to the gel for 60 minutes. The X ray film is then developed in the conventional manner. After development the marks made on the gel with the pen are clearly visible as dark lines on the X ray film. Example 1 is repeated except the phosphor used is a hexagonal Wurtzite C6mC form of zinc sulfide doped with about 10 ppm silver, about 250 ppm cadmium, about 100 ppm copper, about 100 ppm magnesium and about 100 ppm silicon.