# Functional fluids and lubricants having improved water tolerance.

## Abstract
There are disclosed functional fluids and lubricating compositions containing a minor amount of an oil soluble alkoxypolyethyleneoxy acid phosphite ester additive which provides improved water tolerance properties to the compos itions.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A functional fluid composition comprising a major amount of a synthetic or mineral oil of lubricating viscosity and an amount, effective to improve the water tolerance properties of the composition, of an oil soluble phosphite ester additive of the formula EMI10.1 wherein R1 is alkyl or alkenylj and R2 is OH, alkoxy, oxyalkenyl or R10 tCHxCHzO x, in which the total number of carbon atoms in the alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy or oxyalkenyl groups is from 8 to 36, and x is a number representing the average number of CCH2CH20 groups and is within the range from 2 to 4. 2. A composition according to claim 1 in which x is Z, 2.5, 3, 3.5 or 4. 3. A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which R1 is alkyl having from nine to eleven carbon atoms. 4. A composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, in which R1 is alkyl having from twelve to fifteen carbon atoms. S. A composition according to claim 1 in which the phosphite ester isEMI10.2 E. A composition according to claim 1 in which the phosphite ester is EMI11.1 and the oil is a hydrocarbon mineral oil. 7. A composition according to claim 1 in which the phosphite ester isEMI11.2 8. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, for use as a tractor fluid. 9. A composition according to any of claims 1 to B, in which the amount of the additive is within the range from 0.05 to 5 by weight of the oil. 10. A hydrocarbon oil composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, in which the amount of the additive is within the range of from 0.2 to 2 by weight of the oil.

## Description
FUNCTIONAL FLUIDS AND LUBRICANTS HAVING IMPROVED WATERTOLERANCE This invention relates to functional fluids and lubricants which exhibit improved water tolerance properties. More particularly, the invention relates to mineral oil or synthetic oil based functional fluid compositions which contain effective amounts of certain oil soluble, alkoxypolyethyleneoxy mono or di acid phosphite ester additives, which additives are highly effective in improving the water tolerance properties of such compositions. U.S. Patent No. 2,280,450 describes hydrocarbon oils of improved resistance to corrosion containing a small amount of a substantially stable oil soluble water insoluble reaction product of tricresyl phosphite and octyl phenoxyethanol. The mole ratio of tricresyl phosphite to octyl phenoxyethanol varies from 1 1 to about 1 2.5. The reaction product is described as a complex ester of phosphorous acid, which may or may not contain unreacted octyl phenoxyethanol. The product is not however an acid phosphite, and it is not suggested that the water tolerance of the resulting composition is improved. U.S. Patent No. 3,583,915 provides industrial fluid compositions and lubricant compositions containing improved load carrying additives, including a diorgano hydrogen phosphonate in which at least one organic group is an aliphatic group containing at least fourteen carbon atoms in admixture with an active sulfur compound. U.S. Patent No.3,652,410 provides multifunctional lubricant additive compositions and lubricating oils containing, among other things, an organic acid phosphate or organic phosphite containing at least one alkyl or alkenyl group having from about 12 to about 24 carbon atoms. Also present is a mineral oil soluble or dispersible basic detergent, a mineral oil antioxidant, a sulfurized fat, or an alkyl sulfide or alkyl polysulfide. U.S. Patent No. 4,346,148 and U.S. Patent No. 4,358,509 describe reaction products of alkoxylated alkyl phenol and a phosphorus trihalide which are included in lubricating compositions useful in metal working operations, imparting corrosion resistance, extreme pressure properties, and protection against wear of working parts. U.S. Patent No. 3,115,465 provides antioxidant combinations for organic materials, including lubricants, comprising an oil soluble phosphite ester having the formula EMI2.1 wherein Rl and R2 are alkyl, alkoxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cycloalkyl, halocycloalkyl, aralkyl, aryl, alkaryl, haloaryl or haloalkaryl radicals and R3 is hydrogen or one of the aforesaid radicals and from about O.Ol to about 5, preferably 0.25 to 2 , by weight based on the oil of a methylene bis phenol having the formula EMI2.2 wherein R4 is an alkyl group containing 3 to 12 carbon atoms, the group being branched on its alpha carbon atom, and R5 is an alkyl group of 1 to 12 carbon atoms. None of the foregoing references disclose the improvement in water tolerance properties achieved in accordance with the present invention. Water compatibility is a highly significant property of functional fluids and lubricants, which, under severe conditions, come into contact with water and in the absence of acceptable water tolerance properties the fluid will have its lubricating and power transmission properties substantially reduced.The specifications of many equipment manufacturers require that the fluids and lubricants used therein have certain water tolerance properties, for example, fluids for use in agricultural machinery, such as tractor fluids. In accordance with the present invention there have been discovered improved functional fluids and lubricating compositions comprising a major amount of a synthetic or mineral oil of lubricating viscosity and an amount, effective to improve the water tolerance properties of the composition, of an oil soluble alkoxypolyethyleneoxy acid phosphite ester additive of the formula EMI3.1 wherein R1 is alkyl or alkenyl and R2 is OH, alkoxy, oxy alkenyl, or RlO CH2CH2O x, in which the total number of carbon atoms in the alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy or oxyalkenyl groups is about 8 to 36 and x is a number which can be a whole number or a fractional number representing the average number of CH2CH2O groups, and ranges from about 2 to about 4.Preferred phosphite additives are those wherein x is 2, 2.5, 3.5 or 4. In Rl and R2, alkyl and alkenyl groups include octyl, 2 ethyl hexyl, isooctyl, tertiary octyl, nonyl, isononyl, tertiary nonyl, secondary nonyl, decyl, isodecyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl, palmityl, stearyl, and isostearyl octenyl, nonenyl, decenyl, dodecenyl, oleyl, linoleyl and linolenyl. Acid phosphites according to the invention include di octyl di ethyleneoxy phosphite, di isooctyl tri ethyleneoxy phosphite, di 2 ethylhexyl tetra ethy leneoxy phosphite, di nonyl di ethyleneoxy phosphite, ditisodecyl tri ethyleneoxy phosphite, di palmityl tetra ethyleneoxy phosphite, di stearyl tri ethyleneoxy phosphite, octyl di ethyleneoxy phosphite, stearyl di ethyleneoxy phosphite, and octyl tri ethyleneoxy nonylttetrs ethyleneoxy phosphite octyl diCethylene uxy octyS phosptwite, isooctyl tri ethyleneoxy oleyl phosphite, 2 ethylhexyl tetra ethyleneoxy decyl phosphite, nonyl di ethyleneoxy nonyl phosphite, isodecyl triCethy leneoxy linoleyl phosphite, palmityl tetra ethyleneoxy stearyl phosphite, stearyl tri ethyleneoxy stearyl phosphite, octyl di ethyleneoxy stearyl phosphite, stearyl di ethyleneoxy oleyl phosphite, and octyl tri ethyleneoxy nonyl phosphite. The oil soluble phosphite ester additive of this invention will provide effective water tolerance properties to a wide variety of functional fluid and lubricating compositions and these include hydraulic fluids, compressor oils, pump oils, tractor fluids and universal tractor fluid compositions, gear oils, hydrostatic transmission oils, power shift transmission fluids and the like. Such functional fluids and lubricating compositions will also contain a number of conventional additives in amounts as required to provide their normal attendant functions. Such additives include viscosity modifiers or viscosity index improvers, corrosion inhibitors, oxidation inhibitors, friction modifiers, dispersants, demulsifiers, anti foam agents, anti wear agents, pour point depressants, seal swellants and other special purpose additives. Typical viscosity modifiers include polyisobutylene, ethylene propylene copolymers, polymethacrylates, styrene acrylic ester copolymers and vinyl monomer unsaturated dicarboxylic acid or ester copolymers.Corrosion inhibitors include zinc dialkyl dithiophosphates and phosphosulfurized hydrocarbons and reaction products thereof with alkaline earth metal oxides or hydroxides, preferably in the presence of alkyl phenols or alkyl phenol Li1ioethers. Oxidation inhibitors are illustrated by alkaline earth metal salts of alkyl Cs C12 phenol thioethers. Dispersants are well known in the art and include oil soluble alkenyl succinimides, eçg. the reaction products o polyisobutenyl succinic anhydrides with ethylene amines and borated derivatives. Exemplary pour point depressants are C8 C18 dialkylfumarate vinyl acetate copolymers, polyinethacr yl ates and wax naphthalene condensation products. Anti foam agents are typically polysiloxane materials such as silicone oil and polydimethyl siloxane anti wear agents include zinc dialkyl or diaryl dithiophosphates and magnesium sulfonates.Seal swellants are typified by mineral oils that provoke swelling, C5 C13 aliphatic alcohols and C10 C60 hydrocarbon esters having 2 4 ester linkages such as dihexylphtilalate. The oil soluble phosphite ester additive of this invention will be present in amounts effective to provide acceptable water tolerance properties to the particular composition and the desired amount will vary according to the service conditions but generally the additives of this invention will be present in an amount of about û.û5 to 5 by weight, based on the weight of the total lubricating oil or functional fluid composition and preferably from about 0.2 to 2 by weight percent. Typical base oils for such functional fluids and lubricating compositions include a wide variety of hydrocarbon mineral oils such as naphthene base, paraffin base and mixtures thereof having a lubricating viscosity range of about 34 to 45 Saybolt Universal Seconds sus at 35tC. Examples of synthetic oils useful in the compositions of the present invention include olefin oligomers, alkylated aromatics, polybutene oils, cycloaliphatic compounds, dibasic acid esters, polyol esters, polyglycerol fluids, phosphate esters, silicone oils and halogenated hydrocarbon fluids and mixtures thereof. The following examples illustrate the preferred embodiments of the oil soluble phosphite ester additives of this invention Ro refers to ethylene oxide EXAMPLE I Di C4 C11 alkyl 2.5 EO phosphite 159.89 of triphenyl phosphite 97X and 4059 of mixed alkyl oxyethylene 2.5 alcohols, the alkyl having from nine to eleven carbon atoms, and 0.69 of K2 CO3 were heated at 85 C for three hours. Vacuum was then applied 6 mm with heating to a maximum temperature of 170 C to remove phenol. The weight of volatiles collected was 150.99 theory 145.8 .To the transesterified product 15.63g of phosphorous acid was added with agitation and the mixture heated to 85 C for 5 hours with agitation, giving clear reaction product having the formula EMI6.1 EXAMPLE IIDi C12 C15salkyl 3EO phosphine was prepared from triphenyl phosphite 97 , and mixed alkyl oxyethylene 3 alcohols, the alkyl having from eleven to fifteen carbon atoms using the procedure of Example I. The eompound has the formula EMI6.2 Control ADi C12 C1s alkyl 7EO phosphite was prepared from triphenyl phosphite 97X , and mixed C12 C15 oxyethylene 7 alcohols using the procedure of Example I.The compound has the formula EMI6.3 Control BEthoxylated nonyl phenol 9.5EO phosphite was prepared from triphenyl phosphite and ethoxylated nonylphenol using the procedure of Example I. The compound has the formula EMI7.1 EXAMPLE III Mono Cg 11 alkyl 2.5EO mono oleyl phosphine was prepared from triphenyl phosphite mixed alkyl oxyethylene 2.s alcohols, the alkyl having from nine to eleven carbon atoms , and oleyl alcohol using the procedure of Example I.The compound has the formula EMI7.2 Typical functional fluids or lubricating composition of the present invention will contain a number of conventional additives in typical amounts as required to provide their normal attendant functions. Such additive components and their usual ranges are set forth below.Component Concentration Range viol. V.1. Improver 1 15Corrosion Inhibitor 0.01 2Oxidation Inhibitor 0.01 2Dispersant 0.2 1û Pour Point Depressant 0.01 1Anti foam Agent 0.001 0.1Anti wear Agent 0.01 5Seal Swellant 0.01 1Friction Modifier 0.1 5Mineral Oil Base Balance The foregoing composition is referred to as Base Fluid and a tractor hydraulic fluid corresponding to the Base Fluid was evaluated for water tolerance with various additives as set forth below. The mineral oil used in the Base Fluid had a kinematic viscosity of 69.8 centistokes at 37.8 C and 14.5 centistokes at 98.9at. The test used was the International HarvesterWater Tolerance Test IH BT 7 January, 1980 contained in the International Harvester Engineering Materials Specification for Combination Hydraulic and Transmission Fluid. The test is described as follows APPARATUS REQUIRED 1 Mechanical paint shaker, Red Devil No. 30 or equivalent. 2 118 ml bottle with cap. 3 Graduated cylinder, 100 ml. 4 100 ml centrifuge tube according to ASTM Designation D 2273 67. 5 Pipette or syringe capable of delivering 1.0 ml. 6 Stopper to fit centrifuge tube.PROCEDURE 1 Add 1 ml distilled water to 99 ml hydrocarbon oil in the 118 ml bottle. 2 Shake the prepared sample for 5 minutes in the mechanical shaker. 3 Transfer immediately to the 100 ml centrifuge tube 4 Stopper and let the agitated solutions stand undisturbed in a vertical position for 168 hours 7 days at 70 to 80to, 21 to 27 C , then examine for emulsion, water, clearness and sediment.REPORT 1 Level of emulsion, water and sediment to the nearest 0.1 ml. 2 The clearness or turbidity of the solution. EXAMPLE IV The results of evaluations are tabulated below in the Table. The data include comparisons with Control A,Control B and two commercially available Surfactants A sorbitan oleate and B ethoxylated fatty acid ester of sorbitol anhydride . All additives were employed in the same Base Fluid at concentration of 1S by weight. Table Water Tolerance Results Additive r SurTests Control Control fac facResults None Ex I Ex II A B tant A tant B H20 0.2 0 0 1 2.5 û.45 3.4Inter 0.5 0 0 faceOil Appearance Haze clear Clear Haze Haze Clear Haze Emulsions, sediment and haze presentNote The test is unsatisfactory if the total ml of H20 and interface is 0.2 or greater. The oil appearance should be clear and free of haze.