# Process for the preparation of ZSM 5 or mordenite utilizing transition metal complexes during crystallization.

## Abstract
A series of organic complexes, such as transition metal complexes having stability at relatively high pH, have been utilized as templates for the synthesis of mordenite or ZSM 5 type zeolites.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. In the process for the synthesis ofZSM 5 from a forming solution containing a mixture of alumina, silica, alkali metal oxide and water, the improvement which comprises adding a complex selected from the group consisting of metal or hydrogen phthalocyanines, iron cyclopentadienyl complexes and metal complexes containing a N C C N aromatic grouping to the reaction mixture and maintaining the same at a temperature of from about 380C 1000F to about 2040C 400of until crystals of ZSM 5 are formed. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the metal phthalocyanine has the following structural formula EMI18.1 wherein M is copper, cobalt, lithium, vanadium oxide VO or hydrogen. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the iron cyclopentadienyl type complexes have the following formula EMI19.1 wherein R and R are hydrogen, a lower alkyl having 1 5 carbon atoms, or CH2 y N CH3 3 whereinY is O or 1 and X is bromide, chloride or iodide with the proviso that only one R or R can be said CH2 VN CH3 3. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the complex containing a N C C N aromatic grouping is eitherEMI20.1 5. In a process for the synthesis of mordenite from a forming solution containing a mixture of alumina, silica, alkali metal oxide and water, the improvement which comprises adding a metal complex selected from the group consisting of cobalt phthalocyanine o phenanthraline 3FeClO4 Ru bipyridyl 3Cl2 and Ni bipyridyl 3C104 to the forming solution and maintaining the same at a temperature of from 380C lOo0F to 2040C 4000F until crystals of mordenite are formed. 6. A process according to Claim 5 wherein the silica to alumina molar ratio in the forming solution is 30 or greater. 7. A process according to Claim 5 wherein the silica to alumina molar ratio in the forming solution ranges from 60 to 90.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OFZSM 5 OR MORDENITE UTILIZING TRANSITION METAL COMPLEXES DURING CRYSTALLIZATION The present invention relates to a method for the preparation of zeolites having the x ray diffraction pattern characteristic of ZSM 5 or mordenite and, more particularly, to a novel process for the preparation of ZSM 5 type or mordenite zeolites utilizing certain complexes such as transition metal complexes as templates for the synthesis of said zeolite materials. ZSM 5 has been the subject of much patent and technical literature in recent years and is disclosed and claimed in United States Patent 3,702,886. It has often been desirable in the prior art to include a metal complex, including transition metal complexes in the conventional forming solution for the preparation of ZSM 5. In this connection, typical prior art patents, such as United States 4,100,262 3,941,871 3,709,979 3 702,886 3,373,109 generally teach the incorporation of metals into zeolites including ZSM 5. However, in all the above mentioned procedures, the metal is not used as a template but is merely, at most, added to the conventional crystallization mix which contained a quaternary ammonium cation or a precursor thereof.In other words, in the prior art techniques for the formation of zeolites wherein metals were introduced into the forming solution, the forming solution itself would have produced the same zeolite irrespective of the presence or absence of the metal. Thus, it is clear that the metal in such prior art processes is not acting as a template for the formation of the zeolite, but the organic cation is in fact the template. In summary, the instant invention differs from all the above because transition metal compounds are used as templates and have eliminated the quaternary ammonium cation or precursor thereof which has previously been required in the synthesis ofZSM 5. Thus, in the instant invention the transition metal compounds are necessary for crystallization at the high silica to alumina conditions used for synthesis and without the transition metal templates present, no crystalline material would be obtained. The novel process of this invention is carried out by forming a reaction mixture containing a suitable source of silica, a source of alumina, a source of alkali metal, e.g. alkali metal oxide and at least one complex which is a metal or hydrogen phthalocyanine, iron cyclopentadienyl complex or a metal complex containing a N C C N aromatic grouping. This reaction mixture is then heated to elevated temperatures preferably ranging from about 100 to about 2500C and more preferably from about 150 to about 1600 C. The reaction mixture is then maintained at a temperature of from about 380C to 2040C until crystals of ZSM 5 or mordenite are formed. Crystallization time can vary from about one day to about seven days and it is preferred that the crystallization be carried out while stirring. The metal complexes which are operable in the novel process of this invention include 1 metal phthalocyanines of the formula EMI3.1 wherein M can be copper, cobalt, litium, vanadium oxide VO or hydrogen. 2 Iron cyclopentadienyl type complexes EMI3.2 wherein R and R can be hydrogen, a lower alkyl having 1 5 carbon atoms, and one R or R can be CH2 yN CH3 3 wherein Y is O or 1 and X is bromide, chloride, or iodide, or other such suitable anion. 3 Complexes containing a N C C Naromatic grouping such as a bipyridine EMI4.1 2,2 bipyridine ferrous perchlorate b 1, 10 phenanthroline O phenan EMI4.2 As has heretofore been stated, zeolite ZSM 5 can be conveniently prepared by forming a mixture of alumina, silica, alkali metal oxide, water, and the above described metal complexes such that the mixture has a composition in terms of mole ratios of oxides falling within the following range Broad Preferred A1203 Si02 0 0.2 0.001 0.05 H20 SiO2 5 200 10 100 OH SiO2 0 3.0 0.1 1.0 alkali metal Si02 0.01 3.0 0.1 2.0 M SiO2 0.002 2.0 0.1 1.0 wherein M is moles of complexed metal.The alkali metal can be any member of Group I elements, but is preferably sodium. Zeolite ZSM 5 possesses a definite distinguishing crystalline structure whose x ray diffraction pattern shows the following significant lines TABLE IInterplanar Spacing d A Relative Intensity 11.1 0.3 5 10.0 0.3 S 7.4 0.2 W 7.1 0.2 W 6.3 0.2 W 6.04 0.2 W 5.56 0.1 W 5.01 0.1 W 4.60 0.08 W 4.25 0.08 W 3.85 0.07 VS 3.71 0.05 S 3.04 0.03 W 2.99 0.02 W 2.94 0.02 W These values were determined by standard technique. The radiation was the K alpha doublet of copper, and a scintillation counter spectrometer with a strip chart pen recorder was used The peak heights, I, and the positions as a function of 2 times theta, where theta is the Bragg angle, were read from the spectrometer chart.From these, the relative intensities, 100I I0, where 10 is the intensity of the strongest line or peak, and d obs , the interplanar spacing in A, corresponding to the recorded lines, were calculated. In Table I the relative intensities are given in terms of the symbols W Weak, S Strong and VS Very Strong. It should be understood that this x ray diffraction pattern is characteristic of all the species of ZSM 5 zeolites. Ion exchange of the sodium ion with cations reveals substantially the same pattern with some minor shifts in interplanar spacing and variation in relative intensity. Other minor variations can occur depending on the silicon to aluminum ratio of the particular sample, as well as if it has been subjected to thermal treatment. As hereinbefore indicated, the process of the present invention can also be employed in the improved preparation of the zeolite mordenite. The zeolite mordenite is fully described in Breck,Zeolite Molecular Sieves, Structure, Chemistry andUse, John Wiley Sons, 1974. Synthetic mordenite is generally prepared from Na20 A1205 SiO2 H2 0 non organic systems wherein theSiO2 A1203 ratio is from about 5 10. The maximum forming solution SiO2 Al203 ratio for producing large port mordenite was heretofore believed to be about 30. It has been discovered, however, that by using the particular metal complexes of the present invention, mordenite can be prepared from reaction solutions having SiO2 A1203 ratios of 30 or greater, for example, from solutions having SiO2 Al203 ratios of from about 60 to 90. For preparation of either ZSM 5 type or mordenite zeolites, the reaction mixture can be maintained at a temperature of from about 380C loO0F to about 2600C 500at for a period of time of from about 1 hour to about 180 days until crystals of ZSM 5 or mordenite are formed. A more preferred temperature range is from about 820C 1800F to about 1770C 3500F for a period of time at a temperature within such preferred range being from about 2 hours to about 30 days. The digestion of the gel particles is carried out until crystals form. The solid product is separated from the reaction medium, as by cooling the whole to room temperature, filtering and water washing. The composition for the synthesis of ZSM 5 or mordenite can be prepared utilizing materials which can supply the appropriate oxide. Such materials include aluminates, alumina, silicates, silica hydrosol, silica gel, silicic acid and hydroxides. It will be understood that each oxide component utilized in the reaction mixture for preparing ZSM 5 or mordenite can be supplied by one or more essential reactants and they can be mixed together in any order. For example, any oxide can be supplied by an aqueous solution, sodium hydroxide or by an aqueous solution of a suitable silicate. The reaction mixture can be prepared either batchwise or continuously. The ZSM 5 composition as prepared hereby has the characteristic x ray diffraction pattern of conventionally prepared ZSM 5, the values of which are set forth in Table I. Even though the presently prepared ZSM 5 or mordenite can often have a low amount of alkali metal, e.g. sodium, ions, as synthesized, and therefore can be utilized as catalytic material for a number of hydrocarbon conversion reactions substantially as synthesized, the original cations of the as synthesized ZSM 5 or mordenite can be replaced in accordance with techniques well known in the art, at least in part, by ion exchange with other cations. Preferred replacing cations include metal ions, ammonium ions, hydrogen ions and mixtures thereof. Particularly preferred cations are those which render the zeolite catalytically active especially for hydrocarbon conversion. These include hydrogen, rare earth metals, aluminum, metals ofGroups IIA, IIIB, IVB, VIB, VIII, IB IIB, IIIA, IVA. Of the replacing metallic cations, particular preference is given to cations of metals such as rare earth, Mn, Ca, Mg, Zn, Cd, Pd, Ni, Co, Ti, Al, Sn, Fe and Co. A typical ion exchange technique would be to contact the synthetic ZSM 5 or mordenite zeolite after calcination with a solution of a salt of the desired replacing cation or cations. Although a wide variety of salts can be employed, particular preference is given to chlorides, nitrates and sulfates. Representative ion exchange techniques are disclosed in a wide variety of patents, includingUnited States 3,140,249 3,140,251 and 3,140,253. Following contact with the salt solution of the desired replacing cation, the zeolite is then preferably washed with water and dried at a temperature ranging from 1500F to about 6000F and thereafter may be calcined in air or other inert gas at temperatures ranging from about 5000F to 1500at for periods of time ranging from 1 to 48 hours or more to produce a catalytically active thermal decomposition product thereof. Regardless of the cation replacing the cations in the as synthesized form of ZSM 5 or mordenite, the spatial arrangement of the aluminum1 silicon and oxygen atoms which form the basic crystal lattices of ZSM 5 or mordenite remains essentially unchanged by the described replacement of the original cations as determined by taking an x ray powder diffraction pattern of the ion exchanged material. The hereby prepared zeolite ZSM 5 or mordenite may be used in the conversion of a wide variety of organic compounds, e.g. hydrocarbon compounds and oxygenates such as methanol. Such processes include, for example, alkylation of aromatics with olefins, aromatization of normally gaseous olefins and paraffins aromatization of normally liquid low molecular weight paraffins and olefins, isomerization of aromatics paraffins and olefins, disproportionation of aromatics, transalkylation of aromatics, oligomerization of olefins and cracking and hydrocracking. All of the foregoing catalytic processes are of value since they result in upgrading of the organic charge being processed. In the past few years the potential use of large crystal ZSM 5 in numerous catalytic processes has been demonstrated. These processes include alkylation of toluene with methanol, selective toluene disproportionation, methanol to gasoline and p ethyltoluene production. Selectivity gains in these processes result from the conversion of an undesirable, diffusionally limited intracrystalline product to a smaller, more desirable product which leaves the crystal more readily with less chance of further reaction. Further reaction is limited by the more diffusionally restrictive large crystal ZSM 5. Synthetic ZSM 5 or mordenite zeolites prepared in accordance hereto can be used either in the alkali metal form or hydrogen form or another univalent or multivalent cationic form. They can also be used in intimate combination with a hydrogenating component such as tungsten, vanadium, molybdenum, rhenium, nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, or a noble metal such as platinum or palladium where a hydrogenation dehydrogenation function is to be performed. Such components can be exchanged into the composition, impregnated therein or physically intimately admixed therewith. Such components can be impregnated in or on to ZSM 5 or mordenite such as, for example, by, in the case of platinum, treating the zeolite with a platinum metal containing ion.Thus, suitable platinum compounds for this purpose include chloroplatinic acid, platinous chloride and various compounds containing the platinum amine complex. Combinations of metals and methods for their introduction can also be used. In the case of many catalysts, it is desired to incorporate the ZSM 5 or mordenite hereby prepared with another material resistant to the temperatures and other conditions employed in organic conversion processes. Such matrix materials include active and inactive materials and synthetic or naturally occurring zeolites as well as inorganic materials such as clays, silica and or metal oxides. The latter may be either naturally occurring or in the form of gelatinous precipitates, sols or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. Use of a material in conjunction with the ZSM 5 or mordenite, i.e. combined therewith, which is active, tends to improve the conversion and or selectivity of the catalyst in certain organic conversion processes. Inactive materials suitably serve as diluents to control the amount of conversion in a given process so that products can be obtained economically and orderly without employing other means for controlling the rate of reaction.Frequently, zeolite materals have been incorporated into naturally occurring clays, e.g. bentonite and kaoline. These materials, i.e. clays, oxides, etc., function, in part, as binders for the catalyst. It is desirable to provide a catalyst having good crush strength, because in a petroleum refinery the catalyst is often subjected to rough handling, which tends to break the catalyst down into powder like materials which cause problems in processing. Naturally occurring clays which can be composited with the hereby synthesized ZSM 5 or mordenite catalyst include the montmorillonite and kaoline family, which families include the sub bentonites, and the aolines commonly known asDixie, McNamee, Georgia and Floridaclays or others in which the main mineral constituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite, or anuaxite. Such clays can be used in the raw state or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. In addition to the foregoing materials, theZSM 5 or mordenite catalyst hereby synthesized can be composited with a porous matrix material such as silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania as well as ternary compositions such as silica alumina thoria, silica alumina zirconia, silica alumina magnesia and silica magnesia zirconia. The matrix can be in the form of a cogel. A mixture of these components could also be used. The relative proportions of finely divided crystalline aluminosilicate ZSM 5 or mordenite and inorganic oxide gel matrix vary widely with the crystalline aluminosilicate content ranging from about 1 to about 90 percent by weight and more usually in the range of abut 10 to about 70 percent by weight of the composite. One particular advantage of the novel process of this invention is that the metal complexes actually incorporate the metal inside the zeolite structure and, in order to test this hypothesis, certain of the preparations were subjected to contact with ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid in ammonium nitrate exchange in order to determine whether or not the metal in the metal complex could be removed from the aluminosilicate structure. As will be seen from certain of the examples which follow, these techniques were not effective in removing the metal from the structure. The following examples will illustrate the novel process of this invention. EXAMPLES 1 23 In all the examples which follow crystallizations were carried out with Q brand sodium silicate 27.8 SiO2 8.4 Na2O 63.8 H20 and A12 S04 3 16 H20 at 1600 C while stirring at autogenous pressure. In all the Examples.which follow the H20 SiO2 molar ratio was 40 and the Na SiO2 molar ratio was 0.6. Additional reaction compositions and the results obtained are shown in the following table TABLE IICrystallizations with Metal ComplexesMixture Mole RatiosSiO2 OH MEx.Al2O3 SiO2 SiO2 Compound Days Product EMI13.1 tb SEP 1 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP CH4N2 4 SEP 3 SEP 33 SEP ZSM 3 unidentified tb SEP 9 tb SEP a SEP a SEP 4 SEP a tb SEP 2 SEP 180 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.05 SEP C4N2 4Co SEP 3 SEP 10 SEP ZSM 5 unidentified tb SEP c, SEP rl tb SEP 3 SEP 120 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP 3 SEP 25 SEP tb SEP 4 SEP 90 SEP m SEP Q SEP Q SEP 4 SEP X SEP m SEP 15 SEP mordenite unidentified tb SEP S SEP SEP SEP i SEP SEP SEP EQ SEP S tb SEP cn SEP p SEP g SEP P SEP t SEP N SEP P SEP I tb SEP 5 SEP Q SEP bQ SEP Q SEP ze SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP 4 SEP I SEP ae SEP ae SEP ZS5 unidentified tb SEP ue SEP O SEP ua SEP 1 SEP o SEP o SEP . SEP ae SEP E SEP 1 SEP 1n tb SEP 6 SEP 90 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.10 SEP 3 SEP 20 SEP ZSM 5 tb SEP cm SEP cristobalite tb SEP 7 SEP 90 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.02 SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP ZSM 3 tb SEP 8 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP C8H4N2 4Ni SEP 2 SEP Amorphous tb SEP O SEP 180 SEP O tb SEP 0 SEP z SEP tb 10 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP V SEP 2 SEP Z SEP e tb SEP Q SEP Q SEP CJ SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP C SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP SEP X SEP N SEP 0 SEP tb SEP ti SEP N SEP n SEP SEP tso SEP o SEP N SEP co SEP tb TABLE II continued EMI14.1 11 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP C8H4N2 4Cu SEP 2 SEP 15 SEP ZsM 5 tb 12 SEP 180 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.20 SEP C8H4N2 4L12 SEP 2 SEP 15 SEP ZSM 5 k SEP quartz tb SEP rl tb SEP ce tb SEP 13 SEP 90 SEP SEP C SEP c tb SEP I SEP ci SEP t tb 14 SEP 180 SEP 0.40 SEP X SEP o phenan 3RuC12 SEP 5 SEP 15 SEP 4 tb SEP SEP SEP o SEP 2 SEP R SEP ffi SEP O SEP 3 SEP tb SEP I SEP NQleltJ SEP I tb SEP 15 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP 2 SEP N SEP SEP SEP E SEP w SEP g SEP N SEP i SEP t SEP N SEP N tb 16 SEP 60 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP 2 SEP Amorphous tb 17 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP o phenan 3FeClO4 SEP 2 SEP 10 SEP gpieS tb 18 SEP N SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP Ru blpyr 3C12 SEP 3 SEP 40 SEP mordenite tb SEP trace SEP component tb 19 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP bipyr 3FeC104 SEP 2 SEP 10 SEP ZSM 5 tb 20 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP Ni bipyr 3C104 SEP 2 SEP 10 SEP mordenite tb H SEP m tb r SEP m1 tb 23 SEP 90 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.10 SEP C5H5 Fe C5H4 N CH3 3 Br SEP hr tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP N SEP O SEP Z SEP Z tb SEP C SEP SEP Q SEP it SEP tb SEP SEP c SEP C SEP SEP L SEP ax SEP X tb SEP z SEP 9 SEP Q SEP 9 SEP SEP tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP I SEP N SEP tA SEP SEP 0 SEP N SEP O SEP H SEP N SEP n tb SEP SEP 1 SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb a H2O SiO2 40 Na SiO2 0.6 As can be seen from the above table, the results obtained were indeed very interesting and completely unpredictable. Thus, in Examples 1 3, 5 7, and 9 13 certain metal phthalocyanines were used and ZSM 5 was obtained. However, in Example 8 a nickel phthalocyanine was utilized, and no ZSM 5 was obtained. Attention is also invited to Example 4 utilizing cobalt phthalocyanine and, as can be seen, in this example no ZSM 5 was obtained when the OH SiO2 ratio was 0.6. In like manner, utilizing the complex of Example 14 resulted in ZSM 5 only in a high silica to alumina ratio and, indeed, when the silica to alumina ratio dropped from 180 to 90 and to 60 no ZSM 5 was obtained. Note that the nickel bipyridine complex of Example 20 did not produce any ZSM 5, whereas the iron bipyridine complex of Example 19 did.Examples 4, 17, 18, 20 and 21 demonstrate that synthetic mordenite can be prepared using the complexes of the present invention even from reaction solutions having SiO2 A1203 ratios of from 60 to 90. EXAMPLES 24 25 The product of Example 10 and the product ofExample 23 was subjected to various tests to determine if the metal was incorporated in the zeolite. The procedures employed and the results obtained are shown in the following table TABLE III Test to Determine if The Metal is Incorporated into The ZeoliteAnalysis of ProductExample Template, Product Treatment of Product After Treatment 24 C8H4N2 4VO 25 ZSM 5 1 Soxhlet extracted 1 3.5 V 1.9 Na week with CHCl3 to 230 ppm Na Ex. 10 remove venadium 2 Exchanged with NH4NO3 a 25 Cp Fe CpCH2N CH3 3Br 25 ZSM 5 1 EDTA treated b 6.7 Fe 6.7 Fe 2 Exchanged with 1.6 Na NH4NO3 0.09 Na Ex. 23 a Exchange using lM NH4NO3 solution zeolite boiled in three successive fresh solutions for one hour in first two solutions and overnight in the third solution. b EDTA Treatment zeolite boiled in 0.25M EDTA NH4OH neutralized to pH 7.0 for two days. fital As can be seen from the above table, attempts to remove the metal from the structure were unsuccessful, thereby demonstrating that the novel process of this invention results in placing of a metal within the zeolite structure. Source of Complexes Used The complexes utilized in Examples 1 7 were purchased from Eastman Chemical Company. The complexes of Example 14 were purchased from the StremChemical Company. The complex of Example 22 was purchased from the Strem Chemical Company. The complex of Example 18 was prepared in accordance with the procedure described in the Journal of TheChemical Society, 1931, pp. 2213. The complex ofExample 20 is available from G.T. Morgan F. H. Burstall, J. Chem Soc. 1931, 2213. The complex ofExamples 20 and 21 can also be prepared in accordance with the Journal of The Chemical Society, 1931, pp.2213. The complex of Examples 8, 9, 10 and 11 are available from the Eastman Chemical Company. The complex of Examples 12 and 13 is available fromEastman Kodak, and the complex of Example 1 is also available from Eastman Kodak.