# AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL PRODUCING ENDOSYMBIOTIC BACTERIA AND METHOD OF PREPARING AND USING SAME

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, CE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to agricultural chemical producing bacteria, particularly agricultural chemical producing bacteria capable of entering into non pathogenic endosymbiotic relationships with host plants whereby the bacteria provide some or all of the plant s agricultural chemical requirements. Modern commerical agriculture is heavily dependent on the use of agricultural chemicals to enhance the performance of plants. Most notably, chemical fertilizers, particularly fixed nitrogen fertilizers, are the most common limiting nutrient in crop productivity and often are the most expensive single input for the farmer. Other agricultural chemicals are widely used at great expense to kill plant pests, to prevent disease, or to improve the growing environment of the plant. Still other agricultural chemicals may be added to growing plants or harvested crops to diminish or enhance natural properties or to alter or improve the appearance or sensory appeal of the plant or crop. Agricultural chemicals include, as well, natural or synthetic plant growth regulators, including e.g. hormones. Such chemicals are well known to those having ordinary skill in the agricultural art and are hereinafter generically referred to as agricultural chemicals . Microorganisms, such as bacteria, are a natural source of agricultural chemicals. For example, leguminous plants, such as soybeans, alfalfa and clover, derive some of their fixed nitrogen requirements through symbiotic relationships with bacteria of the genus Bacteria have also become sources of agricultural chemicals synthesised or prepared by man and applied by e.g. spraying to fields, growing plants, or harvested crops. Antifungal antibiotics, antibacterial antibiotics and insecticidal antibiotics, for example, have been produced by various bacteria. Antifungal antibiotics include blasticidin S which is produced by Similarly, microorganisms have become sources of antibiotics for herbicide use. For example, cycloheximide, produced by Moreover, microorganisms are known to produce a plant growth regulating substances such as various vitamins, auxins, cytokinins, gibberellin like substances and other stimulating or inhibiting substances. Brown, in her work on Seed and Root Bacterization cited below, attributes the production of such substances to species of Microorganisms have also been found to produce antiviral antibiotics, including laurusin, which has been isolated from Other types of bacteria are known to have the ability to solubilize phosphenate that is otherwise unavailable to plants. These include those bacteria belonging to the genera Few symbiotic associations between agricultural chemical producing bacteria and major crop species, such as wheat and corn, have been described in the scientific literature. The development of symbiotic relationships between such bacterial species and various crops would have many advantages over man made synthesis and application of the chemical. The advantages of such associations are particularly apparent in the area of fixed nitrogen fertilizers, which are hereinafter discussed in detail as exemplary of the advantages attainable through the practice of the present invention. It should be understood, however, that the teachings contained herein regarding bacterial production of fixed nitrogen fertilizers may be extrapolated by those having ordinary skill in the art to other bacterially produced agricultural chemicals, such as those discussed above. It is estimated that development of a symbiotic relationship between nitrogen fixing bacteria and major crop species capable of providing even a minor fraction, e.g., 10 20 , of the fixed nitrogen requirements of non leguminous crop plants, would produce an economically important substitution of photosynthetically derived energy for fossil fuel energy now expended for production of nitrogen fertilizer. Currently, the major sources of fixed nitrogen for non leguminous economic crop plants are man made products such as anhydrous ammonia, inorganic nitrogen salts and synthetic organic nitrogen compounds. Present annual consumption of nitrogen fertilizer in the United States is estimated to be 12 million tons. Such nitrogen fertilizers are largely prepared by energy intensive processes for the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into ammonia. A major thrust of nitrogen fixation research in recent years has been directed towards the isolation, characterisation, transformation and expression in plants of the nitrogen fixing genes from rhizobia and other nitrogen fixing bacteria by genetic modification of the plants themselves. This technique requires a complete understanding of the genetics and biochemistry of nitrogen fixation which, it is estimated, is 10 to 15 years or more in the future. See generally, J.E. Beringer, Microbial Genetics and Biological Nitrogen Fixation , in Other types of bacteria are known to have the capability of fixing atmospheric nitrogen. These include those belonging to the genera In the early 1940 s, for example, it was proposed in the Soviet Union and elsewhere that nitrogen fixing bacteria could be used as soil inoculants to provide some or all of the fixed nitrogen requirements of non luguminous crop plants. Indeed, claims of increased crop yield associated with such inoculations were widespread. Critical analysis of the early yield results, however, revealed that positive significant effects occured in only about one third of the trials. It was later established that yield increases associated with bacterial inoculation, including inoculation with species of It has been demonstrated that an Another effort to create higher organisms capable of fixing their own nitrogen, for example, involved attempts to create new organelles in higher organisms by similar forced association of lower forms of organisms having nitrogen fixing abilities. Such efforts to parallel the theoretical biological development of known organelles have included, for example, the efforts of Burgoon and Bottino to induce the uptake of nitrogen fixing Another attempt to create a symbiotic relationship between nitrogen fixing bacteria and non leguminous plants involved the screening and selection of plant hybrids in an effort to identify some plant varieties which were capable of associating with aerobic nitrogen fixing bacteria, such as The numerous unsuccessful attempts to create associative symbiotic relationships between nitrogen fixing bacteria and nonleguminous plants have resulted in the development of numerous techniques for genetic manipulation and analysis. These attemps have also resulted in rather extensive characterisation of the genetic makeup of nitrogen fixing bacteria such as Indeed, experimentation related to protoplast fusion of nitrogen fixing bacteria has, prior to the present invention, failed to produce evidence that non pathogenic endosymbiotic relationships between higher plants and fusion products of nitrogen fixing bacteria can be produced. For example, Du Qian you and Fan Cheng ying, A Preliminary Report On the Establishment of Nitrogen Fixation System in the Crown Gall of Tomato Plant , Other unsuccessful attempts to extend the range of nitrogen fixing Despite substantial economic incentive to do so, the prior art has been unable to prepare hybrid nitrogen fixing bacteria capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with non leguminous plant hosts or any other hybrid agricultural chemical producing bacteria capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with plant hosts. A method of producing hybrid agricultural chemical producing bacteria capable of entering into non pathogenic, endosymbiotic relationships with a plant host has been discovered which comprises Infecting bacteria as used throughout this specification is intended to connote not only organisms which enter and live within the plant and normally produce symptoms of disease but also organisms which enter and live within the plant symbiotically or commensally. Indeed many of the plant infecting bacteria used in accordance with the present invention, while normally creating pathogenic responses in some plant hosts, will not normally produce such responses in all plant hosts. The term bacteria as used herein is intended to encompass bacteria, bacteria like organisms and their equivalents, including gram positive bacteria, gram negative bacteria, actinomycetes and the like. The only limitations on the taxonomic classification of the organisms used in accordance with the present invention is that they be capable of protoplast fusion to produce viable hybrid organisms expressing phenotypical properties of both parents as more fully described herein. The bacteria resulting from the process of the present invention may be introduced into crop plants by a variety of means, including injection, and may be employed to coat agricultural seed, to infect agricultural seed, in the preparation of a soil drench, and the like. The hybrid bacteria of the present invention, upon association with crop plants, are capable of supplying some or all of the plants agricultural chemical needs. Agricultural chemicals which can be produced by hybrid bacteria in accordance with the present invention include fertilizers, particularly fixed nitrogen fertilizers antibiotics, including antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, insecticidal, nematocidal, miticidal, and herbicidal agents plant growth regulators. The process is capable of producing agricultural chemical producing bacteria capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants. For diocotyledonous plants, infecting bacteria of the genus Preferred agricultural chemical producing bacteria and the chemicals and or applications for which their metabolic products are useful are identified in Table I below and include organisms having the ability to produce fertilizers, including fixed nitrogen and chemicals capable of solubilising phosphates, antibiotics, including antibacterial compounds, antifungal compounds, antiviral compounds, insecticides, nematocides, miticides and herbicides, and plant growth regulators. Additionally, useful organisms may be selected or modified to produce other agricultural chemicals, as above defined, including fragrances and anti feeding agents. The processes of the present invention result in novel, stable fusion hybrid bacteria having the ability to produce one or more agricultural chemicals and enter into endosymbiotic relationships with a plant host. The nitrogen fixing products of the present invention, for example, have been shown to improve the yield of non leguminous crop plants growing under low fixed nitrogen conditions by amounts of from 10 to 180 due primarily, it is believed, to fixed nitrogen produced by the hybrids of nitrogen fixing bacteria and infecting bacteria in the course of their endosymbiotic relationship with the plant host. Additional objects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned from the practice of the invention. The objects and advantages may be realised and attained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. To achieve the objects and in accordance with the purpose of the invention, as embodied and broadly described herein, the hybrid fusion products of the above described method are preferably the fusion products of bacteria having the same response to gram stain, preferably gram negative bacteria. However, certain gram positive bacteria, notably members of the genus While the steps of the above described method may be carried out in any convenient order, it is desirable that the process of selection for agricultural chemical producing ability and for ability to interact with plant tissue in the manner in which the infecting bacterium interacts with plant tissue during the initial phases of infection in the host plant be carried out two or more times before the step relating to selection of those hybrids which do not manifest symptoms of disease in the plant host. The selectable traits associated with the infecting bacterium may be e.g. antibiotic resistance, or heed for specific nutritional supplementation auxotrophism . The selectable traits associated with the agricultural chemical producing bacterium may be the ability to produce an agricultural chemical alone or in combination with one or more of those traits previously mentioned with respect to the infecting bacterium. The interaction with plant tissue screened for in step C 2 of the above described method may be, for example, the ability to bind to plant tissue or the ability to spread throughout the vascular system of the plant. Where the interaction associated with the initial phase of infection is binding to plant cells, it is desirable to limit further the bacterial subgroup resulting from step C prior to step D by selection of a bacterial subgroup for further screening in accordance with the above described process comprising those hybrids which spread most readily throughout the plant host. The fusion products are formed by protoplast or spheroplast fusion. By appropriate selection of the infecting bacterial component of the hybrid, fusion hybrids may be obtained which are capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with cereals, such as wheat, triticale, barley, rye, rice and oats grasses such as brome grass, blue grass, tall fescue grass and bermuda grass tropical grasses, such as sugar cane, corn, millet and sorghum solanaceous plants, such as potatoes, tomatoes, tobacco, eggplant and pepper brassicaceous plants such as cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, kale and kohlrabi other vegetables, such as carrot and parsley other agriculturally grown plants, such as sugar beets, cotton, fruit trees, berry plants and grapes and economically important tree species, such as pine, spruce, fir and aspen. The process of the present invention and the resulting bacteria may also be used to fulfill some or all of the fixed nitrogen or other agricultural chemical requirements of leguminous plants, such as soybeans, alfalfa, clover, field beans, mung beans, peas and other pulses, as a supplement for example, to fixed nitrogen provided by species of Reference will now be made in detail to the presently preferred embodiments of the invention, which together with the following examples, serve to explain the principles of the invention. The steps of the above method of the invention may be performed in any convenient order. Preferably, they are performed in the order recited with the selectable traits of the agricultural chemical producing bacterium screened for in step C 1 including the ability of the hybrid to produce the agricultural chemical in question, as in the case of fixed nitrogen producing bacteria. If screening for ability to produce the agricultural chemical in question is not conducted in the first screening step, then it is preferred to conduct such screening step C 4 prior to or concurrently with the screening in the plant host contemplated by steps C 2 and C 3 . When performed in the order recited, the antibiotic resistance markers or the like constituting the selectable traits associated with the infecting bacterium need not survive subsequent screening procedures. The stable fusion hybrid bacteria resulting from processes of the present invention are distinguished from hitherto known organisms in that they have both the ability to produce agricultural chemicals and the ability to enter into non pathogenic endosymbiotic relationships with a plant host. The endosymbiotic relationship referred to is one in which the organism actually exists within and spreads throughout all or a portion of the plant host, without causing a pathogenic response, deriving some or all of its energy requirements from carbohydrates and other materials produced by the plant host and providing agricultural chemicals which may be used by the plant host to supplement those otherwise available. The plant hosts with which the microorganisms of the present invention may establish endosymbiotic relationships may include virtually all economically important crop plants. The process of the present invention has been shown to be capable of producing stable fusion hybrid bacteria having the ability to produce an agricultural chemical and of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant hosts. A particularly important group of plant hosts for which the products of the present invention may serve as endosymbiotic agricultural chemical producing bacteria are the cereals, including temperate cereals, such as wheat, triticale, barley, rye, rice and oats. Endosymbiotic agricultural chemical producing bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention may also be useful in supplementing the agricultural chemical, including fixed nitrogen, needs of economically important sod and forage grasses, such as brome grass, blue grass, tall fescue grass and bermuda grass. Similarly, the organisms of the present invention have a demonstrated ability to increase the yields of tropical grasses, such as sugar cane, corn, millet and sorghum. Solanaceous plants, such as potatoes, tomatoes, tobacco, eggplant and pepper are suitable plant hosts to which the organisms of the present invention may be applied, as are brassicaceous plants, such as cauliflower, broccoli, cabbage, kale and kohlrabi. Miscellaneous vegetables such as carrots and parsley other agriculturally grown plants, such as sugar beets, cotton, fruit trees, berry plants and grapes and economically important tree species, such as pine, spruce, fir and aspen, may also serve as plant hosts for the organisms of the present invention. Even though plants may have symbiotic relationships with microorganisms which produce agricultural chemicals, such as leguminous plants with bacteria of the genus The agricultural chemical producing bacterium employed in the present invention capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen aerobically and of forming stable fusion hybrids by the fusion processes of the present invention may be preferably selected from the genera Because Other agricultural chemical producing bacteria may be employed in the present invention which are capable of producing a wide variety of antibiotics and of forming stable fusion hybrids by the fusion processes of the present invention or are capable of producing e.g. plant growth regulating compounds, fertilising chemicals other than fixed nitrogen, fragrances, sensory enhancing chemicals or antifeeding agents. Indeed, it is contemplated that any chemical or chemical effect produced by bacteria as herein defined which would be of value as an agricultural chemical and which is produced by organisms which form stable fusion hybrids with infecting bacteria as herein defined and the processes described herein may be used in accordance with the present invention. Selection of such agricultural chemical producing bacteria will be within the capabilities of those skilled in the art in the light of the teachings and illustrations contained herein. A table of exemplary agricultural chemical producing bacteria contemplated as useful in accordance with the present invention and the agricultural chemical or chemical effects they produce appear in Table I. The infecting bacterium capable of infecting the plant host employed in the present invention may be any of a wide variety of bacterial species which infect the plant host under consideration and which are capable of forming stable fusion hybrids in accordance with the fusion techniques discussed hereinafter. Preferably, the infecting bacterium should have a known method of interaction with the plant host during the initial phase of infection. The infecting bacteria may be either a pathogen, including latent pathogens, or an endosymbiotic species. Exemplary pathogens include species of the genera Most preferably, the infecting bacterium is a strain which is specific, or nearly specific, to the particular crop plant host under consideration in order to limit the potential for spread of the fusion hybrids of the present invention to plants other than those with which they are intended to enter an endosymbiotic relationship. Many plant infecting bacteria and their methods of interaction with plant hosts are described in the scientific literature. Particular reference in this regard is made to M.S. Mount et al., Many pathogenic organisms are known to form organism strains essentially undifferentiable from each other except for their preference for particular plant hosts. Such host specific pathogen strains are known as pathovars for the plant host involved. It is envisioned that the present invention will be particularly useful with pathovars for the particular plant host under consideration, including pathovars of the genera Particularly preferred non pathogenic endosymbionts include species of the genus Pathovars of Infecting bacteria such as Strains of The above identified strains of It is to be understood that the selection of a particular plant infecting bacterium and a particular agricultural chemical producing bacterium for use in accordance with the present invention will be within the capabilities of one having ordinary skill in the art through the exercise of routine experimentation in light of the teachings contained herein and inferences logically to be drawn from the disclosure of the present invention. The characteristics of bacteria contemplated as useful as either the agricultural chemical producing bacterium or the infecting bacterium in processes of the present invention may be determined by routine experimentation or by reference to standard compendia, such as For use in the present invention, mutants of the desired infecting bacterium should be selected which have one or more selectable traits in addition to the ability to infect the plant host under consideration. Specifically, mutants of the infecting bacterium should be selected which have traits which are selectable Antibiotic resistance is the preferred selectable trait, and it is particularly preferred that the selected infecting bacterium mutant have resistance to at least two antibiotics. Dual antibiotic resistance, or redundancy in other selectable traits, ensures that the initial screening of the fusion hybrids will identify only those having genetic material from both the agricultural chemical producing bacterium and the selected infecting bacterium mutant and reduces the chances of survival or formation of mutant antibiotic resistance strains of the agricultural chemical producing bacterium. For example, in formation of agricultural chemical producing hybrids capable of producing fixed nitrogen and of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with monocotyledonous plants, strains of Where hybrids of the agricultural chemical producing bacteria are not to be screened initially for the ability to produce the agricultural chemical in question, the agricultural chemical producing bacterium used in the fusion step may be a mutant with one or more additional selectable traits, preferably The fusion hybrids of the present invention are formed by protoplast or spheroplast fusion techniques following the outline of techniques generally employed in the prior art. Known protoplast and spheroplast fusion techniques are described in D.A. Hopwood, Genetic Studies With Bacterial Protoplasts , Selection of a technique by which the fusion hybrids of the present invention may be formed will generally be within the capabilities of one of ordinary skill in the art based on the above referenced scientific literature and the insights gained through study of the protoplast fusion examples hereinafter set forth. In general, the fusion procedure involves the removal of the cell wall from both the agricultural chemical producing bacteria and the infecting bacteria, fusion of the infecting bacteria and agricultural chemical producing bacteria cells in a fusion inducing medium, such as polyethylene glycol, and regeneration of the cell wall about the fusion hybrids containing genetic material from both the infecting bacterium and the agricultural chemical producing bacterium. Fusion and regeneration of the cell wall are conducted at low temperatures so that rates of expressible genetic recombination are favored in relation to rates of enzymatic destruction of genetic material in the newly formed hybrids. Following initial formation of fusion hybrids, the genetic make up of the bacterial population is relatively unstable for a period of two or three days, during which much genetic recombination apparently occurs. During this time period, those stable fusion hybrids capable both of manifesting the one or more selectable traits associated with the agricultural chemical producing bacteria and of manifesting the one or more selectable traits associated with the infecting bacterium are selected. It is particularly preferred that the agricultural chemical producing trait also be selected during this step. For example, fusion products of The surviving fusion hybrids manifesting both the selectable straits associated with the agriculturalchemical producing bacterium and the selectable traits associated with the infecting bacterium may then be screened for their ability to interact with plant tissue in the manner in which the infecting bacterium interacts with plant tissue during the initial phase of infection of the plant host. As above noted, the initial phase of infection associated with Other infecting bacteria , such as It is to be understood that other techniques for screening for this initial interaction with plant tissue may be envisioned by those skilled in the art in light of the teachings contained herein. It is to be further understood that other mechanisms of initial interaction between particular infecting bacteria and particular plant hosts may be quantified and screened for in ways which will be obvious to those skilled in the art in light of the teachings contained herein and known interactions between infecting bacteria and their plant hosts. The ability to spread throughout the plant s vascular system is a desirable property even for fusion hybrids formed from infecting bacteria whose initial interaction with plant cell tissue is by some other mechanism, e.g., cell binding. Accordingly, it is preferred to screen further those fusion hybrids found to possess both the ability to produce agricultural chemical and the ability to interact with plant cell tissue in the manner in which the infecting bacterium interacts with the plant host during the initial phases of infection to select a subgroup of hybrids for further screening according to the present invention which are also capable of dispersing quickly throughout the vascular system of the plant. Moreover, in practicing the present invention, it is preferred that the fusion hybrids found to have both the ability to produce agricultural chemicals and the ability to interact with plant cell tissue in the manner in which the infecting bacterium interacts with plant cell tissue during the initial phases of infection be screened for these capabilities two or more times. Such repeated screening tends to assure stability of the fusion hybrid strain and also allows selection for further screening of a manageable number of fusion hybrids having the greatest capabilities in these two areas. The stable fusion hybrids manifesting both the selectable traits of agricultural chemical producing bacterium and plant tissue interaction capabilities, as above described, may then be grown as individual colonies, in the case of the agricultural chemical producing bacterium that fix nitrogen, preferably on nitrogen free media. Each of the resultant cultures may then be applied in an appropriate manner, e.g., by injection to seedlings of the plant host in question. After an appropriate incubation period, e.g., two or three weeks, those fusion hybrids which do not create any visible manifestation of a disease in the host plant seedlings may be selected for further screening. Experience has shown that screening of 25 to 30 of the best fusion hybrids is normally sufficient to provide 5 to 7 fusion hybrids which do not manifest visible disease symptoms, such as any associated with the original infecting bacterium, in the host plant in question. Preferably, those stable fusion hybrids which manifest the widest area of spread throughout the vascular system of the plant, the clearest freedom from symptoms of disease in the host plant, and, in the case of agricultural chemical producing bacteria that fix nitrogen, the most vigorous growth in nitrogen free media, are selected for further screening. If not conducted in the initial screening of hybrid organisms, the hybrid organisms must, sooner or later, be screened directly for the ability to produce the agricultural chemical of interest. Preferably, the screening should be conducted at the earliest practical point in the process, which will be dictated by the number of hybrid organisms surviving at any particular stage of the process and the power of the technique used to screen for production of the agricultural chemical of interest to identify agricultural chemical producing hybrids out of a mixed inoculum. In general, these screening prodecures will fall into one of four categories. These are 1 survival screens, where the agricultural chemical being produced is essential to survival of the hybrid and is not provided by the growth media 2 analytical chemistry screens for the presence of the agricultural chemical being produced 3 biological screens for the manifestations of biological activity associated with the agricultural chemical or chemicals being produced and 4 immunoassay screens whereby organisms or groups of organisms producing a particular agricultural chemical are identified by interaction with an antibody which is specific to the chemical in question. The suitability of any particular screening technique or combination of techniques will be dictated by the agricultural chemical in question. Thus, survival screens are particularly useful in identifying hybrid bacteria capable of producing their own fixed nitrogen by survival on nitrogen deficient media. Biological screens are particularly useful in identifiying hybrid bacteria capable of producing anti bacterial or anti fungal agents. A particularly preferred screening technique of this sort involves layering a culture of organisms susceptible to the antibiotic produced by the hybrid bacteria over a mixed culture of hybrids and identifying and removing for further screening hybrids or groups of hybrids producing that antibiotic from those areas where the susceptible organism cannot grow. Immunoassay techniques are particularly appropriate where the agricultural chemical of interest is a large molecule, such as a polypeptide. In any event, biological screens for the known effects of the agricultural chemical in question can be conducted using discrete cultures of hybrid organisms once the number of such cultures has been reduced to a manageable level, e.g., 10² 10³ cultures, by preliminary screens for other selectable traits associated with the agricultural chemical producing bacterium. Thus, hybrids producing insecticidal compounds, for example, could be identified by the inability of susceptible insects to survive on a culture of the hybrid. Such screening has the disadvantage of requiring screening of a larger number of colonies and requiring a protracted period of time to manifest results but is nonetheless capable of identifying hybrids with the ability to produce the agricultural chemical of interest. It is to be understood that the screening for a particular agricultural chemical producing trait for use in accordance with the present invention will be within the capabilities of one having ordinary skill in the art through the exercise of routine experimentation in light of the teachings contained herein and inferences logically to be drawn from the disclosure of the present invention. The techniques contemplated as useful in screening for ability to produce the agricultural chemical may be determined by reference to standard compendia. In order to determine which of the final group of fusion hybrids is capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with the host plant whereby agricultural chemicals produced by the hybrid may be utilized by the plant as a supplement to agricultural chemicals otherwise available, it is normally necessary to conduct preliminary yield gain screening or the like. For nitrogen fixing bacteria , for example, this is accomplished by growing the host plant in an environment deficient in the agricultural chemical, e.g., fixed nitrogen, and comparing the dry weight after an appropriate period of growth, e.g., six weeks, with the dry weight of similar plants in similar environment but which had been infected, as by injection, with the stable fusion hybrid bacteria selected by the foregoing method. In the case of agricultural chemical producing bacteria that fix nitrogen, experience has shown that testing of 5 to 7 of the best fusion hybrids will result in identification of 3 or 4 stable fusion hybrids capable of creating statistically significant yield gains in the host plant growing in nitrogen deficient soil due, it is believed, to the ability of the stable fusion hybrids to fix atmospheric nitrogen aerobically and to enter into endosymbiotic relationships with the host plant. It is preferred in conducting the process of the present invention, although not necessary, that the infecting bacterium and the agricultural chemical producing bacterium employed exhibit the same response to gram stain. Moreover, it is envisioned that the endosymbiotic agricultural chemical producing bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention may be further modified by natural or artificial genetic techniques to improve their performance as sources of agricultural chemicals for the plant host. Specifically, the bacteria may be modified to reduce their resistance to cold temperatures, thereby preventing unintended proliferation of the hybrid bacteria from year to year. Similarly, the endosymbiotic hybrid bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention may be modified to enhance their stability to drought, disease or other physiological stress. In this regard, the stability of the hybrid under stress conditions, and the ability to minimize the likelihood of spontaneous or forced reversion to a pathogenic state, is desirable in a commercial microbiological product. Ideally, the bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention should be modified so that they cannot grow outside the plant host, as by the selection of mutants requiring nutritional supplementation specifically or nearly specifically provided by the plant host in question. Techniques for genetic manipulation and mutant selection for strains of, for example, The stable fusion hybrid bacteria having the ability to produce agricultural chemicals and of entering into an endosymbiotic relationship with a plant host formed in accordance with the present invention may be used to prepare agricultural products in many ways. For example, bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention may be injected into seedlings or used to form coated seed of the plant host involved by association of the bacteria with a biodegradable nutrient carrier material which is coated on the seed. Similarly, bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention may be used to form infected seed products by application of the bacteria directly to the seed of host plants. Alternatively, an agricultural soil drench may be prepared by mixing bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention with water and other appropriate drench constituents for application to the leaves, stem and roots of growing host plants and surrounding soil by spraying or the like. It is to be understood that application of the teachings of the present invention to a specific problem or environment will be within the capabilities of one having ordinary skill in the art in the light of the teachings contained herein. Examples of processes within the scope of the present invention and the bacterial products resulting therefrom appear in the following examples. Approximately 10⁸ bacteria of the species The bacteria growing in mid log phase were treated with lysozyme at a concentration of 100 micrograms per milliliter and with DNA ase at a concentration of 5 micrograms per milliliter in media containing EDTA at a concentration of 1 millimolar and magnesium chloride at a concentration of 5 millimolar, having a pH of 7 and with 12 added sucrose. After 10 minutes, protoplasts and spheroplasts of the original bacteria were formed. The temperature was then lowered to 0 C and the protoplast forming solution was washed out. The resulting protoplasts were placed in 12 sucrose solution at 0 C. The solution was then supplemented to 40 polyethylene glycol of molecular weight about 6,000 in order to induce protoplast and spheroplast fusion for a period of 10 to 15 minutes. The fused bacteria were spun down in a centrifuge and resuspended in 12 sucrose plus a complete growth medium for 4 hours at 0 C. The temperature was then raised to 30 C and was held there for 2 hours, after which the hybrid fusion products were transferred to complete growth medium containing no additional sucrose for 2 hours. The initial selection procedure was then conducted at a temperature of about 25 30 C. The hybrid fusion products were transferred and grown on Burke s nitrogen free medium as described in Carlson, et al., Forced Association Between Higher Plant and Bacterial Cells Samples of the mixed fusion hybrids from this culture were used to infect corn seedlings approximately 3 to 4 feet in height by injection between the first and second node of the stalk tissue. After 4 days the corn plants were dissected into transverse sections to recover bacteria that moved to the anterior top of the plant, since The fusion hybrid bacteria found between the fifth and sixth node of the corn plant were cultured for 3 days on Burke s nitrogen free medium as described by Carlson, et al., After 3 days, a mixed inoculant from this nitrogen free culture was again used to infect corn seedlings approximately 3 to 4 feet in height by injection between the first and second node of the stalk tissue. After about 3 days the plant was transversely dissected as above described to recover bacteria that moved to the anterior of the plant. Again, those fusion hybrids with the greatest facility to spread throughout the vascular system of the corn plant were generally found between the fifth and sixth node. The fusion hybrid bacteria recovered from this portion of the corn plant were then grown as separate colonies on Burke s nitrogen free medium. Twenty five of the most vigorous colonies were selected, and each was used to infect one of 25 corn plants by injection. After 3 weeks, those colonies which did not result in any visible manifestation of disease in the infected corn plants were selected. From among these, seven solonies which manifested the most vigorous growth on nitrogen free media, the widest area of spread throughout the plant and clearest freedom from symptoms of disease were selected for preliminary yield testing and were identified as Fusion 1 through Fusion 7. In the preliminary yield test, flats 30cm x 46cm containing 15cm of washed sterile sand over 10cm of Perlite were sown with 24 corn seeds at a uniform spacing. Flats were maintained in the greenhouse at approximately 22 27 C and were watered twice daily with deionized water. Starting at 10 days so as to exhaust the seed nitrogen the seedlings were watered three times a week with a nutrient solution. One liter of solution was applied and allowed to drain through. The solution was a modified Long Ashton mix that contained nitrate ion at a concentration of 6 micromolar as its sole nitrogen. The Long Ashton mix was also modified to contain nitrate ion at concentrations of 6 millimolar and 0 and used in comparative runs A and C below, respectively. Experiments were run for six weeks, at which time the aerial portions of the plants were harvested and dried for one week at 95 C. Dry weight data was then collected. For flats containing infected plants, the bacterial strains were introduced by injection at 10 days at the same time as fertilization was initiated . Each analysis was done in triplicate three flats of 24 plants per treatment and the data were subjected to statistical analysis. Seven different bacterial fusions were selected by multiple screens between Results with Fusion numbers 1, 3, 5, and 7 are statistically significant. Uninoculated comparative run A contains the optimum level of nitrate in Long Ashton nutrient solution and is indicative of results to be expected with corn growing in well nitrogen fertilized soil. Comparative run C, to which no nitrate was added, shows the yields which may be expected based only on residual nitrate contained in the seed of the corn. Comparative run B, which represents the control value containing nitrogen at levels of about 6 micromolar, is indicative of growth to be expected in poorly nitrogen fertilized soil. The reduction in dry weight associated with fusion product number 6 is apparently due to non visible pathogenic effects, even though none of the plants manifested visual symptoms of disease. The results of fusion product number 4 are not statistically significant. The results of fusion products 1, 3, 5, and 7 show that the process of the present invention was able to produce at least four stable fusion hybrid products capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen aerobically and capable of entering into endosymbiotic relationships with corn whereby corn growing under nitrogen stressed conditions in conjunction with the fusion products of the present invention produced yields of from 29 to 108 greater than a control without the bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention. Approximately 10⁸ bacteria of the species Protoplast fusion was effected between these bacteria as in Example 1. The fused protoplasts were transferred to Burke s nitrogen free medium as described in Example 1 supplemented with streptomycin at a concentration of 100 micrograms per milliliter and kanamycin at a concentration of 50 micrograms per milliliter. After 3 days, only those stable fusion hybrids capable of both fixing atmospheric nitrogen aerobically and possessing the genetic material from the pathogenic bacteria associated with streptomycin and kanamycin resistance survived. A mixed inoculum from this culture was introduced into a suspension culture of carrot tissue cells in the manner described by A.G. Matthysse, et al, The cell binding method as above described was repeated and the fusion hybrids thus selected were grown as separate colonies on nitrogen free media. After 3 days of growth, 25 of the most vigorous colonies were selected. Each colony was used to infect one of 25 sugar beet seedlings 8 to 10 inches high by insertion of a pin, which had been dipped into the colony, into the area of the hypocotyle between the root and the plant. Those hybrid colonies which did not form a gall or tumor in the sugar beet seedling after 3 weeks were selected for further screening. The roots of each infected sugar beet plant which did not manifest any visible symptoms of disease after 3 weeks were then dissected into a number of transverse sections. The distance down the root of the plant to which the hybrid bacteria had spread was noted. Five of the 25 stable fusion hybrids were selected for preliminary yield testing based upon the vigorousness of their growth on nitrogen free media, the absence of visible manifestations of disease associated with their injection into the plant and the facility with which they were able to spread throughout the plant tissue. These five fusion hybrids, designated Fusion 1 through Fusion 5 were subjected to preliminary yield testing as follows. Flats 30cm x 46cm containing 15cm of washed sterile sand over 10cm of Perlite were plated with 24 germinated sugar beet seeds at a uniform spacing. Flats were maintained in the greenhouse at approximately 22 27 C and were watered twice daily with deionized water. Starting at 10 days so as to exhaust the seed nitrogen the seedlings were watered three times a week with a nutrient solution. One Liter of solution was applied and allowed to drain through. The solution was a modified Long Ashton mix that contained nitrate ion at a concentration of 6 micromolar as its sole nitrogen. The Long Ashton mix was also modified to contain nitrate ion at concentrations of 6 millimolar and 0 and used in comparative runs A and C below, respectively. Experiments were run for six weeks, at which time the plants were harvested and dried for one week at 95 C. Dry weight data was then collected. For flats containing infected plants, the bacterial strains were introduced by injection at 10 days at the same time as fertilization was initiated . Each analysis was done in triplicate three flats of 24 plants per treatment and the data were subjected to statistical analysis. Five different bacterial fusions were selected by multiple screens between Results with Fusion numbers 2, 3, 4 and 5 are statistically significant. Uninoculated comparative runs A, B, and C have the same significance as uninoculated comparative runs A, B, and C in Example 1 above. Fusion product No. 3 appeared to result in non visible pathogenic effects, even though no visible symptoms of disease were observed on any of the plants. The prelminary yield data confirms that the process of the present invention was capable of producing at least three stable hybrid bacteria Fusion s 2, 4 and 5 capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen aerobically and of entering into an endosymbiotic relationship with sugar beets whereby sugar beets growing in nitrogen stressed conditions generated yields 41 to 180 in excess of those obtained with uninoculated sugar beets. Example 2 was repeated with the exception that the fusion products were applied to sugar beets receiving nitrogen in the form of nitrate at a concentration of 6 millimolar that associated with optimal nitrogen ferilization. No significant yield gain above that attained by uninoculated comparative run A was observed in the inoculated sugar beets. These results confirm that the yield gains associated with the fusion products in Example 2 were due to an endosymbiotic relationship between the fusion products and the plant whereby fixed nitrogen was provided by the fusion products and used by the plant host. Had the yield gains reported in Example 2 been the result of growth regulators or hormones provided by the fusion products, similar gains should have been observed in Example 3. Further evidence of an endosymbiotic association with the host is provided by light microscopy using gram stain and from reisolation of the bacteria with the expression of the maintained antibiotic resistance markers from infected plants. Moreover, the hybrid bacteria can be found throughout the plant. Their location is not limited to the site of infection. The number of hybrid bacteria in plant tissue was approximately 10⁵ per gram dry weight in a corn plant growing under low nitrate conditions. It is to be understood that, with appropriate changes in the screening procedure, hybrids capable of fixing nitrogen anaerobically, as is done in If such anaerobic nitrogen fixing hybrids are to enter into endosymbiotic relationships with plant hosts, the hybrid must also contain genetic material, such as that contained in species of Some of the fusion products of the present invention have also been observed to form spores. Selection of endosymbiotic bacteria formed in accordance with the present invention which form spores facilitates application and survival of the bacteria when applied to plant hosts since the spores are generally more resistant to stress than the growing bacterial cells. While the processes and products of the present invention have been described primarily in reference to fusion products of bacteria capable of fixing nitrogen, it is to be understood that, with appropriate changes in the screening procedure, hybrids capable of producing other agricultural chemicals, such as insecticides, herbicides, antifungal agents, antibacterial agents, antiviral agents, plant growth regulators, and solubilized phosphates can be prepared in accordance with the present invention. Moreover, while the foregoing examples illustrate the inclusion of genes for production of one agricultural chemical in the hybrid, it is envisioned that genes for production of two or more compatible products can be included in hybrids found in accordance with the present invention. Thus, fusion of hybrids formed in accordance with the present invention with other agricultural chemical producing bacteria, initial fusion with organisms known to produce more than one agricultural chemical, or initial fusion conducted with more than one agricultural chemical producing bacterium would yield such multi producing organisms. Similarly, the scope of applicable plant hosts can be expanded by fusions with two or more infecting bacteria.