# AN IMPROVED RADIALLY EXPANDABLE BUSHING ASSEMBLY

## Abstract
A radially expandable bushing assembly includes a male segment and a captured split female ring. The male segment has the frusto conical ramp that engages a complementary frusto conical bore of the female member and expands the ring upon axial movement of the segment into the ring. The male segment captures the ring by interference between an external flange of the segment and an internal flange of the ring in one axial direction and the ramp and the frusto conical bore in the other axial direction. The external flange is within a relief of the ring that borders the internal flange. The relief is contiguous to an annular, radially extending bearing surface of the ring at one axial end of the ring. The internal flange is radially outward of a neck of the male seg ment. The neck joins the frusto conical ramp. A right cylin drical base of the segment joins the large end of the frusto conical ramp. An axial compressive force on this base and the bearing surface of the ring produces the axial movement of the segment with respect to the ring and expansion of the ring. In one adaptation, the assembly becomes a panel fas tener in this adaptation the male segment is internally threaded to receive the threads of a male member. The axi ally extending surface of the ring is knurled as is the bearing surface of the ring. The ring and nut are in radial compres sion before expansion. The knurled radial surface engages the backside of a front panel to hold the assembly and the nut from turning during the threading of the screw into the male segment. Upon expansion, the ring engages the radial bore of the backside sheet to join the sheets together.