# Electrical outlet system.

## Abstract
A mains electrical connection system has male 100 and female 110 coupler fittings that make electrical connections after entry of contacts 31 from one fitting into the other and relative linear movement of the fittings. Those electrical con nections are displaced from entries 27, 28 for the contacts 31 and thus safe from finger access. Further intercouplings are also shown 55, 56 with same taking at least most of mechanical loading from attempts to separate. One projec tion 55 for the latter purpose is used for earth connections. Cased socket units and plugs units are disclosed for incorpo ration into electrical outlet connection accessories as desired.

## Claims
CLAIM 1. An electrical nains outlet connection system comprising a first coupler fitting of socket type fixed or to be fixed at an outlet position and having electrical supply terminals with related electrical contacts internal of a face of the fitting and shields thereby, the fitting further having entries through the face that are displaced from the contacts and a second coupler fitting of plug type having external projecting electrical contacts to enter the first coupler fitting and then rove into engagement with the internal electrical contacts as a result of substantially rectilinear movement of the second coupler fitting over tre first coupler fitting. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the first and second coupler fittings have further mutual engaging weans to secure them against separation and to take associated mechanical loading, comprising further projections fro the second coupler fitting and corresponding further entries through the face of the first coupler fitting. 3. A sçiste according to claim 2, wherein the further projections each have and formations extending transversely of the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement and the corresponding entries each have relatively enlarged and restricted parts0 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein the further projections are T shaped and the corresponding entries are key shaped. 5. A system according to claim 2, 3 or 4 wherein, relative to the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement, the external contacts and their associated said entries are between two said further projections and two said further corresponding entries, respectively, the two further projections and associated entries being, respectively, spaced only in said direction, and the external projecting contacts and associated entries being, respectively, spaced only transversely of said direction. 6. A system according to any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein one of said further projections comprises an earth contact and its said corresponding entry has in the first coupler fitting an internal earth contact therefor and an associated earth connection terminal. 7. A system according to claim 6, wherein the one further projection comprising an earth contact is rearmost in said direction. 8. A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the external projecting contacts are L shaped blades each extending from the end of one limb and lying wholly parallel with the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement and the associated entries are slots similar extending parallel with said direction and of lengths and positions such that the free ends of the external contacts go below ends of the slots during said movement. 9. A system according to claim 8, wherein the internal contacts for the external projecting contacts each comprises a pair of resilient leaves to grip the free ends of the respective external project nag contact between them, the leaves being on internal contact blocks each after the associated said leaves in said direction. 10. A system according to any preceding claim, wherein the first coupler fitting further comprises a further electrical terminal unconnected to any contacts of the first coupler fitting and serving for loop in wiring purposes. 11. A system according to claim 10 with claim 7, wherein the further terminal is a block located to one side of earth contact weeps associated lfit a terminal block to its other side. 12. A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the first coupler fitting comprises a cased basic socket unit having electrical supply entries, one for each terminal thereof, through a face opposite to the first mentioned face, and the second coupler fitting comprises a cased basic plug unit with entries for wires of an electrical cord at positions behind its face from which project said external contacts, both of said basic units being adapted for incorporation into an electrical accessory or accessory plate0 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein the basic socket unit has an externally projecting earth strap to mate with a screw mounting box for the first coupler fitting. 14. A system according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein both of the plug unit and the socket unit have screwclamp type terminal blocks with their screws accessible through holes in one or other end of their casings. 15. A basic socket unit with features as specified therefor in any one of claims 12 and 14 and claims from which they depend directly or indirectly. 16. A basic socket unit with features as specified therefor in any one of claims 12 and 13 and claims from which they depend directly or indirectly0

## Description
Title Electrical Outlet System DECORIPTION The invention relates to outlet connection systems particularly in relation to mains electrical wiring for lighting or other purposes at power ratings below the 13 amp or 15 amp ratings customary for principal power circuits, such as for the ring type. For many years, we have made a lighting outlet having a base carrying a socket that affords a push fit for a three pin plug normally carrying a cord pendant through a cover screw fitting to the base. From that experience, we believe that there is a market for a less bulky replacement product that would not require sep ate plug and cover, especially if it offers a more acceptable alternate to conventional ceiling rose type outlets that inevitably carry risks at removal of pendant cords and or lampholders attached thereto due to exposure of live terminals. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided, an electrical mains outlet connection system comprising a first coupler fitting of socket t ape fixed or to be fixed at an outlet position and having electrical supply terminals with related electrical contacts internal of a face of the fitting and shielded thereby, the fitting further having entries through the face that are displaced from the contacts and a second coupler fitting of plug type having external projecting electrical contacts to enter the first coupler fitting and then move into engagement with the internal electrical contacts as a result of substantially rectilinear movement of the second coupler fitting over the first coupler fitting. Advantageously, the first and second coupler fittings may have further mutual engaging means to secure them against separation and to take at least most of associated mechanical loading. Such further mutual engaging means can be comprised of further projections frown the second coupler f tving and corresponding further entries through the face of the first coupler fitting. Preferably, the external projecting contacts and associated said entries are, respectively, spaced transversely of the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement. At least then, the further projections and corresponding entries may be spaced in said direction, usually with the external contacts and associated entries between two of them. Specifically, such spacings may be the only spacings. To aid taking mechanical loads, we prefer that the further projections each have free ends extending transversely of the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement and the corresponding entries each have relatively enlarged and restricted parts in that order of encounter relative to said direction. We further prefer to use one of said further projections as an earth contact, conveniently rearmost in said direction, and its said corresponding entry has, in the first coupler fitting, an internal earth contact therefor and an associated earth connection terminal. The external projecting contacts may be is shaped blades each extending from the end of one limb and lying wholly parallel with the direction of said substantially rectilinear movement and the associated entries are slots similarly extending parallel with said direction and of lengths and positions such that the free ends of the external contacts go below ends of the slots during said movement. Suitable internal contacts for the external projecting contacts each comprises a pair of resilient leaves to grip the free ends of the respective external projecting contact between them and such leaves may be bent so as medially to approach each other closely, and can have associated latching means like pips and holes or other mutual engaging means. Associated electrical terminals may be blocks each after the associated said leaves in said direction. It can be particularly useful for the first coupler fitting to have a further electrical terminal, say unconnected to any other contact for loop in wiring purposes. Other aspects of this invention include the first coupler fitting itself with any or all limitations as aforesaid similarly the second coupler fitting 2 socket unit for incorporation into a plate, case or other body to complete an electrical outlet accessory, either being comprehended as a said first coupler fitting similarly an outlet or plug unit in relation to the second coupler fitting. Such basic socket and or plug units are preferably cased and provide electrical supply entries, one for each terminal thereof through a face opposite their coupling engagement faces. The basic socket unit may further have an externally projecting earth strap to mate with or be further connected to a screwmounting box for the first coupler fitting. Either or both of the plug unit and the socket unit have screw clamp type terminal blocks with their screws accessible through holes in one or other end of their casings, which we prefer to providing access through their sides. Specific practical implementation of this invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is an internal plan view of a socket unit with a cover part removed Figure 2 is a sectional view on line A A ofFigure 1 Figure 3 is a sectional view on line 3 3 ofFigure 1 Figure 4 is a plan view of the connection face of the same socket unit Figure 5 is an end view of the same socket unit Figures 6, 7 and 8 show incorporation of the socket unit of Figures 1 to 5 in various base units Figure 9 is an internal plan view of a coupler or plug unit with a cover part re ovel Figure 10 is a sectional view on line C ofFigure 9 Figure 11 is a sectional view on line D I ofFigure 9 Figure 12 is a plan view of the connection face of the same coupler or plug unit Figure 13 is an erld view of the same unit and Figure 14 is a sectional part view showing a modification. Referring first to Figures 1 to 5, a socket unit is shown at 10 as comprising internal contacts 11, 12 on terminal blocks 13, 14 for line neutral, li.e. live , connections. The blocks 13, 14 are located in wells 15, 16 and have tongues 17, 18 rivetted to the blocks see 17A and carrying the contacts 11, 12 extending therefrom as spring jaws. The blocks 13, 14 are shown with wire receiving holes 19, 20 and transverse clamp screws 21, 22 accessible through holes 23, 24 in one end 25 of what is a generally elongated cuboid box 10A and cover 103. The terminal blocks 13, 14 and associated terminals 11, 12 are shown within that half of the socket 10 extending from its end wall 25 and spaced one to each side of its longitudinal axial plane. The spring Åaaw contacts 11, 12 are below extensions of long axes of spaced parallel slots 27, 28 in one major face 30 of the socket unit 10. Referring now also to Figures 9 to 13, the contacts 11, 12 will receive correspondingly spaced L shÅaped blade contacts see 31 extending exteriorly of a coupling or plug unit from one face 32 thereof when the faces 30 and 32 are brought together with the blade contacts passed through slot entries 27, 28 then slid in the direction of the slots so that the free limbs of the blade contacts go under the socket face 30 and into the contacts 11, 12. Reception wells 33, 34 for the blade contacts 31 and contacts 11, 12 are shown flanking a recess 35 that could be used for a loop in or other terminal block, though such is actually here shown at 36 with a wireentry bore 37 and transverse clamp screw 38 accessible through hole 39 in the other end wall 26 of the box part 10A. Aligned with the recess 35 is a further recessed housing 40 for an earthing contact 41 of the socket unit 10. The contact 41 is carried by an earth connection terminal block 42 also with a wire entry bore 43 and transverse clamp screw 44 accessible via hole 45 at end 26. This earth terminal block 42 carrIes the contact 41 via a rivet form arvion 41A and the contact 41 has a centrally struck out spring tang 46 frow a bent back base part 47 extending at 48 as an external earth connection to mount screws of accessories or boxes therefor.Effectively, the contact 41 has its base part follow the bottom of the well 40 actually formed by the cover 103 and extends at 49 to one side of the block 420 The loop in and earth blocks 36 and 42 are shown generally aligned with the blocks 14 and 13, respectively, in a particularly compact and readily wired socket unit 10. The contact arrangement 41 is capable of engaging a T shaped contact 55 external of the coupler or plug unit, which contact is entrant the socket 10 through hole 56 in its face 30 and then slid below edges of a narrower hole part 56A and compresses the resilient tang 46 of the earth contact 41. Instead of the T shaped contact 55, a U shaped contact could be used with the hole 56 modified to h e only side extending slots from its head part, i.e.instead of the narrowed hole 56A. Collectively, the contacts 31 and its partner 31A and 55 give substantial safety and security of location once entrant to and slid into contact engagement in the socket unit 10, and it is advantageous for live parts not to ta se mechanical loads. Thus, to assure that regardless of the orientation of the socket unit, we show the contact 35 effectively matched at 61 near the other end of the face 32 to co operate with another hole 62 and extension 62A through the face 30 to a secure accoLGodation 63 for its head portion with sides thereof below the face 30. One further feature is shown namely safety guides 64, 65 and 66, 67 for the ttlive slots 27, 28 actually parts of the sides of the wells 68, 69 beyond those 33, 34. It will be evident that a socket unit 10 is readily mounted in a base unit proper, say held in by a cover plate relative to rebate 75 formed by exterior ribbing 76. Examples of such mounting appear in Figure 6 round ceiling rose replacement type , Figure 7 square box type and Figure 8 architrave box type . Figures 9 to 13 show a coupler or plug unit 100 to fit into an accessory, such as a ceiling roses replacement then of round generally flattish shape, or in or as a plug for an architrave or box socket. Its major face 32 has 1live 1 contacts 31 and 31A, earth contact 55 of T shaPe,and matching projection 61 extending therefrom. The base part IOOA is normally associated with a cover part 1003 and has an inner chamber structure subdivided to provide wells 101, 102, 103 for terminal blocks or heads 104, 105, 106 carrying or of the contacts 55, 31 and 31A.Such terminal blocks are again shown each of the type having wire accommodating holes 107, 108, 109 and transverse clamp screws 110, 111 and 112 accessible through holes 113, 114, 115 in end walls 116, 117 of the chamber structure 102. The T proÅaection 61 is not shown associated with a terminal block, but is secured at 120 in any suitable way, actually below a stepping 118 of the cover part 1003 through which 1live11 terminal screws are further accessible. No cord clamp is indicated, as same may well be provided in the accessory incorporating the plug unit 100 via rebate 121 and flange 122 . However, a cord clamp could be provided on the lower stepping of the cover part, i.e. at 123, if desired. Fixing means for the plug unit 100 relative to a threaded bore in a part of an accessory is shove by captive screw 125 in shouldered 127 bore 126o It will be appreciated that the screw 125 could be used to hold the base and cover parts together, though same are preferably more permanently associated, whether by welding or other bonding. It will also be appreciated that the flange 122 and rebate 121 particularly facilitate incorporation of the plug unit into any plug, ceiling rose replacement, other ceiling lighting fitting, wall light fitting, or whatever. Moreover, we find that the basic design has survived well in tests at up to those for 15 amp regulations, and clearly can be realisedin 2 amps 6 amp, even 10 amp or more ratings. we do not foresee likely replacement of well established 13 amp or 15 amp rating systems, but do see good prospects at two or more lower ratings.In fact, we appreciate that a basically common pin etc. layout could be advantageous in two or more ratings, and the system is well suited to providing incompatibility for higher rated plug units in relation to lower rated socket units, say by different sizes, even locations if preferred, of pips and elongate recesses. Figure 14 actually shows a modification by incorporation of a flocking screw 130 through the cover part 1003 and mating with a captive nut 132 in the base part IOOA to present a projection 134 to enter hole 62 when screwed down to project after inQer coLnection of plug and socket units. Such screw 130 can be accessible through any additional accessory cover. It will be evident that a screw such as 130, appropriately located, could serve for ratinglX purposes according to the size of its projection 134, i.e. when a corresponding recess in the connecting face of the socket unit will be required of a length corresponding to sliding travel, a width just taking the projection 134, and a location to suit. Lower rated plugs and sockets would have narrower projections 134 and corresponding recesses. Reverting to the drawings, the contacts 11, 12 are shown with pips 140, 141 and the contacts 31, 31A with holes 142 to achieve latching at full sliding engagement. Clearly, other latching means could be used, even applied to the earth terminal 55 and or projection 61, say as other pips or bumps and recesses relative to their socket contacts or even the socket unit body itself0 For earth connection to the projection 48 relative to screws for fixing a socketed accessory to a mount or box, various additional straps may be provided, say rivetted to the projection 48. Thus, a 1800 extending generally arcuate such additional strap could be used for the ceiling accessory of Figure 6 with one long limb and one short limb relative to the projection 48o If desired, the earth contacts could be extended clear through both ends of the socket unit, say to affix directly to fixing screws of the architrave accessory of Figure 8o