# Protecting a heel of an article of footwear.

## Abstract
A method of protecting a heel 14 of an article of footwear 10 includes locating a sleeve 22 of heat shrinkable protec tive material and having a length of between 2 and 10 cm, over the heel 14 . The method also includes heating the sleeve 22 so that it shrinks onto said heel 14 , thereby to form a protec tive covering around said heel, and trimming off any excess material protruding from the heel. The invention also pro vides a protective device 20 for the heel 14 of the article of footwear 10 .

## Claims
Claims 1. A method of protecting a heel of an article of footwear, characterized in that it includes locating a sleeve of heat shrinkable protective material and having a length of between 2 and 10 cm over a heel of an article of footwear heating the sleeve so that it shrinks onto said heel, thereby to form a protective covering around said heel and trimming off any excess material protruding from the heel. 2. A method according to claim 1 characterized in that the article of footwear is a shoe, and the heating of the sleeve is effected uniformly over the length of the sleeve, at a temperature of at least 1000C, so that the protective covering fits snugly around said heel. 3. A protective device for a heel of an article of footwear, characterized in that it includes a sleeve of heat shrinkable protective material and adapted to be located over a heel of an article of footwear so that, in use, on heating the sleeve after locating it over said heel, it shrinks onto said heel, thereby to form a protective covering around said heel, the sleeve having a length of between 2 and 10 cm. 4. A protective device according to claim 3 characterized in that the sleeve has a shrinkage ratio of 1.1 1 to 4 1, and an expanded or unshrinked inside diameter of between 10 and 40 cm. 5. A footwear heel protective device kit, which includes a container and a plurality of protective devices as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4, located within the container. 6. A heel of an article of footwear when covered by a sleeve of a protective device as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4.

## Description
Protecting a Heel of an Article of Footwear THIS INVENTION relates to the protection of heels of articles of footwear. It relates in particular to a method of protecting a heel of an article of footwear, to a protective device for a heel of an article of footwear, and to a footwear heel protective device kit. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of protecting a heel of an article of footwear, which includes locating a sleeve of heat shrinkable protective material and having a length of between 2 and 10 cm over a heel of an article of footwear heating the sleeve so that it shrinks onto said heel, thereby to form a protective covering around said heel and trimming off any excess material protruding from the heel. The article of footwear may be a shoe. The heating of the sleeve may be effected lunifdrmly over the length of the sheath. The heating may be effected by means of an open flame, warm air, or the like. The heating may be effected at a temperature of at least 1000C, preferably at a temperature between about 1100C and about 1400C, According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a protective device for a heel of an article of footwear, which includes a sleeve of heat shrinkable protective material and adapted to be located over a heel of an article of footwear so that, in use, on heating the sleeve after locating it over said heel, it shrinks onto said heel, thereby to form a protective covering around said heel, the sleeve having a length of between 2 and 10 cm. As mentioned hereinbefore, the article of footwear may be a shoe. The length of the sleeve may be about 5 cm. The protective material may be an expanded synthetic polymeric material, and may be such that the sleeve shrinks or recovers substantially radially only on being heated. The diameter of the sleeve may be such that, in use, the shrinkage ratio ie the diameter of the sleeve before shrinkage to the diameter of the sleeve after shrinkage is from 1.1 1 ie fits with very little clearance over the heel to 4 1. The inside diameter of the sleeve, before shrinkage, may be between about 10 mm and about 40 mm. In one embodiment, the protective material may be coloured. In another embodiment, the protective material may be transparent. According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a footwear heel protective device kit, which includes a container and a plurality of protective devices as hereinbefore described, located within the container. The container may be in the form of a packet of cellulosic or plastics material. Two protective devices may be provided inside the packet which may be sealed. The invention extends also to a heel of an article of footwear when covered by a sleeve of a protective device as hereinbefore described. The invention will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings. In the drawings, Figure 1 shows a side view, in part section, of a shoe with a protective device according to one aspect of the invention, located around the heel of the shoe, the sleeve of the protective device shown in expanded form Figure 2 shows a side view of part of the shoe shown in Figure 1, with the sleeve of the protective device shown in its recovered or shrinked form and Figure 3 shows a three dimensional view of a shoe heel protective device kit, according to another aspect of the invention. Referring to Figures 1 and 2, reference numeral 10 generally indicates a shoe with a protective device, generally indicated by reference numeral 20, located around a heel 14 of the shoe. The shoe 10 includes an upper portion 12 with a sole 16 attached to the upper portion. The heel 14 has a sole or base 18. Preferably the heel 14 is waxed or polished before the protective device 20 is fitted to it. The protective device 20 comprises a sleeve or sheath 22 of heat shrinkable protective material. In use, a sleeve or sheath 22 having a sufficiently large diameter as indicated in broken line and by reference numeral 24 in Figure 1 so that it can pass with clearance over the heel 14 will be used. After the sheath 22 has been located around the heel 14, heat for example, heat provided by warm air such as that emitted by a hair dryer or emitted by a hot plate of a stove, or by an open flame, or the like is applied uniformly to the outside of the sheath 22. This will cause it to shrink radially until it encases or covers the heel 14 snugly. The sheath 22 may be of coloured or transparent material. Typically, the inside diameter of the sheath 22 before shrinkage is between 10 mm and 40 mm eg 24 mm , and the shrinkage ratio ie the ratio of the diameter of the expanded or unshrinked sheath 22 to its diameter after shrinkage, ie the diameter of the heel 14 may be from 1.1 1 to 4 1 for example about 3 1 depending on the diameter of the heel. The sheath 22 before shrinkage is in the form of a tube having a regular dimensions. On shrinkage, it will assume the shape of the heel 14, ie the diameter of the recovered sheath will vary from the top to the bottom of the heel so that the shrinkage ratio will vary over the length of the sleeve, but can have an approximate shrinkage ratio of 3 1. However, the nature of the protective material of the sheath 22 is such that uniform shrinkage along the length of the heel is nevertheless obtained, thereby to give a neat and smooth appearance to the heel. The length of the sheath before shrinkage may be about 5 cm. After being applied to the heel 14, excess material protruding beyond the sole 18 is trimmed or cut off. The Applicant believes that the sheath 22 will protect the heel 14 of the shoe 10 from being scuffed or damaged during use. Normal wax or polish applied to heels is easily damaged or scraped off, and it is time consuming and relatively expensive continually to wax or polish the heel. Furthermore, the heel itself is also easily damaged or soiled during use. The Applicant believes that these problems are overcome or at least reduced by covering the heel with a sheath 22. If the sheath 22 itself becomes damaged, it can easily be removed eg by being cut off or peeled from the heel . Thereafter, a new sheath 22 can be fitted to the heel. The sheath 22 can easily be wiped clean sold it become soiled. Referring to Figure 3, reference numeral 30 generally indicates a shoe heel protective device kit. The kit 30 includes a sealed packet 32 of cellulosic or plastics material and having a tag 34 for use in hanging it for display purposes The packet 32 also has usage instructions not shown printed on it. If desired, instructions may also be provided on a leaflet not shown inside the packet. A pair of protective devices 20 seeFigures 1 and 2 are provided inside the packet 32. The sheaths 22 may be cut from lengths of flexible, flame retardant, general purpose polyolefin tubing, such as that available in SouthAfrica under the trade name TEERMOFIT, from Raychem Pty Limited. In particular, the Applicant believes that tubing available under the trade nameTHERMOFIT RNF 3000 will give good results. This tubing has a 3 1 shrinkage ratio and is available in diameters of up to 40 mm. It is available in a range of colours, eg clear, black, white, red, yellow and blue. The minimum recovery shrinking temperature thereof is about 1200C, and the recovered wall thickness varies from about 0.5 to 1 mm, depending on the diameter of the unshrinked or expanded tube.