# A METHOD OF TREATMENT OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS A BALLOON CATHETER FOR SAME

## Claims
Lichtemittierender arterieller Ballonkatheter zur Behandlung von Atherosklerose in einer Arterie durch Zerstörung von absorbiertes Hämatoporphyrin enthaltender atheromatöser Plaque durch Bestrahlen der Plaque mit Licht zur Aktivierung des Hämatoporphyrins, wobei der Katheter folgendes aufweist

## Description
Atherosclerosis is a coronary disease wherein fatty substances lipids , hereinafter referred to as atheromatous plaques, form deposits in and beneath the intima which is the innermost membrane lining arteries and veins. Atherosclerosis tends to involve large and medium sized arteries. Most commonly affected are the aorta and the iliac, femoral, coronary, and cerebral arteries. Clinical symptoms occur because the mass of the atherosclerotic plaque reduces blood flow through the involved artery and thereby compromises tissue or organ function distal to it. Modern treatment of atherosclerosis revolves around highly sophisticated coronary care units. In general, modern medicine follows one of two approaches to the care of patients suffering from atherosclerotic complications either 1 the diseased vascular segments are replaced with prosthetic or natural grafts, even going as far as heart transplantation or 2 drugs such as antiarrhythmic agents, anticoagulants and plasma lipid lowering agents are administered to enable the patient to live with the condition. Neither approach contemplates a cure of the diseased members. It has been well known for many years that hematoporphyrin derivative HPD accumulates in malignant tumors after intravenous injection and that HPD fluorescence, upon exposure to ultraviolet light, facilitating tumor localization. The aforementioned articles by Lipson et al report on such findings. More recently, the cytotoxic effect of HPD activated by light has been used to destroy malignant tumors in man as well as in animals. Since normal tissues surrounding malignant tumors absorb relatively small amounts of HPD, little or no damage to these tissues occurs upon exposure to light. See, e.g. Photoradiation in the Treatment of Recurrent Breast Carcinoma , T. J. Dougherty et al, It has now been found that HPD is selectively concentrated in atheromatous plaques in the aorta of rabbits following intravenous injection. Atheromatous plaques were found to fluoresce strongly when exposed to ultraviolet light, while the normal plaque free aortic wall demonstrated no fluorescence. Since atheromatous plaques consist primarily of cells which are engorged with lipids and other materials, destruction of these cells by photoactivation of HPD results in lysis of such plaques. US A 4 273 128 discloses a balloon catheter for treatment of atherosclerosis in a blood vessel by compressing the stenotic plaque to open the blood vessel for blood flow. This document does not disclose destruction of the plaque. WO A 83 01893 describes a balloon catheter for destroying plaque by directing a laser beam through the distal end of the catheter on to the plaque. This document is not a prior publication and is relevant only under Article 54 3 EPC. The present invention provides a light emitting arterial balloon catheter for treatment of atherosclerosis in an artery by destruction of atheromatous plaque, the catheter being constructed according to Claim 1. The balloon catheter of the invention is primarily suitable for treatment of a main artery or other blood vessel afflicted with atherosclerosis by administration, preferably by intravenous injection, of a hematoporphyrin, e.g. a hematoporphyrin derivative available from Oncology Research and Development Inc. and recognized by the trade designation HPD, to the mammal to be treated. The hematoporphyrin so administered is selectively absorbed into the atheromatous plaque, with little or no absorption into healthy areas of the arterial wall. Upon illumination of the atheromatous plaque, containing absorbed hematoporphyrin, the hematoporphyrin is activated and destroys the host atheromatous plaque tissue. Illumination of the plaque is achieved by catheterizing the patient with the balloon catheter of the invention inserted into the diseased artery so that the means for emitting light is adjacent the atheromatous plaque. Use of the balloon catheter provides for displacement of the light opaque blood between the external balloon surface and the atherosclerosis plaque by inflation of the balloon. Use of the catheter also allows for intermittent and cyclical illumination and inflation deflation of the balloon so as to minimize interruption of blood flow to the vital organs and to avoid potential problems attendant to heating of the balloon material and the blood of the mammal undergoing treatment. Fig. 1 is a schematic representation of a balloon catheter of the invention, inserted into a main artery of a patient, for treatment of atherosclerosis. The preferred catheter of the invention is illustrated in Fig. 1. In the representation of Fig. 1 the wall of the main artery undergoing treatment is represented by the numeral 10. For treatment, the mammal is catheterized with insertion of the light emitting means of the catheter into the diseased blood vessel to a position adjacent the deposit of atheromatous plaque to be lysed. Fig. 1 depicts the preferred catheter positioned in this manner. The preferred catheter includes a lumen tube 12 and a balloon member 14 affixed to its distal end with the interior of the balloon opening into the lumen of the catheter tube. Fig. 1 depicts the balloon 14 in its inflated state with its exterior surface in direct contact with the atheromatous plaque 16 to be lysed. The deflated state of the balloon is indicated by the dotted line 18. Inflation of the balloon is provided for by the lumen of the catheter which is in fluid communication with the interior of the balloon and which may be connected, at its opposite end, to a source of pressurized gas. At least one optical fiber 20 is provided for transmitting light from an external source to liquid 22 contained in a hollow glass fiber 24. The liquid 22, for example one of many refractive index liquids commercially available from Cargille Laboratories, functions to transmit and scatter light throughout the interior of balloon 14. A movable guidewire 28 extends through the center of the lumen of the catheter tube and through the center of the hollow glass fiber. The distal end of the guidewire 28 extends a variable distance beyond the distal end of the balloon 14. A particularly advantageous feature of the preferred catheter illustrated in Fig. 1 is the capability for delivering light to the plaque in an intermittent fashion. Intermittent light transmission, synchronized with intermittent balloon inflation, is advantageous when a prolonged exposure of a plaque to light within and to a vital organ is required. For example, inflation of the balloon with a low viscosity gas during only one part of each cardiac cycle, may be performed utilizing counterpulsation circulatory assist devices, and can be synchronized with light transmission, so that a long total, additive exposure of a plaque to light may be achieved without significant compromise of blood flow. Although light may be transmitted continuously along the optical fiber and exposure of the plaque to light would then occur only when inflation of the balloon is sufficiently great to displace intervening blood, intermittent transmission of the light along the fiber would be advantageous when the light intensity required would result in heating the balloon material and or blood. For example, a thick plaque may require an intense light in order to activate HPD deep within the plague. The heat produced by the light could adversely affect the balloon material and or blood within the artery. Intermittent transmission of light would allow both the balloon material and the gas within the balloon to be cooled intermittently by the flow of blood past the balloon during balloon deflation. A period of 30 minutes or more may be required to photoactivate HPD deep within a plaque. However, obstruction of blood flow with the balloon inflated continuously for such a length of time cannot be performed within arteries to vital organs without deleterious effects. In such a case ECG gated, intermittent balloon inflation, as is commonly performed with an intra aortic balloon used in a counterpulsation circulatory assist device, may be employed so as not to interfere with blood flow to vital organs, while at the same time permitting a prolonged exposure of a plaque to light.