# Analgesic composition comprising acetaminophen as a potentiating agent.

## Abstract
A pharmaceutical composition suitable for reducing pain, in dosage unit form, comprising diclofenac, sulin dac, fenbufin, naproxen, kotoprofen, indoprofen, or fenoprofen, or a salt thereof together with acetaminophen.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A pharmaceutical composition suitable or reducing pain in dosage unit form comprising an effective antinociceptive amount in combination of 1 as primary agent a compound selected from the group consisting of A 2 2,6 dichlorophenyl amino benzene acetic acid having the formulaEMI48.1 B Z 5 fluoro 2 methyl l f 4 methyl sulfinyl phenyl methylene 1H indene 3acetic acid having the formulaEMI48.2 C 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid represented by the formulaEMI49.1 D 6 methoxy a methyl 2 naphthaleneacetic acid having the formulaEMI49.2 E m benzoylhydratropic acid having the formulaEMI49.3 F 4 1,3 dihydro 1 oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl alpha methylbenzeneacetic acid represented by the formula EMI50.1 G a methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid represented by the formulaEMI50.2 or the non toxic therapeutically acceptabie salts of any one of said Compounds A through G and 2 as potentiating agent, acetaminophen, wherein said primary and said potentiating agents are in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 2. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the dosage unit form is a tablet or a capsule. 3. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit 1 from about 5 to 28 milligrams of 2 2,6 dichlorophenyl amino benzeneacetic acid compound and 2 from about 110 to 450 milligrams of aceta minophen. 4. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the primary antinociceptive agent is sodium 2 2,6 dichlorophenyi amino benzeneacetate. 5. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit 1 from about 6 to 100 milligrams of a Z 5 fluoro 2 methyl 1 4 methyl sulfinyl phenyl methylene 1H indene 3 acetic acid compound or a salt thereof and 2 from about 65 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 6. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the primary active agent is Z 5 fluoro 2 methy1 1 f 4 methylsulfinyl phenyl methyleneJ lH indene 3 acetic acid. 7. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from about 129 to 430 milligrams of the 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid compound and from about 113 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 8. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from 150 to 400 milligrams of the 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid compound and from about 125 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen. 9. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from about 85 to 125 milligrams of a 6 methoxy a methyl 2 naphthalene acetic acid compound and from 170 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 10. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the primary antinociceptive agent is methcxy a methyl 2 naphthaleneacetic acid. 11. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from about 12 to 50 milligrams of a m benzoylhydratropic acid compound and from 170 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 12. A composition according to Claim 1 in which the primary active agent is m benzoylhydratropic acid. 13. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from about 25 to 150 milligrams of the 4 1,3 dihydro l oxo 2H isoindol 2yl a methylbenzeneacetic acid compound and from about 135 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 14. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit from about 35 to 130 milligrams of a 4 1, 3 dihydro 1 oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl a methylbenzeneacetic acid compound and from about 150 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen. 15. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit 1 from about 84 to 168 milligrams of an a methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid compound and 2 from about 113 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. 16. A composition according to Claim 1 which comprises per dosage unit 1 from about 90 to 150 milligrams of an a methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid compound and 2 from about 250 to 425 milligrams of aceta .,inophen. 17. Use of a composition in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 16 for producing analgesia.

## Description
ANALCES POTENTIS This Invention is directed to improved methods and compositions for producing analgesia. Background of the InventionOne of the long existing primary goals of medicine is the relief of pain. Relief is sought most generally by the administration of analgesic drugs which produce a state of decreased awareness of the sensation and increase of the pain threshold.Almost all potent analgesics evoke reactions other than the relief of pain. Some of the reactions are gastrointestinal disturbances, nausea, constipation and vomiting. Among the more serious of the side reactions and one frequently found in analgesic drugs is respiratory depression. Thus, in the use of analgesics in man, considerations other than the primary effect analgesia , must be made and drugs for pain relief are sought which have maximum analgesic effect accompanied by minimum side reactions.It is difficult to satisfy these requirements with a single chemical entity since generally a potent analgesic has accompanying serious side reactions while a drug with little or no side effects are generally less effective as an analgesic.Thus, there is a continuing search for a combination of two or more drugs whereby the total quantity of drug can be reduced and which can be employed in such proportions as to produce maximum analgesic effect with little or no side effects. When one or both of the components of a cozbination is known to possess pain relieving properties, but these pro perties are increased many fold, the net effect of the combination is commonly referred to as potentia tion. Acetaminophen p acetaminophenol is recognized as an analgesic agent with useful and safe antinociceptive properties. however, in certain instances, high doses must be employed to effectively reduce pain.The following drugs, designated as A through G, respectively, have analgesic properties A 2 2,6 Dichlorophenyl amino benzeneacetic acid is known by the generic name of 11diclofenac for use as an anti inflammatory agent it also has some analgesic properties. It is represented by the formulaEMI2.1 B Z 5 Fluoro 2 methyl 1 4 methylsulfinyl phenyl methylene lH indene 3 acetic acid is known by the generic name of sulindac for use as an anti inflammatory agent it also has analgesic proper ties. It is represented by the formula EMI3.1 C 3 4 Biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid is known by the generic name of fenbufen for use as an anti inflammatory agent it also has some analgesic properties.It is represented by the formulaEMI3.2 D 6 Methoxy a methyl 2 naphthaleneacetic acid is known by the generic name of naproxen for use as anti inflammatory, analgesic or anti pyretic agent. It is represented by the formula EMI4.1 E m Benzoylhydratropic acid is known by the generic name of ketoprofen for use as an anti inflammatory agent it also has some analgesic properties. It is represented by the formulaEMI4.2 F 4 1,3 Dihydro 1 oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl alpha methylbenzeneacetic acid is known by the generic name of indoprofen for use as an anti inflammatory and as an analgesic agent. It is represented by the formula EMI5.1 G a Methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid is known by the generic name of fenoprofen for use as an anti inflammatory and analgesic agent.It is represented by the formulaEMI5.2 Howewer, the effect of the combination of acetaminophen and any one of drugs A through G on the analgesic properties was not known before our work.Statement of the InventionThe present invention concerns an improved method of producing analgesia made possible by the discovery that a potentiation of analgesic or antinociceptive properties of any one of drugs A through G or their salts is produced by administration with acetaminophen in specific proportions. The use of the combination in the suppression of pain is unexpectedly much greater than that which would result from simply the additive effect of the components. Description of the Invention The novel and unexpected superior analgesic properties may be achieved by the simultaneous or sequential oral administration of 1 acetaminophen and 2 one of said compounds A through G, or therapeutically acceptable salts thereof. The therapeutically acceptable salts are those obtained from appropriate organic or inorganic bases. Preferred salts include these of potassium and the like. The efficacy of the novel combination in producing antinociceptive properties is particularly seen in acetylcholine bromide abdominal constriction assay of Collier, et al. Brit. J. Pharmacol. Chemotherap. 32, 295 310 1968 1 sometimes referred to as the mouse writhing test. In the test, mice are dosed with test drug combinations and thereafter injected interperitoneally with acetylcholine bromide and the abdominal constriction responses or block of abdominal constriction responses are observed and compared with control operations. More specifically, in an operation carried out substantially as described by Collier and co workers, non fasted albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed with combinations of one test drug in selected fixed doses together with a second test drug at variable doses for each fixed dose. These were compared with animals dosed with a the first test drug at the same doses used in combination but employing saline instead of the second drug, b the second test drug at the doses used in combination but employing saline instead of the first drug, and c a saline control containing no drug. Each of the drugs, when separately employed, were found to be inactive in the acetylcholine bromide abdominal constriction test at the test dose level.In carrying out the tests, the test compositions and the control compositions both with and without drugs were administered orally to the test mice. After about 30 minutes the mice were injected intraperitoneally with acetylcholine bromide and the abdominal constriction responses compared corrected for saline responses as necessary . The results are expressed as percent block.When the percent block of abdominal constriction observed with the foxed dose was 5 per cent or more, the percent block observed with each of the combination dosage levels was corrected with respect to the percent block observed with a fixed dose drug usingAbbott s formula for natural mortality. Likewise, when the response to acetylcholine bromide in the saline control group was 95 per cent or less, the response observed with each of the variable dosage levels used in the ED50 determination was similarly corrected using Abbott s formula for natural mortality. ED50 and 95 per cent confidence limits were calculated according to Finney s probit analysis procedure. Finney, D. J. 1964, Probit Analysis,Second Edition, University Press, Cambridge. All ED50 for a given comparison were calculated using a common slope following a test for parallelism. All paired dose response curves were found to be parallel. Compound AEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a 2 2,6 dichloro phenyl aminoj benzeneacetic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as diclofenac compound by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing the sodium salt of diclofenac but is to be understood that it is not limited thereto.Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with diclofenac sodium at various doses and with saline as seen in TablesIa and Ib and fifteen minutes later with acetaminophen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test.drug and saline control were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg and b double dose of saline 5 ml kg . Diclofenac sodium was administered as an aqueous solution. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspensionThirty minutes after administration of diclofenac sodium and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed. The results are seen in Talbes Ia and Ib. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE I a DICLOFENAC SODIUM OBSERVATION DICLOFENAC DOSE Number Responding PRECENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BOLCK mg kg Diclofenac Na 2.0 0 20 100 100 plus Saline, 1.0 2 20 90 88 5 ml kg 0.5 8 20 60 53 0.37 0.23 0.61 0.25 13 20 35 24 0.34 0.21 0.57 0.10 17 20 15 0 Diclofenac Na 1.0 1 20 95 94 plus Acetaminophen, 0.5 3 20 85 82 0.19 0.13 0.27 25 mg kg 0.25 7 20 65 59 0.18 0.12 0.25 0.10 11 20 45 35 0.05 17 20 15 0 Acetaminophen, 17 20 15 0 25 mg kg plusSaline, 5 ml kg Saline, 5 ml kg 17 20 15 plus Saline, 5 ml kg Precedent block corrected for salino response Precedent block corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits Calculated as salt Calculated as acid TABLE I a DICLOFENAC SODIUM OBSERVATION DICLOFENAC DOSE Number Responding PRECENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BOLCK mg kg Diclofenac Na 5.0 0 20 100 100 plus Saline, 2.5 1 20 95 95 0.37 0.26 0.54 5 ml kg 1.0 4 20 80 79 0.34 0.21 0.57 0.5 7 20 65 63 0.25 13 20 35 32 0.10 17 20 15 11 Diclofenac Na 0.5 1 20 95 92 plus Acetaminophen, 0.25 4 20 80 67 0.19 0.13 0.27 50 mg kg 0.10 6 20 70 50 0.18 0.12 0.25 0.05 8 20 60 33 0.025 16 20 20 0 Acetaminophen, 12 20 40 37 50 mg kg plusSaline, 5 ml kg Saline, 5 ml kg 19 20 5 plus Saline, 5 ml kg Precedent block corrected for salino response Precedent block corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits Calculated as salt Calculated as acid Another experiment was carried out in a manner described in the foregoing example except that acetaminophen was employed only at the 50 mg kg level.The results are seen in Table I . Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE I a DICLOFENAC SODIUM OBSERVATION DICLOFENAC DOSE Number Responding PRECENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BOLCK mg kg Diclofenac Na 2.0 1 20 95 94 plus Saline, 1.0 7 20 65 61 5 ml kg 0.5 9 20 55 50 0.49 0.29 0.84 0.25 12 20 40 33 0.46 0.27 0.78 0.10 17 20 15 6 Diclofenac Na 1.0 2 20 90 87 plus Acetaminophen, 0.25 6 20 70 60 0.15 0.08 0.29 50 mg kg 0.10 7 20 55 40 0.14 0.07 0.27 0.05 11 20 45 27 0.025 13 20 35 13 Acetaminophen, 15 20 27 17 50 mg kg plusSaline, 5 ml kg Saline, 5 ml kg 18 20 10 plus Saline, 5 ml kg Precedent block corrected for salino response Precedent block corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits Calculated as salt Calculated as acid The foregoing results illustrated the potentiation of the analgesic or antinociceptive properties of a diclofenac compound by acetaminophen.The present process, namely, a method of producing analgesia, comprises orally administering to subjects, i.e., human and other warm blooded animals suffering from pain, one of compounds A through G and acetaminophen in amounts sufficient to have an antinociceptive effect. The agents may be administered simultaneously or sequentially and either agent may be administered first. By the administration of the amounts of the agents as hereinafter set forth, an antinociceptive interaction between the drugs is achieved which is wholly unexpected from the known properties of the components. The active agents may be administered with or without carrier. One method of administration is by use of compositions in unit dn.sage form which provides a convenient simultaneous administration method.From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosages ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that in the case of Compound A, from about 0.08 to 0.47 mg kg of diclofenac compound may be employed together with from about 1.8 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen preferably from about 0.17 to 0.33 mg kg of diclofenac compound with from about 2.1 to 7.1 mg kg of acetaminophen. These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 5 to 28 milligrams of diclofenac compound and from about 110 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably from about 10 to 20 milligrams of diclofenac compound and from about 125 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen. The outstanding properties may be effectively utilized by use of the novel pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention, one of Compounds A through G as primary action agent and acetaminophen as a potentiating agent, are intimately admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier suitable for oral administration. In preparing the compositions in oral dosage form, any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed, including liquid carriers such as water, glycols, oils, alcohols and the like for oral liquid preparations such as suspensions, elixirs and solutions and solid carriers such as starches, sugars, kaolin, calcium stearate, ethyl cellulose, etc. including materials which function as lubricants, binders, disintegrating agents and the like for powders, capsules and tablets.Because of their ease in administration, tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage form, these compositions employ solid pharmaceutical carriers such as the aforementioned starches, sugars, kaolin and the like, and generally with a lubricant such as calcium stearate. It is especially advantageous to formulate the aforementioned pharmaceutical compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. The term dosage unit form as used in the specification and claims herein refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary dosages, each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active ingredient calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. Examples of such dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. In the case of Compound A, a dosage unit generally will contain from about 5 to 28 milligrams of a 2 2,6 dichlorophenyl amino benzeneacetic acid compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 110 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen.The preferred dosage unit when using Compound A is from about 10 to 20 milligrams of a 2 2,6 dichlorophenyl amino benzeneacetic acid compound together with from about 125 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen.Compound BEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a Z 5 fluoro 2 methyl l 4 methylsulfinyl phenyl methylene lH indene 3 acetic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as sulindac compound by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated by employing sulindac acid form but is to be understood that it is not limited thereto.Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with sulindac at various doses and with saline as seen in Tables 2a and 2b and fifteen minutes later with acetaminophen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline control were given as and are expressed as per Os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg and b double dose of saline 5 ml kg . Sulindac was administered as an aqueous suspension. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension.Thirty minutes after administration of sulindac and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed. The results are seen inTables 2a and 2b. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 2aAntinociceptive activity of sulindac and acetaminophen in the mouse body constriction assay. Time 30 minutes post sulindac, 15 min. post acetaminophen.Treatment SULINDAC OBSERVATION SULINDAC Dose No. Responding Corrected ED50 95 C.L. mg kg po No. Injected Block Block mg kg poSulindac plus 25 2 20 90 88 Saline 5 ml kg po 15 6 20 70 65 12.3 9.4 16.1 10 11 20 45 35 7.5 13 20 35 24 5 17 20 15 0 Sulindac plus 15 1 20 95 94 Acetaminophen 10 3 20 85 81 4.6 3.4 6.3 25 mg kg po 5 8 20 60 50 2.5 12 20 40 25 1.0 17 20 15 0 Acetaminophen 16 20 20 6 25 mg kg po Saline 5 ml kgSaline 5 ml kg po 17 20 15 Saline 5 ml kg po Block in this column corected for saline response Block in this column corrected for Acetaminophen saline response Confidence Limits TABLE 2b Antinociceptive activity of sulindac acetaminophen in the mouse body constrictive assay. Time 30 minutes post sulindac, 15 min. post acetaminophen. SULINDAC OBSERVATION SULINDAC Dose No. Responding Corrected Ed50 95 C.L. Treatment mg kg po No. Injected Block Block mg kg poSulindac plus 25 4 20 80 79 saline 5 ml kg po 15 8 20 60 58 12.5 8.8 17.8 10 12 20 40 37 .5 16 20 20 16 2.5 17 20 15 11 Sulindac plus 20 0 20 100 100 Acetaminophen 10 3 20 85 79 50 mg kg po 5 6 20 70 57 3.3 1.9 5.7 2.5 9 20 55 36 1.5 12 20 40 14 Acetaminophen 14 20 30 26 50 mg kg po Saline 5 ml kp poSaline 5 ml kp po 19 20 5 Saline 5 ml kg po Block in this column corrected for saline response Block in this column corrected for Acetaminophen saline response Confidence Limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that generally from about 0.1 to 1.7 mg kg of sulindac compound may be employed together with from about 1.0 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen preferably from about 0.17 to 1.5 mg kg of sulindac compound with from about 1.7 to 7.1 mg kg of acetaminophen. These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 6 to 100 milligrams of sulindac compound and from about 65 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably from about 10 to 90 milligrams of sulindac compound and from about 100 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen.Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 6 to 100 milligrams of a sulindac compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 65 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. The preferred dosage unit is from about 10 to 90 milligrams of a sulindac compound togetherrwith from about 100 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen.Compound CEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as f enbuf en compound1, by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing fenbufen acid form but it is to be understood that it is not limited thereto. Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with fenbufen at various doses and with saline as seen in Tables 3a and 3b and fifteen minutes later with acetamlno phen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline control were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg and b double dose of saline 5 ml kg . Fenbufen was administered as an aqueous suspension. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension. Thirty minutes after administration of fenbufen and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections deviously discussed. The results are seen in Tables 3a and 3b. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 3a FENBUFEN OBSERVATION FENBUFEN DOSE Number Responding PERCENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Fenbufen 75 2 20 90 88 Saline 50 6 20 70 65 5 ml kg 35 9 20 55 47 35.3 26.0 48.0 25 13 20 35 24 10 17 20 15 0 Fenbufen plus 50 1 20 95 94 Acetaminophen, 25 5 20 75 69 25 mg kg 15 8 20 60 50 16.8 12.5 22.6 10 14 20 30 13 5 16 20 20 0 Acetaminophen 25 mg kg Saline, 5 ml kg 16 20 20 6 Saline, 5 ml kg Saline, 5 ml kg 17 20 15 Percent block corrected for saline response Percent block corrected for acetaminophen plus saline response Confidence limits TABLE 3b FENBUFEN OBSERVATION FENBUFEN DOSE Number Responding PERCENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Fenbufen 75 3 20 85 83 Saline 50 8 20 60 56 5 ml kg 25 11 20 45 39 34.3 22.0 53.3 15 13 20 35 28 10 15 20 25 6 Fenbufen 50 2 20 90 88 Acetaminophen, 25 5 20 75 69 50 mg kg 10 9 20 55 44 11.1 6.7 18.4 5 11 20 45 31 2.5 14 20 30 13 Acetaminophen, 50 mg kg Saline, 5 ml kg 16 20 20 11 Saline, 5 ml kg Saline, 5 ml kg 18 20 10 Percent block corrected for saline response Percent block corrected for acetaminophen plus saline response Confidence limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that generally from about 2.2 to 7.2 mg kg of fenbufen compound may be employed together with from about 1.9 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen preferably from about 2.5 to 6.7 mg kg of fenbufen compound with from about 2.1 to 7.1 mg kg of acetaminophen.These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 129 to 430 milligrams of fenbufen compound and from about 113 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably from about 150 to 400 milligrams of fenbufen compound and from about 125 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen.Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 129 to 430 mg of a 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 113 to 450 mg of acetaminophen.The preferred dosage unit is from about 150 to 400 mg of a 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid compound together with from about 125 to 425 mg of acetaminophen.Compound DEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a 6 methoxy a methyl2 naphthaleneacetic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as naproxen compound by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing naproxen acid form but it is to be understood that it is not limited thereto. Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with naproxen at various doses and with saline as seen in Tables 4a and 4b and fifteen minutes later with acetaminophen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline control were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mg kg plus saline 10 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 10 ml kg and b double dose of saline 10 ml kg . Naproxen was administered as an aqueous suspension. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension.Thirty minutes after administration of naproxen and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed. The results are seen inTables 4a and 4b. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 4a NAPROXEN OBSERVATION NAPROXEN Dose Number Responding Corrected ED50 95 CL Treatment mg kg Number Injected Block Block mg kg poNaproxen plus 20 4 20 80 75 7.99 4.03 15.9 Saline 10 ml kg 10 8 20 60 50 5 9 20 55 44 3 13 20 35 19 Naproxen plus 20 3 20 85 80 Acetaminophen, 10 6 20 70 60 7.52 3.79 14.93 25 mg kg 5 12 20 40 20 3 11 20 45 25 Acetaminophen, 25 15 20 25 7 mg kg plus Saline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 16 20 20 0 plus Saline, 10 ml kg Percent block corrected for saline response Percent block corrected for acetaminophen plus saline response Confidence limits TABLE 4b NAPROXEN OBSERVATION NAPROXEN Dose Number Responding Corrected ED50 95 CL Treatment mg kg Number Injected Block Block mg kg poNaproxen plus 20 2 20 90 86 8.91 6.12 13.0 Saline 10 ml kg 10 5 20 75 64 8 10 20 50 29 5 12 20 40 14 2.5 15 20 25 0Naproxen plus 10 1 20 95 93Acetaminophen, 5 2 20 90 87 3.10 2.1 4.6 50 mg kg 4 8 20 60 43 2.5 10 20 50 29 1 13 20 35 7Acetaminophen, 50 14 20 30 0 mg kg plus Saline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 14 20 30 plus Saline, 10 ml kg Corrected for saline response Corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence Limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that generally from about 1.4 to 2.1 mg kg of naproxen compound may be employed together with from about 2.8 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen. These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 85 to 125 milligrams of naproxen compound and from about 170 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen.Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills1 powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful and the like and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 85 to 125 milligrams of a 6 methoxy a 2naphthaleneacetic acid compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 170 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen. Compound EEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a rn benzoylhydratropic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as ketoprofen compound1, by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing ketoprofen acid form but it is to be understood that it is not limited thereto.Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with ketoprofen at various doses and with saline as seen in Tables Sa and 5b, and fifteen minutes later with acetaminophen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline controls were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mgj kg plus saline 10 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 r.g kg plus saline 10 ml kg and b double dose of saline 10 ml kg . Ketoprofen was administered as a solution in aqueous sodium hydroxide.Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. Twenty minutes after administration of ketoprof en and fifteen minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed. The results are seen in Tables 5a and 5b. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 5a KETOPROFEN OBSERVATION KETOPROFEN DOSE Number Responding PERCENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Ketoprofen plus 5.0 0 20 100 100 0.47 0.31 0.71Saline 10 ml kg 1.0 3 20 85 83 0.5 10 20 50 44 0.25 13 20 35 28 0.10 17 20 15 6 Ketoprofen plus 1.0 3 20 85 83 0.31 .21 0.47 Acetaminophen, 0.5 5 20 75 72 25 mg kg 0.25 12 20 40 33 0.10 15 20 25 17 Acetaminophen, 18 20 18 0 25 mg kg plusSaline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 18 20 10 0 plus Saline, 10 ml kg 20 Percent block corrected for saline response. Percent block corrected for acetaminophen plus saline response. Confidence limits TABLE 5b KETOPROFEN OBSERVATION KETOPROFEN DOSE Number Responding PERCENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Ketoprofen plus 1.0 1 20 95 94 0.46 0.29 0.71 Saline 10 ml kg 0.75 5 20 75 71 0.50 11 20 45 35 0.25 15 20 25 12 Ketoprofen plus 1.0 0 20 100 100 0.19 0.12 0.28 Acetaminophen, 0.5 2 20 90 86 50 mg kg 0.25 6 20 70 57 0.10 11 20 45 21 0.05 12 20 40 14 Acetaminophen, 14 20 30 18 50 mg kg plusSaline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 17 20 15 plus Saline, 10 ml kg block corrected for saline response block corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that generally from about 0.2 to 0.83 mg kg of ketoprofen compound may be employed together with from about 2.8 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen preferably from about 0.33 to 0.67 of ketoprofen compound with from about 3.3 to 7.1 mg kg of acetaminophen. These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 12 to 50 milligrams of ketoprofen compound and from about 170 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably from about 20 to 40 milligrams of ketoprofen compound and from about 200 to 245 milligrams of acetaminophen.Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful, and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 12 to 50 mg of m benzoylhydratropic acid compound ketoprofen compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 170 to 450 mg of acetaminophen. The preferred dosage unit is from about 20 to 40 mg of a m benzoylhydratropic acid compound together with from about 200 to 425 mg of acetaminophen.Compound FEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of a 4 1,3 dihydro l ozo 2H isoindol 2 yl a methylbenzene acetic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as indoprofen compound by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing indoprofen acid form but it is to be understood that it is not limited thereto. Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with indoprofen at various doses and with saline as sen in Tables 6a and 6b and fifteen minutes later with acetaminorhen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline controls were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetaminophen 25 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 5 ml kg and b double dose of saline 5 ml kg . Indoprofen was administered as an aqueous suspension. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension.Thirty minutes after administration of indoprofen and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed. The results are seen in Tables 6 and 6b. Where ms kg or ml kg is employed, kg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 6a INDOPROFEN OBSERVATION INDOPROFEN Dose Number Responding RD50 95 CL Treatment mg kg Number Injected Block mg kgIndoprofen 5.0 3 20 85 82 Saline 5 ml kg 2.5 6 20 70 65 1.73 1.18 2.55 1.5 8 20 60 53 1.0 13 20 35 24 0.5 16 20 20 6 Indoprofen Acetaminophen, 25 mg kg 5.0 1 20 95 93 2.5 5 20 75 67 1.20 0.72 2.01 1.0 8 20 60 47 0.5 12 20 40 20 0.25 15 20 25 0 Acetaminophen, 25 mg kg 15 20 25 12 Saline, 5 ml kgSaline, 5 ml kg 17 20 15 Saline, 5 ml kg Block in this column corrected for saline response Block in this column corrected for Acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits TABLE 6b INDOPROFEN OBSERVATION INDOPROFEN Dose Number Responding RD50 95 CL Treatment mg kg Number Injected Block mg kgIndoprofen 5 0 20 100 100 plus Saline 5 ml kg 3.5 2 20 90 88 2.5 8 20 60 53 1.58 1.12 2.45 1.0 12 20 40 29 0.5 16 20 20 6 Indoprofen plus 1.0 2 20 90 87 Acetaminophen 50 mg kg 0.5 5 20 75 67 0.37 0.23 0.57 0.25 12 20 40 20 0.10 16 20 20 0 Acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus Saline 5 ml kg 15 20 25 12 Saline 5 ml kg plus Saline 5 ml kg 17 20 15 Percent block corrected for saline response Percent block corrected for acetaminophen and saline response Confidence limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed alone, it is determined that generally from about 0.17 to 2.5 mg kg of indoprof en compound may be employed together with from about 2.2 to 7.5 mg kg of acetaminophen preferably from about 0.58 to 2.2 mg kg of indoprofen compound with from about 2.5 to 7.1 mg kg of acetaminophen. These amounts when expressed as doses suitable fdr man are in the range of from about 25 to 150 milligrams of indoprofen compound and from about 135 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably, from about 35 to 130 milligrams of indoprofen compound and from about 150 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen.Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful, and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 25 to 150 mg of an indoprofen compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 150 to 450 mg of acetaminophen. The preferred dosage unit is from about 35 to 130 mg of an indoprofen compound together with from about 150 to 425 mg of acetaminophen.Compound GEmploying the above described procedures, potentiation of the analgesic properties of an a methyl 3phenoxybenzeneacetic acid compound hereinafter sometimes referred to as f enoprofen compound by acetaminophen may be demonstrated. The property is illustrated employing the sodium salt of fenoprofen but it is to be understood that it is not limited thereto. Non fasted male albino mice weighing 18 24 grams were dosed initially per os p.o. with fenoprofen sodium at various doses and with saline as seen inTables 7a and 7b and fifteen minutes later with acetaminophen at 25 mg kg or at 50 mg kg. All dose levels of test drug and saline control were given as and are expressed as per os. Twenty mice were employed for each dosage level. As controls, a similar number of mice were dosed with a acetamino phen 25 mg kg plus saline 10 ml kg or acetaminophen 50 mg kg plus saline 10 ml kg and b double dose of saline 10 ml kg . Fenoprofen sodium was administered as an aqueous solution. Acetaminophen was administered as an aqueous suspension.Thirty minutes after administration of fenoprofen sodium and 15 minutes after administration of acetaminophen , the mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 5.5 mg kg of acetylcholine bromide and observed for the presence or absence of the abdominal constriction response. ED50 values were determined from the observed values applying where pertinent corrections previously discussed.The results are seen in Tables 7a and 7b. Where mg kg or ml kg is employed, keg is in reference to body weight. TABLE 7a PENOPROFEN SODIUM OBSERVATION PER FENOPROFEN DOSE Number Responding CENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Fenprofen NA 10 3 20 85 82 Saline 10 ml kg 5 6 20 70 65 3.4 2.1 5.5 2 11 20 45 35 1 18 20 10 0 Fenoprofen NA 10 4 20 80 73 Acetaminophen, 25mg kg 5 6 20 70 60 3.7 1.8 7.6 4 7 20 65 53 2 14 20 30 7 Acetaminophen, 25mg kg 17 20 25 12 Saline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 17 20 15 Saline, 10 ml kg Percent block corrected for salne response Percent block corrected for fenoprofen saline response Confidence limits TABLE 7a PENOPROFEN SODIUM OBSERVATION PER FENOPROFEN DOSE Number Responding CENT ED50 95 CL TREATMENT mg kg Number Injected BLOCK mg kg Fenoprofen 10 5 20 75 69 Saline 10 ml kg 5 7 20 65 57 4.6 2.48 8.37 2.5 12 20 40 25 1.0 14 20 30 13 Fenoprfen 10 1 20 95 93 Acetaminophen, 50 mg kg 5 4 20 80 82 2.5 8 20 60 43 1.93 0.92 3.77 1.0 12 20 40 15 Acetaminophen, 50 mg kg 14 20 30 13 Saline, 10 ml kgSaline, 10 ml kg 16 20 20 Saline, 10 ml kg Percent block corrected for saline response Percent block corrected for acetaminophen saline response Confidence limits From the foregoing test results on mice and the known dosage ranges of the components as applied to man when employed above, it is determined that generally from about 1.4 to 2.8 mg kg of body weight fenoprofen compound may be employed together with from about 3.8 to 7.5 mg kg of body weight of acetaminophen preferably from about 1.5 to 2.5 mg kg of body weight of fenoprofen compound with from about 4.2 to 7.1 mg kg of body weight of acetaminophen.These amounts when expressed as doses suitable for man are in the range of from about 84 to 168 milligrams of fenoprofen compound and from about 225 to 450 milligrams of acetaminophen preferably from about 90 to 150 milliqrams of fenoprofen compound and from about 250 to 425 milligrams of acetaminophen. Examples of dosage unit forms are tablets, capsules, pills, powder packets, wafers, teaspoonsful, tablespoonsful and the like, and segregated multiples thereof. A dosage unit generally will contain from about 85 to 168 mg of an a methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid compound as primary active ingredient together with from about 225 to 450 mg of acetaminophen. The preferred dosage unit is from about 90 to 150 mg of an methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid compound together with from about 250 to 425 mg of acetaminophen.The following examples are given to illustrate the novel compositions and are not to be construed as limiting the invention in spirit or in scope. Compound AExample 1 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 15 milligrams of 2 2,6 dichlorophenzl amino benzer,e acetic acid diclofenac as primary active ingredient and 280 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsDiclofenac 15Acetaminophen 280Starch 250Lactose 750Talc 250Calcium stearate 10A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain.Example 2Gelatin capsules are prepared as described inExample 1 except that in the formulation, 15 grams of sodium 2 2, 6 dichlorophenyl aminolbenzeneacetate diclofenac sodium is employed as the primary active ingredient and 280 grams of acetaminophen is employed as the potentiating agent, thus providing capsules each containing 15 milligrams of diclofenac sodium and 280 milligrams of acetaminophen.Example 3 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 5 milligrams of diclofenac and 450 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsDiclofenac 5Acetaminophen 450Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.Compound BExample d 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 10 milligrams of sulindac as primary active ingredient and 425 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsSulindac 10Acetaminophen 425Starch 250Lactose 750Talc z 250Calcium stearate 10 A uniform mixture cf the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon admini stration to subjects suffering from pain.Example 5 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 10 milligrams of sulindac and 425 milligrams of acetaminophen potential in percent are prepared from wi formulation. Grams Sul indac 10Acetaminophen 425Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.Compound CExample 6 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 275 milligrams of 3 4 biphenylylcarbonyl propionic acid fenbufen as primary active ingredient and 275 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsFenbufen 275Acetaminophen 275Starch 250Lactose 750Talc 250Calcium stearate 10A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain.Example 7 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 275 milligrams of fenbufen and 275 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsFenbufen 275Acetaminophen 275Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.Compound DExample 8 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 105 milligrams of 6 methoxy a methyl 2 naphthaleneacetic acid naproxen as primary active ingredient and 310 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsNaproxen 105Acetaminophen 310Starch 250Lactose 750Talc 250Calcium stearate 10A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain. Example 9Gelatin capsules are prepared as described inExample 1 except that in the formulation, 115 grams of sodium 6 methoxy a methyl 2 naphthalene acetate naproxen sodium is employed as the primary active ingredient and 350 grams of acetaminophen is employed as the potentiating agent, thus providing capsules each containing 115 milligrams of naproxen sodium and 350 milligrams of acetamlnophen.Example 10 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 115 milligrams of naproxen and 350 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsNaproxen 90Acetaminophen 425Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.Compound EExample 11 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 30 milligrams of m benzoylhydratropic acid ketoprofen as primary active ingredient and 350 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation Grams Ketoprofen 30 Acetaminophen 350 Starch 250 Lactose 750 Talc 250 Calcium stearate 10 A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain. Example 12 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 20 milligrams of ketoprofen and 425 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation Grams Ketoprofen 20 Acetaminophen 425 Starch 750 Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000 Calcium stearate 2.5 The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets. Compound F Example 13 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 85 milli Grams of 4 1, 3 dihydro l oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl a methy benzeneacctic acid indoprofen as primary active ingredient and 180 milligrams of acetaminophen as i t from the following formulation GramsIndoprofen 85Acetaminophen 280Starch 250Lactose 750Talc 250Calcium stearate 10A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain.Example 14 1000 compressed tablets, each containing as the primary active ingredient 35 milligrams of indoprofen and 425 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsIndoprofen 35Acetaminophen 425Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.Compound GExample 15 1000 hard gelatin capsules, each containing 120 milligrams of a methyl 3 phenoxybenzeneacetic acid fenoprofen as primary active ingredient and 340 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsFenoprofen 120Acetaminophen 340Starch 250Lactose 750Talc 250Calcium stearate 10A uniform mixture of the ingredients is prepared by blending, and used to fill two piece hard gelatin capsules. The capsules are suitable to be used for providing satisfactory analgesic effect upon administration to subjects suffering from pain. Example 16 1000 compressed tablets each containing as the primary active ingredient 100 milligrams of fenoprofen and 400 milligrams of acetaminophen as potentiating agent are prepared from the following formulation GramsFenoprofen 100Acetaminophen z 400Starch 750Dibasic calcium phosphate hydrous 5000Calcium stearate 2.5The finely powdered ingredients are mixed well and granulated with 10 per cent starch paste. The granulation is dried and compressed into tablets.