# GLUCOAMYLASE CDNA

## Claims
DNA Sequenz,

## Description
The present invention relates to a DNA sequence which encodes a glucoamylase protein of a fungus belonging to the filamentous Ascomycetes which is free of introns and is capable, when correctly combined with a cleaved expression vector, of expressing a protein having glucoamylase enzyme activity upon transformation of a yeast host organism by the vector, said protein being not produced naturally or natively by the yeast host organism. Furthermore, the present invention relates to corresponding DNA expression vectors, to yeast host organisms transformed by said expression vector for processes for the production of said glucoamylase, to processes for the saccharification of starch or starch hydrolysates containing oligosaccharides and to processes for producing ethanol. The following publications are referred to by corresponding number in this application The techniques of genetic engineering have been successfully applied to the pharmaceutical industry, resulting in a number of novel products. Increasingly, it has become apparent that the same technologies can be applied on a larger scale to the production of enzymes of value to other industries. The benefits of achieving commercially useful processes through genetic engineering are expected to include 1 cost savings in enzyme production, 2 production of enzymes in organisms generally recognized as safe which are more suitable for food products, and 3 specific genetic modifications at the DNA level to improve enzyme properties such as thermal stability and other performance characteristics. One important industrial application of genetic engineering involves improving the ability of industrial yeast strains to degrade complex carbohydrate substrates such as starch. Yeasts such as Recombinant DNA and Genetic Experimentation , Pergamon Press, 1975, p. 123 128, gives a general outline of the production of valuable proteins in alternate biological hosts. However, it cannot be taken from this reference how to improve glucoamylase expression results in yeasts. It would thus be desirable to construct, by genetic recombination methods, a fermentation yeast such as Accordingly, in one aspect, the present invention is concerned with constructing a yeast fermentation host organism which contains, in recombinant form, a gene coding for a glucoamylase which is active in hydrolyzing starch at both alpha 1 4 and alpha 1 6 linkages to generate glucose. The present invention generally concerns the construction of a glucoamylase gene which can be introduced in recombinant form into a yeast host and which can be advantageously expressed in this host. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a modified DNA sequence coding for fungal glucoamylase protein or its single or multiple base substitutions, deletions, insertions or inversions, wherein said DNA sequence is derived from natural, synthetic or semi synthetic sources and is capable, when correctly combined with a cleaved expression vector, of expressing a non native protein having glucoamylase enzyme activity upon transformation by the vector of a host organism. Most preferably the expression vector is the plasmid pAC1 described further hereinbelow which has been cleaved at its According to another aspect of the invention, it has been discovered that A radioactively labeled cDNA copy of the induced poly A RNA is produced which is used in hybridization studies to identify Similarly, the cDNA is used to identify phage or plasmid vectors containing such genomic DNA fragments in recombinant form. The identified cloning vectors may be used in determining gene polynucleotide sequences and sequence homology with the cDNA. When a The invention also provides for recombinant DNA expression vectors containing the DNA sequence. The vector is preferably one which is compatible with a selected foreign host organism, and permits expression of the gene in the host. The exogenous gene which is expressed may be genomic DNA, synthetic DNA or a cDNA obtained from a mRNA by use of reverse transcriptase. A novel method for producing a glucoamylase gene containing the appropriate DNA sequence generally includes producing genomic digest fragments, providing a glucoamylase probe, using the probe to identify genomic digest fragments containing glucoamylase gene regions, molecularly cloning the identified genomic digest fragments, molecularly cloning partial cDNA, sequencing the genomic and cDNA clones, comparing the sequenced glucoamylase gene regions with all or a portion of the amino acid sequence of the mature glucoamylase enzyme to determine the existence and location of all the introns and exons in the genomic clones, and constructing a gene whose codon sequence is substantially identical to that of the genomic glucoamylase gene when the sequences comprising the introns are deleted. In a preferred embodiment of the method, the glucoamylase probe is provided by selecting a fungal source capable of producing a level of glucoamylase, when grown on starch, which is at least about ten times that produced by the fungal species when grown on xylose or glycerol in the absence of starch, culturing cells of the selected fungus under conditions which induce secretion of glucoamylase into the culture medium, obtaining mRNA from the cultured cells, fractionating the mRNA obtained according to size, selecting an mRNA which is detectable as having a relatively high concentration with respect to the equivalent sized mRNA produced by cells of the selected fungal species cultured under conditions which do not induce secretion of glucoamylase into the culture medium, and copying the selected mRNA to produce the glucoamylase probe. In yet another embodiment of the invention is provided a host organism transformed with a DNA expression vector comprising a promoter fragment that functions in that host and a DNA segment having a modified DNA sequence coding for fungal glucoamylase protein, the DNA segment being in an orientation with the promoter fragment such that in the host it is expressed to produce a non native glucoamylase protein. The gene herein, when expressed in a host organism transformed by an expression vector comprising the gene, produces an enzyme having glucoamylase activity. Preferably the glucoamylase enzyme is produced as a preprotein with a signal sequence at its NH₂ terminus which is processed by the host organism during secretion. In another embodiment, the invention relates to a process for producing glucose by saccharification of starch using a recombinant glucoamylase gene. In another embodiment, the invention relates to a process for producing ethanol by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation which comprises growing, on a nonfermentable carbon source which is a substrate for glucoamylase enzyme, a host organism transformed by the DNA expression vector described above. The carbon source is preferably starch, soluble starch, maltose or isomaltose. In yet another embodiment, the invention relates to a process for secreting any proteinaceous material extracellularly which comprises growing a host organism in a culture medium, which host is transformed by a DNA expression vector comprising a promoter fragment which function in the host organism, a signal sequence having substantially the following amino acid sequence and a DNA segment which codes for the proteinaceous material. Preferably, the proteinaceous material is a protein which is normally secreted and most preferably it is glucoamylase. The vector may or may not contain a DNA segment which functions as an origin of replication, a selectable marker or a transcription terminator segment. In the invention herein, the glucoamylase enzyme obtained when the heterologous gene is expressed in a yeast is found to by gylcosylated. In addition, a significant portion eg., greater than 90 of the glucoamylase is secreted in the media. Also, when the N terminus of the non native glucoamylase protein secreted in the media having a purity of greater than 85 was sequenced, the first 29 amino acids were found to be identical to the mature glucoamylase protein secreted by FIGURE 1 represents gel electrophoretic patterns showing FIGURES 2A and 2B represent gel electrophoretic patterns identifying glucoamylase mRNA. In FIG. 2A, poly A containing mRNA from cells grown in medium containing starch lane 1 or xylose lane 2 was analyzed by MeHgOH agarose gel electrophoresis. Human and FIGURE 3 shows a restriction endonuclease map of FIGURE 4 shows gel electrophoretic patterns where pGAR1 is used to hybridize to, and select, glucoamylase mRNA. Total FIGURE 5 illustrates primer extension to determine 5 termini of glucoamylase mRNA and the sequence which was determined. The products of primer extension at 42 C lane 1 and 50 C lane 2 are displayed on a sequencing gel in parallel with m13 dideoxynucleotide sequencing reactions of this region, utilizing the identical 15 mer primer. The sequence presented represents the glucoamylase mRNA sequence and is complementary to that read from the sequencing reactions shown. FIGURE 6 illustrates a restriction map of the FIGURE 7 illustrates a plasmid map for pGAC9. FIGURE 8 illustrates a plasmid map for pGC21. FIGURE 9 illustrates plate assays for degradation of Baker s starch by various transformed yeast strains. The strains given below were streaked on minimal media containing histidine at 40 mg l and 2 w v Baker s starch. After 12 days incubation at 30 C the plates were stained with iodine vapors. The starch was stained purple, and the clear zones represent regions in which the starch has been hydrolyzed. FIGURE 10 shows DEAE Sepharose chromatography of glucoamylase produced by the recombinant yeast in a 10 liter fermentor. FIGURE 11 shows gel electrophoretic patterns of BioRad High Molecular Weight Protein Standards lane 1 , 25 µg The following terms used in the description are defined below DNA sequence refers to a linear array of nucleotides connected one to the other by phosphodiester bonds between the 3 and 5 carbons of adjacent pentoses. Modified DNA sequence refers to a DNA sequence which is altered from the native glucoamylase DNA sequence such as by removing the introns from or modifying the introns of the native sequence. The examples illustrate sequences which are free of introns. Sequences substantially free of introns means greater than about 80 free. Glucoamylase enzyme activity refers to the amount by which the enzyme in contact with an aqueous slurry of starch or starch hydrolysate degrades starch to glucose molecules. Single or multiple base substitutions and deletions, insertions and inversions of the basic modified DNA sequence refer to degeneracy in the DNA sequence where the codons may be mutated or the deoxyribonucleotides may be derivatized to contain different bases or other elements, but the DNA sequence thus altered is still capable, on transformation in a host, of expressing glucoamylase protein. Fungal glucoamylase protein refers to protein which is not derived from a bacterial source, but rather from a fungal source such as a strain from the genus Non native glucoamylase protein refers to glucoamylase protein not produced naturally or natively by the microorganism used as the host. Nonfermentable carbon source which is a substrate for glucoamylase refers to substrates for the glucoamylase enzyme which the host cannot ferment, such as starch, maltose, isomaltose and other starch derived oligosaccharides. Cellulose is not a substrate for glucoamylase and thus is not contemplated in this definition. The present invention relates to a modified DNA sequence and an expression vector into which the gene has been introduced by recombinant DNA techniques, which, when transformed in a host organism, expresses glucoamylase. The modified DNA sequence may be derived from a natural, synthetic or semi synthetic source. Preferably it is derived from a selected native fungal source which produces an induced level of glucoamylase which is at least about ten times its uninduced level. The induced level is that which is produced by the fungal species when grown on starch as a sole or primary carbon source, and the uninduced level, that observed when the fungal species is grown on glycerol or xylose. The selected fungus for producing glucoamylase is suitably cultured under glucoamylase induction conditions and a poly A RNA fraction from the cultured cells is isolated and size fractionated to reveal a glucoamylase mRNA present in a detectably higher concentration than in mRNA from uninduced cells. A glucoamylase cDNA is produced by copying the mRNA, using a reverse transcriptase. The DNA sequence contemplated in the present invention is the sequence coding for the fungal glucoamylase amylo glucosidase from the filamentous Ascomycetes, preferably from an Although the invention will be described with particular reference to The fungal species Several lines of evidence suggest that the two According to one aspect of the invention, it has been discovered that cells of a selected fungal species, when grown under conditions which induce the secretion of glucoamylase into the culture medium, contain poly A RNA which is essentially undetectable in cells grown under noninducing conditions. The poly A RNA is capable of directing the synthesis, in a cell free protein synthesizing system, of a polypeptide which is immunologically reactive with antibodies prepared against the glucoamylase from that fungal species. Because the gene is not expressed in yeast hosts with its intact regulatory elements, it is necessary to delete or modify the introns and to exchange promoters so that the yeast will transcribe the gene, translate the mRNA, and produce an active glucoamylase. The introns may be removed from the glucoamylase gene either by methods known in the literature for removing introns or by the simpler method described in section B of Example 2 below using specific restriction enzymes in various steps to create fragments which are then ligated together and using site directed mutagenesis. In the mutagenesis technique the 5 most intron of the glucoamylase gene is removed using a primer which is homologous to sequences on both sides of the intron and annealing this primer to a single stranded DNA template of the glucoamylase genomic clone. The primer is then used to prime DNA synthesis of the complementary strand by extension of the primer on an M13 single stranded phage DNA template. The resulting molecules were double stranded circular molecules with single stranded loops containing the intron sequence. When the molecules are transformed into cells, these loops may be excised, thereby removing the intron, but even without excision DNA replication will generate the correct progeny. If the introns are present in the gene, little or no glucoamylase enzyme is produced in a yeast in which the gene is expressed. After the introns have been removed therefrom, the glucoamylase gene may be inserted by genetic recombination into a DNA expression vector, preferably a plasmid, which may then be used to transform a host organism. Suitable organisms for this purpose include bacteria such as The preferred bacterial host herein is DNA expression or DNA transfer vectors suitable for transfer and replication have been described, e.g., in References 1c and 1d. Many of the yeast vectors in present use are derived from The expression vector of this invention necessarily contains a promoter fragment which functions in microorganisms, i.e., the host being employed, as well as the modified DNA sequence coding for the fungal glucoamylase protein. The protein encoding segment must be so oriented with the promoter fragment that in a microorganism host it is expressed to produce non native glucoamylase. For bacteria such as The expression vector herein also preferably contains a microorganism transcription terminator segment following the segment coding for the protein, in a direction of transcription of the coding segment. Examples of possible transcription segments include the 3 segments of the above listed genes. A preferred transcription terminator segment is from the enolase I gene. A preferred host system consists of the The The following examples serve to exemplify the practice of the invention. They are presented for illustrative purposes only, and should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way. Percentages are by weight unless specified otherwise. All experiments were performed following the NIH U.S.A. guidelines for containment. All of the strains employed in the examples which have been deposited in depositories were deposited either with the U.S. Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service, National Regional Research Laboratories NRRL of Peoria, IL 61604 or with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC of Rockville, MD 20852. Each strain deposited with ATCC has the individual ATCC designations indicated in the examples pursuant to a contract between the ATCC and the assignee of this patent application, Cetus Corporation. The contract with ATCC provides for permanent availability of the progeny of these strains to the public on the issuance of the U.S. patent describing and identifying the deposits or the publications or upon the laying open to the public of any U.S. or foreign patent application, whichever comes first, and for availability of the progeny of these strains to one determined by the U.S. Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to be entitled thereto according to 35 U.S.C. 122 and the Commissioner s rules pursuant thereto including 37 CFR 1.14 with particular reference to 886 OG 638 . The assignee of the present application has agreed that if any of these strains on deposit should die or be lost or destroyed when cultivated under suitable conditions, it will be promptly replaced on notification with a viable culture of the same strain. The NRRL deposits mentioned in the examples and not designated patent deposits have been freely available to the public prior to the filing date of this application. In the examples all parts and percentages are given by weight and all temperatures in degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. Experimentally, Total cellular RNA was isolated from the fungal cultures by a guanidium thiocyanate CsCl procedure essentially as described in Reference 2. Briefly, mycelia were wrung dry in cheese cloth, frozen in liquid nitrogen, and ground to a powder in a mortar and pestle in liquid nitrogen. The cell powder was homogenized in a guanidium thiocyanate solution containing 10 mM adenosine VOSO₄ complex. Following centrifugation to pellet cellular debris, CsCl was added to the homogenate and the RNA was pelleted through a pad of CsCl by a high speed centrifugation. Poly A containing RNA poly A RNA was isolated from total RNA by two passages over oligo dT cellulose, conventionally, and the poly A RNA was size fractionated by agarose gel electrophoresis, according to standard procedures. The induced poly A RNA was extracted from the agarose gel essentially as described in Reference 3. Briefly, the gel was melted and then frozen to release the RNA into solution. The solidified agarose was removed by centrifugation. The extracted poly A RNA was extracted with phenol and precipitated with ethanol. To examine the translation products of the induced poly A RNA in a cell free protein synthesizing system, antibodies against The two purified glucoamylase forms were used separately to raise anti glucoamylase antibodies in rabbits. Each of the two immunoglobulin G IgG antibody fractions produced were able to neutralize the glucoamylase activity of both glucoamylase forms. Further, Ouchterlony analysis of the two antibody fractions with the two enzyme forms indicated that each antibody reacts immunospecifically with both enzyme forms. Poly A RNA from induced and noninduced To determine the molecular basis for the accumulation of glucoamylase protein in starch grown, but not xylose grown, cultures of MeHgOH agarose gel electrophoresis of mRNA from starch grown cells revealed a major approximately 2.2 kilobase mRNA indicated by an arrow , which was absent in mRNA from xylose grown cells FIG. 2A . It appeared likely that this predominant induced mRNA represented the mRNA of the highly expressed, induced glucoamylase. To identify the induced mRNA, the approximately 2.2 kilobase mRNA band was eluted from a gel and translated in the rabbit reticulocyte lysate system. Immunoprecipitation of the protein product with rabbit anti glucoamylase antibody demonstrated the presence of mRNA encoding glucoamylase within the approximately 2.2 kilobase induced mRNA band FIG. 2B . According to one aspect of the invention, isolated glucoamylase mRNA from the selected fungal species was used to produce a glucoamylase cDNA by reverse transcription of the mRNA. Experimentally, induced poly A RNA from The induced glucoamylase mRNA and the cDNA produced therefrom were radiolabeled to provide probes for identifying genomic DNA fragments containing all or portions of the homologous glucoamylase gene. The cDNA may be labeled readily by performing its synthesis in the presence of radiolabeled nucleotides. The basic method used for radiolabeling mRNA is discussed in Reference 8. In one example, induced poly A RNA from Total genomic DNA isolated from The The plasmid pGAR1 was confirmed to contain glucoamylase gene sequences by virtue of its ability to hybridize to and select Subclone pGAR1 containing the The fragments of the glucoamylase genomic region subcloned into the vectors M13mp8 and M13mp9 were sequenced by the dideoxynucleotide chain termination method described in References 10 and 11. Portions of the sequence were confirmed by the Maxam Gilbert sequencing technique Reference 12 . The entire sequence of the 3.4 kilobase The nucleotide sequence obtained was compared, in a computer programmed matching operation, with the regions of known amino acid sequence of To confirm the identification of this interrupting sequence as the intervening sequence, and to identify other intervening sequences within the glucoamylase gene, the cDNA sequences derived from glucoamylase mRNA were molecularly cloned. Double stranded cDNA was prepared from mRNA of starch grown The 5 end of the glucoamylase mRNA was determined using a synthetic oligonucleotide to prime reverse transcriptase synthesis from the mRNA template. Four major primer extension products were synthesized using the pentadecamer 5 GCGAGTAGAGATCGG3 which is complementary to sequences within the signal peptide encoding region near the 5 end of the glucoamylase mRNA, as indicated in FIGURE 5. The shorter band of the doublets is interpreted to represent the incompletely extended form of the longer band. To examine possible effects of RNA secondary structures on this pattern, primer extension was preferred at 42 and 50 C. The products of primer extension at 42 C lane 1 and 50 C lane 2 are displayed on a sequencing gel described in Reference 16 in parallel with m13 dideoxynucleotide sequencing reactions of this region, using the identical pentadecamer primer. The sequence presented in FIGURE 5 represents the glucoamylase mRNA sequence and is complementary to that read from the sequencing reactions shown. The pattern of primer extension was unchanged, supporting the conclusion that four distinct 5 termini exist within the population of glucoamylase mRNA. Primer extension reactions performed in the presence of dideoxynucleotides confirmed the colinearity of genomic and mRNA sequences in this region. The primer extension products map to T residues, at positions 71, 66, 59, and 52 from the site of translation initiation, and are indicated in Table I. To the extent that reverse transcriptase is able to copy the extreme terminal nucleotide s of the mRNA, the 5 termini of the glucoamylase mRNAs are localized to these four regions. DNA sequences 5 of the region of transcription initiation were found to contain sequences homologous to consensus sequences previously shown to be involved in transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II. Table IIA illustrates the nucleotide sequence encoding the mature glucoamylase polypeptide. Nucleotides 206 to 277 encode the signal sequence for the A method for expressing genes at high levels in yeast involves constructing vectors which contain the yeast enolase I promoter and terminator regions Reference 16 . The enolase segments were previously engineered so that the promoter and terminator were separated by a unique Plasmid pAC1 10.67 kilobase is an Plasmid pAC1 is comprised of the following DNA segments. Numbering starts at the The glucoamylase gene, while not having a convenient restriction site closely preceding its initiation codon ATG useful for cloning into vectors, can have a single base pair change 32 base pairs upstream from the ATG so as to create a unique One picomole of a single stranded DNA phage, M13mp9 containing a 2.3 kilobase glucoamylase gene fragment from To the above annealing mixture 1 µl of each deoxynucleotide triphosphate at 10 mM was added, to a final concentration of 500 µM. Five units of Note that the primer was not kinased and no ligase was used in contrast to other published methods. JM103 competent cells were transformed with 1 µl of the reaction and either 5 µl or 50 µl were plated. The hexadecamer used for priming was kinased with labeled ³²P ATP to a specific activity of 3 x 10⁷ cpm µg. Nitrocellulose filters were used to bind phage DNA from the plaques by direct lifting, and these filters were denatured, neutralized and washed. After baking for 2 hours at 80 C, the filters were prehybridized for 3 hours at 45 C in 25 ml of a solution of 9 M NaCl and 0.9 M sodium citrate, sodium dodecylsulfate, 50 ml of a solution of 0.5 g bovine serum albumin, 0.5 g Ficoll 400 a carbohydrate polymer and 0.5 g polyvinylpyrrolidine, and 50 µg ml yeast RNA. After prehybridization, 1.5 x 10⁵ cpm ml of kinased primer was added, and hybridization continued overnight at 45 C. The next day, filters were washed 2 times, 5 minutes each in a solution of 9 M NaCl and 0.9 M sodium citrate at roughly 5 C to remove non specifically bound counts , then once at 45 C for 5 minutes to remove probe hybridized to non mutant phage DNA . Filters were air dried, put on Kodak XAR high speed film with an intensifying screen and exposed overnight at 70 C. One mutant clone among several thousand plaques was discovered in the first round of screening. Subsequent restriction enzyme digests of this clone confirmed the introduction of the In the next step a The longest cDNA clone produced and isolated which had regions homologous to the genomic clone of the glucoamylase gene, p24A2, corresponds in sequence to the genomic clone from nucleotides 501 to 2490, minus the nucleotides corresponding to introns indicated in lower case in Table I. This clone is still several hundred nucleotides shorter than necessary for a full length cDNA clone. The construction of a full length cDNA copy of the gene was accomplished in several steps. The genomic clone with the The longest cDNA clone was then cut with In the procedure for conducting site directed mutagenesis, one picomole of a single stranded DNA phage derivative designated as M13mp9 which is commercially available , containing a 2.3 kilobase glucoamylase gene fragment from To the above annealing mixture 1 µl of each deoxynucleotide triphosphate at 10 mM was added, to a final concentration of 500 µM. Five units of In the procedure employed herein the primer was not kinased and no ligase was employed in contrast to other published methods. JM 103 competent cells were transformed with 1 µl of the reaction and either 5 µl or 50 µl were plated. JM103 is an The nonacosamer used for priming was kinased with labeled ³²P ATP to a specific activity of 3 x 10⁷ cpm µg. Nitrocellulose filters were employed to bind phage DNA from the plaques by direct lifting, and these filters were denatured, neutralized and washed. After baking for 2 hours at 80 C, the filters were prehybridized for 3 hours at 55 C in 25 ml of a solution of 9 M NaCl, 0.9 M sodium citrate, 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate, 50 ml of a solution containing 0.5 g bovine serum albumin, 0.5 g Ficoll 400 which is a carbohydrate polymer obtainable from Pharmacia Fine Chemicals and 0.5 g polyvinylpyrrolidone, and finally 50 µg ml yeast RNA. After prehybridization, 1.5 x 10⁵ cpm ml of kinased primer was added, and hybridization was continued overnight at 55 C. The next day, the filters were washed two times for five minutes each in a solution of 9 M NaCl and 0.9 M sodium citrate at roughly 5 C to remove non specifically bound counts , and then once at 55 C for five minutes to remove probe hybridized to non mutant phage DNA . Filters were air dried and placed on Kodak XAR high speed film with an intensifying screen and exposed overnight at 70 C. The frequency of positives recovered was about 4 . Positive candidate plaques were further examined by preparing mini preps and digesting them to see if a size reduction occurred due to removal of the 75 base pair intron. Sequencing of one of the positives revealed that the intron had been precisely removed. In the final step this plasmid vector was digested with The intron containing Plasmid DNAs pGC21 and pGAC9 were amplified in Yeast strains which were transformed with the yeast expression vectors pGC21 and pGAC9 were compared with the same strains transformed with the parent plasmid pAC1 as a control for growth on various starches in liquid and on solid media. Three types of starch were used washed starch a soluble starch washed three times with 70 ethanol to remove sugars and short chain carbohydrates , cassava starch, and soluble potato Baker s starch. Yeasts transformed with any of the three plasmids grew on the three starches however, the cDNA clones pGAC9 always showed better growth than the other clones, both in liquid and on solid media. When Baker s starch, which is the most highly polymerized of the three starches, was used in solid media at a concentration of 2 w v , the plates were turbid. These plates were spread with yeast from both strains carrying the parent plasmid, the genomic clone or the cDNA clone, and with yeast strain In another test for glucoamylase expression, yeast cells carrying the control plasmid, pAC1, or the cDNA clone, pGAC9, were grown in a washed starch liquid medium. The cells were harvested and lysed by ten cycles of freeze, thaw, and vortexing with glass beads. Each cell lysate, containing intracellular proteins, was electrophoresed on a 7 acrylamide gel containing 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS and 7.6 M urea and transferred to cellulose paper activated with cyanogen bromide. After the proteins were transferred, the paper was first probed with antiserum from a rabbit immunized against The expression of the These tests indicate that the presence of the glucoamylase gene complements the All of these experiments demonstrate that yeast strain C468 containing the plasmid pGAC9 is most superior in expressing the glucoamylase gene A sample of yeast strain C468 transformed with pGAC9 was deposited with the American Type Culture Collection on November 17, 1983 and has been assigned the ATCC Deposit No. 20,690. Standing cultures of yeast strain C468 containing pAC1 or containing pGAC9 prepared as described above were grown in minimal media with glucose or washed Difco soluble starch as the carbon sources. The cultures were harvested, after 5 days for the glucose cultures and after 7 days for the starch cultures, and cell free supernatants were prepared by centrifugation. These supernatants were concentrated 10 20 fold using an Amicon concentrator with a PM10 membrane. Glucoamylase assays were negative for the supernatants from the glucose and starch grown cultures of yeast strain C468 containing pAC1 plasmid. In contrast, cells containing the control plasmid pGAC9 secreted approximately six units of glucoamylase activity per liter. For a definition of a unit of glucoamylase activity, see the legend to Table IV . Glucoamylase production in aerobic shake flask cultures of yeast strain C468 containing pGAC9 plasmid was then assayed. After two days of incubation at 30 C and agitation at 250 rpm, the culture of C468 yeast strain containing pGAC9 had consumed all of the glucose and was in stationary phase. The culture had achieved a cell density of approximately 2 g liter dry weight. A glucoamylase assay on the unconcentrated supernatant indicated that approximately 47 units of activity per liter of supernatant was produced. The experiment given below was used to resolve whether the majority of the glucoamylase activity is found in the culture medium or inside the cell. Strains C468 pGAC9 and C468 pAC1 were grown in 500 ml of medium containing 1.45 g of Difco Yeast nitrogen base Difco Laboratories, Detroit, MI 48232 , 5.2 g of ammonium sulfate and 2 glucose per liter to a cell density of 2 3 x 10⁷ cells per ml. The cultures were centrifuged at 4 C and the supernatants and cell pellets were processed separately. The supernatant samples were filtered through a 0.45 µ filter and then concentrated 15 to 20X using an Amicon stirred cell with a PM 10 membrane. The cell pellet was washed once in 1 M Sorbitol 0.1 M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 and then the packed cell volume was determined by centrifuging at approximately 1000xg for 5 minutes in a conical graduated centrifuge tube. Each ml of packed cells was resuspended to 1.5 ml in 1.0 M Sorbitol 0.1 M phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 and and equal volume of Zymolyase 5000 Miles Laboratory, Elkhart IN 46515 was added. The cells were gently mixed at room temperature for 1 hr and then centrifuged at 500xg to recover the protoplasts. The supernatant, representing the protein that was present between the cell wall and the inner membrane, was put on ice for later processing. The space between the cell membrane and wall in yeast is referred to as the interstitial space and this protoplast supernatant sample will be referred to as the interstitial sample in the following text. The protoplasts were resuspended in 1 M Sorbitol 0.1 M KPO₄ buffer 10 mM NaN₃ and washed 1x by centrifuging at 500xg. The pellet was resuspended in 5 ml 1 M Sorbitol 0.1 M KPO₄ at pH 7.5 10 mM NaN₃ and 1 ml was used to assay the glucoamylase activity present in the intact, azide treated protoplasts. To the remaining 4 ml of protoplast 4 ml of 50 mM Tris at pH 7.4 10 mM EDTA was added along with 6 g of sterile glass beads 0.45 0.5 mm B. Braun and the mixture was vortexed vigorously for 20 seconds, cooled on ice and this procedure was repeated until microscopic observation revealed membrane ghosts or particles but few or no intact protoplasts. Sterile 2 M sucrose was added slowly with a pasteur pipette inserted to the bottom of the tube and the lysate was floated out of the glass beads. The lysate was removed to a new tube and centrifuged along with the interstitial sample at approximately 20,000xg for 30 min at 4 C. The supernatant from the broken protoplasts was designated the intracellular sample and the pellets from the interstitial sample and the broken protoplast sample were combined to make the membrane sample. Thus the yeast culture has been fractionated into five samples the extracellular or supernatant sample, the interstitial, membrane associated and intracellular samples, as well as a sample containing intact azide treated protoplasts. The culture samples were analyzed for glucoamylase activity utilizing the peroxidase glucose oxidase PGO o dianisidine ODAD assay Sigma Kit 510 which detects glucose released from soluble starch by the glucoamylase. The assay can be affected by other enzymes present which utilize glucose or by glucose present in the samples. Each PGO ODAD Assay mix was tested with known quantities of glucose generally a dilution series from 0 to 550 nanomoles and a standard curve was constructed. One glucoamylase unit is defined as the amount of glucoamylase which releases one µmole of glucose per minute from washed soluble starch at 37 C. Samples were reacted with washed soluble starch on the day they were prepared, then boiled and frozen at 20 C for later glucose assay. A portion of each fresh sample was precipitated by addition of 3 volumes of cold 95 ethanol, then allowed to stand overnight and the precipitate was collected by centrifugation at 2000xg for 5 min at 4 C. The supernatant sample required a second centrifugation to recover small flocs which remained suspended in the ethanol supernatant. The pellets were dried and then resuspended in 50 mM Tris at pH 7.4 10 mM EDTA to one half their original volume, except the supernatant sample which was resuspended to one twentieth its original volume. These ethanol precipitated samples were reacted with washed soluble starch and then boiled and frozen 20 C for assay with the fresh samples. Intact azide treated protoplasts were assayed in a reaction mix containing 1 M Sorbitol 0.5 washed starch and 200 µl of protoplasts. These mixes were incubated at 37 C for 30 min, then centrifuged at 500xg and the supernatant was filtered, then boiled and assayed or stored at 20 C. These assays revealed that the reaction mix contained some residual glucose and that the protoplasts reduced the amount of glucose in the mix during incubation. When lysed protoplasts were incubated in the same mix, more glucose was utilized than when the protoplasts were intact. Values for the glucoamylase plasmid carrying strain were similar to those for the strain carrying the same plasmid without the glucoamylase DNA insert, implying that little, if any, glucoamylase activity is associated with the membrane. The fresh fractionated samples were assayed and the intra cellular samples were found to have residual glucose levels that were too high for the assay. Membrane associated and interstitial samples from pGAC9 and pAC1 transformed cells both failed to produce detectable levels of glucose from soluble starch. The supernatant sample from pGAC9 transformed yeast demonstrated glucoamylase activity of about 22 units liter, while the sample from pAC1 transformed yeast showed no glucoamylase activity. Ethanol precipitated samples from the pAC1 transformed yeast showed negligible less than or equal to 0.08 units liter or no glucoamylase activity. Ethanol precipitated samples from yeast transformed with pGAC9 all demonstrated glucoamylase activity of 0.15 units per liter or higher. The supernatant sample contained over 90 of the total glucoamylase activity and the intracellular, membrane associated and interstitial samples contained from 1 to 4 of the total activity depending on the sample. Therefore, most of the glucoamylase enzyme is secreted into the extracellular medium. To produce sufficient glucoamylase for characterization, a 10 liter fermentation of C468 yeast strain containing pGAC9 in minimal media with glucose as the sole carbon source was set up. A 100 ml seed culture was grown in minimal media to an optical density at 280 nm OD₂₈₀ of 6 and added to the fermentor. The fermentor was run as an aerobic batch fermentation until it reached an OD₂₈₀ of 10, and then a glucose feed was begun. The glucose feed was continued to an OD₂₈₀ of approximately 30 and then stopped, allowing the residual glucose to be consumed. Total fermentation time was approximately 32 hours. The final cell density was approximately 10 g liter dry weight. Diluted samples of the unconcentrated fermentor supernatant were assayed for glucoamylase activity, with the assay data given in Table IV. The supernatant was concentrated 15 fold using an Amicon Hollow Fiber Concentration unit with a 10,000 molecular weight size exclusion. The concentrated fermentor supernatant was adjusted to 50 mM phosphate, pH 7.5, by adding concentrated buffer thereto and was loaded on a DEAE Sepharose CL 6B column. The column was eluted with a pH gradient starting pH 75, final pH 3.0 . The elution profile is shown in FIG. 10. Various samples from the column were analyzed by SDS urea polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A photograph of the gel stained with BioRad silver stain showed that the concentrated fermentor supernatant contained only a few proteins, demonstrating that the glucoamylase was secreted into the media and not released by cell lysis. A comparison of a sample from this concentrated fermentor supernatant with an equal volume of the peak fraction of glucoamylase activity indicated a considerable increase in the purity of the protein. Estimates indicated that 20 30 of the supernatant protein was glucoamylase and the peak fraction was approximately 80 glucoamylase. The recombinant glucoamylase migrated with a mobility slightly slower than the An assay on the peak column fraction of glucoamylase activity indicated that the recombinant glucoamylase has a specific activity comparable to native Experiments prove that the recombinant glucoamylase produced by yeast C468 pGAC9 is glycosylated. Duplicate samples of Yeast strain C468 containing pGAC9, and the control C468 yeast strain containing pAC1 were inoculated into 50 ml of the following medium Fermentation was carried out In 250 ml flasks which were equipped with air restrictors to restrict the flow of oxygen into the flask. The flasks were Incubated at 32 C and shaken at 200 rpm for 7 days. The ethanol content of each flask was evaluated using gas chromatography. The C468 pGAC9 culture contained 23.4 g l ethanol while the control C468 pAC1 culture contained 4.5 g l ethanol. The results show that the production of glucoamylase by the C468 pGAC9 culture enabled the strain to convert the soluble starch into glucose and then to ferment the glucose to ethanol. In order to express the glucoamylase gene in Except for this deletion, the final The In order to examine expression of the glucoamylase gene using the trp promoter, plasmid pGC24 was transformed into A sample of the MH70 transformed with pCG24 was deposited with the American Type Culture Collection on December 16, 1983, and has been assigned the ATCC Deposit No. 39,537. The MH70 pGC24 transformant and strain MH70 were grown at 37 C and 200 rpm in 5 ml of the following medium containing tryptophan at 50 mg l. After overnight incubation, the cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3000g for 5 minutes and resuspended in 5 ml of the same medium but without tryptophan. The cells were then subcultured in 20 mls of the medium without tryptophan to an A₆₆₀ of 0.05 0.07. This culture was grown at 37 C and 250 rpm to an A₆₆₀ of 0.05. The cells were harvested from 10 mls of culture by centrifugation as above and resuspended in 1 ml of sonication buffer 15 sucrose, 50 mM Tris pH 7, 40 mM EDTA . The samples were sonicated for 3 minutes on pulse in a cup sonicator Sonifier Cell Disrupter 350, Branson Sonic Power Co. . The cell lysates were centrifuged for 5 minutes in an Eppendorf Microfuge and the clear supernatants were removed for further analysis. The clear lysates were electrophoresed on an polyacrylamide sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS gel and analyzed by Western analysis as described in Example 2C. A protein band of approximately 69,000 molecular weight, the size expected for an unglycosylated form of glucoamylase, was detected in the MH70 pGC24 clear lysate but not in the MH70 lysate. To further demonstrate that an active glucoamylase enzyme was produced in