# Coated abrasive pellets and method of making same.

## Abstract
Abrasive particles are made by selecting superhard core particles from diamond, cubic boron nitride, crushed di amond composites and crushed cubic boron nitride compo sites. The core particles are coated with a thin outer metal layer e.g. titanium. Then the particles are pelletized with a hard metal powder mixture. Metal bonded nitrides, metal bonded borides, metal bonded silicon carbides, metal bonded diamond power may also be used nitriding of the outer layer may be obtained by sintering in a nitrogen atmo sphere carbide formation could be achieved by adding gra phite powder to the mixture before pelletizing. The green pel lets are sintered to yield abrasive pellets which may be incor porated in tools using a suitable bond such as a resin, metal or vitreous bond.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An abrasive pellet comprising a core of a superhard abrasive particle and a pelletized layer of hard metal powder around it characterised in that the core is coated with a metal forming a strong bond with the materials of the core and the outer layer, and in that the pelletized layer is sintered to form a metal bonded abrasion resistant layer. 2. An abrasive pellet as claimed in claim 1 in which the metal forming a chemical bond is titanium. 3. An abrasive pellet as claimed in either of the above claims in which the superhard abrasive particle is selected from diamond, cubic boron nitride, crushed diamond composite and crushed cubic boron nitride composite. 4. An abrasive pellet as claimed in any one of the above claims in which the outer layer is selected from hard metals, metal bonded nitrides, metal bonded borides, metal bonded silicon carbide, metal bonded diamond powder, metal bonded cubic boron nitride powder, and mixtures thereof. 5. A method of making abrasive pellets characterized by selecting superhard abrasive particles, coating the individual particles with a thin coating of a metal which is capable of forming or forms a strong bond with the particle and outer layer substance, pelletizing the coated particles with a powder mixture capable of sintering to an abrasion resistant material, and then sintering the pellets for an outer abrasion resistant layer to be formed on each particle. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 in which the metal forming a chemical bond is titanium. 7. A method as claimed in either of claims 5 or 6 in which the superhard abrasive particle is selected from diamond, cubic boron nitride, crushed diamond composite and crushed cubic boron nitride composite. 8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 7 in which the outer layer is selected from hard metal, metal bonded nitrides, metal bonded borides, metal bonded silicon carbide, metal bonded diamond powder, and metal bonded cubic boron nitride powder. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 in which the hard metal is cobalt bonded tungsten carbide.

## Description
DESCRIPTIONCOATED ABRASIVE PELLETS AND METHOD OF MAKING SAME This invention relates to coated superhard abrasive particles such as diamond and cubic boron nitride CBN . It has already been proposed to coat superhard abrasives with a metal which is capable of forming a chemical bond with the particles and alloys with a metal in a metal bond in which the particles are incorporated. It has also already been proposed See US patent No Re 26 879 to form spherical pellets with diamonds at their cores and a green layer of a wolfram carbide cobalt mixture around the core.In this proposal the pellets are compacted to form a metal bond diamond tool and the formed tool is subjected to sintering conditions in which the wolfram carbidecobalt mixture sinters to hard metal. Green pellets of the kind just referred to can be made to be self sustaining, but not to the extent that they can be handled as articles of commerce. Also for a reasonable diamond concentration, the pellets have to be rather large, which worsens the handling problems.Of course, the metal bond is then a hard metal bond. An object of the invention is to provide abrasive pellets with cores of super hard abrasive particles which can be used as articles of commerce. In the context of the present invention superhard abrasive particles are natural diamond particles, synthetic diamond particles, cubic boron nitride particles resulting from the crushing of polycrystalline diamond and cubic boron nitride composites. According to the invention an abrasive pellet comprises a core of a superhard abrasive particle1 a coating of a metal around the particle, and an outer sintered metal bounded abrasion resistant layer, the metal coating forming a strong bond with the core and the outer layer. The metal forming a chemical bond is usually a carbide forming transition metal such asVa, Ta, and preferably Ti. The outer layer may be selected from hard metals including all cemented carbides, for example cobalt bonded tungsten carbide , metal bonded nitrides, metal bonded borides, metal bonded silicon carbide, metal bonded diamond powder, for example that in which the diamond powder is in a size range of 10 to 100 microns especially 75 to 38 200 to 400 U S Standard mesh , metal bonded cubic boron nitride powder, for example that in which the powder is in a size range of 10 to 100 microns, and mixtures thereof. Also according to the invention a method of making abrasive pellets comprises selecting superhard abrasive particles, coating the individual particles with a thin coating of a metal which is capable of forming or forms a chemical bond with the particle substance, pelletizing the coated particles with a powder mixture capable of sintering to an abrasion resistant material, and then sintering the pellets for an outer abrasion resistant layer to be formed on each particle. Description of a Preferred Embodiment Example 1 Metal bond diamond particles of sieve aperture 150 to 125 microns 100 120 mesh were mixed with titanium powder of sieve aperture 90 to 75 microns cm70 200 mesh with the metal powder constituting about 70 by volume of the mixture. The mixture was then heated to a temperature of 7000C in a vacuum of 1.3 x 10 2 4Pa 10 Torr and maintained at this temperature for 30 minutes. When ambient temperature was restored, the vacuum was released. The mixture was then passed through an appropriate screen which trapped the coated diamond particles and allowed the finer titanium to pass through. The diamond particles were found each to have a titanium coating of about 0.5 microns. The titanium coated particles were next placed in a pelletizer of the kind described in U SPatent Re 26 879 and a mixture of wolfram carbide 73 by weight and cobalt 27 by weight fed to the pelletizer with the addiSon of alcohol and camphorThis was continued until green pellets of about 0.5 mm in diameter had been formed. The green pellets were first dried and then sintered under reducing conditions for 10 minutes at 1100 C. The sintered product consisted of discrete, substanidlly spherical and extremely hard pellets. A quantity of these pellets were mixed with a powdered bronze mixture used for making diamond impregnated cutting inserts for coring bits. The diamond concentration was about 80. The inserts were sintered under the usual conditions and then mounted on a coring bit. The bit was found to perform very well, It was found that the typical gouging of the metal bond which occurs at the leading edges of diamond particles in such inserts took place around the pellets rather than around the diamonds. Thus the diamond substance was available for drilling for a longer period than it would have been in the absence of the surrounding layer of hard metal. Example 2 Example 1 was repeated, but using CBN particles as the cores. Once more spherical pellets of extreme hardness were formed. Example 3 In this example titanium coated metal bond diamond particles 600 to 425 microns 30 40 mesh were used. A metal powder composed of 85 by weight of iron and 15 of nickel and having a size range of 1 to 5 microns was prepared. As in example 1 the diamonds were placed in a pelletizer and the metal powder together with water containing a small amount of glucose was fed to the pelletizer. Pelletizing was continued until green pellets of sieve aperture 1000 to 850 microns 8 20 mesh had been formed. The green pellets were sintered for 10 minutes at 9000C under reducing conditions. Core drilling inserts were prepared from sintered pellets in a concentration of 50. Example 4 A diamond compact was made according to the teachings of U S patent No 3,141,746 employing 97 diamond particles and 3 cobalt. The compact was broken up and crushed in apparatus used for crushing natural diamonds. The crushed particles were closely screened and particles of sieve aperture 150 to 125 microns 100 120 mesh were taken for the next steps. The particles were mixed with titanium powder of 170 200 mesh with the metal powder constituting about 70 by volume of the mixture. The latter was heated to a temperature of 700 C inSa vacuum of 1.3 x 10 2 Pa 10 4 Torr and maintained at this temperature for 30 minutes. After restoration of ambient temperature the vacuum was released. The mixture was then screened to retain the coated compact particles and to allow the finer titanium to pass through. Each coated particle had a titanium coating of about 0.5 microns. The titanium coated particles were pelletized as in example 1. In this example the extremely hard pellets were incorporated in a standard metal matrix used for making circular saw segments with a diamond concentration of about 80. The saw segments were found to perform very well. Example 5 Example 4 was repeated but using a CBN compact according to example 1 of South African patent No 73 5447. Once more saw segments were prepared. In this case the segments exhibited a great degree of thermal stability and even after considerable abuse still performed extremely well. Example 6 A powder mixture was prepared composed of one part by mass of sieve aperture 75 to 38 microns 200 400 mesh diamond powder and one part by mass of an alloy consisting of 40 silver, 40 copper and 20 titanium. Coated diamonds of sieve aperture 600 to 450 microns 30 40 mesh were then pelletized with this mixture until pellets of about 2.5 mm in diameter were formed. The green pellets were sintered at 9000C in a vacuum. The pellets were incorporated in a rotary rock drill bit and performed quite well. Example 7 Example 6 was repeated except that 300 to 250 micron 50 60 mesh CBN particles and 75 to 38 micron 200 400 mesh CBN powder was used. Sintered pellets were incorporated in a metal bonded grinding wheel and used with good effect for the rough grinding of various ferrous alloys. Example 8 The procedure of Example 1 was repeated except that 850 to 600 micron 20 30 mesh diamond was used and that the powder mixture consisted in a 1 1 mixture by mass of 75 micron 200 mesh iron powder and iron boride powder. The green pellets were sintered at 9006C in a vacuum. Very hard abrasive pellets were formed, but these have not yet been tried in any application. Example 9 Example 8 was repeated with 250 to 180 micron 60 80 mesh CBN particles and a 1 1 mixture of 75 micron 200 mesh silicon carbide powder and theAg Cu Ti alloy of example 1. Once more very hard pellets were formed after sintering under reducing conditions at 1100An. In all cases nitriding of the outer layer could be achieved by sintering in a nitrogen atmosphere. Where the outer layer comprises a metal which could form carbides, carbide formation could be achieved by adding graphite powder to the powder mixture prior to pelletizing. Pellets containing diamond are usually used in abrasive tools with a metal bond or a resin bond.Pellets containing CBN could be used in a metal bond, vitreous bond and resin bond. To achieve good bonding between the pellets and a resin, light acid etching of the pellets is useful.