# VESICLE FORMULATIONS FOR THE CONTROLLED RELEASE OF THERAPEUTIC AGENTS

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
The present invention relates to formulations for controlled release Numerous conditions in both man and lower animals are responsive to drugs or other therapeutic agents administered It is often the case that the therapeutically effective level of the agent in circulation is maintained only a short time after injection because of breakdown of the agent by the host s defensive mechanisms against foreign substances. Moreover, the agent itself may have intolerable side effects, even lethal ones, if administered in amounts which substantially exceed the therapeutically useful level. Therefore, prolonging the effective concentration of the agent in the body by increasing the dosage is always limited by the amount of toxicity. Even in cases where toxicity is low, the size of an injection can be limited by the size of the bolus which can be administered safely. In view of such problems, efforts have been made to develop delivery systems for therapeutic agents which may be administered One such approach to obtaining prolonged or sustained release has been to encapsulate the therapeutic agent in a vesicle . As used herein, the term vesicle refers to a micellular particle which is usually spherical in form and which is frequently obtained from a lipid which forms a bilayered membrane and is referred to as a liposome . Methods for making such vesicles are well known in the art. Typically, they are prepared from a phospholipid such as distearoyl phosphatidylcholine or lecithin, and may include other materials such as positively or negatively charged compounds. Vesicles made from phospholipids are commonly referred to simply as phospholipid vesicles . Depending on the techniques for its preparation, a vesicle may form as a simple bilayered shell a unilamellar vesicle or it may form in multiple layers multilamellar vesicle . After administration, typically as a suspension in physiological saline, the vesicles gradually release the encapsulated therapeutic agent which then displays its expected effect. However, prior to its release, the agent exhibits no pharmacokinetic properties and is protected by the vesicle from metabolic degradation or other attack by the host s defense mechanisms against foreign substances. Accordingly, the agent can be safely administered in an encapsulated form in dosages which are high enough that, if directly given the host, could result in severe side effects or even death. The time interval over which an effective concentration of the therapeutic agent is maintained after administration as a vesicle encapsulant is generally thought to be a function of the rate at which it is released from the vesicle and the rate at which it is absorbed from the point of administration after release. Since the former may vary with vesicle structure and the latter by reason of the properties of the agent, the interval over which the useful concentration of an agent in circulation is maintained can vary widely. Generally, the rate of release from the vesicle is thought to be controlling for most compounds and sustained release of encapsulated drugs over a period of 6 8 hours is a common observation. See F.J.T. Fields 1981 , Notwithstanding the advance in sustained release which has been achieved using vesicles as encapsulants, further improvements in sustained release compositions are desirable to reduce still further the interval between administrations of the therapeutic agents. Even a 6 8 hour period of sustained release makes out patient treatment difficult, if not impossible, and longer intervals would reduce the workload of hospital or other medical personnel, not to mention reducing the patient s discomfort. Furthermore, although by vesicle encapsulation the period over which an effective concentration of therapeutic agents could be maintained is extended, no effective means to control the rate of release results from encapsulation itself. Accordingly, there remains as yet unmet, a desire for sustained release formulations of therapeutic agents which extend even further the interval over which an effective concentration of the agent is maintained. EP A 0 072 234 discloses that the EP B 0 021 337 is also concerned with Bittman We have now found that, by controlling the concentration of solutes in the continuous aqueous phase of an injectable liposome carrying a therapeutic agent and suspended in a continuous aqueous phase, it is possible to control the rate at which the therapeutic agent is released from the vesicle after Accordingly the present invention provides a composition for the controlled sustained release The rate of release of the therapeutic agent from the vesicles after administration is a function of the initial osmotic pressure. Thus, as the osmolarity of the suspending solution becomes less hypotonic, relative to the solution within the vesicles, the rate of release of the therapeutic agent is slowed. Slowest releases are obtained when the suspending solution approaches an isotonic, or even hypertonic, relationship with respect to the solution within the vesicles. The compositions of the present invention exhibit a longer interval over which the sustained release of the agent is maintained compared to agents encapsulated in vesicles and administered as suspensions in physiological saline as described in the prior art. As noted above, the present invention provides a method for controlling the rate of release Although we do not wish to be bound by any particular theory, the increase in the interval of sustained release obtained as the osmolarity of the suspending solution is made hypertonic by addition of the specific solute, relative to the solution within the vesicles, may result from the fact that, so long as the concentration of solute in the suspending solution is such that the solution is hypertonic, the internal osmotic pressure is not great enough to cause the solvent of the suspending solution to migrate into the vesicles which would increase the hydraulic pressure within the vesicles and cause them to break down or release part of their contents. After administration, however, the concentration of liquid medium around the vesicles gradually becomes more hypotonic with respect to the solution within the vesicles, for example, by absorption of the solute by the body from the suspending solution. As this occurs, the osmotic pressure between the vesicles and the hypotonic liquid medium causes liquid specifically water to migrate into the vesicles, causing release of the therapeutic agent. By contrast, the prior art practice of administering the therapeutic agent in vesicles suspended in physiological saline which is already hypotonic to the vesicles results in a much more rapid release of the vesicle contents. Accordingly, the therapeutic agent is also more rapidly released. By adjusting the osmolarity between the solution of therapeutic agent and the suspending solution, however, the rate of release can be varied giving a degree of control over this rate not hitherto attained. In the practice of the present invention, the therapeutic agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent, for example, physiological saline, usually at or near the saturation point in the case of agents of limited solubility, and encapsulated in a suitable vesicle. Techniques to do this are well known in the art and need not be described in detail here. Presently preferred for use in the invention are multilamellar phospholipid vesicles although unilamellar vesicles and vesicles of other than phospholipid can be used, the basic essential criterion being that the material of the vesicles be tolerable by the host in the amounts to be administered. The solution used for suspending the vesicles is preferably physiological saline 0.15M NaCl to which has been added the sugar or polypeptide to adjust the concentration of this solution to a hypertonic level that gives the desired rate of release. This concentration will be adjusted to that the osmoloarity of the suspending solution is hypertonic with the solution within the vesicles. Since solute is thus added to the suspending solution, it will be clear that the suspending solution will have an osmolarity greater than that of physiological saline. The solute added is a sugar such as dextrose or hexoses such as glucose and polypeptides which do not exhibit significant biological effects. Presently preferred is glucose as it is readily obtained as a sterile substance for administration to humans and is readily absorbed by the body. Any of a wide variety of therapeutic agents may be used as part of the invention. Among these may be mentioned antibiotics, metabolic regulators, immune modulators, toxin antidotes, etc. For example, the invention is well suited for the controlled release of antidotes to cholinesterase inhibitors. In order to demonstrate the advantages of the present invention, there follows a description of experiments carried out with vesicle encapsulated 2 pralidoxime chloride 2 PAMCl , an agent which is a well known and thoroughly studied antidote to toxic organophosphates which inhibit cholinesterase. Persons exposed to such intoxicants in lethal amounts suffer cardiac insufficiency or respiratory paralysis which results in death. Agents such as 2 PAMCl reactivate cholinesterase if administered in a timely fashion. However, dosages of 2 PAMCl high enough to maintain the therapeutic level for a long period of time cannot be administered because undesirable side effects, even death, can result. L α distearoyl phosphatidylcholine DSPC , L α dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine DPPC from Calbiochem, and cholesterol Chol , stearylamine SA , and dicetylphosphate DCP from Sigma Chemical Company were used without further purification to prepare vesicles. 2 Pyridinealdoxime 2 PAM , pralidoxime chloride 2 PAMCl and Iodomethane were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Company and AG 1x8 ion exchange resin was from BioRad Laboratories Richmond, CA . Ultrapure InCl₃ was purchased from Ventron Corporation Danvers, MA . ³H cholesterol oleate specific activity 52 Ci mole and ¹⁴C Iodomethane specific activity 10 Ci mole were purchased from New England Nuclear. Carrier free ¹¹¹InCl₃ was purchased from Medi Physics Glendale, CA and purified according to the method of Hwang and Mauk, Small unilamellar vesicles SUV s were prepared by probe sonication of the lipid mixture in phosphate buffered saline PBS containing either nitrilotriacetic acid NTA or 2 PAMCl. See Mauk et al, Large unilamellar vesicles LUV s were prepared by the reverse phase evaporation REV method described by Szoka and Papahadjopoulos, Multilamellar vesicles MLV s were prepared by stirring the dry lipid film with the material to be encapsulated. Free unencapsulated materials can be separated from MLV encapsulated material by centrifugation at 12,000 xg. In our preparation of MLV s for Radiolabeled 2 PAMCl for use in the studies could not be obtained from any source. Therefore, the radiolabeled drug was synthesized. ¹⁴C labeled 2 Pralidoxime Iodide 2 PAMI was first synthesized by refluxing 2 pyridine aldoxime 2 PAM with ¹⁴C methyl iodide in nitrobenzene for three hours at 75 80 C. The reaction was then stopped, and the yellow precipitate of 2 PAMI was filtered and recrystallized from methanol. These yellow crystals of 2 PAMI were then dissolved in a minimal amount of water and passed through an anionic exchange column BioRad AG 1x8 . The chloride salt of 2 PAM was isolated by drying the solution with a rotary evaporator followed by recrystallization from ethanol. Approximately 1.5 gm of pure ¹⁴C labeled 2 PAMCl was obtained with specific activity of 25 µ Ci mole. The chemical identity of this material was confirmed by 1 the melting point of the compound which was found to be 232 234 C literature value 235 C and 2 the characteristic absorption of an acidic solution of 2 PAMCl at approximately 295, 245, and 210 nm and 3 co migration during thin layer chromotcgraphy of the ¹⁴C labeled compound with 99 pure 2 PAMCl. The chemical structure of vesicles was altered by varying the length of their phosphatidylcholine carbon chain, cholesterol content, and surface charge. The stability of the vesicle formulations in vitro was studied by gamma ray perturbed angular correlation spectroscopy PAC as described by Hwang and Mauk, ¹¹¹In ³ chelted to nitrilotriacetic acid exhibits a fast tumbling rate. However, upon disruption of the vesicle, the released ¹¹¹In ³ rapidly binds to macromolecules in the surrounding medium and exhibits a markedly decreased tumbling rate. Repeated PAC measurements of each vesicle formulation were used to estimate vesicle stability based on the time course for the release of ¹¹¹In. Similarly, identical vesicle formulations loaded with ¹⁴C 2 PAMCl were used to measure the release rate of 2 PAMCl. Aliquots were periodically withdrawn from each preparation and free 2 PAMCl separated from the microencapsulated drug by gel filtration chromatography as described by Huang, The rate of release of ¹⁴C 2 PAMCl from the various vesicle formulations was measured As indicated in the previous section, the rate of ¹¹¹In release from vesicles in the presence of plasma can be monitored by PAC spectroscopy. Figure 1 shows the percent ¹¹¹In remaining encapsulated with seven vesicle formulations varying in cholesterol concentration, carbon chain length, and surface charge. With the exception of the negatively charged DCP vesicle, all vesicle formulations with 33 mole percent or more cholesterol exhibited the same transition temperature as monitored by ¹¹¹In release. The DCP formulation produced vesicles with a transition temperature ¹¹¹In release approximately 10 C higher than other vesicle formulations containing the same amount of cholesterol. In the following results, the data are presented as the concentration of 2 PAMCl as a function of time for various vesicle formulations. The time dependence for a standard injection of free 2 PAM Cl shows that the blood concentration drops below therapeutic level TL in 2 3 hrs Fig 6A . As will be shown, all vesicle formulations with encapsulated 2 PAMCl exhibited extended blood levels. Therapeutic levels of drug were maintained typically 6 8 hrs for those formulations having only buffered saline as the suspending medium. Vesicles suspended in a high osmolar medium showed dramatically longer therapeutic levels. Altering membrane fluidity by changing lipid composition did not effect the extended release period achieved with all vesicle formulations Fig. 2 . Similarly, altering the lipid composition and charge of the vesicle membrane did not significantly alter the release period either. Fig. 3 . Among the vesicle composition and charge variables studied, the only factor affecting the release rate for 2 PAMCl was cholesterol content. Increasing the cholesterol content of vesicle membranes from 12.5 50.0 mole percent appeared to slightly lengthen the time therapeutic levels of 2 PAMCl remained in circulation Fig. 4 . The effect of vesicle structure on the extended release of 2 PAMCl was examined using multilamellar vesicles MLV s and large unilamellar vesicles LUV s prepared by reverse phase evaporation REV vesicles. As shown in Fig. 5, DSPC Cholesterol vesicles possessing the two distinct structures exhibited essentially identical 2 PAMCl release properties. Consequently MLV s containing 30 mole percent cholesterol were used in the high osmolarity studies as described below. The above data show that there are comparatively small changes in the time dependency of 2 PAMCl blood levels for the formulations tested. The results indicate that simple manipulation of vesicle composition and morphology are not likely to provide extended release beyond 6 8 hrs. These results are consistent with other published observations which show modest extended release times. Presented below are results which show that blood levels of 2 PAMCl can be dramatically extended by increasing the osmolarity of the medium in which the vesicles are suspended. Also, proportionately higher concentrations of drug can be encapsulated without leakage from the vesicles. The most effective vesicle formulations for extending the therapeutic plasma levels 4.0 µg ml plasma in rats was found to be a 2 1 DSPC Cholesterol lipid mixture, formed as MLV s and encapsulating a 3 molar solution of ¹⁴C 2 PAMCl which was suspended in an isomolar glucose physiological saline solution 3M in glucose, after working to remove mother liquor. In this case, the osmolarity of the suspending medium is about 60 of the osmolarity of the encapsulated drug. Intramuscular injections 0.15ml of this vesicle formulation extended the therapeutic plasma drug level from 2 1 4 hours, obtained with the conventional saline formulation, Fig. 6A , to at least 40 hours Fig. 6B . Animals receiving the isomolar vesicle formulation exhibited no toxic symptoms and their blood drug levels never exceeded the 20 µg ml level achieved by control animals receiving the standard 12 mg 2 PAMCl saline formulation Fig. 6A . The extension of therapeutic blood levels is related to the amount of drug encapsulated. All encapsulation techniques extended the maintenance of therapeutic drug levels. Doubling the encapsulating lipid material from 2.5 mg to 5.0 mg by doubling the quantity of lipid and thereby increasing encapsulated volume of drug solution increased the time that therapeutic levels were maintained from 2.5 to 7.0 hours Fig. 6, C,D . Similarly increasing the amount of drug encapsulated from a saline solution containing 60 mg of 2 PAMCl prevented all acute toxic symptoms while extending the therapeutic blood titers to 15 hours Fig. 6 E . All animals receiving similar 60 mg injections of 2 PAMCl unencapsulated in saline solution, or encapsulated using a technique which reduces the encapsulation efficiency died within 30 minutes after injection. These data suggest that encapsulated drug acts as a third compartment from which its slow release lowers the peak blood levels seen when equal, unencapsulated dosages are injected.