# Coacervation process for microencapsulation and microcapsules prepared by such coacervation process.

## Abstract
In an improved complex coacervation process for micro encapsulation of core ingredients that are partially soluble in the microcapsule walls the core ingredient is first mixed with a coacervation adjuvant selected from an ionizable colloid, an ionic surfactant and an ionizable long chain organic compound prior to forming a first colloidal emulsion of core ingredient, and, after combining the first emulsion with a second colloidal solution and cooling to cause gelation, a water soluble wax de rivative is added. No pH adjustment or dilution is necessary, and very high yields of non agglomerated microcapsules are obtained, both in terms of quantity of microcapsules and con tent of core ingredient. When deet is the core ingredient there is obtained a long lasting mosquite repellent.

## Claims
CLAIMS I. A complex coacervation process for microencapsulation of a core ingredient comprising a forming an emulsion by emulsifying a core ingredient in an aqueous solution of a first colloid, said emulsion containing droplets of said core ingredient b forming a coacervate by mixing said emulsion with an aqueous solution of a second colloid having opposite elec trical charge to that of said first colloid c gelling said coacervate by cooling said coacervate and d hardening said gelled coacervate by at least one of the following treatments pH adjustment, temperature adjustment, contact with aldehydes characterised by the further steps of 1 mixing with said core ingredient prior to the emulsification of said core ingredient of step a a coacervation adjuvant selected from an ionizable colloid, an ionic sur factant and an ionizable long chain organic compound and 2 adding a water soluble wax deriv ative to said gelled coacervate prior to the hardening of said gelled coacervate of step d 2. The product of the process of claim 1. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said core ingredient is deet. 4. The product of the process of claim 1 wherein said core ingredient is deet. 5. The process of Claim 1 wherein the core ingredient is a polar organic compound, the first and second colloids are selected from gelatin, gum arabic, casein, carrageenan and carboxymethyl cellulose, the water soluble wax derivative is selected from derivatives of any of lanolin, carnauba, beeswax, paraffin, polyether esters and chlorinated naphthalenes, and said gelled coacervate is hardened by contact with one or more aldehydes. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the core ingredient is deet, the first and second colloids are selected from gelatin and gum arabic, and the watersoluble wax derivative is ethoxylated lanolin. 7. A complex coacervation process for encapsulation of a core ingredient comprising the following steps 1 mixing a coacervation adjuvant with the core ingredient 2 emulsifying the mixture in an aqueous solution of an ionizable colloid 3 combining, while agitating, the emulsion of the first step with an aqueous solution of a second ionizable colloid of opposite electrical charge to that of the first colloid 4 cooling the mixture to cause gelation and formation of the capsule walls 5 adding a water soluble wax derivative to stabilise the gelled capsules and to prevent agglomeration and 6 hardening the capsule walls.

## Description
COACERVATION PROCESS FOR MICROENCAPSULATIGN ANDMICROCAPSULES PREPARED BY SUCH COACERVATION PROCESS Microencapsulation by both simple and complex coacervation is known. U.S. Patent No. 2,800,457 discloses the basic process of complex coacervation including the steps of 1 emulsifying an oily core ingredient in an aqueous solution of a first colloid, 2 mixing the emulsion with an aqueous solution of a second colloid having opposite electrical charge to that of the first colloid, 3 causing coacervation of the colloids around the oil droplets by dilution with water or by pH adjustment, 4 cooling the mixture to about OOC to 100C to cause gelation of the coacervate, and 5 hardening the gelled coacervate by pH or temperature adjustment or by treatment with aldehydes.U.S. Patent No. 3,341,466 discloses a complex coacervation process enabling production of large microcapsules with thick walls. U.S. Patent No. 3,549,555 discloses a simple coacervation process for encapsulation of oil in water emulsions. U.S. Patent No.3,956,172 discloses a complex coacervation process wherein the microcapsules are hardened rapidly, without yellowing, and without an increase in the viscosity of the microencapsulation mixture. However, all of the foregoing processes suffer from the drawbacks of requiring constant attention and adjustment of stirring conditions, solution viscosity, pH, and temperature, often producing microcapsules with a significant degree of agglomeration.Furthermore, those processes do not produce satisfactory microcapsules of certain core ingredients that are appreciably soluble in the capsule wall material such as the mosquito repellent, NrN diethyl m toluamide deet . Typically, microcapsules of such core ingredients are weak, and are composed of less than 50 by dry weight of the core ingredient. In addition, such microencapsulation processes have a poor yield of core ingredient, with typically only about 10 to 40 of the core ingredient being encapsulated. What is needed, therefore, is a simple highyield microencapsuiation process capable of producing stable, relatively high core content microcapsules rapidly and without agglomeration. According to the present invention, there are provided an improved and simplified microencapsulation process, microcapsules obtained from such a process, and, in certain preferred embodiments, a long lasting mosquito repellent composition containing such microcapsules. The process of the present invention is a complex coacervation process differing from the prior art by the use of the additional steps of 1 mixing an ionizable colloid, ionic surfactant, or ionizable longchain organic compound collectively referred to hereinafter as a coacervation adjuvant with the core ingredient prior to emulsification of the core ingredient in a first aqueous colloid solution and 2 adding a water soluble wax derivative after gelation and prior to hardening. The first of the two novel steps results in both l rapid and efficient coacervation without pH adjustment or dilution, and 2 effective gelation at more moderate temperatures than heretofore possible.The second novel step prevents agglomeration of the capsules, which is particularly severe when the core ingredient has an appreciable solubility in the capsule wall material, and produces stable microcapsules composed of more than 60 by dry weight of the core ingredient with yields of more than 60 of the core ingredient DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The complex coacervation process of the present invention comprises the following steps l mixing a coacervation adjuvant with the core ingredient 2 emulsifying the mixture in an aqueous solution of an ionizable colloid 3 combining, while agitating, the emulsion of the first step with an aqueous solution of a second ionizable colloid of opposite electrical charge to that of the first colloid 4 cooling the mixture to cause gelation and formation of the capsule walls 5 adding a water soluble wax derivative to stabilize the gelled capsules and to prevent agglomeration and 6 hardening the capsule walls. The coacervation adjuvant may be 1 an ionizable colloid, such as gelatin, gum arabic, casein, carrageenan, carboxymethylcellulose, and the like 2 an ionic surfactant, preferably with a low hydrophile lipophile balance HLB value, such as long chain amines, polyamines, quaternary ammonium salts, sulfonic acid salts, carboxylic acid salts, and the like or 3 a long chain ionizable organic compound, such as fatty acids, fatty alcohols and fatty esters. The core ingredient should be a generally hydrophobic liquid, which may consist of a pure liquid, a mixture of miscible liquids, one or more solids dissolved in a liquid, or an emulsion of a hydrophilic liquid or solution in a hydrophobic liquid. Examples include the mosquito repellent deet, other insect repellents, insect pheromones, insecticides, herbicides, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, fragrances, flavors, sweeteners, cosmetics, and reactive chemicals. The process is especially useful for encapsulating core ingredients that are difficult to encapsulate by previously known techniques, such as deet, certain other amides, amines, carboxylic acids, aromatic compounds, and, in general, polar organic compounds. The ionizable colloids should be selected from known colloidal substances such as gelatin, gum arabic, casein, carrageenan, and carboxymethylcellulose, such that one colloid is of opposite electrical charge to the other. Preferred colloids are gelatin and gum arabic. The water soluble wax derivative should be selected from natural or synthetic wax derivatives, such as derivatives of any of the following lanolin, carnauba, beeswax, paraffin, polyether esters, and chlorinated naphthalenes. A preferred example is ethoxylated lanolin. Referring to the six step process of the present invention described above, the first two steps may be conducted at ambient temperature or at a higher temperature, such as 350c to 500C. The third step should be conducted at a temperature higher than the gelling point of the colloids, typically between about 350C and 500C. Mixing times are not critical and may be widely varied. Improved, stronger microcapsule walls may be obtained when the emulsion from the first step is subjected to a vacuum to remove dissolved and entrained air. In the fourth step, the mixture should be cooled to about 200C or below, preferably between 15 C and 20at. Again, the rate of cooling is not critical and may be widely varied with no adverse consequences. The fifth step should be conducted at this cooled temperature. The sixth step may be accomplished by adding an aldehyde, such as formaldehyde, glutaraldehyde, glyoxal, or combinations of these, as described in the above mentioned patents and in the literature, and raising the temperature gradually to between 20 C and 40 C to hasten the hardening process. Alternatively, hardening may be accomplished by adding tannic acid at a temperature of 150C to 250C, followed by allowing the mixture to stand at room temperature for several hours. The tannic acid ma y be added before or after the water soluble wax derivative.In the case where tannic acid is used without an aldehyde, the capsules obtained are stable only at temperatures up to about 300C, melting at higher temperatures, which feature may be useful in the delivery of agents which are biologically or chemically active at temperatures above 300C and not at lower temperatures. EXAMPLES Example 1 14 g gelatin Type 2503, Knox Gelatine, Inc.,Cherry Hill, New Jersey was dissolved in 175 ml water at 40 C. A solution of 4.2 g stearic acid in 100 ml deet was emulsified in the gelatin solution by stirring at 400C. A solution of 9.3 g gum arabic G 85, MCBChemicals, Norwood, Ohio in 135 ml water was added to the emulsion, which was then cooled to 180C with continuous stirring for 3 hours. 140 ml of a 30 wt solution of ethoxylated lanolin Ethoxylan 100, EmeryIndustries, Inc., Linden, New Jersey in water was then added, followed 10 minutes later by addition of 735A1 of 50 vol glutaraldehyde in water. The solution was stirred slowly for 1.5 hours and allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The microcapsule precipitate was then centrifuged at 2800 rpm for 15 minutes to recover the microcapsules.Approximately 220 ml of non agglomerated microcapsules that contained 42 to 44 by wet weight deet were obtained. By drying the microcapsules for four hours at room temperature, the deet content was determined to be 75 to 80 by dry weight. The yield of microencapsulated deet was approximately 94 . In this example, gelatin, which had a negative electrical charge, was the first ionizable colloid stearic acid, which also had a negative electrical charges was the coacervation adjuvant deet was the core ingredient gum arabic, which had a positive electrical charge, was the second ionizable colloid and ethoxylated lanolin was the water soluble wax derivative. Example 2 20 g gelatin Type 2503 was dissolved in 200 ml water at 450C. A dispersion of 8 g gum arabic G 85 in 80 ml deet was added to the gelatin solution and emulsified by vigorous stirring at 450C. A solution of 20 g gum arabic in 200 ml water was added to the emulsion with stirring. The mixture was then cooled to 250C with continuous stirring. A solution of 8 g tannic acid in 80 ml water was then added, followed by addition of 200 ml of a 30 wt solution of ethoxylated lanolin Ethoxylan 100 in water. This mixture was stirred for 3 hours and then allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The microcapsule precipitate was then centrifuged at 2700 rpm for 10 minutes to recover the microcapsules.Approximately 350 ml of non agglomerated microcapsules that contained 16 to 20 by wet weight deet were obtained about 60 by dry weight . The yield of microencapsulated deet was approximately 80 . Example 3 30 g gelatin Type 2503 was dissolved in 440 ml water at room temperature. A solution of 5.4 g stearic acid in 157.5 ml deet was emulsified in the gelatin solution1 using a blender Model 31BL92,Dynamics Corp. of America, New Hartford, Connecticut at room temperature. This emulsion was then evacuated for 20 minutes with. continuous stirring, and was then added to a stirred solution of 20 g gum arabic G 85 in 360 ml water at 450C. Stirring was continued and the temperature was reduced to 190C over a three hour period. 540 ml of a 30 wt solution of ethoxylated lanolin Ethoxylan 100 in water was then added over a 20 minute period. 4.5 ml of 50 vol glutaraldehyde and 0.3 ml of 36 vol formaldehyde were then added, and the temperature was raised to 350C over a one hour period with continuous stirring.The solution was then allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The microcapsule precipitate was then centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 30 minutes to recover the microcapsules. Approximately 390 g of non agglomerated microcapsules that contained 30 by wet weight deet were obtained about 70 by dry weight . The yield of microencapsulated deet was approximately 75 . Example 4 Example 1 was repeated with the exception that the solution of ethoxylated lanolin was not added.Severe agglomeration occurred, resulting in gelation of the entire solution, despite rapid stirring. Example 5 Microcapsules obtained from Example 3 were mixed with a 47.5 wt aqueous solution of a copolymer of methyl vinyl ether and maleic anhydride Gantrez AN ll9, GAF Corp. New York, New York , which functioned as a pharmaceutical vehicle, in a ratio of 91 parts microcapsules to 9 parts Gantrez AN 119 solution.The resulting cream was applied to human skin, and the amount of deet remaining on the skin was measured over a period of 12 hours. After the first two hours, 40 of the original amount of deet remained on the skin, after six hours, 20 remained, and after 10 hours 15 remained. In each case, the amount of deet remaining on the skin was the amount that could be recovered by rinsing the skin with alcohol. Laboratory testing of this formulation on rabbits against mosquitoes confirmed a long lasting efficacy of more than eight hours. The terms and expressions which have been employed in the foregoing specification are used therein as terms of description and not of limitation, and there is no intention, in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof, it being recognized that the scope of the invention is defined and limited only by the claims which follow.