# Video static display.

## Abstract
Light from an appropriate source 1 is directed by a lens sys tem 2 through a filter 3 and onto a negative 4 so as to project an image onto the light sensitive target area of a 2cm vidicon pick up tube 5. Negative 4 is held in a plastics mount 6 of the Kodak disc format. The filter 3 is a wheel having three sectors, each of which transmits a different colour portion of an incident light beam 2 the wheel is mounted for rotation by a drive motor 7 such that each sector of the filter can be positioned in the path of the light beam in turn. Signals received at the pick up tube 5 are suitably processed and then passed to a convention al television receiver 8 for display on its screen. When the nega tive 4 has been displayed on the screen of receiver 8 for a suffi cient time, motor 7 rotates mount 6 until another negative is suitably positioned in the light beam for display.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising means to produce electrical signals which represent an optical image, a variable pass band filter for positioning in the light input path for the signal production means, means for storing a plurality of low band electrical signal components each derived by the filter from the total light input, means for providing a repeated output of the components from said storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from the storage means with another signal component, which is derived from the light input without storage, to provide a composite video signal for display. 2. Equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising means to produce electrical signals which represent an optical image, a variable pass band filter for positioning in the light input path for the signal production means, means for storing two low band electrical signal components each derived by the filter from the total light input, means for providing a repeated output of the two components from said storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from the storage means with another signal component, which is derived by the filter from the light input without storage, to provide a composite video signal for display. 3. Equipment according to Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein a storage means holds a low band component formed of a combination of chrominance and luminance. Equipment according to any one of the preceding Claims, wherein the storage means hold the low band chrominance and luminance components representing the RED element of an image in one store and the BLUE element of that image in another store, while the remaining component derived from the input light is received continuously from the signal production means.

## Description
VIDEO STATIC DISPLAY The present invention relates to equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, particularly but not exclusively for displaying a photograph on a television receiver. At present a photograph can be displayed on a television by mounting the negative or transparency as appropriate in an adaptor and then filming it with a conventional video camera connected to a television receiver or a video cassette recorder. An object of the present invention is to provide low cost equipment enabling a photograph to be displayed on a television receiver. The present invention provides equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising means to produce electrical signals which represent an optical image, a variable pass band filter for positioning in the light input path for the signal production means, means for storing a plurality of low band electrical signal components each derived by the filter from the total light input, means for providing a repeated output of the components from said storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from the storage means with another signal component, which is derived from the light input without storage, to provide a composite video signal for display. Preferably, a storage means can hold a low band component formed of a combination of chrominance and luminance. In one form, the invention provides equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising means to produce electrical signals which represent an optical image, a variable pass band filter for positioning in the light input path for the signal production means, means for storing two low band electrical signal components each derived by the filter from the total light input, means for providing a repeated output of the two components from said storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from the storage means with another signal component, which is derived by the filter from the light input without storage, to provide a composite video signal for display. The signal production means may be any suitable image pick up device to derive electrical signals from an optical image, for example it may be a photo conductive camera tube, a solid state device or a photomultiplier of a flying spot scanner. Preferably, the storage means holds the low band chrominance and luminance components derived via a RED optical filter in one store and via a BLUE optical filter in another store, while the remaining component derived from the input light namely the wide band luminance component is received continuously from the signal production means. Thus, a miniEue of storage capacity is used to provide a video signal suitable for display. Moreover, when the signal production means is a camera, only one camera tube is required when the signal production means is a photomultiplier of flying spot scanner, then only one photomultiplier and no dichroic mirror for beam splitting is required. The filter may be of any suitable form. In one example, the filter is a dise having a number of separate sections, each permitting trannmission of a different part of the light spectrum, the disc being movable within the equipment such as to selectively position the sections in the light path. The filter may be suited for use with negative film or with transparency film or with a combination of both. In one form of the invention, the equipment is used with a conventional television receiver in which case at least some of the functions of the mixing means may be achieved by the conventional circuits of the receiver. Also the equipment may utilize the sync signals from a broadcast signal received by the receiver, and the cathode ray tube drive signals may be used in scanning operation. The video drives for the cathode ray tube of the receiver may also be used with the equipment so that its values of R, G, B outputs need only be nominal. The equipment may be incorporated within the conventional television receiver or it may be a separate assembly electrically connected to the receiver. In another form of the invention, the equipment is a complete, stand alone assembly which incorporates a video display unit. In this case, it requires a generator of synchronising pulses and also a generator of scanning signals. Equipment embodying the present invention may have the facility of displaying automatically a succession of still images each for a predetermined time interval, eg. two to five seconds. There may also be a synchronised sound track. According to another aspect, the present invention provides equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising means to produce electrical signals which represent an optical image, a variable pass band filter for positioning in the light input path for the signal production means, first storage means for storing a plurality of electrical signal components each derived by the filter from the total light input, second storage means for storing some of the electrical signal components from all those derived by the filter, means for providing a repeated output of signal components from said second storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from said second storage means with another signal component, which is derived directly from the first storage means, to provide a composite video signal for display. Preferably the second storage means holds, in use, at least some of the low band electrical signal components derived by the filter each of such components may be formed of a combination of chrominance and luminance. Preferably the first storage means has a high storage capacity sufficient to hold, at any one time, the information representing a number of still images for display also advantageously it is non volatile. Examples of suitable forms of first storage means are an audio tape recorder and a video tape recorder. The signal components may be stored in analogue form on the first storage means alternatively, one or more of the signals may be stored in digital form on the first storage means. Preferably the second storage means has a low storage capacity, sufficient to hold, at any one time, information from a single still image for display also the second storage means may be volatile. Thus the second storage means may be formed of one or more electronic solid state devices. Equipment embodying this aspect of the present invention enables sequential output of the separate electrical signal components from the first storage means, and thereby minimises the number of devices i.e. tape heads where the first storage means is a tape recorder needed to do this function moreover a minimum of storage capacity is used to achieve these results. This aspect of the present invention may also provide equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, said equipment comprising first storage means for storing a plurality of electrical signal components each derived from a still image for display, second storage means for storing some of the electrical signal components from all those in the first storage means, means for providing a repeated output of signal components from said second storage means, and means to mix the repeated outputs from said second storage means with another signal component, which is derived directly from the first storage means, to provide a composite video signal for display. This aspect of the present invention may furthermore provide a playback module for use in the equipment for displaying a still image on a video display unit, the module comprising solid state storage means for storing some of the electrical signal components which represent an optical image, means for providing a repeated output of signal components from the solid state means, and means to mix the repeated outputs of the solid state storage means with the remainder of the signal component s representing the optical image and being input directly to the mixing means, to provide a composite video signal for display. In order that the invention may more readily be understood, a description is now given, by way of example only, reference being made to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an add on unit embodying the present invention for use with a conventional domestic television receiver Figure 2 illustrates the filter in the unit of Figure 1. Figure 3 illustrates a modification to part of the unit ofFigure 1 Figures 4 to 6 are schematic diagrams, each illustrating a different embodiment of a unit according to the present invention and Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of a unit embodying another aspect of the present invention. The illustrated equipment is an add on unit for electrical connection to a conventional domestic television receiver to enable the receiver to display on its screen a static image derived from a photographic negative in the disc format developed by the Eastman Kodak Corporation. The unit can be used to display successively a number of negatives either under manual or automatic control, and the sequence of display may be related to the order of negatives in the disc or to a different, predetermined arrangement. The length of time for displaying each negative may be suitably chosen, and may be constant for the sequence of negatives or may vary according to the particular negative on display. The unit may also provide some audio accompaniment synchronised with the display of negatives.The unit can be suitably modified to display negatives of formats other than the disc format, and also modified to display transparencies of any format. More specifically, in the unit shown in Figure 1, light from an appropriate source 1 is directed by a lens system 2 through a filter 3 and onto a negative 4 so as to project an image onto the light sensitive target area of a 2cm vidicon pick up tube 5. Negative 4 is held in a plastics mount 6 of the godak disc format. The filter 3 is a wheel having three sectors, each of which transmits a different colour portion of an incident light beam see Figure 2 the wheel is mounted for rotation by a drive motor 7 such that each sector of the filter can be positioned in the path of the light beam in turn.Signals received at the pick up tube 5 are suitably processed as described in further detail below and then passed to a conventional television receiver 8 for display on its screen.When the negative 4 has been displayed on the screen of receiver 8 for a sufficient time, motor 7 rotates mount 6 until another negative is suitably positioned in the light beam for display. At the start of operation of the unit, the filter 3 is in an orientation whereby a sector which transmits only red light is in the light beam as the signals for forming the red image on the television screen are derived by this sector of the filter 3, it will subsequently be referred to as the RED sector. Using the CRT drives SD of receiver 8 as the scanning signals for pick up tube 5, the latter scans the complete frame of the red component image to form an appropriate electric signal which is suitably inverted and amplified at the pick up head amplifier 9.This signal is then fed to a video processor 10, at which suitable blanking and clamping are added, and then passed through a low pass filter 11 with a cut off level of 1 Megaherz so that the resultant signal sir relates to the red low band chrominance and luminance component of the negative 9. After processing at an analogue to digital convertor 12, the signal SR is stored in a memory store 13. A controller 14 monitors the store 13 so that once it has received the complete frame signal SR the controller 14 instructs motor 7 to turn filter 3 until a sector which transmits only blue light is in the light beam this sector will subsequently be referred to as the BLUE sector.After processing in the same way as for the red image, the resultant signal sag is stored in a separate memory store 15 by suitable operation of switch 16. Controller 14 also monitors the store 15 so that, as soon as the latter has received the complete frame signal of SB, motor 7 is instructed to turn filter 3 until the transparent sector is in the light beam, so that a wide band luminance image of negative 4 is produced for tube 5. The transparent sector of filter 3 has a pass band characteristic similar to the response of a human eye as published by C.I.E., with due allowance for the film base material used, additional to or augmenting any colour balancing known as Auto White provision. Thus with suitable operation of switch 17, the frame signal representing the wide band luminance image SLUM passes to low pass filter 18.As this filter 18 has a cut off level of 1 Megaherz, the emergent signal SLi only has the low band luminance component remaining. Signal SLUM representing the complete luminance image is also passed to another low pass filter 19, after inversion by inverter 20. As filter 19 has a higher cut off level, namely 5 Megaherz, the emergent signal retains the full luminance component this signal is then passed to summing amplifier 21 for combination with the signal SLuM L thereby resulting in a signal SLuM H formed only of the inversion of the high band luminance component which can then be passed on to summing amplifiers 22, 23 and 24. Meanwhile, the stores 13 and 15 have read out duplicates of the signals SR and SB held in their memories, these duplicate signals being converted to analogue form in converters 25 and 26 and then being passed through law pass filters 27 and 28 with a 1 Megaherz cut off level to remove any residual sampling components.Each of these signals is then inverted by an inverter 29 or 30 to form signals SR1 and SBl which are processed in matrixing unit 31 together with SLOM L to generate a signal representing the low band green chrominance and luminance signal SG. After passing through inverter 32, the resultant signal SG1 is summed with SLZM H in summing amplifier 24 to produce a G signal suitable for use in the receiver 8 similar summing for 9 and R l in summing amplifiers 22 and 23 respectively result in appropriate R and B signals. By suitable timing of the read out from stores 13 and 15 and by inclusion of an analogue delay 33 the signal arrives at each of the summing amplifiers simultaneously with the corresponding low band chrominance and luminance component signal. The output signals from these summing amplifiers 22, 23 and 24 form G, R and B component signals which when passed to television receiver 8 via encoder 34 are sufficient to display a full frame picture of negative 4 on the screen. Throughout the remaining time for displaying negative 9 on the screen of television receiver 8, the filter 3 and switch 17 are maintained in the same position. Thus, each scan by the pick up tube across negative 4 produces another signal SLUM which is processed and suned with read outs from stores 13 and 15 as described before to produce a full frame signal for display on the screen. When it is desired to display another negative, controller 14 instructs motor 7 to rotate mount 6 so as to position the required negative in the light beam and to return the filter 3 to its first operative position then controller 14 clears the stores 13 and 15. Controller 14 may rotate mount 6 such that the negatives are displayed in their sequence of occurrence on the mount alternatively controller 14 may produce a different, predetermined sequence. Controller 14 may also vary the length of time for which the negatives are displayed it may also synchronise the display of negatives with a sound track. Synchronisation pulses sup derived from broadcast p signals received at the television receiver 8 are used to synchronise the pick up tube 5 and other elements of the unit. If it is desired to display a picture of a photographic transparency rather than a negative, the switches 35, 36, 37 and and 38 are operated so as to by pass inverters 20, 29, 30 and 32 respectively, while switch 39 is operated to connect in inverter 40. Alternatively, colour inversion can be achieved by an appropriate choice of colour filter. In a modification, summing amplifier 24 is omitted and the signal SLUM is used directly as the G component signal for receiver 8 in this case, signal SLUM H still needs to be produced in order to be sumnied with the duplicate signals of sRl and The unit may be modified such that, in use, the stores 13 and 15 hold the red low band component and the blue low band components respectively, and the green wide band luminance signal is passed to filters 18 and 19 without storage. Thus the green wide band luminance signal is used as an approximation to the total luminance component and the green high band component can be added to the red and blue low band components Cfrom the stores to produce the R and B output signals. When the unit is switched on or at any time during operation of the unit, an Auto White routine can be performed by rapidly cycling the filter wheel through one sequence and adjusting the signal levels in the separate paths respectively. The output signals from the summing amplifiers 22, 23 and 24 may also be used to produce a print from the negative or transparency for example by using the signals to modulate light beams scanned across light sensitive paper. The unit may be modified by replacing the arrangement of light source 1, lens system 2 and vidicon pick up tube 5 with a flying spot scanner. Figure 3 shows only that section of the unit which is changed by this modification, the remainder of the unit being identical to that shown in Figure 1. A high intensity cathode ray tube 50 utilizes the CRT drives SD of receiver 8 to generate a bright spot which scans the entire screen of tube 50. Light from this scanning spot is directed through filter 3, positioned close to cathode ray tube 50, and onto negative 4 so as to project a scanning representation of the filtered image onto a photomultiplier 51. Thus the output of this photomultiplier 51 is an electrical signal in a format suitable for processing in video processor 10 after amplification, if necessary, at amplifier 9 . All operations of filter 3 and mount 6, and all processing of the electrical signals derived from photomultiplier 51, are identical to those as described with reference to the unit ofFigure 1. Figure 4 shows, in block diagram format, another unit embodying the present invention. Thfs unit has a filter which produces a signal representing the green image of the negative for display, in addition to the signals for red image and the blue image in the previous units. Each of these signals is processed individually at a control and processing device 60 in order to derive the appropriate colour difference signal i.e. B P, B Y or G Y , which is thereafter stored in the respective memory 61, 62 or 63. In order to provide a display on a television screen, the memories provide a repeated output of these signals, each of which is combined with the full luninance signal T obtained directly and continuously from the negative.No delay line is required to compensate for delays through the various filters and digital circuits, as there is provided suitable adjustment of the timing of the start point of the store address counter relative to TV field syncs. Also, provision is made to remove the of the pick up tube prior to analogue to digital conversion, and to re apply a suitable at the B, G and B outputs. Only one field of each colour is held in the stores e.g.even field , the alternate field being provided by repeating the first field twice when taking data out of the stores. This provides more than enough vertical colour resolution when compared with the horizontal 1.3 MHz bandwidth used. The store outputs, after processing i.e. now being colour difference signals are added to a suitably scaled version of the live T signal such that low frequency Y data i.e. up to 1.3 MEz cancels out leaving the low frequency colour plus the high frequency detail Y signal on the R, G and B outputs to the display device. Figure 5 is a block diagram which shows one implementation of the processing section of device 60, namely that section having the function of deriving the colour difference signals R Y, B P and G from the signals representing selective images of the negative. Figure 6 shows, in block diagram format, another unit embodying the present invention in which there are two stores 70 and 71 for colour difference signals namely R Y and B Y , the third colour difference signal, G Y, being derived from the other two. In order to set up this unit for display of the negative, the signals representing the red image and the blue image are input to the appropriate stores 70 and 71, and then each is output therefrom in order to be summed with the inverse of the luminance signal Y which is output directly from the pick up tube, the resultant colour difference signal R Y or B Y then being put into the appropriate store 70 or 71 in place of the original colour signal R or B respectively . By using colour difference signals, intermittent colour shift errors are minimised, because any fluctuations at the pick up tube output will only cause fluctuations in the intensity of the image displayed. The equipment illustrated in Figure 7 has four distinct elements, namely a photographic negative scanner A which derives, from a photographic negative, electrical signals for storage on a video tape cassette a video tape recorder B a playback module C which processes the electrical signals into a form suitable for display on a television screen and a television receiver D. Clearly, not all the elements forming the equipment need to be used simultaneously, nor as a single complete unit. Thus for example an individual may take a selection of his slides to a shop or photographic processor for them to transfer the slides to a magnetic format on a video tape cassette using elements A and B of the equipment. In this way the individual himself need not possess element A of the equipment, requiring only elements B, C and D in order to view his slides on a television screen. More specifically, in the equipment shown in Figure 7, light from an appropriate source 101 is directed by a lens system 102 through a filter 103 and onto a negative 104 so as to project an image onto the light sensitive target area of a 2 3 vidicon pick up tube 105. Negative 104 is held in a plastics mount 106 of the dise format developed by the Eastman KodakCorporation. The filter 103 is similar to that shown in Figure 2, namely it is a wheel having three sectors, each of which transmits a different colour portion of an incident light beam the wheel is mounted for rotation by a drive motor 107 such that each sector of the filter can be positioned in the path of the light beam in turn.Signals received at the pick up tube 105 are suitably processed as described in further detail below and then passed to a video tape cassette recorder B in order to be stored on a video tape cassette. Once this transfer has been achieved, motor 107 rotates mount 106 until another negative is suitably positioned in the light beam for display. At the start of operation of the unit, the filter 103 is in an orientation whereby a sector which transmits only red light is in the light beam as the signals for forming the red image on a television screen are derived from this sector of the filter 103, it will subsequently be referred to as the RED sector and the resultant signal will be referred to as the RED component signal. Using internally generated scanning signals, pick up tube 105 scans the complete frame of the red component image to form an appropriate electric signal which is suitably inverted and amplified at the pick up head amplifier 108. This signal is then fed to a video processor 109, at which suitable blanking and clamping are added at this stage a code is added to the vertical blanking interval and to the audio and control tracks, in order to identify the component signal and negative.After processing at an analogue to digital convertor 110, the signal passes to recorder B where it is recorded on video tape. Typically, an 8 bit deep signal would occupy eight television frames on the video tape. A controller 111 monitors this operation so that, once recorder B has received the complete frame of the RED component signal, the controller 111 instructs motor 107 tJturn filter 103 until a sector which transmits only blue light is in the light beam this sector will subsequently be referred to as the BLUE sector and the resultant signal will be referred to as the BLUE component signal. After processing in the same way as for the red image, the resultant signal is recorded onto the video tape adjacent to the RED component signal. Once recorder B has received the complete frame of the BLUE component signal, motor 107 is instructed by controller 111 to turn filter 103 until the transparent sector is in the light beam, so that a wide band luminance image of negative 104 is produced for tube 105. The transparent sector of filter 103 has a pass band characteristic similar to the response of a human eye as published by C.I.E., with due allowance for the film base material used, additional to or augmenting any colour balancing known as Auto White provision. Thus, after this wide band luminance image is processed in the same way as for the RED and BLUE component signals except that the analogueto digital converter 110 is by passed , the resultant signal SLUM is recorded onto the video tape in analogue form. Once recorder B has received the complete frame signal ofSLUM controller 111 instructs motor 107 to turn filter 103 until the RED sector is in the light beam, and to turn mount 106 until another negative, 104 , is in the light beam. Then the recording process described above is repeated so that each of the three component signals for the negative 104 are stored separately on the video tape. In this way, a collection of many negatives can be stored on a single video tape cassette. When it is desired to display, on the television receiverD, the taped image of negative 104, the reference number of that negative is keyed into recorder B which then searches for the identification code corresponding to the start of the RED component signal for that negative. Once this position has been located, recorder B plays back the RED component signal which is passed to an electronic memory store 113. Controller 111 identifies the end of the RED component signal as it passes out of recorder B and operates switch 114 such that the succeeding BLUE component signal is passed to a different electronic memory store 115. When controller 111 identifies the end of the BLUE component as it passes out of recorderB the controller operates switch 116 in order to pass the output, which is now 5LEM directly to a video matrix unit 117 without further storage.At this stage, further movement of the video tape within recorder B is halted but the recorder is maintained in a mode whereby its tracking heads provide repeated reading out of the signalSLUM. Meanwhile, the stores 113 and 115 are reading out duplicates of the RED and BLUE component signals held in their memories, these duplicate signals being converted to analogue form in convertors 118 and 119 and then passed to matrix unit 118 where they are processed together with SLUM in order to produce the R, G and B signals for display on television receiver D. Thus the three component signals, which are necessary to form an image of negative 1 04 on television receiver D, are available simultaneously, two of these components being derived from electronic memory stores and the third being derived from a recording on video tape. In similar fashion to the unit of Figure 4, recorder B and stores 113, 115 need only tif preferred store one field of each of the three signal components, the alternate field being provided by repeating the stored signals. In a modification incorporating a video cassette recorder without tracking heads to enable play back of a video frame with the recorder in the pause mode, the signal S can be recorded repeatedly on the video tape to provide a continuous output of that component of a duration corresponding to the required display time of the image. In order to lintitise crosstalk, a pseudo guard band or additional azimuth safeguards may be included. If it is desired to display a picture of a photographic transparency rather than a negative, the colour inversion can be achieved electronically for example by by passing the signal inversion stage or by an appropriate choice of colour filter. Clearly, the scanner A may be modified by replacing the arrangement of light source 101, lens system 102 and vidicon pick up tube 105 with a flying spot scanner in a similar fashion to that as already described with reference to Figure 4. In another modification, the scanner A is replaced by a unit which derives, from a photographic or other print, electrical signals for storage on recorder B and eventual display on television receiver D. In another modification, all the signals are stored in analogue form on the video tape, in order to provide more efficient storage on the video tape and to achieve a faster access time for information on the video tape. However, in this case module C will need an analogue to digital convertor for the RED and BLUE signals before their storage in stores t13 and 115 respectively, thereby increasing the manufacturing cost of module C. In one application of the present invention, any of the units described above may be used to provide the background image on a television receiver screen, the foreground image being produced by other means for example by using a microcomputer such an arrangement is particularly suited for a television video game, whether for domestic or commercial use. For example two similar units of any of the above described types may be used to provide a static but changeable background, free of discontinuities and interruptions when a change occurs in this case a microcomputer would be used to generate some superimposed images and, optionally, to control the units. If it is required to produce a background which continuously moves as observed by the human eye , it is necessary to have a sufficient number of units to enable the simultaneous processing and sequential display, of a number of images. Clearly, a television video game installation, which uses one or more units in this way, may be substantially cheaper to manufacture than a conventional installation incorporating a video disc player for generation of the background image.