# Casting articles by directional solidification.

## Abstract
A method for moulding an article, for example a turbine blade, which is made up of one or more directionally solidified crystals of metal. A mould 21 is produced having a series of bores 32 to 38 in which seed crystals 42 to 48 are located, the seed crystals having previsously been calibrated to deter mine the angle and direction of inclination of their 100 planes. The seed crystals are arranged so that the orientation of the 100 planes coincide with that desired in the article relative to the geometry of the article and the mould is located on the chill plate 19 . Molten alloy is then admitted to the mould cavity and directional solidification takes place with the result that crystals 13 to 18 solidify from the seed crystals having the same crystallographic orientation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method for producing a cast article 11 having a specific crystallographic orientation relative to the geometry of the article which comprises forming a mould 21 , locating relative to the mould cavity aseed crystal 43 admitting to the mould 21 in the molten state the material from which the article is to be cast, and cooling the mould 21 so that solidification of the cast article 11 takes place in a direction away from the seed crystal 13 , characterised in that the seed crystal 43 has been calibrated to determine the angle and direction of inclination of its 100 plane relative to a reference direction and by arranging the seed crystal 43 so that the orientation of its 100 plane coincides with that desired in the article 11 relative to the geometry of the article 11 . 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that the seed crystal 43 is located within the mould cavity after the mould has been completely formed. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 characterised in that the mould is made by a lost wax process and the seed crystal 43 is located at the wax assembly stage. 4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that a plurality of seed crystals 43 to 48 are located relative to the mould cavity and arranged so that the orientation of each of their 100 planes coincides with that desired in corresponding crystals 13 to 18 making up the article 11 . 5. A method as claimed in Claim 4 characterised in that the mould includes a seed section 24 comprising a series of bores 32 to 38 for the location of the seed crystals 42 to 48 and the molten material is brought into contact with the seed crystals 42 to 48 in the bores 32 to 58 . 6. A method as claimed in Claim 5 characterised in that the mould includes a starter section 22 between the seed section 24 and the section 23 in which the final article 11 is to be cast, in which starter section 22 solidification takes place prior to casting of the final article 11 . 7. A method as claimed in Claim 6 characterised in that the calibration of the seed crystals 42 to 48 includes marking a point Y on each crystal 42 to 48 corresponding to the direction of inclination of its 100 plane, marking a point z on each bore 32 to 38 corresponding to the desired direction of crystallographic inclination and aligning the points Y on seed crystals 42 to 48 with the points Z on the bores.

## Description
CASTING ARTICLES BY DIRECTIONAL SOLIDIFICATION The present invention relates to casting articles by directional solidification, a process which is favoured when the article to be produced benefits from having a particular crystallographic structure orientation, e.g. turbine blades. In a simple directional solidiScmtion casting process, the melt is cooled at a water cooled copper chill plate where nucleation occurs randomly at first, but which, after an initial growth zone, develops into a reasonably uniform grain growth pattern. Thus, a structure is produced composed of a number of crystÅals having a primary vertical grain growth direction and a lateral grain growth abutting adjacent crystals to form finite continuous grain boundaries. It has also been proposed to cast articles by directional solidification, as a single crystal.This has been carried out by initially employing the copper chill plate to produce directionally solidified crystals but after the growth zone, the solidification is forced to take place via a constriction which allows only one crystal to develop thereby producing a single crystal casting. As an alternative method of single crystal casting, it has been proposed to use seed crystals to act as a starter for crystal growth in each case.The crystal which grows from the seed crystal has a crystallographic orientation identical to that of the seed crystal. Thus, results which are more predictable can be obtained once one has managed to obtain seed crystals with a known and acceptable crystallographic orientation. In each of these proposals, the general objective is to achieve a direction of crystal growth wherein the primary OO1 growth direction of the crystal follows essentially the major stress axis of the component and for this direction of growth to be generally axial with respect to the geometry of the article. However, it is suggested by the applicants that it might be advantageous to employ a crystallographic oreintation in which the 100 plane of the crystal is inclined to the axis of the article at a predetermined angle and in a specific direction relative to the component geometry.It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method of producing a cast article in which the crystallographic orientation of an individual crystal or crystals within the article relative to its geometry can be accurately predeternined. According to the invention there is provided a method for producing a cast article having a specific crystallographic orientation relative to the goemetry of the article which comprises forming a mould, locating relative to the mould cavity a seed crystal which has been calibrated to determine the angle and direction of inclination of its lOO plane relative to a reference direction, arranging the seed crystal so that the orientation of its lOO plane coincides with that desired in the article relative to the geometry of the article, admitting to the mould in the molten state the material from which the article is to be cast, and cooling the mould so that solidification of the cast article takes place in a direction away from the seed crystal. The seed crystals may be produced by any convenient method, for example by way of a growth restrictor which may be in a helical form or alternatively by cloning from existing seed crystals.They are preferably calibrated by an X ray diffraction technique to determine the angle of inclination of the 100 plane from a reference direction and the direction of inclination is preferably marked on the seed crystal relative to a reference line marked along the length of the seed crystal. The seed crystal may be located within the mould cavity after the mould has been completely formed.If the mould is made by a lost wax process, then the seed crystal may be located at the wax assembly stage. It will be appreciated that, using the method of the invention, it is possible to incline the loo plane direction relative to the stress axis in the article to any desired extent and in any desired direction. It is sometimes a requirement in the production of, for example turbine blades, that the articles produced have a minimum number of grains. While this can generally be achieved by the simple chill plate directional solidification method, their number and orientation cannot be accurately predetermined.It is therefore a further object of the present invention to provide a method of casting an article by directional solidification in which the number of grains and their crystallographic orientations can predetermined with accuracy. In a preferred method therefore a plurality of seed crystals are located relative to the mould cavity and arranged so that the orientation of their 100 planes coincides with that desired in corresponding crystals making up the article. In this way, it may be possible to produce an article made up from a specific number of directionally solidified grains, each having its own optimum crystallographic orientation. In all cases, it should be possible to enhance the properties of the article and in addition, to reduce the percentage of wastage due to unsuitable crystallographic orientations. The invention may be carried into practice in various ways and some embodiments will now be described by way of example with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a plan view of a seed crystal which has been calibrated Figure 2 is an isometric sketch of the seed crystal of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a diagrammatic representation of the crystallographic orientation of the seed crystal ofFigures 1 and 2 Figure 4 is an isometric sketch showing the grain growth in a turbine blade produced from a number of seed crystals and Figure 5 is a horizontal section through the turbine blade of Figure 4. Figures 1 and 2 show a calibrated seed crystal.The seed crystal is elongate and cylindrical in shapeIt has a central axis X X and a reference line 0 0 parallel to X X inscribed upon its outer surface.The inclination e of the 100 plane relative to the axis X X and the reference line 0 0 is determined by an X ray diffraction technique. This inclination is indicated by the arrow A. The direction of the inclination of the 100 plane is indicated by a point Y on the circumference of the seed crystal.Thus, the 100 plane of the seed crystal is inclined by an angle e relative to the X X reference axis in a direction towards the point Y from the X X reference axis. This is shown schematically in Figure 3 in which the 100 plane of a notional cube is cross hatched. Figure 4 shows the casting of a turbine blade 11.The turbine blade is composed of six individual metal crystals 12 to 18 each having its 100 plane in a particular desired orientation. The apparatus used to cast the turbine blade comprises a chill plate 19 having a bayonet fitting 20 and upon which a ceramic mould 21 is located. The mould may have conveniently been produced by a conventional lost wax process. The mould cavity comprises a starter block 22, above that a blade section 23, and below the starter block, a seed block 24. A molten alloy inlet 25 leads into the mould cavity. Alternatively, molten alloy may be introduced through the major mould aeorfoil cavity or any other suitable direction above the seed crystal or crystals. The blade section 23 has a contour which corresponds to the desired contour of the finished product. The starter block 22 is merely a zone in which crystal growth is allowed to develop as a result of directional solidification. The seed block 24 comprises a series of cylindrical bores 32 to 38. The bores 32 to 38 are intended to receive seed crystals 42 to 48 which are of the same alloy as that of the component to be cast and which act as starters for the metal crystals 13 to 18 making up the final turbine blade. Each bore 32 to 38 is therefore marked with a point Z with which the corresponding point Y on the appropriate seed crystal is aligned prior to moulding so that the eventual crystals 13 to 18 have the desired crystallographic orientation. Each seed crystal 42 to 48 is fixed in position with the aid of a ceramic air drying cement. In an alternative method, the seed crystals 42 to 48 can be located in position at the wax assembly stage. After the seed crystals 42 to 48 have been correctly positioned, the molten casting alloy is admitted to the mould cavity via the alloy inlet 25.The seed crystals are then partially melted back and then directionally solidified grains with the same crystallographic orientation as the seeds develop growing upwards to the blade section 23 via the starter block 22. The crystallographic orientation of the seed crystals is reproduced in the crystals making up the solidified casting alloy. As can be seen from Figure 5, in this embodiment, the 100 planes of the crystals making up the blade section 23 are generally inclined towards the convex surface of the aerofoil section with the exception of the end crystals which lean towards the component trailing edge and the component leading edge. These directions are indicated by the arrows A. Naturally, this particular crystallographic orientation is merely an example and it will be appreciated that any alternative crystallographic orientation may be achieved if desired, using the same general method, including control of the relative orientation of crystal to crystal for property optiinisation and grain boundary defect minimi s ation.