# Cigarette making machine.

## Abstract
There is disclosed improvements in cigarette making ma chines for filling preformed paper cigarette tubes with tobacco wherein the machine has improved means for shearing any loose tobacco placed in the cavity wherein it is compacted, the improved shearing resulting from pressure maintained on the cutting edges.

## Claims
v CLAIMS 1 In a cigarette making machine having a body portion, a cavity adapted to receive loose tobacco and a compacting member movable between first and second positions to compact loose tobacco placed in the cavity, the improvement wherein a cutting edge is formed on said compacting member to meet a cutting edge on said body portion when being moved between said first and second positions, said cutting edge on said body portion having a V shaped configuration and said cutting edge on said compacting member being a straight edge. 2 The improvement of claim 1 wherein said cutting edge on said compacting member is bevelled upwardly from its sides towards its center. 3 The improvement of claim 1 or 2 wherein said compacting member is adapted to maintain a pressure on its cutting edge at least during contact with the cutting edge of the body portion. 4 The improvement of claim 1 or 2 wherein said compacting member is slidable in a channel between said first and second positions, said cutting edge on said compacting member being an upper leading edge thereof, a lower leading edge portion of said compacting member being formed so as to be slightly flexible, the compacting member being sized adjacent its leading edges to be slightly larger than said channel such that a spring action of said lower flexible leading edge portion maintains an upwardly extending pressure on said cutting edge. 5 The improvement of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said cavity in said body portion is formed close to one side thereof, the portion between the cavity and the edge of the body being reinforced to minimize structural distortion thereof during operation of said compacting member. 6 The improvement of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said compacting member has a concave leading surface with the upper edge of said compacting member forming said cutting edge, the angle between an upper surface of said compacting member and said concave surface being less than 900. 7 The improvement of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said cavity in said body portion is formed close to one side thereof, said body portion including a plurality of ribs between the edge of the body and the cavity to reinforce the body to minimize structural distortion thereof during operation of said machine. 8 A cigarette making machine comprising a body member, a cavity in said body member adapted to receive loose tobacco formed in said body member, a compacting member movable between first and second positions to compact loose tobacco placed in said cavity, a leading surface of said compacting member having a concave surface with an upper edge of said leading surface having a cutting edge adapted to cut loose tobacco in conjunction with a cutting edge on said body member adjacent said cavity, means for moving said compacting member between said first and second positions to compact said loose tobacco into an elongated cylindrical form, means for retaining a hollow cigarette tube, and a spoon member for injecting said compacted tobacco into said hollow cigarette tube, at least one of said cutting edges having a V shaped configuration such that during a cutting operation, the cutting edges progressively contact each other in a dual scissors like cutting action. 9 The machine of claim 8 wherein the cutting edge on said compacting member is a straight edge and a cutting edge on said body portion has a V shaped configuration. 10 The machine of claim 9 wherein said compacting member is bevelled upwardly from a pair of its opposed sides towards its center so as to maintain a slightly increasing pressure on the cutting edges.

## Description
The present invention relates to a machine for filling preformed paper cigarette tubes with tobacco and more particularly, relates to improvements therein. Cigarette making machines which are adapted to take loose tobacco, compact the same, and inject the compacted tobacco in preformed paper cigarette tubes are published in for example U. S. Patent No.4,167,948 issued September 18, 1979 to Moscovitch which teaches such a machine. One may also refer to U. S.Patent Nos. 3,741,200 3,127,900 and 3,886,952, which illustrate machines for filling the preformed paper cigarette tubes. For reasons of economy and ease of manufacture, such machines have been of a plastic material.Inherent in the operation of such machines is the filling of a cavity or chamber in the machine with loose tobacco, the compaction of the tobacco usually mechanically assisted into a plug of tobacco, and insertion of the tobacco into the paper tube. During the compaction of the tobacco, frequently excess tobacco may protrude from the chamber and if the tobacco is not cleanly cut, it may interfere with the satisfactory operation of the machine and the production of a satisfactory cigarette. As aforementioned, the machines have been of a plastic material and a clean cutting of the tobacco does not always occur With this invention, there is provided a machine or apparatus for filling prefabricated hollow paper cigarette tubes in which the machine has means for effectively cutting any tobacco which may protrude from the tobacco receiving chamber during the compaction of the tobacco. There is also provided a machine for filling prefabricated hollow paper cigarette tubes wherein the cutting means, which comprises a pair of cutting edges, is adapted to act in a dual scissors like action so as to effectively cut all protruding tobacco. There is also provided a cigarette machine for use with loose tobacco and preformed hollow cigarette paper tubes which has means to maintain pressure on the cutting edges for cutting protruding tobacco despite normal manufacturing tolerances during the manufacturing process. The improvements of the present invention may be utilized with many conventional machines and thus, one may incorporate the improvements in a single lever machine or in the alternative, in a two lever machine, wherein a first lever causes compaction of the loose tobacco into an elongated cylindrical form with movement of the second lever causing injection of the compacted tobacco intaa preformed hollow cigarette paper tube. In operation, the machine has a cavity or a chamber formed in its body portion with a compacting member mounted for sliding movement within the body such that it will compact the tobacco which is placed in the chamber into an elongated cylindrical form. During the compaction move. ment, the compacting member will move from a first open position to a second closed position, closing off the opening into which the loose tobacco is placed. During this sliding movement, one edge of the tobacco compacting member is designed to shear any tobacco protruding from the chamber, the compacting member edge acting in conjunction with an edge defining the cavity or chamber. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the edge defining the chamber or cavity has a slight V shaped configuration such that a double scissor action is obtained between the two cutting or shearing edges. One aspect of the present invention provides a compacting member which is bevelled slightly upwardly from its sides towards the center at least along the shearing edge. This bevelled configuration, in conjunction with the design of the body portion, is adapted to ensure that good contact is made between the two shearing edges to effectively cut any excess tobacco protruding from the chamber. The present invention also provides an embodiment wherein the compacting member is designed to always maintain a pressure at the two cutting or shearing edges despite normal manufacturing tolerances. In this respect, one embodiment of the invention employs a compacting member wherein the lower leading edge of the member is somewhat flexible and is manufactured to be slightly larger than the cavity into which it is designed to fit such that a desired pressure is maintained. The present invention further provides an improved nozzle member which eliminates jamming of the tobacco which could occur during insertion of the compacted tobacco into the tube. Having thus generally described the invention, reference will be made to the accompanying drawings illustrating an embodiment thereof, in which FIGURE 1 is a top view of the external appearance of a machine according to the present invention FIGURE 2 is a front elevational view of the machine of Figure 1 FIGURE 3 is a bottom plan view, partially in cutaway, of the machine when the machine is adapted to receive loose tobacco FIGURE 4 is a bottom plan view, with a partial cutaway view, similar to Figure 3 illustrating the machine when the loose tobacco has been compacted FIGURE 5 is a sectional view taken along the lines 5 5 of Figure 3 FIGURE 6 is a sectional view taken along the lines 6 6 of Figure 4 FIGURE 7 is a side sectional view of a portion of the compacting member FIGURE 8 is a cross sectional view taken along the lines 8 8 of Figure 1 FIGURE 9 is a front elevational view of the compacting member and FIGURE 10 is a sectional view of the nozzle. The particular machine shown has a body or casing unit 2 having on its upper surface adjacent the front edge 4 of the machine an elongated aperture 6 for receiving a supply of tobacco as will be described in greater detail hereinbelow. The opening 6 opens into a chamber 8 defined by a bottom 10 see Figure 5 , a leading upper concave surface portion of a spoon member 18. The spoon member 18 is secured to a spoon handle 20 and the spoon handle 20 and spoon member 18 are movable from their positions as shown in Figures 1 and 3, to a tobacco injecting position as shown in Figure 4 to inject a wad of tobacco into a cigarette tube which is shown at 22 in broken lines in Figure 4 and which is positioned on a nozzle 24 which is rigidly secured to the casing 2. The nozzle 24 may be positioned within a corner cutout portion 26 of the casing as shown in Figure 1. The bottom 10 defining chamber 8 is secured to the casing 2 and as shown in Figures 3, 4 and 5, tobacco compacting member 14 having concave leading edge 12 is positioned for reciprocal movement in accordance with the arrows 30 and 32 in Figures 3 and 4 or arrows 11 inFigure 1 , respectively, with this reciprocal movement being dependent upon the actual positioning and movement of the main operating lever 34. The operating lever 34 is pivotally carried by the casing 2 by means of screw or stud 36. The lever 34 is of bell crank lever configuration and the inner angled arm 38 of the lever 34 is pivotally secured to a link member 40 by means of pivot 42. The other end of the link 40 is pivotally secured to the tobacco compacting member 14 by means of pivot 44, and it will be appreciated that movement of lever 34 from the position shown inFigure 3 to the lateral position shown in Figure 4 will cause movement of the tobacco compacting member from the open position shown in Figure 3 to the closed position shown in Figure 4 whereby tobacco positioned in the chamber 8 through opening 6 will be compacted against the concave spoon 16 to form a cylindrical rod of tobacco not shown ready for injection into a tube 22 positioned on nozzle 24. Parallel slots 48 see Figure 6 may be provided in compacting member 14 and by providing guides in the form of downwardly projecting studs 50 on the lower surface of the casing 2, it will be appreciated that the slots move along the guides during movement of the lever to maintain the tobacco compacting member 14 in precise alignment with the concave spoon member 18 and between which the wad of tobacco is compacted. In operation the user pivots the operating lever 34 to the position shown in Figure 3 which withdraws the tobacco compacting member 14 to the open position shown in this view. The handle 20 and spoon 18 will also be moved to the position shown in Figure 3 so that the chamber is ready for the reception of a supply of tobacco. After the tobacco is positioned in the chamber, the lever 34 is then pivoted to the position shown in Figure 4, whereby the tobacco not shown is compacted in cylindrical rod form between the concave leading edge 12 of the compacting member 14 and the concave spoon 18. Handle 20 is then moved to the position shown in Figure 4 whereby the compacted wad of tobacco is injected into a tube 22 previously positioned on the nozzle 24. To retain the tube 22 on the nozzle during injection a tube retaining lever 52 is provided. The lever 52 is also of bell crank configuration and is secured for pivotal movement to the bottom surface of the bottom 10 by means of pivot 54. A spring 56 extends between the side of the casing and the lever 52 and the action of the spring is to normally.hold the tip 60 on the outermost end of the lever 52 against the nozzle 24. The innermost end of the lever 52 is provided with a stud 62 which is positioned to be contacted by the link 40. When the handle 34 is in the position shown in Figure 3, the stud 62 is contacted by the link 40 and the lever 52 is pivoted against the action of spring 56 to the position shown in Figure 3 wherein the tip 60 is removed from the nozzle 24. It is in this position that a tube 22 will be positioned on the nozzle 24.When the handle 34 is moved to the tobacco compacting position as shown in Figure 4, however, spring 56 is then able to move the lever 52 to the tube retaining position shown in Figure 4. In operation and as may be seen from Figure 5, during the movement of the tobacco compacting member from a first open position to a second closed position, a leading edge of concave surface 12 will contact edge 15 of body unit 2 to cut any protruding tobacco. Nozzle 24, as shown in Figure 10, has a discharge end generally indicated by reference numeral 102 and an inlet end indicated by reference numeral 104. As may be seen from Figure 10, a portion of wall 105 is tapered as indicated by reference numeral 108 such that when the tobacco is inserted in nozzle 24 at inlet end 104, no snagging can occur since the wall is tapered inwardly to smoothly guide the tobacco. Referring to Figures 7 and 9, a preferred embodiment of the compacting member and associated body unit is shown. As may be seen from Figure 7, compacting member 14 has an upper surface 76 with the lower surface being formed of a plurality of rib members 81. A leading edge portion 77 of concave surface 12 meets upper surface 76 at an angle slightly less than 900 as indicated by angle 79. A leading lower edge generally designated by reference numeral 83 extends slightly below ribs 81 i.e. the depth or thickness of compacting member 14 adjacent its leading edge is slightly greater than the remainder of its thickness. Compacting member 14 is preferably formed of a plastics material and due to the thin nature of leading lower edge 83, it is flexible and will fit within the channel wherein compacting member 14 is placed.Thus, a constant upward pressure will be placed on upper leading edge 77 as indicated by arrows 89 inFigure 8. As will be appreciated, the manufacture of compacting member 14 and body unit 2 is subject to normal manufacturing tolerances. Thus, under normal conditions, it may occur that compacting member 14 has a thickness slightly less than the depth of the channel wherein it is placed to compact the loose tobacco. In the prior art, such occurrences generally led to a poor shearing of any loose tobacco protruding from the cavity or chamber 8.However, with the use of a flexible leading lower edge 83, a good contact between leading upper edge 77 and a cutting edge 15 is maintained. As shown in Figure 9, compacting member 14 bevels upwardly from opposed sides 85 and 87 for reasons which will be discussed hereinbelow. As may be seen from Figure 1, body unit 2 is reinforced about aperture 6. To this end, there is provided a pair of ribs 71 extending about opposite sides of aperture 6. A further pair of ribs 72 and 73 extend between ribs 71 with rib 72 defining the wall adjacent aperture 6 and rib 73 being along the front edge of body unit 2. A plurality of further ribs 74 run between ribs 72 and 73. The use of all the above ribs gives a reinforcement to the area between front edge 4 and aperture 6. As may be seen from Figure 1, cutting edge 15 has a V shaped configuration such that cutting edge 77 on compacting member 14 will have an initial point of contact adjacent the sides and the contact will progress inwardly to the point of the V configuration. In other words, a dual scissors like action is utilized. During the contact of edges 77 and 15, essentially a point contact between cutting edges is maintained whereby loose protruding tobacco is sheared.Also, as previously mentioned, the upwardly bevelled surface 76 of compacting member 14 acts to maintain a slightly increasing upward pressure between the cutting edges. In this respect, a bevel in the order of .0005 inch is normally sufficient although a lesser or a greater bevel may be utilized. It will be appreciated that the above described embodiments are for purposes of illustration only and that changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, while there has been described a compacting member which is both bevelled and has a flexible lower leading edge, both of which are adapted to maintain effective contact between the cutting edges, a single one of these means may be effectively employed. Furthermore, although the modifications have been made to certain portions of the compacting member, equivalent changes to the body portion may equally well be employed. Among other features of the invention which may be made the subject of further claims in this application are the following 11 The machine of claim 8, 9 or 10 wherein said leading surface of said compacting member has a lower leading edge portion extending downwardly and outwardly, said lower leading edge portion being at least slightly flexible and being sized to exert an upward pressure on said cutting edge of said compacting member.12 In a cigarette making machine having a body member, a cavity adapted to receive loose tobacco and a compacting member slidably movable within a channel in said body between first and second positions to compact loose tobacco placed in the cavity, the improvement wherein the main portion of said body member is sized to have a thickness equal to or slightly less than the depth of said channel within which it is movable with a portion of said compacting member being formed to have thickness slightly greater than the depth of said channel, said portion being flexible such that it will fit within said channel and maintain a pressure between cutting edges. 13 The improvement of claim 1, 2 or 3, further including a nozzle member adapted to receive the compacted tobacco and on which nozzle member a tobacco tube is adapted to be received, said nozzle member having an inlet end and an outlet end, at least a portion of a wall defining said inlet end being tapered inwardly to prevent jamming of tobacco when inserted into said tube.