# PRINT HEAD FOR AN ELECTROLYTIC PRINTER

## Claims
Druckkopf für einen elektrolytischen Drucker, der einen Block 34, 36 aus Isoliermaterial, in dem zwei Arten von Elektroden befestigt sind, wobei die erste als Anoden wirkende Elektrodenart 18 permanent mit einer Steuerung 22 verbunden ist, die zweite als Kathoden wirkende Elektrodenart 20 permanent mit einem elektrischen Abfluß verbunden und neben der ersten Elektrodenart 18 angeordnet ist, gesehen rechtwinklig zur Bewegungsrichtung des zu bedruckenden Papiers und eine Ebene aus leitendem Material 32 aufweist, die als Kathode dient,

## Description
This invention is concerned with a print head for an electrolytic printer comprising a block of insulating material and two kinds of electrodes secured in said block, with the first kind of electrodes permanently connected to a control means for actuation only as anodes, with the second kind of electrodes permanently connected to an electrical drain to serve only as cathodes positioned beside the first electrode seen perpendicular to the direction of movement of the paper to be printed and with one plane of conductive material serving as a cathode. The concept of electrically generated printing has sparked interest since the 1840s. Most attempts at utilizing an electrically initiated printing reaction required relatively high voltages, in the order of 100 to 250 volts, saturated or partially wetted paper, and or consumable electrodes. It was also necessary to employ a special recording medium which would be suitable for the particular printing system being used. Almost all of the prior art systems relied on either relatively high or long amplitude voltage pulses to achieve dry or wet printing. As might be expected, there were also hybrid systems and recording mediums therefor that attempted to reconcile and or compensate for the disadvantages of both the dry and wet approaches. However, as is the case with most compromise situations, these efforts were either too expensive to commercially implement or unsatisfactory in performance. Various efforts were made to improve different aspects of the prior art electrically induced printing systems. Such efforts led to the use of electrolytic based printers wherein a relatively low voltage, in the order of no more than 25 volts, is employed to effect printing. One printing system that functions at low energy printing levels, of a magnitude that is compatible with today s densely populated integrated circuit chips, is described in European Patent Application, Publication Number 58 855 by Bernier et al. In this printing arrangement, a leuco dye resident in or applied to the surface of the recording medium used therein is rendered visible by the application of a low energy pulse, providing that the surface layer thickness of the recording medium, the contact surface area of the print electrodes and the spacing therebetween are all set to predetermined values. It has been found that the specific configuration of the multiple electrode print head plays an important role in overall performance in printers of this type. Also of importance is the particular material that the electrodes are made of and the manufacturing methods used to produce the print head. Print heads used in such electrolytic printers must be able to withstand considerable electrochemical wear forces, the low print voltages notwithstanding. This aspect of print head life is in addition to the normal mechanical, principally frictional, wear that a print head must tolerate. In addition, it has been determined that proper electrode configuration and isolation aids in preventing secondary or latent printing by trailing electrodes. With respect to this type of printing, it has been determined that there are certain electrode materials that have good to excellent overall wear characteristics, provided that they are utilized properly. Platinum is one example of such an electrode material. It has excellent head wear characteristics under electrochemical and electrolytic stress, but must be correctly employed in order to benefit from its use. Specifically, the superior wear characteristics of platinum are attributable, at least in part and to the extent germane to this invention, to a passivation or barrier layer which is formed on its exposed surfaces. It is this layer that serves in large measure to minimize electrode wear when platinum electrodes are used in an electrolytic printer. In use, however, it became evident that platinum electrodes were wearing unusually fast in print heads where they were not electrically isolated, at a rate that was far in excess of that expected. The actual cause of this problem was found to be electrode reversal in the print head, a situation wherein an electrode was allowed to function as both an anode, or cathode, depending on whether or not it was printing during a particular portion of the print cycle. The change in current flow that resulted from this electrode function reversal had the unfortunate result of reducing or even destroying the passivation layer on the platinum electrodes. The solution, and the basis of the present invention, was to permanently force non reversible roles on the print head electrodes. One possible response to this problem is disclosed in United States Patent No. 3 898 674 to Koch, although not specifically articulated as such in the reference. The Koch print head incorporates multiple electrodes, each being surrounded by an annular insulating ring which serves to separate the individual electrodes from a common ground. In performing this function, the insulating rings prevent any current flow into a particular electrode and thereby preclude said electrodes from reversing their roles as printing styli or cathodes. Unfortunately, it has been found that it is particularly difficult to build a print head in accordance with the teachings of Koch. For example, the insulating ring that surrounds each electrode must provide a perfect electrical seal and prevent all reverse current flow or the electrode will exhibit excessive wear and premature failure before too long. Print heads having such perfectly formed and uniform insulating rings have been difficult and expensive to manufacture. Thus, while the theoretical solution to this electrode wear problem is known, a practical solution thereto remains to be implemented. It is further known a recording stylus assembly used in electrochemical printers having electrodes, having a negative voltage applied thereto, and one anode which runs in contact with the recording paper. This assembly has a plane of conductive material serving as a cathode and arranged opposite of the anode at the other side of the paper to be printed. The electrode has to be located laterally of the direction in which the recording paper is moved to avoid that the imprint will be erased by said electrode. US A 2830 867 . Accordingly, it is a principal object of the present invention to provide means and a method for reducing or eliminating electrolytically or electrochemically induced print electrode wear in a matrix electrolytic printer, with an economically implemented print head. It is a further object of the present invention to provide means for and a method of limiting electrode wear through print head configuration without adversely affecting print resolution or throughput rates of the printer. It is another object of the present invention to provide means for and a method of limiting electrode wear through print head configuration that is compatible with the electrolytic printing process and materials being used, particularly when using platinum electrodes The present invention is characterized in that said electrodes 18, 20 are placed in rows, said rows comprising alternating ones of electrodes of said first and second kind, that said electrodes 18, 20 are spaced so that there is a printing offset of from 30 to 50 percent of the diameter of said electrodes, in particular said anode electrodes 20 , and that said plane of conductive material 32 is arranged between said rows of electrodes 18, 20 and is connected to said electrical drain. The invention will be described further, by way of preferred examples thereof, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Electrolytic printing can be accomplished by controlling the amplitude or the pulse width of a print signal or pulse forwarded to and applied by print electrodes to a suitable recording medium 10. As is more completely described in the aforementioned European Patent Application, Publication Number 58 855 the recording medium 10 consists of a surface layer 12, a conductive layer 14 and a support layer 16, see Figure 1. These layers are joined together by known techniques. The recording medium 10 is brought beneath a print electrode anode 18 by a suitable transport mechanism, not shown. A ground electrode cathode 20 is provided and located a predetermined distance from the print electrode 18. For ease of explanation and illustration, only one each of the print and ground electrodes have been shown in Figure 1. In some print head designs, a ground plane is provided in addition to the ground electrodes. This is more clearly shown in Figures 2 and 3. A control circuit 22 is connected between the print voltage source V and print electrodes 18. Control circuit 22, which can be of conventional design, is implemented in accordance with the control circuit apparatus described in the pending European Patent Application Serial Number 83 104 953.1 by Dailey et al. Alternatively, control circuit 22 can be implemented in accordance with the control circuit apparatus taught in the pending European Patent Application, Publication Number 80 075 by Pawletko et al. These circuits serve to form and then selectively forward voltage pulses of appropriate amplitude and or width to the print electrodes 18 via print information cable 28. Control circuit 22 would, of course, be forming pulses pursuant to what type of material, text or graphics, is to be printed as that information is received via bus 24 from a source thereof. In order to facilitate and expedite printing, a liquid applicator 26 is provided. The details of the applicator 26 and the liquid metering system in which it is utilized can be found in the United States Patent Number 4 335 967 by J. Pawletko. The applicator 26 is adapted to meter out very small quantities of liquid, preferably water, over the surface layer 12 of recording medium 10, just prior to its passing beneath print electrodes 18. The application of the fluid serves a dual purpose. It reduces frictional forces between the electrodes and the surface of the recording medium 10. The fluid also increases the conductivity of recording medium 10 in the print zone beneath each print electrode 18 and thereby facilitates and promotes the electrolytic printing process. In a matrix printer of the type described herein, one in which the recording medium 10 is being moved at a constant rate, a typical write cycle time is 500 microseconds. This is the time that it would take to actuate each one of a plurality of print electrodes 18 that are contained in the printer s print head. The print head 30 is mounted transverse to the direction of recording medium travel, indicated by the arrows in Figure 1, and may be as wide as as the recording medium, as in a line printer, or only of partial width, as in a printer where the print head is moved across the recording surface medium. The recording medium is itself typically moved at a speed of 152,4 mm sec 6 inches sec . This gives enough time, in each print cycle, to control the duration of the period for which a print pulse is applied to a particular print electrode. Each time a print electrode is energized, it leaves a visible mark on the surface of recording medium 10. Variations in the pulses applied to the print electrodes 18, and they can be different for each energized electrode in a given print cycle, leave a mark of different intensity on the recording medium 10. This ability to vary printing parameters allows for grey scale control. A print head 30 is illustrated in Figure 2. It consists of a plurality of electrodes 18 and 20, and ground planes 32, captured in a retaining block 34 composed of an insulating material. Retaining block 34 is composed of multiple layers 36 of glass, resin, epoxy or a mixture thereof, similar or identical to those used in the manufacture of printed circuit boards. Each layer 36 is formed from the glass, resin, epoxy or insulating composite with a plurality of platinum wires, the electrodes 18, embedded therein. Each layer 36 is faced on at least one surface thereof with a sheet of conductive material, usually platinum, to form a ground plane 32. Where it is compatible with the electrolytic process and chemical interactions therein, nickel can be used in place of platinum for the ground plane material. It should be noted that the use of nickel or platinum for this purpose is unlike the printed circuit arts where copper is used as the interlaminar material. Copper, however, is not suitable for use in a print head having an electrolytic operating environment. After being formed, the layers 36 are cured to their final state and then bonded together in an appropriate number. Except for the inclusion of the platinum electrodes 18 and 20, the layers 36 can be manufactured in a similar manner to that used in the preparation of multiple layer printed circuit boards. Examples of this technique and the descriptive details thereof can be found in United States Patent Nos. 4 030 190 and 4 201 616. As shown in Figure 2, each of the layers 36 includes a predetermined number of electrodes 18 and 20. The number of electrodes present in any one layer is a function of the desired resolution of the print copy. Electrodes 18 are coupled to a control circuit to receive printing or character segment information therefrom via cable 28. Electrodes 20 are connected to ground, also through cable 28. Typically, to obtain a high resolution print head of 240 PEL inch Printing ELements per inch, 9,45 PEL mm , 120 electrodes per layer are used in the two layer print head depicted in Figure 2. Note that the electrodes, although staggered, do have an overlap 42 of about 50 to 127 µm 2 to 5 mils , approximately 30 to 50 percent of electrode diameter. This overlap makes the final print copy have more of a filled appearance more like that of a fully formed character as opposed to the usual dot matrix formed character. It is important to note that the close electrode placement which this amount of overlap and resolution requires is made possible by the significantly reduced stray current. This stray current would otherwise migrate from a printing electrode to a non printing electrode during a given print cycle and thereby cause reversal of electrode function. As previously noted, platinum electrodes were used because of their performance characteristics in an electrolytic operating environment. This relative goodness is mainly due to the formation of a passive layer on the outer surface of this metal that serves to shield it from most external electrolytic or electrochemical forces. Unfortunately, the Figure 2 prior art print head and its associated control circuit allowed an electrode to function as a print element or anode in one print cycle and then as a ground electrode or cathode in the next or a subsequent print cycle. It was eventually learned that this reversal of electrode function was destroying the electrode s passivation layer and, with that, its ability to withstand the electrolytic printing operating environment without exhibiting undue and rapid wear. The print head 40, shown in Figure 3, is one response to this problem. A predetermined number of electrodes 20 is permanently grounded. They cannot and do not change function. These electrodes are indicated by X for easier visual identification. The remaining electrodes 18 are print electrodes and are employed for that function only. A print electrode 18 is either printing or is unused during any print cycle. It never serves as a ground or cathode and, therefore, never reverses its functional role. Where compatible with the chemistry of the particular electrolytic process being employed, nickel cathodes can be substituted for the platinum ones originally used for economic purposes. The preferred arrangement or configuration of print electrodes 18 and ground electrodes 20 is shown in Figure 3. In this configuration, the ground electrodes 20 are interstitial, or placed between and about the print electrodes 18 of print head 40. Thus, in each row of electrodes that is formed, no two anodes are left adjacent each other. There is always a cathode horizontally interspersed between the anodes, with the horizontal direction being defined by the normal orientation of print head 40. This placement, in conjunction with the role of the ground planes 32, serves to isolate each print electrode 18 and keeps stray or leakage current from entering a print electrode 18 and thereby harm its protective passivation layer. It should be noted that a ground plane 32 is positioned between each row of electrodes to block stray current leakage in the vertical direction. Since half of the electrodes in a standard layer 36 are now specifcally inhibited from printing, it is necessary to use twice as many layers as was used in the prior art print head of Figure 2 in order to obtain the same 240 PEL inch resolution. Consequently, twice as many print head layers 36 are used. The isolation effect of the interstitial ground electrodes 20 can be increased by using vertical ground planes instead of grounded electrode wires. This alternative is not as economically attractive as using a common electrode source, but it does promise additional reduction of stray interelectrode current flow. Print heads implemented in accordance with the present invention have been found to exhibit significantly improved operating life.