# Organic amine salt of an acid, manufacture and use as accelerator.

## Abstract
The present application pertains to a new organic amine salt of an acid. The use of organic amine salts of acids as photoaccelerators is especially useful in visible light photo polymerization when speed and depth of cure are needed. The preferred organic amine salt is of an organic acid with both the salt and amine moieties being unsaturated, the acid being methacrylic acid and the amine NN dimethyl 3 neopentyl acrylate. A new method for preparing the organic amine salt is also shown involving cooling both the organic amine and the acid before they are brought together in a non aqueous reaction.

## Claims
IT IS CLAIMED 1. A method of modifying the polymerization of a polymerizable composition comprising incorporating in said composition a neopentyl acrylate amine moiety and an acid moiety. 2. The method of modifying the polymerization of a polymerizable composition of Claim 1 wherein said neopentyl acrylate amine moiety and said acid moiety are associated in a salt. 3. The method of modifying the polymerization of a polymerizable composition of Claim 2 wherein said salt has the formula.EMI43.1 wherein R1 and R2 are alkyl or substituted alkyl radicals having from 1 4 C atoms and R3 is neopentyl acrylate having a total of 8 to 10 C and R4 is a vinyl having from 3 to 6 C. 4. The method of modifying the polymerization of a polymerizable composition of Claim 3 wherein R1 and R2 are methyl, Rw is neopentyl acrylate having 8 C and R4 is EMI43.2 and wherein said polymerizable composition comprising at least one additional acrylate that polymerizes by addition polymerization, a diketone initiator and is visible light curable. 5. A polymerizable compositiontompriswng I organic amine salt compound and 2 polymerization initiator compound 6. The polymerizable composition of Clain 5 comprising at least one polymerizable organic compound other than said organic amine salt compound, said organic amine salt compound being chosen from the group consisting of polymerizable, and unpolymerizable organic amine salts and mixtures thereof. 7. The polymerizable composition of Claim 6 wherein said polymerization initiator compound is a radiation activatable compound. 8. The polymerizable composition of Claim 7 wherein additional said polymerization initiator compound is present and it is heat activatable compound. 9. The polymerizable composition of Claim 7 wherein said polymerizable composition is storage stable at 20OC for at least one week under light free conditions and said radiation activaWble sllpound comprising an actinic light activatable compound. 10. The polymerizable composition of Claim 6 wherein said organic amine salt compound comprisirÇg the salt of an organic acid. 11. The polymerizable composition of laim 7 wherein said radiation activablecoinpound comprising an actinic light activatablecompound and said organic amine salt compound comprising the formulaEMI45.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each either an organic radical orH and R4 is an organic radical or H. 12. The polymerizable composition of Claim 11 wherein the polymerizable system consists of said organic amine salt compound, said radiation activatablecompound and said at least one polymerizable organic compound and said organic amine salt compound is present in an amount of about 0.05 to about 99 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and comprising the stated general formula and wherein at least one of R1, R2 and R3 contains the groupEMI45.2 said at least one polymerizable organic compound is present in an amount or about 1 to about99.9 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and comprising an ethylenically unsaturated compound said radiation activated compound is present in an amount Q about .001 to about 10 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and wherein said polymerizable composition comprising filler present in an amount of about 0 to about 70 percent on a volume basis based on the total volume of said polymerizable composition. 13. The polymerizable composition of Claim 12 as a dental composition for end use in the oral environment wherein said organic amine salt compound is present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 10 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and comprising the stated general formula and wherein R1 and R2 are alkyl or substituted alkyl radicals, R3 is a saturated or unsaturated neopentyl radical and at least one of R1, R2 or R3 is unsaturated and R4 is unsaturated said at least one polymerizable organic compound is present in an amount of about 85 to about 99.9 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and comprising an acrylate polymerized predominately through addition polymerization said radiation activated compound comprising diketone present in an amount of about 0.01 to about 5 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and wherein said polymerizable composition has a filler content of about 35 to about 70 percent on a volume basis based on the total volume of said polymerizable composition. 14. The polymerization composition of Claim 13 wherein said organic amine salt compound is present in an amount of about 0.3 to about 5 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and comprising the non aqueous reaction product of 3 N,N dimethylamino 2,2 dimethylpropyl acrylate with methacrylic acid said at least one polymerizable organic compound is present in an amount of about 94.5 to about 99.6 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and is chosen from the group consisting of mono and multifunctional acrylates and said diketone is present in an amount of about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight of said polymerizable system and wherein said composition has a filler content of about 45 to about 70 percent on a volume basis based on the total volume of said polymerizable composition. 15. The method of forming an organic amine salt df an acid comprising 1 preparing separate feed stocks of organic amine and acid 2 bringing said feed stocks together under conditions such that one of said feed stocks is below about 0 C at the time of combining. 16. The method of forming an organic amine salt of an acid of Claim 15 wherein both said organic amine feed stock and said acid feed stock are cooled to at least about 0 0C before they are combined. 17. The method of forming an organic amine salt of an acid of Claim 16 wherein said acid is an organic acid, said cooling is to a degree that solidifies said organic acid and said organic acid and said organic amine are brought together in reaction with said organic acid initially in a solid state and said reaction is exothermic. IS. The method of forming an organic amine salt of an acid of Claim 17 wherein said reactants have the formulasEMI48.1 wherein R1 R2 and R3 are each either an organic radical orH and R4 is an organic radical or H. 19. The method of forming an organic amine salt of an acid of Claim 18 wherein R3 is n eopentyl acrylate radical having 8 to 10 C and R4 contains a vinyl group. 20. The method of forming an organic amine salt of an acid of Claim 19 wherein R1 and R2 are alkanes having 1 to 2 C atoms and R3 is a neopentyl acrylate radical having 8 to 9 C and R4 isEMI48.2 and said organic amine salt is formed in noneaqueous conditions. 21. A composition of matter comprising a salt comprisingEMI48.3 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each either an organic r di al H and at least one of R1, R2 and R3 contains the groupEMI49.1 and R4 is an organic radical or H. 22. The composition of matter of Claim 21 wherein said salt on treatment of one ml of salt in 2 ml of water in a glass test tube with ten drops of 50 NaOH aqueous solution results in the separation of an amine layer on top which exhibits a characteristic strong offensive amine odor. 23. The composition of matter of Claim 21 wherein said salt is further defined as R3 is a neopentyl acrylate radical with 8 to 10 C and R4 contains a vinyl group. 24. The composition of matter of Claim 23 wherein said salt is further defined as R1 and R2 are alkane.s having 1 to 6 C and Ro is a neopentyl acrylate radical having 8 9 C and R4 isEMI49.2 25. A polymerizable composition comprising 1 addition polymerizable compound 2 photoinitiator and 3 photoaccelerator comprising salt of organic amine and organic acid. 26. The polymerizablc composition of Claim 25 wherein said addition polymerizable compound comprising acrylic or substituted acrylic monomer and said photoaccelerator salt comprising unsaturated organic amine moiety and unsaturated organic acid moiety. 27. The polymerizable composition of Claim 26 wherein said organic amine moiety comprising tertiary amine. 28. The polymerizable composition of Claim 27 wherein said tertiary amine moiety is a neopentyl acrylate amine and said acid moiety is a methacrylic acid, and said photoinitiator comprising diketone.

## Description
ORGANIC AMINE SALT OF AN ACID, MANUFACTURE AND USE AS ACCELERATOR BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The present invention relates to a new organic amine salt of an acid, the manufacture of such a salt and broadly the use of organic amine salts as polymerization accelerators particularly in visible light curing systems. It is known, see 4,071,424, that amines function as photoaccelerators in light curing compositions employing diketone photoinitiators to polymerize ethylenically unsaturated organic compounds. It is also known to use betaine salts which are also based on organic amines as photopolymerizable monomer, see 4,297,185. Betaine should be contrasted with the organic amine salt of the present invention in which the acid is displaceable by a strong base to regenerate amine. In betaine which is the addition product of an amine to an unsaturated carboxylic acid, the betaineamine is not displaceable by a strong base according to current understanding. An object of the present invention is to provide a polymerizable composition that has a rapid rate of cure and a substantial depth of cure capability even with highly opaque compositions. Another object of the present invention is to provide a photo accelerator having low volatility and toxicity to enhance health advantages. Yet another object of the invention is to provide a polymerizable composition having good color stability on aging and low odor. Another object of the invention is to provide a superior degree of polymerization. Another object of the invention is to provide an accelerator that is copolymerizable and highly resistant to extraction. A further object of the invention is the provision of a new improved organic amine salt compound. Another object of the invention is to provide a method of producing the new improved organic amine salt compound of the present invention. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides a new method of modifying polymerizable compositions by introducing a new polymerization modifying system that is a neopentyl acrylate amine moiety and an acid moiety. The particularly preferred modifying system is one in which the recited amine moiety and acid moiety are associated in a salt and preferably the acid moiety is a methacrylic acid. The invention also provides a new superior polymerizable composition that contains in addition to the initiator an organic amine salt compound. The organic amine salt acts as an accelerator and preferably has unsaturation in both its amine and acid moiety. Most preferably the polymerizable composition is one that is curabl by visible light radiation and is a dental composition suitable for use in the oral environment. By another aspect, the invention provides a new composition of matter that is a salt having the formulaEMI3.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each either an organic radical orH and at least one of R1, R2 and R3 contains the groupEMI3.2 and R4 is an organic radical or H. By yet another feature of the invention, a new method is provided for producing organic amine salts of acids which involves cooling at least the organic amine or acid feed stock to below 0 C before they are brought together for reaction.Preferably both feed stocks are cooled to below O C and preferably the acid is frozen solid. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT The present invention in its preferred embodiment is a photoaccelerated polymerizable composition employing a new organic amine salt compound with a conventional polymerization initiator compound. Broadly, it has been determined that the salts of the organic amines are superior photoaccelerators to the organic amines themselves at least in a diverse variety of situations and that in the other situations the salts of the organic amines operate to modify the polymerization of diverse polymerizable compositions in ways differing from the organic amines themselves.As used in this patent application, the term salt of an organic amine does not include the betaineswhich are contrasted as set forth in the BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION section of this application. The organic amines that are applicable to the present invention are all inclusive of the alkyl and substituted alkyl amines, but those preferred are represented by the formula EMI5.1 wherein R1, R2 and R3 are each either an organic radical or H hydrogen atom . R with a subscript represents a radical. N represents a nitrogen atom. The more preferred amines are the tertiary amines. The amines that are most preferred are those with a neopentyl acrylate amine moiety and especially amines having the neopentyl acrylate moiety that are tertiary amines and most preferable those that are represented by the formula EMI6.1 wherein R1 and R2 are alkyl or substituted alkyl radicals having from 1 4 C carbon atoms and R3 is a neopentyl acrylate radical having a total of 8 to 10 C. More preferably R1 and R2 are methyl and R3 is a neopently acrylate radical having 8 C. A neopently acrylate radical having 8 C is represented by the formula EMI6.2 By a neopently acrylate radical having 8 to 10 C it is meant not only the acrylate as depicted in the formula above , but also the methacrylate or ethacrylate. Other neopentyl radicals that may be preferred in some special situations might be saturated, as well as unsaturated. 0 represents an oxygen atom. The acids that are applicable to the present invention are inclusive of all compounds having an acid moiety but those preferred are the organic acids. The more preferred classes of acids exclude the strong organic acid, such as the oxalic, picric, sulfonilic, trifluromethane sulfonic, and perfluorobutyric acids. The most preferred organic acids are those having mono acid functionality that are represented by the formula EMI7.1 wherein R4 is an organic radical or , more preferably R4 is unsaturated and preferably contains a vinyl group and has from 3 to 6 C, R4 is more preferablyEMI7.2 When R4 is given as vinyl having from 3 to 6 C it is meant that the acid may be not only acrylic or propenoic acid but also methacrylic acid, ethacrylic acid and propvlacrylic acid. As already mentioned in the preferred form of the present invention, the organic amine moiety and the acid moiety are first associated in a salt. The organic amine salt compound is combined with a polymerization initiator compound a polymerizable composition. The preferred salts are represented by the formula EMI7.3 wherein R1, R2, R3 and R4 have the meanings previously given for test It will be understood that the preferred salts giving superior efficacy are those previously identified by their amine and acid constitùancs as being more and most preferred in the order previously indicated. The organic amine salt compounds preferably are unsaturated via R1, R2 or R3 and R4, thus providing the capability of themselves forming a polymer. More preferably, the polymerizable composition contains at least one polymerizable organic compound other than the organic amine salt compound. Thus, in its preferred embodr.ent and its greatest presently contemplated utility, the preferred organic amine salt is included in a composition with at least one polymerizable organic compound other than the organic amine salt. The organic amine salt can be chosen from the group consisting of polymerizable and unpolymerizable organic amine salts and mixtures thereof. The polymerizable organic compound excluding the amine salt compound is inclusive of all organic. compounds and combined tions of compounds that are polymerizable but those preferred are the ethylenically unsaturated compounds, which should be free radical polymerizable. A suitable compound is a monomer containing ethylenic unsaturation in a terminal group. For example, the ethylenically unsaturated material may be one or more monomers selected from vinyl monomers, allyl monomers and vinylidene monomers. Suitable vinyl monomers which may be polymerized include, for example, vinyl esters, aromatic vinyl compounds and vinyl nitriles. Vinyl esters suitable for use in the method of our invention include, for example, vinyl acetate. Preferably, the predominant polymerizable composition is an acrylate polymerized predominantly through addition polymerization, more preferable one chosen from the group consisting of mono and multifunctional acrylates. By acrylate as used in this phraseology, it is meant to include the acrylates and methacrylates. Especially preferred compounds are the mltifunc tional acrylates such as 1, 6 hexandiol dimethacrylate and the urethane dimethacrylate oligomers. By at least one polymerizable organic compound, it will be understood in this application to mean one or more such corapounds. The preferred polymerization initiator compound is a radiationactivatable compound. In some instances, a heat activatabe initiator compound may also bp included. Mole preferably, the radiation activatable compound is an a t nic light activatable compound. Such compounds are well known, see, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,245,031, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably, the initiator is a visible light activatablecompound making the polymerizable composition curable with visible light. The preferred class of initiators is the well known diketones and the most preferred is camphoroquinone. Visible light activatable photoinitiators are discussed in U.S. Patent No. 4,110,184, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The organic amine salt compound, the radiation activatable corpound and the at least one polymerizable organic compound one or more polymerizable organic compounds in addition to the organic amine salt compound or compounds constitute the polymerizable system. The organic arrine salt compound is preferably present in the polymerizable system in an amount of 0.05 to 99 percent b weight of the poly7merizable system con stituents, more preferably in an amount of G.1 to 10 percent and most preferably in an amount of G.3 t 5 percent.The radiation activatabe compound is preferably present in the polymerizable system in an amount of 0.001 to 10 percent by weight of the polymerizable system constituents, more preferably 0.01 to 5 percent and most preferably 0.1 to 0.5 percent. The at least one polymerizable organic compound is preferably present in the polymerizable system in an amount of 1.0 to 99.9 percent by weight of the polymerizable system constituents, more preferably 85 to 99.9 percent and most preferably 94.5 to 99.6 percent. In addition to the primary polymer2zÅation acX onstitutients of the composition discussed above, large quantities of other ingredients may be present, for example, the silaneous fillers and other fillers by way of example apatite, soda glass, quartz, silica gel, borosilicate glass, alumina, metal fibres and particulate polymer. These may be in the form of spheres, platelets, fibres, whiskers or they may be irregularly shaped. Many other constitutients may also be present, such as stabilizing agents, plasticizers, inert diluents, solvents, pigments, opaquing agents, etc. Such materials are discussed in the previously referenced two patents. Such teachings are wellknown and their repetition is therefore unnecessary. In some embodiments, substantial filler may be present and it is preferred to have a filler content of 0 to 70 percent of the polymerizable composition on a volume basis based on total volume of the polmerizable composition, and in many filled compositions where the present invention has special significance in enabling adequate cure, 35 to 70 percent and even 45 to 70 percent. An important feature of the present invention is the provision of a system in its preferred forms that will cure in response to visible light quickly to a high degree of cure and to substantial depths. This highly chemically reactive photoresponsive material is storage stable at 20 0C for at least one week under light free conditions in its preferred forms, and can achieve storage stability of more than a year. The invention provides by the recited means a method of modifying the polymerization of polymerizable compositions.These means having been recited in detail in the discussion of the compositions will not be repeated here as the method of the THE METHOD OF FORMING THE ORGANIC AMINE SAL While the organic a ine salt of an acid may be formed by other means, the preferred method and the method of the present invention that will produce an arrine salt of an acid is given below. E an orcanic ar ine salt as used herein, it is meant as previously stated, the salt as described earlier in this application and as contrasted with betaines in the BACKGROUND OFTHE INVENTION section of this application. First, separate feed stocks of an organic amine and an acid are formed. These feed stocks are then brought together under conditions such that one of the combined feed stocks is below 0 C at the time of combining. Preferably both the organic amine feed stock and the acid feed stock are cooled to at least 0 C before the feed stocks are combined. More preferably, the acid is an rale c acid and the cooling is to a degree that solidifies the organic acid and the organic acid and organic amine are brouch together in reaction with the organic acid initially in a solid state and the reaction is exothermic. The preferred orcanic amines and the preferred organic acid reactants are those previously described in this application with the preferred and previously determined efficacies of this invention being those previously indicated. Preferably the organic amine salt is formed under nonaqueous conditions. As disclosed in Example 2, small quantities of the organic amine salt can be prepared conveniently without cooling. This is believed to be the situation because the very small quantity does nct heat excessively during the exetherm of the reaction. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples EXAMPLE 1 An organic amine salt of an acid was formed by preparing two feed stocks as follows 92.8 g glacial methacrylic acid MAA 99.3 purity, with 250 ppm methyl ether hydroquinone MEHQ was charged to an amber glass bottle. 0.28 g buylated hydroxytoluene BHT was added to the MAA and shaken until dissolved into a uniform solution. The MAA solution was placed into a freezer set at 12 C for about one hour. The solution became a frozen solid. At substantially the same time, about 200 g of 3 dimethyl aminoneopentyl acrylate DMANPA also known as 3 N,N dimethylamino 2,2 dimethylpropyl acrylate 99 purity with 50 ppm MEHQ was charged to an amber glass bottle and placed in the freezer set at 120C for about one hour. The DMANPA did not freeze and remained liquid. Both bottles were removed from the freezer and 185 a DMANPA was poured onto the frozen MAA solid. The combined MAS and DMANPA were then shaken vigorously on a mechanical shaker.The exotherm of the salt reaction melted the frozen MAA and the amine salt formed as a liquid. Shaking was continued for 10 minutes to ensure complete reaction. A slight stochiometric excess of MAA was used for odor modification in Example 1 to compensate for the impurities inherently present in the starting materials. The theoretical molar equivalent for DMANPA MAA amine salt is 185 86 DMANPA MAA .Experience indicates that a DMANPA MAA ratio lower than 185 95 tends to slow down the photoaccelerators efficiency. EXAMPLE 2 EXAMPLE 2 Another 1 1 mole ratio acid amine salt reaction product was formed by reacting 8.6 g of MAA and 15.7 g of dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate DMAEMA by combining these small quantities at room temperature in a 2 oz amber glass container at room temperature and shaking them on a mechanical shaker for about one half hour and then letting stand for about one hour before using.It is believed that the cooling is not necessary because of the small quantities involved. The resulting amine salt DMAEMA MAA was a clear, slightly viscous liquid. To determine the nature of the compound formed, infrared spectra were run on glacial methacrylic acid MAA , dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate DMAEMA and the above reaction product DMAEMA MAA . The spectra confirm that the DMAEMA MAA salt is a new compound and not just a simple physical mixture of MAA and DMAEMA. The differences of the spectra are very obvious and can be explained as follows I. Disappearance of Free COOH Group The DMAEMA MAA salt has an entirely new form in the 2500 3300 cm region. The broad and strong COOH band due to OH vibration of MAA in this region changed after the reaction.Noticeable also is the disappearance of the strong OH vibration at 2650 cm 1, 2750 cm Ú, and 1750 cm 1 In addition, the C O vibrations in MAA at 1715cm 1 and D SEMA 1740 cm Ú have been shifted to 1725 cm in the new salt. II. Formation of COO Salt The new bands formed in DMAEMA MAA spectra inthe 2400 2600 cm region and the 1850 2050 cm region are indications of the new COO salt formation. The new band in the 1550 1620 cm Ú region and the higher intensity band at 1410 cm 1 also indicated the formation of COO salt, or CH2 compounds. Additionally, the missing of 1115 cm band due to C N stretching in DMAEMA after the reaction indicated the nature of the C N bond has been changed. In conclusion, the I.R. spectra evidenced the following believed reaction between DMAEMA and MAA EMI14.1 DMAEMA MAA salt EXAMPLE 3 Another experiment was carried out to demonstrate the nature of the reaction product of the DMAEMA MAA reaction prepared according to Example 2. The volatility of the DMAEMA, MAA and the reaction product was measured by, placing 5 grams of each of the three in 10 ml bottles and storing, them open for six days at room temperature. The following weight changes were observed pure Methacrylic acid weight loss 5.0 pure DMAEMA weight loss 4.6 Both MAA and DMAEMA showed vapor loss during open storage. Surprisingly, the amine acid salt D4AEMA MAA showed no vapor loss during open storage. Instead, it gained some weight.The lower vapor pressure can be regarded as an advantage from the toxicity viewpoint. No vapor loss may indicate a less hazardous work environment. EXAMPLE 4 7 The following experiments were carried out in order to help understand the chemical nature of DMAEMA and MAA reaction product. The materials were added in the order listed at room temperature. Example 4 Example 5 Example E Example 7Materials 1 2cc Distilled 2cc Distilled 2cc Distilled The solution fror.. Ex. 6 Water Water Water 2 lcc MAA lcc DMAEMA lcc DMAEMA MAA Add 10 drops of 50 1 1 mole NaOH solution reaction productResultsSolubility Clear solution DMAEMA formed Clear solution DMAEMA formed separate layer separate layer on top. at bottom. odor Acetic odor strong offensive Not detectable Strong offensive Example 7 is believed to be a typical acid base replace ment reaction. The strong base WaOE displaced the weak baseDMAEMA and formed a new salt MAA Na . Free DMAEMA was released and thus produced the strong amine For. Because of the higher density of the new salt, DMAEMA floated to the top instead of being at the bottom as in Example 5.We believe these results and those or the previous examples prove that an arlne salt has formed by the reaction of the amine and acid. EXAMPLES 8 1t The following examples are believed especially illustrative of the relative cure rate of DMAEMA MAA amine salt compared with DMAEMA and MAA used alone. 100 gram solutions ofExamples 8, 9, 10 and 11 were prepared in four ounce amber bottles at room temperature. About one ml of each solution was transferred to 6 x 50 mm clear borosilicate glass culture tubes and exposed to 140 mw cm2 of visible light supplied by a 150 watt quartz halogen lamp with a 400 500 nm bandpass filter. Example 8 9 10 11 Weight Weight t Weight Weight 1,6 Hexanediol 99.70 98.80 98.30 91.70 dimethacrylate HDDMA Camphoroquinone CQ 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30DMAEMA 0.90 MAA 0.50DMAEMA MAA prepared according to Example 2 1.40 Visible Light Cure Results 0 seconds liquid liquid liquid liquid 50 seconds liquid soft gel rigid semi liquid solid 60 seconds liquid soft gel rigid solid liquid 120 seconds liquid rigid solid rigid solid liquid This 1.40 weight percent DMAEMA MAA was derived from 0.50 MAA and 0.90 DMAEMA Example 8 containing camphoroGuinone 1n1tiatr did no cure after 2 minutes exposed to light in the absence of a photoaccelerator.Example 9 with DMAEMA as photoaccelerator cured after 120 seconds but not after 60 seconds. Example 10 with an equimolar amount of DMAEMA MAA cured to a rigid solid in 60 seconds. MAA did not act as a photoaccelerator as shown by the lack of cure of Example 11. It was concluded from this experiment that the cure rate of camphoroquinone initiated photopolymerizations were accelerated by DMAEMA MAA up to twice as fast as with DMAEMA. DMAEMA MAA is a difunctional methacrylate as well as a photoaccelerator capable of polymerization with the addition of initiator The following example is illustrative of the homopolymerization of DMAEMA MAA. EXAMPLE 12 0.3 a camphorocn none was dissolved in 99.7 grams ot DMAEMA MAA prepared as in Example 2 in a 4 oz. amber glass bottle. About one ml of the solution was transferred to a glass culture tube and cured as described in Example 8 11. After exposure 6 minutes of lights the solution cured to a clear rigid solid polymer which was soluble in water. When copolymerized with a minor amount of a crosslinking polymer such as 1,6 hexanediol dimethacrylate, the copolymer is water insoluble. EXAMPLE 13 16 Photocacceleration speed of amines and amine salt was tested as follows Solutions containing 100 c 1,6 hexanediol dimethacrylate, 0.30 g camphoroquinone and 0.E8 g amine or amine salt prepared according to Example l were prepared and tested for cure rate. The gel time was recorded in seconds as the time required for the liquid monomer to gel and start to shrink away from the wall of the glass culture tube. The solution was cured as described above. The results in increasing effectiveness decreasing gel time are as follows Relative vole RelativeExample and Amine Salt Ratio Gel Time Gel TimeEs. 13 N Methyldiethanol 1.00 135 sec. 2.37 amine DMEA Ex. 14 Dimethylaminoethyl 0.76 71 sec. 1.25 methacrylate DMAEMA Ex. 15 Dimethylaminoethyl 0.48 60 sec. 1.05 methacrylate Methacrylic acid salt DMAFMA MAA Ex. 16 Dimethylamino 0.44 57 sec. 1.00 neopentyl acrylate Methacrylic acid salt DMANPA MAA As can be seen frort. the above cata, DMANPA MAA salt is more than twice as fast as MDEA of the same weight ratio or onlyC.44 mole ratio relative to MDEA . The DMANPA MAA salt is also about 25 faster than DMAEMA. EXAMPLES 17 25 The following examples are especially illustrative of the effect of amine and amine salts on the depth of cure of visible light curable compositions. A pigmented polymer powder blend was prepared from the pigments, fiber, fumed silica and polymer in a V Cone Blender.Solutions of HDDMA containing CQ and the amine or amine salts prepared as described in Example 1 were prepared in four ounce amber bottles. 10g of each solution was combined with 10g grams of powder blend in a four ounce amber bottle and allowed to gel for two hours before testing. The depth of cure was measured in Teflon molds in a cylindrical cavity 5 mm deep and 8 mm in diameter. The bottom of the cavity was covered with a cellophane sheet backed up by a glass slide. The compositions of Example 17 25 were packed into the mold and covered with a cellophane sheet. The compositions were cured for three minutes by 132 mDs cm2 of visible light supplied by a 150 watt quartz halogen lamp with a 400 500 nm band pass filter.The sample was pushed out of the mold and the uncured material was scraped off the bottom with a knife. The bottom was smoothed with 600 grit sandpaper. The height of the cylinder was measured by a . micrometer to 0.01 mm as the depth of cure. DEPTH OF CURE OF COMPOSITIONS ACCELERATED WITH AMINES OR AMINE SALTSEMI21.1 SEP Example SEP 17 SEP Example SEP 181 SEP Example SEP 19 SEP Example SEP 20 tb Poly SEP methyl SEP methacrylate co tb SEP ethylene SEP dimethacrylate SEP tb SEP 99.08 0.2 SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw tb Fumed SEP silica SEP Aerosil SEP R972 tb SEP product SEP of SEP Degussa SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 SEP SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 tb Red SEP Acetate SEP fiber SEP 0.16 SEP 0,16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 tb Pigment SEP Cromophthal SEP Red SEP BR SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP J SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb Pigment SEP Cromophthal SEP Brown SEP 5R SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb SEP Ciba SEP Geigy tb Iron SEP Oxide SEP Yellow SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb HDDMA SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 tb CQ SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 tb Amine SEP or SEP Amount SEP 0.90 SEP pbw SEP 0.90 SEP pbw SEP 0.90 SEP pbw SEP 0.90 SEP pbw tb amine SEP salt SEP Type SEP MDEA SEP DMAEMA SEP DMAEMA MAA SEP DMANPA tb SEP Depth SEP of SEP Cure SEP after SEP 3 SEP min tb SEP exposure SEP SEP 3.0 SEP mm SEP 3.5 SEP mm SEP 3.5 SEP mm SEP 3.6 SEP mm tb Examples 17 21 show that at the same weight ratio the preferred amine salt DMANPA MAA gave a depth of cure that was 30 greater than MDEA, and 11.4 greater thanDMAEMA and DMAEMA MAA salt. Examples 22 25 show additional gains in the depth of cure when the amine salts are used at equimolar ratios. DEPTH OF CURE OF COMPOSITIONS ACCELERATED WITH AMINES OR AMINE SALTS con t EMI22.1 SEP Example SEP 21 SEP Example SEP 22 SEP Example SEP 23 SEP Example SEP 24 SEP Example SEP 25 tb Poly SEP methyl SEP methacryalte co tb SEP ethylene SEP dinethacrylate tb SEP 99.08 0.21 SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw SEP 98.59 SEP pbw tb Fumed SEP silica SEP Aerosil SEP R972 tb SEP product SEP of SEP Degussa SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 SEP 1.09 tb Red SEP Acetate SEP fiber SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 SEP 0.16 tb Pigment SEP Cromophthal SEP Red SEP BR SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb SEP Ciba SEP Geigy tb Pigment SEP Cromophthal SEP Brown SEP 5R SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb Ciba SEP Geigy tb Iron SEP Oxide SEP Yellow SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 SEP 0.002 tb HDDMA SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 SEP 100.00 tb CQ SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 SEP 0.30 tb Amine SEP or SEP Amount SEP 0.90 SEP pbw SEP 1.19 SEP pbw SEP 1.84 SEP pbw SEP 1.40 SEP pbw SEP 2.05 SEP pb tb amine SEP salt SEP Type SEP DMANPA MAA SEP DMAEMA SEP DMAEMA MAA SEP DMANPA SEP DMANPA MA tb SEP 1 SEP 1 tb Depth SEP of SEP Cure SEP after SEP 3 SEP min tb SEP exposure SEP 3.9 SEP mm SEP 3.5 SEP mm SEP 3.9 SEP mm SEP 3.6 SEP mm tb EXAMPLES 17 21 show that at the same weight ratio the preferred amine salt DMANPA MAA gave a depth of cure that was 30 greater than MDEA, and 11.4 greater thanDMAEMA and DMAEMA MAA salt. Examples 22 25 show additional gains in the depth of cure when the amine salts are used at equimolar ratios. EXAMPLE 2 6 The color stability of amines and amine salts is illus trated as follows Solutions containing 50 g HDDMA, 50 g urethane dimethacrylate Plex 6661 0 Rohm G.M.B.H , 0.3 g CO and 5.73 x moles of the amine or amine salt as listed below were prepared as previously described in Examples 13 16. The solutions were cast into Plexiglas molds with cylindrical cavities 3 mm deep and 20 mm in diameter. They were then cured using the light and method described in Examples 17 25 except the cure time was two minutes on each side. Three cured discs of each sample were then masked half way with aluminum foil and placed in a QW Weatherometer, manufactured by Q Panel. The fourth disc was removed and placed in dark storage for comparison. Each weathering cycle in the QW unit includes 4 hours UV at 600C, followed by 4 hours condensation at 500C. The total exposure time is 233 1 2 hours. The samples were then removed and ranked by the degree of discoloration as observed visually by the unaided human eye. For all samples masked with aluminum foil, no discoloration was observed. The exposed sections showed various degrees of discoloration and were ranked in the following sequence. Wt. of Amine or Degree Amine or Amine Salt Amine Salt of Discoloration MDEA 0.68 Severe DMAEMA 0.90 Moderate DMAEMA MAA Salt 1.40 Moderate DMANPA 1.06 Light DMANPA MAA Salt 1.56 Light DMANPA MAA Salt 0.68 Light Control no amine or amine salt Light. Light As can be seen from the above results, D1ANPA MAA Salt has excellent color stability, while both DMAEMA and MDEA have very poor color stability, with MDEA being the most color unstable. EXAMPLES 27 70 Examples 27 to 70 especially illustrate the influence on acceleration of the cure rate, as measured by the gel time, of the amine salts compared to the amines for a broad variety of different amines and acids. The examples show that the amine salts gave shorter gel times than the amines at Equimolar concentrations, with the exception of the amine salts of very strong acids.Examples 58 to 70 illustrate amine salts that were not useful as accelerators since they were insoluble in the HDDMA or the amines and acids were incompatable in the test monomer solution. The amine salts were prepared according to Example 2.The solutions were prepared substantially as in Example 13 except 5.76 x 10 6 moles of amine or amine salt were used with the 100 grams of 1,6 hexandiol dimethacrylate and 0.3 g camphoroquinone CQ . EXAMPLE 27 31Gel Times of Amine Salts of Monomoric Aminos with Glacial Methacrylic Acid EMI26.1 SEP Physical SEP form SEP Exotherm SEP Gel SEP Time SEP sec SEP Ratio SEP of SEP Gel SEP Time tb SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP Chemical SEP Structure SEP Mol. SEP Wt. SEP of SEP Salt SEP Amine SEP Amine tb Example SEP of SEP Amine SEP of SEP Amine SEP of SEP Amine SEP Amine SEP Salt SEP Formation SEP Amine SEP Salt SEP Amine SEP Salt tb 27 SEP Dimethylaminoneopentyl SEP SEP 185 SEP liquid SEP mild SEP 79 SEP 48 SEP 1.65 SEP 1.00 tb SEP acrylate tb 28 SEP 2 N Morpholinoethyl SEP SEP 185 SEP liquid SEP mild SEP 87 SEP 63 SEP 1.38 SEP 1.00 tb SEP acrylate tb 29 SEP 2 N Morpholinoethyl SEP SEP 199 SEP liquid SEP mild SEP 78 SEP 56 SEP 1.39 SEP 1.00 tb SEP methancrylate tb 30 SEP Dimethylaminopropyl SEP SEP 170 SEP liquid SEP mild SEP 94 SEP 64 SEP 1.47 SEP 1.00 tb SEP methacrylamide tb 31 SEP Dimethylaminoethyl SEP SEP 157 SEP liquid SEP high, SEP fumed SEP 63 SEP 51 SEP 1.24 SEP 1.00 tb SEP methacrylate tb The amine salts have cure rates that are 24 to 65 faster than the amines themselves. Examples 32 35Gel Times of Amine Salts of Dimethylaminoneopentyl Acrylate with organic AcidsEMI27.1 tb SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP Chemical SEP Structure SEP Mol SEP Wt. SEP Physical SEP Form tb Example SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Amine SEP Salt tb SEP 32 SEP Glacial SEP Methacrylic SEP SEP CH3 SEP 86 SEP Liquid tb SEP Acid SEP CH2 C COOH tb SEP 33 SEP Glacial SEP Acrylic SEP Acid SEP CH2 CH COOH SEP 72 SEP Initially SEP Liquid tb SEP then SEP gelled tb SEP Insoluble SEP in tb SEP HDDMA tb SEP 34 SEP d Carboxyethyl SEP CH2 CH C O CH2CH2COOH SEP 144 SEP Viscous SEP paste tb SEP Acrylate SEP II SEP then SEP gelled tb SEP O SEP Insoluble SEP in tb SEP HDDMA tb SEP 35 SEP Acetic SEP Acid SEP CH3COOH SEP 60 SEP Liquid tb The amine salts have cure rates that are 58 to 76 faster than the amines themselves. Examples 32 35 con t Gel Times of Amine Salts of Dimethylaminoneopentyl Acrylate with Organic Acids Gel time sec. Ratio of Gel Time Chemical Name Exotherm of Example of Acid Salt Formation Amine Amine Salt Amine Amine Salt 32 Glacial Methacrylic High fumed 79 48 1.65 1.00 Acid 33 Glacial Acrylic Acid High, fumed 79 45 1.76 1.00 34 ss Carboxyethyl mild, fumed 79 50 1.58 1.00 Acrylate 35 Acetic Acid High, fumed 79 50 1.58 1.00 The amine salts have Cure rates that are 58 to 76 faster than the amines themselves EXAMPLES 36 44Gel Times of Amine Salts of Glacial Methacrylic Acid with Saturated Amines EMI29.1 SEP Gel SEP Time tb SEP Seconds SEP Ratio SEP of SEP Gel SEP Time tb SEP Tertiary SEP Amines SEP Used SEP 1 1 SEP Amine SEP AmineExample SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP R1 SEP SEP R2 SEP SEP R3 SEP SEP Amine SEP MAA SEP Salt SEP Amine SEP MAA SEP Salt tb 36 SEP N Ethyldiethanolamine SEP C2H5 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 150 SEP 55 SEP 2.7 SEP 1.0 tb 37 SEP N Methyldiethanolamine SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 135 SEP Self SEP Gelled, SEP SEP SEP not SEP tested tb 38 SEP N,n butyldiethanolamine SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 120 SEP 60 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.0 tb 39 SEP Tributylamine SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP CH2 3CH3 SEP CH2 3CH SEP 150 SEP 60 SEP 2.5 SEP 1.0 tb 40 SEP N,N Dimethylethanolamine SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 75 SEP 62 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.0 tb 41 SEP 1 Dimethylamino 2 propanol SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH OH SEP 80 SEP 55 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.0 tb SEP CH3 tb 42 SEP 1 Dimethylamino 2 propanol SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP CH2CH OH SEP 80 SEP 55 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.0 tb SEP CH3 tb 42 SEP 1 Diethylamino 2 propanol SEP C2H5 SEP C2H5 SEP CH2CH OH SEP 170 SEP 70 SEP 2.4 SEP 1.0 SEP tb SEP CH3 tb SEP CH3 tb 43 SEP 2 Dimethylamino 2 methyl SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP C CH2OH SEP 135 SEP 80 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.0 tb SEP 1 propanol SEP CH3 tb 44 SEP None SEP SEP SEP SEP 6 SEP min. SEP 22 SEP sec. SEP SEP SEP 382 SEP sec. tb The amine salts have cure rates that are 20 to 170 faster than the amines themselves. Examples 45 57 Gel Times ofAmine Salts of Dimethylaminoethyl Methacrylate with Various AcidsEMI30.1 tb SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP Chemical SEP Structure SEP Mol. SEP Wt. SEP Phisical SEP Form tb ample SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP Arine SEP Salt tb IS SEP p Carboxyethyl SEP acrylate SEP CH SEP CH C O CH SEP CH SEP 3H2CfI2 SEP COOH SEP 144 SEP Viscous SEP liquid tb SEP 2 SEP then SEP gelled tb 16 SEP Glacial SEP acrylic SEP acid SEP CH2 CH COOH SEP 72 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb SEP then SEP gelled tb SEP C,H3 tb 17 SEP Glacial SEP methacrylic SEP acid SEP CH2 SEP SEP C SEP SEP COOH SEP 86 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb 18 SEP Adipic SEP acid SEP SEP HOOC CH2 4 SEP cOoH SEP 146 SEP Viscous SEP liquid tb t9 SEP n butyric SEP acid SEP CH3CH2CH2COOH SEP 88 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb Hexanoic SEP acid SEP CH3 CH, ,COOH SEP 116 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb il SEP Lauric SEP acid SEP CH SEP cH SEP SEP CoOH SEP 200 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb SEP 3 SEP 2 SEP 10 tb Acetic SEP acid SEP CH3coOH SEP 60 SEP Clear SEP liquid tb Adipic SEP acid SEP SEP HOOC CH2 4COOH SEP 146 SEP Viscous SEP liquid tb 54 SEP Control, SEP no SEP acid, SEP pure tb SEP DEI tb Perfluorobutyric SEP acid tb SEP 3M SEP FC 23 SEP CF3CF2CF2COOH SEP 214 SEP Clear SEP viscous tb SEP liquid tb Examples 45 57 con t Gel Times ofAmine Salts of Dimethylaminoethyl Methacrylate with Various Acids Ceical Name Exotherm of Gel Time Chemical Name Exotherm of Gel Time salt of Amid Salt Formation Seconds DMAEMA only Acid Salt 45 ss Carboxyethyl acrylate mild, fumed 47 1.34 1.00 46 Glacial acrylic acid high, fumed 48 1.31 1.00 47 Glacial methacrylic acid high, fumed 51 1.24 1.00 48 Adipic acid very slight 51 1.24 1.00 49 n butyric acid mild 52 1.21 1.00 50 Hexanoic acid mild 52 1.21 1.00 51 Lauric acid very slight 52 . 1.21 1.00 52 Acetic acid high, fumed 53 1 2 1.18 1.00 53 hdipic acid very slight 53 1 2 i.18 1.00 54 Control, no acid, pure 63 1.00 DMAEMA 55 Perfluorobutyric acid 3M FC 23 very high a 128 1.00 2.03 lot of fumes EXAMPLES 45 57 Continued Gel Times of Gamine Salts of Dimethylaminoethyl Methacrylate with Variuos Acids Chemical Name Chemical Structure Nol. Wt.Physical FormExample of Acid of Acid of Acid of Amine Salt 56 Perchloric acid HC104 100 liquid 57 Trifluoromethane sclfonic CF3S03H 150 Brown viscous acid 3M FC 24 3 3 liquid With the exception of the very strong acids of Examples 55 57 the amine salts have cure rates that are 18 to 34 faster than DMAEMA alone. EXAMPLES 45 57 Continued Gel Timse of Amine Salts of Dimethylaminoethyl Methacrylate with Variuos Ratio of Gel Time Chemical Name Exotherm of Gel Times DMAEMAExample of Acid Salt Formation Seconds DMAEMA only Acid Salt 56 Perchloric acid very high a semi slid 1.00 4.76 lot of fumes at 300 57 Trifluoromethane sulfonic Very high a soft gel at 1.00 acid 3M FC 24 lot of fumes 480 1 nole Adipic Acid reacted with 7 mole DMAEMA 1 mole Adipic Acid reacted with 2 mole DMAEMA With the exception of the very strong acids of Examples 55 57 the amine salts have cure rates that are 18 to 34 faster than DMAEMA alone. Examples 58 70Acis Which do not Form Useable Salts with DMAEMA in HDDMA EMI34.1 SEP Mol.Wt. tb Example SEP Chemical SEP Name SEP of SEP Acid SEP Chemical SEP Structure SEP of SEP Acid SEP of SEP acid SEP Physical SEP Form SEP of SEP Amine SEP Salt tb 58 SEP Oxalic SEP Acid SEP HOOC COOH SEP 90 SEP Pasty SEP solid tb 59 SEP Oxalic SEP Acid, SEP dihydrate SEP HOOC COOH 2H2O SEP 126 SEP Pasty SEP solid tb 60 SEP Trimellitic SEP Anhydride SEP SEP 192 SEP Moist SEP pellets tb 61 SEP Picric SEP Acid SEP SEP 229 SEP Rigid SEP lumps, SEP excess SEP liquid tb 62 SEP Citrazinic SEP Acid SEP SEP 155 SEP Dark SEP rigid SEP solid, SEP excess tb SEP liquid tb 63 SEP 2 Thiobarbituric SEP SEP 144 SEP Solid SEP SEP liquid tb SEP Acid SEP separate SEP phase tb 64 SEP Methyl SEP Red SEP SEP 269 SEP Deep SEP violet SEP paste tb 65 SEP Ethylene SEP diamine SEP SEP 292 SEP Solid SEP SEP liquid tb SEP tetraacetic SEP acid SEP EDTA SEP phase SEP separation tb 66 SEP Molybdic SEP Acid SEP SEP 144 SEP Solid SEP SEP liquid tb SEP phase SEP separation tb 67 SEP Barbiturie SEP Acid SEP SEP 128 SEP Paste tb 68 SEP Sulphuric SEP Acid SEP SEP 90 SEP Gelled SEP semi solid tb 69 SEP Sulfanilic SEP Acid SEP SEP 173 SEP Dark SEP gelled SEP Solid tb 70 SEP Ascorbic SEP Acid SEP SEP 173 SEP Solid SEP SEP liquid tb SEP phase SEP separation tb RTI ID 34.2 The acids in these examples either did not react of formed reaction products insoluble in HDDMA Examples 58 70 Acids Which do not Form Useable Salts with DMAEMA in HDDMA Exotherm ofExample Chemical Name of Acid Salt Formation Comments 58 Oxalic Acid High Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 59 Oxalic Acid, dihydrate High Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 60 Trimellitic Anhydride Mild Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 61 Picric Acid None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 62 Citrazinic Acid None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 63 2 Thiobarbituric None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA Acid 64 Methyl Red None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 65 Ethylene diamine None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA tetraacetic acid EDTA 66 Mylybdic Acid None Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 67 Barbituric Acid Mild Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 68 Sulphuric Acid Very high Did not gel after 3 min. a lot of fumes High exposure 69 Sulphuric Acid Mild Dit not dissolve in HDDMA 70 Acorbic Acid None Dit not dissolve in HDDMAThe Acide in these examples either did not react or formed reaction products insoluble in HDDMA EXAMPLES 71 75 Examples 71 75 illustrate that the invention is generally applicable to various monomers and oligomers that can be subject to photocuring. Each Example was carried out by initially charging the liquid components into an amber glass bottle ad then adding the camphoroquinone CQ into the bottle and shaking the bottle on a mechanicalshakeruntil the CQ had dissolved.Then the bottle was removed from the shaker and the viscous monomers or oligomers were added and the bottle was heated for one half hour at 600C and then stirred until uniform. The curing was carried out as in Examples 17 25.Example 71 79.65 Urethane dimethacrylate Plex 6661 0 Rohm GmbH 18.77 HDDMA 0.26 CQ 1.32 DMANPA MAA salt prepared according to Example 1 Light cured in 10 seconds, useful as coating.Example 72 85.71 a non volatile diacrylate ester of a bisphenol A type epoxy resin Celrad 3500 Celanese Plastics and Specialty Co. 9.52 Sipomer p CEA p Carboxyethyl acrylate from Alcolac, Inc 3.14 dicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate QM657 Rohm BR Haas Co. 0.28 CQ 1.33 DMAEMA MAA salt prepared according to Example 2 Useful as coating. Light cured in less than 3 minutes.Example 73 60.08 a medium viscosity second generation aliphatic diacrylate Photomer 4083 Diamond Shamrock Corp. 35.06 Plex 6661 0 0.30 CQ 1.56 DMANPA MAA salt prepared according to Example 1 3.00 Stearyl methacrylate Useful as coating. Light cured in less than 2 minutes. EXAMPLES 71 75 Continued Example 74 58.94 an acrylated urethane oligomer Uvithane 893 Morton Thiokol 39.29 Diethylene Glycol dimethacrylate 0.29 CO 1.48 DMANPA MAA salt prepared according to Example 1 Useful as coating. Light cured in 1 minute.Example 75 92.71 Trimethy loipropane trimethacrylate 5.56 Pentaerythritol tetra 3 mercaptopropionate 0.28 CQ 1.45 DMANPA MAA salt prepared according to Example 1 Useful as coating. Light cured in 1 minute. EXAMPLE 76 A composition that is moldable to a denture base form and hardenable with visible light was prepared from the following ingredients Percent by Weight of Total Composition 39.44 Urethane dimethacrylate Reaction product of hydroxyethyl methacrylate and 2,2,4 trimethylhexyl 1,6 diisocyanate 2.57 HDDMA 0.13 CQ 0.59 DMAEMA MAA salt prepared as in Example 2 42.10 poly methyl methacrylate co ethylene dimethacrylate 99.8 0.2 a polymer supplied by L. D. Caulk Co Polymer is in substantially spherical beads the shape resulting from its suspension polymerization. At least 50 by weight of the beads have average diameters of less than 50 microns. The polymer was prepared from methyl methacrylate and ethylene dimethacry late by suspension polymerization . 0.07 red acetate fibers 0.03 pigments 15.07 fumed silica inorganic filler Aerosil R972 a product of Degussa First CQ was dissolved in HDDMA and then mixed with the amine salt and urethane dimethacrylate. The resulting liquid solution was charged to a double planetary mixer heated to 450C and mixed under 20 mm Hg pressure. Next the polymer The polymer was prepared according to the teaching of U.S. Serial No. 318,356, filed Nov. 5, 1981, which was a Continuation of U.S. Serial No. 008,507, filed Feb. 1, 1977. with the pigments and fibers previously blended in a V ConeBlender was added and mixed under 20 mm pressure. The temperature was increased to 550C and the fumed silica was added in three increments of about equal size and mixed under 130 mm pressure each time. This produced the visible light curable VtC putty paste of this invention. The VLC putty was molded into a sheet 3.5 x 2.5 x 0.10 in a hydraulic press. The sheet was adapted as a baseplate to a stone model boated with separator made from an impression of the mouth. The baseplate was trimmed and then cured in two minutes on a turntable rotating under four 150 watt quartz halogen lamps with a 400 500 nm band pass filter. The light flux varied from 100 130 mw cm2 on the surface of the baseplate. Additional VLC putty was rolled into rope 0.25 in diameter. The rope was adapted around the ridge of the baseplate and a full arch of acrylic plastic teeth coated with a bonding agent was press positioned in the rope. The teeth were further positioned in an articulator and then fixed in position by a two minute light cure. Next the facial and lingual aspects of the denture were finished with additional rope.The denture was coated with an oxygen barrier coating then light cured for two minutes. The denture was removed from the model, coated with an oxygen barrier coating and then cured two minutes. The denture was polished by the usual means, cleaned in an ultrasonic bath and rinsed. The denture was inserted into a human mouth, found in the reported opinion of the clinician, to be equal to or superior to dentures made with conventional denture materials by conventional methods. EXAMPLE 77 100 g of a visible light curable composition useful as opaquing medium for dental alloys was prepared by dissolving and mixing the following ingredients 50.91 acrylate urethane oligomer Urethane 782 30.46 dicyclopentenyloxyethyl nethacrylate QM 657 Rohm Haas Co. 9.73 MAA 3.05 TiO2 3.05 fumed silica Aerosil R972 0.36 CO 2.44 D.MAEMAlAA salt, prepared as in Example 2 The resulting composition was a viscous, yet flowable opaque white liquid. Rectangular tabs measuring about 0.35 x 1 00 x 0.05 were cast from a nickel chromium based dental alloy sold under the trademark BIOBOND, manufactured by Dentsply International Inc. . They were ground and sandblasted with aluminum oxide and then tin plated for 30 seconds with Tin Alkaline 5001, a tin plating solution supplied by Liquid Development Corp., and oxidized with 5 hydrogen peroxide solution for 15 seconds. After drying withDust Chaser dichlorodifluoromethane , supplied by VWR ScientificInc., the above opaquing medium was brushed onto half of the metal tab and then cured for 3 minutes under the light as in Examples 17 25. A visible light curable dental composite sold under the trademark PRISMA FIL, manufactured by The L. D. Caulk Co., a division of Dentsply International Inc. was then applied over the cured opaquing medium, and cured for an additional 3 minutes. The above cured laminates were conditioned in 37 C deionized water for 40 hours. After that, the samples were subjected to boiling water for 30 seconds, followed by ice water for 30 seconds thermocycling for 30 cycles. An aluminum tab, measuring about 0.45 x 1.25 x 0.10 was glued over the previously referred to dental C C composite surrace with a structural sive vers , manufactured by Lord Corp. . The samples were then subjected to lap shear tensile bond strength test t 0.05 inch per minute head speed, using an Instron Universal Testing Machine. The measured failure strength was 618 psi. The failure occurred at the interface between aluminum and the structural adhesive, indicating that the bond strength was more than the 618 psi. Examples 8 11 and 13 26 are beljeved to have c eally demonstrated that the DMANPA MAA is a much more efficient and color stable photoaccelerator than either MDEA or DMAEMA. The preferred organic tertiary amine salt of the present invention is a photoaccelerator that offers real advantages in visible light cured dental and industrial products that require faster cure and or greater depth of cure. The preferred amine a difunctional salt is monomer and coreactive with the system polymerized.Because it is coreactive at both its amine moiety and acid moiety it is bound in the polymer system and thus not generally subject to being leached out under the harsh fluctuations between acid and alkaline materials that are constantly placed in the oral environment during the consumption of foods. It was surprising that the formation of the salt did not block the action of the tertiary amine group in the tertiary amine salts when used as photoaccelerators. It was even more surprising that the salt acts as a superior accelerator to the tertiary amines themselves. The foregoing description illustrates preferred embodiments of the invention. However, concepts employed may, based upon such description, be employed in other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the following claims are intended to protect the invention broadly, as well as in the specific forms shorn herein.