# Process for preparing 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline.

## Abstract
A process for preparing 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline from 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene in a good yield, which comprises treat ing the latter with powdery iron in the presence of an acid so as to reduce the nitro group at the 2 position selectively.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A process for preparing 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline, which comprises treating 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene with iron in the presence of an acid so as to reduce the nitro group at the 2 position. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the iron is reduced iron or electrolytic iron. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein the acid is acetic acid or hydrochloric acid. 4. The process according to claim 1, wherein the molar proportion of the iron to the 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene is from 2.5 to 4. 5. The process according to claim 1, wherein the molar proportion of the acid to the 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene is from 0.01 to l.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING 2 FLUORO 5 NITROANILINE The present invention relates to a process for preparing 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline. More particularly, it relates to a process for preparing 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline from 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene by selective reduction of the nitro group at the 2 position of the latter using iron in the presence of an acid. Said 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline is known to be useful as the starting material for production of tetrahydrophthalimides, hydantoins, urazoles, etc., which are per se useful as herbicides cf. EP 0061741A, EP 0070389A, EP 0075267A,EP 0083055A . For preparation of 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline, there is known a process wherein 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene is subjected to reduction using stannous chloride cf. J.J.Blanksma et al Receuil des Travaux Chimiques des Pays Bas, 65, 329 1946 . However, said literature describes that the reaction product in this process is a mixture of 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline as the objective compound and 4 fluoro 3 nitroaniline. In fact, as shown in ComparativeExample hereinafter presented, the reaction product in said process is a mixture of 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline and 4fluoro 3 nitroaniline in a weight proportion of 4 1. In addition, the yield of such mixture is relatively low. As a result of the extensive study for overcoming the drawback as seen in the conventional process, it, has now been found that 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline as the objective compound can be obtained predominantly in a good yield by treatment of 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene with iron in the presence of an acid so as to reduce selectively the nitro group at the 2 position. According to this invention, 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene is treated with iron in the presence of an acid to reduce the nitro group at the 2 position selectively. As the iron, there may be used iron powder such as reduced iron or electrolytic iron. Examples of the acid are acetic acid, hydrochloric acid, etc. The amount of the iron and the acid may be respectively from 2.5 to 4 mol and from 0.01 to I mol per 1 mol of the starting 2,4 dinitro fluorobenzent . The treatment is usually effected in an inert solvent at a temperature of 600C to the boiling temperature of the reaction system for a period of 10 minutes to 2 hours.The inert solvent may be chosen, for instance, from aromatic hydrocarbons e.g. benzene, toluene, xylene , ethers e.g. diethyl ether, diisopropyl ether, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, diethylene glycol dimethyl ether , aliphatic acids e.g. acetic acid, oleic acid , alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, t butanol, octanol, cyclohexanol, methyl cellosolve, diethylene glycol, glycerol and water, and their mixtures. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture may be subjected to post treatment such as concentration, extraction, etc. by a per se conventional procedure so as to recover the produced 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline. When desired, purification by chromatography, distillation or recrystallization may be applied to the recovered product. Practical and presently preferred embodiments of the invention are illustratively shown in the followingExamples Example 1 A suspension of. iron powder electrolytic iron 8.1 g in acetic acid 100 ml was heated under reflux, and a solution of 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene 9 g in acetic acid 30 ml was added thereto. The resultant mixture was refluxed for 10 minutes, poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were washed with a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution, water and a saturated sodium chloride solution in order, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The crude crystals were recrystallized from ethanol to give 5.3 g of 2 fluoro 5nitroaniline as orange crystals. Yield, 70 . M.P., 97 980C.The product was identified with the authentic sample in melting point, NMR data and GLC QF 1.3 m, 1300C, N2 1.2 kg cm2 . The weight proportion of 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline and 4 fluoro 3 nitroaniline in said crude crystals as determined by GLC under the condisition as above was 93 7. Example 2 A suspension of iron powder electrolytic iron 8.1 g in water 100 ml and conc. hydrochloric acid 2 ml was heated under reflux, and 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene 9 g was added thereto. The resultant mixture was refluxed for 10 minutes and, after cooling, extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were subjected to silica gel column chromatography using a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane as an eluting solvent to give 2 g of 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline as yellow crystals. Yield, 49 . Besides, 4.1 g of 2,4dinitrofluorobenzene were recovered. Recovery rate, 46 . Example 3 A suspension of iron powder reduced iron 10.8 g in water 100 ml and conc. hydrochloric acid 0.06 g was heated under reflux, and 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene 9 g was added thereto. The resultant mixture was refluxed for 2 hours and, after cooling, extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were subjected to silica gel column chromatography using a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane as an eluting solvent to give 2.5 g of 2 fluoro 5nitroaniline as yellow crystals. Yield, 50 . Besides, 3.0 g of 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene were recovered. Recovery rate, 33 . Example 4 To a suspension of iron powder electrolytic iron 108 g in acetic acid 1000 g , a solution of 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene 130 g in acetic acid 200 gl was added dropwise at a temperature of 60 to 1100C, followed by stirring at a temperature of 110 to 1380C for 1.5 hours.The reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate, and the extracts were concentrated to give 86 g of 2 fluoro5 nitroaniline. Yield, 79 g, Comparative Example 1 according to the J.J. Blanksmaes method To a solution of stannous chloride 30 g in 10 hydrochloric acid 100 ml kept at a temperature below 10 C by cooling with ice, a solution of 2,4 dinitrofluorobenzene 10 g in a mixture of ethanol 50 ml and water 100 ml was added dropwise, and the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was made alkaline with an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution under cooling with ice and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extracts were washed with water and a saturated sodium chloride solution, dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The oily product was purified by silica gel column chromatography using a mixture of ethyl acetate and n hexane as an eluting solvent to give 2 fluoro 5 nitroaniline 2 g yield, 24 and 4 fluoro 3 nitroaniline 0.5 g yield, 6 .