# Process for the conversion of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene to tamoxifen HCl.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a process wherein the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene is converted to tamoxifen hydrochloride by a process which comprises heating the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene, either alone or in admixture with tamoxifen, in hydrochloric acid at a tempera ture within the range of 35 60 C until substantial conversion of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene to tamoxifen is accomplished. In this temperature range, i.e., 35 60 C the tamoxifen precipitates from the reaction mixture as the HC1 salt while most of the HC1 salt of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene stays in solution. The tamoxifen HC1 is recovered from the resultant slurry. It can be further purified by conventional procedures, e.g., by chromatography or fractional crystalliza tion.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for the production of tamoxifen hydrochloride which comprises heating the E isomer of 1,2 di phenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl3 1 butene xn hydrochloric acid at a temperature within the range of 35 60 C until substantial conversion of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl l4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene to tamoxifen hydrochloride is accomplished and tamoxifen hydrochloride crystallizes and recovering the resultant crystallized tamoxifen hydrochloride. 2. A process as defined in claim 1 wherein said z isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phen yl l butene is added to said hydrochloric acid in admixture with tamoxifen. 3. A process as defined in claim 2 wherein said E isomer of 1 ,2 diphenyl l 4 2 dimethylaminethoxy phen yl l butene and tamoxifen are added to the hydrochloric acid in the form of the hydrochloride salt. 4. A process as defined in anyone of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said heating is conducted at a temperature within the range of 50 550C. 5. A process as defined in anyone of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said heating in hydrochloric acid is conducted for at least eight hours. 6. A process as defined in anyone of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said hydrochloric acid is at least 6 N. 7. A process as defined in anyone of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said hydrochloric acid is at least 9 N. 8. A process as defined in anyone of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said hydrochloric acid is at least 12 N.

## Description
Background Of The Invention This invention relates to a process for the conversion of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl l 14 2 di methylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene to tamoxifen HCl. Tamoxifen is a known non steroidal anti estrogen useful in the treatment of hormone dependent tumors such as breast cancer. Tamoxifen is the Z or trans isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene and has the formula EMI2.1 When produced by known processes, the tamoxifen is formed in admixture with the corresponding E or cis isomer.Since the desired biological activity resides only in theZ isomer, the mixture of geometric isomers resulting from chemical synthesis must be separated. A number of processes are known in the art for the production of tamoxifen and the corresponding E isomer. Thus, U.x. Patent No. 1,013,907 discloses a process which involves dehydration of an alkanol intermediate using an acid catalyst such as BC1 to produce a mixture of tamoxifen and the corresponding E isomer.This process is illustrated by the following equation EMI2.2 Tamoxifen and corresponding I isomer U.K. Patent No. 1,013,907 also discloses a process for the production of tamoxifen and the corres ponding E isomer which involves alkylation of a phenolic intermediate. This process is illustrated by the following equation EMI3.1 tb SEP CH3 SEP 2NCH2CH2X tb A SEP C2H5 SEP X SEP SEP halogen, SEP e.g., SEP C1 tb Tamoxifen andCorrespondingE isomer U.K. Patent No. 1,354,939 discloses a process wherein a cyanide intermediate is dehydrogenated by an alkali metal amide to produce a mixture of tamoxifen and the corresponding E isomer.This process is illustrated by the following equation EMI3.2 Tamoxifen andCorrespondingE isomer An abstract of Japanese application J5 2122351, Derwent No. 8380Y 47, discloses the following reaction EMI4.1 tb SEP Ph tb SEP x e SEP C SEP SEP C SEP SEP Ph SEP SEP R1R2N C2CH SEP 2OM tb SEP 11 SEP and or SEP isomer SEP III tb SEP R tb 100 200tC SEP SEP R2R2N CH2CH20 SEP SEP Ph SEP d SEP Ph tb SEP 2222 tb polar SEP aprotic tb SEP solvent tb SEP SEP or SEP isomer tb wherein R and R2 are the same or different 1 4 carbon alkyl groups, or wRlR2 is a heterocyclic group R3 is a 1 4 carbon alkyl group X is halogen and M is H or alkali metal, preferably Na or K. A number of different procedures for separating tamoxifen from the corresponding E isomer are also known in the art. Canadian Patent No. 1,064,629, CanadianPatent No. 1,072,093, Chemical Abstracts, Vol. 67,Abstract 90515g 1967 and Chemical Abstracts, Viol. 71,Abstract 3134y 1969 all disclose separating tamoxifen from the corresponding E isomer by fractional crystallization. Canadian Patent No. 1,064,629 also discloses the chromatographic separation of these mixed isomers as doBurns et al in Journal of Labelled Compounds and fladio pharmaceuticals, Vol.XIX, pages 229 238 and 503 523 1981 . In the prior art isomer separation processes, the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoeth oxy phenylj l butene is wasted since it does not possess the desired biological activity. Thus, the amount of tamoxifen which can be recovered from a given process for the production of a mixture of E and 2 isomers of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl butene is severely limited.Summary Of The Invention It has now been discovered that the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl butene can be converted to tamoxifen hydrochloride by a process which comprises heating the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene, either alone or in admixture with tamoxifen, in hydrochloric acid at a temperature within the range of 35 600C until substantial conversion of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 di methylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene to tamoxifen is accomplished. In this temperature range, i.e., 35 60 C, the tamoxifen precipitates from the reaction mixture as the HC1 salt while most of the HC1 salt of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl butene stays in solution.The length of time for this conversion can be determined by HPLC or NMR. The tamoxifen HC1 is recovered from the resultant slurry. It can be further purified by conventional procedures, e.g., by chromatography or fractional crystall ization. Detailed Description Of The Invention The E isomer of l,2 diphenyl l 14 2 dimethyl aminoethoxy phenyl l butene which is to be converted to tamoxifen hydrochloride can be obtained from any source, e.g., any of the previously discussed procedures for the preparation and separation of tamoxifen. Tamoxifen can also be present in any proportion since it will precipitate out of the hydrochloric acid solution along with the tamoxifen that results from the conversion of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl l I4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phen yl 1 butene.The E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 l4 2 di 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl 1 butene can be added to the hydrochloric acid in the form of the free base, in which case it will be converted to the HC1 salt along with the tamoxifen during the conversion process or it can be added to the hydrochloric acid in the form of the HC1 salt. If the E isomer of l,2 diphenyl l t4 2 di methylaminoethoxy phenyl3 l butene is in the form of a salt other than the HC1 salt, e.g., acetate or citrate, it is preferred to convert it to the free base before adding it to the hydrochloric acid. Thus, the presence of acetate or citrate salts can cause some solubility changes that inhibit the isomer conversion.The free base can be formed from acid salts in a methylene chloride aqueous system quite readily. The phases only need then to be separated and the methylene chloride stripped from the rich organic layer to leave the base as input to the isomerization reaction. Without conversion to the base, acid salts may require some modification in the temperature range to achieve crystallization of the tamoxifen. The hydrochloric acid used in the practice of this invention should be at least 6 N, preferably at least 9 N, and most preferably is 12 N. The conversion can be conducted as either a batch or a continuous process. In a batch process, the E isomer of 1,2 di phenyl l t4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl3 1 butene is heated in the hydrochloric acid until substantial conversion to tamoxifen is completed, heating is then discontinued and the tamoxifen is separated from the resultant slurry. In a continuous process, a portion of the slurry is intermittently removed, tamoxifen is recovered as by filtration, and the hydrochloric acid from which tamoxifen has been separated is recycled to the conversion zone.It is preferred to heat the E isomer of 1,2 di phenyl 1 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl0 1 butene in hydrochloric acid in the conversion zone for at least eight hours. The temperature within the range of 35 600C should be selected to insure crystallization of tamoxifen hydrochloride from solution while maintaining the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 14 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene in solution. For relatively impure solutions, lower temperatures can be used. For a relatively pure mixture of tamoxifen and the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 14 2 dimethylaminoethoxyJphenyl l butene, a temperature within the range of 50 55 C is preferred. The tamoxifen HC1 can be recovered from the slurry by any conventional procedure, e.g., by filtration or centrifugation. It can then be purified to remove anyE isomer of 1,2 diphenyl 1 I4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene which precipitated from the hydrochloric acid solution. This is conveniently accomplished by selective crystallization from a suitable solvent such asMIBK methyl isobutylketone , The tamoxifen BC1 can be converted to the free base or to another salt, e.g., the citrate which is the commercial form, by known techniques. The practice of this invention will result in a substantial cost reduction in the preparation of tamoxifen. The following examples illustrate the best modes contemplated for carrying out the process of this invention Example 1 A mixture of tamoxifen hydrochloride and the hydrochloride salt of the E isomer of 1,2 diphenyl l 4 2 diniethylaminoethoxy phenylj butene 2.0 g, 4.9 mmole with an E to Z isomer ratio of approximately 80 20 was added to 12 N hydrochloric acid 20 ml, 0.24 moles .A partial solution occurred which was stirred for one hour at which time a slurry began to form. The slurry was warmed to 550C and held at that temperature for 19 hours. At this time, the isomer ratio was checked byHPLC high pressure liquid chromatography . The ratio ofZ to E isomer was found to be 94 6. The slurry was vacuum stripped to a pasty slurry and diluted with 60 ml of MIBX. Once again the slurry was stripped under vacuum and 60 ml of MIBK were added. The resulting slurry was warmed to form a solution about 80 C and then allowed to cool to re precipitate the product. This slurry was stirred for two hours, filtered, washed with MIBK, then heptane, and dried in an air oven at 450C.There was thus obtained 1.54 g 3.7.7 mmole of product which, byHPLC, was determined to be 100 tamoxifen HCl. Example 2 An oil obtained as a by product in a process for the separation of tamoxifen HC1 from the HC1 salt of the E isomer of l,2 diphenyl l 4 2 dimethylamino ethoxy phenyl0 l butene and containing 8.297 g of the mixture of isomers in a E to Z ratio of 72 28 was mixed with 57 ml of 12 N hydrochloric acid. The batch was stirred and warmed to 55 CC. After stirring at this temperature overnight, the Z to E isomer ratio was found to be greater than about 90 10. The batch was.vacuum stripped to a pasty solid using a bath temperature of about 55 600C. MIBK 200 ml was added and vacuum stripping was continued until water was no longer present in the distillate.Additional MIBK 100 ml was added during the stripping operation. The volume was adjusted to 250 ml by the addition of MIBK and the slurry was warmed to 80 C to form a solution. The solution was then cooled to 10 C over one and one half hours and allowed to crystallize for four hours. The slurry was filtered and washed with 20 ml of cold MIBK and 20 ml of heptane. The cake was dried in an air oven at 450C. The dry weight of the product was 7.7 g which was 100t tamoxifen HC1. The yield of tamoxifen HC1 was 92.8 based upon the amount of isomer mixture present in the starting oil. Example 3 In order to determine the effect of varying the normality of hydrochloric acid solution, a series of runs were conducted. In each run, 2.0 g of a mixture of tamoxifen hydrochloride and the hydrochloride salt of theE isomer of 1 ,2 diphenyl l 4 2 dimethylaminoethoxy phenyl l butene were added to 20 ml of hydrochloric acid solutions of varying strengths. The starting material contained 3.658 by weight of Z isomer and 96.35 by weight of E isomer, Each solution was agitated at 550C for 18 hours and then assayed by RPLC to determine the change in the ratio of isomers. The results are set forth below Percent By Weight Percent By Weight Acid Strength Z Isomer E Isomer 1.0 N HC1 6.7 93.3 3.0 N HC1 7.0 93.0 6.0 N HC1 8.9 90.1 9.0 N HCl 62.0 38.0 12.0 N HC1 95.8 4.2