# PROCESS FOR THE PREPARATION OF 21 HYDROXY 20 KETO DELTA16 STEROIDS AND INTERMEDIATE COMPOUNDS FORMED IN THIS PROCESS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von 21 Hydroxy 20 keto delta¹⁶ steroiden der Formel III

## Description
The invention relates to a new process for the preparation of 21 hydroxy 20 keto steroids from 17 isocyano sulfonyl methlylene steroids whereby simultaneously an unsaturated bond is introduced between C₁₆ and C₁₇. Furthermore, the invention relates to new intermediate compounds formed in this process and their preparation. Steroids are used on a large scale as constituents of many kinds of pharmaceutical compositions. Dependent on the substituent pattern of the carbon skeleton the steroids can be divided into a number of main classes. An important main class of steroids is formed by the corticosteroids. The natural representatives of the corticosteroids are usually produced by the adrenal gland. Corticosteroids are characterised by the presence of a 3 keto group, a delta 4 bond, an 11 beta hydroxyl group, a 17 alpha hydroxyl group and a 17 beta hydroxyacetyl side chain. During a long time corticosteroids were made by chemical degradation of gall acids as cholic acid, desoxycholic acid and glycocholic acid. Afterwards, hecogenin, which could be isolated from plants, particularly from numerous Agave species, became an important raw material too. Since the possibility of introduction of an 11 hydroxy group by microbiological methods, diosgenin, which could be isolated from numerous Dioscoreacaea species, and stigmasterol, usually isolated from the phytosterol mixture from soya or calabar beans, have become the most important raw material for the preparation of corticosteroids. Much attention has been given to new, cheaper raw materials for the synthesis of pharmaceutically active steroids. Therefore, the degradation of the abundant soya bean derived sterols sitosterol and campesterol by a microbiological method into 17 oxo steroids was extensively investigated. As a result thereof 17 oxo steroids are readily available now at low prices which makes these compounds, together with the possibility of the introduction of an 11 hydroxy group by microbiological methods, ideal starting materials for corticosteroid syntheses. A number of chemical syntheses for the construction of the corticosteroid side chain from 17 oxo steroids is known. For instance in J. Org. Chem., Another route is described in J.C.S. Chem. Comm., 1981, 775, in which the reaction of 17 oxo steroids with ethyl isocyanoacetate is described, followed by a number of other reactions, which ultimately result in the dihydroxyacetone side chain of corticosteroids. Other syntheses of the corticosteroid side chain or of compounds which can be used as precursors therefore are described in J.C.S. Chem. Comm., 1981, 774, J.C.S. Chem. Comm., 1982, 551, Chem. Ber., The present invention relates to a new process for the introduction into steroids of a 17 side chain containing a 21 hydroxy group and a 20 keto group under the simultaneous formation of an unsaturated bond between C₁₆ and C₁₇. The invention provides a process for the preparation of 21 hydroxy 20 keto delta¹⁶ steroids of formula III in which R₁ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or is absent in the case of a double bond between C₁₀ and C₁, C₅ or C₉, in which R₁ and R₂ have the meaning as listed above and rings A, B, C and D may contain double bonds and may carry substituents as defined above and in which R₃ respresents an alkyl group, an aryl group substituted or not substituted by one or more halogen atoms or alkyl, alkoxy, nitro or cyano groups or represents a dialkylamino group, wherein the alkyl groups together with the nitrogen atom may form a heterocyclic ring with up to 8 ring atoms and optionally containing an oxygen atom under basic conditions with an aldehyde R₄HO, where The invention comprises also a process for the preparation of 17 2 OR₅ 3 oxazolin 4 yl delta¹⁶steroids of formula II in which R₁, R₂, R₄ and R₅ have the meanings as defined above, rings A, B, C and D may contain double bonds and may carry substituents as defined above, by reacting a 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroid as defined above under basic conditions with an aldehyde and an alcohol as defined above. The invention comprises further the new 17 2 OR₅ 3 oxazolin 4 yl delta¹⁶ steroids II in which R₁ represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group or is absent in the case of a double bond between C₁₀ and C₁, C₅, or C₉, R₂ represents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group, R₄ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl or a phenyl group, R₅ represents an alkyl, group, and the rings A, B,C, and D optionally contain one ore more double bonds, and are optionally substituted by one or more hydroxy groups, amino groups, oxygen atoms, halogen atoms or alkyl, alkylene, alkoxy or alkoxyalkoxy groups and are disubstituted or not disubstituted by one or more epoxy groups, methylene groups or alkylenedioxy, alkylenedithio or alkyleneoxythio groups. The preparation of the above mentioned 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroids is disclosed in the simultaneously filed application No. 84200595 EP A 0124934 , entitled 17 Isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroids, 17 formamido sulfonyl methylene steroids and their preparation , the contents of which have to be regarded as included herein. In this application a process is described for the introduction of a 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene group into a 17 oxo steroid. The 21 hydroxy 20 keto delta¹⁶ steroids obtained according to the present invention can be used for the preparation of pharmaceutically active compounds, especially corticoid steroids, by methods known in the art. Suitable 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroids for the process of the invention have the general formula in which R₁ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbons, preferably a methyl group, or is absent in the case of a double bond between C₁₀ and C₁, C₅ or C₉, R₂ represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbons, preferably a methyl group, R₃ represents an alkyl or dialkylamino group or an aryl group substituted or not substituted by one or more halogen atoms or alkyl, alkoxy, nitro or cyano groups, and the rings A, B, C and D optionally contain one or more double bonds, are substituted or not substituted by one or more hydroxy groups, amino groups, oxygen atoms, halogen atoms or alkyl, alkylene, alkoxy or alkoxyalkoxy groups and are disubstituted or not disubstituted by one or more epoxy groups, methylene groups, alkylenedioxy, alkylenedithio or alkyleneoxythio groups. When R₃ represents an alkyl group, suitable alkyl groups are straight or branched alkyl groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms. When R₃ represents a dialkylamino group, suitable dialkylamino groups are dialkylamino groups wherein the alkyl groups are the same or different and contain 1 8 carbon atoms, preferably 1 4 carbon atoms, or a dialkylamino group wherein the alkyl groups together with the nitrogen atom form a heterocyclic ring which optionally may contain an oxygen atom, the ring containing up to 8 ring atoms. Preferred dialkylamino groups are dimethylamino, diethylamino, pyrrolidino and morpholino. When R₃ represents an aryl group, suitable groups are phenyl and naphtyl groups, substituted or not substituted by a halogen atom, one or more alkyl groups or an alkoxy group, preferably a phenyl, p methoxyphenyl or p methylphenyl group. When the rings A, B, C and D contain one or more double bonds, these double bonds are preferably present between C₁ and C₂, C₃ and C₄, C₄ and C₅, C₅ and C₆, C₆ and C₇, C₉ and C₁₀, C₉ and C₁₁ and or C₁₁ and C₁₂. More preferably the double bond is present between C₄ and C₅ and or C₉ and C₁₁. When two or more double bonds are present especially the following systems are preferred C₃ C₄ and C₅ C₆, C₄ C₅ and C₆ C₇, C₁ C₂ and C₄ C₅, C₁ C₂, C₃ C₄ and C₅ C₁₀ and C₁ C₂, C₄ C₅ and C₆ C₇. Preferably there is also a double bond between C₉ and C₁₁. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by a hydroxy group, suitable groups are 3 , 9 , 11 , 12 or 14 hydroxy groups, preferably a 3 or 9 hydroxy group. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by an amino group, suitable amino groups are 3 alkylamino groups, preferably containing 1 4 carbon atoms, 3 dialkylamino groups wherein the alkyl groups are the same or different, each alkyl group preferably containing 1 4 carbon atoms, or amino groups in which the nitrogen atom together with the alkyl groups forms a heterocyclic ring, preferably containing 1 8 ring atoms, which ring optionally may contain an oxygen atom. Particularly preferred are dimethylamino, diethylamino, pyrrolidino and morpholino. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by an oxygen atom this oxygen atom is preferably present at C₃, C₁₁ or C₁₂. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by a halogen atom, suitable halogen atoms are 6 , 9 or 11 fluorine, chlorine or bromine atoms, preferably 6 or 9 fluorine or chlorine atoms. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by an alkyl group, suitable alkyl groups are 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 or 16 methyl groups, preferably 1 or 6 methyl. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by an alkoxy group, suitable alkoxy groups are 3 , 9 , 11 or 12 alkoxy groups containing 1 4 carbon atoms, preferably 3 , 9 , or 11 methoxy or ethoxy groups. When the rings A, B, C and D are substituted by an alkoxyalkoxy group, suitable groups are 3 or 11 methoxymethoxy, methoxyethoxy or tetrahydropyranyloxy. When the rings A, B, C and D are disubstituted, suitable substituents are epoxy groups at C₁ and C₂ or C₉ and C₁₁ or a methylene group attached to C₁ and C₂ or a 3,3 alkylenedioxy, a 3,3 alkylenedithio or a 3,3 alkyleneoxythio group. The alkylene group preferably contains 2 or 3 carbon atoms. More particularly the invention relates to compounds in which R₁ and R₂ represent methyl or in which R₁ is absent, which are substituted by halogen, especially fluorine, or hydroxy at C₉ and a hydroxy or keto group at C₁₁, or which contain functional groups, as a double bond or epoxy group between C₉ and C₁₁, which can be converted by methods known in the art into the groups mentioned before, and which contain a keto group at C₃ and double bonds between C₁ and C₂ and or C₄ and C₅, or which contain functional groups which can be converted into the keto group and double bonds mentioned before. The invention also relates to the intermediate 17 2 OR₅ 3 oxazolin 4 yl delta¹⁶ steroids of the general formula II as defined above and in which R₄ represents a hydrogen atom or a alkyl or phenyl group, but preferably a hydrogen atom and R₅ represents an alkyl group, preferably a methyl group and to a process to prepare these compounds by reacting a 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroid with an aldehyde and an alcohol. As the 17 2 OR₅ 3 oxazolin 4 yl delta¹⁶ steroids can be isolated and hydrolyzed later on, the invention also comprises the preparation of 21 hydroxy 20 keto delta¹⁶ steroids as defined above characterized by hydrolysis of the corresponding 17 2 OR₅ 3 oxazolin 4 yl delta¹⁶ steroids. It is remarked however, that it is preferred that the two reactions are combined to a one pot process . The reaction of 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroids with an aldehyde and an alcohol is carried out under basic conditions. The reaction can be carried out in an inert organic solvent to which a base is added. Suitable organic solvents are methylene chloride, chloroform, 1,2 dichloroethane, benzene, toluene, chlorobenzene, dioxan, bis 2 methoxyethyl ether, 1,2 dimethoxyethane, tetrahydrofuran or mixtures thereof. As the first step and the second step of may be performed in a one pot reaction preferably a solvent is used in which also the hydrolysis can be carried out. Suitable bases which can be used are metal hydroxides and quaternary ammonium and phosphonium hydroxides, preferably alkali hydroxides, e.g. potassium hydroxide, and quaternary ammonium hydroxides, e.g. triethylbenzylammonium hydroxide. Alkali alcoholates, e.g. potassium butoxide, may be used. The reaction can be carried out at a temperature between 0 and 100 C, preferably between 0 an 30 C. Sometimes it may be necessary to add a catalyst to the reaction mixture in the form of a quaternary ammonium or phosphonium salt, for instance a trimethylbenzyl ammonium halogenide, a triethylbenzyl ammonium halogenide, a tetrabutyl ammonium halogenide or an alkyl triaryl phosphonium halogenide. Also crown ethers, as 15 crown 5 or 18 crown 6, can be used. Suitable reaction conditions are also phase transfer conditions, i.e. a two phase system of an organic layer and an aqueous layer to which an amount of a phase transfer catalyst salt has been added. The reaction can be carried out at temperatures between 0 and 100 C, preferably between 0 and 30 C. See for a general survey of phase transfer reactions E.V. Dehmlov and S.S. Dehmlov, Phase Transfer Catalysis, Weinheim Verlag Chemie, 1980. Suitable organic solvents for the organic layer are methylene chloride, chloroform, 1,2 dichloroethane, benzene, toluene, chlorobenzene and dichlorobenzene. In general all those organic solvents can be used which are immiscible with water, and in which the relevant compounds are soluble. Suitable aqueous layers are solutions of alkali metal hydroxides in water, for example a 5 50 solution of lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. Suitable phase transfer catalysts are quaternary ammonium and phosphonium salts and crown ethers, for instance trimethylbenzyl ammonium halogenides, triethyl benzyl ammonium halogenides, tetrabutyl ammonium halogenides, alkyl triaryl phosphonium halogenides, 15 crown 15 and 18 crown 6. Examples of aldehydes wich can be used in the reaction are arylaldehydes, alkylaldehydes and formaldehyde. Suitable aldehydes are phenylaldehydes in which the phenyl group optionally is substituted by one or more halogen atoms or alkyl or alkoxy groups, alkyl aldehydes in which the alkyl group has 1 4 carbon atoms and optionally is substituted by one or more halogen atoms or alkoxy groups. Preferred aldehydes are benzaldehyde, acetaldehyde and formaldehyde, more particularly formaldehyde. The formaldehyde is used either as formaline solution in water , as paraformaldehyde or as trioxan. Suitable alcohols are alkyl alcohols and arylalkyl alcohols. Preferred alcohols are C₁ C₆ alkyl alcohols, as methanol and ethanol. A preferred arylalkyl alcohol is benzyl alcohol. In general all alcohols can be used which do not interfere in the reaction. Preferably methanol or ethanol is used. The hydrolysis of the oxazolinyl compound to the 21 hydroxy 20 keto delta¹⁶ steroid can be carried out in an organic solvent, using an acidic aqueous solution. Suitable organics solvents are for instance diethyl ether, methanol and tetrahydrofuran. Suitable acids are diluted strong acids as hydrogen chloride, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid. Also acetic acid and formic acid can be used. It is observed that sometimes not only the oxazolinyl group is hydrolyzed but also other groups linked to the steroid skeleton. These groups may have had the function of protective groups compare what is stated on protective groups in the simultaneously filed application entitled 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene steroids and 17 formamido sulfonyl methylene steroids and their preparation . The invention is elucidated by means of the following examples in which THF tetrahydrofuran and Triton B benzyltrimethylammonium hydroxide 40 solution in methanol . 3 Methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 239 mg, 0.5 mmol was dissolved in 10 ml benzene. To this solution were added formaline 0.2 ml, 40 solution in water , methanol 0.2 ml , benzyl triethyl ammoniumchloride 15 mg and 50 aqueous NaOH solution 4 ml . The mixture was stirred vigorously for 1 hour at 20 C. Extraction with benzene, filtration over Al₂O₃ act. II III layer of 2 cm followed by a washing with methylenechloride 50 ml and evaporation in vacuo afforded the methoxy oxazoline 170 mg, 90 . IR neat 1655, 1630 cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 2.7 m , 1.0 s, 6H , 3.27 s, 3H , 3.49 s, 3H , 4.62 m, 2H , 5.08, 5.18 m, 2H , 6.2 m, 1H , 6.45 m, 1H . The above prepared methoxy oxazoline 170 mg, 0.45 mmole was dissolved in a mixture of 8 H₂SO₄ 2.5 ml and 10 ml THF. After standing at ambient temperature for 18 hours, water was added 10 ml . The THF was removed by evaporation in vacuo at 20 C, whereafter the precipated solid was collected, washed with water and dried. Yield 149 mg 90 calculated on the isocyanide m.p. 215 220 C. dec acetone petroleum ether 40 60 C alpha ²⁰ 145 c 1.0, CHCl₃ IR Nujol 3350 OH , 1665 C O , 1620 C C . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 2.7 m , 1.0 s, 3H , 1.2 s, 3H , 3.68 s, 1H , 4.4 s, 2H , 5.65 s, 1H , 6.68 m, 1H Mass M 328 calcd. 328 Litt. Allen and Bernstein, J. Amer. Chem. Soc. To a solution of 3 methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 240 mg in THF under nitrogen formaline 0.2 ml and Triton B 0.6 ml were added. After stirring for 15 minutes water was added and the mixture was extracted with methylene chloride. After drying over a layer of alumina and evaporation in vacuo the title compound was obtained 139 mg, 83 . The compound was identical to the one described in Example 1a. The experiment was repeated, however, instead of Triton B tetraethylammonium hydroxide 0.6 ml in water and methanol 1 ml were used. Yield 92 . The experiment was repeated, however, KOH powdered, 2 g was used as base. Tetraybutylammonium tetrafluoroborate was used a a catalyst. Yield 92 . The experiment was repeated, however, benzene 10 ml was used as solvent, KOH powdered, 0.65 g was used as a base and methanol 0.2 ml was used as alcohol. Yield after 1 hour stirring 90 . When in this experiment ethanol is used instead of methanol, the same result is obtained. 3 Methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 239 mg is dissolved in 10 ml THF under nitrogen. Formaline 0.2 ml, 36 , methanol 0.2 ml and powdered KOH 0.8 g is added. After stirring for 15 minutes the solution is filtered. Sulfuric acid 1.5 ml, 4N is added followed by stirring for 20 hours. Water is added 10 ml , and the THF is evaporated in vacuo. The residue is filtered and the white solid is dried. Yield 123 mg 75 of the title compound. To a solution of 3 methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene estra 1,3,5 10 triene 461 mg, 1 mmol in benzene 20 ml were added paraformaldehyde 300 mg, 10.0 mmol , methanol 0.4 ml , benzyltriethylammonium chloride 23 mg, 0.1 mmol and 50 aqueous NaOH solution 8 ml . The mixture was stirred vigorously for one hour, then the organic solvent phase was separated from the water phase and the latter was once extracted with 5 ml of benzene. The combined benzene fractions were filtered over Al₂O₃ act. II III followed by a washing with methylene chloride 100 ml . After evaporation of the solvent 3 methoxy 17 2 methoxy 3 oxazolin 4 yl 19 nor pregna 1,3,5 10 ,16 tetraene was obtained as an oil. Without further processing this oxazolinyl compound was hydrolyzed by dissolving it in 15 ml THF and 5 ml 8 H₂SO₄. After 18 hours storage at room temperature the THF was evaporated in vacuum at 20 C. The remaining solid substance was collected, washed with water and dried. The yield was 300 mg 92 , m.p. 120 142 C. 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 1,4 dien 3 one 461 mg, 1.0 mmol was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 2 with the difference that during the first reaction step the benzene solution was stirred during half an hour . Yield 83 , m.p. 155 168 C. After two crystallizations from ether the melting point of the product was 162 174 C. alpha ²⁰ 92.5 c 1.00, CHCl₃ . IR Nujol 3500 OH , 1665 C O , 1630, 1610, 1590 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 2.7 m , 1.00 s , 1.25 s , 3.25 br., 1H , 4.40 s, 2H , 5.95 6.10 m, 2H , 6.21, 6.23 d, 1H , 6.6 6.7 m, 1H . Anal. calcd. for C₂₁H₂₆O₃ 326.439 C 77.27, H 8.03 found C 76.7, H 8.1 . The experiment was repeated under the same conditions, except the stirring time of the phase transfer reaction first reaction step . Stirring for one hour resulted in a yield of 70 , stirring for two hours resulted in a yield of 52 . 3 methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5,9 11 triene 475 mg, 1.0 mmol was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 2. Yield 300 mg, 93 , m.p. 180 193 C. After two crystallizations from methylene chloride ether 2 7 the melting point of the product was 205 208 C., alpha ²⁰ 204 c 1.00, CHCl₃ . IR Nujol 3510 OH , 1675 C O , 1620, 1595 C C , 1100 cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.7 3.3 m , 0.90 s , 1.37 s , 3.06 s , 4.38 s, 2H , 5.30 5.60 m, 2H , 5.27 s , 6.55 5.80 m, 1H . Litt. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 3 Methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene 11 beta hydroxyandrosta 3,5 diene 493 mg, 1.0 mmol was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 2 with the difference that the stirring time during the first reaction step was 3 4 hour . Crude product 233 mg 68 . After crystallization from acetone ether 1 3 m.p. 148 153 C, alpha ²⁰ 198 c 1.0, CHCl₃ . IR Nujol 3500 OH , 1690 C O , 1655 br, C C C O cm ¹. 1H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.75 2.9 m , 1.25 s , 1.46 s , 3.0 3.7 m, 2H , 4.37 br.s, 3H , 5.57 s, 1H , 6.48 6.72 m, 1H . It is observed that the yield can be improved by a more thorough washing with CH₂Cl₂. ¹H NMR of the intermediate 3 methoxy 11 beta hydroxy 17 2 methoxy 3 oxazolin 4 yl androsta 3,5,16 triene CDCl₃ delta 0.7 2.9 m , 1.23 s, 3H , 1.28 s, 3H , 3.27 s, 3H , 3.48 s, 3H , 4.25 s, 1H , 4.61 m, 2H , 5.00 m, 2H , 6.13 m, 1H , 6.40 m, 1H . 3 Methoxy 9 alpha fluoro 11 beta hydroxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 2. Yield 71 , m.p. after crystallization from CH₂Cl₂ petroleum ether 40 60 C 1 1 175 186 C, alpha ²⁰ 165 c 0.9, CHCl₃ . IR Nujol 3500 OH , 1670 cm ¹ br, C O . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.7 3.7 m , 1.23 s , 1.57 s , 4.17 br.s, 1H , 4.40 s, 2H , 5.70 s, 1H , 6.55 6.80 m, 1H . Litt. US 2,963,496 discloses this compound without giving physical constants. 3 Methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 dien 11 one 491 mg, 1.0 mmol was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 2 with the difference that the stirring time in the first reaction step was 15 minutes. Yield 250 mg 73 , m.p. after crystallization from CH₂Cl₂ ether 213 218 C, alpha ²⁰ 235 c 1.00, CHCl₃ . IR Nujol 3420 OH , 1710, 1675 C O , 1625 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 3.5 m , 0.91 s , 1.40 s , 4.41, 4.48 d, 2H , 5.68 s, 1H , 6.64 6.83 m, 1H . Litt. J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 1 Alpha,2 alpha methylene 6 chloro 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 4,6 dien 3 one 218 mg, 0.43 mmol was dissolved in 8.6 ml benzene. 0.17 ml 40 formaline, 0.17 ml methanol, 0.03 ml Triton B and 3.44 ml aqueous NaOH solution 50 were successively added to the benzene solution. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for half an hour. Then the two layers were separated and the water layer was washed two times with 5 ml benzene. The combined benzene layers were filtered over Al₂O₃, followed by a washing with methylene chloride. After a further purification step by means of a chromatography with toluene, as well as increasing quantities of acetone, 94 mg of the methoxy oxazolinyl compound was obtained, m.p. 164 167 C. IR 1655 C 3 O , 1630 C N , 1060 COC cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.7 1.0 m, cyclopropyl , 1.096 s, 3H , 1.261 s, 3H , 3.31 s, 3H , 4.65 m, 2H , 6.15 m, 2H , 6.22 m, 1H . The methoxy oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 8a 90 mg was dissolved in 8 ml THF, then 3 ml 2N H₂SO₄ was added. The mixture was stored at room temperature for 16 hours. After addition of NaHCO₃ 540 mg, 6 mmol and some water the THF was removed by evaporation. The remaining solid substance was collected, washed with water and dried. Thus 57 mg of the hydroxyacetyl compound was obtained, m.p. 175 178 C. IR CHCl₃ 1648, 1665 C³ O and C²⁰ O , 1588, 1608 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.030 s, 3H , 1.258 s, 3H , 3.1 s, br, 1H , 4.47 s, 2H , 6.18 m, 2H , 6.77 m, 1H . 3,3 Ethylenedithio 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 4 ene 540 mg, 1 mmol was dissolved in 20 ml benzene. Then 0.4 ml formaline 40 , 0.4 ml methanol, 0.4 ml triton B and 8 ml 50 aqueous NaOH solution were successively added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature during 20 minutes. After dilution with water the benzene layer was separated. The aqueous layer was extracted one time with 10 ml benzene. The collected benzene solutions were filtered over Al₂O₃ act. II III and washed with CH₂Cl₂. After evaporation of the solvent 0.5 g of the oxazolinyl compound was obtained. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.01 s, 3H , 1.07 s, 3H , 3.33 m, 7H , 4.3 4.9 m, 2H , 5.53 s, 1H , 6.30 s, 1H , 6.59 t, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 9a 500 mg was dissolved in 10 ml THF and 2.5 ml H₂SO₄ 8 . The mixture was stored at room temperature for 22 hours, then water 10 ml was added and the THF removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. 280 mg of the hydroxyacetyl compound was obtained, m.p. 206 210 C browning . 3,3 Ethylenedioxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 5 ene 507 mg, 1 mmol was dissolved 20 ml benzene. Then 0.4 ml formaline 40 , 0.4 ml methanol, 0.06 ml Triton B and 8 ml 50 aqueous NaOH solution were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for half an hour at room temperature. Then the water layer was separated and washed two times with benzene. The combined benzene layers were filtered over Al₂O₃ act. II III , layer thickness 3.5 cm, and washed with CH₂Cl₂. The solvent was evaporated and thus 296 mg 72 of the oxazolinyl compound, a white solid, was obtained m.p. 154 157 C. IR CHCl₃ 1623 C N , 1093 C O C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.017 s, 3H , 1.077 s, 3H , 3.29, 3.39 2xs, 6H , 3.92 s, 4H , 4.66 m, 2H , 5.35 m, 1H , 6.27 m, 1H , 6.54 t, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 10a 222 mg was dissolved in 15 ml THF, then 4.5 ml 2 N H₂SO₄ were added. The solution was kept for 16 hours at room temperature. The THF was evaporated and the remaining solid was washed with water. After drying under reduced pressure 178 mg substance were obtained. However, hydrolysis was not yet complete. Therefore a further reaction with 4 N H₂SO₄ in THF was applied, resulting into the pure hydroxyacetyl compound 162 mg, 92 . IR and NMR were identically with the spectra of the product obtained in example 1b. 3 Beta 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 5 ene 570 mg, 1.04 mmol was dissolved in 21 ml benzene, then formaline 0.42 ml , methanol 0.42 ml , Triton B 0.062 ml and an aqueous NaOH solution 50 8.3 ml were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 25 minutes. The benzene layer was separated and the water layer was washed with two portions of 5 ml benzene. The combined benzene solutions were filtered over Al₂O₃ act. II III and washed with 100 ml CH₂Cl₂. After evaporation of the solvent the oxazolinyl compound was obtained 330 mg . IR CHCl₃ 1623 C N , 1055, 1025 C O C . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.017 s, 3H , 5.30 m, 1H , 6.22 m, 1H , 6.48 m, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 11a 152 mg, 0.27 mmol was dissolved in 12 ml THF, then 3.5 ml 4 N H₂SO₄ was added. After storage at room temperature for 20 hours NaHCO₃ 1.359 g, 16 mmol and 25 ml water were added. The THF was evaporated, the remaining solid collected, washed with water and dried. Column purification using toluene acetone 9 1 afforded 64 mg of the pure hydroxyacetyl compound m.p. 194 197 C browning at 187 C . IR CHCl₃ 3610, 3470 OH , 1666 C²⁰ O , 1585 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.96 s, 3H , 1.03 s, 3H , 3.18 s, 1H , 3.35 m, 1H , 4.33 m, 2H , 5.24 m, 1H , 6.74 C¹⁶H . To a solution of 3 methoxy 11 alpha hydroxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 496 mg, 1 mmol in toluene 20 ml were added paraformaldehyde 300 mg, 10 mmol , methanol 0.8 ml , benzyltriethyl ammonium chloride 25 mg and 50 aqueous NaOH solution 8 ml . The mixture was stirred vigorously for 25 minutes. Extraction with toluene, filtration over Al₂O₃ act. II III , followed by a washing with methylene chloride and evaporation in vacuo afforded the oxazoline 196 mg . IR CHCl₃ 1653, 1623 C C, C N cm ¹. ¹ H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.048 s, 3H , 1.174 s, 3H , 3.35 s, 3H , 3.57 s, 3H , 4.20 m, 1H , 4.70 m, 2H , 5.14 s, 1H , 5.76 m, 1H , 6.32 tr, 1H , 6.57 m, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 12a 98 mg was dissolved in 5 ml THF, then 1.25 ml 4 N H₂SO₄ was added. After storage at room temperature for 20 hours 5 ml water was added. The THF was evaporated and the remaining substance was collected. Yield 69 mg. IR CHCl₃ 3598 OH , 3470 OH , 1660 C O , 1615, 1589 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.996 s, 3H , 1.271 s, 3H , 4.20 m, 1H , 4.48 s, 2H , 5.77 s. 1H , 6.80 tr, 1H . To a solution of 1 g 3 methoxy 6 chloro 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene in 50 ml toluene were added 1 ml methanol, 1 ml formaline 40 , 75 mg benzyltriethyl ammonium chloride and 20 ml aqueous NaOH solution 50 .The mixture was stirred vigorously for 1.5 hour at ambient temperature. Extraction with toluene, filtration over Al₂O₃ act. II III followed by a washing with methylene chloride and evaporation afforded the oxazoline. Yield 0.49 g. IR CHCl₃ 1643, 1619 C C N C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.047 s, 6H , 3.36 s, 3H , 3.65 s, 3H , 4.71 m, 2H , 5.67 s, 1H , 6.32 tr, 1H , 6.58 tr, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 13a 400 mg was dissolved in 20 ml THF, then 5 ml THF was added. After storage at ambient temperature for 18 hours 20 ml water was added. The THF was evaporated and the resulting substance was extracted with methylene chloride. The organic layer was dried and concentrated. Colomn purification using toluene afforded 120 mg of the pure hydroxyacetyl compound m.p. 158 160 C. IR CHCl₃ 3471 OH , 1670 C O , 1645, 1620, 1588 C C cm ¹. NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.983 s, 3H , 1.044 s, 3H , 3.65 s, 3H , 4.48 s, 2H , 5.66 s, 1H , 6.78 tr, 1H . 3 Beta methoxymethoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androst 5 ene 509 mg, 1 mmol was converted to the oxazolinyl compound as described in example 13a with the difference that the mixture was h stirred for 35 minutes . Yield 193 mg. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.99 s, 3H , 1.04 s, 3H , 3.33 s, 7H , 4.65 m, 4H , 5.35 m, 1H , 6.35 m, 1H , 6.53 m, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 14a 103 mg was dissolved in 6 ml THF, then 1.5 ml 2N H₂SO₄ was added. After storage at room temperature for 48 hurs 15 ml water was added. The THF was removed by evaporation in vacuo, whereafter the precipitated solid was collected, washed with water and dried. Yield 37 mg. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.95 s, 3H , 1.05 s, 3H , 3.34 s, 4H , 4.42 s, 2H , 4.64 s, 2H , 5.35 m, 1H , 6.71 m, 1H . 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androst 4 en 3 one 200 mg was converted to the methoxy oxazolinyl compound as described in example 1a with the difference that the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes . Yield 120 mg. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.99 s, 3H , 1.18 s, 3H , 3.28 s, 3H , 4.64 m, 2H , 5.68 s, 1H , 6.23 m, 1H , 6.49 m, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 15a 120 mg was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 14b. Yield 37 mg. IR and NMR were identically with the spectra of the products obtained in examples 1b and 10b. To a solution of 351 mg 3 methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene 19 nor androsta 3,5 diene in 15 ml toluene were added 0.3 ml formaline 40 , 0.3 ml methanol, 22 mg benzyltriethyl ammonium chloride and 6 ml aqueous NaOH solution 50 . The mixture was stirred vigorously for 65 minutes at ambient temperature. Extraction with toluene, filtration over Al₂O₃ act. II III followed by a washing with methylene chloride and evaporation in vacuo afforded 112 mg 3 methoxy 17 2 methoxy 3 oxazolin 4 yl 19 nor androsta 3,5,16 triene. Without further processing this oxazolinyl compound was hydrolyzed by dissolving it in 8 ml THF and 2 ml H₂SO₄. After stirring for 17 houres at room temperature, 20 ml water was added. The THF was removed by evaporation in vacuo, whereafter the precipitated solid was collected, washed with water and dried. Yield 58 mg. IR CHCl₃ 3475 OH , 1666 C O , 1619, 1588 C C cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.02 s, 3H , 3.24 s, 1H , 4.48 s, 2H , 5.87 s, 1H , 6.78 tr, 1H . The oxazolinyl compound was prepared as described in example 9a, starting from 1 alpha methyl 3 methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 982 mg, 2 mmol . Yield 653 mg 83 . IR CHCl₃ 1628 C N , 1057 COC . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.78 d, 3H , 1.03 s, 3H , 1.07 s, 3H , 3.30 s, 3H , 3.52 s, 3H , 4.65 m, 2H , 5.06 m, 1H , 5.29 m, 1H , 6.25 m, 1H , 6.52 m, 1H . In the same way as described in Example 9b the title compound can be hydrolyzed to 1 alpha methyl 21 hydroxypregna 4,16 diene 3,20 dione. According to the method described in Example 2 the title compound was prepared from a number of 3 methoxy 17 isocyano sulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene compounds with different groups attached to the sulfonyl group. The following results were obtained. The title compound was prepared according to the method described in Example 2, starting from 477 mg of the starting compound of Example 1 and using 0.5 ml allyl alcohol 7 mmol instead of methanol. Yield 350 mg 86 . IR Nujol 1655, 1630. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 2.8 m , 1.0 s, 6H , 3.5 s, 3H , 3.98, 4.18 d, 2H , 4.5 4.7 m, 2H , 3.9 4.4 m, 4H , 4.5 6.05 m, 1H , 6.05 6.3 m, 1H , 6.3 6 m, 1H . 3 Methoxy 17 2 benzyloxy 3 oxazolin 4 yl androsta 3,5,16 triene was prepared in the same way, however, using benzyl alcohol 1 ml, 10 mmol instead of allyl alcohol. Yield 52 , m.p. 115 125 C. IR Nujol 1630 N C . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.8 2.8 m , 1.06 s , 3.58 s, 3H , 4.55 4.9 m, 4H , 4.65 s , 5.1 5.4 m, 2H , 6.15 6.45 m, 1H , 7.34 s, 5H . Exact mass 459.276 calcd. 459.277 . 3 Methoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 239 mg, 0.5 mmol was dissolved in benzene 7.5 ml . Sodium hydroxide 2.5 mmol, 100 mg , 15 crown 5 0.10 ml, 0.5 mmol , paraformaldehyde 150 mg, 5 mmol and methanol 0.2 ml were added. After stirring for 3.5 hours the title compound was isolated from the reaction mixture in the usual way. Yield 96 . IR Nujol 1625 cm ¹. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.9 2.8 m , 1.82 s, 3H , 3.42 s, 3H , 3.55 s, 3H , 4.6 5.05 m, 4H , 5.1 5.4 m, 2H , 6.2 6.4 m, 1H , 6.6 6.9 m, 1H . M.p. 145 165 C CH₂Cl₂ MeOH . Anal. calcd. for C₂₅H₃₅NO₄ 413.563 C 72.61, H 8.53, N 3.39. Found C 72.3, H 8.7, N 3.4. Remark methoxymethanol is probably formed by reaction of a molecule formaldehyde and a molecule methanol. 3 Isobutoxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 520 mg, 1 mmol was converted to the methoxy oxazolinyl compound as described in example 13a with the difference that tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate was used as phase transfer catalyst. Yield 240 mg. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 0.95, d, 6H , 1.046 s, 6H , 3.34 s, 3H , 3.47 d, 2H , 4.70 m, 2H , 5.12 s, 1H , 5.18 tr, 1H , 6.30 tr, 1H , 6.57 tr, 1H ppm. The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 21a 192 mg was converted to the hydroxyacetyl compound as described in example 1b. Yield 119 mg 73 . IR was identically with the IR of the product obtained in example 1b. 3 Methoxy 9 alpha hydroxy 17 isocyano p methylphenylsulfonyl methylene androsta 3,5 diene 494 mg, 1 mmol was converted to the methoxy oxazolinyl compound as described in example 13a. Yield 170 mg. ¹H NMR CDCl₃ delta 1.045 s, 3H , 1.146 s, 3H , 3.36 s, 3H , 3.58 s, 3H , 4.70 m, 2H , 5.17 s, 1H , 5.31 tr, 1H , 6.30 tr, 1H , 6.57 d, 1H ppm. The oxazolinyl compound prepared according to example 22a 97 mg was dissolved in 6 ml THF and 1.5 ml 2N H₂SO₄. The mixture was stored at room temperature for 22 hours, then water 10 ml was added and the THF removed by evaporation under reduced pressure. 34 mg of the hydroxyacetyl compound was obtained. IR KBr 3400 OH , 1664 C O, 2x , 1612, 1579 C C . ¹H NMR CDCl₃ 0.992 s, 3H , 1.369 s, 3H , 2.95 br, s, OH , 3.58 br, s, OH , 4.40 4.54 AB, 2H , 5.81 s, 1H , 6.81 tr, 1H . Potassium t butoxide 840 mg, 7.5 mmol was added to dry tetrahydrofuran 25 ml whereafter the suspension was cooled to 70 C. TosMIC 1.17 g, 6 mmol dissolved in 10 ml THF was added to the suspension. After 10 minutes stirring at 70 C 3 methoxyandrosta 3,5 dien 17 one 1.5 g, 5 mmol dissolved in 15 ml THF was added. The mixture was stirred for two hours at 40 30 C, followed by the addition of phosphoric acid 0.64 g, 7.5 mmol at 35 C. After stirring for 10 minutes, triethylamine 7.5 ml, 54 mmol and phosphoroxychloride 1 ml, 11 mmol were added at 35 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour at 0 C, and formaline 2 ml, 36 , methanol 2 ml and KOH powdered, 7 g were added. After stirring for 20 minutes the reaction mixture was filtered. Sulfuric acid 20 ml, 4N was added, followed by 10 ml THF. After stirring for 20 hours the THF was evaporated in vacuo. The crystals were sucked dry, washed with water and dried. Yield 1.22 g 74 of the title compound, which was identical with the compound made in Example 1b.