# Process for producing heterologous protein in yeast, expression vehicle therefor, and yeast transformed therewith.

## Abstract
The secretion from yeast of heterologous protein via a preprotein in which the heterologous protein is fused to the signal peptide of a yeast protein. The preprotein is processed by the cells to produce and secrete mature heterologous pro tein.

## Claims
Claims 1. A yeast expression vehicle comprising the DNA sequence of a yeast promoter operably linked to at least a substantial portion of a DNA sequence encoding a homologous yeast signal peptide which is connected in translation reading frame to a DNA sequence encoding a protein heterologous to the yeast organism. 2. An expression vehicle according to Claim 1 wherein the DNA sequence encoding a substantial portion of signal peptide corresponds to that of the signal peptide for invertase. 3. The expression vehicle of Claim 1 wherein the promoter is tne invertase promoter. 4. The expression vehicle according to Claim 1 wherein the promoter is the yeast 3 phospoglycerate kinase promoter. 5. The expression vehicle of Claim 2 wherein the promoter is the yeast invertase promoter or the yeast 3 phospoglycerate kinase promoter. 6. The expression vehicle of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the heterologous protein encoding sequence encodes human leukocyte interferon alpha. 7. A yeast organism transformed by the expression vehicle ofClaims 1 to 6. 8. The yeast organism of Claim 7 which is Saccharolllyces cerevisiae. 9. A yeast cell culture containing the organism of Claim 7 or 8. 10. A process for obtaining a protein heterologous to yeast, which comprises transforming a yeast organism with the expression vehicle of Claims 1 to 6 culturing the transformed organism and recovering the heterologous protein from the culture medium. 11. A process for secreting a discrete protein heterologous to yeast into the culture medium, which process comprises transforming a yeast organism with expression vehicle of Claims 1 to 6 and culturing the transformed organism.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING HETEROLOGOUS PROTEIN IN YEAST, EXPRESSION VEHICLE THEREFOR, AND YEAST TRANSFORMED THEREWITHCross Reference to Related Applications This application is related to US Application Serial No.438,236 EP 88632 , and Serial No. 488,323 European application filed on even date , the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.Field of the Invention This invention is directed generally to recombinant DNA technology utilizing yeast host systems and expression vehicles that synthesize, process and secrete heterologous protein as discrete product unaccompanied by interfering amounts of unwanted presequence or other artifact of expression. Proteins that are secreted through the cell membrane are ordinarily produced in the cell as a transient preprotein or presecretory protein . In that form, the protein contains an additional peptide sequence which presumably assists it in transversing the cell membrane. This additional sequence, referred to as a signal peptide , is believed to be clipped from the secreted 11mature protein during the secretion processes by a membrane associated endopeptidase called signal peptidase . Although the signal peptides of secretory proteins share some similarities, e.g. a short side chain amino acid at the carboxyl end and a hydrophobic central portion, their primary structures differ considerably. The signal peptides for a given organism also exhibit this variation. For example, the signal for human growth hormone is substantially different from the signal for human insulin. This suggests that each protein has evolved with a signal sequence which is particularly well suited to translocating the protein through the membrane. This invention is based upon the discovery that a mature protein is secreted by yeast when the DNA encoding the heterologous protein is operably attached to the DNA sequence of a promoter homologous to yeast and the signal peptide coding portion of a signal homologous to yeast, for example, from the yeast invertase gene. In some cases, the yield of mature protein is higher than is obtained when the protein is expressed with its natural signal peptide a heterologous signal relative to yeast and the fidelity of processing is sometimes improved.Thus, this invention is directed to the means and methods of obtaining useful quantities of heterologous protein from the medium of a yeast culture containingDNA encoding the protein wherein the DNA coding for the heterologous protein is operably connected to a DNA sequence comprising a promoter and the signal portion of yeast homologous sequences. Of enormous advantage is the enablement, by this Invention, or obtaining useful, discrete protein product in the cell culture meaium by expression of heterologous DNA in an easily modified pl asmid. The publications and other materials referred to herein to illuminate the background of the invention, and in particular cases, to provide additional detail respecting its practice are incorporated herein by reference, and for convenience, are numerically referenced and grouped in the appended bibliography. Background of the Invention Yeast organisms naturally transport a small number of certain homologous proteins to and sometimes through the plasma membrane as an essential contribution to cell surface growth and cell metabolism. As the cell buds as an incident of reproduction preparatory to formation of a daughter cell, additional proteins are required for formation of cell wall and plasma membrane as well as for metabolism. Some of these proteins are transported to the site of function, via a secretory pathway 1 . Certain homologous proteins involved in the above processes are formed by translation in the rough endoplasmic reticulum RER .During their biosynthesis, the signal peptide was thought to interact with a presumed particle called the signal recognition part cle SRP which in turn recognizes a presumed RER membrane protein called SRP receptor or docKing protein and subsequently the proteins are transferred across the RER membrane 2 4 . Once proteins are segregated into the lumen of RER, they migrate to the Golgi apparatus and then to the vesicles. Fusion of the vesicles with the plasma membrane by exocytosis results in discharge of the vesicular contents proteins into the periplasmic space vacated between the plasma membrane and the cell wall. A small number of homologous proteins seems to be exported completely through the cell wall, such as a factor and killer toxin 5,6 . Nonetheless, the entire set of secretion processes is not yet fully understood in yeast. The presumed SRP of yeast may not be identical to the counterpart in mammalian cells. In other words, sorne heterologous signals other than yeast signals may or may not bind the yeast SRP with the same fidelity as those homologous yeast signals in the expression of the heterologous genes.Likewise, it is still uncertain whether modifications of proteins in vivo such as phospriorylation, glycosylation etc. assist the translocation of secretory proteins along the secretion pathway. It was contemplated that recombinant DNA technology could provide valuable assistance in answering the open questions about the secretory process in yeast organisms. Given its proven applicability in enabling such, and other, organisms to produce copious quantities of heterologous polypeptide products endogenously see, e.g., 7 to 17 , it was thought that such technology would be helpful in achieving appropriate manipulation of the yeast host so as to direct the secretion of heterologous protein in discrete, mature form. This has, in fact, been achieved and is the subject of copending US lication 438,236 EP 88632 supra. In that application is described the discovery that a heterologous protein, initially expressed as a preprotein with its native signal human or hybrid thereof, can be secreted by yeast as a mature protein.Summary of The Invention This invention is based upon the discovery that yeast organisms can be caused to express the genes for, process and secrete protein that is normally heterologous to yeast organism so that the protein can be obtained from the supporting medium in discrete form unaccompanied by unwanted presequence or other artifact of expression. This is accomplished by expressing a DNA sequence encoding the heterologous protein linked to a DNA sequence encoding a homologous yeast signal sequence preferably that of invertase. Suitable yeast cells in a viable culture are transformed with expression vehicles harboring DNA encoding a heterologous protein operably connected to the DNA encoding, for example, the invertase signal peptide and a promoter, e.g., the promoter of the invertase gene. Upon production of the fusion protein containing the homologous signal peptide, the product is processed and the mature heterologous protein is exported into the medium of the cell culture. The product is removed with relative ease from the medium, without need to disrupt the viable yeast cells and recovered in otherwise mature form for use without need to remove unwanted presequence or other artifacts of expression e.g., the methionine which is sometimes attached to the otherwise N terminal amino acid as a consequence of an inserted AUG translation start codon . Since the medium can be obtained in a form substantially free of viable or disrupted i.e., lysed or otherwise broken cells and contains the desired product, more easily employed purification techniques can be used. Trie mature protein product, after purification, is fit for use as intended.For example, human leukocyte interferon product finds use as a human antiviral an or antitumor agent see, generally, 7 to 17 . In summary, the present invention is directed as a primary aspect, to the means and methods employed in the production of a protein normally heterologous to yeast in discrete form, unaccompanied by presequence or other artifact of expression. In the context of this invention, expression processing and secretion are accomplished by placing a DNA sequence encoding a heterologous protein under the control of a promoter homologous to yeast, and in translational reading frame with a DNA sequence encoding a signal sequence homologous to yeast. Further, this invention provides yeast cultures capable of producing such protein and resultant yeast culture media containing such protein as product. The term invertase signal peptide refers to an amino acid pre sequence normally associated with invertase. Homologous signal means the signal peptide regions of yeast proteins which correspond at least substantially to the naturally occurring signals. Therefore, such signal regions may differ from the natural signals by the inclusion or exclusion of amino acids which do not materially affect its ability to function as a signal peptide. Heterologous signal refers to the signal peptide regions performing similar functions in organisms other than yeast. By the term gneterologous protein as used herein is meant protein that is not normally produced by or required for viability of a yeast organism. This term contemplates the functional insertion of DNA encoding such protein, via recombinant DNA technology, into an expression vehicle, in turn used to transform a yeast organism host. Functional insertion of DNA denotes the insertion of DNA encoding the heterologous protein into an expression vector under control of a promoter system. When this DNA sequence is operably connected to the DNA sequence coding for a homologous to yeast signal peptide, a hybrid preprotein, i.e., one which comprises the yeast signal peptide fused to the heterologous protein, is obtained.Examples of such heterologous protein are hormones, e.g., human growth hormone, bovine growth hormone, etc. lymphokines enzymes interferons, e.g., human fibroblast, human immune and human and hybrid leukocyte interferons, bovine interferons etc. viral antigens or immunogens, e.g., foot and mouth disease antigens, influenza antigenic protein, hepatitis core and surface antigens, etc. and various other polypeptides, e.g., rennin, human serum albumin, human insulin, human insulin like growth factor l, various glycoproteins, etc. Secretion as used herein means exportation of product through the plasma membrane and at least into or through the ceil wall of the yeast organism into the medium supporting the cell culture. In this connection, it will be understood that in some instances, secreted product associates in some manner with the cell wall, perhaps necessitating a different purification procedure or a modification of the structure and function of the yeast host. Processing means the cellular cleavage of the homologous signal peptide from the mature protein so as to produce the heterologous protein unaccompanied by extraneous peptide in so called discrete or mature form. By extraneous peptide is included peptide artifacts of expression such as methionine, as noted above. Processing admits of inconsequentleii cleavdyr of the signai peptioe at a locus not inactivatingly near the precise point of signal peptide union with mature protein. Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 illustrates the scheme for constructing a plasmid coding for the invertase signal and mature form of methionine LeIFA. Fig. 2 shows the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the invertase signal and a portion of invertase and compares it to the expected and observed sequences for the invertase signal joined toLeIFA. Fig. 3 illustrates construction of a plasmid for insertion into yeast to express LeIFA fused to an invertase signal. Fig. 4 Western blot of cellular and media LeIFA produced by transformed yeast. Fig. 5 shows carboxymethylcellulose CM 52 column chromatography of media LeIFA from the yeast pep 4 3 strain containing a plasmid YEplPT invertase signal LelFA E3 . Letter A indicates the onset of washing column with 25 mM ammonium acetate, pH 5.0 and B shows the start of elution with 0.5 M NaCl. Fig. 6 shows immuoaffinity column chromatography of mediaLeIFA from the CM 62 column of Figure 5. Fig. 7 illustrates high pressure liquid chromatography of media LeFIA from fraction number 58 of immunoaffinity column ofFigure 6. Methionine LeIFA 5 pg purified from E. coli was run as a control and shown on the upper panel of this figure. Fig. 8 shows the amino terminal sequences of LeIFA produced from plasmids containing fragments from clones F2 and E3. Fig. 9 shows immunoaffinity column chromatography of mediaLeIFA from the yeast pep 4 3 strain containing a plasmidYEplPT invertase signal LeIFA F2 . Fig. 10 illustrates high pressure liquid chromatography of media LeIFA from fraction number 20 of immunoaffinity column ofFigure 9. MethionineLelFA 5 9 purified from E. coli was run as a control and shown on the upper panel of this figure. Fig. 11 illustrates screening of invertase gene containing colonies by hybridization of plasmid DNAs on the nitrocellulose filters with the probe. Fig. 12 is the restriction map of pFI4 inserted betweenXhoI and EcoRI 5.5kb . Fig. 13 shows the DNA sequence of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae invertase gene and its flanking regions 4.0 kb . Fig. 14 illustrates plasmid pYEp9T YIR or L Fig. 15 illustrates the scheme for construction of the invertase promoter and signal codons to the human interferon LeIFA gene YIpsp LeIFA . Fig. 16 illustrates the scheme for conversion of YIpspLeIFA into an EcoRI fragment for insertion into a yeast plasmid YEp9T YEp9T Y1psp LeIFA . Fig. 17 is a graph of the expression and secretion of LeIFA in yeast using the yeast invertase promoter and its signal coding sequence.Detailed Description of a Preferred Embodiment Two basic strategies were adopted in order to obtain an expression vehicle according to the present invention, i.e., a vehicle comprising the DNA sequences of a promoter and of the homologous signal peptide of invertase operably connected in translational reading frame to a DNA sequence coding for a mature protein heterologous to the yeast organism. In one strategy, the DNA sequence coding for the invertase signal was obtained synthetically and joined to the PGK promoter and this hybrid promoter signal sequence was joined to a gene coding for the heterologous protein and inserted into a plasmid. In the second strategy, the gene for invertase was isolated from a bank of yeast genomic DNA using hybridization techniques. The portion of the gene coding for invertase was removed and the DNA coding for the heterologous protein joined to the invertase promoter and signal coding DNA sequence. The details of these operations are described below, the heterologous protein chosen to exemplify the invention freing human leukocyte interferon LeIFA .A. Expression In Yeast of Heterologous Protein Using Expression Vehicle With Hybrid Promoter Invertase Signal 1. Materials and MethodsSources of DNA All DNA restriction enzymes, E. coli DNA polymerase large fragment Klenow polymerase I 18 , T4 DA ligase, and avian myeloblastosis virus AMV reverse transcriptase, were products of either New England Biolabs or Bethesda Research Laboratories and were used according to the prescribed recipes. The deoxynucleotide triphosphates dATP, dGTP, dCTP, and dTTP were purchased from PLBiochemicals. Plasmid LeIFA trp25 was obtained as described byGoeddel et al. 7 . Bacterial and Yeast Strains E. coli K 12 strain 294 endA thi srhsm ATCC 31446 22 and yeast strain pep4 3 20B 12 dtrpl pep4 3 ATCC 20626 23 were used for transformations.Growth Media E. coli was grown in LB medium 25 which contained 1 percent Bacto tryptone, 0.5 percent Bacto yeast extract, and Q.5 percent Nail. Drug 20 vg ml of ampicillin or tetracycline was added for growth of the plasrncPiarboring bacteria. Yeast minimal medium plates contained 0.67 percentBacto yeast nitrogen base without amino acids, 2 percent glucose and 3 percent Difco agar. The minimal medium was used for yeast transformation with the addition of 1 M sorbitol. YNB CAA medium is the minimal medium supplemented with 10 mg of adenine, 10 mg of uracil and 5 grams of Difco casamino acids CAA per liter. YEPD medium contained 1 percent Bacto yeast extract, 2 percentBacto peptone and 2 percent dextrose glucose .Transformations E. coli strain 294 was transformed according to a published procedure 19 . Yeast strain pep4 3 was transformed by the method of Hinnen et al. 21 .Preparation of DNA Plasmid DNAs from individual E. coli transformants were miniscreened by the method of Birnboim and Doly 20 . This method has also been employed for large scale preparation of plasmid DNAs except they were further fractionated on a Bio gel A 50m 100 200 mesh Bio rad column chromatography. DNA restriction fragments were isolated by electroelution from the gels, followed by phenol chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. Two 40mer oligodeoxynucleotides were chemically synthesized using the phosphotriester method 38 .Gel Electrophoresis Polyacrylamide and agarose gel electrophoresis for plasmidDNAs were performed as described by Maniatis et al. 24 and bySharp et al. 30 , respectively. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for proteins was performed as described byLaemmil 31 .Design of Oligonucleotides Coded for the Invertase Signal Peptide Two 40mer oligonucleotides were designed as shown inFig. 1, based on the known nuclueotide sequence coding for the yeast invertase signal region shown in Fig. 2. An additional ATG just preceding the ATG initiation site of translation was retained as the original nucleotide sequence of yeast invertase. A convenient EcoRI restriction site was placed in front of the ATGATG with two additional nucleotides CC at the 5 end. These two oligonucleotides have twelve base pairs complementary to each other at their 3 ends. After repairing these oligonucleotides with the reverse transcriptase, the 3 end of newly formed double strand DNA becomes a blunt end which will be ligated to a blunt end of a mature methionine LeIFA maintaining the same coding frame.The 5 end becomes a sticky end after EcoRI digestion. Construction of a Plasmid pLeIFA Invertase Signal Coding for the Invertase Signal Mature Leukocyte Interferon A The scheme for construction of a plasmid coding for LeIFA bound to the invertase signal is shown in Fig. 1. The AMV reverse transcriptase was used for the repair reaction of two synthetic oligonucleotides. 400 ng of two individual 40mer oligonucleotides were placed in a 50 iil reaction volume containing 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0, 50 mM KCl, 6 mM MgCl2, l mM dithiothreitol, 0.2 mM each of dATP, dGTP, dCTP, 150 pci of a 32PdCTP New England Nuclear , and 25 units of reverse transcriptase BRL . The reaction was continued at 42 C for 75 minutes, and then terminated by phenollchloroform extraction.The twice extracted aqueous phase was adjusted to 0.3 M with 3 M of sodium acetate at pH 5.5 followed by a 66 percent ethanol precipitation at 20 C. The precipitated, repaired DNA was digested with 200 units of EcoRI in a high salt buffer 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4, 10 mM MgS04, 1 mM g mercaptoethanol and 100 mM NaCI at 37 C for 3 hours and then run on a 10 percent polyacrylamide gel. After electrophoresis, the wet gel was placed on the top of a glass plate, covered with a sheet of Saran Wrap and exposed directly with a sheet of Kodak film X fmat AR 2 for 20 minutes. After autoradioc arhy, the uppermost radioactive band containing the invertase signal codons was localized with the aid of the autoradiogram, excised from the wet gel and electroeluted in a dialysis bag. The elutedDNA was extracted twice with phenolichloroform and subsequently precipitated with ethanol. DNA was then lyophilized to dryness and suspended in 10 pl of distilled water. Plasmid LeIFA trp25, an E. coli expression plasmid, contains the structural gene for mature methionine LeIFA 7 which is within a EcoRI PstI fragment and aoes not have its natural signal codons. This plasmid DNA 7 ug was first cut with 4 units of EcoRI in a 20 ul reaction volume containing a medium salt buffer which is the same as the high salt buffer described above, except that 50 mM instead of 100 mM NaCl was used. The EcoRI site was located just preceding the ATG initiation codon of mature methionine LeIFA. In order to generate a right coding frame for mature methionine LeIFA after its ligating with the invertase signal codons, a nucleotide G at the 3 strand of the EcoRI site must be eliminated.Thus, theEcoRI fragment containing methionine LeIFA gene was incubated with 3 units of DNA polymerase I large fragment in the presence of 25 pM dTTP at room temperature for 30 minutes. The presence of dTTP in the reaction is to prevent further removal of 3 nucleotide by 3 exonuclease activity of DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment from the coding frame of methionine LeIFA. The reaction mixture was then phenol chloroform extracted and ethanol precipitated. Dried DNA was resuspended in 30 pl of 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0, and 200 units of bacterial alkaline phosphatase was added. Reaction was incubated at 65 C for 7 hrs. and then terminated by twice phenol chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation.The DNA was suspended in the medium salt buffer, digested with 2 units of PstI for 2 hrs at 37 C, and then loaded on a 6 percent polyacrylamide gel. The 810 bpEcoRI PstI fragment was isolated from the gel, electroeluted, phenolichloroform extracted and ethanol precipitated. 2pg of ss pasmia DNA pBR32 34 was digested in a 50 p1 reaction volume of tne medium salt buffer for 2 hrs at 37 C with 10 units of EcoRI and 10 units of PstI. A large fragment 3.6 kbp was isolated from the 5 percent gel and used as a vector fragment which nas the tetracycline resistant gene. 20 ng of this EcoRI PstI vector fragment was combined with the 65 bp of the invertase signal codons and the 880 bp fragment of methionine LeIFA constructed above. Reaction was incubated in 10 pl of 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.6, 10 mM MgCl2, 20 mM dithiothreitol, 1 mM ATP and 1 unit of T4 ligase BRL at room temperature for 16 hrs.Then the reaction mixture was diluted to 20 p1 with the above ligation buffer and รง units of T4 polynucleotide kinase was added followed by an incubation at 37 C for 30 minutes. The reaction mix was cooled to room temperature and 2 more units of T4 DNA ligase was added.Reaction was further incubated at room temperature for another 16 hrs. This entire ligation mix containing pLeIFA invertase signal was then used to transform competent E. coli 294 to tetracycline resistance on LB medium plates. Thirty tetracycline resistant colonies were obtained.Screening and Sequencing of Clones Individual E. coli transformants were grown in 5 ml of LB medium containing 5 pg ml of tetracycline for 16 hrs at 370C.Plasmid DN s from these transforming cells were prepared by a quick screen procedure 16 and suspended in 50 pl of distilled water.Ten microliters of plasmid DNA from each transformant was then digested with both EcoRI and PstI in the medium salt buffer at 37 C for 3 hrs. and loaded on a 5 percent polyacrylamide gel. Six clones among those transformants contained a 880 bp EcoRI PstI fragment having both the invertase signal codons and mature methionine LeIFA gene. Plasmid pLeIFA trp25 DNA was also included as a control experiment which generates a 810 bp EcoRI PstI fragment bearing mature methionine LeIFA gene. Thus, the EcoRI PstI fragments derived from six clones were isolated and cloned into a sequencing phage M13MP9. The nucleotide sequence around the invertase signal codons, as well as the junction between the invertase signal codons and methionine LeIFA gene, were then determined by the dideoxy sequencing method 32, 33 .Two promising clones designated E3 andF2 were obtained.Modification of the Invertase Signal LeIFA DNA into an EcoRIFragment for Insertion into a Yeast Expression Plasmid YEp1PT Plasmids for expression of LeIFA in yeast derived from clones E3 and F2 were constructed as snown in Fig. 3. plasmid DNAs from the clones E3 and F2 were linearized withPstI. The PstI end of this vector fragment was then converted to anEcoRI site by using an adaptor fragment 900 bp isolated from a yeast plamid YEP13 37 . This adaptor fragment contains an internalEcoRI site and has PstI sites on both ends the 247 bp of PstI toEcoRI is derived from yeast 2 DNA and 654 bp of EcoRI to PstI is from PBR322. Thus, insertion of this 900 bp adaptor fragment into the PstI sites of those desired clone fragments resulted in the restoration of ampicillin resistance in plasmid harboring bacteria.The plasmid DNAs isolated from ampicillin resistant clones were cut with EcoRI and run on a 5 percent polyacrylamide gel. The 1100 bpEcoRI fragment was electroeluted from the gel, extracted with phenol chloroform and precipitated with ethanol. A yeast expression plasmid YEplPT 35 was digested withEcoRI and then treated with 1 unit of calf thymus alkaline phosphatase Boehringer Mannheim for 10 min at 37 C. The treatedDNA was extracted once with phenol chloroform and then precipitated with ethanol. 10 ng of this vector fragment was ligatea with 150 ng of the invertase signal codons LeIFA gene fragment EcoRI , described above, for 15 hrs at 14 C. The ligation mix was used to transform E. coli strain 294. Plasmid DNAs from individual transformants were isolated and the orientation of the invertase signal codons LeIFA gene to the PGK promoter on the vector was determined by restriction patterns of the DNAs. The desired plasmidDNAs, YEplPT LeIFA invertase signal, derived from clones E3 and F2 were used to transform yeast strain pep4 3. Preparation of Yeast Extract and Interferon Assays a. Extract Preparation Cells of yeast strain PEP4 3 transformed by VEpiPT LelFA invertase signal derived from clones E3 and F2 were grown in a ten liter fermentor at 30eC in 2.6 percent yeast nitrogen base and 1 percent glucose to an e 50 of 3 4. At such cell density the initial 1 percent glucose was completely exhausted cells were then slowly fed with glucose until A550 reached 50 100. For assay each 10 ml aliquot was drawn and centrifuged at 10,000 rpm for 10 minutes in a Sorval RC3B. The supernate media was diluted 20 to 100 fold in PBS1BSA buffer 20 mM NaH2P04, pH 7.4, 150 mM Nail, 0.5 percent bovine serum albumin immediately before the assay.The cells about ten 2 5o were resuspended in 0.4 ml 7 M guanidine4iCl in an Eppendorf 1.5 ml tube containing about 0.4 ml of glass beads 0.45 to 0.5 mm, B. Braun Melsurgen AG , vortexed twice for 2 minutes at the highest speed, and centrifuged in an Eppendorf centrifuge for 0.5 minute. The cell lysate was then diluted in PBS BSA buffer as above for bioassays. b. Interferon Assays Yeast extracts and media were assayed for interferon by comparison with interferon standard using the cytopathic effect CPE inhibition assay 26 . Cells used in the assay were bovine kidney cells MDBK . Westerns Blots of the Human leukocyte Interferons LeIFA Produced from Yeast Both culture media and cellular extracts were precipitated with 10 percent ice cold trichloroacetic acid. The precipitates were dissolved in 100 mM Tris base, 20 mM dithiothreitol, 0.01 percent bromophenol blue and 20 percent sucrose at 37 C for 30 minutes and boiled in a bath for 3 minutes. After cooling to room temperature, 100 mM of sodium iodoacetamide was added, further incubated at 370C for one hour, and then run on a 12.5 percentSDS polyacrylamide gel until the tracking dye reached the bottom of the gel.Gel was soaked in electrophoresis buffer without SDS for 20 minutes and proteins on the gel were electrophoretically transferred onto a nitrocellulose paper in the same buffer at 0.5Amp for 2 hours E C Apparatus Corp. . After transfer the nitrocelulose paper was incubated in NET buffer 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4, 150 mM Nail, 5 mM EDTA, 0.25 percent gelatin w v and 0.05 percent NP 40 overnight. The paper was rinsed briefly in water and put in a plastic bag. 10 ml of NET buffer and 150 pl of rabbit anti LeIFA antiserum was added and incubated at room temperature for 3 hours. After extensive washes with water and NET buffer, the paper was incubated with 10 ml of NET buffer and 0.2 Ci of 125I protein A Pharmacia for two hours.Then the paper was rinsed with a large volume of water over a period of 10 minutes, blotted dry, and exposed to Kodak X ray film with intensifying screen at 70 C.Purification of the Human Leukocyte Interferon LeIFA from Yeast Media Yeast pep4 3 transformants containing plasmids derived from clones E3 and F2 were separately grown in 10 liter fermentor and after cell removal the media were separately purified as follows.a. Invertase Signal Containing Clone E3 Seven liters of the media were concentrated and diafiltered against five liters of 25 mM ammonium acetate, pH 5.0 in an Amicon thin channel cell with reservoir Amicon TCF 10 90mm and RG 11 using a YM 5 membrane at 18 psi. During the concentration and diafiltration the retentate was transferred to a 2.5 liter Amicon stirred cell using a YM 5 membrane 15on and 40 psi. A total of ten liters of 25 mM ammonium acetate was used in the diafiltration yielding a final retentate volume of 900 ml. The retentate was then diluted to 2 liters with ammonium acetate and passed over a CM52 column 500 ml bed volurne at 1.7 ml per minute. The column was eluted with 0.5M NaCl. Ten ml fractions were collected and assayed as described above see Figure 5 .Fraction numbers 126 238 were pooled and dialyzed against 25 SM Tris HCl, 10 mM EDTA, pH 8.0. The analyzed pool 188 ml was then passed over a 0.5 ml immunoaffinity column containing monoclonal antibody to LeIFA covalently bound toAffigel 10 BioRad at a flow rate of 0.15 ml per minute. The column was eluted with 0.2 M acetic acid, pH 2.5. One ml fractions were collected and assayed see Figure 6 . Fraction number 58 4.5 x 10 units per ml was further purified by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC on a Synchropak RP P column. The column was eluted at a flow rate of 1 ml per minute with a linear gradient of 0 100 percent acetonitrile in 0.1 percent trifluoroacetic acid TFA . One ml fractions were collected and assayed see lower panelFigure 7 .A 5pg sample of LeIFA purified from E. coli was also chromatographed as a control see the upper panel of Figure 7 .Fraction numbers 42 and 43 5.6 x 10 units per ml were pooled and sequenced.b. Invertase Signal Containing Clone F2 Eight liters of media were concentrated and diafiltered against six liters of ammonium acetate, pH 5.0, in a 2.5 literAmicon stirred cell Amicon 2000 using a YM 5 ultrafiltration membrane to a final volume of 1.7 liters. The concentrate was then diafiltered against six to eight liters of 25 mM Tris HCl, 10mM EDTA, pH 8.0, to a final volume of approximately 50 ml. The retentate was diluted to 530 ml and 430 ml was passed over a 1.0 ml immunoaffinity column containing a monoclonal antibody to LeIFA covalently bound to Affigel 10 at a flow rate of less than 10 ml per hour. The column was washed with 25 mM Tris HCl, 10 mM EDTA, pH 8.0. The interferon activity was eluted from the column with 0.2 M acetic acid. One ml fractions were collected and assayed seeFigure 9 .Fraction number 20 4.0 x 10 unitslml was further purified by HPLC on a Synchropak RP P column. The column was eluted at a flow rate of 1 ml per minute with a linear gradient of O to 100 percent acetonitrile in 0.1 percent TFA, pH 2.5 see the lower panel of Figure 10 . One ml fractions were collected and assayed. A 59 sample of purified LeIFA produced in E. coli was also chromatographed as a control see the upper panel of Figure 10 .The interferon activity eluted from the column in a peak centered about fraction number 44 9.0 x 10 units ml . Fractions number 41 and 44 were pooled and sequenced as follows.Amino terminal Sequencizg of LeIFA Purified from the Yeast Media LeIFA isolated from the yeast medium was suDjected to consecutive Edman degradations in the Beckman 890B sequencer 27 using the Quadrol Program. Two mg of Polybrene poly N,N,N,N, tetramethyl N trilnethylenehexamethylene diamnonium diacetate was added to the sequencer cup as a protein carrier 28 . The resulting 2 anilino 5 thiazolinone was added to 25 percent trifluoroacetic acid and heated to 70 C for 10 minutes to convert it into the 3 phenyl 2 thiohydantoin PTH derivative 29 . The PTH amino acid residue was then dissolved in 50 percent acetonitrile and analyzed by a reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography. Each PTH amino acid was then identified by comparison to the retention times of a mixture of standard PTH amino acids.2. ResultsConstructions of the Fused Invertase Signal Codons andMethionine LeIFA Gene The invertase signal codons were constructed from two synthetic oligonucleotides 40 mer which complement each other at 12 Rase ir as describes n idieriais 211d,eChods and illustrated as in Figure 1. The repairment of two complementary oligonucleotides by the AMV reverse transcriptase yielded a double strand of DNA 54 bp with a blunt 3 end and a sticky 5 end after EcoRI restriction.Ligation of this invertase signal codon and mature form of methionine LeIFA gene within a EcoRI PstI fragment from pLeIFA trp25 to an EcoRI PstI fragment of plasmid pBR322 34 was accomplished after removal of a nucleotide G from the 3 strand of the EcoRI site of methionine LeIFA gene by the 3 exonuclease of DNA polymerase Klenow fragment see Fig. 1 . The resulting hybrid plasmid designated as pLeIFA invertase signal possessed a correct reading frame from the invertase signal codons to the gene of mature methionine LeIFA. Restriction analysis of thirty transformants containing pLeIFA invertase signal showed 6 clones bearing the 800 bp EcoRI PstI fragment whereas the EcoRI PstI fragment of mature methionine LeIFA gene is 810 bp without the invertase signal codons .Dideoxy DNA sequencing of these 6 clones showed 4 of them have a deletion of nucleotide s in the region of invertase signal codons, rendering the invertase signal codons and mature methionine LeIFA gene out of coding frame relative to each other. Two other clones F2 and E3 were in right coding frame as shown in Figure 2. Clone F2 coded for a fusion bearing an invertase signal and methionine LeIFA. The junction between the invertase signal codons and methionine LeIFA gene was as expected, whereas a trinucleotide GCC corresponding to an amino acid residue 15 alanine of invertase signal was deleted. This deletion probably resulted from an error in the synthesis of oligonucleotides coding for the invertase signal region. Clone E3 coded for a fusion bearing an invertase signal and mature LeIFA. There is no ATG prior to the mature LeIFA gene of this clone. The reason for deletion of ATG coded for methionine is unknown. Presumably, the limited 3 exonuclease digestion with the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I at the 3 strand of theEcoRI site of methionine LeIFA gene in the presence of 25 pM dTTP did not cease at T but rather proceeded three more nucleotides seeFigure 1 . In order to express these two hyDrid clones F2 and E3 in yeast, the PstI site at the 3 end of non coding region of each of clones F2 and E3, was converted into an EcoRI site with a 247 bp adaptor fragment derived from yeast 2 micron DNA as illustrated inFigure 3. This EcoRI fragment containing the invertase signal codons and LeIFA gene was inserted into a yeast expression plasmidYEplPT 35 . The resulting plasmids were designed asYEplPT LeIFA invertase signal F2 or E3 . Thus, this expression plasmid contains a portion of pBR322 with the ampicillin resistance gene and the E. coli origin of replication for selection and stable growth in E. coli. It also contains a TRP1 gene allowing for selection in trp yeast and a 2 micron plasmid origin of replication allowing for replicating autonomously in yeast.In this plasmid, transcription of hybrid genes was under the control of the yeast 3 phosphoglycerate kinase PGK promoter.Synthesis and Secretion of LeIFA by Yeast A plasmid containing the natural signal codons of LeIFA in the yeast expression vector YEplPT was previously constructed 35 and used here as a control for comparison of the level of production of LeIFA from the plasmid YEp1PT LeIFA invertase signal F2 or E3 .The activity of interferon from both cells and media were measured and shown in Table 1. Both expression and secretion of LeIFA in yeast were higher with the yeast invertase a homologous signal cell system signal relative to the human natural signal a heterologous signal cell system . The interferon activity in the media was Table 1. Production of Human IFN z2 in Yeast Am t of Cellular Am t of Media Interferon ntglL Interferon mg L preLeIFA 4.00 0.25 F2 5.85 1.75 E3 10.10 1.00 4 fold higher in cells transformed with E3 containing plasmid and 7 fold higher in cells transformed with F2 containing plasmid in yeast strain pep4 3 than observed with the cells transformed with tne plasmid coding for the natural LeIFA signal.The Nature of LeIFA Produced from Yeast Containing F2 or E3 Plasmid To understand the nature of LeFIA produced by yeast, a UWester blotting procedure 36 was used. Both cellular and media proteins were separated by 12.5 percent S9S polyacrylamide gel and subsequently transferred onto the nitrocellulose paper. The LeIFA was then detected by a rabbit antibody raised against LeIFA with radioactive protein A of Staphylococus aureus. As shown inFigure 4, LeIFA from both cells and media migrated to the same position as mature methionine LeIFA produced from E. coli. No additional radioactive band was detected. These results suggest that LeIFA was expressed and completely processed by yeast. To further ascertain whether LeIFA expressed fromE3 containing plasmid was indeed properly processed, medium from yeast containing E3 plasmid was purified by a combination of carboxymethylcellulose CM 52 chromatography see Fig. 5 , monoclonal antibody affinity chromatography see Fig. 6 , and high pressure liquid chromatography see Fig. 7 . Gel electrophoresis in SDS of purified LeIFA showed a single commassive blue staining band. Purified protein was subjected to 15 cycles ofEdman oegradations. As shown in Figure 8, the amino terminal sequence of purified LeIFA is identical to the known sequence ofLeIFA, suggesting that the yeast signal peptidase not only recognizes the primary structure of the fused invertase signal LeIFA but cleaves at the correct site to generate the natural mature form of human LeIFA. Medium from yeast transformed with F2 containing plasmid was also purified in the same was as LeIFA from E3 except CM52 column chromatography was omitted see Figures 9 and 10 . Analysis of amino terminal sequence of purified LeIFA F2 showed cleavage had occurred prior to the methionine residue of LeIFA see Fig. 8 . In both transformants, processing of the pre LeIFA to remove the signal appears to be complete.B. Expression in Yeast of Heterologous Protein using Expression Vehicle with Invertase Promoter and Signal 1. Materials and MethodsConstruction of Yeast Genomic Library Total genomic DNA was isolated from a yeast strain S17990 atrp5 his4 ade6 ga12 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by the method ofSmith and Halvorson 39 . 370 pg of DNA was partially digested with 2.5 units of Sau3AI New England Biolab in 2 ml of reaction mixture. Aliquots were removed at 10, 20 and 30 min., chilled wand inactvated ith 20 mM EDTA. The pooled, phenol extracted DNA was fractionated by centrifugation in lye50 percent sucrose gradients in 1 M NaCl, 20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 and 10 mM EDTA. The Sau3AI fragments 15 kb determined by agarose gel electrophoresis were isoloated and inserted into the alkaline phosphateasetreated BamHI site of plasmid YRp7. The resultant ligated DNA was then used to transfor E. coli strain 294. The transformants were individually picked and stored in 96 wells of tissue culture microtiter dishes Costar, Cambridge, MA at 20 C in the presence of 10 percent dimethylsulfoxide in LE medium. Synthesis of the Probe The synthetic oligonucleotide 19 mer probe corresponding to the signal peptide region of the invertase gene was prepared using the phosphotriester method 38 . The nucleotide sequence is 5 AAGCTTTCCTTTTCCTTTT 3 and was obtained from Dr. Marian Carl son, Department of Human Genetics, Columbia University, New York.Isolation of Recombinant Plasmids E. coli transformants of yeast genomic library were transferred and grown on fresh LB medium containing ampicillin at 20 ig ml in the 96 well microtiter dishes overnight. Fresh cells were transferred onto the non sterilized nitrocellulose filters Schleicher and Schuell, BA85, 132 nm diameter placed on S agar plates 32 g tryptone, 5g Nail, 15g Difco agar and 0.2g NaOH per liter containing ampicillin 20 glml and allowed to grow for 6 8 hours at 37 C. At this time, cells formed a thin layer of colonies and filters were then transferred to another S agar plate containing both ampicillin 20 pglrl and chloramphenicol 150 vgml . After 14 hours of amplification colonies were processed for hybridization by denaturing in 1.5 M NaCl and 0.5 M NaOH for 3 min., neutralizing in 3.0 M Nail, 0.5 M Tris HCl, pH 7.5, for 3 min., and finally washing in 6X SSC for 3 min. Filters were dried by air and baked in oven with vacuum at 80 for 2 hours. Prehybridization was done by incubating the filters at 42 overnight with agitation in the prehybridization buffer 0.1 MTris HCl, pH 7.5, 6 mM EDTA, 0.1 fiM ATP, 1 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 1 mM sodium phosphate, 0.9 M NaCI, 1X Denhardt s solution, 0.5 percent NP 40 and 0.1 mg ml of E. coli tRNA . After prehybridization, filters were hybridized at 42 overnight in the fresh prehybridization buffer with the synthetic probe of 32 labeled oligonucleotide 19 mer described above.Filters were then washed three times in 6X SSC for 20 min. at 37 C. Dried filters were exposed to Kodak XR 2 X ray film with DuPont intensifying screen at 80eC. DNA Sequence Determiniation DNA sequencing of the invertase gene and its flanking regions was done by the dideoxy chain termination procedure 33, 40, 41 using the single stranded phage M13mp8 and M13mp9 and a synthetic phage specific primer. Samples wee separated by electrophoresis on 5 percent polyacrylamide 8M urea thin gels 42 . Gels were dried onto Whatman 3MM paper and exposed to KodakX ray film for varying lengths of time. The sequence of theSaccharomyces cerevisiae invertase gene and its flanking regions 4.0 kb is shown in Fig. 13. The translated region encodes the preinvertase of 532 amino acid residues and of molecular weight 60,649. The potential glycosylation sites are underlined.2. ResultsIdentification of Recombinant Plasmids Containing the Invertase Gene Approximately 10,000 bacterial colonies form yeast genomic library were screened for in situ hybridizaton with 5 32p labeled oligonucleotide 19 mer . Fifty four colonies were hybridized to the probe. Plasmid DNAs from these fifty four colonies were prepared by the method of Birnboim and Doly 20 and tested for hybridization with the same probe after spotting small amounts ofDNAs onto a nitrocellulose filter. Five of the 54 plasmid DNAs were strongly hybridized see Fig. 11 and designated as FI 1 5, respectively. Using the same 19 mer of oligonucleotide as a primer for DNA polymerase I know enzyme , these five plasmids were further verified by the supercoiled DNA sequencing method 40 .All have identical DNA sequences for at least 180 uase pair sequenced.The amino acid sequences deduced from this DNA sequence agrees well with the known partial sequence of invertase from residue 12 to 40 43 . These results indicate that these five recombinant plasmids contain part or all of the invertase gene.Restriction Map of Recombinant Plasmids Containing the Invertase Gene To map the restriction sites of DNA inserts, plasmid OtAs prepared from clones FI 1 5 were analyzed by digestion with various restriction enzymes. One of the five clones designated FI4 has the entire invertase gene and its restriction map is shown in Fig.12. This map is identical to that reported by Cart son ana Botstein 44 . Subcloning of Clone F14 and Expression of the Invertase front Subclones A 4.0 kb EcoRI fragment containing the invertase gene isolated from clone FI4 see Fig. 12 was inserted into a high copy number of yeast expression plasmid YEp9T which was constructed by replacement of the EcoRI Hind III fragment of PGK promoter in YEp1PT 35 with the EcoRI Hind III fragment of pBR322 34 Fig. 14 . Two orientations of EcoRI fragment in the resulting recombinant plasmids were used to transform a yeast strain pep4. Cells were spun down and resuspended in. either high glucose 5 percent or low glucose 0.1 percent containing medium for 1 hour. The invertase activity was measured as previously described 45 .The level of expression of invertase in those transformants containing two different orientations of plasmids designated YEp9T YIR ana YEp9T YIL was identical, which is about 20 times higher than the transforming strain pep4 at 1 hour of derepressea 0.1 percent glucose condition see Fig. 14 . It is also interesting to note that production of the invertase in the transformants containing the invertase gene was not completely repressed under the repressed 5 percent glucose condition but the wild type strain pep4 was. Sequence of the Invertase Gene and its Flanking Region The approximately 4 kb DNA fragment from XhoI To AccI of clone F14 was sequenced and shown in Fig. 13. The amino terminal sequence of the invertase deduced from this DNA sequence agreed fully with the partial amino terminal sequence reported by Perlman et al. 43 . Furthermore, the last three amino acids in the carboxy terminus are identical to the reported sequenced derived from the carboxypeptidase analysis 46 . As shown in Fig. 13, the entire invertase gene encodes for 532 amino acid residues. The molecular weight of presecretory invertase is 60,649. This enzyme contains 14 potential glycosylation sites although only 9 glycosylation sites have been reported 46, 47 .Cloning and Expression of Human Interferon LeIFA GeneUsing Both the Invertase Promoter and Signal Codons A 1.7 kb fragment from EcoRI to BamHI containing the invertase promoter and front portion of the invertase gene see Fig.12 was isolated from clone FI4 and subcloned in a plasmid pUC12 2.6 kb Drs. P. Seeburg and J. Messing, Personal Communication as shown in Fig. 15. Plasmid DNA was prepared from the transformant by the method of Birnboim and Doly 20 . This plasmid DNA was digested with both NcoI and PstI and the large fragment 3.1 kb was isolated as a vector. The same plasmid DNA was also cut with ltol and partially cut with HindIII, and the 400 basepair fragment containing the front portin of the invertase signal codons was obtained from tne 5 percent polyacrylamide gel. The LeIFA gene was isolated from plasmid DNA of clone E3 described above, which was cut with both HlndIII and PstI. This 860 bp HindIII PstI fragment contains the rear portion of the invertase signal codons and LeIFA gene. Ligation of these three DNA fragments resulted in a plasmid designated as YIpsp LeIFA wnich has the invertase promoter YIp and signal codons sp plus the gene of LeIFA. This 1.8 kb EcoRI PstI fragment was excised and recloned in the pBR322 by ligation withEcoRI PstI large fragment of pBR322 see Fig. 16 . Plasmid DNA from pBR322 containing YIpsp LeIFA was linearized with PstI see Fig. 16 . This PstI site was converted into an EcoRI site by inserting a 900 bp PstI fragment isolated from a yeast plasmid YEpl3 37 . This 900 bp PstI fragment contains a 654 bp of EcoRI to PstI from pBR322 and a 247 bp of PstI to EcoRI from yeast 2 plasmid. Thus, insertion of this PstI fragment resulted in the restoration of ampicillin resistence in plasmidharboring bacteria. The plasmid DNA from ampicillin resistent transformants was cut with EcoRI, and the 2.1 kb fragment was isolated and inserted into the sole EcoRI site of the yeast multicopy plasmid YEp9T see Fig. 16 , which possesses a Trpl marker for selection in yeast and a 2 origin for replicating in yeast.The resulting plasmid designated as YEp9T YIpspteIFA was used to transform a yeast strain pep4. The yeast transformant was grown in fermentation with slow feeding of glucose in the medium. The activity of interferon in the medium reaches 150 million units per liter at 24g dried cell weight per liter whereas the intracellular interferon is about 350 million units per liter see Fig. 17 . Production of interferon at this stage slowed down, which might be due to injection of more glucose into the medium, resulting in repression of the invertase promoter. By using fructose instead of glucose as a carbon source, production of interferon was not interfered with and is about ten times higher than that in the glucose containing medium. As was observed with cells transformed with a plasmid containing the PGK promoter and synthetic invertase signal, secretion of LeIFA was higher in the cells transformed with YEp9T YIpsp LeIFA, than was observed whenLeIFA was expressed fused to the natural signal and processing to form mature LeIFA was complete. Bibliography 1. Novick, P., Field, C., and Schekman, Cell 21, 205 216 1980 . 2 Blobel, G. and Dobberstein, B. J. Cell Biol. 67, 67, 835 851 1975 . 3. Walter, P. and Blobel, G. J. Cell Biol. 91, 545 561 1981 . 4. Heyer, D.I. et al. J. Cell Biol. 92, 579 583 1982 . 5. Duntz , et al., Science 168, 1472 1970 . 6. Woods, et al., J. Gen. Microbiol. 51, 115 1968 . 7. Goeddel, et al., Nature 287, 411 1980 . 8. Goeddel, et al., Nature 290, 20 1981 . 9. Yelverton, et al., Nucleic Acids Research 9, 731 1981 .10. Goeddel, et al., Nucleic Acids Research 8, 4057 1980 .11. Wertzel, American Scientist 68, 664 1980 .12. Wetzel, et al., Biochemistry 19, 6096 1980 .13. Davis, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78, 5376 1981 .14. Hitzeman, et al., Nature 293, 717 1981 .15. Kleid, et al., Science 214, 1125 1981 .16. Lawn, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 9, 6103 1981 .17. Weck, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 9, 6153 1981 .18. Jacobsen, et al., Eur. J. Biochem. 45, 623 627 1974 .19. Madel, et al., J. Mol. Biol. 53, 159 162 1970 . 20. Birnboim, H.C., and Doly, J., Nucleic Acids Res. 7, 1513 1523 1979 . 21. Hinnen, A., Hicks, J.B., and Fink, F.R., Nucleic Acids Res. 7, 1513 1523 1979 .21. Hinne, A., Hicks, J.B., and Fink, F.R., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75, 1929 1933 1978 . 22. oacKradn, ., Ptastine, lsl., ana GilDert, W., Proc. Natl. scdd. Sci. USA 73, 4174 4178 1976 . 23. Jones, E., Genetics 85, 23 1976 .24. Maniatis, et al., Biochemistry 14, 3787 3794 1975 .25. Miller, J.H., Experiments in Molecular Genetics, pp. 431 433, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York.26. Stewart, W.E., II, The Interferon System Springer, New York, 1979 .27. P. Edman, G. Begg, NA Protein Sequence Eur. J. Biochem. 1, 80 91 1967 .28. Tarr, G.E., Beecher, J.F., Bell, M and McKean, D.J., Anal. Biochem. 75, 621 633 1976 .29. Wittmann Liebold, B., Graffunder, H., and Kohls, H., Anal. Biochem. 75, 621 633 1976 .30. Sharp, et al., Biochemistry 12, 3055 3063 1973 . 31. Laemmli, Nature 227, 680 685 1970 .32. Smith, Methods in Enzymology 65, 499 560 1980 .33. Messing, et al.Nucleic Acids Res. 9, 309 321 1981 .34. Bolivar, et al., Gene 2, 95 113 1977 .35. Hitzeman, et al., Science, 219, 620 625 1983 .36. Towbin, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76, 4350 1979 .37. Broach, et al., Gene 8, 121 1979 .38. Crea, R. and Horn, T. Nucleic Acids Res. 8, 2331 2348 1980 39. Smith, et al., tr.ods in Enzymology 12, 55 41 i1967 . 40. Smith, Methods in Enzymology 65, 499 560 1980 .41. Sanger, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 12, 538 541 1967 .42. Sanger, et al., FEBS Letters 87, 107 110 1980 .43. Perlman, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79, 781 785 1982 .44. Carlson, et al., Cell 28, 145 154 1982 .45. Goldstein, et al., Methods in Enzymology 42, 504 511 1975 . o. Trimote, eL al., j. รถiOl. Cnem. 252, 4409 4412 1977 .47. Lehle, et al., J. Biol. Chem. 254, 12209 12218 1979 .