# A motor oil change kit.

## Abstract
A motor oil change kit, especially for use by do it yourselfers , in which all that is needed for conveniently and cleanly changing the engine oil of a vehicle may be packaged together in a way which assists and encourages the motorist to carry out oil changes and to take the used oil to an author ised collection facility. Various embodiments are described and one provides a closeable container 32 of new oil with a closure cap 48 removably nested within a collection con tainer 12 for used oil having a wide opening 22 closeable by means of a lid 66 initially stored in a recess 58 of the container 12 . In other embodiments the new oil container is initially retained within the used oil container by means of a removable lid or by a wrapping band. In some embodiment means are provided for transferring the used oil from the used oil container to the emptied new oil container which is then capped for disposal.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A motor oil change kit having a first self supportig container storing a quantum of new oil sufficient to fill or at least substantially fill the engine oil reservoir of a pre selected motor vehicle to its proper level, and a second selfsupporting container in the form of an oil catch pan sized and configured to fit under a motor vehicle crankcase and having a top opening for receiving used oil drained from the crankcase, characterised by the fact that prior to use, the first container is compactly received and releasably confined in kit form in the used oil receiving storage space of said second container at a stowed position where it is peripherally surrounded by a side wall formation of the second container, by the fact that said first container is removable through the top opening of said second container, by the fact that a preselected one of said first and second containers provides for the storage of the removed quantity of used oil without requiring used oil to be poured out through the top opening of said catch pan in order to store the used oil, and by the fact that said pre selected one of said first and second containers is completely sealable without requiring the use of the other of said first and second containers for transporting the used oil to a disposal site without spillage. 2. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 1, wherain said pre selected one of said containers is said first container, and further characterised by the fact that the bottom wall of the oil catch pan and a pre selected wall portion of said first container have co operating seating surfaces for enabling the oil catch pan to be seated on said first container in overlying relation thereto when the first container is oriented in a pre selected position, and by the fact that an oil drain aperture is formed through the bottom wall of the oil catch pan and registers with an opening in said first container when said catch pan is seated on said first container for enabling the used oil in said catch pan to be transferred to said first container, thereby making it unnecessary to pour the used oil out of the oil catch pan by tilting or tipping it. 3. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 2, characterised by the fact that said opening in said first container is in the vicinity of the top end of the first container and is used for pouring the new oil out of the first container. 4. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 2, characterised in that said opening in said first container is formed through a side wall of the first container and opens upwardly wher the first container is rested on its opposing side wall, and wherein said first container has a further opening in the vicinity of its top end for pouring the new oil out of the first container. 5. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 2, characterised by the fact that a closure member for said oil drain aperture is selectively and removably positionable to block flow of used oil through said oil drain aperture, and further in that said closure member is fixed to a gripping member lying above the level of the used oil in the oil catch pan to enable the closure member to be removed without requiring the user to dip his fingers into the used oil. 6. The motor oil change kit according to Claim 2, characterised in that said opening in said first. container opens vertically upwardly when said first container is placed on its side where a further wall portion of said first container rests on the ground or other support surface, said further wall portion and said pre selected wall portion being in opposed spaced apart relation to one another on opposite sides of said first container. 7. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 2, characterised in that a closure member unit has first and second closure members fixed to and disposed at opposite ends of an elongated member said closure member unit being stowed in a position on said first container where said first closure member blocks liquid flow through a pre selected opening in said first container, said unit being manually removable from said first container and removably positionable on said oil catch pan at a position where said second closure member blocks flow of used oil through said oil drain aperture, and said unit being manually removable from said oil catch pan to permit used oil in said oil catch pan to be transferred to said first container upon seating the oil catch pan on said first container. 8. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 7, characterised in that said elongatedmember is of sufficient length to dispose said first closure member above the level of used oil drained into said catch pan to enable the closure member unit to be manually removed from said oil catch pan for draining the used oil through said oil drain aperture without requiring the user to dip his fingers into the used oil in said pan. 9. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 7, characterised in that said oil drain aperture is internally threaded, in that said second closure member is an exteriorly threaded plug adapted to be threaded into the oil drain aperture, and in that said first closure member is an interiorly threaded reclosably cap adapted to be threaded into an exteriorly threaded neck of said first container. 10. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 7, characterised by the fact that said preselected opening in said first container is the opening through which the used oil is drained from the oil catch pan into the first container and is located in the vicinity of the top end of the first container for use in pouring the new oil out of the first container, said closure member unit being repositionable on said first container after the used oil is drained into said first container to block said opening in said first container and thereby seal said first container to prevent spillage of the used oil from said first container. 11. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 7, characterised in that said pre selected opening in said first container is separate from the opening through which the used oil is transferred into the first container and is in the vicinity of the top end of the first container for use in pouring the new oil out of the first container. 12. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 1, characterised in that said pre selected one of said containers is said second container and in that a closure lid is provided for said oil catch pan for covering said top opening to seal the oil catch pan after the used oil is drained into the oil catch pan, and further in that when said first container is in its stowed position in said second container, the lid is mounted on said second container to completely enclose the first container within the interior space delimited by the lid and the second container. 13. . The motor oil change kit according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised by the fact that when the first container is in its stowed position in said oil catch pan its long axis extends generally parallel to the bottom wall of said oil catch pan and intersects the side wall formation of said oil catch pan. 14. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 1, characterised by the fact that when said first container is in its stowed position in said second container, the long axis of said first container extends through the top opening of said second container and intersects the bottom wall of said second container. 15. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 14, characterised in that the top opening of said second container is defined by an internally threaded neck, and in that the first container has an externally threaded portion which is threaded into said neck to stow the first container in said second container. 16. The motor oil change kit according toClaim 15, characterised in that an externally threaded plug is threaded in a stowed position into an outwardly opening recess in the bottom wall of said second container and is manually removable from said recess and threaded into said neck of said second container after the used oil is drained into the second container to block said top opening and thereby prevent spillage of the used oil from said second container. 17. The motor oil change kit according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said first container is in the form of a jug having a gripping handle, and wherein said first and second containers are of semi riqid plastics.

## Description
MOTOR OIL CHANGE KIT Background of the Invention As costs associated with operating and maintaining an automobile have risen, and as many former neighbourhood gas stations have closed or converted to gas and go stations which do not offer automobile servicing, more motorists have experimented with, or switched over to changing their own automotive motor oil. One undesirable consequence of this trend is the loss of a considerable amount of reusable oil from the petroleum refining and distribution system.Generally, when a car s oil is changed at a service station, the waste oil is saved at the station, from which it is periodically collected by the service station s supplier of new oil, or by an independent reprocessor. The collected waste oil is then re refined into a usable product. Whereas many service stations have, as a convenience, or under direction by suppliers or governmental authority, established facilities to receive from do ityourselfers hereinafter DIY s waste oil that is brought in the station, this has largely proved to be inconvenientboth to the DIY s and to the dealers and much waste oil never makes it back from the DIY s to these facilities. Rather, it is sewered or run out on the ground, or disposed of in municipal waste, i.e. put out in a ursegregated manner with the trash for collection and disposition at a land fill.In many urbanized areas casually discarded, used motor oil has become a pollution menace, and the subject of uncharacteristic criminal behaviour by otherwise moral and upstanding citizenry. One problem DIY s have with doing their part in recycling waste oil, is that many automobiles hold 5 to 7 quarts of oil, whereas most empty containers DIY s are likely to have readily available are 4 quart containers. It only takes one time of seeing the last quart of draining dirty oil brim over the container and spill on the garage floor, street or ground to convince a novice DIY that he or she has taken on a project he or she is incompetent to attempt ever again, and is one reason why the oil is dumped illegally. Another problem DIY s have with such a project is that most conveniently available closeable containers that have a large enough capacity, are too tall to fit under the car at the place where the oil is to be drained from the crankcase. Some DIY s decide upon discovering this problem to abandon the project and take the car to a service station, others move the car to a place such as over a storm drain where they can let the waste oil drain out without being collected. A particularly enterprising segment of DIY s devise a multi step operation in which they first drain the waste oil from the crankcase into a low sided, broad container such as a dishpan, and then pour it from the dishpan or the like, into a jug that is too tall to have fit under the car, but which has the virtue of being closeable.Some DIY s make the same mistake at this stage as was mentioned earlier trying to pour 5 to 7 quarts of oil into a 4 quart container. Others cause spillage when they attempt this transfer without the aid of a funnel, or with an adequate funnel. Besides the mess, this can prove to be expensive, as when the DIY winds up discarding an expensive polyethylene dishpan after a single use, because it has become too messy and did not work well for this purpose, and is anotner reason why the oil is dumped illegally. A further problem is that some collecting stations will only permit the deposit of used oil in approved containers, or will only permit the DIY s to deposit used oil by pouring from the brought in containers, with the understanding that the emptied containers themselves may not be left at the station but must immediatelv be taken back by the DIY s who brought them. US Government information reveals that illegally dumped dirty motor oil tens of thousands of barrels daily in the United States of America , constitutes the largestsingle source of pollution ofUS waterways. leave two reasons most frequently stated byDIY s to the present inventor for their dumping of used motor oil are a. Their inabilitv to find an empty jug to transfer the dirty oil into from the pan. The jug for the dirty oil automatically comes with all of the kits of the invention . b. Their inability and or difficulty to pour 5 to 7 quarts of dirty oil from a pan having an opening of over 30 cms in diameter, into a jug opening of only about 3 cms, without spilling. With the kit s of the invention, the DIY s do not have to pour the dirty oil from the pan to the jug. According to the presert invention there is provided a motor oil change kit having a first self supporting container storing a quantum of new oil sufficient to fill or at least substantially fill the engine oil reservoir of a pre selected motor vehicle to its proper level, and a second selfsupporting container in the form of an oil catch pan sized and configured to fit under a motor vehicle crankcase and having a top opening for receiving used oil drained from the crankcase, characterised by the fact that prior to use, the first container is compactly received and releasably confined in kit form in the used oil receiving storage space of said second container at a stowed position where it is peripherally surrounded by a side wall formation of the second container, by the fact that said first container is removable through the top opening of said second container, by the fact that a pre selected one of said first and second containers provides for the storage of the removed quantity of used oil without requiring used oil to be poured out through the top opening of said catch pan in order to store the used oil, and by the fact that said pre selected one of said first and second containers is completely sealable without requiring the use of the other of said first and second containers for transporting the used oil to a disposal site without spillage. The principles of the invention will be further discussed with reference to the drawings wherein preferred embodiments are shown. The specific details illustrated in the drawings are intended to exemplify, rather than limit, aspects of the invention as defined in the claims. Brief Description of the Drawinns In the Drawings Fig. 1 is an exploded perspective view ofa first embodiment of a motor oil change kit provided in accordance with the principles of the present invention Fig. 2 is a longitudinal sectional view of the first kit enbodiment prior to use Fig. 3 is a longitudinal sectional view of the used oil container portion of the first kit embodiment, subsequent to use Fig. 4 is an exploded perspective view of a second embodiment of a motor oil change kit provided in accordance with principles of the present invention, Fig. 5 is a front elevation view of an assembled third embodiment of a motor oil change kit provided in accordance with principles of the present invention Fig. 6 is a fragmentary exploded perspective view thereof Fig. 7 is a sectional view on line 7 7 of Fig. 5 Fig. 8 is a sectional view of the drain Dan after disassembly of the kit of Figs. 5 7, at a stage where used oil is being drained into the drain pan Fig. 9 is an elevation view with parts broken away and sectioned, showing the step of draining the used oil from the drain pan, into the emptied, recloseable container that originally had held new oil Fig. 10 is a front elevation view of an assembled motor oil change kit according to a fourth embodiment of the present invention and Fig. 11 is a side elevation view of the kit in use at a stage comparable with Fig. 9, with portions broken away and sectioned to expose internal details. Detailed Description of the Presently Preferred Embodiments Referring first to Figs. 1 3, a first embodiment 10 of the motor oil change kit is shown and described. Tne kit of this embodiment may be thought of as generally resembling a goldfish bowl. When the DIY purchases the kit 10 7 it has the form and constituency shown in Fig. 2, with easy instructions for use conveniently printed on the outside. The first step in use of the kit 10 would be to dismantle it into its several parts, which are shown in Fig. 1. The kit 10 is seen to include an outer container 12 which will be used by the DIY to collect and contain the used oil. This container is shown having a body 14 being of squat, generally rectangular, but round cornered, round edged form, with a vertically short, large diameter tubular neck 16 having an integral flange like drain pan funnel member 18 projecting generally radially and somewhat upwardly from the upper end thereof.The floor 20 of the drain pan funnel member slopes down from its outer periphery to the wide mouth 22 of the neck 16, and has an upstanding outer perimetrical rim flange 24. At the corners, where the drain pan funnel member 18 cantilevers the furthest out from the neck 16, integral supports 26 in the form of arcuate columns are joined between each corner 28 of the top wall 30 of the container body 14, and the underside of the corresponding corner of the drain pan floor 20. Each support 26 bows outwards in an imaginary diagonal plane which longitudinally divides the container into halves two or four of these supports 26 may be provided, and conveniently may be used as carrying handles both for the whole kit 10 and for this container 12. The kit 10 further includes a jug of new oil 32. Its body is shown having a generally cylindrical, but upwardly slightly flaring lower sidewall portion 34, and a somewhat broader upper sidewall portion of generally rounded pentagonal plan figure caused by generally rounded triangular enlargement of the cross section at 36 to provide a pour spout 38 and by radial enlargement at a diametrically opposite site 40 to provide a tab 42 useful in hand tipping the jug when putting the new oil in the engine oil supply receiver of the automobile. The exterior of the sidewall lower portion 34 is at 44 sized to fit snuggly and frictionally in the mouth 22 of the neck 16 of the outer container 12. A screw threaded interconnection may be provided between 44 and 16 if believed necessary or desirable. Often a simple push fit will suffice, especially when an encircling combination label tie strap and or removable adhesive tape or other strapping 46 is used for temporarily maintaining these components of the kit 10 in an associated condition Fig. 2 until they are intentionally parted Fig. 1 . The jug 32 is shown including a closure cap 48 removably threaded onto the upwardly opening end 50 of the spout 38. The generally flat upper end wall 52 of the jug 32 is further shown provided with a recessed handle 54 which is used when separating the outer container 12 from the jug 32, and thereafter for carrying the jug 32. When the full jug 32, as initially, is disposed in the container 12, the majority of the bulk of the jug 32 lies within the body 14, and the lower enlargement surfaces 36, 40 of the jug rest on the floor 20 of the drain pan funnel member 18. The bottom wall 56 of the outer container 12 is shown provided with a centrally located, downwardly opening shallow cylindrical well 58 having a generally cylindrical sidewall 60 and a generally circular upper end wall 62. By preference, and as shown, the well 58 sidewall 60 is internally threaded at 64, so that a relatively large externally threaded, recessed handld screw on cover 66 may be threadedly stored in the well 58. Also provided in an initially stored condition in the well 58, axially between the end wall 62 and the cover 66 is a screen 68 for catching the automobile drain plug in use. In dismantling the kit 10 for use, the jug of new oil 32 is separated from and taken out of the outer container 12. Further, the screw on cover 66 and drain plug catcher screen 68 are removed from the storage well 58. Other optional components, such as a wrench 70 for the drain plug, and an oil filter cap wrench which, if provided, would initially be stowed enclosed in the space between the jug of new oil and the outer container, are also removed. In use, the catcher screen 68 is mounted in the mouth 22. The container 12 is placed under the crankcase oil sump drain by sliding the container 12 laterally under the car and visually lining it up with the sump drain hole, and then the wrench 70 is used to loosen the drain plug.Should the plug be loosened all the way, and fall out, it would not fall into the container of dirty oil and necessitate a messy retrieval task, but will be caught by the screen 68. Even if the draining oil splashes a little at first, or tne container 12 is not positioned quite in the centre of where it should be, the draining oil is caught by the drain pan funnel member 18 and funnelled to the mouth 22, where it drains through the neck 16 and into the body 14 of the container 12. After the used oil has finished draining into the used oil container 12, there should be some space still left in the container 12, since it is purposefully given a volume somewhat in excess of that of the jug of new oil 32. At this time the oil pan sump drain plug is reinstalled and or retightened and the container 12 of used oil is laterally slid from under the automobile. If the oil filter cartridge is being changed, it is removed, replaced by a new one, and may be placed in the container 12, as shown at 72, provided the screen 68 is first removed. The screen 68 may be folded and also disposed of through the mouth 22 into the container. After all waste materials have been inserted into the used oil container, the cover 66 is screwed tightly into the neck 16 thus closing the container 12, which is then ready as shown in Fig. 3 to be deposited at the type of recycling centre which permits approved containers of used oil to be simply left there. The container of new oil 32 is poured into the oil filler spout of the automobile, whereupon the empty jug 32 may be recapped and simply discarded, unless returnable at the usedoil collection facility. A second embodiment of the motor oil change kit is shown at 80 in Fig. 4. In this version, the kit loosely resembles a turkey roaster, and is especially suited for economical use in conjunction with a used oil collection facility which requires theDIY to empty out, and to not leave hehind, the container in which used oil is brought to the used oil collection facility. The kit 80 is seen to include an outer container 82 having a pan like body 84 and a lid 86 and a container jug of new oil 88. The body 84 generally resembles the body of a turkey roasting pan, in having an end wall or floor 90, a perametrical sidewall 92 provided with one or more carrying handles 94 and a lip 96 at the free edge of the sidewall 92.The handle or handles 94 are oriented and spaced to encourage the user to carry the kit 80 in the desired orientation. Thus the kit 80 may be carried uprightDy one handle like a milk jug, when first purchased, but after use, the outer container 82 preferably would be carried with its end wall 90 lowermost. The lid 86 is generally flat, but has a groove 98 provided about the perimeter of its inner face. The lip 96 and groove 98 are meant to be removably sealingly frictionally interdigitated much in the manner of the well known containers sold under the Registered Trade Mark Tupperware. The lid when sealed to outer container is designed to render the container leakproof. The external size and shape of the jug 88 is generally the same as the comparable characteristics of the volume of space 100 enclosed by the outer container 82, so that when the jug 88 is contained in the outer container 82, it cannot move relative thereto to any significant extent. For merchandising purposes, and, if needed or desired, to help hold the container 82 in a closed condition, the kit 80, as sold to the DIY consumer.may have a label, wrapper, encircling band or the like 102 applied thereto, which may bear advertising, discount coupons, instructions for use, etc. Unon purchasing the kit 80, the DIY consumer would remove or break the label 102 to the extent enabling disassembly of the kit , remove the lid 86 and take out the jug of new oil 88. By preference, the profile of the jug of new oil is formed with a plurality of laterally extending, outwardly opening grooves 104, which act as air vents to channel air past the jug 88, thus making it easier to assemble and disassemble the kit, and in the preferred embodiment is needed because the sidewall of the outer container 82 otherwise so closely follows the configuration of the jug 88. The jug 88 is shown further including an exteriorly threaded, upwardly projecting tubular neck 106 at the top, the mouth of which is closed by a removable, threaded closure cap 108. The sidewall of the outer container 82 is, at the comparable site, moulded so as to have a well 110 in which the capped neck of the jug is received in the assembled kit.The well 110 is only as deep as the neck, but extends to the free edge of the sidewall 92 and thus bears its respective segment of the lip 96. The lid 86 has a corresponding appendage 112 which bears its respective segment of the groove 98. The jug 88 may be surrounded by a label 114 which fits in a corresponding shallow, broad circumferential recess 116. Finally, the bottom wall 118 of the jug 88 is shown provided at a site diagonally opposite the spout 106 with a finger grip recess 120 to assist in pouring the new oil into the engine, and the top wall 122 is shown provided with a recessed handle 124. Once the kit 80 has been disassembled, theDIY places the pan like body 84 under the automobile oil pan drain plug location, in upwardly open dishpan orientation and loosens the drain plug, allowing the old, dirty oil to drain into the pan like body 84.Then the drain plug may be retightened and the panlike body 84 slid from under the automobile and tightly recovered using the lid 86. It would be preferable to leave the covered container 82 of old, dirty oil in dishpan orientation for transport to the used oil collection facility, although the sealing and securement ability that is state of the art in this field could permit the container 82 to be set up on end and carried by the handle 94 with little concern that the lid 86 would come away from the container body and permit leakage. The new oil would be introduced into the oil filler mouth of the engine by removing the cap 108, and using the handles 120, 124 to hold and tip the jug as the new oil is poured into the oil filler mouth. IYhen the jug 88 is empty, it may be recapped and discarded, or saved for some other use. A third embodiment of the motor oil change kit is shown at 130 in Figs. 5 9. The kit of this embodiment may have most of its features in common with those of the kit of Fig. 4. Accordingly, some corresponding features are given like numerals, with primes, and are not re described here. Although the outer container 82 is shown provided with a lid 86 , with the lip and groove 96 and 98 form of closure and seal, the lid, lip and groove may be omitted, and a label 102 and or overwrap not shown utilised initially to hold the kit 130 in an assembled condition. Upon purchasing the kit 130, the DIY would disassemble it by breaking open and or removing the label 102 and or overwrap and sliding the jug of new oil 88 out of the pan like outer container body 84 .Next, the DIY would threadedly remove the closure cap 108 from the jug of new oil. This cap 108 is seen to be of a somewhat unusual design, in that besides having the usual end wall 132 and threaded peripheral skirt 134, the cap 108 has an inner structure 136. The latter is shown including a rod 138 coaxially secured at one end on the inner face of the cap end wall 132, and having an externally threaded plug 140 coaxially provided on its opposite end. The end wall or floor 90 of the pan like container body 84 is provided with an internally threaded openig 142, the location of which is suggested in Fig. 5. The plug 140 is then threaded into the opening 142 from inside the body 84 to sealingly close the opening 142, leaving the rod 138 to project upwards through the depth of the body 84 .At this stage, the cap 108 remains securely perched atop the rod 138 to be available for later use as a handle. The pan like container body 84 , with the plug 149 installed as just described, and disposed in turkey roaster orientation, is slid under the automobile and lined up under the drain plug D of the oil pan. The drain plug D is loosened and the dirty, used oil is permitted to drain into the body 84 . When the used oil has finished draining from the automobile, the drain plug D is retightened and the container 84t, now full of used oil, is slid from under the automobile. At this stage, the cap 108 projects slightly above the surface of dirty oil in the container 84 . The next step is to pour the new oil from the jug 88 into the filler mouth of the engine. When the jug 88 has thus been emptied, a second closure cap 144 which is provided on a laterally projecting exteriorly threaded neck 146 on the jug 88 is removed and threaded onto the neck 106 from which the cap 108 , earlier was removed . The jug 88 is then laid down on its opposite side face 148 from the face 150 on which the neck 146 is provided. Thus, the open neck 146 now projects vertically upwardly. Next, the full container 84 of used oil is carefully lifted, still in its turkey roaster orientation, and set down on the recumbent jug 88 .In order to facilitate correct performance of this step, the container and jug are provided with one or more pairs of alignment arrows or the like 152.Further, in order to properly support the container 84 upon the recumbent jug 88 so that the used oil may be transferred by gravity from the container 84 to the recumbent jug 88 , the container and jug may be provided with correspondingly tapering profiles as shown, and or the container 84 with feet 154, much in the way that the feet and sloping bottom wall of a footed bathtub make the drain opening the lowest point of the tub. Vhen the container 84 full of used oil is properly aligned upon the recumbent jug 88 , the neck 142 in the floor of the container 84 projects into the neck 146 of the recumbent jug 88 , whereupon the cap 108 may be turned to unscrew the plug 140 from the neck 142, allowing the dirty, used oil to drain from the pan like container body 84 in which it was collected, into the recloseable jug 88 . After this transfer operation has been completed, the container 84 is lifted off the jug 88 , and the cap 108 is threaded onto the neck 146, thus sealingly reclosing the jug 88 . The caps 108 and 144 preferably are provided with distinctive colours and or indicia, such as A and B . Because in conducting the oil change the locations of the two caps are interchanged, one may, by visual inspection easily ascertain whether the container 88 holds new oil or used oil. The container 88 now reclosed and full of used oil may be taken to either type of oil recycling centre either one where the whole jug may be simply droppedoff or, one where the contents must be poured into a collection drum and the empty jug taken from the premises and re used in an almost like manner with the saved container 84. For additional future oil changes only 1 quart cans of new oil need be purchased for subsequent oil changes. A fourth embodiment of the motor oil change kit is shown at 160 in Figs. 10 and 11.Although many of the parts in this embodiment are shaped differently than in the third embodiment, the structures and functions are mainly equivalent, thus equivalent features are given like numbers, but an added prime in Figs. 10 and 11, compared to their usage in Figs. 5 9. The most striking difference embodied in the kit 106 is its appearance it is provided with the resemblance of a space shuttle type rocket ship airplane to suggest its utility as a means for shuttling new oil to the automobile and used oil to the used oil collection facility. What is significant about this kit is its jug 88 in that it can on load new oil at the refinery, off load new oil into vehicle crankcase, on load used oil from the container 84 and off load the used oil at the recycle collection centre, all by the single jug opening. The jug of new oil 88 has a recessed handle 162 in its front face 150 rather than at the top. The lateral neck 146 of the jug of new oil is so near the top that there is no need for the top neck or for a plain closure cap.Rather, the neck 146 is originally provided with the plug type cap 108 and is used both for pouring out the new oil and draining in the used oil from the outer container 84 . Jug stabiliser fins 164 may be integrally provided in the container 84tri to the extent it is oversize relative to the jug of new oil 88 , in order to make the latter fit acceptably snuggly in the former. In use, the kit 160 is purchased in assembled form as shown in Fig. 10. First it is disassembled by tearing the label or overwrap so that the container of the new oil 88 may be removed from the outer container 84 . The outer container 84 is then laid over on its end wall 9E . While the jug 88t remains upright, its cap 198 is removed and the plug 140 thereof is threaded into the opening 142 in the wall 90 . The outer container 84 , with its floor drain thus stoppered, is slid, still in turkey roaster orientation under the automobile. The used oil is drained into this container and the drain plug of the automobile is retightened. The pan 84 of the used oil is then slid out from under the automobile.The jug 88 of the new oil is lifted and tilted using the recessed handle 162 and the finger grip recess 120 to pour the new oil into the filler tube of the automobile engine. When the jug 881 is empty, it is laid down on its side, with the face 148 down and the face 150 up. As with the third embodiment, the pan 84 is then aligned and set on the recumbent empty jug 88 and the cap 108 is turned to remove the plug 140 , thus allowing the waste oil to transfer by gravity from the collecting pan 84 to the jug 88 . When this transferring step is complete, the empty collecting plan 84 is lifted off the recumbent jug 88 , and the cap 108 is reinstalled on the jug 88 to close it up and seal in the waste oil. Lastly, the waste oil in the jug 88 may be shuttled back to the oil recycle collection facility as explained above. Preferably, the inner and outer containers of all embodiments are moulded of the same kinds of plastic materials, and using the same techniques, as presently are used to make motor oil containers, bleach bottles, milk bottles, Tupperware containers and the like. In each instance, both the inner and outer containers are capable of standing alone, without need for being contained in a box or the like. While most cars require 5 quarts of new oil, some diesel engines take 6 quarts and other engines require 7 quarts. To cover all cars the jug and pan size offered with the kits could be made to hold up to 7 quarts for the dirty oil. For the new oil the jug s could be filled with only 5 quarts to meet the most common requirement, and the owner of a 7 quart capacity vehicle would have to buy 2 additional 1 quart cans of new oil at the time of purchasing a kit. Except for the new oil, all four of the kit embodiments are reusable. Any of the waits need only be purchased once, and by saving the kit parts the DIY need only purchase new oil in 1 quart cans or the like for subsequent oil changes. The kit in any of its embodiments optionally can include any or all of the following a. A plastic pour spout that snaps onto the pour mouth neck of all jugs for pouring new oil into vehicle crankcase, thus eliminating the need for a funnel. b. A bar type wrench containing 5 different size openings for unscrewing the drain plug from the vehicle sump and for retightening same. c. A cap wrench for unscrewing the used oil filter from the vehicle crankcase It should now be apparent that the motor oil change kit as described hereinabove, possesses each of the attributes set forth in the specification under the heading Summary of the Invention hereinbefore. Because it can be modified to some extent without departing from the principles thereof as they have been outlined and explained in this specification, the present invention should be understood as encompassing all such modifications as are within the spirit and scope of the following claims.