# VEGETATIVE STIGMATA THERAPEUTIC AGENT.

## Abstract
A vegetative stigmata therapeutic agent contains as an effective ingredient a human umbilical cord extract which is obtained by the steps of subjecting a human umbilical cord to a physically destructive treatment such as crushing treat ment, ultrasonic treament, repetitive freezing and melting treatment and the like, or to a proteolytic decomposing treatment by the use of acids or enzymes, or to both treat ments and then extracting the umbilical cord extract from the destroyed and or decomposed umbilical cord by a solvent.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An autonomic imbalance treating agent prepared comprises by the process which nhysical decomposition and or proteolysis of human umbilical cords and extracting the said decomposed mixture with solvents and then removing proteins. 2. An autonomic imbalance treating agent according to Claim 1, in which said physical process of decomposition comprises one or more of the processes of mechanical grinding,treatment with solvent, ultrasonic treatment, and repetition of freezing and thawing. 3 An autonomic imbalance treating agent according to Claim 1, in which said process of proteolysis comprises enzyme decomposition 4. An autonomic imbalance treating agent according to Claim 1, in which said process of proteolysis comprises acid decomposition. 5. An autonomic imbalance treating agent according to any of Claim 1 to 4, in which said extracting solvent is an aqueous solvent comprising one of such solvents as water, physiological saline, aqueous solution of alcohol, pH adjusting solution and the like.

## Description
DESCRIPTION TECHNICS FIELD This invention relates to an autonomic imbalance t ti agent extracted from human umbrical cords which has a remarkable clinical application in autonomic imbalance. BACKGROUND ART In recent years, many people have been suffering autonomic imbalance, and influenced by complicated and versatile surrounding factors such as domestic, social or cultural problems, those people are increasing in number.Autonomic imbalance indicates a condition that generally locks symptoms of organic disease, and by the dysulfunction of autonomic nerves, the balance of the vegetative nervous system sympathetic and para.sympathetic is lost, and has colourful equivocal symptome such as ease of getting tired, stiff shoulders, headache, dizziness and benumbed extremities. This autonomic imbalance is classified, though the classification differss between scholors, in three classes, the neurotic an onotic inbalance which is closely involved in a psychlogenic origin, the revesosomatic autonomic imbalance where equivocal symptoms are complained of according to the reciptocal interference of psycho and autonomic central nervous system, and the essential autonomic imbalance which is bassed in the imbalance of the autonomic central nervous system.The so called climacteric disturbance of woman is also thought to be a symptom of autonomic imbalance. The majority of this imbalance is said to be seen in the age of i nties and thierties, and more in women, is also id is occur in summer and change of the ison , e er, t omic imbalance i not only seen by adults, but the symptoms of bronchial asthme, nocturnal enuresis, and cyclic vomiting in nursing babies and infants are said to have their cause in autonomic imbalance. Psychological situations such as anxiety and tension from their adolescent surroundings and constitutional abnormalities and the like with the variety of circumstance in these days causes autonomic imbalance among the younger generations. The imm autonomic i nce as used herein illust trates the following syndromes caused by dysfunction of autonomic nervous, for instance, e clic vomitiv so called autotoxication , nocturnal e uresing nursing babies, autonomic imbalance of respiratory aparatus constitutional iterative catarrhel symptoms , cyclic vomiting called autotoxication , and nocturnal unuresis and autonomic instability in infants of primary schools, psychogenic autonomic imbalance anxiety, tension, suggestion somatisation etc. , hypersensitive intestinal syndrome, gastric neurosis, nervous vomiting and others in middle , highschool and college students, climateric disturbances climacteric autonomic nervous imbalance , autonomic lumbago pelvic congestion , gynecological postoperative autonomic imbalance, postnatal or postabortive autonomic imbalance, autonomic vertige and sensitiveness to cold in havewise and less of age and sex, headache, dullhead, ease of getting tired, stiff shoulders, insomnia, gastreintestinal cisturbance, chilly extremities, dizziness, asthenopia and other such symptoms, gastrointestinal neurosis, laryngeal neurosis, orthostatic disturbance, climacteric disturbance headache, art algia, stiff shoulders, feeling of fatigue, frigidity langour, feverisch feeling, vertigo, esr noise, fatique, chilly extremities, inammetence, numbness of extremities , vertige in postespital and cervical injury, headache, dullhead, numbness of extremities, feeling of ease of getting tired, cervical, lumber, dorsal and scapuler stiffness and pain are those symptoms.For these symptoms of autonomic imbalance, many kinds of treatements have been cycloped, for instance, autogenic training, simple psychosomatic therapy, transactional analysis, lorita s therapy, behaviour therapy, dr treatements and the combination of these therapies and other therapies that are effective so far. In drug treatement, depending on the patient s type, minor tranquilizers, anti depressive agents, hypnotices, autonomic agents and others are skillfully administered and many of them are used ciombined with the sforessid therapies. However, adverse reactions are found in some of those drugs and some do not have enough effective, and we can say that we cannot find a drug satisfactory enough to be safe and effective for the treatment. The inventors, after devoting themselves to the research for a medicament for the treatment of autonomic imbalance which has the aforesaid background, have found that extracts of human umbilical cords give a remarkable effect on autonomic imbalance, and have succeeded in developing a new autonomic imbalance treating agent. Accordingly it is an object of this invention to provide an agent comprising extracts of human umbilical cords which has an excellent therapeutic effect to autonomic imbalance and the method of manufacturing the same. DISLOSURE OF INVENTION Brief summary of this invention is to provide an autonomic imbalance treating agent obtained by a process which comprise decomprising physically and or chemically human umbilical cords and thereafter extracting with solvents and subsequently removing solids, solts, alcohols, high molecular proteins, and other uscless components. The details of this invention is illustrated in the following.The human umbilical cords utilized in the present invention should be possibly fresh, but in case that it is difficult to obtain a large quantity of umbilical cords at time, in the industrial production scale, stored fresh and frozen umbilical cords may be used manufacture.The aforesaid materials are washed, thewed and blood is removed with purified water and other liwuids, they are roughly washed with cold water. The blodd removed materials can be used directly to the next process, but can also beiused after kept cold or freeze storaged or free e dried. The blood removed and wahed umbilical cords are then cut in small pieces and then minced and crushed, and soaked in solvents. The following physical treatement can be performed before the extraction with solvents7 hovzever, preferably the physical treatment is performed on umbilical cords in solvents. The solvents aforesaid can be organic solvents, and particularly water, physilogical saline, pH, adjusters, aqueous alcohol solutions and other aqueous solutions are preferred, and the best choice of them is water or physiological saline. In extracting the tissue cells of umbilical cords preferably their constituents a through decomprising treatment of them is needed, and for this, ultrasonic treatment, mecahical grinding, treatment with solutions d.g. decomposition of tissues with high concentrations of acids or alcohols etc. and repeated freezinr and that ing and other is one be illustrated. After thorough destruction and extraction of the tissue cells have been performed, removal of useless components are performcci by filtering solids, desalting, cycloholization, deproteinization etc. by the usual methods.Then the pH and concentration of the extract i adjusted, this human umbilical cord extract is made to be isotonic and steril i,ed for clinical use. The stroma of umbilical cords is histologically a connective glia tissuve and principally contains collag protein and acid mucopolysaccharides, and these are strongly combined with each other. As the umbi ical cord extract of this invention principally contains a full content of amino nitrogen, total muconolysaccharides and acid muconolysaccharides, the invertors conceived that these inrredients hnve much to do with their pharmaceutical effects, and improved the method of performing physical decomposing treatment on the tissue cells simultaneously with the extraction, and performed a process, instead of using physical decomposition, principally aiming the proteins combined with mucopolysaccharides, to directly decompose elements of the cells, and found that the ex tract obtained by decomposing the proteins contains considerable amount of effective constituents compared with the extracts obtained by the aforesaid physical treatment. The treatment of protein decomposition, that is, proteolysis performed b acid decomposition u int inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid or organic acids such as citric acid etc., and enzymoly is using propiolutic enzymes were studied, but trestments which can be applied decompose proteins are not only the aforesaid methods but other well known methods. Comparing acid decomprisition with enzymolysis, it can be said that acid decomposition has some problems in controlling and conditions in decomposing reactions. For instance, if a strong acid is used there is a risk the t mucopolysaccharides which. are thought to be effective may be destroyed, and or the contrary there may be a shortcoming that if a wak aicd is used, decomposition of the protein itself may not be completed. On the other hand, enzyme decomposition of proteins, that is, enzymolysis process does not have these shortcomings and the condition or decomposition is gentle and can be said a better way of extraction. The proteolytic enzymes that can be applied in this invention can be most of the proteolytic enzymes currently known, such as persin, trypsin, chrotrypsin, originatly from animals, and enzymes originating from microorganismus such as Strentomyces triseus,Bacillus subtilis, Aspergillus melius.Aspergillus niger, and other bacteria such as Serratig or Bacillus, and enzymes originated from vegetables such as bromelain, p in, fisin etc., and the so called fixed enzymes which may be obtained by modification of proteolytic enzymes by the well known process. Suitable conditions for the decomposition using proteolytic enzymes may differ by the pretreatment of umbilical cords and or the variety of the species of proteolytic enzymes but suitable conditions of liquid pH, enzyme activity, reaction time, reaction temperature etc. may be selected peroperly.Preferably the reaction temperature is 40 60 C and the reaction time is 4 20 hours, and it is enough thct the residual enzyme activity may be scarcely left after e riven time of reaction. The removal of the residual enzyme or inactivation of the enzyme can be performed by the usual methods, hut these processes are not required nieces sarily. The decomposed materials after proteolysis contains undecomposed residues, and coloured materials and other substances, these are removed by filtering, absorption and other suitable methods, and if necessary the concen tration is adjusted. In this extracted material, wter soluble hig h polymers are contained and must be remove for the preservation and clinical safety of the product.There are mSny methods of deproteinization such precipitaion, absorption, salting out and others, but the preferable method is to heat the extracted solution to make the wter soluble proteins insoluble and then to remove them or to adjust the pH of the oltion to 4 5 and then to remove them, that t is, the so call ea iso electric nre cipitation. the extracted solution obtained by the said procedure is a colourless to yellowish transparent liquid and has properties which are described later hen this extracted material is used for medical purposes, for instance, as injections, analgesic agents and ingredients to make it isotomic may be added and bacterial filtration is performed the materials is called in ampoules and then disinfected. The inventors clinically tested the said injections prepared as above with patients, who desired to be treated, and observed remarkable effects. a The clinical dosage and method of administration Dosage of the agent prepared as injections varies with the age of ratients, but effects can be expected normally by the administration of a single dose of ml of the agent, 1 4 times a week, and especially a yood result can be obtained by administering a single dose of 2 5 ml of the agent 3 times week.Satisfactory results can be exnected bg the both subcutaneous and intramuscular injection. b Acute Toxicity DD strain male mice 37 22 g of weight, of 5 weeks were housed behorehand in constant conditions at 24 1 C with a relative humidity of 55 5 . Injections prepared from the extract of human umbilical cords of this invention, were administered to groups consisting of 10 animals, subcutaneously and intraperitoneally and the animals were examined 48 hours ater and one week liter for clinical symptoms and mortality. The dose of injections was increased up to 150 ml kg in both methods of administration, but no none died and no unusual clinical sympton was observed. Therefore the toxicity of this substance is thought to be very low. c The human umbilical cord extracted material shows the following physical characteristics. i The pH is determined to be 6.5 0.22. ii Weight of cried sample. 1.0 ml of the extract of this invention adjusted to 1.016 0.004 of specific gravity, is dried at 1000C for 48 hours and weighed, the weight of the dried sample is 22.3 40.1 mg. iii Ultraviolet absorption spectrum It has a maximum absorption in the ultraviolet spectrum at 257 nm refer to Figure 1 . iv alpha amino nitrogen content The alpha amino nitrogen content of 100 m 1.016 sp.g. of the present extract titrated by the formol titration is 53.80 15.2 mg. v Total nitrogen content Applying the method of nitrogen determination of the Japanese Pharmacoroeia, the total nitrogen content of this extract is 185 30.6 mg dl. vi Amino acids 1 ml of 1 picric acid wes added to 1 ml of the extract of this invention 1.016 sp.g. , shaken and mixed, and after a whole day and night, was centrifuged, and the supernantant was poured through a column ion exchange resin Doway C 8 Cl to remove nioric acid and used for to samples. Refer figure 2 Hitachi KLA 5 Amino acidAnaltzer, resin in column Hitachi custom resin No. 2618,Solution 0.2 N sodium citrate buffer . vii Hexosamine Content 1 ml of 4 H HCl was added to the extract of this invention and the extract was unclosed in a glass viel and heated for 15 hours and then neutralized with 10 N NaOH using phenolphthalein as indicator, and adjusted to make 5 ml. Then 1 ml of this. solution v es taken and was examined for hexos mine by Elson and Morgan s method. The hexosamine content was 340.0 15.2 g glucosamine. HCl ml. The autonomic imbalance treating agent comprising the human umbilical cord extract of this invention is used most effectively in the form of injection and this was clinically tested with autonomic imbalance petients.There were about 500 autonomic imbalance patients who desired to have the therapy with this agent, among them 320 patients of recent three years were studied.Most of the outpatients were over the age of 20 and female, 200 out of the 320 patients were women.The are of patients showed the largest number in the forties and the next was in the twenties and thirties. It is characteristic that there is 2 trend that patients in the twenties are increasing in number.The occupation of the patients ere various and company employees were largest in number and the next were housewives. Referring to the therapeutic effects of this agent on the patients subject to the clinical test in the past 5 years, about 85 were effective, and especially to the 320 patients in these 3 years , it showed an effective rate of 90 . Among them it was about 80 effective in females and about 93 effective in males. The details are as in the following.For the symprtoms of autonomic imbalance headache, dullhead, case of being dired, stiff shourlders, insomnia, gastro intestinal disturbance, chilly extremities, dizziness and asthenoria more than 90 and for gastrointestinal neurosis and pharyngolaryngeal neurosis also more than 90 . an for climacteric disturbance and orthostatic disturbance more than 85 . effectiveness was observed.For cyclic vomiting, nocturnal enuresie 2nd neurotonia more than 80 nd for other various autonomic imbalance more than 80 , for autonomic imbalance caused by conversion or somatization of anxiety, strain etc. more than 82 , for other autonomic imbalance and illness combined with autonomic imbalance more then 75 90 effectiveness was indicated. A dose of 2 5 ml administered once to three times a week, improved the symptoms markedly after an average of 10 15 administrations, and not a few number of them recovered after 6 and less administration among them is a case of only one administration . The following various symptoms originated in autonomic imbalance such asease of being tired, feverish feelinr, sensitiveness to cold, sweating, emaciation, insomnia, dizziness, headache, dull head, stiff shoulders, numbness of extremities, pelpi tation, broethlessness, oppression in chest, inappetence, thirst, neurea, vomiting, asthenonia, abdominal in, di rhes, constipation etc. were improved markedly nc other symptoms also were eased and showed the clinical usefulness of this agent. Further, no adverse reaction seemingly related to this agent was observed. As we have seen, human umbilical cord extract has a marked effect in a broad of patients from infects to adilts. In view of these facts, this agent extracted from human umbilical cord a clinically useful one, with high effectiveness and extremely high safety, can be said to be a boon to patients who are suffering and worrying autonomic imbalance. The following exemples of 21 clinical cases illustrate the pharmaceutical effects of autonomic imbalance treating agent of this invention. By PC 007 is understood injections manufactured containing autonomic imbalance treating agent of this invention.30 other c ces of clinical administration are shows later as TABLE OF CASE RESORTS, to illustrate the clinical effects of this agent of the present incention. Case A.H. female, autonomic imbalance with filts of migraine. 1 Age of first medical examination 20 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history The patient s sister has the same symptomes, and is treated and alleviated with PC 007 Injection in our hospital. 4 Case history Since the are of 18 she had a de fective visual field following a fit of headache with nausea. The headache was usually unilateral but sometimes bilateral. She was examined zt an ophthal mologist and an ophthalmologic section in a general hosnital but was told to have nothing ophthalmologically alwormal. July 30, 1975, while looking at the television she lost partially sisht of visual field for shout 30 minutes defect of visual field . Following that, she e severe dextrous migraine and nauses and took anal she. First medical examination in this hospital has August 5, 1975. 5 Condition an first examination Constitution middle sized, Nutrition good, Blood pressure 100 60 Urinary protein , Urinary glucose , Urobilinogen N , Blood sedimentation rate 7mm hr CRP ,GOT, GPT, ALP, ZTT, Cholesterol, TS, A G rate,Electrolyte and so on nothing abnormal. Chest X ray and EKG nothing unusual. To tie detailed inquiry, there were colourful complaints such as difficulty in getting up in the morning, stiff shoulders, fatigue of eye , ir.natience, irritablity, and chilled extremities etc. The CMI test Cornell Medical Index Kanehisa Takuya et al Cornell l edical Index, illustration and data, Sankyobo, 1972 showed Group IV. From the aforesaid symptoms the case was diagnosed as autonomic imbalance with fits of migrain 6 Course of treatment since treated in our hospital Analgesics were administered to fits of headache, andPC 007 was injected from August 8 to the last dart ofNovember, with a dose of 3 ml twice a week, total 30 times. During this period she had only one fit, and since the end of the treatment, all of the equivocal complaints disappeared. This is a case that the agent showed 2 remarkable effect. Case 2S.K. female, autonomic imbalance with abdominal symptoms. 1 Age of first medical examination 30 years old. 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history lother has hypertension, diabetes. 4 Case history Had headache, nausea and dizziness since one month before coming to our hospital and had been examined at a clinic and general hospital, but could not be eased and arrived to our hospital on April 16, 1977. 5 Conditions at first examiantion Constitution middle sized, Nutrition good, Anacmia not observed,Physical conditions has light tenderness in the left epigastrium but nothing besides unusual. Neuro pathetic, nothing unusual such as head retraction, morbid reflects and abnormal ocular movement.Clinical test Blood pressure 107 70 Urine normal Blood sedimentation rate 5 mm hr Number of leucocytes, 5600 Number of erythrocytes, 430 x 104 Hemoglobin, 85 and nothing unusual. Also nothing abnormal was observed in GOT, GPT, ALP, ZTT, Cholesterol, TP, A G rate, Chest X ray, Simple abdominal X ray and Gastro radioscopy. To detailed inouiry, complained that she had stiff neck and shoulder and felt heavy in her legs and arms, and told that she usually had a heavy head, and was easily tired in work, and foundit hard to get up, and other colourful complaints, CI test indicated group IV.From aforesaid symptoms was diagnosed autonomic i balance with abdominal symptoms. 6 Course of treatment since arrival in our hospital The therapy with PC 007 injections beginning from April 22 1977 continued until the end of the following June, with a dose of 2 ml, weekly twice, 18 times in all.The results at the beginning of the therapy analgesic were administered for headache, but after a week of admi nistration became needles ano nausea lessened and equivocal complaints such as exhaustion of whole body gradually improved. Two months later at the end of June, the symptoms almost disappeared. This case shows the iemai ble effect of this agent. Case 3K.K. male, autonomic imbalance with complaint of palpitation. 1 Age of first examination 46 years old 2 Anamnesis gastric ulcer at the age of 23. 3 Family history Father, hypertension and brother, tuberculosis. 4 Case history Since he had bad times in trade after the Oil shock , began to have ear noise, and 6 months before arrival at our hospital had palmitation, inappetence and insomnia, and was treated in several clinics and hospitals, but with no distinct recovery, on July 13, 1977 arrived at our hospital. 5 Conditions at the first examination Constitution, slender Nutrition, well fed Physical conditions, nothing unusual. Clinical tests Blood pressure 107 75 , Urine normal Blood sedimentation rate 4 mm hr GOT, GPT, ALP, ZTT, Cholesterol, TP, A G rate,Electrolyte, Chest X ray etc. indicated nothing unusual.ECG step test was also in normal range. To the detailed inquiry, there were colourful complaints such as dullhead as if staying up all night, unsteadiness of body, pain in back and abnormal sweating since one and a half years before, and cool extremities. CMI test indicated groupIII.From the aforesaid symptoms was diagnosed as autonomic imbalance with complaints of palpitation. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Since July 13, 1977 Nervenruh forte inhibitor of central nervous system, with antispasmodic and antalgic effects was administered 6 Tab day for 6 weeks, but with no distinct recovery , so Bellergal autonomic imbalance agent 3 Tab day was administered for one week but there was no recovery. From August 13, 1977 to September 15,PC 007 5 ml of dose, twice a week, 8 times in all was administered. hadThe results Palvitation enisappeared since around September 1, and the pain in back also disapreared and colourful equivocal complaints had almost disappeared after one month of treatment, and proved the remarkable effect of this agent. Case 4Y.O. female, autonomic imbalance caused by stress. 1 Age of first examinatiom 41 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history She lost her egest son by car accident in Nay of 1976 and experienced dizziness since about July and when tired, had headache and nausea.Arrived at our hospital on September 9, 1976. 5 Condition at the first examination Constitution, middle sized Nutrition, well fed anaemia, not observed Physical condition, nothing unusual.Clinical tests Blood pressure 115 67 , Urine normalBlood sedimentation rate 3 mm hr Peripheral hemogramBiochemical blood tests, Chest X ray, EKG and Funduscopy indicated nothing unusual. Neuropathic symptoms were also not observed. ofTo detailed inquiry, complained strong dizziness and fati gue of the whole body especially severe in the morning and also. thirst and constipation. CIi test indicated group IV. She was diagnosed as autonomic imbalance caused by the stress of her son s death. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our host ital Betahistine mesylate 6 Tab day was administered and intra muscular Injection of 5 ml PC 007 twice a week, 8 times in all was given. During the treatment dizziness considerably decreasec,almost all equivocal symptoms such as feeling of exhaustion,dullhead, stiff shoulders and others disappeared. Case 5I.T. male, Gallbladder dyskinesia by autonomic imbalance 1 Age of first examinntion 45 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history Since the middle of August, 1977 hod feeling of epigastric dilatation, nausea, fatigue of the whole body, dizziness and heavy feeling from the epigastrium through the chest, and arrived at our hospital on September 17. 5 Conditions at the first examination Tenderness at the right upper abdomen, anaemiaor jaundice not observed, liver and spleen not palpable. Clinical,tests Blood pressure 138 90 Urine normal Blood sedimentation rate 16 mm hr GOT, GPT, LAP, ZTT, TX, A G rate and Cholesterol indicated nothing unusual, also Chest X ray, simple abdominal X ray, Gastro radioscopy and EKG etc. indicated nothing unusual.By cholecystograph the picture was clear and no gall stone or dilatation of bile duct was observed. CI test indicated group IV. To detailed inquiry, complained equivocal complaints such as stiff shoulders, asthenopia, dizziness, and feeling of easily being tired. From aforesaid symptoms, the case was diagnosed as dyskinesia caused by autonomic imbalance. 6 Cource of treatment since arrival at our hospital 5 ml of PC 007 injection was administered three times a eek, for three weeks, 9 times in all. As a result, equivocal complaints decreased and the chief complaint of epigastric dilatation and nausea disappeared and , as the symptoms by palpation became normal, the treatment ended on October 15. Improvement of equivocal complaints is thought to be the effect of this agent. Case 6Y.D. male nocturnal unuresis 1 Age of first examination 1 years old. 2 Case history Boy of 5th year class of primary school still wetting the bed every night and cannot go with schoolmates to camp or seaside school and since age in the third year class consulted various medical doctors, pediatrists, pediatrics of general hospitals and neuro logists from doctor to doctor. The parents wish to let him go on the school excursion brought him to our hospital. 3 Course of treatment Intramuscular injection ofPC 007 5 ml was administered twice a week 5 times of administration, after two weeks the nightly bed wetting was reduced to about twice a week and after 14 injections it was reduced to once in ten days, after 5 weeks of administration, injection was reduced to once a week, too, bedwetting almost disappeared. He could go to the 6th year class spring excursion. Case 7T.F. female, autonomic imbalance 1 Age of first examination 47 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Case history About 3 months before her arrival at our hospital, she had coZotful equivocal complaints of headache, dizziness, sensitivity to cold, weariness and had consulted clinics and hospitals and was treated, but with no distinct discovery, and arrived at our hospital on October 21, 1976. 4 Conditions at the first examination Constitution, middle sized Nutrition, well fed Nothing unusual in physical condition.Clinical tests Blood pressure 108 72 , Urine normal Blood sedimentation rate 5 mm hr , Peripheral hemogram,GOT, GPT, ALP, ZTT, Cholesterol, TP, A Grate, Chest X ray,Simple abdominal X ray, Gastro radioscopy, Electrolyte etc. indicated nothing unusual.To detailed inquiry, other than the aforesaid complaint were lumbago, palpitation, breathlessness, dullhead etc.and CMI test indicated group II.From aforesaid symptoms the case was diagnosed as auto nordic imbalance. 5 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital. Treatment with PC 007 injection started from October 27, 976, till December 10, dose of 2 ml, tice 2 week 12 times in all was administered. As a result, the strong com laints at the beginning of the therapy, headache, stiff shoulders, sensitivity to cold etc. had decreased and after one month of the therapy, almost all colourful complaints disappeared, so the treatment ended by 12 inistrations. Thereafter no complaints are observed.his is a remarkable case of this agent. Case 8H.K. female, abdominal symptoms by autonomic imbalance 1 Age of the first examination 53 years old Anamnesis none 3 Case history She was a nurse in 2 surgical clinic for a long time and from 5 years ago she began to feel languid and especially has headache, nausea, vomiting, stiff shoulders, and easily got tired during job, and was ten absent. During the period she received various treatment but had no recovery. She arrived at our hos petal on November 21, 1975.4 Condition at the first examination Constitution, slender Nutrition, well fed Blood pressure 120 78 Prine normal Blood sedimentation rate, 4 mm hr Peripheral hemogram, ALP, GOT, GPT, TP, A G rate, Cholest rol, ZTT, Electrolytes, Chest X ray, Gastro radioscopy etc. indicated nothing unusual. to detailed inquiry there were colourful complaints other than the aforesaid symptoms such as dizziness, lumbago, palpitation, breathlessness, thirst, etc.. CTlI test indicated group IV.From the aforesaid results the Case was diagnosed a abdom inal symptoms due to autonomic imbalance. 5 Course of treatment since arrival to our hospital The therapy with this agent began since September 27, 1975 and till the middle of December, 2 m of injection once or twice a week was administered, 13 tires in all.As a result, the main complaint markedly decreased after 2 weeks of administration, and after that, the agent was administered once a week and in the middle of December the symptoms disappeared and the therapy was stopred.This shoved a remarkable effect of this agent. Case 9Y.T. male, periodic vomiting 1 Age of first examination 5 years old 2 Case history The mother of the patient is nervous and he occasionally developed fever and rlso nervous in character. She said thrt 8 days before arrival to our hospital he vomited without any reason and 3 days later had vomiting and abdominal pain, after that, he bad repeated vomiting, looked limp and depressed, ill humoured and had a tendency to constipation. 3 Condition at the first examination Constipction, middle sized Malnutrition Somewhat dehydrated Complexion pale Lip dried Palpitation Tenderness in the region of navel and abdomen. Also hd foul breath with smell of acetone. Similar symptoms had occurred 6 times in 2 years, and 4 times he had entered hospital and had been treated.Clinical tests Urine, strong acetonutria, Urobilinogen , Blood sugar, low Blood sedimentation rate, R m hr Stool. normal From the aforesaid symptoms the case was diagnosed as periodical vomiting and was received into our hospital. 4 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Vomitting was treated symptomatically and PC 007 injection 2 ml was administered 3 times in a week and consequently the occasional abdominal pain ceased, appetite improved, colour was regained and recovered his strength. After that weekly 2 injections were administered, 9 inj ections in all, and after that nct sympton was observed for one year,This is an effective case of this agent. Case 10O.T. female, psychogenic autonomic imbalance 1 Age of first examination 14 years old 2 Anamnesis none t3 Family history Since the ft year class of primary school bad orthostatic disturbance and received various therapies but did not improved and was frequently absent from school, and since in the second year of middle school had colourful complaints such as fatigue of whole body, dullhead, nausea, dizziness, insomnia, abdominal pain and others, and scarcely event to school. She received treatment at severs.l hospitals but could not have good results and arrived at our hospital on May, 1976. 5 Condition at first examination Con.stitution, F ender Nutrition, well developed Anaemia not observed. Clinical test Liver function tests such as GOT, GPT, and others, Gastro and Intestinal radioscopy, EEG, ChestX Ray etc., every test showed nothing unusual. Tbe mecholyl test as a test for autonomic function indi crated sympathetic hypotenia. To detailed inquiry, she complained other colourful symptoms other than the aforesaid such as thirst, breathlessness and headache, andCVI test indicated group IV. Y G test indicated social maladjustament, emotional instability and introvert. Her family s circumstances tell that she was blindly loved by her family when a child but since she had a chance to be examined in a university hospital and was told to be psychogenic, her family became severe and since then she became to shove colourful complaints of he dache, abdominal pain and others and frequently stayed ay from school.From the aforesaid symptoms the case was diagnosed as psychogenic autonomic imbalance. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Since in the middle of May 1976, autogenic training was given and the therapy with this agent was began. Two ml of injection twice a week, 16 times in all was given.As a result. 3 weeks after the beginning. of administration the colourful complaints since the opening of the therapy markedly decreased and in the middle of July, the sym ptoms almost disappeared and the treatment was stopped, and she is going to school cheerfulZy. Case 11M.S. female, psychogenic autonomic imbalance. 1 Age of first examination 13 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history Mother., autonomic imbalance 4 Case history Since she was in the 6 th year class of primary school sche complained of chilling of extremities, dizziness, dullhead headache, and others, and receivee various therapies, but was not improved and frequently was absent from school. She arrived to our hospital to be examined in June, 1976. 5 Condition at first examination Constitution, middle sized Nutrition, well developed.Clinical tests Blood pressure 108 65 , Urine normal Thood sedimentation rate and peripheral hemogram were both nomal. Liver function, Chest X ray, EKG, EEG, etc.were all normal. The mecliolyl test for autonomic function indicated sympatheticotonia. To detailed inquiry, there were colourful complaints other than the aforesaid such as numbness of extremities, insomnia etc. anii CMI test indicated group IV. The patient vc s examined with her mother who had a strong tendency to hypochondria and has been diagnosed to be autonomic imbalance and had been treated for several years.After all, the patient was thought to be suggested by the forceful suggestion of her hypochondria pother ant was diagnosed as having psychogenic autonomic imbalance. 6 The course of treatment Ince arrival at our hospital Since the middle of 1976, tile treatment with PC OC7 was started, and till the middle of July, 2 ml of Injection, twice a week 10 times in all, was administered. As a result, the main complaints from the beginning of the therapy, decreased markedly after 2 weeks of therapy, 4 weeks later the symptoms disapüeared and t e therapy was stopped. With the patient, her mother was also treated with PC 007, and she also indicated remarkable improvement and both were cured by this agent. Case 12 N.T. male, essential autonomic imbalance hypersensitive intestinal syndrome 1 Age of first examination 16 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history Since in the second year class of the middle school, complained fatigue and occasionally indicated abdominal pain and constipation. After entering high school symptoms continued, and complexion was bad, she lacked constitutional power and could not attend phy sical training, also could not follow schoo work. During the period received various treatments, but did not show improvement, and arrived at our hospital in October 1974. 5 Condition at tor first examination Constitution, somewhat slender, Anaemia, not observed. Clinical dxamination Blood pros sure 130 7C , Urine, Intestinal radioscopy, both antural Liver tests, peripheral hemoram, Chest Y. ray and others showed nothing unusual. To the detailed inquiry, he had colourful complaints such as abdominal discomfort, dilatation, thirsT., palpitation, feverish feeling and others. CMI test indicated group II with various physical complaints.From the aforesaid , the student was thought to be extra ordinary nervous to abdominal main and constipation, ane was diagnosed as essential autonomic imbalance hypersensitive intestinal syndrome . 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Therapy with PC 007 injection was started from the end of October and till the beginning of December, 2 ml of injection, twice a week, 12 injections in all were administered. As a result, 2 weeks later complaints beren to decrease and abdominal pain and constipation markedly improved and in the end of November abdominal pain ceased to occur and the therapy was stored in the beginning of December. This case also showed the remarkable effect of this agent. Case 13D.S. female, psychogenic autonomic imbalance with vomiting ss chief complaint. 1 Age of first examination 20 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Cise history Since February 1975 hdd nausen with vomiting and in addition to that, colourful complaints of asthenopia, abdominal disorder, easily being tired sweating etc., and the day after drinking had severe nausea and vomiting, and the other symptoms also appeared strongly. She was treated in various hospitals and clinics but did not irrrovc. She arrived at our hospital in November, 1975. 5 Condition at the first examination Constitution, middle sized Nutrition, well developed.Clinical tests Blood pressure 118 73 , Gastric X ray examination, Gallbladder X ray, nothing unusual Urine,Liver function, Pancreas function, Peripheral hemogram,Chest X ray, nothing unusual.To the detailed inquiry, had colourful complaints of headache, dullhead, sensitive to cold, dizziness, insomnia, and others, the mecholyl test indicated 2 tendency of rarasympatheticotonia and CMI test indicated group IV.From the aforesaid, the complicated family circumstances and disappointed love etc. should have made her distrust the mole sex, and the conversion of this may have caused vomiting and other symptoms, so this case was diagnosed as psychogenic autonomic imbalance with vomiting as chief complaint 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital The treatment with PC 007 w s started from November 19, 1975. 5 ml of injection, twice a week, 10 injections in all w .s administered.During the second weeh the symptoms markedly improved, at the end of 4th week most of the complaints disappeared and the chief complaints such as nauses and vomiting ceased, the therany was stopred in the 5th veek. This is a case effic cr of this agent. Case 14T.Y. female psychogenic autonomic imbalance with tension and anxiety. 1 Age of first examination 20 yeP r. old. 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history Mother died 3 months before of uterine cancer. 1 Case history About 3 onths before her arrival at our hospital, complaints of stiff shoulders, numbness of extremities, insomia, inappetence appeared. Compelxion was ale, was easily tired, Pnd frequently in bed.She v. s examined on June 10, 1975 in our hospital. 5 Condition t the first examination Constitution, middle sized, Nutrition, somewhat poor Colour, pole Clinical tests Chest X ray, EKG, Gastric X ray, were both normal, GOT, GPT, and other liver tests, Urine,Serum, Electrolytes, reripheral hemogram and other tests showed nothing unusual. To detailed inquiry there v ere more colourful complaints, and the CMI test indicated a tendency to neurosis and classified in group IV. About her family, her mother had entered hospital 10 months before for uterine cancer and died 3 months age, during the period she had been nursing and the various symptoms began to appear after that. From aforesaid results, it was thought that the strain and anxiety by her mother s death, and anxiety of future crus by losing her mother had become the cause of the colourful complaints and was diagnosed as psychogenetic autonomic imbalance v ith tension and anxiety. 6 Course of treatment since arrival to our hospital The treatment with PC 007 Injection began from June 18, till the middle of August, twice a week, 2 ml, 16 injection in all. As a result, from the third week she markedly improved and in August almost every symptoms disappeared and her colour became good. Case 15 Y.T. female, psychogenic autonomic imbalance 1 Age at first exa inc3tion 45 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 C, se history At the age of 40, there were com . ints of dizziness, dulAhead, stiff shoulders, lumbago, ease of being tired and others nd was examined at several clinics and hospitals, but did not improve, and arrived at our hospital on February 25, 1975. 5 Condition at first examination Constitution, middlesized, nutrition well developed Para III Menstruation regular. Clinical tests Blood pressure 128 80 Urine normal Liver function tests, Serum electrolytes, Chest X ray, EEG and other tests showed nothing unusual. To the detailed inquiry, there were more colourful complaints of constipation, abdominal disorder and dilatation, asthenopia, thirst, numbness of extremities etc., CMI test showed physical sign and group IV.Inouired after her family circumstances she told that at the age of 40, her husband had a secret love affair and she met the woman and had a heavy shock, since then her distrust of her husband increased, and the aforesaid symptoms strongly appeared. From the aforesaid results the case was diagnosed as the so called climacteric psycho gene autonomic imbalance. 6 Course of treatment since arrival to our hospital Since Parch 5 the treatment with PC 007 was started and till the beginning of June, twice a week, an injection of 5 ml, 22 injections in all, was administered.As a result, after 5 weeks of treatment there was a marked improvement,the husband was called and told that the cause of the sickness of his wife was his love affair c nd was persuaded to separate from the woman.Afterwards in the end of May the symptoms almost disappeared and the administration was stopped. This case shows the effectiveness of this agent. Case 16U,H. female, Climacteric disturbance 1 Age of first examination 50 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history Since about the age of 47 complained of stiff shoulders and headache and others and was diagnosed at a clinic, as climacteric disturbance and was treated but did not get well, and arrived at our hospital onJanuary 21, 1976, to have examination. 5 Condition at the first examination Costitution, middle sized, Nutrition well developed, Anaemia not observed and nothing unusual in physical symptoms.Clinical tests Blood pressure 132 81 , Blood sedimentation rate 6 mm hr , Urine normal , T eripheral hemogram, Liver function test, Serum electrolyte, EEG,Chest X ray and other tests showed nothing unusual.To detailed inquiry, had more colourful symptoms other than the aforesaid such as sensitiveness t.o cold1 palpitatioll, breathlessness, numbness of extremities etc., and CMI test showed physical signs and indicated group II.From the aforesaid , the case w s diagnozed as climacteric disturbance. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Since January 28, 1976, the treatment with this agent was started .nd till the beginning of Larch, twice a week, 5 ml of injection, 10 infections in all were administered.As a result, the colourful complaints t the beginning of the treatment markedly decreased, and at the end ofFebruary they had almost disapresred so that the administration w s stopred. Case 17S.Y. femalem autonomic imbalance caused by hysterectomy. 1 Age of first examin tion 42 years old 2 Ana.mnesis At 1 years of age received hysterectomy for myome of uterus. 3 Family history none 4 Case history A short time after the operation there were colourful equivocal complaints of stiff shoulders, ease of being tired, a hot fit, sensitiveness to cold, lumbago, irritancy etc., and h d first examination on February 10, 1976. 5 Condition at the first examination Constitution, somewhat slender, nutrition somewhat poor, Anaemia not observed, Clinical tests Blood pressure 125 78 ,Urine normal , Blood sedimentation rate, Liver function tests, Chest X ray, EEG, Serum electrolytes,Peripheral hemogram and other general tests showed nothing unusual. To detailed inguiry, she had other colouriiil equivocal complaints of hyposexualitas, sweating, er noises, dizziness etc., End CMI test indicated group IV. From the aforesaid, this case was diagnosed as autonomic imbalance caused by hysterectomy. 6 Course of treatments since arrival at our hospital The treatment with PC 007 started from February 18 and till the beginning of April tv ice 5 week, 2 ml, 14Injections in all were administered. As a result from the third week a marked imnrovement was shown and at the beginning of April the symptoms disappeared and the treatment was ended. Case 18I.H., female, post capital trauma autonomic imbalance. 1 Age of first examination 29 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history She received capital trauma by trafic accident and entered hospital, and the trauma healed, but after that, occasionally equivocal comp aints of headache, dullhead, pain in the neck, stiff shoulders etc.appeared and she was examined in a general hospital and treated but did not recover and arrived to our hospital on April 6, 1976. 5 Condition t the first examination Constitution, Large Nutrition well developed.Clinical examination Blood pressure 131 76 , Blood sedimentation rate 5 mm hr Urine normal EEG, liver fuction tests, Chest X ray, Serum electrolytes and other general tests showed nothing unusual. To the detailed inquiry, every complaint was recognized as a sympton oi autonomic imbalance. From the aforesaid the case was diagnosed as post capital traumatic autonomic imbalance caused by traffic accident. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital Treatment with PC 007 was started since April 14, and twice a week, 5 ml of injection, 26 injections in all ere administered. As a result, the strong equivocal complaints markedly decreased in the fifth week and in the middle of June almost all of them disappeared. Case 19S.A. male essential autonomic imbalance by abnormal constitution 1 Age of first examination 24 years old 2 Anamnesis From his childhood he had n.n orthostatic syncope that suggests autonomic imbalance which grew worse seasonally. 3 Family history mother, hypotension 4 Case histotory The patient is working in a trading company, and from about 5 months ago became he busy in foreign tradem and meal timesbecame irregular and he could not have enough sleep. From about that time equivocal comrlaints such as dullhead, dullness of whole body, stiff shoulders, inappetence and others began to appear. He arrived and was examined in our hospital. on November 24, 1976. 5 Condition at the first examination Constitution, slender Nutrition well developed Anaemia not observedClinical tests Bloodpressure 119 75 , Blood sedimentz tion rate 5 mm hr , Liver function tests, Urine, ChestX ray, EEG, Peripheral hemogram, and other general tests showed nothing unusual. To detailed inquiry, equivocal complaints which seems to be symptoms of autonomic imbalance other than the aforesaid were observed.Since before, he had a complex of his slender constitution which resembles his mother, and this is thought to have sometimes caused the equivocal complaints, and CMI test indicated group II.From the aforesaid was diagnosed as essential autonomic imbalance caused by abnormal constitution. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital PC 007 treatment began from November 30, twice a week, 5 ml, 8 injections in all, until the end of December.As a result, a marked improvement was observed in the second week and the administration wns stopped. This is a remarkable case of this agent. Case 20 S.K. male, discomfort in throat and general equivocal symptoms. 1 Age of first examination 25 years old 2 Ana,mnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history Since 5 months before arrival at our hospital strongly complained of discomfort in the throat and also had general equivocal symptoms of stiff shoulders, chilly extremities, asthenopia, ease of being tired etc., and was treated in general hospital but was not Improved, and ws examined in our hosital on April 2. 1974. 5 Condition t the first examination Constitution, middle sized Nutrition, somewhat poor Anaemia not observed Otolaryngoscopy nothing unusual, CervicalX ray nothing unusual other clinical tests. such as blood pressure 121 750 , m Urine normal , Liver function tests, peripheral hemogram, serum electrolytes, Pancreas functios tests, Chest X ray, EEG and other tests were all normal.To detailed inquiry, the discomfort in throat was in the form foreign body sensation, dryness, strictured feeling and pain in the throat, and other various general equivocal symptoms of headache, insomnia, and others were complaine and CMI test indicated Group II. From the aforesaid results it V was diagnosed as general equivocal symptoms with discomfort in throat. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital PC 007 therapy was started from April 9, and twice a week 5 ml, 8 injections in all, till the beginning of ay, were administered. As a result, in the last half of the second week the discomfort in throat markedly decreased and at the end of April almost all the symptoms disappesre , so the administration was stropped. Case 21 K.M. female, equivocal syndrome with gastroptosis. 1 Age of first examination 42 years old 2 Anamnesis none 3 Family history none 4 Case history About 5 month before her arriva at our hospital, had col rful complaints of n2usea, vomiting, heartburn, inappetence, eructation, constipation, stiff shoulders and other equivocal complaints, and was examined in a general hospital and diagnosed as gastroptosis and received various treatments, but did not get well, and was examined in our hospital on July 2, 1974. 5 Condition at the first examination Constitution, slender Nutrition somewhat poorm Anaemia not observed.Clinical tests Gastro X ray gastroptosis was observed ,Blood pressure 118 75 Urine normal and other general tests showed noting unusual. To detailed inquiry, she had more colorful equivocal complaints other than the aforesaid symptoms such as dizziness, irritated anxiety, insomnia, chilly extremities etc., and CKI test indicated group IV. From the aforesaid results, the case was diagnosed as equivocal syndromes with gastropTosis. 6 Course of treatment since arrival at our hospital PC 007 treatment was started from July 10, and twice a week, 5 ml, 12 injections in all were administeredsAs a result, in the fifth week, the symptoms markedly improved and the colour became good. TABLE OF CASE REPORTSEMI33.1 Case SEP Re SEP Name SEP Age SEP Diagnoisis SEP Complaints SEP CMI SEP Compli SEP Period SEP of tb port SEP No. SEP Sex SEP cation SEP treatment tb SEP 1 SEP K.K. SEP 49 SEP F SEP Climateric tb SEP disturbance SEP inappetance, SEP fatigue SEP IV SEP none SEP 3 SEP M tb SEP 2 SEP M.S. SEP 26 SEP F SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP stiff SEP shoulder. SEP III SEP SEP 2 SEP M tb SEP ease SEP of SEP being SEP tired tb SEP 3 SEP A.H. SEP 42 SEP F SEP SEP SEP IV SEP SEP 7 SEP M tb SEP 4 SEP S.M. SEP 42 SEP F SEP SEP stiff SEP shoulder, SEP II SEP SEP 2 SEP M tb SEP dizziness tb SEP 5 SEP S.M. SEP 36 SEP F SEP SEP dizziness SEP IV SEP SEP 10 SEP D tb SEP 6 SEP S.M. SEP 45 SEP F SEP SEP ear SEP noise, SEP dizziness SEP IV SEP SEP 1 SEP W tb SEP 7 SEP T.Y. SEP 49 SEP F SEP Climateric SEP stiff SEP shoulder SEP III SEP SEP 12 SEP M tb SEP disturbance tb SEP 8 SEP K.K. SEP 47 SEP F SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP stiff SEP shoulder, SEP II SEP SEP 1 SEP M tb SEP ease SEP of SEP being SEP tired tb SEP 9 SEP S.N. SEP 37 SEP F SEP SEP headache, SEP dull SEP head SEP II SEP hypertension SEP 12 SEP M tb 10 SEP K.A. SEP 53 SEP F SEP SEP nausea, SEP vomiting SEP IV SEP none SEP 5 SEP Y tb 11 SEP T.I. SEP 45 SEP M SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP upper SEP abdominal SEP dila SEP Biliary tb SEP Biliary SEP dyskinesia SEP tation, SEP nausea SEP IV SEP dyskinesia SEP 1 SEP M tb 12 SEP H.O. SEP 43 SEP F SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP headache SEP IV SEP none SEP 1 SEP Y tb 13 SEP M.K. SEP 35 SEP F SEP SEP dizziness SEP III SEP SEP 1 SEP W tb 14 SEP M.S. SEP 49 SEP F SEP Neurocirculatory SEP palpitation SEP IV SEP SEP 1 SEP M tb SEP asthenia tb 15 SEP Y.S. SEP 52 SEP F SEP Climateric SEP disturbance SEP .sensitiveness SEP to SEP cold SEP IV SEP SEP EMI34.1 Case SEP Re SEP Name SEP Age SEP Diagnoisis SEP Complaints SEP CMI SEP Compli SEP Period SEP of tb port SEP No. SEP Sex SEP cation SEP treatment tb 16 SEP Y.O. SEP 29 SEP F SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP abdominal SEP disorder SEP III SEP none SEP 1 SEP Y tb SEP and SEP dilatation tb 17 SEP T.Y. SEP 41 SEP F SEP SEP dizziness, SEP headache SEP IV SEP SEP 2 SEP M tb 18 SEP N.M. SEP 34 SEP F SEP SEP dizziness SEP II SEP SEP 19 SEP K.K. SEP 49 SEP M SEP SEP stiff SEP shoulder SEP IV SEP SEP 1 SEP M tb 20 SEP K.K. SEP 46 SEP M SEP SEP palpitation SEP III SEP SEP 1 SEP Y SEP 6 SEP M tb 21 SEP I.O. SEP 45 SEP F SEP SEP headache SEP II SEP SEP 2 SEP Y tb 22 SEP K.O. SEP 44 SEP F SEP SEP constipation SEP IV SEP SEP 1 SEP W tb 23 SEP E.O. SEP 50 SEP F SEP Climateric SEP disturbance SEP stiff SEP shoulder SEP III SEP SEP 4 SEP M tb 24 SEP T.S. SEP 51 SEP F SEP SEP dizziness, SEP headache SEP II SEP SEP 4 SEP Y tb 25 SEP T.S. SEP 35 SEP F SEP Vertigo SEP dizziness SEP III SEP SEP 15 SEP D tb 26 SEP M.M. SEP 36 SEP F SEP Autonomic SEP imbalance SEP headache, SEP insomnia SEP IV SEP SEP 2 SEP W tb 27 SEP H.Y. SEP 47 SEP F SEP SEP insomnia SEP IV SEP SEP 2 SEP Y tb 28 SEP S.W. SEP 42 SEP F SEP SEP nauseam SEP vomiting SEP IV SEP SEP 3 SEP M tb 29 SEP K.S. SEP 30 SEP F SEP SEP headache, SEP vomiting SEP IV SEP SEP 1 SEP M tb 30 SEP S.M. SEP 45 SEP F SEP SEP stiff SEP shoulder, SEP IV SEP SEP 2 SEP M tb SEP lumbago tb EMI35.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 tb Dosage SEP mg SEP x SEP times SEP 2 SEP x SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 16 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 18 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 12 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 10 tb Period SEP of SEP 3 SEP W SEP 3 SEP W SEP 5 SEP W SEP 7 SEP W SEP 8 SEP W SEP 12 SEP W SEP 5 SEP W SEP 6 SEP W SEP 6 SEP W SEP 10 SEP W tb administration tb Subjective SEP symptoms tb B SEP Before SEP administration SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A tb A SEP After SEP administration tb Ease SEP of SEP being SEP tired SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Feverish SEP feeling SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Sensitiveness SEP to SEP cold SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Sweating tb Emaciation SEP SEP Insomnia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Vertigo SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Ear SEP noises SEP SEP tb Headachem SEP Dull SEP head SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Lumbago SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Stiff SEP shoulder SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP EMI36.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 SEP 10 tb Numbness SEP of tb extremities tb Tremor SEP of SEP finger SEP SEP tb and SEP eyelid tb Palpitation SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Breathlessness SEP SEP SEP SEP Oppression SEP in SEP chest tb Inappetance SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Thirst SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Nausea SEP and SEP vomiting SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Abdominal SEP disorder SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP and SEP dilation tb Constipation SEP and SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP diarrhea tb Abdominal SEP pain SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Asthenopia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP EFFECT SEP E Effective, SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP E SEP E. SEP tos SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP E tb V SEP E SEP Very SEP effective SEP some tb SEP degree tb Adverse SEP reaction SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none tb EMI37.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 19 SEP 20 tb Dosage SEP mg SEP x SEP times SEP 2 SEP x SEP 9 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 6 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 3 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 8 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 8 tb Period SEP of SEP 3 SEP W SEP 6 SEP W SEP 1 SEP W SEP 3 SEP W SEP 2 SEP W SEP 2 SEP W SEP 5 SEP W SEP 4 SEP W SEP 4 SEP W SEP 4 SEP W tb administration tb Subjective SEP symptoms tb B SEP Before SEP administration SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A tb A SEP After SEP administration tb Ease SEP of SEP being SEP tired SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Feverish SEP feeling SEP SEP SEP SEP tb Sensitiveness SEP to SEP cold SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Sweating SEP SEP SEP SEP Emaciation SEP SEP Insomnia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Vertigo SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Ear SEP noises SEP SEP tb Headachem SEP Dull SEP head SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Lumbago SEP SEP Stiff SEP shoulder SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb EMI38.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 11 SEP 12 SEP 13 SEP 14 SEP 15 SEP 16 SEP 17 SEP 18 SEP 19 SEP 20 tb Numbness SEP of SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP extremities tb Tremor SEP of SEP finger SEP SEP and SEP eyelid tb Palpitation SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Breathlessness SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Oppression SEP in SEP chest SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Inappetance SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Thirst SEP SEP tb Nausea SEP and SEP vomiting SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Abdominal SEP disorder SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb and SEP dilation tb Constipation SEP and SEP SEP SEP SEP tb diarrhea tb Abdominal SEP pain SEP SEP SEP SEP Asthenopia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP EFFECT SEP E Effective, SEP V SEP E SEP E SEP E SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP Discon SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP E SEP V SEP E tb V SEP E SEP Very SEP effective SEP tinued tb Adverse SEP reaction SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none tb EMI39.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 21 SEP 22 SEP 23 SEP 24 SEP 25 SEP 26 SEP 27 SEP 28 SEP 29 SEP 30 tb Dosage SEP mg SEP x SEP times SEP 2 SEP x SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP x SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 4 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 16 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 18 SEP 2 SEP x SEP 8 tb Period SEP of tb SEP administration SEP 9W SEP 6W tb Subjective SEP symptoms tb B Before SEP administration tb A After SEP administration SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP B SEP A tb Ease SEP of SEP being SEP tired SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Feverish SEP feeling SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Sensitiveness SEP to SEP cold SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Sweating SEP SEP SEP SEP Emaciation SEP SEP Insomnia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Vertigo SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Ear SEP noises tb Headache, SEP Dull SEP head SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Lumbago SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb Stiff SEP shoulder SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP EMI40.1 Case SEP report SEP No. SEP 21 SEP 22 SEP 23 SEP 24 SEP 25 SEP 26 SEP 27 SEP 28 SEP 29 SEP 30 tb Numbness SEP of SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP extremities tb Tremer SEP of SEP finger tb SEP and SEP eyelid tb Palpitation SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Breathlessness SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Oppression SEP in SEP chest SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Inappetance SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Thirst tb Nausea SEP and SEP vomiting SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Abdominal SEP disorder SEP SEP SEP and SEP dilation tb Constipation SEP and tb SEP diarrhea SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP Abdominal SEP pain SEP SEP Asthenopia SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP EFFECT SEP E Effective SEP No tb V SEP E SEP Verry SEP effective SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP E SEP E SEP effect SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E SEP V SEP E tb Adverse SEP reaction SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none SEP none tb BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS Figure 1 is an ultra violet absorption spectrum of the extract of human umbilical cords of this invention. Figure 2 is a chart of amino acid analysis which indicates the amino acid composition of the human umbilical cord extract of this invention. The abbreviations used ir Fig. 2 are the followings. l...Lysine 2... Histidine 3... Ammonia 4... Arrinine 5... Asnertic acid 6... Trypsin 7... Serine 8... Glutamic acid 9... Proline 10... Glycine 11... Alanine 13... Valine 14... Kethionine 15...Isoleucine 16...Leucine 17... Tyrosine 18... Phenylalanine 12... Cysteine BEST CODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION The present invention will become more apparent in the following examples of manufacturing an autonomic imbalance treating agent of this invention. Example 1 Umbilical cords are separated from healthy human placentae and blood is removed by marking small cuts on the blood vesells they are and washed throughly with cold water and then the water drained thoroughly and they are frozen for to 3 days. The frozen umbilical cords are allowed to stas At room temperature and when half thawed, chopped with chopper into small pieces. Then to the chopped um bilical cords 5 times as much purified water as the umbilical cords by weight and 3 g of purified proteolytic enzyme obtained from Streptomyces griceus are added and incubated at 45 50 C for 10 16 hpurs to be decomposed. Then the resulting decomposed solution is heated at 1200C for 10 15 minutes and thereafter cooled and filtcred. To the filtrate, 0.7 of sodium chloride and 0.3 of benzyl alcohol are added and dissolved, and this solution with a microporous filter e.g. millipore filter to remove microorganismus. The filtrate is filled in ampoules, dry heat sterilized, and then sterilized. In autoclave at the temperature of 120 0C for 10 minutes and used for injection. Example 2 To the enzyme decomposed solution obtained by the same process as in example 1, 10 citric acid solution is added to adjust it to pH 4.6, andit is stirred gently for 5 10 minutes at 45 50 C and then cooled and filtered.To the filtrate, 0.05 of weight active carbon is added and mixed well and filtered. The filtrate is adjusted to pH 6.5 with 10 sodium carbonate solution and then 0.5 f of chlorobutanol and 0.7 of sodium chloride is added and dissolved, then the filtrate is filtered through a millipore filter to remove microorganismus. The filtrate is filled into dry heat sterilized ampoules in an aseptic technics nd used for injection. Example 3 To the enzyme decomposed solution obtained by the same process as in Example 1, 10 hydrochloric acid is added to adjust it to pH 4.6 and the solution is kept at 45 500C for 5 10 minutes and gently. stirred. Then the solution is cooled and filtered, and to ti filtrate, 0.05 5 of active carbon is added and mixed and the solution is filteredThe filtrate is adjusted to pH 6.5 by adding 10 9 sodium carbonate and to this , 0.7 of sodium chloride and 0.3 9 of benzylalcohol are added and filtered by a millipore filter to remove microorganisms. l he aseptic filtrate is filled iitodry heat sterilized amroules and sterilized in an autoclave for 10 minutes at 120 C and used for injection. Example 4 Umbilical cords are separated from healthy human placentae and bloom is removed by making small cuts on the blood vessels and throughly w shed by cold water then water is thoroughly drained from the umbilical cords and they are frozen 2 3 days. The frozen umbilical cords are allowed to stand at room temperature and after being half to thewed, choired with a chopper into small pieces. Then tile chopped umbilical cords, 5 times as much physiological saline they 5e t umbilical cords by weight is added, and then they als homogenized in a homogenizer and immediately frozen in a freezer. 2 days later, the homogenate in taken out a nd thawed and.frozen again and thawed, this is adjusted to pH 3.8 4.2 by adding 10 citric acid, and is wermed to 40 60 C, resulting precipitates are removed and the homogenate is adjusted to pH 6.2 7.0 by the addition of 10 sodium carbonate, then 0.5 f of chlorobutanol and 0.8 of benzyl alcohol is added an dissolved and filtered by a millipore filter to remove microorganismus.The filtrate is filled into dry heat sterilized ampoules under aseptic technics and used for injection. Total Nitrogen content 21.77 mg 100 ml Example 5 Umbilical cords are separated from healthy human placentae and blood is removed b making small cuts on they are the blood vessels and throughly washed by cold water, then water is thoroughly drained from the umbilical cords and they are frozen for 2 3 days. The frozen umbilical cords are allowed to stand at room temperature and half thawed, copped with a chopper into small pieces. Then, to these chopped umbilical cords, 5 times as much 0.5 citric acid solution containing 0.5 of phenol they are as the umbilical cords by weight is added and homogenized in a homogenizer and immediately frozen in a freezer.Two days later, the homogenate is takenoutand thawed and frozen again and thawed, and warmed to 40 60 C, the resulting precipitates are removed and sodium chloride is added and the homogenate is made isotonic and then filtered by a millipore filter to remove microorganisms. The filtrate is filled into dry heat sterilized ampoules under aseptic technics and used for injection. Total nitrogen content 24.88 mg lOOml