# Amine promotion of glyoxylate photoinitiators.

## Abstract
The use of amine compounds, e.g., tertiary amines containing alkanol groups, enhances the photoinitiation of glyoxylate photoinitiators, e.g., alkyl aryl glyoxylate pho toinitiators.

## Claims
Claims 1. Photopolymerization of monomeric and polymeric compositions of photopolymerizable substances wherein a phDtoinitiator is admixed with a photopoly merizable composition and the mixture exposed to actinic radiation, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the photopolymerization is effectively initiated by a glyoxylate photoinitiator in the presence of an amine promoter for said photoinitiator. 2. The method of Claim 1 wherein the glyoxylate has the formulaEMI10.1 where R is a C2 C6 alkyl or a C1 C6 alkoxy substituted C2 C6 alkyl and R is phenyl. 3. The method of one of the claims 1 or 2, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the amine promoter is a tertiary amine having an alkanol group. 4. The method of claim 3, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the amine promoter is dimethylethanolamine. 5. A composition photopolymerizable by actinic radiation comprising unsaturated polymerizable constituents containing dispersed therein an effective amount of a combination of a glyoxylate photoinitiator and an amine promoter for said photoinitiator. 6. The composition of claim 5, wherein the glyoxylate has the formulaEMI11.1 where R is a C2 C6 alkyl or a C1 C4 alkoxy substituted C2 C6 alkyl and R is phenyl. 7. The composition of one of the claims 5 or 6, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the amine promoter is a tertiary amine having an alkanol group. 8. The composition of claim 7, c h a r a c t e r i z e d in that the amine promoter is dimethylethanolamine. 9. The use of tertiary amines containing an alkanol group, especially the use of dimethylethanolamine as an enhancing promoter in the photoinitiation of glyoxylate photoinitiators.

## Description
AMINE PROMOTION OF GLYOXYLATE PHOTOINITIATORSBackground of the Invention Field of the Invention The present invention relates to the promotion of the photoinitiation reaction of glyoxylate photoinitiators. Description of the Prior Art Glyoxylate photoinitiators are known compounds and possess the glyoxylate group C O C O Oattached to suitable moieties which confer photoinitiator utility on the resulting compound. Compounds of this type are described in U. S. Patent 4,038,164 to F. A. Via, which is incorporated herein by reference. That patent describes compounds of the formulaEMI1.1 where R can be a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon te.g., C2 C10alkyl of from one to ten carbon atoms, aryl, aralkyl, or mono di, or trisilyl and R is a heterocyclic radical, aryl of from 6 to 14 carbon atoms, or mono , di or polysubstituted phenyl with such substituents as alkyl, alkoxy, aryloxy, alkylthio, arylthio and halogen. Preferably R is alkyl and R is phenyl.A commercial product of this type is sold under the trademark VICURE 55 by Stauffer Chemical Company and contains methyl phenyl glyoxylate as the photoinitiator. Summary of the Present Invention The present invention relates to combinations of the above glyoxylate initiators with amine promoters for enhanced activity i.e , to reduce exposure time .Detailed Description of the Present Invention The compositions curable by actinic radiation according to the invention can contain a polymerizable polymer in a reactive ethylenically unsaturated monomeric medium, a reactive polymer alone, a reactive monomer alone, or any of these combined with an inert solvent. Additionally, the polymerizable composition can contain any of the pigments commonly used in photopolymerization techniques. The process can be carried out by mixing a quantity of photoinitiating compound of the present invention with a photopolymerizable composition and exposing the resultant mixture to actinic radiation.Alternatively, a one component system comprising the photopolymerizable composition, the photoinitiator of the invention and, if desired, pigmentation, can be formed. The photoinitiating compounds of the invention are suitable in the actinic light curing of unsaturated monomeric compounds either alone or as copolymerizable constituents of unsaturated polymer monomer systems.Such systems are composed of mixtures of conventional unsaturated polymers and unsaturated monomers. Monomers which are useful in practicing the invention are acrylic,dC alkacrylic and o C chloro acrylic acid compounds such as esters, amides and nitriles. Examples of such compounds are acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, methacrylamide and methyl CX7 chloroacrylate. Also useful, although not preferred due to their slower rates of reactivity, are vinyl and vinylidene esters, ethers and ketones. Additionally, compounds having more than one terminal unsaturation can be used.Examples of these include diallyl phthalate, diallyl maleate, diallyl fumarate, triallyl cyanurate, triallyl phosphate, ethylene glycol, dimethylacrylate, glycerol trimethylacrylate, pentaerythritol triacrylate, pentaerythritol tetraacrylate, trimethylolpropane, triacrylate, methacrylic anhydride, and allyl ethers of monohydroxy or polyhydroxy compounds, such as ethylene glycol diallyl ether, pentaerythritol, tetraallyl ether, and the like. Nonterminally unsaturated compounds such as diethyl fumarate can similarly be used. The acrylic acid derivatives are particularly well suited to the practice of the invention and are consequently preferred components as monomers in monomer containing polymerizable systems and as reactive centers in polymerizable polymers. While monomeric styrene can be used in the practice of the invention, it is not a preferred constituent of systems polymerizable thereby due to its slow rate of reaction. A preferred manner of practicing the invention is by the use of photopolymerizable molding and coating compositions which comprise mixtures of unsaturated polymeric compounds and monomeric compounds copolymerizable therewith. The polymeric compounds can be conventional polyesters prepared from unsaturated polycarboxylic acids such as maleic acid, fumaric acid, glutaconic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic acid, mesaconic acid and the like, and polyhydric alcohols such as ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, glycerol, propylene glycol, 1, 2 butanediol, 1,4 butanediol, pentaerythritol, trimethylolpropane and the like.The carboxylic acid content can also contain saturated components. The inclusion of a monobasic fatty acid content, either as such or in the form of a triglyceride or oil, in the photopolymerizable polyester composition to comprise an alkyd resin is also acceptable. These resins can, in turn, be modified by silicones, epoxides, isocyanates, etc., by known techniques. The photoinitiator combination of the present invention comprises the glyoxylate photoinitiator compounds described above in conjunction with an amine promoter which is present in an effective amount to achieve the desired promotion effect, e.g., from about 0.1 to about 10 , by weight of the photopolymerizable composition. Such amines can be primary, secondary, or preferably tertiary and have been described as promoters for glyoxylamide photoinitiators e.g., inU. S. Patent No. 4,118,298 .They have the formula R R R N with R and R independently selected from hydrogen, straight chain or branched alkyl having from 1 to about 12 carbon atoms, straight chain or branched alkenyl having from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, cycloalkyl having from 3 to about 10 ring carbon atoms, cycloalkenyl having from 3 to about 10 ring carbon atoms, aryl having from 6 to about 12 ring carbon atoms, alkaryl having 6 to about 12 ring carbon atoms R has the same meaning as R and R with the exception that it cannot be hydrogen and that it cannot be aryl when both R and R are aryl.Also, when taken together R and can canbe a divalent alkylene group having from 2 to about 12 carbon atoms, a divalent alkylene group having from 3 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkadienylene group having from 5 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkatrienylene group having from 5 to about 10 carbon atoms, a divalent alkyleneoxyalkylene group having a total of from 4 to about 12 carbon atoms, or a divalent alkylene aminoalkylene group having a total of from 4 to about 12 carbon atoms. As previously indicated, the amines can be substituted with other groups thus, the R , R and R variables whether taken singly or together can contain one of more substituents thereon. The nature of such substituents is generally not of significant importance and any substituent group can be present that does not exert a pronounced deterrent effect on the photoinitiation and polymerization. Exemplary suitable organic amines are methylamine, dimethylamine, triethylamine, isopropylamine, triisopropylamine, tributylamine, t butylamine, 2 methylbutylamine, N methyl N butylamine, di 2 methylbutylamine, tri 2 ethylhexylamine, dodecylamine, tri 2chloroethylamine, di 2 bromoethylamine, methanolamine, triethanolamine, dimethylethanoleamine, methyldiethanolamine, propanolamine, triisopropanolamine, butylethanolamine, dihexanolamine, 2 methoxyethylamine, 2 hydroxyethyldiisopropylamine, allylamine, cyclo hexylamine, trimethylcyclohexylamine, bis methylcyclopentylamine, tricyclohexadienylamine, N methyl N cyclohexylamine, N 2 ethylhexyl N cyclohexylamine, tribenzylamine, benzyldimethylamine, piperidine, N ethylpiperidine, morpholine, N methyl morpholine, N 2 hydroxyethylmorpholine, piperazine, N,N dimethylpiperazine, and the like.The preferred organic amines are the tertiary amines, with the alkanol amines being most preferred. Additionally, the photopolymerizable composition can contain a sensitizer capable of enhancing the photoinitiating efficiency of the glyoxylate photoinitiating compound used in the present invention.Examples of sensitizers useful in the practice of the invention are such compounds as xanthone, thioxanthone, acetophenone and benzophenone. These are typically added in amounts ranging from about 0.1 to about 6 weight percent. The techniques whereby such sensitizers are selected for use in conjunction with particular photoinitiators are well known in the art. See for example,Murov, Handbook of Photochemistry, Marcel Dekker, Inc.,New York 1973 . Thus it is seen that the constitution of photopolymerizable compositions which can be used in the practice of the invention is widely variable. However, the compounds enumerated above are purely illustrative.Materials subject to polymerization by actinic radiation as well as permissible variations and substitutions of equivalent components within particular types of compositions are well known to those skilled in the art. The glyoxylate photoinitiators of the invention can be utilized in amounts ranging from 0.01 to about 30 by weight based on the photopolymerizable composition. However, preferable amounts of the compounds are from about 0.5 to about 20 weight percent with optimal results being achieved with amounts in the range of from about 1.0 to about 16 weight percent. An acceptable source of actinic light radiation is any apparatus which emits light radiation in the approximate region of from about 2000 Angstroms to about 8000 Angstroms and preferably from about 2400Angstroms to about 5400 Angstroms. One such apparatus is PPG Model QC 1202, a UV processor, manufactured by PPG Industries, Inc. The present invention is illustrated by theExamples which follow. TEST PROCEDURE USED IN THE EXAMPLES The induced rate of photopolymerization of a standard test solution of acrylate alkyd resin was measured for each of the compounds tested. This standard test solution consisted of 42 , by weight, trimethylolpropane triacrylate T STA , 17 by weight, of ethylhexyl acrylate EHA , and 41 , by weight, of an unsaturated long chain linseed oil alkyl resin ACTOMER X 80 resin from Union Carbide . The test solution was exposed to light radiation from a light source PPG Model QC 1202 which contained two high intensity, medium pressure quartz mercury lamps, 12 inches in length, with each operating at a linear power density of about 200 watts per inch or 2400 watts per lamp. The lamps were housed in an elliptical reflector above a variable speed conveyor belt so that each lamp provided a 2 inch band of high flux actinic radiation on the conveyor. This 2 inch exposure area was bordered on both sides by an additional 2 inch area of medium flux energy for a total radiation area of 6 inches for each lamp. In the curing data presented herein, the cure rate of the polymerizable compositions is presented in feetper minute per lamp ft. min. lamp .Thus, a conveyor belt speed of one foot min. will, with a 12 inch exposure area for the two lamps, provide 60 seconds of exposure or a cure rate of 0.5 ft. min. lamp. Similarly, a belt speed of 10 ft. min. will provide 6 seconds of exposure or a rate of 5.0 ft. min. lamp, while a speed of 20.0 ft. min. will give 3 seconds exposure or a rate of 10 ft. min. lamp. The extent of curing was determined by a standard pencil hardness test with all samples being coated on aluminum plate to a thickness of 2 mils and polymerized to achieve standard pencil hardness of from 4H to 6H where this was attainable. EXAMPLES 1 4 These Examples show various glyoxylate photoinitiators used alone at 4 wt. percent of the standard test solution and with a similar amount of dimethylethanolamine promoter. In all cases Rt in the formula given above for the glyoxylate photoinitiator was phenyl with the other group, R, as described below Glyoxylate Photoinitiator Cure Rate ft min lamp R alone with Promoter CH2CH3 10 12 CH CH3 2 7 15 CH CH3 CH2CH3 8 12 CH2CH2OCH2CH 8 15 The foregoing Examples should not be construed in a limiting sense since they merely illustrate particular embodiments of the present invention. The scope of protection sought is set forth in the claims which follow.