# Optical fibre.

## Abstract
This invention relates to a fluorine containing polymer comprising a polymer which has a structural unit represented by the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A fluorine containing polymer comprising a polymer which has a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI20.1 wherein Rf is a fluorine containing group. 2. A fluorine containing polymer according to claim 1 wherein the polymer is a homopolymer having the structural unit represented by the formula a . 3. A fluorine containing polymer is a copolymer consisting of the structural unit of the formula a and a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI20.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen, fluorine or lower aliphatic group and R2 is hydrogen or a lower aliphatic group. 4. An optical material comprising a fluorinecontaining polymer which has a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI20.3 wherein Rf is a fluorine containing aliphatic group in an amount of at least 5 mole of the polymer. 5. An optical material according to claim 4 wherein the fluorine containing polymer is a homopolymer of the structural unit of the formula a . 6. An optical material according to claim 4 wherein the fluorine containing polymer is a copolymer which has the structural unit of the formula a in an amount of at least 5 mole and a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI21.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, fluorine or lower aliphatic group and R2 is hydrogen or a lower aliphatic group in an amount of not more than 95 mole .

## Description
FLUORINE CONTAINING POLYMER AND USE THEREOF This invention relates to a novel fluorinecontaining polymer and the use thereof, and more particularly to a cladding material for optical fibers which has outstanding light transmission characteristics and high heat resistance. Optical fibers are well known which comprise a transparent glass or plastic core and a cladding covering the core concentrically therewith and having a lower refractive index than the core material, such that when light incidents on one end of the fiber, light travels through the fiber while being totally reflected in its interior. Many of the polymers, such as fluoroalkyl methacrylate polymers, heretofore proposed for use as plastic cladding materials. However, these methacrylate polymers still remain to be improved in softening temperature, decomposition temperature, refractive index and other properties which are required of cladding materials for optical fibers. An object of the present invention is to provide a novel fluorine containing polymer. Another object of the invention is to provide an optical material, especially a plastic cladding material for optical fibers, which comprises the novel fluorine containing polymer and is outstanding in the above mentioned properties and satisfactory in processability, transparency and flexibility. The above and other objects of the invention can be fulfilled by a novel fluorine containing polymer having a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI2.1 wherein Rf is a fluorine containing aliphatic group preferably a fluorine containing lower alkyl groups. The fluorine containing polymer may be a homopolymer which comprises a structural unit of the fonnula a , or a copolymer which camprises a structural unit of the formula a and a structural unit represented by the formulaEMI2.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen, fluorine or a lower aliphatic group, and R2 is hydrogen or a lower aliphatic group. In the invention, said homopolymer may be those wherein the substituents Rf are the same or different and said copolymer may be those wherein the substituentsRf, R1 and R2 are respectively the same or different. The novel fluorine containing polymer of the invention comprising structural units a , or a and b can be prepared by homopolymerization of a monomer represented by the formulaEMI3.1 wherein Rf is as defined above, or by copolymerizing the monomer of the formula c with a monomer represented by the formulaEMI3.2 COOR wherein RÚ and Rê are as defined above. The componentR1 of the monomer d is preferably fluorine, hydrogen or methyl, and R2 is preferably methyl. When a copolymer is to be prepared from the monomer c and the monomer d , 0 to 20 moles, preferablyO to 5 moles, of the monomer d is copolymerized with 1 mole of the monomer c . These monomers can be copolymerized with other monomers, such as an alicyclic ester of methacrylic acid, fluorine containing aliphatic ester of methacrylic acid, styrene and vinyl chloride, insofar as such monomers do not impair the characteristics of the novel fluorinecontaining polymer obtained. The monomer c for preparing the novel polymer of the invention can be prepared, for example, by the following process.EMI4.1 EMI4.2 or like amineEMI4.3 The novel fluorine containing polymer of the invention can be prepared by a usual method of polymerization, e.g. by block, solution, suspension or emulsion polymerization. Polymerization initiators useful for preparing the polymer of the invention are azo compounds and organic peroxides in the case of solution or suspension polymerization, such as azobisisobutyronitrile, isobutyryl peroxide, octanoyl peroxide, di iso propylperoxy dicarbonate and fluorine containing organic per oxides represented by the formulae Cl CF2CFCl 2CF2COO 2, H CF2CF2 3C00 2 and ClCF2CF2COO 2. Initiators useful for emulsion polymerization are redox initiators including oxidizing agents such as ammonium persulfate, potassium persulfate and like persulfates, reducing agents such as sodium sulfite, and salts of transition metals such as ferrous sulfate. For block, solution or suspension polymerization, it is desirable to use a mercaptan or like chain transfer agent in order to give a higher thennal decomposition temperature to the polymer of the invention or to adjust the molecular weight thereof. The chain transfer agent is used usually in an amount of 0.01 to 1 part by weight per 100 parts by weight of the combined amount of the monomers c and d . Typical of media useful for preparing the novel fluorine containing polymer of the invention by solution or suspension polymerization are dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorotrifluoroethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, trichlorohexafluorobutane and like fluorinecontaining solvents, and butyl acetate, methyl isobutyl ketone and like hydrocarbon solvents. The polymerization temperature, which is usually in the range of from 0 to 100 C, is determined in connection with the decomposition temperature of the polymerization initiator used. Preferably the temperature is 10 to 800C. The pressure to be used for polymerization is O to 50 kg cm2 gauge. The polymers obtained by the foregoing methods of polymerization usually range from 200,000 to 5,000,000 in molecular weight as determined by gel permeation method and have a refractive index of 1.36 to 1.44 and a softening temperature of 80 to 140 C. The novel fluorine containing polymers of the invention are higher in softening temperature than the fluoroalkyl methacrylate polymers which are usually used as plastic cladding materials and are therefore usable at relatively high temperatures, for example, in the engine rooms of vehicles in which the conventional plastic cladding materials are not usable. The polymer of the invention, which has a high decomposition temperature, can be heated to a wider range of temperatures for the melt spinning of optical fibers. This facilitates the adjustment of the polymer melting temperature. When the fluorine containing polymer of the invention is used as a cladding material for optical fibers, the core material to be used in combination therewith is transparent and is usually at least about 3 higher in refractive index than the core material.Examples of such core materials are inorganic materials such as quartz and glass, and organic materials such as methacrylate or acrylates polymers, polycarbonates, polybutyl phthalate, polystyrene and heavy hydrogensubstituted compounds of these polymers. The novel fluorine containing polymer of the invention has a low refractive index, high transparency and good flexibility and is useful as an excellent optical material. The present polymer, which is useful as a plastic cladding material for optical fibers, is also usable for example as organic glass and an additive for weather resistant coating compositions because the polymer has high impact resistance. Examples 1 7 Fluoroalkyl cz fluoroacrylate 100 parts by weight , which is listed in Table 1 as monomer c , 0.01 part by weight of azobisisobutyronitrile and 0.05 parts by weight of n dodecylmercaptan were subjected to block polymerization at 60 700C for 3 hours to obtain a polymer. The molecular weight of the polymer was measured by gel permeation chromatography at room temperature using a column assembly of Showdex A 803, A 805 and A 806 products of Japan Waters, Ltd. , acetonitrile as solvent and polystyrene as standard sample. All the fractions were 200,000 to 5,000,000 in molecular weight. The fluorine containing polymer of the invention was then checked for the following properties. Table 1 shows the results. 1 Softening temperature Tg Using a differential scanning calorimeter Model DSC II, product of Perkin Elemer Co. , the temperature at which the polymer started to absorb heat was measured while elevating the temperature at a rate of 20 C min. 2 Decomposition temperature TD Using a differential thermobalance ModelDTG 30, product of Shimadzu Seisakusho, Ltd. , the temperature at which the polymer started to decrease in weight was measured while heating the polymer in air at a temperature elevating rate of 10 C min. 3 Refractive index nD Measured at 250C with Abbe refractometer product of Atago Kogakukiki Mfg. Co., Ltd. . 4 Melt index MI A Koka flow tester, manufactured by ShimadzuSeisakusho, Ltd., was used. The polymer was placed into a cylinder having an inside diameter of 9.5 mm, maintained at 250 C for 5 minutes and thereafter extruded through a nozzle having a length of 8 mm and an orifice diameter of 2.1 mm under a piston load of 7 kg. The amount in gram of the polymer extruded for a period of 10 minutes was measured at MI. 5 Transmission Tm An optical fiber, 300 pm in diameter and 15 vm in the wall thickness of cladding, was conjugate spun at 250 C with use of the polymer of the invention as the cladding material and polymethylmethacrylate as the cladding material. The transmission per 500 mm length of the fiber was measured with light 650 to 680 nm in wavelength. 6 Flexibility Fb The polymer of the invention was extruded by the same method as used for measuring MI, and the extrudate was drawn at 1800C into a fiber having a diameter of 1 mm. The fiber was wound around round steel rods of varying radii to determine the radius of the rod on which cracks developed in the fiber. Table 1Example Monomer c Tg C TD C nD MI Tm Fb mm 1 CH2CF2CF3 105 350 1.37 131 84 Up to 5 2 CH2CF2CF2H 103 336 1.40 72 78 Up to 5 3 C CH3 2CF2CF2H 125 322 1.40 86 82 Up to 5 4 CH2CF2CFHCF3 86 313 1.38 105 86 Up to 5 5 CH2CH CF3 2 111 330 1.37 63 83 Up to 5 6 CH2CF CF3 2 118 341 1.36 60 85 Up to 5 7 CH2CF3 104 339 1.39 75 81 Up to 5 The table shows only the Rf group in each monomer c .The optical fibers used for the test for Tm showed oven 20 C good flexibility comparable with that at room temperature. Examples 8 10 Fluorine containing polymers of the invention were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 1 7 from 2,2,3,3,3 pentafluoropropyl alpha fluoroacrylate PFPFA as monomer c , and methyl methacrylate MMA as monomer d which were used in the proportions listed in Table 2.The polymers were checked for the above mentioned properties. Table 2 shows the results. Examples 11 14 Fluorine containing polymers of the invention were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 8 10 fromPFPFA as monomer c and methyle fluoroacrylate MFA which were used in the proportions listed in Table 3.The polymers were checked for the properties with the results listed in Table 3. Table 2 PFPFA MMAExample wt.parts wt.parts Tg C TD C nD MI Tm Fb mm 8 80 20 105 330 1.39 74 78 Up to 5 9 60 40 105 306 1.42 55 75 Up to 5 10 40 60 107 295 1.44 86 73 Up to 5Table 3 PFPFA MFAExample wt.parts wt.parts Tg C TD C nD MI Tm Fb mm 11 80 20 110 352 1.39 103 84 Up to 5 12 60 40 115 331 1.41 121 81 Up to 5 13 40 60 120 326 1.42 98 78 Up to 5 14 30 70 123 315 1.43 86 71 Up to 5 Example 15 Fluorine containing polymer copolymer was prepared in the same manner as in Examples 8 14 from 50 parts ofEMI13.1 as monomer c and 50 parts of methylz fluoroacrylate as monomer d . The polymer showed Transmission Tm as good as 74 . Example 16 An optical fiber, as described in the above item 5 Transmission, was spun with use of the polymer prepared in Example 14 as the cladding material and methyl a fluoroacrylate, which was prepared in the same manner as in Examples 1 7, as the core material. The optical fiber thus prepared was checked for properties. The results revealed that transmission Tm was as good as 86 , no crack developed and no change of transmission was observed in the fiber when checked for flexibility by 500 times repetition of a cycle of winding the fiber around a steel rod of 10 mm in diameter and reminding therefrom, and no reduction in the length of fiber was occured after the fiber was allowed to stand in an atmosphere at 1200C for 10 hours. Comparison Example A polymer was prepared in the same manner as in Examples 1 7 except that 2,2,3,3 tetrafluoropropyl methacrylate was used in place of fluoroalkyl a fluoro acrylate as monomer c . The polymer was found to have softening temperature of 720 C, decomposition temperature of as low as 2650C and refractive index of 1.42. An optical fiber was spun at 2500C with use of the polymer obtained above as the cladding material and polymethylmethacrylate as the core material to find formation of voids in the cladding. At 210 C, spinning could not be continued due to clogging of nozzle. At 230 C, was obtained an optical fiber having transmission of 76 . However, the transmission of the fiber reduced to 52D when allowed to stand in an atmosphere at 850C for 100 hours. Further, there occurred cracks in the fiber when wound on a steel rod of 10 mm in diameter at 20 C. Examples 17 21 Fluorine containing polymers of the invention were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 8 10 from two kinds of a fluoroacrylate listed in Table 4. The polymers obtained were respectively dissolved in a solvent as listed in Table 4 to prepare a solution of 10 wt. concentration. Through the resulting solution was passed a polymethylmethacrylate fiber at a speed of 30 calvin to produce coated fiber. After drying, the fibers were tested for transmission. The results are shown in Table 4 below. Table 4 EMI15.1 Example SEP fluoroacrylate SEP parts SEP by SEP weight SEP Solvent SEP Tm SEP C tb SEP H tb SEP E SEP r SEP cr, SEP hl SEP O tb SEP g SEP H SEP SEP X SEP N SEP o tb SEP Eq SEP Cfl2CF2CFClCF2C1 SEP 10 SEP CH2CF2CF3 SEP SEP Ethylacetate SEP S SEP b SEP 71 tb SEP 18 SEP h SEP 1 SEP CH2CF3 SEP 99 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 81 tb SEP 6 SEP o SEP o SEP Oh SEP a SEP tb SEP M SEP O SEP 0 tb SEP rl SEP rl SEP n SEP O tb SEP U SEP v SEP V SEP v SEP v SEP In tb SEP cl SEP a, SEP cu SEP a, SEP a, tb SEP u SEP cr SEP o SEP u tb SEP U SEP SEP v SEP v SEP v SEP v SEP D tb SEP a pl SEP FOC SEP F SEP C20 SEP CH SEP CH SEP X SEP Ill SEP h tb SEP 3 SEP u SEP rJ SEP cro SEP O tb SEP 3 SEP 7 SEP 2 SEP 2 SEP R 113 SEP 50 tb SEP O SEP t SEP Ov SEP C V SEP C V tb SEP U SEP S SEP X tb SEP i SEP P1 SEP ri SEP ri SEP ,Icr SEP rtl SEP rl tb SEP h SEP h SEP hri SEP hri tb SEP C SEP C SEP Cci tb SEP 4 SEP CH2 SEP WC SEP 20 SEP 80 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 50 SEP 72 tb SEP R 1l3 SEP MP tb SEP o SEP o tb SEP 21 SEP o SEP Ch SEP o SEP 30 SEP C112 2C8F17 SEP 70 SEP Ethylacetat SEP 50 SEP 70 tb SEP SEP o SEP o SEP oo tb SEP b0 SEP v SEP SEP v SEP rs SEP b tb SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP X SEP e SEP C4 SEP X tb SEP 3 SEP SEP Oo SEP oo tb SEP cJ tb SEP E SEP cs SEP n SEP cs tb SEP n SEP tb SEP U SEP U SEP c tb SEP n SEP cs SEP cs SEP CK SEP SEP tb SEP D SEP t SEP tb SEP Sk SEP C tb SEP X SEP verbar SEP I SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb SEP 04 tb SEP v SEP o SEP H SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP td SEP H SEP CS tb SEP H SEP w tb SEP z tb SEP S SEP H tb SEP Q SEP ON SEP tb SEP O SEP N SEP H SEP n tb SEP S SEP U SEP z SEP X tb SEP O SEP H tb SEP SEP O SEP O SEP X SEP tb SEP H SEP N SEP t SEP n SEP e SEP SEP n tb SEP 44 SEP cz SEP SEP SEP X tb SEP , SEP cs SEP e SEP o SEP n SEP l SEP cJ tb SEP M SEP z SEP N SEP N SEP v SEP t tb SEP cz SEP U SEP A tb SEP t SEP t SEP to SEP Mcs tb SEP U SEP Y tb SEP O tb SEP H SEP rW SEP o SEP H tb SEP Q SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP N SEP N tb SEP co tb SEP x tb SEP X tb The table shows only the Rf group in each alpha fluoroacrylate.R113 represents 1,1,2 trichlorotrifluoroethane. Examples 22 29 Fluorine containing polymers were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 8 10 with use of a fluoroacrylate and methacrylate listed in Table 5. An optical fiber was spun from each of the polymers prepared above in the same manner as inExamples 17 21. The fibers were tested for transmission Tm . The results are shown in Table 5. Table 5 EMI17.1 tb SEP fluoroacrylate SEP Methacrylate SEP Solvent tb SEP B9 tb EP SEP b SEP N SEP b SEP b SEP co tb 23 SEP CH2CF2CF3 SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP 10 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 73 tb SEP C SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP M SEP O SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 SEP 0 tb 24 SEP CH2CF2CF3 SEP 90 SEP CH2CF2CFClCFC1 SEP 10 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 71 tb SEP o SEP a SEP a, SEP a, SEP a, SEP a tb SEP F SEP 3i SEP J SEP CI SEP J tb SEP P SEP cd SEP d SEP d SEP d SEP cd tb SEP a SEP n SEP X tb SEP 3 SEP m SEP u SEP rJ SEP L1 SEP u SEP u tb SEP CH3 tb SEP O SEP UI SEP C SEP O SEP 0 SEP O SEP C tb SEP d SEP d SEP cd SEP cd SEP cd tb 25 SEP 90 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP 10 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 78 tb SEP 1 SEP h SEP h SEP h SEP h SEP h tb SEP C SEP 6 SEP C SEP C tb SEP v SEP v SEP u SEP v SEP 4 tb SEP W SEP W tb 26 SEP CHCF SEP 80 SEP C2CF CF3 SEP 20 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 83 tb SEP 23 SEP CF3 tb SEP a SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP S4 SEP a SEP H SEP H SEP cs tb SEP u SEP 3 SEP U tb SEP X SEP SEP X tb SEP 8n SEP H SEP ce SEP cs tb SEP 54 SEP U SEP SEP D4 tb SEP o SEP X SEP U SEP O tb SEP cd, SEP CD tb SEP v SEP X SEP X SEP Om SEP X tb SEP 5 SEP Q SEP t tb SEP aJ SEP tb SEP U SEP SEP s SEP tb SEP d SEP fl SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP HS SEP H SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP tb SEP U tb SEP X SEP tb SEP on tb SEP R SEP n SEP CO SEP X SEP e tb SEP o SEP X SEP SEP SEP SEP X tb SEP Sv SEP U SEP O SEP V SEP U tb SEP H SEP 4 SEP CS SEP CS SEP CS SEP Cs SEP e tb SEP w SEP X SEP v. SEP Ei SEP b SEP SEP tb SEP X SEP z SEP cD SEP t SEP c SEP c SEP c tb SEP 25 SEP CS SEP CQ SEP C l SEP CS SEP CS tb SEP C SEP U SEP C SEP U SEP U tb SEP as tb SEP H tb SEP ft SEP CK SEP n SEP 4 SEP s tb SEP verbar SEP N tb SEP X tb Table 5 continued EMI18.1 tb SEP R tb SEP g SEP SEP H SEP b tb SEP Eq SEP Methacrylate SEP Solvent tb SEP co SEP co tb SEP c SEP o SEP o tb SEP b SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP r tb SEP g SEP w SEP w SEP w tb 4 SEP CH2CF3 SEP a SEP C CF2CF2 SEP aJ SEP thylacetate SEP 100 SEP X tb SEP u SEP a tb SEP F3 SEP L1 SEP ci SEP U tb SEP SEP U SEP u SEP v tb SEP 3 SEP Uh SEP FJ tb SEP ri SEP oO SEP Q SEP q O SEP Q tb SEP O SEP C SEP Ocn SEP o tb SEP P SEP h SEP hm SEP h tb SEP v SEP C SEP Ci SEP C tb SEP 4 tb 28 SEP CH2CF3 SEP SEP CU2 3NS02C7F15 SEP 20 SEP thylacetate SEP C1 tb SEP o SEP O tb SEP h SEP o tb SEP c I SEP h tb SEP u SEP O SEP Cs tb SEP oo SEP v tb SEP a, SEP v tb 29 SEP CH2CF3 SEP 3 SEP SEP CFOC3F7 SEP 20 SEP Ethylacetate SEP 100 SEP 77 tb SEP X SEP b tb SEP H SEP SEP U tb SEP n SEP N SEP cs SEP l tb SEP R SEP x SEP o SEP X tb SEP c SEP X SEP cq SEP cs SEP uz SEP co tb SEP cd SEP s SEP z SEP cJ tb SEP SEP S SEP u SEP e SEP n SEP o tb SEP v SEP Xd SEP , tb SEP a SEP P SEP X SEP cs SEP OU tb SEP t SEP co SEP u SEP co SEP ru SEP t tb SEP uUU SEP v SEP u tb SEP X SEP tb SEP ur SEP I tb SEP X SEP u SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP H SEP SEP cs tb SEP h SEP Ql SEP SEP s SEP tb SEP S SEP 3 tb SEP cJ tb SEP X SEP tb SEP Q SEP n tb SEP s4 tb SEP o SEP tb SEP S SEP tb SEP rSl SEP S4 SEP C SEP Ct tb SEP st SEP aS SEP 14 SEP I tb SEP I SEP P SEP U SEP C SEP U tb SEP 25 E SEP Ú tb SEP as tb SEP H tb SEP o tb SEP X,1 SEP SEP N SEP N tb SEP X tb SEP X tb SEP ffi tb The table shows only the Rf and R groups in each fluoroacrylate EMI18.2 and methacrylate EMI18.3 Examples 30 34 Polymers of the invention were prepared in the same manner as in Examples 8 10 by copolymerizing 70 parts by weight of pentafluoropropyl a fluoroacrylate and 30 parts by weight of 2,2,3,3 tetrafluoropropyl afluoroacrylate, intrinsic viscosity y 0.72 solvent methylethylketone at 350C . Each of the polymer was dissolved in methylethylketone to prepare a solution of 10 by weight in concentration. Through the solution was passed the core material listed in Table 5 in the same manner as in Examples 17 21. The optical fibers thus obtained were tested for Tm. The results are shown in Table 6. Table 6 Core material and properties thereofExample Core Material Tg OC nD Tm 30 Quartz 1.46 93 31 Polymethylmethacrylate 105 1.49 84 32 Polystyrene 85 1.59 72 33 Polycarbonate 135 1.59 78 34 3,3,5 Trimethyl 140 1.51 81 cyclohexyl methacrylate