# METHOD FOR MANUFATURING A GLOVE

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Handschuhen auf Handschuh Formwerkzeugen durch Eintauchen derselben, in einem ersten Schritt des Eintauchens, in ein Flüssigkeits Bad, Trocknen derselben, Eintauchen derselben, in einem zweiten Schritt des Eintauchens, in ein Bad eines geschäumten flüssigen synthetischen Harzes und anschließend Härten desselben auf der Oberfläche der Formwerkzeuge, gekennzeichnet durch die Schritte

## Description
This invention relates to a process for producing wearing apparel, and particularly work gloves for use in a work environment wherein protection is desired from moisture, cold, heat, chemicals and sharp edges according to the preamble of claim 1. Also, such work gloves may be produced, in accordance herewith, which have a oil gripping characteristic for grasping greasy or oily objects and holding them properly in a work environment. The arrangment herein includes a sequential application on a form, continuously movable through a production line without removal, for producing the liner for such work gloves in a series of steps on the form, followed by the application selectively of various coatings for producing different characteristics for such work gloves, as desired. There are many prior art arrangements for providing elastomer coated garments, such as industrial or work gloves. These include, for example, U.S. Patent Numbers 3,173,150 4,089,069 4,151,662 4,174,542 and 4,359,783. In all cases, in the production of work gloves as taught in these prior art patents, individual liners are produced separately in separate operations. That is, the liners may be comprised of several layers joined or laminated together by stitching or other operations. Once they are prepared, they are cut into appropriate piece configurations for producing the liner, and subsequently stitched together to form the liner. In some instances, in recent years, some knit liners or gloves have been produced in one piece on special machines, thereby eliminating sewing and the waste inherent with multi piece liners, as described above. The machines themselves are elaborate and costly. In all cases, however, each individual fabric liner must be produced and individually manually loaded on to a form to be subsequently coated with one or more of a variety of selected coatings, as desired. Other inventions teach methods to produce composite latex articles by alternately dipping a suitable form into unfoamed liquid latex and into liquid latex foam US A 2,3 4,735 of the type indicated in the preamble of claim 1 or relate to improvements in apparatus for continuously producing a large number of these articles which can contain a lining in a similar process. In this respect, GB A 1097 458 relates to an apparatus for dip coating mandrels to form articles thereon. The apparatus disclosed therein is used specifically for the making of flexible gloves from solutions or dispersions of vinyl resin. As will be appreciated, the cost in labor and time in individually manually loading each individual liner onto the many forms in a production line operation prior to the forms passing in a sequential manner continuously throuqh a production line to produce the coatings desired, is extraordinarily high and influences the cost of the final product in the case of mass production. This invention relates to a process for producing glove liners on glove molds by dipping them in a first dipping step into a liquid bath, drying them, dipping them in a second step into a bath of foamed liquid synthetic resin and curing them on the surface of the molds, characterized by the steps of Thus, an entire glove including the liner is produced on a mold without any interruption of the movement of the molds through the production line from the initial coagulant or other material for gathering the fibers to the ultimate curing of the last laminate layer on the mold to form the outer surface of the glove. The present invention relates to a process for producing gloves on glove molds by dipping them in a first dipping step into a liquid bath, drying them, dipping them in a second dipping step into a bath of a foamed liquid synthetic resin and then curing them on the surface of the molds With this invention, by contrast, a plurality of garments such as work gloves or boots may be produced on a continuous production line arrangement wherein the liners are created and built up on the individual forms in a sequential stepped operation. Once the liners are formed, the liners on the forms may continuously move forward in the production line for the application of various coatings, as desired. In the production of such gloves, for example, which are referred to by practitioners in the art as supported gloves, a liner is produced in place on the form, thereby avoiding the operations of spinning, knitting, weaving, finishing, napping, cutting, sewing, handling, turning and loading of each individual liner on the forms. As will be appreciated, further, by practitioners in the art, the inherent waste usually associated with forming, cutting and finishing conventional glove liners is obviated. The supported glove of the invention is produced directly on the dipping form by depositing such materials as fibers, fillers, and synthetic resins in various forms and amounts to attain a liner of a desired characteristic. As will be appreciated, a plurality of such liners may be produced simultaneously since a plurality of forms may be mounted on a single mandrel or carriage for controlled, automatic, mechanical movement through a production line. A product manufactured by the process of the invention can be engineered to suit by altering the composition, the order of application, and the method of application of ingredients that make up the liner. As mentioned above, the characteristics can be altered to include a breathability property for the glove, moisture absorbency, thickness, tensile strength, penetration resistance to the coating, stretch characteristics and flexibility, and density. The composition utilized may include natural and synthetic fibers, various synthetic resins, including elastomers in liquid, foam and dry states. The liquid resins, for example, may be loaded with a selection of pigment, binders, and or fillers for modifying the surface characteristics of the ultimate glove. The methods of application, in accordance with this invention, include spraying, dipping and dusting for distributing a uniform deposit upon the form for the garment involved which may include gloves or boots, sleeve guards and work aprons, for example. A further aspect of the invention here is that the liners may be produced in and of themselves on the forms as essentially light weight gloves such as cotton gloves, assuming a cotton flock is utilized, as will be described in more detail below. Thus, if such characteristics are desired for a garment such as a thin flexible cotton type glove, they may be produced, in accordance herewith, without any subsequent application of other surface layers. In considering generally the conditions for carrying out the method of the invention here for producing work gloves, for example, the form material utilized for mounting in a production line include such conventional materials as porcelain, steel or plastic. Once the forms are mounted on individual mandrels or indexing carriages for movement through a production line, a selected sequence of operations may take place for forming the work gloves, in accordance with this invention. In this connection, it will be understood that the mandrels utilized for carrying a plurality of forms through the line may have a bank of four to six glove forms from one side to the other and there may be two to three banks on a single mandrel. Thus, in a single step in the sequence of operations passing through a production line, in accordance herewith, fifteen to twenty or more forms may be moving through each stage of the operation. Of course, conveyors may be used in other production lines with forms in a single file. For producing the liner initially, the liner for gloves is built up via multiple dips into various substances. Initially, a coagulant dip is utilized. That is, the mandrel, as discussed above, is indexed to dip the plurality of forms into a vat containing a coagulant dip. In this case, the mandrel is turned over so that the forms are indexed downwardly into the vat containing the coagulant dip. The purpose of the coagulant dip is to supply a release material for the subsequent removal of the liner from the forms, once the product of the invention has been formed on each individual form. Moreover, the coagulant material will de stabilize subsequent liquid resin materials such as elastomers which are applied and provide a tacky surface for fibers applied to the forms. Subsequent to the coagulant dip, the mandrels are indexed upwardly again so that the forms are moving through a production line in an upright position. At this stage, the forms pass through a hood arrangement for the application of fibers. That is, fibers are blown onto the forms which have tacky surfaces provided by the previous coagulant dip. It will be appreciated, however, that the forms may be indexed into a fluid bed for dipping the forms for picking up fibers. A representative fiber length may be about 1mm. The fibers may be comprised of cotton, for example, or polyester, or a combination of the two. Other materials which may be used, include nylon, or a combination of polyester and nylon. Denier of the fibers will vary. A representative denier is within the range of between about 3 and 5 and a representative length will be within the range of between about 1.0mm and 12.5mm. Although not necessary, hydrated silica may be added to the fibers to reduce attraction to each other so that a more even application is provided in the hood where the fibers are blown. Two sources of such fibers include AKROFLOCK CWV 1, a product of Akron Chemical, 225 Fountain Street, Akron, Ohio 44304. AKROFLOCK CWV 1 is a 100 cotton material. Another source is CLAREMONT FLOCK a 100 cotton fiber produced by Claremont Flock Corporation, Claremont, New Hampshire 03743. The characteristics of these two products are as follows. This fiber application provides, in the ultimate glove, comfort against the hand, because it is the internal layer of the finished product. Also, it helps to release the final product from the form. Subsequent to the application of the fibers, a foamed synthetic resin dip is applied to the forms, and preferably an elastomer. In this instance, the mandrel will be indexed so that the forms are dipped into the elastomeric type dip. The elastomeric dip or liquid synthetic resin dip may be polyurethane, for example, or a natural or synthetic rubber, such as acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer, acrylonitrilebutadiene styrene terpolymer, polyurethane, neoprene or polyvinyl chloride. This foam layer provides the bulk feeling characteristics of the liner. As will be appreciated by practitioners in the art, the foam material may be varied to provide different degrees of strength, comfort and flexibility. Subsequent to the application of the foam layer, a second coagulant dip is utilized, the purpose of which is to set up the previous foam dip. In this connection, if the previous foam dip is an elastomeric foam which has been heat sensitized, then an application of heat may be applied at this stage in the sequence of operations. If a coagulant dip is utilized, as with the previous coagulant dip, the material is in the form of a tackifying agent which may be calcium nitrate in a water or alcohol carrier, as previously noted. Preferably, the material will be a 40 by weight calcium nitrate solution in water. Subsequently, the forms are moved to a leach bath and the forms are indexed into the leach bath of warm water at 26.7 32.2 C 80 90 F for a period of time of about 15 minutes. The purpose of this is to leach any soluble materials from the liner. It is not necessary to leach the forms at this stage of operations if a subsequent application to be applied to the forms as the outer coating is comprised of a polyvinyl chloride plastisol. Otherwise it is preferable to leach for a period of time, as discussed above, followed by a drying operation. That is, the forms are indexed upright and moved through a drying oven for the application of heat at about 76.7 C 170 F for 30 minutes. In a general procedure and as further illustrative of the process herein, liners produced in accordance with the procedures discussed above, may have subsequent fiber applications for producing simply a cotton liner type of glove without any subsequent coating application. In this case, the liner may be built up with the subsequent application of further fibers. That is, instead of a deliberate drying operation at elevated temperatures, the forms may be dried at ambient for a period of time of about ten minutes followed by indexing of the forms into an adhesive dip, the purpose of which is to provide strength and a tacky surface for the next fiber application. The adhesive may be made of any synthetic resin material, and preferably an elastomer. Different degrees of strength and flexibility may be obtained by varying the characteristics of this adhesive material, as discussed above. Following this adhesive dip step, the mandrel is indexed to a fiber application hood or tunnel where the fibers are again blown against the surface of the individual forms passing upright through the tunnel. This application provides a fabric like outer coating for the liner if they are to be used as individual cotton gloves. It will be appreciated, however, that this fiber application may also be utilized as a base for subsequent coatings, if desired. In this case, if a higher degree of adherance is desired for subsequent application of a coating, the nature of the fibers may be varied in type and length to provide this characteristic. As further illustrative of variations in fiber application which may be utilized in this invention, a percentage of the fibers may be heat sensitive, or comprised of pre polymers which may be finally polymerized or cross linked by subsequent heat and or chemical cross linking dips. Thus, a wide variety of products may result having differing controlled surface matrices for different uses. Subsequent to this second fiber application, the forms are dried and cured by passing the forms through a drying oven at elevated temperatures. After passing through the oven, the liners may be stripped from the forms and excess fibers may be blown off, and they may be used, as discussed above in that state. When a coated supported glove is to be manufactured, the individual forms will be passed or indexed to the next stage in the production line for the application of various coatings to the outer surface of the liner. For example, the next stage will be a cooling stage so that the liners are at a proper temperature after passing through the previous drying and curing stage. Thereafter, they are indexed into a liquid synthetic resin dip, for example, which may be almost any selected material. The material may be, for example, acrylonitrile. The liquid resin material used will depend on the final end use of the glove, as discussed above. It is preferable for this process if the synthetic resin material is water based, assuming that no curing stage was applied to the liner portion, since there may be an interaction between the materials of the liner and the subsequently applied coatings, otherwise. The next stage includes a coagulant dip, again, preferably a calcium nitrate water solution. The purpose of this is to set up the previous resin dip which may be an elastomer. However, if the elastomer previously applied is heat sensitized, then rather than a coagulant dip, the forms may be passed through an oven at elevated temperatures to set up the previously applied synthetic resin material. At this stage, the forms pass through a step in the operation where they are indexed into warm water for a rinse dip, the purpose of which is to leach out coagulant salt from the gloves being formed, as discussed above. A representative further application in the sequence of applications for forming the gloves, in accordance herewith, may include as the next stage a foamed porous finish elastomer dip material. In this instance, the elastomer is selected to provide a superior wet grip by using a foamed elastomer material dipped over the gripping portion of the ultimate glove. Again, subsequent to this foamed elastomer application, a coagulant dip may be applied to set up the previous foamed elastomer or, alternatively, if that elastomer is heat sensitized, then the foamed elastomer may be cured by the application of heat. Again, the forms are passed through an oven at elevated temperatures to provide this heat application. The forms will then pass through a rinse dip, assuming a coagulant dip was utilized to set up the previous foamed elastomer so as to rinse off coagulant salts. Again, this rinse dip will be in a warm water bath. The next step is a drying and curing operation to obtain a final setting of the various materials applied. Finally, the forms are indexed to a stripping station where the formed gloves are stripped from the forms and excess fibers from the initial fiber application are blown off. Before describing this invention in more detail, it may be well to note that a variety of final surface characteristics can be obtained, in accordance herewith, simply by the characteristics of the final coating applied. For example, as previously referred to, acrylonitrile may be applied, or alternatively as the final surface coating, polyvinyl chloride. One particularly appropriate application is a porous polymeric coating in the form of a foam for providing an oil grip surface to the ultimate gloves being produced, such as described in co pending U.S. application 436,253, filed October 25, 1982, which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It will be appreciated that with the method of the invention here, the gloves produced may have on the surface of each individual glove various combinations of surface characteristics. For example, a textured or wrinkled surface may be applied to the palm of the ultimate glove, while the previously formed liner will provide tbe backside surface of the glove. By the same token, certain areas of a pair of work boots will require a gripping surface, such as the soles thereof while it may be desirable to have the remaining portion of the boots with a relatively smooth surface which may be easily washed or cleaned. This variation in applied layers to various surfaces of the work gloves such as the cuffs, for example may be varied for flexibility, appearance and or comfort. Color pigment and course additives may be included in the final surface application to provide texture, gripping characteristics, and to fulfill color design requirements. Further embodiments of the invention are defined in the features of the dependent claims. Figs. 1 A 1 I are a simplified diagramatic illustration showing a single glove form in a step by step sequential operation illustrating the process of this invention for forming a glove liner Referring to the drawings in which like reference characters refer to like parts throughout the several views thereof, in Fig. 1 A a single glove form is shown in its upright position. As discussed previously above, a plurality of such forms are physically mounted on a carriage or mandrel which moves in stages through a production line. The mandrel is mounted on a mechanical device which will allow it to be indexed or tilted upwardly and downwardly at various stages in the production line so that the individual forms mounted on the mandrel may be dipped into baths, as desired, or positioned upright for passing through heated ovens or flock application areas, as desired in a particular selected sequence of operations. As mentioned, Figs. 1 A 1 I illustrate a sequence of steps for forming the liner of a glove, in accordance with this invention. Thus, form 10, is shown moved in the direction of arrow 14 and indexed into a coagulant dip 12. As also discussed previously, the coagulant dip may be a 40 by weight calcium nitrate water solution. A coagulant dip coating 13 is applied to form 10 in the bath 12. Subsequently, the form 10 is moved as shown by arrow 16 to the next stage of operation wherein the individual forms 10 are positioned upright for passing through a flock application area wherein a compressed air device 20 blows fibers 18 onto the tacky surface of the form formed by the coagulant dip layer 13. The fibers come from a source, not shown, through line 22 under a compressed air application. The fibers may be 100 cotton fibers, as discussed above, or a combination of cotton and polyester, for example. Generally, in the application of the flock, the upright forms will pass through a booth or tunnel area, not shown, so as to contain the fibers blown from the source 20 in a localized area where the forms are actually passing through in a production line. Subsequently, the forms are moved in the direction of arrow 24 to the next stage of operation where the forms come under the application of fan produced compressed air from source 28 for blowing off excess fibers 30. The forms 10 with the fiber coating 26 are next indexed as shown by arrow 32 into a foam dip bath 34 for the application of a foam dip coating 40. As discussed above, this foam dip has the effect of providing body for the liner portion of the gloves produces, in accordance herewith. The next stage, as shown in Fig. 1 F is a coagulant dip bath 38 for applying a coagulant coating 42 to the foam dip coating 40. This has the effect of setting up the foam resin previously applied, which is preferably an elastomer. It should be pointed out here that between stages 1 E and 1 F , the forms 10 may be indexed upwardly and a compressed air application applied to the forms in order to remove webs formed between the fingers on the forms so as to provide a true coating on the form of only the surfaces of the form itself. Subsequent to the coagulation bath 38, the forms 10 are indexed upwardly as shown by arrow 43 and moved to the next stage 1 G which may be an accumulation stage. That is, the individual mandrels may be accumulated at this point in time if subsequent operations do not require additional coatings for the liner or do not require a leaching operation prior to subsequent applications. For example, if a polyvinyl chloride plastisol surface coating is to be applied subsequently, no leaching is necessary. Otherwise, however, for further processing, the forms 10 are indexed as shown by arrow 46 into the next stage 1 H which is a leaching bath 45 for obtaining the ultimate liner 44. The forms are maintained in the leaching bath for about 15 minutes in a water bath within the range of between about 27.7 32.2 C 80 90 F . As shown in Fig. 1 I the forms are subsequently indexed as shown by arrow 48 into an upright position where they pass through an oven hood 50 where heaters 52 apply heat. The passage through hood 50 is timed in the sequence of operations so as to provide a drying time of about about 30 minutes at around 76.7 C 170 F . These times and temperatures may be varied if the content of the applied coatings is varied, as will be understood by practitioners in the art. Assuming the liners 44 so produced on the forms 10, are to have subsequent coatings applied in order to formulate supported work gloves, the liners 44 on the forms 10 will be indexed to a cooling station for a cool down time of approximately 10 20 minutes. Referring now to Fig. 2 A the liners 44 on forms 10 are positioned in an upright position in the cooling area and are subsequently moved as shown by arrow 54 and indexed into a bath 56 which may be, for example, an acrylonitrile dip. The specific components of dip 56 will be described in more detail below. At any rate, forms 10 have applied to the liner on their surfaces a coating 58 of acrylonitrile. In the next sequence of operations, as shown in Fig. 2 C , the forms are indexed as shown by arrows 60 in a downward position to the next stage where they are allowed to drip for a period of time to remove excess acrylonitrile 61 from the coating 58. Subsequently, as shown by arrow 62, the forms are indexed to the next stage Fig. 2 D wherein the forms are positioned in an upright position for the application of compressed air from a source 64 to remove webs 66 formed between the finger stalls of the coating 58. Subsequent to this stage, the forms are moved to the stage shown in Fig. 2 E which is a coagulation dip 70 for the application of the dip material 59 to the outer surface of the form 10 over the acrylonitrile coating 58. The coagulation dip 59 has the effect of setting up the acrylonitrile coating previously applied. As shown in Fig. 2 F , the forms 10 are indexed in the direction of arrow 72 to rinse dip 74. Again, this dip is a warm water leaching dip at a temperature of 27.7 32.2 C 80 90 F to leach out any soluble materials still in the coating previously applied, such as the salt contained in the coagulant dip solution. Subsequently, the forms 10 are indexed as shown by arrow 76 to a heating station 78 shown in Fig. 2 G where the ultimate acrylonitrile coating 58 is dried by passing through the oven hood 78 where heat sources 80 apply heat at about 76.7 C 170 F . In this stage, the line may be arranged to move the forms 10 at a rate so that they are exposed to the temperature for about ten minutes for example. Alternatively, the forms may be moved through the line in a sequence of operations so as to allow them to dry at ambient for a period of about 30 minutes. This may be accomplished in, for example, an accumulation area 84, as shown in Fig. 2 H where the forms 10 with coatings 58 are accumulated for subsequent stripping operations after further drying and curing if no further coatings are to be applied. If this would be the case, the method is further characterized by the steps of At this stage, the gloves produced solely on the forms 10 may be stripped from the forms manually and passed through a compressed air blast to remove any loose fibers on the inside surfaces of the gloves. The originally applied flock is the inner soft comfortable surface for such gloves and any loose fibers are removed in this manner. A further representative application may be applied to the gloves 58 already previously formed, as described above. If this is the case, the method for producing a work glove comprising taking the plurality of liners on the molds is further characterized by the steps of The forms 10 are indexed in the direction of arrow 86 into, for example, a porous finish foam dip. This may be an acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer latex, for example. It may be thickened to a state where the individual cells thereof will form, in a sequence of operations hereof a porous textured surface for providing a gripping surface for certain applications of industrial gloves, as will be understood by practitioners in the art. Thus, in Fig 3 A , the forms 10 are indexed into the porous finish foam dip 88 for the application of the porous finish foam layer 90 on forms 10. The forms 10 are then indexed in the direction of arrow 92 to an upright position where they pass through a compressed air stage under the application of compressed air from source 98. The compressed air has the effect of blowing out the webs in the finger stalls in the foamed surface so as to provide the porous textured surface 94 desired. It will be appreciated, that depending upon the selection of the foam material to be applied, the degree of texture and roughness ultimately formed in the surface 94 will not necessarily be one that is felt by an individual examining the surface. The texture or roughness may be so minute that it is only discernible by a magnifying glass of some sort. The degree of texture or roughness, as will be understood may be varied to this extent in accordance with this invention so as to provide a great variety of different surfaces, as desired. Subsequent to the blowing out of the webs as shown in Fig. 3 B , the forms 10 are indexed in the direction of arrow 100 to the stage shown in Fig. 3 C which is an additional coagulant dip bath 102. Again, this bath has the effect of setting up the coating 94. The coagulant dip bath 102 is followed by the usual water reuse bath 103 and the forms are indexed as shown by arrow 104. Subsequent to the bath 103, the forms 10 are indexed in the direction of arrow 105 to an additional heat and cure application which may be in an elongated heating hood or oven 106 wherein the mandrels holding the forms 10 are conducted through the hood 106 under the application of heat 108 so as to apply to the coating 94 with the textured pores 96 a drying sequence of 30 45 minutes at 76.7 C 170 F followed by a curing cycle of 45 minutes at 137.8 C 280 F . Subsequent to the heating and curing operations, the forms 10 are indexed in the direction of arrow 110 to an accumulation stage 112 where the individual gloves with the acrylonitrile butadiene foamed coating 94 thereon may be manually stripped, as described previously as shown in the accumulation stage 84 wherein the stripped gloves pass through compressed air for removing any loose flock fibers. With respect to the resin coatings including elastomers used for coating the wearing apparel produced in accordance with this invention, purely illustrative representative compositions are listed below. It is to be understood, however, that these examples are being presented with the understanding that they are to have no limiting character on the broad disclosure of the invention as generally set forth herein as as directed to men skilled in the art. Acrylonitrile butadiene copolyer latex a typical formula in parts per hundred based upon the dry rubber . The materials in the formula noted above are thickened to approximately 1000 mPas with methylcellulose. The resulting material is foamed to a preferred 30 air content, based on the weight of the material being foamed. In this connection foaming may be to an air content within the range of between about 5 and 70 . Acrylonitile butadiene copolymer overdip for use in the stage two sequence of operation applied to the already formed liner in parts per hundred based on the dry rubber . This material is thickened to a desired viscosity, again with methylcellulose. The thickening is to within the range of between about 2000 and 5000 mPas, depending on the desired coating weight ultimately to be achieved in the gloves being produced. Foam rough finish grip. Acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer latex formulation based upon parts per hundred dry rubber . The material is thickened to 1000 mPas with methylcellulose and then foamed to a 30 air content. Polyvinyl chloride plastisol dip. This composition will be utilized if a polyvinyl chloride coating is to be applied as a substitution for the acrylonitrile butadiene application described in detail above based upon parts per hundred of PVC . This composition is an adhesive dip formula which is utilized prior to the application of a polyvinyl chloride plastisol coating in order to provide an adhesive coating for the application of an intervening flock. It is comprised of acrylonitrile butadiene copolymer based on parts per hundred of dry rubber. While the above examples disclose procedures for making gloves as protective wearing apparel, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the method of the invention here and the built up materials forming the wearing apparel so produced by the method may be utilized for any wearing apparel where a form may be provided for building up the ultimate garment desired. Moreover, a variety of textured and decorative surfaces may be provided merely by a selection of the materials to be applied the manner and sequence of application, and their various characteristics. Moreover, the wearing apparel so produced will have an enhanced protective quality as well as the comfort and aesthetic properties desired. As discussed previously, if a polyvinyl chloride plastisol overcoat is to be applied then it is not necessary to leach the previously formed liners. A representative procedure for applying a polyvinyl chloride plastisol coating includes dipping the molds with the liners in an adhesive dip as described above under Composition 5, applying a second flock coating of cotton fibers followed by a drying and coating procedure. Thereafter the coated forms are dipped in the polyvinyl chloride plastisol dip described under Composition 4 which is then set for a short period of time of 1 and 1 2 minutes at 187.8 204.5 C 370 400 F followed by a polyvinyl chloride rough finish dip which may be a foamed plastisol. The two polyvinyl chloride coatings are then fused by the application of heat for 15 to 20 minutes at 187.8 198.9 C 370 390 F . While the methods and products herein disclosed form preferred embodiments of the invention, this invention is not limited to those specific methods and products, and changes can be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention, which is defined in the appended claims. For example, as will be appreciated by practitioners in the art, different elastomer coatings may be utilized, comprised of a wide variety of combinations of polymers, in order to have an ultimate final surface on the wearing apparel of varying properties which may include soft pliable surfaces or hard impervious surfaces. Moreover, the formulations of those compsitions may be varied to have specialized properties including oil grip, breathability, moisture barrier, cut resistance, temperature resistance and combinations of decorative color and texture.