# Fluoromethylthiooxacephalosporin derivatives.

## Abstract
Antibacterial 7β fluorinated methylthioacetamido 7α methoxy 3 nucleophilic group substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acids represented by the follow ing formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A 7ss fluorinated methylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 nocleophilic group substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid or its derivative represented by the following formulaEMI110.1 wherein A is monofluoromethyl or difluoromethyl and B is hydrogen or a salt or 1 to 2CC ester forming group and Z is a 1 to 15C nucleophilic group provided Z is not 1 pptionally protected hydroxyalkyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthio. 2. A compound as claimed in Claim 1 wherein A is difluoro methyl. 3. A compound as claimed in Claim 1 herein B is hydroçen or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester forrning group. 4. A compound as claimed in Claim 1 wherein B is a carboy protecting ester forming group. 5 A compound as claired in Clair. 1 wherein Q is alkanoyloxy, carbamoyloxy, or halogen. 6. A compound as claimed in Claim 1 wherein Z is heterceyclic thio. 7. A compound as claimed in Claim 6 wherein the heterocyclic part has an optionally substituted or hydrogenated heterocyclic system selected fro the member consisting of imidazole, isothiazole, pyrazolotetrazole, pyrazolotriazole, pyridotriazole, pyrimidine, tetrazole, thiadiazole, thiazole, triazine, and triazole. 6. A compound as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the optional substituent on the heterocyclic part is selected from the group consisting of acylamino, alkoxy, alkylthio, amino, carboxy, protected carboxy, cyano, hydroxy, oxo, and pyridyl. 9. A compound as claimed in Claim 7 wherein the optional substituent on t heterocycle is straight, branched, cyclic, or unsaturated 1 to 4C alkyl optionally substituted by one to tree 1 to 12C groups selected fro the enber consisting of acylamino, acyloxy, alkoxy, alkoxycarbamoyl, alkylcarbamoyl, alkyltnio, aroylamino, aryl, arylcarbamoyl, arylthio, carbamoyl, carbamoylalkylthio, carboxy, protected carboxy, carboxyalkoxy, protected carboxyalkoxy, cyano, dialkylamino, halo, N heterocyclic carbanoyl, heterocyclic, heterocyclic thio, hydroxy, hydroxyimino, oxo, sulfamoyl, sulfo, ureido, and ureidocarbonyl. 10. A compound as claimed in Claim. 1 wherein 3 is hydrogen, acetoxymethyl, benzyl, t butyl, calcium, methyldioxolenylmethyl, diphenylmethyl, ethoxycarbonylloxyethyl, indanyl, magnesium, p methoxybenzyl, p nitrobenzyl, phenyl, phthalidyl, pivaloyloxynethyl, potassiun, sodium, 2,2,2trichloroethyl, allyl, and xylyl. 11. A compound as clail..ed in Claim 2 wherein B is hydrogen, acetoxynethyl, alkali metal, diphenylmethyl, ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl, or pivaloyloxymethyl. 12. A compound as claimed in Claim 11 wherein Z is tetrazolylthio, thiadiazolythio, triazinylthio, or triazolylthio each substituted by one or two of 1 to 3C alkyl. 13. A compound as claimed in Claim 11 wherein z is 1 substituted 1H tetrazol 5 yl. 14. A compound as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is methyl or vinyl. 15. A compound as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is carbamoylmethyl ro 2 carbamoylethyl. 15. A compound as claired in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is cyanomethyl or cyanoethyl. 17. A compound as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is 2 oxoimidazolidin 1 yl. 18. A compound as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is 2 dimethylaminoethyl. 19. A compound as claimed in Claim 13 wherein the substituent is chloromethyl or difluoromethyl. 20. A compound as claimed in Colaim 13 wherein the substituent is 2 sulfamoylethyl. 21. A compound as claimed in Clai..i 13 wherein the substituent is 2 methanesulfonylaminoethyl. 22. A compound as claimed in Claim 11 wherein Z is acetoxy, carbamoyloxy, N protected carbamoyloxy, or halo. 23. A process for preparing a compound claimed in Clain 1 which comprises amidating 7ss amino 7 alpha methoxy 3 Z substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid derivative represented by the following formula EMI113.1 wherein B and Z are as defined in Claim 1 or its reactive derivative with fluorinated methylthio acetic acid represented by the formula ASCH2COOH wherein A is as defined in Claim 1 cr its reactive derivative. 24. A process for preparing a compound as claimed in Claim 1 which comprises substituting 7ss fluorinated ethyl thio acetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 halomethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid derivative represented by the following formula EMI113.2 wherein A and B are as defined in Claim 1 and Hal is halogen with a heterocyclic thiol represented by the following formula HZ wherein Z is a heterocyclic thio as defines in Clai.. 6 or its reactive derivative. 25. A process for preparing a compound as claimed in Claim 1 which comprises methoxylating 7 fluorinated methyl thioacetamido 3 Z substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4carboxylic acici derivative represented b the following formula EMI114.1 5 herein A, B, and Z are as defined in Clain 1 with. an N halogenating reagent, hydrogen halide scavenger, and methanol, successively. 26. A process for preparing a salt as claimed in Claim 1 which comprises neutralizing a 7ss fluorinated methylthio acetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 Z substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid derivative represented by the following formula EMI114.2 wherein A and Z are as defined in Claim I or its reactive derivative with a base. 27. A process for preparing a carboylic acid as claimed inClaim 1 which comprises deesterifying a 7ss fluorinated methyl thio acetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 Z substituted methyl 1 dethia1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid ester represented by the following formula EMI115.1 wherein and Z are as defined in Claim 1 and B is an ester forming group . 28. An antibacterial composition comprising an effective amount of the compound as claimed in Claim 1 and conventional carrier. 29. A method for combating bacteria which comprises bringing an effective amount of the compound as claimed in Claim 1 to contact with the bacteria.

## Description
FLUOROMETHYLTHIOOXACEPHALOSPORIN DERIVATIVES This invention relates to a novel antibacterial, 7p fluorinated methylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 nucleophilic group su stituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephen 4carboxylic acid I represented by the following formulaEMI1.1 wherein A is monofluoromethyl or difluoromethyl and is hydrogen or a salt or ester forming group and Z is a nucleophilic group, e.g., halogen, acvloxi, heterocyclic tl io, or the like provided Z is not 1 optionally protected hydroxyalkyl 1Htetrazol 5 ylthio. Preferable A group is difluoromethylthio. The group D is preferably hydrogen or a salt forming atom or a medical or carboxy protecting ester forming group. Carboxy protecting ester forming group has up to 2 C atoms and is known in the penicillin and cephalosporin fields and can be introduced or erotect without adverse effect on other part or molecule aralkyl ester e.g., benzyl, methylbenzyl, dimethylbenzyl, p methoxybenzyl, ethoxybenzyl, p nitrobenzyl, aminobenzyl, diphenylmethyl, phthalidyl., phenacyl esters , substituted alkyl ester e.g., 2,2,2 trichloroethyl, t butyl, allyl, asters , aryl ester e.g., pentachlorophenyl, indanyl, esters , N hydroxyamino ester ester with e.g., acetone oxim, acetophenone oxim, acetaldoxim, N hydroxysuccinimide, N hydroxyphthalimide , anhydride with carbonic or carboxylic acid or the like The medical ester forming group is a potent antibecterial on taking orally or parenterally including a well known substituted alkyl ester e.g., acetoxymethyl, pivaloyloxymethyl, ethoxyformyloxymethyl, 4 methyl 2 oxo 1,3 dioxolenylmethyl esters , substituted aralkyl ester e.g., phenacyl, phthalidyl esters or substituted aryl ester e.g., phenyl, xylyl, indanyl esters . A preferable light metal salt is that forns a physiolo gically acceptable ion an belongs to the 1st to 3r group, 2nd to 4th series of the Periodical Table. Lithium, sodiur, potassium, magnesium, calcium, aluminum and the like are preferable. In tile formula I , Z has up to 15C atoms. Halogen represented by Z can be chlorine or bromine acyloxy represented by Z can be alkanoyloxy, carbamoyloxy, or the like and the heterocyclic part in Z can be a mono or di cyclic group having nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur or the like hetero atom. The heterocycle may be optionally hydrogenated or substituted by optionally substituted alkyl, optionally protected carboxy, cyano, optionally substituted phenyl, heterocyclic group, amino, acylamino, hydroxy, alkoxy, oxo, mercapto, alkylthio, or the like. epresentative heterocyclic part in Z is iraiuazole, pyrazole, oxazole, isoxazole, thiazole, isothiazole, triazole, oxadiazole, thiadiazole, tetrazole, pyrimidine, triazine, triazolopyrimidine, pyrazolotetrazole, pyrazolotriazole, pyrazolotriazin, tetrazolopyridazine, benzotriazole, o the like. Most preferable are tetrazole, thiadiazole, triazole, and triazine. Alkyl part of said substituted or unsubstituted alkyl may be a straight, branched, unsaturated, cyclic, or partially cyclic all and preferably be 1 to 4C alkyl.The said substituent can be halogen e.g., chlorine, bromine, fluorine , or preferably up to 15C sulfur function e.g., mercapto, acylthio, alkylthio, carbamoylalkylthio, arylthio, heterothio, sulfamoyl, sulfo , oxygen function e.g., hydroxy, acyloxy, alkoxy, carboxyalkoxy, oxo , nitrogen function e.g., alkanoylamino, aroylamino, alkylamino, dialkylamino, ureido , carbon function e.g., vinyl, allyl, aryl, cyano, acyl, carboxy, protected carboxy, carbalkoxy, carbaralkoxy, carbamoyl, carbonyl, alkoxycarbamoyl, alkylcarbamoyl, arylcarbamoyl, N heterocyclic carbamcyl, heterocyclic ureidocarbonyl , or the like.If these functions have sore part unsuitable for synthesis or use, they can conventionally be protected to give other members of this group. SaiC acyl part is straight, branched, or cclic alkanoyi, alkenoyl, carbalkoxy, car amoyl, sulro, alkylsulfonyl, sulfamoyl, monocyclic or dicyclic aroyl, aralkanoyl, arylalkenoyl, carparalkoxy, arylsulfonyl, or the like, in which aryl part can be heterorcyclic having nitroyen, oxygen, sulfur, or the like hetero atom. The aryl part may be phenyl or said heterocyclic group. The said groups can be substituted. They can be one o more of carbon function e.g., alkyl, alkenyl, alkylidene, alkinyl, aralkyl, aryl, carboxy, protected carboxy, carbamoyl, alkanoyl, alkenoyl, aralkanoyl, aroyl, aminoalkyl, cyano , nitrogen function e.g., amino, hydrazinyl, azido, diazo, alkylamino, arylamino, acylated amino, alkylideneamino, imino, nitroso, nitro , oxygen function e.g., hydroxy, alkoxy, aralkoxy, aryloxy, acyloxy, oxo , sulfur group e.g., mercapto, alkylthio, arylthio, acylthio, thioxo, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, sulfo, protected sulfo , phosphorus function e.g., phospho , halogen atom e.g., fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodo , and the like and base for 2 cycle. Said group having a reactive functional group can be protected conventionally for protecting from an averse change during the reactions e.g., hydrocarbon group, acyl, alkylated silyl, alkoxy, silyl, and alkylphosphinyl for hydroxy, amino, mercapto, or the like e.g., ester, acid anhydride, amide,Hydrazide, or the like for caroxy or sulfo and other conventional protective groups, especially those introduced or removed without adverse effect on other part of the molecule. Preferable Z group has heterocyclic group selectec from tetrazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazinyl, or triazolyl. iiore preferable Z group is 1 substituted 1H tetrazol 5 yl thio, in which the substitution is selected substituent is one of methyl, vinyl, carbamoylmethyl, 2 carbamoylethyl, cyanomethyl, 2 cyanoethyl, 2 oxoimidazolidin 1 yl, 2 dimethylaminoethyl, chloromethyl, difluoromethyl, 2 sulfamoylethyl, and 2 methanesulfonylaminoethyl. Other preferable Z is acetoxy, carbamoyloxy, N protected carbamoyloxy, or halo. Compound I is antibacterial against aerobic or anaerobic and Gram positive e.g., Staphylococci cr Gram negative e.g.,Escherichia coli bacteria and useful as a bacteriocidal cr bacteriostatic hurian or veterinary medicine for preventing or treating infection, as a disinfectant, preservative, or antiperishable. The Compound I is stable and superior due to its activity against bacteria resistant to other drugs, and its pharmacological characters e.g., absorption, distribution, metabolism, exoretion . For medical use, it is adrtinistered externally, orally, topically or by injecting to prevent or treat an infection causes by sensitive bacteria at a daily dose of 10 micrograms to 1 milligram externally, 0.2 to 5 gram intravenously, or 5 to 2 gran orally of Compound I , if required formulating with conventional additives. Suc pharmaceutical preparation can be an noule, vial, powder, pellet, granule, capsule, tablet, dry syrup, suspension, solution, emulsion, ointnent, injection, oral drug, inhalant, pap, ocular solution, nasal preparation, ear solution, trouch, suppository, spray, or the liRse for enteral, parenteral, topical, or local application. The carboxylic acid or its light netal salt as Compound I can be used as an intravenous injection, drip, intraruscular or subcutaneous injection e.g., vial, ampoule , if required in admixture with an excipient e.g., stabilizer, solubilizer . A pharmacological ester can be used orally e.g., powder, pellet, granule, capsule, dry syrup, solution, tablet, suspension cr eternally or topically e.g., solution, ointment, emulsion, suppository, spray . Compound I can also be used as a raw material for assaying sensitivity of bacteria or a starting material for synthesizing other antibacterial within or without the scope of this invention. Similar compounds having the same nucleus have been known by Japanese patent application okapi 49 133594 and 51 41385, but these are not superior to the compounds of this invention in its broadness and intensity of antibacterial spectra. The corresponding l tr.ia analogs having conventional cephen ring are better antibacterials than the compounds of this invention. Compound I can be synthesized, for example, by the following methods. 1 Salt formation Compound I having 4 carboxy on cephem nucleus can form 2 corresponding light metal salt by reacting with a base or by exchange decomposition with a light netal salt of other carboxylic acid. The procedure can be those conventional in the art, e.g., by neutralizing the free acid with light metal hydrogen carbonate, or by treating with alkali metal lower carboxylate in a polar organic solvent e.g., alcohol, acetone, ester and then adding sparingly soluble solvent. The reaction ends usually in 1 to 10 minutes at lower than 500C.The tine may be longer, if no side reaction occurs. Antibacterial preparations can be made by separating thus produced salts as solid e.g., crystals, povders or by lyophilizing. 2 Deprotection of carboxy protecting groups Following conventional deprotections of protected carboxy in Compound I gives Carboy compounds I a EIighly reactive ester, aside, or anhydride as a carboxy protecting group can be deprotected in an aqueous solvent with an acid, base, buffer solution, or ion exchange resin. When the reactivity is insufficient, man cari increase it in conventional manner to deprotect ore easily b treatment of trichloroethyl, p nitrobenzyl, phenacyl etc. esters with e.g., metal and acid, catalytic hydrogenation, dithionate .b Aralkyl esters can be deprotected by catalytic reduction.The reaction can be done conventionally with hydrogen in the presence of a catalyst, e.g., palladium, nickel.c alkyl, cyclopropylmethyl, sulfonylethyl, etc. esters can be aeprotected by solvolyzing with e.g., mineral acid, Lexis acid e.g., aluminium chloride, tin chloride, titanium tetrachloride , sulfonic acid e.g., methanesulfonic acid, trifluoronethanesulfonic acid , strong carboxylic acid e.g., trifluoroacetic acid 3, if require ci in the presence of a cation scavenger.d Phenacyl, alkenyl, hydroxyaralkyl, etc. esters can be deprotected with a base or nucleophilic reagent. Sore phenacyl esters are deprotected by irradiation.e 2 Alkenyl ester is deprotected with an alkali metal alkanoate and palladium triphenylphosphine complex giving alkali metal salt.f and other equivalent carboxy deprotections. 3 Introduction of the 3 substituent Compounds of the formula I but having 3 methyl substituted by a leaving group or atom can be treated with heteroaromatic tirol, aromatic base or its reactive derivative giving the objective compound I . Here the leaving group is preferably reactive halogen, sulfonyloxy, alkanoyloxy, dihaloacetoxy, trihaloacetoxy, or the lie. Preferable reactive derivative of said tirol is alkali metal salts, ammonium salt, carboxylate ester, and the like. The reaction goes at X to 60 C even in anhydrous or aqueous solvent. This reaction is accelerated with a dehydraring reagent, phosphoryl chlorides, rhodanates, or the like. Compounds I having 3 carbamoyloxymethyl can be produced by reacting the 4 carboxy protected 3 hydroxy methyl compound I with a reactive derivative of N protected carbonic acid and the product is deprotected keeping the carbamoyloxy group. 4 Amidation A reaction of Amine II or its reactive derivative withCarboxylic acid III or its reactive derivative yives Aside I or its derivatives.EMI9.1 The reactive derivative of Amine II is that having 7 amino activated by silyl e.g., trimethylsilyl, methoxydimethylsilyl, t butyldimethylsilyl , stannyl e.g., trimethylstannyl , alkylene as a part of enamino of the amino with, e.g., aldehyde, acetone, acetylacetone, acetoacetate, acetoacetonitrile, acetoacetanilide, cyclopentanedione, acetylbutyrolactone , alkylidene e.g., 1 haloalkylidene, 1 haloaralkylicene, 1 alkoxyalkylidene, 1 alkoxy 1 phenoxyalkylidene, alkylidene, aralkylidene , acia e.g., mineral acid, carboxylic acid, sulfonic acid or the like as a salt of the amino , easily removable acyl e.g., alkanoyl , or the like, or that protected at other functions of the molecule. The reactive derivatives of Carboxylic acid III can be acid anhydride, halide, reactive ester, reactive anise, acide, or the like conventional derivative for acylation. Followings are procedures for said acylation. i Free acid III In the presence of a condensing reagent carbodiimide e.g., N,N diethylcarbodiimide,N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide , carbonyl compound e.g., carbonyl diimidazole , isoxazolinium salt, acylamino compound e.g., 2 ethoxy 1 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2 dihydroguinoline , anidase, or the likej, Amine II is treated jith Acid III preferably in en aprotic solvent e.g., halohydrocarbon, nitrile, ether, anide or like solvent or the mixture , preferably 1 to 2 molar equivalents of Carboxylic acid III and 1 to 2 solar equivalents of the condensing reagent against Gamine II . ii Acid anhydride This includes z symmetric anhydride and mixed anhydride with e.g., mineral acid e.g., phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, carbonic half ester , organic acid e.g., alkanoic acid, aralkanoic acid, sulfonic acid , intramolecula anhydride e.g., ketene, isocyanate , and hydrohalogenic acid i.e., acid halide z of Carboxylic acid III . Preferably, Amine II or its reactive derivative is amidated with 1 to 2 nolar equivalents of the acid anhydride in the presence of C to 1 molar equivalent of an acid scavenger te.g., inorganic base e.g., oxide, hydroxide, carbonate, hydrogen carbonate, or the like of alkali metal or alkaline earth metal , organic base e.g., tertiary amine, aromatic base oxirane e.g., alkylene oxide, aralkylene oxide pyridinium salt e.g., tripyridiniumtriazine trichloride adsorbing agent e.g., Celite or the likes, preferably in an aprotic solvent e.g., halohydrocarbon, nitrile, ether, amide or the like solvent or a mixture thereof.iii Acid halide This is a mixed anhydride of Carboxylic acid III with hydrogen halide. Thus, 1 to 2 molar equivalents of this acid halide is preferably reacted with 1 molar equivalent of Anne II or its reactive derivative as given above item ii in the presence of 1 to la molar equivalents of said acid scavenger in a solvent e.g., halohydrocarbon, nitrile, ether, ester, ketone, dialkylamide, water, or the like solvent or a mixture thereor .iv eactive ester This includes an enol ester e.g., vinyl ester, isopropenyl ester , aryl ester e.g., phenyl ester, halophenyl ester, nitrophenyl ester , heterocyclic ester e.g., l hydroxybenzotriazole ester , an ester with 11 hydroxycompound, diacylhydroxylamine ester, thioester, or the like having conventional reactive ester group. This is used as described below. Enzymatically reactive esters e.g., lower alkyl ester can be used conventionally in an aqueous solvent in the presence of an amidase.v Reactive amide This includes an aromatic amide amide with e.g., imidazole, triazole, 2 ethoxy l,2 dihydro quinoline , diacylanilide, or the like of Acid III treated as given below and vi Formimino compond N,N dimethylformimino ester halide, etc. of Acid III . The reaction from iv to vi are carried out by treating 1 olar equivalent of Gamine II or its reactive derivative with.1 to 2 molar equivalents of Carboxylic acid III or its reactive derivative in an aprotic solvent halchydrocarbon, ether, ketone, nitrile, amide, ester, etc. solvents or mixture for 1 to 5 hours at 200C to 40 C. 5 Methoxylation Compounds of the formula I but having 7 hydrogen is treated with an l halogenating reagent, dehydrohalogenating reagent, and methanol to give the corresponding Compound I rom either 7 alpha or 7ss hydrogen compound. The procedures are, for example, as follows a Reacting with alkyl hypochlorite e.g., t butyl hypochlorite and alkali metal methoxide e.g., lithium methylate, sodium methylate in methanol.b eacting with molecular halogen and a base metal alkoxide e.g. lithium methoxide, sodium methoxide, magnesium methoxide,DBU, triethylamine, picoline in methanol.c Reacting with N halogenating reagent e.g., hypohalite salt, hypohalite ester, N haloamide, I. haloimide and dehydrohalogenating reagent e.g., alkali metal alkoxide, aryl alkali metal , and then treating with methanol. 6 Protection of carboxy or other reactive functions When Compound I is subjected to a chemical reaction to make other Compound I , functional groups other than objective group are sometimes protected by conventional methods in the art as given in various literatures. Protection and aeprotection of said functional groups are described in, e.g., J.F.W. McOmie ed., Protective Groups inOrganic Chemistry , p. 183 1973 Pleum Press, N Y , S. Patai ed., The Chemistry of Functional Groups , p. 5ú5 1969 , Interscience Publ., John Wiley Sons Lta., London Flynn ed., Cephalosporins and Penicillins , Academic Press, N,Y. 1972 , and the like books and various patent literatures. For example, hydroxy is protected by e.g., acylation, etherification amino is protected by e.g., acylation, ehamine formation, silyl introduction, etc. carboxy is protected by e.g., esterification, amidation, acid anhydride formation each in a conventional manner. Introduction of physiologically active ester to improve pharmacological character is also included in this reaction, e.g., by treating Carboxylic acid I with a base to form a salt and then with halide to give the objective ester I . 7 exaction Conditions The said reactions 1 to G can usually be carried out conventionally in an inert solvent at 30 C to 100C, preferably at 200C to 50 c for 10 minutes to 5 hours in a solvent, if required in a dry condition. The reaction solvent can be a hydrocarbon, halohydrocarbon, ether, ketone, ester, nitrohydrocarbon, nitrile, amide, sulfoxide, carboxylic acid, organic base, alcohol, water, or the like industrial solvent or the mixture. Similarly, Compound I having Z as halogen or acyloxy or its derivatives at carboxy can also be prepared analogously by the methods as shown above. 8 Work up The products can be obtained from the reaction mixture by removing contaminants e.g., solvents, unreacted starting materials, by products b e.g., extracting, evaporating, washing, concentrating, precipitating, filtrating, drying, or the like, and isolating the product by usual work up e.g., ausorbing, eluting, distilling, precipitating, separating, chromatographying Examples Following examples illustrate the embodiments of this invention. Physicochemical constants of the products are summarized in Tables at the end of Examples. In the Tables, In shows cm 1 values, NMR shows values in ppm scale and J values show coupling constants in Hz scale. In the Examples, part shows part by weight and equivalent shows molar equivalent of the beta lactara starting material. Work up procedure is usually as follows The reaction mixture is, if required after addition of solvent, e.g., water, dichloronethane, washed x7ith water, dried, and concentrated. Residue is crystallized, precipitated, or filtrated to obtain the product if required after chromatography. Physical constants of the product is identified with those of authentic samples. Abbreviations used are as follows AOM is acetoxymethyl, ECE is for 1 ethoxycarbonyloxy ethyl, Ph is for phenyl, and POil is for pivaloyloxymethyl. In the Tables, infrared absorption spectra I and nuclear magnetic reasonance spectra N R are taken in chloroform or deuterio chloroform, unless otherwise specified.Example 1 Acylation EMI15.1 To a solution or 7ss amino 7 alpha methoxy 3 1 X substituted 5 tetrazolyl thiomethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester 2 millimoles in dichloromethane 1 to 3 ml cooled at 40 C are added difluoronethyltiioacetic acid chloride 1 to 2 equivalents and pyridine 1 to 2 equivalents , and the mixture is stirred for 1 to 3 hours.The reaction mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with aqueous 5 sodiun hydrogen carbonate and uater, dried and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue is chromatographed over silica gel and the fractions eluted with ethyl acetate are concentrated in vacuum to give the objective 7ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 1 X substituted 5 tetrazolylthiomethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester. By employing thia reaction, the compounds of Tabl 1 are produced. Example 2 Amidation EMI16.1 7ss Amino compound 2 1 equivalent is treated withCarboxylic acid corresponding to the 7 alpha side chain 3 or its reactive derivative to give Amide 1 , for example, by a method as exemplified below 1 In a mixture of dichloromethane 1G volumes , 2 ethoxy1 ethoxycarbonyl 1,2 dihydroquinoline 1.1 equivalent , N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.1 equivalent , pyridine 1.5 equivalents , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 1 to 6 hours at 0 C to room temperature. 2 In a mixture of ethyl acetate 10 volumes , di 2pyridyl disulfide 1.1 equivalent , triphenylphosphine 1.1 equivalent , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 2 to 6 hours at 10 to 500C. 3 In a mixture of dichloromethane 3 volumes , 1,3,5 tripyridiniumtriazine trichloride 4 equivalents , andCarboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 1 to 5 hours at 10 to 10 C. 4 In a mi ture of carbon tetrachloride 30 volumes , 4methylmorpholine 1.5 equivalents , trisdiethylaminophosphine 1.1 equivalent and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , kept for I to 5 hours at 20 to lO0C. 5 In a mixture of chloroform 10 volumes and dimethoxyethane 1C volumes , pyridine 1.5 moles , and mixed anhydride of Carboxylic acid 3 and isobutoxyformic acid, stirred at a temperature between 5 to 100C over a 30 minutes and 6 hours time. 6 In a mixture of ethyl acetate 10 volumes , 1,2dichlorosthane 10 volumes , 4 methylmorpholine 1.5 equival ents , and the symraetric anhydride of Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , refluxed for lO minutes to 2 hours. 7 In a mixture of dichloromethane 10 volunes , pyridine 1.5 equivalents , and mixed anhydride of Carboxylic acid 3 and methanesulfonic acid 1.1 equivalent , kept at 0 C to roon temperature over 1 to 3 hours. 8 In a mixture of ethyl acetate 10 volunes , pyridine 1.5 equivalents and a mixed anhydride of diethyl hydrogen phosphate and Carboxylic acid 3 1.5 equivalents , stirred at 0 C to 100C for 1 to 5 hours. 9 In a nixture of ethyl acetate 7 volumes , dichloromethane 10 volunes , pyridine 1 equivalent , and mixed anhydride of Carboxylic acid 3 and dichlorophosphoric acid 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 1 to 3 hours at 0 C to room temperature. 16 In a mixture of lutidine 1.5 equivalents , dichloromethane 10 volumes , and the raised anhydride 1.1 to 2 equivalents of Carboxylic acid 3 and monochlorophosphoric acid dimethylamide, stirred for 1 to 4 hours at n to 300C. 11 In a mixture of dichloronethane 5 volumes , trifluoroacetic anhydride 1.5 equivalents , pyridine 3 equivalents , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.5 equivalents , stirred for 1 to 5 hours at 5 C to room temperaure. 12 In a mixture of dichloromethane 10 volumes , bromide of diethyl hydrogen phosphate 1.2 equivalents , 4 methyl morpholine 2.5 equivalents , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.2 equivalents , stirred for 1 to 3 hours at 0 C to room temperature. 13 Amine 2 having carboy at position 4 is dissolve in aqueous 1C volumes sodium hydrogen carbonate 2.5 equivalents . Carboxylic acid 3 chloride 1.1 equivalent is dropwise added thereto. The mixture is kept at 5 C to room temperature for 30 minutes to 2 hours. 14 Amine 2 having carboxy at position 4 is treated with trimethylsilyl chloride and triethylamine 1.2 equivalents each to O silylate, and then treated with pyridine 4 equivalents and Carboxylic acid 3 chloride 1.1 equivalents at 300C for between 30 minutes and 2 hours, and then the obtained silyl ester is hydrolyzed with acid. 15 In a solution of picoline 4 equivalents andCarboxylic acid 39 chloride 1.2 equivalents in dichloromethane 20 volumes at 0 C to 30 C over 30 minutes and 2 hours. 16 In a mixture of dimethylformamide 2 volumes and ethyl acetate 10 volumes , stirred with triethylamine 1.1 equivalent and Carboxylic acid 3 chloride 1.1 equivalent at 0 C to 20 C for between 30 minutes and 3 hours. 17 In a mixture of dichloromethane 3C volumes , cyanuric chloride 1.1 equivalent , pyridine 4 equivalents , andCarboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 3C minutes to 2 hours at 300C to 10 C. 18 In a mixture of dichloronethane 3 volunes , phosphorus oxychloride 1.1 equivalent , pyridine 1.5 equivalents , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred fcr 20 minutes to 2 hours at 10 C to lC 0C. 19 Amine 2 is treated with trimethylsilyl chloride to obtain the corresponding N trimethylsilyl compound, and this is treated with phosphorus oxychloride 1.5 equivalents ,Carboxylic acid 3 1.2 equivalents , and pyridine 4 equivalents in dichloronethane 5 parts for 30 minutes to 2 hours at 0 C to roo temperature. 2C In a mixture of dichloromethane 8 volumes , vinyl chloride 1.5 equivalents , pyridine .5 equivalents , andCarboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 1 to 5 hours at 30 to 0 C. 21 In a mixture of chloroform 3 volunes , toluene 1 volune , picoline 2 equivalents , oxalyl chloride 1 equivalent , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 10 ninutes to 2 hours at 50 C to 10 C. 22 In a mixture of dichloromethane 20 volumes , pyridine 3 equivalents , and 1 oxabenzotriazolyl ester of Carboxylic acid 3 3 equivalents , stirred for 5 to 30 hours at 10 to 50 C. 23 In 2 mixture of dichloromethane 2 volumes , l hydroxybenzotriazole 2.1 equivalent , and Carboxylic acid 3 2 equivalents , stirred at room temperature for 1 to 15 hours. 24 In a mixture of dioxane 10 volumes , N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 2 equivalents , and phthalimide ofCarboxylic acid 3 2 equivalents , stirred for 2 to 8 hours at 10 to 500C. 25 In a mixture of methyl isobutyl ketone 10 volumes ,N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.5 equivalents , and succinimide of Carboxylic acid 3 1.5 equivalents , stirred for 2 to 9 hours at O to 400C. 26 In a mixture of carbonyldiimidazole 1.1 equivalent , tetrahydrofuran 10 volumes , dimethylacetamide 5 volumes , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , stirred for 1 to 5 hours at 0 C to room temperature. 27 In a mixture of dimethylformamide 5 volumes , dimethylaniline 1.3 equivalents and the Vilsmeyer reagent made from Carboxylic acid 3 and dimethylformamide 1.1 equivalent , stirred at room temperature for 1 to 5 hours. 28 In a mixture of dichloromethane 10 volumes , dimethylformamide 5 volumes , N,N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1.1 equivalent , picoline 1.2 equivalents , and Carboxylic acid 3 1.1 equivalent , heated for 2 hours to 24 hours. The product is isolated, if required after diluting with a solvent, dichloromethane, etc. , adjusting pH, washing with water, drying, and concentrating, then purifying by crystallization, adsorption, etc., if required after chromatography over silica gel. Physicochemical constants ofAmides are identified by comparison with the product of other route. Physical constants of asides are given on Table 4 1. Example 3 Heterothio introduction EMI22.1 1 To a solution of 7ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester 2 milli moles in N,N dimethyl formamide 5 ml is added a solution of 1 X substituted 5 mercaptotetrazole sodium salt 1 to 3 equivalents ,N,N dimethylformamide 1 to 3 ml . The mixture is cooled to 0C and stirred for 20 minutes to 2 hours. The reaction mixture is poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract is washed with water, dried, and conentrated. The residue is chromatographed over silica gel. The fractions eluting with ethyl acetate is concentrated in vacuum to give the objective 7 ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 1 X substituted 5 tetrazolyl thiomethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester. By employing this method, Compounds of Table 2 are prepared.2 To a solution of 7ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid aiphenylmetnhyl ester 1 part in N,N dimethyl formamide 3 to 20 parts is added 2 X substituted 1,3,4 thiadiazole 5 thiol sodium salt 1 to 2 equivalent . After stirring at a temperature between 50C and 10C for 10 minutes to 3 hours, the mixture is poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract is washed with water, dried, and concentrated. Th residue is recrystallized from a mixture of benzene and ethyl acetate to give the corresponding 7 fr difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 2 X substituted 1,3,4 thiadiazol 5 yl thiomethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester 61 98 . Dy employing this method, Compounds of Table 3 are produced. The starting material for above relations, i.e., 7ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester is produced as follows. EMI24.1 To a solution of 7ss amino 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester in dichloromethane 1 L cooled at 200C are added pyridine 4.4 equivalents and difluoromethylthioacetyl chloride 1.1 equivalent under nitrogen. After stirring for 30 minutes, the mixture is poured into cold 1 hydrochloric acid and resultiny organic layer is taken. This is washed with aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate, 1 hydrochloric acid, and water, dried, and concentrated in vacuum.The separating crystals are collectea by filtration, washed vith a mixture of benzene and ether, and dried to give 7 ss difluoromethyl thioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester. 39.8 g mp. 189 196.5 C.IR CHCl3 3390, 1792, 1732 1705 cm 1.Example 4 Under the condition siriilar to that of Example 3, the corresponding 7ss difluoromethylthioacetamido 7 alpha methoxy 3 chloromethyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid diphenylmethyl ester is treated with a sodium salt of heterocyclic thiol to give Compounds of Table 4 part 2 .xample 5 Deesterification EMI25.1 1 A solution of the p methoxybenzyl ester or diphenylmethyl ester 1 1 part in a mixture of dichloromethane 0.3 to 3 parts , trifluoroacetic acid 0.3 to 3 parts and anisole 0.5 to 5 parts is stirred at a temperature between 10 and 400C over 10 minutes to 3 hours period. The reaction mixture is concentrated in vacuum to remove the solvent and reagents. The residue is washed with benzene to give the corresponding free acid 2 . Yield 70 to 90 2 To a solution of above starting material 1 1 part in a mixture or dichloromethane 5 to 9 parts and anisole 2 to 8 parts is added aluminum chloride or titanium tetrachloride 2 to 4 equivalents .The mixture is stirred for 1 to 3 hours at 10 and 10 C. The reaction mixture is washed with diluted hydrochloric acid and water, dried, and concentrated to give the corresponding free acid 2 . Yield 80 to 95 . The products of above methods are listed on Tables 5 to 7. Example 6 Pharmacologically acceptable esters EMI26.1 1 To a solution of Carboxylic acid 1 potassium salt 1 millimole in N,N dimethylformamide 2 to 5 parts is added iodomethyl pivalate I to 2 equivalents under ice cooling.After 15 minutes to 2 hours stirring, the mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate, washed with ice water and aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate, dried, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue is recrystallized from ethyl acetate to give the pivaloyloxymethyl ester 2 . 2 The potassiun salt of above section 1 is replaced by sodium salt to give the same products under sarge condition. 3 Pivaloyloxynethyl ester 2 of above section 1 250 mg , corn starch 150 mg , and magnesium stearate 5 r.s are mixed, granulated, and encapsulated in 2 conventional manner. This capsule 1 to 3 capsules is given orally to treat a patient suffering fro infection cause by sensitive Escherichia coli JC 2. 4 In place of iodomethyl pivalate of above 1 , iodomethyl acetate or iodoethyl ethoxyformate is used under the same condition to give the corresponding acetoxymethyl ester 2 or ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl ester 2 Physical constants of the products are listed in Table 8, 1D, and 11.Example 7 Sodium salt, preparation, use EMI27.1 A solution of Carboxylic acid 1 1 g in aqueous 0.5 sodium hydrogen carbonate 5 ml adjusted to pH 7 with hydrochloric acid is washed with ethyl acetate, desalted, and poured into lu ml vials. This is lyophilized conventionally to give the corresponding sodium salt 2 as powder. The sodium salt 1 g produced under sterile condition is dissolved in sterile water 4 y is injected twice a dag intravenously to a patient suffering from Staphylococcus aureus infection for treating said disease. The sodium salt 2 is assayed for IC by the standard method of Japan Society of Chemotherapy to give values less tn 0.1 g ml againstStreptococcus pyogenes C 203 and less than 0.5 g ml Escherichia coli JC 2. Sodium or potassium salt produced by above method are listed on Table 12. Example 8 Methoxylation EMI28.1 To a solution of 7 alpha amido 3 substituted methyl 1 dethia1 oxa 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid derivative 1 1 part in dichloromethane 10 parts is added tert butyl hypochlorite 1.1 equivalent . After standing for 3 hours at 20 C, a solution of lithium methoxide 1.2 equivalents in methanol is added to the mixture and let react for 3 ninutes. The reaction mixture is acidified with acetic acid and diluted with dichloromethane.This is r ashec with water, dried, and concentrated in vacuum to give the corresponding 7 ss amido 7 alpha methoxy 3 substituted methyl 1 dethia 1 oxa 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid derivative 2 in 40 to 85 e yield. Products I made by this r. ethod are listed on Table 9.Example 9 Compounds I produced by the methods of Examples 1 8 or its combination are listed on Tables 13 and 14. Table 1 1 EMI29.1 EMI29.2 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2N CH3 2 SEP KBr 3260.1785. SEP 2.18 SEP s, SEP 6H . SEP 2.66 SEP t, SEP 6Hz. SEP 2H . SEP 3.53 SEP s. SEP 3H , tb SEP 1725,1700.1618 SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 4.17 SEP t, SEP 6Hz. SEP 2H . SEP 4.21 SEP s.2H , tb SEP mp 124.0 126.5 C SEP 4.59 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 1 2 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP H SEP 1790. SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.80 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP mp 166 7 C SEP 4,63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 3,58 SEP 2, SEP 1H , tb SEP 3,58 SEP t, SEP 56Hz. SEP 1H , SEP 7.23 7.67 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CN SEP mp 169 171 C SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 5.00 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.85 SEP s, SEP 1H . SEP 6.87 SEP t. SEP 1H. SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 4 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CN SEP 3375,2245,1785, SEP 2.87 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.23 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1715,1706,1392, SEP 4.33 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1258,1072 SEP 6.87 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.91 SEP t. SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.25 7.70 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CO2CH3 SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 5H . SEP 3.78 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4,62 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 4.97 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 5.08 SEP 2, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb Table 1 2 EMI30.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 6 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CO2C2H5 SEP 3280,1786,1757, SEP 1.23 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 5Hz . SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H . SEP 4.18 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz , tb SEP 1720,1708,1395, SEP 4.22 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4,58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.92 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1260,1077 SEP 5.06 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.20 7.66 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 7 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CONH2 SEP 3360,2950,1785, SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.20 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP bs, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1720,1695,1390, SEP 4.88 SEP bs, SEP 2H . SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.91 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 1256,1075 SEP 6.91 SEP t, SEP 1H , SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.3 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 8 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CONHCH3 SEP 3375,1785,1760, SEP 2.70 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 5Hz . SEP 3,63 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.17 SEP bs, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1705,1395,1070 SEP 4.57 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.85 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.70 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP 5Hz , SEP 6.87 SEP z, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m tb 1 9 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CON CH3 2 SEP 3375,1785,1700, SEP 2,90 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.00 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H . tb SEP 1675,1395,1070 SEP 4.20 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4,57 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m. SEP 10H tb 1 10 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2COCH3 SEP 3375,1785,1730, SEP 2.17 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.16 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1717,1706,1256, SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.97 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.0 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.85 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1070 SEP 6.87 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.20 7.27 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 11 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CHCH3 SEP 3370,1785,1715, SEP 1.20 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 2.97 SEP m, SEP 1H . SEP 3.61 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP SEP 1703,1253,1066 SEP 4.10 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.0 4.5 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 4.17 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP OH SEP 4,56 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H . SEP 6.85 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 6.86 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . SEP 7.20 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb Table 1 3 EMI31.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 12 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CO2CHPh2 SEP 3375,1786,1730, SEP 3.0 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7,0Hz . SEP 3,50 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.15 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700,1390,1255, SEP 4.32 SEP t, SEP 2H. SEP 7.0Hz . SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1072 SEP 6.83 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.22 7.58 SEP m, SEP 20H tb 1 13 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CO2CHPh2 SEP 3380,1786,1764, SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.16 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1712,1700sh, SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 6.90 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 1392,1257,1076 SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 20H tb 1 14 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CO2CH3 SEP 3375,1790,1735. SEP 2.93 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz . SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1720,1700,1390, SEP 3.68 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.27 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.38 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz . tb SEP 1070 SEP 4.63 SEP s. SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 1 15 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CO2C2H5 SEP 3370,1790,1725. SEP 1.22 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 2.92 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H . tb SEP 1715,1700,1390, SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 4.13 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4,27 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1070 SEP 4.87 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz . SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5,08 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 6.90 SEP s, SEP 1H . SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m. SEP 12H . tb 1 16 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CONH2 SEP 3480,3390,1790, SEP 2.77 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7.5Hz , SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.17 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1720,1698,1260, SEP 4.33 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7.5Hz , SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 6.05 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 1078 SEP 6.00 SEP bs, SEP 2H . SEP 6.87 SEP s, SEP 1H . SEP 6.88 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.18 7.50 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 7.75 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb Table 1 4 EMI32.1 tb I SEP Ir SEP h tb SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP N tb SEP N SEP SEP SEP SEP E tb SEP SEP 3 t0 SEP tb SEP SEP b SEP sa SEP SEP SEP SEP Co. tb SEP I SEP SEP C SEP cm SEP . SEP h SEP tb SEP SEP SEP t SEP tb SEP Co SEP N SEP SEP SEP N tb SEP Co SEP SEP o SEP SEP SEP w SEP m tb SEP I SEP S SEP SEP tb SEP SEP . SEP SEP . SEP . tb SEP N SEP SEP SEP SEP C SEP SEP 0 SEP tb SEP N SEP at SEP N SEP . SEP . SEP m SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP SEP tb SEP SEP ,, SEP m SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP rW SEP SEP SEP e SEP a SEP F SEP SEP In SEP SEP N tb SEP SEP m SEP tt SEP SEP , SEP SEP SEP tb SEP e SEP 2 SEP C SEP b SEP SEP SEP SEP m SEP his SEP r SEP m SEP tO tb SEP SEP N SEP Co SEP X SEP Co SEP wt SEP z SEP X SEP SEP N SEP SEP SEP z SEP In tb SEP SEP SEP Co SEP Co SEP Co SEP SEP SEP r tb SEP a SEP a SEP SEP v SEP r SEP , SEP a SEP a SEP In SEP rr, SEP a tb SEP SEP SEP SEP vv tb SEP o SEP t SEP Co SEP b SEP SEP Co SEP N SEP SEP V SEP , SEP o SEP o SEP eq tb SEP CoCo SEP SEP eo SEP SEP SEP o tb SEP h SEP r SEP m SEP N SEP t tb SEP SEP w SEP w SEP C SEP SEP r SEP In SEP SEP C SEP w SEP tb SEP v SEP C SEP zE SEP r SEP O SEP N SEP h SEP SEP tb SEP k SEP SEP In SEP . SEP SEP V SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP v SEP C SEP 2 SEP tb 2 SEP m SEP N SEP ri SEP E SEP n SEP ç SEP N SEP I SEP N SEP O SEP N SEP N SEP m SEP t SEP SEP Z SEP SEP u SEP m tb SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP Co tb SEP SEP rr, SEP In SEP a SEP , SEP r SEP m SEP SEP J SEP ed SEP m SEP m SEP SEP a SEP e tb SEP SEP SEP SEP rM SEP SEP G SEP SEP SEP t SEP C. SEP SEP tb SEP Co SEP m SEP X SEP I SEP 422 SEP q SEP SEP O SEP t te SEP Co SEP o SEP Q SEP o SEP m tb SEP In SEP C tb SEP 10 SEP eO SEP SEP N SEP 9 SEP 10 SEP t SEP N SEP SEP Pt SEP , SEP Co SEP tb SEP 4In SEP vv SEP vi SEP vi tb SEP SEP o SEP tn SEP K tb SEP m SEP co SEP Q tb Z SEP E SEP SEP In tb SEP u SEP o SEP , SEP , tb C SEP Cls SEP m SEP N SEP N tb SEP n SEP C SEP C tb SEP eS SEP F SEP s SEP b SEP b tb E SEP SEP SEP tb SEP . SEP . SEP . SEP . SEP SEP c tb 1 SEP V SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP In SEP 0 tb b SEP Co SEP SEP Co tb SEP SEP Co SEP Co SEP Z SEP t tb . SEP Ic SEP SEP SEP SEP tb C SEP SEP C tb SEP SEP i SEP I tb SEP SEP 3 tb InoC SEP z z SEP 0 tb SEP 0 tb N SEP 8 SEP 8,4 SEP 8 tb SEP C SEP C tb N SEP SEP SEP tb SEP N SEP 6 tb U SEP I SEP I tb W SEP N SEP N SEP N SEP C tb SEP s SEP 2 SEP c tb I SEP SEP n tb 5 SEP SEP tb SEP I SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP u SEP u SEP u SEP u tb SEP Ia SEP SEP U tb SEP N SEP W SEP N SEP N SEP N tb SEP cu SEP c SEP cu SEP cu tb SEP U SEP U SEP U SEP U SEP U tb SEP Co SEP C SEP o SEP tb SEP SEP SEP CQ tb il SEP w SEP I tb I SEP sI SEP 1 SEP tb Table 105 EMI33.1 SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 22 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP C CH3 2COOH SEP 1790.1720 SEP 183 s.3H . SEP 1.93 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.52 SEP s.5H . tb SEP 4.23 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.37 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.98 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H.55Hz SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 7.7 7.0 SEP m.11H . tb 1 23 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH CH2 SEP 3.52 SEP s.5H . SEP 4.27 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.60 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H . SEP 5.30 SEP dd. SEP 1H. SEP 2Hz. SEP 9Hz . tb SEP 5.80 SEP dd. SEP 1H. SEP 2Hz. SEP 16Hz .4.10 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 4.10 SEP dd. SEP 1H. SEP 9Hz. SEP 16Hz . tb SEP 4.12 SEP t. SEP 1H. SEP 54Hz .7.0 7.8 SEP m.10H tb 1 24 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CU2CH2NICO SEP 1780 SEP 2.41 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.56 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.61 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.93 SEP t. SEP 56.7Hz. SEP 1H . tb SEP 8.87 SEP s.1H . SEP 8.80 SEP s.1H . tb 1 25 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CONHOOH3 SEP 1715.1780 SEP 3.52 SEP s.5H . SEP 3.63 SEP s.3H . SEP 4.15 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.85 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.05 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.90 SEP t.1H. SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7 8 SEP m.12H tb 1 26 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2NHCONU2 SEP 1690.1780.3370 SEP 3.50 SEP s.5H . SEP 4.33 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.50 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 4.83 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.02 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.86 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.86 SEP t.1H.56Hz . SEP 7 7.9 SEP m.14H tb Table 1 6 EMI34.1 SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 27 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3.53 s.5H . SEP 4.22 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.54 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H . SEP 5.12 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.60 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 6.30 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.90 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.90 SEP t.1H.56Hz . SEP 7.1 7.7 SEP m.11H tb 1 28 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2C CH3 SEP 1710.1780.3250 SEP 1.61 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.50 SEP s.5H . SEP 4.22 SEP s.2H . tb SEP NOH SEP 4.53 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.82 SEP s.2H . SEP 6.03 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.89 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.89 SEP t.1H.56Hz . tb SEP 7.05 7.65 SEP m.1H . SEP 8.51 SEP s.1H . tb 1 29 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CNH2 SEP 3.51 SEP s.5H . SEP 4.15 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.50 SEP s.2H . tb SEP O SEP 4.83 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.01 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.86 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.86 SEP t.1H.56Hz . SEP 7.1 7.8 SEP m.13H tb 1 30 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CNH2 SEP CDC3 CD3OD SEP 2.81 SEP t.2H.7Hz . tb SEP O SEP 3.55 SEP s.6H . SEP 4.23 SEP s.2H . SEP 4.38 SEP t.2H.7Hz . tb SEP 4.56 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.09 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.89 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.96 SEP t.1H.56Hz SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.11H tb 1 31 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2NUSO2CH3 SEP 1170.1321.1390 SEP 2.83 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.55 SEP s.7H . SEP 4.15 4.4 SEP 4H tb SEP 1698.1780 SEP 4.58 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 6.91 SEP t.1H.56Hz . SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.12H tb 1 32 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 1665.1710.1768 SEP d6 acetons SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H . SEP 3.68 SEP s.2H . tb SEP 3250 SEP 4.26 SEP q.2H.13Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s.2H . SEP 5.13 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 5.21 SEP s.2H . SEP 6.55 7.90 SEP m.19H tb Table 1 7 EMI35.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 1 33 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP d6 acstone SEP 3.54 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.73 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 4.31 SEP q.2H.13Hz , SEP 46.6 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.16 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 5.46 SEP s.2H , SEP 6.60 8.10 SEP m.19H tb 1 34 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 1670.1695.1788 SEP 2.13 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.50 s.5H , SEP 4.15 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 3300 SEP 4.48 SEP s.2H , SEP 6.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 5.18 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.88 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.82 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t.1H.66Hz , tb SEP 7.0 7.70 SEP m.13H tb Table 2 1 EMI36.1 EMI36.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 2 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP C2H3 SEP 3390.1790,1709, SEP 1.43 1.7Hz.3H , SEP 3.25 SEP s.5H , tb SEP 1633 SEP 4,13 SEP q.7Hz,2H , SEP 4.125 SEP s.2H , SEP 4,62 SEP s.2H , tb SEP mp SEP 140.0 142.5 C SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.92 SEP t.56Hsz,1H , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m. SEP 11H tb 212 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 1.0 1.3 SEP m.4H , SEP 3.0 3.6 SEP m.1H tb SEP 3.53 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.27 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6,93 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.11H tb 2 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP Nulof 3498 SEP 3.62 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.70 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 3282, SEP 1768, SEP 1708 SEP 3.93 4.36 T.A2B2,5Hz,2H , tb SEP 1673,1626 SEP 4.27 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.65 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.25 SEP t. SEP 67Hz, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.20 7.80 m , SEP 8.30 SEP bs,1H tb 2 4 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2SCH3 SEP 3390,1790,1709 SEP 1.97 SEP s.3H , SEP 2.80 SEP t.6Hz,2H , SEP 3.50 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1631 SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.22 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.22 SEP t.6Hz.2H , tb SEP 4.57 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.85 SEP t.56Hz,1H tb SEP 6,90 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.1 7.7 m tb Table 2 2 EMI37.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 2 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CHF2 SEP 3370,1785,1700 SEP 3.57 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.35 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.65 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t. SEP 55Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6,93 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.43 SEP t,58Hz,1H , tb SEP 7.07 7.07 SEP m, SEP 11H tb 2 6 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP 3375,1785,1705, SEP 0.93 SEP d,7Hz,6H , SEP 2.20 SEP q.7Hz.1H , tb SEP 1690 sb SEP 3,58 SEP s.5H , SEP 3.97 SEP d, SEP 7Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.47 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.67 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP s,56Hz,2H , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb Table 3 1 EMI38.1 EMI38.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 3 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP H SEP 1786,1720,1700 SEP CD3CD CDCl3 tb SEP 3.53 SEP s , SEP 3.57 SEP s SEP 5H,OMe, SEP SCH2 tb SEP 4.40 SEP brs, SEP 2H CH2S SEP SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H SEP OH tb SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H SEP 56Hz SEP CF2H tb SEP 6.97 SEP t.1H 56Hz SEP CF2H SEP tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.11H tb 3 2 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2NHBOC SEP 1785,1715,1706 SEP 1.47 SEP s.9H,tBu , SEP 3.55 SEP s SEP 6H,OMe,SCH2 , tb SEP 4.32 SEP ABq,2H SEP j 14Hz . tb SEP 4.63 SEP broods, SEP 4H, SEP CH2X2 , tb SEP 5.10 s.1H,C8 H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP s,2H,CHPh2,CF2H , tb SEP 7.3 7.6 SEP m.10H tb 3 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2OH SEP 1790,1740,1700 SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP CD3OU tb SEP 3.53 SEP s.5H.OMe SCH2 , SEP 4.33 SEP s.2H,CH2 , tb SEP 4.60 SEP s.2H,CH2 , SEP 4.90 SEP s.2H,CH2 , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H.C6 H , SEP 6.87 SEP s,1H tb SEP 6.97 SEP T. SEP 1H, SEP j 56Hz , SEP 7.3 7.7 SEP m. SEP 10H tb Table 3 2 EMI39.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 3 4 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2OCH2CO2Na SEP 1785,1750,1720 SEP 3.53 SEP s.5H.OMe SCH2 . tb SEP 1710 SEP 4.27 s.2H.CH2 , SEP 4.33 SEP ABq,2H,CH2 , tb SEP 4.60 SEP s.2H.CH2 , SEP 4.93 SEP s.2H.CH2 , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H.C6 H tb SEP 6.92,6.96 SEP xX2,t,3H , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m. SEP 20H tb 3 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP 1780,1720,1700 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH SEP SEP 2.70 SEP s,3H , tb SEP 3.57 SEP s,5HOMe SCH2 , tb SEP 4.30 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.93 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.00 SEP t.1H,J 56Hz tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m.10H tb 3 6 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CN SEP 1780,1720,1700 SEP d6 DMSO tb SEP 3.43 s.3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 4H, SEP CH2X2 , SEP 5.22 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.30 SEP t. SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.10H tb 3 7 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CO2Na SEP Nujoe SEP 1780 SEP d6 acetone tb SEP 1740,1710,1670 SEP 3.57 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.73 SEP s.5HOMe, SEP sCH2 tb SEP 4.22 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.43 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , SEP 4.68 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.13 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.93 SEP s.1H . tb SEP 7.23 SEP t.J 56Hz,1H , SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP M.10H tb Table 3 3 EMI40.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 3 8 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP NH2 SEP 1780,1740 SEP d6 acetone d6 SEP ,DMSO tb SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.72 SEP s,2H , SEP 4.17 SEP ABq. SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.30 SEP s.1H ,. SEP 6.88 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 7.28 SEP t.J 56Hz,1H , SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 3 9 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SCH3 SEP 1780,1720,1895 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH tb SEP 2,70 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s,5H,OMe SCH2 , tb SEP 4.20 SEP ABq,J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP brs, SEP 2H tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.83 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t. SEP J 56Hz,1H , tb SEP 7.3 7.7 SEP m.1OH tb 3 10 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP COOC2H5 SEP 1785,1740 sh SEP 1.47 SEP t.J 7Hz,3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s.5H,OMe,SCH2 tb SEP 1715,1700 sh SEP 4.43 SEP ABq,J 14Hz,2H , tb SEP 450 SEP q,J 7Hz,2H , SEP 4.63 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H . SEP 6.93 SEP s t, SEP J 56Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 7,2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10Hz tb Table 4 1 1 EMI41.1 EMI41.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 1795 SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.05 SEP s,2H , SEP 4.42 SEP s,2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s,1H , SEP 6,83 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.87 SEP t.55Hz,1H , tb SEP 8.33 SEP s,1H , tb 4 1 2 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3390,1790,1725, SEP 3,57 SEP s,5H , SEP 3.97 SEP s,6H , SEP 4.25 SEP ABq,2H , tb SEP 1706,1635,1540 SEP 4,58 SEP s,2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb SEP 6.97 SEP s,1H , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.11H tb 4 1 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3870,1785,1720, SEP 3,57 SEP s,5H , SEP 3.77 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 3,96 SEP s,3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.47 SEP s,2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.70 SEP s,1H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t,. SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.17 7.67 SEP m. SEP 11H tb SEP 7.62 SEP s,1H , tb 4 1 4 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370,2230,1783, SEP 2.88 SEP t.7Hz.2H , SEP 3.55 SEP s,3H , SEP 3.40 4.67 SEP m.8H tb SEP 1717,1700 SEP 5.10 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.67 SEP s,1H , tb SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.17 7.57 SEP m.10H , tb SEP 7.62 SEP s,1H , SEP 7.73 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb Table 4 1 2 EMI42.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3880,1782,1720, SEP 3.52 SEP s.3H , SEP 3,65 4.02 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz,2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.88 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.47 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.02 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.68 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.83 SEP t, SEP 55Hz, SEP 1H . tb SEP 7.13 7.47 SEP m.11H tb 4 1 6 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1790,1710, SEP 2.27 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s.3H SEP SEP 3,60 SEP s.3H 2H tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.08,4.38 SEP q. SEP 13Hz,2H , SEP 4,58 SEP bs, SEP 2H tb SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6,95 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.07 7.67 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 4 1 7 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1785,1705 SEP 3,27 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.55 SEP bs.5H , SEP 4.00 SEP bs,2H , tb SEP 1585 SEP 4.52 SEP bs,2H , SEP 6.10 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6,95 SEP t, SEP 56Hz,1H , SEP 7.05 7.67 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 8 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1785,1705, SEP 3.58 SEP s.3H , 3.62 SEP s.3H bs,2H , tb SEP 1665,1580 SEP 3.88 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.20 SEP 4.33 SEP q, SEP 16Hz,2H , tb SEP 4.62 SEP bs,2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.97 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 58Hz,t , SEP 7.08 7.71 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 9 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3475,3400,1790, SEP 3.58 SEP s.3H 3.62 SEP s.3H 2H , tb SEP 1745,1720,1650, SEP 5.95 SEP bs,2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 1600 SEP 6.97 SEP s.2H t.2H,56Hz . tb SEP 7.12 7.62 SEP m,10H tb Table 4 1 3 EMI43.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 10 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375.2220.1790. SEP 3.75 SEP s.3H 2H , SEP 4.10 SEP bs.2H tb SEP 1726.1700 SEP 4.50 SEP bs.2H , SEP 5.13 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H tb SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.05 7.73 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 11 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380.1790.1700 SEP 3.12 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.23 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H 2H , tb SEP 3.83,4.00 SEP q. SEP 15Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.77 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.88 SEP t,55Hz,1H tb 4 1 12 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3390.1785.1720 SEP 2.33 SEP s.6H ,3.55 SEP s.5H,OMe.SCH2 , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.67 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t.J 56Hz,1H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 13 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380.1785.1725 SEP 3.55 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.28 SEP ABq. 14Hz,2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.58 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t. SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H . SEP 7.00 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.11H , SEP 8.40 SEP d,J 6Hz.2H tb 4 1 14 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3975,1785,1720, SEP 3.50 SEP bs, SEP 5H , SEP 4.07 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.45 SEP bs,2H , tb SEP 1695,1390,1075 SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 5.18 SEP bs,2H , SEP 6.58 SEP bs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.85 SEP t,1H,56Hz , SEP 6.85 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m,10H tb Table 4 1 4 EMI44.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 15 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380,1790,1720, SEP 3,52 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s.6H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.03,4.17 SEP ABq,2H,14Hz , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.87 SEP t.1H,56Hz . tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m,10H ,7.63 SEP s.1H , tb 4 1 16 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3350,3280,1780, SEP 3.07 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.50 SEP s.5H , SEP 3.92 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1750 SEP 4.50 SEP bs,2H , SEP 6.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.77 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 8.88 SEP t,1H,66Hz , SEP 6.98 7.63 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 17 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380.1790.1700 SEP 3.12 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.23 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s.5H , tb SEP 3.83,4.00 SEP ABq, SEP 2H.15Hz , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.77 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.88 SEP t,1H,56Hz tb 4 1 18 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370,1780,1720, SEP 3.55 SEP s.5H , SEP 3.73 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.10 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.53 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.88 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t,1H,56Hz , SEP 7.2 8.6 SEP m.10H , tb SEP 7.87 SEP s.1H , tb 4 1 19 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380,1785,1725, SEP 3.52 SEP s.5H , SEP 3.85 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.45 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.85 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t.1H,56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m.10H . SEP 7.83 SEP s.1H , tb Table 4 1 5 EMI45.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 20 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3885.1780.1726 SEP 3.47 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.50 SEP s.2H , SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H , tb SEP 1703,1250,1073 SEP 3.93 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.48 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.02 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.77 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.68,6.87 SEP ABq, SEP 2H.1.0Hz , tb SEP 6.92 SEP t.1H,56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 21 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370.1782.1710. SEP 2.33 SEP d.3H.1.0Hz . SEP 3.56 SEP s.6H , tb SEP 1693.1388.1257. SEP 4.08,4.40 SEP ABq,2H,15Hz , SEP 45.3 s.2H , tb SEP 1067 SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.70 SEP t, SEP 1H,1.0Hz . tb SEP mp 157 158 C SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP t,1H,56Hz . tb SEP 7.26 7.53 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 22 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380,1785,1720, SEP 3.57 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.15,442 SEP ABq.2H,13Hz , tb SEP 1702,1388,1259, SEP 4.57 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.06 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.95 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 1075 SEP 6.95 SEP t. SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m.10H tb SEP mp SEP 160 161 c tb 4 1 23 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3195,1772,1721, SEP 3.52 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.70 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.15 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1661,1248,1081 SEP 3.36 4.30 SEP m.4H , SEP 4.58 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.16 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.75 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t.1H,56Hz , tb SEP 7.09 7.73 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 24 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,2220,1790 SEP 3.57 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.10 SEP bs, SEP 2H . SEP 4.50 SEP bs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1726,1700 SEP 5.13 SEP s.1H ,6.87 SEP s.1H , SEP 6,92 SEP t.1H. SEP 56Hz . tb SEP 7.06 7.73 SEP m.10H tb Table 4 1 6 EMI46.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 25 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,2220,1790, SEP 3.57 SEP s.2H , SEP 3.58 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.98 SEP s.3H , tb SEP 1720,1700 SEP 4.12 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.15 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.90 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t. SEP 1H.56Hz , tb SEP 7.05 7.73 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 26 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,2220,1790, SEP 3.13 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s.6H , tb SEP 1720,1665 SEP 4.00,4.23 SEP ABq. SEP 2H.10Hz , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s.1H , SEP 8.87 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t.1H.56Hz , SEP 7.07 7.67 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 27 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1790,1710, SEP 2.27 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.65 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s.5H , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.08,43.8 SEP ABq. SEP 2H.13Hz . SEP 4.58 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.95 SEP t.1H.56Hz , tb SEP 7.07 7.67 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 28 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3376,1785,1706, SEP 3,27 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.55 SEP bs. SEP 5H , SEP 4.00 SEP bs,2H , tb SEP 1588 SEP 4.52 SEP bs,2H . SEP 5.10 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t.1H.56Hz . tb SEP 7.05 7.67 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 29 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380,1790,1728, SEP 3.62 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.00 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1700,1255,1078, SEP 4.59 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.67 SEP s.1H , tb SEP mp 118 120 C SEP 6.97 SEP t.1H.55Hz . tb SEP 6.70 8.0 SEP m.14H tb Table 4 1 7 EMI47.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 30 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3390,1794,1727, SEP 3.53 SEP s.3H , SEP 3,62 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1703,1260,1075 SEP 4,17,4,33 SEP ABq,2H,14,5Hz , SEP 4,56 SEP s.2H , tb SEP mp 120 125 C SEP 5.08 SEP s.1H , SEP 6,75,7.83 SEP ABq,2H,10Hz , tb SEP 6.95 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.95 SEP t,1H,56Hz , tb SEP 7,13 7,57 SEP m.10H , SEP 8.05 SEP b.1H , tb SEP 8.80 SEP s.1H , tb 4 1 31 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3385,1792,1720, SEP 3.53 SEP s.5H , SEP 4,20,4,45 SEP ABq,2H,13Hz , tb SEP 1702,1263,1074 SEP 4,16 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.88 SEP t.1H.56Hz , tb SEP 6.93 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.10,7.66 SEP ABq.2H.10Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m.10H tb 4 1 32 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3385,3220,1796, SEP 3.53 SEP s.5H , SEP 4.20 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.70 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1723,1262,1075 SEP 5.10 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.92 SEP t.1H.56Hz tb SEP mp 140 145 C SEP 6.42 7.66 SEP m. 12H , SEP 11.6 SEP bs.1H tb 4 1 33 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1785,1720, SEP 3.50 SEP bs, SEP 5H , SEP 4.07 SEP bs,2H , SEP 4.45 SEP bs.2H , tb SEP 1695,1390,1075 SEP 5.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 5.18 SEP bs.2H , SEP 6.58 SEP bs.2H , tb SEP 6.85 SEP t.56Hz,1H , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m . tb SEP 6.85 SEP s.1H , tb 4 1 34 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380,1790,1720, SEP 3.52 SEP s.3H ,3.60 SEP s.5H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.03,4.17 SEP ABq.14Hz,2H , SEP 4.52 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 6.03 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.87 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.87 SEP t.56Hz,1H , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.10H . tb SEP 7.63 SEP s.1H , tb Table 4 1 8 EMI48.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 1 35 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370,1780,1720, SEP CDC 3 CD2OD SEP 3.55 SEP s,5H , SEP 3,73 SEP s,3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.10 SEP s,2H , SEP 4.53 SEP s,2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s,1H , tb SEP 6,88 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t.56Hz,1H . tb SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.10H , SEP 7.87 SEP s,1H , tb Table 4 2 1 EMI49.1 EMI49.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1 SEP X2 SEP IR SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 2 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP CF3 SEP 3375,1767,1720, SEP 3.55 SEP s.3H 2H , SEP 3.68 SEP s.3H , SEP 4.22 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1702 SEP 4.65 SEP s.2H , SEP 5.06 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.83 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.88 SEP t.66Hz.1H . SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m.11H tb 4 2 2 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP OH SEP 3350,3280,1780 SEP 3.07 SEP s.3H , 3.60 SEP s.3H 2H SEP s , tb SEP 1705 SEP 3.92 SEP bs,2H SEP 4.50 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.77 SEP s.1H , SEP 6.88 SEP t.56Hz,1H , tb SEP 6.98 SEP m.10H tb 4 2 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP NH2 SEP CH3 SEP Nujof . SEP 1790, SEP d6 DMSO , SEP 2.28 SEP s.3H , SEP 3.50 SEP s.3H , tb SEP 1780,1715,1680 SEP 3.68 SEP s.2H , SEP 4.08 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.15 SEP s.1H , SEP 5.80 SEP brs, SEP 2H, SEP D2O SEP , tb SEP 6.90 SEP s.1H , SEP 7.37 SEP t.J 56Hz,1H , tb SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.10H tb 4 2 4 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP NH2 SEP H SEP Nuhjof , SEP 1780, SEP d4 DMSO , SEP 3,47 SEP s.3H , SEP 3,67 SEP s.2H , tb SEP 1720, SEP 1650, SEP 4.10 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 6.03 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 6.90 SEP s.1H , tb SEP 7.35 SEP t,J 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m.10H tb SEP 8.47 SEP s.1H , tb Table 4 2 2 EMI50.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X1 SEP X2 SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 2 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP NHCHO SEP H SEP 1700, SEP 1720, SEP d4MeOH CDCl3 SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1690 sh SEP 3,83 SEP brs. SEP 2H . SEP 4.10 SEP ABq. SEP J 14Hz , tb SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H . SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6,80 SEP s,1H . tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H. SEP J 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H . tb SEP 8.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.17 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 6 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP NH2 SEP CF3 SEP Nujof SEP 3330, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3,43 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3250, SEP 3100, SEP 1786, SEP 4.13 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1700, SEP 1665 SEP 6.80 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 4 2 7 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP H SEP H SEP 3180, SEP 1785, SEP 1720, SEP d6 acetone SEP CDCl3 tb SEP 1665 SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3,73 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.13, SEP 4.30 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.93 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.8 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 8.25 SEP s, SEP 2H tb 4 2 8 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP 3380, SEP 1785, SEP 1720, SEP 3.38 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 4.08 SEP s, SEP 2H . SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.87 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 8.0 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.53 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 9 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP C2H5 SEP H SEP 3380, SEP 1785, SEP 1700 SEP 1.32 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 3.82 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.18 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.87 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 7.80 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.02 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 4 2 3 EMI51.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X1 SEP X2 SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 2 10 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2OH SEP H SEP 3390, SEP 3150, SEP 1785, SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.5 4.3 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 4.52 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.73 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 72. 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H . tb SEP 7.95 SEP s, SEP 2H tb 4 2 11 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2CN SEP H SEP 3390, SEP 2250, SEP 1790, SEP 2.68 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1720, SEP 1705, SEP 1500, SEP 3.88, SEP 4.25 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.07 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 1395, SEP 1075 SEP 4.60 SEP bs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.80 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 7.98 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.17 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 12 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2N SEP H SEP 3370, SEP 1785, SEP 1720, SEP 2.20 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 2.50 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H . tb SEP CH3 2 SEP 1700 SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.87 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.17 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP s, SEP H . tb SEP 7.03 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 8.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.22 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 13 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CO2C2H5 SEP H SEP 3380, SEP 1785, SEP 1750, SEP 1.27 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 5H tb SEP 1710 SEP 3.8 5.0 SEP m, SEP 8H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.77 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 8.00 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 14 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH2CH2SO2 SEP H SEP 3.42 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP NH2 SEP 4.13 4.50 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 6.77 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m . tb SEP 8.17 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 4 2 4 EMI52.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X1 SEP X2 SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 4 2 15 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP H SEP 2380, SEP 1785, SEP 1720, SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.00, SEP 4.17 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.80 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.1 7.7 m, SEP 12H , tb SEP 8.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.20 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.55 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP 3Hz , tb SEP 8.68 SEP dd, SEP 1H, SEP 4Hz, SEP 2Hz tb 4 2 16 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP 3380, SEP 1785, SEP 1725, SEP 2.20 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.27 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 3.65 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.00 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.06 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.82 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 4 2 17 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP CH3 SEP NH2 SEP 3380, SEP 1785, SEP 1725, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD tb SEP 1700M, SEP 1620 SEP 3.25 SEP s, SEP 3H ,3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.63, SEP 4.03 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.50 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.78 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.2 7.7 SEP m, SEP 10H tb EMI53.1 EMI53.2 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 1 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2N CH3 2 SEP 5430, SEP 3260, SEP 1775, SEP D2O SEP 3.01 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.68 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1665, SEP 1628 SEP 3.76 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.07 SEP d, SEP 13Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP mp SEP 1620 3.5 C SEP 4.23 SEP d, SEP 13Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 4.61 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.89 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.20 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.11 SEP t, SEP 55Hz, SEP 1H tb 5 2 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH3 SEP 3500, SEP 3270, SEP 2600, SEP d6 acetone . SEP 1.50 SEP t, SEP 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.47 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1783, SEP 1700M, SEP 1634 SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP q, SEP 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.52 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H0, SEP 5.07 SEP bs, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.30 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb 5 3 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP d6 acetone SEP 1.1 1.4 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 3.3 3.7 SEP m, SEP 1H , tb SEP 3366, SEP 3600, SEP 1783, SEP 3.47 SEP s, SEP 3H . SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.37 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 1704, SEP 1635, SEP 1600 SEP 4.65 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.92 SEP bs, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 58Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.30 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb 5 4 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2OH SEP Nujol SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.47 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 3270, SEP 1782,m SEP 1690, SEP 3.93 SEP t, SEP 5Hz, SEP 2H0, SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1637 SEP 4.42 SEP t, SEP 5Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP mp SEP 53 56 C SEP 6.90 SEP br, SEP 1H , SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.30 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb Table 5 2 EMI54.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 5 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2SCH3 SEP Nujol SEP 3270, SEP d6 acetone SEP 2.10 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.03 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 2590, SEP 1782, SEP 1700, SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 4,37 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1635 SEP 4.57 SEP 9t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.68 SEP 9s, SEP 2H0, SEP 5.12 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.63 SEP bs, SEP 1H , SEP 8.25 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb 5 6 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP H SEP Nujol SEP 1790, SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.47 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1770 SEP 3.97 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 58Hz, SEP 1H tb 5 7 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2OCH3 SEP KBr SEP 3280 SEP br , SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1795 br SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.43 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.15 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.27 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb 5 8 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH CH2 SEP KBr SEP 3275 SEP br , SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1700 br SEP 4.38 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.68 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.9 6.3 SEP m, SEP 6H , tb SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H tb 5 9 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2OCH3 SEP KBr SEP 3280 SEP br , SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.28 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 3.80 SEP 9s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.83 SEP t, SEP 4Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.37 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1720 1690 SEP 4.57 SEP t, SEP 4Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H tb 5 10 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH CH3 2 SEP KBr SEP 1780, SEP d6 acetone SEP 0.95 SEP d, SEP 7Hz, SEP 6H , SEP 2.23 SEP q, SEP 7Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.17 SEP d, SEP 2H , SEP 4.40 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 5 3 EMI55.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 11 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CN SEP KBr SEP 3310, SEP 2980, SEP CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 2940, SEP 1785, SEP 1700, SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1068 SEP 5.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 5 12 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2CN SEP Nujol SEP 3250, SEP DMSO SEP 3.15 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.7Hz , SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP br, SEP 2700br, SEP 2248, SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.52 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1783, SEP 1708, SEP 1688, SEP 4.58 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.7Hz , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1068 SEP 7.28 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 13 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CO2CH3 SEP KBr SEP 3300, SEP CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3000, SEP 1785, SEP 1755, SEP 3.82 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1705, SEP 1070 SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb 5 14 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CO2C2H5 SEP Nujol SEP 1762, SEP DMSO SEP 1.22 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7.5Hz , SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1688, SEP 1605, SEP 1228, SEP 3.65 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.20 SEP q, SEP 2H,. SEP 7.5Hz , tb SEP 1066 SEP 4.15, SEP 4.41 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.38 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.95 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.38 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.32 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 15 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CONH2 SEP KBr SEP 3420, SEP CD3OD SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3340, SEP 1785, SEP 1690, SEP 4.27 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1070 SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.08 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 5 16 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CONHCH3 SEP KBr SEP 340, SEP CD3OD SEP 2.80 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1680, SEP 1068 SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP bs, SEP 3H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 5 4 EMI56.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 17 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CON CH3 2 SEP KBr SEP 3270, SEP CD3OD SEP 2.98 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.17 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 3000, SEP 1785, SEP 1715, SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.27 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1660, SEP 1070 SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.43 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 7.13 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 18 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2COCH3 SEP Nujol SEP 1766, SEP DMSO SEP 2.27 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1730, SEP 1683, SEP 1126, SEP 3.66 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.93, SEP 4.32 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , tb SEP 1062 SEP 4.33 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.92 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 7.33 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 19 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2 CH CH3 SEP Nujol SEP 1762, SEP DMSO SEP 1.30 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 2.70 SEP m, SEP 1H , tb SEP OH SEP 1680, SEP 1605 SEP 3.33 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.93 4.50 SEP m, SEP 7H , tb SEP 4.87 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.30 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 20 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2CO2H SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP CD3COCD3 SEP 3.03 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 1720, SEP 1700 SEP 3.45 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.53 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.21 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.20 SEP bs, SEP 1H tb 5 21 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CO2H SEP Nujol SEP 1770, SEP DMSo SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1710, SEP 1680 SEP 4.30, SEP 4.43 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.26 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 5 5 EMI57.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 22 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2CO2CH3 SEP KBr SEP 3400 SEP CD3OD SEP 3.05 SEP 1, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1775, SEP 1740, SEP 1690, SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.68 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.35 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1615, SEP 1205, SEP 1065 SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H0, SEP 4.57 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.13 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 5 23 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2CO2C2H5 SEP KBr SEP 3400, SEP CD3OD SEP 1.20 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.02 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 1775, SEP 1733, SEP 1690, SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.10 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 1615, SEP 1206, SEP 1067 SEP 4.32 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.08 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 24 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2CONH2 SEP Nujol SEP 1790, SEP DMSO SEP 2.73 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1708, SEP 1680 SEP 3.65 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.43 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.01 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP b, SEP 2H tb SEP 7.33 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . SEP 7.40 SEP b, SEP 1H tb 5 25 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2SO2NH2 SEP KBr SEP 3310, SEP CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3270, SEP 1785, SEP 1710, SEP 3.72 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.27 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1695, SEP 1520, SEP 1338, SEP 4.78 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1150, SEP 1067 SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 5 26 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CONH SEP Nujol SEP 1670, SEP d6 acetone d6 DMSO SEP 3.47 SEP 3H, SEP s , tb SEP 1780 SEP 3.72 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.32 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 6.80 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 7.20 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.92 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 8.98 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 5 6 EMI58.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 27 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CONH SEP Najoe SEP 1670, SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.48 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.75 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1775 SEP 4.32 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4,83 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.75 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 6.6 8.10 SEP m, SEP 3H tb 5 28 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CONHCONH2 SEP Nujol SEP 1710, SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.48 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3,75 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1760 SEP 4.27 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.42 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.17 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 5 29 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2SO3H SEP KBr SEP 3440, SEP d6 acetone CD3OD SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 2600, SEP 1778, SEP 1684, SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.31 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.64 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1860, SEP 1511 SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.26 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 58Hz, SEP 1H tb 5 30 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2 OH SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.10 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3,47 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 3.71 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.23 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.47 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz . tb SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.66, SEP 6.86 SEP ABq, SEP 4H, SEP 8Hz , SEP 7.17 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , tb 5 31 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP C CH3 2CO2H SEP d6 acetone SEP 1.97 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.42 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.12 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 58Hz tb 5 32 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CH2OCONH2 SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.36 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.3 4.7 SEP m, SEP 4H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 5 7 EMI59.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 5 33 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH CH2 SEP d6 acetoen SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.75 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP HO SEP 4.45 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.72 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb 5 34 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2C NH SEP 5.52 SEP dd, SEP 1H, SEP 2Hz, SEP 9Hz , tb SEP O SEP 5.97 SEP dd, SEP 1H, SEP 2Hz, SEP 16Hz , tb SEP 7.23 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.27 SEP dd, SEP 1H, SEP 9Hz, SEP 16Hz tb SEP N SEP CH3 tb 5 35 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CNH SEP Nujol SEP 1690, SEP d6 acetone CD3OD SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP O SEP N SEP OH SEP 1780, SEP 3230 SEP 3.29 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.64 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.11 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.50 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 6.70 7.15 SEP m, SEP 4H , tb SEP 7.22 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 6 1 EMI60.1 EMI60.2 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 6 1 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP NH2 SEP nujol SEP 3170, SEP 1780, SEP d6 DMSO SEP 7.31 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 5.01 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1675 SEP 4.50 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.10 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 8.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H tb 6 2 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP H SEP KBr , SEP 1783, SEP 1692 SEP d6 acetone SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H, SEP OMe SEP 3.73 SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP SCH2 tb SEP 4.60 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H, SEP CH2S SEP 4.68 SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP H tb SEP 5.15 SEP S, SEP 1H, SEP C6 H SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H, SEP CF2H tb 6 3 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2 SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP 1670 SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H, SEP OMe , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 tb SEP NHBoc SEP 4.40 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 4H, SEP CH2 2 , SEP 503 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.13 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 6 4 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2OH SEP Nujol , SEP 1780, SEP 1690 SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H, SEP OMe , SEP 380 SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , tb SEP 4.40 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , SEP 4.93 SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , tb SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H, SEP C6. SEP H , SEP 7.13 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 6 5 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2OCH2COOBH SEP Nujol , SEP 1785, SEP 1710, SEP d4 SEP MeOH SEP 3.60 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP OMe , SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , tb SEP 1690 SEP 4.22 SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , SEP 4.37 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , SEP 4.93 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , SEP 5.07, SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J 56Hz tb Table 6 2 EMI61.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 6 6 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2CN SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP CDCl3 d4 SEP MeOH SEP 3.60 SEP t, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700 sh , SEP 1680 SEP 4.43 SEP br, SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.77 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56HZ tb 6 7 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2 SEP KBr , SEP 1783, SEP 1735, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP br. SEP t, SEP 2H , tb SEP COOMe SEP 1703 SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.42 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP br, SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.83 SEP brs, SEP 2H0, SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 6 8 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH2 SEP Nujol SEP 1775, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.52 SEP t, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP COOMe SEP 1700 SEP broad SEP 4.37 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.83 SEP br. SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 6 9 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP NH2 SEP KBr , SEP 1780, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.57 SEP t, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP t, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1673 SEP br , SEP 1628 SEP 4.17 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 6 10 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SMe SEP Nujol , SEP 1780, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 2.77 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700 sh , SEP 1690 SEP 4.33 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.08 SEP t, SEP 56HZ, SEP 1H tb 6 11 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP COOEt SEP KBr , SEP 1785, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 1.43 SEP t, SEP 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1740 sh , SEP 1722 SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.50 SEP q, SEP 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 6 3 EMI62.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 6 12 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP CH3 SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP d4 MeOH SEP SEP 2.70 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1720 ab , SEP 3.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 7 1 EMI63.1 EMI63.2 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 7 1 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 1782 1752 br , SEP CD3COCD3 SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1697, SEP 1542 SEP 3.74 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP brS, SEP 2H , SEP 4.65 SEP brS, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.12 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1 , SEP 8.33 SEP brS, SEP 1H tb 7 2 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1783, SEP CD3COCD3 SEP SEP 3.50 4.05 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 1685, SEP 1630, SEP 1530 SEP 4.62 SEP brS, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.22 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 7 3 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP CD3COCD3 SEP SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.33 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.67 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 7 4 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3340, SEP 1788, SEP d6 acetone SEP SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3,75 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 1700, SEP 1640 SEP 3.83 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 4.28 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.70 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.12 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.25 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 57Hz tb Table 7 2 EMI64.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 7 5 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 1787, SEP 1749, SEP 1704 SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.97 SEP S, SEP 6H , tb SEP 1682 SEP 4.23 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.58 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.20 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.68 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 7 6 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3320, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 2.27 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP 1786, SEP 1705, SEP 1635 SEP 3.63 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.56 SEP 2H, SEP brS , SEP 3.77 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP Rf 0.382 SEP EtOAc SEP 4.25, SEP 4.41 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.58 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 SEP 5.05 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.02 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb 7 7 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3200, SEP 1785, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3,47 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 1710, SEP 1585 SEP 3.55 SEP 3H,S SEP SEP 3.58 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.10, tb SEP Rf 0.276 SEP EtOAc SEP 4.27 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 15Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.08 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 SEP 7.07 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb 7 8 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3200, SEP 1780, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.57 SEP 2H, SEP brS , tb SEP 1700, SEP 1650 SEP 3.57 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.93 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP 4.28, SEP 4.42 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 14Hz , tb SEP Rf 0.311 SEP EtOAc SEP 4.58 SEP 2H, SEP brS , SEP 5.07 SEP 1H, SEP S SEP 7.02 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 tb Table 7 3 EMI65.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 7 9 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3200, SEP 1760, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.66 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.70 3H, SEP S SEP 2H , tb SEP 1745, SEP 1725, SEP 1680, SEP 4.35 SEP 2H, SEP brS , SEP 4.60 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.07 SEP 1H,S , tb SEP 1630 SEP 7.00 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP Rf SEP SEP 0.281 SEP EtOAc SEP tb SEP HOAc SEP SEP H2O 5 1 1 tb 7 10 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3150, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.56 SEP 3H,S 2H , tb SEP 2200, SEP 1780, SEP 1650 SEP 4.18 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.56 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.05 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP Rf 0.554 SEP EtOAc SEP 6.98 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 tb 7 11 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3260, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 2220, SEP 1780, SEP 1700 SEP 4.08 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP 4.25 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP Rf 0.417 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP 5.12 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.05 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP HOAc H2O 18 1 1 tb 7 12 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3275, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.37 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 2220, SEP 1795, SEP 1720, SEP 3.57 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.13, SEP 4.3 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 14Hz , tb SEP 1650 SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.13 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.03 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56hz tb SEP Rf 0.364 SEP EtOAc tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 tb Table 7 4 EMI66.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 7 13 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3250, SEP CDCl3 CD3Cl SEP 3.27 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 1790, SEP 1700 SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.00 SEP 2H, SEP S tb SEP Rf 0.20 EtOAc SEP SEP Ca SEP 4.50 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.12 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.07 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 tb 7 14 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3250, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.25 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.45 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 1790, SEP 1690 SEP 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 2H , SEP 3.98 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.55 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP Rf 0.40 SEP EtOAc SEP 6.08 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.02 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 tb 7 15 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 1780, SEP 1706 SEP d6 acetone SEP 0.95 SEP d, SEP 7Hz, SEP 6H , tb SEP 2.23 SEP quint, SEP 7Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 3.77 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.17 SEP d, SEP 2H , SEP 4,40 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.70 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.27 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 7 16 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP 1710 SEP d4MeOH SEP 2.07 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.30 SEP ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.90 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 7 5 EMI67.1 N SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 7 17 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP 1690 SEP d4MeOH 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 2H tb SEP 4.27 SEP ABq SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.00 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.10 SEP t, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.53 SEP d, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 2H tb 7 18 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3230, SEP 1785, SEP d4 MeOH SEP 2.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1690, SEP 1630 SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.13 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP S, SEP 2H . tb SEP 5.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.07 SEP t SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 7 19 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1770, SEP 1660 SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.13 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.08 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 7 20 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1775, SEP 1700 SEP d4 MeOH SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1850 sh SEP 4.13 SEP S, SEP 2H . SEP 4.53 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.07 SEP T, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.33 SEP S, SEP 1H tb Table 7 6 EMI68.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 21 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3320, SEP 3280, SEP d4MeOH SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3210, SEP 1785, SEP 1700 SEP 4.23 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.12 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.15 SEP s, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 7 22 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3260, SEP 1775, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.17 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP s, SEP 1H, SEP 5HHz , tb SEP 8.22 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 23 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 1780, SEP 1695 SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.68 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.95, SEP 4.22 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , tb SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP s, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 8.35 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 24 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 1785, SEP 1695 SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 1.45 SEP s, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 3.52 SEP 2, SEP 5H , SEP 4.03 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.08 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP s, SEP 1H,56Hz , tb SEP 8.33 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 7 7 EMI69.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 25 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3400, SEP 1789, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1693 SEP 3.6 4.3 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.03 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.50 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 26 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3360, SEP 2262, SEP 3.05 SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1695, SEP 1510, SEP 4.10 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.43 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1065 SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.70 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 27 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 1783, SEP 1680 SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 2.97 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 3.63 SEP b SEP s, SEP 4H , SEP 4.56 SEP b SEP s, SEP 4H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H tb SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.67 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 28 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3300, SEP 1786, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 1.32 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 1750, SEP 1700 SEP 3.92, SEP 4.18 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , SEP 4.27 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 4.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.83 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.38 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 7 8 EMI70.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 29 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3390, SEP 1780, SEP DMSO SEP 3.38 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.45 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 1690, SEP 1510, SEP 1335, SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.07 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.35 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 1160, SEP 1065 SEP 4.53 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.28 SEP s, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.62 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 30 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3420, SEP 1785, SEP CD3Cl CD3OD SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1695 SEP 4.00, SEP 4.17 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , SEP 4.50 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.5, SEP 7.9 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 8.52 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 8.7 SEP m, SEP 2H tb 7 31 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3420, SEP 1782, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 2.48 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 3.92, SEP 4.15 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , tb SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 32 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3360, SEP 1782, SEP CDCl3 DMSO SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 6H , SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1685 SEP 3.98 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.48 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 7 9 EMI71.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 33 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3420, SEP 3340, SEP CD3OD SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1780, SEP 1690, SEP 1065 SEP 4.12, SEP 4.35 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.42 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 34 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3280, SEP 1783, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.82 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.18 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.83 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 35 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3250, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.25 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.45 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1790. SEP 1690 SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.98 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 36 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 1785, SEP 1700 SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.85 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 4.00, SEP 4.20 SEP ABq, SEP H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.02 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.72 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.98 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 C7 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.90 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.67 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 7 10 EMI72.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 38 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1785, SEP CD3COCD3 SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.80 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1668 SEP 3.92 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.10, SEP 4.40 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , tb SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56H , tb SEP 7.47, SEP 7.62 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 1.5Hz tb 7 39 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3180, SEP DMSO SEP 2.30 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 1.0Hz , SEP 3.38 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1780, SEP 1704, SEP 1660, SEP 3.63 s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.10, SEP 4.30 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , tb SEP 1061 SEP 4.48 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.18 SEP q,1H,1.0Hz , tb SEP 7.30 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 40 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1778, SEP DMSO SEP 3.40 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 SEP s,2H , SEP 4.28 SEP bs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1680, SEP 1060 SEP 4.50. SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.30 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.70 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 41 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP DMSO SEP 3.40 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.13 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1686 SEP 4.41 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 7.30 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 9.21 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 42 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3150, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.18 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 2220, SEP 1780, SEP 1650 SEP 4.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 7 11 EMI73.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 43 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3260, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.08 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 2220, SEP 1780, SEP 4.25 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.12 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 44 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3275, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.37 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 2220, SEP 1795, SEP 4.13, SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1720, SEP 1650 SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.03 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 45 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3320, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 2.27 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1705, SEP 3.56 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.25, SEP 4.41 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , tb SEP 1635 SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 46 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nojol SEP 3200, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.47 SEP 9s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1710, SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.10, SEP 4.27 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 15Hz , tb SEP 1585 SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 47 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3180, SEP DMSO SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.00 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1683 SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.00 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.32 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , tb SEP 6.63 SEP . SEP 8.63 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 9.33 SEP b, SEP 1H tb Table 7 12 EMI74.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 7 48 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1782, SEP DMSO SEP 3.42 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1693 SEP 4.07, SEP 4.66 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.28 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.40, SEP 8.17 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 10Hz , SEP 9.25 SEP b, SEP 1H , tb SEP 9.40 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 7 49 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 3270, SEP DMSO SEP 3.43 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.66 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1785, SEP 1700, SEP 1068 SEP 4.20, SEP 4.53 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.15 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , tb SEP 7.73, SEP 8.60 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 10Hz tb 7 50 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP 1780, SEP DMSO SEP 3.37 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 SEP s,2H , tb SEP 1715, SEP 1685 SEP 4.30 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.92 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.70, SEP 7.46 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 9.0Hz , SEP 7.28 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 7 51 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP KBr SEP 3280, SEP 1783, SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.82 SEP S,3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.18 SEP S, SEP 2H SEP 4.55 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP Rf 0.14 SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.83 SEP S, SEP 1H tb SEP HOAc 18 1 1 tb Table 8 1 EMI75.1 EMI75.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 1 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2N CH3 2 SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 2.28 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 2.76 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.27 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.30 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.88 SEP d, SEP 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.08 SEP d, SEP 6Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.96 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.43 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 8 2 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP C2H5 SEP 3370, SEP 1791, SEP 1754, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 1.51 SEP , SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.51 SEP S,3H , tb SEP 1699, SEP 1632 SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.22 SEP q. SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.30 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.93 SEP q, SEP 10Hz, SEP 6Hz , SEP 2H , SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.33 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 3 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1.2 1.3 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.2 3.6 SEP m, SEP 1H , tb SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 4.33 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 9Hz, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.27 SEP S, SEP 1H tb Table 8 2 EMI76.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 4 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2OH SEP 3390, SEP 1791, SEP 1753, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1702, SEP 1633 SEP 4.20 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.80 4.50 SEP m, SEP 4H , tb SEP 4.58 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.83 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.00 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.48 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 8 5 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2SCH3 SEP 3390, SEP 1790, SEP 1753, SEP 1.25 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 2.12 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 2.98 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1704 SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.32 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.45 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.65 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.86 SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 6.01 SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.3 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 6 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CHF2 SEP 3370, SEP 1787, SEP 1745, SEP 1.25 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.60 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.25, SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.68 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.10 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.88, SEP 6.03 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.97 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.45 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP 7.58 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 58Hz tb 8 7 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP H SEP 3393, SEP 1792, SEP 1754, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP b SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 3.90 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1701, SEP 1632 SEP 4.27 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 6.0Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb Table 8 3 EMI77.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 8 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2OCH3 SEP 3360, SEP 1785, SEP 1745, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.40 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1690 SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.33 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.68 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.12 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.92 6.07 SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz , SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.58 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 9 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH CH2 SEP 3370, SEP 1790, SEP 1750, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1695 SEP 4.35 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.8 6.2 SEP m, SEP 5H , tb SEP 5.13 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.92 6.07 SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz , tb SEP 6.89 SEP t, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.58 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 10 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2OCH3 SEP 3370, SEP 1790, SEP 1757, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.28 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.80 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 4Hz , SEP 4.32 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.47 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 4Hz , SEP 4.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.13 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.88 SEP SEP 6.07 SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz , SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 54Hz , tb SEP 7.65 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 11 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CN SEP 3380, SEP 2960, SEP 1795, SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1755, SEP 1700, SEP 1390, SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 5.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.85, SEP 5.98 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 8 4 EMI78.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 12 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2CN SEP 3380, SEP 2950, SEP 2240, SEP 1.25 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.08 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1790, SEP 1750, SEP 1700, SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 8Hz . tb SEP 1385, SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 5.88, SEP 6.02 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.37 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 4.65 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 13 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2COOCH3 SEP 3375, SEP 2950, SEP 1790, SEP 1.25 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP H , tb SEP 1755, SEP 1700, SEP 1385, SEP 3.82 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.28 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 5.85, SEP 5.98 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 8 14 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2COOC2H5 SEP 3380, SEP 1790, SEP 1755, SEP 1.42 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 1.47 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 1702, SEP 1386, SEP 1255, SEP 4.28 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.28 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1115, SEP 1068 SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H . tb SEP 5.87, SEP 6.00 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.23 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 15 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CONH2 SEP 3360, SEP 2960, SEP 1790, SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1750, SEP 1730, SEP 1700, SEP 4.23 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 1390, SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.83, SEP 5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 8 5 EMI79.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 16 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CONHCH3 SEP 3360, SEP 2955, SEP 1790, SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.85 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 5Hz , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1750, SEP 1690, SEP 1390, SEP 3.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1115, SEP 1065 SEP 4.98 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.83, SEP 6.00 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.48 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 17 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CON CH3 2 SEP 3375, SEP 2950, SEP 1785, SEP 1.22 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.98 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.12 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1750, SEP 1700, SEP 1675. SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.22 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1390, SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 4.62 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.17 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.85, SEP 5.98 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.30 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 18 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2COCH3 SEP 3375, SEP 1786, SEP 1750, SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.30 SEP s, SEP 3H . SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700, SEP 1255, SEP 1112, SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.22 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.59 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1066 SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.17 SEP s, SEP 2H . tb SEP 5.87, SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.30 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 19 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CHCH3 SEP 3380, SEP 3130, SEP 1792, SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 1.32 SEP d, SEP 3H , SEP 6Hz , tb SEP OH SEP 1751, SEP 1700, SEP 1256, SEP 2.4 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 5H , SEP 4.20 SEP b SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 1113, SEP 1069 SEP 5.05 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.87, SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6H , tb SEP 6.87 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.23 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 8 6 EMI80.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 20 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2CO2CH3 SEP 3380, SEP 2960, SEP 1790, SEP 1.22 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.00 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1740, SEP 1700, SEP 1385, SEP 3.58 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.70 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.30 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1115, SEP 1070 SEP 4.48 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.65 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.87, SEP 6.00 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.35 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 8 21 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2CO2C2H5 SEP 1.22 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 1.23 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , tb SEP 2.98 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP b SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.15 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.30 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.45 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.85, SEP 5.98 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz , SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 8 22 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2CONH2 SEP 3480, SEP 3400, SEP 1795, SEP 1.22 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.93 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7.3Hz , tb SEP 1758, SEP 1697, SEP 1260, SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.59 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.23 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1120, SEP 1075 SEP 4.47 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7.3Hz , SEP 4.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.09 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.90, SEP 5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , tb SEP 6.0 SEP b, SEP 2H , SEP 7.0 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.8 SEP b, SEP 1H tb 8 23 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2SO2NH2 SEP 3350, SEP 3270, SEP 2970, SEP 1.21 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1790, SEP 1755, SEP 1700, SEP 3.67 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.23 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1395, SEP 1060, SEP 1037 SEP 4.70 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.80, SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 8.30 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 8 7 EMI81.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 8 24 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CH2N CH3 2 SEP 3400, SEP 3150, SEP 2400 SEP d6 acetone SEP SEP 1.20 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.03 SEP s, SEP 6H . tb SEP HCl SEP SEP 2600, SEP 1790, SEP 3.45 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.77 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 3.85 SEP t, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1750, SEP 1695, SEP 1649 SEP 4.28 SEP d, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 1H SEP SEP 4.45 SEP d, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 4.73 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.95 SEP , SEP J 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 5.20 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.83 SEP d, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 1H SEP SEP 6.03 SEP d, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.30 SEP t, SEP J 58Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 9 1 EMI82.1 EMI82.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 9 1 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP H SEP 1785, SEP 1740, SEP 1700 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.47 SEP ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.95 SEP ABq, SEP J 6Hz , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 9 2 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2OCH2COOH SEP 1785, SEP 1750, SEP 1710 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 18H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP br SEP s, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , tb SEP 4.23 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.37 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.60 SEP b SEP r SEP S, SEP 2H, SEP CH2 , SEP 4.97 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.80 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP J 5Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J 56Hz tb 9 3 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH3 SEP 1785, SEP 1745, SEP 1695 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH tb SEP SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.73 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP b SEP r. SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP J 6Hz , tb SEP 6.98 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP J 56Hz tb Table 9 2 EMI83.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 9 4 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2OH SEP 1780, SEP 1740, SEP 1695 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP brS, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.38 SEP ABq, SEP J 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP brS, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.00 SEP brS, SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.95 SEP ABq, SEP J 8Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H. SEP J 56Hz tb 9 5 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2CN SEP 1790, SEP 1750, SEP 1700 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.22 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.38 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 58Hz tb 9 6 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2COOMe SEP 1790, SEP 1740, SEP 1700 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP b SEP r SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 3.78 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 4.13 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.38 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP b SEP r SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.95 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 9 7 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP NH2 SEP 1785, SEP 1750, SEP 1695 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP br SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.17 SEP br, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP b SEP r SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.92 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 9 8 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SMe SEP 1785, SEP 1750, SEP 1700 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH SEP 5 1 tb SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 2.77 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP s, SEP 5H , tb SEP 4.33 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.83 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 9 3 EMI84.1 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 9 9 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP COOE SEP t SEP 1790, SEP 1745, SEP 1720, SEP 1.25 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 1.43 SEP t, SEP 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP s, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP sh SEP 3.63 SEP b SEP r. SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.50 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.53 SEP q, SEP 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 SEP b SEP r SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP s, SEP 1H , SEP 5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 9 10 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2NHBOC SEP 3450, SEP 3380, SEP 1790, SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 1.47 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1756, SEP 1710 SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.37 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 4H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 9 11 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP CH2NH2 SEP 1790, SEP 1750, SEP 1690 SEP 1.23 SEP s, SEP 9H , SEP 3.55 SEP s, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.30 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.43 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP b SEP r SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 5.13 SEP s, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.90 SEP ABq, SEP J 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 10 1 EMI85.1 EMI85.2 No SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 1 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1780, SEP 1745, SEP 1685 SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.49 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 3.59 SEP brs, SEP 5H , tb SEP 1670, SEP 1630, SEP 1530 SEP 3.88 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.10 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.90 SEP ABq, SEP 5.5Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H tb 10 2 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1784, SEP 1750, SEP 1700, SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 4.25 SEP m, SEP 7H , SEP 4.62 SEP bs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1630, SEP 1566 SEP 5.16, SEP 5.82 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 57Hz, SEP 1H , tb SEP 10.87 SEP b SEP s, SEP 1H tb 10 3 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1790, SEP 1756, SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.55 SEP 3H 2H, SEP S , SEP 3.70 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 1703 SEP 4.25 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.67 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.08 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.83, SEP 5.98 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.95 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 55Hz tb 10 4 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1785, SEP 1745, SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.58 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.45 4.00 SEP 4H, SEP m , tb SEP 1695 SEP 4.15 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 4.58 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.17 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.70, SEP 6.03 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 5Hz , SEP 4.27 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.75 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 8.05 SEP 1H, SEP S tb Table 10 2 EMI86.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP vmax SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 5 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370,2240.1 SEP 1.20 SEP 9H, SEP S SEP 3.15 SEP 2H, SEP t, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP 1740,1695 SEP 3.67 SEP 2H, SEP b SEP , SEP 3.67 4.90 SEP 6H, SEP m , SEP 5,13 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.67, SEP 5.82 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz , SEP 7.05 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7,77 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 7.92 SEP 1H, SEP b tb 10 6 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380.1782,1745 SEP 1.22 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.62 SEP 2H, SEP b SEP . tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.72, SEP 4.07 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 12Ht , SEP 4.17 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.08 SEP 1H, SEP S , tb SEP 5.75, SEP 5.95 SEP 2H, SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz , SEP 7.02 SEP 1H, SEP , SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.55 SEP 2H, SEP S tb 10 7 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,1790,1750 SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 2.25 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.52 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP 1700.1550 SEP 3.60 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 3.72 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP R 0.423 EtoAc SEP 4.123, SEP 4.47 SEP 2H, SEP 1. SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP b SEP . tb SEP 5.07 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.90, SEP 6.03 SEP 2H, SEP 1. SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.97 SEP 1H, SEP 1, SEP 56Hz tb 10 8 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3376,1790.1750 SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.50 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S tb SEP 1710.1500 SEP 3.67 SEP 2H, SEP b , SEP 4.08 SEP 2H, SEP b , SEP 4.62 SEP 2H, SEP b . tb SEP uf 0.364 EtoAc SEP 5.15 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.92 SEP 2H, SEP b , SEP 7.03 SEP 1H, SEP , SEP 56Hz tb Table 10 3 EMI87.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 9 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,1785,1695. SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.60 SEP 2H, SEP bs , tb SEP 1580 SEP 3.73 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.92 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 4.17, SEP 4.43 SEP 2H, SEP q. SEP 16Hz , tb SEP R 0.296 SEP EtoAc SEP 4.62 SEP 2H, SEP b , SEP 5.08 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.92,6.05 2H,q.6Hz . tb SEP 7.03 SEP 1H, SEP t. SEP 56Hz tb 10 10 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3350,1775,1735, SEP 1.23 SEP 18H.S , SEP 3.53 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.58 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 1680,1655 SEP 3.70 SEP 3H.S , SEP 4.10, SEP 4.43 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 11Hz . tb SEP Rf 0.322 Nenzene SEP SEP 4.60 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.07 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.87 SEP 2H, SEP S . tb SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 1 2 SEP 5.88, SEP 6.02 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP J 6Hz , SEP 6.95 SEP 1H, SEP 1, SEP 56 SEP Hz tb 10 11 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,2220.1790. SEP 1.23 SEP 18H, SEP S , SEP 3.55 SEP 3H, SEP S SEP SEP 3.60 SEP 2H, SEP S tb SEP 1750,1695 SEP 4.17 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.13 SEP 1H, SEP S tb SEP RF 0.319 Nenzene SEP 5,83, SEP 5.97 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 6Hxz , SEP 6.03 SEP 2H, SEP S . tb SEP EtoAC SEP SEP 2 1 SEP 6.97. SEP 1H, SEP 1. SEP 56Hz tb 10 12 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3400,2230,1800. SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S . SEP 3.55 2H, SEP S 3.58 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP 1760,1710 SEP 4.07 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 4.15 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP Rf 0.293 Benzene SEP SEP 5.13 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.82, SEP 5.95 SEP 2H, SEP q, SEP 6Hz . tb SEP EtoAc SEP SEP 2 1 SEP 6.95 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb 10 13 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,3200,1790. SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.22 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.50 SEP 3H, SEP S . tb SEP 1710 SEP 3.63 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 4.05 SEP 2H, SEP b , SEP 4.60 SEP 2H, SEP b . tb SEP Rf 0.329 SEP EtoAc SEP 5.12 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.83, SEP 5.93 SEP 2H, SEP q. SEP J. SEP SEP 6Hz tb SEP 6.85 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb Table 10 4 EMI88.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 14 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1750. SEP 1.23 SEP 9H, SEP S , SEP 3.20 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.43 SEP 3H, SEP S , tb SEP 1705 SEP 3.52 SEP 3H, SEP S , SEP 3.62 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 3.98 SEP 2H, SEP S , tb SEP R 0.333 SEP SEP EtoAc SEP 4.57 SEP 2H, SEP S , SEP 5.10 SEP 1H, SEP S , SEP 5.82,5,95 2H,q,6Hz , tb SEP 6.97 SEP 1H, SEP t, SEP 56Hz tb 10 15 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1785,1720 SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2.40 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 5H , tb SEP 4.30 SEP ABq. SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP S. SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.30 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.73 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 10 16 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1790,1755,1705 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH SEP 1 1 SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , tb SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 5H , SEP 4.25 SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP S. SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.03 SEP S. SEP 1H , SEP 5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H . tb SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 6Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.50 SEP d, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H tb 10 17 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3360,1785,1750 SEP 1.27 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 2.45 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.53 SEP S. SEP 3H , tb SEP 1730.1700 SEP 3.70 SEP S. SEP 2H , SEP 4.00 SEP br, SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP br. SEP S , tb SEP 5.03 SEP brS, SEP 2H . SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H . tb SEP 5.87 SEP ABq,6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 7.03 SEP , SEP 56Hz, SEP 1H tb Table 10 5 EMI89.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 18 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1790,1740,1700 SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH SEP 1.23 SEP S, SEP 9H , SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 3.57 SEP S,2H , SEP 4.07 SEP ABq, SEP 14Ht, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.30 SEP br SEP S. SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP S. SEP 1H , SEP 5.83 SEP ABq,6Hz,2H . tb SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 56Ht. SEP 1H , SEP 8.33 SEP S,1H tb 10 19 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1740, SEP CDCl3 d4MeOH SEP 1.23 SEP . SEP 18H , SEP 3.47 SEP S.5H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.13 SEP br SEP S. SEP 2H , SEP 4.70 SEP br SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.87 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.80 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.27 SEP brS, SEP 1H , SEP 8,60 SEP S. SEP 1H , tb 10 20 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1785,1745,1700 SEP 1.27 SEP S.9H , SEP 3.50 SEP S. SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP br SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.17 SEP ABq, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brS. SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP S. SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.87 SEP ABq, SEP 2H. SEP 6Hz . SEP 6.93 SEP t. SEP 56Hz. SEP 1H . tb SEP 7.83 SEP br SEP S, SEP 1H . SEP 8.27 SEP S. SEP 1H tb 10 21 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370,1790,1750. SEP 1.27 SEP S. SEP 9H . SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP S. SEP 2H , tb SEP 1730,1695 SEP 4.15 SEP S. SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP br SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.17 SEP br SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.87 SEP ABq, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 10 6 EMI90.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 22 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,3130,1790, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 3H SEP 3.80 SEP , SEP 2H tb SEP 1750,1700 SEP 3.97, SEP 4.27 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.56 SEP , SEP 2H tb SEP R 0.16 SEP Benzene SEP SEP 5.03 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.85, SEP 5.95 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz tb SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 1 2 SEP 6.98 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.70 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 8.20 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 23 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790, SEP 1.28 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 6H , SEP 3.63 SEP , SEP 5H , tb SEP R 0.09 SEP EtoAc SEP 4.12 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.88, SEP 5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 58H4 , tb SEP 7.98 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 8.20 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 24 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1785,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 1.45 SEP , SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.65 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 3.98 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.18 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP R 0.13 SEP SEP EtoAc SEP 4.83 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.85,5.95 SEP AUq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz . tb SEP 7.02 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.28 SEP t, SEP 1H tb 10 25 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3360,1785,1750. SEP CDCl3 CD3OD SEP 1.22 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1695 SEP 3.60 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 3.7 4.3 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP R 0.06 SEP EtOAc SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.80,5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz . tb SEP 7.03 SEP t,1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 8.40 SEP , SEP 1H tb Table 10 7 EMI91.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 26 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380.2960.1790. SEP 1.22 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2.95 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.53 SEP , SEP 3H . tb SEP 1750,1695,1495, SEP 3.62 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.03,4.23 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , tb SEP 1385,1058.1035 SEP 4.37 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP b , SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H0, SEP 5.83,5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 7.03 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . SEP 8.00 SEP br, SEP 1H , tb SEP 8.53 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 27 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1785.1750,1700 SEP 1.22 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2,25 SEP , SEP 6H , SEP 2.58 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP Ri 0.15 SEP SEP EtoAc SEP SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 3.97 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP CD3OD SEP SEP 4 1 SEP 4.13 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP , SEP 1H . tb SEP 5.80,5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 8.00 SEP b , SEP 1H , SEP 8.30 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 28 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370,1785,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 1.32 SEP , SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.62 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.08 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz . tb SEP R 0.22 SEP EtOAc SEP 4.58 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.75 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.80,5.93 ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6H4 ,6.97 t.1H,56Hz . tb SEP 7.78 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 8.28 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 29 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1755, SEP 1.18 SEP ,9H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 4.13 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP R 0.11 SEP EtOAc SEP 5.75,5.88 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz , SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.4 7.9 SEP m, SEP 3H , SEP 8.32 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 8.5 SEP 8.7 SEP m, SEP 2H tb Table 10 8 EMI92.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 30 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3370,1785,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2.42 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.05 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.58 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.77,5.90 SEP ABq,2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 7.0 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 10 31 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1756, SEP 1.25 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.55 SEP , SEP 5H , SEP 3.78 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 4.13,4.27 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.62 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP R 0.18 SEP Benzene SEP SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.90,6.00 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz , tb SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.30 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 7.83 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 32 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1785,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP , SEP 6H , SEP 3.87 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1695 SEP 3.92,4.32 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP R 0.15 SEP Benzene SEP SEP 6.05 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.68,5.78 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz . tb SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 2 SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.92 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 33 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700 SEP 3.88 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP R 0.18 SEP Benzene SEP SEP 5.75,5.88 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 7.00 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP 7.72 SEP , SEP 1H tb Table 10 9 EMI93.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP amx SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 35 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.20 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.43 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 1705 SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 3.98 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.82, tb SEP 5.95 SEP ABq,2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb 10 36 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3480,1790,1752, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.50 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.59 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700,1258,1113, SEP 3.63 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.90,4.07 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , tb SEP 1070 SEP 4.50 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H . tb SEP R 0.30 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 5.80,5.83 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 6.93 SEP p SEP lit, SEP 1H, SEP 1.0Hz , tb SEP 6.98 SEP p SEP lit, SEP 1H, SEP 1.0Hz , SEP 7.4 SEP b , SEP 1H tb 10 37 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3386,1786,1754, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2.36 SEP d, SEP 3H, SEP 1.0Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 5H , tb SEP 1703,1388,1257, SEP 4.02,4.38 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.53 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1118,1070 SEP 5.03 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.85,5.97 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , tb SEP R 0.46 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 6.75 SEP q, SEP 1H, SEP 1.0Hz , SEP 6.92 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP CHCl3 1 1 SEP 7.20 SEP b , SEP 1H tb 10 38 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,1785,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.40 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7.5Hz , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 5H . tb SEP 1693,1385,1255, SEP 3.95,4.27 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.15 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7.5Hz , tb SEP 1114,1066 SEP 4.52 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP , SEP 1H . tb SEP R 0.52 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 5.85,5.94 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6.0Hz , SEP 6.92 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz . tb SEP Benzene SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP 7.28 SEP b , SEP 1H tb Table 10 10 EMI94.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 39 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,2220,1790 SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 18H , SEP 3.55 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1750,1695 SEP 4.17 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.13 SEP , SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.83,5.93 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6H , SEP 6.03 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 10 40 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.55 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.07 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 4.15 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.13 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.82,5.95 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 10 41 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3375,1790,1750, SEP 1.23 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 2.26 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H . tb SEP 1700,1650 SEP 3.60 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 3.72 SEP , SEP 3H , tb SEP 4.18,4.47 SEP ABq,2H,14Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.90,6.03 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 6.97 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56H tb 10 42 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1792,1756, SEP 1.20 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.53 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1099,1260,1115, SEP 4.07 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP , SEP 2H , SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H . tb SEP 1072 SEP 5.65,5.80 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 8Hz , SEP 6.08 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP R 0.28 SEP EtOAc SEP 6.90 8.29 SEP m, SEP 4H tb Table 10 11 EMI95.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP C SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 10 43 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1790,1752 SEP 1.20 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.52 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP , SEP 2H . tb SEP 1699,1257,1111, SEP 4.16,4.41 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.60 SEP , SEP 2H . tb SEP 1076 SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.890,6.05 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz . tb SEP r 0.28 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP 6.88,7.97 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 9Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.72 SEP b, SEP 1H . SEP 8.97 SEP , SEP 1H tb 10 44 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,1792,1756, SEP 1.20 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.47 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1700,1258,1115, SEP 4.14,4.59 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 15Hz , SEP 4.63 SEP , SEP 2H . tb SEP 1070 SEP 5.06 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP 5.89,6.09 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 5.5 SEP Hz , tb SEP R 0,48 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , SEP 7.25,8.15 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 10Hz , tb SEP 7.35 SEP b, SEP 1H tb 10 45 SEP CF2H SEP POM SEP SEP 3380,3200,1788, SEP 1.25 SEP , SEP 9H , SEP 3.57 SEP , SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1725,1258,1115, SEP 4.09,4.37 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.69 SEP , SEP 2H , tb SEP 1065 SEP 5.10 SEP , SEP 1H , SEP s5.93,6.00 SEP ABq,2H,6.5Hz , tb SEP R 0.40 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP 6.75,7.40 SEP ABq,2H, SEP 10Hz , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 5.6Hz , tb SEP 11.7 SEP b, SEP 1H tb Table 11 11 EMI96.1 EMI96.2 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 11 1 SEP CF2H SEP CH2OCOCH3 SEP Et SEP 3390,1789,1771, SEP 1.52 SEP , SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 2.13 SEP S, SEP 3H0, SEP 2.11 SEP S, SEP 5H , tb SEP 1736,1703,1682 SEP 4.23 SEP q, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.03 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP S. SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.82 SEP ABq, SEP 9Hz, SEP 6Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 6.96 SEP t, SEP 57 SEP Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 7.37 SEP S. tb SEP 1H tb 11 2 SEP CF2H SEP CHOCOOEt SEP Et SEP 3395,1795,1766, tb SEP SEP CH3 SEP 1704,1636 tb Table 12 1 EMI97.1 EMI97.2 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP MNR SEP tb 12 1 SEP CF2H SEP K SEP CH2CH2COOCH3 SEP KBr 3400, SEP 1775, SEP CD3OD 3.05 SEP t, SEP J 7Hx, SEP 2H , SEP 3.53 SEP S. SEP 3H , tb SEP 1740.1690.1615, SEP 3.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.68 SEP S. SEP 3H , SEP 4.35 SEP S. SEP 2U , SEP 4.53 tb SEP 1205,1065 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.57 SEP t, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 2H0, SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP R 0.21 SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 7.13 SEP t, SEP J 5.7 SEP Hz, SEP 1H tb SEP HOAc SEP SEP H2O 18 1 1 tb 12 2 SEP CF2H SEP K SEP CH2CH2COOC2H5 SEP KBr 3400,1775, SEP CD3OD SEP 1.20 SEP t, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 3H , SEP 3.02 SEP t. tb SEP 1733,1690,1615, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.10 tb SEP 1205,1067 SEP q, SEP J 7Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 4.32 SEP S,2H , SEP 4.52 SEP S, SEP 2H . tb SEP R 0.60 SEP SEP EtOAc SEP SEP 4.53 SEP t. SEP J 7Hz.2H , SEP 5.03 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.08 SEP t. tb SEP HOAc H2O 8 1 1 SEP J 56Hz, SEP 1H tb 12 3 SEP CF2H SEP K SEP CH2CH2SCH3 SEP NuJol 9265,1769, tb SEP 1687,1613 tb 12 4 SEP CF2H SEP K SEP SEP KBr 1690,1770, SEP D2O 3.50 SEP S,3H0, SEP 3.67 SEP S,1H , SEP 4.03d 4.3 SEP D tb SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.48 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.53 SEP d, SEP 1H, SEP 7hz , SEP 6.83 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.73 SEP d, tb SEP 1H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 8.60 SEP S, SEP 1H tb Table 12 2 EMI98.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 12 5 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP KBr 1660,1765 SEP D2O SEP 3.47 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.07 SEP d, SEP 1H . tb SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.20 SEP d, SEP 1H. SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.47 SEP S, SEP a2H , SEP 5.07 tb SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.42 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 6.98 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 4.10 4.84 SEP m, SEP 3H tb 12 6 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CONHCONH2 SEP D2O SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.03d tb SEP 4.30d SEP ABq, SEP 14Hz, SEP 2H0, SEP 4.17 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 5.10 SEP S. tb SEP 1H , SEP 5.42 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 7.00 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 12 7 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP D2O SEP 2.97 SEP S, SEP 3H0, SEP 4.00 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.17 SEP S. SEP 2H0, tb SEP 6.57 SEP S, SEP 1H0, SEP 7.57 SEP t, SEP 56.7 SEP Hz, SEP 1H , SEP 8.97 SEP S. tb SEP 1H tb 12 8 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CONHOCH3 SEP d6 DNSO 3.81 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.07 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.72 tb SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , SEP 4.80 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.39 SEP S, SEP 1H . tb SEP 5.46 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 7.76 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 12 9 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2NHCONH2 tb 12 10 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP d6 acatone SEP DMSO SEP 3.50 SEP S. SEP 5H , SEP 4.45 SEP q. SEP 2H. tb SEP 13.5Hz , SEP 4.50 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.02 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.33 SEP tb SEP s,2H , SEP 6.05 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.85 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 7.30 SEP t, tb SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb Table 12 3 EMI99.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP D2O SEP 1.89 SEP S, SEP 3H0, SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb 12 11 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2 C CH3 SEP 4.23 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , SEP 4.56 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 5.18 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP NOH SEP 5.32 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 12 12 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CNH2 SEP KBr SEP 1608,1690 SEP D2O SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 4.23 SEP 9q, SEP 2H, tb SEP O SEP 1769,3400 SEP J 13.5Hz . SEP 4.55 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.18 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.32 SEP S. tb SEP 2H , SEP 7.12 SEP t. SEP 1H, SEP J 56Hz tb 12 13 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CH2CNH2 SEP D2O SEP 2.98 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H0, SEP 3.73 SEP S, tb SEP O SEP 2H . SEP 4.5 4.7 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 5.19 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.13 SEP t. tb SEP 1H, SEP 67Hz tb 12 14 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CH2NHSO2CH3 tb 12 15 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP CH2CH2OH SEP D2O SEP 4.00 SEP S, SEP 3H0, SEP 4.16 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 4.47 SEP 9t, SEP 2H, tb SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.56 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 5.01 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.01 SEP tb SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 5.63 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.58 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 12 16 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP d6 DMSO SEP 3.39 SEP S. SEP 3H , SEP 3.67 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.31 SEP q tb SEP 2H. SEP 12Hz . SEP 4.42 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.98 SEP S, SEP 1H0, SEP 5.29 SEP tb SEP S. SEP 2H , SEP 7.34 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb SEP 6.68,6.78, SEP 7.34 SEP 7.44 SEP s, SEP 1H tb Table 13 1 EMI100.1 EMI100.2 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 13 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP NIICONIL2 SEP 3500,3380,1786, SEP CDC 3 CD3OD tb SEP 1722,1690,1672, SEP 3.51 SEP b, SEP 2H , SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 2H0, SEP 3.58 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1252,1075 SEP 4.15 4.39 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 4.44 SEP SEP 4.70 SEP ABq, SEP 2H. tb SEP 17Hz , SEP 5.04 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.99 SEP T, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , tb SEP 7.30 7.61 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 13 2 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP NHCONH2 SEP Nujoe SEP SEP d6 DMSO CD3OD SEP tb SEP 3440,5350,1781, SEP 3.35 SEP 2H, SEP t, SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.38 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S. tb SEP 1680,1070 SEP 2H , SEP 4.22 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.39 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , tb SEP 4.54 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.28 SEP t, SEP 1H. tb SEP 56Hz , SEP 9.23 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 13 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375,1785,1715, SEP 3.55 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 4.23 SEP S, tb SEP 1705,1255,1073 SEP 2H , SEP 4.50 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7hz , SEP 4.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.04 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.89 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 56Hz , SEP 6.83 7.62 SEP m, SEP 13H , SEP 8,36 SEP dd, SEP 1H, tb SEP 2Hz, SEP 6hz tb 13 4 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujoe SEP SEP CDC 3 CD3OD SEP tb SEP 3260,1772,1680, SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.63 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.27 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1065 SEP 4.55 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.61 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.01 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 57hz , SEP 7.0 7.64 SEP mj, SEP 3H , SEP 8.43 SEP dd, tb SEP 1H, SEP 2Hz, SEP 6Hz tb Table 13 2 EMI101.1 Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP 1R SEP v SEP max SEP cm Ú SEP NMR SEP tb 13 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3376,1787,1718 SEP 3.39 SEP t. SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 3.58 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 4.20 SEP S, tb SEP 1706,1255,1076 SEP 2H , SEP 4.28 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 4.52 4.73 SEP ABq, tb SEP 2H, SEP 17Hz , SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.89 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.94 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.01 7.54 SEP m. SEP 10H. . tb SEP 7.61 SEP A2BH2 A2 SEP partd, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 8.48 SEP tb SEP B2 SEP part SEP A2B2 , SEP d, SEP 2H, 6Hz tb 13 6 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujoe SEP SEP CdC 3 CD3OD SEP tb SEP 3200,1778,1670, SEP 3.45 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.71 SEP , SEP 2H, tb SEP 1190,1065 SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 3.97 SEP SEP 4.30 SEP ABq, SEP 2H. SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.47 tb SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.62 SEP t,2Hx SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 5.00 SEP S, SEP 1H tb SEP , SEP 6.98 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.70 SEP A2 SEP part tb SEP A2B2 SEP d, SEP 2H. SEP 6.6hz , SEP 6.50 SEP A2B2 B2 SEP part, SEP d tb SEP 2H, 6.6Hz tb 13 7 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370,1785,1712, SEP 3.54 SEP , SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 4.17 SEP S, tb SEP 1698,1250,1075 SEP 2H , SEP 4.94 SEP s, SEP 2H , SEP 4.51 SEP t.2H, SEP 7Hz . tb SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP s,1H , SEP 6.91 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.20 7.62 SEP m. SEP 10H , SEP 7.77 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7,86 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 13 8 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujoe SEP SEP CDC 3 CD3OD SEP tb SEP 3250,1777,1680, SEP 3.58 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 3.63 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 4.13 SEP SEP 4.25 SEP ABq. tb SEP 1070 SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.54 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.68 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , tb SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.01 SEP , SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz . SEP 8.21 SEP S, SEP 1H tb Table 13 3 EMI102.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 9 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380, SEP 1788, SEP 1720, SEP 3.36 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP S,3H , SEP 3.63 SEP S,2H , tb SEP 1706, SEP 1252, SEP 1076 SEP 3.66 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.06 SEP SEP 4.28 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, tb SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.59 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.87 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 57 SEP Hz , SEP 7.25 7.67 SEP m, SEP 10H , SEP 7.86 SEP S, SEP 1H tb SEP , SEP 7.97 SEP S, SEP 1H tb SEP CDC 3 SEP CD3OD tb 13 10 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP nujol tb SEP 1778, SEP 1688, SEP 1067 SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.59 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP t, SEP 2H, tb SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.15 SEP SEP 4.84 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 12Hz , SEP 4.57 tb SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.71 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 5.04 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.01 SEP t, SEP 1h, SEP 56hZ , SEP 8.34 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 13 11 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375, SEP 1787, SEP 1710, SEP 3.23 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.59 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1266, SEP 1068 SEP 4.08 SEP P SEP 4.38 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.55 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.60 SEP B , SEP 4H , SEP 5.01 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz , SEP 7.25 7.66 SEP m, SEP 10H , tb SEP 7.71 SEP S, SEP 1H tb 13 12 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP Nujol SEP CDC 3 SEP SEP CD3OD tb SEP 3260, SEP 1782, SEP 1700, SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.58 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 4.15 SEP SEP 4.34 tb SEP 1688, SEP 1067 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.55 SEP SEP 4.78 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 5.02 tb SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.00 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 8.08 SEP S, tb SEP 1H tb Table 13 4 EMI103.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 13 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1786, SEP 1715, SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.73 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 3.78 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1704, SEP 1255, SEP 1078 SEP 4.22 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , tb SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.88 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.94 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.26 7.62 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 13 14 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP Nujol SEP D2O SEP TMS SEP external SEP standard tb SEP 3250, SEP 1760, SEP 1680, SEP 3.97 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.14 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.29 SEP t, SEP 2H, tb SEP 1602, SEP 1062 SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 4.38 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.94 tb SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.20 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6.5Hz , SEP 5.61 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.53 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 56Hz tb 13 15 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet CH2S CH2CONH2 SEP 3470, SEP 3370, SEP 1781, SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP CD3OD tb SEP 1710, SEP 1680, SEP 1250, SEP 3.24 SEP 9S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1071 SEP 4.27 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.33 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 6.90 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.99 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.26 7.62 SEP m, SEP 10H tb SEP Nujol SEP D2O SEP TMS SEP external SEP standard tb 13 16 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP Tet CH2SCH2CONH2 SEP 3400, SEP 3160, SEP 1756, SEP 3.91 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.97 SEP 9S, SEP 3H , SEP 2.15 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 2.57 tb SEP 1665, SEP 1592, SEP 1060 SEP SEP 4.76 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 5.00 SEP 9S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.61 SEP S, tb SEP 1H , SEP 6.02 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 7.54 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 5.7Hz tb 13 17 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3375, SEP 1781, SEP 1710, SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 5H , SEP 3.77 SEP 9S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.18 SEP SEP 4.32 SEP ABq, tb SEP 1695, SEP 1252, SEP 1070 SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.58 SEP 9S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.48 SEP S, tb SEP 2H , SEP 6.87 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.25 7.60 tb SEP m, SEP 10H tb Table 13 5 EMI104.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 18 SEP CF2H SEP Na SEP SEP Nujol SEP D2O SEP TMS SEP texternal SEP standard tb SEP 1760, SEP 1680, SEP 1603, SEP 3.98 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.16 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.32 SEP S, SEP 3H , tb SEP 1062 SEP 4.71 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.99 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.63 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 7.33 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 7.54 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb SEP KBr SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP CD3 2CO tb 13 19 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 1782, SEP 1690 SEP 3.51 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.9 4.3 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.4 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.01 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.24 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.7 7.7 SEP m, SEP 15H , SEP 7.07 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 8.26 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 8.58 SEP S, SEP 1H tb SEP KBr SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP CD3 2CO SEP SEP CD3OD tb 13 20 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 1782, SEP 1690 SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.64 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.28 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.48 SEP S, SEP 4.48 SEP 9S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.03 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.31 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.85 SEP A2B2 A2 SEP part, SEP D, SEP 2H, SEP SEP 9Hz , SEP 7.13 SEP t, tb SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.37 SEP A2B2 B2 SEP part, SEP d, SEP 2H, tb SEP SEP 9Hz tb 13 21 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3440, SEP 1790, SEP 1730, SEP 2.45 2.90 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 3.30 3.70 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1080 SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.66 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.25 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.55 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.80 5.15 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 5.07 tb SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.70 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.90 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.90 SEP t. SEP 1H, SEP 55Hz , SEP 7.23 7.60 SEP m, SEP 11H tb Table 13 6 EMI105.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 22 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP KBr SEP CD3OD tb SEP 3360, SEP 1780, SEP 1710, SEP 2.50 3.00 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 3.45 3.70 SEP m, SEP 2H , tb SEP 1065 SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.30 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.56, SEP 4.60 SEP 2 , SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.46 SEP tb SEP 5.49 SEP 2xt, SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 13 23 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.56 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.56 SEP t, SEP 2H, tb SEP 6Hz , SEP 3.88 SEP t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.26 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.02 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.90 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 6.92 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.23 SEP 7.60 SEP m, SEP 11H tb 13 24 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP KBr SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP CD3OD tb SEP 3360, SEP 1780, SEP 1740, SEP 3.53 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.65 SEP t, SEP 2H, tb SEP 1695, SEP 1065 SEP 7Hz , SEP 4.00 SEP 9t, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 4.35 SEP S, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.63 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 57Hz tb 13 25 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1785, SEP 1695, SEP 2.74 3.06 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 3.30 3.70 SEP m, SEP 4H , tb SEP 1665 SEP 3.41 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.20 SEP brs, tb SEP 2H , SEP 2.50 SEP 2.66 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 21Hz , SEP 5.04 tb SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.07 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 6.91 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.91 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb 13 26 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP Nulol tb SEP 3270, SEP 1770, SEP 1660 tb Table 13 7 EMI106.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 27 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 3360, SEP 1785, SEP 1700, SEP 2.26 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 2.19 2.53 SEP m, SEP 4H , SEP 3.27 SEP 1665 SEP 3.70 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.19 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.50 SEP SEP 4.64 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 18Hz , SEP 5.03 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 5.04 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 6.87 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.94 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb SEP Nulol SEP D2O SEP TMS SEP external SEP standard tb 13 28 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP 3200, SEP 1775, SEP 1665, SEP 3.46 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.61 4.80 SEP m, SEP 8H , SEP 3.98 tb SEP 1600 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.16 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.56 SEP 4.74 SEP ABq, tb SEP 2H, SEP 15Hz , SEP 4.93 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.61 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.07 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 7.57 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb SEP 3390, SEP 1785, SEP 1705, SEP 3.30 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 3.53 SEP brs, SEP 7H , SEP 4.10 SEP brs, tb 13 29 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 1680 SEP 4H , SEP 4.54 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP brs, SEP 3H , SEP 6.86 tb SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.54 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 m, tb SEP 10H tb SEP Nujol SEP d6 DMSO tb 13 30 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP 3260, SEP 1780, SEP 1660 SEP 3.10 3.47 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 3.39 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.65 tb SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 3.53 3.85 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 3.94 SEP SEP 4.18 tb SEP 2xs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.23 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.55 SEP 5.58 SEP 2xs, SEP 2H , SEP 7.32 tb SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb Table 13 8 EMI107.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 13 31 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 3370, SEP 1785, SEP 1715, SEP 1.16 SEP t, SEP 3H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.47 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 3.54 tb SEP 1690 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP q, SEP 2H, SEP 7Hz , SEP 3.3 3.7 SEP m, tb SEP 2H , SEP 3.8 4.2 SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 4.14 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.54 tb SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.07 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 6.85 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.97 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.2 SEP 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb SEP Nujol SEP D2O NaHCO3 SEP TMS SEP éxtèrnal SEP standard tb 13 32 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP 3260, SEP 1780, SEP 1710, SEP 1.50 1.80 SEP m, SEP 3H , SEP 3.7 4.3 SEP m, SEP 6H , SEP 3.99 tb SEP 1675 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.17 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.50 4.9 SEP m, SEP 2H tb SEP 4.99 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.63 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.57 SEP t, SEP 1H tb SEP 57Hz tb SEP CDCl3 SEP SEP d6 Acetone tb 13 33 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP Tet SEP SEP 3270, SEP 1785, SEP 1710 SEP 3.54 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.64 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 3.93 SEP 4.10 tb SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 4.21 SEP brs, SEP 1H , SEP 4.50 4.95 SEP m, tb SEP 2H , SEP 4.58 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.08 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.11 tb SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 6.87 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.05 SEP t, SEP 1H, tb SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.2 7.6 SEP m, SEP 10H tb SEP Nujol SEP d6 Acetone tb 13 34 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP Tet SEP SEP 3260, SEP 1780, SEP 1685 SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.73 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.02 SEP SEP 4.20 tb SEP m, SEP 1H , SEP 4.30 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.63 SEP brs, SEP 2H , tb SEP 4.60 5.00 SEP m, SEP 2H , SEP 5.12 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 5.30 tb SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 7.25 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb Table 14 1 EMI108.1 EMI108.2 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 14 1 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380, SEP 1790, SEP 1710, SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 6H , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.86 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.99 tb SEP 1080 SEP 4.19 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 14Hz , SEP 4.53 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.46 tb SEP 4.66 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 18Hz , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.85 SEP S, tb SEP 1h , SEP 6.96 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.25 7.60 SEP m, SEP 11H tb SEP KBr SEP CD3OD tb 14 2 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 3400, SEP 1780, SEP 1695, SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.61 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.75 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.98 tb SEP 1065 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.05 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.56 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.69 SEP S, tb SEP 2H , SEP 5.06 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz tb 14 3 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380, SEP 1790, SEP 1715, SEP 3.46 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.05 tb SEP 1075 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.12 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 4.60 SEP brs, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 tb SEP S, SEP 1H ,, SEP 6.85 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.93 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , tb SEP 7.20 7.60 SEP m, SEP 15H tb SEP KBr SEP CD3OD tb 14 4 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 3430, SEP 1780, SEP 1690, SEP 3.52 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.70 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 4.05 tb SEP 1067 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.28 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.53 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 5.05 SEP S, tb SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.33 SEP S, SEP 4H tb Table 14 2 EMI109.1 SEP Na SEP A SEP B SEP X SEP IR SEP SEP max SEP cm 1 SEP NMR SEP tb 14 5 SEP CF2H SEP CHPh2 SEP SEP 3380, SEP 1790, SEP 1710, SEP 8.48 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.55 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.60 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.03 SEP tb SEP 1080 SEP 4.16 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.18 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.50 SEP SEP 4.66 tb SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 19Hz , SEP 5.04 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 6.83 SEP S, SEP 1H , tb SEP 6.95 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.20 7.60 SEP m, SEP 13H SEP 8.42 tb SEP d, SEP 2H, SEP 5Hz tb SEP KBr SEP CD3OD tb 14 6 SEP CF2H SEP H SEP SEP 3420, SEP 1780, SEP 1685, SEP 3.50 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.62 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 3.75 SEP S, SEP 3H , SEP 3.93 tb SEP .CF3COOH SEP 1625, SEP 1125, SEP 1065 SEP 4.10 SEP ABq, SEP 2H, SEP 13Hz , SEP 4.57 SEP S, SEP 2H , SEP 4.66 SEP S, tb SEP 2H , SEP 5.01 SEP S, SEP 1H , SEP 7.12 SEP t, SEP 1H, SEP 57Hz , SEP 7.72 tb SEP A2B2 A2 SEP part, SEP d, SEP 2H, SEP 6Hz , SEP 8.44 SEP A2B2 B2 tb SEP pert, SEP d, SEP 2H, SEP SEP 6Hz tb