# 2,3 Dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoate antimicrobial compounds.

## Abstract
Compounds of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS A A compound of the formula EMI14.1 in which Hal is bromine or chlorine R is C14 alkyl and one of R1 and R2 is hydrogen and the other is C38 cycloalkyl C38 cycloalkyl Cl 3 alkyl phenyl phenyl C1 3 alkyl mono or di substituted phenyl or phenyl Cl 3 alkyl in which the substituent s is are halo, C 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, hydroxy, nitro, cyano, or trifluoromethyl thienyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, isoxazolyl, oxazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiazolyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, or pyridinyl, or an N oxide thereof pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothienyl, isoxazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, piperazinyl or piperidinyl. 2 An antimicrobial composition comprising a carrier and an antimicrobially effective amount of a compound of the formula I set forth in claim 1. 3 A method of inhibiting the growth of bacteria, fungi, andlor algae, comprising contacting the bacteria, fungi and or algae, with a bactericidally, fungicidally, or algicidally effective amount of a compound of the formula I set forth in claim 1. 4 A method of inhibiting the growth of slime forming bacteria, fungi, and algae usually encountered in pulp and paper mill systems, comprising incorporating into the mass of fibre and water in such a pulp and paper mill system so as to contact the bacteria, fungi, and algae, at least a bactericidally, fungicidally, and algicidally effective amount of a compound of the formula 1 set forth in claim 1.

## Description
2,3 DIHALO 2,3 DI SUBSTITUTED PROPANOATE ANTIMICROBIAL COMPOUNDS The present invention is concerned with antimicrobial compounds and compositions containing them as active ingredients for the inhibition of the growth of bacteria, yeast, fungi, and algae. These novel antimicrobial compounds of the present invention have a number of important industrial and agricultural applications. As used herein, the term antimicrobial describes the killing of, as well as the inhibition of or control of the growth of bacteria, yeasts, fungi, and algae. A number of important industries can experience serious adverse effects from the activity of such bacteria and fungi on the raw materials that they use. on various aspects of their manufacturing activities, or on the finished products which they produce. Such industries include the paint, wood, textile, cosmetic, leather, tobacco, fur, rope, paper, pulp, plastics, fuel, oil, rubber and machine industries.Important applications include inhibiting the growth of bacteria in aqueous paints, adhesives, latex emulsions, and joint cements preserving wood preserving cutting oils controlling slime producing bacteria and fungi in pulp and paper mills and cooling towers as a spray or dip treatment for textiles and leather to prevent mold growth as a component of anti fouling paints to prevent adherence of fouling organisms as a hard surface disinfectant to prevent growth of bacteria and fungi on walls and floors and in swimming pools to prevent algae. The control of bacteria and fungi in pulp and paper mill water systems which contain aqueous dispersions of paper making fibres is especially important.The uncontrolled build up of slime produced by the accumulation of bacteria and fungi causes off grade production, decreased production due to breaks and greater clean up frequency, increased raw material usage, and increased maintenance costs. The problem of slime deposits has been aggravated by the widespread use of closed white water systems in the paper industry. Antimicrobial compounds are also utilized for agricultural applications, for example in preventing or minimizing the growth of harmful bacterial, yeast, and or fungi on plants, trees, fruit, seeds or soil. A particular application for which the antimicrobial compounds of the present invention have been found especially useful is in the protection of paint films from attack by fungi. Paint film fungicides which can preserve paint films from the deleterious effects of fungal attack which occur during weathering of the paint film have long been sought. Few, however, have been found due to the stringent requirements for such a successful paint film fungicide. Moreover, the ability to provide incan preservative activity, as well as paint film protection, is also desirable.However, this additional characteristic is seldom seen in a paint film fungicide. Matt U.S. Patent No. 3,608,084 describes halogenated aliphatic nitriles for controlling the growth of aerobacter bacteria in industrial water systems. Grier, et al, U.S. Patent Nos. 3,833,731 and 3,877,922 and Harmetz, et al, U.S. Patent No. 3,873,597 describe 2 bromo 2 bromoethylglutaro nitrile and related compounds and their use as antibacterial, antifungal, and algicidal agents. Gershon, et al, in 3. Med. Chem. 20 4 , 606 9 1977 , describe the antifungal properties of 2 bromo 3 fluorosuccinic acid esters. Rader et al, British Patent Specification No. 1,424,943 describes a halomethyl mandelonitrile microbiocides. Tanaka, et al, Japan, Kokai 75,123,828 9 29 75 , Chem. Ab.84 39698t, disclose ethyl 2,3 dibromopropionate as an intermediate for preparing dithiolane herbicides and fungicides. Motoyama, et al, Sankyo Kenkyusho Nempo 23 233 44 1971 , Chem.Ab. 77 30239s, disclose 2,3 dichloropropionic acid as a herbicide. However, there is no suggestion in any of the above references of the particular compounds of the present invention or their broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity. In accordance with the present invention there are provided novel 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoates of the formula EMI2.1 where Hal is bromine or chlorine R is C 4 alkyl and one of Rl and R2 is hydrogen and the other is CH2 nCOOR, where R is C 1 4 alkyl and n is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 Cm 12 alkyl C38 cycloalkyl C38 cycloalkyl C1 3 alkyl phenyl phenyl C1 3 alkyl mono or di substituted phenyl or phenyl C1 3 alkyl where the substituent s is are halo, C1 4 alkyl, C1 4 alkoxy, hydroxy, nitro, cyano, or trifluoromethyl thienyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, isoxazolyl, oxazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiazolyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl or pyridinyl, or an N oxide thereof pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothienyl, isox azoli dinyl, oxazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, piperazinyl, or piperidinyl. The alkyl groups mentioned may be straight or branched. Particularly preferred compounds of the present invention are ethyl 1 ,2 dibromo 3 phenylpropanoate 2,3 dibromo butanedioic acid bisethyl ester and 2 bromo 2 bromomethyl butanedioic acid bismethyl ester. In accordance with the present invention there is further provided an antimicrobial composition comprising a carrier and an antimicrobially effective amount of a compound of the formula 1 above. The 2,3 dihalo 2 ,3 di substituted propanoate active ingredient of the antimicrobial composition of the present invention may be used in diverse formulations solid, including finely divided powders and granular materials liquid, such as solutions, emulsions, suspensions, concentrates, emulsifiable concentrates and slurries, depending upon the application intended and the formulation medium desired. Further, when the 2,3 dihalo2,3 di substituted propanoate is liquid, it may be used neat or may be incorporated into various formulations, both solid and liquid, as an adsorbate on suitable inert carriers such as talc, clays and diatomaceous earth. Thus, it will be appreciated that the 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoate of the invention may be used to form antimicrobial formulations containing such compounds as the essential active ingredient, which formulations may also contain a variety of carrier materials adaptable to industrial and agricultural applications including finely divided dry or liquid diluents, extenders, clays, diatomaceous earth pnd talc, or water and various organic liquids such as lower e.g. C1 6 alkanols, kerosene, benzene, toluene and other petroleum distillate fractions or mixtures of them. It will be understood also that the 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoate active ingredients may be used in association with one another as well as with other antimicrobial materials. For example, these compounds can be associated with other fungicides and bactericides such as 2 4 thiazolyl benzimidazole, sorbic acid, propionic acid, mycostatin, sodium diacetate, trichomycin, amphotericin, griseofulvin, undecylenic acid, esters of parahydroxybenzoic acid, chiorguinaldol, 5,7 dichloro 8 hydroxyquinoline, sodium o phenylphenate, o phenylphenol, biphenyl chlorinated phenols and sodium benzoate in appropriate concentrations and in appropriate instances so as to combine the action of each to obtain particularly useful results.Such mixtures might find particular application in the preparation of germicidal soaps, in the production of cosmetics and aqueous coatings and in combating paper mill slime accumulations. The 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoates can be combined with other aligicidal agents such as benzalkonium chlorides and other quaternary ammonium compounds to obtain formulations particularly suitable to special problems of algae control. In accordance with the present invention there is further provided a method of inhibiting the growth of at least one of bacteria, yeast, fungi, and algae, comprising contacting the bacteria, yeast, fungi, or algae, with a bactericidally, fungicidally, or algicidally effective amount of a compound of the formula I above. As noted above, the invention is based upon the discovery that 2,3 dihalo 2, 3 di substituted propanoates of Formula I are effective in controlling the growth of bacteria, yeast, fungi and algae in a variety of industrial and agricultural applications. It has been found, for example, that compounds of Formula I are effective antimicrobials for the destruction or control of soil fungi and bacteria and for the protection of seeds, bulbs and plants. Also, they are effective algicides in the treatment of pools, ponds and cooling water systems.The utility of the 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoates of this invention is shown by their activity, not only against bacteria and fungi responsible for stunting the growth of and even the destruction of many types of crop producing plants, but also against bacteria causing degradation and deterioration of many types of industrial products including, for example, paper, leather, textiles, aqueous systems such as adhesives, resins, drilling fluids, pigment dispersions and latex paints, and oleoresinous coatings whose films are particularly vulnerable to the destructive action of fungi. The large economic losses encountered in paper making operations caused by the accumulation of bacterial and fungal slimes in various parts of the system can be eliminated to a significant extent by use of the compounds of Formula I. Thus, for pulp and paper mill systems, there is provided a method of inhibiting the growth of slime forming bacteria, fungi, and algae, usually encountered in pulp and paper mill systems, comprising incorporating into the mass of fibre and water in such a pulp and paper mill system so as to contact the bacteria, fungi, and algae and at least a bactericidally, fungicidally, and algicidally effective amount of a compound of the FormulaI above. The antimicrobial activity of the compounds described above has been confirmed using standard laboratory techniques. They have been found effective, for example, in inhibiting bacteria including Aerobacter sp. such as A. aerogenes, Pseudomonas sp. such as P. aeruginosa. They have been found effective also against fungi including Aspergillus sp. such as A. niger,Pullularia sp. such as P. pullulans, Penicillium SD. such as P. funiculosum,Alternaria sp. such as A. brassicicola, and Saccharomyces sp. such asS. cerevisiae. Such bacteria and or fungi commonly are found on cereal and grain products, on oils, on fruits and vegetables and on cosmetics, leather, electrical insulation, textiles and numerous other materials capable of supporting their growth. Also, such bacteria and or fungi may be found on plants, seeds, fur and wood and in soils.Further, they may be used to control overgrowth of algae such as Chlorella sp. including C. pyrenoidosa. As noted above, it has been found that growth of various harmful fungi and bacteria existing in soil is eliminated or limited by use of formulations containing the 2, 3 dihalo 2, 3 di substituted propanoates described herein. The term soil as used here is intended to include all media capable of supporting growth of plants and may include humus, sand, manure, compost and artifically created plant growth solutions. 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoates of Formula I have activity against bacteria, yeast, fungi, and algae when used at appropriate levels of concentration and may be used to inhibit growth of these organisms. The required effective concentration will vary with particular organisms and in particular applications. In general, however, effective fungicidal, bactericidal and algicidal response is obtained when the concentration of the 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoate ranges between 0.5 and 5000 ppm parts per million by weight. For latex paints, latex emulsions and adhesives, from 100 to 2000 ppm by weight of a compound of the present invention is added during manufacture of the paint, emulsion, or adhesive in order to protect the system during in can storage against bacteria, fungi, and yeasts. For cooling towers from 1 to 100 ppm, and for pulp and paper mills from 50 to 500 ppm, of a compound of the present invention is added to the pulp suspension in a paper mill or to the recirculating cooling water in a cooling tower in order to inhibit the growth of slime forming bacteria, fungi, yeasts and algae. For metal working fluids, i.e. cutting oils, from 200 to 2000 ppm of a compound of the present is added to a metal working fluid concentrate in order to inhibit the growth of bacteria, fungi, and yeasts during the use cycle of an oil water lubricant for metal surfaces. For other applications of the type described above, from 0.005 to 0.5 by weight, based on weight of the substrate being treated, of a compound of the present invention, is incorporated into, sprayed onto, used to dip, or otherwise applied to the substrate to be treated in order to prevent growth of bacteria, fungi, yeasts and algae. The 2,3 dihalo 2,3 di substituted propanoates of the present invention may be prepared in accordance with the syntheses described below.A. Compounds of Formula I where R1 is hydrogen and R2 is a selected substituent other than QCH2 n COOR EMI6.1 The starting materials for this route are unsaturated carboxylic acids which are readily available or which may be prepared in accordance with well known techniques. For example, where R2 is phenyl, cinnamic acid is used. Before bromination, the acid is converted to the desired ester by well known techniques. Also, ester starting materials are readily available in many cases.B. Compounds of Formula I where R1 is hydrogen and R2 is CH2 nCOOR EMI7.1 The starting materials for this route are unsaturated dicarboxylic acids which are readily available or which may be prepared in accordance with well known techniques. For example, diethyl fumarate may be used.Before bromination, the desired diester is prepared or a diester starting material is used.C. Compounds of Formula I where R2 is hydrogen and R1 is a selected substituent other than CH2 n COOR EMI7.2 The starting materials for this route are carboxylic acids having a methylene group attached to the a carbon. The starting materials, where R1 is attached through a methylene bridge, in turn, may be prepared in accordance with a series of reactions illustrated as follows EMI8.1 tb CH2 CH CH2Br Br2 SEP M num lBrCH2C1H C1H2 tb SEP II SEP Br SEP Br SEP III tb SEP Eft2 SEP 0 SEP or SEP THF tb R SEP Br SEP SEP Mg SEP SEP A SEP NaOH tb SEP I SEP r BrCH tb Et20 SEP or SEP THF SEP R SEP MgBr SEP SEP BrCH2 C CH2 tb SEP SEP mK SEP Br SEP IV tb R SEP CH2C CH2 SEP the SEP Mg SEP THF SEP R SEP h SEP CH2c cH2 tb SEP Br SEP SEP MgBr SEP VII tb SEP SEP C 2 tb SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP Maci SEP SEP CN 2 tb 21 SEP 2 SEP tb SEP COOH SEP hydrolysis SEP CN SEP VIII tb 1n the first two steps shown above, the intermediate 2,3 dihalo 1propene IV is prepared from the available starting material 3 halo lpropene II by halogenation, followed by selective dehydrohalogenation. l The allyl bromide or chloride starting material is treated with bromine or chlorine either neat or in a chlorinated hydrocarbon solvent such as carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, or dichloromethane. The reaction is exothermic and cooling is used to maintain the reaction temperature at about room temperature. The solvent is then removed and the liquid residue is carried forward to the next step. 2 In the second step, dehydrobromination or dehydrochlorination is carried out using a strong base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide. Water, the salt of the base, and the product are formed in the reaction, and the reaction is carried out with vigorous boiling, which results in spontaneous distillation of the product with the water, thus driving the reaction to completion. 3 The third step involves preparation of the Grignard reagent in accordance with well known techniques. 4 The reaction of the Grignard reagent with the propene product of the second step is exothermic, and the temperature of the reaction mixture must be kept below 15 C in order to avoid self coupling of the Grignard reagent and promote cross coupling with the propene. This result can also be facilitated by the use of a catalyst such as copper I chloride. The solvent employed may be any inert, aprotic solvent such as diethyl ether, tetrahydrofuran, or diglyme. When the reaction is complete, the solvent is removed, and the product is then separated and dissolved in a solvent for use in the next step. 5 In the fifth step, the substituted propene from the preceair is slowly added to magnesium turnings with vigorous stirring in order to promote solubilization of the Grignard product formed on the surface of the magnesium. The reaction is exothermic, and the reaction mixture is kept at the reflux temperature of the solvent, which is tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether, or diglyme. The time required for completion of the reaction depends upon the reaction temperature and upon the surface area of the magnesium, i.e., magnesium of finer mesh size will result in a faster reaction. When the reaction is complete, the reaction mixture is carried over for use in the next step without further treatment. 6 In the sixth step cyanogenation is accomplished by reverse addition of the Grignard product of the preceding step to a saturated solution of cyanogen. It has been found that cyanogen chloride and cyanogen bromide are unacceptable reactants because they result in insignificant yields of product. Reverse addition is required in order to avoid an excess of the Grignard reactant, which can react with the product.The solvent medium in which the reaction is carried out is tetrahydrofuran, diethyl ether, or diglyme. The reaction is mildly exothermic, and the reaction mixture temperature is maintained at from 20 to 20 0 C in order to ensure the solubility of the cyanogen. The product is separated and carried forward to the last step. 7 In the last step, the cyano group is converted to a carboxyl group by acid hydrolysis in accordance with well known procedures. Where R1 is attached directly, the starting materials may be prepared in accordance with a series of reactions which may be illustrated as follows EMI10.1 tb SEP NO SEP OOH tb R SEP CH2 CN SEP 4 SEP HCO SEP EROS SEP R SEP R1 C CH tb SEP 1 SEP 7 tb SEP R SEP C CH2 SEP SEP NidI tb SEP 1 SEP tb SEP 2 SEP hydrolysis tb SEP COOH tb D. Compounds of Formula I where R2 is hydrogen and R1 is CH2 nCOOR EMI10.2 The starting materials for this route are dicarboxylic acids having a methylene group attached to the a carbon. For example, where n is I, itaconic acid may be used. The dimethyl ester may be used as the starting material. If the starting materials are not available, they may be prepared in accordance with the series of reactions described above in C. The following examples illustrate but do not limit the present invention. EXAMPLE IPreparation of Ethyl 2,3 dibromo 3 phenvlpropanoate A 250 ml 3 necked round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer, water cooled reflux condenser, thermometer, and bromine addition funnel was charged with ethyl cinnamate 17.6 g, 0.10 mol and 100 ml of dry chloroform. To this solution there was added 16.0 g 0.10 mol of bromine over a 3 hour period, and the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 20 hours. After removing the solvent, 33.5 g 99 of theory of a crystalline product was obtained, m.p. 70 72 C. 1H NMR CDCl3, CH3 4Si , 7.0 s, 5H , 5.0 5.2 d, J 12Hz, 1H 4.5 4.7 d, J 12Hz, 1H 3.8 4.2 q, J 7Hz, 2H 6,0.9 1.2 t, 3H . Elemental Analysis Calculated for CllHl202Br2 Calc d C, 39.32 H, 3.60 Br, 47.56 Found C, 40.16 H, 3.62 Br, 47.58 . EXAMPLES 2 3 Following the procedures described above in Example 1, and substituting the appropriate starting materials, there were prepared the compounds described in the following Table EMI11.1 tb Example SEP Starting SEP Product tb SEP No. SEP Material tb SEP 2 SEP EtOOC CH CH COOEt SEP EtOOC CH CH COOEt tb SEP I SEP I tb SEP Br SEP Br tb SEP CH2 SEP fH2Br tb SEP II tb SEP 3 SEP MeOOC CH2 C COOMe SEP MeOOC CH2 lC COOMe tb SEP Br tb EXAMPLES 4 6 In order to determine antimicrobial spectrum, the following techniques are employed Antibacterial Activity A stock solution of the sample to be tested is prepared in 25 methanol. Dilutions of the stock solution are made intoTryptone Glucose Extract Agar Difco and the agar is poured into sterile petri dishes.After hardening, the plates are streaked with an aqueous suspension of the test organism. The inoculated plates are incubated at 3537 C and examined after twenty four hours for the presence or absence of growth. The lowest concentration at which no growth occurred is reported as the Inhibiting Concentration . Antifungal Activity A stock solution of the sample to be tested is prepared in 25 methanol. Dilutions of the stock solution are made intoSabouraud Maltose Agar Difco and the agar is poured into sterile petri dishes. After hardening, the plates are streaked with an aqueous spore suspension of the test organism. No wetting agent is used in preparation of the suspension. The inoculated plates are incubated at 28 30 C and examined after seven days for the presence or absence of growth. The lowest concentration at which no growth occurred, is reported as the Inhibiting Concentration . Employing the techniques described above, various of the 1,2 dibromo 2 cyano 2 aryl ethanes propanes of the present invention were tested at 10, 50, 100, 200, 400, 750 and 1000 ppm against the organisms, and with the results, indicated in the following table TABLE I EMI13.1 tb SEP 01 tb SEP o SEP ol tb SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP c SEP tb SEP cl tb SEP SEP i SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP 1 tb SEP c SEP r tb SEP E SEP E SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP 1 SEP MINIMUM SEP INHIBITORY SEP CONENTRATIONS SEP SEP o SEP m SEP o tb SEP H SEP O SEP A SEP N tb SEP 91 tb SEP t SEP U tb SEP ro U1 tb SEP SEP C SEP C tb aa tb SEP Ps SEP Dz SEP 44 tb Pi tb SEP ee SEP 1 SEP w SEP O SEP O SEP O tb SEP Z SEP Et SEP H SEP EtOOC SEP 400 SEP 200 400 SEP 100 SEP U SEP O SEP 200 SEP 50 tb SEP o SEP a SEP tb SEP tH tb SEP Ez SEP s SEP D tb SEP C SEP l tb SEP 5 SEP Me SEP MeOOC CH2 SEP II SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 200 SEP 10 SEP 50 SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP Z SEP Ds tb SEP 6 SEP Et SEP N SEP 1000 SEP 1000 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 200 SEP 50 tb SEP 8 SEP Ut tb SEP SEP E SEP tb SEP O SEP รง SEP B0 SEP O SEP o SEP O tb SEP Fe SEP e SEP SEP ur tb SEP H SEP o SEP tb SEP zo SEP u SEP e tb SEP U SEP o tb SEP n SEP e tb SEP Z SEP to SEP o tb SEP Fe tb SEP E SEP m tb SEP H tb SEP Z SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP H SEP SEP o SEP o SEP t4 tb SEP E SEP E SEP k SEP H SEP A tb SEP commat SEP commat tb SEP ffi SEP U tb SEP W tb SEP U SEP X tb SEP c SEP se SEP o tb SEP oo SEP o SEP o SEP o tb SEP E SEP c SEP v SEP SEP o tb SEP C SEP o SEP 4 tb SEP e SEP SEP N tb SEP m SEP commat tb SEP X SEP Z tb SEP commat SEP m tb SEP fi SEP ZU tb SEP X SEP commat SEP o SEP O SEP o tb SEP D SEP r SEP o SEP H SEP o tb SEP o SEP o SEP . SEP o tb SEP SEP U tb SEP U SEP 1 tb SEP 2 tb SEP eJ tb SEP l tb SEP O tb SEP n SEP 2 SEP o SEP 2 tb SEP o tb SEP CS tb SEP N SEP X SEP O SEP v SEP ur SEP VD tb SEP SEP X SEP Z tb