# PROCESS FOR BONDING NON POLAR OR HIGHLY CRYSTALLINE RESIN SUBSTRATS TO EACH OTHER OR TO ANOTHER MATERIAL

## Claims
Verfahren zur Bindung nichtpolarer oder hochkristalliner Harzsubstrate aneinander oder an anderes Material,

## Description
This invention relates to a process for bonding non polar or highly crystalline resin substrates to each other or to another material by using a primer comprising at least one organometallic compound containing a typical metal and or a transition metal exclusive of IVa group metals, and an α cyanoacrylate as the adhesive and a corresponding primer for such process comprising at least one organometallic compund containing a typical metal and or a transition metal exclusive of IVa group metals and an α cyanoacrylate. The cited resin substrates have herefore been considered as difficult to bond together, bond the other material thereto, coat, paint and print thereon and being typified by polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutene, polyfluoroethylene, their copolymer and other polyolefin substrates as well as polyethylene terephthalate, polyacetal, nylon and soft PVC film having a high content of a plasticizer substrates. To render these substrates or materials improved in adhesiveness, there has heretofore been proposed a surface treating method which comprises subjecting the substrates, for example polyethylene or polypropylene, to flame treatment, corona discharge treatment, irradiation treatment or oxidizing treatment with a bichromate, sulfate or the like so as to produce polar groups such as a carbonyl group on the surface of the substrates. In addition, to make a resin, such as polyfluoroethylene, which is impossible to oxidize on the surface, improved in adhesiveness, there has been proposed a special chemical treatment such as lithium vapor treatment, heating treatment with an alkali in a helium stream or treatment of metallic sodium with liquid ammonia. However, the proposed method and treatments need special equipments, are complicated to carry out, are unable to uniformly treat every part of the surface of a substrate having a complicated shape and require great expenses, these being disadvantageous. Various primers also have been proposed. For example, Japanese Patent Appln. Laid Open Gazettes Nos. 52 98062, 56 141328 and 57 119929 have proposed primers prepared by dissolving a chlorinated polyethylene or chlorinated polypropylene or a fatty acid modified acrylated alkyd resin in an organic acid. According to Japanese Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazette ho. 58 8734, however, the primers so proposed are unsatisfactory in adhesiveness to a paint although they are satisfactory in adhesiveness to a polyolefin substrate, or, even if the paint and the polyolefin are satisfactory in adhesion to each other, the adhesiveness therebetween will undesirably decrease due to repetition of the cold hot cycle. Japanese Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazettes Nos. 54 124048, 54 124049 and 54 124095 have proposed a modified polyolefin prepared by incorporating solid rubber, an unsaturated carboxylic acid or the derivative thereof, and a radical generator in a polyolefin, however, according to Japanese Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazette No. 57 38827, the modified polyolefin will have undesirable effects on the adhesiveness of a paint formed there on since the unreacted unsaturated carboxylic acid and the radical generator remain in the modified polyolefin. Further, Japanese Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazettes Nos. 54 124050, 55 34270 and 55 84271 have proposed an improved resin composed essentially of a propylene styrene butadiene block copolymer and an inorganic filler, however, the improved resin so proposed seems to raise various problems as to poor weatherproofness of unpainted parts and low temperature fragility due to the incorporation of the filler. In patents abstracts of Japan, vol. 5 no. 89 C 58 761 , 10th June 1981 and JP A 56 32 571 Ochiai Seisakusho K.K. 02 04 1981 a primer composition for an α cyanoacrylate as disclosed, which is capable of giving a smooth cured surface on overcoating treatment and uniformly curing at the same time of filling and fixing an comprising a surfactant having a perfluoroalkylgroup etc. as a main constituent, e.g. an anionic surfactant C₉F₁₇OC₆H₄COONa. In addition to the organometallic surface active agents various other surface active agents, which are not orano metallic compounds but metal free compounds, are disclosed as being equivalent with respect to the subject of this publication. Instead of a solution to the special problem of bonding non polar or highly crystalline resin substrats to each other or to another material this publication discloses providing of a smooth cured surface and effecting uniform cure at the time of fixing slotted materials by filling the slots with an adhesive and curing it. k t c In Lehrbuch der Lacke und Beschichtungen Kittel various organometallic compounds are discussed which are used with respect to varnishes. Despite many disclosed organometallic compounds and their uses as catalysts, initiators, stabilisators etc. for vanish coatings, there is no indication for the use of such organometallic compounds as primers in connection with α cyanoacrylates. Moreover, there is no discussion of suggestion of solving the problem of bonding non polar or highly crystalline resin substrates to each other or to other materials. It is an object of the present invention to provide a process for bonding non polar or highly crytalline resin substrates to each other or to another material as well as a primer composition for such process. If non polar or highly crystalline resins such as polyolefin can be improved in adhesiveness or they can allow a coating, painting or print to be satisfactorily formed on the surface thereof, they would be very conducive to various fields such as the automobile industry and electric appliance industry since they have many merits such as excellent properties, light weight, rust proof and low cost as compared with metallic material. In attempts to develop a surface treating method which is simple and speedy as compared with the conventional methods, in view of the above mentioned situations, the present inventors made intensive studies and, as the result of their studies, they developed desired primers which enable satisfactory adhesion, coating, painting and printing. The expression bonding another material to the resin substrate with the use of an α cyanoacrylate used herein is intended to mean, for example, the use of an α cyanoacrylate in adhesion of a solid material such as a metal, glass, a synthetic resin, rubber, leather, stone, cloth, paper, wood or ceramics to the resin substrate or the use thereof in coating or printing a resin substrate with a coating material, paint or printing ink. The primer of this invention is composed of one or more organometallic compounds in which the organic group is combined with a metal selected from typical metals and transition metals, exclusive of IVa group metals. Such organometallic compounds may be used in this invention irrespective of the kind, structure and the like thereof. The organic groups contained in the organometallic compounds include alkyl, cycloalkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkenyl, alkoxy, cycloalkoxy, aryl, aralkyl, aralkyloxy, acetylacetate, acyloxy and cycloalkenyloxy, aryloxy group, with C₃ or higher hydrocarbon groups being preferred. The metals contained in the organometallic compounds in this invention are intended to mean typical metals and transition metals exclusive of IVa group metals. The organometallic compounds are illustrated by the following structural formulae. Among these organometallic compounds, the carboxylates 3 and the hydrocarbon group containing metals 4 are preferred, and the metal alcoholates 1 and the 1,3 dicarbonyl complex salts 2 are more preferred. More particularly, the preferred organometallic compounds include acetylacetone lithium, acetylacetone sodium, acetylacetone magnesium, acetylacetone iron III , acetylacetone palladium, acetylacetone indium, sodium linoleate, magnesium stearate, aluminum stearate, aluminum acetate, aluminum laurate, basic aluminum thiodiglycolate, calcium stearate, ferric stearate, ferrocene, copper dimethyldithiocarbamate, zinc stearate, zinc 2 ethylhexyl, zinc tartrate, stannous acetate, di n butyl tin maleate, di n butyl tin oxide, triphenyl tin acetate, barium stearate, lead stearate, The more preferred organometallic compounds include acetylacetone calcium, acetylacetone zinc, potassium oleate, nickel naphthenate and dioctyl tin dilaurate. The most preferred organometallic compounds include aluminum isopropylate, aluminum mono sec. butoxy diisopropylate, aluminum ethylacetoacetate diisopropylate, aluminum oleylacetoacetate diisopropylate, aluminum trisacetylacetonate, aluminum monoaoetylacetonate bisethylacetoacetate, aluminum trisethylacetoacetate, acetylacetone manganese III , acetylacetone cobalt II , acetylacetone nickel, acetylacetone zinc, dibutyl tin diacetate, tri n butyl tin oxide, tin 2 ethylhexanoate, The primer composed of the organometallic compound or compounds according to this invention is used for coating on a non polar or highly crystalline resin substrates in bonding the resin substrates together or bonding another material thereto with use of α cyanoacrylate. In this case, it is desired to control the thickness of the organometallic compounds coated so that the full effects of this invention are attained as described later. For this purpose, it is preferred that the compounds be used in solution. The solvents used herein are preferably a usual one which is capable of completely dissolving or dispersing the organometallic compound therein, has suitable volatility and is industrially easily available. The solvents are also preferably such that a resin, such as polyolefin, can be fully wetted on the surface therewith, in order to allow the primers to exercise their performance more efficiently. For this purpose, it is further preferable to selectively use an organic solvent which has a surface tension lower than the critical surface tension γc of the resin. The following Table indicates the surface tension and the critical surface tension of typical solvents to help one skilled in the art in selecting a solvent to be used. It is preferable that a solution of the organometallic compound in a solvent be in a concentration by weight of 0.001 10 for the reason that the organometallic compound may be coated to nearly thickness of monomolecular layer thereof whereby the compound can exhibit its best performance as described later. The α cyanoacrylate used in this invention is represented by the following general formula wherein R is alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkoxyalkyl, aralkyl, haloalkyl or the like and more particularly it is illustrated by methyl, ethyl, n propyl, n butyl, isobutyl, n pentyl, allyl, cyclohexyl, benzyl or methoxypropyl. The α cyanoacrylates used herein are the main component of commercially available cyanoacrylate based instant adhesives which may be used as they are, as α cyanoacrylate in this invention. The commercially available cyanoacrylate based adhesives are composed mainly of α cyanoacrylate and may be further incorporated with various ingredients as illustrated below The stabilizer is for enhancing the storage stability of the cyanoacrylate based adhesives and is illustrated by sulfur dioxide, an aromatic sulfonic acid or a sultone as an anion polymerization inhibitor and by hydroquinone or hydroquinone monomethyl ether as a radical polymerization inhibitor. The thickener used herein is for increasing the viscosity of the cyanoacrylate based adhesives to several ten to several thousand cp since usually α cyanoacrylate is a low viscous liquid having a viscosity of about several cp. The thickener used herein includes a polymethylmethacrylate, acryl rubber or cellulose derivative. The modifier used herein is for improving the impact resistance or heat resistance which are drawbacks of conventional cyanoacrylate based adhesives and is illustrated by maleic anhydride or a derivative thereof as an improver of heat resistance as indicated in Japanese Pat. Appln. Gazette No. 52 12737. To enable a porous and acidic sap containing woody material which has heretofore been considered difficult to bond, to be bonded, crown compounds and the like may be used as indicated in, for example, Japanese Pat. Appln. Publication Gazette No. 55 2238. Further, to provide a flexible adhesive layer, the original adhesive may be incorporated with a plasticizer such as tricresyl phosphate, dioctyl phthalate or dimethyl sebacate. The dyestuff used herein is for, for example, rendering a bonded portion easily identifiable, the original adhesive may be incorporated with, for instance, an acidic salt of basic dye as indicated in Japanese Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazette No. 53 37260 or the like. Furthermore, the original adhesive may further be incorporated with a perfume such as an ester derivative as indicated in Pat. Appln. Laid Open Gazette No. 53 58541 or the like, in order to provide the adhesive with fragrance. In the practice of this invention, the α cyanoacrylate may be used in the form of a diluted solution in a specific organic solvent. The organic solvent should be such that it is compatible with the α cyanoacrylate and does not impair the stability thereof, and it includes toluene, butyl acetate or methylchloroform. It is preferred that the organic solvent contains none of moisture and other impurities. In a case where two substrates to be bonded together are each a non polar or highly crystalline resin, coating of the organometallic compound may be effected by immersing the both of the substrate in a solution of the primer for several seconds or coating it with the solution of the use of a brush or spray gun and then air drying, while in a case where one of substrates to be bonded together is a non polar or highly crystalline resin, the substrate may be treated only in the same manner as above. The primer coated non polar or highly crystalline resin substrates together or another material and the substrate are bonded using the α cyanoacrylate by a usual means, thus obtaining a bonded body having very excellent bond strength. In the coating method of the primer, there may also be used a method which comprises coating a mixture of the α cyanoacrylate and the organometallic compound on a substrate with or without using organic solvent, or a method which comprises ejecting an α cyanoacrylate and a solution of the organometallic compound simultaneously by the use of spray gun having two nozzles. In the former method, full care must be taken to prevent moisture, amines, alcohols and other foreign matters from mixing in the mixture since the α cyanoacrylate specifically has a strong anionic activity. In a process for forming a coating, painting or printing on a non polar or highly crystalline resin substrate, the primer is coated on the resin substrate by the above mentioned coating method, and then an α cyanoacrylate is coated and polymerized to form a polymer film thereof, thus producing a resin substrate having satisfactory receptivity and bond strength to coating materials, paints and printing ink. The thus produced resin substrates may be coated or printed by a conventional means to form an excellent coating, painting and printing thereon. In the coating steps the following steps will show more excellent effects in coatings. In a first step, a primer prepared by dissolving the organometallic compound in an organic solvent, is coated on a substrate on which a coating, painting or printing is to be formed by an immersing or spraying method and being laid usually 5 60 minutes at room temperature or several days depending on the operational steps taken. In a second step, the α cyanoacrylate is coated on the primer coated substrate to form a poly α cyanoacrylate film, by a coating method using a preliminarily acid treated brush, an immersing method, a spraying method, or the like. In a case where the spraying method is used, it is preferred to use a diluted solution of α cyanoacrylate in an organic solvent in order to prevent the nozzles of spray gun from being clogged. In addition, in a case where a commercially available cyanoacrylate based adhesive is used, it is preferable to choose the low viscosity one. The substrate on which the α cyanoacrylate has been coated is allowed to stand at room temperature for at least 12 hours to form a poly α cyanoacrylate film. The poly α cyanoacrylate film is not particularly limited in thickness, but it is preferable that the thickness be in the range of 0.1 100 µ, preferably 10 50 µ to eliminate defective coated portions. The substrate on which the primer and α cyanoacrylate have been coated as indicated above, is then coated with a usual coating material, painted with a paint or printed with a usual printing ink, There are various kinds of coating materials, paints or printing inks which may be classified in various ways, however, they may be enumerated from the view point of the kind of vehicle resin used, as follows From the view point of use, particularly preferred coating materials, paints or printing inks for use in applying to a polyolefin substrate are those containing a polyurethane resin, an epoxy resin, or an alkyd resin. As to thermosetting coating materials, those which may be cured at a baking temperature of not higher than 90 C are preferred. A coating material or a paint may be applied by a usual method such as a coating method using a brush, a bar coater, a roller coater or a spray gun, while a printing ink may be applied by a usual method such as a silk screen printing method, a gravure printing method or a flexographic printing method. It is not clear why the adhesiveness of a non polar or highly crystalline resin to another material is improved by using the organometallic compound of this invention as the primer and the α cyanoacrylate, however, the organometallic compounds will exhibit their best primer performance when they are very thinly coated to an extent that the amount thereof coated reaches 0.001 to 1 g m² although the optimum thickness varies depending on the kind of the organometallic compound used. From the fact that the organometallic compounds have a polar segment and non polar segment in structure, it is surmised that the effects of this invention are produced under the following mechanism. The organometallic compound, that is, the primer of this invention is present in approximately the monomolecular layer between the surface of the non polar or highly crystalline resin substrate and the α cyanoacrylate layer monomer or polymer film layer whereby the groups highly compatible with the α cyanoacrylate layer, in other words, the lipophilic groups and the polar groups are arranged in order and these groups act as a bonding agent to obtain the effects of this invention. To obtain the best results in accordance with this invention, it is necessary to determine an organometallic compound to be used, the concentration of the compound, the amount thereof applied, and the like in view of the nature of the organometallic compound, a substrate and a material to be bonded thereto. As to the amount of the organometallic compound primer applied, the use of the primer in such a small amount that the resulting primer layer does not cover all the surface of the substrate which is needed, will naturally not give good results, whereas the use thereof in such a large amount that the resulting primer layer is thicker than the monomolecular layer, will result in forming a fragile primer layer whereby the results of this invention are not obtained. Thus, the concentration of solution of an organometallic compound primer solution is preferably 0.001 10 by weight and the amount of the primer coated is in the range of preferably 0.001 1 g m² A secure bond is effected between a non polar or highly crystalline resin substrate and an α cyano acrylate with aid of the organometallic compound present therebetween whereby the resin substrate is much improved in adhesiveness and, further, a usual coating material or printing ink can easily be applied to the treated resin substrate without causing any problems owing to the presence of a poly α cyano acrylate film formed thereon. The excellent effects obtained by the practice of this invention are those which may be attained by the combined use of the α cyanoacrylate, organometallic compound and non polar or highly crystalline resin substrate. On the other hand, in cases where a bond is attempted to be effected between polyolefin such as polyethylene and something, an organotitanium compound was once studied to find whether it is useful as a primer or preliminary treatment in these cases, however, excellent effects were not appreciated since an epoxy, urethane, rubber or acrylic adhesive was used. These conventional means do not anticipate at all the present invention which will unexpectedly excellent effects when practiced. The effects of this invention will be exhibited only when a non polar or highly crystalline resin is used as the substrate, whereas they will not be exhibited when other materials such as a metal, wood or porcelain are used as the substrate. The primer of this invention is effective for a non polar or highly crystalline resin such as polyethylene terephthalate, polyacetal or nylon and is particularly effective for polyolefin such as polyethylene and polypropylene. This invention will be better understood by the following Examples and Comparative Examples, wherein Kgf N. 0.3 g of each of aluminum mono sec. butoxydiisopropylate, aluminum monoacetylacetonate diethylacetoacetate and aluminium trisethylacetoacetate were dissolved in 99.7 g of 1,1,1 trichloroethane to prepare a primer solution. Two pieces, 25 x 100 x 0.2 mmt, of a polyethylene film were each brushed on one face with each of the thus prepared primer solutions and air dried for about 5 minutes. Thus the primer coated film pieces were bonded together about one half 1 2 of its length with Aron Alpha No. 221 Trade name, cyanoacrylate based adhesive produced by Toagosei Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. , and were then aged under a compressive load of 0.1 Kgf cm² at room temperature for 24 hours to obtain a test piece. The test pieces so obtained were each measured for peel bond strength at a pulling rate of 100 mm min. using a Strograph W type tester in accordance with JIS K6854 1977 Example 1 . For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that the primer was not used Comparative Example 1 . The results are as shown in Table 1. One gram of each of aluminum isopropylate and aluminum ethylacetoacetate diisopropylate was dissolved in 99 g of toluene to prepare a primer solution. Two pieces, 12.7 mm square x 38 mm, of each of polyethylene, polypropylene and polyacetal were ground with a smooth cut plain file to obtain pieces having a smooth ground face. The thus obtained pieces were brushed with the primer solution and air dried for about 10 minutes. In each of the polymers coated with different primers, the two primer coated pieces were bonded together with Aron Alpha No. 201 cyanoacrylate based adhesive produced by Toagosei Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. , and were then aged under a compressive load of 0.1 Kgf cm² at room temperature for 24 hours. The thus obtained test pieces were measured for tensile bond strength at a pull rate of 20 mm min. using a Strograph W type tester in accordance with JIS K6861 1977. For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that the primer was not used Comparative Example 2 . The results are as shown in Table 2. 0.5 g of each of aluminum oleylacetoacetate diisopropylate, aluminum isopropylate and aluminum ethylacetoacetate diisopropylate were dissolved in 99.5 g of 1,1,2 trichloro 1,2,2 trifluoroethane to prepare a primer solution. The two film pieces were treated and tested in the same manner as in Example 1 except using 25 x 100 x 0.1 mmt of a polytrifluoroethylene and Aron Alpha No. 221F cyanoacrylate based adhesive produced by Toagosei Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd. . For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that the primer was not used Comparative Example 3 . The results are as shown in Table 3. 0.5 g of aluminum oleylacetoacetate diisopropylate were dissolved in 99.5 g of each of ethanol, ethyl acetate and tetrahydrofuran to prepare a primer solution. Thereafter, the two film pieces were treated and tested in the same manner as in Example 1 except using 25 x 100 x 0.5 mmt of a PVC film and Aron Alpha No. 201. For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that a primer was not used Comparative Example 4 . The results are as indicated in Table 4. The primers, polyolefin substrates and α cyanoacrylate used were as follows The procedure of Example 2 was followed except that different primers were used Example 5 . For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that a primer was not used Comparative Example 5 . The results are as shown in Table 5. The primers, substrates to be bonded, and α cyanoacrylate used were as follows The procedure of Example 5 was followed, but varying the materials used Example 6 . For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that the primer was not used Comparative Example 6 . The results are as shown in Table 6. The primers, substrate to be bonded, and α cyanoacrylate used were as follows The procedure of Example 5 was followed, but varying the materials used Example 7 . For comparison, the above procedure was followed except that a primer was not used Comparative Example 7 . The results are as shown in Table 7. The primers, α cyanoacrylate, substrate and paints used were as follows First of all, the substrate was brushed on the surface with each of the primer solutions and air dried for 10 minutes. The primer coated substrate was further coated uniformly with the α cyanoacrylate solution by the use of a spray gun and allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. The obtained substrate was uniformly painted by spraying method with each of the paints then allowed to stand at room temperature for three days. The adhesion of the paint was evaluated by a cross cut peel test in accordance with JIS K5400 1979 after the paint had been subjected to an exposure test at room temperature and under the following specific environmental conditions. The results are as indicated in Table 10. The performance of the overcoat in Example 9 was compared as follows. The procedure of Example 9 was followed except that a primer and α cyanoacrylate were not used Comparative Example 13 . The procedure of Example 9 was followed except that a primer was not used Comparative Example 14 and it was also followed except that an α cyanoacrylate was not used Comparative Example 15 . The adhesion of the paints of Comparative Examples 13 15 are shown in comparison with that of Example 9 in Table 10. The primer, α cyanoacrylate, paints and substrate used were as follows The procedure of Example 9 was followed except for immersion in the α cyanoacrylate and being allowed to stand for 7 days after painted. The painted bodies so obtained were measured for strength of bond between the paint and polyethylene substrate by a cross cut peel test in accordance with JIS D0202. The procedure of Example 10 was followed except that neither a primer nor an α cyanoacrylate was used. The procedure of Example 10 was followed except that the use of a primer was omitted. The procedure of Example 10 was followed except that the use of an α cyanoacrylate was omitted. The results are as indicated in Table 11. The primers, α cyanoacrylate, paints and substrate used were as follows The polypropylene plate was coated with each of the primers by the use of a brush and air dried for 5 minutes. The thus primer coated plate was immersed in the α cyanoacrylate, soon withdrawn and allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. Thereafter, the thus treated plate was brushed with the paint and then allowed to stand at room temperature for 7 days. The results are as shown in Table 12. The primers, α cyanoacrylate, paint and substrate used were as follows The substrate, the polypropylene plate, was brushed with the primer and air dried for 5 minutes. The plate so treated was uniformly coated with α cyanoacrylate by a spray gun and allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. Thereafter, the polypropylene plate was coated uniformly with the paint and then allowed to stand at room temperature for 7 days. The thus obtained painted product was subjected to a cross cut peel test and an environmental exposure test to observe whether blisters, cracks and peeling were caused in the paint coat, thereby evaluating the performance thereof. The results are as shown in Table 13.