# Substituted 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides and 2,3 dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxides.

## Abstract
Compound of formula The product produced are useful, for example, as photographic optical filter agents and filter agent precursors.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of the formulaEMI100.1 wherein A is a 4 l P phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a 4 OP 1 naphthyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different 3 is a phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a naphthyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different P is a protecting group X represents the atoms necessary to complete a 2,3dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide moiety or a 2,3 di hydronaphtoC1 ,8 de 1 ,2 thiazine 1 ,1 dioxide moiety and R is hydrogen, an alkali metal selected from sodium, potassium and lithium or a carbonyl moiety wherein theEMI100.2 is bonded directly to said N atom. 2. A compound as defined in claim 1 wherein R is an alkali metal salt a carbonyl molety or hydrogen. 3. A compound as defined in claim 1 wherein X represents the atoms necessary to complete a 2,3 dihydrobenz d iso thiazole 1,1 dioxide. 4. A compound o the formulaEMI101.1 wherein P is a protecting group, R1 and R2 each are selected from hydrogen, alkyl alkoxy, chloro and fluoro R3 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkory, or OP R2 and R3 taken together represent the carbon toms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring R4 and each are selected from hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, chloro d fluoro R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, OPI wherein P is a protecting group, N,N dialkyl amino, N,N R8alkyl 2 amino wherein R8.1s halo or OPII wherein pl is a protecting group, NHCOCH3, piperidino, pyrrolidino, methylpiperazino, morpholino, thiomorpholino or tetrahy 2H,4H 1,3,6 dioxazocino R7 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy r OPIII wherein PIII is a protecting group the same PI or PII R6 and R7 taken together represent the carb atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring R4, R and R6 taken together represent the atoms necessary to complete a fused ij quinoli zidine ring X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole , 1 dioxide or 2,3 dihydro naphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxide and R11 is hydrogen, an alkali metal selected from sodium, potassium and lithium orEMI102.1 wherein R9 is selected from methyl, methyl substituted with at, least one halo group selected from chloro, bromo and fluoro, alkoxy having 7 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl, phenyl substituted in the para position with alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or N,N dialkyl amino, phenyl substituted with at least one electronwithdrawing group, phenoxy, phenoxy substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group, O CH2 2Y whereinY is an electronwithdrawing group and phenyl substituted in the ortho position with CH2R10 wherein R10 is chloro or bromo. 5. A compound as defined in claim 4, wherein X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz 47 iso thiazole 1, 1 dioxide. 6. A compound as defined in claim 4, wherein R11 is hydrogen an alkali metal orEMI102.2 7. A compound as defined in claim 6 wherein R9 is methyl methyl substituted with at least one halo group selected from chloro, bromo and fluoro alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms phenyl phenyl substituted in the para position with alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or N,N dialkyl amino phenyl substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group phenoxy phenoxy substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group O CH 2Y wherein Y is an electron withdrawing group or CH2R wherein R10 is chloro or bromo. 8. A compound as defined in claim 4 wherein X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz dJ iso thiazole 1 , 1 dioxide 9. A compound as defined in claim 8 wherein R11 is hydrogen.. 10. A compound as defined in claim 4 wherein R11 is an alkali metal. 11. A compound as defined in claim 10 wherein R11 isEMI103.1 12. A compound as defined in claim 9 wherein R9 is methyl. 13. A compound as defined in claim 12 wherein R9 is methyl substituted with at least one halo group selected from chloro, bromo ndfluoro. 14. A compound as defined in claim 13 wherein R9 is alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 15. A compound as defined in claim 14 wherein R9 is phenyl. 16. A compound as defined in claim 15 wherein R9 is phenyl substituted in the para position with alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or N,N dialkyl amino. 17. A compound as defined in claim 15 wherein said R1, R2, R4 and R6 each are methoxy. 18. A compound as defined in claim 9 wherein said RÚ andRê are methyl and R4, R6 and R7 are hydrogen. 19. A compound as defined in claim 18 wherein said R5 is morpholino N,N dialkyl amino N,N w R8 alkyl 2 amino alkoxy NHCOCH3 pyrrolidino or tetrahydro 2H, 4H 1,3,6dioxazocino. 20. A compound as defined in claim 9 wherein said R andR2 are methyl, R4 is hydrogen, R5 is N,N dialkyl amino and R6 and R7 represent the carbon atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring. 21. A compound as defined in claim 9, wherein said R1 and R2 are methyl, R4 and R6 are hydrogen, R5 is N,N 7 dialkyl amino and R is alkyl. 22. h compound as defined in claim 9 wherein said R and R2 are methyl, R4, R5 and R6 are hydrogen and R7 is OPIII 23. A compound as defined in claim 11 wherein said R1 and R2 are methoxy R4 and R6 are hydrogen and R5 and R7 are alkoxy. 24. A compound as defined in claim 3, wherein said RÚ, R2, R3 R4 R5 R6 and R7 are hydrogen. 25. A compound as defined in claim 3 wherein p, pI, PII, and PlIIare 2 tetrahydropyranyl, methoxymethyl or dimethyl t butylsilyl. 26. A compound according to any of formulae 1 through 88.

## Description
Sustituted 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides and 2,3 dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxidesThe present invention is directed 3 novel substituted 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides and 2,3dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxides ich are useful as intermediates in the synthesis of cer arn 3,3 disubstituted 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1dioxides possessing a carbonyl group in the 2 positi Such compounls possessing a 4 hydroxyphenyl moiety as one of the 3,3 substituents and a phenyl naphthyl or 4 substituted phenyl 4 substituted naphthyl moiety the ether of the 3,3 substituents form the subject matter of copending U.S.Patent Application Serial No 836 021 ofEtanley M. Bloom, Alan L.Borror and Janas W. Foley filed Ser. 23, 1977 and of copending U.S. Patent Appli cations Serial Nos. 835.998. 836 005 and 836 009 ofAlan L. Borror and James W. Foley also filed Sept. 23, 1977, sai U.S. Patent Applications corresponding toWest Ge n Patent Application F 28 41 322.1 filed concurrently therewith Representative s file 3920 1 10.427 . As discussed in the aforementione applications, compounds may be selected for use as classi cal pH sensitive indicator dyes or as photographie optical filter agents and filter agent precursors cepending upon the 2 substituent of the benz d isothiazole ring. The photographic use of certain of the compounds as photographic optical filter agents and filter agent precursors forms the subject matter of copending U.S.Patent Application Serial No 836 006 of Stanley M. Bloom, Alan L. Borror and James W. Foley filea Sept. 23, 1977 corresponding to West GermanPatent Application P 28 41 323.2 filed concurrently therewith Representative s file 3920 I 10.428 .The 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides possessing a 4 hydroxynaphthyl moiety as one of the 3,3substituents and a naphthyl or 41 substituted naphthyl moiety as the other of the 3,3 substituents form the subject matter of copending U.S. Patent ApplicationSerial No. 836 067 of Alan L. Borror, Louis cincotta,Ernest W. Ellis and James W. Foley filed Sept. 23, 1977 corresponding to West German Patent ApplicationP 28 41 321.0 filed concurrently therewith Repreen tative s file 3920 I 10.426 , and as described wherein, compounds inay be selected for use as classical ph sensi tive indicator dyes or as antihalo dyes in photo aphy. The novel compounds of the present invention may be represented by the formulaEMI2.1 wherein A is a 4 OP 1 phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a 4 OP 1 naphthyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with,organo metallic reagents, the same or different B is a phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a naphthyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different P is a protecting group X represents the atoms necessary to complete a 2,3 dihydrobenzEd isothiazole 1,1 dioxide moiety or a 2,3 dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxide moiety and R is hydrogen, an alkali metal selected from sodium, potassium and lithium or a carbonyl moiety containingEMI3.1 group bonded to saidN atom.In a preferred embodiment, the novel intermediates of the present invention may be represented by the formulaEMI3.2 wherein P is a protecting group, RÚ and Rê each are selected from hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, chloro and fluoro 2R3 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, or OP R2 and R3 taken together represent the carbon atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring R4 and R6 each are selected from hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, chloro and fluoro R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, OPI wherein PI is a protecting group, N,N dialkyl amino, N,N w R8alkyl 2amino wherein a6 is halo or wherein is a protecting group, NHCOCH3, piperidino, pyrrolidino, N methylpiperazino, morpholino, thiomorpholino or tetrahydro 2H, 4H 1,3,6 dioxazocino R7 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy or OPIII wherein PIII is a protecting group usually the same as PÚ or pit R6 and R7 taken together represent the carbon atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring R4. R5 and R6 taken together representthe atoms necessary to complete a fused ij quinolizidine ring X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide or 2,3 dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxide and R11 is hydrogen, an alkali metal selected from sodium, potassium and lithium orEMI4.1 wherein R9 is selected from methyl, methyl substituted with at least one halo group selected from chloro, bromo and fluoro, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl, phenyl substituted preferably in the para position with alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or N,N dialkyl amino, phenyl substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group, phenoxy, phenoxy substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group, O CH2 2Y wherein Y is an electron withdrawing group and phenyl substituted in the ortho position with CH2R10 wherein R10 is chloro or bromo. Illustrative compounds are as follows EMI5.1 EMI6.1 EMI7.1 EMI8.1 EMI9.1 EMI10.1 EMI11.1 EMI12.1 EMI13.1 EMI14.1 EMI15.1 EMI16.1 EMI17.1 EMI18.1 EMI19.1 EMI20.1 EMI21.1 EMI22.1 EMI23.1 EMI24.1 EMI25.1 EMI26.1 EMI27.1 The 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl 3 phenyl naphthyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides of this invention, i.e. those compounds of Formula I where R is hydrogen may be synthesized by reacting a 3 4 OP 1s phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl ben7gd2 isothiazole 1,1 dioxide and a phenyllithium or a naphthyllithium reagent.Specifically, the 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxides are prepared by blocking the functional hydroxy group and any substituent group s , as may be appropriate, of the selected 4 halophenol or 4 halo 1 naphthol and converting the blocked phenol or 1 naphthol to the corresponding Grignard or lithium reagent which is then reacted with a saccharin reagent. The 4 halo substituent may be chloro, bromo or iodo when the lithium reagent is prepared by reacting the blocked phenol or blocked 1 naphthol with lithium metal and is either bromo or iodo when the lithium reagent is made via a lithium exchange resin using, for example, n butyllithium. In preparing theGrignard reagent by reacting the blocked phenol or 1 nnph thol with magnesium metal, the 4 halo substituent may be chloro, bromo or iodo. The Grignard or lithium reagent thus prepared is then reacted with saccharin, the N lithium salt of saccharin or saccharin pseudo chloride to yield the corresponding 3 4 OP 1l phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide. Generally, theGrignard reagent is reacted with the pseudo chloride, and the lithium reagent is reacted with the N lithium salt. The 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl naphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxides may be prepared in a similar manner by reacting the Grignard or lithium reagent with 2,3 dihydro 3 oxo naphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine1,1 dioxide, its pseudochloride or the N lithium derivative thereof. To prepare the 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl0 D phenyltnaphthyl 2,3 dthydrobenzfidSisothiazole 1,1 dioxides, the 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide is reacted with at least one molar equivalent of a phenyllithium or a naphthyllithium reagent in an inert organic solvent, such, as benzene, diethyl ether, dioxane, hexane, toluene, petroleum ether or tetrahydrofuran. The reaction temperature may vary over a relatively wide range from about 800 to 50 0C as may be readily determined for the particular reactants.For achieving maximum yields, the reaction generally is conducted at a temperature below about 0 C and preferably between about 650C and 250C. The phenyl or naphthyllithium reagent ultimately forming the B moiety of the subject compounds and the ultimate products may be substituted or unsubstituted and may be prepared from the corresponding halo substituted compound.For example, N,N dimethylaniline may be halogenated to give the 4 halo compound which, in turn, is reacted with lithium metal or n butyllithium to yield the 4 lithium compound. Halogenation may be carried out in a onventio nal manner using either chlorine or bromine, with or without a catalyst, or using N broiuccinimide or iodinemonochloride. When lithium metal is employed in the preparation of the 4 lithium compound, the halo substituent may be chloro, bromo or iodo and is either bromo or dodo when a lithium exchange reaction is employed. If substituents, such as, hydroxy, are present, they should be blocked with the appropriate protecting group to render them compatible with organometallic reagents prior to conversion to the 4 lithium compound.The protecting groups, of course, should be removable under mildly acidic conditions so that the substituents on the aryl moiety forming the B moiety can be regenerated simultaneously with the regeneration of tIB functional OH group of the phenolic or naphtholic moiety, i.e., the A moiety. The groups selected for protecting the functional phenolic or naphtholic hydroxy group and other hydroxy grips that may be present in the phenol or 1 naphthol should be stable to and compatible with organolithium and Grignard reagents and should protect the hydroxy group s against reaction under the conditions encountered in the synthesis of the aforesaid compounds and in the subsequentN acylation step. In addition, the protecting group selected should be capable of being easily removed under weakly acid conditions to regenerate the hydroxy group s without the removal of or adversely affecting the N carbonyl moiety or other substituents that may be present.Alkyl groups, such as methyl and ethyl, may be employed in those instances where they can be removed without removal of th N carbonyl moiety. Because they can be readily removed without disturbing the N substituent or other substituents, the phenol or 1 naphthol preferably is protected with methoxymethyl, 21 tetrahydropyranyl or dimethyl t butylsilyl. The blocked phenols and 1 naphthols employing these protecting groups may be prepared by methoxymethylation as described, for example, by Kaoru FuJi et al, Synthesis, 4, pp. 276 277 1975 , by tetrahydropyranylation as described, for example, by WilliamE.Parham et al, J.Amer.Chem.Soc., 70, pp. 4187 4189 1948 or by silylating with dimethyl t butylsilyl chloride in the presence of imidazole as described byE.J. Corey et al., J.Amer.Chem.Soc., 94, pp. 6190 6191 1972 .As noted above, hydroxy groups in addition to the functional OH of the phenol and 1 naphthol may be blocked simultaneously with the functional hydroxy group, for example, by tetrahydropyranylatlor. or methoxymethylation.Groups other than hydroxy that should be protected may be blocked prior to or subsequent to the blocking of the functional OH. For example, carboxy group s may be protected by reacting a carboxy substituted 4 halophenol or 4 halo 1 naphthol with 2 amino 2 methyl 1 propanol followed by blocking of the functional OH. Sulfonanido NH SO2 R and sulfamoyl SO2 NH R substituents may be protected by a t butyl group.The 3 4 OP 1 phenyl 4 OP 1 naphthyl 3 phenyl naphthyl 2,3 dthydrobenzg17isothiazole t,1 dioxides Prepared as described above are reacted with a carboxylic acid halide,EMI31.1 wherein W and R9 have the same meaning given above preferably in pyridine solution to give the correspondingEMI31.2 compound. About 1 to 2 moles of acid halide are used for each mole of the isothiazole 1,1 dioxide. Since the reaction is exothermic, external heating may not be necessary, but the reaction mixture may be heated to facilitate completion of the reaction, if desired. Ordinarily, the reaction temperature ranges between about 0 and 1O00C, and preferably, the reaction is conducted in an inert atmosphere, for example, under nitrogen. Optionally, the acylation step may be carried out by first reacting the isothiazole I,I dioxide with a molar equivalent and usually a slight excess of about O.1.mole of an alkali metal hydride, IE, wherein M has the same meaning given above in an inert organic solvent at a temperature between about 0 and 100 C, preferably in an inert atmosDhere, and then reacting the N alkali metal salt thus formed wit the said carboxylic acid halide,EMI31.3 Usually, the acid halide is added to the reaction mixture containing the N alkali metal salt. However, theN alkali metal salt may be isolated prior to reaction with the acid halide. if desired.Solvents suitable for use in the alternate method of forming theEMI31.4 compound include dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, ethylether and benzene.The alkali metal, like the pyridine, affords substitution of the rin nitrogen of the ring closing moiety in the acylation reaction.Carboxylic acid halides are well known and may be prepared in a conventional manner, for example, by reacting the selected carboxylic, acid, R9COOH, with phosphorus trichioride, phosphorus pentaehloride or thionyl chloride 9 to give the corresponding R COCl, or by reacting the selected R9OH with phosgene to give the corresponding ClCOOR9. Subsequent to the acylation step, the protecting group P is removed from the functional OH by treating with acid having a pH between about 0.1 and 5.0 at a temperature between about 200 and 100 0C. The acid may be an inorganic acid, such as, hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid in a protic solvent, e.g., water, alkanol, such as, methanol or ethanol, or aqueous alkanol, cr the acid may be an organic acid, such as, acetic acid or trifluco etic acid alone or in a protic solvent, such as those mentioned above. As indicated previously, any other protecting groups that may be present are removed simultaneously with the protecting group on the functional OH.The following examples are. given to further illustrate the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. xam Preparation of the compoand having the formala EMI33.1 a N p bromophenyl morpholine 0.4 g. was added to 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran THF and the solution cooled to 650C. To the solution was added 0.69 ml. of 2.4 M butyllithium in hexane with stirring and stirring was continued for 1 hour. After 15 minutes the solution became cloudv and a white precipitate formed. To this solution was added 0.5 g of 3 3 , 5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide in 2 ml. THF at 650C under nitrogen. The resulting reaction mixture was a clear orange yellow solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour, poured into 100 ml. of water, made acidic with conc. hydrochloric acid pH 6 , and extracted with ether.The ether was dried over Na2S04 and evaporated leaving an oil. The oil was taken up in ligroin boiling range 30 600C and refluxed for 1 hour. The white solid that formed was collected to give 0.7g of 3 3 , 5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl 3 4 N morpho linyl 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz17 isothia70le 1,1 dioxide having the formula EMI34.1 b The compound prenared in step a 0.7 g. placed in 20 ml. of pyridine under nitrogen and 0.15 ml of B cyanoethylchlcroformate ClCOOCH2CH2CN was added to the pyridine solution. The resulting reaction solution was stirred 1 hour, warmed gently and then poured into 100 ml.of water and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform was dried over Na2SC , evaporated and the solid that formed was extracted with ligroir boiling range 30 6O0C . The solid obtained was the N acylated compound, 3 3 , 5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy I phenyl 3 4 N morpholinyl 1 phenyl 2 3 cyanocarbethoxy 2,3 dihyarobenzEdviso thiazole 1,1 djoxide having the formula EMI34.2 c The compound obtained in step b was then s solved in methanol, made acidic With cona. nyarochlcric acid and refluxed 1 hour. TLC from ether on silica gel showed 4 spots.The methanol solution was evaporated to leave 0.6 s of solid. 200 mg. of solid in ether was placed on silica gel 1000 plates and the dark band was removed after din plates. Acetone was used to remove the N acylated product from the silica al. The acetone was removed, ether added and te solution refluxed. The white solid that formed was recovered by filtration to give the title compound.The 3 3 , 5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl benz 7 isothiazole 1,I dioxide having the formula EMI35.1 used in step a above was prepared as follows i Into a 2 liter three neck flask, fitted with a mechanical stirrer, nitrogen inlet and a dropping funnel, was places 700 ml. of dry chloroform. The flask was immersed in an ice water bath. Powdered phosphorus pentoxide 300.0 g. was added to the vigorously stirred, cold chloroform. To this mixture was added over a 1 hour period a solution of 4 bromo 2,6 dimethylphenol 201.0 g. in 400 ml of dry dimethoxymethane. During this time the phosphorus pentoxide powder fused into an amorphous mass and stirring became difficult.TLC analysis 9 1 petroleum ether ethyl acetate on silica gel indicated that much reacted star ting phenol s still resent. The temperature ci t r.e reaction mixture was allowed to rise to about 250C.Additional 50 g increments of phosphorous pentoxide were added to the stirred reaction mixture every 30 45 minutes until TLC C analysis indicated the absence of starting phenol, The organic layer was decanted, washed with two 250 ml. portions of aqueous 10 S sodium hydroxide and dried over calcium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure leaving G pale yellow oil which was distilled from 25 g. of anhydrous potssium carbonate to give 220.0 g of 40 bromo 2,6 dimethyl methylenemethoxyphenyl ether as 2 colorless oil boiling point 1120C and 0.5 mm Hg . ii 4 Bremo 2,6 dimethyl methylenemethoxyphenyl ether 85.04 g 0.347 mole was dissolved in approximately 800 ml of tetrahydrofuran. The solution was cooled to 75 C under a nitrogen blanket, and 2.4M n butyllithium in hexane 144.8 ml 0.346 mole was added dropwise. Addi tion was completed within a 2 hour period giving a white slurry. iii Saccharin 61.2 g 0.334 mole was dissolved in 600 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran, and the solution was cooled to approximately 750C. 2.4M n butyllithium in hexane 130.4 ml 0.311 mole was slowly added dropwise to the cooled solution under a nitrogen blanket. The temperature was not allowed to rise above 700C. Addition was completed in about 90 minutes, giving a clear, very pale yellow solution. lv The yellow solution obtained en sta iii was slowly added over a 3 hour period0 to the white slurry obtained in step ii while keeping the temperature at 700C. During this tie the solids disappear riving z clear, cara e colored reaction mixture that first tends to darken with time and taken gradually lightens. The reaction mixture was allowed to come to room temperature overnight and t was tuted with ,6.O g of aonium chloride in 20 ml of water, while cooling in an icewater bath.The organic portion wa decanted and dried over anhydrous calcium sulfate. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to gie a pnk colored oil that became solid on standing in open air.The solid was recrystallized twice from 1 propanol, washed with 2 60 40, mixture of petroleum ether tetra hydrofuran and dried under vacuum to give 68.0 g of the title compound as a white, crystalline solid.3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide also was prepared as follows Dry tetrahydrofuran 10 15 ml was added to magnesium turnings 0.20g under nitrogen. A solution of 4 bromo2,6 dimethyl methylenmethoxyphenyl ether 2.0g in tetrahydrofuran 30 ml was added gradually to the magnesium turnings with stirring and heating. After about twenty minutes of external heating to reflux, a self sustaining reaction was observed. The remaining solution of phenyl ether was then added. at a rate to maintain a comfortable reaction. Refluxing with external heating was continued after addition was complete and after one hour, the solution was cooled to room temperature and held under nitrogen.A solution of saccharin pseudochloride 1.89g in tetrahydrofuran 40 ml was cooled to 78 C and the previously prepared solution of magnesium bromide reagent was added dropwise to the pseudo chloride solution under nitrogen. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred cold for about 2 hours and then stirred at room temperature overnight. Te reaction mixture was then cooled in an ice water bath and treated with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The aqueous solution was extracted wit chloroform several times and the combined chloroform extracts washed with water and dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate followed by drying over anhydrous calcium sulfate.Upon removing the chloroform, a colorless oil was obtained which was extracted several times with small portions of light petroleum ether to leave behind a pale yellow tacky tar. The yellow tar was treated with ether leaving behind an off white solid.The off white sslid was dissolved in a small amount of chloroform, treated with carbon black and filtered throughCelite. Upon reacting the solvent, the title compound was obtained as an off white solid which was dried under vacuum in the presence of P205. Yield 0.520 g. 3 chlorobenz,ra7i sothiazole ,1 dioxide saccharin pseudochloride was prepared as follows 35 g. of saccharin and 43.7 g of PCl5 were heated at 170 C for 1 1 2 hours during which time complete solution occurred and POCl3 began to reflux. The POCl3 was removed at reduced pressure to leave a crystalline residue. Diethyl ether was added to the crystalline residue and stirred well. The title compound was recovered as white crystals, 12.5 g. melting range 1460 1470C . The N p bromophenyl morpholine having the formulaEMI39.1 used in Step 2 above was prepared as follows 25 g. of N phenylmorpholine was dissolved in 200 ml of carbon tetrachloride and stirred well. To thus was added all at once 27.2 g of N bromosuccrnimide. There was an exothers to 45 C. The reaction solution was stirred until the temperature began to decrease and then was heated to reflux for 3 hours. TLC on silica gel with 3 2 petroleum ether ether indicatsd that the reaction was complete.The reaction solution was then cooled, the succinimide romovad by filtration and the solution evaporated to yield a yellow so id. e solid was dissolved in 250 ml. of ethanol and cooled to give 22 g. of the title compound as while crystals.The ss cyanoethylchloroformate having the formula CNCH2CH2COOCl used in step b above was prepared as follows To 100 ml of dry benzene, ccole in an ice bath, was added phosgene gas until 34.0 g was collected. Hydroxy acrylonitrile 20.2 g was added to the cooled phosgene solution. The temperature rose slightly to approximately 80C . The resulting heterogeneous mixture was cooled to 30C with stirring, and pyrdir e 22.6g in 25 mls. of benzene was added dropwise. Heat was evolved, and the temperature was not allowed to rise above 10 c. Very vigorous stirring was maintained until solid began to form. After about 1 hour, the reaction mixture was stir at approximately 50C for 15 minutes, then allowed to cold to 150G 20 C and stirred for another 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 50C and 26 ml. 0 ice water was added in increments. The solids dissolved with liberation of heat and evolution of gas. The temperature was net Allowed to rise above 15 C over the next 15 20 minutes.The rection mixture was the stirred t room temparature for 2 haurs, the benzene layer decanted and dried aver anhydreus , followed by drying over anhydrons CaSO The solvent was removed unier reduced pressure to yial an almost colorless cil which was redistilled under vacuum ta boiling range of 68.5 70.5 C pot temperature 98 103 C to yield 18.2 g. of the title compound as a colorless sil. Examples 2 and 1The compoands having the formalasEMI40.1 were prepared in the same manner described in Example 1 except that the 3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy1 phenyl 3 4 N morpholinyl 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide was reacted in step b0 with the appropriate acylating agents, namely,EMI41.1 to yield the corresponding N acylated compounds which were treated as in step c above to remove the pro tecting groups. I Preparation of the compound having the formulaEMI41.2 a 55 g of 4 brome 2,6 dimethoxy methylenemethoxyphenyl ether was disselved in 300 ml. of anhydrous tetrahydroferen ander a stream of nitrogen. The solution was cooled to 85 C during which time seme of the phenyl ether presipitated. To this was aided 79 ml of butyl lithium 2.4M in hexane at a rane to kesp the temperture below 50 C. The resulting solution was cooled to 65 C and was stirred for 30 minutes. To this solution was added 19 g. of saccharin pseudo chloride in two portions so as to keep the temperature bolow 40 C. The reaction solution was cooled to 65 C and was stirred for 40 minutes. TLC showed one in spot cn silica gel with 10 ml.ether 2 drops methanol. The reaction solution was poured into 2000 ml. of water and made acidie to pM 6. The mixture changed color from orange to yellow at this pH. The mixture was extracted two times witri ether 2 liters and the ether washed with water. The ether was dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to leave a light yellow solid.The solid was recrystallized from 450 ml. of n propanol to give 42 g. of 3,3 di 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 methoxy methoxy 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1dioxide as off white crystals melting range 151.50 152.5 C b The compound prepared in step a 27.0 g. was dissolved in 125 ml. of dioxane at roem temperature under nitrogen. o this solution was added 2.50 g. of NaH 57 oil dispersion and the resulting dispersion stirred for 45 minutes. Evolution of hydrogen was observed, Then 8.0 ml of ClCOOCH2CH2CN was added and an exotherm resulted.The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hours.The initial yellow color disappeared and a white dispersion formed. The dispersion was poured into 2 liters of water, made neutral with dilute HCl and extracted with chloroform. The chloroform was washed with water, separated, dried over sodium sulfate, and evaporated to yield a white solid. The solid was stirred with ethyl ether, isolted by filtration, dired in vacus, nd crystallred from methanol. The white naedles that formed were re coerd by filtration to Fire the N COSCH5CH2CN derivative of 3,3 di 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isethiazole 1,1 dioxide. c 3.7 g. of 3,3 di 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 methoxy methoxy 1 phenyl 2 ss cyanosarbethoxy 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide prepared as in step b above was places in 200 ml of methanol and 2 drops of HCl wer added. The resulting solution was relfuxed nd the reaction was followed by TLC on silica gel with ether.When TLC indicated that no more blocked compound remained, the reaction was discontinued and the methanol removed in vacua to leave an egg white solid 3.2g. .This was dissolved in C ml of 1,2 dichloroethane with heating and cO jl. of petroleum ether was added with swirling. The solution was cooled and the light beige crystals that formed were collected and dissolved in 175 ml. of ethanol at reflux. The ethanol solution was allowed to cool in te refrigerator overnight and 2.7.g.of the title compound was collected as white needles melting rAnge 191 193 C .The methoxymethylation af 4 brono 2,6 dimethoxy phenol used in step 2 above was carried ot as follows To a 3 liter flask was added 300 g. of P2O5 under nitrogen.and 800 ml. of chloroform previously dried over P205 . The mixture was cooled to 15 C with a dry ice acetone bath and then 50 g. of 4 bromo 2,6 dimethoxy phenol in 800 ml of dimethoxymethane was added over a 25 minute period while maintaining the temperature at 15 C or below. To the resulting reaction mixture was added 1 ml. of cone, zulfurie weit and then the temperature was allowad te come to roem tamperature. Suring this time, a tacky mass of P.C. covclopan. reaetion mixture was stirred for 3 hours. TLC inincated that the reaction was complete. The chloroform was then decanted into 400 ml. of aqueaus sedium hydroxide, stirred well and the chloroform layer separated, wached with water, dried aver N and evaperateu to leave lignt tan crystals. n propanal was Added to the crystalline residue, stirred and filtered it give 31.7 . of the title compound as white crystals melting range 98 100 C . Examples 5 and 6The compounds having the formulasEMI44.1 EMI45.1 Example 6 were prepared according to the procedure described inExample 1 except that 3 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide was used fn the reaction of step a and the appropriate acylating agents, namely,EMI45.2 andEMI45.3 were used in step b .The 3 3 ,5 dimethoxy 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide used in step a above was prepared as follows i Using an 19 gauge noedle syringe, 20.0 mls. of n butyllithium 2 .4N in hexane was added dropwise over 1 hour to a solution of 9.16 g. of sacharin previously dried overnight at 80 C in vacuc in 250 mls. of dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogan at 75 C to 73 C with rapid stirring. The reaction solution comprising theN lithium salt of saccharin in tetrahydrofuran wa use directly in step iii without isolating the lithium salt. ii In a dried 1 1. flask, 13.86 g. of 4 bromo2,6 dimethoxy methylenemethoxyphenyl ether was dissolved in ,00 mls. of dry tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen, and 20.83 mls of n butyllithium 2.4M in hexane was added dropwise with stirring at 75 C. After addition was complete, the reaction solution was stirred at 75 C for about 30 minutes. iii The solution of saccharin lithium salt prepared in step i was transferred to an addition funnel using a deuble tip needle under nitrogen pressure and added to te solution of 4 Li 2,6 dimethoxy methylenemethoxy phenyl ether prepared in step ii over about 15 minutes with stirring at a temperature of 75 C to 70 C. The reactIon mixture was stirred for about 2 hours at 75 C and then warmed to 0 C during an hour. iv A solution of 5.2 g. of ammonium chloride in 175 mls.of water was added dropwise to the reaction mixture of step iii and the reacted mixture was transferred to a 1 1. separatory funnel. After the to phases separated, the aqueous phase was removed and the pH was lowered from about 11 to about 6 7 by tre dropwise addition of aqueous 5 h drochloric acid solution. A color change from yellow to colorless was observed. The aqueous phase was returned to the separator funnel, partitioned and the aqueous phase again separated and then extracted with fresh ether 100 mls. . The ether and tetrahydrofuran hexane extracts were combined, dried over magnesium sulfate overnight, filtered and the solvent removed to leave a yellow oil which crystailized. Ether 100 mls. was added to the crystalline material and the crystalline material was ground under ether in a mortar, filtered, ashed with more ether followed by petroleum ether and air dried.A second crop was collected from the filtrate to give a total yield of 13.0 g. of the title compound. Examples 7 11The compounds having the formulas EMI47.1 Example 7Example 8 EMI48.1 Example 9Example 10Example 11 were prepared according to the prosedure given in Exam ple 1 except that in step a the 3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl0benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide was reacted with the appropriate lithiur reagent, namely,EMI49.1 and the 2 tetrahydropyranyl groups were removed from the protected N,N di f3 hydroxyethyl anilino moiety ofExample 7 in step c simultaneously with the 4 methoxymethyl protecting group.N p Li phenyl tetrahydro 2H,4H 1,3,6 dioxazocine may be prepared by reacting the corresponding p halophenyl Wo pound with n butyllithium. The p halophenyl tetrShydro 2H, 4H 1,3,6 dioxazocines are prepared by reacting p haloN,N di ss hydroxyethyl aniline with certain dihalomethanes in the presence of a solid alkali metal hydroxide or concentrated aqueous solution thereof and a quaternary ammonium salt.Tetrahydropyranylation of p Br N,N di ss hydroxyethyl aniline was carried out as follows p Br N,N di 3 hydroxyethyl aniline 20.0 g. was dissolved in 475 ml. of dichloromethane containing 60 ml. of dihydropyran. To this solution was added 1 ml. of conc.HCl, and the reaction solution was stirred for about 5.5 hours.The solution was then washed with water containing enough sodium hydroxide to neutralize any acid present. The dichloromethane was separated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated under reduced pressure with a steam bath aspirator leaving an oil. The oil was heated to 1150C at 0.1 mm Mg to distill off impurities leaving 33.0 g. of the title compound. The corresponding 4 Li compound was prepared by dissolving 4 bromo N,N di ss 2 tetrahtJdrspyranyloxyethyl aniline 10.0 g. in 100 ml. of tetrahydrofuran, cooling the sc lution to 650C and adding 10 ml. of n butyllithium 2.4M in hexane under nitrogen at a rate to maintain the temperature at 650C. Example. 12 14The compounds heving the rermulasEMI51.1 Example 12EMI51.2 were prepared in the same manner described in Example 4 except that the acylating agents employed wereEMI52.1 and ively. Example 15 Preparation of the compound having theformula EMI52.2 a 2 tetrahydropyranyl 4 bromophenyl ether 9.0 g. in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise to 0.85 g.of magnesium in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen.After addition was complete, the dispersion was refluxed for 2 hours and then saccharin pseudo chloride 3.5 g. was added portionwise. An exotherm was observed, and the green solution that formed turned yeilow brown. The reaction solution was stirred overnight and then slowly added to 500 ml. of water. The precipitate that formed was slowly filtered and the solid obtained was dissolved in ether, dried and evaporated to yield 8.5 g. of light yellow solid having the formula EMI53.1 b Compound A as prepared in step a 10.0 g. was places in 100 ml. of dioxane and 0.88 g. of sodium deride as 57 oil dispersion was added at room temperature under nitrogen hydrogen evolution was observed . The resultant mixture comprising the sodium salt of t above compound was stirred 1 hour and then 2.4 ml. ofClCOOCH2CH2CN was added. A white precipitate formed immediately. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight then poured into 200 ml. water. The aqueous mixture was extracted with three 250 ml. portions of ether, which were combine and dried over sodium sulfate. The ether was removed in vacuo and the resulting solid washed with petroleum ether. Upon drying, 10.5 g. of the crudeN acylated derivative was obtained.The N acylated compound has the formula EMI54.1 c Campound B 5.0 g. as prapsied in step b was dissolved in 50 ml. of warm meth ol which contaIned tws drops of cons. HCl. This s ntion was allowed to stand at room temporuture for 3 min. at which time the analysis indicated both tetrahydropyranyl protecting groups had been rémeved. The methanal and HCl were removed in vacuo leaving 5.0 g. of a light yellow selid which was fractionated via column chromatography filita gel ether to give a pure sample of the title compound.Tetrahydropyranylation of p bromp phenol used in the preparation of compound A was carried out as follows To 10.5 ml. of dihydropyran containing 2 drops of cons.HCl was added 10.0 g. of p bromophenol. The rection was exothermic temperature r e te 35 C . After the addition was completed, the colorless solsution obtaine was heated to 50 C and allowed to scol with stirring for 1 hour. The solution was extracted with 20 ml. of ether and 10 ml. of 10 NaCH. The ether layer was dried over anhydrcus Na2SO4 and evaporaten under reduced pressure to leave an oil. 80 ml. of ethanol was added to the oil and the resulting ethanol solution was aLlowed to stand The white,crystals that formed were recovered by filtraticn and dried under vacuum to yield 7.3 g of the blocked phenol.The mother liquor was concentrated to one half its original volume and cooled. Ior crystals formed which were isolated to yield an additional 2.1g.of blocked phenol. Example 16 proparation of the compound having the formula EMI55.1 a 2 tetrahydropyranyl 4 bromophenyl ether 9.0 . in 20 ml, of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise to 0.85 g of magnesium in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen.After addition was complete, the dispersion was refluxed for 2 hours and then saccharin pseudo chloride 3.5 g. was added portionwise. An exotherm was observed, and the green solution that formed turned yellow brown. The reaction solution was stirred ovarnight and then slowly added to 500 ml. of water. The precipitate that formed was slowly filtered and the solid obtained was dissolved in ether, dried and evaporated to yield 8.5 g of light yellow solid having the formula EMI56.1 b 1.0 g. of the compound prepared in step a was placed in 15 ml. of dioxane and 0.08 g. of sodium hydride as 57 oil dispersion was added at room tempe rature under nitrogen Hydrogen evaluation was observed . The resultant mixture comprising the N sodium salt of the above compound was stirred 1 hour adn then 0.342 g ofEMI56.2 was added. A white precipitate formed immediately. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight, then poured into 100 ml water. The white precipitate that formed was filtered, extracted with diethyl ether giving a yellow glass that was refluxed in ligroin 900 1000c boiling range . The ligroin was decanted leaving a solid comprising the N acylated derivativeOf the above compound wherein the acyl group isEMI56.3 c To remove the 2 tetrahydropyranyl protecting groups and obtain the product, 20 nls of 10 HCl solution was added to the solid and the orange solid obtained was filtered and dried.A second crop of precipitate was recovered from the water precipitation which was filtered a 2 tetrahydropyranyl 4 bromophenyl ether 9.0 g. in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuren was addod dropwise to 0.55 g. of magnesium in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran under nitroge. After addition was complet, the dispersion was refluxed for 2 hours And then saccharin pseude chloride 3.5 g. was added portionwise. An exotherm was observed, and the green solution that formed turned yellow brown. The reaction solution stirred overnight and then slowly added to 500 ml. of water. The presipitate that formed was slowly filtered and the solie obtained was dissolved in ether, dried and evaporated to yield 8.5 g. of light yellow solid hving the formula EMI57.1 b The compound as propared in step a 1.0 g. was placed in 10 ml. of dioxane and 0.08 g. of sodium hydride as 57 oil dispersion0 ws added at room temperature under nitrogen Hydrogen evolution was slow . The solution went from light yellow to greenish then to yellow.The reaction was accelerated by heating to about 50 C and then allowing the solution to cool to room temperature, about 1 hour. To the resulting solution comprising the N sodium salt of Compound A was added 0.18 ml. of ethylchloroformate and the reaction mixture was stirred over the weekend. and treated with 10 HCl to give an additional 0.5 g of solid. The solids were combined and fractionated via preparative TLC silica gel ether to give a pure sample of the title compound. Example 17 Preparation of the compound hving the formulaEMI58.1 The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 16 excempt thatEMI58.2 was employed as the acylating agent in step Exampel 18 Preparation of the compound having the formula EMI58.3 c To remove the protecting groupz, the solution was psured into 20 ml. of cone. HCl. After stirring for 15 minutes, the solution went from plnk red to broun. The precipitate that formed was filterad and dried under vacuum. Crystallization from 1 1 methanol water geve 0.5 g. of the title compound as a white solid. Examples 19 and 20 Preparation of the compoends hving the formu EMI59.1 Example 19EMI59.2 The title compounds were prepared accerding to the prosedure described in Example 18 above except that the scylating agents employed in step b wereEMI60.1 and EMI60.2 respectively.Preparation of the compound having the formula EMI60.3 b The compound prepared in step a 0.7 g. was dissolvei in 15 ml. of pyridine under nitrogen and 0.11 ml.of CH3SCl was aided to the pyridine solsution. A white precipitate formed. The ren lting reaction selation was stirrel nd warmed gantly total stirring time 1 hour and then pourci into 100 ml. of water and extréeted with chloroform. The chloroform was dried ever anlydrousNa2SO4 And evaparated aving solid. The solid obtained was the M acylated samyaund, 3 ,5 dimethyl 41 mothoxy methaxy 1 phenyl 3 4 N morpholinyl 1 phonyl 2 ane tyl 2,3 dihydroenz 4 i thinzole 1,1 dioxide hving the formula EMI61.1 c The compound obtained in step b was then dissolved in 25 ml. of methnel, made cidic with conc. hydrochloric acid and rofluxed 2 hours. The solution was evaporated leaving a tan solid. TLS of a sample on silica gel 1000 with ether gave a dark band on drying.The dark band war removed, wached with acetone and the cetone removed after filtering to yield a gum. Ether was added to the gum and the resulting solution refluxed to give a white solid that was isoleted to give the title campound. a N p bromophenyl0morpholine 3.4 g. was added to 20 ml. of tetrchydrofurun THF and the solution cooled to 65 C. To the solution was Andes 0.69 ml. of 2.4 M butyllithium in hexane with stirring And stirring was continued for 1 hour. After 15 minutes the solution becane clcudy And a white precipitate formed. To this soslution was added 0.5 g. of 3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymetmoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide in 2 ml. THF at 65 C under nitrogen. The resulting reaction mixture was a clear orange yellow solution.The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour, poured into 100 ml of water, mde acidie with cone. hydrochlorie acid pH 6 , and extracted with ether. The ether was dried over Na2SO4 and evaporated leaving an oil. The oil wAs taken up in ligroin boiling range 30 60 C and refluxed for 1 hour.The white solid that formed was collected to give 0.7 g. of 3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl 3 4 N morpholinyl 1 phenyl 2,3dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide hving the formula EMI62.1 Examples 22 24The compounds having the formulaeEMI63.1 Exampel 22Exampel 23EMI63.2 Example 24 were preparei ing t the pr iven in Example 21 exe in meth thoxy 1 phenyl, enz d 1,1 dioxide was r with the appropriate lithium reagent, n ely, EMI64.1 respeitively, nd the 3 totrahydropyranyl graups were removei from the N,N hydroxy thyl anilin moiety simultan usly with the methoxymethyl prstecting group in step c . Examples 25 nd 26 The compounds hving the formulaeEMI64.2 Example 25 EMI65.1 were prepared ascording to the pr lure given in Example 21 except tht 3 3 , 5 thoxy 4 methoxy methoxy 1 phenyl benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide was reacted with the appropriate lithium reagent, viz.EMI65.2 , respectively. Example 27Preparation of the compound having the formulaEMI65.3 a 9.5 g. of p bromnanisole in 20 of dry tetrahydro furan was added dr wise to 1.2 g. of magnesium turnings in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofurn. An 12 crystal ws added, and the mixture was heared to reflux. fter refluxing for 1 nour, the mixture was cooled, and 3.0 g. of saschArin pseude chloride was added portionwise. Ane xotherm was observed. the react on mixture was refluxed for 1 hour.100 ml. of water was added followed by dilute HCl until pH 5. The mixture was then extrasted with ether. The ether was dried and evaporated to leave a yellow residue.The residue was dissolved in 100 ml. of methanol and 2.0 g.of carbon blaen was added. The methAnol solutionw as filtered and evap rated to leave a light yellow solid which was vacuum dried to give .5 g. of 3,3 di 4 methoxy 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1dioxide. b 1.0 g. of the compound prepared in step a was dissolved in 20 ml. of dry dioxane. To this was added 0.12 g of NaH as a 57 oil dispersion, and the solution was stirred until hydrtgen evalution ceased, Additional NaH dispersion was added portionwise until no more hydrogen was evolved about 0.05 g. . The solution was stirred for 1 hour, and 0.20 ml of asetyl chloride wAs added. The temperature rose from 22 C to 27.5 C. Stirring was continued for 3 hours at room temperature nd then 200 ml.of water was slowly added. The white solid that formed was filtered, washed with water and dissolved in ether.The ether was extracted with 0.5N NaCH, dired nd evaporated to give 0.6 g. of 2 acetyl 3,3 di 4 methoxy 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide As a white solid. c 0.5 g. of the compound prepared in step b was dissolved in 20 ml of dichloromethane, cooled to 70 C nd a solsution of 0.5 ml. of boron tribromide in 10 ml.of dichloromethne was added dropwise. An immediate red color formed. After addition was complate about 10 minutes , the solution was allowed to reach room temperature, then refluxed for 3 hours and then stirred at room tempe rature overnight. Water was added and the dichloromethane layer was isolated, died over sodium sulfate and evapo rated to give a solid residue. The solid was extracted witth ether the ether solution was filtered and evaporated after drying to yield a pink solid 0.45 g. .The solid was dissolved in 0.5 i potassium hydroxide, extracted with ether and then the water solution was reacidified With a acetic acid. The solid that formed was extrcted with ether and the ethar driad and evaporated to yield the title compound as an egg white solid. Examples 28 and 29Preparation of the compounds having the formulae EMI68.1 a 2 tetraHydropyranyl 4 bromaphenyl ether 9.0 g. in 20 ml. of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise to 0. 5 g.of magnesium in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran under nitrogen.After addiction was complete, the dispersion was refluxed for z hours and then saccharin pseudo chloride 3.5 g. was added portien wise. An exothorm was observed, and the green solsution that formed turned yellow brown. The reaction solution was stirred overnight and taken slowly added to 500 ml of water.The precipitate that formed was slowly fil tered and the solid obtained was dissolved in ether, dried and evaporated to yield a.s g. of lIght yellow solid having the formula EMI69.1 The compound prepared in step a was sequentially reacted with NaH and the apprspriate acylating agents, namely,EMI69.2 respectively, as described in step b of Example 27 nd then the protecting groups were removed by treating the N acylated compounds with 10 HCl solution to yield the title commounds. Example 30 Preparation of the compound having the formula EMI69.3 The title compound was prepared according to the procedure described in examples 28 and 29 above except that the acylating agent employed wasEMI69.4 Examples 31 37The compounds having the formalasEMI70.1 Example 31Example 32EMI70.2 EMI71.1 Exampel 34Exampel 35Example 36 EMI72.1 Example 37 were prepared by reacting 3 3 ,5 dimethyl 4 methoxymethoxy 1 phenyl0benz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide with the selected aryl lithium reagent as described in stap a of Example 21 above to give the correspending 3,3 disubstituted 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide.The lithium reagents employed wereEMI72.2 The 3,3 disubstiuted 2,3 dihydrochenz d isothiazole 1,1dioxides obtained were then sequantially reacted wih NaH andEMI73.1 scribed in Example 27 to give the correspe intermediates.The intermediates were taken treated with dilute hydrochlorie acid to remove the protecting group s to give the title compounds Example 38 The compound having the formula EMI73.2 was prepared according to the procedure described inExamples 28 and 29 except that the acylating agent amployed wasEMI74.1 Example 39Preparation of the compound having the formula EMI74.2 a To a solution of 168 mg. of t potassium butoxide in 5 ml. of dry tetrahydrofuran wa s added o34 mg. of 3,3 di 4 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 1 naphthyl 2,3dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide in severalsmall portions under nitrogen. Te yellow brown solution obtained was stirred for 2 hours at roo temperature and then cooled in an ice bath. b To the cooled solution of step a was added dropwise 267 mg. of ss cyanoethylchloroformate. The color changed to light yellow . The resulting solution was stirred over the weekend at room temperature under nitrogen during which time nost of the solvent had evaporated leaving yellow orange solids comprising the title compound and deblocked starting material. c The yellow orange solids were taken up in 25 ml. of ether and the ether solution concentrated to about 10 ml.The crystals that formed were filtered, washed with ether and the orange and yellow components separated by preparative TLC on silica gel ether . The orange component was removed by eluting with n butanol and the yellow component was removed by eluting with methanol.The methanol was then evaporated to give the title compound. Tho intermediate having the formulaEMI76.1 was prepared as follows a 16.87 g. of 4 bromonaphthyl dimethyl t butylsil yl ether was dissolved in 60 ml of anhydrous ethyl ether under nitrogen, and the solution then cooled to 600C in a dry ice acetone bath. 20.8 ml. of 2.4N n butyllithium in hexane was added to the cooled solution dropwise over a period of 15 20 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes and allowed to come to 15 C over 45 minutes. b The solution of step a was then cooled back to 40 C, and 4.63 g. of saccharin pseudo chloride was added portionwise. After addition was complete, the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature, stirred at room temperature overnight and cooled. 50 ml. of cold water was added followed by the addition of dilute HO until the ph reached 3 4. The ether phase was separated, and the aqueous phase was extracted with 50 ml. of ether.The ether portions were combined, washed with 100 ml. of wter, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and avaporated under reduced pressure. The residue vas dissolved in iso propanol and the iso propanol solution slowly poured into 1 liter aqueous HC1 solution haing a pH of 3. The aqueous phase was decanted leaving a gummy residue. Treatnt of the residue with iso propanol and aqueous HC1 pH 3 was repeated and the final reside was dissolved in 250 ml. of iso propanol. 3 HCl was added until precipitation ceased. The solution was allowed to stand for 10 min., the solvent decanted and water added to the gu.mr.y precipitate which on standing became crystalline. The precipitate was filtered and airdried over the weekend to give 15.55 g. of the title compound.The dimethyl t butylsilyl ether of 4 bromo 1 naphthol was prepared as follows 4 Bromo 1 naphthol 22.1 g. and dimethyl t butylsilyl chloride 18.1 g. were dissolved in 50 ml. of dimethyl formamide at room temperature. The resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath ad imidazole 17.0 g. added under nitrogen. A slight ether was observed. A solid precipitated and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight.A small sample of the crude product was treated with water adjusted to a pH of about 4 5 with dilute Hol and the solids isolated and dried. TLC on silica gel using hexane showed the product but no starting material.The reaction mixture remaining was poured into 1500 ml. of water at about 200 C with stirring. he pH was adjusted to 4 5 with dilute HC1, and the solids were filtered, washed with water, and air dried for 2 hours and dissolvec in 150 ml. of boiling isopropanol. The isopropanol solution was filtered while hot and then cooled slowly to room temperature. Crystals began to form and after standing at room temperature overnight, the solution was coded in an ice water bath for 1 hour and filtered. The solid collacte was washed with small amounts of isopropanol, air dried briefly and then dried in vacuo for 2 hours to give 24.3 e, of the title compound melting range 700 730c . The 3,3 di 4 2 tetrahydropyranyloxy 1 phenyl 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide having the formula EMI78.1 was prepared in the same manner as the phenol analog. The methoxymethyl ether and 2 tetrahydropyranyl ether of 4 bromo 1 naphthol were prepared according to the procedures described above and the methoxymethyl and 2 tetrahydropyranyl ethers of 4 bromo 1 naphthol were converted to the corresponding 4 lithium derivatives by reaction with n butyllithium according to the procedures described above. Typical of the sulfam na phthaleins that may be prepared from the novel compounds of the present invention are those. represented by the following formula EMI79.1 wherein A is a 4 hydrox j 1 phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents conapatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a 4 hydroxy 1 naphthyl molety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organic metallic reagents, the same or different B is a phenyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different, or a naphthyl moiety, unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents compatible with organometallic reagents, the same or different X represents the carbon atoms necessary to complete a 2,3dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide noLety or z dihydronaphtho 1,8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxide moiety and Z represents a carbonyl moiety containing aEMI79.2 group bonded to said N atom. Typical substituents compatible with or capable of being protected to be compatible with organometallic reagents include branched or straight chain alkyl, such as, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, n butyl, t butyl, hexyl, octyl, dodecyl, hexadecyl, octadecyl and eicosanyl aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl alkaryl and aralkyl, preferably, alkyl substituted phenyl and phenyl substituted alkyl, such as p ethylphenyl, p octylphenyl, p dodecylphenyl, benzyl, phenylhexyl and phenyldodecyl alkoxy, such as, methoxy, ethoxy, butoxy, octadecyloxy, 1 ethoxy 2 ss ethoxyethoxy aryloxy, such as, pheno c , benzyloxy and naphthoxy alkoxyalkyl, such as, methoxymethyl, ethoxymethyl, nd dodecyloxyethyl hallo, such as, fluoro, bromo and chloro trihalomethyl, such as trifluoromethyl and trichloromethyl sulfonamido NH SO2R wherein Ro is alkyl, aryl, alkaryl or aralkyl0 sulfamoyl SO2 NH R wherein R has the same meaning given above acylEMI80.1 wherein R has the meaning given above sulfanyl SO R wherein R has the same meaning given above sulfo cyano, carboxy, hydroxy and amino including mono and disubstituted amino NR R wherein R and R each are hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, alkyl or aralkyl and R and R taken together represent the atoms necessary to complete a saturated heterocyclic ring, such as piperidino, pyrrolidino, N lower alkylpiperazino, morpholino, thiomorpholino and tetrahydro 2H,4H 1,3,6 dioxazocino or a fuse heterocyclic ring system, e.g., quinolizidine . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the method of synthesizing N substituted sulfam na phthaleins comprises 1a reacting a 1a compound of the formulaEMI81.1 wherein P is a protecting group, RÚ and Rê each are selec ted from hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, chloro and fluoro R3 is is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy or OP R2 and R3 taken together represent the carbon atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring 4 and R6 each are selected from hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, chloro and fluoro R5 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy, OPI wherein PI is a protecting group, N,N dia,lkyl amino, N, N w R8 alkyl 2amino wherein p.8 is halo or OPII wherein PII is a protecting group, NHCOCH3, piperidino, pyrrolidino, N methylpiperazino, morpholiro, thiomorpholino or tetrahydro 2H,4H 1,3,6 dioxazocino R7 is hydrogen, alkyl, alkoxy or OPIII wherein pIII is a protecting group usually the same as or pII R6 and taken together represent the carbon atoms necessary to complete a fused benzene ring a , R5 and R6 taken togetter represent the atoms necessary to complete a fused ij quinolizidine ring X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide or 2.3 dihydronaphtho 1.8 de 1,2 thiazine 1,1 dioxide and b an acid halide of te e formulaEMI81.2 wherein W is chloro or bromo and R9 is methyl, methyl substituted with at least one halo group selected from chloro, bromo and fluoro, alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl, phenyl substituted preferably in the para position with alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon adDms or N,N dialkyl amino, phenyl substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group, phenoxy, phenoxy substituted with at least one electron withdrawing group, O CH2 2Y wherein Y is an electronwithdrawing group and pienyl substituted in the ortho position with CH2R10 wherein R10 is chloro or bromo in pyridine at a temperature between about 0 and 100 C to yield c the corresponding N acylated compound of the formula EMI82.1 wherein P, RÚ, Rê, R , R4, R5, R6, R7, R9 and X have the same meaning given above or 1b sequentially reacting said compound a with MH wherein M is an alkali metal selected d from lithium, so dium and potassium in an incrt organic solvent at a tem perature between about 0 and 100 C to give the corresponding N alkali metal salt having the fornula EMI83.1 wherein P, RÚ, Rê, R , R4, R5, R6, R7, X and M have the same meaning given above and then reacting said N alkali metal salt with said acid halide b to give the saidN acylated compound c and 2 treating said compound c between about 200C and 1000C with an organic or inorganic acid at a pH between about 0.1 and 5 to yield the product having the formulaEMI83.2 wherein RÚ, Rê, R , R4, R5, R6, R7, R9 and X have the same meaning given above, except that said OP of R3, said OPI and OPII of R5, and said OPIII of R7 each are OH.By electron withdrawing group is intended a group with a positive sigma value as defined by Hammett s Equation .Usually, the alkyl and the alkoxy substituents yl havi sing RÚ, Rê, R , R4, R5, R6 and R7 are lower alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as, methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl and n butyl and lower alkoxy having 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as, methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy and butoxy, Also the alkyl groups of the N,N dialkyl amino and N,N w R8alkyl 2 amino substituents usually are lower alkyl having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R8, when halo, is preferably chloro. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include fluoro, chloro and bromo nitro cyano SO2 H3EMI84.1 The value for these and other groups have be,en reported by Eugen Müller, Methoden Der Organischen Chemie,Georg Thieme Verlag, Stuttgart, 1970, p. 78. In a particularly preferred embodiment, X represents the atoms necessary to complete 2,3 dihydrobenz d isothiazole 1,1 dioxide.Specific examples of compounds that may be prepared from the novel compounds of the present invention are as follows EMI85.1 EMI85.2 EMI86.1 EMI87.1 EMI87.2 EMI88.1 EMI89.1 EMI90.1 EMI90.2 EMI91.1 EMI92.1 EMI93.1 EMI93.2 EMI94.1 EMI95.1 EMI96.1 EMI97.1 EMI98.1 EMI99.1