# A safe preparation of vitamin C.

## Abstract
A germ component selected from the group consisting of barley malt, wheat germ, soy bean germ, rice germ and extracts thereof reduces or completely inactinates the mutagenicity which is caused or enhanced by the combination of synthetic vitamin C and beverages, tobacco or cupreous ions. Catalase reduces or completely inactivates the mutagenicity and cytotoxicity caused or enhanced by said combination. Therefore, this mutagenicity and cytotoxicity may be reduced or inactivated by preparing a preparation of vitamin C comprising vitamin C and said germ component or catalase.

## Claims
Claims 1. A preparation of vitamin C characterized by combining vitamin C with a component selected from the group consisting of catalase and a germ component selected from barley malt, wheat germ, rice germ, soy bean germ and extracts thereof. 2. The preparation according to Claim 1 wherein the component is barley malt or extract thereof. 3. The preparation according to Claim 1 wherein the component is wheat germ or extract thereof. 4. The preparation according to Claim I wherein the component is rice germ or extract thereof. 5. The preparation according to Claim 1 wherein the component is soy bean germ or extract thereof. 6. The preparation according to Claim 1 wherein the component is catalase. 7. The preparation according to Claim 6 wherein the proportion of catalase is not less than 5 units per 1 mg of vitamin C.

## Description
A SAFE PREPARATION OF VITAMIN C This invention relates to a preparation of vitamin C combining vitamin C with a germ component or catalase Catalase hydrogen peroxide hydrogen peroxide oxdoreductase, EC 1. 11. 1. 6 to reduce or inactivate the mutagenicity of beverages or tobacco caused or enhanced by vitaminC, or to reduce or inactivate the mutagenicity and cytotoxicity of beverages or tobacco coused of enhanced by vitamin C also known as L ascorbic acid . Vitamin C has long been used as a soverign remedy against scurvy. It is also known to be efficacious against viral or bacteriogenous infections diseases such as common cold, influenze, virus pneumonia, hepatitic poliomyelitis, measles, mumps, chickenpox and tuberculosis. Recently, vitamin C has been found to have the ability to check the growth of malignant tumors H. Kawasaki et al., Cancer Letters, Vol. 16, 57 63, 1982 or retard the formation of a nitroso compound S. S. Mirvish et al.,Science, Vol. 177, 65 68, 1972 . Therefore, vitamin C is considered to be an important substance for cancer prevention. Furthermore, the effectiveness of a large intake of vitamin C is being claimed by several authorities, among whom a Nobel laureate Dr. Linus Pauling is the most prestigious protagonist E. Cameron et al., Cancer Research,Vol. 39, 663 681, 1979 . Today, a high intake of vitamin C in the form of pills or tablets is an everyday matter for an increasing number of people. However, vitamin C has a strong reducing nature due to an endiol group in the molecule, and in addition to its useful physiological activities, vitamin C may cause deleterious reactions depending on the type of substances with which it is ingested into the body. As a matter of fact, in the presence of cupreous ions, vitamin C exhibits mutagenicity H.F. Stich et al., Nature, Vol. 260, 722 724, 1976 . Incidentally it is presumed that the above mutagenicity is due to radicals such as monodehydroascorbic acid, superoxide amion radical 2 and hydroxy radical OH but it has not yet been proved by experiments. Furthermore, vitamin C causes chromosome aberration in animal cells H.F.Stich et al., Fd. Cosmet. Toxicol., Vol. 18, 497 501, 1980 , enhances the potency of a carcinogen methylchslanthrene S. Bamit, Cancer Letters, Vol. 11, 239 242, 1981 cr works as a cancer inducing promoter K. Imaida et al., Proc. Jap.Cancer Association, 41th Ann. Meeting, p. 79, 1982 . It is already known that when vitamin C is dissolved in coffee, the mutagenicity of the resulting solution is at least 6 times as high as that of the coffee alone . Suwa et al., Mutation Res., Vol. 102, 383 391, 1982 . According to the studies of the present inventors, the rutagenicitv of other beverages such as black tea and bourbon whiskey, as well as tobacco, when ingested together with vitamin C, is increased to a level that is several times as high as that of these beverages or tobacco per se. Since a large intake of vitamin C by an individual is not unusual these days, the development of a method for utilizing onl the meritorious effects of vitamin C without endanger In the human body will be an urgent matter for the protection of human health. Since the dawn of its history, man has take in vitamin C together with other nutrients that occur in nature, and it is quite exceptional in the evolution of anirals that vitamin C alone is now ingested in high doses. It s unthinkable that the occurrence of increased mutatenlcity due to vitamin C will not cause toxicity in human cells, and when vitamin C is ingested in the form of vegetables and fruits, its deleterious effects are in most llkellfood inhibited by some other of the components of vegetables or fruits. Based on this assumption, the present inventors made various studies to find substances that are capable of reducing or completely eliminating the increase in mutagenicity due to vitamin C. After elaborate screening, the present inventors found that barley malt, wheat germ, rice germ and soy bean germ, and extracts thereof hereunder referred to as germ components have activities which suppress mutagenicity due to the present of vitamin C. Moreover the present inventors also found that catalase has remarkable effects to inactivate the mutagenicity and cytotoxicity caused or increased by the combination of vitamin C and beverages or tobacco. Catalase has a molecular weight of from 220,000 to 250,000 and is an enzyme decomposing hydrogen peroxide as indicated in the following reaction 2H 202 EMI3.1 2H 20 2 Catalase also acts as a catalyst for oxidation of alcohols, formic acid etc. in the presece of hydrogen peroxide. Catalase is present in most organisms other than anaerobic bacteria and is recognized to be conducive to decomposition or detoxication of hydrogen peroxide endogenously produced in organism living in the aerobic environment. Any catalases obtained from animal sources including cow and horse livers and erythrocytes vegetable sources and microorganisms such as Micrococcus lysodeikticus andAspergillus niger can be used in this invention. Fig. 1 is a graph indicating the effects of vitamin C in enhancing the cytotoxicity of coffee and the efficacy of catalase in destroying such effects. In the figure, the symbol indicates survival of coffee per se containing no additive , the symbol A indicates that of coffee to which vitamin C 0.1 mg ml was added and the symbol w means survival of coffee to which vitamin C 0.1 mg ml and catalase 10 units ml were added. According to the experiments conducted by the present inventors, vitamin C increases the mutagenicity of coffee by about 6 fold. However, this increase can be suppressed almost completely by mixing vitamin C with a germ powder in an amount not less than five times as much as the vitamin C, or a germ extract powder in an amount not less than the amount of vitamin C. Further the mutagenicity of coffee per se is also almost completely suppressed. And if 5 25 units of catalase per 1 mg of vitamin C is added, the mutagenicity increase caused by vitamin C can be almost completely suppressed. Similarly, the increase in the mutagenicity of black tea, tobacco or straight bourbon whiskey due to vitamin C can be inhibited in the manner described above. Consequently, mixing the germ component or catalase with vitamin C and making a preparation that is able to prevent the occurrence of mutagenicity and cytotoxicity owing to the reaction between vitamin C and beverages or tobacco or cupreous ions, without sacrificing the desired activities of vitamin C, is entirely a new use of these substances. Incidentally the term combination1, or 11corrining used herein means any kind of pharmaceutical means able to attain the purposes of this invention, for example, blending of liquid, mixing by using a binder, kneading, combination observed in a multilayer tablet etc. It will be obvious that a preparation of vitamin C of this invention significantly useful for maintaining human health because the germ component and catalase per se are non toxic and because the germ agents are rich in vitamins, proteins, essential lipid acids etc. and catalase is an enzyme necessary for protecting an organism against cell lesion by active oxygen. The preparation of vitamin C of this invention can be used in dosage forms such as oral preparations, e.g., liquid, tables, powder, granules, etc. and the preparation can be used in foods as well as medicines. The preparation containing catalase can also be used in the form cf injection. Substances from which originates the mutagenicity occurring by the combination of vitamin C and beverages, non alcoholic or alcoholic, or tobacco have not yet been analyzed. As mentioned above, according to man experiments vitamin C is oxidized to dehydroascorbic acid accompanying the free radicals. But this phenomenon has not yet been directly proved. First of all, the present inventors investigated the solution of this problem by bringing into focus the reduction of mutagenicity. That is, considering that about 80E of mutagens are carcinogens and also considering that mutagens attack and damage at least DNA constructing genes in cells, it is very important to eliminate or inactivate mutagens for the protection of human health. The advantages of the present invention will become apparent by reading the following examples to which the invention is by no means limited.Example IEfficacy of Germ ComponentsI Measuring the mutagenicity and antimutagenic activity i Method The preincubation method shown in Sugimura Nagao, Chemical Mutagens, Vol. 6, 41, 1981 was used. ii Microorganism Histidine requiring Salmonella typhimurium TA 100 hereunder S.TA 100 was used. iii Preparation of samples a Instant coffee instant coffee powder was disclosed in distilled water. Predetermined amounts of the germ components were respectively suspended or dissolved in distilled water. Each solution was mixed with the aqueous coffee solution to make 100 p1. b Bourbon whiskey Bourbon whiskey was evaporated to dryness under vacuum at a temperature below 400C in a rotary evaporator. The resulting solid product was dissolved inDMSO. Predetermined amounts of the germ compounds were suspended or dissolved in distilled water. Each solution was mixed with the DMSO solution of the concentrate to make 100 p 1. c Black tea Black tea leaves 2.5 g were brewed with 100 ml of boiling water. The extract was freezedried and the resulting solid matter was dissolved in distilled water to form a solution of a predetermined concentration. Selected amounts of the germ components were suspended or dissolved in distilled water. Each solution was mixed with the aqueous solution of tea concentrate to make 100 1. d When adding vitamin C to the samples a c , a solution of vitamin C in 25 1 of distilled water was mixed with each of said samples 25 W1 so as to make the final concentration of vitamin C 0.5 mg plate. After standing the mixture for 30 minutes at room temperature, it was mixed with the germ component as described hereinafter, suspended or dissolved in distilled water 50 1 , to make 100 1. e The rice germ used was bran manufactured by GosyoKabushiki Kaisha a maker of dried foods in Kobe city, Japan. The wheat germ used was one commercially available under the trade mark Riburon wheat germ prepared by Nissin SeifunKabushiki Kaisha in Tokyo, Japan or one manufactured byGosyo Kabushiki Kaisha. The barley malt used was one alightly germinated and the soy bean germ used was soy bean immersed in water. iv Measurement of mutagenicity To 100 ul of each of the samples prepared in a to c , 500 D1 of 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 and 100 D1 of a culture of S.TA 100 were added. Each of the mixtures was shaken for 20 minutes at 37 CC, added to 2.5 ml of a soft agar solution and spread on a minimurn glucose agar plate which had been supplemented with 50 M per plate for causing several dz ision After incubation at 370C for 48 hours, the number of colonies on the plate was counted as revertants.II Results i Sanctivation of the mutageniclty caused by mixing vitamin C with coffee The mutagenicity against S.TA 100 caused by mixing vitamin C with coffee was determIned. The mutagenicity of coffee was increased by about 6 fold upon addition of vitamin C. To take coffee as an example, when coffee having a concentration usual to ordinary persons i.e. 15 mg of coffee powder per m1 x 150 ml is combined with one commercial vitamin pill 75 mJ the number of revertant colonies for 108 cells is theoretically 315,000. This value is almost equivalent to the mutagenicity caused by about 65 cigarettes. On the other hand, various germ components almost completely inhibited the mutagenicity of the combination of vitamin C with coffee as shown in Table 1. Table 1 S.TA 100 strain Sample No. of revertants plate Coffee mg plate 1.5 3.75 7.5 11.25 coffee no additive 12 26 105 244 coffee vitamin C vc 125 190 596 1,575 coffee vc barley malt powder coffee ve barley malt extract powder 0 5 4 0 coffee vc wheat germ powder 0 21 19 14 coffee ve It wheat germ extract powder coffee vc bran powder 2 1 23 23 coffee vc bran extract powder 7 6 18 coffee vc 10 0 4 16 soy bean extract powder vitamin C 500 plate barley malt powder, wheat germ powder, bran powder 3 mg plate barley malt extract powder, wheat germ extract powder, bran extract powder, soy bean extract powder 1 mg plate ii Inactivation of mutagenicity due to mixing vitamin C with straight bourbon whiskey As shown in Table 2 below, various germ components almost completely suppressed the mutagenicity for S.TA 100 caused by mixing vitamin C with straight bourbon whiskey. Table 2 No. of revertants plate Sample bourbon whiskey Sample ml equivalent plate 0.5 1.0 2.5 5 bourbon whiskey no additive 63 101 379 883 bourbon whiskey 32i 480 1,052 1,799 vitamin C vc bourbon whiskey vc 0 19 30 112 barley malt powder bourbon whiskey vc barley malt extract powder 13 22 44 86 bourbon whiskey vc 15 wheat germ extract powder 15 0 43 bourbon whiskey vc 50 39 103 179 bran extract powder vitamin C 500 plate barley malt powder 3 mg plate barley malt extract powder, wheat germ extract powder1 bran extract powder 1 mg plate iii Inactivation of mutagenicity due to mixing vitamin C with black tea Although the mutagenicity of black tea is weak in comparison with that of coffee or bourbon whiskey, it is increased upon addition of vitamin C as shown in Table 3 below. The germ components also remarkably reduced the mutagenicity of black tea. Table 3 No. of revertants plate Sample black tea ml equivalent plate 0.1 0.25 0.5 1.0 black tea no additive 9 26 55 108 black tea vitamin C vc 34 97 161 193 black tea vc barley malt extract powder black tea vc wheat germ powder 1 7 0 2 black tea vc wheat germ extract powder black tea vc bran extract powder 0 0 15 28 vitamin C 500 pg plate wheat germ powder 3 mg plate barley malt extract powder, wheat germn extract powder, bran extract powder 1 mg plate The term ml equivalent in Tables 2 and 3 means an amount in terms of volume ml of bourbon whiskey prior to evaporation in I b or black tea prior to lyophilization in I c Example IIEfficacy of CatalaseI Measuring mutagenicity and the antimutagenic effect i Method See Example I. ii Microorganism See Example I. iii Preparation of samples a Instant coffee Instant coffee powder was dissolved in distilled water. Predetermined amounts of catalase were diluted with or dissolved in distilled water, and each solution was mixed with the previously prepared instant coffee solution to make 100 1.b Bourbon whiskey straight bourbon whiskey was evaporated to dryness under vacuum 400C in a rotary evaporator.The resulting solid material was dissolved in DMSO.Predetermined amounts of catalase were diluted with distilled water and each solution was mixed with the DMSO solution of alcoholic concentrate to make 100 ul. c Black tea Black tea leaves 2.5 g were drewed with 100 ml of boiling water, and the extract was freeze dried.The resulting solid material was dissolved in distilled water to give a selected concentration. Predetermined amounts of catalase were diluted with distilled water, and each solution was mixed with the solution of tea concentrate to make 100 ul. d Tobacco tar Cigarettes were smoked on a smoking machine, and the collected tobacco tar was dissolved in DSO. Predetermined amounts of catalase were diluted with distilled water, and 25 l of each solution was mixed with 75 Li of the DMSO solution o tobacco tar. As a control, a 25 DMSO solution of tobacco tar was use.e Catalase An enzyme purified from calf liver and available from P L Biochemicals, Inc. was used. Its activity was 150,000 U ml 20,000 U mg .f Addition of vitamin C When requires, vitamin C was dissolved in 25 1 of distilled water to give a concentrate tion of 0.5 mg plate, and the solution was mixed with 50 1 each of the samples prepared in a to d . After standing at toom temperature for 30 minutes, each mixture was further combined with 25 Ll of a suspension or solution of catalase in distilled water to make 100 ,i. iv Measurement of mutagenicity See Example I. The percent inhibition of mutagenicity can be calculated by the following formula, if necessary Percent inhibition 1 Number of colonies in catalase Percent inhibition 1 Number of colonies in untreated containing plate x 100 plate v Measurement of cytotoxicity Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts or CHL cells 5 x 104 were transferred onto a VAMEM or MEM medium supplemented with vitamins, amino acids and 10E tetal bovine serum, and incubation was made at 370C for 48 hours in 5 CO2 atmosphere. A flat bottom tube having a cross sectional area of 5.5 cmê was used as an incubator.The medium was treated for 3 hours with 1 ml of VAMEM containing 10 fetal bovine serum with predetermined concentrations of coffee. After the treatment with coffee, the CHL cells were washed once with VAMEM and twice with a phosphate buffer 135 mE1 NaCl, 2.7 mM KC1, 5.3 mM Na2HPO4 and 1.45 mM KH2PO4 . The cells were removed by treatment with trypsin, and 200 to 400 cells of them were transferred to petri dish 60 mum and incubated in 5 ml of VAMEM containing 10E fetal bovine embryonic serum. The plating efficiency was checked on the 7th day of the incubation.The percent survival of the cells was determined by the following formula Percent survival Plating efficiency of treated cells Plating efficiency of untreated cells x 100 II Results i Mutagenicity due to the mixing of vitamin C The mutagenicity of each of instant coffee, black tea, straight bourbon whiskey and tobacco tar with respect toS.TA 100 was increased by the mixing of vitamin C as shown in Table 4. Table 4 S.TA 100 without S9 mix No. of revertants plate Sample unmixed mixed with vitamin C 0.5 mg ml instant coffee 150 ml 43,543 315,000 black tea 150 ml 16,500 60,750 straight bourton whiskey 5,802 22,404 30 ml tobacco tar 4,800 15,360 The figures in the rightmost column are about 3 to 7 times as great as those in the center column. This value is almost equivalent to the mutagenicity caused by about 65 cigarettes as mentioned in Example I. However, no increase occurred in the mutagenicity of black tea even when it was mixed with lemon juice having a vitamin C content equivalent to that of one commercial vitamin C pill.The above data suggests the following the mutagenicity of a beverage or tobacco is increased if it is mixed with synthetic vitamin C alone, but as shown by the example of lemon juice, naturally occurring products that contain vitamin C seem to harbor a certain substance that interferes with the reaction causing the increased mutagenicity. ii Inactivation of the mutagenicity due to the mixing with vitamin C As Table 5 shows, the advantages of catalase are not limited to its ability to reduce the increase in mutagenicity owing to the reaction between vitamin C and coffee, black tea, bourbon whiskey or tobacco catalase is also effective in reducing or even eliminating the mutagenicity of coffee per se with respect to S.TA 100. For achieving this effect, it would be necessary to use catalase in an amount which is at least equivalent to 10 . Table 5 S.TA 100 without S9 mix Sample No. of revertants plate Catalase U plate 0 1 3 10 coffee 244 157 42 0 coffee vitamin C 1,575 755 241 8 black tea 55 59 48 41 black tea vitamin C 161 123 67 50 straight bourbon whiskey SB 379 362 373 362SB vitamin C 1,052 778 425 354 tobacco tar CSC 36 39 43 34CSC vitamin C 115 90 72 41 The respective samples and vitamin C were used in the following amounts. Coffee 11.25 mg plate Black tea 0.5 ml equivalent plate Straight bourbon whiskey 2.5 ml equivalent plate Tobacco tar 0.25 mg plate Vitamin C 0.5 mg plate 0.35 mg plate for addition to tobacco tar iii Inactivation of the cytotoxicity due to the mixing with vitamin C According to the method shown in I V , untreated coffee, one sample containing vitamin C, and one sample having both vitamin C and catalase, were checked for their cytotoxicity against CHL cells. The results are shown inFig. 1, from which one can see that an appreciably high level of cytotoxicity occurred when vitamin C 0.1 mg ml was added to coffee, but this could be completely prevented by further adding catalase 10 U ml . iv FormulationsFormulation 1 Components Amount Ascorbic acid 2,000 mg Lactose 6,000 mg Corn starch 3,000 mg Potato starch 150 mg Catalase 20,000 UFormulation 2 Ascorbic acid 127.5 g Sodium ascorbate 127.5 g Powdered sugar sucrose 615.0 g Corn starch 120.0 g Pigment sunset yellow 50 mg Catalase 2,000,000 U For each formulation, the powder mix of the respective components was directly compressed into tablets. The catalase was a product of Nagase Sangyo K.K. which was commercially used as a food additive 1,000,000 U g .Magnesium stearate was used as a lubricant.