# In situ advanced epoxy adducts as toughening modifiers for epoxy coatings.

## Abstract
An in situ advanced epoxy composition is prepared by reacting under heat about 100 parts of a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol with 25 50 parts of a bis phenol, and with 15 75 parts of carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. This composition is used as an adduct for modifying epoxy coat ings and adhesives without final heat curing, and results in dramatically increased impact resistance and enhanced adhesion.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An advanced epoxy composition comprising the diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol, a bisphenol, and carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. 2. An advanced epoxy adduct composition of claim 1 prepared by the initial reaction of about 100 parts by weight of a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol with about 25 50 parts by weight of a bis phenol, and subsequent reaction with about 15 75 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. 3. A composition of claim 2 where the initial reaction of the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol with the bisphenol is carried out by heating the mixture to about l500C 2000C for a period of about 1 3 hours, and the subsequent reaction with a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer is carried out in the presence of a catalyst. 4. A composition of claim 2 or claim 3 where the bis phenol is Bisphenol A. 5. A composition of claim 2 or claim 3 where about 100 parts by weight of the diglycidyl ether ofBisphenol A is initially reacted with about 35 parts by weight of Bisphenol A, and subsequent reaction with about 22.5 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. 6. A process for preparing an advanced epoxy adduct composition comprising 1 reacting about 100 parts by weight of a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol with about 25 50 parts by weight of a bis phenol by heating the mixture to about l500C 2000C for a period of about 1 3 hours, and 2 reacting the mixture with about 15 75 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer in the presence of a catalyst. 7. A process of claim 6 where the bis phenol is Bisphenol A. 8. A process of claim 6 where the reactions are carried out in an organic solvent selected from among an aromatic hydrocarbon, an aliphatic ketone, or an ether alcohol. 9. A process for modifying epoxy coatings and adhesives to achieve improved adhesion and impact resistance, comprising admixing therewith an effective amount of an advanced epoxy adduct composition comprising a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol, a bis phenol, and carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. 10. A process of claim 9 where the advanced epoxy adduct composition is prepared by the initial reaction of about 100 parts by weight of a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol with about 25 50 parts by weight of a bis phenol, and subsequent reaction with about 15 75 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. 11. A process of claim 9 where the initial reaction of the diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol with the bis phenol is carried out by heating the mixture to about 1500C 2000C for a period of about 1 3 hours and the subsequent reaction with carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer is carried out in the presence of a catalyst. 12. A process of claim 9 where the amount of advanced epoxy adduct admixed corresponds to a concentration of carboxyl terminated liquid polymer in the modified epoxy coating or adhesive in the range of about 5 50 parts by weight per 100 parts by weight epoxy. 13. A composition comprising the adduct of claim 1, epoxy, and a curing agent.

## Description
IN SITU ADVANCED EPOXY ADDUCTS AS TOUGHENING MODIFIERS FOR EPOXY COATINGS AND ADHESIVES BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Epoxy resins are well established base polymers for use in coatings and adhesives. They have been widely used because of their many advantages, including chemical resistance, adhesion toward metal and other surfaces, and ease of thermoset cure at standard temperature. The epoxy resins are comparatively low in molecular weight and are generally required to be cross linked with curing agents before useful properties can be expected.Typical unmodified epoxy resin systems are rigid, brittle, and as a consequence, do not reach their full potential for adhesion. This brittleness of unmodified epoxy resin systems is evidenced by the relatively poor impact resistance of epoxy coatings and adhesives. Epoxy resin compositions are well known.Typically, they consist of an epoxy resin, a curing agent and a catalyst. The curing agent can be an acid, an anhydride, an alcohol, an amine, or an amide. These compositions cure rapidly to form hard products having good adhesion to substrates.Unfortunately, these epoxy resin compositions are quite brittle, having little flexibility and low impact resistance. Addition of plasticizers, softeners, and other compounding ingredients improve flexibility and impact resistance only at a loss of other properties such as hardness, tensile strength, and adhesion. Such ingredients have not provided an adequate solution to the brittleness problem of typical epoxy systems. A recent practice has been to introduce an elastomeric polymer into the epoxy resin composition to toughen the mix and make it more flexible U.S.patent nos. 3,331,886 3,408,421 3,966,837 . The elastomers used often contain groups which are reactive with the epoxy groups of the resin such as carboxyl, amine, and mercaptan groups. However, the epoxy resins react less rapidly with the elastomer reactive groups than with themselves. The overall effect of the addition of elastomer to the epoxy resin composition is 2 reduction in the rate of cure of the composition. Additionally, the elastomer may not be completely bonded to the epoxy matrix because of the relatively slow reactivity of the elastomer groups compared to the epoxy groups. To off set the reduction in the rate of cure, the epoxy compositions containing the elastomer are externally heated, at temperatures up to 2000C or more for extended periods, to enhance reactivity, and to achieve high hardness, good adhesion, and a toughened resin.This process is disadvantageous as the compositions cannot be used in field applications or in other places where external heating is not practical or convenient. Another disadvantage with an epoxy system of this type is the susceptibility of the elastomer to solvent extraction, especially in applications of the epoxy system in coatings for solvent storage tanks. The use of amine and amide type curing agents in epoxy elastomer compositions have helped to eliminate the need for external heating by allowing for effective curing at standard temperatures. However, these curing agents generally do not enhance the reactivity of the elastomer with the epoxy, and hence, the cured epoxy elastomer remains susceptible to solvent extraction. U.S. patent 83,966,837 is typical of the prior art processes to enhance the reactivity of the epoxy elastomer compositions.The four essential ingredients namely, epoxy, bis phenol, elastomer, and amine curing agent, are blended and heated at 1200C to cure. One object of the present invention is to eliminate the necessity for high temperature heat curing of the final epoxy elastomer compositions by use of an advanced epoxy adduct to modify the base epoxy resin. A second object is to utilize the adduct to attain an improvement in impact resistance and adhesion of epoxy coatings and adhesives. A third object is to prereact the epoxy with the elastomer to form the adduct composition to ensure that the elastomer has adequately bonded to the epoxy matrix prior to final curing. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to an advanced epoxy composition containing a mixture of an epoxy resin, a bis phenol, and a functionally terminated liquid polymer. This invention also relates to a method for preparing the advanced epoxy adduct composition and a method of using the adduct to modify epoxy coatings and adhesives. The above components, when reacted in the proper sequence and proportions, were unexpectedly found to yield an advanced epoxy composition which, when used as an adduct for epoxy coating and adhesive systems, resulted in a dramatic improvement in impact resistance and adhesion.More particularly, the invention involves a mixture containing about 100 parts of the diglycidyl ether of a bisphenol reacted under specified conditions with about 25 50 parts of a bis phenol, and further reacted with about 15 75 parts of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer, and used as an adduct for modifying epoxy coatings and adhesives. DETAILED DESCRIPTION This invention relates to a particular means to modify epoxy coatings and adhesives in such a way as to dramatically increase their impact resistance and adhesion. Specifically the invention relates to a novel process for modifying epoxy coatings and adhesives by admixing therewith an advanced epoxy adduct composition containing the diglycidyl ether of a bisphenol, a bis phenol, and carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. Additionally, the invention involves the discovery of a novel advanced epoxy adduct composition and its method of preparation. The novel advanced epoxy adduct composition of the present invention gives a unique set of advantages when used to modify epoxy systems. One advantage is that the modified epoxy system is curable at ambient temperature, without application of external heating. A second advantage is that a dramatic improvement in impact resistance and adhesion is achieved over unmodified epoxy systems. A third advantage is that the elastomer is firmly bonded to the epoxy polymer prior to curing, thus increasing its resistance to solvent extraction. These advantages result from the preparation of the adduct composition as a prereact wherein the elastomer is bonded to the epoxy polymer. The subsequent use of the adduct prereact in epoxy systems leads to a firmly bonded epoxy elastomer material upon final curing. The advanced epoxy adduct composition comprises a diglycidyl ether of a bis phenol DGEBP , a bis phenol, and a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. Preferably, the composition comprises the three ingredients above where the preparation is performed in a two step reaction, with the DGEBP reacting with a bis phenol in the first step, followed by a reaction of this mixture with carboxyl terminated liquid polymer in the second step. More preferable, the adduct composition is prepared by the initial reaction of about 100 parts by weight of the DGEBP with about 25 50 parts by weight of a bis phenol, and the subsequent reaction with about 15 75 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer.Even more preferably, the adduct is prepared by the reaction of about 100 parts of the DGEBP with about 30 40 parts by weight of a bis phenol, and the subsequent reaction with about 15 40 parts by weight of a carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer. The initial reaction of the DGEBP with a bis phenol is preferably carried out by heating the mixture to about 1500C 200aC for a period of about 1 3 hours. This step results in an enhancement of the molecular weight of the epoxy polymer. The mixture is then cooled to a temperature in the range of about 1000C to 1300C. This cooling step is carried out to allow temperature control of the exothermic reaction in step 2 and thus to prevent decomposition of the epoxy elastomer product. The subsequent reaction with carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer is carried out in the presence of a suitable catalyst. This reaction is quite exothermic and is controlled at a temperature of about 170 1800C for approximately one hour. The mixture is then allowed to cool and the advanced epoxy adduct composition is yielded. The reaction can also be prepared in a one step process where all the reactive components are blended at about 100 1500C, at which time the catalyst is added. Following catalyst addition, the reaction is quickly warmed to about 150 2000C. The DGEBP materials used in the practice of this invention are commercially available products. A typical product is the diglycidyl ether of Bisphenol A DGEBA . The preparation of DGEBA is described in U.S. patent 2,500,449. Preferably the DGEBA should have an epoxy equivalent weight in the range of about 175 to 600. Epoxy equivalent weight is defined as the weight of epoxy resin in grams which contains one gram equivalent of epoxy or oxirane group. A titrametric procedure for determination of epoxy equivalent weight can be found in Lee and Neville, Handbook of EpoxyResins, pp. 4 17, McGraw Hill, 1967 . Suitable bis phenols for use in this invention include bis phenols of the formulaEMI6.1 where R is an alkylene group containing 1 to 12 carbon atoms or a bivalent radical containing 1 to 8 atoms selected from C, O, S, and N. Examples of the bisphenols are methylene bisphenol, butylidene bisphenol, octylidene bisphenol, p,p isopropylidene bisphenol, bisphenol sulfide, and the like.Preferably, the bisphenol should be Bisphenol A BPA . The carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymers employed in this invention have a molecular weight ranging from about 1000 to about 20,000 and a bulk viscosity from about 1000 to about 8,000,000 centipoises, measured at 270C using a Brookfield LVTViscometer with spindle No. 7 at 0.5 to 100 rpm. The carboxyl terminated polymers have an average functionality of from about 1.5 to about 12, and preferably from about 1.8 to about 4. The average functionality can be determined by multiplying the molecular weight of the polymer by the equivalent parts per gram of carboxyl groups COOH .Examples of liquid carboxyl terminated polymers are carboxyl terminated polyethylene, carboxyl terminated polybutadiene, carboxyl terminated polyisoprene, carboxyl terminated poly butadiene acrylonitrile , carboxyl terminated poly butadiene styrene , carboxyl terminated poly ethyl acrylate , and the like.Preparation of carboxyl terminated liquid polymers is described in U.S. patent no s. 3,135,716 3,285,949 and 3,431,235. Preferably the carboxyl terminated liquid polymer should be carboxyl terminated polybutadiene acrylonitrile. The reactions for preparing the advanced epoxy adduct of this invention can also be carried out in a suitable organic solvent such as an aromatic hydrocarbon, an aliphatic ketone, or an ether alcohol.Preferably the solvent should be xylene, methyl isobutyl ketone, or 2 ethoxy ethanol. The use of a solvent allows for effective temperature control and more convenient handling of the finished materials. Suitable catalysts for these reactions would be tertiary amines, quarternary amine salts, tri aryl phosphines, tri alkyl phosphines, and tetra aryl phosphonium salts, and tetra alkyl phosphonium salts and mixtures thereof. Preferably the catalyst should be tri phenyl phosphine. The two step reaction involved in the preparation of the advanced epoxy adduct using DGEBA,Bisphenol A, and a carboxyl terminated liquid polymer can be exemplified by the following Step 1EMI7.1 tb 2 SEP Co2 SEP ,CH CH2 SEP o commat o CH2CHCH2 SEP n 0 commat ocH2cHXcH2 tb SEP OH tb SEP SEP HO SEP SEP OH SEP DGEBA tb SEP BPA tb SEP OH SEP OH SEP heat tb CH2 CHCH2 SEP O SEP OCH2 SEP n SEP n SEP 2 SEP 9 SEP OCH2 Hf SEP H2 tb SEP bHI tb SEP Q SEP OH SEP CHO tb CH2 CHCH2 SEP OO CH2C HCH2 SEP I tb SEP CH2 CHCH2 O SEP 9 SEP O CH2CHcH2 n o SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Intermediate tb EMI8.1 tb Step SEP 2 SEP OH tb 2 SEP Ca SEP CHCH2O SEP SEP OCH2CHCH2J OCH2CX SEP gCH2 tb SEP Intermediate tb HOOC RLP COOH carboxyl terminated reactive liquid polymer catalystEMI8.2 Advanced Epoxy AdductThe preferred adduct should have an epoxy equivalent weight in the range of about 600 to 1200. Both the concentration of ingredients and the synthesis of the adduct as a pre react are important in this invention to obtain the dramatic improvement in impact resistance and adhesion over unmodified epoxy systems. To demonstrate this invention a series of adducts were prepared using DGEBA, Bisphenol A, and carboxyl terminated polybutadiene acrylonitrile CTBN . The following formulations listed in table I were used in the preparation of these adducts Table IAdduct DGEBA Bisphenol A CTBN Adduct EEW 1 100 parts 66.7 parts 1368 2 100 parts 20 parts 80 parts 817 3 100 parts 20 parts 80 parts 776 4 100 parts 35 parts 22.5 parts 1035 parts by weight EEW epoxy equivalent weightIn adduct no. 1, the DGEBA had an epoxy equivalent weight of 525. In adduct i2 4, the DGEBA had an epoxy equivalent weight of 190.Adduct notes. 1 and 2 were synthesized in a one step reaction. Adduct no. 3 was synthesized in a two step process where DGEBA andCTBN were first allowed to react followed by the reaction with BPA. Adduct no. 4 was prepared in a two step process where DGEBA and BPA were first reacted followed by the reaction with CTBN. Adduct no. 4 is the composition covered by the scope of the present invention. In its preparation, the DGEBA and BPA were charged into a reactor equipped with a condenser, agitator, nitrogen purge, temperature probe and heating mantle. The reactor headspace was purged with nitrogen throughout the reactions. The heat and agitator were turned on and the temperature raised to 1750C over a l hour period. The reaction mix was cooled to 1300C in 30 minutes and maintained for 1 hours. In the second step of the reaction, CTBN and tri phenyl phosphine catalyst were added to the reaction mix. Viscosity increased markedly as the reaction mix was heated and stirred to a temperature of 1750C in 5 minutes. The mix was allowed to react for 1 hour while a temperature range of 1750 1800C was maintained. The mix was then poured into a non stick tray and cooled to room temperature. A light yellow semi transparent solid mass was obtained having an epoxy equivalent weight of 1035. The adducts were evaluated by admixing them into a standard epoxy polyamide maintenance coating.The complete coating formulations contained a total epoxy content of 100 parts by weight, 147 166 parts by weight TiO2, 65 116 parts by weight methyl isobutyl ketone, 5 parts by weight phenolic surfactant, 31.7 51.4 parts by weight Versamid 115 polyamide curing agent, 32 59 parts by weight 2 ethoxy ethanol, 67 123 parts by weight xylene, and 10 15 parts by weight CTBN. Complete formulations are listed inTable II. Table IIAdduct Base Phenolic Poly 2 ethoxy Content Epoxy TiO2 MIBK Surfactant amide Xylene ethanolAdduct num 1 25 85 157 67 5 47 69 34Adduct num 1 37.5 77.5 161 68 5 45.9 72 36Adduct num 2 25 85 161 68 5 51.0 72 36Adduct num 2 37.5 77.5 166 71 5 51.4 75 36Adduct num 3 25 85 161 68 5 50.5 72 36Adduct num 3 37.5 77.5 166 71 5 50.8 75 36.3Adduct num 4 69.9 40.1 148 115 5 37.8 123 59Adduct num 4 104.9 10.1 147 116 5 31.7 90 44Control none 100 150 65 5 50 67 32 Parts by weight When these coatings were evaluated forGardner reverse impact and adhesion, the test results listed in Table III below were obtained Table III Gardner Total Total Elcometer Reverse Adduct CTBN Epoxy Hardness Impact Content Content Content psi in. lbs. Adduct 1 25 10 100 1000 19Adduct 1 37.5 15 100 1000 19Adduct 2 25 10 100 1000 39Adduct 2 37.5 15 100 1000 39Adduct 3 25 10 100 1000 18Adduct num 3 37.5 15 100 1000 18Adduct num 4 69.9 10 100 1000 320Adduct 4 104.9 15 100 1000 150Control none none 100 730 79 parts by weightThe above results show that only adduct num 4 gave the dramatically improved reverse impact resistance. It is believed that the degree of advancement of the epoxy with BPA has some effect in enhancing impact resistance, as the control coating and the coating containing adduct 1 has no such advancement.It is also believed that the ratio of epoxy to BPA is important with an acceptable ratio being in the range of about 100 25 to 100 50. The epoxy elastomer ratio is also believed to be important, with an acceptable ratio being in the range of about 100 15 to 100 75. Typical epoxy resins which can be modified by the adduct compositions of this invention are those which contain terminal epoxy groups or oxirane groups of the general formula EMI13.1 as the principal reactive groups. Many such materials are known, for example, di epoxy ethers of diphenols such as the diglycidyl ether of Bisphenol A, di epoxy esters of dicarboxylic acids such as diglycidyl adipate, and di epoxy derivatives of dienes such as butadiene dioxide or vinyl cyclohexane dioxide. A number of these epoxy resins are available commercially such as the Epoxy resins of the ShellChemical Corporation and certain Bakelites resins of the Union Carbide Corporation.