# Process and catalyst for polyolefin density and molecular weight control

## Claims
Katalysator, geeignet für die Polymerisation eines Olefins,enthaltend a eine Verbindung der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to catalyst suitable for the polymerisation of an olefin. The catalyst can be used in an improved process for polymerising olefins and more particularly in amethod of controlling the molecular weight and or the density of polyolefins produced so as to obtainpolymer product in any desired range of molecular weight and densities. The invention particularly relatesto the polymerisation of ethylene in the presence or absence of comonomers to polyethylenes of controlledmolecular weight and density. In US Patent 3,051,690 of Vandenberg, there is described a process of polymerising olefins to highmolecular weight polyolefins of controlled molecular weight, as indicated by polymer viscosity, by theaddition of controlled amounts of hydrogen to the polymerisation system. The molecular weight controlwas described as useful in combination with a hydrocarbon insoluble catalyst system comprising thereaction product of a compound of a metal of Group IVB, VB, VIB, and VIII with an organometalliccompound of an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, zinc, earth metal or rare earth metal. The patent teachesthat increased use of hydrogen during the polymerisation process results in the decrease of polymerproduct viscosity. It is further known that certain metallocenes such as bis cyclopentadienyl titanium or zirconiumdialkyls in combination with aluminium alkyl water cocatalyst form homogeneous catalyst systems for thepolymerisation of ethylene. German Patent Application 2,608,863 discloses the use of a catalyst system for the polymerization ofethylene consisting of bis cyclopentadienyl titanium dialkyl, aluminum trialkyl and water. German Patent Application 2,608,933 discloses an ethylene polymerization catalyst system consistingof zirconium metallocenes of the general formula cyclopentadienyl European Patent Appln. No. 0035242 discloses a process for preparing ethylene and atactic propylenepolymers in the presence of a halogen free Ziegler catalyst system of 1 cyclopentadienyl compound of theformula cyclopentadienyl The above patents disclose that the polymerization process employing the homogeneous catalystsystem is also hydrogen sensitive for molecular weight control. An advantage of the cyclopentadienyl metallalumoxane catalyst system, is their extremely highactivity for ethylene polymerization. Another significant advantage is that unlike olefin polymers producedin the presence of conventional heterogeneous Ziegler catalyst, terminal unsaturation is present inpolymers produced in the presence of these homogeneous catalysts. The use of hydrogen for molecularweight control for these homogeneous catalysts would be disadvantageous since the terminalunsaturation would become saturated and hence, the loss of available sites for building functionalities intothe olefin polymers. In EP 35242, the patentee discloses that relatively low molecular weight polymer products are obtainedat higher polymerization temperatures and relatively high molecular weight polymers at lowpolymerization temperatures. As is generally known in the art, it is desirable to maximize polymerization temperatures in order toachieve high polymerization activity and reduce operating costs in terms of energy recovery. The catalystdisclosed in EP 35242 has certain disadvantages for the production of high molecular weight, high densityresins since to produce such polymer products, one must operate at low temperatures thereby increasingoperating costs and decreasing catalytic activity. It would be highly desirable to provide homogeneous catalysts which can be usefully employed toproduce high molecular weight polymer products at conventional polymerization temperatures and to beable to control molecular weight and density of the polymer product without resorting to temperaturecontrol or hydrogen. Accordingly, the present invention provides new cyclopentadienyl metal alumoxane catalysts forolefin polymerization which catalyst can be usefully employed at high temperatures to obtain olefinpolymer products having excellent properties with respect to molecular weight, density and terminalunsaturation. It has been discovered that the molecular weight of polymer product can be controlled by the judiciousselection of the substituent on the cyclopentadienyl ring and use of ligands for the metallocenes. It hasfurther been discovered that comonomer content can be controlled by the judicious selection ofmetallocenes. Hence, by the selection of catalyst components one can tailor polymer product with respectto molecular weight and density. The catalysts usefully employed for the polymerization of ethylene and alpha olefins to polyethylenehomopolyolefins and copolyethylene alpha olefin comprise The molecular weight of the polymer product can be further controlled by the ratio of alumoxane tometallocene. The present invention also provides a process for producing polyethylenes having molecular weight atrelatively high temperatures. The process comprises polymerizing ethylene alone or in the presence ofminor amounts of higher alpha olefins or diolefins in the presence of the catalyst system described above. The advantages of this invention are obtained by the use of derivatives of the cyclopentadienyl ringand or other ligands for the metallocenes in order to control and tailor polymer molecular weight and orcomonomer content. The present invention is directed towards catalyst systems and a catalytic process for thepolymerization of olefins, and particularly ethylene to high molecular weight polyethylenes such as linearlow density polyethylene LLDPE and high density polyethylene HDPE . The polymers are intended forfabrication into articles by extrusion, injection molding, thermoforming, rotational molding, and the like. Inparticular, the polymers of this invention are homopolymers of ethylene, and copolymers of ethylene withhigher alpha olefins having from 3 to 10 carbon atoms and preferably 4 to 8 carbon atoms per molecule.Illustrative of the higher alpha olefins are butene 1, hexene 1 and octene 1. In the process of the present invention, ethylene, either alone or together with alpha olefins having 3 ormore carbon atoms per molecule, is polymerized in the presence of a catalyst system comprising at leastone metallocene as hereinbefore defined and an alumoxane. In accordance with this invention, one can also produce olefin copolymers particularly copolymers ofethylene and higher alpha olefins having from 3 8 carbon atoms per molecule. As indicated above, thecomonomer content can be controlled through the selection of metallocene catalystcomponent. The alumoxanes are polymeric aluminum compounds which can be represented by the generalformulae R Al O The alumoxanes can be prepared in various ways. Preferably, they are prepared by contacting waterwith a solution of aluminum trialkyl, such as, for example, aluminum trimethyl, in a suitable organic solventsuch as benzene or an aliphatic hydrocarbon. For example, the aluminum alkyl is treated with water in the form of a moist solvent. In an alternative method, the aluminum alkyl such as aluminum trimethyl can bedesirably contacted with a hydrated salt such as hydrated copper sulfate. Preferably, the alumoxane is prepared in the presence of a hydrated copper sulfate. The methodcomprises treating a dilute solution of aluminum trimethyl in, for example, toluene, with copper sulfaterepresented by the general formula CuSO The new metallocene compounds usefully employed in accordance with this invention are thesubstituted di cyclopentadienyl zirconium compounds. The metallocenes arerepresented by the general formula Exemplary hydrocarbyl radicals are methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, amyl, isoamyl, hexo, isobutyl, heptyl,octyl, nonyl, dicyl, cetyl, 2 ethylhexyl and phenyl. Exemplary alkylene radicals are methylene, ethylene and propylene. Exemplary halogen atoms include chlorine, bromine and iodine and of these halogen atoms, chlorineis preferred. Exemplary of the alkylidene radicals is methylidene, ethylidene and propylidene. Illustrative but non limiting examples of the zirconocenes which can be usefully employed inaccordance with this invention are the alkyl substitutedcyclopentadienes, such as bis ethyl cyclopentadienyl zirconium dimethyl,bis methylcyclopentadienyl zirconium dimethyl, and dihalide complexes of theabove di alkyl, tri alkyl, and tetra alkyl cyclopentadienes, such as bis tetramethylcyclopentadienyl zirconiumdimethyl, bis 1,2 dimethylcyclopentadienyl zirconiumdimethyl, bis 1,3 diethylcyclopentadienyl zirconium dimethyl and dihalidecomplexes of the above dialkyl silicon and C The ratio of aluminum in the alumoxane to total metal in the metallocene can be in therange of 0.5 1 to 10,000 1, and preferably 5 1 to 1000 1. The solvents used in the preparation of the catalyst system are inert hydrocarbons, in particular ahydrocarbon that is inert with respect to the catalyst system. Such solvents are well known and include, forexample, isobutane, butane, pentane, hexane, heptane, octane, cyclohexane, methylcyclohexane, tolueneand xylene. As a further control and refinement of polymer molecular weight, one can vary the concentrationalumoxane. Higher concentrations of alumoxane in the catalyst system results in higher polymer productmolecular weight. Since, in accordance with this invention, one can produce high viscosity polymer product at relativelyhigh temperature, temperature does not constitute a limiting parameter as with the prior art metallocene alumoxane catalyst. The catalyst systems described herein, therefore, are suitable for the polymerization ofolefins in solution, slurry or gas phase polymerizations and over a wide range of temperatures andpressures. For example, such temperatures may be in the range of 60 C to 280 C and especially in therange of 50 C to 160 C. The pressures employed in the process of the present invention are those wellknown for, for example, in the range of about 1 to about 500 atmospheres 99.3 to 49644 kPa and greater. In a solution phase polymerization the alumoxane is preferably dissolved in a suitable solvent, typicallyin inert hydrocarbon solvent such as toluene and xylene in molar ratios of about 5 10 The soluble metallocenes can be converted to supported heterogeneous catalysts by depositing saidmetallocenes on typical catalyst supports such as, for example, silica, alumina, and polyethylene. The solidcatalysts in combination with an alumoxane can be usefully employed in slurry and gas phase olefinpolymerizations. After polymerization and deactivation of the catalyst, the product polymer can be recovered by processes well known in the art for removal of deactivated catalysts and solution. The solvents may beflashed off from the polymer solution and the polymer obtained extruded into water and cut into pellets orother suitable comminuted shapes. Pigments, antioxidants and other additives, as is known in the art, maybe added to the polymer. The polymer product obtained in accordance with this invention will have a weight average molecularweight in the range of 1,400,000 to 500 and preferably 500,000 to 1000. The polydispersities molecular weight distribution expressed as The polymers produced by the process of this present invention are capable of being fabricated into awide variety of articles, as is known for homopolymers of ethylene and copolymers of ethylene and higheralpha olefins. The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. In the examples following the molecular weights were determined on a Water s Associates Model No.150C GPC Gel Permeation Chromatography . The measurements were made by dissolving polymersamples in hot trichlorobenzene TCB and filtered. The GPC runs were performed at 145 C in TCB at 1.5ml min using two Shodex A80 MIS Gel columns of 9.4 mm internal diameter from Perkin Elmer Inc. 300milliliter of 3.1 percent solutions in TCB were injected and the chromotagraphic runs monitored atsensitivity equal 64 and scale factor equal 65. The samples were run in duplicate. The integrationparameters were obtained with a Water s Associates data module. An antioxidant, N phenyl 2 naphthylamine,was added to all samples. In the examples following the alumoxane was prepared in the following manner 600 cm The molecular weights were determined by gel permeation chromatography at 145 C on a Waters GPC150C. A 1 liter stainless steel pressure vessel, equipped with an incline blade stirrer, an external water jacketfor temperature control, a septum inlet and vent line, and a regulated supply of dry ethylene and nitrogen,was dried and deoxygenated with a nitrogen flow. 500 cm A 1 liter stainless steel pressure vessel, equipped with an incline blade stirrer, an external water jacketfor temperature control, a septum inlet and vent line, and a regulated supply of dry ethylene and nitrogen,was dried and deoxygenated with a nitrogen flow. 400 cm Examples 3 was performed as Example 2 except that the metallocenes listed in Table I weresubstituted for the metallocene in Example 2. The results of the examples are summarized in Table I. Examples 4 and 5 were performed as Example 2 except that 0.2 mg of metallocenes as listed in Table IIand 9.0 cm The physical properties of a polyethylene are largely determined by the polymer molecular weight andthe polymer density. The previous examples have demonstrated that through the ligand effect, one cancontrol the molecular weight of polyethylenes. The following examples demonstrate that through the sameligand effects, one can control the polymer density in copolymers such as ethylene copolymers. In addition,the control of polymer density in the following examples is demonstrated at fixed reaction conditionsindicating that density control is mediated by ligand effects on the catalyst reactivity ratios. A 1 liter stainless steel pressure vessel, equipped with an incline blade stirrer, an external water jacketfor temperature control, a septum inlet and vent line, and a regulated supply of dry ethylene and nitrogen,was dried and deoxygenated with a nitrogen flow. 400 cm A 1 liter stainless steel pressure vessel, equipped with an incline blade stirrer, an external water jacketfor temperature control, a septum inlet and vent line, and a regulated supply of dry ethylene and nitrogen,was dried and deoxygenated with a nitrogen flow. 400 cm