# Coating composition.

## Abstract
A two component coating composition paint for use in motor car refinishing which can be cured at ambient tempera ture and having low sensitivity to water and humidity com prises a first component including a polymer containing epox ide groupings, a second component including one or more acrylic resins containing amino or amide or amide groupings and, optionally, carboxylic acid groupings, and one or more polymers containing thiol groupings and, optionally, car boxylic acid groupings.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A three component coating composition comprising a first component including a polymer containing epoxide groupings, a second component including one or more acrylic resins containing amino or amide or amide groupings and, optionally, carboxylic acid groupings, and a third component including one or more polymers containing thiol groupings and, optionally, carboxylic acid groupings. 2. A composition according to claim 1, in which a resin in the third component is an acrylic resin or acrylic adduct containing thiol groupings. 3. A composition according to claim 1, in which a resin in the third component is an alkyd1 oil free alkyd or polyester resin containing thiol groupings. 4. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, in which the ratio of the total number of epoxide equivalents to the total number of amine, amide, carboxylic acid and thiol equivalents when added together is no greater than 10 and not less than 0.1 to 1. i.e. 0.1 to lO l. 5. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 4, in which the proportion of resin s containing thiol groups as a weight weight percentage of all the resins containing groups which react with epoxide groups ie amine, amide1 carboxylic acid and thiol groups is not less than 2 or more than 99.5 6. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 5, in which the polymer containing epoxide groupings is an essentially aliphatic compound containing not substantially less than two epoxide groupings per molecule, or an acrylic resin containing an average of not substantially less than two epoxide groupings per molecule. 7. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 6, in which the amine containing resin has an amine content equivalent to 5 to 30 mg KOH g. 8. A composition according to claim 7, in which said resin also has an acid value of from 10 to 50mg KOH g. 9. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, in which the thiol containing resin contains mercaptoacetate groups. 10. A composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, in which the thiol containing resin is a polyester containing from 0.15 to 1.5 moles SH kg an acrylic resin containing from 0.15 to 4.0 moles SH kg or an acrylic adduct containing from 0.15 to 5.0 moles SH kg. 11. A two pack coating composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, containing the epoxide containing resin in one pack and the amine containing resin and the thiol containing resin plus pigments in the other pack.

## Description
Coating ComPosition The present invention relates to a coating composition. In particular the present invention relates to an organic solvent based coating composition, though comparatively minor modification of the resins chemical structure would facilitate the formulation of water reducible coatings. The composition is capable of being cured at ambient temperatures and above to form a coating for a substrate of metal, wood or plastic and having good adhesion and a balanced combination of desired properties. In particular, properties such as gloss, hardness1 adhesion, impact resistance, gloss retention and general durability, as well as resistance to such agents as atmospheric acids, petrol and grease.INTRODUCTION DEFINITION OF TERMS 1. Acrylic Resin This term is used to describe a polymer which is usually made by co reacting a, ss ethylenically unsaturated compounds of which a significant proportion are the esters of a, ss ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acids. Examples of suitable monomers are alkyl acrylates such as ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate and 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and alkyl methacrylates, such as methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate and butyl methacrylate. Other suitable monomers can include other reactive groups such as epoxide, amino etc., for example glycidyl esters such as glycidyl methacrylate. Other suitable monomers include vinyl aromatic compounds such as styrene or vinyl toluene and vinyl derivatives, such as vinyl acetate or vinyl propionate. It is in addition possible to modify properties of the resin by the use of monomers such as acrylonitrile and or methacrylonitrile. 2. Acrylic Adduct This term is used to describe a resin which is made by reacting an acrylic resin with a further component which may or may not of itself constitute a polymer.3. Alkyd Resin, Polyester Resin, Oil Modified Polyester Resin These terms are used to describe polymers made by the esterification of one or more polyhydric alcohols with one or more polyfunctional carboxylic acids. A proportion of one or more monobasic acids and or in rare cases monohydric alcohols may also be included.Examples of suitable polyhydric alcohols are ethylene glycol, trimethylol propane, neopentyl glycol, propylene glycol. Examples of polyfunctional carboxylic acids are phthalic anhydride, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, succinic acid, adipic acid, trimellitic anhydride. Examples of suitable monofunctional carboxylic acids are benzoic acid, P tert butyl benzoic acid, lauric acid and one of the tertiary carboxylic acids. An example of the latter material is marketed by the Shell Company under the name Versatic Acid. Versatic is a registered trade mark . An alternative to using the acid itself is to use a derivative such as the glycidyl ester. This is also marketed by the Shell Company under the name Cardura E.Cardura is a registered trade mark . It has been widely recognised that there is a need for coating compositions which are either non polluting or, failing this, pollute the atmosphere to a minimal degree, but at the same time offer effective economy in the use of energy. In order to do this, such coatings need to dry at ambient temperatures and or cure quickly at comparatively low stoving schedules. Such compositions would be particularly desirable in the refinish market motorcar repair paint , although they would have application in other fields, for example motorcar finishes, wood finishes and general purpose industrial and marine finishes. Considerable effort has been directed towards two component finishes where the two components react chemically after application to give durable paint films. A particularly suitable combination is one in which one of the components is a hydroxyl bearing resin and the second component is a polymer containing isocyanate groupings. Paints made from these chemicals offer excellent performance but suffer from the toxicological disadvantage that the isocyanate component contains a proportion of the isocyanate monomer.Further, the proportion of free monomer can increase during storage of the prepolymer because of its partial decomposition. More recently work has been directed towards two component finishes in which one component is a resin containing amine or amide groupings which is reacted with a second component containing epoxide groupings.These latter compositions have been the subject of Patents, for example US Patent 4,294,939 issued firstOctober 13, 1981 to Eiji Taniguchi et al and assigned toToray Industries, Tokyo, Japan. Whilst products of this type meet many of the basic requirements enumerated above, there are practical difficulties in achieving fully satisfactory results.For example, it is widely known and accepted that for the highly durable finishes required for motorcars, the preferred major constitutent is an acrylic resin. There are practical and commercial difficulties in obtaining acrylic resins containing primary or secondary amino groups. As a result, the resins used in epoxy amine compositions tend to be based on tertiary amino groups which react more slowly, the chemical reaction proceeding, it is believed, via quaternary ammonium groupings. Coatings of this type are water sensitive, at least during the early stages of the curing reaction, and can often remain so. To produce commercially practical finishes, therefore, it is necessary to minimise the number of tertiary amine groups which results in the coating being relatively low in degree of chemical cross linking. Finishes based on these resin combinations, therefore, tend at least when dried at ambient temperatures, to be very sensitive to humid or wet conditions for a period of up to several days and have relatively poor hardness flexibility properties even when fully dried. More recently work has been carried out in the paint resin industry to modify the amino bearing acrylic resin so as to include a proportion of carboxyl groups. This latter group is also known to react with the epoxy compound at ambient temperatures but without generating water sensitivity. The disadvantage of this reaction lies in its slowness at ambient temperatures. The result is that finishes do not achieve their optimum properties for several days at least. Thus there is a real need to accelerate the chemical reaction which takes place between the epoxide component and the amino carboxylic acid component after the finish has been applied. This can be achieved by the addition of a mercapto compound, such as ethyl mercaptan. This technique is used in analytical methods to convert primary amines, which are difficult to separate by chromatographic methods, into amide derivatives which can be efficiently separated by chromatography. It is also well established that mercapto compounds themselves can react with epoxide bearing materials. It is normally necessary that small proportions of amino compounds are present for this reaction to take place. The speed of reaction between the mercaptan with the epoxide is very much faster at comparatively low temperatures than that involving amino groups. Some well known chemical adhesives make use this chemistry. We have now found that the incorporation into coating compositions of certain thiol containing resins can provide fast air drying chemically reacted finishes which utilise the chemical reaction between an epoxide adduct as one component and a mixture of resins as the second component. This mixture of resins is tailored so that some portions contain amino or amide groups, with or without, carboxylic acid groups and some contain the thiol groups, again with or without carboxylic acid groups.According to the present invention we provide a three component coating composition comprising a first component including a polymer containing epoxide grouping, a second component including one or more acrylic resins containing amino or amide groupings and, optionally, carboxylic acid groupings, and a third component including one or more polymers containing thiol groupings and, optionally, carboxylic acid groupings. All three components must be mixed together prior to application of the composition to a substrate. The three components can be stored separately, or, preferably, components 2 and 3 may be combined as one component. The basic composition, therefore, generally consists of ComPonent 1 A polymer containing epoxide groupings. The composition of such that it offered good compatibility with component 2. Its structure is preferably either a mainly aliphatic di epoxide or an acrylic polymer containing epoxide groupings. The remaining constituents are largely of a solvent nature, effectively to balance the application properties of the total finish.ComPonent 2 One or more substances containing amine and or amide groupings. These substances may be polymeric in nature, e.g. an acrylic resin or a polyamide or may be specific compounds containing these groupings. An acrylic resin must be formulated to have the correct balance of properties in terms of hardness, durability, gloss etc and contain amine and or amide groupings.Amine groupings can be primary, secondary or tertiary, though for practical considerations the latter are normally used. This item, whether a polymer or a conventional compound may additionally contain carboxylic acid groupings.Component 3 One or more substances containing thiol mercaptan groupings. Although in principle, low molecular weight compounds could be used, their particularly unattractive odour and adverse toxicology normally precludes their use. In practice, therefore, this item is normally a polymer containing mercaptan groupings formulated to have a proper balance of properties in terms of hardness, durability and gloss. From a wide range of possible polymers three are preferred i An acrylic resin having the correct balance of properties and containing thiol groups. ii An alkyd, oil free alkyd, or polyester resin containing thiol groups. iii An acrylic adduct containing thiol groups. In addition to resins, paint contains pigments to provide colour and obliteration and a wide range of additives to promote flow, resistance to settling etc, together with a mixture of solvents to balance the application properties of the coating. In this product it is usually convenient to add solvents to both component 1 and components 2 and 3. The pigments and other additives, however, normally form part of either component 1 or components 2 and 3, though.exceptionally, it might also be advantageous to have such additions to component 1 as well as to components 2 and 3. For good results, the proportions of Components 1 and 2 must be balanced to ensure that i the ratio of the total number of epoxide equivalents to the total number of amine, amide, carboxylic acid and thiol equivalents when added together is not greater than 10 1 and not less than 0.1 1, i.e. a range of 0.1 to 10 1 ii the proportion of resin s containing thiol groups as a weight weight percentage of all the resins containing groups which react with epoxide groups i.e. amine, amide, carboxylic acid and thiol groups is not less than 2 or more than 99.5 . The invention thus consists essentially of a paint composition in which the applied film undergoes a chemical reaction between three components which most commonly would be of.a polymeric nature.1 Epoxy Component The epoxy conponent can in principle consist of virtually any poly epoxy functional chemical or polymer. In practice, however, the normal requirements of the ultimate paint finish preclude the use of the use of the commonly available bisphenol A epichlorhydrin resins widely marketed by a number of chemical companies. If, however, the composition is to be the basis of an undercoating product these considerations do not apply and the bisphenol A epichlorhydrin resins are eminently suitable. The normal requirements are i Compatibility with the other resin components to ensure maximum initial gloss of the paint films. ii Good chemical reactivity with the remaining resin components. iii A composition which promotes gloss retention where needed. Bisphenol A epichlorhydrin resins frequently show loss of gloss due to the film deterioration known as chalking when exposed to outdoor weathering . iv A composition which promotes maximum colour stability. Aromatic components are frequently more prone to yellowing on exposure than either aliphatic or acrylic types. As a result, therefore, the preferred type of composition for a finishing coat will be either a An essentially aliphatic compound containing at least two epoxide groupings per molecule. Polymeric materials of this type should be formulated to contain at least an average of two epoxide groupings per molecule, or b An acrylic resin containing an average of not substantially less than two epoxide groupings per molecule. The acrylic resin must be formulated to have a reasonable balance of properties, such as hardness, flexibility, gloss retention etc, at least when combined with the other components such as plasticisers which may be either polymeric or solvent in type and may contain reactive groupings. A suitable method of introducing epoxide groupings into the acrylic resin would utilise glycidyl methacrylate as one of the monomers. An example of the type of resin is shown as Example 1, though preferred materials have been provided commercially.2. Amine Amide Component As As in the case of the epoxy component, a very wide range of chemicals would in principle satisfy the requirements for this component. Thus, where the composition consists predominantly of epoxy and mercapto components, low molecular weight amines or polyamides offer the greatest advantage. If, however, the amine component is present as a high proportion of the total it is essential that it is of a polymeric nature capable of providing the basic film properties previously described. In the first case, therefore, the paint film is largely created by chemical reaction between the epoxide and mercapto components. The amine or amide component is present primarily as a catalyst to facilitate this reaction. For this purpose the preferred amines are comparatively low molecular weight chemicals or resins containing amine functionality. Equally suitable are polyamide products, though these work most effectively in the presence additionally of amine. The converse extreme case is represented by the composition in which the paint film is produced essentially by reaction between the amine and epoxy components. For this purpose, amine containing resin of comparitively low functionality is most suitable. For maximum durability an acrylic resin is preferred as defined in the introduction, except that at least one of the monomers must contain an amino or amide group and optionally one or more monomers may contain a carboxylic acid group. Examples of suitable amine containing monomers are dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, and t butylaminoethyl methacrylate. Examples of suitable amide containing monomers are acrylamide or methacrylamide. Examples of suitable carboxylic acid containing monomers are methacrylic acid, acrylic acid and itaconic acid. When the amino component is carried in an acrylic resin which constitutes a major proportion of the total composition, that resin must be formulated to have a satisfactory balance of properties at least when it has been blended and reacted with the other parts of the composition interms of gloss, hardness, adhesion, impact resistance, gloss retention and general durability, as well as resistance to such agents at atmospheric acids, petrol and grease. The two compositions described above represent the extreme compositions covered by this application. An intermediate position is, however, generally preferred in which both the mercaptan and amino bearing components contribute to the overall properties. Where the amine bearing component is an acrylic resin the level of amine bearing monomer is limited only by the properties of the final composition. Too high an amine value results in films which are water sensitive and or exhibit blistering and or loss of gloss, and or colour change in humid conditions. Thus the preferred amine values depend on the proportion of the component in the overall composition. Example 2 illustrates a resin suitable to be used primarily as a catalyst, whilst example 3 illustrates a resin suitable to be used as a major component. In the latter case preferred examples have been obtained commercially. For this type of amine component, preferred amine values lie between 5 and 30 measured as milligrams KOH per gramme of resin and preferred acid values between 10 and 50.3. Thiol containing reactant This component consists essentially of a resin containing a reactive mercapto grouping. It is the use of this component in the finish which is the essence of these compositions. In principle, virtually any film forming resin would be suitable which is fully compatible in the system. On the grounds of compatibility, film integrity and durability, one of the two types described below is preferred.3.1 Alkyd, oil free alkyd or polyester resin containing thiol groupings There are a wide range of compositions falling under the general heading above which would be suitable as a start material for this component. They are all essentially polymers as defined in the introduction. It is possible to introduce the thiol groups via a number of chemical reactions. Commercially, the most attractive means, however, is by formulating the above resin to have a suitable excess of hydroxyl groupings over carboxylic acid groupings and then either concurrently, or preferably consecutively, reacting a proportion of the excess hydroxyls with mercaptoacetic acid. Using this preferred method approximately 70 of the theoretical level of thiol is achieved. The formulation of alkyd oil free alkyd poRyester resins is widely known and this invention does ot depend on specific compositions of this base resin. In principle, any resin within this general type which permits the introduction of thiol groups is potentially suitable. In practice, tie requirements of the total paint film are most convleniently met if i the propor ion of polyunsaturated monobasic acids is relatively low, thus facilitating compatibility within the system and minimi.ing discoloration on exposure to outdoor conditions.ii the balance of monofunctional, difunctional and polyfunctional constituents is such as to obtain a convenient viscosity solids relationship without the need a for a large excess of hydroxyl equivalent over carboxyl equivalents or vice versa . b to terminate the manufacture at a point where the acid value measured in milligrams KOH per gram of resin non volatile is in excess of 50. Preferably the acid value should be below 20.iii there must be suitable groups to facilitate the introduction of thiol groups. If the preferred route via mercaptoacetic acid is to be used the unreacted hydroxyl groups must be sufficient to stoichiometrically satisfy the reaction EMI18.1 where R is used as an abbreviation for the resin. The thiol functionality of the resin measured in gram molecules per kilo of resin can be varied over a wide range and is determined by a the properties of the final paint film. b the stability of the resin and or paint. c the acceptability of the aroma of the composition. Preferred functionality lies between 0.15 moles Kg and 1.5 moles SH Kg. Examples of suitable resins are described inExamples 4 and 5.3.2 Acrylic Resin An alternative to the type of resin described under 3.1 is an acrylic resin formulated inherently to have the properties required of the resin described in component 2, but in which at least one of the monomers is capable of subsequent reaction to facilitate the introduction of thiol groupings. The alternative process of utilizing an a, ss ethylenically unsaturated compound containing a mercapto grouping as a monomer during the production of resin is in practice difficult to achieve. This is because the mercapto group acts as a chain terminator and prevents the reaction producing a resin having the preferred characteristics. Examples of suitable reactive monomers are glycidyl methacrylate or hydroxyl bearing monomers such as 2 hydroxyl ethyl methacrylate, 2 hydroxylethyl acrylate, and 2 hydroxy propylmethacrylate, 2 hydroxypropyl acrylate and commercially available mixtures of the above. Derivatives of these monomers may also be used such as the ethylene oxide adduct of propylene glycol monomethacrylate sold by BP Chemicals under the nameBisomer PPM6 The manufacturing process is in two stages. The first is a conventional free radical polymerisation to produce an acrylic resin. The second stage consists of introducing the thiol groupings a If the acrylic resin contains epoxide groupings, these can be reacted with polyfunctional mercaptan or mixture of polyfunctional mercaptans for example ethylene di mercaptan . This reaction can frequently be accelerated by the addition of a suitable catalyst. Inorganic and organic metallic compounds and amino compounds are among the wide range of materials which can have a catalytic effect on this reaction. b If the acrylic resin contains hydroxyl groupings these can be esterified by mercapto acetic acid very similarly to the route described for alkyd resins under section 3.1. Suitable acrylic resins are described under examples 6 and 7.3.3 Acrylic Adduct If a preparation similar to that described under 3.2 a is carried out using a high proportion of a polyfunctional mercaptan it can be sufficient to change the physical properties of the acrylic resin. Within this specification such resins have been defined as acrylic adducts. Examples of suitable higher molecular weight polyfunctional mercaptans are the triester of trimethylol propane and mercapto acetic acid, the tetra ester of pentaerythritol adducts. Examples of suitable higher molecular weight polyfunctional mercaptans are the triester of trimethylol propane and mercapto acetic acid, the tetra ester of pentaerythritol and mercapto acetic acid as well as a range of commercially available materials. The preferred functionalith has between 0.15 and 5.0 moles SH kg. The preparation of a suitable acrylic adduct is described under example 8. The manufacture of the coating composition from the above resins preferably follows a conventional pattern viz Activator Thinner or Clear Lacquer. Manufacture is achieved by simple blending under a stirrer. See examples 9 and 10 . Pigmented paint. Manufacture follows the conventional techniques and is in two or three stages depending on the dispersion equipment chosen. Stage 1 Premix omitted if dispersion is by means of ball mill . All constituents are mixed for the dispersion stage under a high speed stirrer.Stage 2 Dispersion phase. The product from Stage 1 is passed through a sand grinder or horizontal bead mill. Alternatively, the dispersion phase is charged to a ball mill and run until required fineness is achieved. The dispersion means are dependent on pigment type, availability etc. and not on the nature of the resin composition.Stage 3 The remaining constituents are added whilst stirring. Examples of paint manufacture are described underExamples 11, 12 and 13.Example 1 Epoxy resin component g Methyl ethyl ketone 400 A Toluene 400 EMI24.1 tb Methyl SEP methacrylate SEP 533 SEP tb Butyl SEP methacrylate SEP 106 tb Ethyl SEP acrylate SEP 62 SEP B tb Glycidyl SEP methacrylate SEP 399 tb Benzoyl SEP peroxide SEP 48 tb Butyl acetate 50 Benzoyl peroxide 12 C Butyl acetate 50 Benzoyl peroxide 18 D Butyl acetate 151 EMethod Charge A to a 5 litre flask fitted with a stirrer, thermometer, Liebig condenser, dropping funnel and with contents protected by a nitrogen purge. Premix B and charge to dropping funnel. Switch on heating and raise temperature until there is a steady reflux ca 95 C . Commence addition of B . Adjust dropping funnel to affect addition at an even rate over 4 hours. Check viscosity 6 7 poise and continue reflux until there is no further viscosity increase 10 12 poise . Premix C and charge to dropping funnel. Add over 1 2 hour and check viscosity when addition complete. Run approx 2 hours until there is no further increase in viscosity 15 20 poise . Repeat this process for components D . Cool, check non volatile content and adjust with E to ca.50 . Pass through filter. Final constants viscosity at 250C ca. 10 poise non volatiles 50.3 Epoxide Equivalent 370g calc on non volatiles NV . Example 2 Toluene 435 A Methyl ethyl ketone 435EMI25.1 tb Methyl SEP methacrylate SEP 738 tb Butyl SEP acrylate SEP 345 tb 2 ethylhexyl SEP acrylate SEP 72 SEP B tb Dimethylaminoethyl SEP acrylate SEP 157 tb Benzoyl peroxide 66 Toluene 50 C Benzoyl peroxide 22 Toluene 50 D Benzoyl peroxide 30 Toluene To NV 240 EMethod The method is identical to that of Example 1. Final Constants Viscosity at 25 C 8.5 poise NV 49.3 Amine Value 40.4 mg KOH on NV Equivalent Wt 1390 Calculated on NV Example 3 Amino containinq resin component g Xylene 370 A EMI27.1 tb Butyl SEP acetate SEP 400 tb Butyl SEP methacrylate SEP 197.5 tb SEP A tb Ethyl SEP acrylate SEP 181 tb Methyl SEP methacrylate SEP 650 tb t Butylaminoethyl SEP methacryl tb SEP late SEP 76 SEP tb Methacrylic acid 49.5 B Benzoyl peroxide 35 Butyl acetate 50 Benzoyl peroxide 7 C Butyl acetate 50 Benzoyl peroxide 10 D Butyl acetate 95 Xylene 165 EMethod Except that the reflux temperature is ca.125 C,the method is identical to Example 1. Final Constants Viscosity at 25 C 18.5 poise Non volatiles 49.8 Amine value 29 mg KOH g of resin. calc.on non volatiles Acid value 26.4 mg KOH g of resin. Equivalent in reaction with epoxide groups 1170g calc. .Example 4 Thiol containina alkyd resin component g Glycerine 62 Cardira E 460 Pentaerythritol 22 Stage I Phthalic Anhydride 278 Adipic Acid 100 Mercaptoacetic acid 35 Stage II Xylene 400Method Charge all stage I reactants in a 2 litre flask fitted with Dean Starke water removal equipment, thermometer and stirrer. The reactants are protected by a nitrogen purge throughout the process. Add approximately 2 xylene as an entraining solvent and heat to 232 20 over 5 hours removing the water continuously. The temperature is held and reflux maintained by adding xylene as required. Acid value is measured at intervals and when it reaches 14 1 the heat is removed and the contents cooled to 600C. The mercaptoacetic acid is added slowly and the mixture reheated to 2000C and reflux established. When the acid value reaches 12 1 6 7 hrs the product is cooled to 1600C and thinned with xylene to 70 NV. Stage I water of esterification 20 ml Stage II water of esterification 8.2 mlFinal constants Viscosity 23.5 poises commat 250C Non Volatiles 70.3 in xylene Acid Value 13.5 100 NV Colour 1.75 PRS Example 5 Thiol containing alkyd resin component g Xylene 90 Neopentyl Glycol 813 Stage I Trimethylol propane 543 Phthalic anhydride 1647 Mercaptoacetic acid 224 Para toluene sulphonic acid 5 Stage II Xylene 1180 Stage Calcium carbonate 8 IIIMethod Charge stage I ingredients in a 5 litre flask equipped as in Example 5. Switch on the nitrogen purge and heat to 1800C over a 4 hour period. Hold at 1800C to reflux for one hour removing water 85 ml and adding xylene as required to maintain reflux. Heat to 2000C and hold at this temperature until the acid value falls to 19.Water of esterification 195 g is removed over a period of 5 1 2 hours Cool 600C and add stage II ingredients. Reheat to 2000C and hold until the acid value falls to 24 1 of water of esterification ca.49 g is removed. Cool to 1500C. Thin to 70 1 non volatiles with xylene. Add Stage III magnesium oxide, stir thoroughly and hold for 30 minutes at 1000C before cooling and filtering. Final constants Viscosity 22 poise commat 25 C Non volatiles 70.3 Acid value 23.5 commat 100 NV Colour 3 8 PRS .Example 6 Thiol containing acrylic resin component g Toluene 542 Methyl ethyl ketone 300 AEMI31.1 tb Methyl SEP methacrylate SEP 6841 tb Bisomer SEP PPM SEP 6 SEP 176 tb Methacrylic SEP acid SEP 18 SEP B tb 2 Hydroxyethyl tb SEP methacrylate SEP 161 tb Benzoyl SEP peroxide tb Butyl acetate 50Benzoyl peroxide 7 CMercaptoacetic acid 95 E Toluene sulphonic acid 2.1 DCalcium carbonate 2.5 E. Method The process follows Example 1 precisely until itemsA, B C have been charged and reacted. Viscosity ca.22 poise . The reactants are cooled to 60 C and reactants D added. The apparatus is modified to include Dean BR Starke water removal equipment. The reactants are reheated to reflux ca.940C and water removal commenced. The reaction is continued until all water is removed. 18.6 g should theoretically be obtained.Practical quantities vary from 19 to 20.5 g. The mixture is cooled to just below reflux and ingredient E added. The temperature is maintained for 30 minutes after which it is cooled and filtered. Final constants Viscosity at 25 C 80 poise non volatiles 55.2z Mercaptan value 0.658 moles kg if resin t718 theor. value Mercaptan equivalent 1520 Example 7 Thiol containinq acrYlic resin componentEMI33.1 tb Xylene SEP 542 tb Pentoxone SEP Shell SEP Chemicals SEP 300 SEP A tb Methyl SEP methacrylate SEP 684 tb Bisomer SEP PPM6 SEP BP SEP Chemicals SEP 176 tb Methacrylic SEP acid SEP 18 SEP SEP B SEP tb Hydroxyethyl SEP methacrylate SEP 161 tb Octyl SEP Mercaptan SEP 4.2 tb Benzoyl SEP peroxide SEP 22 tb Benzoyl peroxide 6 Butyl acetate 50 C Mercaptoacetic Acid 95 DMethod The method is in principle the same as that forExample 3, except that the reflux temperature is approximately 1300C. The octyl mercaptan is added to B to control the route of the reaction. After the addition of the mercaptoacetic acid, water removal proceeds, though at a much slower rate, without the need for the u toluene sulphonic acid catalyst because of the higher temperature of reaction.Magnesium oxide is not, therefore, required to remove any excess catalyst.Final Constant Viscosity commat 25 C 58 poise Non volatiles 55.1 Mercaptan Value 0.621 Moles kg resin 67 theor value Mercaptan equivalent 1610Example 8 Acrylic AdductEMI34.1 tb Mercaptan SEP Ester SEP 170 tb Xylene SEP 180 tb Toluene SEP 60 SEP A tb DMP SEP 30 SEP 5 tb Acrylic Resin Example 1 400 B Xylene 10Q Triester of Trimethylol propane and mercapotacetic acid DMP 30, supplied by Rohm Haas.Method Charge reactants A to flask fitted with a Liebig condenser, dropping funnel, thermometer and stirrer using a nitrogen purge throughout. Switch on heating and raise to reflux temperature ca 1000C . Commence addition of reactants B adjusting the ratio so that all of it is added evenly over a period of 3 hours. Maintain reflux throughout the addition, allowing the temperature to rise as necessary ca 1300C . Maintain temperature and reflux for 2 hours after the addition is complete.Final constants Viscosity at 25 C 2.1 poise NV 38.4 Epoxide content effectively nil Mercaptan content on NV 2.3 mols kg Mercaptan equivalent 435 calc on NV Example 9 Thinner Activator Epoxide Crosslinker 512 Butyl acetate 1162 Cyclolexanone 184 Xylene 828 Methyl isobutyl ketone 552 Acetone 364 Toluene 398 Epoxide bearing crosslinking agent supplied commercially and reduced to 50 NV with butyl acetate.Method Add items in order stirring continuously and until fully homogeneous. The product of Example 9 should be blended with the products of the following Examples as follows 90g Example 9 with loog Example 11 liog N with loog Example 12 135g with 100g Example 10 60g with lOog Example 13 before application. Additional solvents can be added if desired to improve flow characteristics.Example 10 Clear Lacquer Pigment free paint g. Acrylic resin 1 871 Acrylic resin 2 618 Thiol containing polyester 139 Example 5 Flow agent 1.5 Re odourants 4 UV W adsorbers 24 Toluene 54 Amine containing resins supplied commercially and reduced to 45 NV with toluene.Method Add in order shown under continuous stirring. Run until homogeneous. Example 11 White Finishing PaintEMI38.1 tb Titanium SEP dioxide SEP 1196 tb Antisettling SEP agent SEP 2 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP I SEP 209 SEP A tb Dispersant SEP 12 tb Xylene SEP 377 SEP tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 1 SEP 1438 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 2 SEP 1168 tb Thiol SEP containing SEP polyester SEP 263 tb 70 SEP NV, SEP Example SEP 6 SEP SEP SEP B tb Re odourant SEP 5 tb Flow SEP agent SEP 4.5 tb Toluol SEP 267 tb Amine containing resin provided by Kunstharsfabriek Synthese BV, Holland, adjusted to 458 NV with xylene. Resin provided by Cray Valley Products Ltd, UK. Process Premix ingredients A under high speed stirrer and pass through laboratory horizontal sand grinder. Transfer to container with stirring facilities and add items in B in order shown. Final constants non volatiles 55.2 Pigment Binder 0.8 1 Viscosity 62 secs BSB4 commat 250C Example 12EMI39.1 tb Carbon SEP Black SEP 91 tb Acrylic SEP Resin SEP 1 SEP 740 SEP A tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP Example SEP 2 SEP 180 tb Dispersant SEP 1 tb Xylene SEP 246 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 1 SEP 418 SEP B tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 1 SEP 667 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP Example SEP 3 SEP 142 SEP ss SEP C tb Xylene SEP 100 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 1 SEP 1000 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP containing tb thiol SEP group SEP Example SEP 6 SEP 234 tb Thiol SEP containing SEP polyester tb SEP Example SEP 5 SEP 180 SEP D tb Flow SEP agent SEP 4 tb Re odourant SEP 4 tb Toluene SEP 400 tb Method Charge ingredients A to ball mill and grind 48 hours. Check fineness and if satisfactory add item Bµ. Run 4 hours. Premix items C and add to mill. Run 2 hours. Drop into container fitted with stirrer and items D in order shown.Example 13 Primer SurfacerEMI40.1 tb SEP g tb Carbon SEP black SEP pigment SEP 12 tb Titanium SEP dioxide SEP pigment SEP 360 tb Air SEP floated SEP silica SEP 160 tb Micronised SEP Barytes SEP 480 tb China SEP clay SEP 400 SEP k SEP SEP A tb Micronised SEP Talc SEP 400 tb Wetting SEP Agent SEP 20 tb Acrylic SEP resin SEP 1 SEP 1400 tb Flow SEP agent SEP 1 tb Methyl SEP ethyl SEP ketone SEP 2PO SEP 1 SEP tb Toluene SEP 100 tb Toluene 150 B Acrylic resin 1 747 Thiol bearing Polyester 128 Example 4 C Antisetting agent 48Method Charge all ingredients A to ball mill. Run 48 hours and check fineness. Transfer to container with stirring facilities. Use item B to ensure complete transfer. Add items C in order shown with continuous stirring. Viscosity commat 250C 91 secs BSB4 Pigment Binder 1.76 1 Non volatiles 52.1