# Apparatus for controlling the colors displayed by a raster graphic system.

## Abstract
For controlling the colors displayed by a raster graphic system, which includes a color cathode ray tube 17 , having an orthogonal array of picture elements PIXELS , each PIXEL has a unique binary address. An addressable memory is provided with memory locations, the addresses of which correspond to those of one of a set of PIXELS. The information stored at each addressable location includes a set of background foreground control bits and a group of behavior bits. The background foreground control bits are read out of a memory 12 during a memory cycle and stored in a shift register 28 . At the same time, the behavior bits are read out of the memory 14 and are applied to an escape code detector 22 and to a foreground behavior register 24 and a background behavior register 26 , each of which is capable of storing a group of behavior bits. The shift register 28 shifts out one background foreground control bit for each PIXEL clock pulse which determines the set of behavior bits stored in the background and foreground registers to be used in forming a color index. The color index, which includes a group of behavior bits and the background foreground control bit, is then used as an address to a color look up memory 16 , and at which each addressable location are stored typically eight bits which determine the color. Color control signals read out of the color look up memory are applied to D A converters 34 to produce analog signals to control the intensity of the red, green and blue guns of a cathode ray tube 17 . One set of the behavior bits is defined as constituting an escape code. Wherever this particular set of behavior bits is read out of the behavior memory, that set is not stored in either the background or foreground behavior registers. When the escape code is detected the next set of behavior bits read out of the behavior memory 14 is stored into the background behavior register 26 . In the absence of an escape code being detected, the behavior bits are stored in the foreground behavior register 24 . The bits in the background behavior register 26 remain the same until the next escape code is detected, at which time the next set of behavior bits is stored into the background behavior register 26 .