# Flame retardant blends of ABS resin and polyphenylene ether.

## Abstract
Thermoplastic compositions which are flame retardant and suitable for shaping into various articles are described. These contain a major amount of an ABS resin and an effec tive amount of a flame retardant agent made up of a polyphenylene ether resin, an organic phosphate and a brominated bisphenoxy alkane or tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate or both.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A thermoplastic composition comprising an admixture of a a resin comprised of an alkenyl cyanide polymer, a conjugated diolefin polymer and a vinyl aromatic polymer and b an effective amount of a flame retarant agent, comprising i a polyphenylene ether resin, ii an organic phosphate, and iii a brominated bisphenoxy alkane or an oligomeric tetrabromobisphenol A polycarbonate or a mixture of both. 2. A composition according to Claim 1, in which component a is an acrylonitrile butadienestyrene resin. 3. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the polyphenylene ether resin, b i , is a homoor copolymer having units of the formulaEMI17.1 wherein Q, 0 , 0 and Q are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, hydrocarbon radicals, halohydrocarbon radicals, hydrocarbonoxy radicals and halohydrocarbonoxy radicals and n represents the total number of monomer units and is an integer of at least about 20. 4. A composition according to Claim 1, in which component b i is poly 2,6 dimethyl l, 4 phenylene ether. 5. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the organic phosphate is an aromatic phosphate compound of the formulaEMI18.1 wherein R is the same or different and is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkyl substituted aryl, halogen substituted alkyl, halogen, or a combination of any of the foregoing, provided at least one R is aryl. 6. A composition according to Claim 1, in which b ii is triphenyl phosphate. 7. A composition according to Claim 6, in which the triphenyl phosphate is isopropylated. 8. A composition according to Claim 1, in which component b ii is a di or polyfunctional compound or polymer having the formulaEMI19.1 and mixtures thereof, wherein R1, R3 and R5 are, independently, hydrocarbon, R2, R4, R6 and b are, independently, hydrocarbon or hydrocarbonoxy, X1, X and are halogen, m and r are 0 or integers from 1 to 4, and n and p are from 1 to 30. 9. A composition according to Claim 8, in which component b ii is a bis diphenyl phosphate of resorcinol. 10. A composition according to Claim 8, in which component b i is a bis diphenyl phosphate of hydroquinone. 11. A composition according to Claim 8, in which component b ii is a bis diphenyl phosphate of bisphenol A. 12. A composition according to Claim 1, in which b iii has the formulaEMI20.1 wherein is alkylene, straight or branched, having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and q and s represent the total number of bromine atoms on each ring and are independently integers from 1 to 5. 13. A composition according to Claim 1, in which b iii is 1,2 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy ethane 14. A composition according to Claim 1, in which b iii is 1,2 bis 2,3,4,5, 6 pentabromophenoxy ethane. 15. A composition according to Claim 1, in which b iii is tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate. 16. A composition according to Claim 1, in which the weight ratio of b i to b ii is between 1 1 and 20 1. 17. A composition according to Claim 1, in which component a is present in a major amount, b i is present in an amount between about 5 and about 70 parts by weight, b ii is present in an amount between about 1 and about 20 parts by weight, and b iii is present in an amount between about 1 and about 20 parts by weight, based on 100 parts of a and b i combined. 18. A composition according to Claim 1, which also includes a synergistic agent for b iii . 19. A composition according to Claim 18, in which the synergistic agent is an antimony compound. 20. A composition according to Claim 19, in which the antimony compound is antimony oxide. 21. A composition according to Claim 1, which includes a modifying elastomeric polymer. 22. A composition according to Claim 21, in which the modifying elastomeric polymer is a styrenebutadiene styrene block copolymer. 23. A composition according to Claim 21, in which the modifying elastomeric polymer is a styreneethylene butylene styrene block copolymer. 24. A composition according to Claim 21, in which the modifying elastomeric polymer is a styreneisoprene styrene block copolymer. 25. A composition according to Claim 1, which also includes a filler.

## Description
FLAME RETARDANT BLENDS OF ABS RESIN AND POLYPHENYLENE ETHER BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION The polyphenylene ether resins are a known class of engineering thermoplastic polymers which can be molded into articles characterized by good properties.These resins and methods for their preparation are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,306,874 and 3,306,875 toAllan Hay , and U.S. Patent Nos. 3,257,357 and 3,257,358 to Gelu Stamatoff . It is also known that polyphenylene ether resins can be admixed with styrene homopolymers or Co polymers to produce blends which are moldable into articles having properties superior to those of each of the two polymers alone. Blends of this type are described by Cizek in U.S, Patent No. 3,383,435. Compositions of polyphenylene ether resin and styrene resins are normally flammable, and to improve the flame retardancy there have been many proposals for adding flame retardant agents to such blends. Baaf discloses the usefulness of aromatic phosphate compounds and aromatic halogen compounds together as a flame retardant agent for compositions of polyphenylene ether resin and styrene resin, in U.S. Patent No. 3,639,506. Cooper and Katchman, in U.S. Patent No. 4,101,503, disclose impact modified polyphenylene ether resin compositions a preferred feature of which is the inclusion of a flame retardant agent which can be a halogenated organic compound in admixture with a phosphorous compound.Compositions of polyphenylene ether and styrene copolymers containing a flame retardant combination of an aromatic phosphate and an aromatic halogen compound are described in U.S.Patent No. 4,191,685 to William R. Haaf . Robert Axelrod discloses flame retardant compositions of polyphenylene ether resin, styrene resin and cyclic phosphate having excellent appearance and physical properties after molding, in U.S. Patent No. 4,154,775. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The present invention comprises thermoplastic compositions useful for preparation into shaped flame retardant articles, and which comprise a an amount of anABS resin and b a flame retardant amount of an agent comprising a combination of i a polyphenylene ether resin, ii an organic phosphate, and iii a brominated bisphenoxy alkane, or a tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate, or a mixture of both. The combined presence of the three components of the flame retardant agent in the compositions provides good self extinguishing and drip retardant behavior. DES CRIPTI ON OF THE INVENTION The blend compositions of this invention comprise an amount, preferably major, of an ABS resin. The term ABS resin . is employed throughout this disclosure in its conventional sense to designate an established family of materials most commonly represented by a terpolymer or blend of acrylonitrile, butadiene and styrene polymers, but which also encompasses blends or terpolymers of homologous or analogous polymers. Thus, instead of acrylonitrile, the resin which constitutes component a of the present compositions can be based on other alkenyl cyanides, such as methacrylonitrile or ethacrylonitrile, or the like.Instead of polybutadiene, the latter can be replaced partly or entirely by other conjugated diolefin polymers, such as isoprene pentadiene 1,3 the methyl,l,3 pentadienes dimethyl butadiene1,3 the 1,3 and 2,4 hexadienes, and the like. Likewise, in the preparation of the ABS resin, the styrene may be replaced in whole or in part by such vinyl aromatic compounds as alpha methyl styrene, para methyl styrene, vinyl toluenes, alpha methyl vinyl toluenes, and the like. As is known to those skilled in the art, there are principal methods of preparation for ABS resins. One of these involves generally the mechanical blending of the dry polymeric ingredients or mixing latexes of acrylonitrile styrene copolymer resin and butadiene based rubber.Resins made by the foregoing procedures are sometimes referred to as Type A . In one procedure, described in U.S.Patent No. 2,439,202, a tough molding composition is prepared by blending a butadiene acrylonitrile rubber with an acrylonitrile styrene resin. Variants of this procedure are also known, in which the acrylonitrile content of the rubber is reduced or replaced with polybutadiene rubber, styrene butadiene rubber, acrylic elastomers or natural rubber, and these too are described in the literature. See ENCYCLOPEDIA OF POLYMER SCIENCE ANDTECHNOLOGY, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., Volume 1, pages 436 444 1964 . A second method involves polymerization of a styrene acrylonitrile mixture in the presence of a polybutadiene latex, or in the presence of other elastomers or mixtures of an acrylonitrile styrene copolymer latex and a polybutadiene latex, to produce a resin which is sometimes referred to as Type B . This polymerization procedure is usually carried out in an emulsion, but suspension techniques are also sometimes employed. For a further description of these types of procedures, reference may be made to the ENCYCLOPEDIA OF POLYMER SCIENCEAND TECHNOLOGY, supra, and the patent literature cited therein. The polyphenylene ether resin component of the flame retardant is preferably a homo or copolymer having units of the formulaEMI4.1 wherein Q, Q , Q and Q , are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, hydrocarbon radicals, halohydrocarbon radicals, hydrocarbonoxy radicals, and halohydrocarbonoxy radicals and n represents the total number of monomer units and is an integer at least about 20, and preferably at least 50. In general, the polyphenylene ether resins are self condensation products of monohydric monocyclic phenols produced by reacting the phenols with oxygen in the presence of complex metal catalysts, with molecular weight being controlled by reaction time, longer times providing a higher average number of repeating units. Particular procedures are known to those skilled in the art and are described in the patent literature, including U.S.3,306,874 and 3,306,875, and U.S. Patent Nos. 3,257,357 and 3,257,358, which have been referred to above. Illustrative polymers which can be produced by such procedures and which are within the above general formula are poly 2,6 dilauryl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 diphenyl 1,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 dimethoxy 1 ,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 diethoxy l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 methoxy 6 ethoxy l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 ethyl 6 stearyloxy 1,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 dichloro l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 methyl 6 phenyl 1,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 dibenzyl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2ethoxy 1,4 phenylene ether poly 2 chloro 1,4 phenylene ether polyf2,6 dibromo 1,4 phPnylene ether and the like.Examples of polyphenylene ethers corresponding to the above formula can be found in the above mentioned patents of Hay and Stamatoff. Also included are polyphenylene ether copolymers, such as copolymers of 2,6 dimethylphenol with other phenols, for example, with 2,3,6 trimethylphenol or 2 methyl 6 butylphenol, etc. For purposes of the present invention, an especially preferred family of polyphenylene ethers include those having alkyl substitution in the two positions ortho to the oxygen ether atom, i.e., those of the above formula wherein 0 and 0 are alkyl, most preferably having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Illustrative members of this class are poly 2,6 dimethyl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 diethyl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 methyl 6 ethyl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 methyl 6 propyl 1,4 phenylene ether poly 2,6 dipropyl l,4 phenylene ether poly 2 ethyl 6 propyl 1,4 phenylene ether and the like. The most preferred polyphenylene ether resin for purposes of the present invention is poly 2,6dimethyl 1,4 phenylene ether. The organic phosphate of the flame retardant agent, component b ii , is preferably an aromatic phosphate compound having the formulaEMI6.1 where R is the same or different and is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, alkyl substituted aryl, halogen substituted aryl, aryl substituted alkyl, halogen, or a combination of any of the foregoing, provided at least one R is aryl. Examples include phenylbisdodecyl phosphate, phenylbisneopentyl phosphate, phenyl bis 3,5,5 trimethyl hexyl phosphate , ethyldiphenyl phosphate, 2 ethyl hexyldi p tolyl phosphate, bis 2 ethylhexyl p tolylphosphate, tritolyl phosphate, bis 2 ethylhexyl phenyl phosphate, tri nonylphenyl phosphate, di dodecyl p tolylphosphate, tri cresyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, dibutylphenyl phosphate, 2 chloroethyldiphenylphosphate, p tolyl bis 2,S,5 trimethylhexyl phosphate, 2 ethylhexyldiphenyl phosphate, and the like. The preferred phosphates are those those in which each R is aryl. Especially preferred is triphenyl phosphate, which may be either unsubstituted or substituted, for example, isopropylated triphenyl phosphate. Alternatively, the aromatic phosphate can be a di or polyfunctional compound or polymer having the formulEMI6.2 EMI7.1 and mixtures thereof, wherein R1, R3 and R5 are, independently, hydrocarbon, R2, R4, R6 and R7 are, independently, hydrocarbon or hydrocarbonoxy, XÚ, Xê and X are halogen, m and r are 0 or integers from 1 to 4, and n and p are from 1 to 30. Examples include the bis diphenyl phosphates of resorcinol, hydroquinone or bisphenol A, respectively, or their polymeric higher molecular weight counterparts. These phosphates and methods of their preparation are described in British Patent No. 2,043,083. In preferred embodiments,the polyphenylene ether resin is present in amounts equivalent to or greater than the organic phosphate, and especially in a weight ratio of polyphenylene ether organic phosphate of between 1 1 and 20 1. In general, components b i and b ii are supplied in amounts sufficient to provide between about 5 and about 70 parts by weight of the former and between about 1 and about 20 parts by weight of the latter, based on 100 parts of resin in the composition, i.e., the ABS and polyphenylene ether resins combined. Small amounts of a brominated bisphenoxy alkane, component b iii , can further enhance the flame retardancy of the present compositions. This co pound should be reasonably stable at elevated temperatures above 1000C., and relatively non volatile, e.g., having a low volatility at temperatures of 100 to 1500C. More specifically, the compound has the formulaEMI8.1 where R is alkylene, straight or branched, having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms, and more preferably from 1 to about 6 carbon atoms and q and s represent the total number of bromine atoms of each ring and are independently integers from 1 to 5. The brominated bisphenoxy alkane is typically employed in minor proportions in the compositions. Amounts of between about 1 and about 20 parts by weight, based on the total resin weight, of this component are normally sufficient to decrease the average quenching time and or to retard the tendency of the composition to drip molten resin, and such amounts are preferred. Examples of brominated bis phenoxy alkane compounds useful in the practice of this invention are 1,2 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy ethane 1,3 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy propane 1,4 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy butane 2,2 bis 4 bromophenoxy propane,and 1,2 bis 2,3,4,5,6 pentabromophenoxy ethane. Preferred are 1,2 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy ethane and 1,2 bis 2,3,4,5,6 pentabromo phenoxy ethane. Preparation of component b iii may be accomplished by following the procedure described inU.S. Patent No. 4,016,138 Anderson . Also useful are flame retardant brominated polymers, especially tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate. The compositions of this invention can also be formulated to include one or more supplementary ingredients to improve the chemical or physical properties of the moldings or to facilitate the processing during the molding cycle. These can be selected from among conventional additives for such purposes, including mineral fillers e.g., clay , reinforcing fillers, strengthening fibers e.g., glass fibers , plasticizers, stabilizers, antioxidants, melt viscosity reducers, pigments, dyes, and so forth. Such ingredients are generally added in amounts ranging from 1 to about 508 by weight, or more, based on the total composition weight. For other property modification, it may be helpful to add a modifying polymer selected from among polymers having elastomeric properties. These may be coor terpolymers of an elastomeric material, such as poly butadiene, polyisoprene or other rubbery polyolefin. Examples include polystyrene polybutadiene block copolymers, polystyrene polyisoprene block copolymers, polystyrenepolybutadiene polystyrene block copolymers, polystyrenepolyisoprene polystyrene block copolymers, polystyrenepolyethylene polybutylene polystyrene block copolymers, and so forth. Preparation of the compositions may be accomplished by milling the ingredients at a temperature in the range between 310 and 450OF. 154 and 2320C , and molding the milled material at a temperature of 370 to 4600F. 188 to 2380C . Other methods of preparation are possible, however, as shown in some of the examples. DESCRIPTION OF THE SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS The invention is illustrated in the following examples. These are intended to show preferred or best embodiments. They should not be construed as a limitation on the scope of the invention. Amounts are in parts by weight. EXAMPLES 1 3 The ingredients noted below were milled on a two roll mill at a temperature of 320 to 3600F. 160 to 1820C. , and molded to 4400F. 2270C. for ten minutes to provide moldings of the composition shown, which were then evaluated for flame retardancy. TABLE 1Ingredients 1 2 3Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin 80 70 100Poly 2,6 dimethyl 1,4 phenylene ether resin 20 30 Isopropylated triphenyl phosphate 12 12 12 1,2 bis 2 ,4,6 tribromo phenoxy ethane 4 4 4Vertical Burn Test, 1 8 inch 3 10 cm. thick specimenDrip Characteristics ND,ND,ND ND,ND,ND ND,ND,NDSeconds to quench 1st ignition 0,0,0 Q,0,0 730, 30, 30 2nd ignition 0,0,0 0,0,0 BurnsND No Drip EXAMPLES 4 7 The compositions were prepared by milling the ingredients two roll mill at 310 to 320 F. 154 to 1600C. and molding at 3700F. 1880C. for 10 minutes. The results are shown in Table 2, below. TABLE 2Ingredients 4 5 6 7Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin 100 70 70 70 Poly 2,6 dimethyl 1,4 phenylene ether resin 30 30 30Isopropylated triphenyl phosphate 10 10 1,2 bis 2,3,4,5,6 pentabromophenoxy ethane 4Vertical Burn Test, 1 8 inch 3 10 cm. thick specimenDrip Characteristics ND,ND ND,ND ND,ND ND,NDSeconds to Quench 1st ignition 30, 30 30, 30 30, 30 3,3ND No Drip EXAMPLES 8 9 Additional compositions according to the invention, containing antimony oxide synergistic agent, were prepared by milling the ingredients at 310 3200F. 1541600C. and compression molding at 3700F. 1880C. .The results are shown in Table 3. TABLE 3Ingredients 8 9Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin 50 30Poly 2,6 dimethyl l,4 phenylene ether resin 50 70Isopropylated triphenyl phosphate 10 10 1,2 bis 2,4,6 tribromophenoxy ethane 5 5Antimony oxide 2 2Vertical Burn Test 1 8 or 3 10 cm. Drip Characteristics ND,ND ND,NDSeconds to quench 1st ignition 2,2 1,1 2nd ignition 3,2 2,3ND No Drip EXAMPLES 10 12 The compositions were prepared by milling the ingredients at 380 3900F. 193 1990C. and molding for ten minutes at 450 4600F. 232 2380C. . The results are shown in the Table. Table 4Ingredients 10 11 12Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin 50 50 50EMI13.1 tb SEP Poly 2,6 dimethyl 1,4 tb SEP phenylene SEP ether SEP resin SEP 40 SEP 20 SEP 40 tb SEP Isopropylated SEP triphenyl tb SEP phosphate SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 10 tb Styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer 10 10 10Tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate 10 10 20Bis diphenyl phosphate of resorcinol 10 10Antimony oxide S PropertiesHorizontal propagation test, k in. in. k in. after 30 seconds 6 10 cm 6 10 cm 6 10 cm Horizontal Burn Test, 1 8 inch 3 10 cm specimen ND ND NDVertical Burn Test, 1 8 inch 3 10 cm specimen ND,ND ND,ND ND,NDSeconds to quench, 1st ignition 3,1 0,1 1,1 2nd ignition 4,4 3,3 2,2 pre extruded together at 500 6000F. 260 316 C. ND No Drip EXAMPLE 13 The ingredients were milled at 440 to 4500F. 227 to 2320C. , and molded for ten minutes at 4600F. 238 C. . Table 5IngredientsABS resin 50EMI14.1 SEP Poly 2,6 dimethyl 1,4 phenylene tb ether resin SEP 50 tb tb SEP Bis SEP diphenyl SEP phosphate SEP of tb SEP resorcinol SEP 10 tb Styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer 20PropertiesHorizontal propagation, after 30 seconds h in. 6 10 cm. Horizontal Burn Test, 1 8 inch 6 10 cm. specimen ND pre extruded at 490 5700F. 254 2990C. ND No Drip EXAMPLES 14 15 The following compositions were prepared by milling the ingredients at 400 4100F. 204 210 C. , and molding for ten minutes at 460 F. 2380C. . Table 6Ingredients 14 15ABS resin 50 50EMI15.1 tb SEP Poly 2, SEP 6 dimethyl 1,4 SEP tb phenylene SEP ether SEP resin SEP 50 SEP 50 tb SEP Bis SEP diphenyl SEP phosphate SEP of tb SEP resorcinol SEP 10 SEP 10 tb Styrene ethylene butylene styrene block copolymer 20 20Tetrabromobisphenol A oligomeric polycarbonate 30Antimony oxide 5 5Horizontal propagation test, h in. h in. after 30 seconds 6 10 cm. 6 10 cm. Horizontal Burn Test, 1 8 inch 3 10 cm. specimen ND ND pre extruded at 490 5700F. 254 299 C. ND No Drip All of the above mentioned patents and or publications are incorporated herein by reference. Obviously, other modifications and variations are possible in the light of the above disclosure. For instance, instead of póly 2,6 dimethyl 1,4 phenylene ether resin, copolymers such as poly 2,6 dimethyl co 2,3,6 trimethyl 1,4 phenylene ether can be substituted. Clay filled or glass fiber reinforced counterparts of the compositions shown are also possible. Optionally, the compositions of this invention can and often do also contain an additional compound selected from among those known to synergistically enhance the flame retardancy effect of brominated compounds.These are usually synergistic agents based on antimony or molybdenum. Preferably, the synergist is antimony oxide, as shown. Small amounts, e.g., less than 10 by weight, of this component are sufficient to enhance the flame retardancy effect. It is to be understood, therefore, that changes may be made in the particular embodiments shown which are within the full intended scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.