# Process for the production of glycol aldehyde and catalyst therefor.

## Abstract
This invention discloses a process and accompanying catalyst for the preparation of glycol aldehyde from the reac tion of formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a rhodium phosphine amide catalyst having the formula MX

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A catalyst useful for the preparation of glycol aldehyde, said catalyst being characterized by the formula MX CO z x y wherein M is a metal selected from rhodium, cobalt, ruthenium and mixtures thereof X is an anion selected from halides, pseudohalides, hydrides and deprotonated strong carboxylic acids, Z is a phosphine amide ligand having the structureEMI24.1 wherein P is phosphorus R1 is an aliphatic or aromatic monovalent group containing from 1 20 carbon atoms R2 is a direct link or an aliphatic or aromatic divalent group containing up to 20 carbon atoms and may further comprise oxygen, nitrogen and or sulfur atoms which may also be directly bonded to the amide C O N carbon or nitrogen R3 and R4 are each aliphatic or aromatic monovalent groups containing from 1 50 carbon atoms or together form a divalent aliphatic or aromatic group x ranges from 0 to z y ranges from 1 to 5, and z from 1 to 4 the resultant compound being further characterized by the absence of hydrogen on the amide nitrogen atom. 2. The catalyst as claimed in claim 1 characterized in that M is rhodium. 3. The catalyst as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterized in that X is an anion selected from the group of chlorides, hydrides, and trifluoroacetates. 4. The catalyst as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3 characterized in that R1 is aromatic. 5. The catalyst as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 characterized in that R2 is aliphatic and comprises only carbon and hydrogen atoms. 6. The catalyst as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 characterized in that R3 and R4 are each aromatic and comprise only carbon and hydrogen atoms. 7. A catalyst as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein an additional organophosphine group is incorporated into at least one of the R3 and R4 groups. 8. The catalyst as claimed in claim 1 wherein the phosphine amide ligand is N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide, N methyl N 2 diphenylphosphinoethyl acetamide, or N 2 diphenylphosphinoethyl 2 pyrrolidinone. 9. A process for the preparation of glycol aldehyde comprising contacting formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of an effective polar or nonpolar organic solvent and catalyst under super atmospheric pressure and elevated temperature, and separating the product glycol aldehyde from the reaction mixture, characterized in that the catalyst comprises a metal catalyst complex as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 characterized in that carbon monoxide and hydrogen are present in a mole ratio ranging from 20 to 1 to 1 to 20 CO H2. 11. A process as claimed in claim 9 or claim 10 characterized in that the solvent is a polar solvent. 12. A process as claimed in claim 11 characterized in that the polar solvent is selected from nitriles, cyclic ethers, alkyl ethers, alkyl sulfones and sulfoxides, ketones, esters, lactones, organic acids and alkanols. 13. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 12 characterized in that the superatmospheric pressure is in the range from about 140 to 280 atmospheres. 14. A process as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 13 characterized in that the elevated temperature is in the range from about 50 to 1500C.

## Description
PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF GLYCOL ALDEHYDE AND CATALYST THEREFOR This invention is related to a process for the preparation of glycol aldehyde, and.more particularly to the preparation of glycol aldehyde from the reaction of formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen in a wide variety of organic solvents, and to a novel catalyst therefor.of organic solvents. DescriPtion of the Prior Art Glycol aldehyde is well known as a valuable intermediate in many organic reactions, and is particularly.use ful as an intermediate in the production of ethylene glycol through a catalytic hydrogenation process. The reaction of formaldehyde with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a variety of catalysts at elevated temperatures and superatmospheric pressures is a well known reaction and yields glycol aldehyde, together with methanol, as well as lesser amounts of polyhydroxy compounds which can be subsequently separated by proper separation procedures. For example, U.S. Patent 2,451,333 describes the reaction of formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen over a cobalt catalyst to produce ethylene glycol as an end product. U.S. Patent 3,920,753 discloses the production of glycol aldehyde by the reaction of formaldehyie with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a cobalt catalyst under controlled reaction conditions however, the process produces comparatively low yields of product.Japanese patent J57 118,527 describes the production of glycol aldehyde using a ruthenium catalyst system. European Patent 002,908 describes the production of glycol aldehyde from the reaction of formaldehyde in the presence of a rhodium catalyst with carbon monoxide and hydrogen, in a tertiary amide solvent.The use of triphenyl phosphine ligand promoters is disclosed as being particularly advantageous. U.S. Patent 4,291,179 describes a similar reaction for the production of acetaldehyde in which trifluoracetic acid is added to produce glycol aldehyde. U.S. Patent 4,356,322 describes the preparation of ethyiene glycol from the reaction of synthesis gas and formaldehyde, using a rhodium or cobalt catalyst, together with ether intermediates which are hydrolyzed to ethylene glycol. European PatentApplication 82 200,272.1 describes a process for the preparation of glycol aldehyde which comprises reacting formaldehyde with hydrogen and carbon monoxide in the presence of either a rhodium or cobalt containing catalyst precursor, together with a strong protonic acid, a tertiary amide solvent and a triarylphosphine. U.S.Patent 4,200,765 describes a process of preparing glycol aldehyde which comprises reacting formaldehyde, carbon monoxide, and hydrogen in a tertiary amide solvent in the presence of a catalytic amount of rhodium in complex combination with carbon monoxide, using triphenylphosphine as the preferred promoter. All of the known prior art processes for the production of glycol aldehyde have characteristically produced a mixture of reaction products, such as glycerine, glyceraldehyde and methyl alcohol. Unfortunately, these processes are encumbered by the need for expensive and timeconsuming separation procedures, and also suffer from a consequent reduction in the amount of eventual end product produced. Such problems are particularly evident in the production of glycol aldehyde from the hydroformylation of formaldehyde, where the problems of aldol condensation reactions and of acetal formation hamper the subsequent separation of the product from the catalyst, and the formation of catalyst poisoning amines occurs, particularly when the preferred amide solvents are used. Amines also serve to catalyze the aldol condensation of glycolaldehyde with formaldehyde and other aldehydes. Thus, it has been a major goal of the art to provide an improved process for the production of glycol aldehyde, having very high conversions and selectivities, using a variety of solvents other than amides, from the reaction of formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen. It is further desired to provide a process wherein the.desired end product can be easily and conveniently separated from the reaction mixture on a satisfactory commercial scale. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Accordingly, the invention provides for an improved process for the production of glycol aldehyde comprising contacting formaldehyde, carbon monoxide and hydrogen in a reaction zone, under suitable superatmospheric pressure and elevated temperature conditions, in the presence of a rhodium, cobalt, or ruthenium containing catalyst, most preferably rhodium, including mixtures thereof the catalyst further including a carbon monoxide ligand and a phosphine ligand incorporating therein an ancillary tertiary amide group.The presence of the phosphine amide ligand in the resultant metal carbonyl complex permits the formation of complexes having the formula, MXx CO P P R y y wherein M is an element selected from the group of rhodium, cobalt, and ruthenium X is an anion, preferably a halide, a pseudoalide, a hydride or a deprotonated strong carboxylic acid P is phosphorus R1 is an aromatic or aliphatic group of 1 20 carbon atoms, preferably aromatic R2 is an organo group containing from 0 to 20 carbon atoms of either aliphatic or aromatic nature which may include oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur atoms, which atoms may be directly bonded to the amide C O N carbon, or nitrogen R3 and R4 are aliphatic or aromatic groups containing 1 to 50 carbon atoms the resultant compound being characterized by the absence of hydrogen on the amide nitrogen atom and the additional limitation that if R2 is bonded to the amide nitrogen, then either R3 or R4 is bonded to the amide carbon x ranges from 0 to 3, y ranges from 1 to 5, and z from 1 to 4. The usage of such complexes permits a wide variety of organic polar solvents such as nitriles, ketones, ethers and the like, as well as mixtures thereof in the system, and produces higher conversions and selectivities to glycol aldehyde without being vulnerable to the prior art product recovery and purification problems. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The process of the present invention is accomplished by contacting formaldehyde, carbon monoxide, and hydrogen with an effective polar organic solvent, or, a mixture of polar nonpolar organic solvents, in the presence of a rhodium, ruthenium or cobalt containing catalyst including various mixtures thereof, the catalyst complex further including a carbon monoxide ligand and also having as a substituent a phosphine ligand incorporating an ancillary tertiary amide group, in the presence of elevated temperatures and superatmospheric pressures, that is, under general conditions suitable for hydroformylation with the particular catalyst chosen. The major product of the reaction is glycol aldehyde, with the major byproduct being methanol.The precise manner of contacting the reactants is not critical, as any of the various procedures known in the art for this type of reaction can be used so long as there is suitable efficient gas liquid contact. Thus, for example, the process may be carried out by contacting a solution of formaldehyde together with the particular catalyst and solvent and a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen at the selected conditions. Alternatively, the solution of formaldehyde may be passed over and through the catalyst in a trickle phase under a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen at the selected conditions of temperature and pressure. It will, of course, be recognized that the illustrated reactants are capable of undergoing other reactions besides the primary one, and that, depending upon the particular conditions and specific catalyst and solvent chosen there will be concomitant production of other products in variable amounts, particularly methanol. However, the conditions in the instant process are most preferably regulated so as to give high selectivity to the desired glycol aldehyde. A suitable source of formaldehyde can be any one of those known in the art, including paraformaldehyde, methylal, formalin solutions, polyoxymethylenes and the like. Of these, paraformaldehyde is preferred and maximum 9 L L have been obtained from its use. While carbon monoxide and hydrogen react in a stoichiometric one to one ratio, it is not necessary to have them present in such a ratio to undertake the reaction.As indicated above, the reactant should be employed at a high enough pressure so as to provide a desirable reaction rate. Carbon monoxide also stabilizes rhodium and the other metals to reduction by formaldehyde to the zero valent state. The carbon monoxide and hydrogen reactants may conveniently be supplied in about a one to one ratio, on a mole basis, such as can be obtained from synthesis gas and the like however, they can also be present in widely varying and variable ranges, such as having mole ratios from about 5 to 95 to 95 to 5. Excellent yields can be obtained when operating at carbon monoxide to hydrogen partial pressure ratios as high as 10 to 1.Large excesses of hydrogen have a tendency to favor the production of unwanted methanol, while it is often desirable to have at least an equimolar amount of carbon monoxide present, particularly if temperature or other reaction conditions are such so as to present a need to suppress methanol production. A major problem with this reaction as practiced by the prior art has been that glycol aldehyde tends to form acetals, a reaction typical of aldehydes. Since there is primary alcohol group present in the molecule, this compound can easily form semi acetals and acetals with itself in the form of, for example, linear and cyclic acetals such as are represented by the following structures.EMI5.1 In addition, glycol aldehyde also forms acetals and semi acetals with methanol, and if present, ethylene glycol.Acetals are resistant to hydrogenation, as well as possessing high boiling points, and therefore can present a difficult process impediment to ethylene glycol formation. Also, the glycol aldehyde product can react with either formaldehyde or with itself through the mechanism of aldol condensation. Finally, the reactions can be inhibited by the product glycol aldehyde which can form bidentate ligands with the coordination metal, i.e., rhodium, and thereby displace a monodentate phosphine ligand. Surprisingly, it has been discovered that these and other related problems can be substantially eliminated through the use of a novel coordination metal compound, e.g., by the use of a coordination metal, most preferably rhodium, phosphine ligand having incorporated therein an ancillary tertiary amide group, which forms a catalyst which can hydroformylate formaldehyde to glycol aldehyde in very high selectivities, and, surprisingly, in the absence of an amide solvent and which is also operative in a variety of polar organic solvents, as well as nonpolar solvents, and various mixtures thereof. The coordination metal compound, suitable for use in the reaction is selected from either rhodium, cobalt or ruthenium, as well as various mixtures thereof, and most preferably a rhodium compound, complex, or salt, as well as certain mixtures. The metal compound may be deposited or affixed to a solid support such as a molecular sieve, zeolite, activated carbon, alumina, silica, an ion exchange resin, an organic polymeric resin, or as an insoluble rhodium oxide, but most preferably is used as a homogeneous complex in solution. A particular broad class of metal complexes or precursors which have been found to be generally suitable can be represented by the equation Mxx CO y P 2R2 0 C NR,R,IZ wherein M is an element selected from the group of rhodium, cobalt and ruthenium, including mixtures thereof X is an anion which can be a halide, a pseudohalide, a hydride or a deprotonated strong carboxylic acid, P is phosphorus , R1 is an aliphatic, aromatic or a mixture thereof, group of 1 20 carbon atoms attached directly to the phosphorus atom,R2 is an organo group containing frbm 0 to 20 carbon atoms of either aliphatic or aromatic nature, and may include such atoms as oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur and the like, which atoms may also be directly attached to the amide carbon or nitrogen R3 and R4 are organic, aliphatic or aromatic moieties of 1 to 50 carbon atoms, the resultant amide moiety being characterized by the absence of hydrogen on the amide nitrogen and the additional limitation that if R2 is bonded to the amide nitrogen, then either R3 or R4 is bonded to the amide carbon x ranges from 0 to 3, y ranges from 1 to 5, and z from 1 to 4. The anion element X in the aforementioned complex can be a hydride, a halide such as chloride, bromide, iodide or fluoride, as well as pseudohalides which exhibit halide like properties in forming coordinate compounds and the like, including substituents such as NCS , NCO , CN , NCSe , N3EMI7.1 and the like, or a deprotonated strong carboxyclic or sulfonic acid substituent such as trifluoroacetate, trifluoromethanesulfonate, methanesulfonate, toluenesulfonate and the like.The preferred anion containing moieties are chloride, trifluoroacetate and hydride. Alternatively, an anionic rhodium species can be generated in which no anionic elementX is present. The R1 group, in the broadest embodiment, represents either an alkyl, an aryl group or a mixture thereof, the alkyl group containing from 1 20 carbon atoms, i0t tU suitable aryl moieties being phenyl and substituted phenyls, other polyaromatics and substituted polyaromatics and the like. When cobalt is the coordinating metal ligand of choice, it is preferred to use alkyl substituted phosphine, whereas when rhodium or ruthenium is the chosen metal it is preferred to have Ri be phenyl or another aryl moiety. The R2 group, in the broadest embodiment, represents an organo group containing from 0 to 20 carbon atoms, preferably from 1 to 2 carbon atoms, and is preferably free from acetylenic unsaturation. R2 can be saturated aliphatic, alkenyl, or aromatic and can be either a hydrocarbyl group containing only carbon and hydrogen, or, a substituted hydrocarbyl group containing in addition to atoms of carbon and hydrogen additional atoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur and the halogens, which additional atoms can also be present in various groups such as alkoxy, aryloxy, carboalkoxy, alkanoyloxy, halo, trihalomethyl, cyano, sulfonylalkyl and the like groups which contain no active hydrogen atoms. Most preferably, R2 is comprised of aliphatic groups containing only carbon and hydrogen. Illustrative of suitable R1 and R2 moieties are hydrocarbon alkyls such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isobutyl, cyclohexyl, and cyclopentyl hydrocarbon alkenyl moieties such as butenyl, hexenyl, cyclohexenyl alkyl or alkenyl moieties having aromatic substituents such as benzyl, phenylcyclohexyl and phenylbutenyl and substitutedhydrocarbyl moieties such as 4 bromohexyl, 4 carbethoxybutyl, 3 cyanopropyl, chlorocyclohexyl and acetoxybutenyl. Aromatic moieties are exemplified by hydrocarbyl aromatic groups such as phenyl, tolyl, xylyl, p ethylphenyl, and substituted hydrocarbyl aromatic groups such as p methoxyphenyl, m chlorophenyl, m triflu oromethylphenyl, p propoxyphenyl, p cyanophenyl, o acetoxyphenyl and m methyl sulfoylphenyl. R3 and R4 represent organo groups of 1 to 50 carbon atoms preferably from 1 to 6 carbons, and can be either aromatic, or preferably aliphatic in nature. Suitable groups are the saturated aliphatics of both a cyclic or a linear makeup, aromatics, preferably mononuclear aromatics, and the like. It is most preferred that R3 and R4 be comprised of only carbon and hydrogen atoms. It is also most preferred that the amide moiety in the resultant phosphine ligand be characterized by the absence of hydrogen on the amide nitrogen atom e.g. tertiary amide groups are most preferred.In the case where R2 is bonded to the nitrogen, instead of the amide carbon, then either R3 or R4 is bonded to the amide carbon. A second organophosphine group can also be incorporated into one or both of the R3 or R4 groups. A representative phosphine amide ligand can be synthesized through a modification of the method disclosed by Meek et al, J.Chem.Soc. Dalton , 1011, 1975 , in which a phosphorus hydrogen bond cleanly adds to the carbon carbon double bonds of vinyl derivatives in the presence of free radicals such as 2,2 azobis 2 methyl DropionitrileXATBN , EMI9.1 tb e.g. SEP H SEP SEP CH2 CH C O N CH3 2 SEP AIBN SEP SEP PPh2CH2CH2C O N tb SEP 100 C tb CH3 2. In this case the resulting phosphine exists as a white solid at room temperature. Alternatively, a vinyl amide can be reacted with the secondary phosphine as above. The phosphine amide can also be synthesized by other routes, such as by photochemistry or by amination of a phosphine ester. The catalyst can be prepared through a variety of techniques, e.g., the complex containing carbon monoxide can either be preformed or formed in situ by the reaction with the coordination metal. Several convenient methods for in situ preparation are to contact a metal complex precursor with the phosphine amide and an acid such as trifluoroacetic acid to contact a metal carbonyl halide, e.g., RhCl CO 2 2 with the phosphine amide to contact a preformed metal coordination complex such as Rh Cl CO PPh3 2 with the desired phosphine amide or to contact the metal carbonyl halide, e.g. RhCl C0 22 2 with a catalytic amount of base and the phosphine amide. Although it is not wished to be bound by theory, the reason for the selectivity of the formaldehyde hydroformylation to glycol aldehyde when using the coordination metal phosphine amide in nonamide solvents is most likely to be found in the size and resulting stability of the formed chelate ring. Depending on the particular coordination metal used, and, to a lesser extent, the particular phosphine amide ligand employed, a variety of desired bidentate complexes can be created, which complexes apparently bond with the coordination metal at the phosphorus and the amide group oxygen, thus creating a variety of bidentate complexes.For example, one pf the preferred phosphine amide ligands, N,N dimethyl 3diphenylphosphinopropionamide, PPh2CH2CH2C O N CH3 2 is believed to form a 6 membered ring with rhodium and is surprisingly active, as well as selective to glycol aldehyde. A number of suitable phosphine amide ligands are exemplified below EMI10.1 PPh2OCH2C O N CH3 2 PPh2N CH, CH3 C O N CH3 2i EMI10.2 PPh2CH2CHi N CH3 C O CH EMI10.3 P CH2CH2CH2CH3 2 CH2CH2C O N CH3 2 PPh2CH2CH2C O N CH3 CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2CH2CH PPh2CH2C O N CH3 2 PPh2CH2N CH3 C O CH3 PPh,CH,CH,C O N CH, CH,PPh, EMI10.4 PPh2CH2CH2C O N CH2Ph CH2CH3 PPh2CH2CH2C O N Ph CH2CH2CH2CH3 EMI11.1 PPh2CH2C O N Ph 2 The usage of this novel class of complexes as catalysts has surprisingly permitted the use of a great many more different solvents than have heretofore been found effective in such reactions.Although certain nonpolar solvents, as well as mixtures, have proven to be operable, the use of polar solvents, and particularly organic polar solvents has been found to be generally preferred.Particularly preferred as solvents are nitriles, such as acetonitrile, benzonitrile, propionitrile and the like cyclic ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxane and tetrahyd ropyran ethers such as diethyl ether, 1,2dimethoxybenzene, alkyl ethers of alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols, e.g., methyl ethers of ethylene glycol, propylene glycol and di , tri , and tetraethylene glycols alkyl sulfones and sulfoxides such as sulfolane and dimethylsulfoxide ketones such as acetone, methyl isobutyl ketone, and cyclohexanone esters such as ethyl acetate, ethyl propionate and methyl laurate lactones of organic carboxylic acids such as butyrolactone and valerolactone, organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid and caproic acid, and alkanols, such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, 2 ethylhexanol and the like as well as mixtures thereof. Nonpolar organic solvents such as benzene, toluene and the like are also operable if used in mixtures with polar organics.The selected solvent should preferably be liquid under the reaction conditions. A major factor to be considered in choosing a solvent, particularly for an industrial scale operation, is its suitability for subsequent product separation procedures.The use of nonamide solvents is particularly helpful in product separation procedures since their use disposes of having to separate the formed glycol aldehyde from the amide solvents in which aldol condensation and other competing side reactions occur, Other seriaus flaws of amide solvents are their tendency to form amines during the reaction process, and their high boiling points which can result in solvent decomposition during distillation. Amines, particularly tertiary amines, have been found to act as a poison in these reactions when present in suitable concen trations, as well as catalyzing aldol condensation thus their presence is particularly undesirable. The only way in which amides can be separated from amine contamination is by distillation.Consequently, in any process system where maximum yields of glycol aldehyde are desired, it is a basic goal in the operation to avoid the presence of basic amines in any significant amount. An additional improvement resulting from the catalyst complexes described herein is that in solution the phosphine amides act as bidentate ligands which are more resistant to displacement by glycol aldehyde than the prior art monodentate phosphines. This means that, in sharp contrast to prior art systems, the glycol aldehyde product does not have to be removed from the reaction media shortly after its formation so as to insure the stability of the catalyst. Such properties are extremely helpful in optimizing product yield and facilitating product and catalyst separation. The reaction can also be carried out at higher concentrations of formaldehyde without any harmful side reactions. As in other processes of this kind, the reaction can be conducted in either a batch, semi continuous or continuous mode of operation. It is naturally desirable to construct the reactor from materials which can withstand the operating temperatures and pressures required, while keeping the internal surfaces of the reactor substantially inert.Standard equipment known to permit control of the reaction, such as heat exchangers and the like, may be used. The reactor should be provided with an adequate means for agitating the reaction mixture such mixing can be induced by. vibra tion, shakinq , stirring, oscillation, and similar type methods. Also, recovered catalyst, solvent and unreacted starting materials are preferably recycled. The reaction resulting in the production of glycol aldehyde, together with lesser amounts of methanol, is usually substantially complete within a period of about 2 3 hours, although reaction time is not a critical parameter of the process, and longer or shorter times can be effectively employed. Substantially higher concentrations of reactants than previously utilized are preferred, and the reaction also yields higher conversions of reactants than the prior art. The amount of catalyst employed in the hydroformylation reaction process has not been found to be critical and can vary considerably. At least a catalytically effective amount of catalyst should be present, and preferably a sufficient amount of catalyst which is effective to 5 provide a reasonable reaction rate. As little as 10 5 moles of catalyst per liter of reaction medium can suffice, while amounts in excess of 10 1 moles do not appear to materially affect the rate of reaction. For most purposes, an effective preferred amount of catalyst falls in the range of from about 10 2 to about 10 3 moles per liter. The glycol aldehyde can be extracted with water, and followed by hydrogenation to ethylene glycol, using heterogeneous catalysts known in the art. However, other extraction techniques and product utilization plans may, of course, be used. Alternatively, the glycol aldehyde can be hydrogenated to ethylene glycol using the metal phosphineamide catalyst system in the organic solvent used for the hydroformylation. The precise reaction conditions chosen are not particularly critical in that a wide range of elevated temperatures and superatmospheric pressures are operable.Using current available apparatus, the preferred temperature range should be at least about 500C and can range up to about 1500C and even higher, although no substantial benefits are realized at this temperature level. Most preferably, the operating temperatures will range from about 900C to about 1300C. The superatmospheric pressures should be at least about 70 atmospheres and can range, in theory, to almost any pressure attainable with available production apparatus. Most preferably, operating pressures should fall in the range of about 14b to about 280 atmospheres, particularly when operating in the preferred aforementioned temperature range. The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention in accordance with the principles of this invention but are not construed as limiting the invention in any way except as indicated by the appended claims. EXAMPLES The phosphine amides were prepared by the following general methods Preparation of N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide PPh2CH2CH2C 0 N CH3 21 A 100 ml 3 necked round bottomed flash was preheated to 1000C under a nitrogen atmosphere and 7.14 g diphenylphosphine 38.4 mmole from Alfa, 0.15 g 2,2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile from Aldrich, and 3.78 g dimethylacrylamide 38.2 mmole from Polysciences were added in the stated sequence. The reaction mixture was maintained at l000C under a nitrogen atmosphere for 45 minutes and then evacuated 1 mm for 24 hours at 1000C.The resulting oil was then cooled in the refrigerator for several hours until it solidified to a white solid. It was then washed with a 9 1 pentane toluene mixture so as to free the excess diphenylphosphine. The infrared spectra disclosed a strong 1CO band at 1650 cam . The 1H NMR showed a multiplet at 2.2 2.5b with a relative area of 4 assigned to the CH2CH2C O group a doublet at 2.832 3 Hz of relative area 6 assigned to the N CH3 2 group and a multiplet at 7.1 8.32 of relative area of 10 assigned to the P C6H5 2 group. The elemental analysis was the following calculated found C, 71.58 70.95 H, 7.02 7.03 N, 4.g1 4.05 P, 10.87 10.75 . Product,Yield was 71 . PreParatiOn of N methol N 2 diDhenylphosDhinoethyl acetamide PPh2CH2CH2N CH3 C O CH3 A 100 ml 3 necked round bottomed flash was heated to 1000C under a nitrogen atmosphere and 7.14 g diphenylphosphine 38.4 mmole , 0.15 g 2,2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile , and 3.77 g N vinyl N methyl acetamide 38.1 mmole fromPolysciences were added in the stated sequence. The reaction was maintained at 1000C for 45 minutes under a nitrogen atmosphere and then evacuated lmm for 24 hours at 1000C. A viscuous oil resulted whose infrared spectrum displayed a strong Y CO band at 1645 cm and a small P H band at 2300 cm 1 due to a small amount of diphenylphosphine impurity. The elemental analysis was the following calculated found C, 71.58 69.89 H, 7.02 7.15 N, 4.91 4.57 P, 10.87 10.97 . The yield was 94 .Preparation of N 2 diphenylphosphinoethyl 2 pyrrolidinoneEMI15.1 The cited phosphine amide was prepared in a similar manner to the earlier two examples by using 14.28 g diphenylphosphine 76.8 mmole , 0.30 g 2,2 azobis 2 methylprocionitrile and 8.52 g N vinyl 2 pyrrolidinone 76.8 mmole from Aldrich. The reactants added in the stated sequence were stirred at 1000C for 0.5 hours under a nitrogen atmosphere followed by evacuation 1 mm for 24 hours. The yield was 96 . The infrared spectrum disclosed a strong, broadof CO band at 1680 cm 1 and a small absorption at 2310 cm 1 due to a small amount ofAf P H impurity. The elemental analysis was the following calculated found C, 72.70 72.68 H, 6.79 6.73 N, 4.70 3.49 P, 10.42 11.60 . The 1HNMR showed a multiplet at 1.6 2.62 with a relative area of 6 assigned at CH2CH2C O and P CH2 groups, a multiplet at 3.2 3.8 with a relative area of 4 assigned to the two CH2 N groups and a multiplet at 7.2 8.02 with a relative area of 11 assigned to the P C655 2 group.A small amount of diphenylphosphine impurity accounts for this slightly greater area for the phenyl region. The disappearance of the multiplet signals of the vinyl protons at 6.9 7.4g and 4.3 4.72 confirms the complete disappearance ofN vinylpyrrolidinone. The following examples illustrate a direct comparison between the phosphine amides of this invention with triphenylphosphine and in one case ethyldiphenylphosphine another alkyldiphenylphosphine in various solvents. Example 1 A 300 cc stainless steel autoclave equipped with a stirrer, thermocouple, and cooling coil was charged with 100 g acetonitrile, 3.0 g of 95 paraformaldehyde 95 mmole of equivalent formaldehyde3, 0.081 g chlorodicarbonylrhodium I dimer 0.208 mmole and 0.364 g N,N dimethyl 3diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.28 mmole , which was sparg ea with dry nitrogen. The autoclave was sealed and the air was further removed by flushing the autoclave three times with a 1 1 mixture of carbon monoxide. hydrogen at 100 psi.The autoclave was then charged with 1500 psi of the carbon monoxide hydrogen mixture. The autoclave and its liquid contents were next heated to 1300C and the final pressure registered 1900 psi. After three hours, the autoclave was cooled to room temperature and the gas was vented.Gas chromatography and high pressure liquid chromatography of the resulting liquid phase disclosed 37 mmole of formaldehyde remaining 61 conversion with 35 mmole glycol aldehyde 60 selectivity and 4.1 mmole of methanol 7.1 selectivity . The selectivity is defined as mmoles of product divided by mmoles of reacted formaldehyde times 100 in all examples. Comnarative Example 1 An equimolar concentration of triphenylphosphine was substituted for N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropion amid, under the identical conditions of Example 1. Analysis of the liquid phase showed 53 mmole of formaldehyde remaining 44 conversion , with 7.6 mmole of glycol aldehyde and 0.8 mmole of ethylene glycol 20 selectivity and 8.Q mmole of methanol 19 selectivity .Second Comparative Example 1 An equimolar concentration of ethyldiphenyiphosphine was substituted for N ,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropion amide, under the identical conditions of Example 1. Analysis of the liquid phase showed 5.5 mmole formaldehyde remaining 94 conversion with 0.6 mmole glycol aldehyde 0.7 selectivity and 1.6 mmole methanol 1.8 selectivity . Example 2 A 125 cc stainless steel Parr bomb equipped with a glass liner and a magnetic stirrer was charged with 25.0 g acetonitrile, 0.75 g paraformaldehyde 23.8 mmole , 0.020 g chlorodicarbonylrhodium I dimer 0.058 mmole and 0.090 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 0.348 mmole which had been sparged with nitrogen. The bomb was then charged with 1500 psi of a 1 1 carbon monoxide hydrogen mixture, heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours, and then cooled to room temperature and vented. Analysis of the liquid contents indicated 9.3 mmole formaldehyde remaining 61 conversion , 11.9 mmole glycol aldehyde 82 selectivity , and 0.2 mmole methanol 1.4 selectivity .Comparative Example 2 The bomb used in Example 2 was charged and reacted under identical conditions to those of Example 2 except the catalyst was chlorocarbonylbis triphenylphosphine rhodium I 0.080 g, 0.116 mmole in the absence of N,N dimethyl3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide as co catalyst. Analysis of the liquid contents indicated 3.8 mmole formaldehyde remaining 84 conversion , 0.5 mmole glycol aldehyde 3 selectivity , and 0.4 mmole methanol 12 selectivity . Example 3 The Parr bomb used in Example 2 was charged with 25.0 g acetonitrile, 0.75 g paraformaldehyde 23.8 mmole , 0.080 g chlorocarbonylbis triphenylphosphine rhodium I 0.116 mole , and 0.060 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 10,232 mmole which had been spargedwith nitrogen. The bomb was then charged with, 1500 psi of a 1 1 carbon monoxide hydrogen mixture at.room temperature and subsequently heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours. After cooling and gas venting, the analysis indicated 7.6 mmoles of formaldehyde remaining 68 conversion , 11.1 mmoles glycol aldehyde 69 selectivity , and 5.0 mmoles methanol 31 selectivity . Example 4 The Parr bomb used in Example 2 was run under.identical conditions to Example 2 except that an equimolar concentration of N methyl N 2 diphenylphosphinoethyl acetamide was substituted for N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphino propionamide. Analysis of the liquid contents indicated 13.4 mmole formaldehyde remaining 44 conversion , 5.3 mmole glycol aldehyde 512 selectivity , and 2.1 mmole methanol 20 selectivity . Example 5 The autoclave used in Example 1 was charged with 9.0 g paraformaldehyde 285 mmole , 65.0 g acetonitrile, 30.0 g toluene, 5.0 g diethyl ether, 0.301 g N,N dimethyl 3diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.06 mmole , and 0.069 g chlorodicarbonylrhodium I dimer 0.178 mmole . The autoclave was charged with 1750 psi carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature. A 2 liter autoclave reservoir was also charged with this same carbon monoxide hydrogen ratio and heated to 2500C toa total pressure of 3600 osi. The reactor autoclave was heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours to a total pressure of 3600 psi. When the gas uptake lowered the gas pressure to 3200 psi, gas was transferred from the reservoir autoclave to the reactor autoclave during the run.Upon completion, the autoclave was cooled to room temperature and slowly vented. Analysis of the liquid products revealed 136 mmole formaldehyde remaining 52 conversion , 120 mmole glycol aldehyde 81 selectivity and 12.9 mmole methanol 8.7 selectivity . Comparative Example 5 A comparative example, using an equimolar quantity of triphenylphosphine instead of N,N dimethyl 3, diphenylphosphinopropionamide under identical conditions, resulted in a liquid phase containing 174 mmole formaldehyde remaining 39 conversion , with 27.3 mmole glycol aldehyde 25 selectivity and 25.2 mmole methanol 23 selectivity . Example 6 The autoclave in Example 5 was charged with 9.0 g paraformaldehyde 285 mole , 65.0 g acetonitrile, 30.0 g toluene, 5.0 g diethyl ether, 0.315 g N 2 diphenylphosphinoethyl 2 pyrrolidinone 1.06 mole , and 0.069 g chlorodicarbonylrhodium I dimer 0.178 mmole . The autoclave was then charged with 1750 psi carbon and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature. The 2 liter autoclave reservoir was also used, as in Example 5. The reactor autoclave was heated to 130 degrees C for 3.0 hours. Analysis of the liquid products revealed 137 mmole formaldehyde remaining 52 conversion , 143 mmole glycol aldehyde 978 selectivity and 3.6 mmole methanol 2 selectivity . Example 7 The autoclave of Example 5 was charged with 100 g tetraglyme, 9.0 g paraformaldehyde 285 mmole , 0.069 g chlorodicarbonvlrhodium I dimer 0.177 mole , and 0.301 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.06 mmole .The gas reservoir of Example 5 was again used in the same manner. The autoclave was charged with 1750 psi carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature and then heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours to a total pressure of 3600 psi. The autoclave was cooled, vented, and the liquid contents analyzed as 104 mmole formaldehyde remaining 64 conversion , 111 mmole glycol aldehyde and 1.2 mmole ethylene glycol 62 selectivity , and 14.6 mmole methanol 8.1 selectivity .Comparative Example 7 A comparative example using an equimolar concentration of triphenylphosphine instead of N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide under identical conditions resulted in a liquid phase containing 75 mmole formaldehyde remaining 74 conversion , 7.6 mmole glycol aldehyde 3.68 selectivity , and 5.1 mmole methanol 2.4 selectivity . Example 8 The autoclave and reservoir of Example 5 were again run under identical conditions and the charge was identical except that 100 g acetone was used as the solvent. Analysis of the liquid contents indicated 106 mmole of formaldehyde remaining 63 conversion , with 145 mmole glycol aldehyde 81 selectivity and 10.2 mmole methanol 5.7 selectivity .Comparative Example 8 A comparative example using an equimolar concentration of triphenylphosphine instead of N,N dimethyl 3diphenylphosphinopropionamide under identical conditions produced a liquid phase containing 164 mmole of formaldehyde remaining 42 conversion with 30.9 mmole glycol aldehyde 26 selectivity and 11.2 mmole methanol 9.2 selectivity . Example 9 The 125 cc stainless steel Parr bomb used inExample 2 was charged with 25.0 g sulfolane, 0.75 g paraformaldehyde 23.8 mmole , 0.082 g chlorocarbonylbis triphenylphosphine rhodium I 0.118 mmole and 0.061 gN,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 0.213 mmole which had been sparged with nitrogen. The bomb was then charged with 1600 psi of a 1 1 carbon monoxide hydrogen gas mixture and subsequently heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours.The bomb was then cooled to room temperature, the gases vented, and the liquid contents analyzed as 10.8 mmole formaldehyde remaining 55 conv. , 9.1 mmole glycol aldehyde 70 selectivity and 5.4 mmole methanol 42 selectivity .Comparative Example 9 A comparative example run under identical conditions as those of example 9 except no N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide was used. The analysis of the liquid phase gave 3.8 mmole formaldehyde remaining 84 conversion , 1.75 mmole glycol aldehyde 8.8 selectivity and 1.63 mmole methanol 8.2 selectivity . Example 10 The 300 cc stainless steel autoclave used inExample 1 was charged with 100 g acetonitrile, 3.6 g paraformaldehyde 95 mmole , 0.121 g dicarbonylacetylacetonato rhodium 1 0.469 mmole , 0.054 g trifluoracetic acid 0.473 mmole , and 0.362 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropion amide 1.27 mole . The autoclave was then charged with 1750 psi carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature and heated to 110C for 2 hours, whereupon the reactor was cooled and vented. The liquid contents were analyzed for 13.3 mmole formaldehyde remaining 86 conversion , 74 mmole glycol aldehyde and 1.2 mmole ethylene glycol 92 selectivity and 3.4 mmole methanol 4.2 selectivity .Comparative Example 10 A comparative example under identical conditions using an equimolar concentration of triphenyiphosphine rather than N, N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide resulted in a liquid phase containing 49.3 mmole glycol aldehyde 72 selectivity , 3.9 mmole methanol 5.6 selectivity and 25.4 mmole formaldehyde remaining 73 conversion . Example 11 The 300 cc stainless steel autoclave equipped as inExample 1 was charged with 100 g tetraglyme, 3.0 g of 95 paraformaldehyde 95 mmole , 0.121 g dicarbonylacetoacetonato rhodium I 0.469 mmole , 0.054 g trifluoracetic acid 0.470 mmole and 0.362 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.27 mmole after a nitrogen sparge of the solution.The autoclave was sealed and flushed several times with 100 psi carbon monoxide. The autoclave was then charged with 1750 psi of carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature. The autoclave and its contents were heated to 110 C and an initial pressure of 3600 psi. A heated gas reservoir containing the same carbon monoxide hydrogen ratio as the autoclave was used to charge the reaction autoclave when gas absorption lowered the autoclave pressure below 3200 psi. After three hours of reaction, the autoclave was cooled and vented. Analysis indicated 24.4 mmole formaldehyde remaining 74 conversion , 38.5 mmoles glycol aldehyde and 1.7 mmole ethylene glycol 57 selectivity and 20.9 mmoles methanol 30 selectivity .Comparative Example 11 A comparative example under identical conditions with an equimolar concentration of triphenylphosphone instead of N ,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide resulted in a liquid phase having 24.4 mmole formaldehyde remaining 74 conversion , 22.0 mmole glycol aldehyde and 1.5 mmole ethylene glycol 33 selectivity , and 24.1 mmole methanol 34 selectivity . Example 12 The stainless steel autoclave equipped as inExample 1 was charged with 100 g acetonitrile, 3.0 g paraformaldehyde 95 mmole , 0.090 g chlorodicarbonyl rhodium I dimer 0.232 mmole , 0.057 g 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.464 mmole , and 0.397 g N,N dimethyl 3diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.39 mmole which had been sparged with nitrogen. The autoclave was charged with 1750 psi carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature and the autoclave and its contents were then heated to 1100C for three hours. A gas reservoir was used to keep the pressure above 3200 psi, as in Example 10. Analysis indicated 5.5 mmole formaldehyde remaining 94 conversion , 64.5 mmole glycol aldehyde and 1.8 mmole ethylene glycol 74 selectivity , and 7.1 mmole methanol 7.9 selectivity . Example 13 The 300 cc stainless steel autoclave equipped as inExample 1 was charged with 100 g acetonitrile, 9.0 g paraformaldehyde 285 mmole , 0.090 g chlorodicarbonylrhodium I dimer 0.232 mmole , 0.114 g 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.930 mmole , and 0.397 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide. The autoclave was charged with 1500 psi carbon monoxide and 450 psi hydrogen at room temperature and then heated to 1000C for one hour. A gas reservoir having the same carbon monoxide to hydrogen ratio as the autoclave was used to keep the gas pressure above 3200 psi.Upon completion, the autoclave was cooled and the gas vented. Analysis of the liquid solution indicated 89 mmole of formaldehyde remaining 69 conversion , 155 mmole glycol aldehyde and 1.6 mmole ethylene glycol 80 selectivity and 21.5 mmole,methanol 11 selectivity . Cobalt and ruthenium were also active for formaldehyde hydroformylation, although less active than rhodium, as is shown in the following examples. Example 14 The 300 cc stainless steel autoclave used inExample 1 was charged with 6.0 g paraformaldehyde 190 mmole , 100 g acetonitrile, 0.314 g ruthenium carbonyl 0.491 mmole , and 0.855 g N,N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphino propionamide 3.00 mmole . The autoclave was sealed and charged with 1400 psi carbon monoxide and 1350 psi hydrogen at room temperature and then heated to 1300C for 2.0 hours.After cooling and venting, the analysis indicated 57.6 mmole formaldehyde remaining 70 conversion , 6.2 mmole glycol aldehyde and 4.1 mmole ethylene glycol 7.8 selectivity , and 5.3 mmole methanol 4.0 selectivity . Example 15 The 100 cc Parr bomb equipped as in Example 2 was charged with 25 g acetonitrile, 0.75 g paraformaldehyde 23.8 mmole , 0.240 g dicobalt octacarbonyl 0.696 mmole 1 and 0.401 g N, N dimethyl 3 diphenylphosphinopropionamide 1.39 mmole . The bomb was sealed and flushed twice with a 1 1 carbon monoxide hydrogen mixture. The bomb was then charged with 1500 psi of the gas mixture, whereupon the autoclave and its contents were heated to 1300C for 3.0 hours, cooled to room temperature and vented. The liquid contents were analyzed as 7.21 mmoles formaldehyde remaining 698 conversion , 2.92 mmoles glycol aldehyde 18 selectivity and 0.08 mmoles methanol 0.5 selectivity .