# A recombinant plasmid, a transformant microorganism, a polydeoxy ribonucleotide segment, a process for producing a biologically active protein, and the protein thus produced.

## Abstract
A recombinant plasmid for use in transformation of a microbial host, said plasmid comprising a vector having col inearly inserted therein a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I A transformant microorganism including a recombinant plasmid, said plasmid comprising a vector having inserted therein a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I A polydeoxyribonucleotide segment which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I A process for producing human insulin like growth factor I protein IGF I which comprises culturing a transfor mant microorganism including a recombriant plasmid, said plasmid comprising a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I , in a suitable nutrient medium until the protein is formed, and then isolating the said protein and Proteins obtained by said process.

## Claims
PATENT CLAIMS 1. k recombinant plasmid for use in transformation of a microbial host, said plasmid comprising a vector having colinearly inserted therein a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I . 2. A plasmid according to claim 1 enabling translation in the correct phase of the mRiA corresponging to the inserted gene and having a bacterial promoter upstream of and adjacent to the insertion site so that the inserted gene is under bacterial promoter control. 3. A plasmid according to claim 1 or 2 derived from naturally occurring autogenerating genomes in procaryotic organisms. 4. A plasmid according to any preceding claim, wherein said gene is provided with a start codon ATG , a stop codon TAG and restriction enzyme sites. 5. A plasmid according to claim 4, wherein the codons are trinucleotide codons. 6. A plasmid according to any preceding claim, wherein the source of the plasmid vector is a microorganism selected from the genus Eschericia. 7. A plasmid according to claim 6, said vector comprising E.coli plasmid pBR322. 8. A transformant microorganism including a recombinant plasmid, said plasmid comprising a vector having inserted therein a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGv 9. The transformant microorganism of claim 8, wherein the microorganism is selected from the genusEschericia. 10. Tne transformant microorganism of claim 9, wherein the microorganism is E.coli. 11. The transformant microorganism of claim 10, wherein the microorganism is E.coli Kl2 strains JM P3 anc 294. 12. A polydeoxyribonucleotide segment which coaxes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I . 13. The polydeoxyribonucleotide segment according to claim 12 having restriction endonuclease cleavage sites at the termini thereof, a start codon ATG inside one of said sites and 2 stop codon TAG inside the other one of said sites, and a gene coding for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I between said codons. 14. The polydeoxyribonucleotide segment according to claim 13 essentially as shown in Fig. 2. 15. h process for producing human insulin like growth factor I protein IGF I which comprises culturing a transformant microorganism including a recombinant plasmid, said plasmid comprising a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I IGF I , in a suitable nutrient medium until the protein is formed, and then isolating the said protein. 16. Methionyl IGF I. 17. A fused protein comprising methionyl IGF I or IGF I.

## Description
A RECOMBINANT PLASMID, A TRANSFORMANT MICROORGANISM, A POLYDEOXYRIBONUCLEOTIDE SEGMENT, A PROCESS FOR PRODUCING A BIOLOGICALLY ACTIVE PROTEIN, AND THE PROTEIN THUS PRODUCED. The present invention relates to a recombinant plasmid for use in transformation of a microbial host, to a transformant microorganism including such recombinant plasmid, and polydeoxyribonucleotide segment which codes for the expression of a special biologically active protein, namely the human insulin like growth factor I lGF I . The invention also covers a process for producing such protein, and the protein per se. IGF I is a polypeptide hormone protein closely related to proinsulin see, for example Rinderknecht et al. 1978 , J.Biol.Chem., vol. 253, pp. 2769 276 and Rinderknecht et al. 1978 , FEBS Lett., vol. 89, pp. 283 286 . It shows somatomedin activity in vitro see, for example, Zapf et al. 1981 , J.Clin.Invest. vol. 68, pp. 1321 1330 andZapf et al. 1978 , Eur.J.Biochem., vol. 87, pp. 285 296 .Recent in vivo studies demonstrate stimulation of growth byIGF I of hypophysectomized rats in a dose dependent manner Schoenle et al. 1982 , Nature, vol. 296, pp. 252 253 . The site of biosynthesis and storage of IGF I is not known and the level of the protein in serum is very low see, for example, Zingg et al. 1973 , Diabetologia, vol. 9, p. 472 . The present invention has for its object to provide an easily accessible source of the polypeptide hormone in question. Another object of the invention is to provide for synthesis of a production gene coding for the expression of human insulin like growth factor I. Yet another object of the invention is to provide a recombinant plasmid containing a synthetic production gene, whereby in a microbial host the said plasmid can synthesise the mature protein. In this manner the said protein can be synthesised in significant quantities enabling production of antibodies and enabling biological studies of the insulin like growth factor and also different biological uses thereof. in order to attain the said objects and further objects which will be clear from the following disclosure the invention provides a recombinant plasmid for use in transformation of a microbial host, the said plasmid comprising a vector having colinearly inserted therein a synthetic production gene coding for the expression of human insulin like growth factor IFG I . Such plasmid suitably enables translation in the correct phase for the mRNA corresponding to the inserted gene and having a bacterial promoter upstream of and adjacent to the insertion side so that the inserted gene is under bacterial promoter control. It is preferred that plasmid used is derived from naturally occurring autogenerating genomes in procaryotic organisms. The gene is suitably provided with a start codon ATG , a stop codon TAG and restriction enzyme sites. The codons of the gene are preferably trinucleotide codons. Although it is to be noted that the invention is not limited thereto for the purposes of description the invention will be described with reference to a microorganism selected from the genus Escherichia, and more particularly the source of the plasmid vector used in the description is E.coli plasmid pBR 322 described by Bolivar et al. Gene, 2, p.95., 1977 . The invention also provides for a transformant microorganism including a recombin ant plasrwd, the plasmid comprising a vector having inserted therein a synthetic production gene which codes for the expression of insulin like growth factor IGF I . As a suitable host organism there may be used one selected fom the genus Escherichia, such asE.coli. However, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the use of solely such microorganisms since other organisms can be used as ell, such as organisms selected from the genus Saccharomyces, Bacillus Neurospora, or Streptomyces, among others.For the purpose of illustrating the present invention there has been used as a host organism the microorganism E.coli R12, strains JM83 and 294. The invention furthermore provides a polydeoxyribonucleotide segment coding for the expression of human insulin like growth factor IGF I . Such segment is suitably provided with restriction endonuclease cleavage sites at the termini thereof, a start codon ATG inside one of said sites and a stop codon inside the other one of said sites, and a gene coding for the expression of insulin like growth factor I lGF l between said codons. A preferred polydeoxyribonucleide segment has a structure essentially corresponding to that shown in Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings. According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a process for producing insulin like growth factor protein, said process comprising culturing a transformant microorganism including a recombinant plasmid, said plasmid comprising a synthetic production gene which codes for human insulin like growth factor I IGF I , in a suitable nutrient medium until the protein is formed, and then isolating the said protein. The invention also covers within its scope proteins prepared by the said process, particularly methionyl IGF I. The invention will now be further illustrated by non limiting examples with reference to the appended drawings in which Fig. 1 describes the particular preferred sequence selected for the coding portion of the synthetic IGF I gene Fig. 2 is a representation of the synthetic oligonucleotide blocks constituting the synthetic gene Fig. 3 is a partial restriction enzyme map for theIGF I gene Fig. 4 is an illustration of the build up of a complete tely protected tetradecanucleotide Fig. 5 is an explanation of symbols used below Fig. 6 is an illustration of the complete syntesized gene Fig. 7 illustrates construction of a chimeric cloning and expression vector Fig. 8 illustrates construction of a chimeric plasmid containing the lGF I gene Fig. 4 illustrates construction of another chimeric plasmid containing the IGF I gene. Fig. ic illustrates changes both on the DNA and the protein level of the original IGF I gene Fig. 11 illustrates how the point mutations were achieved on the IGF I gene Fig. 12 illustrates colon hybridigation with the probes used Fig. 13 illustrates the cloning procedure for theIGF I gene Fig. 14 shows the fused protein. Although in the following examples the invention will be illustrated using E.coli as a host organism it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the use of such organism but other organisms can be used as well. IGF I is known to consist of 70 amino acids with a sequence shown in Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings see, for example, Rinderknecht et al. 1978 , J.Biol.Chem., vol. 253, pp. 2769 2776 . From the amino acid sequence in Fig. 1, a corresponding synthetic gene sequence has been invented, subject to a number of specific non obvious criteria, and oligonucleotide blocks synthesised which, when assembled, form a synthetic gene coding for IGF I. The blocks have been hybridized and ligated in pre determined stages to construct the IGF I gene. The synthetic gene has been provided with a start codon ATG , a stop codon TAG , and suitable restriction enzyme sites. This gene has been cloned into a specifically designed E.coli vector so as to produce a full length IGF I gene flanked only by E.coli plasmid DNA. The gene has been excised from this recombinant and re cloned into vectors specifically designed to maximise expression of the gene in E.coli, under the control of the promoter obtained from the E.coli lactose operon. A protein resembling IGF I has thus been expressed in E.coli. In order to construct nucleotide sequences which would code for the desired protein several non obvious criteria have been observed. Firstly, trinucleotide codons should be used which are acceptable or preferable in the cells to be used, in particular E.coli see, for example, Wain Hobson et al. 1981 , Gene, vol. 13, pp. 199 209 . Secondly, it was decided that it was desirable to have different restriction enzyme recognition sites at the termini of the molecule so as to allow inserteion into a plasmid in a desired orientation. Moreover, it was decided to select sites which allowed the use of well understood cloning vectors, such as pBR.22 see, for example, Bolivar et al., 19tut , Gene, vol. ., pp. 95 113 .In fact, EcoRI and Hindlil sites were selected and introduced at the 5 and 3 ends respectively. Thirdly, it was thought desirable to introduce a series of restriction endonuclease recognition sitesstrategically praced along the molecule to enable the gene to be specifically dissected to aid characterisation and, possibly mutagenesis. Fourthly, the synthesis should not be unnecessarily complicated and illegitimate crosshybridisations should be minimised in order to facilitate gene assembly. In fact, bearing in mind, inter alia, the above mentioned considerations, for convenience, a slightly longer sequence was selected which is as described in Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings and the restriction enzyme recognition sites are shown in Fig. 3 of the accompanying drawings. In accord with this invention we have synthesised a molecule having the above expanded sequence by making 4 synthetic oligonucleotide blocks as illustrated in Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings, which will assemble by single strand overlaps to give the complete double stranded nucleotide sequence.Example ISynthesis of tetradecanucleotide As mentioned above, the synthetic blocks selected are shown in Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings. The blocks are constructed using a fully automatic synthesising machine and known syntheses technique see, for example, Elmblad et al. 1982 , Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 10, pp. 3291 3301 andChow et al. 1981 , Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 9, pp. 2807 2817 . The synthetic methods will now be illustrated with reference to the synthesis of the tetradecanucleotideApTpGpGpGpTpCpCpCpGpApApApC. Fig. 2 A2 . The methods of building up oligonucleotides from individual nucleosidephosphites by successive coupling reactions are well known see, for example, Elmblad et al. 1982 ,Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 10, pp. 3291 3301 and Chow et al 1981 . Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 9, pp. 2807 2817 . The completely protected tetradecanucleotide was built up as shown in Fig. 4 of the accompanying drawings. The coupling reactions were carried out by the following procedure exemplified by the synthesis ofEMI6.1 for explanation of symbols see Fig. 5 of the accompanying drawings . DMTr C silica 100 mg 5 mol was transferred onto a column and detritylated with a solution of saturated ZnBr2 in nitromethane containing 1 water followed by washing smith dry Tetrahydrofurane THF . To the detritylated C silica there was added S O dimethoxJtrityl N benzoyl 2 deoxyadeno sine 3 O methyl phosphochloridite 50 umol in THF and reacted for 10 minutes at room temperature. The silica was again washed with THF and the phosphite oxidized with iodine followed by another THF wash. The last step in the cycle was acetylation of non reacted C silica. The cycle was repeated the required number of times to obtain the tetradecanucleotide.The oligomers were deprotected firstly by treatment with thiophenol triethtlamine in dioxane for 30 minutes at room temperature which removes the methyl protecting group of the internucleotide phosphotriester, and then with concentrated ammonia at 50 0C for 4 hours. The silica was removed by filtration and the ammonia solution evaporated. The DMTr tetradecamers were redissolved in water and purified by high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC on anUltracil reversed phase C18 5 column, Altex HPLC, detritylated with acetic acid 80 tS minutes at room temperature and injected again on the HPLC using a Spherisorb reversed phase C18 5p column LDC HPLC system. The oligomeric blocks of nucleotides were hybridised and ligated cf. Khorana et al., 1976 , J.Biol.chem., vol. 251, pp. 634 675 in a series of steps, in order to minimise the possibilities for undesirable interactions, leading to the formation of the complete gene as shown inFig. 6 of the accompanying drawings. The order of the additions in the assembly scheme was optimised for minimal incorrect ligations.Ligation of block I Oligomers A2 14 ijl 1 nmol in water , B17 14 ul 1 nmol in water , and B16 14 pl 1 nmol in water were each mixed with 5 pl l0xLigation buffer 0.5 M Tris HCl, pH 7.7, 0.1 MMgCl2 , 25 l water, 1 l 0.5 M dithiothreitol DTT ,T4 polynucleotide kinase kinase 2 pl, 2 units l one unit of enzyme is defined as that amount catalyzing the transfer of 1 nmol of phosphate from ATP to 5 OH termini of RNA orDNA in 30 minutes at 37 C and 32P yATP 3 ul 11 pmol specific activity 2900.0 Ci mmol .The mixtures were incubated at 370C for 10 minutes, then unlabelled ATP 2 ul 1.0 mM was added together with another 2 units of kinase and the mixtures were incubated for another hour at 37 0C. The oligomers were checked on a short 20 denaturing polyacrylamide gel 7 M urea in 50 mM Tris borate, pH 8.3 0.8 mM EDTA . The three phosphorylated oligomers were mixed without further purification and Al 14 ul 1 nmolin water was added together with 2 pl 1OxLigation buffer The mixture was heated at 800C for 5 minutes and cooled to 100C during 2 hours. To the cooled solution there was added DTT 1 ul 0.5 M , ATP 2 pl 1.0 mM and DNA ligase T4 2 l 20 Weiss units one unit of ligase is defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyzes the exchange of 1 nmol of phosphate from ATP into pyrophosphate in 20 minutes at 37 C . Ligation was performed at 4 C overnight. The sample was phenol and ether extracted followed by ethanol precipitation by the addition of 2.5 volumes of 99.5 ethanol.The ligation product was recovered b centrifugation for 10 minutes at 9,980xg and finally purified on a 30 cm long 1.5 mm thick 15 nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel which was run at 200 V for 16 hours with cooling to 4 C. This gives a distinct band for the product which was detected both b autoradiography and isibi lity under UV light at 254 nm. The DNA fragment was eluted from the gelpiece with ammonium acetate 300 ul 3 M over night at room temperature. The ammonium acetate solution was collected, diluted with water to a final concentration of 0.05 M. The sample was then applied to a DE 52 ion exchange column and the DNA was eluted by 3 M ammonium acetate.The solution was lyophilized and the yield determined by measuring the absorbance at 260 nm. Ligitation of blocks III, V, VT, and VII Ligation of these blocks were done exactly as for block I.Example Ii Ligation of block II Ligation of block II was done exactly as for block I until purification. Purification was instead done on a 20 z denaturing polyacrylamide gel. The two main bands, the 42 mer from the A chain and the 28 mer from the B chain were cut out of the gel, eluted with ammonium acetate 300 ul 5 M run through a DE 52 ion exchange column and evaporated. The two fragments were separately phosphorylated in the same way as described above. After phosphorylation, the two oligomers were mixed and heated at 80 0C or 5 minutes and cooled to 10 over a period of 2 hours. Block II now formed was purified on a 15 nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel. The band was eluted as described above. Example illLigation of block IV Block IV was ligated in two steps. First 1 nmol each ofA9 and BlO see Fig. 2 were phosphorylated as described for block 1, and then mixed with 1 nmol A8 and 1 nmol B9 seeFig. 2 and ligated as for block I followed by purification.The pure fragment was phosphorylated and mixed with 2 nmol phosphorylated A10 and 2 nmol phosphorylated B8 see Fig. 2 and ligated as above. This mixture gave, when separated on a 15 nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel, two bands, one being the desired block IV and the other being the ligation product of A10 B8 ligated to itself. Block IV was purified as block I.Example IVLigation of block I and II to form block a Block I 100 pmol in 20 ul and block II 60 pmol in 12 ul were mixed together with 4 ul 1OxLigation buffer and 1 ul water. This solution was heated at 500C for 5 minutes and cooled to 100C over a period of 2 hours. Then ATP 2 ul 1 mM , 1 l 0.5 M DTT and 2 l ligase 10 units l was added and the mixture was ligated at 4 C for 2 hours. The ligation mixture was then phenol and ether extracted and precipitated with ethanol as described above. The precipitated material was finally purified on a 15 nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel. The band block a was eluded from the gel and purified in the same way as for block I.Example VLigation of block III and IV to form block b and VI and VII to form block d After phosporylation of block III 150 pmol it was mixed with block IV 100 pmol and they were ligated and purified in the same way as for block a. After phosphorylation of block VI 170 pmol it was mixed with block VII 200 pmol , this mixture was also ligated and purified in the same way as block a. Example VILigation of block a and b to form Block A and V and d to form block B 20 l 70 pmol phosphorylated block b and 10 l 50 pmol block a were mixed and 1 l 1 m ATP, 4 l 10xLigation buffer, and 4 l water was added. The mixture was heated at 50 for 5 minutes and cooled to 10 C over a perod of 2 hours. To this mixture was then added 1 l 0.5 MDTT and 2 l ligase 10 units l and the mixture was ligated at 4 C for 2 hours and than purified as described for block a above, giving block A. Block V 100 pmol was phosphorylated and ligated to d 100 pmol to give block B exactly in the same way as for block A.Example VIILigation of block A and B to give the IGF I gene Block A 5 pmol in 2 ul was mixed with block B 10 pmol in 2 p To this solution were added 2 ul 10xLigation buffer, 5 l 50 uM ATP, and 10 ul water. The mixture was heated at 50 C for 5 minutes and cooled to 100C over a period of 2 hours. To the mixture were then added 1 ul 0.5 M DTT and 1 T4 ligase 10 units pl and the mixture was ligated at 4 0C for 2 hours followed b phenol and ether extraction, and finally precipitated with ethanol as described above. 0.5 pmol of the complete ligation product in 50 mMTris HCl, pH 7.5 10 mM MgCl 100 mM NaCl was digested with the restriction enzymes EcoRI and HindIII 40 units of each one unit is defined as the amount of enzyme required to produce a complete digest of 1.0 ug DNA in 60 minutes in a total volute of 0.05 ml for 60 minutes at 37 0C. The mixture was extracted with phenol and ether and separated on a nondenaturing 10 polycrylamide gel in 89 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.3 89 m boric acid 2.5 mM Na2EDTA. The fragment running at a position of about 230 base pairs bp was electroeluted as described by H.O. Smith in Methods in Enzymology 1980 vol. 65, pp. 371 380. The electroeluted material was phenol extracted and extracted extensively with ether to eliminate any trace of phenol.This material was used for the cloning of the IGF I gene in a vector as described below. A particular vector, designated piCGl, has ben speci finally designed to afford advantages for the purposes of the present invention. The inventive plasmid, pKGl, is a 4. N base pair plasmid which can be propagated in E.coli and which may be constructed from pBR322 see Bolivar et al. 1977 , Gene, vol. 2, pp. 95 113 and pKB258 see Backman et al. 1978 , Cell, vol. 13, pp. 65 71 by inserting the 285 bpEcoRI fragment of pKB258 into the EcoRI site of pBR322 in such a way that the transcription from the lactose promoter is directed towards the tetracycline resistance gene of pBR322 and deletion of the EcoRI restriction enzyme site upstream of the lactose promoter region.Example VIII Construction of the chimeric cloning and expresseion vector pKGl ln order to facilitate the expression of IGF I in E.coli, it was desirable to construct a vector or vectors having a strong promoter and suitable restriction enzyme sites, seeFig. 7 of the accompanying drawings. 20 g of the plasmid pHGH107 see Goeddel et al., 1979 , Nature, vol. 281, pp.544 548 containing the promoter fragment referred to above was digested with the restriction enzymes EcoRI and BamHI 30 units of each enzyme in the buffer described above at 370C for 2 hours. The material was separated on agarose gel as described above and the large fragment, containing the promoter fragment was electroeluted as described above and extracted with phenol and ether and finally ethanol precipitated as described above. Similarly, 20 ug of the plasmid pBR322 see Bolivar et al. 1977 , Gene, vol. 2, pp 95 113 was digested with EcoRI and BamHI exactly as above and separated on an agarose gel. The smaller fragment, containing the part of the tetracycline resistance gene missing in the large fragment above, was electreluted, extracted and precipitated as above.Equimolar amounts of the fragments were mixed and 2 ul buffer 660 b1 Tris HCl, pH 7.5 100 mM MgCl2 100 mM DTT , 2 ul 5 mM ATP, 2 units 14 ligase, and water to 2 1J3 was added. The mixture was incubated at 20 C for 2 hours. 10 l of the ligation mixture was used to transform E.coli C1 strain 294 endo I, Bl, rk , mk see, for example, Dagert et al. 1979 , Gene, vol. 6, pp. 23 28. After 60 minutes for phenotypic expression the cells were plated on Luria agar plates see Miller, Experiments in Molecular Genetics Cold SpringHarbor, N.Y., 1972 supplemented with 12.5 ug ml of tetracycline, to which the plasmid confers resistance, for the selection of transformants, After overnight incubation at 37 0C individual colonies were checked for the presence of the lactose promoter fragment by restriction enzyme digestion of plasmid DNA prepared according to known methods see Birnboim et al. 1979 , Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 7, pp. 1513 1532 .One colony containing the expected promoter fragment was subjected to DNA sequence analysis to confirm the insertion of the lactose promoter. This plasmid was designated pKGl seeFig. 7 of the accompanying drawings . Plasmid pKGl using E.coli, strain 294 as a host cell has been deposited with Deutsche Sammlung von MikroorganismenCDSM , Gesellschaft fur Biotechnologische Forschung mbH, Got tingen, West Germany, under deposition Number DSM 2673.Example IXConstruction of the chimeric plasmid pKG3 The plasmid pUC8 see Vieira et al. 1982 , Gene, vol.19, pp. 259 268 was digested with the restriction enzymesEcoRI and Hindlli as described above. The digested material was separated on a 0.S2O agarose gel in 40 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.1 20 mM acetic acid 2 mM NazEDTA and the large fragment about 2700 bp was electroeluted as described above. After extraction with phenol and ether the material was precipitated with ethanol as described above.The precipitated material was resuspended to a concentration of 0.1 pmol ul in water 0.05 pmol of the IGF I fragment 5 pl from above was mixed with 0.5 pmol of the large pUC8 DNA fragment and the followin was added 4 ijl buffer 660 mAf Tris HCl, pH 7.5 100 mM MgCl 100 mM DTT , 4 ul 1 mM ATP. The mixture was heated at 68 0C for two minutes and was then slowly cooled to 4 0C. 6 units T4 ligase were then added and the ligation mixture was incubated at 12 0C for 6 hours. The bacterial strainJM83 a a, A lac pr o, strA, thi, 8 80d lacZ A 1115, see see Vieira et al. 1982 , Gene, vol. 19, pp. 259 268 was transformed with 10 ul of the ligation mixture as described above but with 50 ug ml ampicillin instead of tetracycline.The transformants obtained after 18 hours incubation of the agar plates at 37OC were screened for the presence of theIGF I gene by colony hybridisation as described by Gergen et al. 1979 , Nucleic Acids Research, vol. 7, pp. 2115 2136 using kinated fragment B16 see Fig. 2 of the accompanying drawings as probe. The presence of a complete IGF I gene in the colonies showing a positive hybridization signal was confirmed by restriction enzyme mapping taking advantage of the expected restriction enzyme sites given in Fig. 3 of the accompanying drawings and by nucleotide sequence analysis using well known techniques see Sanger et al. 1977 , Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.USA, vol. 74, pp. 5463 5467 . The plasmid containing the IGF I gene obtained in this manner was designated pKG3 see Fig. 8 of the accompanying drawings . Example XConstruction of the chimeric plasmid pKG4 containing theIGF I gene Any IGF I protein synthesised in bacterial cells containing the plasmid pKG3 will contain at its aminoterminal end 6 amino acids derived from the S galactosidase since theIGF I gene is fused to the gene for S galactosidase see, for example, Vieira et al. 1982 , Gene vol. 19, pp. 259268 . To obtain a plasmid coding for an IGF I without any extra amino acids, the IGF I gene was recloned into pXGl. The recloning into pKGl was performed in such a way that lGF I synthesised in bacterial cells containing this modified plasmid would not contain any extra amino acids, except the methionine coded for by the start codon ATG. The plasmid pEGl was digested with EcoRI and Hindlll as described above and the fragments vere separated on an 0.8 agarose gel as described above and the large fragment was electroelute, phenol and ether extracted and finally ethanol precipitated as described above. Plasmid pKG3 was digested in exactly the same way and the small fragment the IGF I gene was purified as above. 20 ng of the large fragment from pXGl were mixed with an equimolar amount of the small fragment from pHG3.10 l buffer 660 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 100 wN MgCl2 100 mMDTT , Q.6 units T1 ligase, 10 ul 1 m ATP, and water to 100 ul was then added. The mixture was incubated at 12 0C over night and used for transformation of E.coli K12 strain JM83 with selection for tetracycline resistance as described above. The plasmid pKGl was constructed in such a way that when theIGF I gene was cloned into the EcoRI Hindlll sites tetracycline resistant transformant would only occur if the IGF I gene is transcribed.Single colonies from the transformation occurring after 18 hours incubation at 37 0C were checked for the presence of the IGF I gene by preparing plasmid DNA and subiecting this to restriction enzyme analysis taking advantage of the restriction en yme map given in Fig 5 of the accompanying drawings. One transformant containing the expected fragment was designated pXG4 see Fig. 9 of the accompanying drawings .Example XIExpression of IGF I in E.coli E.coli X12 strains JM83 and 294 containing the plasmids pKG3 and pKG4, respectively, were grown in Luria broth LB see, for example, Miller, Experiments in Molecular Genetics Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1972 with aeration at 37 C to an optical density of 1.0 at 600 nm. The cells were collected b centrifugation 10 minutes, 8000 rpm at 4 0C. After washing the cells once in TE 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.0 1 mM Na2EDTA the cells were resuspended in 1 10 of a volume of TE and subjected to sonication 10 times with bursts of 30 seconds with cooling in ice water in between bursts. Insoluble material was eliminated b centrifugation as above and the supernatant was analyzed for the presence of IGF I like material.10 l aliquotes of dilutions were applied to nitrocellulose filter paper and subiected to immunological analysis, using rabbit antibodies raised against purified IGF I from human serum and the peroxidase antiperoxidase method see Glass, 1981 , Science, vol. 211. pp. 70 . Cells of E.coli K12 strains JM 83 and 294 containing the plasmid pKG3 and pKG4 have been depbsited with DeutscheSammlung von Mikroorganismen DSM , Gesellschaft für Biotechnologische Forschung mbH, Göttingen, est Germany, under deposition numbers DSM 2674 and 2675, respective . Production of IGF l in S. aureus via a fusion proteinIn order to get a high production of IGF 1, it was produced as a fusion protein together with protein A. When working with fusion proteins one has to introduce cleavage sites between the desired protein and the fusion. This was done by changing the synthetic gene in the 5 end and hereby introducing new cleavage sites on protein level. See Fig. 10. The changes of the synthetic gene was achieved by in vitro mutagenesis. Three different mutations were done.1. The N terminal glycine GGT was mutated to aspartic acid GAC see Fig 10 and 11. By doing this amino acid exchange a new aspartic acid proteine bond was formed. This allows for gene fusions encoding hybrid proteins that can be cleaved apart, before or after purification, by formic acid treatment whic cleaves between aspartic acid and proline Landon, Methods in Enzymology 47 132 145, 1977 . This gives IGF l lacking t N terminal glycine.2. The extra methionine ATG in front of the gene was mutated te asparagine AAC, see Fig. lO and 11. By doing this amino aci exchange an aspargine glycine bond was firmed which can be cleaved, before or after purification, by hydroxylamine Landon,Methods in Enzymology 47 132 145 1977 . This gives the native IFG l protein.3. The same methionine ATG as above was mutated to a tryptophE TGG. By doing this amino acid exchange we introduced a cleat site after the tryptophane. This cleavage is done by N bror succinic imide Landon, Methods in Enzymology 47 132 145 19 This method also gives a native IGF l protein. As an example of the in vitro mutagenesis the Gly sAsp exchange is described. Example XII In vitro mutagenesis of the synthetic qene to encode a modified human IGF l 10 pg of plasmid pKG3 was cleaved with Eco RI and Hind III and a 0.22 kb fragment thereof was cut out from a 5 polyacrylamide gel after electrophoresis. 50 ng of purified fragment was mixed with 200 ng of phage M13 mp9 and cleaved with Eco RI and Hind III in a total volume of 20 pl. After treatment with T4 ligase the DNA was used to transform E.coli JM83 and the cells were spread on AXI plates. Cleavage, ligation and transformation were per formed as described above . Phage purification from one white plaque was performed Messing, Methods in Enzymoloc Z0 78.1983 .Using the universal primer Bio Labs, New England, USA the phage insert was confirmed to be the 220 bp synthetic IGF l gene. This phage, disignated mg9 IGF l, was used for the follow ing mutagenesis. One primer oligonucleotidconsisting of 24 bases 5 GTGAATTCTATGGACCCCGAAACT 3 which was used for the muta genesis and one probe P oligonucleotide consisting of 14 bases 5 AATTCTATGGACCC 3 which was used to identify successfully mutagenized phage clones. The mismatches between the synthetic IFG l gene and the primer are shown in Fig. 11. 6 pmoles of mp9 IFG l and 80 poles of primer were mixed in a total volume of 80 ul containing 100 mM NaC1, 20 mM MgCl2 and 40 mM TRIS HCL, pH 7.5. The mixture was heated to 650C for 3 minutes and allowed to cool to 230C for 30 minutes. After transfer to an ice bath, 190 yil of H2O and 30 jal of a solution containing 100 mM MgCl2, 50 mM DTT and 200 ntM TRIS HCl, pH 7,5, as added. 50 units of Xlenow fragment Boehringher Mannbeim,West Germany was added and after 10 minutes in an ice bath the sample was brought to 23 C for 30 minutes. Another 50 units of Klenow fragment was added and after 60 minutes at 23 C the polymerase was heat inactivated at 65 0C for 10 minutes.The sample was precipitated once with ethanol, followed by cleavage with Eco RI and Hind III. The 0.22 kb fragment was cut out from a 5 polyacrylamide gel after eZectrophoresis and the fragment was eluted and purified as described above. 50 ng of purified fragment were mixed with 200 no of phage Ml3 mp9 cleaved with Eco RI and Hind III in a total volume of 20 l, After ligation and transformation toE.coli JM83, exactly as described above, white plaques were fou in a background of blue plaques. 48 white plaques were further analysed by hybridization with two synthetic probes as describe by Winter et al Nature 299, 21 October, 1982 . The filters were hybridized at room temperature with 32 P labelled oligonucleotides and washed at different temperatures. Using probeA2, 5 ATGGGTCCCGAAAC 3 all clones except four show strong hybridization after wash at 44 C indicating that these clones contain th original IGF l gene. Using probe P, 5 AATTCTATGGACCC 3 , all four of the previously negative clones showed significant hybr dization.One of the four phages, designated mp9 IGF l.N3, was further sezuenced using the universal primer as described abovThis confirmed a successful mutagenesis as shown in Fig. 12.200 ng of phage mp9 IGF l.N3 and 200 ng of plasmid pUC8 were separately cleaved with Eco RI and Hind III. After T4 ligase treatment, in a total volume of 20 l, , the DNA was used to tra form E.coli JM83 and the cells were plated out on AXI plates. Cleau7age, ligation and transformation were performed as described. Restriction analysis of a white colony revealed the expected plasmid, pUC8, containing a 0.22 kbEco RI Hind III insert. This plasmid was designated pKGll and was used for the following steps.C. Construction of shuttle plasmid pUN200 containing pXGll 1 g of psGll from step B and 2 ug of pHl4, both digested with Hind III, were mixed and ligated in a total volume of 100 yl overnight at 14 0C. After digestion with Eco RV, the DNA mixture was transformed to E.coli HBlOl and plated on LA plates containing 50 ug ampicillin per milliliter. 52 single colonies were picked to LA plates containing 10 g ml of chloramphenicol and 50 g ml of ampicillin. After two days at 28 C one clone appeared and the plasmid in this clone was further characterized by restriction ana lysis. This revealed plasmid pUN200 schematically shown in Fig. 13. This plasmid, which contains the IGF l gene, can replicate both in E. coli and S. aureus.D. Construction of shuttle plasmids pUN201 and pUN202 1 ug of pUN200 and 1 Xg of plasmid pSPAl6, both digested with Eco RI, were mixed and ligated in a total volume of 100 l overnight at 14 C. The ligase was heat inactivated at 65 C for 10 minutes. After digestion with Eco RV to decrease the number of background clones containing pSPAl6, the DNA mixture was transformed to E. coli HBlOl and plated out on LA plates containing 50 yg of ampicillin. Plasmids from 48 clones were analyzed by restriction mapping and 3 thereof ere found to contain pUN200 with a 1.1 kb Eco RI insert from pSPAl6, corresponding to the 5 end of the protein A gene.The orientation of the insert in these three plasmids was further analyzed by cleavage with Hind III and two were found to contain a predicted fusion between the genes encodin protein h and IGF l. This plasmid was designated pUN20l Fig. 13 . The nucleotide sequence and thL deduced amino acid sequence of this gene fusion are shown in Fig. 14. The predicted molecular weight of the mature hybrid protein is 38,701. One of the three clones was found to contain a plasmid, designated pUN202, with opposite orientation of the protein A gene versus the IGF l gene Fig. 13 . This plasmid codes for a truncated protein A with a predicted molecular weitht of 30,963.II. Transformation of shuttle plasmids pUN201 and pUN202 to S. aureus SAl13 10 g of plasmids pUN201 and pUN202 from step ID above were used to transform protoplasts of S. aureus SAl13 as described by Gotz, F. et al, J. Bacteril. 145, 74 81 1981 and in the International patent application PCT SE83 00297 Step IIIA . Chloramphenicol resistent clones were found after 3 days at 37 0C and these transformants were restreaked on TSA plates TrypticaseSoy Agar with chloramphenical 10 jig mI . One transformant of the respective plasmid p N201 and pUN202 was chosen for further analysis. Restriction mapping of the purified plasmids revealed that the intact plasmid had been introduced into theS. aureus SAl13 host.III. Quantification and localization of the protein A activity from clones carrying pUN201 and pUN202E. coli cells carrying pUN200, pUN20l.and pUN202 respectively from Step IC and D above and S. aureus cells carrying pUN201 or pUN202 were cultivated in 200 ml of liquid medium overnight.E. coli strains were grown in LB medium with ampicillin 50 g m and S. aureus strains in TSB Trypticase Soy Broth with chlor amphenicol 10 s ml . The cells were pelleted by centrifugation at 6000 rpm with a Sorwall GSh rotor for 10 minutes and the supernatant, designated medium, was saved. The cell pellet was washed in 10 ml of PBS 4 TWEEN and again centrifuged as above.This time the cell pellet was resuspended in 10 ml of a protease inhibitor buffer 0.02 M potassium phosphate, pH 7.5, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.5 sodium deoxycholate, 1 Triton x lOO, O,lt sodiumdodecyl sulfate SDS , and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride PMSF .The cells were then sonicated in a MSE sonicator for 4 x 40 sec.on an ice bath and centrifuged at 15,000 rpm Sorvall SS 34 rotor for 10 min. The supernatant, designated cell extract, was collected and an ELISA test was performed to determine the amount of protein A in the samples. The results are shown in the following Table 1. Table 1 Amount of protein A per ml of sonicated cell culture deter mined by the ELISA test. Zero values correspond to less than 0.1 g ml. Host Plasmid Cell extract Medium g ml g ml E. coli HB101 pUN200 O 0 E. coli HB101 pUN201 2 0 E. coli HB101 pUN202 2 0 S. aureus SA113 pUN201 0.2 5 S. aureus SA113 pUN202 0 5 E. colin HB101 O O S. aureus SAll3 0 0Table 1 shows that in both E. coli and S. aureus the amount of protein A produced is not influenced by the orientation of the fragment containing the protein A gene plasmid pUN20l versus pUN202 .Thus, the protein A IGF 1 hybrid protein encoded by puN2ol is produced at approximately the same level as the truncated protein A encoded by pUN202. Both proteins are, as expected, found in the cell extract of E. coli and in the medium of S. aureus.IV. Purification of IGF 1 by IgG affinity chromatography and formic acid treatmentThe media of S. aureus SA113 carrying pUN201 and pUn202 respectively, from Step III, were each passed over an 4B column Pharmacia AB, Uppsala, Sweden Hjelm et al, FEBS Lett.28, 73 76 1972 that had been equilibrated with a sodium acetate buffer 0.1 M sodium acetate, 28 NaCl, pH 5.5 . The column was then washed with the same buffer as above and the adsorbed protein A eluted with a glycine buffer 0.1 M glycine, 2 Nail, pH 3.0 . The eluted fraction was dialyzed against distilled water and thereafter lyophilized in two aliquots. The protein pellet of one of the aliquots was analysed on a 13 SDS polyacrylamide gel at 100 V for 12 hours. The gel was stained with amidoblack 0.196, in 45 methanol, 10 acetic acid . This revealed a major protein with the molecular weight of 38,701 for pUN210 and 30,963 for pUN202. This is in accordance with the predicted sizes deduced from thë DNA sequences see Step ID above .The second aliquot was resuspended in 0.5 ml of 70 formic acid and further incubated at 37 0C for 2 days. This process cleaves proteins at the dipeptide sequence aspartic acid proline. The predicted degradation products from the hybrid protein encoded by pUs201 were, apart from the IGF l moiety lacking the N ter minal glycine, five oligopeptides of the molecular weights of 6800, 6600, 6600, 6600 and 600. SDS polyacrylamide electrophoresis, as described above, also confirms that the major prote bands are shifted from approximately 38000 to several bands around 7000.The formic acid treated proteins were lyophilized and resuspended in distilled water. The sample from pUN201 was passed over an RIsG Sepharose AB column as described above. The flow through and the eluted material with the glycine buffer were saved for further analysis.V. Analysis of the protein products by radio receptor assay RRA The radio receptor assay RRA was performed according to Hall et al, J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 48, 271 278 1974 using a particulate fraction of human placental membrane as matrix. The standard used in the assay consisted of pooled normal human serum having a potency of 1 unit U of IGF 1 per ml. The lower limit of the assay was 10 mU per ml The peptide used for labelling was purified from Cohn fraction IV to a specific activity of 500 U mg protein according to RRA . Labelling of the peptide was performed according to Thorell et al. Biochem. Biophys. Acta 251, 363 369 1971 .Purification of the tracer was done on.a carboxymethyl cellulose column using an elution gradient of 0.1 M NH4OAc from pH 4.0 to pH 6.8. The specific activity of the tracer was approximately 20 Xci pg The assay was performed as follows The standard or unknown sample 100 pl was. incubated together with 100 p1 of placental membrane and 100 pl of labelled IGF 1 overnight at 1 40C. After centrifugation the pellet was washed once and counted in a gamma counter. The sample potency was calculated using an in house computer program. Samplers before and after the formic acid treatment, from Step IV above, were analyzed by the RRA test and the results are shorn in Table 2below. Table 2Radio receptor.analysis RRA for lGF l activity in growth medium from S. aureus SAll3 pUN202 and S. aureus SAll3 pUN201 after isolation and purification by IgG affinity chromatography. Zero corresponds to less than 1 U l medium.Plasmid Treatment Activity U 1 pUN202 Before treatment with 0 formic acid After treatment with 0 formic acid pUN2Ol Before treatment with 0 formic acid After treatment with 143 formic acid Flow through 106 x Eluate, 19 A formic acid treated sample was passed over an IgG SepharoseR column and the activity was measured for bound eluate and not bound flow through IGF 1. From Table 2 it appears that the hybrid protein encoded by pUN201 has.no detectable IGF l activity. Treatment with formic acid yields IGF l activity, and most of this activity does not bind to the IgG affinity column indicating a successful cleavage between the protein A and the IGF l moiety. While embodiments of the invention have been presented above, the invention is, of course, not restricted thereto, but many variations and modifications are possible without departing from the scope thereof as defined by the susequent claims. It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the exact details of operation ot exact genes, vectors, plasmids or procedures shown and desctib above, as obvjous modifications and equivalents will be apparent to one skilled in the art, and the invention is therefore to be limited only b the full scope of the appended claims, including the application of the doctrin of equivalents thereto.