# System for starting a motor commutated SCR inverter.

## Abstract
If the SCRs of an SCR inverter are normally motorcom mutated during running operation, a starting system is needed to initially crank or rotate the motor fast enough to develop a sufficient back EMF in the motor for motor com mutation to occur. Highly reliable and consistent starting is achieved by first initializing the rotor position, namely es tablishing the rotor in a known starting position. This is accomplished by gating on two pairs of SCRs in sequence and supplying current pulses through the gated SCRs to the stator of the motor to rotate the rotor to a first position 49, 58 62, 53, 52, 65 68, 71, 19, 12, 43 and then to a second position, the rotor coming to a complete stop 59, 49 in each of those positions. The rotor aligns itself with the magnetic field created by the stator in each position and any ambigu ity in the rotor position is eliminated. Thereafter, the inverter is operated asynchronously 49, 78, 79, 53, 52, 65 68, 71, 19, 12, 43 in a second mode with predetermined pairs of the inverter SCRs being sequentially gated into conduction at an increasing frequency to current pulse energize the motor to effect step by step rotation of the rotor at a faster and faster rate, the motor current being reduced to zero at the termination of each energizing pulse to force commutate the conducting pair of SCRs. After the motor has reached a preset speed, operation in a third mode occurs 49, 81 86, 53, 52, 65 68, 71, 19, 12, 43 and the inverter is synchronized with the motor, gating of the SCRs being controlled by the motor voltage in order that the rotor position will be syn chronized to the revolving magnetic field created by the stator. During this third operating mode the motor speed continues to increase and the SCRs are forced commutated, as a result of which the rotor follows the stator magnetic field very closely and synchronization will be perfected. When the motor subsequently reaches a given speed suf ficiently high to permit motor commutation exclusively, the starting system switches to a fourth and normal running mode 49, 81 83, 86 89, 53, 43, 71, 19, 12 wherein the gating of the invertor SCRs continues to be synchronized with the motor and controlled by the motor voltage, but the SCRs will now be commutated only by the motor voltage. Operation in the third mode provides a buffer and ensures a very smooth, reliable, consistent and a relatively short transition from asynchronous, forced commutation operation to syn chronous, motor commutated operation.