# Process for the removal of volatile ionisable components from aqueous streams.

## Abstract
A process for sour water treatment in which the sour components are removed from a sour water stream 32 in an electrodialysis step 22 28 in which the said stream becomes the dilute stream. A resulting concentrate stream 42, richer in the sour components than the original stream 32 is then steam stripped in stripper 30. In order to balance the acidic and basic components in the dilute stream the component lacking may be added to the stream by line 60. Steam stripped concentrate 48 may be recirculated to the electrodialysis step. In order to prevent build up of non strippable components in the concentrate stream 48 a part 50 of the latter may be bled off, if desired subjected to further steam stripping in column 32 after which the steam stripped concentrate 56 may be combined with dilute stream 36.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Process for treating an aqueous stream to remove volatile acidic and volatile basic components, characterised in that the stream is subjected to an electrodialysis step in which acidic and basic components migrate through fixed anion and cation exchange membranes respectively to one or more concentrate streams and at least part of the concentrate stream s is are steam stripped. 2. Process as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that at least part of the concentrate stream s after steam stripping is recirculated to the concentrate side in the electrodialysXs step. 3. Process as claimed in claim 2, characterised in that the recirculated part of the concentrated stream s is obtained from an intermsEate stage of the steam stripping step. 4. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 3, characterised in that part of the concentrate stream s is recirculated directly via a feed back loop. 5. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 4, charac tensed in that the electrodialysis step is carried out in a plurality of stages. 6. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 5, charac tensed in that in the electrodialysis step the concentrate stream s flow s in countercurrent with the dilute stTeam sj 7. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 6, charac tensed in that a balancing stream of either an acidic component or a basic component is added to the dilute stream so as to maintain an approximate equilibrium between the two components. 8. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 7, characterised in that the dilute stream is allowed to become weakly basic. 9. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 8, characterised in that part of the aqueous stream is passed to the concentrate side of the electrodialysis step. 10. Process as claimed in any one of claims 1 9, charac teased in that at least part of the aqueous stream is steam stripped prior to the electrodialysis step.

## Description
PROCESS FOB THE REMOVAL OF VOLATILE IONISiBLE COMPONENTS FROM AQUEOUS STREAMS This invention relates to a process for treating aqueous streams to remove volatile ionisable components, and more specifically a volatile acid and a volatile base.It is particularly suitable for treatment of sour water to remove ammonia and hydrogen sulphide and other contaminants. Conventionally, sour water, particularly from refineries, is treated by stripping it with steam. Such a process is capable of producing treated water which meets the present waste water effluent regulations in most countries of the world. It is however expensive to operate because of the large quantity of steam required, particularly at lower concentrations of the contaminants. For instance, to achieve a, say, 50 reduction in the volatile components, very nearly the same quantity of steam will be required whether the initial concentration is in the order of 20000 ppm or 200 pom. An object of the invention is to provide a process for reducing the concentration of volatile ionisable component a in an aqueous solution to a very low level in a way that is more efficient in its use of energy. In accordance with the invention a process for treating an aqueous stream to remove volatile acidic and volatile basic components from it comprises subjecting the stream to an electrodialysis step in which acidic and basic components migrate from the stream through fixed anion and cation exchange membranes respectively to one or more concentrate stream and steam stripping concentrate stream s , in order to remove volatile acidic and basic components. The process is considered particularly suitable for treating refinery sour water containing E2S and We3. In aqueous solution the large fraction of the sulphur In the sulphide is in the monovalent HS or undissociated R2S form, very little S being present. In the case where there is an excess of NH over H2S a significant proportion of the ammonia will be in the undissociated form. In addition, sour water often contains other ionic species, for example, phenolates, formates, emanates, carbonates and the like.It lay also contain some metal ions such as iron, cobalt and vanadium in small amounts. Unlike a aCl solution, for example, sour water is not necessarily a good electrolyte and behaves very differently. Not only are the equilibria of the various reactions substantially different, but also the molar ratio of SE4 cations to the HS anions is not 4 necessarily 1 to 1. We have, however, found that it is possible to concentrkte such sour water streams by electrodialysis even at quite low concentrations, so that the resulting dilute stream may have a very low final H2S and content. This stream is thereby also rendered suitable for being subjected to any further treatment required, e.g.by biological means. In general the efficiency of the electrodialysis step is high in terms of electric power utilisation. Its efficient use of energy stems from the fact that it is virtually only the ions which pass through a membrane to a concentrate stream which use up electric current. It has further been found that the overall efficiency of the process can be increased by recirculating at least part of the concentrate stream s after steam stopping to the concentrate side in the electrodialysis step, thereby increasing the concentration in the concentrate stream s of that step. In order to prevent a build up of electrolysed non tolatile salts which might otherwise accumulate in the concentrate circuit, part of the steam stripped concentrated stream may be bled off and, preferably, subjected to further steam stripping.In the latter case, therefore, the recirculated part of the concentrated stream is obtained from an intermediate steam stripping stage, all or part of the remainder not so recirculated which may or may not be smaller than the recirculated portion being subJected to further steam stripping, possibly in a separate auxiliary steam stripping column which is therefore connected in parallel with the electrodialysis step.This improves the overall effluent from the process. The steam stripped aqueous material so obtained may if desired be combined with the dilute stream issuing from the electrodialysis step, and so may the bleed streas. Where no non volatile salts are present the bleed off or auxiliary stripper circuit can be omitted. In order to obtain a more effective use of the membranes and to increase the concentration in the concentrate stream, the electrodialysis step may be provided with a feedback loop or loops through which some of the dilute and or concentrate flow preferably the latter is recirculated directly, i.e. without having been steam stripped first. The electrodialysis step may comprise a number of electrodialysis stages connected in parallel or in series, preferably the latter,again so as to increase the concentration in the concentrate stream. Part or all of these stages may again be provided with a feedback loop s for recirculating concentrate and or dilute flow. The concentrate from the electrodialysis step is conleniently steam stripped from a high concentration, general ly in excess of 12000 ppn coabirnd NH3 and H2S. At high concentrations, steam stripping is more attractive in energy terms as a relatively small quantity of steam can effect a substantial reduction, in absolute terms, of the sour components in the concentrate stream. Steam stripping is furthermore also conveniently carried out to a sufficiently low concentration that in the electrodialysis steps so called back diffusion i.e. reverse flow across the membrane of ionised components does not become significant.This back diffusion may also be reduced by having the co n cen rate s ream s fiow in countercorren with the dilute stream s . Where it is desired that the treated stream shall be very pure, e.g. syfficiently so to provide boiler feed water, it may be advantageous to use purer water in the concentrate stream s in the last stage or stages of the electrodialysis step. In the electrodialysis step it is preferable that an approximate balance be maintained between acidic and basic components, and this can be effected by adding back to the dilute stream s a component in which it is deficient normally an acidic one. This may either be done at the beginning or at an intermediate stage if present or both, and in spite of the fact that more acidic components in total will have to be removed it can lead to lower end concentrations and to economies in capital cost and operation. In certain circumstances it may however also be desirable to allow the dilute stream to become weakly basic, in particular towards the exit of the electrodialysis step e.g. in the last of its stages, if present in order to cause less easily jonisable components to be ionised and thus capable of being extracted by electrodialysis. Of particular importance in this respect are phenolates which are often present in sour water but are otherwise not readily removable. Thus, whereas at a pH of 7 practically none of the phenol will be ionised, at a pE of 10 more than 30 will be ionised and thus susceptible to electrodialysis. This is particularly important where a large proportion of the total organic carbon in the sour water is comprised by phenolates, and or formats, cyanates, carbonates, and the like. Although the aqueous stream to be treated is normally passed to the dilute side of the electrodialysis step, it may be advantageous to pass part of it to the concentrate side which may or may not be the smaller part. In one particular embodiment of the invention, the main part of the stream to be treated comprises the dilute 8Xrenm 3 v the remainder of it is used as the concentrate stream s i i8 are arranged to flow in counter current with the dilute stream s .Theconcentrate stream is concentrated to a very high degree, e.g. in excess of 40,000 ppmw sour components and preferably up to 80,000 ppmw sour components y so doing the volume of the concentrate stream s be kept very small, say, at less than an eighth of the dilute streams It may then be passed to a small, but specially adapted, steam stripper made from alloys which are capable of resisting the corrosive nature of such a stream.Stripping such a concentrated stream to an acceptable level and where it can be easily further treated by other conventional means requires little steam per mole of sour components removed and results in high overall efficiency, in addition to a very compact plant which may more than compensate for the more sophisticated materials required. In practice if the concentrate contains more than about 20000 ppmw sour components combined NH, and R2S special steels will be required for the concentrate circuit and also for the main stripper due to corrosion which would otherwise take place. To avoid this, the aqueous stream may at least in part be pretreated by steam stripping possibly together with the concentrated stream s prior to being passed to the electrodialysis step when it already contains a high concentration of sour components. Aithoughaplant for carrying out the process of the invention may not necessarily be less expensive to construct than a conventional steam stripping plant, for the same quality of effluent it will normally require a smaller energy input and may well be capable of meeting more stringent specifications as to the final quality of the effluent. It also has the advantage that it can easily be extended as energy becomes more expensive, in order to obtain a further saving in the energy consumption. The invention will now be further described by way of example and explanation with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is a diagram showing the principle of electrodialysis Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram of a plant for carrying out the process of the invention Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of an alternative embodiment of such a plant and Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of a further em embodiment of such a plant. Figure 1 illustrates schematically the basic principle of an electrodialysis unit 8. Musically it comprises a plurality of membranes, alternately anodie l0 and cathodic12 placed between an anode 14 and a cathode 16 connected to a direct current supply. The membranes 10, 12 are usually separated from each other by a distance of 1 to 5 mm using appropriate spacers and the streams in the unit may be made to flow through a labyrinth in order to increase contact with the membranes. The construction of the unit is generally in the form of a pack, more or less like a conventional filter pack. The membranes, which usually contain ion exchange groups, have a fixed positive or negative change. When a direct current is applied across the two electrodes 14 and 16, anions here represented by HS will tend to migrate towards the anode passing the anodic membranes 10 and being stopped by the first cathodic membrane 12. If a stream 15 is introduced uniformly from the top of the unit 8 it will be found that the streams in passages 18 having an anodic membrane on the cathodic side of the passage and vice versa will become concentrate streams 17 richer in ionised components, and the other streams 19 in passages 20 bounded by anodic membranes on the anode side and cathodic membranes on the cathodic side will be depleted in ionised components and become dilute streams. Normally, a separate stream 21 flows over the electrodes to prevent unwanted electrode reactions from taking place. Suitably, stream 21 comprises a 1 molar solution of acidified sodium sulphate a2S04 . For optimum operation the cationic components should roughly be in the ratio of 1 1 with the anionic components.The susceptibility to electrodialysis of different components may differ for example due t their different degrees of ionization. Indeed, unless a satisfactory balance can be maintained in the electrodialysis units, even to the extent of adding back some of the deficient component which in practice is the one which is most mobile , the process may lose in its effectivity. The cation and anion transfer membranes can be any cation and anion selective membranes respectively which are capable of withstanding the acidity and basicity of the stream being treated. Suitable membranes may be obtained e.g. from Ionics Incorporated, Cambridge Massachusetts , U.S.A. The cation membranes may, for instance, comprise an insoluble ionexchange material of cross linked sulphonated copolymers of vinyl compounds either in the form of a homogeneous sheet or cast on a matrix of synthetic reinforcing fabrics, which membranes are sold by the above company under the reference TYPE Cm61 . The anion membrane may comprise an insoluble ion exchange material of cross linked copolymers of vinyl monomers containing quaternary anonium anion exchange groups either in the form of a homogeneous sheet or cast on a matrix of synthetic reinforcing fabrics, which mem branes are obtainable from the above company under the reference TYPE ARtO3 n . In terms of electrical efficiency electrodialysis is preferably carried out above 500C, and whilst temperatures up to 90iC are preferred, at the present tin. available membranes effectively hut the maximum operating temperature to about 70 0C so far. Figure 2 shows a sour water treatment plait ceiprising an electrodialysis unit in four stages 22, 24, 26, 28, a main stripping vessel 30 and an auxiliary stripping vessel 32. Sour water feed enters by line 34 and flows through the four electrodialysis units 22, 24, 26, 28 which are arranged in series. In each unit it say be held up by a tortuous path which the passage between the membrane takes due to a laby rinth formed in a spacing neiber which normally separates the membranes. Treated water which constitutes the dilute streak in the electrodialysis units leaves the unit 28 by line 36. The concentrate stream enters the unit 28 by line 38 and flows through the electrodialysis units 28, 26, 24 and 22 in countercurrent to the dilute stream. Unlike the dilute stream, the concentrate stream is in this case provided with feed back loops 40 by which sole of the flow is recirculated through the various units in order to increase its final concentration as it leaves the unit 22 by line 42 by which it passes to the upper end of the nin stripping vessel 30. In order to improve the effectivene.s of the electro dialysis step a balancing streak of volatile ionisable components can be added by line 60 to the dilute stream, e.g.between the units 22 and 24. The membranes in the units which in practice may contain a hundred or norse membranes are represented for convenience as a simple broken line separating the concen trace and dilute streams. The concentrate stream descends the stripping vessel 30 in this case shown as a packed column in countercurrent with stripping steam which enters by line 44. Stripped gas leaves the vessel by its upper end by line 46. Stripped water leaves the vessel 30 by line 48 38 and is returned to the electrodialysis unit 28. A small bleed stream 50 is taken from the line 48 and passed through the auxiliary stripping vessel 32 for further steam stripping. As with the main vessel 30 steam enters by line 52 at the lower end of the vessel 30 and gas leaves by its upper end by line 54 and is passed to rejoin the gas in the line 46.Treated water is passed by line 56 to the outlet of the dilute stream in line 36. In a typical example 100 m3 h of sour water at 250 C containing 2129 ppmw NR3 and 3871 ppmw H2S as the main sour components and 380 ppmw non volatile salts enters an electrodialysis unit having an effective membrane area of 4500 m2 by line 34. 1135 mol h H2S is added by line 60 to reestablish a satisfactory equilibrium. At an electric power consumption of approximately 17 kWh m3 water leaving the unit by line 36 has 30 ppmw NR and 20 ppmw H25 and 2 ppmw non volatile salts. In general the voltage across each pack of membranes is arranged so that there is a voltage of 3 to 4 volts per cell pair.In practice this results at a current density of up to 300 amp m2 at the inlet to about 5 amp m2 at the outlet due to the poorer conductivity of the more dilate electro lyte. When water from the auxiliary stripper 32 is added to the stream in line 36 by line 56 the 105 m3 h water leaving the plant contain 38 ppmw KH3, 20 ppmw H2S and 363 ppmw Na L The concentrate stream entering the unit 28 by line 38 has 5000 ppmw NE3 and 909 ppmw H2S and 4254 ppmw nonvolatile salts. On leaving the unit 22 the concentrate stream has 8800 ppmw NH3, and 9311 ppmw R25 and 4679 ppmw non volatile salts. 4 m h of low pressure steam is used in the main stripper It will be seen that the auxiliary stripper 32 is important in the example given in order to prevent a build up of non wolatile salts in the main stripper or in the concentrateercirceit. The plant shown in figure 3 is suitable for feeds containing very high concentrations of sour components, e.g.in excess of 20000 ppmw. The sour water to be treated enters a stripping vessel 62 by a line 64. Steam enters at 66 and stripped gases leave by line 68. The pretreated stream leaves the stripping vessel by line 70 to enter the electrodialysis stage 8. Treated water leaves by line 72.The concentrate stream is taken from the pretreated stream in line 70 by line 74 by which it enters the electrodialysis stage 8 through which it flows in countercurrent to the dilute stream. The concentrate stream, on leaving the electrodialysis stage 8 by line 76, is recombined with the feed to the stripping vessel in line 64. Figure 4 shows a plant in which the concentrate stream can be concentrated to a very high level, e.g. in excess of 60.000 ppmw sour components. As in fixture 2 a sour water stream 34 enters an electrodialysis unit and passes successive stages 22, 24, 26 and 28 arranged in series before leaving the plant as treated sour water by line 36. A part of the feed is passed by line 80 to the last stage 28 of the electrodialysis unit to become the concentrate stream. This stream flows through the electrodialysis stages 28, 26, 24 and 22 in countercurrent with the dilute stream, and for more effective concentration is recirculated at each stage by means of feed back loops 40. The concentrate stream leaves electrodialysis stage 22 by line 42 leading to a small steam stripping vessel.Steam enters by line 82 and the released gases leave by line 84. Water leaves by line 86 and may be passed to conventional further waste water treatment means, such as a biotreater. In a particular example 100 m3 h sour water at 250C containing 6000 ppmw NB, and 112S in a molar ratio of 1.1 to 1. Using an effective membrane area of 4800 m with a voltage of between 3 and 4 volts cell pair at a power consumption of 18 kWb m3. 92 m3 h treated water leave by line 36 containing 30 ppmw NH3 and 20 ppmw H2S. The concentrate stream of 8 m3 h leaving the electrodialysis unit by line 42 contains approximately 80.000 ppmw Nil and H2S in a 1 1 molar ratio. In the stripping vessel 2 m3 h steam is ased to reduce the NE3 content of the water leaving by line 86 to 200 ppmw and that of the H2S to 20 ppmw. The nonvolatile jonisable components also leave with the water by line 86. In this example, unlike the one described with reference to Fig. 2, no balancing H2S is added. The dilute stream will tend then to become relatively richer in ammonia which will increase the pH of the stream. This has the effect of ionizing some of the less easily ionisable components, and in particular any phenolates present. Experience has shown that in general 50 to 90 of the phenolates is removed with 95 of H2S in this way.