# Process for producing cube on edge oriented electromagnetic silicon steel.

## Abstract
A method is provided for producing electromagnetic silicon steel to produce a cube on edge grain orientation having lower core losses and higher magnetic permeability. The method includes, during final texture annealing, using a controlled heating cycle including an isothermal hold at a selected recrystallization temperature of about 1650 DEG F 900 DEG C for 6 to 20 hours to improve secondary recrystallization and the Goss texture 110 001 , then heating the steel from the selected recrystallization temperature to in excess of 2000 DEG F 1093 DEG C .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for producing electromagnetic silicon steel having a cube on edge orientation, which process includes the steps of preparing a steel melt containing 2.5 to 4 silicon, casting the steel, hot rolling the steel, cold rolling the steel to final gauge, decarburizing the steel, applying a refractory oxide base coating to the steel, and final texture annealing the steel by heating to and maintaining a temperature in excess of 20000F 1093 0C , characterised in comprising the steps of during final texture annealing, heating the steel to a recrystallization temperature within the range of 1600 to 17000F 871 to 9260C substantially isothermally heating the steel in the recrystallization temperature range for 6 to 20 hours to substantially complete secondary recrystallization and heating the steel from the selected recrystallization temperature to a temperature in excess of the 20000F l0930C . 2. A process according to Claim 1, wherein the recrystallization temperature range is from 1600 to 16500F 871 to 9000C for steel having a gauge of substantialy 11 mils 0.279mm . 3. The process according to Claim 1, wherein the recrystallization temperature range is from 1650 to 17000F 900 to 9260C for steel having a gauge of substantially 9 mils 0.229mm . 4. A process according to Claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the steel is isothermally heated at 1650 0F 900 0C for substantially 12 hours. 5. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the substantially isothermal heating occurs at 100F hour 5.50C hour or less. 6. A process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the substantially isothermal heating occurs at 50hour 2.80C hour or less. 7. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the recrystallization temperature range is dependent upon the thickness of the steel. 8. A process according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the recrystallization temperature range is slightly higher for thinner steels. 9. A process for producing electromagnetic silicon steel having a cube on edge orientation, which process includes the steps of preparing a steel melt containing 2.5 to 4 silicon, casting the steel, hot rolling the steel, cold rolling the steel to final gauge, decarburizing the steel, applying a refractory oxide base coating to the steel, and final texture annealing the steel by heating to and maintaining at a temperature in excess of 20000F 10930C , characterised in comprising heating the steel during final texture annealing at a relatively constant heating rate to substantially 1650OF 9000C isothermally heating the steel at the selected temperature for 6 to 20 hours to substantially complete secondary recrystallization and then heating the steel at a relatively constant heating rate to a temperature in excess of the 20000F 10930C

## Description
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING CUBE ON EDGEORIENTED ELECTROMAGNETIC SILICON STEEL This invention relates to a process for producing electromagnetic silicon steel having a cube on edge orientation and particularly to a final texture annealing cycle to promote improved secondary recrystallization.Particularly, the invention relates to a substantially isothermal anneal at a selected recrystallization temperature. In the manufacture of grain oriented silicon steel, it is known that if improved secondary recrystallization texture, e.g., Goss texture 110 001 , is achieved, the magnetic properties, particularly permeability and core loss, will be correspondingly improved. The Goss texture 110 001 , in accordance with Miller s indices, refers to the body centered cubes making up the grains or crystals being oriented in the cube on edge position.The texture or grain orientations of this type refers to the cube edges being parallel to the rolling direction and in the plane of rolling, and the cube face diagonals being perpendicular to the rolling direction and in the rolling plane. As is well known, steel having this orientation is characterized by a relatively high permeability in the rolling direction and a relatively low permeability in a direction at right angles thereto. The development of a cube on edge orientation is dependent upon a mechanism known as secondary recrystallization. During secondary recrystallization, secondary cube on edge oriented grains are preferentially grown at the expense of primary grains having a different and undesirable orientation. The steel composition, particularly the impurity contents, the processing operations including hot rolling and the degree of deformation in each cold rolling operation, intermediate and final continuous annealing time and temperature cycles, and the final texture annealing procedure must all be carefully controlled to attain the optimum texture development. A steel that has not obtained optimum texture development may have a substantially uniform but inadequate grain size and structure and resulting poor magnetic properties or may exhibit a banding of inferior grain structure.Generally, banding means areas or bands of inferior grain structure extending across the width of the coil surrounded by areas of well textured steel. Generally, the initial phases of secondary recrystallization occur at about 1550 0F 843 0C , however, secondary grain growth proceeds much faster and more 0 0 efficiently at temperatures of about 1600 F 871 C or more. The operation through which the secondary grains are preferentially grown and consume the primary grains is known as final texture annealing. In the manufacture of grain oriented silicon steel, the typical steps include subjecting the melt of 2.5 4 silicon steel through a casting operation, such as a continous casting process, hot rolling the steel, cold rolling the steel to final gauge with an intermediate annealing when two or more cold rollings are used, decarburizing the steel, applying a refractory oxide base coating to the steel, and final texture annealing the steel, such as in a hydrogen atmosphere, to produce the desired secondary recrystallization, and purification treatment to remove impurities, such as nitrogen and sulfur. The final texture annealing is typically performed at a temperature in excess of 20000F 10930 and held for an extended time period of at least 4 hours and generally longer to remove impurities. A typical thermal cycle of the final texture annealing practice may include a reasonably continuous heating rate of approximately 50 hour 27.80C hour from the charge temperature of the coated strip to a temperature high enough to effect purification.The charge temperature in mill practice, typically, is of the order of room temperature of 80 0F 26.70C or more and the purification temperature may range from 20000F 0 0 0 1093 C up to a maximum of about 2300 F 1260 C and preferably up to 2250 0F 12320C . The steel is generally subjected to a soaking at the purification temperature to remove the impurities for a long time, typically of the 0 order of about 20 hours at or higher than 2100 F 1150 0C . Numerous attempts by others have been made to improve the final texture. U.S. Patent 2,534,141 Morrill et al discloses a two stage final texture anneal to improve the orientation. First, the cold rolled 0 decarburized sheet is held for 4 24 hours at 850 900 C o 0 0 1560 1650 F , and preferably at 875 C 1605 F , in a reducing or non oxidizing atmosphere to encourage and permit nucleation of well oriented crystals and their growth. Second, the steel is then held at a temperature of 900 to 12000C 1650 21920F , and preferably 11750C 0 2147 F , in a reducing atmosphere to permit completion of the growth of the well oriented crystals and to relieve mechanical strain. U.S. Patent 4,157,925 Malagari et al discloses a process for producing a cube on edge orientation in a boron inhibited silicon steel. The process includes 0 heating the steel from a temperature of 1700 to 1900 F 926 to 1038 0C at an average rate of less than 300hour 0 16.7 C hour so as to provide a minimum time period for the selective grain growth process to occur and to final texture anneal the steel by heating to a temperature in excess of 20000F 1093 0C and to a maximum temperature of 23000F 1260 0C for purification of the steel. U.S. Patent 4,318,758 Kuroki et al discloses inExample 3 a method for producing grain oriented silicon steel containing aluminium wherein the decarburized and coated sheet is heated up to 9000C 16500F in a 75 H2 and 25 N2 atmosphere with a heating rate of 200C hour 360F hour , then heating between 900 to 10500C 0 1650 1922 F in the same atmosphere at a heating rate of 50hour 9 0F hour , between 1050 and 12000C 1922 2192 0F in 100 H2 atmosphere at a heating ratio 8 of 20 hour 360F hour where the steel is maintained at 12000C 21920F for 20 hours in the 100 H2 atmosphere. None of these patents disclose the present invention. What is needed is an improved final texture annealing process wherein improved cube on edge orientation of the secondary grains may be achieved during secondary recrystallization to result in improved permeability and core loss values. The improved final texture annealing process should include control of the heating cycle and result in improved productivity as measured by an overall improvement in quality. It is known that variations occur in magnetic properties within a given coil of silicon steel. The variations can be measured by taking samples from the coil ends and measuring the core loss values of those samples. A convenient measure of quality improvement is the percentage of coils having a poor end core loss at 60Hz equal to or less than 0.714 WPP at 17 KG 1.57 WPKg at 1.7 Tesla . It is desirable to improve productivity so that an increasing percentage, and preferably the majority, of the coils produced satisfy minimum core loss values, such as that above. It is also an objective to develop a process which substantially eliminates the banding problem. In accordance with the present invention, a process is provided for producing electromagnetic silicon steel having cube on edge orientation wherein the process includes the conventional steps of preparing a steel melt containing 2.5 4 silicon, casting the steel, hot rolling the steel, cold rolling the steel to final gauge, decarburizing the steel, applying a refractory oxide base coating to the steel, and final texture annealing the steel by heating to and maintaining at a temperature in excess of 20000F 1093 0C . The improvement comprises heating the steel during the final texture annealing to a selected recrystallization temperature within the range of 1600 to 17000F 871 to 926 0C , isothermally heating the steel at that temperature for 6 to 20 hours to substantially complete secondary recrystallization, and heating the steel from that isothermal hold temperature to a temperature in excess of 20000F 10930C to effect purification. The present invention will be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figures la and lb are plots of core loss and permeability respectvely, versus hold temperature for ll mil 0.279mm steel and Figures 2a and 2b are plots of core loss and permeability, respectively, versus hold temperature for 9 mil 0.229mm steel. The final texture annealing process of the present invention includes a controlled heating cycle wherein the steel is substantially isothermally annealed at selected temperatures for particular periods of time to effect substantially complete secondary recrystallization. As used herein, isothermal heating or annealing during recrystallization means heating at a very low heating rate. The heating rate need not be zero, but preferably o 0 should be less than 10 hour 5.5 C hour , and more o 0 preferably less than 5 hour 2.8 C hour . As a practical consideration, it is difficult to isothermally hold at a particular temperature in a production furnace, but very small variations in heating rate about a selected recrystallization temperature is within the scope of the invention.Most preferably such an isothermal hold shall mean a heating rate of less than 50hour 2.8 C hour . Specific processing of the steel up to final texture annealing may be conventional and is not critical to the present invention. The specific processing may include a number of conventional steps which include preparing a melt of the steel, casting the steel, hot rolling the steel, cold rolling the steel to final gauge with intermediate annealing steps, decarburizing the steel, applying a refractory oxide base coating, and then final texture annealing the steel in excess of 20000F 1093 0C . Although the texture annealing method of the invention described in detail hereinafter has utility with grain oriented silicon steel generally, the following typical compostion in weight is one example of a silicon steel composition adapted for use with the method of this invention C Mn S Cu Si Fe 0.030 0.065 0.025 0.22 3.15 Balance To illustrate the several aspects of the final texture annealing process of the present invention, various samples of a silicon steel having a composition similar to the above described typicial composition were processed and the results of the tests are shown in the following Table I. TABLE I Average Hold Hold Wpp Sample No. of Temp. Time at at 10 HGroup Samples OF Hrs. 17 KG Gauss A 18 None .754 1812 B 25 None .746 1820 C 25 None .726 1819 D 25 1600 6 .706 1833 E 25 1650 6 .711 1830 F 25 1700 6 .728 1824 G 25 1750 6 .736 1816 H 17 None .730 1821 I 17 1460 6 .724 . 1828 J 17 1540 6 .724 1823 K 17 1650 6 .706 1834 L 17 1600 6 .719 1828 M 17 1600 12 .717 1827 N 15 None .727 1820 0 15 1550 12 .731 1816 P 15 1600 6 .737 1820 Q 15 1650 6 .718 1832 R 15 1700 12 .736 1815 S 11 1600 50 .707 1831 T 15 1550 50 .744 1812 U 15 1600 6 .731 1821 V 15 1600 20 .695 1838 W 15 1650 6 .703 1833 X 15 1650 20 .708 1832 Y 15 1700 6 .740 1812 Z 15 1700 20 .738 1814AA 15 1550 12 .731 1816BB 15 1600 12 .717 1833CC 15 1650 12 .709 1837DD 15 1700 12 .736 1815 All the Sample Groups of Table I were obtained from various heats of nominally ll mil 0.279mm gauge silicon steel having the above identified typical composition.The samples were all coated with MgO slurry and heated from a charge temperature at a relatively constant heating rate of about 50 0F hour 27.70C hour or greater.Groups D G and I M and O DD were all heated from charge temperature up to the specified hold temperature. SampleGroups A, B, C, H and N were not isothermally annealed and so were not held at any temperature, but were heated from the charge temperature up to a purification soak temperature. All the Sample Groups were texture annealed in a hydrogen atmosphere at a soak temperature of 21500F 11770C . Groups A Z were held at 21500F for 20 hours, and Groups AA DD for 10 hours. The magnetic properties listed in Table I represent an average value for core loss and permeability for the number of samples for that group. The distrubution of 60Hz core losses at 17 KG 1.7 Telsa and permeability at 10 Oersteds for those samples are shown in Figures la and lb. The data show that generally the samples which were held for time at a temperature within the recrystalization range of 1600 to 17000F 871 to 7260C have improved properties over those samples not held at temperature Samples A, B, C, H and N . The data demonstrate that annealed samples demonstrate incomplete recrystallization if the hold temperature is 15500F 0 843 C . All samples were completely recrystallized at about 1650 0F 900 0C hold temperature. The data also 0 0 suggest that within the 1600 1700 F 871 to 926 C range, there may be a range of temperatures within which substantial recrystallization occurs so as to result in improved magnetic properties. The range of about 1600 16500F 871 9000C is preferred. The hold time for the isothermal anneal is also critical. Insufficient time results in incomplete recrystallization. Too much time will generally result in some deterioration of magnetic properties, as shown byGroups S and T at 50 hours hold time. Results of tests have shown that the hold times of 6 to 20 hours provide good properties with a practical preferred time being about 12 hours. TABLE II Average Hold Hold WPP I, Sample No. of Temp. Time at at 10 HGroup Samples OF Hrs. 17 KG Gauss A 25 1550 12 .731 1808 B 25 1600 12 .728 1808 C 25 1650 12 .686 1853 D 25 1700 12 .706 1829 E 6 None .738 1800 F 6 1650 12 .682 1825 G 6 1550 12 .733 1789 H 6 1550 50 1.010 1640 µ 6 1650 50 .681 1818 J 6 1600 50 .796 1761 K 6 1700 12 .693 1817 6 1600 12 .716 1809 M 9 1600 12 .717 1804 N 9 1650 40 .675 1827 0 9 1650 40 .662 1834 P 25 1550 12 .726 1815 Q 25 1650 12 .691 1851 R 25 1650 12 .683 1838 S 25 1700 12 .706 1829 All the Sample Groups of Table II were obtained from various heats of nominally 9 mil 0.229mm gauge silicon steel having the same nominal composition as for the ll mil samples of Table I. The samples were all coated with MgO slurry and heated from a charge temperature at a relatively constant heating rate of about 50 0F hour 27.70C hour or greater. All of theSample Groups, except Group E, were heated from charge temperature up to the specified hold temperature. SampleGroup E was not isothermally annealed and so was not held at temperature, but was heated from the charge temperature up to a purification soak temperature.All the Sample Groups were texture annealed in a hydrogen atmosphere at a soak temperature of 2150 0F 11770C and held for 10 hours. The magnetic properties listed in Table II represent an average value for core loss and permeability for the number of samples for that group. The distribution of 60 Hz core losses at 17 KG 1.7 Tesla and permeability at 10 Oersteds for those samples are shown in Figures 2a and 2b. The data show that for 9 mil gauge as with the ll mil gauge, the annealed samples were incompletely recrystallized at 1550 0F 843 0C , but completely recrystallized at about 1650 0F 900 0C hold temperature.The data also suggest that within the 1600 17000F 871 to 9260C range, there may be a range of temperatures within which substantial recrystallization occurs with a corresponding improvement in magnetic properties. The range of about 1650 17000F 900 926 0C is preferred and is slightly higher than the range for the thicker, ll mil steel. The data also confirm that the hold times for the isothermal anneal are critical. As with the ll mil data, the 9 mil samples demonstrate some deterioration of magnetic properties at 50 hours hold time, as shown byGroups H, I and J. Groups H and J show such poor properties that they are not plotted in figures 2a and 2b. It appears that the thin guage 9 mil material is even more sensitive to hold times than the ll mil material. Results of tests have shown that hold times up to 20 hours provide good results, preferably 6 to 20 hours, and a practical preferred time of about 12 hours. The overall results show that a dramatic improvement in overall magnetic properties of core loss and permeability result from both 9 mil and ll mil steel when processed by an isothermal anneal for 6 20 hours within the range 1600 17000F 871 to 9260C . The preferred ranges for each differ within that range, but the best combination of properties and complete secondary recrystallization occurs at about 1650 0F 900 0C for both gauges. The method of the present invention relates to an improved final texture annealing process wherein the steel is heated to a recrystallization temperature within the range of 1600 to 17000F 871 to 9260C . The heating 0 rate may be of the order of a conventional 50 F per hour 27.70C hour and the selected isothermal hold temperature be about 1650 0F 900 0C . The steel is then isothermally heated by holding the steel at that temperature for about 6 to 20 hours, preferably about 12 hours, to substantially complete secondary recrystallization.Thereafter the steel is heated from that temperature to a purification temperature in excess of 20000F 1093 0C , preferably about 20000F 1204O , at a heating rate such as 50 0F per hour 27.7 C hour and held at that temperature to effect purification. Generally, the heating rate up to the hold temperature and up to the purification temperature are relatively constant heating rates. The heating rate, however, does not appear to be critical to significantly affect the properties. An advantage of the method of the present invention is that secondary recrystallization is essentially completed during the isothermal portion of the heat treatment, rather than being completed in accordance with conventional practice during heating to the higher purification temperature. As has been demonstrated, the effect of the present invention is to improve both magnetic permeability and core loss values. The method of the present invention is able to improve the magnetic properties in a manner not heretofore recognized in the art.