# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY USING MULTIPLE LEVEL STORAGE STRUCTURE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeicher mit XY Adreßsystem, umfassend

## Description
This invention relates to a semiconductor memory, and more particularly to a semiconductor integrated circuit memory. As typified by a dynamic random access memory DRAM or a semiconductor memory using a charge coupled device CCD memory , a semiconductor memory having a high integration density stores data by making the existence and absence of charge inside a potential well on a semiconductor surface correspond to digital signals 1 and 0 . However, this storing method involves the problem that in the case of DRAM, for example, only binary 1 digit 1 bit data can be handled for each unit memory cell, and hence the amount of total bits per chip is limited. Particularly in the charge storage type memory such as described above, charge leaks from a pn junction formed essentially in a charge storage portion so that the data can be stored only for a limited period of time. This results in another problem that a mechanism for rewriting refreshing the stored data on a certain cycle of time within that period is essentially necessary. The CCD memory has a structure in which the stored charge is cycled using a transfer electrode. In order to effect rewrite refresh , therefore, the stored charge is transferred along a CCD transfer electrode loop arranged cyclicly, and the charge must be read and written at an input output portion disposed at a predetermined position inside the CCD loop on a certain cycle of time. However, a great deal of power is necessary to charge and discharge the transfer electrodes for transferring the charge in order to refresh all data, and it has therefore been difficult in the past to provide a memory having low power consumption. Semiconductor memories having higher integration density as exemplified by a semiconductor dynamic random access memory hereinafter called DRAM have been developed every year, and miniaturization of unit memory cells hereinafter called memory cells of the semiconductor memory and its peripheral circuits is ever increasing. In order to improve the integration density by miniaturization such as described above, however, a drastic improvement must be made in device process technique such as photolithography, etching and the like, but a considerably long period of time is generally necessary before improved device process technique is developed. In contrast, demands for very high integration density semiconductor memories are ever increasing, and semiconductor memories having low power consumption are earnestly required in a novel field of application such as miniature computers for office use and their peripheral terminals that have made a remarkable progress in recent years. For these reasons, existing semiconductors are not entirely satisfactory not only in their integration density but also in their performance such as power consumption. To fulfill the demands described above, semiconductor memories using multiple level storage structure MLS memories are believed to be effective means that can realize very high integration density semiconductor memories and are available in accordance with the existing process technique. The memory improves substantially the integration density by storing data of at least more than two levels per memory cell. A multi level storage memory using charge coupled device hereinafter called CCD has been known in the past. The memory is described in detail in L. Terman et al. IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits, Vol. sc 16, No. 5, pp. 472 478, October, 1981, and M. Yamada et al, Proceedings of the 9th Conference on Solid State Devices, Tokyo, 1977, pp. 263 268, issued on January, 1978, for example. However, the multi level storage memory using the charge coupled devices CCD has not much been put into practical application for the following reasons. EP A 0 031 491 discloses a semiconductor memory with the features included in the first part of claim 1. Each individual cell of the known memory is capable of storing charges of any one of at least three charge levels. In reading the information contained in one memory cell, the entire charge is transferred to a peripheral sensing circuit formed in charge coupled device technology and including a floating gate sensor, where the amount of charge derived from the memory cell is detected and converted into a binary output signal. IBM Technical Disclosure Bulletin, vol. 22 no. 7, December 1979, pages 2978 and 2979 further describes a charge coupled device detection scheme according to which a given amount of charges is detected by the use of a stepped multi level voltage. It is an object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor memory which operates at low power consumption and permits a very high integration density. The semiconductor memory of the invention meets this object by the features recited in claim 1. In an embodiment of the invention, stepped multi level voltages are applied to the word lines of the memory matrix so that the stored data are read at the timing at which the stored charge flows from the respective memory cell, and data are written into the memory cell at a timing corresponding to the respective input signal. First of all, the principle of the reading and storing operations of the multi level three or more levels charge storage state as the basis of the MLS memory of the present invention will be described. Figure 1 illustrates the sectional structure of a memory cell in accordance with the first principle of the invention and the kind of applied voltages. For convenience sake, the memory based on the later appearing principle will be hereinafter called a word gate driving MLS memory . Although the electron is dealt with as the stored charge, the principle can be applied exactly in the same way to the positive hole by converting the conductivity type of a semiconductor and inverting the voltage for operating the memory. In the drawing, reference numeral 10 represents a p type semiconductor layer a substrate of a semiconductor layer disposed on the substrate , reference numeral 11 is a gate insulating film oxidized film or the like , and reference numerals 12 and 13 are electrodes formed on the gate insulating film. Reference numerals 14 and 15 represents highly doped n type semiconductor layers formed in self alignment with the electrodes by ion implantation, or the like, respectively. The electrode 13 corresponds to the gate of an insulated gate field effect transistor MOS FET , and the n type semiconductor layers 14 and 15 correspond to the drain or source of the transistor. When a positive voltage is applied to the plate electrode 12, an inversion layer which is induced on the surface of the semiconductor layer 10 is electrically coupled with the n type semiconductor layer 15, thereby forming a capacitance in cooperation with the electrode 12 and making it possible to store the electrons in the inversion layer. When this memory cell is used in a memory device consisting of a two dimensional arragnement, the gate 13 of MOS FET is connected to an address decoded row line word line 2, and the drain 14, to an address decoded column line bit line 3 to form a memory matrix.The electrode 12 is connected in common to all the memory cells, and a positive D.C. voltage is applied to it. Figures 2A, 2B and 2C illustrate the surface potential to the electrons along the surface of the semiconductor layer of the memory cell shown in Figure 1. Figure 2A illustrates the charge storage mode. The stored charge 20 in the potential well 21 below the plate is isolated from the bit line 23 by a potential barrier 22 below the gate of MOS FET, and from the other regions by the potential barrier of an isolation region disposed around the memory cell. When reading of the multi level charge state is effected, multi level step voltages w 30, 31, 32 that shifts from a low voltage to a high voltage are applied to the word line 22 as shown in Fig. 3. In the drawing, reference numeral 30 corresponds to Figure 2A, 31 to Figure 2B, and 32 to Figure 2C. When the voltage w is increased in a positive direction, the potential barrier below the gate of MOS FET drops in the sequence of 22 24 26 as shown in Figures 2A, 2B and 2C, and when it becomes below the surface potential at a storage node 25 the state represented by 26 , the charge flows out 27 from the storage portion to the bit line. Figure 3 illustrates the mode of drop of the bit line voltage VD 33, 34 caused by the outflow of the charge. As described above, the storage state of the charge having three or more levels can be discriminated by detecting the timing at which the difference between the potential barrier below the gate of the word line and the potential at the storage portion, when the former is gradually reduced, is inverted, as the change of the bit line voltage VD. Next, the principle of the writing mode of the multi level charge storage state will be described. Figures 4A through 4D are schematic views showing the concept of the potential on the surface of the semiconductor layer when the multi level charge is stored, and Figure 5 shows the change, with time, of the word line and bit line voltages when charge storage is effected. Figures 4A through 4D correspond to the state of application of the voltages represented by reference numerals 50 through 53 in Figure 5, respectively. Before writing is executed, the word line applied voltage w is set in advance to the highest level so that the potential barrier below the gate of the word line becomes minimal 42 , while the data line voltage VD is set in advance to the lowest level 54 at which the potential well 41 of the storage portion is filled by the charge 42 for example, to the ground potential . Next, the multi level step voltage w 50 53 shown in Figure 5 is applied to the word line. Then, the bit line voltage VD is raised from 54 to 55 as shown in Figure 5 at the timing at which the potential barrier 43, 45, 48 below the gate of the word line is in agreement with the surface potential which corresponds to the amount of charge to be stored finally, and the charge is extracted 44 from the bit line 46 as shown in Figure 4C. Figure 4D shows the final charge storage state stored charge 47 . Next, the reading and storing operation of the multi level two or more levels charge storage state in the memory cell in accordance with the second principle will be described. Hereinafter, this principle will be called a plate electrode driving MLS memory to distinguish it from the word gate driving system described earlier for convenience sake. Figure 6 illustrates the sectional structure of the memory cell and the applied voltage. This memory cell is not much different from the word gate driving system described in its cross sectional structure already, and the difference is that unlike the system described already, the plate electrode 62 forming the charge storage portion is independent for each row and is disposed in parallel with the word line gate 63. Figures 7A, 7B, 7C and 7D illustrate the principle of discriminating the storage states of the multi level charge in accordance with this system. A low voltage 80 is applied to the word line 5 in order to prevent the leakage of the charge 70 of the storage portion to the bit line during holding of the charge and to sufficiently raise the potential barrier 72 below the word line gate. During the read operation, a voltage 81 which is higher than that during data holding is applied to the selected row to reduce the potential barrier 74, 76, 78 below the word line gate so that the charge flowing out from the storing portion is caused to flow only through the bit line. Under this selected state, when the voltage Likewise, the principle of the writing operation of the storage state of the multi level two or more levels charge in this plate electrode driving system will be described. Figures 9A through 9E illustrate the potential along the surface of the semiconductor layer of the memory cell during the storing operating, and Figure 10 illustrates the voltage waveform at each portion of the memory cell when the storing operating is conducted. The potential 92 of the bit line is set to a level somewhat lower than the potential barrier 91 below the word line gate in the selected state before the storing operation is effected. Multi level step voltage Figure 9E illustrates the charge storage state. The word line voltage is reduced 101 102. Hereinafter, two embodiments of the invention will be described. Figure 11 illustrates an example of a memory using a multi level storage structure in which a memory cell of the word gate driving system is used as each unit memory. In the drawing, a memory cell is shown constituted by n channel MOS FET 115 and a charge storing portion 116. Reference numeral 111 represents a row address select circuit, which selects only one row from a plurality of rows. In order to select a word line 117, a predetermined voltage is applied from the row address select circuit to the gate of a row address select transistor 109, which is connected to the word line 117, so as to render the transistor 109 conductive. In the case of the n channel MOS transistor shown in this embodiment, a power source voltage V On the other hand, a high sensitive sense amplifier 120 is connected to one of the ends of a bit line 118. This amplifier consists of a pre sense circuit which amplifies a minute change of the bit line potential by voltage amplification or the like, and a main sense circuit which amplifies the output of the pre sense circuit to a logic swing inside the memory, and drives level storage cells consisting of n channel MOS FETs. In this embodiment, the output line 133 is discharged from the power source potential V When the output line 133 of the amplifier is set in advance to V Figure 12 illustrates the voltage waveform at each portion corresponding to the read operation. Figures 12 a through 12 d illustrate the triggering pulse , the word line potential Figure 14 illustrates the potential along the memory cell section corresponding to the read operation of the 4 level charge storage state shown in this embodiment. The potential barriers below the word line gate corresponding to the word line voltages If the surface potential of the charge storage portion is below 413, the flow out charge does not occur to the end. In such a case, the potential of the output line 133 of the amplifier is reduced so as to store a potential, which is lower by the threshold voltage than V Next, the operation at the time of charge storage writing will be explained. First, a reset pulse As described above, this embodiment represents that the rewriting operation refresh operation which is essential in a charge storage type semiconductor memory can be accomplished easily. Figure 13 illustrates the voltage waveform at each portion during the writing operation. Figures 13 a and 13 b illustrate the waveforms of the triggering pulse and the word line potential To produce the read data outside the semiconductor memory, a column address select circuit 112 is further added. A transistor 142 is connected to the output line 138 of the 4 level temporary storage cell selected by the select circuit 112 and to a common data line 143. Therefore, when the output line 138 of the temporary storage cell shifts to V Next, the rewriting operation of the stored data will be described. This rewriting operation is conducted only for the column which is selected by the column address select circuit 112. When the rewriting operation is made, it is necessary to make the temporary storage cells inactive before the start of the rewriting operation. For this purpose, the output line of the amplifier 133 for the selected column is discharged to V The digital binary signals corresponding to the rewrite data that are applied from outside through the terminals 145 and 146 are decoded by a decoder DEC disposed inside the interface circuit 144, and shift one of the output lines of the decoder 163 166 to V In Figure 15, EOR is an exclusive OR circuit EOR gate and NOR is an inversion logic summation circuit NOR gate . This signal is transmitted to the output line 138 of the temporary storage cells through the transistor 142 to actuate the write transistor 141. As a result of the operation described above, the 2 bit digital signal applied from outside the semiconductor memory can be written as a 4 level voltage state into a memory cell positioned at the point of intersection of one row address line and one column address line. Figure 16 illustrates an example of a semiconductor memory using the multiple level storage structure, which uses plate driving type memory cells as the unit memory cells. In the drawing, an n channel MOS FET 115 and a MOS type charge storing portion 175 constitute a memory cell. A first row address select line word line 173 is connected to the gate of MOS FET of the memory cell, while a second row address select line 174 is connected to the electrode plate of the MOS charge storage portion 175. The first and second row select lines that are parallel to each other are connected to a potential application line Figure 17 illustrates the voltage waveform at each portion during the read mode. The process in which the charge flows onto the data lines by Figure 18 illustrates the voltage waveform at each portion during the write mode. In the write mode, the output line 138 of the temporary storage memory cells actuates the pulse generator 176 in Figure 16 so as to generate a potential change such as shown in Figure 18 j . Since the other operations are the same as those of the Embodiment 1, their description is hereby omitted.