# APPARATUS FOR RECORDING AND REPRODUCING A VIDEO SIGNAL OBTAINED FROM A HIGH SPEED SCANNING VIDEO CAMERA

## Claims
Vorrichtung zum Aufzeichnen und Wiedergeben eines Hochgeschwindigkeits Videosignals auf ein und von einem magnetischen Aufzeichnungsband, wobei das Hochgeschwindigkeits Videosignal von einer Videokamera 1 mit einer erhöhten, N mal N ist eine ganze Zahl größeren Abtastgeschwindigkeit als die Abtastgeschwindigkeit einer ein Standard Fernsehvideosignal erzeugenden Standard Videokamera erhalten ist,

## Description
This invention relates to apparatus for recording and reproducing a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera. It is known to use a high speed film camera as an apparatus for picking up and recording a phenomenon moving at high speed. The high speed film is however subject to the defect that a phenomenon moving at high speed, which has been recorded by the camera, cannot be reproduced immediately. To remove the above defect, various researches and technical developments have been made in which a phenomenon moving at high speed is picked up by a television camera, recorded by a video tape recorder VTR or the like, and then reproduced immediately. As is known well, it takes at least 1 60 of a second for an ordinary television camera to convert a single picture to an electrical signal. Accordingly, it is impossible for the television camera to pick up a moving object which moves so fast that its image changes at a speed greater than 1 60 of a second. To solve this problem, a technique is disclosed in, for example, the published specification of Japanese Patent Application examined No. 26416 1977 in which the visual field of a pickup tube is divided into a plurality of sections, the whole of an object is placed in each one of the sections and the object image on the pickup tube is scanned during a scanning period of time corresponding to each section to thereby enable a phenomenon moving at high speed to be picked up. Further, in the published specification of Japanese Patent Application examined No. 13631 1980 there is disclosed a technique in which an optical image of an object is sequentially projected onto a plurality of pickup tubes having an accumulation effect at every constant interval during a constant time period, and the video signals from the respective pickup tubes are respectively supplied to a plurality of recording apparatuses to thereby successively record the time image of a phenomenon moving at high speed. In addition, in the published specification of Japanese Patent Application unexamined No. 2119 1977 there is disclosed a technique in which two image pickup elements or imagers are employed and deflections thereof are mutually displaced by every 1 2 frame to thereby produce a video signal of high speed at twice the frame speed. However, according to the technique disclosed in the published specification of Japanese Patent Application examined No. 26416 1977, since the visual field is substantially narrowed, only the image of the periphery of the moving object is obtained. Also, since the movable range of the moving object is confined within the one divided section, this technique is not suitable for general use. According to the technique disclosed in the published specification of Japanese Patent Application examined No. 13631 1980, since a plurality of image elements having an accumulation effect and a plurality of recording apparatuses are required, the arrangement thereof becomes complicated, which results in significant inconvenience in practical use. Furthermore, since the technique disclosed in the published specification of Japanese Patent Application unexamined No. 2119 1977 requires a plurality of image pickup elements and the recorded pattern on a magnetic tape becomes special non standard , the recorded tape has no compatibility. In addition, it might be considered that a video signal picked up by a television camera at a scanning speed which is a plurality of times N higher than the ordinary scanning speed could be recorded as it is by using a VTR. In that case, it would be necessary to set the speed of revolution of a rotary drum of the tape guide drum at N times its standard value and to set the tape transport speed at N times its standard value. This, however, will cause the following problems. The applicants have previously proposed a recording apparatus, for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, which can record a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera by using a television camera and a video tape recorder VTR . See the applicant s co pending European Patent Application EP A 0120696. Such recording apparatus, for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, comprises a memory means for storing therein a video signal derived from a high speed scanning video camera having a scanning speed which is faster than the scanning speed of a standard television signal and a plurality of rotary magnetic heads supplied with video signals of a plurality of channels read out in parallel from the memory means such tha the video signals of the plurality of channels are recorded on the magnetic tape by the plurality of rotary magnetic heads so as to form adjoining slanting tracks sequentially. According to the invention there is provided apparatus for recording on and reproducing from a magnetic recording tape a high speed video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera having a scanning speed which is N times N is an integer the scanning speed of a standard video camera that generates a standard television video signal, the apparatus being characterised by A preferred embodiment of the present invention described hereinbelow provides a recording and reproducing apparatus for recording and reproducing a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, which apparatus can easily pick up, record and reproduce a phenomenon moving at high speed by using a television camera and a VTR. The preferred apparatus is compatible with a VTR of a standard type, for example the C format of the SMPTE. Further, the preferred apparatus can record a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera so that the signal can be reproduced at a tape speed sufficiently lower than the normal tape speed without causing vertical synchronising disorder and dropping of the picture. In other words, the preferred apparatus can record the video signal on the magnetic tape with the standard recording pattern and can reproduce the signal at a tape speed sufficiently lower than the normal tape speed. The invention will now be further described, by way of illustrative and non limiting example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which like references designate like elements and parts throughout, and in which A previously proposed recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera will now be described with reference to Figure 1. This recording apparatus employs an image pickup apparatus or high speed scanning video camera having a scanning speed which is five times the scanning speed of a standard television signal of the NTSC National Television Systems Committee system. If a subcarrier frequency, a horizontal frequency, a vertical frequency and a frame frequency of a video signal are respectively taken as f In Figure 1, a reference numeral 1 designates an image pickup apparatus, video camera or imager which includes an image element such as a picture tube, a solid state image pickup element or the like and a driving means, a signal processing circuit and the like corresponding thereto. In this example, the video camera 1 also includes an encoder to produce a composite colour video signal in accordance with the NTSC system. Such encoder can, however, be provided at a signal processing circuit or system at a stage subsequent to the video camera 1, for example in a subsequent digital to analog D A converter stage which will be described hereinbelow. The composite colour video signal from the video camera 1 is supplied to an analog to digital A D converter 2 and thereby digitised. A synchronising signal separating circuit 3 receives the video signal from the video camera 1 to separate therefrom various synchronising signals. A colour framing signal from the video camera 1 and horizontal and vertical synchronising signals from the synchronising signal separating circuit 3 are supplied to a clock signal generating system control circuit 4. A clock signal with a frequency f The digitised video signal from the A D converter 2 is supplied through on off switches S₁ to S₁₀ to a field memory 5 memories M 1 to M 10 and thereby written therein with the data rate of the write frequency f Each of the frequency modulators MD 1 to MD 5 includes means for adjusting the video level, carrier frequency, deviation, differential gain, differential phase, frequency characteristic and the like, by means of which the characteristics of the respective channels can be made uniform. The previously proposed recording apparatus presently being described makes use of a television camera and a video tape recorder VTR of helical scan system or type. While, in this apparatus, the section from the video camera 1 to the D A converters DA 1 to DA 5 is taken or considered as the television camera side and the section from the frequency modulators MD 1 to MD 5 ro the rotary magnetic heads H The operation of the apparatus shown in Figure 1 will now be described with reference to Figure 2. In Figure 2, references T₁, T₂, T₃ ...... designate field periods each having a time width or duration During the period T₁, only the switch S₁ is turned on to allow the digitised video signal to be written into the memory M 1. During the succeeding period T₂, only the switch S₂ is turned on to allow the video signal to be written into the memory M 2. In like manner, the image signal is sequentially written into the memories M 3 to M 10. In the field period T₆, the movable contact Similarly, in the field period T₇, the video signal W The video signal VID 1 comprises the video signals R Figures 3A and 3B illustrate the arrangement of the respective rotary magnetic heads recording heads H A tape recorded under the above conditions must satisfy all dimensions which are determined by the standard or normalisation. In Figure 4, a recorded track pattern vector on the tape becomes the sum of a tape transport vector where ϑ c and ϑ From the above two equations, and ϑ When reproducing the tape by a VTR of SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers type C, in order to form on the tape a slanting track in which the relative speeds of the rotary head and the tape transport speed are coincident with each other the external diameter of the tape guide drum must be selected to be smaller than that of the SMPTE type C VTR by a predetermined amount. How this can be accomplished will now be described with reference to Figure 5. In Figure 5, a relative speed or velocity If the length track length of a slanting track formed on the magnetic tape by the rotary magnetic head upon still playback of the SMPTE type C VTR is taken as Ic, the track length Ic is expressed by the following equation. A track length 1 of a slanting track formed on the tape when the tape transport speed is five times the normal tape speed is expressed as Accordingly, Ic² and I² can be expressed by the following equations Consequently, Dc D can be expressed as follows Thus, the outer diameter D Dc of the tape guide drum is selected. The tape pattern of the tape recorded by the tape guide drum, the rotary magnetic head, the tape transport system and so on, which are determined as above, can satisfy the standards of the SMPTE type C VTR. Figure 6 shows the tape pattern suited for the standard of the SMPTE type C VTR and the positional relationship between the rotary magnetic heads H When the tape recorded as described above is reproduced by a VTR complying with the standard of the SMPTE type C format in a normal playback mode, it is possible to reproduce the video picture moving at high speed in slow motion. Another previously proposed recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera will now be described with reference to Figure 7. If the switches S₁ to S₁₀, the memory 5, the switches S₁₁ to S₁₅ and the D A converters DA 1 to DA 5 of Figure 1 are taken in Figure 7 as one memory 5 , this memory 5 will be modified as follows. By way of example, if a serial memory such as a charge coupled device CCD and a shift register is used, the memory 5 can be formed by six field memories, switches, D A converters and so on. Parts of the apparatus of Figure 7 corresponding to parts in Figure 1 are designated by the same references and will not be described again. The operation of the memory 5 will be described with reference to Figure 8. In this case, let it be assumed that the memory 5 include six field memories M 1 to M 6. During the field period T₁, the digitised video signal is written into and then stored in the memory M 1. During the succeeding field period T₂, the video signal is written into the memory M 2. Similarly, the video signal is sequentially written into the memories M 3 to M 6 thereafter. In the field period T₂, the video signal W Similarly, in the field period T₃, the video signal W The video signal VID 1 comprises the video signals R If the memory 5 in Figure 7 uses a random access memory RAM , the writing and the reading can be carried out in a time sharing manner so that 5 field memories are sufficient. While in the apparatus shown in Figure 1 the synchronising signal is separated from the composite video signal derived from the video camera 1 and then is supplied to the clock signal generating system control circuit 4, it is also possible, as shown in Figure 7, for the synchronising signal to be generated from the clock signal generating system control circuit 4, which then is fed to the video camera 1. In order that a tape recorded by the above recording apparatus can be reproduced by a VTR of the SMPTE type C format, the slanting tracks formed on the magnetic tape by the five rotary magnetic heads H To this end, there is required an apparatus which reproduces the slanting tracks recorded on the magnetic tape by the respective rotary magnetic heads H Such a detecting adjusting apparatus will now be described with reference to Figures 9A, 9B and 10. As shown in Figures 9A and 9B, in addition to the rotary magnetic heads H As shown in Figure 10, an output terminal of the rotary magnetic head H The operation of the detecting adjusting apparatus will now be described. At first, the movable contact Thereafter, the movable contact A bias drive circuit for displacing the monitor playback rotary magnetic head H In a dynamic tracking servo circuit 24, the detected displacement output from the strain gauge 11 is supplied through an amplifier 12 to a known dynamic tracking control circuit 13 which is used in the VTR of SMPTE type C format or the like. A control signal from the control circuit 13 is supplied through an on off switch S Further, the detected displacement signal from the amplifier 12 is supplied through a low pass filter 16, an amplifier 17 and an on off switch S An erase signal generating circuit 23 generates an attenuating vibrating or oscillating erase signal which converges or decays to 0V. The erase signal from the circuit 23 is supplied through an on off switch S The operation of the circuit shown in Figure 11 will now be described with reference to Figure 12. Figure 12 shows the tracks on the tape and the magnetic heads at some instant in the recording mode, more specifically an instant when the rotary head H In Figure 11, when the recording mode is selected the switch S When the movable contact Another previously proposed recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning camera will now be described with reference to Figure 13. In Figure 13, parts corresponding to parts shown in Figure 1 are designated by the same references and will not be described again. The apparatus of Figure 13 uses a video camera having a scanning speed which is three times the scanning speed of the standard television signal of the NTSC system. If the subcarrier frequency, horizontal frequency, vertical frequency and frame frequency of the video signal are respectively taken as f The digitised video signal from the A D converter 2 is supplied through the on off switches S₁ to S₆ to the field memory 5 including memories M 1 to M 6 and written therein with the date rate of the write frequency f The operation of the apparatus shown in Figure 13 will now be described with reference to Figure 14. In Figure 14, references T₁, T₂, T₃ ...... designate field periods, each of which has a time width or duration T During the period T₁, only the switch S₁ is turned on so that the digitised video signal is written into the memory M 1. During the next period T₂, only the switch S₂ is turned on to allow the digitised video signal to be written into the memory M 2. In like manner, the digitised video signals are thereafter sequentially written into the memories M 3 to M 6. In the field period T₄, the movable contact of the switch S₁₁ is connected to its fixed contact Similarly, in the field period T₅, the video signal W The video signal VID 1 comprises the video signals R Consequently, according to the previously proposed recording apparatus, a colour video signal which requires a tracing speed which is N times the normal value of the NTSC system is produced from the video camera in the form of a component signal and then written into the memory, the storage capacity of which is N fields or more. The N channel component video signals having the normal tracking speed are produced from the memory and then encoded to form signals in accordance with the NTSC system, to thereby produce NTSC colour video signals. The NTSC colour video signals are then supplied to N rotary magnetic heads and the N channel colour video signals are recorded on the magnetic tape so as sequentially to form adjoining slanting tracks. In this previously proposed recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, if N is 4n 1 or 4n 1 where n 1, 2, 3, ...... , the arrangement of the colour encoder becomes different. When N 4n 1, the colour encoder may be an ordinary NTSC system encoder. On the other hand, when N 4n 1, in order to record on the tape a colour video signal with colour framing properties, the NTSC system colour encoder must be modified so as to invert the phase of the colour subcarrier signal of each channel at every field. If the previously proposed recording apparatus is used to process a colour video signal in accordance with the SECAM system, the colour encoder must carry out the same colour framing operation as that of the colour video signal of the NTSC system. For a colour video signal of the PAL Phase Alteration Line system, when N 8n 1 n is an even number and N 4n 1, where n 1, 2, 3, ...... , the colour encoder may be an ordinary PAL system encoder. When N 8n 3 n is an odd number and N 4n 1, where n 1, 2, 3, ...... , the colour encoder must be modified so as to produce a colour video signal with the colour framing recorded on the tape when the colour video signal is encoded after being converted from digital to analog signals for the PAL system. Accordingly, when N is an odd number equal to 3 or more, the arrangement of the colour encoder becomes simple. If this simple arrangement of the colour encoder it not needed or desired, N may be an even number. According to the above described recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, a phenomenon moving at high speed can easily be picked up and rcorded by means of a television camera and a VTR. A tape recorded by such recording apparatus can be reproduced by a VTR of a normal system or type, that is to say it is possible to obtain a recorded tape which has compatibility. When N 4n 1 n 1, 2, 3, ...... , the arrangment of the colour encoder is simple for each television system. The above described recording apparatuses record a video signal derived from a television or video camera having a line scanning speed which is three or five times greater than the standard television signal so as to be reproducible by a VTR of SMPTE C type format, or to produce a tape having compatibility. Various variations and modifications as regards the application of the above technical idea can be considered. More particularly, it is possible to record a video signal derived from a television camera having a line scanning speed of, for example, five times, 5 x 2 10 times and 5 x 3 15 times that of the standard television signal. To this end, the television camera must be controlled to make the line scanning speed equal to 5 x M times M 1, 2, 3, ...... that of the standard television signal. If the speed of revolution of the rotary drum is increased to be M times the normal speed of revolution with the tape speed five times the normal speed, it is possible to record video signals of various line scanning speeds. In this case, if the speed of the revolution of the rotary drum is made equal to M times the normal speed of revolution, there is some risk of the occcurrence of the above mentioned defects, namely difficulty in obtaining a corresponding relationship between emphasis and deemphasis, difficulty in securing the characteristics of the recording and reproducing circuit, problems of rotary transformer characteristic and the air film, or the like. However, the inventor of the applicants above cited co pending European patent application has ascertained that if the speed of revolution of the rotary drum is made equal to three times the normal speed of revolution, the above defects do not become significant. However, if the speed of revolution of the rotary drum is made equal to four or more times the normal speed of revolution, the above mentioned defects cannot be neglected and cannot be compensated for. Further previously proposed recording apparatuses for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, in which the speed of revolution of the rotary drum can be selectively switched, will now be described with reference to Figures 15 and 16. In Figures 15 and 16, except for an arrangement for selecting a line scanning speed of a television camera, parts corresponding to parts shown in Figure 1 are designated by the same references and will not be described again. The recording apparatus shown in Figure 15 comprises memory means for storing a video signal derived from a video camera, the scanning speed M.N.Sn of which is M.N where M and N are natural numbers times the scanning speed Sn of a standard television signal, and N rotary magnetic heads supplied with video signal of N channels read out in parallel from the memory means to have a scanning speed M.Sn which is M times the scanning speed Sn of the standard television signal and rotating at a speed of revolution equal to M times the normal speed of revolution, wherein the value of M in the scanning speed M.N.Sn of the video camera is changable in multiple stages, the speed of revolution of the rotary magnetic heads being changed in multiple stages in accordance with the change of the value of M, and the video signals of N channels being recorded on the magnetic tape by the N rotary magnetic heads so as sequentially to form adjoining slanting tracks. The recording apparatus shown in Figure 16 comprises memory means for storing a video signal derived from a video camera, the scanning speed M.N.Sn of which is M.N where M and N are natural numbers times the scanning speed Sn of a standard television signal, and 2N rotary magnetic heads supplied with video signals of N channels read out in parallel from the memory means to have a scanning speed M.Sn which is M times the scanning speed Sn of the standard television signal and rotating at a speed of revolution equal to M 2 times the field number of the standard television system, wherein the scanning speed M.N.Sn of the video camera is changable in multiple stages by changing the value of M, the speed of revolution of the rotary magnetic heads being changed in multiple stages in accordance with the change of the value of M, and the video signals of N channels being recorded on the magnetic tape by the 2N rotary magnetic heads so as sequentially to form adjoining slanting tracks. According to the apparatuses shown in Figures 15 and 16, phenomena moving at high speed can easily be picked up and recorded by using the television camera and the VTR. Also, the line scanning speed of the television camera can be changed in accordance with the moving phenomenon. The previously proposed recording apparatuses shown in Figures 15 and 16 will now be described in detail. In Figure 15, a reference numeral 1 designates an imager or video camera which includes an image element such as a pickup tube, a solid state image element or the like, a driving means therefor, a signal processing circuit and so on. In this case, the video camera 1 also includes an encoder which produces a composite colour video signal according to the NTSC system. However, it is possible to provide such encoder in the signal processing circuit or system for example in a subsequent D A converter which will be described later at a stage subsequent to the video camera 1. The composite colour video signal from the video camera 1 is supplied through a gain change over circuit 1a to an A D converter 2 and thereby digitised. A reference numeral 4 designates a clock signal generating system control circuit which produces a clock signal and a control signal including various synchronising signals and colour framing and which controls the whole system. An oscillatory signal having a frequency of 6f In the previously proposed recording apparatus shown in Figure 16, the rotary magnetic heads H The frequency modulated video signals from the frequency modulators MD 1 to MD5 are respectively supplied through the amplifiers A₁ to A₅ to the five pairs of rotary magnetic heads H Figure 17 shows the arrangement of the rotary magnetic heads H The diameter of the tape guide drum GD is selected in such a manner that the relative speed between the head and the tape becomes equal to that in the case in which five rotary magnetic heads are provided. And, if a tape recorded so as to have a track pattern which can be reproduced by a standard 2 head type VTR is formed and reproduced by the standard VTR at normal playback speed, phenomena moving at high speed can be reproduced in slow motion. In this apparatus, when the monitor playback rotary magnetic head is provided, it is possible to use a pair of rotary magnetic heads movable head having an angular spacing of 180 therebetween. The previously proposed arrangements set forth above provide recording apparatus for recording a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera which can easily pick up and record phenomena moving at high speed by using a television camera and a VTR. The arrangements shown in Figures 15 and 16 provide recording apparatus which can easily pick up and record phenomena moving at high speed by using a television camera and VTR and which can record phenomena moving at high speed with an optimum recording frequency matching the speed of the high speed motion phenomenon. According to the apparatus shown in Figure 16, when 2N rotary magnetic heads are rotated at a speed of revolution equal to M 2 times the standard speed of revolution, the rotary magnetic heads can trace the magnetic tape with a contact angle larger than that provided when N rotary magnetic heads are rotated at a speed of revolution equal to M times the standard speed of revolution. Thus, it is possible to widen the speed range upon playback to different speeds at which a stable picture can be reproduced. In a VTR of SMPTE type C, in the case of the NTSC system, a video signal from the 15th line of a 1st field to the first half of the 4th line of a 2nd field is recorded on one slanting track, while a video signal from the second half of the 14th line of the 2nd field to the 4th line of the 1st field is recorded on an adjacent slanting track. Between the video signals recorded on the adjacent slanting tracks there is a phase deviation of 2.5 H where H represents the horizontal period . Further, if the vertical blanking period of the video signal between the 1st and 2nd fields is taken as the 1st to 20th lines, in the first field, no video signal is recorded on the slanting track during 10 line periods of the 5th line to the 14th line of the vertical blanking period in the first field, while no video signal is recorded on the slanting track during 10 line periods of the second half of the 4th line to the first half of the 14th line of the vertical blanking period in the second field. Generally, when a magnetic tape on which a video signal is recorded is reproduced in a VTR at a tape speed different from that upon recording, the rotary magnetic head traces in a slantwise manner the slanting tracks formed parallel to each other. If the magnetic tape on which the video signal is recorded is reproduced in slow to still modes or in a reverse playback mode in such a manner that the direction of rotation of the rotary magnetic head is made opposite to the transport direction of the magnetic tape, the frequency of the reproduced video signal is lowered as compared with that of the video signal upon the recording mode namely, the video signal is expanded in time so that the period during which the video signal is not reproduced is widened over 10 lines. This will be described with reference to Figure 18. In Figure 18, an abscissa X X indicates the tape transport speed where the normal tape speed is taken as 1 , and an ordinate Y Y indicates the relative phase where 2.5 H is taken as 1 of the video signal reproduced from the magnetic tape on which the video signal is recorded by the high speed scanning video camera. The case where the magnetic tape is transported at a tape speed which is 5 times the normal tape speed and a video signal is then recorded, while the magnetic tape is transported at a tape speed lower than the normal tape speed and then reproduced, will be explained by way of example. A straight line O x₀ in Figure 18 indicates a relationship between a point in which, upon reproducing, the rotary magnetic head is in position in a just tracking state at the beginning of a slanting track, traces the slanting track with dynamic tracking and at last no reproduced output is produced therefrom, and the tape transport speed. In other words, bent lines x₀ O X and X O x ₀ respectively indicate the expanded time and compressed time of the reproduced video signal at each tape transport speed. Moreover, in the ordinary dynamic tracking system, respective regions of the bent lines x₀ O X and x ₀ O X are converted to respective regions shown by the bent lines A₁ O B₁ and A₂ O B₂, thereby being made symmetrical with each other with respect to the abscissa X X. Then, the straight lines O B₁ and O A₁ respectively become the centre of designing the beginning and end portions at which the rotary magnetic head starts to or ceases to make contact with the slanting track of the magnetic tape. The region of the bent line A₁ O B₁ becomes a region in which the video signal cannot be reproduced. Straight lines V₁ V ₁ and V₂ V ₂ parallel to the abscissa X X¹ respectively indicate limits at which the vertical blanking period of the video signal can be reproduced, while straight lines V₃ V ₃ and V₄ V ₄ parallel to the abscissa X X respectively indicate the end and beginning of the video period of the video signal. When, upon playback at a tape transport speed different from that upon recording, an ideal jump processing operation is performed, considering that the rotation phase of the capstan is continuous and that the jump processing condition for maintaining the tracking is some integral multiple of one pitch 2.5H , the rotary magnetic head for performing the dynamic tracking ceases to make contact with the magnetic tape in the region between straight lines a₁ a ₁ and a₂ a ₂, while it starts to make contact with the magnetic tape in a region between straight lines b₁ b ₁ and b₂ b ₂. Accordingly, after the ordinary signal processing is performed and the SMPTE type C format is followed, when the video signal recorded on the magnetic tape at a tape speed equal to 5 times the normal tape speed is reproduced at a tape speed of about 3.6 times the normal tape speed, it becomes difficult to reproduce the end portion of the vertical blanking period of the video signal. When such video signal is reproduced at a tape speed equal to about 2.8 times the normal tape speed, the end portion of the video period of the video signal begins to be dropped. From the above considerations, it can be understood that a magnetic tape on which a video signal is recorded at a tape speed equal to 5 times the normal tape speed cannot be reproduced at a tape speed equal to or less than about 3.6 times the normal tape speed. In this connection, a magnetic tape on which a video signal is recorded at tape speed equal to 3 times the normal tape speed cannot be reproduced at a tape speed equal to or less than about 1.6 times the normal tape speed. A recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the present invention will now be described with reference to Figures 19 to 21. First, an explanation will be given of a case where a magnetic tape on which a video signal is recorded at a tape speed of, for example, five times the normal tape speed, is reproduced. Let it be considered that such a magnetic tape can be reproduced at a tape speed of, for example, up to 0 times still mode the normal tape speed. In this case, it is necessary that, in Figure 18, the playback limit of the vertical blanking period of the video signal V₁ V ₁ playback limit of the end side of the picture screen be shifted above a straight line V₅ V ₅ which passes through a point K of intersection between the ordinate Y Y and the straight line a₁ a ₁ and which is parallel to the abscissa X X . Similarly, in the beginning side of the picture screen, the straight lines b₂ b₂ and V₄ V ₄ are quite close to each other so that there is no extra region. Therefore, if the straight line V₁ V ₁ is moved upwardly by a relative phase of 2 to become a straight line V₆ V ₆ and the straight line V₄ V ₄ is moved downwardly by the relative phase of 2 to because a straight line V₇ V ₇, the length of the slanting track is increased by a relative phase of 4, namely 10 H. In other words, the vertical blanking period becomes longer by 10 H. Accordingly, the straight line V₃ V ₃ is moved upwardly by the relatively phase of 2 to be a straight line V₈ V₈ , while the straight line V₂ V ₂ is moved downwardly by the relative phase of 2 to be a straight line V₉ V ₉ The recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the invention, for recording and reproducing a video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, is shown in Figure 19. In Figure 19, parts corresponding to parts shown in Figure 1 are designated by the same references and will not be described in detail. In the embodiment of Figure 19, compressors CP 1 to CP 5 are connected between the D A converters DA 1 to DA 5 and the frequency modulators MD 1 to MD 5, respectively, to act as frequency converting means. The compressors CP 1 to CP 5 compress only the line scanning speed, namely the horizontal frequencies, of the analog video signals VID 1 to VID 5 from the D A converters DA 1 to DA 5, respectively, by Moreover, the carrier frequency of the frequency modulators MD 1 to MD 5 is selected to be Thus, the vertical blanking period of the video signal in each field recorded on the magnetic tape so as to form the slant track is made longer by an amount equal to 10 H. In this case, instead of providing the above compressors CP 1 to CP 5, it is possible for the horizontal frequency of the video camera to be selected to be In order to obtain a magnetic tape having a track pattern suitable for the format of the SMPTE type C VTR, it is necessary that the diameter D of the above tape guide drum be increased to be D . This will be described next. In Figure 20, a reference GD₁ designates a tape guide drum having the diameter D and a reference GD₂ designates a tape guide drum having the diameter D . Let it be assumed that D is 2r and D is 2 r Δ r , where r is the radius of the tape guide drum GD₁. ϑ designates a standard tape wrapping angle 344 with which the tape is wrapped around the tape guide drum GD₁. In addition, the speed of revolution of each rotary drum of the tape guide drums GD₁ and GD₂ is selected to be same as the other. Although rϑ is a standard track length format of the SMPTE type C VTR formed by the rotary magnetic head of the tape guide drum GD₁, since the horizontal scanning speed of the video signal to be recorded is compressed to Consequently, the diameter D of the tape guide drum GD₂ is selected as where D Thus, the duration during which the rotary magnetic head of the tape guide drum GD₂ makes contact with the magnetic tape is made longer by an amount of 10 H for each revolution of the rotary drum. Then, if the amount 10 H is allocated to the front portion and rear portion of the slanting track by an amount of 5 H each, and the recording signal is gated out on the basis thereof, it is possible to obtain a recorded tape having a track pattern applicable to the standard of the SMPTE type C format. The relationship between the respective vectors of the track pattern, the tape running and the rotation of the drum of the recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the present invention will now be described with reference to Figures 21. In Figure 21, portions corresponding to portions shown in Figure 4 are designated by the same references and will not be described in detail. That is, the track pattern vector is changed from In the recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the present invention, in which a colour video signal is obtained from a high speed scanning video camera, the field and line scanning speed of which are respectively N which is a natural number equal to 2 or more times the field and line scanning speeds Ssn and SIn of the NTSC system standard television signal, as a component signal and is supplied to memory means, the line scanning speed of N channel video signals read out in parallel to one another from the memory means is made equal to 1 k the number of scanning lines where k is a natural number to provide the component signals of N channels with field and line scanning frequencies of Ssn 1 k the number of scanning lines and SIn, the N channel component signals are respectively colour encoded as NTSC signals thereby to provide colour video signals which then are supplied to N rotary magnetic heads, each rotary magnetic head being rotated at the standard speed of revolution, and then they are recorded on a magnetic tape running at a tape speed equal to N times the standard speed to form a slanting track, when N is 4n 1 or 4n 1 where n 1, 2, 3, ...... the value of k and the arrangement of the colour encoder become different. That is, when N 4n 1, k is selected to be even and the colour encoder may be an ordinary NTSC system encoder. However, when N 4n 1, and if k is selected to be odd, the colour encoder may be an ordinary NTSC system encoder, whereas if k is selected to be even, in order to obtain a colour video signal with colour framing achieved under the condition of being recorded on the tape the NTSC system colour encoder must be modified so as to invert the phase of the carrier chrominance signal of each channel at every other field. In the recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the present invention, when a colour video signal of the SECAM system is processed, the same colour framing operation as in processing the colour video signal of the NTSC system is required for the colour encoder and, also, The processing of a colour video signal of the PAL Phase Alteration Line system will now be described. When N 8n 1 N 4n 1 where Consequently, when N is an odd number equal to 3 or more, the arrangement of the colour encoder is simple. However, if the arrangement of the colour encoder need not be taken into consideration, N may be even. When the video signal undergoes colour encoding processing before the line scanning speed of the video signal is compressed to 1 k the number of scanning lines , According to the above described recording and reproducing apparatus embodying the invention, the video signal obtained from a high speed scanning video camera can be recorded on a magnetic tape so as to be reproduced by the rotary magnetic head at a sufficiently low tape speed without causing any disturbance in the vertical synchronisation and dropping of the picture. In addition, the video signal obtained from the high speed scanning video camera can be recorded on the magnetic tape with the standard recording pattern.