# Electronic equipment for automatic writing of Chinese, Sino Japanese and Japanese ideograms.

## Abstract
The equipment makes it possible to do what has not been possible so far to write in Chinese or Sino Japanese about 3,000 current ideograms and 40,000 total insteadof the 26 letters of our alphabet with a standard electronic type writer, a printer of known writing device. It comprises a key board for simultaneous keying of the sounds and tones that constitute the syllables corresponding to each ideogram of the Chinese or Sino Japanese language so that at each stroke a precise ideogram is generated, at least a micro processor, at least a video or display, at least a writer or printer for writing the ideograms corresponding to each syl lable input in the keyboard and generated by the micro processor. The keyboard is made so that simultaneously with the sounds of the syllable, a signal is punched keys C4 that indicates the tone of the syllable, enabling the microproces sor to make automatic identification and the relative printing or projection of the ideograms corresponding to that syllable and that tone.

## Claims
Claims 1. Electronic equipment for automatic writing of Chinese, Sino Japanese and Japanese ideograms, characterized by a keyboard for simultaneous keying of the sounds and tones that constitute the syllables corresponding to each ideogram of the Chinese or Sino Japanese language, so that at each stroke a precise ideogram is generated, by at least a microprocessor, by at least a video or display, by at least a writer or printer for writing of the ideograms corresponding to each syllable keyed on the keyboard and generated by the microprocessor to be projected on a video or display or printed by a printer. 2. Electronic equipment as in claim 1, wherein the keyboard is made so that, simultaneously with the sounds of the syllable, a signal is hit that indicates the tone of the syllable, malting possible, on the microprocessor, automatic identification and the relative printing or projection of the ideograms corresponding to that syllable and tone. 3. Electronic equipment as in claims 1, 2, wherein the microprocessor is such that, each time the operator strikes a succession of sounds concluded or defined by a tone, it searches in its storage for the corresponding ideogram and exhibits it on the video or display by proceeding to writing or printing or storing it as produced text, when the operator does not send a cancellation signal. 4. Electronic equipment as in claims 1, 2, 3, wherein the microprocessor produces the ideograms by storing them in a complete form. 5. Equipment as in claims 1, 2, 3, wherein the microprocessor produces ideograms by storing them in a parametric representation of each sign or element of the ideogram. 6. Electronic equipment as in claims 1 to 5, wherein the microprocessor sends onto the video or display the ideographic signs corresponding to each syllable and when there are several ideograms for the same syllable and on the same tone, it sends, in succession, all the ideograms stored in order of frequency, then waits for confirmation from the operator for one of them, a confirmation that can be given by simply keying in a new syllabic sound. 7. Electronic equipment as in claims 1 to 6, wherein the code for keying the sounds is such that, regardless of the type of phonetic notation adopted or known to the writer Pin Yin, Wade Giles, etc. the writing of the soundsyllables does not require different learning and or successive indications. 8. Electronic equipment as in claims 1 to 7, wherein the code system and keyboard adopted make writing of the ideograms possible at practically the same speed with which they are pronounced, if not more than 400 500 syllables per minute are pronounced. 9. Equipment as in claims 1 to 8, characterized by an additional microprocessor in which are stored, in one or more languages, the terms corresponding to the concepts defined by the ideograms, so that it can produce, the ideogram and corresponding concepts in the selected languages, in parallel, on separate writers or printers or videos. 10. Electronic equipment as in claims 1 to 9, wherein Kanij, i.e., the ideographic writing of the Japanese language, is represented, along with and parallel to the Hiragana and Katakana writings of the same language with adequate variations of the stored ideograms or their parametric indication.

## Description
Electronic equipment for automatic writing of Chinese, Sino Japanese andJapanese ideograms This invention has as its object electronic equipment for automatic writing of Chinese, Sino Japanese and Japanese ideograms that makes it possible to do what so far has not been possible, i.e., to write especia lly in Chinese and in Sino Japanese with a standard electronic typewri ter or with a printer, or with a current known type writing device. The difficulty of writing directly in one of these languages actually depends on the enormous number of ideograms that they comprise, about 3,000 current ones and a total of 40,000, instead of the 26 letters of our alphabet. The obstacle is overcome with the equipment according to this invention characterized by a keyboard for simultaneous keying of the sounds and tones that constitute the syllables corresponding to each ideogram of the Chinese or SinoJapanese language so that a precise ideogram is generated at each stroke, by at least a microprocessor, by at least a video or display, by at least a writer or printer for writing the ideograms corresponding to each syllable input on the keyboard and generated by the microprocessor to be projected on a video or display or printed by a printer. According to a preferred embodiment, the keyboard is made so that, simultaneously with the sounds of the syllable, a single signal is punched which indicates the tone of the syllable, making possible, in the micropro cessor, the automatic identification and relative printing or projection of the ideograms corresponding to that syllable and that tone.Further, the microprocessor is such that each time the operator strikes a succes sion of sounds concluded or defined by a tone, it seeks in its storage, the corresponding ideogram and presents it on the video or display, proceeding to printing or storage as produced text, when the operator does not send a cancellation signal, producing the ideograms by their storage in a complete manner or by a parametric representation of each sign or element of the ideogram. For a better understanding, the general features relating to Chinese writing, the problem to be solved and the solution of the problem according to the invention, on the basis of the accompanying diagrammatic drawing of the keyboard will be explained below.General features Chinese writing can be represented phonetically by Roman characters. According to the Pin Yin notation or Wade Giles notation. However, the more complex problem and which will be discussed is the representation of Chinese ideograms by a typewriter. Actually, in writing of ideograms every syllable has a complete meaning and every syllable is represented by an ideogram different from all others. In particular, the syllables of Chinese, though equal in sound, can have 4 different tones of pronunciation, or can be atonal.Example in causeEMI2.1 ae painEMI2.2 inEMI2.3 ae to endureEMI2.4 in induceEMI2.5 ae lowEMI2.6 in printEMI2.7 ae to loveEMI2.8 It is also possible for syllables with the same sounds and the same tone to have several meanings, therefore several ideograms similar cases are found in other languages for example, pass verb , pass noun past time , past verb . a In ideographic writing, different Chinese concepts have different representations while having the same syllable with the same tone.Example Tsae talentTsae richesTsae to cutEMI3.1 The distinction and attribution of the correct ideogram is linked to the sense, exactly as with homophones of various languages.TsaeEMI3.2 abilityEMI3.3 Tsae neng b There are cases of atonal syllables waEMI3.4 neEMI3.5 c There are also tonal syllables with a final r soundEMI3.6 that have the function of changing embellishing them as a form of endearment or characterizing terms.gardenEMI3.7 little gardenEMI3.8 The Chinese language, although being based on syllabic radicals, to which ideograms with full meaning correspond, with the development and enrichment of terms has had to construct words formed from several syllables. From the ideographic viewpoint, a word of several syllables consists of a succession corresponding to the syllabic ideograms that form it, but always written at equal distance.TrainEMI3.9 EMI3.10 fire EMI3.11 vehicle AutomobileEMI3.12 EMI3.13 gas EMI3.14 vehicle RadioEMI3.15 EMI3.16 negative prefix EMI3.17 wire EMI3.18 electricity The problem 1 By typing syllables, to represent various ideograms which are alwaysdif ferent.2 To represent sounds and tones in the syllable simultaneously.3 In case of multiple ideograms for the same sound and tone, to allow the operator to choose the desired ideogram from the various possibilities.The solution The equipment according to this invention consists substantially in A keyboard, made up of basic parts A, B, C, comprises 39 keys, with the possibility of hitting several keys simultaneously to form syllables. There are keys to represent sounds and keys to represent tones. Of characteristic importance is the fact that for each svllable it is possible to determine simultaneously the sounds and tones by hitting suitable keys.A microprocessor not shown Processing takes place according to the following basic scheme 1 The signals coming from the keyboard are decoded decoding comprises both the sound and its tone. In fact the tone is the last to be read and determines for the microprocessor the completion of the syllable and the start of successive processing steps. 2 The microprocessor identifies in its storage the ideogram corresponding to the syllable received or, alternatively, it takes the parameters for composing the ideograms and sends it to the video or display also not shown .The ideogram can therefore be read by the operator who can possibly cancel it with a cancellation operation key C . If there are no cancellation operations, the microprocessor will order the printing of it by the printer. 33 When there are several ideograms for the same syllable, the microprocessor automatically sends onto the video the most frequently used ideogram. If the operator requests it, by a keyboard command command M , it sends onto the screen in succession all the ideograms stored for that syllable with that tone at each stroke. The microprocessor proceeds to order printing of the ideogram selected by the operator by a suitable command key N of the keyboard , or when the operator keys other syllables, it writes the last ideogram sent onto the video. 4 The microprocessor proceeds to control the printer either forprinting in a horizontal line or possibly for printing in a vertical line command L on the keyboard . 5 In case of vertical printing, the microprocessor accumulates a page at a time and then proceeds to its execution.A video The video can be a page video or a line display it causes the last typed ideograms to appear as the ideograms come from the video they are automatically accepted for printing. When the operator wishes to cancel one or more ideograms, he presses keyC which cancels the last ideogram or progressively all the ideograms that have not been printed.A printer The printer is guided by the microprocessor. It normally prints in a horizontal line. With a particular order, it can also print in a vertical column according to the ancient custom of Chinese writing, although it has now been abandoned. Printing can also be by the page. Logic of the invention The keyboard makes it possible to write any possible syllable in theChinese language with a single stroke. In particular, it also makes it possible to write the tone of pronunciation of the syllables, in addition to the syllables. The simultaneous definition of the sounds and tones is a characteristic element of the keyboard according to the invention. Actually, the complete syllable signal is determined by striking the tone. Tones of the Chinese language can be identified with Roman characters in several ways a with numbers mal. ma2 ma3 ma4 b with accents ma ma ma ma c with addition of a letter mha ma maa mah Selection of either notation makes no difference for this invention, since the tone are identified by the keys with the following structure tone 1 key 37 39 tone 2 key 38 tone 3 2 key 38 39 tone 4 key 39 atonal syllable key 37 The solution chosen is, however, not the only one. The characterizing, basic and inventive idea is the simultaneous striking of sounds and the tone of the syllable. Actually, it is possible to obtain the indication of the tone of the syllable by striking the tonal accent along with the vowel. Vowels sector b2 accent sector c1 key 20 A keys 20 24 A keys 20 24 25 A 20 26 27 A 20 24 29 A 21 I 21 23 I 21 24 25 I 21 26 27 I 21 24 29 I 22 0 22 24 O 22 24 25 0 22 26 27 O 22 24 29 Ò 23 E 23 24 E 23 24 25 E 23 26 27 2 E 23 24 29 È keys 23 21 U 23 21 24 U 23 21 24 25 U 23 21 26 27 U 23 21 24 29 The same possibility exists for forming the tonal accent on vowels of sector bl.key 16 0 keys 16 24 0 keys 16 24 25 0 keys 16 26 27 O keys 16 24 29 Ò the same also applies to the other vowels. However, it is considered preferable to use keys 37, 38, 39 as in the first indication. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE KEYBOARD AND THE CODES TO BE USED The keyboard is divided into sectors. The keys of each sector can be hit individually or in groups of two or more to form letters or significant symbols. The keys of different sectors can be hit simultaneously to generate various elements of the same syllable simultaneously. The keyboard is divided into the following sectors a comprising keys al, a2, a3 bl and b2 c1, c2, c3, c4 D Sectors a and bl are hit with the left hand. Sectors b2 and c 1, 2, 3, 4 are hit with the right hand. Sector D can be hit with either hand. The keys of the various sectors are hit simultaneously, depending on the requirements to form a syllable at each stroke.Sector A Relates to keys 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. The first sound of syllables, excluding vowels, is indicated in this sector. Correspondence to the various sounds is the following with Pin Yin notation with Wade Giles notation key 2 ZH CH 5 CH CH 8 SH SH 11 L L 11 N N 1 o open parentheses o open parentheses 7 F F 10 R J 13 Q CH 3 Z TS 6 K K 9 S S 12 T 15 D T keys 4 5 X HS 7 8 W W 10 11 Y Y 13 14 J CH 5 6 C TS 8 9 G 8 9 5 6 DG K 11 12 P P 14 15 M M 11 14 H H Sector bl It relates to keys 16, 17, 18, 19 and serves to indicate the sound of the first of a pair of consecutive vowels. ae oa iu ei eee.key 16 PO 17 E 18 A 19 1I keys 17 19 USector b2 It relates to keys 20, 21, 22, 23 and indicates the sound of vowels in syllables with a single vowel an in pin ti po or the second vowel of a pair of vowels ae oa iu ei key 20 A key 21 I key 22 0 key 23 E keys 23 21 U Sector c1 Indicates possible 3 vowel and the accents of tones in the case of phonetic writing in Roman characters. 24 25 A 26 I 27 28 0 29 E 24 25 26 27 24 29 24 25 26 27 26 29 U Sector c2 It relates to keys 30, 31, 33, 34, 36. 30 31 N 33 34 NG 36 2 30 31 o point 33 34 30 33 o new paragraph 30 33 36 .........F fixed indentation of beginning of line,G r front continuous spacing,H back continuous spacing,L automatic placing of ideograms in vertical column,M memory the machine at each command of the key sends onto the video the ideograms corresponding to the syllable input on the keyboard,N order to print ideogram shown on video, 0 arrangement of tabulation,P cancellation of tabulation points,Q tabulation It is therefore provided that on the equipment in question, the microprocessor sends onto the video or display the ideographic signs corresponding to each syllable and when there are several ideograms for the same syllable or same tone, it sends, in succession, all the ideograms stored in order of frequency, then waits for the confirmation from the operator for one of them, a confirmation that can also be given by simply keying a syllabic sound that the code for keying the sounds is such that, regardless of the type of phonetic notation adopted or known to the writer Pin Yin, Wade Giles, etc , writing of the sound syllables does not involve different learning that the system of codes and keyboard adopted makes possible the writing of ideograms at practically the same speed at which they are pronounced, provided no more than 400 500 syllables are pronounced per minute that the terms corresponding to the concepts defined by the ideograms are stored in an additional microprocessor in one or more languages so that the equipment can produce the ideograms and the corresponding concepts in the languages selected in parallel on different printers or videos that with suitable variations of the stored ideograms or their parametric indication, kanij writing, i.e., ideographic writing of the Japanese language, is represented along with and parallel to the hiragana and katakana writings of Japanese. All of the above always within the scope of protection of the invention.