# ESTERS OF 3 3 SUBSTITUTED AMINO 2 HYDROXYPROPOXY 4 SUBSTITUTED 1,2,5 THIADIAZOLE DERIVATIVES

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel

## Description
Compounds in accordance with the present invention are useful as β adrenergic blocking agents for for the treatment of glaucoma or lowering of intraocular pressure by topical administration of the compounds to the eye. These compounds have short duration in the systemic circulation, but have good stability in ocular fluid and thus are particularly useful as glaucoma agents since they have a low potential for producing unwanted systemic side effects. Glaucoma is a condition of the eye characterized by increased intraocular pressure. Untreated, the condition can eventually lead to irreversible retinal damage and blindness. Conventional therapy for glaucoma has involved topical administration of pilocarpine and or epinephrine, administered to the eye several times daily. The use of various β blocking agents to lower intraocular pressure is well documented. The following documents disclose compounds which act as β adrenergic blocking agents and include an aromatic ring The compounds disclosed in documents A and C include a 1,2,5 thiadiazole ring. The compounds disclosed in B and C are short acting and are not disclosed as being suitable for use in treating glaucoma. U.S. Patent No. 4,195,085 to Stone discloses a method for treatment of glaucoma by the optical administration of a β blocking compound, timolol maleate. U.S. Patent No. 4,127,674 discloses a method of treating glaucoma with labetalol, a known antagonist of both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors. However, these methods also possess significant drawbacks, in that the absorption of the β blocking compound into the systemic circulation can cause undesirable side effects. Such side effects result from prolonged β blocking action on the heart, bronchoiles and blood vessels. For example, according to Physicians Desk Reference, Charles E. Baker, Jr., 35th Edition, 1981, p. 1233, adverse reactions to the topical use of timolol maleate can include bronchospasm and heart failure, as well as cardiac conduction defects. Accordingly, there is a need for a method of treatment for glaucoma or for lowering intraocular pressure which is relatively free of unwanted systemic side effects. The use of β blocking agents to lower intraocular pressure can also be accompanied by a local anesthetic activity in the eye which can possibly cause damage to the cornea, and most certainly will cause discomfort to the patient with continued use. There is a need for potent compounds effective in lowering intraocular pressure which have little or no local anesthetic activity in the eye. The present invention relates to compounds of the formula where In accordance with the present invention, compounds having the formula are described, and are shown to have β adrenergic blocking activity which is particularly useful for the treatment of glaucoma or for lowering intraocular pressure by topical administration to the eye. Compounds in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention are potent β blockers exhibiting stability in ocular fluid without the unwanted systemic side effects, ocular irritation, and undesirable local anesthetic activities associated with other known β adrenergic blocking agents. R, R₁ and A are as defined above. In accordance with the present invention, R may be a straight or branched chain alkyl having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, such as methyl or ethyl. In accordance with the present invention, A may be a straight or branched chain alkylene of from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, such as methylene or ethylene. In accordance with the present invention, R₁ may be straight or branched alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms such as methyl, propyl, hexyl, isopropyl and t butyl straight or branched chain hydroxyalkyl of from 2 to 6 carbon atoms such as hydroxyethyl, hydroxy t butyl and hydroxyisopropyl alkynyl of from 3 to 5 carbon atoms such as propargyl, methylprcpargyl and dimethylpropargyl or WB where W is alkylene of 2 to 10 carbon atoms, such as ethylene and B is NH COR₂ where R₂ is aryl of 6 to 10 carbon atoms including substituted or unsubstituted monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring systems of from 6 to 10 carbon atoms such as phenyl, thiophenyl, imidazole, oxazole and indolyl. Substituents on the aryls of the present invention are those including but not limited to alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkenyl of from 2 to 5 carbon atoms, alkoxy of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, cyano, halogen, amino, acetamino, nitro, hydroxy, hydroxyalkyl wherein the alkyl group contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or alkylamino wherein the alkyl group contains from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Compounds in accordance with the present invention exist as two stereoisomers due to the presence of an asymmetric carbon atom. This invention includes either stereoisomeric form, as well as racemic mixtures. Chiral compounds are prepared by classical resolution according to the method described in U.S. Patent No. 4,076,939 such method is herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively, the chiral compounds can be prepared by an asymmetric synthesis described hereinafter. The compounds of the present invention have a relatively short systemic duration of action compared to conventional β blockers. When used for the treatment of glaucoma or for lowering of the intraocular pressure , the compounds in accordance with the present invention are advantageously administered topically to the eye in the form of a solution, ointment, or solid insert such as is described in U.S. Patent No. 4,195,085. Formulations may contain the active compound, preferably in the form of a soluble acid addition salt, in amounts ranging from about 0.01 to about 10 by wt., preferably from about 0.5 to about 5 by wt. Unit dosages of the active compound can range from about 0.001 to about 5.0 mg., preferably from about 0.05 to about 2.0 mg. The dosage administered to a patient will depend upon the patient s needs and the particular compounds employed. Carriers and diluents used in the preparations of the present invention are preferably non toxic pharmaceutical organic or inorganic compositions such as water mixtures of water and water miscible solvents, such as lower alcohols mineral oils petroleum jellies ethyl cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone and other conventional carriers. In addition, the pharmaceutical preparations may also contain additional components such as emulsifying, preserving, wetting and sterilizing agents. These include polyethylene glycols 200, 300, 400 and 600, carbowaxes 1,000 1,500 4,000 6,000 and 10,000, bacteriocidal components such as quaternary ammonium compounds, phenylmercuric salts known to have cold sterilizing properties and which are non injurious in use, thimerosal, methyl and propyl paraben, benzyl alcohol, phenyl ethanol, buffering ingredients such as sodium chloride, sodium borate, sodium acetates, gluconate buffers, and other conventional ingredients such as sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine, oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monopalmitylate, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate, monothioglycerol, thiosorbitol, ethylenediamine tetracetic acid, and the like. Additionally, suitable ophthalmic vehicles can be used as carrier media for the present purpose including conventional phosphate buffer vehicle systems, isotonic boric acid vehicles, isotonic sodium chloride vehicles, isotonic sodium borate vehicles and the like. The method of treatment advantageously involves the topical administration of eye drops containing the active compound. Formulations for eye drops preferably include the active compound as a soluble acid addition salt in a properly buffered, sterile, aqueous isotonic solution. The compounds of the present invention are ester group containing β blockers that have a selective, localized, β blocking effect in the eye after topical administration. Such compounds are thought to be rapidly metabolized by plasma and or liver esterases into inactive by products, upon entering the systemic circulation. It has been discovered that these same compounds are relatively stable in ocular fluids, i.e., lacrimal fluids and aqueous humor. Consequently, such compounds are useful for the treatment of glaucoma or for lowering intraocular pressure since they remain stable when topically applied to the eye but rapidly metabolize when subsequently absorbed into the systemic circulation. Some of the compounds may break down in the aqueous humor more rapidly than others. Such compounds may advantageously be employed when only a temporary reduction in intraocular pressure is desired, say for diagnostic procedures. Longer acting compounds may generally be used for effecting longer term reductions in intraocular pressure, such as is desired when treating chronic glaucoma. Thus, the method of the present invention provides a very useful therapeutic alternative for the treatment of glaucoma or for lowering intraocular pressure. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the rate of hydrolysis of the ester is influenced by the type of amine substituent. By varying the amine substituent it is possible to vary the length of duration of the compound in the body. The presence of the amine substituent also makes the compounds less lipophilic. Compounds that are less lipophilic have a reduced potential to cause central nervous system effects since there is less potential for CNS penetration. Compounds in accordance with the present invention may be prepared according to one or more of the general schemes set forth below. Preparation of the epoxide intermediates from readily available starting material is illustrated in Schemes I V below where R is defined as hereinabove, and DMF is dimethylformamide. where R is defined as hereinabove and DMF is dimethylformamide. The starting material for this derivative is shown in U.S. Patent No. 4,076,939 which is herein incorporated by reference. were R is defined as hereinabove and n is an integer preferably having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms. The starting material for this derivative is found in U.S. Patent No. 3,446,813 which is herein incorporated by reference. where R is defined as hereinabove and M may be absent on present and if present is straight or branched lower alkylene having up to about 10 carbon atoms, wherein the double bond may be at any position within the main chain or branched chain. The phosphorane starting material can be prepared by well known methods such as those described in Preparation of β adrenergic blocking compounds from the corresponding epoxide derivatives is illustrated below Where R, A, and R₁ are defined as hereinabove. This reaction is preferably conducted in an alcoholic solvent identical to the ester adduct to prevent alcoholysis reaction, e.g., when R is methyl, the reaction solvent is preferably methanol. Compounds in accordance with the invention may also be prepared in accordance with the general scheme below wherein R, A, W and B are defined as hereinabove. This reaction is preferably conducted in an alcoholic solvent identical to the ester adduct to prevent alcoholysis side reactions, e.g., when R is methyl, the reaction solvent is preferably methanol. Alternatively, the compounds of the present invention may be prepared by reacting the 1,2 epoxy 3 heteroaryloxy propane with an N benzyl protected amine. The protecting group is then conveniently removed by hydrogenolysis over a palladium catalyst to provide the desired compound as shown below. wherein R, R₁, A and B are defined as hereinabove. The amines, H₂N WB wherein W and B are defined as hereinbefore may be prepared by specific procedures set forth in the copending US patent application Serial No. 320,772 filed on November 12, 1981 WO 8301772 . The individual amines and method of preparation are herein incorporated by reference into this application. The general schemes for preparing the amine intermediates are illustrated below Compounds embraced by the present invention are those including but not limited to those illustrated below The compounds of the present invention are tested for β blocking activity The duration of β blockade was determined The disappearance of the compounds of the present invention Illustrative of the present invention, an effective β blocking adrenergic compound was found to have the following unexpected and beneficial pharmacological properties pA₂ atria , 8,0 pA₂ trachea , 7.4 duration of action, 50 recovery 10 3 minutes duration of action, 80 recovery , 22 3 minutes potency, 7.1 0.03 ug Kg minute T 1 2 of 10 minutes in dog blood no significant ocular irritation or local anesthetic activity up to a 30 concentration. The following examples are provided to illustrate the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. This example describes the synthesis of a compound having the formula A mixture of 575 g diethyl glutamate and 700 ml concentrated ammonium hydroxide was stirred for 10 hours, and kept in the freezer at 20 C for 5 hours. The resulting white crystalline solid was filtered, washed with 500 ml ethanol followed by 200 ml ether and dried in a vacuum oven at 70 C for 16 hours to remove the water of crystallization giving 270 g 78.6 of white crystalline 2 pyrrolidone 5 carboxamide. A mixture of 135 g 2 pyrrolidone 5 carboxamide and absolute ethanol USP, dried over 3Å molecular sieve containing 1.3 equivalents HCl prepared by passing HCl gas in 900 g of ethanol until weight 950 grams was heated under reflux for 45 minutes, filtered while hot to collect ammonium chloride, and washed with ethanol 20 ml . After scratching the inner wall surface and transferring to the freezer 20 C for 2 hours, the white crystalline solid was filtered to give 47.8 g, 24 of ethyl isoglutaminate HCl. To a stirring mixture of sulfur monochloride 2.4 ml and dry DMF dried over 4Å molecular sieve was added 2.10 g ethyl isoglutaminate hydrochloride as solid over 30 minutes. After stirring was continued for 16 hours, the solution was diluted with 25 ml ice water and treated with 25 ml ether. The mixture was decanted and the decant was then extracted with ether 4x50 ml , washed with brine 2x50 ml , dried MgSO₄ , filtered, treated with charcoal, filtered and evaporated to dryness to give 1.1 g, oil 54.4 of Ethyl 3 hydroxy 1,2,5 thiadiazole 4 propionate. A mixture of 1.0 g of Ethyl 3 hydroxy 1,2,5 thiadiazole 4 propionate, 0.68 g anhydrous potassium carbonate, and 1.7 ml epichlorohydrin in dry acetone dried over 4Å molecular sieve was heated under reflux for 16 hours, filtered over celite, evaporated to dryness, kept at 0.2 mm Hg, at 80 A mixture of the 1.05 g epoxide derivate prepared above and 1.0 ml t butylamine 2 equiv. was refluxed for 10 hours. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness, and subjected to high vacuum 0.2 mm at 65 C for 2 hours to eliminate excess t butylamine. The black gummy residue was extracted with ether 3x100 ml , treated with activated charcoal, filtered over celite, and evaporated to a brown residue. This residue was dissolved in 100 ml ethanol and treated with activated charcoal to give a colorless solution after filtration over celite, which was then evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 10 ml ethylacetate and treated with oxalic acid in ethyl acetate until about pH 2 was obtained. Upon standing overnight, crystalline product was obtained, which was filtered, washed with 50 ml ethylacetate ether 1 1 , recrystallized from ethylacetate ether to give 800 mg of Ethyl 3 3 2 Hydroxy 3 t butylamino propoxy 1,2,5, Thiadiazol 4 yl propionate mp. 147 148 C. The IR and NMR spectra were consistent with the assigned structure, and the elemental analysis was consistent with the empirical formula C₁₄H₂₅N₃O₄ 1 2 C₂H₂O₄ .1 4 H₂O . This examples describes the synthesis of a compound having the formula The compound is prepared as in Example I in all essential details with the exception that an equivalent amount of isopropylamine is substituted for t butylamine. This example describes the synthesis of a compound having the formula The compound is prepared as in Example I in all essential details with the exception that an equivalent amount of hydroxy t butylamine is substituted for t butylamine.