# A dust cover for sealing a space between two members.

## Abstract
A dust cover 5,7 formed of a flexible material for sealing a space between a body member 1 and a shaft 2 which is movably received in the body member the dust cover having one end portion 5a, 7a secured to the shaft and the other end portion 5b, 7b secured to the body member, the two end portions being interconnected by a thin intermediate portion. In order to prevent the intermediate portion from being damaged during assembly and in order to provide a more effective seal the other end portion 5b, 7b of the dust cover secured to the body member sealingly engages with the shaft.

## Claims
CLIPS 1. A dust cover 5,7 formed of a flexible material for sealing a space between a body member 1 and a shaft 2 which is received fittingly in the body member, one end portion 5a,7a of said dust cover being sealingly secured to a portion of the shaft projecting out of the body member, and the other end portion 5b,7L of said dust cover being secured to the body member charactertised in that the inner circumference of said other end portion 5b, 7L of the dust cover 5,7 which is secured to the body member 1 also sealingly engages with the shaft 2 . 2. A dust cover as claimed in claim 1, characterised in that a plurality of axially spaced annular projections 5f, 5i, 5k , 7d is formed on the inner circumference of said other end portions 5b 7L of the dust cover 5,7 to sealingly engage with the outer circumference of the shaft 2 . 3. A dust cover as claimed in claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the opposite end portions 5a, 5b, 7a, 7b of the dust cover 5,7 are interconnected by a thin, flexible intermediate portion 5c,7c . 4. A dust cover as claimed in claim 1 2 or 3 characterised in that the end portion 5a,7a of the dust cover secured to the shaft is fittingly received and located in an annular groove 2b formed in the shaft, and the other end portion 5buzz secured to the body member 1 abuts normally with the end portion 5a,7a secured to the shaft and is retained thereby.

## Description
DESCRITION A DUST COVER FO OR Sv G X SPACE BETWEEN TOO D3r S The invention relates to a dust cover for sealing a space between two members and more particularly for sealing a space between a body member and a shaft which is received fittingly in the body member so as to prevent the ingress of dust, water or the like into the space. A known dust cover is formed of a flexible material such as rubber or the like, with one end portion thereof sealingly secured to a shaft at a position where the shaft projects out of the body member, and the other end portion thereof being secured to the body member.The end portions are connected by a thin, intermediate portion which accommodates the relative movement between the shaft and the body member. However, in dust covers of this type, the sealing function is solely attained by the thin intermediate portion thus the sealing function will be decreased when the thin intermediate portion is aged or Impaired.Further, in mounting this type of dust cover and in fitting the shaft into the bore the thin intermediate portion, particularly, the portion adjacent to the end portion secured the body member will sometimes displace radially inwardly to contact with the circumference of the shaft and, thus, be carried into a bore of the body member and become trapped between the shaft and the body member. Accordinglytheintermediate portion may be damaged. In accordance with the present invention there is provided a dust cover formed of a flexible material for sealing a space between a body member and a shaft which is received fittingly in the body member, one end portion of said dust cover being sealingly secured to a portion of the shaft projecting out of the body member, and the other end portion of said dust cover being secured to the body member characterised in that the inner circumference of said other end portion of the dust cover which is secured to the body member also sealingly engages with the shaft. An advantage offered by the invention is that the sealingness can reliably be maintained even if the tbin flexible intermediate portion of the dust cover would be damaged. The present invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings which illustrate two embodiments of the invention as applied to a hand brake mechanism in a disc brake, in which Fig. 1 is a longitudinal sectional view of the essential portion of a hand brake mechanism of a disc brake Fig. 2 is an enlarged partial view of the essential portion of Sig. 1 Fig. 3 is a view similar to Fig. 1, but showing a second embodiment of the invention, and Fig. 4 is an enlarged partial view of the essential portion of Fig. 3. In Fig. 1, designated at 1 is a main body or a body member of a disc brake. The body member 1 receives rotatable therein a shaft 2, and a lever 3 connected to a hand brake lever not shown is secured to an end of the shaft 2 projecting out of the body member 1. A recess 2a constituting an eccentric cam is formed in the shaft 2, and one end of a rod 4 is inserted into the recess 2a to engage with the shaft 2. When the shaft 2 is rotated by actuating the hand brake lever, the rod 4 moves leftward as viewed in Fig. 1 and presses a friction pad not shown against one surface oî a rotatable disc not shown . A dust cover 5 formed of a flexible material such as rubber or the like is provided between the shaft 2 and the body member 1. As shown in Figo 2, one end the upper end in the drawings portion 5a is fitted on a reduced diameter portion 2b of the shaft 2, and the other end portion 5b of the dust cover 5 is received in a recess of counterbored portion 1a of the body member 1 and is retained by a retaining ring 6. An intermediate portion 5c connects the opposite end portions 5a and 5b, and the thickness of the portion 5c is determined such that the portion 5c is sufficiently flexible to accommodate the relative movement between the shaft 2 and the body member 1. In accordance with the invention the end portion 5 engages with the shaft portion 5d. A plurality of annular projections 5f, 5 and 5k are formed on the inner circumference of the end portion 5b, and are spaced from one another in the axial direction or in the direction of the axis of the shaft 2 and in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention engage sealingly with the shaft 2. The thickness of the cylindrical portion 5d is sufficiently large so that the portion 5d will not deform independently of the main portion of the end portion 5b. The retaining ring 6 has a generally ii shaped configuration and covers the outer surface of the end portion 5b of the dust cover 5. The inner circumferential edge 6a of the retaining ring 6 engages the outer circumference of the cylindrical portion 5d, thus, the annular projections 5f and 5 which are provided on the inner circumference of the cylindrical portion 51, in the embodiment reliably engage with the shaft 2. An annular projection 5h is formed on the outer circumference of the cylindrical portion 5d of the dust cover 5 to engage with the inner circumference 6a of the retaining ring 6.Annular projectIons si and are formed between the retaining ring 6 and the end portion 5b and between the end portion 5M and the body member 1. Figs. 3 and 4 show another embodLzent ofthe present invention. in a similar manner to the first embodiment, a shaft 2 of a vehicle handbrakemechanism is rotatably received in a bore 8 formed in a body member 1 of a vehicle brake housing. When a hand brake lever not shown is actuated, a lever 3 rigidly connected to the shaft 2 is actuated, and the rotation of the shaft 2 is transmitted to a friction pad not sho1m through a rod 4 engaging with an eccentric cam 2a formed in the shaft 2. According to the invention, a dust cover 7 is provided between the shaft 2 and the body member 1. One of end portions 7b of the dust cover 7 is. fitted sealingly around a reduced diameter portion 2b of the shaft 2 at the position projecting out of the bore 8 of the body member 1, and the other end portion 7 of the dust cover 7 is tightly fitted in a recess or counterbore portion la which is formed in the oVen end of the bore 8. The opposite end portions 7a and 7b are connected by a thin, flexible portion 7c which has a sufficient flexibility to accommodate the movement of the shaft 2 with respect to the body member 1. On the inner circumference of the end portion 7a, there are formed a plurality of axially spaced annular projections 7E for engaging sealingly with the shaft 2. The reduced diameter portion 2b in the shaft 2 is located adjacent to the recess 1a in the body member 1, so that the end portion 7a of the dust cover 7, in the assembled condition shown in Fig. 4, contacts lightly with the end portion 7b. Therefore, the end portion 7a can be retained in its position by the end portion 7b which is fitted in and is retained in its position by an annular groove defined by the reduced diameter portion 2b. A lip portion 7e formed on the end portion 7a sealingly contacts with the end portion 7b. Thus, the sealingness between the shaft 2 and the body member 1 can reliably be maintained even if the thin thickness portion 7c of the dust cover 7 has accidentally been oxen. In the embodiments, the present Invention has been lied on hand brake mechanisms of a vehicle braking stem, but the invention may be applied to any other echanisms provided that a shaft is fittingly received in a bore of a body member and is rotatable or slidable thereto. The annular projections 5 , 5g, 2 in the first embodiments and 7d in the second embodiment are advantageous, particularly when the shaft 2 is rotatably received in the bore 8. As described heretofore, the end portion secured to the body member is, according to the invention, formed to have the inner circumference sealingly contacting with the shaft, thus, the sealing characteristics of the dust cover have been very much improved.