# Thermistors and a method of their fabrication.

## Abstract
A rectangular wafer thermistor 30 comprises a piece of ceramic thermistor material 32 having electric contact mater ial 34, 36 coverings its opposite surfaces. A contact defining score mark 42 with an open geometric shape other then a straight line extends across the thermistor through one layer 36 of the contact material for separating the contact material on that surface into two contacts 44, 46. The ends 52, 53 of the contact defining score mark 42 intersect the opposite edges 56, 57 of the thermistor at different locations along the ther mistor. The contact defining score marks may be V figures 2, 7 and 9 or U Figure 8 or otherwise shaped, and the intersections between the different sections of these score marks are pref erably rounded, but may be sharp corners. The shape of the contact defining score mark prevents the thermistor from breaking at the contact defining score mark when the thermis tor is broken off a large sheet of thermistor material. A sheet 60 of ceramic thermistor material, coated on its opposite sur faces with contact material, has a grid of thermistor defining score marks 62, 64 defined in one surface, and the sections of the sheet surrounded by the grid lines form individual ther mistors 30. A bending moment of force applied to the sheet will break the sheet along the thermistor defining score marks, but the geometric shape of the contact defining score mark 42 in each thermistor 30 will prevent the thermistor from breaking on the contact defining score mark.