# 3 substituted phenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 ones, process for their preparation, their use as herbicides and plant growth regulants and their application to the preparation of isoxazole derivatives.

## Abstract
3 Substituted phenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H, 5 4 H isoxazole 3 ones having the formula The use of the novel compounds as intermediates in the preparation of isoxazol 5 yl benzoates having the formula

## Claims
1. A compound having the formulaEMI31.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. A A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 3. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein said halO lower alkyl is trifluoromethyl. 4. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is chloro in the para position. 5. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is fluoro in the para position. 6. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is phenoxy in the meta position. 7. A compound according to Claim 3 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position. 8. A method of regulating the growth of desirable leguminous plants which comprises applying to the plant locus a plant growth regulating effective amount of a compound having the formulaEMI32.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 9. A method according to Claim 8 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 10. A method according to Claim 8 wherein said halo lower alkyl is trifluoromethyl. 11. A method according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is chloro in the para position. 12. A method according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is fluoro in the para position. 13. A method according to Claim 1 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is phenoxy in the meta position. 14. A method according to Claim 10 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position. 15. A method for preventing the growth of undesir able plants which comprises applying to the plant locus a herbicidally effective amount of a compound having the formulaEMI33.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 16. A method according to Claim 15 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 17. A method according to Claim 15 wherein said halo lower alkyl is trifluoromethyl. 18. A method according to Claim 15 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is chloro in the para position. 19. A method according to Claim 15 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is fluoro in the para position. 20. A method according to Claim 15 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is phenoxy in the meta position. 21. A method according to Claim 17 wherein X is hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position. 22. An agricultural chemical composition which comprises from about 5 to about 95 parts by weight of a compound having the formulaEMI34.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano the remaining parts being comprised of one or more suitable adjuvants, carriers and or diluents. 23. A composition according to Claim 22 whereinX is hydrogen and Y is halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. 24. A composition according to Claim 22 wherein said halo lower alkyl is trifluoromethyl. 25. A composition according to Claim 22 whereinX is hydrogen and Y is chloro in the para position. 26. A composition according to Claim 22 whereinX is hydrogen and Y is fluoro in the para position. 27. A composition according to Claim 22 whereinX is hydrogen and Y is phenoxy in the meta position. 28. A composition according to Claim 24 whereinX is hydrogen and Y is trifluoromethyl in the meta position. 29. A process for preparing compounds having the formulaEMI35.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano which comprises reacting a nitrile oxide having the formulaEMI35.2 with 3 methylenephthalide in an inert solvent. 30. A process according to Claim 29 wherein said nitrile oxide is prepared in Qitu by adding a chlorooxime having the formulaEMI35.3 and a base to the 3 methylenephthalide solution. 31. A process according to Claim 29 wherein said base is a tertiary amine. 32. A process according to Claim 31 wherein said amine is triethylamine. 33. A process for preparing 3 Aryl isoxazol 5 ylbenzoic acid and esters thereof having the formulaEMI36.1 wherein R is hydrogen or R CH2 and R is hydrogen or alkyl having up to four carbon atoms, inclusive which comprises reacting a spiro compound having the formulaEMI36.2 with ROH under acidic conditions at a temperature ranging from room temperature to the reflux temperature of the ROH compound. 34. A process according to Claim 33 wherein said temperature is the reflux temperature of the ROH compound. 35. A process according to Claim 33 wherein R isR CH2 . 36. A process according to Claim 33 wherein saidAryl isEMI36.3 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halo lower alkyl, phenoxy and phenyl. 37. A process according to Claim 33 wherein Y is trifluoromethyl. 38. A process according to Claim 33 which comprises reacting a spiro compound of the formulaEMI37.1 with R CH2OH in the presence of a catalytic amount of sulfuric acid.

## Description
3 SUBSTftUTED PHENYL SPIRO ISOBENZOFURAN 1 3H ,5 4 H ISOXAzOL 3 ONES k7D THEIR USEAS HERBICIDES AND PLANT GROWTH REGULANTS This invention relates to compounds useful as herbicides and plant growth regulants. The compounds may be represented by the formulaEMI1.1 wherein X and Y are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, lower alkyl, lower alkoxy, halolower alkyl, phenoxy, phenyl and cyano. The terms lower alkyl and lower alkoxy as used herein are understood to include those alkyl and alkoxy groups having up to five carbon atoms, inclusive. Both straight as well as branched chain alkyl groups are contemplated. The term ,halo lower alkyl as used herein is understood to mean those lower alkyl groups in which at least one, and perhaps all, of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by halogen atoms. It is to be clearly understood that trifluoromethyl is contemplated as being a halo lower alkyl moiety. The term halogen as used herein includes chlorine, bromine, fluorine and iodine. In accordance with one of the novel aspects of the present invention, the compounds of the foregoing formula may be prepared by the reaction of the appropriate nitrile oxide with 3 methylenephthalide. The invention additionally relates to the use of the novel spiro compounds of Formula I as intermediates in the preparation of certain isoxazol 5 yl benzoates which are effective as herbicides and plant growth regulants. The reaction readily proceeds at room temperature and atmospheric pressure although slightly elevated temperatures and pressures may be utilized to increase the rate of reaction.Although the nitrile oxide may be generated separately and then reacted with 3 methylenephthalide, it has been found to be convenient to generate the nitrile oxide in situ by reacting an appropriate chlorooxime with 3 methylenephthalide under basic conditions as follows EMI2.1 This reaction proceeds at room temperature and atmospheric pressure although slightly elevated temperatures andpressures may be utilized. Normally, an equimolar ratio of reactants is utilized. When the nitrile oxide is relatively unstable, a large excess of chlorooxime may be utilized. Under most conditions, a slight excess is preferred. The molar ratio to be utilized with any given reaction is within the skill of the art. As noted, the reaction proceeds under basic conditions.Bases such as tertiary amines are preferred. Especially preferred is the use of a stoichiometric amount of triethylamine. Any inert solvent in which the reactants are readily soluble may be utilized. These include ether, dimethylformamide, tetrahydrofuran, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, methylene chloride, dioxane and the like. Chlorooximes are known in the art and are readily prepared by reaction of hydroxylamine with the appropriate aryl aldehyde in aqueous alcohol, followed by chlorination of the resultant oxime in accordance with the following scheme EMI3.1 Aryl aldehydes may be prepared by the procedure ofJolad and Rajagopal, Qrg. Syn. Coll., Vol. V, Page 139 1973 .The procedure of S. V. Vinogradova et al, J. Appl. Chem. vSsR 44, 1405 1971 may be used to prepare 3 methylenephthalide. n order to illustrate the above procedure, the following ex em ples are presented. These examples are merely illustrative ard are not intended as a limitation on the scope of the invention. Example 1 Preparation of 3 3 Biphenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4tH Isoxazolj 3 One. To a solution of 4 biphenylylcarboxaldehyde chlorooxime 34.8 g, 0.15 mole and 3 methylenephthalide 14.6 g, 0.1 mole in 450 ml. of ether was added dropwise triethylamine 15.18 g, 0.15 mole at 50C. in 20 minutes. The resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hours. The solid was then filtered off. The ethereal solution contained a very small amount of the desired spiro compound according to an NMR analysis. The solid material which was filtered off from the original ether solution was extracted twice with 1200 ml. of chloroform. The chloroform solution was washed twice with water1 dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to give 24.7 g 72.4 of a beige solid m.p. 152 1590C. with decomposition.Recrystallization of 3.5 g of the beige solid from 100 ml. of chloroform gave 1.47 g of white solid m.p. 170 1720C. with decomposition. Anal. Calc d. for C22H15NO3 C, 77.41 H, 4.43. Found C, 77.36 H, 4.45. Example 2 Preparation of 3 4 Chlorophenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazoll 3 One. To a solution of 17 g 0.089 mole of p chlorobenzaldehyde chlorooxime and 14.0 g 0.096 mole 3 methylenephthalide in 300 ml. of ether was added 9.0 g 0.089 mole of triethylamine in 50 ml. of ether at 0 5 C. during 1 hour. The solution was then allowed to react at room temperature for 20 hours. An infrared spectrum of an aliquot indicated that the reaction was complete. The solid was filtered off. The ethereal solution was washed three times with sodium chloride saturated water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum. Only 2 g of impure product was obtained. The solid material which was filtered off from the original solution was added to 500 ml. of chloroform and washed three times with water.The chloroform solution was cloudy even after 200 ml. of tetrahydrofuran had been added. The chloroform tetrahydrofuran solution was then dried overCaSO4, filtered and concentrated under vacuum to afford 10.2 g of pale yellow solid 38.2 , m.p. 158 1600C. A colorless solid, m.p. 166 1670C., was obtained after several washes with ether.Anal. Calc d. for C16H10NClO3 C, 64.12 H, 3.36 N, 4.6 C1, 11.83. Found C, 64.14 H, 3.37 N, 4.67 Cl 11.81. Example 3 Preparation of 3 2 Methylphenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran l 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazoll 3 One. To a solution of o tolualdehyde chlorooxime 26.8 g, 0.158 mole , 3 methylenephthalide 14.6 g, 0.1 mole and ether 400 ml. was added dropwise a solution of triethylamine 16 g, 0.158 mole in 30 ml. of ether at 5 100C. in 45 minutes. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 40 hours and filtered. The solid material collected was dissolved in 1 liter of chloroform and 200 ml.of water. The chloroform solution was then washed two times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to give 16.4 g of white solid, m.p. 146 149 C. The original ether solution was washed two times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 100 ml. Another 1.64 g of the spiro compound precipitated out. The ether solution was then further concentrated to 10.8 g of yellow brown oil which did not contain a significant amount of the desired product. Recrystallization of 12 g of the crude spiro compound from tetrahydrofuran ether gave 9.87 g of a pure white solid, m.p. 159 1640C. with decomposition.Analy. Calc d. for C17H13NO3 C, 73.11 H, 4.69. Found C, 73.06 H, 4.74. Example 4 Preparation of 3 3 Cyyanophenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazoll 3 0ne. 3 3 Cyanophenyl spiro iso benzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3 in 62.7 isolated yield.The spiro compound obtained was a white solid, m.p. 134 1370C. Recrystallization of 12 g of crude spiro compound from tetrahydrofuran toluene afforded 6.48 g of white solid, Anal. Calc d. for C17H10N2O3 C, 70.34 H, 3.67. Found C, 70.07 H, 3.50. Example 5 j 4 Trifluoromethylphenvl Spiro Elso benzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 4 trifluoromrthylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3one was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3 in 36.8 isolated yield. Recrystallization of 5 g of the crude spiro product from 75 ml. of tetrahydrofuran and 50 ml. of ether gave 3.83 g of pure product as white crystals, m.p. l77 178 C. Anal. Calc d. for C17H10F3NO3 C, 61.27 H, 3.02. Found C, 61.29 H, 3.06. Example 6Preparation of 3 2 Trifluoromethylphenyl Spiro Iso benzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 2 trifluoromethylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3one was prepared in 35.2 isolated yield according to the procedure of Example 3. The crude spiro product obtained was a white solid, m.p. 149 150.50C. Recrystallization of 5 g of the solid from tetrahydrofuran 50 ml. and ether 50 ml. afforded 4.12 g of colorless needles, m.p. 156 157.5. C.Anal. Calc d. for C17H10F3NO3 C, 61.27 H, 3.02. Found C, 61.24 H, 3.05. Example 7Preparation of 3 3 Methoxyphenyl Spiro Asobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 3 methoxyphenyl spiro iso benzofuran l 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one was prepared following the procedure of Example 3. The original ether solution was washed two times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated to 29.6 g of thick oil. The oil contained 50 of the spiro product according to NMR analysis. Isolation of the spiro compound from the oil was not attempted. The solid material which was filtered off from the original ether solution afforded after workup, 5.56 g 18.8 yield of the desired product as a yellow solid, m.p. 119.5 123 C.Recrystallization of the solid from tetrahydrofuran ether gave 4.3 g of a pale yellow solid, m.p. 124 1260C. with decomposition. Anal. Calc d. for C17H13NO4 C, 69.15 H, 4.44. Found C, 69.03 H, 4.50. Example 8 Preparation of 3 3 Phenoxyphenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H Isoxazol l 3 One. 3 3 phenoxyphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one was was prepared in 53.9 isolated yield according to the procedure of Example 3.The crude spiro compound isolated was a yellow oil. Purification of 7.9 g of the oil by high pressure liquid chromatography on silica gel with 50 ethyl acetate 50 hexane as the eluant gave 4.2 g of the desired product as a white solid, m.p. 114 1160C. Example 9 Preparation of 3 3 Chlorophenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 3 chlorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one was prepared in 86.4 isolated yield according to the procedure of Example 3.The crude product was a gummy material. Recrystallization of 19 g of the gummy material from tetrahydrofuran ether gave 5.2 g of solid, m.p. 119 1250C. A sample of 3.5 g of the solid was purified further by high pressure liquid chromatography on a silica gel column with 50 hexane 50 ethyl acetate as eluant to give 1.77 g of the desired product as a white solid, m.p. 127 1290C. Anal. Calc d. for C16H10ClNo3 C, 64.12 H, 3.36. Found C, 63.88 H, 3.40. Example 10 Preparation of 3 2,4 Dichlorophenyl Spiro Isobenzo furan 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazoll 3 One. By a method similar to the procedure of Example 2, a reaction of 2,4 dichlorobenzaldehyde chlorooxime and 3 methylenephthalide was carried out. The solid collected from the reaction mixture afforded 12.2 g of the desired product after workup, and the ether solution gave 4 g of the desired product yield 70.2 .Recrystallization from chloroform led to pure white crystals of the desired product, m.p. 158 1610C. Anal. Calc d. for C18H13NCl203 C, 57.86 H, 2.73. Found C, 57.63 H, 2.74. Example li Preparation of 3 Phenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 Phenyl spiro isobenfuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one was prepared according to the proceaure of Example 2 in 30 isolated yield, m.p. 103 106 C. nal. Calc d. for C16H11NO3 C, 72.45 H1 4.18. Found C, 72.39 H, 4.21. Example 12 Preparation of 3 3 Trifluoromethylphenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. To a solution of 109.5 g 0.75 mole of 3 methylenephthalide and 285 g 1.27 mole of m trifluoromethylbenzaldehyde chlorooxime in 3.5 liters of ether was added 128.3 g 1.27 mole of triethylamine in 250 ml. of ether at OOC. during 3 hours.The solution was then stirred at room temperature overnight.An infrared spectrum indicated that the reaction was complete.The solid was filtered off. The ethereal solution was washed once with 10 HCl, twice with sodium chloride saturated water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum. Only 19.5 g of impure product was obtained. The solid material which was filtrated from the original reaction solution was stirred with 4 liters of tetrahydrofuran for 4 hours and filtered through a Buchner funnel. The tetrahydrofuran solution obtained was washed once with 10 HCl solution and twice with water saturated with sodium chloride. After being dried and concentrated, the tetrahydrofuran solution gave 140.6 g of pure product, m.p. 1700C. Anal. Calc d. for C17H10F3NO3 C, 61.27 H, 3.02. Found C, 61.25 H, 3.04. Example 13 Preparation of 3 p Fluorophenyl Spiro Isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H Isoxazol 3 One. 3 p fluorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol3 3 one was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 in 65 isolated yield, m.p. 142 1450C. Anal. Calc d. for C16HloFNO3 C, 67.84 F, 3.56. Found C, 67.89 F, 3.59. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, the spiro compounds of the foregoing formula have been found to be effective as herbicides. The compounds may used by themselves or as the active ingredient in a herbicidal composition. As used herein, the term herbicidal active ingredient is understood to mean a spiro compound of the foregoing formula I . Control of undesirable weed growth may be obtained by applying the herbicidal active ingredient to the plant locus which is defined herein to include the growth medium surrounding the plant, the seeds, emerging seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers and other plant parts. To illustrate the herbicidal properties of the compounds of the present invention, said compounds were tested in the following manner. The pre emergent test was conducted as followsA good grade of top soil was placed in aluminum pans and compacted to a depth of .95 to 1.27 cm. from the top of the pan. On the top of the soil was placed a predetermined number of seeds or vegetative propagules of various plant species which are compacted to a soil level. The soil required to level fill the pans after seeding or adding vegetative propagules was weighed into a pan. A known amount of the herbicidal active ingredient applied in a solvent or as a wettable powder and the soil were thouroughly mixed, and used as a cover layer for prepared pans. After treatment, the pans were moved into a greenhouse bench where they were watered from below as needed to give adequate moisture for germination and growth. As noted in Tables I and II, below, approximately 2 or 4 weeks after seeding and treating, the plants were observed to determine all deviations from the normal growth habit and the results recorded. A herbicidal rating code was used to signify the extent of phytotoxicity of each species. The ratings are defined as follows Control Rating 0 24 0 25 49 1 50 74 2 75 100 3 The plant species utilized in these tests are identified by letter in accordance with the following legend A Canada Thistle K Barnyardgrass B Cocklebur L Soybean C Velvetleaf M Sugar Beet D Morningglory N Wheat E Lambsquarters O Rice F Smartweed P Sorghum G Yellow Nut sledge Q Wild Buckwheat H Quackgrass R Hemp Sesbania I Johnsongrass S Panicum Spp J Downy Brome T Crabgrass Results of the pre emergent tests are summarized in Tables I and II, below. Table I Pre Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound of k Example No. WAT h A B C D E F G H I J K 1 2 11.2 0 0 0 2 1 2 0 0 0 1 3 2 4 11.2 3 2 3 3 3 3 2 3 0 1 3 3 4 11.2 3 2 3 3 3 2 3 3 0 2 2 4 4 11.2 1 1 3 3 2 2 l 2 0 2 1 5 2 11.2 0 0 1 1 2 3 0 2 0 1 2 6 4 11.2 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 0 2 3 7 4 11.2 3 1 2 3 3 3 2 2 0 2 3 8 4 11.2 3 1 1 3 3 0 0 0 0 3 9 4 11.2 3 1 2 3 3 1 2 3 1 3 3 10 4 11.2 0 0 1 2 1 0 1 0 2 2 11 4 11.2 3 2 3 3 3 2 1 2 1 1 3 12 4 11.2 3 2 3 3 3 3 2 3 0 2 3 13 4 11.2 2 2 2 2 2 0 3 2 1 3 Weeks after treatment. Table II Pre Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound of KgExample No. Wat h L M N O P B Q D R E F C J S K T 1 2 5.6 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 3 3 3 0 2 0 3 3 1 2 1.12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 1 0 0 0 2 2 2 4 5.6 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 3 2 1 0 3 0 2 2 1.12 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 2 0.28 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 4 5.6 0 3 3 2 2 1 0 0 1 3 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 4 1.12 0 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 0 3 0 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 0.28 1 2 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 1 2 4 4 5.6 1 3 1 2 2 0 3 1 3 3 3 2 0 1 1 3 4 2 1.12 1 3 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 3 1 1 0 0 1 1 4 2 0.28 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 5 4 5.6 2 3 1 1 2 0 3 1 2 3 3 1 1 0 3 1 5 2 1.12 0 1 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 3 3 0 0 0 0 3 6 4 5.6 1 2 0 1 0 1 2 0 1 2 3 1 0 1 2 3 6 4 1.12 0 2 0 2 1 0 1 1 2 2 3 0 3 0 2 3 6 2 0.28 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 7 4 5.6 3 3 2 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 3 3 Table II Cont d Pre Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound of KgExample No. Wat h L M N O P B Q D R E F C J S K T 7 4 1.12 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 7 2 0.28 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 2 7 2 0.056 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 8 2 5.6 0 1 0 0 0 3 2 3 2 3 0 0 0 0 3 2 8 2 1.12 0 1 0 0 0 1 3 0 1 1 1 0 0 3 2 8 2 0.28 3 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 2 9 4 5.6 3 3 1 3 2 1 2 2 3 3 2 3 2 3 3 3 9 4 1.12 1 3 0 1 0 0 3 3 2 3 3 1 0 0 0 1 9 4 0.28 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 3 1 2 3 2 2 2 2 3 10 2 5.6 1 3 1 2 1 0 0 1 3 3 2 1 1 2 3 10 2 1.12 1 2 0 2 0 0 0 1 3 1 0 1 1 3 1 10 2 0.28 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 0 1 2 11 4 5.6 2 3 0 2 1 0 0 3 3 3 2 2 0 1 3 1 11 4 1.12 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 2 3 3 3 2 0 0 1 0 11 2 0.28 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 3 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 12 4 5.6 3 3 1 3 2 1 3 3 3 3 3 2 1 2 3 3 Table II Pre Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound of KgExample No.Wat h L M N O P B Q D R E F C J S K T 12 4 1.12 2 3 0 3 1 1 3 2 3 3 2 2 0 0 2 3 12 2 0.28 3 1 0 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 1 2 0 0 1 3 13 4 5.6 2 3 1 2 3 3 1 3 3 3 1 1 0 3 3 13 4 1.12 1 2 1 1 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 13 2 0.28 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 Weks after treatment. The post emergent tests were conducted as follows The herbicidal active ingredients are applied in spray form to two or three week old specimens of various plant species. The spray, a solution or wettable powder suspension containing the appropriate rate of herbicidal active ingredient to give the desired test rate and a surfactant, is applied to the plants. The treated plants are placed in a greenhouse and approximately two or four weeks later the effects are observed and recorded. The results are shown in Tables III and IV in which the postemergent herbicidal rating code is as follows Control Rating 0 24 0 25 49 1 50 74 2 75 99 3 100 4 The plant species utilized in these tests are identified by letter in accordance with the previous legend. Table III Post Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound ofExample No. WAT h A B C D E F G H I J K 1 2 11.2 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 4 11.2 1 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 4 11.2 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 0 1 1 2 4 4 11.2 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 2 11.2 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 6 4 11.2 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 7 4 11.2 1 2 2 2 1 3 1 0 0 0 2 8 4 11.2 1 2 1 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 9 4 11.2 4 2 2 1 2 4 1 0 2 1 1 10 4 11.2 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 11 4 11.2 2 2 2 2 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 12 4 11.2 2 2 2 3 2 4 2 2 1 0 2 13 4 11.2 2 2 2 2 2 1 0 0 2 0 1 Weeks after treatment. Table IV Pre Emergent Plant SpeciesCompound of KgExample No. Wat h L M N O P B Q D R E F C J S K T 7 4 5.6 2 1 0 0 2 2 2 2 1 4 2 1 0 1 0 7 2 1.12 2 1 0 0 0 2 2 2 2 1 3 2 0 1 1 1 7 2 0.28 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 0 0 1 0 9 4 5.6 2 2 1 1 2 2 4 2 4 3 4 2 1 1 2 1 9 4 1.12 2 1 0 1 0 2 2 2 2 2 4 2 0 0 1 0 9 2 0.056 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 2 0 1 0 0 1 11 4 5.6 2 2 1 0 2 2 2 2 4 4 2 1 0 1 2 11 4 1.12 2 1 0 0 0 2 2 2 4 2 2 0 0 1 0 12 4 5.6 2 2 0 1 1 2 3 2 2 2 0 1 2 0 12 4 1.12 2 1 0 0 1 2 2 2 2 2 0 1 2 1 12 2 0.056 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 2 12 2 0.28 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 2 Weks after treatment. The above tables illustrate one aspect of the present invention, that is, the use of the compounds of the invention to kill or injure undesirable plants, e.g., weeds. Another aspect of the invention, however, is the use of the spiro compounds of formula I for the regulation of desirable plant growth, especially leguminous plants such as soybeans.More particularly, it has been found that compounds of the foregoing formula I have been found to be effective in regulating the growth of leguminous plants. As used herein, the regulation of plant growth or devellopment is understood to mean the modification of the normal sequential development of a treated desirable plant to agricultural maturity. Such modifications are most readily observed as changes in size, shape, color or texture of the treated plant or any of its parts. Similarly, changes in the quantity of plant fruit or flowers are also quite apparent from visual inspection. The above changes may be characterized as an acceleration or retardation of plant growth, stature reduction, leaf or canopy alteration, increased branching, terminal inhibition, increased flowering, defoliation, increased root growth, increased cold hardiness and the like.While many of these modifications are desirable in and of themselves, most often it is their effect on the economic result that is of most importance. For example, a reduction in stature of the plant permits the growing of more plants per unit area. A darkening of the foliar color may be illustrative of higher chlorophyll activity indicative of improved rate of photosynthesis. Although the regulation of plant growth in accordance with the present invention may include partial inhibition of plant growth when used as a plant growth regulant, it does not include the total inhibition or killing of such plants.The present invention contemplates the use of an amount of the spiro compounds of formula I as the active ingredient in a plant growth regulating composition which will modify the normal sequential development of the treated plant to agricultural maturity. Such plant growth regulating amounts may vary, not only with the material selected, but also with the modifying effect desired, the species of plant and its . s cage of development, the plant growth medium and whether a permanent or a transitory effect is sought. It is, however, well within the skill of the art to determine the amount of active ingredient required. Modification of the plants may be accomplished by applyins the active ingredient to the plant locus which has been defined herein to include the growth medium surrounding the plant, the seeds, emerging seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers, or other plant parts. Such application may be made directly to the plant part, or indirectly by application to the plant growth medium. Utilizing the spiro compounds of formula I as the ac tie ingredient in a plant growth regulating composition, said compounds were found to possess plant growth regulating activity when tested in accordance with the following procedure. A number of soybean plants, variety Williams, were grown from seeds in plastic pots in the greenhouse for a period of one week at which time the plants are thinned to one plant per pot. When the second trifoliate leaf three weeks was fully expanded, the plants were treated with a solution of the active ingredient in acetone and water. Aqueous Tween 20 was used as a surfactant. When the fifth trifoliate leaf four to five weeks was fully expanded, the treated plants were compared with the nontreated control plants and the observations recorded. Those observations are summarized in Table V below. Table VCompound of RateExample NO. ka h Observations 1 2.8 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old new growth, leaf inhibition, axillary bud inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 1 0.56 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old and new growth, leaf inhibition, axillary bud inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 1 0.112 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old and new growth, leaf inhibition, axillary bud inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. Table V 5Cont d Compound of RateExample NO. ks h Observations 2 2.8 Stature reduction, dark foliar color, leaf inhibition, leaf distortion of old and new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 2 0.56 Stature reduction, dark foliar color, leaf inhibition, leaf distortion of old and new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 2 0.112 Stature reduction, altered canopy, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of old and new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 3 2.8 Stature reduction, altered canopy, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of old and new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 3 0.56 Leaf alteration of old and new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 3 0.112 Inhibition of dry weight. 4 2.8 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of new growth, epinasty, in hibition of dry weight. 4 0.56 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of new growth, epinasty, inhibition of dry weight. 4 0.112 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of new growth, epinasty, inhibition of dry weight. 5 2.8 Stature reduction, leaf inhibition, leaf alteration of old and new growth, epi nasty, inhibition of dry weight. 5 0.56 Stature reduction, thick leaf texture, leaf alteration of old and new growth, epinasty, inhibition of dry weight. 5 0.112 Stature reduction, altered canopy, leaf alteration of old and new growth, epi nasty, inhibition of dry weight. 6 2.8 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old and new growth, dark foliar color, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. Table V Cont d Compound of RateExample NO. kq h Observations 6 0.56 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old and new growth, dark foliar color leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 6 0.112 Stature reduction, leaf alteration of old and new growth, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 7 2.8 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibi tion of dry weight. 7 0.56 Stature reduction, inhibition of apicl development, dark foliar color, leaf in hibition, leaf alteration of new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 7 0.112 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, leaf inhibition, leaf al teration of old and new growth, inhibi tion of dry weight. 8 2.8 Leaf alteration of old and new growth, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 8 0.56 Leaf alteration of old and new growth. 8 0.112 None 9 2.8 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibi tion of dry weight. 9 0.56 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibi tion of dry weight. 9 0.112 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, dark foliar color, leaf in hibition, leaf alteration of new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 10 2.8 Leaf alteration, leaf inhibition. 10 0.56 Leaf alteration. 10 0.112 None. Table V Cont d Compound of RateExample No. kg h Observations 11 2.8 Stature reduction, inhibition of apical development, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibi tion of dry weight. 11 0.56 Stature reduction, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, altered canopy, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 11 0.112 Stature reduction, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, altered canopy, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 12 2.8 Stature reduction, leaf distortion of new growth, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 12 0.56 Stature reduction, leaf distortion of new growth, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 12 0.112 Stature reduction, leaf distortion of new growth, dark foliar color, thick leaf texture, leaf inhibition, inhibition of dry weight. 13 2.8 Stature reduction, leaf alteration, leaf inhibition, leaf distortion of new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 13 0.56 Stature reduction, leaf alteration, leaf inhibition, leaf distortion of new growth, inhibition of dry weight. 13 0.112 Leaf alteration of old and new growth, leaf inhibition. As can be seen from the above data, the spiro compounds of the invention are especially effective in reducing the stature of soybean plants as well as altering the leaf morphology. Thus, the above data illustrate that the compounds of the invention may be used as a herbicide or a plant growth regulant. When used as a herbicide, it is desirable that rates of application about 1.12 kilograms per hectare and above be utilized. When used to regulate the growth of desirable plants, rates below 5.6 kilograms per hectare, especially .056 to 2.8, are preferred. In selecting the appropriate time and rate of application of the active ingredient, it will be recognized that precise rates will also be dependent upon the desired response, mode of application, plant variety, soil conditions and various other factors known to those skilled in the art.In addition, it will be recognized that single or multiple applications may be used to exert the desired response. In the practice of the invention, the active ingredient, whether used as a herbicide or a plant growth regulant, can be used alone or in combination with other pesticides or a material referred to in the art as an adjuvant in either liqquid or solid form. To prepare such compositions, the active ingredient is admixed with an adjuvant including diluents, extenders, carriers and conditioning agents to provide compositions in the form of finely divided particulate solids, granules, pellets, wettable powders, dusts, solutions and aqueous dispersions or emulsions. Thus, the active ingredient can be used with an adjuvant such as a finely divided particulate solid, a solvent liquid of organic origin, water, a wetting agent, dispersing agent or emulsifying agent or any suitable combination of these. Illustrative finely divided solid carriers and extenders which are useful in the compositions of this invention include the talcs, clays, pumice, silica, diatomaceous earth, quartz, Fullers earth, sulfur, powdered cork, powdered wood, walnut flour, chalk, tobacco dust, charcoal and the like.Typical liquid diluents include Stoddard solvent, acetone, alcohols, glycols, ethyl acetate, benzene and the like. The plant growth regulating compositions of this invention, particularly liquids and wettable powders, usually contain one or more surface active agents in amounts sufficient to render a given composition readily dispersible in water or in oil.The term surface active agent is understood to include wetting agents, dispersing agents, suspending agents and emulsifying agents. Such surface active agents are well known and reference is made to U.S. Patent NO. 2,547,724, columns 3 and 4, for detailed examples of the same. Generally, the active ingredients are applied in the form of a composition containing one or more adjuvants which aid in the application of a uniform distribution of the active ingredient. The application of liquid and particulate solid compositions of the active ingredient can be carried out by conventional techniques utilizing, for example, spreaders, power dusters, boom and hand sprayers and sprasr dusters. The compositions can also be applied from airplanes as a dust or spray. Compositions of this invention, whether used as a herbicide or a plant growth regulant, generally contain from about 5 to 95 parts active ingredient, about 1 to 50 parts surface active agent and about 4 to 94 parts solvents, all parts being by weight based on the total weight of the composition. Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the details thereof are not to be construed as limitations, for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein. This invention also relates to the preparation Of isoxazol 5 yl benzoates that are useful in agriculture.Specifically, the isoxazol 5 yl benzoates prepared in accordance with the present invention have the followina structure EMI24.1 wherein R is hydrogen or R C and R is hydrogen or alkyl having up to four carbon atoms, inclusive. Belgian Patent 837,454 discloses such compounds to be effective plant growth regulants. The isoxazol 5 yl benzoates are prepared by conversion of isoxazolin 5 yl benzoate with N bromosuccinimide or dichlorodicyanobenzoquinone. Isoxazolin 5 yl benzoates are prepared, however, from vinyl benzoates which are somewhat difficult to prepare. In accordance with the novel aspects of the present invention, 3 Aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoates are prepared by an acid catalyzed solvolysis of 3 Aryl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one. In accordance with the process of the invention, the spiro compound is reacted with a hydroxy compound in the presence of a catalytic amount of a strong acid as follows EMI25.1 EMI25.2 wherein R is hydrogen or R CH2 and R is hydrogen or alkyl having up to four carbon atoms, inclusive. Said alkyl group may be a straight or a branched chain. The specific acid used is not critical. However the use of stronger acids increases the rate of reaction. Accordingly, strong acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, methanesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid and the like are preferred. Although the reaction may be conducted at room temperature, it is preferred to conduct it at or near the reflux temperature of the hydroxy compound. The reaction may be conducted above atmospheric pressure. However, atmospheric pressure is preferred. It should be noted that the invention contemplates the preparation of 3 Aryl isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acid in addition to esters thereof. The free acid may be prepared in one of two ways. First, the spiro compound may be cleaved utilizing aqueous acid without any alcohol being present. In other words, the above reaction is utilized in which R is hydrogen. The free acid is also prepared by reaction of the spiro compound with an alcohol at low temperatures. At low temperatures and or short residence times, the preparaton of free acid is favored. Thus, a mixture containing both the free acid and the ester may be formed. The amount of ester prepared in accordance with the novel process is dependent upon the temperature of the reaction and the length of time that the reaction is allowed to proceed.To prepare the ester, it is preferable to conduct the reaction at or near the reflux temperature of the hydroxy compound for a sufficient period of time in which to convert the spiro compound to the ester. Under such conditions, only minor amounts of the free acid are produced. If lower temperatures are utilized, a greater amount of the free acid would be produced. When preparing esters, it is preferable to use an excess amount of the hydroxy compound. Generally, it has been found that the spiro compound is soluble in the hydroxy compound. If the spiro compound is not readily soluble in said hydroxy compound, it may be beneficial to utilize an inert solvent. In order to illustrate the novel aspects of the present invention, the following examples are presented. Said examples are presented for illustration and are not intended as a limitation with respect to the scope of the invention. ExamPle 14 Preparation of Methyl 2 3 PentafluoroPhenyl 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoate. A solution of 3 pentafluorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 3.9 g., 0.0106 mole , concentrated H2SO4 0.3 ml. and methanol 100 ml. was held at reflux for 30 hours, cooled and poured into 600 ml. of ice water. The mixture was extracted with 1 liter of ether. The organic extract was then washed two times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to 3.8 g. of crystals m.p. 96.5 98 C. Recrystallization of the crude ester from toluene hexane gave 2.96 g. of pure product as colorless crystals m.p. 97 980C. Anal. Calc d. for C17H18F5NO3 C, 55.30 H, 2.18. Found C, 55.27 H, 2.21. Example 15 Preparation of Methyl 2 p Trifluoromethylphenvl 5 IsoxazolsS Benzoate. Methyl 2 13 E trifluoromethylphenyl 5 isoxazolylj benzoate was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 in 82X yield as a colorless oil. The oil was crystallized from toluene hexane to give 2.7 g. of white crystals m.p. 90.5 920C. Anal. Calc d. for C18H12F3NO3 C, 62.25 H, 3.48. Found C, 62.28 H, 3.51. Example 16 Preparation of Methyl 2 3 o Methylphenyl 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoate. Methyl 2 3 o methylphenyl 5 isoxazolyl benzoate was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1 as a colorless oil in 95 yield. The oil 3.99 g. was purified by column chromatography on silica gel with 50 toluene 50 ethyl acetate as the eluant. One fraction contained 2.49 g. of pure product, nD25.8 1.6017.Anal. Calc d. for C18H15NO3 C, 73.71 H, 5.15. Found Ct 73.52 H, 5.20. Example 17 Preparation of Methyl 2 3 3 Trifluoromethyl Phenyli 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoate. A mixture of 2 g. 0.006 mole of 3 m trifluoromethylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one, 2 ml. of concentrated surfuric acid and 50 ml. of methanol was heated at reflux for 17 hours. The solution was then poured into 100 g.of ice and extracted twice with 300 ml. of ether. The ether solutions were combined, washed twice with water saturated sodium chloride, and dried over CaSO4. Removal of the solvent gave 2 g. of colorless viscous liquid, which was crystallized from hexane at OOC. to give colorless crystals m.p. 46 480C. Example 18 Preparation of Methyl 2 3 p Chlorophenyl 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoate. A solution of 6.3 g. 0.020 mole of 3 E chlorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxa zol 3 one, 2 ml. of concentrated H2SO4 and 300 my. of methanol was stirred at reflux for 20 hours. The cooled solution was poured into ice water 3 liters and extracted with ether. The combined organic extracts were washed twice with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to yield 5.8 g. of colorless crystals 88 of product. Recrystallization from hexane afforded 5.4 g. of an analytically pure sample m.p. 89.5 910C. Anal. Calc d. for C17H12NC1O3 C, 65.14 H, 3.86. Found C, 65.14 H, 3.90. Example 19 Preparation of Methyl 2 13 2, 4 Dichlorophenyl 5 Isoxazolyl Benzoate. Methyl 2 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 5isoxazolyl benzoate was prepared in 94 yield with the same procedure as Example 5. Recrystallization of 4.7 g. of the crude product once from hexane and once from heptane yielded 3.3 g. pure crystals of the benzoate m.p. 94 960C.Anal. Calc d. for C17H11NCl2O3 C, 58.64 H, 3.18. Found C, 58.66 H, 3.19. Example 20 Preparation of Ethyl 2 3 2,4 Dichlorophenyl 5 IsoxazolyljBenzoate. A solution of 4 g. 0.011 mole of 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one, 2ml. of concentrated H2SO4 and 200 ml. of ethanol was held at reflux for 19 hours, cooled, and poured into ice water. The resultant mixture was extracted twice with ether. The ethereal solution was washed twice with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to give an oil.The oil was dissolved in hot hexane to afford 4.2 g. of a crystalline solid 96.9 . Recrystallization of the solid from hexane gave 3.1 g. of pure product m.p. 85 860C. Anal. Calc d. for C18H13NCl2O3 C, 59.69 H, 3.62. Found C, 59.66 H, 3.64. Example 21 Preparation of Methyl 2 t3 3 Phenoxyphenyl 5 Isoxazolyll Benzoate . Methyl 2 3 3 phenoxyphenyl 5 isoxazolyl benzoate was prepared in accdrdance with Example 5 in 95 yield as a light brown oil. Chromatography on silica gel with 50 cyclohexane 5 ethyl acetate as the eluant afforded pure product as a colorless oil ir CHCl3 1722 cm l n26.8 1.6217 D Anal. Calc d. for C23H17NO4 C, 74.38 H, 4.61. Found C, 74.20 H, 4.68. Preparation of n Butyl 2 3 3 Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 IsoxazolsS Benzoate. n Butyl 2 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 5 5 isoxazolyl benzoate was prepared according to the procedure of Example 5 utilizing n butanol in lieu of methanol in 94.8X yield as a pale yellow oil. The oil 5.54 g. was dissolved in 25 ml. of hexane and cooled in dry ice to obtain a white solid at low temperature. This solid melted at room temperature and was chromatographed on a silica gel column with ethyl acetate as the eluant. 3.8 g. of pure product was obtained as a colorless oil ir CHCl3 1720 cm n2 1.5412.Anal. Calc d. for C21H18F3NO3 C, 64.78 H, 4.66. Found C, 64.78 H, 4.66. Example 23 Preparation of n Pentyl 2 3 3 Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 IsoxazolyllBenzoate. A solution of 3 m trifluoromethyl phenyl spiro isobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one 10 g., 0.03 mole and concentrated H2SO4 1 ml. in n pentyl alcohol 150 ml. was held at reflux for 14 hours, cooled and poured into 300 ml. of ice water. The mixture was extracted with 600 ml. of ether. The ethereal solution was washed two times with water, dried over CaSO4 and concentrated under vacuum to give 12.05 g. of product as a yellow oil 99 . The oil was chromatographed on silica gel using ethyl acetate as the eluant. 8.4 g. of colorless oil was collected ir CHCl3 1725 cm 1, nD25 1.537.Anal. Calc d. for C22H20NF303 C, 65.50 H, 5.00. Found C, 65.53 H, 5.06. Example 24 Preparation of Ethvl 2 3 3 Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 Isoxazolyll Benzoate. Ethyl 2 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 5 isoxazolyl benzoate was obtained in 97.7 yield as a viscous oil by the method described in Example 10 ethanol used in lieu of n pentyl alcohol . Crystallization of 5.3 g. of the oil from heptane toluene yielded 3.7 g. of colorless crystals m.p. 28 300C. Anal. Calc d. for C19H14F3NO3 C, 63.16 H, 3.91. Found C, 63.13 H, 3.93. Example 25 Preparation of 2 3 3 Trifluoromethylphenyl 5 Isoxazolol Benzoic Acid. A mixture of 0.28 g. of 3 3 trifluoromethylphenyl spiro cisobenzofuran 1 3H ,5 4 H isoxazol 3 one, 0.5 ml. of concentrated HCl, 10 ml. of water and 6 ml. of dioxane was stirred at reflux for one hour. The mixture was cooled and filtered to give 0.25 g. of white solid m.p. 176.5 1780C. in 89 yield. Example 26 Preparation of 2 i3 2 Methylphenvl 5 Isoxazolyll Benzoic Acid. A mixture of 0.26 g. of 3 2 methylphenyl spiro isobenzofuran l 3H , 5 4 H isoxazol 3 one, 4 ml. of water, 4 ml. of dioxane and 0.10 ml. of concentrated sulfuric acid was stirred at reflux for one hour, allowed to cool and diluted with 15 ml. of water. The resultant oil was stirred several minutes to give 0.24 g. of white solid m.p. 162163.50C. in 92 yield. The above examples disclose, therefore, an efficient process for preparing isoxazol 5 yl benzoic acid and esters thereof that are useful as herbicides and plant growth regulants. Although this invention has been described with respect to specific modifications, the details thereof are not to be construed as limitations, for it will be apparent that various equivalents, changes and modifications may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are intended to be included herein.