# HIGH SPEED SENSE AMPLIFIER CIRCUIT WITH INHIBIT CAPABILITY

## Claims
Leseverstärkerschaltung des Typ bei der jeweils Bitleitungspaare B0

## Description
The invention pertains to an improved high speed sense amplifier and particularly to a sense amplifier adapted for use with a directory memory array chip. To facilitate a better understanding of the invention as described later it is deemed useful to first illustrate by means of Figs. 1 to 3 the system environment where it is used as well as to deal with the conventional circuit solution which is to be improved by the invention. Referring to Fig. 1 of the drawings, a block diagram of a typical directory chip is shown. Data inputted first to either of two registers 11 and 12 registers A and B is directed by a write logic circuit to a selected one of arrays 0 to 3, which together make up a memory block 17. Steering of the data from the write logic circuit 14 to the various arrays of the memory block 17 is done under control of the write select circuit 13. As indicated in the drawings, each of the registers 11 and 12 may be nine bits wide, although any desired practical number can be utilized. Accordingly, each of the arrays 0 to 3 is also nine bits wide. The arrays 0 to 3 each store 32 nine bit bytes of data. The array location where a particular byte of data is to be stored or read out is indicated by a word decoder 16. The nine bit outputs from the arrays 0 to 3 are fed to an input port of a byte select circuit 22. The byte select circuit 22 functions both as a sense amplifier circuit for each of the arrays 0 to 3 and as a data driver circuit for driving the sensed signals and applying them to a compare logic circuit 21 and a set of data drivers 24. More specifically, it is the function of the byte select circuit 22 to sense the output of memory cells designated by the output of the word decoder 16, transmit data to the compare logic 21 directly representing the corresponding sensed bit states, and to transmit to the data drivers 24, on a bus 25, data bits DB₀ to DB₈ which correspond to the output of only one of the arrays 0 to 3, particularly, one of the arrays 0 to 3 specified by the output of a read decode circuit 18. The compare logic circuit 21 compares the nine bit bytes from each of arrays 0 to 3 as sensed and transmitted by the byte select circuit 22 with a single nine bit CD₀ to CD₈ byte of comparison input data provided through a compare input circuit 19 on a bus 29. A single bit indicative of the result of each nine bit comparison is generated by the compare logic circuit 21 and applied to compare drivers 27 which provide corresponding drive signals on a bus 8. The data drivers 24 select as an output onto an output bus 15 either the output of the byte select circuit 22 or the comparison input data on the bus 29 from the output of the compare input circuit 19. The selection is made in accordance with the output of a bypass select circuit 23, which in turn makes the selection based upon the state of a bypass signal BPS. It is with the byte select circuit 22 that the invention is most closely related Referring now to the block diagram of Fig. 2, an alternative approach for constructing the byte select circuit 22 is depicted. Circuitry for one of 36 bit positions is shown the circuitry for the other bit positions would be essentially identical. The output from each bit position of each of the arrays is in the form of two bit lines per memory cell. More specifically, when a memory cell 31 0 to 31 n is being sensed, one of bit lines B0 Referring now to the schematic diagram of Fig. 3, the construction of the portion of the byte select circuit 22 shown in Fig. 2 will be explained in detail. The sense amplifier 32 is composed of a differential amplifier formed by transistors 51 and 52, the outputs of which are amplified and buffered by corresponding emitter follower connected transistors 54 and 56. A transistor 53 provides a reference voltage to the bases of the transistors 51 and 52. The output bit lines B0 An emitter follower coupled transistor 61 receives at its base the output from the collector of the transistor 58. The signal D The driver circuit 36 is composed of a differential amplifier formed by transistors 64 and 66. The D Although the circuits of Figs. 2 and 3 can perform the desired basic functions of the byte select circuit 22 of Fig. 1, nevertheless, they suffer from a number of serious drawbacks. First of all, as can be readily seen from even a brief consideration of Fig. 3, the circuitry is quite complex, and it requires a considerable chip area. Secondly, the power required for operating this circuit is considerable. Thirdly, a differential delay is encountered between C0 A sense amplifier comprising inhibit means for inhibiting the output of the sense amplifier is disclosed in US A 3760 194. The invention as claimed solves the problem of how to provide a high speed sense amplifier which performs the necessary functions of a byte select circuit in a directory chip, but in which the above mentioned drawbacks have been eliminated. The objects of the invention are met by a sense amplifier including means for determining a bit state of a memory cell being sensed, means for applying a first signal to a first output port having a state determined in accordance with the bit state of the sensed memory cell, means for applying a second signal, which also has its state determined in accordance with the determined bit state of the memory cell being sensed, to a second output port with the second signal being applied to the second output port substantially at the same time that the first signal is applied to the first output port, and means for selectively inhibiting the means for applying the second signal to the second output port. The bit state determining means may be implemented with first and second means for comparing an output from the memory cell with a reference signal, with the inhibiting means operating to selectively inhibit the first comparing means. The first and second comparing means are implemented as transistors having bases both coupled to a source of the reference signal, and an emitter of each receiving the output from the memory cell. Preferably, the first comparing means is a dual emitter transistor, the first emitter of which receives the output of the memory cell and the second emitter of which is coupled to the inhibiting means. The inhibiting means may be a constant current source and a switch transistor which selectively couples the constant current source to the second emitter of the dual emitter transistor. Of course, two such circuits should be provided in a case where the memory cell output is in the form of two lines for one bit, one of the memory cell output lines being activated in accordance with the state of the bit stored in the respective memory cell. One constant current source and corresponding switch transistor may be provided for each of a plurality of bit sensing circuits for a respective byte of data. In a preferred embodiment, the outputs at the collectors of the first and second transistors are passed through emitter follower configured buffer transistors to the first and second output ports, respectively. With this configuration, the first signal is applied to the first output port continuously, while the second signal to the second output port can be inhibited by connecting the constant current source to the second emitter of the dual emitter transistor. For a more detailed explanation of the invention reference is made to the drawings, some of which were already referred to for a better illustration of the starting point of the invention. The drawings illustrate, of course, only specific embodiments in which With reference to Fig. 4, a block diagram of a sense amplifier circuit of the invention is shown. In accordance with the invention, two sense amplifiers 41 and 42 both receive the outputs B0 With reference now to the detailed schematic diagram of Fig. 5, low state output line B0 In operation, if the transistor 128 is turned off, that is, if the WRITE BYPASS signal is at the DOWN level and the If it is desired to inhibit transmission of the outputs D0 As can be seen from the foregoing description the inventive circuit of Fig. 5 performs all of the functions of the alternative arrangement of Fig. 3, yet eliminates each of the above mentioned drawbacks. Specifically, the circuit of Fig. 5 is clearly much simpler than that of Fig. 3, it requires much less chip area, draws much less poker than the prior art configuration, and is faster. Also, it may be appreciated that the path from the input lines from the memory cell to the output lines D0