# Emulsifiable compositions and aqueous emulsions of organic isocyanates, and process using them as binders for manufacturing lignocellulose sheets.

## Abstract
An aqueous emulsion comprising an organic isocyanate and a surfactant which is the reaction product of an organic di or polyisocyanate with 1 an alkoxy polyethylene glycol of formula RO CH₂CH₂O The emulsions are useful as adhesives, surface coatings and especially as binders in the manufacture of chipboard.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An aqueous emulsion comprising an organic isocyanate and a surfactant characterised in that the surfactant is the reaction product of an organic di or polyisocyanate with 1 an alkoxy polyethylene glycol of formula RO CR CH O H 22n wherein R is an alkyl group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms, and n is at least 5 and, optionally, 2 an isocyanate reactive compound having one or more hydroxy, amino or carboxylic acid groups, wherein the proportions of the said isocyanate reactive compound 2 are from 0 to 50 parts by weight of isocyanate reactive compound per 100 parts by weight of alkoxy polyethylene glycol 1 , and wherein the isocyanate function of the organic di or polyisocyanate is completely reacted with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used . 2. An aqueous emulsion according to claim 1 wherein the alkoxy polyethylene glycol is a methoxy polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight in the range 300 to 1000. 3. An aqueous emulsion according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the organic polyisocyanate used to make the surfactant is a crude mixture of methylene bridged polyphenyl polyisocyanates. 4. An aqueous emulsion according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the organic isocyanate present therein comprises diphenylmethane diisocyanate. 5. An aqueous emulsion according to any one of the preceding claims comprising from 99 to 25 parts by weight of water, from 1 to 75 parts by weight of the organic isocyanate and a stabilising amount of the surfactant. 6, Aa aqueous emulsion according to claim 5 wherein the amount of surfactant is from 1 to 10 by weight on the weight of organic isocyaaate. 7. A process for manufacturing sheets or moulded bodies which comprises hot pressing a mass of lignocellulosic material mixed with an aqueous emulsion according to any one of the preceding claims. 8. An emulsifiable isocyanate composition comprising a mixture of an organic isocyanate and a surfactant characterised in that the surfactant is the reaction product of an organic di or polyisocyanate with 1 an alkoxy polyethylene glycol of formula RO CH2CH2O nH wherein R is an alkyl group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms, and m is at least 5, and, optionally, 2 an isocyanate reactive compound having one or more hydroxy, amino or carboxylic acid groups1 wherein theproportion of the said isocyanate reactive compound 2 are from 0 to 50 parts by weight of isocyanate reactive compound per 100 parts by weight of alkoxy polyethylene glycol 1 , and wherein the isocyanate function of the organic di or polyisocyanate is completely reacted with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used .

## Description
Organic isocyanates are well known as binders, adhesives and surface coatings, for example in the manufacture of chipboard. Organic isocyanates used for such purposes are generally too viscous to be readily applied as such and it has been found to be very effective to apply the organic isocyanate in the form of an aqueous emulsion. Aqueous emulsions of organic isocyanates have previously been prepared which are stable in the sense that they do not readily separate into discrete layers of their main components. Such emulsions1 however, are difficult to use for some applications as a result of degradation, for example by gelling by reaction of the water and the isocyanate to form a polyurea. This leads to a reduction in the time during which the emulsions remain workable, such time being referred to as the pot life .Stable emulsions of adequate pot life are described for example n UK Patent Specification No.1444933 which discloses alueous emulsions containing a surface active agent of formula RO CH CH O CONEX wherein R is an alkyl group of 22n flzm 1 to 4 carbon atoms, n is an integer such that the compound contains an average of at least 5 oxyethylene grout and X is the residue of a di or poly isocyanate and ontains at least one free isocyanate group. Surface active agents having free isocyanate grou s cannot be incorporated in the aqueous phase prior to emulsification, and indeed it has hitherto proved difficult to prepare stable isocyanate emulsions of adequate pot life when the surfactant is incorporated into the aqueous phase.In particular there is a need for a surface active agent whic is capable of being added to either the aqueous or the rganic phase. This versatility is also desirably accoipanied by the ability to formulate a family of such surface active agents whose emulsion forming properties may be varied to suit specific emulsion formulations. According to the present invention there is provided an aqueous emulsion comprising an organic isocyanate and a surfactant which is the reaction product of an organic di or polyisocyanate with 1 an alkoxy polyethylene glycol of formula RO CH CH O H 22n therein R is an alkyl group of I to 20 carbon atoms, and n is at least 5 and, optionally, 2 an isocyanate reactive compound having one or more hydroxy, amino or carboxylic acid groups, wherein the proportions of the said isocyanate reactive compound 2 are from 0 to 50 parts by weight of isocyanate reactive compound per 100 parts by weight of alkoxy polyethylene glycol 1 , and wherein dne isocyanate function of the organic di or polyisocyanate is completely reacted with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used . The organic isocyanate which constitutes the aqueous emulsion and the organic di or polyisocyanate which is reacted with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used to form the surface active agent may be the same or different. The alkyl group R of the alkoxy polyethylene glycol RO CEI,CH,O B contains from 1 to 20 carbon 22n atoms, for example R may be methyl or butyl. A mixture of compounds having different R groups, for example a mixture of C to C alkyl groups may also be used. n is at 7 9 least 5 and is preferably from 5 to 120, for example 5 to 25.It will be appreciated that n will normally represent the average of a mixture of isaners of varying degrees of polymerisation and will not in general therefore be an integer. An especially suitable a1k polyethylene glycol is methoxy polyethylene glycol in which R is methyl , which preferably has a molecular weight in the range 300 to 1000. Examples of organic di ar poeyisocyanates which may be reacted with the methoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used to form the surfactant include aliphatic isocyanates such as hexamethylene diisocyanate, aromatic isocyanates such as m and phenylene diisocyanate, tolylene 2,4 and 2,6 diisocyanates, diphenylmethane 4, 4 diisocyanate, chlorophenylene 2,4diisocyanate, naphthylene 1,5 diisocyanate, diphenylene4,4 diisocyanate, 4,41 diisocyanate 3,3 dimethyldiphenyl, 3 methyldiphenylmethane 4,4 diisocyanate and diphenyl ether diisocyanate, cycloaliphatic diisocyanates such as cyclohexane 2,4 and 2,3 diisocyanates, 1 methyl cyclohexyl 2,4 and 2,6 diisocyanates and mixtures thereof and bis isocyanatocyclohexyl methane and tri isocyanates such as 2,4,6 triisocyanatotoluene and 2,4,4 triisocyanatodiphenylether. fixtures of isocyanates may be used, for example a mixture of tolylene diisocyanate isomers such as the comcrcially available mixtures of 2,4 and 2,6 isomers and also the mixture of di and higher poly isocyanates produced by phosgenation of aniline formaldehyde condensates. Such mixtures are well known in the art and include th crude phosgenation products containing mixtures of methylene bridged polyphenyl polyisocyanates, including diisocyanate, triisocyanate and higher polyisocyanates together with any phosgenation byproducts. Preferred polyisocyanates to be used in the present invention are those wherein the isocyanate is an aromatic diisocyanate or polyisocyanate of higher functionality in particular crude mixtures of methylene bridged polyphenyl polyisocyanates containing diisocyanates, triisocyanate and higher functionality polyisocyanates. Methylene bridged polyphenyl polyisocyanates are well known in the art and have the generic formula EMI4.1 where n is one or more and in the case of the crude mixtures represents an average of more than one. They are prepared by phosgenation of corresponding mixtures of polyamines obtained by condensation of aniline and formaldehyde.For convenience, crude mixtures of methylene bridged polyphenyl polyisocyanates containing diisocyanate, triisocyanate and higher functionality polyisocyanates are referred to hereinafter as crude MDI . The isocyanate reactive compound having one or more hydroxy, amino or carboxylic acid groups may for example be a monofunctional alcohol, for example methanol, ethanol, benzyl alcohol or phenol a monofunctional amine for example aniline or benzylamine , or a monomeric glycol or polyol, diamine or polyamine, a hydroxyl ended polyester or hydroxyl ended polyether. Examples of suitable monomeric glycols or polyols include ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butane diol, pentane diol, hexane diol, dipropylene glycol, tripropylene glycol, oxypropylated bisphenol A, oxyethylated bisphenol A, oxyethylated hydroquinone and glycerol. Examples of suitable diamines or polyamines include tolylene diamine and hexamethylene diamine. The surfactant may be prepared by reacting the di or polyisocyanate with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used , there being at least one molar proportion in toto of the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive group s for each isocyanate functional group of the di or polyisocyanate, whereby the surfactant product has substantially no isocyanate functionality. If an isocyanate reactive compound is used in addition to the alkoxy polyethylene glycol, it is preferred that the reaction takes place in two stages, the alkoxy polyethylene glycol being reacted with the di or polyisocyanate first, and that reaction product being subsequently reacted with the isocyanate reactive compound.The reaction mixture is preferably heated at a temperature of 500 to 15O0C. The proportions of the isocyanate reactive compound may be varied within wide limits if it is difunctional e.g. a glycol to give a corresponding range of surfactants of varying properties. Typical molar ratios of alkoxy polyethylene glycol di or polyisocyanate isocyanate reactive compound lie in the range 2 1.1 0.1 to 2 4 3. The organic isocyanate which is emulsified in the presence of the surfactant to form the aqueous emulsion may be any suitable isocyanate selected for the desired application to which the emulsion is to be put.Suitable organic isocyanates include those listed above, for example MDI, crude MDI or polymers or oligomers thereof formed for example by reaction with a monomeric glycol or polyol or mixtures thereof or with a hydroxyl ended polyester or polyether MDI prepolymers . Also included are modified isocyanates in which a proportion of the isocyanate groups are converted into other functional groups such as carbodiimide groups or uretonimine groups, or in which a proportion of the isocyanate groups are reacted with any of a wide range of possible isocyanate reactive compounds. The surfactant is preferably admixed with water.The organic isocyanate is then added to this solution to form the emulsion. However, the surfactant may alternatively be admixed with the organic isocyanate and stored until required, at which point water is added to form the emulsion. According to a further aspect of the present invention there is thus provided an emulsifiable isocyanate composition comprising an admixture of an organic isocyanate and a surfactant which is the reaction product of an organic di or polyisocyanate with 1 an alkoxy polyethylene glycol of formula RO CH2CH20 nH wherein R is an alkyl group of 1 to 20 carbon atoms, and n is at least 5, and, optionally, 2 an isocyanate reactive compound having one or more hydroxy, amino or carboxylic acid groups, wherein the proportions of the said isocyanate reactive compound 2 are from 0 t 50 parts by weight of isocyanate reactive compound per 100 parts by weight of alkoxy polyethylene glycol 1 , and wherein the isocyanate function of the organic di or polyisocyanate is completely reacted with the alkoxy polyethylene glycol and the isocyanate reactive compound if used . The emulsions according to the invention are of the oil in water type and preferably comprise from 99 parts to 25 parts by weight of water, from 1 part to 75 parts by weight of organic polyisocyanate and a stabilising amount of surface active agent hereinbefore described. A preferred amount of the surface active agent is from 1 by weight t 10 by weight based on the organic isocyanate present. Emulsions comprising approximately equal parts by weight of water and organic polyisocyanate are useful for most applications. The invention further provides a process for preparing an aqueous emulsion comprising the steps of mixing an organic isocyanate with water in the presence of a surface active agent as hereinbefore described. Mixing of the organic isocyanate with the water may be carried out by any means which is appropriate for emulsification. Optionally, emulsions according to the invention may comprise an emulsifying agent additional to the surfactants described hereinbefore. Such additional emulsifying agents or stabilisers retard the rate of settling of the emulsion and assist in the prevention of any tendency for the emulsions to flocculate. Preferred stabilisers are polyethylene oxide, hydroxypropyl guar gum, cellulose gums and polypeptides such as gelatin or bone glue. Stabilisers may preferably be present at a concentration of 0.01 to 1.0 by weight based on the water present. Conveniently, the stabilisers are incorporated into the emulsions by dissolving or dispersing them in water, which may be the whole, or part, of the water used in preparing the emulsion. When the surfactant is admixed with water prior to emulsification of the organic isocyanate, dilute compositions, for example those containing 99 parts to 90 parts by weight of water and 1 part to 10 parts by weight of surface active agant and when present of stabiliser may conveniently be used as they are for emulsifying the organic isocyanate.More concentrated compositions, for example those containing from 40 parts to 70 parts by weight of water and 60 parts to 30 parts by weight of surface active agent and when present of stabiliser may be diluted appropriately with water for example with a dilution factor of up to 20 to 25 times and thereafter used to emulsify the organic isocyanate. It may be desirable to incorporate a solubilising compound, for example urea, in the more concentrated compositions. The emulsions of the present invention are useful as adhesives, binders and surface coatings. Examples of suitable applications are given in UK Patent SpecificationNos.1444933 and 1502777. In our pending UK Patent Application No.10264 75 published as Belgian Patent No.839546 there is described and claimed a process for manufactering sheets or moulded bodies, especially chipboard, which comprises hot pressing a mass of lignocellulosic material mixed with a binding agent comprising an aqueous emulsion of an organic polyisocyanate. The emulsions of the present invention are particularly useful for this application where delays of a few hours in pressing can occur. Thus according to a further aspect of our invention we provide a process for manufacturing sheets or moulded bodies for example chipboard comprising hot pressing a mass of lignocellulosic material mixed with an aqueous emulsion of the invention. Lignocellulosic material which can be used in the process includes wood chips, wood fibres, shavings, wood wool, cork and bark, sawdust and like waste products from the woodworking industry, an or fibres from other natural products which are lignocellulosic for example bagasse, straw, flax residues and dried rushes, reeds and grasses. Additionally, there may be mixed with the lignocellulosic material inorganic flake or fibrous material e.g.glass fibre, mica or asbestos. The process is conveniently carried out by spraying the lignocellulosic material with the emulsion while it is being tumbled in a mixer. The sprayed chips are allowed to fall evenly onto a steel platen coated with a release agent and pressed at a temperature of from 150 to 2200C. The isocyanate emulsion may be used in conjunction with other binders such as the resin glues commonly used for chipboard manufacture. It may also be used in admixture with, for example, ureaformaldehyde resin glue. A useful mixture comprises 2 to 3 parts urea formaldehyde and 1 part of emulsifiable isocyanate. Additives and adjuvants commonly used in isocyanate compositions may be incorporated in the emulsions as desired. Pigments, fillers, antioxidants, resins, and plasticisers are examples. Hydrophobic diluents may be useful in further slowing down the rate of reaction. The invention is illustrated by the followingExamples.Examples 1 7 420 parts of methoxy polyethylene glycol of molecular weight 750 MOPEG 750 was added with stirring to 70 parts of 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate at 700C, Stirring at 700C was maintained for 2 hours. The above procedure was repeated with the following isocyanates as shown in Table 1 Experiment Isocyanate 1 A 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate 2 B 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate modified by reaction with a mixture of low M.W. diols to an isocyanate value of 23.1 .3 C 4,4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate in which there has been partial conversion of the isocyanate groups to carbodiimide groups to give a product of isocyanate value 29.5 , 4 D A blend of approximately equal weights of a crude MDI and a prepolymer prepared from diphenylmethane diisocyanate and mixture of low M.W. diols, isocyanate value of the blend 28.5ss. 5 E A blend in the approximate weight ratio 3 1 of a crude MDI and a prepolymer prepared from diphenylmethane diisocyanate and a mixture of a low M.W. diol and a low M.W. polyether, isocyanate value of the blend 29.0 .6 F A crude MDI of viscosity 140 200 centipoises containing 48 diphenylmethane diisocyanates.7 G A crude MDI of viscosity 800 to 1000 centipoises containing 33 diphenylmethane diisocyanates. Emulsions were prepared from 2.4 parts of the surfactants of Experiments 1 to 7, 60 parts of water and 60 parts of isocyanate F above. In a first set of experiments, the surfactant was dissolved in the isocyanate phase, and in a second set of experiments the surfactant was dissolved in the water phase. A Silverson high speed stirrer was used to form the emulsions. The pot life of these emulsions the time taken for the emulsions to form a high viscosity paste is shown in Table 1. Methoxy polyethylene glycols are hereinafter referred to as MOPEG followed by the average number molecular weight.Table 1EMI12.1 tb SEP POT SEP LIFE tb SEP wt. SEP wt. SEP Hours, SEP mins. tb Example SEP Isocyanate SEP Isocyanate SEP MOPEG SEP 75 SEP Surfactant SEP Surfactant tb SEP parts SEP parts SEP in SEP in tb SEP Isocyanate SEP water tb SEP 1 SEP A SEP 70 SEP 420 SEP 4.00 SEP 6.30 tb SEP 2 SEP B SEP 102.5 SEP 420 SEP 4.00 SEP 6.00 tb SEP 3 SEP C SEP 81.5 SEP 420 SEP 3.30 SEP SEP 5.15 tb SEP 4 SEP D SEP 83.5 SEP 420 SEP 3.45 SEP 5.30 tb SEP 5 SEP S SEP SEP 82.3 SEP 420 SEP 3.50 SEP 5.30 tb SEP 6 SEP F SEP 77.0 SEP 420 SEP 4.00 SEP 5.30 tb SEP 7 SEP G SEP 77.0 SEP 420 SEP 4.00 SEP 5.30 SEP tb Examples 8 15 363 parts of MOPEG 750 was added with stirring to 132 parts of isocyanate F of Example 6 maintained at 700C.After the initial exotherm, 15 parts of ethylene glycol was added, and stirring at 700C was maintained for 2 hours. The above procedure was repeated with the glycols shown in Table 2 to form the Surfactants of Experiments 8 to 15. emulsions were prepared as in Examples 1 7 above, and the pot life of the emulsions is given in Table 2. Table 2EMI13.1 tb SEP POT SEP LLFF, SEP tb SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP hours. SEP minutes tb SEP of SEP of SEP iso SEP of tb SEP Ex. SEP Glycol SEP cyanate SEP surfactant SEP Surfactant tb SEP glycol SEP F SEP MOPEG SEP 750 SEP in SEP in tb SEP parts SEP Parts SEP parts SEP socyanate SEP water tb SEP 8 SEP ethylene SEP 15 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 6.00 SEP 5.00 tb SEP 9 SEP 1,2 SEP 18.3 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 6.30 SEP 6.00 tb SEP propylene tb 10 SEP 1,4 SEP 21.5 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 5.45 SEP . SEP 6.00 tb SEP butane tb 11 SEP 1,5 SEP 24.7 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 5.00 SEP 5.30 SEP tb SEP pentane tb 12 SEP 1,6 SEP 27.9 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 5.00 SEP 5.00 tb SEP hexane tb SEP 3 SEP Di SEP 31.4 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 4.45 SEP 4.45 SEP tb SEP propylene tb SEP 4 SEP Tri SEP 43.8 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 4.30 SEP 5.00 SEP tb SEP propylene tb SEP 5 SEP oxy SEP 73.4 SEP 132 SEP 363 SEP 6.00 SEP 5.33 SEP tb SEP propylated tb SEP bisphenol tb SEP A tb Examples 16 to 18 150 parts of MOPEG 750 was added with stirring to 27.5 parts of isocyanate F of Example 6 maintained at 700C. Stirring at 70 C was maintained for 2 hours. This procedure was repeated with methoxy polyethylene glycols MOPEG of different molecular weights, and emulsions were prepared from the resultant surfactants as in Examples 1 6.The pot lives of the emulsions formed are given in Table 3. Table 3EMI14.1 SEP POT SEP LIFE tb SEP Methoxy SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP SEP Hours SEP , SEP minutes tb Example SEP Polyethylene SEP MOPEG SEP Isocyanate SEP Surfactant SEP Surfactant tb SEP Glycol SEP parts SEP in SEP in tb SEP MOPEG SEP parts SEP isocyanate SEP water SEP tb SEP 16 SEP MOPEG SEP 750 SEP 150 SEP 27.4 SEP 4.00 SEP 5.30 SEP tb SEP 17 SEP MOPEG SEP 550 SEP 110 SEP 27.4 SEP 4.45 SEP 4.45 tb SEP 18 SEP MOPEG SEP 350 SEP 70 SEP 27.4 SEP 4.30 SEP 6.00 tb Examples 19 to 21 The procedure of Examples 8 to 15 was repeated using MOPEG of molecular weight 550 and diethylene glycol in the proportions shown in Table 4. The pot lives of the resultant emulsions are also shown in Table 4.Table 4EMI14.2 tb SEP POT SEP LIFE tb SEP Hours SEP minutes SEP tb Example SEP MOPEG SEP Diethylene SEP Isocyanate SEP Surfactant SEP Surfactant tb SEP 550 SEP glycol SEP F SEP in SEP in tb SEP parts SEP parts SEP parts SEP Isocyanate SEP Water SEP tb SEP 19 SEP 110 SEP SEP 27.4 SEP 4.45 SEP 4.45 tb SEP 20 SEP 110 SEP 10.6 SEP 54.8 SEP 4.45 SEP 4.30 SEP tb SEP 21 SEP 110 SEP 21.2 SEP 72.2 SEP 4.45 SEP 4.30 tb Examples 22 and 23 The procedure of Examples 8 to 15 was repeated replacing the glycol with benzyl alcohol and aniline respectively. The proportions and the pot lives of the resultant emulsions are given in Table 5. Table 5EMI15.1 tb SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP Weight SEP POT SEP LIFE tb SEP Isocyanate SEP isocyanate SEP hours, SEP minutes tb isocyanate SEP MOPEG SEP tb Ex. SEP reactive SEP reactive SEP F SEP 750 SEP Surfactant SEP Surfactant tb SEP compound SEP compound SEP parts SEP pts. SEP in SEP in tb SEP parts SEP in SEP in SEP tb 22 SEP benzyl SEP 21.6 SEP 27.4 SEP 75 SEP 4.00 SEP 3.45 SEP tb SEP alcohol tb 23 SEP aniline SEP 9.3 SEP 27.4 SEP 75 SEP 5.30 SEP 5.45 tb Examples 24 .27 2 parts of the surfactant of Example 6 was dissolved in 100 parts of water containing 0.25 parts of the stabilisers shown in Table 6. The pot life and the time for the emulsions to settle to a predetermined level were as given in Table 6.Table 6EMI15.2 tb Example SEP Stabiliser SEP Pot SEP life SEP Settling SEP time tb SEP 24 SEP Cellulose SEP gum SEP Hercules SEP 5 SEP hours SEP non SEP settling tb SEP 7M275 tb SEP 25 SEP Polyethylene SEP oxide SEP 5 SEP hours SEP non SEP settling tb SEP Polyox SEP WSR SEP 205 tb SEP 26 SEP Gelatin SEP 5 SEP hours SEP 44 SEP minutes tb SEP 27 SEP Bone SEP glue SEP 5 SEP hours SEP 50 SEP minutes tb Example 28 1.5 parts of polyethylene oxide Polyox WSR 205 was dissolved in 68.5 parts of water, and the surfactant ofExample 6 30 parts was added to give a clear solution. 6.7 parts of the concentrate prepared above were added to 95.5 parts of water. 100 parts of isocyanate F of Example 6 were added and an emulsion was formed using a high speed Silverson stirrer. The loss of isocyanate strength of the emulsion with time was determined by reaction with di n butylamine and back titration with hydrochloric acid at periods of 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours and 6 hours after the formation of the emulsion. The results are shown in Table 7.Example 29 6.7 parts of the concentrate prepared as inExample 28 above was added to 79 parts of water. 100 parts of isocyanate F of Example 6 were added and emulsified using a Silverson stirrer. 33 parts of a commercially available 50 wax emulsion Mobil ED 80 i 96 was added using a low speed stirrer. The loss of isocyanate strength of the mixed emulsion was determined as in Example 28, and the results are shown in Table 7.Table 7EMI16.1 tb Example SEP ISOCYANATE SEP STRENGTH SEP AFTER SEP HOURS tb SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 6 tb SEP 28 SEP 30.9 SEP 30.5 SEP 30,2 SEP 30.0 SEP 28.6 tb SEP 100 SEP 99 SEP 98 SEP 97 SEP 93 tb SEP 30.9 SEP 30.7 SEP 29.8 SEP 29.1 SEP 27.2 tb SEP 100 SEP 99 SEP 96 SEP 94 SEP i SEP 882 SEP tb Example 30 A surfactant stabiliser concentrate was prepared from 2 parts of polyethylene oxide Polyox WSR 205 , 58 parts of water and 40 parts of the surfactant of Example 6. After leaving overnight, this concentrate separated into two layers. The above preparation was repeated but with the further addition of 5 parts urea. The urea was dissolved in the water first, prior to the addition of the polyox and surfactant. No separation into layers was apparent on storage. Example 51 6.7 parts of the concentrate of Example 28 was added to 95.5 parts of water. 100 parts of the following isocyanates were emulsified in solutions prepared as above Isocyanate C of Example 3Isocyanate D of Example 4Isocyanate E of Example 5Isocyanate G of Example 7 All gave stable emulsions with pot lives in excess of 5 hours.Example 32 a A wood chip panel was prepared using an isocyanate emulsion as binder. The formulation used was Pine wood chip containing 2 moisture 1020 parts water 60 partsIsocyanate F 60 partsSurfactant concentrate as in Example 28 2 partsThe surfactant concentrate described in Example 28 was diluted with the 60 parts of water and an emulsion was formed with the isocyanate. This emulsion was sprayed onto the wood chip using a eciventiona1 blender. The glued wood chips were spread in a former measuring 40 cm x 30 cm. placed on top of a eteel plate. The steel plate was coated with a solution of soft soap as a release agent. The forme WE3 gently removed and a similar coated steel plate placed on top of the wood chip cake.The cake was then placed in a press at 1750C with 19 mm spacers. The cake was pressed for 3 minutes 48 seconds. The resulting panel had the properties shown in Table 8. b A similar board was prepared but the isocyanate emulsion was left standing for 4 hours before spraying onto the wood chips. The resulting panel had the properties shown in Table 8.Table 8EMI18.1 tb Example SEP 8a SEP 8b tb Density SEP Kgm SEP 3 SEP SEP 685 SEP 690 tb 2 SEP hr. SEP water SEP swelling SEP SEP 16 SEP 16 tb 24 SEP hr. SEP water SEP swelling SEP SEP 19 SEP 19 tb Perpendicular SEP tensile SEP strength SEP 1000 SEP SEP 1050 SEP tb V20 kNm 2 SEP DIN SEP 68763 tb Perpendicular SEP tensile SEP strength SEP 300 SEP 370 SEP tb V100 kNm2 SEP DIN SEP 68763 tb