# Viscous vibration damper.

## Abstract
The disclosure illustrates a viscous vibration damper 10 capable of manufacture using low cost fabrication techni ques. Formed and welded steel plates 16,18 form an annular working chamber 36 containing a viscous fluid and an annu lar inertia ring 38 consisting of series of stacked welded discs 40, 42, 44 . One of the discs 40 has a pair of spaced holes 46, 48 at fixed locations relative to its central axis A . The remain ing discs 44 have dimples 66, 68 at the same location relative to their central axis. The dimples 66, 68 permit the discs to be nested in concentric alignment. The outermost discs 42, 44 have holes 76 which provide recesses for nylon bearing pads 78 for the inertia ring 38 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A viscous vibration damper comprising, housing means 16,18 for forming an annular working chamber 36 , an annuler inertia element 38 rotatably contained witnin said working chamber 36 , said element 38 comprising a plurality of stacked disc elements 40,42,44 and means for securing said elements 40,42,44 together in concentric alignment an.d a viscous fluid contained within said chamber 36 whereby torsional oscilations of said housing means are damped by the working of said viscous rluid within said chamber 36 . 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said discs 44 include means for forming a protrusion 60 extending from one face thereof at at least two locations, and an indentation 64 on the opposite face thereof at said two locations, said indentations 64 being placed at substantially identical locations relative to the central axis and to each other for all of said discs whereby said protrusions 60 are received in indentations 64 of adjacent discs and said discs are nestled in concentric alignment, 3. Apparatus as s in claim 2 wherein one of said discs 40 has indentations on both faces thereof at the locations to form a reference disc, the protrusions 60 on the remaining discs 42, 44 facing said reference disc 40 whereby the end discs of said stack do not have protrusions extending from said stack. 4. Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said protrusion and indentation means comprises dimples 66, 68 formed in sajd discs. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein each disc has a pair of dimples 66, 68 spaced approximately 1800 apart. 6. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein one of said discs 40 has holes 46, 48 therethrough at said locations to form a reference disc, all of the dimples 66, 68 facing toward said opening so that the end discs 42, 44 do not have protrusions extending from said stack. 7. Apparatus as in claim 6 further comprising nylon pads 78 for acting as a bearing between the end faces of said stack of discs and the walls of said working chamber 36 and wherein the discs 42,44 at opposite ends of the stack have holes 76 therethrough whereby i I hn et 1d stole 76 and the face of the adjacent disc form E recess for receiving said nylon pads 78 . 8. Apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising nylon pads 78 for acting as a bearing between the end faces of said stack of discs and the walls of said working chamber 36 and wherein the discs at opposite ends of the stack have holes 76 therethrough whereby in the stack said holes 76 and the face of the adjacent disc form a recess for receiving said nylon pads. 9. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said securing means is an electron beam or resistance weld. 10. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said housing means comprises a first annular element 1,8 formed with an annular trough 28 having a rectangular cross section adjacent its periphery and a flat circular plate element 16 abutting said first element 18 to form therewith said working chamber 36 , and means for continuously securing said first and second elements adjacent the inner and outer boundary of said trough 28 to seal said working chamber. 11. Apparatus as in claim where means comprises an el,ectron beam or resistance we . 12. Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein one of said elements is formed from high strength steel for resisting axially drecte vibrations of a rotary member to which the vibration damper is attach 13. Apparatus as in claim 8 wherein said second element is formed from high strength steel.

## Description
TITLE VISCOUS VIBRATION DAMPER The present invention relates to rotary dampers and more specifically to the type of damper known as a viscous vibration damper. Vibration dampers of the type shown in U.S. Patent 2,824,467 damp torsional vibrations in a rotary output t se as the crankshaft of an internal combustion ezigine. An annular housing is secured to the crankshaft, and has a chamber filled with highly viscous fluid and a heavy ring known as an inertia ring. When the engine is operating and producing torsional vibrations in the crankshaft, the inertia ring tends to oscillate relative to the housing. The relative movement causes a working of the viscous fluid thereby dissipating the vibrational energy in the form of heat. Such a damper has proven effective in damping torsional vibrations for high horsepower engines. However, it is expensive since the inertia ring must be made from a casting or forging and the housing from another castingCastings and forgings have continued to escalate in cost.Since they constitute a major part of the damper, they prevent the manufacture of a low cost damper. In the past, some attempts have been made to fabricate various elements of dampers torsional vibration in other than cast form.Examples are U.S. Patents No. 2,092,591 and 1,718,208 which show the inertia ring made from a pair of discs. However, this is not a truly effective construction since it fails to insure adequate axial concentricity between the discs. The above problems are solved by a vibration damper of the above type where the inertia ring comprises a plurality or stacked discs with means for securing the elements in concentric alignment. In a preferred embodiment the discs have means for forming a protrusion from one face at least at two fixed locations relative to the central axis thereof and to each other. An indentation on the opposite face at the same fixed locations enables the discs to be nestled in concentric alignment. The above and other related features of the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following description of the disclosure shown in the accompanying drawings and the novelty thereof pointed out in the appended claims. In the drawings Figure 1 is an end view of a viscous vibration damper embodying the present invention. Figure 2 is a sectional view of the vibration damper of Figure 1 along with a portion of an internal combustion engine crankshaft to which it may be secured. Figure 3 is a highly enlarged fragmentary view of the damper of Figure 2. Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the viscous vibration damper 10 is adapted to be secured to the nose 12 of a crankshaft 14 such as one for an internal combustion engine.To this end the damper 10 comprises first and second discs 16 and 18 each having hoes 20 which receive screws 22 to secure the damper 1C to he crankshaft 14. A circular protrusion 4 pilots the damper 10 by means of a central opening 2, Disc 18 ha an annular trough 28 formed adjacent its perifery 30. Trough 28 has a generally rectangular cr s section and has an outer border or wall 32 adjacent perifery 30 and an inner wall or border 34 intermediate perifery 30.Disc 16 and formed disc 18 form in cooperation an annular working chamber 36 which contains an inertia ring generally ioidicated at 38 and highly viscous fluid not iuce the damping action described above. Referring to Figure 3, inertia ring 38 comprises a plurality of stacked fiscs including a central disc 40 end discs 42 and intermediate discs 44, having central boles 41, 43, and 45 respectively. Dise 40, which we will call a reference disc, has a pair of holes 46, 48, of given diameter, each positIoned in a fred location ith respect to one cter ard to the tral is s of te damper 10.As shown particularly in Fiqure 3, hole 46 has a distance r, from central axis A and hole 48 has a distance r2 from axisA. The angular position with respect to one another is represented by angle 8. As illustrated rl is equal to r2 and the angle e is 1800. It should be apparent, however, that rl need not be equal to r2 and that 9 can be an angle other than 1800. Face 58 of each disc 44 has a protrusion 60 extending from it and the opposite face 62 has an indentation 64 conformingto and in the same position as protrusion 60.When the protrusion and inde ntation are formed integral with the material of disc 44 a dimple 66 is thus formed. The dimple 66 is sized and positioned at radius rl, with respect to the axis of disc 4 so that it will be received in hole 46. A corresponding dimple 68 has the size and position at radius r2 with respect to the axis of disc 44 and angle e with respect to dimple 66 to be received in hole 48. Each disc 44 has dimples 66 and 68 in the same location so that. when the dimples 66 are nestled the discs 44 are in con centric alignment with the reference disc 40. The end discs 42 have dimples 72 and 74 in the same rl, r2 and e positions so that they are also nestled in concentric alignment.In addition, end discs 42 have holes 76 which in cooperation with adjacent disc 44 form a recess which receives a nylon pad 78. The thickness of discs 42 are made less than the thickness of pad 78 so that it protrudes and acts as a bearing to prevent metal to metal contact between the inertia ring 38 and the walls of working chamber 36. The discs 40, 44 and 42 are secured, for example, by resistance or electron beam welding, 87, at radius B and C. The manufacture of the above damper takes place as follows. The discs 40, 44 and 42 are formed by a suitable means such as a punch press to obtain the outer and inner diameters. Then the dimples 66, 72 are formed as well as hole 76 punched out. When this is completed the discs are stacked so that the dimple sets 66, 72 and 68, 74 nestle in one another, and that the dimples 66, 68 on either side of the reference disc 40 project into the holes 46 and 48 respectively. Since there is a set of discs on either side of the reference disc 40, it is desirable to make e equal to 1800. In that way a single die can be used to produce the discs to the right and to the left of reference disc 40. The dimples and the holes maintain the discs in concentric alignment so that they may be clamped and then welded together. If necessary the outer faces of one of the discs 42 may be machined to achieve a given clearance between the end faces of internal ring 38 and the corresponding walls of working chamber 36. When this is completed, the nylon pads 78 are isnserted in holes 76 an t kerifery of the inertia ring 38 ith teflph tape at 80 and 82. The inertia ring is trough 28 and discs 18 and 16 placed against one insther The discs 16 and 12 are secured together con einuously at radius D adjacent the inner border of the rig chamber 36 and a radius E adjaent the outer border for example by electron beam or arc welding. Thus, the working chamber 36 at radius 5 and D iS completely sealed. Two holes 84 in disc 18 with removable p1us 86 parmits viscous fluid to be forced into worrying chamber 36. Such fluid may be silicone of an appropriately high viscosity. Thus, it is seen by the description above that the damper produced has a total lack of cast or forged parts.The stamping and forming needed for this damper are well within the capability of many small fabrication shops. The resultant material cost reduction and simplicity of fabrication enables a substantial reduction in manufactured cost while maintaining an equivalent level of performance.