# AN ARRANGEMENT TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TIME OF ARRIVAL INDICATION FOR A PLURALITY OF RECEIVED SIGNALS

## Claims
Anordnung zur Schaffung einer genauen Ankunftszeitanzeige für N empfangene Signale, die zwischen sich einen gegebenen zeitlichen Abstand aufweisen, wobei N eine natürliche Zahl ist, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to an arrangement to provide an accurate time of arrival indication for a plurality of received signals, such as the group of pulses in the synchronization preamble of a modern communication, navigation and or identification system. Modern communication, navigation and identification systems often require accurate time of arrival TOA measurements or indications of received signals. One possible receiver construction is based on the use of a matched filter whose impulse response is the time reversed signal waveform with an appropriate delay. The matched filter acts as a signal correlator and serves to detect the received signal and to estimate the instant in time when the received signal appears to be best aligned with the stored finite duration matched waveform. Possible approaches of the implementation of the correlator may be utilizing a continuous time device, such as surface acoustic wave SAW device or a discrete time device, such as a charge coupled device CCD and digital correlator DC . The discrete time implementation of the signal correlator is very attractive in certain application areas where module size, cost and construction flexibility and expandability are of concern. The associated sampling losses for a discrete time system can be classified into two areas These two associated losses may be reduced by increasing the sampling rate for better timing resolution at the cost of circuitry complexity. In practice, a system usually provides a group of pulses in the synchronization preamble made to enhance system detection performance and anti jamming capability. The present invention provides an arrangement to provide an accurate time of arrival indication for N received signals having a given time spacing there between, where N is an integer greater to one, comprising N signal channels, each responsive to a different one of said N channels including first means to sample the associated one of said N signals at a given one of N phase clocks, each of said N phase clocks sampling a different one of said N signals at a predetermined different time uniformly spaced over a given time intervall and to delay the samples of the associated one of said N signals according to the given time spacing, and second means coupled to said first means to correlate the delayed samples of the associated one of said N signals with a reference signal the arrangement comprising further third means coupled to each of the second means to integrate the correlated output signals of each of the second means to provide said indication of said time of arrival of said N signals. Preferred embodiments of the invention are defined in the dependent claims. An arrangement according to the present invention provides an improved accurate time of arrival indication for a plurality of received signals. Such an arrangement reduces the two above mentioned sampling losses. It provides the required system detection performance and anti jamming capability as well as the reduction of the above mentioned sampling losses without any increase of circuitry complexity. The abstract related to the Japanese published patent application No. 55 96470 A discloses a compressing device to process an encoded pulse to obtain a relatively narrow pulse. This compressing device uses a number of N pulse compressors, each pulse compressor being driven by a particular one of N phase clock signals. The outputsignals of the pulse compressors are added in an output adder. Above mentioned and other features and objects of this invention will become more apparent by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, in which Referring to Fig. 1, a multiple phase sampling scheme is utilized to provide an accurate time of arrival indication for a plurality of received signals which, according to the example illustrated, amounts to N signals where N is equal to 4. This multiple phase sampling scheme strictly depends on the system signal format, detection and anti jamming performance and the TOA timing accuracy requirements. For purposes of explanation, consider the following simplified example. There are four signal pulses available in the synchronization preamble mode, the TOA timing accuracy of T Each of the received signal pulses is sampled in a different one of the sampling circuits 1 4 by an assigned sampling clock so that each of the received signals is sampled at a relatively different timing uniformly spaced over the interval 8T Each of the correlators 10 13 may be composed of a reference signal shift register 15 and a signal shift register 16, into which the output of the associated one of the delay lines 6 9 are clocked according to the associated multiphase clock signal. Each bit of the signal in the stages of the shift register 16 are compared with the corresponding bit in the associated shift register stage of the shift register 15 by means of EXCLUSIVE OR gates 17. The result of the comparison determines an input to a summing circuit 18. A typical rule for an input to the summing circuit 18 is as follows As will be recognized, this is the truth table for an EXCLUSIVE OR gate. If, due to logic circuit consideration, it is desired to have an output of logic 1 where the signal and reference bits are the same and to have a logic 0 output when the signal and reference bits are different, the EXCLUSIVE OR gates could be followed by an inverter or NOT gate. Since each of the correlators 10 13 are constructed identically and, as a result, each have a summing circuit similar to summing circuit 18, it would be possible to eliminate this separate summing circuit in the correlators by having a tree like arrangement in summing circuit 14 wherein the outputs of each correlator are summed and then the resulting sums are further summed to provide the output I of Fig. 2. The circuit arrangement of Fig. 1 employing the multiple phase sampling scheme can be used to reduce the sampling losses associated with a discrete time system mentioned hereinabove without any increases of circuitry complexity. It allows the use of slower speed correlator circuitry to be used to achieve a performance of N times the clock rate where N is the number of clock phases employed, which is equal to the number of input signals operated upon by the circuitry of Fig. 1. While I have described above the principles of my invention in connection with specific apparatus, it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation to the scope of my invention as set forth in the objects thereof and in the accompanying claims.