# Process for making nonwoven fabrics by bonding organic fibers.

## Abstract
A nonwoven fabric is prepared by simultaneously heat ing and compressing a nonwoven web of organic fibers which contains a bonding quantity of water as defined in the descrip tion. Compressive force and temperature and time of web exposure thereto are correlated to provide a wash stable fabric, but the correlation is such that wash stable bonding of an otherwise dry web is not obtained. A dry web is one containing equilibrium water content at 65 relative humidity at 22 C.

## Claims
tthat is claimed is 1. A process for making nonwoven fabrics, said process being characterized by simultaneously compressing and heating a nonwoven web of water bondable organic fibers, said web containing a bonding quantity of water the compressive force, temperature, and time of exposure of the web thereto being correlated to effect autogenous fiber bonding sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect autogenous bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said web containing a bonding quantity of water additionally contains an adhesion promoter. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein said water bondable fibers are nylon 6,6 fibers. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the web is heated by contact with compression means maintained at a temperature above 100 cm. and below the fiber melting point as measured by anhydrous fibers at atmospheric pressure, but no more than 1000C. below such fiber melting point. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the web has a dry weight of from 10 to 250 grams per square meter. 6. A process for making nonwoven fabrics, said process being characterized by providing a bonding quantity of water in a nonwoven web of water bondable organic fibers and passing said web containing said water through and compressing said web in the nip of a pair of rolls at least one of which is heated the compressive force, the roll temperature, and the rate of passage of the web through the nip being correlated to effect autogenous fiber bonding sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect autogenous bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web to provide a wash stable fabric. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein at least one of said rolls bears a patterned surface adapted to compress the web in spaced, discrete areas and provide a fabric having a pattern of from 16 to 64 discrete bond sites per squar centimeter covering from 3 to 50 of the fabric surface area. 8. A process for making a nonwoven fabric said process being characterized by providing a bonding quantity of water in a nonwoven web of nylon 6,6 continuous filament fibers passing said web containing said water through and compressing said web in the nip of a pair of rolls at least one of which is heated and at least one of which is patterned to compress the web in spaced discrete areas the compressive force, roll temperature and rate of passage of the web through the nip being correlated to effect bonding in the spaced, discrete areas compressed sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the roll temperature is below the fiber melting point but no more than 1000 C. below the fiber melting point. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein the web has a dry weight of from 10 to 250 grams per meter. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein the patterned roll has a pattern of boss sites disposed to provide a fabric having a pattern of from 16 to 64 spaced, discrete bond sites per square centimeter, said bond sites covering from 3 to 507. of the fabric surface area. 12. The process of claim 10 wherein each roll has a land and groove pattern interacting with the land and groove pattern of the other roll to provide a fabric having a pattern of from 16 to 64 spaced, discrete bond sites per square centimeter, said bond sites covering from 37. to 50 of the fabric surface area.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING NONWOVEN FABRICS BY BONDING ORGANIC FIBERS This invention relates to processes for bonding organic fibers. More specifically, the invention relates to such processes wherein water is utilized as an agent for effecting autogenous bonding of fibers constituting nonwoven webs. Nonwoven fabrics and the utilization thereof are well known to those skilled in the art. Such fabrics are prepared by forming a web of continuous filament and or staple fibers. Such webs, as formed, are generally lacking in physical integrity and readily disintegrate when handled. Therefore, it is customary to increase the integrity of such webs by bonding the fibers constituting the web at fiber crossover points. Fiber bonding has been successfully accomplished by mechanical entanglement of web fibers application of adhesives and autogenously by the use of heat or liquid or gaseous agents to soften the fibers and render them cohesive. Autogenous bonding has been found particularly advantageous from the standpoint of providing fabrics of good strength without incorporating an adhesive having a composition differing froz that of the fibers in the fabric. In autogenous bonding. strength can in some instances be improved and or cecorafiive sau . oat erns or modified tactile properties provided by overall or intermittent compression of the softened fibers. However, certain process difficulties have hitherto been associated with autogenous bonding.For example, in processes employing thermal softening of fibers, careful control of temperature and pressure, if utilized is required to obtain adequate bonding without complete melting resulting in destruction of the fibrous structure uidlor sticking of the web,to supports or pressure applying devices. Techniques using liquid softening agents must similarly be carefully controlled to prevent total web dissolution. Further, many liquid bonding agents and gaseous bonding agents, e.g. HCI, are corrosive to equipment and or pose potential hazards to operating personnel if carelessly handled. The bonding of fibrous webs by the application of specified amounts of water followed by compression of the Web to prescribed thicknesses at specified temperatures is described in Japanese patent publication Nos. 74 3459 74 3460 and 74 3461. However, attempts to prepare non vvoven fabrics in accordance with the teachings of the aforesaidJapanese publications have yielded materials which failed to satisfactorily withstand conventional usage such as washing. A practical process utilizing water as an agent for bonding organic fibers to form fabrics of acceptable physical properties would represent a substantial advance in the art. 5SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The process of the invention is one for making nonwoven fabrics, and is characterised by simultaneously compressing and heating a nonwoven web of water bondable organic fibers, said web containing a bonding quantity of water the compressive force, temperature, and time of exposure of the web thereto being correlated to effect autogenous fiber bonding sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect autogenous bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web sufficiert to provide a wash stable fabric. A preferred process according to the invention is characterised by providing a bonding quantity of water in a nonwoven web of water bondable organic fibers and passing said web containing said water through and compressing said web in the nip of a pair of rolls at least one of which is heated the compressive force, the roll temperature, and the rate of passage of the web through the nip being correlated to effect autogenous fiber bonding sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect autogenous bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web to provide a wash stable fabric. A further preferred process according to the invention is characterised by providing a bonding quantity of water in a nonwoven web of nylon 6,6 continuous filament fibers passing said web containing said water through and compressing said web in the nip of a pair of rolls at least one of which is heated and at least one of which is patterned to compress the web in spaced, discrete areas the compressive force, roll temperature and rate of passage of the web through the nip being correlated to effect bonding in the spaced, discrete areas compressed sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric but the correlation being such as not to effect bonding of fibers of an otherwise equivalent dry web sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric. The practice of the invention will be understood from the following description of the preferred embodiments. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EM3ODIME.4TS The process of this invention can be utilized to effect bonding of any water bondable fibers. The term water bondable fibers denotes any fibers which, in the form of a web containing a bonding quantity of water, can be bonded to form a wash stable fabric a fabric exhibiting little or no pilling when subjected to a hereinafter described washing test under a combination of compressive force, temperature and exposure time which will not effect such bonding in an otherwise identical dry web.Examples of water bondable fibers suitable for processing in accordance with this inven tion include fibers derived from polyhexamethylene adipamide, polycaproamide and other polyamides, acrylic and modacrylic polymers and copolymers and mixtures and blends thereof. Polyamide polymer fibers, e.g. nylon 6,6, are particularly well suited for the practice of this invention. Composite fibers, including those having components which are not, alone, water bondable can be utilized. For example a fiber having a nylon sheath and a polyester core or side byside bicomponent fibers or other multicom onent fibers having bondable surface portions can be utilized. The fibers can be in the form of continuous filament or staple and, if desired, can be crimped or textured to provide elasticity or other desired characteristics to the finished fabric. The water bondable fibers are processed in the form of nonwoven webs. Such webs of bondable fibers can consist solely of water bondable fibers or can also contain other synthetic or natural fibers which are not bondable. The manner of web formation is not critical. Generally webs are formed by deposition of fibers on a moving belt in either random or aligned orientation to provide a web having a weight 4 to 400 grams per square meter, preferably 10 to 250 grams per square meter. A particularly useful method of web formation is disclosed in United States Patent No 3,452,6 5 In practicing this invention, a bonding quantity of water is applied to the nonwoven web.By bonding quantity of water is meant a quantity such that subsequent compression of the web at elevated temperature effects fiber bonding adequate to provide a wash stable fabric. The minimum quantity of water required will vary somewhat depending on fiber composition, web structure, fiber denier, and bonding conditions. The maximum quantity usable is governed primarily by practical consideration of techniques available for water application and ability of the web to retain the water applied. In general, bonding will be adversely affected by inadequate water but the use of excess water presents no problems other than those associated with processing convenience and economics. Therefore, in practice, relatively large amounts of water consistent with convenience of application and handling will be applied to the web to ensure adequate bonding.Optimum amounts from the standpoint of bonding efficiency, processing convenience and economics can readily be determined by routine testing. The bonding quantity of water can be applied to the web by a variety of techniques. For example, the web can be immersed in water by passing the web supported on a moving belt or similar means through a tray of water or under spray nozzles. Humid atmospheres, mist chambers, wet rolls, etc.can also be employed to provide or facilitate obtaining a web containing the desired bonding quantity of water. The web containing a bonding quantity of water is then simultaneously compressed and heated. Simultaneous compression and heating can be conveniently accomplished using a pair of mechanical compressive means such as plattens or rolls with one or both of the compression means being heated. Preferably the wetted web is compressed in the nip of a pair of rotating rolls at least one of the rolls being heated. It is further found that when the rolls are adapted e.g. via bosses or land and groove patterns to compress the fabrics in spaced, discrete areas, fabrics having particularly desirable tactile properties in terms of drape can be obtained. The compressive force temperature, and the duration of web exposure to such force and temperature must be correlated to effect fiber bonding sufficient to yield a washstable fabric. However, the correlation is such that application of these processing conditions to an otherwise equivalent dry web does not provide a wash stable fabric.The term dry iS used to denote a web containing equilibrium water content at 65 relative humidity at 220C. A completely anhydrous web will, of course, also fail to yield wash stable fabrics under such conditions. However, the foregoing definition of the term dry is chosen to facilitate testing without necessity of rendering the samples anhydrous. Since practice of the invention requires a correlation of conditions such that wash stable bonds are not obtained with dry webs, the roll or other pressing means will generally be heated to a temperature less than the fiber melting point as determined for anhydrous fibers at atmospheric pressure . Generally, the temperature will be at least 1000C. and no less than 100 C. below the fiber melting point. At lower temperatures, effective bonding is generally not obtained in reasonable time regardless of the compressive force utilized. Optimum temperatures correlated with selected pressures for various fibers can be determined by routine tests.For example, temperatures in the range 1500C. 2500C. are generally satisfactory for bonding nylon 6,6 temperatures in the range 1500C. 2500C. are also generally satisfactory for bonding acrylic fibers. Regardless of the temperature chosen, satisfactory bonding will not take place in the absence of adequate compression. Although the mechanism of the bonding process is not fully understood, it is believed that application of sufficient pressure, in addition to ensuring fiber to fiber contact, results in a gasketing or sealing effect retaining water under the pressure point as heat is transferred to the compressed wetted web. Thus, it is believed that the water is heated above its atmospheric boiling point and that the superheated water or steam under pressure participates in the bonding mechanism. The duration of time in which the web is subjected to heating and compression can be regulated by conventional techniques, e.g. regulation of roll speed. Such time will be chosen to permit adequate heating of the web to effect bonding. In general, the use of higher temperatures lowers the exposure time required. As previously indicated, it is not necessary that the overall web be compressed and heated. Excellent results are obtained by compressing and heating the web in a pattern defined by compressed bonded and uncompressed unbonded areas or in spaced discrete locations, for example, by use of bossed or engraved rolls or rolls having land and groove designs adapted to compress the web in such spaced, discrete locations. When using such techniques, it is generally desired that the web be substantially uncompacted prior to pressing. In order to provide adequate overall physical properties from 2 to 80 , preferably 3 to 50 , of the total surface area of the web should be subjected to compression and heating.When providing discrete, spaced bond sites, the number of bond sites per square centimeter should be from I to 250, preferably 16 to 64 in order to provide desired physical properties. In some instances, various adhesion promoters can be used in conjunction with water to provide bonds of improved physical properties or permit use of somewhat lower temperatures and or pressures. In such instances consistent with definitions previously set forth the bonding quantity of water and the correlated compressive force and temperature will be such that wash stable fabrics are obtained even in the absence of the adhesion promoter but such that washstable fabrics are not obtained in the absence of such bonding quantity of water. That is, the amount of adhesion promoter utilized will not, alone, effect wash stable bonding of a dry web. Suitable adhesion promoters include substances which form aqueous mixtures or solutions and or which tend to facilitate rendering the fibers autogenously cohesive. For example, suitable adhesion promoters for nylon webs include inorganic and organic materials such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acids formic acid phenol, resorcinol, methanol, at.nl etc. Raducing acids such as hydrochloric acid appear preferable to oxidizing acids because such acids have less tendency to effect polymer degradation. Aqueous solutions of inorganic salts such as sodium iodides, calcium bromides, zinc chloride or magnesium chloride can also be used.Examples of suitable adhesion promoters for acrylonitrile polymer webs include ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, chloral hydrate, tetrahydrothiophene l, 1. dioxide ,butyralacetone and salts such as sodium thiocyanate, lithium iodide, calcium bromide, zinc chloride and magnesium chloride. The following examples will facilitate a better understanding of the invention and the desirable properties of fabrics produced thereby The tests described below are used to determine fabric properties as reported in the examples or otherwise referred to in the specification and claims Wash Stability Wash stability is determined as follows Nonwoven fabric samples are mixed with at least 10 pieces of hemmed cotton sheeting each measuring about 91 cm x 91 cm. The number and size of the nonwoven fabric samples are subject to the following constraints 1. Total area of the nonwoven samples is less than 6.5 m2. 2. Each sample is at least 465 cm2 in area with a minimum dimension of 15 cm. 3. No sample is larger than 0.929 m2 in area or more than 0.305 m in its maximum dimension. In addition, the total weight of the cotton sheeting plus the nonwoven samples should not exceed about 1.8 kg. These constraints assure comparable results. The load is washed in a Kenmore Model 76431100 washing machine marketed by Sears Roebuck Co. using the normal cycle 14 min. Hi water level 55 Q , HOT WASH,WARM RINSE water temperatures of 60 C. 3 , 49 C. 3 and 90 g of American Association of Textile Colorists andChemists Standard Detergent 124. The wash load is then dried in a Kenmore electric dryer, yodel 63cm603 arketed by Sears, Roebuck and Co. for at least 30 minutes or longer if required to dry the entire load . The test specimens are then evaluated by visual observation to determine the number of pills formed. A pill is a visually discernible usually roughly spherical tangle of fiber, or fiber plus extraneous material, extending above the surface of a fabric and connected to the body of the fabric by one or more filaments. A fabric is considered to fail the test when 5 or more pills are observed in any 929 square centimeters surface area or when more severe physical deterioration is visually discernible. Fabrics passing the above test are considered wash stable .In the test described, the pills are predominantly formed by fibers which were not bonded in the process or which, in test procedure, were freed from bond sites. Thus the degree of pilling provides a measure of the efficacy of the process for forming bonds and a measure of the resulting bond integrity. In instances of very poor bonding more severe fabric deviation than pilling, e.g. complete disintegration, may be observed.As a practical matter, fabrics which do not pass the test even if not totally or partially disintegrated in the test will not withstand substantial physical stress or repeated washings with excessive deterioration. Other tests reported in the examples provide an indication of various properties of general interest which are obtained in fabrics produced by the practice of this invention and indicate the general effect of variations in process conditions on these properties. Evaluation of Physical Properties Breaking Load and Elongation are determined byAmerican Society of Testing Materials ASTM procedureD 1682 64. Bending Length is determined by ASTh procedureD 1388 64. Trapezoid Tear Strength is determined by ASTM procedure D 2263 68. Strip Tenacity is determined by dividing the breaking load of a cut strip by the strip basis weight and is expressed as g cm g m2, For webs that are bonded using an embossed roll the bond sites are evaluated microscopically by examining both sides of the web with a stereo microscope and physically by subjecting the web to a tensile stress. The size of the bond on each side is measured and compared to the size of the boss portion of the embossed roll. Desirable bond sites are those wherein the bond is the same size on both sides of the web and also approaches the size of the boss portion. To measure bonding between fibers within the bond sites, a dissecting needle is scratched along the bond while the sample is examined microscopically. This procedure can indicate how firmly filaments are held together within the bond site.Samples, approximately 2.54 cm square, are slowly stretched in an extensiometer and the fibers are observed within the bond sites. The location of fiber failure is an indication of fiber fusion within the bond site. The bond sites are rated on a scale from 0 to 5. An explanation. and description of the ratings is as follows Bond Rating Bond DescriPtion 0 No significant bonding. 1 Adhering fibers separate readily under tension applied to strip. 2 Adhering fibers separate under tension applied to strip, appreciable force required. 3 Part of the adhering fibers separate under tension, part break outside the bonded section. 4 Most of the fibers break outside bond site under applied tension, fibers can still be picked or teased out of bond site. 5 Fibers well fused, cannot be picked out of bond site. Bond Rating Bond Descriotion 5 Fused bond site tends to split under tension.Fabrics having a bond rating of 3 or greater are generally wash stable. In the examples the term press pressure refers to the positive force, expressed in kilograms per linear centimeter, compressing the rolls together. This force includes mechanical pressure utilized to compress the rolls, together with the compressive effect attributable to the weight of the rolls. In the case of bossed rolls, it is assumed for purposes of calculation, that all of the pressure is exerted at the boss points and a corrected pressure is calculated accordingly. EXAMPLF, Z A series of nonwoven webs of nylon 6,6 continuous spun fibers were prepared. These webs were then sandwiched between two fiber glass screens and immersed in water at room temperature. Excess water was removed so that about 20 30 percent by weight of the uncompacted web weight remained. The water wetted webs were then pressed at 9.1 meters min. under a pressure of 17.4 kg linear cm in either of two modes. In one mode the two press rolls consisted of a smooth resilient rubber roll at 40 C., and a smooth metallic roll heated to various temperatures as shown in Table I. In the second mode a rubber roll was used with a heated embossed metallic roll. The embossed roll had 48 square boss sites cm2 which were aligned in a square pattern and covering about 15 percent of the surface area of the roll. When correcting for the 15 pattern coverage assuming all pressure is applied to only the boss sites , the corrected pressure at the roll nip was 115.9 kg cm. Embossed roll temperatures are shown inTable I. The results of tests performed in accordance with the procedures herein described on the bonded fabrics obtained from these webs are reported in Table I, below. TABLE IEffect of Water, Heat and Bondlng Mode in Bonding Nonwoven Nylon Webs EMI13.1 tb Web SEP Web SEP Basis SEP Bending SEP Strip SEP Strip SEP Trapezoidal SEP Bond tb Sample SEP Heated SEP Roll SEP Weight SEP Length, SEP Tenacity SEP Elongation SEP Tear SEP Rating tb No. SEP Mode SEP Temp. SEP C SEP g m2 SEP cm SEP g cm g m2 SEP SEP g g m2 SEP Top 3 SEP Bottom tb tb SEP 1 SEP Bossed 1 SEP 150 SEP 33.9 SEP SEP 7.8 SEP 14 SEP SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 2 SEP SEP 160 SEP 33.9 SEP SEP 14.6 SEP 25 SEP SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 3 SEP SEP 170 SEP 33.9 SEP 1.55 SEP 19.9 SEP 34 SEP SEP 2 2 tb tb SEP 4 SEP SEP 180 SEP 30.5 SEP 1.78 SEP 28.2 SEP 40 SEP SEP 5 4 tb tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 190 SEP 33.9 SEP 1.57 SEP 32.4 SEP 45 SEP 99.2 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 6 SEP Smooth 2 SEP 135 SEP 33.9 SEP 1.73 SEP 3.7 SEP 7 SEP SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 7 SEP SEP 150 SEP 37.3 SEP 1.73 SEP 4.2 SEP 23 SEP SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 8 SEP SEP 160 SEP 37.3 SEP 1.78 SEP 5.2 SEP 29 SEP SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 9 SEP SEP 170 SEP 33.9 SEP 1.98 SEP 8.4 SEP 50 SEP 104.5 SEP 2 2 tb tb 10 SEP SEP 180 SEP 30.5 SEP 2.26 SEP 24.6 SEP 21 SEP 53.6 SEP 3 2 tb Total Roll Surface Area 1 Corrected pressure 115.9 kg cm. Press Pressure x Total Area of Boss Sites 2 Press Pressure 17.4 kg cm. 3 Top indicates side of web facing beated metallic roll. These data show that pressing the wetted web with a heated embossed roll at 170 C. began to develop a significant bonding level. When the temperature of the embossed roll was increased to 1900C., the combined action of water and pressure yielded a bonded fabric with excellent properties. The webs pressed overall which were prepared at the lower pressure did not compare in properties until the press temperature was increased to 180 C. EXAMPLE II The purpose of this example is to measure the effect of bonding webs that have absorbed lower quantities of water than the webs of Example I. The moisture was sorbed by long exposures to moist air at 65 and 9870 R.R. Similar fibers were used and the process conditions of Example I are the same. All of the webs were pressed with a heated embossed roll having the same pattern as the roll described inExample I. Details of tests performed on the bonded fabrics obtained from these webs appear in Table II. These data show that webs containing 4 and 8 percent water add on required significantly higher temperatures to achieve desirable physical properties. These webs did not attain properties comparable to webs containing higher quantities of water add on. The webs that absorbed 4 percent water did not attain good bond ratings even when the roll temperature was at its highest level. TABLE IIEffect of Percent Water Add On and Heat in Bonding Nonwoven Nylon Webs EMI15.1 tb Web SEP SEP Heated SEP Web SEP Basis SEP Bending SEP Strip SEP Strip SEP Bond tb Sample SEP Water SEP Roll SEP Weight SEP Length SEP Tenacity SEP Elongation SEP Rating tb No, SEP 2 SEP Temp. SEP C. SEP g m2 SEP cm SEP g cm g m2 SEP SEP Top 1 SEP Bottom tb tb SEP 1 SEP 4 SEP 150 SEP 30.8 SEP SEP 3.7 SEP 18 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 2 SEP 4 SEP 160 SEP 32.2 SEP SEP 4.2 SEP 20 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 180 SEP 32.2 SEP 1.75 SEP 4.2 SEP 10 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 4 SEP 4 SEP 190 SEP 31.2 SEP 1.78 SEP 6.8 SEP 12 SEP 2 1 tb tb SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP 200 SEP 32.5 SEP 1.88 SEP 11.5 SEP 20 SEP 2 1 tb tb SEP 6 SEP 8 SEP 150 SEP 31.5 SEP 1.88 SEP 3.7 SEP 6 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 160 SEP 32.5 SEP 1.85 SEP 4.7 SEP 6 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 8 SEP 8 SEP 170 SEP 32.5 SEP 1.98 SEP 6.3 SEP 8 SEP 1 1 tb tb SEP 9 SEP 8 SEP 180 SEP 31.5 SEP 2.01 SEP 8.9 SEP 11 SEP 2 1 tb tb 10 SEP 8 SEP 190 SEP 32.5 SEP 1.98 SEP 14.1 SEP 32 SEP 2 1 tb tb 11 SEP 8 SEP 200 SEP 31.5 SEP 1.55 SEP 23.0 SEP 28 SEP 5 5 tb 1 Top indicates side of web facing heated metallic roll. 2 As a percent of anhydrous weight. EXAMPLE III In this example a series of nonwoven webs of nylon 6,6 continuous spun fibers were prepared. These webs were then wetted witS water by spraying. Water was applied to one side of the web with a pneumatic atomizing nozzle having a flat spray. The nozzle, housed in a Plexiglass chamber, was mounted aver a moving belt that transported the uncompacted webs through the spray. The amount of water deposited onto the web was varied by changing air pressure, rate of water feed to the nozzle and varying belt speed. The amount applied to the webs varied from 20 to 94 percent add on by weight based on the anhydrous web . The wet webs were pressed at 9.1 m min. between a hard rubber roll at 400C. and an embossed roll heated to temperatures shown on Table III. The embossed roll had 28 square boss sites cm2, which were aligned in a square pattern. The pattern covered about 18 percent of the fabric area. Sample I was pressed with tri.7 kg linear corrected pressure and the remaining samples were pressed with 252.5 kg linear cm corrected pressure to insure better heat transfer and good abrasion resistance for both sides of the bonded web. As web basis weight increased, higher press roll temperatures were required because of the increased mass of fiber and water. Details of tests performed on the bonded fabrics obtained from these webs appear in Table III. These.data show that good strength properties can be obtained from webs wetted with 18 to 94 percent by weight of water and heat pressed at 1900 to 200 C. When the water is applied to one side of a web by means of an atomizing spray, an add on of 30 to 80 percent is preferred to ensure uniform bonding throughout the web thickness. TABLE IIIEffect of Water and Mechanical Pressure in Bonding Nonwoven Nylon Webs Using an Embossed Roll EMI17.1 tb SEP Heated SEP Web tb Web SEP Corrected SEP Roll SEP SEP Basia SEP Bending SEP Strip SEP Strip SEP Trapezoidal SEP Bond 2 tb Sample SEP Pressure SEP Temp. SEP Water SEP Weight SEP Length SEP Tenacity SEP Elongation SEP Tear 1 SEP Rating tb No. SEP kg cm SEP C SEP Add On SEP g m2 SEP cm SEP g cm g m2 SEP SEP 1 SEP g g m2 SEP Top Bot, tb tb SEP 1 SEP 96.7 SEP 190 SEP 50 SEP 29.5 SEP 1.32 SEP 39.2 SEP 47 SEP 4 SEP 5 4 tb tb SEP 2 SEP 252.5 SEP 190 SEP 20 SEP 33.2 SEP 2.36 SEP 28.2 SEP 24 SEP 59.0 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 3 SEP 252.5 SEP 190 SEP 48 SEP 34.6 SEP 2.13 SEP 23.5 SEP 28 SEP 59.0 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 4 3 SEP 252.5 SEP 190 SEP 63 SEP 35.3 SEP 2.44 SEP 27.2 SEP 22 SEP 46.9 SEP 4 tb tb SEP 5 SEP 252.5 SEP 190 SEP 78 SEP 35.3 SEP 2.11 SEP 22.0 SEP 28 SEP 44.2 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 6 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 45 SEP 37.3 SEP 2.13 SEP 39.2 SEP 46 SEP 100.5 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 7 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 18 SEP 49.5 SEP 3.12 SEP 49.1 SEP 42 SEP 85.8 SEP 4 3 tb tb SEP 8 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 30 SEP 50.2 SEP 2.84 SEP 42.3 SEP 36 SEP 89.8 SEP 5 3 tb tb SEP 9 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 37 SEP 48.8 SEP 3.20 SEP 34.5 SEP 23 SEP 53.6 SEP 4 tb tb 10 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 64 SEP 51.2 SEP 2.64 SEP 34.5 SEP 31 SEP 72.4 SEP 5 5 tb tb 11 SEP 252.5 SEP 200 SEP 94 SEP 50.9 SEP 2.82 SEP 36.1 SEP 40 SEP 92.5 SEP 5 5 tb 1 Strip tenacity, elongation and trapezoidal tear determined in machine direction. 2 Top identified as side of web facing heated embossed roll. 3 Web tended to stick to heated embossed roll. 4 Not tested ExkLE IV In this example, a series of nonwoven webs of fibers composed of a 50 percent nylon 6,6 sheath and a 50 percent polyester core were prepared. The webs were treated in accordance with the conditions set forth in Example III.A corrected pressure of 252.5 kg cm was used for all the web samples. Details of tests performed on the bonded fabrics obtained from these webs appear in Table IV. These data show that good strength properties were obtained from the webs wetted with 16 to 108 percent by weight of water and heat pressed at 1750 to 180 C. This example shows the applicability of this invention for webs composed of fiber of two different polymers wherein one of the polymers is water bondable. TABLE IVEffect of Water and Mechanical Presaure in Bonding NonwovenNylon Polyester Shesth Core Webs Using an Embossed Roll EMI19.1 tb Web SEP Heated SEP Roll SEP SEP Web SEP Bending SEP Strip 1 SEP Strip SEP Trapezoidam SEP Bond tb Sample SEP Temp. SEP Water SEP Basig SEP Wt. SEP Length SEP Tenacity SEP 2 SEP Elongation SEP Tear 1 SEP Rating 2 tb No. SEP C. SEP Add On SEP g m2 SEP cm SEP C cm g m2 SEP SEP g g m2 SEP Top.Bot. tb tb SEP 1 SEP 175 SEP 16 SEP 37.6 SEP 2.21 SEP 34.5 SEP 59 SEP 105.9 SEP 4 4 tb tb SEP 2 SEP 180 SEP 20 SEP 34.2 SEP 2.06 SEP 32.4 SEP 64 SEP 83.1 SEP 5 4 tb tb SEP 3 SEP 180 SEP 20 SEP 38.6 SEP 2.36 SEP 39.2 SEP 66 SEP 100.5 SEP 5 4 tb tb SEP 4 SEP 180 SEP 50 SEP 37.6 SEP 2.03 SEP 30.3 SEP 52 SEP 84.4 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 5 SEP 180 SEP 60 SEP 39.0 SEP 2.36 SEP 38.2 SEP 72 SEP 104.5 SEP 3 tb tb SEP 6 SEP 180 SEP 90 SEP 39.0 SEP 2.13 SEP 34.5 SEP 61 SEP 84.4 SEP 5 5 tb tb SEP 7 SEP 180 SEP 108 SEP 40.0 SEP 2.06 SEP 32.4 SEP 62 SEP 84.4 SEP 5 4 tb 1 Strip tenacity, elongation and trapezoidal tear determined in transverse direction. 2 Top identified as side of web facing heated embossed roll. 3 Not tested. EX2MPLE V In this example a 44.1 g m2 nonwoven web of acrylic stable fibers was prepared. The web was sprayed with water using a hand held spray apparatus with an atomizing nozzle.The wetted web was then pressed at 357.2 kgllinear cm corrected pressure between a smooth resilient rubber roll at 40 C. and a smooth metallic roll heated to 185or. The web speed through the rolls was 10.7 m min., bending length of the bonded fabric was 3.48 cm and the strip tenacity was 18.3 g cm g m2. EXAMPLE VI Nonwoven webs comprised of 3 denier per filament continuous filament nylon 6,6 and having a weight of 34 gms m2 were processed by passing the web through the nip of a pair of heated steel rolls at a speed of 3.9 meters per minute.One of the rolls carried bosses, the tips of which defined a pattern of rectangles having sides measuring 1.65 and .71 mm ar.d rhomboids having sides measuring 1.65 mm and .65 mm alternating in axial and circumferential rows. The longer dimensions of the rectangle were circumferentially oriented and longer dimensions of the rhomboids were axially oriented.The rhomboids and rectangles were positioned such that extensions of their longitudinal center lines bisect the adjacent parallelograms. Circumferentially, the parallelograms are spaced by a distance of 1.36 mm. Axially, the rectangles are spaced .67 mm. from the acute apexes of the rhomboid and 1.12 mm. from the obtuse apexes. The inclination position of acute and obtuse apexes of the rhomboids is reversed in successive axial rows. The bossed roll had about 19 bosses per cm2, covering about 21.2 of the roll surface. The remaining roll had a smooth surface. The rolls each had diameters of about 12.7 cm. and both rolls were maintained at 180 C. The rolls were either set at the fixed spacings indicated in Table V below or positive roll pressure was applied as indicated. Prior to passage through the rolls, water was added to certain webs as indicated.The samples of fabric produced were tested for wash stability and the results are reported in the table. TABLE V EMI21.1 tb SEP Fixed SEP Roll SEP Corrected SEP Water SEP Added tb Test SEP Spacing SEP Pressure SEP SEP of SEP Original SEP Results SEP of SEP Wash tb No. SEP in SEP microns SEP kg linear SEP cm SEP Web SEP Wt. SEP Stability SEP Test tb tb SEP 1 SEP 53 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 2 SEP 78 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 3 SEP SEP 94.8 SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 4 SEP SEP 154.0 SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sampel SEP disintegrated tb SEP 5 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 6 SEP 53 SEP SEP 15 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 7 SEP 78 SEP SEP 15 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 8 SEP SEP 94.8 SEP 15 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 9 SEP SEP 154.0 SEP 15 SEP Wash stable tb 10 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 15 SEP Wash stable tb 11 SEP 53 SEP SEP 25 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb 12 SEP 78 SEP SEP 25 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb 13 SEP SEP 94.8 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb 14 SEP SEP 154.0 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb 15 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb Press pressure corrected for 21.2 bond site coverage. The fixed roll spacings of 53 microns and 78 microns corres nd, respectively, to about 30 and 40 of the thickness of the web compacted at kg cm2 to remove bulk. Thus, some web compression was effected in the roll ip. The foregoing results further illustrate the criticality of utilizing adequate compressive force correlated with temperature in the practice of this invention.In conjunction with the foregoing tests, identical samples were also subjected to tensile stress and inspected to determine if fibers were pulled from the bond points. It was noted that the samples in which fibers were readily pulled from the bond points were not found to be wash stable. EXkMPLE VII Nonwoven webs comprised of 3 denier per filament continuous filament nylon 6,6 and having 2 weight of 68 gms m2 were processed in the manner described in Example VI above. Process conditions and results obtained are shown inTable VI below. TABLE VI EMI23.1 tb SEP Fixed SEP Roll SEP Corrected SEP Water SEP Added tb Test SEP Spacing SEP Pressure SEP SEP of SEP Original SEP Results SEP of SEP Wash tb No. SEP microns SEP kg linear SEP cm SEP Web SEP Wt. SEP Stability SEP Test tb tb SEP 1 SEP 99 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 2 SEP 145 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 3 SEP 99 SEP SEP 15 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 4 SEP 145 SEP SEP 15 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 5 SEP 99 SEP SEP 25 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 6 SEP 145 SEP SEP 25 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP sample SEP disintegrated tb SEP 7 SEP SEP 94.8 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb SEP 8 SEP SEP 154.0 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb SEP 9 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 25 SEP Wash stable tb The fixed roll spacings of 99 microns and 145 microns correspond, respectively, to about 30 and 40 of the thickness of the web compacted at 41 kg cm2 to remove bulk. EXAMPLE VIII Nonwoven webs comprised of 3 denier per filament nylon 6 staple fibers 5 cm length and having the weights indicated in Table VII below were processed in the manner described in Example VI above utilizing roll temperatures and other process conditions as shown in Table VII. Test results are shown in the table. TABLE VII EMI25.1 SEP Fixed SEP Roll SEP Corrected SEP Water SEP Added SEP Roll tb Sample SEP Weight SEP Spacing SEP Pressure SEP SEP of SEP Original SEP Temp. SEP Results SEP of SEP Wash tb SEP No. SEP gas mê SEP microns SEP Kg linear SEP cm SEP Web SEP Wt. SEP C. SEP Stability SEP Test tb SEP 1 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 2 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP 15 SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 3 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP 25 SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 4 SEP 50.8 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP none SEP added SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 5 SEP 50.8 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 15 SEP 180 SEP Wash stable tb SEP 6 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 7 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP 15 SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 8 SEP 50.8 SEP 53 SEP SEP 25 SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 9 SEP 50.8 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP none SEP added SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrted tb SEP 10 SEP 50.8 SEP 213.3 SEP 15 SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 11 SEP 50.8 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 25 SEP 135 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 12 SEP 101.7 SEP 104 SEP SEP none SEP added SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 13 SEP 101.7 SEP 104 SEP SEP 15 SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 14 SEP 101.7 SEP 104 SEP SEP 25 SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP disintegrated tb SEP 15 SEP 101.7 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP none SEP added SEP 180 SEP Not SEP wash stable tb SEP 16 SEP 101.7 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 15 SEP 180 SEP Wash stable tb SEP 17 SEP 101.7 SEP SEP 213.3 SEP 25 SEP 180 SEP Wash stable tb The fixed roll spacings correspond to about 30 of the thickness of the web compacted at 41 kg cmê to remove bulk. The foregoing data further demonstrate that proper correlation of compressive force and temperature is critical in obtaining fabrics of acceptable properties. By reference to the foregoing dascription and examples, those skilled in the art can practice the process of the invention within the scope of the appended claims to obtain a variety of nonwoven fabrics useful as substitutes for conventional knitted and woven fabrics and in other well understood applications of nonwoven fabrics.