# Process for making point bonded fabrics.

## Abstract
Nonwoven point bonded fabrics of improved softness are prepared by simultaneously heating and compressing spaced discrete areas of a nonwoven thermally bondable fiber web containing an attenuating liquid. The attenuating liquid is one whose presence in the web in quantities of 1000 or less of the web weight does not, under the bonding condi tions employed, provide a fabric having higher strip tenacity strength then would be obtained in the absence of such liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions and which pro vides a fabric having at least a 20 lower bending modulus than that of a fabric obtained in the absence of such liquid under otherwise identical conditions.

## Claims
claimed is 15 1. A process for making point bonded nonwoven fabrics, said process being characterized by simultaneously heating and compressing spaced, discrete areas of a honwoven web or thermally bondabie organic fibers as ira an attenuating liquid and the quantity of attenuacing the temperature, the compressive force, and the te of exposure of the web thereto being correlated to effect ,rGi . of web fibers in the heated and compressed areas and ro provide a point bonded nonwoven fabric having a bending modulus at least 20 lower than that of a fabric prepared without the use of said attenuating liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions. 2. The process of claim 1 further characterized in that the quantity of said liquid is selected to provide a nonwoven fabric having a higher ratio of strip tenacity to bending modulus than that of a fabric prepared using no liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions. 3. The process of claim 2 further characterized in that the quantity of said liquid, the temperature, the compressive force and the time of exposure of the web thereto are correlated to provide a wash stable, point bonded, nonwoven fabric. 4. The process of claim 3 further characterized in that simultaneous heating and compression of the web is effected by passing the web through and compressing said web in the nip of a pair of rolls at least one of which is heated and at least one of which has a pattern of raised surface portions which, in combination with the opposing surface of the other roll, effects compression of the web in spaced, discrete areas. 5. The process of claim 4 further characterized in that the surfaces of said rolls are designed to effect compression providing a point bonded, nonwoven fabric having a pattern of from 16 to 64 discrete bond sites per square centimeter covering from 3 to 50 of the fabric trace area. b. The process of claim 5 further characterized in that one of the rolls is provided with boss points sized and disposed to provide a fabric having said pattern. 7. The process of claim 5 further characterized in that each roll has a helical land and groove surface Sesivn interacting with the land and groove design of the op posing roll to provide a fabric having said patterr. 8. The process of claim 2 further characterized in that said web comprises continuous filament polyester fibers and said attenuating liquid is water.

## Description
PROCESS FOR MAKING POINT BONDED FABRICS This invention relates to processes for bonding non woven webs of organic fibers to form nonwoven fabrics. More specifically, the invention relates to such processes wherein the web is prererenti2Lly bonded in spaced, discrete areas. Nonwoven fabrics and numerous uses thereof are well known to those skilled in the art. Such fabrics are prepared by forming a web of continuous filament and or staple fibers and bonding ishe Fibers at points of fiber to fiber conta to provide a fabric of requisite strength. Depending on the intended use of the nonwoven web, satisfactory bonding can in some instances be accomplished mechanically, e.g., by needle punching or interlacing of the fibers or by application of adhesives to the fibrous web.However, in a number of applications nonwoven fabrics bonded by autogenous fiber to fiber fusion are desired. Bonding of this type is in some instances obtained by the application of heat to soften or plasticize the fibers and render them cohesive. In such thermal bonding techniques the web can be subjected trj mechanical compression to increase contact of the thermally softened fibers and provide bonds of required strength. Then web fibers are bonded at essentially all points of fiber to fiber contact, for example, by overall compr ssion of the web in the presence of heat, the resultant nonwoven fabric tends to be stiff and boardy and characterized by low elongation and tear resistance.That is, such overall bonded fabrics are frequently more similar to paper than to conventional textile fabrics. In order to more closely simulate the properties of conventional textiles, nonwoven point bonded fabrics have been prepared by processes tending to effect preferential bonding in spaced, discrete areas primary bond sites . In order to provide point bonded nonwoven fabrics of adequate strength, it is generally necessary that bonding of the web in the primary bond sites be accompanied by mechanical compression. This is generally accomplished by compressing the nonwoven web between mechanical compression means such as a pair of rollers or platens at least one of which carries bosses sized and spaced to provide the desired pattern of primary bond sites or both of which carry land and groove designs interacting to provide the desired pattern.The compression means are generally heated sufficiently to effect thermal bonding.By a proper selection of sizing and spacing of the bosses or lands and grooves, control of the bonding conditions temperature and compressive force , it is possible to obtain nonwoven point bonded fabrics having acceptable strength and improved tactile properties such as softness. However, even point bonded fabrics are frequently less soft than conventional fabrics of comparable strength. This is probably due, at least in part, to tack bonding. When the bonding conditions are controlled to provide fabrics having good strength and durability during washing, bonding is not limited to the primary bond sites produced in the areas compressed. Varying degrees of secondary or tack bonding are generally observed between the primary bond sites.Such tack bonding probably results from the fact that techniques employed for preparing point bonded nonwoven fabrics expose areas of the web between the areas being compressed to heat sufficient to effect some softening and tack bonding of fibers at points of contact.The strength and number of the tack bonds formed may vary widely with the properties of the fiber utilized in the web as well as the conditions employed for effecting bonding in the primary bond sites. Desired fabric properties such as softness are progressively impaired as the degree of tack bonding is increased. There is, therefore, a need in the art for processes capable of providing softer nonwoven fabrics. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The process of the invention is one for making point lorded nonwoven fabrics, said process being characterisnd by simultaneously heating ar.d c Dmpresslr.g paced1 disre areas of a nonwoven web of thermally bondable organic fibers said web containing an attenuating liquid and the quantity of attenuating liquid, the temperature, the compressive force, and the time of exposure of the web thereto being correlated to effect bonding of web fibers in the heated and compressed areas and to provide a point bonded nonwoven fabric having a bending modulus at least 20 lower than that. of a fabric prepared without the use of said attenuating liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions.The practice of the invention will be understood from the following description of the preferred embodiments. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS The process of this invention can be utilized for making point bonded fabrics from nonwoven webs of thermally bondable organic fibers. The phrase thermally bondable organic fibers is used herein in the specification and claims to denote fibers which can be bonded at points of fiber to fiber contact by the application of heat and compression. Thus, essentially any thermoplastic polymer can be utilized. The fibers may be in the form of continuous filaments or staples or mixtures thereof. Examples of bondable fibers suitable for use in the practice of this invention include polyamide fibers such as nylon 6 and nylon 66 and polyester polymer fibers. Composite fibers such as fibers having a sheath of one polymer and a core of another polymer or side by side polycomponent fibers can be utilized. In the case of multi component fibers it is not essential that all polymer components thereof be bondable under the process conditions hereinafter described. It is sufficient that such multi component fibers have bondable surface portions. If desired, the fibers can be crimped or textured to provide elasticity or other desired characteristics to the finished fabric. In accordance with the present invention, the . r nally bondable fibers are processed in the form of nwoven webs. The nonwoven webs of bondable organic fibers Fo fI cs irU of bondable fibers o may consist of bondable fibers interspersed with other r, The art of preparing nonwoven webs is well understood arid the manner of web formation is not critical.Generally webs are formed by deposition of fibers on a moving belt in either random or aligned orientation to provide a web having a weight of from 4 to 400 grains per square meter, preferably 10 to 150 grams per square meter. Particularly useful methods for web formation are disclosed in United States Patent No 3,542,615. In accordance with the present invention a selected quantity of attenuating liquid is applied to the web and the web is simultaneously heated and compressed in spaced discrete areas to effect bonding of the fibers in such areas The attenuating liquid can be any liquid whose presence in the web in quantities of 1000 or less of the web weight does not, tinder the bonding conditions employed, provide a fabric having higher strip tenacity strength than would be obtained in the absence of such liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions and which provides a fabric having a. least a 20 lower bending modulus than that of a fabric obtalned is the absence of such liquid under otherwise identical conditions A key element of the present invention is this unexpected discovery that utilization of an attenuating liquid in sufficient quantity will provide a reduction in fabric bending modulus i.e., an increase in fabric softness as compared to that of fabrics prepared using no liquid under otherwise equivalent conditions. In accordance with the present invention a quantity is employed to reduce bending modulus by at least 20 . The actual amount of attenuating liquid used may be any quantity sufficient to effect such reductionGenerally, there is no theoretical objection to use of very large quantities of liquid. However, it will be observed that after a derrminable quantity is added, the use of additional liquid. will not provide substantial additional improvements in softness and, in some instances, may tend to reduce fabric strength, proba bly by cooling the heating means employed. Of course, excessive amounts of liquid beyond that contributing to impflovement of fabric properties will present unnecessary process problems with respect to liquid handling, recovery, etc. It is preferred that the amount of liquid be chosen such that in addition to reducing bending modulus by at least 20 a higher ratio of strip tenacity to bending modulus as compared to that obtained using no liquid is obtained.That is, the maximum quantity utilized is preferably chosen so as not to reduce fabric strength disproportionately to improvements in softness obtained. lidether or not a particular liquid will function as an attenuating bonding liquid will depend on the nature of the nonwoven web to be bonded, the properties of the fibers constituting the web and the manner in which the web is heated and compressed. Therefore, it is not practical to exhaustively list all combinations of liquids, fibrous webs and conditions of temperature and compression suitable for the practice of the present invention. For example, water will effectively improve the bonding of a web of nylon fibers highly compressed in spaced discrete areas at temperatures below that required to cohesively soften an otherwise identi cal dry web. Thus, under such conditions water is considered a bonding agent rather than an attenuating liquid.However, under low compressive force and temperatures sufficiently high to effect thermal bonding, water may function as an attenuating liquid. The effectiveness of a particular liquid as an attenuating liquid under given bonding conditions can readil se determined by routine tests. It is believed that attenuating liquids provide softening by limiting fss example by evaporative cooling, heat capacity, etc. the temperatures attained in the web in areas not being simultan usly heated and compressed as hereinafter described. Tne heat attenuation provided by the liquid is believed to limit or prevent tack bonding outside the discrete, spaced areas which are heated and cornij ee thereby providing a softer fabric. Thus in selecting liquids for tess ng, preference may be gIven to those which have relatively low boiling points as compared to fiber softening points and or those having high heat capacities.In general, any liquid which is not a bonding agent and has a boiling point below the fiber softening point will be an effective attenuating liquid. It is further contemplated that a number of liquids having boiling points higher than the fiber softening point will be effective attenuating liquids, presumably due to heat attenuation resulting from heat capacity, vaporization, etc. preventing the web fibers from reaching bonding temperatures in the uncompressed areas when sufficient liquid is employed. Under properly correlated simultaneous application of heat and compression to appropriate nonwoven webs, examples of liquids contemplated to be suitable attentuating liquids for polyamide fibers include water and hexane examples of suitable attenuating liquids for polyester fibers include water and carbon tetrachloride. In accordance with this invention, the nonwoven web containing the attenuating liquid is simultaneously heated and compressed in spaced, discrete areas points to effect fiber bonding in such areas thereby forming the web into a point bonded fabric. Simultaneous heating and compression of the web in spaced, discrete areas can readily be accomplished by compressing the webs between a pair of compressing means such as rolls or platens at least one of which compression means is heated. Further, one or both of the compression means will have bosses or a land and groove design or combinations thereof such that compression of the web will be effected in spaced discrete areas rather than overall. In order to provide adequate overall physical properties it is generally desirable that from 2 to 80 , preferably 3 to 50 , most preferably 5 to 30 , of the total surface area of the web be subjected to compression. Further, the number of spaced, discrete bond sites per square centimeter generally should be from 1 to 250, preferably from 16 to 64. The compressive force, the temperate, and the time of exposure of the web to compression and heating will depend on the nature and quantity of the attenuating liquid utilized and the nature of the fibers being processed. Therefore, for a particular nonwoven web and a particular attenuating liquid, the compressive force, the temperature, and the time of exposure of the web to the compressive force and heating will be correlated to effect bonding of the web fibers in the heated, compressed areas. Preferably, the heating and compression will be correlated to effect a degree of bonding sufficient to provide a wash stable fabric as hereinafter defined. In general, increases in bonding will be observed with increased temperature until a temperature is attained beyond which further increases will have little, if any, beneficial effect. if the operation is conducted at too high a temperature, the her attenuation characteristics of the liquid may not be adequate to provide requisite improvements in fabric softness. The US of increasing quantities of attenuating liquid may require increased compressive force and or temperature to provide wash stable fabrics. The optimum correlation of temperature and compressive force can, of course, be empirically determined by routine tests. The following examples will facilitate a better understanding of the invention and the desirable properties of fabrics produced thereby. The tests described below are used to determine fabric properties as reported in the examples or otherwise referred to in the specification and claims Strip Tenacity Strip Tenacity is used as an indicator of fabric strength and is determined by dividing the breaking load of a cut fabric strip as determined by American Society ofTesting Materials procedure D 1682 64 by the fabric basis 2 weight. Strip Tenacity is expressed as g cm g m .Values reported are an average of tenacities in the machine and transverse directions of the fabric. The machine direction corresponds to the direction of feed to the heating and compressing means and the transverse direction is the planar direction at a right angle thereto Bending modulus Bending Modulus is used as a measure of fabric softness and is determined in accordance with techniques as described in U.S. Patent 3,613,445. In accordance with such disclosure a test fabric is forced vertically downward through a slot at a constant speed. A signal is generated in proportional response to the load incurred in moving the fabric into and through the slot. A load extension curve is generated by plotting the signal as a function of the distance. Hand, drape and bending modulus are determined by analyzing the load extension curve.Hand is represented by the maximum point on the load extension curve. Drape is represented by the slope of the load deflection curve and bending modulus is determined by dividing the drape value by the cube of fabric thickness. Bending Modulus, as determined on a 10.6 4 x 10.6 cm sample, is expressed in gm cm and values reported are an average of fabric face up and face down machine and transverse direction measurements. With respect to both Strip Tenacity and BendingModulus, the requirements of the present invention are defined in terms of relative percent change ratios rather than absolute values. Accordingly, apparatus calibrations and choice of test techniques are not critical so long as reasonable consistency is maintained in a given series of comparative tests. Since individual measurements are affected by variations in fabric uniformity and inherent limitations in the precision of various measuring techniques, it is important to conduct and average sufficient measurements to statistically assure that the differences in values of bending modulus and strip tenacities being compared fairly reflect differences in fabric properties as opposed to imprecisions in measurements of imperfect fabric uniformity. Wash Stability Wash stability is determined as follows Nonwoven fabric samples are mixed with at least 10 pieces of hemmed cotton sheeting each measuring about 91 cm x 91 cm. Vhe number and size of the nonwoven fabric samples are subject to the following constraints 1. Total area of the nonwoven samples is less than m 2. Each sample is at least 465 cmê in area with a minimum dimension of 15 cm. 3. No sample is larger than 01929 m2 in area or more than 0.305 m in its maximum dimension. In addition, the total weight of the cotton sheeting plus the nonwoven samples should not exceed about 1.8 kg. These constraints assure comparable results. The load is washed in a Kenmore Model 76431100 washing machine marketed by Sears Roebuck Co. using the normal cycle 14 min. Hi water level 55 Q , HOT WASH,WARM RINSE water temperatures of 60 C. 3 , 49 C. 3 and 90 g of American Association of Textile Colorists andChemists Standard Detergent 124. The wash load is then dried in a Kenmore electric dryer, Model 6308603 marketed by Sears, Roebuck and Co. for at least 30 minutes or longer if required to dry the entire load . The test specimens are then evaluated by visual observation to determine the number of pills formed. A pill is a visually discernible usually roughly spherical tangle of fiber, or fiber plus extraneous material, extending above the surface of a fabric and connected to the body of the fabric by one or more filaments. A fabric is considered to fail the test when 5 or more pills are observed in any 929 square centimeters surface area or when more severe physical deterioration is visually discernible.Fabrics passing the above test are considered wash stable , In the test described, the pills are predominantly formed by fibers which were not bonded in the process of which, in test procedure, were freed from bond sites. Thus the degree of pilling provides a measure of the efficacy of the process for forming bonds and a measure of the resulting bond integrity. In instances of very poor bonding more severe fabric deviation than pilling, e.g., complete disintegration, may be observed.As a practical matter, fabrics which do not pass the test even if not totally or partially disirsteerare in the test will not withstand substantial physical stress or repeated ssings without excessive deterioration. Example t Nonwoven webs composed of continuous filament 24 crystalline polyethyleneterephthalate fibers and having 2 web weights of 5 gms meter and wetted with water to the add on percentages weight water add on percentages weight of dry web X 100 shown in Table 1 below are simultaneously heated and compressed in spaced discrete areas by passage at a speed of .6 meters minute between a pair of metal rolls. One roll is smooth while the 2 other has 28 square boss sites cm aligned in a square pattern covering about 18 of the surface area of the roll. The pressure at the roll nip is calculated as 65.0 kg cm assuming all pressure to be applied only to the boss sites .Both rolls are heated to a temperature of 230 C. Properties of the fabrics obtained are shown in Table 1 below. Table 1 Strip Bending Strip Tenacit Test Water Modulus Tenacity BendingNo. add on gms cm4 X 10 5 gm cm gm mê Modulus 1 none 54 41 .76 2 35 35 33 .94 3 65 47 38 .80 4 9570 36 39 1.1The above tests in general test 3 is anomalous and may reflect inaccurate measuring or sampling show that the use of water as described enables the preparation of point bonded polyester fabrics of improved softness. Example II Nonwoven webs composed of continuous filament crystalline polyethylene terephthalate fibers are passed either wet with about 1000 add on carbon tetrachloride or dry through the nip of a pair of rolls at a speed of 6 meters min. Each roll bears a helical land and groove pattern 508 micron landwidth 1270 micron groove width with the lands and grooves disposed at 450 angles to the roll axis and cooperating to produce a pattern of diamond shaped depressions covering abc 8 of the web surface. The rolls exert a nip press.lLe of 130 kg cm calculated as in Example 1 .Processing of webs having fiber crystallinities of 19 , 24 and 36 demonstrated that the use of carbon tetrachloride provided in fabrics having bending moduli substantially more than 20 lower and ratios of strip tenacity to bending moudlus substantially higher than that of webs processed dry under similar conditions. Example III Nonwoven webs of continuous filament nylon 6,6 were processed at 2250C. with and without about 700 add on hexane using the same roll pattern and pressure as in ExampleII. The use of hexane provided a fabric having about a 40 lower bending modulus and a substantially higher ratio of strip tenacity to bending modulus than that obtained without the use of hexane. The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments and examples will enable those skilled in the art to practice these and all other embodiments of the invention within the scope of the appended claims.