# VIDEO DISPLAY SYSTEM

## Claims
Videowiedergabesystem mit einer Wiedergabeeinrichtung zur selektiven Wiedergabe von Informationsseiten mit Hilfe von Bildpunkten in einem statischen Wiedergabebild, einem Wiedergabegenerator zur Erzeugung von der Wiedergabeeinrichtung zuzuführenden Videosignalen, die zu der Information einer für die Wiedergabe ausgewählten Seite gehören, einem Wiedergabespeicher zum Speichern der Information einer wiederzugebenden Seite in digitaler Form und einem Prozessor zur digitalen Steuerung der Speicherung, Auswahl und Wiedergabe von Information, wobei das System auch einen Indexspeicher enthält, in dem selektiv wiedergebbare Indexseiten gespeichert werden können, die Indexierungsinformation zur Identifizierung einer Anzahl verschiedener in einem Hauptspeicher gespeicherter Informationsseiten enthalten, und wobei in dem System Indexierungsmittel zur Erzeugung der Indexierungsinformation in einer solchen Form vorgesehen sind, daß in diskreten Wiedergabeflächen jeder Indexseite jeweilige Miniatur aide memoire Speicherhilfe Versionen von zur Auswahl im Hauptspeicher vorhandenen Informationsseiten wiedergegeben werden, wobei das Indexierungsmittel fähig ist, die Indexierungsinformation für die aide memoire Version einer Seite aus der Information dieser Seite zu generieren,

## Description
This invention relates to a video display system comprising, a display device for displaying selectively pages of information by means of pixels in a static display frame, a display generator for producing, for application to the display device, video signals which pertain to the information of a page selected for display, a display memory for storing in digital form the information of a page to be displayed, and a processor for controlling digitally the storage, selection and display of information. Such a system is known from, for instance, European Patent Application 82200241.6 EP A 0 061 213 and U.K. Patent Application 2 032 740A. The invention further relates to methods of storing and displaying pages of information, and to a memory wherein pages of information have been stored. As presently envisaged, the display generator of the system would be arranged to produce video signals which are suitable for driving a television monitor. However, the possibility does exist for the information display to be effected using some other form of display device, for instance, a liquid crystal display device. The video signals produced by the display generator would then be appropriate for such an alternative. The system can be operable to display pages of information in form of both pictures graphics and text, with and without colour. For the purposes of the present specification, a page of information will be denoted as either a picture page or a text page according as it is predominately pictorial or textual in context. A problem that exists with a system of the above character is to provide a suitable index by which the different picture and text pages can be readily identified for selection and display. In a known method of indexing, there is provided a list of items which identify the different pages, this list forming the information of at least one text page which is available for display at the command of a viewer. In general, such a list of items can be composed of an individual title or code number for each page. However, when the number of pages which are available for display is considerable, it may not be possible to identify readily a required page simply by recognition of its title or code number, so that trial and error selection of a page for display may result. With a view to mitigating the above problem, an alternative means of identifying pages for their selection and display is provided by a video display system of the character set forth in the opening paragraph which includes an index store in which can be stored selectively displayable index pages containing indexing information for identifying a plurality of different pages of information stored in a main memory, wherein indexing means are provided for generating the indexing information in such a form as to display, in discrete display areas of each index page, respective miniature GB 2 047 041 A describes a still picture storage system in which pictures are stored in a disc store for retrieval and display. GB 2 047 041 A describes, with reference to Figure 21 of its drawings, the generation and display of a frame comprising compressed versions of a number of the pictures available on the disc, for browsing . The multi picture frame may be generated at display time or may be pre generated and stored on the disc as a new frame. EP 0 122 094 A3, not filed or published at the priority date of the present application, describes a picture storage system wherein a reduced size image is stored on a disc with each full size image, to facilitate the display of a multi image frame for browsing. Provided with index pages containing a number of small reduced resolution versions of the picture pages which are available for display, a viewer can select a page by its actual appearance instead of simply relying on a title or code number. The invention provides, in a first aspect, a video display system comprising, a display device for displaying selectively pages of information by means of pixels in a static display frame, a display generator for producing, for application to the display device, video signals which pertain to the information of a page selected for display, a display memory for storing in digital form the information of a page to be displayed, and a processor for controlling digitally the storage, selection and display of information, which system further includes an index store in which can be stored selectively displayable index pages containing indexing information for identifying a plurality of different pages of information stored in a main memory, and in which system indexing means are provided for generating the indexing information in such a form as to display, in discrete display areas of each index page, respective miniature The invention further provides, in its first aspect, a method of storing pages of information in a storage device, the method comprising The standard set of colours may be chosen for example to include not more than 128 colours. Within this limit, the standard set of colours may provide substantially five levels in each of three colour components, for example five equally spaced brightness levels of R, G and B components. Each pixel in the According to a second aspect of the invention, a video display system and a method of storing pictures similar to those set forth above are characterised in that, for a text page, each character of the text is represented by a single dot in the The video display system according to the first aspect of the invention, as set forth above may therefore comprise means for detecting whether a page of information to be stored in the main memory is a text page or a picture page, first means responsive to the detection of a text page for producing a first signal output defining a dot pattern in which only a single dot represents each character of the text page, second means responsive to the detection of a picture page for producing a second signal output defining a dot pattern in which only single dots represent successive discrete areas of the picture page, and third means for applying said first and second signal outputs to said index store for storage therein to form the index pages. Both techniques can be employed for composite pages comprising both pictorial and textual information. The invention yet further provides a memory wherein a plurality of pages of information have been stored, together with indexing information, in accordance with a method of storing pictures as set forth above. Each index page, as displayed, can include in a respective key area for each possible index page, including itself, a pattern of discrete dots denoting each of the discrete display areas which are occupied in that index page by an These key areas enable the available capacity of each index page to be seen from any index page which is displayed. Thus, when fresh information for further pages is to be stored in the main memory, it can readily be deduced which index pages have unoccupied display areas for accommodating the The invention accordingly provides, in a third aspect, a method of displaying a selected one from a plurality of index pages defined by indexing information stored in an index store, each index page as displayed comprising in discrete display areas respective miniature In order that the invention may be more fully understood reference will now be made by way of example to the accompanying drawings, of which Referring to the drawings, the video display system shown in Figure 1 comprises a display device 1, a display generator 2, a display memory 3 and a processor 4. The display device 1 is suitably a colour television monitor TV which is connected to receive R,G,B, video signals from the display generator 2. These R,G,B, video signals are produced in the display generator 2 by three digital to analogue converters D A 5, 6 and 7, respectively. The display generator 2 also includes a colour look up table GLUT 8 which is suitably a read only memory and is responsive to digital information from the display memory 3 to produce digital signals for driving the converters 5, 6 and 7. A display timer TIM 9 in the display generator 2 provides line and field synchronisation signals LS and FS for the television monitor 1 over a connection 10 the timer 9 also provides over a connection 11 timing signals T for controlling the transfer of digital information from the display memory 3 to the colour look up table 8. The display memory 3 is suitably a random access memory RAM which has a capacity for storing at least one page of information. A combined address data bus 12 interconnects the display generator 2 and the display memory 3 with the processor 4. A main memory 13, which is also in the form of a random access memory RAM , is also connected to the address data bus 12. Interface apparatus in the form of a keyboard 14 and a writing tablet 15 are connected to the processor 4. Also, a teletext input apparatus 16 gives access to broadcast teletext television services such as CEEFAX and ORACLE, and a viewdata terminal apparatus 17 provides a link to a telephone line for access to external data bases such as PRESTEL. In operation of the system, pages of information can be generated by the interface apparatus 14 and 15 and stored in the main memory 13. Also, further pages of information can be acquired by means of the teletext and viewdata terminals 16 and 17 and stored in the main memory 13. Any page of information stored in the main memory 13 can thereafter be selected for display. When a page is selected, the information thereof is transferred from the main memory 13 to the display memory 3. When the number of pages of information stored in the main memory 13 is considerable, it becomes expedient to provide some form of index by which the stored pages can be readily identified. In accordance with the present invention, there is provided an index store 18, which conveniently is contained in the main memory 13. Whenever, a page of information, produced from any one of the elements 14 17 is to be stored in the main memory 13, indexing information for identifying the page is produced and stored in the index store 18. In this respect, the central processor 4, which is suitably a commercially available microcomputer, is programmed to function as indexing means to produce the indexing information in such a form as to represent a miniature More specifically, as illustrated in Figure 2, page information PI to be stored in the main memory RAM 13 is analysed by a logic function ANL to determine whether the page is a picture page PP or a text page TP. This determination may be effected either by the user, or by the display system itself. When it is effected by the user, respective identifier flags may be allotted to the two types of page. When it is effected by the system itself, identifier flags may also be used, being for example set by the interface apparatus used to generate the page. Alternately, the processor may determine the type of page on the basis of the amount of memory used to store the page. If the display page is a text page, then a logic function LTP produces a dot pattern TDP in which each character of the text page is represented by only a single dot. This dot pattern is fed to the index store 18. If the page is a picture page PP, then a logic function LPP examines the page information for successive discrete areas of the picure and produces averaging information which represents an average colour for each area in turn. This averaging information is compared COMP with stored information representing a standard set of colours, and the stored information of the colour nearest to the average colour is fed to the index store 18 in a dot pattern PDP. It has been found that satisfactory results are obtained by effecting a picture size reduction by a factor of four in the linear dimensions. Thus, each pixel in a miniature picture corresponds to an area of 4 x 4 pixels in the original. Conveniently, the colour of the single pixel used to represent the 4 x 4 pixel area is calculated by taking separate averages of the gamma corrected R, G and B values of the 16 pixels in the original, and then carrying out the inverse gamma correction on the result. Since this technique would produce a large number of different colours in the miniature picture, it is preferred to approximate to a standard set of colours, as aforesaid. A suitable set can be obtained by allowing the R, G and B components to each take only one of 5 equally spaced brightness levels. The indexing information which is stored in the index store 18 is organised under the control of the processor 4 into index pages which are selectable for display at the command of a viewer. As displayed, each index page comprises a plurality of discrete display areas each of which can occupy a miniature Referring now to the flow charts shown in Figures 4 to 7, the various instruction and decision boxes given therein are executed under control of the processor and have the following significance. For a text page TP, N character lines L0 to L N 1 , and M character positions C0 to C M 1 are assumed. The corresponding mini picture mTP has a dot matrix xy see insert a in Figure 5 . For a picture page PP, a dot matrix XY is assumed. The corresponding mini picture mPP has a dot matrix xy, as in Figure 5 see insert b in Figure 6 . Insert C shows a 4x4 pixel picture cell comprised by four pixels YS to YS 3 in the vertical direction and for four pixels XS to XS 3 in the horizontal direction.