# Electrical apparatus employing a gaseous dielectric.

## Abstract
An improved electrical apparatus employing a gaseous dielectric is disclosed. The improvement resides in the comp osition of the gaseous dielectric, which comprises a mixture of approximately 60 99.5 mole of SF₆ and approximately 0.5 40 mole of a fluorocarbon compound having no unsat urated carbon bonds. Preferred fluorocarbon compounds are C₂F₅CN, CBrClF₂, and c C₄F₈. The gaseous dielectric has a hig her dielectric strength than SF₆ alone and greatly suppresses formation of carbon powder during arcing.

## Claims
Patent Claims 1. An improved electrical apparatus of the type comprising a sealed chamber, a gaseous dielectric which fills said chamber, a conductor disposed inside said chamber, and a solid insulating member disposed so as to support said conductor, characterized in that said gaseous dielectric comprises a mixture of approximately 60 99.5 mole of SF6 and approximately 0.5 40 mole of a saturated fluorocarbon compound. 2. An improved electrical apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said fluorocarbon compound is C2F5CN. 3. An improved electrical apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said fluorocarbon compound is CBrClF2. 4. An improved electrical apparatus as claimed inClaim 1, wherein said fluorocarbon compound is c C4F8. 5. The use of a mixture of approximately 60 to 99.5 mole of SF6 and approximately 0.5 to 40 mole of a saturated gaseous fluorocarbon compound as dielectric medium in electrical apparatuses.

## Description
ELECTRICPJ APPARATUS EMPLOYING A GASEOUS DIELECTRIC The present invention relates in general to electrical apparatuses which employ a gaseous dielectric, and in particular to an improved electrical apparatus employing a novel gaseous dielectric which has a high dielectric strength and which forms only a small amount of carbon at the time of arcing. In electrical equipment of the type comprising a sealed chamber, a gaseous dielectric which fills the chamber, a conductor disposed inside the chamber, and a solid insulating member which supports the conductor, it is common to use sulfur hexafluoride SF6 , which has excellent dielectric properties, as the gaseous dielectric. In order to achieve further reductions in the size of this type of electrical equipment, there is a need for a gaseous dielectric having a higher dielectric strength than SF6. However, there has yet to be found a gas having suitable properties. For example, while C2F5CN 1.8 times the dielectric strength of SF6 , CBrClF2 1.4 times the dielectric strength of SF6 , and c C4F8 1.4 times the dielectric strength of SF6 are all excellent from the standpoint of dielectric strength, they can not be applied alone as gaseous dielectrics in electrical equipment in which arcing takes place, since they form electrically conducting carbon powder during arcing. I a paper entitled Ternary Gas Dielectrics TheThird International Symposium on Gaseous Dielectrics, 1982,Document No. 15 , I.G. Christophorou et al. disclosed a gaseous dielectric comprising a mixture of SF6 and 2 C4F8 octofluorobutene which has a high dielectric strength but which forms a powder during arcing consisting of a nonconducting powder and a conducting powder Figure 1 shows test results published in the above mentioned paper for arcing tests using aluminum electrodes in gas mixtures consisting of SF6 and 2 2 C4F8. ,The amount and the content of the powder formed during arcing clearly depend on the mole of 2 C4F8 in the gas mixture.When the gas mixture consisted of 100 SF6, the powder which was formed consisted of Alp3. However, at greater than 20 mole 2 C4F8, the content of the powder greatly changed and the powder began to consist of increasing amounts of carbon powder. Thus, although a mixture of SF6 and i C4F8 has a higher dielectric strength than SF6 alone, it still has the drawback that it forms too large a quantity of conducting powder. It is the object of the present invention to provide an improved electrical apparatus which utilizes a gaseous dielectric which has a higher dielectric strength than SF6 and which forms only a small amount of carbon powder at the time of arcing. An improved electrical apparatus according to the present invention is of the type comprising a sealed chamber filled with a gaseous dielectric, an electrical conductor disposed in the chamber, and a solid electrically insulating member which supports the electrical conductor. The improvement resides in the composition of the gaseous dielectric, which comprises a mixture of SF6 and a saturated fluorocarbon compound, i.e a fluorocarbon compound having no unsaturated carbon bonds. The amount of SF6 in the gaseous dielectric is approximately 60 99.5 mole and the amount of the fluorocarbon compound is approximately 0.5 40 mole . Preferred substances for use as the fluorocarbon compound are C2F5CN, CBrClF2, and c C4F8. Figure 1 is a graph of the amount of powder formed at the time of arcing as a function of the mole of SF6 in a gaseous dielectric comprising a mixture of SF6 and 2 C4F8. Figure 2 is a schematic illustration of an improved electrical apparatus according to the present invention. a Figure 3 is chart of the amount of carbon powder formed during arcing tests performed in SF6 and in various fluorocarbon compounds. Figure 4 is a graph of the amount of carbon powder formed at the time of arcing plotted as a function of the composition of a gaseous dielectric comprising a mixture of SF6 and C2F5 CN Figure 5 is a graph of the AC breakdown voltage plotted as a function of electrode separation for various mixtures of SF and 6 C2F5CN. Figure 6 is a schematic representation of the electrodes used to obtain the data of Figure 5. Figure 7 is a graph of the relationship between the amount of powder formed at the time of arcing the length of time for which an arc was sustained and arc current for two different gaseous dielectrics, one comprising 100 C2F5CN and the other comprising a mixture of 25 mole of C2F5CN and 75 mole of SF6. An embodiment of an improved electrical apparatus employing a gaseous dielectric will now be described while referring to Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings. In the figure, element number 1 is a sealed chamber filled with a gaseous dielectric 2. Elements number 3 are bushings electrically connected to disconnecting switches 4. Element number 5 is a circuit breaker electrically connected to the disconnecting switches 4 by electrical conductors 6. The novel feature of this apparatus is the composition of the gaseous dielectric 2. It comprises approximately 60 99.5 mole of SF6 and approximately 0,5 40 mole of a saturated fluorocarbon compound.Preferred substances for use as the fluorocarbon compound are C2F5CN, CBrClF2, and c C4F8. In the above described prior art, a mixture of SF6 with an unsaturated fluorocarbon 2 C4F8 had the disadvantage that too large a quantity of carbon powder was formed during arcing. The present inventors found that if a saturated fluorocarbon is used instead, the amount of carbon powder formed can be greatly decreased. To illustrate this fact, the present inventors performed arcing experiments in various saturated and unsaturated fluorocarbon compounds in gaseous form sealed at atmospheric pressure in a 2 liter container using a discharge voltage of 30kv. The amount of carbon powder formed mg for each gas is plotted in Figure 3. As can be seen from the figure, saturated fluorocarbon compounds such as C2F5CN, CBrClF2, and c C4F8 formed much less carbon powder than unsaturated fluorocarbon compounds such as l,3 C4F6, c C4F6, and 2 C4F6. In order to determine the appropriate amount of a fluorocarbon compound in a gaseous dielectric for the present invention, the present inventors carried out an experiment using 4 different mixtures of SF6 andC2F5CN 1 SF6 99.5 mole , C2F5CN 0.5 mole 2 SF6 80 mole , C2F5CN 20 mole 3 SF6 50 mole , C2F5CN 50 mole and 4 SF6 0 mole C2F5CN 100 mole . Each gas mixture was sealed in a 2 liter container at atmospheric pressure. Inside each container, arcing was produced using copper tungsten electrodes with a separation of 2mm at a voltage of 30kv.The amount of carbon powder formed during the arcing was measured and the results are shown in Figure 4. When the mole of C2F5CN reached approximately 40 , the slope of the curve abruptly increased, and at mole percentages above this, the amount of carbon powder formed became large. Accordingly, in order to suppress the amount of carbon powder formed during arcing, the amount of a saturated fluorocarbon compound used in the present invention should be no greater than approximately 40 mole . A similar arcing experiment was carried out using the electrodes illustrated in Figure 6. A rod shaped electrode 7 having a hemispherical end and a diameter of 30mm was disposed perpendicularly with respect to a plate electrode 8 having a length of 80mm. In sealed containers containing various combinations of SF6 and C2F5CN at 0 20 C and atmospheric pressure, a 60 Hz AC voltage was applied between the electrodes and the AC breakdown voltages of the gas mixtures were measured using various gap lengths between the electrodes 7 and 8. The results are shown in Figure 5. As can be seen from the figure, even when the mole of C2F5CN is extremely low, a significant increase in breakdown voltage over SF6 alone can be achieved merely by increasing the separation between the electrodes.Accordingly, the lower limit for a saturated fluorocarbon compound is approximately 0.5 mole . In addition, an experiment was carried out in which arcing was produced in gaseous mixtures comprising either 100 mole of C2F5CN or 25 mole C2F5CN and 75 mole SF6. The gas mixtures were separately sealed in 0 a 2 liter container at 20 C and atmospheric pressure. Arcing was produced inside the container between copper tungsten electrodes with an electrode separation of 2mm using voltages ranging from lOkv to 30kv. The arc current, the length of time for which the arc was sustained, and the amount of carbon powder formed were measured. The results are plotted in Figure 7, in which the abscissa is the arc current and the ordinate is the weight of carbon powder formed during arcing divided by the length of time for which the arc was sustained. From this experiment, it was learned that the amount of carbon powder formed by the mixture of 25 mole C F CN and 75 mole SF6 was less than 1 10 the amount formed by C 2F5 CN alone. Although the above experiments were carried out using mixtures of C2F5CN and SF6, similar results can be expected if another saturated fluorocarbon such as CBrC12 gas or c C4F8 gas is used instead of C2F5CN. Both of these gases have a high dielectric strength relative to SF6, as shown in the following table, which gives the relative dielectric strengths compared to the dielectric strength of SF6 for C2F5CN alone,CBrClF2 alone, c C4F8 alone, and mixtures of each of these three gases with SF6. In the table, all quantities are given as mole percentages.EMI8.1 tb SEP GAS SEP COMPOSITION tb SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP 25 SEP C2F5CN SEP 25 SEP CBrC SEP F, SEP 25 SEP c CqFg tb SEP 12 SEP L tb DIELECTRIC tb STRENGTH SEP RELATIVE SEP 1.8 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.4 SEP 1.15 SEP 1.16 tb TO SEP 100 SEP SF6 tb Since an electrical apparatus according to the present invention employs a gas mixture which has a higher dielectric strength than SF6 and which greatly suppresses carbon formation at the time of arcing, for a given rating, an apparatus of smaller size than an apparatus using SF6 alone as a gaseous dielectric is achievable. Alternatively, an electrical apparatus according to the present invention can have a higher rating than an apparatus of the same physical size which uses SF6 alone as a gaseous dielectric.