# Reaction force limiting means and steering gear including such means.

## Abstract
Reaction force limiting means and a steering gear including such means. A valve includes a spool assembly 100 having first 5 and second 10 spool parts and which is axially displaceable in a spool housing 101 to control flow of fluid under pressure from a pressurised port 1 to an actuating port 8 intended for communication with a ram. The first and second spool parts 5,10 form a reaction chamber 105 , the volume of which is variable. The spool parts 5,10 can be connected by a pin and slot mechanism 108,14 so that the chamber 105 has maximum and minimum volumes. Control means 4 acts on one 5 of the spool parts for manually displacing the spool assembly in one axial direction to open communication between said pressurised port 1 and the actuating port 8 . A biasing spring 12 opposes axial displacement of the other 10 of the spool parts in the one axial direction. The reaction chamber 105 communicates with the actuating port 8 when that port 8 communicates with the pressurised port 1 and upon pressurisation of the reaction chamber 105 by its communication with the pressurised port the other spool part 10 reacts against the biasing spring 12 to oppose and provide a reaction to the manual force which is applied to displace the spool assembly 100 in one axial direction. A secondary spring 9 which is weaker than the biasing spring 12 biases the reaction chamber 105 to its expanded condition. The valve can be double acting to be displaceable from a neutral condition and in either sense of axial direction to control fluid flow to one or the opposite sides of a ram in the neutral condition both sides of the ram may communicate through the valve with exhaust.