# Photoelectric converter

## Claims
Photoelektrischer Wandler zum Bereitstellen eines Ausgangssignals, welches sich in Abhängigkeit von durch diesen empfangener Lichtenergie ändert, umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a photoelectric converter. Recently, studies on photoelectric converters, especially solid state image pickup devices have been widely conducted as semiconductor technologies advance, and some of them have already been available. These image pickup devices are mainly classified into those of CCD Charge Coupled Device type and MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor Device type. For instance, the CCD type image pickup devices generally adopt the operation principle featured by forming potential wells below MOS capacitor electrodes, storing charge produced in response to incident light, and, in a readout period, sequentially shifting these potential wells in accordance with pulses to transfer the stored charges on an output amplifier to read out them. In another CCD type image pickup device, light receiving areas are formed by junction diodes, and transfer areas are formed by CCD structures. On the other hand, the MOS type image pickup devices adopt the operational principle featured by storing charges produced in response to incident light in respective photodiodes comprising pn junctions constituting light receiving areas, and, in a readout period, reading out stored charges to an output amplifier by sequentially turning on MOS switching transistors respectively connected to photodiodes. The CCD type image pickup devices are of a relatively simplified structure and, when viewed from the point of noise, only capacitance of a charge detector provided at the final stage, originating from floating diffusion, affects random noise. Accordingly, the CCD image pickup devices have relatively low noise characteristics and are capable of operating at low illumination. However, because of restriction of processes for producing CCD type image pickup devices, a MOS type amplifier serving as an output amplifier is provided on a chip and it is likely that visually noticeable 1 f noise occurs from interfaces between silicon and a film of SiO On the contrary, the MOS type image pickup devices, while they are somewhat complicated in structure as compared with the CCD type image pickup devices, particularly, the frame transfer type devices, can be so constituted that they will have a large storage capacity and a wide dynamic range. Further, even if there is a defect in one cell, the influence of the defect does not spread over the other cells because an X Y addressing scheme is employed, whereby a high production yield is attained. However, in the MOS type image pickup devices, at the signal readout stage, wiring capacitance is connected to each photodiode, and there occurs extremely large signal voltage drop, resulting in a low output voltage. Furthermore, noticeable random noise occurs due to a large wiring capacitance and fixed pattern noise occurs due to variation of parasitic capacitance existing in respective photodiodes and MOS switching transistors for horizontal scanning. Because of these and other difficulties, the MOS type image pickup devices have drawbacks such that it is difficult to take a picture at a low illumination in contrast to the CCD type image pickup devices. Further, when an attempt is made to realize high resolution image pickup devices in the future, it is expected that the dimension of each cell is reduced and a charge stored therein decreases. On the contrary, the wiring capacity determined by a chip size can not be lowered substantially, even if the line width becomes small. Accordingly, the MOS type image pickup devices will be further disadvantageous in respect of S N ratio. Although the CCD type and MOS type image pickup devices have both advantages and drawbacks described above, they are gradually approaching a practically usable level. However, they have essential problems in realizing a still higher resolution required in the future. Meanwhile, there have been proposed novel solid state image pickup devices as disclosed in Japanese Laid Open Patent Application Nos. 56 150878, 56 157073 and 56 165473, all entitled Semiconductor Image Pickup Device . While the conventional CCD and MOS type image pickup devices are based on the principle that charge generated in response to the incident light is stored in a main electrode for instance, the source of a MOS transistor , the novel image pickup devices are based on the principle that charge generated in response to the incident light is stored in a control electrode for instance, the base of a bipolar transistor or the gate of an SIT static induction transistor or MOS transistor in such a way that the flowing current is controlled in response to the charge generated in response to the incident light. That is, in the conventional CCD or MOS type image pickup devices, the stored charge per se is read out to the exterior, whereas, in the novel image pickup devices, each cell has an amplification capability so that the amplified signal is read out by charge amplification. In other words, the stored charge is read out as a low impedance output by the impedance conversion. As a result, the newly proposed image pickup devices have various advantages such as a high output, a wide dynamic range, and low noise and moreover that the nondestructive readout is possible because the carrier charge excited in response to the light or light image is stored in a control electrode. Furthermore, they can be improved in the future in such a way that they will have a higher degree of resolution. However, these newly proposed image pickup devices fundamentally adopt an X Y address scheme and have a fundamental cell structure comprising a cell of the conventional MOS type image pickup device and an amplifier element such as a bipolar transistor or SIT. As a result, they are complicated in construction and even though they have a possibility of exhibiting a higher degree of resolution, there exists a limit to their resolution capability at their present stage. Television Society of Japan, Technical Report, ED 590, pages 53 58, 28 August 1981 SIT Static Induction Transistor And Its Application To Imaging Device discusses a photosensor based on a static induction transistor. It also refers to a base stored phototransistor cell having an n US A 3624428 corresponding to the precharacterising portion of claim 1 proposes a photosensor array in which each cell has a bipolar transistor, and illumination causes current to leak from a capacitor connected to the reverse biassed base. Row pulses applied through capacitors of the cells and column pulses applied to the emitters of the cells both tend to forward bias the base emitter junction. At the cell where the row pulse and the column pulse coincide, the base emitter junction is forward biassed and a current flows to re charge the base capacitor. The base emitter current is amplified by the transistor, and the amplified current in emitter collector circuit is used as the output signal. The output current signal may be taken from the emitter or the collector of the transistor. JP A 55 15229 and US A 4427990 proposes a photoelectric converter based on a static induction transistor. A read out drain current is proportional to the gate voltage generated by stored charges resulting from light. According to the present invention there is provided a photoelectric converter as set out in claim 1. The remaining claims set out optional features. The invention may be used in a photoelectric conversion process comprising the steps of sequentially and cyclically conducting the following stages of operations Herein, the term a forward polarity of voltage is used to mean a positive voltage with respect to a p type semiconductor region and a negative voltage to an n type semiconductor region, whereas the term a reverse polarity of voltage means a negative voltage to a p type semiconductor region and a positive voltage to an n type semiconductor region. In determining the polarity of voltage, an i type semiconductor region is regarded as a p type semiconductor region when it is used in combination with an n type semiconductor region and an n type semiconductor region when combined with a p type semiconductor region. Various optional features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent upon a consideration of the following description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. Figures 1 are views used to explain the fundamental structure and mode of operation a photosensor cell of a first embodiment of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present invention. Figure 1 a is a plan view of a photosensor cell Figure 1 b is a sectional view taken along the line A A of Figure 1 a and Figure 1 c is a diagram of an equivalent circuit thereof. Same reference numerals are used to designate similar parts throughout the figures. In Figures 1, the photosensor cells are shown as being arranged in a normal pixel arrangement, but it is to be understood that they may be arranged in an offset pixel arrangement in order to enhance the resolution in the horizontal direction. As shown in Figures 1 a and b , each photosensor cell comprises In Figure 1 a , a contact 19 is formed in order to interconnect the n In the equivalent circuit as shown in Figure 1 c , a capacitor Cox 13 is constituted by an MOS structure comprising the electrode 9, the insulating film 3 and the p region 6, and a bipolar transistor 14 is constituted by the emitter consisting of the n In the second equivalent circuit as shown at the right half of Figure 1 c , the bipolar transistor 14 is represented by a base emitter junction capacitor Cbe 15, a pn junction diode Dbe 16 between the base and emitter, a base collector junction capacitor Cbc 17 and a pn junction diode Dbc 18 between the base and collector. Still referring to Figure 1, the mode of operation of the photosensor cell with the above described structure will be described in detail. The fundamental operation of the photosensor cell is composed of a charge storage operation in response to incident light, a readout operation and a refresh operation. In the charge storage operation, for instance, the emitter 7 is grounded through the conductor 8 while the collector is biased to a positive potential through the conductor 12. Since a positive pulse voltage is applied through the conductor 10 to the capacitor Cox 13, the base 6 is maintained at a negative potential. That is, the base 6 is reverse biased with respect to the emitter 7. The operation of biasing the base to a negative potential by applying a pulse to the capacitor Cox 13 will be described in more detail in conjunction with the refreshing operation. When light 20 falls on the upper surface of the photosensor cell under these conditions, electron hole pairs are generated within the semiconductor. Since the n region 1 is biased to a positive potential, electrons flow into the n region 1, and holes flow into the p region 6. As the holes are stored in the p region 6, the potential of the p region 6 is gradually raised toward a positive potential. As shown in Figures 1 a and b , the portion under the light receiving surface of each photosensor cell is mostly occupied by the p region 6 and partly occupied by the n It is assumed that N Part of the light receiving surface of the sensor cell is occupied by the n Due to the accumulation or storage of holes, the base potential finally becomes equal to the emitter potential, i.e., the ground potential in this case, and then clipped at this potential. Strictly speaking, the base potential is clipped at such a voltage that the base emitter junction is deeply forward biased so that the holes stored in the base begin to flow into the emitter. That is, the saturation potential of the photosensor cell in this case is substantially equal to the difference between a negative bias potential to which the p region 6 is initially biased and the ground potential. When the n While, the charge storage operation has been described qualitatively so far, it will be described more definitely and quantitatively. The spectral sensitivity distribution of this photosensor cell is given by The photocurrent Ip can be obtained by the following equation by using the spectrum sensitivity S λ and the radiation illumination Ee λ The above described equations are used in the case of a photosensor cell with an epitaxial grown layer having the thickness of 4 µm which is illuminated by an A light source Td 2854 K so that the illumination intensity at the light receiving surface is 1 lux. The result is that the photocurrent of about 280 nA cm In this case, the potential Vp which is produced when the photo excited holes are stored in the base is given by Now, assuming that the impurity concentration of the n It should be noted herein that when the resolution is improved and the cell size is made smaller, the quantity of light incident on each photosensor cell decreases, but since the junction capacitance decreases in proportion to the decrease in size of a photosensor cell, the potential Vp produced in response to the incident light is substantially maintained at the same level. This is because, as shown in Fig. 1, the photosensor cell in accordance with the present embodiment is simple in construction so that the effective light receiving area can be remarkably increased. This is one of the reasons why the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment is advantageous over the conventional interline type CCD image sensors. In the case of the interline type CCD image sensors, as the resolution is enhanced and when the transfer of a certain quantity of charge intended, the transfer area relatively increases so that the effective light receiving area dcreases, and consequently the sensitivity, i.e., the voltage produced in response to the incident light, decreases. Furthermore, in the case of the interline type CCD image sensors, the saturation voltage is limited by the size of the transfer area and considerably decreases. On the other hand, according to the present embodiment, the saturation voltage is determined by a bias voltage applied so as to bias the p region 6 at a negative potential as described hereinbefore, whereby a high saturation voltage can be maintained. Next, a mode of reading out to the exterior of the voltage produced by the charge stored in the p region 6 in the manner described above will be described. In the readout mode, the emitter 7 and the conductor 8 are floated and the collector 1 is maintained at a positive potential Vcc. Figure 2 shows the equivalent circuit. Assuming that prior to the illumination, the base 6 be negatively biased to V It is apparent from the above described equation that the current keeps flowing until the emitter voltage Ve becomes equal to the base potential, that is, the storage voltage Vp produced in response to the incident light in this case. Now, the variation in emitter potential Ve with the elapse of time can be obtained by the following equation Figure 3 shows some examples of the variation in emitter potential with time obtained from the above described equation. It is seen from Figure 3 that it takes more than one second before the emitter potential becomes equal to the base potential. This is because, as the emitter potential Ve approaches Vp, the current flow is somewhat retarded. Therefore, in order to solve this problem, instead of establishing the condition Thus, the base potential is further forward biased by V Figure 4 a shows the relationship between the storage voltage Vp and the readout voltage, i.e., the emitter potential Ve, under the conditions that V On the other hand, in the case of the conventional MOS image pickup devices, in the readout stage, the storage voltaqe Vp becomes Cj.Vp Cj Cs where Cj is the pn junction capacitance of the light receiving area of a MOS type image pickup device due to the influence of the conductor capacitance Cs. Thus, the conventional MOS image pickup devices have a drawback that the readout voltage drops by a factor of two. Consequently, the MOS type image pickup devices have drawbacks such as high fixed pattern noise due to the fluctuation of parasitic capacitance of MOS switching transistors which are used to read out information to the exterior or high random noise produced due to a high wiring or output capacitance. Therefore, the conventional MOS type image pickup devices cannot give a satisfactorily high S N signal to noise ratio. In contrast thereto, in the case of the photosensor cell of the type as shown in Figures 1 a , b and c , since the storage voltage produced in the p region 6 per se is read out to the exterior and this storage voltage is relatively high, fixed pattern noise and random noise due to an output capacitance are reduced relatively so that a satisfactory S N ratio can be obtained. It has been described that the linearity of about four orders can be obtained at a high readout speed when the bias voltage V In Figure 4 b , the abscissa represents the bias voltage V From Figure 4 b , it is seen that when the bias voltage V Another advantage of the photosensor cell in accordance with the present embodiment is that the holes stored in the p region 6 can be read out nondestructively because the probability of recombination of holes with electrons in the p region 6 is extremely low. More particularly, when the voltage V The time period during which the stored voltage Vp can be held in the p region 6 is extremely long and the maximum holding time is principally restricted by a dark current thermally produced in the depletion layer. This is because the photosensor cell is saturated by the dark current thermally produced. However, according to the above described photosensor cell of the present embodiment, the depletion layer extends in the low impurity concentration n Next, the operation of refreshing the charge stored in the p region 6 will be described. In the photosensor cell of the embodiment, as has been already described, charge stored in the p region 6 does not vanish in the readout stage. Therefore, in order to input new light information, a refresh operation for extinguishing the charge stored in the p region 6 is required. Simultaneously, the potential of the p region 6 which has been floated must be set to a predetermined negative potential. In the photosensor cell in accordance with the present embodiment, the refreshing operation is carried out by applying a positive voltage to the electrode 9 through the conductor 10 as in the readout operation. In this case, the emitter is grounded through the conductor 8. The collector is grounded or maintained at a positive potential through the electrode 12. Figure 5 shows an equivalent circuit of the refresh operation in the case of the collector grounding. When a positive voltage V In this case, the variation of the potential V of the base which is maintained in the floating state can be approximately expressed by the following equation In connection with the current i The above described equation is given based on the abrupt junction approximation, but the behavior in an actual device deviates from the abrupt junction. Furthermore, because the width of the base is shallow and the impurity profile is complicated, the above described equation does not strictly hold, but the refresh operation can be sufficiently explained thereby with a fair approximation. Of the current i Figure 6 shows some examples of the time dependency of the base potential obtained from the above described equation. The abscissa represents a time period having elapsed from the instant when the refreshing voltage V It is seen from Figure 6 that the base potential is not dependent upon the initial potential and drops linearly after a certain time when the base potential is plotted versus the refreshing time on a semilogarithmic scale. Figure 6 b shows an experimental relationship between the refreshing time and the base potential. As compared with Figure 6 a showing calculated data, the experimental data does not coincide with the former in terms of values themselves because of the device used in the experiments was considerably large in dimension, but it has been proved that the base potential varies linearly with respect to time when the data obtained in the experiments were plotted on a semilogarithmic scale. The data obtained by the experiments show the values when both the collector and emitter were grounded. It is now assumed that the maximum stored voltage due to light irradiation is 0.4 V and that the voltage V applied to the base because of the application of the refreshing voltage V There are two methods for applying a positive voltage to the p region 6 for a predetermined time period through the MOS capacitor Cox and then removing the positive voltage so that the p region 6 is charged negatively. According to one method, the negative charge is stored because holes having a positive charge flow from the p region 6 mainly into the n region 1 which is grounded. In order that the holes may flow unidirectionally from the p region 6 into the n region 1 and that the flow of electrons from the n region 1 into the p region may be prevented, the impurity concentration in the p region 6 is made higher than that in the n region 1. According to the other method, the negative charge may be stored in the p region 6 because electrons from the n When a plurality of photosensor cells of the above construction are arranged in X and Y directions so as to provide a photoelectric converter, the storage voltages Vp vary in the range between 0 and 0.4 V as described above in respective sensor cells. However, 10 It is assumed that the voltage remaining at the base in the transient refreshing mode is Vk. Then, during the transient state in which the refresh voltage V In the previous explanation of the storage operation in which the carriers excited by the incident light are stored, the storage operation has been described as being carried out while the base is reverse biased. According to the above described refreshing operation, however, not only the refresh operation but also the operation for reverse biasing the base are performed simultaneously. Figure 6 c shows experimental data for the base potential after the refreshing operation versus the refreshing voltage V So far, the refreshing operation has been described with reference to a case where the collector is grounded as shown in Figure 5, but it is to be understood that the refreshing operation can also be carried out under the state where the collector is maintained at a positive potential. In the latter case, when a refreshing pulse is applied to the base collector junction diode Dbc 18, if the positive potential applied to the collector is higher than the potential applied to the base in response to the application of this refreshing pulse, the non conduction state remains so that the current flows only through the base emitter junction diode Dbe 16. Therefore, the decay of the base potential becomes slower, but the operation which is basically the same as the operation described hereinbefore is carried out. More specifically, the relationship between the refreshing time and the base potential as shown in Figure 6 a changes in such a way that the oblique straight line indicating the potential drop is shifted to the right, i.e. in a direction to lengthen the refresh time. As a result, when the same refreshing voltage V So far, the fundamental operation of the photosensor cell of the above construction comprising the charge storage operation in response to the incident light, the readout operation and the refresh operation has been described. As described above, the fundamental construction of the photosensor cell in accordance with the present embodiment is by far simpler as compared with those of the semiconductor image pickup devices of the types disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open Nos. 56 150878, 56 157073 and 56 165473 described hereinbefore, and can satisfactorily be adapted to a higher resolution required in the future. In addition, the photosensor cell of the above construction retains such advantages as the low noise, high output, wide dynamic range and nondestructive readout of the disclosed devices. Next, one embodiment of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present invention in which the unit photosensor cells of the above described construction are arranged two dimensionally will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Figure 7 shows a circuit diagram of a photoelectric converter in which the unit photosensor cells are arranged two dimensionally in 3x3 units. The photoelectric converter shown in Figure 7 comprises unit photosensor cells, one of which is surrounded by the dotted line and designated by a reference numeral 30 the collector of each bipolar transistor being shown as connected to a substrate and a substrate electrode horizontal lines 31, 31 and 31 to which are applied refresh and readout pulses a vertical shift register generating readout pulses buffer MOS transistors 33, 33 and 33 interconnected between the vertical shift register 32 and the horizontal lines 31, 31 and 31 , respectively a terminal 34 for applying a gate pulse to the gates of the buffer MOS transistors 33, 33 and 33 buffer MOS transistors 35, 35 and 35 for applying refresh pulses a terminal 36 for applying a pulse to the gates of these buffer MOS transistors 35, 35 and 35 a terminal 37 for applying refreshing pulses vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 for reading out the stored voltages from the fundamental photosensor cells a horizontal shift register 39 for generating pulses so as to select the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 MOS gate transistors 40, 40 and 40 for turning on and off the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 an output line 41 for reading the stored voltage out to an amplifier a MOS transistor 42 for refreshing the charge stored on the output line 41 after the readout operation a terminal 43 for applying a refreshing pulse to the MOS transistor 42 a transistor 44 such as a bipolar transistor, MOS transistor, FET or J FET transistor for amplifying the output signal a load resistor 45 a terminal 46 for interconnecting a power supply and the transistor 44 an output terminal 47 of the transistor 44 MOS transistors 48, 48 and 48 for refreshing the charge stored on the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 during the readout operation and a terminal 49 for applying a pulse to the gates of the MOS transistors 48, 48 and 48 . The operation of the photoelectric converter will be described by referring to Figure 7 and a pulse timing chart shown in Figure 8 a . In Figure 8 a , the period 61 corresponds to the refreshing operation the period 62, the storage operation and the period 63, the readout operation. At time t At time t In the storage operation period 62, the substrate potential, i.e., the collector potential of the transistor is rendered a positive potential as indicated in a waveform 64 in Figure 8 a , whereby the electrons of the electron hole pairs produced in response to the incident light are caused to flow immediately into the collector. That the collector potential is maintained at a positive potential is not an essential condition because when the photoelectric converter is used for picking up images, the base is reverse biased with respect to the emitter, that is, maintained at a negative potential. Therefore, the fundamental mode of storage operation remains unchanged even if the collector potential is grounded or maintained slightly at a negative potential. In the storage operation, the potential 65 of the gate terminal 49 of the MOS transistors 48, 48 and 48 is maintained at a high level as in the refreshing period so that the MOS transistors are kept turned on. As a result, the emitters of the photosensor cells are grounded through the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 . As the holes are stored in the base and the base is saturated due to irradiation of high intensity light, i.e., as the base potential is forward biased with respect to the emitter potential ground potential , the holes flow through the vertical lines 38 38 and 38 . Consequently, variation in base potential is interrupted and the base potential is clipped. It follows therefore that even when the emitters of the photosensor cells disposed adjacent to each other in the vertical direction are connected to the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 in common, no blooming phenomenon occurs as the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 are grounded as described above. The blooming phenomenon may also be obviated in a different way as follows. First, the MOS transistors 48, 48 and 48 are turned off so that the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 are floated. The substrate potential or the collector potential 64 is maintained at a slightly negative potential so that when the base potential is raised to a positive potential due to the storage of holes, the holes are caused to flow into the collector rather than into the emitter. At time t At time t At time t At time t So far, the mode of operation has been described with reference to a field of application where the storage period 62 and the readout period 63 are distinctly distinguished from each other such as a still mode of a video device whose research and development have been recently extensively carried out, but the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment may be equally applied to the field where the operation in the storage period 62 and the operation in the readout period 63 are simultaneously carried out if the pulse timing as shown in Figure 8 a is modified. In the latter case, however, the refreshing operation is not the overall refreshing of the whole picture but a line by line refreshing operation is required. For instance, after the signals from the photosensor cells connected to the horizontal line 31 have been read out, the MOS transistors 48, 48 and 48 are turned on at time t In this case, the degree of freedom for suppressing blooming by controlling the potentials at the emitter and collector of each photosensor cell is decreased. However, as described in conjunction with the fundamental mode of operation, the photosensor cell according to the embodiment is so constructed that the high speed readout operation can be carried out only when the bias voltage V Furthermore, the photoelectric converter in accordance with this embodiment has an excellent capability of suppressing the smearing phenomenon. The smearing is caused in the CCD type image pickup devices, especially in the frame transfer type image pickup device, because of the mode of operation and construction where the charge is transferred over the illuminated area. In the case of the interline image pickup devices, the smearing is caused because carriers which have been produced at a deep portion of a semiconductor due to light rays having relatively long wavelengths are accumulated in a charge transfer area. Furthermore, in the case of the MOS image pickup devices, the smearing occurs because the carriers which have been produced at a deep portion of a semiconductor due to light rays having relatively long wavelengths are accumulated on the drain side of a MOS switching transistor connected to each photosensor cell. In contrast to the above, in the case of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment, the smearing caused due to the mode of operation and structure can be substantially eliminated. Furthermore, the smearing does not substantially occur at all due to carriers produced and accumulated at a deep portion of a semiconductor in response to light rays having relatively long wavelengths. On the other hand, some people may be concerned about a phenomenon that electrons among electrons and holes produced in the emitter in the vicinity of the surface of the photosensor cell are accumulated. However, such a phenomenon cannot actually be a cause of the smearing because, in the case of the storage operation according the overall refresh mode, the emitter is grounded so that no electron is accumulated. Furthermore, in the case of the line refreshing operation adapted for ordinary television cameras, the vertical lines are grounded for refreshing during the horizontal blanking period prior to the readout of the stored voltages to the vertical lines, whereby the electrons which have been stored or accumulated at the emitter during one horizontal scanning period are almost flown out so that the smearing can be substantially eliminated. As described above, according to the photoelectric converter of this embodiment, because of the mode of operation and construction thereof, the smearing can only occur to a substantially negligible extent. This is one of the important advantages of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment. The operation for suppressing blooming phenomenon by controlling the emitter and collector potentials in the storage operation has been described and the operation can also be used to control the gamma γ characteristic. More specifically, during the storage operation, the emitter or collector potential is temporarily maintained at a predetermined negative potential so that, of the carriers stored in the base, the holes which are stored in excess of the number of carriers giving the negative potential are caused to flow into the emitter or collector. Then, the relationship between the stored voltage and the quantity of incident light becomes such that when the quantity of incident light is small, it is close to the characteristic of γ 1, of a silicon crystal and that when the quantity of incident light is large, the gamma γ becomes less than one. Therefore, the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present invention can have the characteristic of γ 0.45 which is demanded by ordinary television cameras, according to the line segment approximation. When the above described operation is carried out once during the storage operation, two line segment approximation can be obtained. When the negative potential applied to the emitter or collector is changed twice, the three line segment approximation type gamma characteristic can be obtained. In the above example, the silicon substrate is used as a common collector but, as in the case of a bipolar transistor, a buried n In addition to the pulses shown in Figure 8 a , clock pulses for driving the vertical shift register 32 and the horizontal shift register 39 are required for practical operation. Figure 9 shows equivalent circuits for deriving the output signal. The capacitance Cv 80 represents the sum of the capacitance of the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 and the capacitance C Parameters used in the equivalent circuit are determined depending upon the size of a photoelectric converter actually used. Calculated waveforms of the output signals derived from the output terminal 47 are shown in Figure 10 based on the assumption that the capacitance C In Figure 10, the abscissa represents the time in microsecond from the instance when the MOS switching transistors 40,40 and 40 are turned on while the ordinate represents the output voltage V derived from the output terminal 47 when one volt is applied across the conductor capacitance Cv 80 of the vertical lines 38, 38 and 38 due to readout of the signal charge from each photosensor cell. The output signal waveform 85 is obtained when the load resistor R In the photoelectric converter of the type described above, a high output voltage is obtained because each photosensor cell has an amplification function so that the final stage amplifier can be made simple in construction as compared with the one in the conventional MOS type image pickup device. So far, only one bipolar transistor is used, but it is apparent that two bipolar transistors or any other suitable systems may be used. When a bipolar transistor is used as in the case of this embodiment, the problem of 1 f noise which is caused from the final stage MOS transistor amplifier of the conventional CCD image pickup device and which is readily noticeable on the image can be substantially solved. As a result, an image quality with a high S N ratio can be obtained by the photoelectric converter of this embodiment. As described above, in the photoelectric converter consisting of a plurality of photosensor cells in accordance with the present embodiment, the final stage amplifier may be very simple in construction so that, in addition to the photoelectric converter of the type in which only one amplifier is arranged at the final stage as shown in Figure 7, a plurality of amplifiers may be disposed in such a way that one picture frame may be divided into a plurality of sections which may be read out separately. Figure 11 shows an example of a multiple or divisional readout system in which a photoelectric converter is divided into three sections in the horizontal direction and three final stage amplifiers are disposed. The fundamental mode of operation of this embodiment is substantially the same as that of the embodiment described in detail with reference to Figure 7 and Figure 8 a , but in the embodiment shown in Figure 11, three equivalent horizontal shift resistors 100, 101 and 102 are provided. When a starting pulse is applied to a terminal 103 so as to apply it to the horizontal shift registers 100, 101 and 102, the outputs of the photosensor cells connected to the first column, the n 1 th column and the 2n 1 th column where n is an integer and in this embodiment, the number of 3n picture elements or pixels are arranged in each horizontal row. can be simultaneously read out. In the next step, the second, n 2 th and 2n 2 th columns are read out. According to this embodiment, when a time period required for reading out one horizontal line is fixed, the horizontal scanning frequency required becomes 1 3 as compared with the system in which only one final stage amplifier is disposed. As a result, the horizontal shift registers can be made simple in fabrication. Another great advantage of the multiple readout system is that even when the analog output signal from the photoelectric converter is converted into a digital signal and the digital signal is further processed, a high speed analog to digital converter need not be used. In the embodiment as shown in Figure 11, three equivalent horizontal shift registers are provided, but the same function can be accomplished with only one horizontal shift register as will be described below with reference to Figure 12. In Figure 12, among the members also contained in the embodiment of Figure 11, only horizontal switching MOS transistors and an intermediate portion of a final stage amplifier are shown because the other arrangements are substantially the same as those of the embodiment shown in Figure 11. In the embodiment shown in Figure 12, the output from one horizontal shift register 104 is applied to the gates of the switching MOS transistors of the first column, the n 1 th column and the 2n 1 th column so that these lines are simultaneously read out. In the next step, the second, the n 2 th and the 2n 2 th columns are simultaneously read out. According to this embodiment, the readout operation can be carried out with only one horizontal shift register even though the number of line connected to the gates of the switching MOS lines transistors is increased. In the embodiments as shown in Figures 11 and 12, three output amplifiers are provided, but the number of output amplifiers can be further increased as desired in view of the object. In Figures 11 and 12, the start pulses and the clock pulses to be applied to the horizontal and vertical shift registers are not shown and these pulses may be supplied from a clock pulse generator disposed on tile same chip or on another chip as is the case of the refreshing pulses. When the line refreshing operation or the frame refreshing operation is carried out in the multiple readout system of the type described above, the storage time of the photosensor cells of the n th column is slightly different from the storage time of the photosensor cells of the n 1 th column. As a result, slight discontinuity of the dark current component and the signal component can occur and can be observed on the picture image. However, in practice, the quantity of discontinuity is extremely small so that no problem arises. Even when discontinuity exceeds a tolerable level, an external circuit may be used so as to compensate it in a simple manner by using a conventional compensation technique which comprises generating a sawtooth waveform, subtracting it from the dark current component and multiplying or dividing it with the signal component. When the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment is used to pick up a color image, a stripe or mosaic filter may be integrally formed over the chip of the photoelectric converter or a separate filter may be bonded to the photoelectric converter so that the color signals may be obtained. For instance, when an R G B stripe filter is used, the R, G and B signals can be derived from separate final stage amplifiers as shown in an embodiment of Figure 13. As is the case of Figure 12, Figure 13 only shows a horizontal shift register and its associated parts and other arrangements are substantially similar to those shown in Figures 7 and 11. It is assumed that the first column is provided with an R color filter. the second column is provided with a G color filter the third column is provided with a B color filter the fourth column is provided again with an R filter and so on. As shown in Figure 13, the vertical lines in the first, fourth, seventh and so on columns are connected to an output line 110 so that the R signal may be derived therefrom. The vertical lines of the second, fifth, eighth and so on columns are connected to an output line 111 so as to derive the G signal. In like manner, the third, sixth, nineth and so on columns are connected to an output line 112 so that the B signal may be derived. These output lines 110, 111 and 112 are connected to refreshing MOS transistors and final stage amplifiers such as emitter follower provided on the same chip, whereby respective color signals can be derived. Referring next to Figure 14, the fundamental construction and the mode of operation of another embodiment of the photosensor cell in accordance with the present invention which can be used to construct a photoelectric converter will be described. Figure 15 a shows a whole circuit of a photoelectric converter comprising a plurality of photosensor cell of the type as shown in Figure 14, some of which are shown by equivalent circuits thereof. According to the photosensor cell shown in Figure 14, the readout operation and the line refreshing operation can be carried out simultaneously with the same scanning pulse. While the embodiment shown in Figure 1 has only one MOS capacitor electrode 9 connected to the horizontal line 10, in the embodiment shown in Figure 14, a MOS capacitor electrode 120 is also connected to the horizontal line 10 and extends into a photosensor cell provided contiguously below the photosensor cell in question. As a result, one photosensor cell is of a double capacitor construction. The embodiment shown in Figure 14 is further different from the embodiment shown in Figure 1 in that the emitters 7 and 7 of the vertically adjacent photosensor cells are respectively and alternately connected to the conductor 8 and 121 forming two layers. Figure 14 may appear to show only one vertical line, but that two lines are disposed and isolated from each other with an insulating layer therebetween. That is, the emitter 7 is connected through a contact hole 19 to the conductor 8 while the emitter 7 is connected through a contact hole 19 to the conductor 121. These arrangements will become more apparent when reference is made to an equivalent circuit shown in Figure 15 a . More particularly, a MOS capacitor 150 connected to the base of a photosensor cell 152 is connected to a horizontal line 31 and a MOS capacitor 151 is connected to a horizontal line 31 . A MOS capacitor 150 of a photosensor cell 152 which is disposed immediately below the photosensor cell 152 is also connected to the horizontal line 31 . The emitter of the photosensor cell 152 is connected to a vertical line 38 and the emitter of the photosensor cell 152 is connected to a vertical line 138. The emitter of a photosensor cell 152 is connected again to the vertical line 38. In this manner, the emitters of the photosensor cells in one column are alternately connected to the vertical lines 38 and 138. In addition to the differences concerning the unit photosensor cells described above, the equivalent circuit shown in FIgure 15 a is further different from the circuit of the image pickup device shown in Figure 7 in that there are provided a switching MOS transistor 148 for refreshing the vertical line 138 in addition to a switching MOS transistor 48 for refreshing the vertical line 38, and a switching MOS transistor 140 for selecting the vertical line 138 in addition to a switching MOS transistor 40 for selecting the vertical line 38. Moreover, an additional output amplifier system is provided. The output system is such that the switching MOS transistors 40 and 140 for selecting the vertical lines are connected to the switching MOS transistors 48 and 148, respectively. As shown in Figure 15 b , it is possible to use only one output amplifier by using an additional switching MOS transistor 240 for horizontal scanning. Figure 15 b shows only the vertical line selection system and the output amplifier system corresponding to those in Figure 15 a . With the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 14 and the photoelectric converter as shown in Figure 15 a , the following operation is possible. That is, during the horizontal blanking period as in a television receiver after the output signals have been read out from the photosensor cells connected to the horizontal line 31, the output pulse is issued from the vertical shift register 32 and applied to the horizontal line 31 , whereby the photosensor cell 152 for which the read out operation has been finished is refreshed through the MOS capacitor 151. At this time, the switching MOS transistor 48 is turned on and the vertical line 38 is grounded. The output from the photosensor cell 152 is delivered to the vertical line 138 through the MOS capacitor 150 connected to the horizontal line 31 . As a matter of course, at this stage, the switching MOS transistor 148 is turned off so that the vertical line 138 is floated. As described above, in response to a single vertical scanning pulse, the refreshing operation of a photosensor cell whose output has been read out and the readout operation of a photosensor cell of the next line can be carried out simultaneously. Here, the refreshing voltage is desirably different from the readout voltage because in the readout operation, a bias voltage is added to the readout voltage in order to facilitate the high speed readout operation. Therefore, as shown in Figure 14, the area of the MOS capacitor electrode 9 is made different from the area of the MOS capacitor 120 so that even when the same voltage is applied to them, different voltages are applied to the bases of the respective photosensor cells. That is, the area of the refreshing MOS capacitor is made smaller than the area of the readout MOS capacitor. When the photosensor cells are refreshed line by line as in this case instead of simultaneous refreshing of all photosensor cells, the collector may be composed of the n type substrate as shown in Figure 1 b , but sometimes it is preferable to provide a separate collector for each horizontal line. When the collector is composed of the substrate, it is apparent that the collectors of all the photosensor cells form a common region so that a certain bias voltage is applied to the collector in the storage and readout operations. As previously described, it is of course possible that even when a bias voltage is applied to the collectors, the refreshing operation of a floating base can be carried out through an emitter. In this case, however, there is accompanied a drawback that simultaneously with the refreshing operation of the base region, a waste current flows between the emitter and the collector of the photosensor cell to which the refreshing pulse has been applied so that the power consumption is increased. In order to overcome this drawback, instead of connecting in common the collectors of all the photosensor cells, the collectors of the photosensor cells on each horizontal line are connected in common but the collectors on the different horizontal lines are made isolated from each other. More specifically, as an explanation in connection with a structure as shown in Figure 1, the substrate is made one of p type, and buried n or n When the collectors are isolated from each other between horizontal lines, by grounding the collectors on each horizontal line after the readout operation and prior to the refreshing operation, no current flows between the emitter and collector so that the power consumption is prevented from being increased. When the charge storage operation in response to the incident light signal is started after the refreshing operation, a predetermined bias voltage is applied to the collector regions again. As shown in the equivalent circuit of Figure 15 a , the outputs from respective horizontal lines are alternately derived from the output terminals 47 and 147. As described hereinbefore, when the photoelectric converter is designed and constructed as shown in Figure 15 b , the outputs can be obtained from one amplifier. As described above, according to the embodiment as shown in Figures 14 and 15, the line refreshing operation becomes possible so that the photoelectric converter can be used for such applications as television cameras and the like. As a further embodiment of the present invention, photosensor cell may be provided with a plurality of emitters or each emitter is provided with a plurality of contacts so that a plurality of outputs may be derived from a single photosensor cell. This is possible because each photosensor cell of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present invention has an amplification ability so that even if a plurality of conductor capacitances are connected to each sensor cell in order to derive a plurality of outputs from each photosensor cell, it is possible to read out each output without causing any attenuation of the storage voltage Vp produced in each photosensor cell. When a photoelectric converter is so designed and constructed as to obtain a plurality of outputs from each photosensor cell as described above, various advantages can be obtained from the standpoint of the signal processing and the countermeasure against noise. Next, a method for fabricating a photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment will be described. Figure 16 shows the steps for fabricating the photoelectric converter by a selected epitaxial growth process as disclosed by N. Endo et al. in Novel Device Isolation Technology with Selected Epitaxial Growth Tech. Dig. of 1982 IEDM, pp 241 244 . A contact n As the substrate 1, one having a uniformly controlled impurity concentration and oxygen concentration is used. That is, a uniform crystal wafer in which the carrier life is sufficiently long is used and such wafer can be obtained by, for example, the MCZ process. An oxide film is formed to a thickness of the order of 1 micron over the surface of the substrate by the wet oxidation process. Thus, oxidation is conducted in the atmosphere of H Over the oxide film is formed an SiO The impurity concentration is preferably set to a value of the order of 10 Ordinarily available HCl gas normally contains a large amount of water so that an oxide film is always formed over the surface of the silicon substrate 1 and consequently high quality epitaxial growth cannot be expected at all when such HCl gas is used. When HCl gas containing a large amount of water is filled into a cylinder, it reacts with the materials of the cylinder so that it contains a large amount of heavy metals, mainly iron. As a result, an epitaxial growth layer contaminated with heavy metals tends to be formed. The epitaxial growth layer which is used in a photosensor cell preferably has a minimum amount of dark current component so that the contamination with heavy metals should be reduced to a minimum. An ultra pure grade of SiH A wafer supporting member disposed in a reaction chamber preferably consists of ultra high purity molten sapphire with a lower vapor pressure. A process for directly heating wafers by lamps is best adapted for obtaining a high quality epitaxial growth layer because starting material gas or gases can be preheated in a relatively simple manner and because a uniform temperature distribution can be obtained over the surface of a wafer even in the presence of a large volume of gas flow so that thermal stresses hardly occur. When ultraviolet rays are irradiated at the surfaces of a wafer during the epitaxial growth, the quality of the epitaxial growth layer can be further improved. Amorphous silicon is deposited on the side surfaces of the SiO The thickness and the impurity concentration of the p region 6 are determined in consideration of the following factors. In order to increase the sensitivity, it is preferable that the impurity concentration of the p region 6 is decreased so that the capacitance Cbe is reduced. The capacitance Cbe is roughly given by Next, a thermally oxidized film 3 of a thickness ranging from several to tens of nanometers tens to hundreds of A angstrom is formed on the surface of the silicon substrate 1 by a steam oxidation process using H It is preferable that the water content in NH Next, an insulating film 305 consisting of PSG is deposited in a similar manner as described above by using a gaseous CVD system and then contact holes are opened to the refreshing and readout pulse application electrode polysilicon film by a masking step followed by an etching step. Thereafter, a metal such as Al, Al Si or Al Cu Si is deposited by a vacuum deposition process or a sputtering process, or Al is deposited by a plasma CVD process using CH In order to reduce damage caused by the plasma CVD process, to increase the breakdown voltge of a formed Si In this case, the use of a light CVD process is superior. A metal electrode 12 consisting of Al or Al Si is formed over the back surface of the substrate 1. Various techniques may be employed in order to fabricate the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment and only one example has been described with reference to Figure 16. One of the very important factors of the photoelectric converter in accordance with the present embodiment is how the leakage currents between the p region 6 and the n For the solid phase growth of amorphous silicon, in addition to the furnace growth process as described above, there may be effectively employed a rapid annealing process in which while the silicon substrate is maintained at a predetermined temperature, heating by a flash lamp or an infrared lamp is conducted for a few seconds to tens of seconds. If the rapid annealing process is used, polysilicon may be deposited over the side surfaces of the SiO After the silicon deposited on the side surfaces of the SiO When the leakage current at the interface between the SiO So far, an example is described with reference to Figure 16 wherein the selected epitaxial growth is conducted after the isolation region 4 has been formed, it is to be understood however that the U groove isolation technique may also be employed in which a required high resistance n The photoelectric converter of the present invention, according to the above described embodiments, is characterized in that a bipolar transistor whose major portion is a floated base region adjacent to a semiconductor wafer surface is formed in a region surrounded by an isolation region composed of an insulating material and the potential of the floated base region is controlled by an electrode disposed at a part of the base region through a thin insulating film whereby light information is converted into an electrical signal. An emitter region with a high impurity concentration is disposed at a part of the base region and is connected to a MOS transistor which is operated in response to a horizontal scanning pulse. The above mentioned electrode disposed at a portion of the floated base region through a thin insulating film is connected to a horizontal line. The collector disposed within the wafer may be composed of a substrate or a high impurity concentration region buried in a high resistance substrate having an opposite conductivity type, depending on the purpose. A pulse voltage applied for reading out the signal is substantially higher than a pulse voltage applied for refreshing the floated base region. Actually, a pulse train consisting of pulses having two different voltage levels may be used. Moreover, as described in conjunction with the structure of a double capacitor, the capacitance Co of a readout MOS capacitor electrode can be made higher than the capacitance Cox of a refreshing MOS capacitor electrode. The photoexcited carriers are stored in the floated base region which has been reverse biased in response to an applied refreshing pulse so that the signal corresponding to the light signal is stored. In the signal readout operation, a readout pulse voltage is applied in such a way that the base emitter junction is deeply forward biased so that the signal can be read out at a high speed. The above described structure and the mode of operation are characteristic features of the embodiments. As far as such features as described above are retained, the photoelectric converter may have any structure and the present invention is of course not limited to the above described embodiments. For instance, the photoelectric converter embodying the present invention may have the same structure as described above, but the conduction types of various regions and films may be reversed. In this case, the polarities of voltages applied are also reversed. That is, in an embodiment wherein the conductivity types are reversed, the base region is of n type. More particularly, the base region contains As or P impurities. When the surface of a region containing As or P is oxidized, As or P is piled up on the side of silicon at the interface between silicon and SiO In the case where the base is of p type, an ordinarily used impurity is boron. When the surface of a p region containing boron is thermally oxidized, boron penetrates into an oxide film so that the boron concentration in the silicon adjacent to the interface between the silicon and SiO Next, a preferred embodiment of the photoelectric converter of the present invention which operates in a transient refreshing mode allowing a high speed refreshing operation will be described. Referring first to Figure 8 b , the changes in the emitter, base and collector potential levels will be explained when a transient refreshing operation, a storage operation and a readout operation are cyclically conducted in the order named. The voltage levels at various points are externally viewed so that some of them do not correspond with the internal potential levels. For the sake of simplicity of explanation, the diffusion potential between an emitter and a base is not shown. Accordingly, when the emitter potential and the base potential are shown as having the same level in Figure 8 b , a diffusion potential given by the following expression exists between the emitter and the base In Figure 8 b , states The mode of operation comprising the above mentioned series of steps will be described with further reference to the timing diagram as shown in Figure 8 a . A positive voltage or refreshing voltage V When light is intercepted under the condition that the base is reverse biased with respect to the emitter, holes are generated and stored in the base region so that, as shown in the state Next, when the readout potential V When the base potential is forward biased with respect to the emitter potential as described above, the electrons are injected into the base from the emitter so that the emitter potential gradually rises to a positive potential. When no light is intercepted at all, the emitter potential is of the order of about 50 100 mV when the forward bias is set at 0.5 0.6 V and the read pulse width is 1 2 µs. The emitter potential is designated by V When the readout potential V In the state The above described phenomenon is unique in the transient refreshing mode and, in the case of the complete refreshing mode, a long refreshing time is used before the base potential becomes zero so that the above described problem will not occur at all. Next, a first method which uses the transient refreshing mode allowing a high speed refreshing operation and which will not cause such defects as described above will be described below. A cause of the above defects is that the base potential is too negative, that is, excessively reverse biased with respect to the emitter potential in the state Figure 18 a is a sectional view of a photosensor cell which can solve the above described problem Figure 18 b shows an equivalent circuit thereo and Figure 18 c shows the internal potential. The photosensor cell as shown in Figure 18 a is different from the one shown in Figure 1 only in that it includes a buried p As is clear from Figure 18 b , the p The potential with respect to the interior electrons is shown in Figure 18 c and the potential distribution along a vertical section not including buried p In order to maintain the n Therefore, in the state An impurity boron in general which is injected in order to form the p The above described photosensor cell as an embodiment is different from the fundamental photosensor cell as shown in Figure 1 only in that the buried p Although there is a difference in that the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 18 has a vertical structure while the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 19 has a horizontal structure, the equivalent circuit of the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 19 is substantially the same as that shown in Figure 18 b . Furthermore, the mode of operation of the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 19 is quite the same as that of the photosensor cell as described with reference to Figure 18. In Figure 19, for the sake of explanation, the p Another method which uses a transient refreshing mode capable of a high speed refreshing operation and which can substantially eliminate the above described problem or defect will be described. The problem or defect is caused because when a refreshing pulse and a readout pulse are applied, the same potential value produced by the positive and negative capacitance division at the leading and trailing edges of the pulse is applied to the base region. It follows therefore that the above described problem or defect can be solved by clamping a negative voltage applied to the base region at a predetermined value by some method. Figure 20 shows an embodiment capable of accomplishing the above object. Figure 20 a shows a section of a sensor cell and Figure 20 b shows an equivalent circuit thereof. The photoelectric converter as shown in Figure 20 a is different from the photosensor cell with the fundamental structure as shown in Figure 1 in that there are further provided a p In the case of the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 20, the negative potential 202 of the base region in a state corresponding to the state The clamping potential Vc is determined at a suitable value depending upon the refreshing speed in the transient refreshing mode, a positive bias in the readout mode, the dynamic range of the light signals and so on. The clamping potential Vc is set at a predetermined suitable value which can be obtained by controlling the impurity concentration in the n In the case of the above described photosensor cell with the clamping p n junction diode, the problem or defect caused in the transient refreshing mode can be reliably solved. As a result, an image pickup device capable of high speed refreshing can be provided. In the embodiment as shown in Figure 20, the MOS capacitor electrode 9, the conductor line 8 from the emitter 7, the conductor line 253 interconnecting the base 6 and the n Next, a third method which also uses the transient refreshing mode capable of a high speed refreshing operation and which can substantially eliminate the above described problem or defect will be described. According to the third method, the base potential 210 at the state In Figure 21 is shown an embodiment of the present invention adapted to carry out the third method. Figure 21 a is a sectional view of a photosensor cell and Figure 21 b shows an equivalent circuit thereof. The emitter region 7 of the fundamental photosensor cell as shown in Figure 1 and an n Figure 21 b shows the equivalent circuit of the photosensor cell as shown in Figure 21 a . The MOS transistor 273 comprising the drain region 7 which is in common with the emitter of the photosensor cell, the gate 271 and the source region 270 is connected through the conductor line 272 to the base region 6 of the photosensor cell. The drain region is in common with the emitter region and the gate 271 is connected to a conductor line 274 so that a pulse may be applied from the exterior. In the refreshing operation, the storage operation and the readout operation, it is assumed that a negative potential is applied through a conductor line 274 to the gate 271 of the MOS transistor 273 in such a way that the channel of the MOS transistor 273 is sufficiently driven into the nonconduction state. In the case of the state As described above, the base potential can be brought to zero in the state In the case of the embodiment shown in Figure 21, the MOS capacitor electrode 9, the conductor line interconnecting the source region of the MOS transistor 273 and the base region 6 of the photosensor cell, the gate 271 of the MOS transistor and the conductor line 8 connected to the emitter region 7 of the photosensor cell are all shown on the same plane for the sake of explanation and the light receiving apertures or windows are depicted to occupy an extremely small area, but it is to be understood that in a practical device the above described component parts may be suitably arranged in the same photosensor cell upon consideration of the shape of light receiving apertures or windows, convenience in the arrangement of conductors and so on. So far, the refreshing operation and the readout operation have been described as being carried out by the electrode 9 on the p base region 6 through Cox, but the refreshing operation can also be carried out by the nMOS. In the latter case, a readout pulse is applied to the electrode 9. After the readout operation of one horizontal line has been completed, the refreshing operation of the sensor cells along this horizontal line is carried out as follows. That is, during a blanking period prior to the readout from the sensor cells along the next horizontal line, a positive potential is applied to the electrode 271 so that the nMOS is turned on and concurrently a negative voltage Vp is applied to the vertical lines 38, 38 and so on. The p base region 6 is charged to Vp V A completely independent nMOS may be provided for the refreshing of the p base. In this case, the n As in the case of the embodiment as drown in Figure 21 a , the n After the readout from the sensor cells along the horizontal line 275 has been completed by applying a readout pulse to the horizontal line 275, a readout pulse is applied to the next horizontal line 276 for readout therealong Then, the readout pulse is also applied to the gate of the refresh nMOS transistor 273 of each sensor cell along the horizontal line 275 and a negative voltage Vp is applied to the line 281. As a result, while the readout from the sensor cells along the horizontal line 275 is carried out, the refreshing is accomplished. Next, a further embodiment of the present invention which can substantially overcome the above described drawbacks and which is capable of a high speed refreshing operation will be described. According to the refresh operation described heretofore, a pulse is applied through the MOS capacitor to the base so as to bring the base potential to a positive potential. More specifically, when the base potential is maintained at a positive potential, the base collector junction diode Dbc is turned on so that holes flow out of the base and consequently the transfer refresh operation is carried out in such a way that the base potential decreases toward zero potential or the complete refreshing operation is carried out in such a way that the base potential is completely grounded. In the case of the p base, a predetermined quantity of holes have disappeared from the base so that when the refreshing pulse is removed, the p base is negatively charged at a predetermined negative voltage. In contrast thereto, in the embodiments to be described in detail below, the refreshing operation is carried out based on a concept that a MOS transistor is added to each photosensor cell so that a predetermined negative potential is given by removing the holes which have been produced in response to the incident light and stored. An embodiment will be described in more detail with reference to Figures 23 a , b and c . Figure 23 a is a plan view of a two dimensional arrangement of unit photosensor cells Figure 23 b is a sectional view taken along the line A A of Figure 23 a and Figure 23 c is a circuit diagram of a two dimensional arrangement of unit photosensor cells. The unit photosensor cell as shown in Figure 23 a is substantially the same in construction as the one shown in Figure 1 in that there are provided an emitter region 7, a vertical readout line 8, a contact 19 between the emitter region 7 and the vertical readout line 8, a region 6 and a MOS capacitor 9. However, while the MOS capacitor electrode 9 of the embodiment shown in Figure 1 is used in common in the refreshing and readout operations, the MOS capacitor electrode 9 is used for the readout operation as will be described below, in this embodiment. This embodiment is different from the embodiment shown in Figure 1 in that a refreshing p channel MOS transistor is added to each photosensor cell. More particularly, as best shown in Figure 23 b , there is provided a p channel MOS transistor consisting of a p region 6, a p region 220 formed by a diffusion or ion injection process and spaced apart from a p region 6 of the photosensor cell, an n doped channel region 225 formed between the p region 6 and the p region 220, an insulating region 3 consisting of an oxide such as SiO As shown in Figure 23 a , the gate 221 of the p channel MOS transistor is connected to the MOS capacitor electrode 9 and is applied with a pulse through a horizontal line 10. The p region 220 serving as the drain of the p channel MOS transistor is connected through a contact 222 to a horizontal line 223. Therefore, the horizontal line 10, the horizontal line 223 and the vertical line 8 should be formed by a multi layer wiring technique and insulated from each other through insulating films. Figure 23 c shows that the p channel MOS transistor having a source region which is in common with the base region of the photosensor cell and a gate region which is commonly connected to the conductor 10 is added to each photosensor cell. Next, the mode of the embodiment with the above described construction will be described. Prior to the storage operation in which the photoexcited holes are stored in the base, the base region is negatively biased as indicated by the state As best shown in Figure 23 c , when a readout pulse is applied to the conductor or horizontal line 10, the information is read out from the photosensor cell 224. At this time, the same readout pulse is simultaneously applied to the gate of the p channel MOS transistor connected to a photosensor cell 224 . However, the readout pulse applied is a positive pulse so that the p channel MOS transistor is not turned on thereby and consequently the photosensor cell 224 is not influenced at all. The potential of the base of each photosensor cell varies depending upon the intensity of light as indicated by the state Next, a photoelectric converter which has a sensitivity higher than that of the first embodiment as shown in Figure 1 will be described with reference to Figure 24. Figure 24 a is a partial plan view of a two dimensional arangement of unit photosensor cells each having a plurality of control electrodes Figure 24 b is a sectional view taken along the line A A of Figure 24 a Figure 24 c shows a circuit diagram of the unit photosensor cell and Figure 24 d shows an example of the internal potential distribution along the section taken along the line B B of Figure 24 b . In the case of the first embodiment shown in Figure 1, the high resistance n The embodiment shown in Figure 24 has a thyristor structure because a first phototransistor comprising the n In the case of the CCD type image sensor cell or the MOS type image sensor cell, electrons, of photoexcited carriers, are stored in a main electrode and in the case of the first embodiment shown in Figure 1, holes are stored in the control electrode region. In this way, of photo excited electron hole pairs, only one type of carriers are used, but in the case of the embodiment shown in Figure 24, there are provided two control electrode regions so that holes are stored in the control electrode region of a first phototransistor while electrons, in the control electrode region of a second phototransistor. Since both types of carriers produced in response to the incident light are utilized, a high degree of sensitivity can be attained as will be described in detail below. The unit photosensor cell shown in Figure 24 is different from the one shown in Figure 1 in that a refreshing p MOS transistor is added to each photosensor cell. More particularly, the p MOS transistor comprising a region 6 constituting the base of the first phototransistor, a channel doped n region 353, a p region 354, a gate insulating film 3 and a gate electrode 352, is provided and is turned on in the case of the refreshing operation so that holes stored in the p region 6 are drawn. A negative power supply is connected through a conductor 355 and a contact hole 359 to the p region 354 constituting the drain region of the p MOS transistor. The gate electrode 352 is extended over the p region 6 so that a MOS capacitor is provided. Therefore, as is the case of the first embodiment shown in Figure 1, the potential of the p region 6 is varied in the case of the readout operation. The n The n Figure 24 c shows a circuit diagram of the photosensor cell of the type just described above. A transistor 360 represents the first phototransistor comprising the n Referring next to Figure 25 showing a circuit diagram of a two dimensional arrangement of photosensor cells and Figure 26 showing pulse waveforms and internal potentials, the mode of operation of the unit photosensor cell with the above described construction will be described. Figure 25 shows a 2x2 arrangement of the unit sensor cells shown in Figure 24 c , but a vertical shift register, a horizontal shift register, an output amplifier, a vertical line refreshing MOS transistor, a vertical line selection MOS transistor and so on which are additionally provided like those shown in Figure 7 are not shown. As described hereinbefore, the MOS capacitor 363 and the gate of the p MOS transistor 362 are connected in common and are applied with a pulse through the horizontal line 358, but it is to be understood that separate lines may be provided so as to apply separate pulses to the MOS capacitor 363 and to the gate of the p MOS transistor 362. A pulse waveform A as shown in Figure 26 is applied to the horizontal line 357 while a pulse waveform B is applied to the horizontal line 358. A waveform C represents the potential of the vertical line 8 and shows that until a time t Referring particularly to Figure 26 showing waveforms and internal potential diagrams, the mode of operation will be described from moment to moment. It is assumed that the region 350 constituting the emitter of the second phototransistor is connected to a positive power supply through the electrode 12 on the back surface of the substrate. In Figure 26, the time period from t The readout operation is completed at time t At time t Thereafter, when the voltage applied to the n From time t The internal potential diagram shown at time t At time t At time t Since the first emitter region is in the floating state, when the first base region is forward biased, the electrons are injected from the emitter region into the first base region so that the potential of the first emitter region varies and consequently the signal voltage stored in the first base region is read out. The above described operation is substantially the same as that described above with reference to Figure 1. However, there occurs a phenomenon that in the case of the embodiment shown in Figure 24, the electrons which flow out of the first emitter region are stored in the second base region and, if the electrons are too much, a thyristor action partially occurs to cause a further increase in gain. This phenomenon, however, causes the nonlineary of the output signal and, therefore, each bias condition is so determined that the thyristor action will not occur. It is preferable, however, that the gain is increased by the thyristor action when the photoelectric converter is applied to usage wherein the linearity is not especially needed. At time t As described above, in the embodiment shown in Figure 24, there is employed a system in which both carriers, i.e., photo excited holes and electrons, are stored in a plurality of control electrode regions and then read out respectively while obtaining an increased gain. Therefore the photoelectric converter with a high degree of sensitivty can be provided. In Figure 27 is shown a further embodiment having a plurality of control electrode regions as is the case of the embodiment shown in Figure 24. In the embodiment shown in Figure 24, the base region of a first phototransistor is refreshed by means of a p MOS transistor, but in the embodiment shown in Figure 27, the base region of a second phototransistor is refreshed by means of an n MOS transistor. Figure 27 a shows a partial plan view of a two dimensional arrangement of unit photosensor cells Figure 27 b is a sectional view taken along the line A A of Figure 27 a and Figure 27 c is a diagram of an equivalent circuit of the unit sensor cell. In Figure 27, an n MOS transistor 376 is formed in a crystal silicon layer which is obtained through recrystallization by the laser beam annealing process or the electron beam annealing process from amorphous silicon formed by a sputtering process or from polysilicon by a CVD process on a cell isolation region 4. The n MOS transistor comprises an n The MOS capacitor comprising the electrode 9 for applying a pulse to the base region 6 of a first phototransistor for the refreshing and readout operations, the insulating film 3 and the base region 6, the n The p region 366 constituting the channel region of the n MOS transistor is connected to the n In Figure 27 c is shown an equivalent circuit of the unit photosensor cell. A first phototransistor 372 comprises the n Figure 28 shows a 2x2 arrangement of unit photosensor cells as shown in Figure 27. A vertical shift register, a horizontal shift register, an output amplifier, a vertical line refreshing MOS transistor and a vertical line selection MOS transistor all of which are essentially the same as those described with reference to Figure 7 are disposed around the 2x2 arrangement, but they are not shown in Figure 28. The mode of operation of the unit sensor cell as well as the mode of operation of the photoelectric converter as shown in Figure 28 will be described in detail below with reference to Figure 29 showing pulse waveforms and internal potential diagrams. Pulses as shown in a waveform A in Figure 29 are applied to the horizontal line 370 and pulses in a waveform B in Figure 29 are applied to the horizontal line 10. A waveform C represents the potential of the vertical line 8. As shown by the waveform C, until time t The mode of operation will be sequentially described from moment to moment with reference to the pulse waveforms and the internal potential diagrams. In Figure 29, the time period from t When this negative pulse is applied, the negative pulse is also applied to the n MOS transistor 376 because the MOS capacitor 375 and the gate of the nMOS transistor 376 are connected in common, but the n MOS transistor remains turned off so that the operation is not adversely affected. At time t At time t At time t As described before, the time period from t The internal potential diagram at time t At time t As described above, the embodiment described with reference to Figures 27, 28 and 29 is different from the embodiment as shown in Figure 24 in that the operation substantially the same as that described with reference to Figure 1 can be carried out without the fear of undesirable thyristor action in the readout operation. Yet, a photoelectric converter with a high degree of sensitivity can be provided as is the case of the embodiment described before with reference to Figure 24. In Figure 30 is shown a diagram of an equivalent circuit of a unit photosensor cell embodying the present invention in which a refreshing p MOS transistor of the type as shown in Figure 24 is added to the base region of a first phototransistor while a refreshing n MOS transistor is added to the base region of a second phototransistor. The embodiment as shown in Figure 30 has a structure substantially identical to a combination of the structures shown in the plan and sectional views in Figures 24 and 27 so that a plan view and a sectional view of the embodiment of Figure 30 is not shown. In Figure 31 is shown a 2x2 two dimensional arrangement of a photoelectric converter, but its peripheral devices of the types described before are not shown. Figure 32 shows waveforms applied to respective lines and internal potential diagrams. In Figure 32, a waveform A is applied through a horizontal line 377 to the gate region of a p MOS transistor 381 and a MOS capacitor 382 a waveform B is applied through a horizontal line 378 to the gate region of an n MOS transistor 385 and a MOS capacitor 386 and a waveform C represents the potential of a vertical line 8 as is the case of the embodiment described hereinbefore. Further, it is assumed that the vertical line 379 is connected to a negative power supply and the vertical line 380 a positive power supply, respectively. In the embodiment as shown in Figures 30 and 31, the readout operation carried out during the time period from t Therefore, while the waveform C shows that the emitter region of the first phototransistor 383 is grounded, but it is not necessary in the refreshing operation to ground the emitter region of the first phototransistor. In other words, the emitter of the first phototransistor 383 may be maintained in any desired state. In the cases of the embodiments described above with reference to Figures 24, 27 and 30, by using a photosensor cell of a thyristor structure comprising two main electrode regions of opposite conduction types and two control electrode regions disposed adjacent to the respective main electrode regions and having conductive types respectively opposite to those of the main electrode regions, of photo excited electron hole pairs, holes are stored in a first control electrode region while electrons are stored in a second control electrode region. Therefore, these embodiments have a significant feature as compared with a photoelectric converter of the type in which, of photo excited carriers, only holes or electrons are utilized. Thus, a photoelectric converter with a high .. degree of sensitivity is provided. Hereinabove, photoelectric converters of the type capable of amplifying the photo excited carriers within themselves have been described with reference to some embodiments. The structures described so far are those in which the photo excited carriers are generated within a single crystal, but it is to be understood that, as will be described in detail below, there may be provided a structure in which a readout transistor is disposed in a single crystal, an amorphous or a polycrystalline layer is provided on the surface of the single crystal, and a transistor only for receiving light is provided by the use of the amorphous or polycrystalline layer at a position corresponding to and above the readout transistor. A typical embodiment of such photoelectric converter as described above is shown in Figure 33. Figure 33 a is an internal plan view of a unit photosensor cell showing a substantial part thereof including a readout transistor disposed within a single crystal Figure 33 b is a sectional view taken along the line A A of Figure 33 a and Figure 33 c shows a two dimensional arrangement of such cells. The plan view shown in Figure 33 a is essentially the same as that shown in Figure 1 a except that a p In Figure 33 c is shown an equivalent circuit of the two dimensional arrangement of photosensor cells as shown in Figures 33 a and b . Next, the mode of operation of the embodiment shown in Figure 33 will be described. The fundamental mode of operation is substantially the same as that described above so that it will be described in a simple manner. First, the refreshing operation will be described. A negative pulse is applied through the conductor 407 to the MOS capacitor 410 so that the junction between the p In Figure 33, the p region 6 constituting the base of the readout transistor 413 and the n region 403 constituting the base of the light receiving transistor 412 are both floated. It is to be understood that, as already described, a structure in which a MOS transistor having the p region 6 as a main electrode is provided, a structure in which a MOS transistor having the n region 403 as a main electrode or a combination of these, can be adopted in such a structure where a readout transistor and a light receiving transistor are isolated from each other. This is described below with reference to Figures 34, 35 and 36. Figure 34 shows an embodiment in which a p MOS transistor 414 is provided in order to refresh the p base of a readout transistor 413. A negative voltage is applied to one main electrode of the transistor 414. A negative voltage is applied to the gate of the refreshing p MOS transistor 414 for operation. Therefore, both the p MOS transistor 414 and the readout transistor 413 can be driven in common by the horizontal line 10. In an embodiment shown in Figure 35, an n region 403 constituting the base of a light receiving transistor 412 is used as a main electrode of an n MOS transistor 415 for the refreshing operation. In the refreshing operation of the n MOS transistor 415, a positive pulse voltage is applied to the gate thereof so that the gate can be driven in common with the light receiving transistor 412 by the horizontal line 407. A predetermined positive voltage which is higher than the positive potential applied to an electrode 409 is applied to the other main electrode of the n MOS transistor 415. In Figure 36, refreshing MOS transistors 416 and 417 are respectively connected to the p region 6 constituting the base of the readout transistor 413 and to the n region 403 constituting the base of the light receiving transistor 412. The mode of operation of the embodiment as shown in Figure 36 is substantially the same as that described hereinbefore. The above embodiment in which transistors composed by using amorphous silicon has an advantage that because the effective light receiving area can be made larger and because amorphous silicon has a high band gap of 1.7 1.8 eV, the sensitivity to light rays with short wavelengths becomes high. The conductors which are buried or embedded in the interior are made of the above described metals having a high melting point or silicides thereof. A PSG film, a SiO As described above, the photoelectric converter of the present invention is basically characterized in that photo excited carriers are stored in a floated base region which is a control electrode region so that it may be called Base Store Image Sensor abbreviated to BASIS . Particularly, the photoelectric converters of the type as shown in Figures 24, 27 and 30 have two control electrode regions in which carriers are stored, respectively, so that they may be called Double Base Store Image Sensors, abbreviated to D.BASIS . As described in detail with reference to various embodiments, a photoelectric converter embodying the present invention can have many advantageous features as follows. One picture element is constituted by one transistor so that a high density of picture elements can be easily attained. Because of its structure, blooming and smearing can be reduced to a minimum and a high sensitivity can also be attained. A considerably wide dynamic range can be secured. Because of a self amplification capability a high signal voltage can be produced without depending upon the conductor capacitance. A low noise characteristic is attained, and peripheral circuits can be made simple in construction. Thus, the industrial value of the photoelectric converter embodying the present can be very high, for instance, as a high quality solid state image sensor in the future. In addition to the solid state image sensors, a photoelectric converter embodying the present invention may be applied to image input devices such as facsimiles, work stations, digital copiers, word processors and the like OCRs bar code readers and photoelectric conversion type object detecting devices used in automatic focusing systems of cameras, video cameras and 8 mm movie cameras.