# The use of dispersing aids in processing aid compositions for vinyl chloride polymer, the production of said compositions and vinyl chloride compositions containing them.

## Abstract
The dispersability of processing aids for vinyl chloride po lymers is improved by the use of a dispersing aid comprising at least one homopolymer and or copolymer containing at least 50 by weight of units of one or more of the following mono mers C₁ C₈ alkyl acrylates, C₁ C₉ cycloalkyl acrylates, ethylene, propylene, vinyl acetate and butadiene. Preferred processing aid compositions therefor comprise blends of a copolymer s of methyl methacrylate and, in an amount of less than 50 by weight of the copolymer, C₁ C₄ alkyl acrylate s and b at least one such dispersing aid ho mopolymer or copolymer wherein the ratio of a b is 99.5 0.5 to 90 10. The blend may be prepared by intimately mixing com ponents a and b as latex polymer and subsequently coiso lated.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. The use of at least one homopolymer and or copolymer containing at least 50 by weight of units of one or more of the following monomers C1 C8 alkyl acrylates, C1 C9 cycloalkyl acrylates, ethylene, propylene, vinyl acetate and butadiene as a dispersion aid in a processing aid composition useful in vinyl chloride polymer compositions. 2. A processing aid composition comprising a blend of a at least one copolymer of methyl methacrylate and, in an amount of less than 50 by weight of the copolymer, C1 C4 alkyl acrylate s and b at least one homopolymer and or copolymer containing at least 509 by weight of units of one or more of the following monomers C1 C8 alkyl acrylates, C1 C9 cycloalkvl acrylates, ethylene, propylene, vinyl acetate and butadiene wherein the weight ratio of a b is 99.5 0.5 to 90 10. 3. Composition as claimed in claim 2 wherein the weight ratio of a b is 99 1 to 95 5. 4. Composition as claimed in claim 2 or 3 wherein component b comprises at least one of the following polymers poly butyl acrylate , poly ethyl acrylate , polybutadiene, poly ethyl acrylate styrene , poly butyl acrylate styrene , poly butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate , poly ethyl acrylate butyl methacrylate , poly butadiene styrene , poly butyl acrylate styrene methylmethacrylate with the proviso that the methacrylate and or styrene content is less than 50 by weight in each case or poly vinyl acetate or poly ethylene vinyl acetate . 5. Composition as claimed in any of claims 2 to 4 wherein the molecular weight of component b is 15,000 to 100,000 weight average. 6. A composition as claimed in claim 4 or 5 wherein component b comprises poly butyl acrylate , poly ethyl acrylate or poly butyl acrylate styrene . 7. A composition as claimed in any of claims 2 to 6 wherein component b is crosslinked and or graft linked preferably to a maximum content of 5 by eight crosslinker or graft linker units. 8. A composition as claimed in any of claims 2 to 7 wherein component a comprises poly ethyl acrylate . 9. A process for preparing a compositIon as claimed in any of claims 2 to 8 comprising intimately mixing components a and b . 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein component b is formed as a latex by emulsion polymerisation in the presence of component a as a latex polymer. 11. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein separate emulsions of components a and b are prepared and then intimately mixed. 12. A process as claimed in claim 10 or 11 including the further step of coisolating the mixed components, preferably by spray drying or coagulation. 13. A vinyl chloride polymer composition comprising i polymer s and or copolymer s vinyl chloride containing at most 502 by weight of other Monomer units and ii a processing aid composition claimed in any of claims 2 to 8, the weight ratio of i to ii preferably being 9Q 10 to 99.5 0.5. 14. A polymer composition as claimed in claim 13 wherein the processing aid composition has been prepared by a process as claimed in any of claims 9 to 12. 15. A polymer composition as claimed in claim 13 or 4 wherein component i comprises poly vinyl chloride .

## Description
THE USE OF DISPERSING AIDS IN PROCESSING AID COMPOSITIONSFOR VINYL CHLORIDE POLYMER, THE PRODUCTION OF SAIDCOMPOSITIONS AND VINYL CHLORIDE COMPOSITIONS CONTAININGTHEM. This invention is concerned with the use of dispersing aids in processing aid compositions for vinyl chloride polymer, the production of said compositions and vinyl chloride compositions containing them. Polymeric processing aids are widely used in the production of poly vinyl chloride articles, in order to improve the processing performance during extrusion, injection and or thermoforming. The importance of dispersing the processing aids well through the vinyl chloride polymer is known. Improvements in dispersion of such processing aids in poly vinyl chloride have been achieved by the use of high friction conditions or temperature variation during processing. Also, it is known that lumps of processing aid polymer particles which do not break down during processing can form gels in the final product and these are visible and detract from optimum processability. In spite of the wide recognition of this dispersion problem, no adequate generally usable solution has been available. We have now found certain dispersion aid compositions which, when used to modify the processing aids, have a reduced tendency to form gel colonies and so have desirable dispersability properties. In its broadest aspect this invention therefore is directed to this use. Processing aid compositions of this invention preferably comprise blends of a copolymer s of methyl methacrylate with less than 50 by weight of C1 C alkyl acrylate s and b homopolymer s or copolymer s containing at least 50 hy weight of one or more of the monomers C1 to C 8 alkyl acrylates, C6 to Cg cycloalkyl acrylates, ethylene, propylene, vinyl acetate, butadiene in a weight ratio a b of 99.5 0.5 to 90 10 preferably 99 1 to 95 5. Consequently the invention also provides compositions comprising vinyl chloride polymer containing the processing aid compositions of the invention and processes for making the processing aid compositions by intimately mixing components a and b in the indicated weight ratios. The processing aid polymers a which are used in this invention may be single stage polymers, or, multiple stage polymers, and the Examples of such processing aids are more fully described in British Patents 1 511 683, 981 116 andU.S. Patent 3 833 686. The component b , is preferably at least one of the following polymers poly butyl acrylate , poly ethyl acrylate , polybutadiene, poly ethyl acrylate styrene , poly butyl acrylate styrene , poly butyl acrylate methyl methacrylate , poly ethyl acrylate butyl methacrylate , poly butadiene styrene , poly butyl acrylate styrene methylmethacrylate with the proviso that the methacrylate and or styrene content is less than 50 by weight in each case. Other examples are poly vinyl acetate and poly ethylene vinyl acetate . The molecular weight range of suitable dispersing aids is wide, for example 15,000 to 100,000 weight average, but depends on the particular polymer used. For example, with poly butyl acrylate , poly ethyl acrylate , and poly butyl acrylate styrene , a preferred molecular weight range is as stated above. The dispersing aid may even be cross linked and or graft linked preferably to a maximum content of 5 by weight crosslinker or graft linker units.A dispersability rating test for indicating the suitability of a particular polymer for use as a dispersing aid is given later in this specification. The dispersing aid is intimately blended with the processing aid polymer to form the compositions of the invention. Any method of making a very thorough, intimate mixture of the dispersing aid and usually powder processing aid polymer is suitable. However simple admixture of processing aid powder and dispersing aid will usually be insufficient unless intimate, thorough mixing is achieved.Another method of forming the compositions of the invention is to emulsion polymerise the dispersing aids in the presence of the latex of the processing aid polymer formed by emulsion polymerisation. Our presently preferred method is to separately prepare emulsions of processing aid polymer and dispersing aid, mix the emulsions, and then coisolate the two polymers by spray drying or coagulation. Spray drying is described in detail in Spray Drying, AnIntroduction to Principles, Operational Practices, andApplications, K. Masters, CRC Press, Cleveland, Ohio 1972 .Coagulation comprises salting out the stabilizing surface active agent from the emulsion by slowly adding the polymer emulsion for example twice its volume of electrolyte solution containing any one or more of a number of salts and or acids such as NaCl, KC1, Caul2, Na2SO4, MgSO4, acetic acid, oxalic acid, HC1, HNO3,H2SO4 and H3PO4. The polymer may then be separated by filtration and washed several times with fresh water to remove excess electrolyte, and then dried. The processing aid and dispersing aid can also be isolated from the emulsion by evaporation or freeze drying.When following the preferred method, it is important that the two emulsions be compatible. For instance, the soaps should be similar or the same, i.e., of the same ionic species and of similar water solubility or HLB hydrophile lipophile balance . The dispersing aid is generally a single stage polymer but it may be a multiple stage polymer in which case the overall monomer composition and the outermost shell stage must both conform to the composition parameters specified above even if some of the early inner stages, for example the core, do not. The dispersing aid may intentionally be separately prepared as distinct particles and then blended with the processing aid polymer. The dispersing aid polymer is not to be confused with any ungrafted polymer which unintentionally forms during preparation of multiple stage processing aid polymers, since such unintentional polymer does not function to reduce gel formation and is thus not within the scope of this invention. The most preferred weight ratio of processing aid polymer to dispersing aid in the compositions of the invention is 98 2 to about 96 4, and the optimum weight ratio is about 97 3. The vinyl chloride polymers which may be modified using the compositions of the invention include polymers and copolymers of vinyl chloride containing at most 50 by weight of other monomer units, for example vinyl acetate, ethyl vinyl acetate. The weight ratio of vinyl chloride polymer to processing aid composition may be the same as used with conventional processing aids. Normally this ratio is 90 10 to 99 5 0.5 more usually 95 5 to 99 1 by weight. Other standard additives may be used to make up the formulation of the vinyl chloride polymer composition. For example, impact modifiers, colorants, pigments, plasticizers, stabilizers, and lubricants may be included. After formulating by standard techniques, the formulation may be melt processed, also by standard techniques, to form a substantially gel free compound in which the processing aid is extremely well dispersed. Some preferred embodiments of the invention are given in the following Examples. As comparative tests there are also given details of the performance of conventional processing aids and details of tests in which the candidate as dispersing aid fails the dispersability rating test previously mentioned and detailed below. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise indicated. Candidate dispersing aid polymers of varying compositions are prepared in emulsion using the following ingredients and procedure.Charges Parts A DI water commat pH 1 10 using NaOH 397.5B sodium stearate or SLS 0.26Bl sodium stearate or SLS 1.49 monomer s 212.6C t dodecyl mercaptan as mercaptan chain transfer agent or BDA as difunctional monomer VariedD KPS initiator 1.1 water 63.3Theory Solids 32.4 Procedure Charge the water A to a one litre four neck flask fitted with a stirrer, thermometer, nitrogen inlet and a condenser. The water is heated to 650C while sweeping with nitrogen. At 650C the first emulsifier charge B is added and allowed to stir for 10 minutes. The KPS initiator D is added followed by 15 of the monomer s C and the temperatures maintained at 650C until an exotherm is observed. At this point the second emulsifier charge B1 is added followed by the gradual addition of the balance of the monomers C over a one hour period. After completion of the monomer feed, the batch is maintained at 650C for 15 minutes then cooled to room temperature. A PVC masterbatch formulation, without dispersing aid, of the following ingredients PVC K 58 Resin 100 Parts Sulfur containing organic tin stabilizer 2.0 Parts Stearic Acid 1.0 Part Plasticizer DOP 5.0 Parts Lubricating Processing Aid Paraloid K 175 3.0 Parts is prepared in a high intensity Prodex Henschel blender.The subject processing aid composition powders are added at 108g masterbatch 2g processing aid to samples of the masterbatch and the powder is again mixed homogenously to form the final compound. The powder compound is milled on a two rollSchwabenthan Mill having two chrome polished rolls. The dimensions of the rolls are 35 cms length 30 cms working length and 15 cms diameter. The two roll mill is run at a temperature of 1900C and a speed of 26 20 rpm front rear rolls . Once the film has formed on the front roll and after the standard practice of obtaining a homogenous film, the mill is stopped and a horizontal strip, approximately 4 5 cms wide, is cut at the full length of the roll, taken from the roll and stretched immediately to twice its length easing a guide of the appropriate length. The strip is held in the stretched position until cool. The milled stretched strips from each compound are rated for the amount of undispersed processing aid particles. This is done by comparing gel colonies with reference standards using a rating system of 0 to 100 units, with 0 being equal to a strip having no undispersed particles and 100 being equal to a strip having a large number of undispersed particles. A dispersibility rating of between 40 and 50 units is termed as very good, whereas anything above 65 70 units has an unacceptable number of undispersed gels. In each series of dispersion evaluations, at least one sample of PVC containing a processing aid without a dispersion aid additive is run as a control. In order to determine whether a given candidate dispersing aid should be regarded as effective to substant,ally reduce gel colonies of processing aid in rigid thermoplastic matrix polymer formulations, and is therefore within the scope of this invention, the maximum amount of dispersing aid, a to b ratio of 98 2, is compared with the control and a reduction of at least 30 units is required Preferred dispersing aids give a reduction of 45 units and most preferred a reduction of 50 units, ideally 60 units when compared to a processing aid in rigid thermopLastic giving a dispersion rating of 100 worst . In the following Examples, the following abbreviations are used Methyl methacrylate MMA Butyl methacrylate BMA Styrene St Methyl acrylate MA Ethyl acrylate EA Butyl acrylate BA Putadlene Bd Unless otherweise Abdicated, all of the candidate dispersing aids in the Examples pass the test set out above. EXAMPLES 1 TO 8 In these Examples, reported in Table I, rios low molecular wit dispersion aids are prepared in emulsion using 4Ó t D5M n the above described procedure. The molecular weights of the dispersion aids ranged from 19,000 to 38,000, depending on monomer used. The emulsion is mixed with an emulsion of a methyl methacrylate ethylacrylate polymer. The improved processing aids containing the dispersion aids were isolated by spray drying. The dispersion aid is incorporated at a concentration of 3 based on processing aid composition. The ratio of improved processing aid composition a and b to PVC is 2 to 100.A control is run without the dispersing aid Example 8 . TABLE I DISPERSION RATING DISPERSING AID 3 based on PVCEXAMPLE POLYMER b OF RATING CHANGE relative to control 100 units 1 MMA Comparative 90 10 2 EA 65 35 3 St Comparative 85 15 4 BA 55 45 5 BA St 55 45 40 60 6 MMA EA 90 10 Comparative 75 25 7 Bd St 70 30 60 40 8 Processing Aid Control Comparative 100 EXAMPLES 9 TO 13 In these Examples, the relationship between polymer compositions and molecular weight is explored. A series of low and high molecular weight dispersing ads was prepared by using 4 and 0 t dodecyl mercaptan chain transfer agent respectively. The molecular weights of the low molecular weight dispersion aids ranged from 19,000 to 38,000, whereas the high molecular weight dispersion aids ranged from 137,000 to 3,890,000.Dispersion data was obtained in the procedure of the previous Examples and are presented inTable II. Poly BA and Poly EA are effective dispersing aids over the range of molecular weights studied. The effectiveness of the dispersing aids seems to diminish very slightly with decreasing molecular weight but not to the point that they are no longer regarded as effective dispersing aids. Similarly, Poly MMA, Poly St do not appear to be effective dispersing aids for processing aids at hiqh or low molecular weights. TABLE II EFFECT OF DISPERSING AID MOLECUtA WEIGflT ON THE DISPERSION OF THE PROCESSING AID MODIFIER IN PVC 4 t DDM No RSt EXAMPLE POLYMER 3 ADDITIVE ON MODIFIER COMPOSITION RATING CHANGE RATING CHANGE 9 i4MA Comparative 90 10 95 10 EA 65 35 50 11 St Comparative 85 15 90 0 12 BA 55 45 50 50 13 Processing Aid Control Comparative 100 100 EXAMPLES 14 TO 19 The dispersing aids from Examples 2 and 5 were examined for the effect of the additive level on the dispersion of the processing aid in PVC. The sample evaluated in Example 14 showed 44 improvement compared to Example 15 control in processing aid dispersion at only 1.5 additive level which is equivalent to only 0.15 on total PVC. In other words it is equivalent to only 0.15 of dispersing aid a for every one part of processing aid b added to 100 parts of PVC e.g. if 3 phr of b is added this will equal 0.45 of dispersing aid a for 100 parts of PVC. The results are reported inTable III. The samples evaluated in Examples 17 and 18 show improvement in processing aid dispersion at 2.5 to 5.0 additive level even when mixed with a processing aid Example 19 which has unacceptably high dispersion rating, being above 100. The dispersing aid is mixed with the processing aid in emulsion form in every case in Table III except Example 15 control which is a processing aid without any dispersing aid. Example 16 shows the addition of p MMA as a dispersing aid mixed in emulsion form to a processing aid. TABLE III EFFECT OF ADDITIVE LEVEL ON THE DISPERSION OF THE PROCESSING AID IN PVC DISPERSING AID DISPERSION RATINGEXAMPLE COMPOSITION ADD. AT 1.5 Ú 1 ADD. AT 3t RATING CHANGE2 RATING CHANGE2 14 Ba St 50 44.0 40 56 15 Processing Aid Control Comparative 90 90 16 MMA Comparative 90 90 ADD. AT 2.5 Ú ADD. AT 5 RATING CHANGE2 RATING CHANGE 17 EA 85 15 55 45 18 Ba St 90 10 65 35 19 Processing Aid Control Comparative 100 100FOOT NOTES the percentages refer to the addition of the dispersing aid to the processing aid, the percentage change is always compared to the control i.e Examples 15 or 19.