# Sputtered semiconducting films of catenated phosphorus material.

## Abstract
A process for the production of a semiconducting catenated phosphorus film characterised in that it comprises sputtering a thin film thereof onto a substrate is disclosed. The present process may be applied to the production of semiconductor devices. Referring to the accompanying illustrative drawing, a sputtered film 22 may be used in a sandwich configuration on a glass substrate 24 with a metallic lock contact 26 and metal dot top contacts 28. For example, amorphous and polycrystalline films of KP15 may be formed by RF diode sputtering targets of KP15 and excess phosphorus in an argon phase. Substrate temperatures up to 280 300 DEG C provide amorphous films. Higher temperatures provide microcrystalline or polycristalline films. These films have high resistance and may be used as the insulator in MIS devices employing III V semiconductors. Co sputtering with nickel increases the conductivity of the films from approximately 10 1 0 ohm cm 1 to 10 2 ohm cm 1 only reduces the optical gap by 0.2 eV and reduces the activation energy from 0.8 eV to 0.2 eV the nickel content varying from 5 15 . Substrates include glass, silicon, tantalum, stainless steel, gallium phosphide and gallium arsenide, and glass metallized with metals, such as titanium, nickel and aluminium. Double diode electrical characteristics have been observed in devices formed on metallized glass substrates having co sputterred thereon thin film polyphosphides and nickel with nickel and titanium top contacts. The present invention represents an advance over the prior art.