# Process for preparing 2 azetidinones.

## Abstract
A compound having the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a compound having the formulaEMI28.1 which comprises heating an anion having the formulaEMI28.2 with a cation having the formulaEMI28.3 or a cation having the formulaEMI28.4 with the proviso that if the cation used does not contain a hydroxy substituent, a nucleophile having the formula R6 OH must also be present, wherein R1 is an acyl group derived from a carboxylic acid R2 and R3 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle, or one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is azido, halomethyl, dihalomethyl, trihalomethyl, alkoxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, CH2X1, carboxyl, S X2, O X2,EMI29.1 EMI29.2 wherein X1 is azido, amino, hydroxy, alkanoylamino, phenylcarbonylamino, substituted phenyl carbonylamino, alkylsulfonyl oxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, substituted phenyl, cyano,EMI29.3 S X2 or O X2 X2 is alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl, alkanoyl, phenylalkanoyl, substituted phenyl alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heteroarylcarbonyl one of X3 andX4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group X5 is formyl, alkanoyl phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano A is CH CH , CH2 n , CH2 O , CH2 NH or CH2 S CH2 n is 0, 1 or 2 and X6 and X7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, or X6 is hydrogen and X7 is amino, substituted amino, alkanoylamino or alkoxy, or X6 and X7 when taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle R4 and R5 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, alkoxy, phnyloxy, phenylcarbonyl oxy, alkanoyloxy, alkanoylamino or phenylcarbonylramino R6 is hydrogen, alkyl, or phenyl and n is O or 1, m is O or 1 and the sum of n m is 0 or 1 wherein the terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms the term cycloalkyl refers to groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms the term substituted alkyl refers to alkyl groups substituted with one or more azido, amino, halogen, hydroxy, carboxyl, cyano, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, alkoxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle oxy, mercapto, alkylthio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl groups the terms alkanoyl , alkenyl and alkynyl refer to groups having 2 to 10 carbon atoms the term substituted phenyl refers to a phenyl group substituted with 1, 2 or 3 amino halogen, hydroxyl, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or carboxyl groups the term substituted amino refers to a group having the formula NY1Y2 wherein Y1 is hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl or substituted phenyl alkyl and Y2 is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl, hydroxy, cyano, alkoxy, phenylalkoxy or amino and the term a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle refers to pyridinyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thienyl, 1,2,3 triazolyl, 1,2,4 triazolyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazoyl, triazinyl, tetrazolyl, azetinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, imidazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydropyrimidinyl, dihydrothiazolyl or hexahydroazepinyl or one of the above groups substituted with one or more oxo, halogen, hydroxy, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkylsulfonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl 2 furylidineamino, benzylideneamino or substituted alkyl, wherein the alkyl group has 1 to 4 carbon atoms, groups. 2. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI31.1 3. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI31.2 4. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI32.1 5. A process in accordance with claim 3 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI32.2 6. A process in accordance with claim 3 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI32.3 7. A process in accordance with claim 4 wherein the anion and cation are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI32.4 8. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is methyl. 9. A process in accordance with claim 2 wherein one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is methyl. 10. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein R2 and R3 are each hydrogen. 11. A process in accordance with claim 2 wherein R2 and R3 are each hydrogen. 12. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other isEMI33.1 13. A process in accordance with claim 2 wherein one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other isEMI33.2 14. A process in accordance with claim 2 wherein R1 is t butyloxycarbonyl or phenylmethoxy carbonyl. 15. A process in accordance with claim 1 wherein the anion is in the form of a basic salt of a compound having the formulaEMI33.3 and the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of a compound having the formulaEMI33.4 EMI34.1 16. A process in accordance with claim 15 wherein the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of a compound having the formulaEMI34.2 17. A process in accordance with claim 15 wherien the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of 8 hydroxyquinoline. 18. A process in accordance with claim 15 wherein the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of a compound having the formulaEMI34.3 19. A process in accordance with claim 18 wherein the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of pyridine. 20. A process in accordance with claim 18 wherein the cation is in the form of an acid addition salt of pyridine and the nucleophile used is ethanol.

## Description
PROCESS FOR PREPARING 2 AZETIDINONES A compound having the formulaEMI1.1 can be prepared by heating together an anion having the formulaEMI1.2 and a cation having the formulaEMI1.3 provided, however, that if in formula III n and m are each 0 or in formula IV p is O, a nucleophile having the formula V R6 OH must also be present. As used in the above formulas, and throughout the specification, the symbols are as defined below R1 is an acyl group derived from a carboxylic acid R2 and R3 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle referred to hereinafter as Rx or one of R2 and R3 is hydrogen and the other is azido, halomethyl, dihalomethyl, trihalomethyl, alkoxycarbonyl, 2 phenylethenyl, 2 phenylethynyl, carboxyl, CH2X1 wherein X1 is azido, amino NH2 , hydroxy, alkanoylamino, phenylcarbonylamino, substituted phenyl carbonyl amino, alkylsulfonyloxy, phenylsulfonyloxy, substituted phenyl sulfonyloxy, phenyl, 0 substituted phenyl, cyano, A 8 NX6X7, S X2, or O X2 wherein A, X2, X6 and X7 are as hereinafter defined , S X2 or O X2 whereinX2 is alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl, alkanoyl, phenylalkanoyl, substituted phenyl alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, or heteroarylcarbonyl ,EMI2.1 wherein one of X3 and X4 is hydrogen and the other is hydrogen or alkyl, or X3 and X4 when taken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a cycloalkyl group and X5 is formyl, alkanoyl, phenylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl carbonyl, phenylalkylcarbonyl, substituted phenyl alkylcarbonyl, carboxyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonylEMI3.1 substituted amino carbonyl, or cyano CEN , orEMI3.2 wherein A is CH CH , CH2 n , CH2 O , CH2 NH , or CH2 S CH2 , n is 0, 1 or 2, andX6 and X7 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl or substituted phenyl, orX6 is hydrogen and X7 is amino, substituted amino, alkanoylamino or alkoxy, or X6 and X7 when taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 4, 5, 6 or 7 membered heterocycle R4 and R5 are the same or different and each is hydrogen, alkyl, substituted alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, halogen, alkoxy, phenyloxy, phenylcarbonyl oxy, alkanoyloxy, alkanoylamino, or phenylcarbonyl amino R6 is hydrogen, alkyl, or phenyl n is 0 or 1, m is 0 or 1 and the sum of n m is 0 or 1 and p is 0 or 1. Listed below are definitions of various terms used to describe the ss lactams of this invention.These definitions apply to the terms as they are used throughout the specification unless they are otherwise limited in specific instances either individually or as part of a larger group. The terms alkyl and alkoxy refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 1 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl refer to cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl groups having 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 carbon atoms. The term substituted alkyl11 refers to alkyl groups substituted with one, or more, azido, amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxy, carboxyl, cyano, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, alkanoyloxy, alkoxy, phenyloxy, substituted phenyl oxy, Rx oxy, mercapto, alkylthio, phenylthio, substituted phenyl thio, alkylsulfinyl, or alkylsulfonyl groups. The terms alkanoyl , 1,alkenyl11, and alkynyl refer to both straight and branched chain groups. Those groups having 2 to 10 carbon atoms are preferred. The terms halogen and halo refer to fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine. The term protected carboxyl refers to a carboxyl group which has been esterified with a conventional acid protecting group. These groups are well known in the art see, for example, UnitedStates patent 4,144,333, issued March 13, 1979.The preferred protected carboxyl groups are benzyl, benzhydryl, t butyl, and.p nitrobenzyl esters. The term substituted phenyl refers to a phenyl group substituted with 1, 2 or 3 amino NH2 , halogen, hydroxyl, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms , or carboxyl groups. The term substituted amino refers to a group having the formula NY1Y2 wherein Y1 is hydrogen, alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl or substituted phenyl alkyl, and is alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenylalkyl, substituted phenyl alkyl, hydroxy, cyano, alkoxy, phenylalkoxy, or amino NH2 . The expression a 4,5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle referred to as Rx refers to substituted and unsubstituted, aromatic and non aromatic groups containing one or more nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur atoms. Exemplary substituents are oxo 0 , halogen, hydroxy, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbons, alkylsulfonyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, 2 furfurylideneaminoEMI5.1 benzylideneimino and substituted alkyl groups wherein the alkyl group has 1 to 4 carbons . One type of 4,5,6 or 7 membered heterocycle is the heteroaryl group. The term heteroaryl refers to those 4,5,6 or 7 membered heterocycles which are aromatic.Exemplary heteroaryl groups are substituted and unsubstituted pyridinyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thienyl, 1,2,3, triazolyl, 1,2,4 triazolyl, imidazolyl, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, triazinyl, and tetrazolyl. Exemplary nonaromatic heterocycles i.e., fully or partially saturated heterocyclic groups are substituted and unsubstituted azetinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, imidazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydropyrimidinyl, dihyrothiazolyl and hexahydroazepinyl. Exemplary of the substituted 4,5,6 or 7 membered heterocycles are l alkyl 3 azetinyl, 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 alkylsulfonyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 benzylimino 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 alkyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 phenyl or substituted phenyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 benzyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 2 aminoethyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 amino 2 oxo limidazolidinyl, 3 alkoxycarbonyl amino 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 3 2 alkoxycarbonyl amino ethyl 2 oxo l imidazolidinyl, 2 oxo l pyrrolidinyl, 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl, 4 hydroxy 6methyl 2 pyrimidinyl, 2 oxo l hexahydroazepinyl, 2 oxo 3 pyrrolidinyl, 2 oxo 3 tetrahydrofuranyl, 2, 3 dioxo l piperazinyl, 2,5 dioxo l piperazinyl, 4 alkyl 2,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl, and 4 phenyl 2 ,3 dioxo l piperazinyl. The term acyl refers to all organic radicals derived from an organic acid i.e., a carboxylic acid by removal of the hydroxyl group. Certain acyl groups are, of course, preferred but this preference should not be viewed as a limitation of the scope of this invention. Exemplary acyl groups are those acyl groups which have been used in the past to acylate 6 lactam antibiotics including 6 aminopenicillanic acid and derivatives and 7 aminocephalosporanic acid and derivatives see, for example, Cephalosporins and Penicillins, edited by Flynn, Academic Press 1972 , GermanOffenlegungsschrift 2,716,677, publishedOctober 10, 1978, Belgian patent 867,994, published December 11, 1978, United States patent 4,152,432, issued May 1, 1979, UnitedStates patent 3,971,778, issued July 27, 1976,United States patent 4,172,199, issued October 23, 1979, and British patent 1,348,894, publishedMarch 27, 1974. The portions of these references describing various acyl groups are incorporated herein by reference. The following list of acyl groups is presented to further exemplify the term acyl it should not be regarded as limiting that term.Exemplary acyl groups are a Aliphatic groups having the formulaEMI7.1 wherein Ra is alkyl cycloalkyl alkoxy alkenyl cycloalkenyl cyclohexadienyl or alkyl or alkenyl substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, or cyanomethylthio groups. b Carbocyclic aromatic groups having the formulaEMI8.1 EMI9.1 wherein n is 9, 1, 2 or 3 Rb, Rc, and Rd each is independently hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or aminomethyl and Re is amino, hydroxyl, a carboxyl salt, protected carboxyl, formyloxy, a sulfo salt, a sulfoamino salt, azido, halogen, hydrazino, alkylhydrazino, phenylhydrazino, or alkylthio thioxomethyl thio. Preferred carbocyclic aromatic acyl groups include those having the formulaEMI9.2 EMI10.1 Re is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt andEMI10.2 Re is preferably a carboxyl salt or sulfo salt . c Heteroaromatic groups having the formulaEMI10.3 wherein n is 0, 1, 2.or 3 Re is as defined above and Rf is a substituted or unsubstituted 5 , 6 or 7 membered heterocyclic ring containing 1,2,3 or 4 preferably 1 or 2 nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur atoms. Exemplary heterocyclic rings are thienyl, furyl, pyrrolyl, pyridinyl, pyrazolyl, pyrazinyl, thiazolyl, pyrimidinyl, thiadiazolyl and tetrazolyl. Exemplary substituents are halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, amino, protected amino, cyano, trifluoromethyl, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, orEMI11.1 Preferred heteroaromatic acyl groups include those groups of the above formulas wherein Rf is 2 amino 4 thiazolyl, 2 amino 5halo 4 thiazolyl, 4 aminopyrimidin 2 y1, 5 amino 1,2,4 thiadiazol 3 yl, 2 thienyl, 2 furanyl, or 6 aminopyridin 2 yl. d t 4 Substituted 2,3 dioxo 1 piper azinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI11.2 wherein R is an aromatic group including g carbocyclic aromatics such as those of the formulaEMI11.3 and heteroaromatics as included within the definition of Rf and Rh is alkyl, substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups , arylmethyleneamino i.e., NPCH R wherein R is as defined above , arylcarbonylamino i.e.,EMI12.1 wherein R g is as defined above or alkylcarbonylamino. Preferred 4 substituted 2 ,3 dioxo 1 piperazinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups include those wherein Rh is ethyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. e Substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI12.2 wherein R is as defined above and R. is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkylaminocarbonyl, arylaminocarbonyl i.e.,EMI12.3 wherein Rg is as defined above or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, mercapto, alkylthio, aromatic group as defined by R , carboxyl g including salts thereof , amido, alkoxycarbonyl, phenylmethoxyc arbonyl, d iph enylme thoxycarb onyl, hydroxyalkoxyphosphinyl, dihydroxyphosphinyl, hydroxy phenylmethoxy phosphinyl, dialkoxyphosphinyl or tetrazolyl substituents . Preferred substituted oxyimino arylacetyl groups include those wherein Rg is 2 amino 4thiazolyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein R. is methyl, ethyl, carboxymethyl, l carboxy l methylethyl, 2,2,2 trifluoroethyl or 1 carboxycyclopropyl. f tAcylamino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI13.1 wherein Rg is as defined above and R. is jEMI13.2 amino, alkylamino, cyanoalkyl amino, amido, alkylamido, cyanoalkyl amido,EMI13.3 Preferred acylamino arylacetyl groups of the above formula include those groups whereinR. is amino or amido. Also preferred are 3 those groups wherein Rg is phenyl or 2 thienyl. g 3 Substituted 2 oxo 1 imidazoli dinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups having the formulaEMI14.1 wherein Rg is as defined above and Rk is hydrogen, alkylsulfonyl, arylmethyleneamino i.e., N CH R wherein R is as defined g g above ,EMI14.2 wherein Rm is hydrogen, alkyl or halogen substituted alkyl , aromatic group as defined by Rg above , alkyl or substituted alkyl wherein the alkyl group is substituted with one or more halogen, cyano, nitro, amino or mercapto groups . Preferred 3 substituted 2 oxo 1 imidazolidinyl carbonyl amino arylacetyl groups of the above formula include those wherein Rg is phenyl or 2 thienyl. Also preferred are those groups wherein Rk is hydrogen, methylsulfonyl, phenylmethyleneamino or 2 furylmethyleneamino. The terms salt and salts , when used to describe a 3 lactam, refer to basic salts formed with inorganic and organic bases. Such salts include ammonium salts, alkali metal salts like sodium and potassium salts, alkaline earth metal salts like the calcium and magnesium salts, salts with organic bases, e.g., dicyclohexylamine salt, benzathine, N methyl D glucamine, hydrabamine salts, salts with amino acids like arginine, lysine and the like. The nontoxic, pharmaceutically acceptable salts are preferred, although other salts are also useful, because this invention deals with the preparation of chemical intermediates, not final products to be used as medicines. Salts of an azetidinone l sulfonic acid are formed by reacting the free acid form of the sulfonate with one or more equivalents of an appropriate base providing the desired cation in water or in a solvent mixture containing water.The salt is isolated by removal of solvent in vacuo or, in the case of water, by lyophilization. The free acid of the sulfonate is formed by treating an azetidinone l sulfonic acid salt with an insoluble sulfonic acid such as a cation exchange resin in the hydrogen form e.g. a polystyrene sulfonic acid resin like Dowex 50 . Alternatively, salts may be formed by cation interchange. A salt of a ss lactam compound soluble in an organic solvent is combined with a salt containing the desired cation, also soluble in the same solvent system. The solvent system is chosen so that the formed salt is much less soluble than either of the added salts and thus precipitates from the medium and is collected. The terms salt and salts , when used to describe a quinoline compound or pyridine compound refer to acid addition salts formed with inorganic and organic acids. Illustrative salts are the hydrohalides especially the hydrochloride and hydrobromide , sulfate, nitrate, phosphate, tartrate, maleate, citrate, salicylate, methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, toluenesulfonate and the like. It has been found that a cation of formulaIII or IV, which contains a hydroxy substituent, will associate with the sulfonate anion of formulaII and then serve as a nucelophile and protic source for removal of the sulfonate group.Alternatively, an external nucleophile i.e., a compound of formula V can be used in conjunction with a cation of formula III or IV which does not contain a hydroxy substituent. This new methodology for the preparation of compounds of formula I affords a general synthesis for the preparation of monocyclic ss lactam antibiotics such as those mentioned above under the heading Background of the Invention . In one embodiment of this invention, both the anion of formula II and cation of formula III or IV are in the form of a salt having the formulaEMI16.1 or EMI17.1 A salt of formula VI or VII can be heated in an organic solvent e.g., ethanol, acetone, acetonitrile or others in which it has some solubility to yield the desired 2 azetidinone of formula I. In the case of a salts wherein the cationic portion does not contain a hydroxy group, the heating must be done in the presence of a nucleophile of formula V. In another embodiment of this invention, the anion of formula II is in the form of a salt of a compound having the formulaEMI17.2 and the cation of formula III or IV is in the form of a salt of a compound having the formulaEMI17.3 The salt of a compound of formula VIII can be dissolved in an organic solvent, combined with a salt of formula IX or X and heated to yield the desired 2 azetidinone of formula I. In those reactions wherein the salts of formulas IX and X do not contain a hydroxy group, the heating must be done in the presence of a nucleophile of formula V. A salt of formula VI or VII can be prepared using known methodology from t3 lactam compounds of formula VIII and salts thereof. The p lactam compounds of formula VIII exist in their most stable form as salts including inner salts . In dilute aqueous solution, they also exist as acids. The acid form, in an aqueous solution, can be obtained by passage of a corresponding salt through an ion exchange resin acid form . If the acid form of a compound of formulaVIII is used as a precursor to a compound of formula VI or VII, a compound of formula IX or X is first added to a solution of the acid in water containing a miscible organic solvent e.q., acetone or acetonitrile , which upon removal of the solvent mixture yields the corresponding salt. A salt of formula VI or VII can also be prepared from salts of compounds of formula VIII using the cation interchange methodology described above under the description of the terms salt and salts . The following examples are specific embodiments of this invention. Example 1 3S trans 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone. Method IA 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 500 mg, 0.9 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of water and acetonitrile.The solution was passed through an AGMP 50 ion exchange resin column H form, 7 ml, 1.7 meq ml eluting with water. The eluate was run into a flask containing 8 hydroxyquinoline 131 mg, 0.9 mmol . Acetonitrile was removed from the resulting solution under reduced pressure at 350C and the remaining aqueous solution was lyophilized yielding a solid. Trituration with ether and drying in vacuo afforded the desired product as a yellow powder 398 mg , melting point 61 68 C. Analysis Calc d. for C21H21N307S 0 .7H20 472.17 C, 53.42 H, 4.78 N, 8.90 S, 6.79Found C, 53.42 H, 4.48 N, 8.98 S, 6.68B 3S trans 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone A solution of 3S trans 2 oxo 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidine sulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt 150 mg, 0.326 mmol in acetonitrile 10 ml was brought rapidly to reflux by lowering the reaction vessel into a preheated oil bath. The mixture was refluxed for a total of 9 minutes during which time a precipitate formed.After cooling to room temperature, the mixture was filtered and solvent was.removed from the filtrate in vacuo. The resulting residue was partially dissolved in a small amount of acetonitrile and the addition of ethyl acetate caused further precipitation. After decanting the supernatant, the procedure was repeated on the solid. The remaining solid was triturated with ethyl acetate and decanted. The supernatants were filtered through Celite, combined, and solvent was removed under reduced pressure yielding an oil 84 mg . The crude product was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 2g, Mallinckrodt SilicAR CC 4 .Elution with 5 acetonitrile 95 ethyl acetate afforded the desired product 56 mg .After crystallization from ether m.p. 100 101 C. Anal. Calc d for C12Hl4N203 C,61.52 H,6.02 N,11.96 Found C,61.52 H,5.88 N,12.00IR CH2C12 1770 cm 3 lactam C O NMR CD3CH 6 1.35 d, J 3.0, 6.0 Hz, 3H 3.7 dq, J 2.5, 6.0 Hz, lH , 4.2 dd, J 2.5, 8.0 Hz, 1H , 5.15 5,2H , 7.4 5,5H . Method II Following the procedure of Method I, partA, but utilizing 4 hydroxyquinoline in place of 8 hydroxyquinoline, yielded 3S trans 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidinesulfonic acid, 4 hydroxyquinolinium salt as a colorless solid after lyophilization , melting point 58 660C.Analysis Calc d. for C21H2lN307S MW 459.47 C, 54.89 H, 4.69 N, 9.14 S, 6.98Found C, 54.81 H, 4.81 .N, 9.24 S, 6.34This salt 46 mg was heated at reflux in acetonitrile 2 ml for 4 hours. Formation of the title compound was verified by thin layer chromatography Merck silica gel 60F, 3 1 1 butanol acetic acid water . Method III Following the procedure of Method I, partA, but utilizing 5 hydroxyquinoline in place of 8 hydroxyquinoline, yielded 3S trans 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 5 hydroxyquinolium salt, melting point 55 640C.Analysis Calc d. for C21H2lN307S 0.55H2O 469.44 C, 53.73 H, 4.75 N, 8.95Found C, 53.73 H, 4.59 N, 9.18This salt 115 mg was dissolved in dry acetonitrile 5 ml and the resulting solution was heated at reflux for 0.5 hours. After cooling, solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in an ethyl acetate 6 ml water 3 ml mixture.After addition of magnesium sulfate 68 mg and sodium bicarbonate 63 mg , the mixture was shaken.The organic layer was separated, washed with water 3 ml , and dried magnesium sulfate . Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was dissolved in acetonitrile, and the insolubles were removed by filtration. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was chromatographed on silica gel Mallinckrodt SilicAr CC 7 . Elution with ethyl acetate yielded 3S trans 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 27 mg . Method IVA 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, pyridinium salt Following the procedure of Method I, partA, but utilizing pyridine in place of 8 hydroxyquinoline, yielded 3S trans 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, pyridinium salt as a colorless solid after lyophilization , melting point 56 640C.Analysis Calc d. for C16H17N3O6 MW 379.99 C, 50.65 H, 4.52 N, 11.08 S, 8.45Found C, 50.33 H, 4.55 N, 10.80 S, 8.09B 3S trans 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidinesulfonic acid, pyridinium salt 190 mg, 0.5 mmol was dissolved in dry acetonitrile 10 ml , phenol 47 mg, 0.5 mmol was added, and the mixture was refluxed for 4 hours. Solvent was removed in vacuo, the residue was dissolved in an ethyl acetate water mixture and shaken after addition of magnesium sulfate 136 mg and sodium bicarbonate 126 mg .The ethyl acetate layer was separated, washed with water, and dried magnesium sulfate . Solvent was removed in vacuo, and the residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel MallinckrodtSilicAr CC 7 . Elution with ethyl acetate yielded 3S trans 2 oxo 3 f phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 24 mg . Method V 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidinesulfonic acid, pyridinium salt 393 mg, 0.1 mmol see Method IVA was dissolved in absolute ethanol 20 ml and refluxed for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and ethanol was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel Mallinckrodt SilicAr CC 7 . Elution with ethyl acetate yielded 3S trans 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone as an oil 152 mg . Method VI 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt 230 mg, 0.5 mmol seeMethod IA was dissolved in absolute ethanol 10 ml and refluxed for 4 hours. Ethanol was removed in vacuo yielding a residue which was triturated with ethyl acetate 5 x 10 ml . From the combined extract, solvent was removed in vacuo affording a residue which was chromatographed on silica gel Mallinckrodt CC 7 . Elution with ethyl acetate yielded 3S trans 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 98 mg . Method VII 3S trans 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl l azetidinesul fonic acid, 5 hydroxyquinolinium salt 230 mg, 0.5 mmol seeMethod III was treated as described in Method VI to yield the desired 3S trans 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 4 methyl 2 azetidinone 87 mg . Example 2 3S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone Method IA 3S 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyguinolinium salt From 3S 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt 600 mg, 1.13 mmol the desired product was obtained as a yellow powder 467 mg following the procedure described in Example 1A, method I, partA.B 3S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone 3S 2 Oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt 150 mg, 0.337 mmol was added to acetonitrile 10 ml and rapidly heated to reflux in a preheated oil bath. After refluxing for a total of 18 minutes, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite, and solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was extracted with an acetonitrile ethyl acetate mixture and the extract chromatographed on a silica gel column Mallinckrodt SilicAR CC 7 . The desired product 31 mg was eluted with a 5 acetonitrile 95 ethyl acetate mixture, m.p. 163 164 C. Anal. calc d for CllH12N2 3 C,59.97 H,5.50 N,12.72 N.12.72 Found C,60.47 H,5.43 N,12.7 a D 18.2 C 1.00, MeOH Method IIA 8 Hydroxyquinolinium, p toluenesulfonate The toluenesulfonic acid salt of 8 hydroxyquinoline was formed by dissolving toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 1.9g, 10 mmol in acetonitrile and adding 8 hydroxyquinoline 1.45g, 10 mmol .Removal of solvent in vacuo and addition of ether to the residual oil results in crystallization.Trituration several times with ether followed by drying in vacuo yields 8 hydroxyquinolinium, ptoluenesulfonate as a powder 3.11g . B 3S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone To a solution of 3S 2 oxo 3 phenyl methoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt in acetonitrile was added 8 hydroxyquinolinium p toluenesulfonate. The mixture was refluxed, yielding the title compound as verified by thin layer chromatography Merck silica gel 60F, ethyl acetate . Method IIIA 3S 2 Oxo 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt To a stirred solution of 3.58g of 3S 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, tetrabutylammonium salt and 960 mg of 8 hydroxyquinoline in 10ml of dichloroethane was added 1.53g of camphorsulfonic acid. An additional 5ml of dichloroethane was added and the mixture was stirred to effect solution and a seed crystal of the desired product was added to initiate precipitation. After ca. 5 minutes, 15ml of ethyl acetate was added slowly. After an additional 30 minutes, the solid was isolated by filtration, washed with 1 1 dichloromethane ethyl acetate and dried in vacuo to afford 1.98g of the title compound as a fine, light yellow powder.B 3S 3 Phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 2 azetidinone A stirred suspension of 1.00g of 3S 2 oxo 3 phenylmethoxy carbonyl amino 1 azetidinesulfonic acid, 8 hydroxyquinolinium salt in 75ml of anhydrous ethanol under nitrogen was placed in a 95aC oil bath. The mixture was refluxed for 20 minutes, then cooled to 200C with an ice water bath. The solvent was removed on the rotary evaporator bath temperature 300C . The residue was taken up in l0ml of water and 80ml of ethyl acetate. About 600 mg of MgSO4 was added followed by 570 mg of sodium bicarbonate. The mixture was stirred to effect solution. The organic layer was separated, washed with Sml of water, and dried over MgSO4. The solvent was evaporated to afford a white solid, which was tranferred to a 25ml flask with acetone.The acetone was removed in vacuo and the solid residue was suspended in ca. 5m1 of ethyl acetate.Ether ca. 6ml was added and the mixture was stored for 60 minutes at OOC. The solid was isolate by filtration, washed with ether, and dried in vacuo to afford 392 mg of the title compound as a white solid.