# Sweetening composition and process for modifying the sweetness perception of a foodstuff.

## Abstract
Foodstuff compositions comprising a sweetener and a sweetness modifying agent, namely m hydroxy benzoid acid, a process for modifying the sweetness perception and reduc ing the sweetness content of a foodstuff and sweetening compositions are disclosed.

## Claims
Claims 1. A foodstuff composition comprising a foodacceptable sweetener in sweetening amounts and a sweetness modifying agent selected from m hydroxybenzoic acid and or food acceptable, non toxic salts thereof, wherein said sweetness modifying agent is present in a food acceptable sweetness modifying amount. 2. The foodstuff composition of Claim l wherein said foodstuff has an acidic pH. 3. The foodstuff composition of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said sweetness modifying agent is m hydroxybenzoic acid. 4. The foodstuff composition of Claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said food acceptable sweetener is selected from sucrose, fructose, corn syrup solids, dextrose,xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, acesulfam, thaumatin, invert sugar,L sugars, saccharin, cyclamate, dihydrochalcone, aspartame, stevioside, glycyrrhizin or mixtures thereof. 5. The foodstuff composition of Claim 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said food acceptable sweetener is aspartame. 6. The foodstuff composition of any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein said sweetener is present in said foodstuff in amounts above about 2 wt. of sucrose equivalents. 7. The foodstuff composition of any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein said foodstuff is a flavored beverage having an acidic pH and said sweetness modifying agent is present in an amount of from about 0.08 to about 0.3 by weight of the foodstuff composition. 8. A process for modifying the sweetness perception of a foodstuff, said process comprising adding to a foodstuff, a food acceptable sweetness modifying amount of e sweetness modifying agent selected from m hydroxybenzoic acid and or food acceptable, non toxic salts thereof, said foodstuff comprising a food acceptable sweetener in sweetening amounts. SWEETNESS OF m HYDROXYBENZOIC ACID AS A FUNCTION OF CONCENTRATION 8 PH EMI21.1 m HYDROXYBENZOIC ACID CONCENTRATION WT VOL REPRESENTS PH3 REPRESENTS PH5 REPRESENTS PH7 FlG.l SUCROSE EQUIVALENTS WT. VOL.

## Description
SWEETENING COMPOSITION AND PROCESS FOR MODIFYINGTHE SWEETNESS PERCEPTION OF A FOODSTUFF This invention relates generally te sweetness modification and more particularly to low caloric compounds, particularly well suited as sweetness modifiers in edible foodstuffs. Sweetness is one of the primary taste cravings cm both animals and humans. Thus, the utilization of sweetening agents in foods in order to satisfy this sensory desire is well established. Naturally occurring carbohydrate sweeteners, such as sucrose, are still the most widely used sweetening agents. While these naturally occurring carbohydrates, i.e. sugars, generally fulfill the requirements of sweet taste, the abundant usage tnereof does not occur without deleterious conse quenchs, e.g. high caloric input. In fact, often times the level of these sweeteners required to satisfy taste in foodstuffs is far higher than that level of sweetener which is desired for economic, dietetic or other functional considerations. In an attempt to eliminate the disadvantages concomitant with natural sweeteners, considerable research and expense have been devoted to the production of artificial sweeteners, such as for example, saccharin, cyclamate, dihydrochalcone, aspartame, etc. While some of these artifical sweeteners satisfy the requirements of sweet taste without caloric input and have met with considerable commercial success, they are not, however, without their own inherent disadvantage. For example, many of these artificial sweeteners have the disadvantages of high cost of production, as well as delay in perception of the sweet taste, persistent lingering of the sweet taste, and very objectionable bitter, metallic after taste when used in food products. Since it is believed that many of the disadvantages of artificial sweeteners, particularly after taste, are a function of the concentration of the sweetener, it has been previously suggested that these effects could be reduced or eliminated by combining artificial sweeteners, such as saccharin, with other ingredients or natural sugars, such as pectin, sorbitol, dextrose, maltose, etc. These combined products, however, have not been entirely satisfactory either. Some U.S. patents which disclose sweetener mixtures include, for example, U.S.Patent No. 4,228,198, U.S. Patent No. 4,158,068,U.S. Patent No. 4,154,862, and U.S. Patent No.3,717,477. More particularly U.S. Patent No. 4,228,198 discloses a sweetening composition comprised of a protein sweetener, saccharin or cyclamate in combination with a sweetness modifier, namely arabinogalactan. The patentee states that the arabinogalactan enhances the overall sweetness of the com position and reduces or eliminates the after taste. U.S. Patent No. 4,158,068 discloses a sweetener mixture having an improved saccharose like taste consisting of acetosulfame and at least one sweetener from the group of aspartyl peptide esters, the sulfamate sweeteners, the sulfimide sweteners and dihydrochalcone sweeteners. Mixtures of artificial sweeteners, such as saccharin and the like, and neodiosmin are disclosed, in U.S. Patent No. 4,154,862, to be of reduced bitterness and after taste, while U.S.Patent No. 3,717,477 discloses that the sweetening potency and taste of the sodium saccharin are improved by the addition of small amounts of optically active D tryptophan. Other references disclose certain organic compounds to be sweet. Belitz et al, Sweet andBitter Compounds Structure and Taste Relationship,Food Taste Chemistry, ACS Symposium Series 115,Edited by James C. Boudreau, pp 93, 114 115 1979 disclose m hydroxybenzoic acid to nave a thresehold sweetness concentration of 5 7 millimoles liter.This reference does not disclose or suggest that this compound would be an excellent foodstuff sweetener when employed in combination with sweetening amounts of know natural and or artificial sweeteners. Furthermore, it is well known that enormous quantities of sweeteners are utilized in beverages, particularly commercial soft drinks and dessert products, for example, gelatins. Since many of these beverages and desserts have an acidic pH, not only must the sweetener employed therein be acid stable, but it also must be effective under acid pH conditions. In the case of sweeteners such as sucrose and saccharin, it is known that sweetening potency is generally decreased in acidic systems.Thus, in these acidic products such as, for example, carbonated beverages, etc., it is necessary to utilize relatively large quantities of these sweeteners to achieve the desired level of sweetness. These large quantities of sweetener are often times far higher than the level of sweetener desired for economic, nutritional or other functional considerations. Accordingly, in view of the aforementioned disadvantages associated with the use of known sweeteners, i.e., naturally occurring, artificial or combinations thereof, it becomes readily apparent that it would be highly desirable to provide a sweetness modifying agent which when added to foodstuffs can greatly reduce the level of deleterious sweetener normally required and concomitantly eliminate or greatly diminish the numerous disadvantages associated with the prior art sweeteners. The present invention provides a foodstuff composition comprising a foodstuff, a food acceptable sweetener in sweetening amounts and a food acceptable, non toxic amount of a sweetness modifying agent selected from m hydroxybenzoic acid and or non toxic salts thereof. In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1 is a graphical representation plotting the sweetness of m hydroxybenzoic acid, in comparison to sucrose, as a function of concentration at varied levels of pH. Fig. 2 is a graphical representation plotting the sweetness of sucrose as a function of concentra tion at varied levels of pH, in comparison to lt self. Fig. 3 is a further graphical representation plotting the sweetness of mixtures of m hydroxybenzoic acid and sucrose, in comparison to sucrose, as a function of concentration at varied pH levels. In accordance with the present invention, it has been discovered that m hydroxybenzoic acid also known as 3 hydroxybenzoic acid , when used in combination with a natural carbohydrate or synthetic sweetener in a foodstuff, permits a significant reduction in the amount of natural and or synthetic sweetener ordinarily necessary to achieve the usually desired level ot sweetness in the foodstuff. For example, it has been surprisingly found that when m hydroxybenzoic acid is used in foodstuffs, even in relatively small quantities, 50 or more of the usually required sweetener, such as sucrose, can be eliminated from the foodstuff, while still achieving the same desired level of sweetness perception. Thus, according to the present invention, it has been unexpectedly found that m hydroxybenzoic acid and or its food acceptable, non toxic salts are effective sweetness modifying agents when used in combination with sweetening amounts of known natural and or artificial sweeteners, including for example, sucrose, fructose, corn syrup solids, dextrose, xylitol, sorbitol, mannitoll acesulfam, thaumatin, invert sugar, ti sugars, saccharin, cyclamate, dl nyarocnalcones, aspartame L aspartyi t phenylala nine methyl ester and other dlpeptldes, glycer rhizln, stevloslde, chorosucrose ,mixtures thereof and the like. Moreover, to achieve the desired result of the present invention, the utilization of only small quantities of m hydroxybenzoic acid or its non toxic salts are necessary. That is, for example, depend ing on the particular foodstuff and sweetener, the m hydroxybenzoic acid is generally added to the foodstuff in sweetness modifying amounts. These amounts are generally in the range of from about 0.01 to about 0.4 weight percent, based on the consumed weight of the foodstuff. Preferably, the amount of m hydroxybenzoic acid is utilized in amounts of from about 0.05 to about 0.3 weight percent and most preferably only from about 0.08 to about 0.2 weight percent, based on the consumed weight of the foodstuff.It has been observed herein that the quality of the foodstuff is best when the m hydroxybenzoic acid is employed in amounts below about 0.3 wt. . It is understood that these afore described amounts of m hydroxybenzoic acid are based on the consumed weight of the foodstuff. Thus, the amounts employed in a product, for example, a dry beverage mix, prior to taking its consumed form by the addition of diluents or solvents such as water, will necessarily vary accordingly in the preconsumed form of the foodstuff.That is, for example, in a pre mix foodstuff comprising m hydroxybenzoic acid or its salts, the m hydroxybenzoic acid or its salts are present in an amount sufficient such that when a diluent is added to the pre mix foodstuff, the m hydroxybenzoic acid or its salts are present in the diluted foodstuff in an amount, tor example in the range of from about 0.01 to about 0.4 by weight of the diluted food stuff. By diluent or solvent nerein, solid or liquid additives such as water, carbonated water, milk, alcohol, eggs, food acceptable sweeteners as hereinbefore defined and the like are contemplated.Pre mix foodstuffs contemplated herein include, for example, dry mix and liquid foodstuffs and concentrates such as for example, instant dry mix flavored beverages, instant dry mix gelatins and puddings, cake mixes, liquid beverage concentrates and the like. Furthermore, these afore described sweetness modifying amounts are based on the free acid, namely m hydroxybenzoic acid. Thus, in the event salts of this acid are utilized the amount of the salt employed in the foodstuff should be at least sufficient to provide the afore described amounts of the acid. Typical foodstuffs, including pharmaceutical preparations, in which the m hydroxybenzoic acid or salts thereof of the present invention may be used as a sweetness modifier are, for example, beverages, including soft drinks, carbonated beverages, readyto mix beverages and the like, infused foods e.g.fruits or vegetables , sauces, condiments, salad dressings, juices, syrups, desserts, including puddings, gelatin and frozen desserts, like ice creams, sherbets and icings, confections, chewing gum, intermediate moisture foods e.g. dog foods , toothpaste, mouthwashes and the like. As indicated hereinbefore, it is especially preferred to utilize the m hydroxybenzoic acid in foodstuff compositions having an adidic pH. Unlike other sweeteners, such as sucrose and saccharin, it has been found that m hydroxybenzoic acid is most effective as a sweetness modifier in acidic foodstuff compositions. Thus, foodstuff compositions having a pH in the range of 1 to below 7 are especially contemplated herein. Foodstuff compositions having an acidic pH below about 6.6 are preferred, while foodstuff compositions having a pH in the range of from 2.0 to 5.5 are most preferred. Typical acidic foodstuffs include beverages including carbonated beverages, tea, coffee, juices, gelatin, cakes, puddings, jams, jellies, berries, salad dressings, vegetables e.g. carrots, spinach, sweet potatoes , tomatoes, sauces, soup with tomatoes, yogurt, cereals and confectionary candy, gum, etc. . Furthermore, as stated hereinbefore, the unexpected results of the present invention are provided when the sweetness modifying agent, namely m hydroxybenzoic acid or its non toxic salts, is employed in combination with a sweetener, such as those hereinbefore recited, in sweetening amounts.It is, of course, understood that when a mixture of sweeteners is utilized, it is not necessary that each sweetener be present in sweetening amounts provided that the sweetener mixture results in a sweetening amount. Thus, for the purposes of this invention, best results are obtained when the m hydroxybenzoic acid is employed in a foodstuff in combination with a sweetener, wherein the sweetener is present in amounts of above about 2 wt. of sucrose equivalents. Preferably the sweetener content is in the range of from about 2 wt to about 25 wt. sucrose equivalents and.most preferably 4 wt. to about 15 wt sucrose equivalents. Thus, wherein the sweetener is, for example, saccharin, the amounts of saccharin which correspond to the afore recited sucrose equivalents are above about 0.007, prefer ably from about 0.007 to about 0.08 wt. ó, and most preferably from about 0.013 to about 0.05 wit . These values for aspartame are from about 0.013, preferably about 0.013 to about 0.17, and most preferably about 0.03 to about 0.1. Sucrose equivalents for other known sweeteners are readily known or are easily determined. For example, the amount of a sweetener which is equivalent to 10 wt. sucrose can be determined by having a panel taste a solution of sweetener and match its sweetness to a 10 wt. solution of sucrose. Obviously, sucrose equivalents for other than 10 wt. sucrose are determined by matching the appropriate sucrose solutions. For purposes herein the combination of sweetness modifier and sweetener should provide a total foodstuff sweetness of above about 4 wt. , preferably from about 4 wt.S to about 40 wt. , and most preferably from about 6 wt. to about 16 wt. sucrose equivalents. Referring to the drawings herein in more detail, Figs. 1 3 graphically illustrate the surprising results of the present invention. That is, Fig.1 is a plot of the sweetness of aqueous m hydroxybenzoic acid solutions in comparison to aqueous sucrose solutions pH of the sucrose solutions adjusted to the pH of the m hydroxybenzoic acid solutions as the function of concentration at various pH levels. Fig. 2 is a similar plot for sucrose comparing it to itself as a control. Fig. 1 shows that unlike sucrose, m hydroxybenzoic acid exhibits higher potency in an acidic environment.For example, at pH 3 or 5 and at a concentration of 0.1 wt. , m hydroxybenzoic acid provides a sucrose equivalency of more than twice that of which it provides at pH 7 at the same concentration. Furthermore, Fig. 3 illustrates that an aqueous solution, for example, containing a mixture of 0.1 wt. mhydroxybenzoic acid and 1.25 wt. sucrose at pH 7 has the equivalent sweetness of about 2.2 wt. sucrose, while the same mixture of m hydroxybenzoic acid and sucrose at pH 3 has a sucrose equivalency of about 5.2 wt. and at pH 5 of about 4.2 wt. . These data clearly show that m hydroxybenzoic acid has a surprisingly greater sweetness potency in an acidic environment. In addition, the highly advantageous results of the present invention are further evidenced by a comparison of Figs. 2 and 3. That is, Fig. 3 shows, for example, that at pH levels of 3 and 5, a mixture, for instance of 0.1 m hydroxybenzoic acid and 1.25 sucrose solution is sweeter than a solution containing 2.50 sucrose as the sole sweetener, as illustrated by Fig. 2. Thus, it is readily apparent from this data that the utilization of m hydroxybenzoic acid in foodstuffs allows for a significant reduction in the amounts of caloric and expensive sweetener, such as sucrose, ordinarily required, yet still achieving the desired level of sweetness in the foodstuff. Similar results are obtained when m hydroxybenzoic acid is used in combination with an other sweetener such as aspartame. In summary, the data in Figs. 1 to 3 show, inter alia, that m hydroxybenzoic acid is equivalent in sweetness to larger amounts of sucrose in pH 3 and 5 solutions. than in pH 7 solutions. Moreover, the data further illustrate that on average, m hydroxybenzoic can replace approximately three times more sucrose in pH 3 or 5 solutions than in pH 7 solutions. Briefly, the data illustrated by rigs. 1 to 3 were obtained by preparing aqueous solutions of m hydroxybenzoic acid o.l, 0.2, 0.4 , sucrose 1.25, 2.50, 5.00 and mixtures of m hydroxybenzoic acid and sucrose 0.1 and 1.25 0.2 and 2.50 0.4 and 5.00 , respectively at pH levels of 3, 5 and 7.The pH of each of the solutions was adjusted and maintained by the addition of conventional acids and or bases, such as HCl or NaOH, and or buffering agents such as citric acid and potassium citrate.The solutions were matched for sweetness to 1 of 14 sucrose solutions ranging in concentration from 0 to 13 in 1 increments. Each of the 18 subjects participated in 3 test sessions, one for each of the pH conditions. Within a session, all test solutions and sucrose standards were at the same pH, either 3, 5, or 7. All testing used a sip and spit procedure and was done double blind. The data were analyzed by an analysis of variance. The m hydroxybenzoic acid of the present invention can be readily prepared according to well known synthetic procedures or can be obtained commercially, e.g. from Pfaltz and Bauer . For puposes of optimization, it has been found advantageous to utilize about a 99 pure material. A simple procedure for obtaining a material of this purity is, for example, to add the m hydroxybenzoic acid, with stirring, to boiling distilled water. When no solid material remains visible, granulated charcoal food approved is added to the. solution and the mixture is stirred further. The resultant mixture is then hot filtered and slowly recrystallized at, for example, about 45 500F. The resultant m hydroxybenzoic acid has a purity of about 99 . Furthermore, as stated hereinbefore, food acceptable, non toxic salts of m hydroxybenzoic acid are also contemplated herein. These salts include carboxylate salts as well as phenolate salts.Carboxylate and or phenol ate salts include, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, ammonium and the like and may be preformed or formed in situ in the foodstuff by reaction with typical buffering agents, such as sodium citrate, potassium citrate, sodium acetate, calcium phosphate, such as monocalcium phosphate and tricalcium phosphate, and the like which are also normally employed in foodstuffs to provide the desired pH. sweetening compositions comprised of m hydroxybenzoic acid or its salts and a sweetener, such as sucrose, saccharin, aspartame or mixtures and the like are also contemplated herein. These sweetening compositions may be preformed, formulated and packaged, for example, so that they can be readily added to a foodstuff to provide the hereinbeforenoted advantages. Moreoever, these sweetening compositions may be added to foodstuffs which do not con tain sweetener as well as to foodstuffs containing sweetener. In order that those skilled in the art may better understand how the present invention may be practiced, the following examples are given by way of illustration and not by way of limitation. EXAMPLE 1 As a control, a cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 2.36 gms of a cherry flavor instant beverage base mix with 930 gms of water and 106 gms 10.6 wt. sucrose. The base contains citric acid 2.03gms . The final aqueous mixture has a pH of about 2.6. For comparative purposes, 2 further cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 957 gms of water, 2.36 gms of the same unsweetened base mix as in the control and 63.4 gms sucrose 6.3 wt. , which is 60 of the sucrose utilized in the control . The formulation has a pH of about 2.6. For further comparison, another cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 956 gms of water, 2.36 gms of the same unsweetened base mix, 63.4 gms sucrose t6.3 wt. , 60 of the sucrose in the control and 1.0 gms 0.1 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. This formulation has a pH of about 2.6. For additional comparision, a further cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 956 gms of water, 2.06 gms of the unsweetened base mix, 63.4 gms of sucrose 6.3 wt. 60 of the sucrose in the control and 1.0 gms 0.1 wt. purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. In this formulation the citric acid in the unsweetened base is reduced to 1.73 gms 15 reduction which is advantageously compensated for by the addition of the m hydroxybenzoic acid. The pH of this formulation is about 2.6. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described cherry flavored beverage compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the beverages containing the 0.1 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid and 60 of the sucrose used in the control to be as sweet as the 100 sucrose control composition as well as having acceptable quality. The same tasters assessed the 60 sucrose containing beverage with no m hydroxybenzoic acid to be unacceptable. For further comparison another cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 946 gms of water, 2.36 gms of the same unsweetened base mix, 79 gms sucrose 7.9 wt. , 75 Ö of sucrose in the control and 0.5 gms 0.05 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. This formulation has a pH of about 2.6. For additional comparison, a further cherry flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 968 gms of water, 2.36 gms of the same unsweetened base, 42 gms sucrose 4.2 wt. , 40 of the sucrose in the control and 2.0 gms 0.2 wt. purified m hydroxyben zoic acid. The pH of this formulation is about 2.6. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described cherry flavored beverage compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the beverages containing the 0.05 wt. and 0.2 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid and reduced sucrose to be as sweet as the 100 sucrose control composition as well as having acceptable quality. EXAMPLE 2 As a control, an orange flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 12.67 gms TangTM instant beverage base mix with 913.3 gms of water and 122.6 gms 12.26 wt. sucrose. The TangTM base contains citric acid 7.1 gms and potassium citrate 0.7 gms buffer. The final aqueous mixture has a pH of about 3.0 For further comparison, another orange flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 950 gms of water, 12.67 gms of the same unsweetened TangTM base mix, 61.31 gms sucrose 6.13 wt. , 50 of the sucrose in the control and 0.8 gms 0.08 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic. acid. This formulation has a pH of about 2.9. For additional comparision, a further orange flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 953.0 gms of water, 11.4 gms unsweetened Tang base, 61.3 gms sucrose 6.13 wt.ó 50SÓ of the sucrose in the control and 0.8 gms 0.08 wt. purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. In this formulation the citric acid in the unsweetened base is reduced to 5.80 gms 18 reduction which is advantageously compensated for by the addition of the m hydroxybenzoic acid. The pH of this formulation is about 2.9. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described orange flavored beverage compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the beverages containing the 0.08 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid and 50 of the sucrose used in the control to be as sweet as the 100 sucrose control composition as well as having acceptable quality. EXAMPLE 3 As a control, a mixed fruit gelatin is prepared by mixing 474.0 gms of an unsweetened gelatin base mix with 47.40 gms of water and 0.3737 gms 0.077 wt. APM. The gelatin base contains an adipic acid and disodium phosphate buffer. The final gelatin has a pH of about 3.9. For comparative purposes, a further mixed fruit gelatin is prepared by mixing 474.0 gms of water, 10.31 gms of the same unsweetened gelatin base mix as in the control, 0.1868 gms APM 0.038 wt. , which is 50 of the APM used in the control and 0.387 gms 0.08 wt. purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. The final gelatin has a pB of about 3.8. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described gelatin compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the gelatins containing the m hydroxybenzoic acid and reduced APM to be as sweet as the 100 APM control composition as well as having acceptable quality. EYId PLE 4 As a control, a vanilla flavored pudding is prepared by mixing 21.6 gms vanilla instant pudding base mix with 474 gms of milk and 90.0 gms 15.4 wt. sucrose. The pudding base contains 1.35 gms of sodium acid pyrophosphate resulting in a pudding formulation having a pH of about 6.5. For comparative purposes, a further vanilla flavored pudding is prepared by mixing 474 gms of milk, 21.6 gms of the same unsweetened pudding base mix as in the control, 58.8 gms sucrose 10.55 wt. , which is 65 of the sucrose utilized in the control .The formulation has a pH of about 6.5. For further comparision another vanilla flavored pudding is prepared by mixing 409 gms of milk, 65 gms H20, 21.6 gms of the same unsweetened pudding base mix, 58.5 gms sucrose 10.55 wt. , 65 of the sucrose in the control and 0.444 gms 0.08 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. This formulation has a pH of about 6.33. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described vanilla flavored pudding compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the pudding containing 0.08 wt. of m hydroxybenzoic acid and 65 sucrose of the control to be as sweet as the 100 sucrose control composition as well as having acceptable quality. The vanilla flavored pudding composition containing 65 sucrose of the control composition and no m hydroxybenzoic acid was not acceptable. EXAMPLE 5 As a control, an angel food cake is prepared by baking an angel food cake batter containing 37 wt,gd sucrose pH about 5.4 . For comparative purposes, an angel food cake is prepared by baking the same angel food cake batter containing 27.0 wt. sucrose which 60 of the sucrose used in the control and 0.1 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid pH about 5.24 . In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described angel food cakes, tasters assessed the sweetness of the cake containing the m hydroxybenzoic acid and reduced sucrose to be as sweet as the 100 sucrose control cake as well as having acceptable quality. EXAMPLE 6 As a control, ready to drink cola containing about 0.035 wt. saccharin is prepared by mixing 0.097 gms saccharin, 47.365 gms water, 1.27gms cola concentrate and 226.27 gms salt free club soda. The final coia has a pH of about 2.6. For comparative purposes, a further ready todrink cola beverage is prepared by admixing 47.365 gms water, 0.0388 gms saccharin 0.0141 wt. saccharin, 40 of the control , 1.27 gms cola concentrate, 0.10 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid and 226.27 gms salt free club soda. This cola has a pH of about 2.6. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described cola beverages, tasters assessed the sweetness of the beverage containing the m hydroxybenzoic acid and reduced saccharin to be as sweet as the 100 saccharin control as well as having acceptable quality. . EXAMPLE 7 As a control, a punch flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 4.97 gms undiluted punch beverage base mix with 993.1 gms of water and 0.38 gms 0.038 wt. APM. The punch mlx contains a citric acid, potassium citrate, and tricalcium phosphate buffer.The final aqueous mixture has a pH of about 3.3. For comparative purposes, a further punch flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 992.7 gms of water, 4.97 gms of the same unsweetened base mix as in the control and 0.19 gms APM 0.019 wt. , which is 50 of the APM utilized in the control . The formulation has a pH of about 3.3. For further comparison, another punch flavored beverage is prepared by mixing 992.7 gms of water, 4.97 gms of the same unsweetened base mix, 0.19 gmsAPM 0.019 wt. , 50 of the APM in the control and 0.8 gms 0.08 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic acid. This formulation has a pH of about 3.29. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described punch flavored beverage compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the beverages containing the 0.08 wt. m hydroxybenzoic acid and 50 of the APM used in the control to be as sweet as the 100 APM control composition as well as having acceptable quality. The same tasters assessed the 50 APM containing beverage with no mhydroxybenzoic acid to be unacceptable. EXAMPLE 8 As a control, a mixed cherry gelatin is prepared by mixing 9.194 gms of an unsweetened gelatin base mix with 474.0 gms of water and 0.14 gms 0.029 wt. saccharin. The gelatin base contains an adipic fumaric acid and potassium citrate buffer.The final gelatin has a pH of about 3.89. For futher comparison, another mixed cherry gelatin is prepared by mixing 474.0 gms of water, 9.194 of the same unsweetened gelatin base mix, 0.07 gms saccharin 0.0145 wt. , 50 of the saccharin in the control and 0.24 gm 0.08 wt. of purified m hydroxybenzoic acid.. This formulation has a pH of about 3.85. In evaluating and comparing the sweetness of the afore described gelatin compositions, tasters assessed the sweetness of the gelatins containing the m hydroxybenzoic acid and reduced saccharin to be as sweet as the 100 saccharin control composition as well as having acceptable quality. Obviously, other modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in the light of the above teachings. It is, therefore, to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments of this invention which are within the full intended scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.