# Cephalosporin derivatives, their preparation and pharmaceutical compositions.

## Abstract
It has been found that imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivatives of the general formula CHEM wherein R 1 represents a lower alkyl group and X represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group which optionally has a substituent, and in which the amino group may carry a protective group, esters and salts thereof, show high activity against a broad range of gram positive and gram negative bacteria and therefore are useful pharmaceutical agents.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivative of the general formula I EMI16.1 wherein R1 represents a lower alkyl group andX represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group which may have a substituent, and in which the amino group may carry a protective group, and esters and salts thereof. 2. A pharmaceutical agent for treating and preventing infectious diseases, characterized in that it contains or consists of at least one imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivative of the general formula I according to claim 1, a pharmaceutically acceptable ester or salt thereof or a compound which in vivo is converted into such derivative or its salt or ester. 3. A process for the production of an imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivative of the general formula I according to claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula EMI17.1 with a compound of the general formulaEMI17.2 or an ester thereof and, when the product is an ester, subjecting it to a further reaction for removing the ester group wherein RÚ represents a lower alkyl group, Rê represents a lower alkyl group or an aralkyl group X represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group which may have a substituent, and in which the amino group may carry a protective group. 4. A process for the production of an imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivative of the general formula I according to claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of the general formula EMI17.3 or an ester thereof with a compound of the general formulaEMI18.1 or a reactive derivative thereof and, when the product is an ester, subjecting it to a further reaction for removing the ester group, wherein R1 represents a lower alkyl group andX represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group which may have a substituent, and in which the amino group may carry a protective group.

## Description
IMIDAZOLE DICARBOXYLIC ACID DERIVATIVES, A PHARMACEUTICAL AGENT COMPRISING SAID IMI DAZOLE DICARBOXYLIC ACID DERIVATIVES AND A PROCESS FOR THEIR PRODUCTION The present invention relates to novel mercapto derivatives of imidazole dicarboxylic acid and esters and salts thereof which are useful as antibacterial agents, particularly for the treatment of infectious diseases caused by gram positive and gram negative bacteria in human beings and animals. The present invention also relates to a process for their production as well as the use thereof. In recent years, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Xlebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus spp., Serratia marcescens, etc. have become a problem as bacteria, which cause serious infectious diseases from the clinical aspect, and various drugs have been developed for treating these diseases. For example, Japanese Patent Application 34795 78,U.S. Patent 4, 278,671 and British Patent 1 581 854 describe cephalosporin derivatives of the general formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 is a group represented by CH2R3 whereinR3 represents hydrogen or a residue of a nucleophilic compound and R2NH is an amino group which may be protected. In the stated Japanese Application compounds are specifically mentioned as concrete examples in which the 3 position of the cephalosporin derivatives is substituted by the residues of nucleophilic compounds, for example, a 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 ylthiomethyl group. However, in practice these antibiotics are not satisfactory regarding their antibacterial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Accordingly, it has been a strong need to develop novel antibiotics of the cephalosporin class showing a broad range of antibacterial activity, which are especially useful against Pseudomonas aeruginosa which has become the most serious problem. The present inventors have found that compounds carrying a 4,5 dicarboxySidazol 2 yl thiomethyl group at the 3 position of the cephalosporin unit exhibit extremely excellent activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria and also against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The present invention provides 2 mercapto 4,5imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivatives represented by the following general formula I EMI3.1 and esters and salts thereof, and it has been found that these compounds exhibit antibacterial activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria over a wide spectrum, and exhibit potent antibacterial activity particularly against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.Their use as antibacterial agents or intermediates for producing antibacterial agents therefore is of high interest.In the general formula I described above, R1 represents a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms such as a methyl group, an ethyl group, an isopropyl group, an n butyl group, etc,,X represents a hydrogen atom or a lower alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which may have a substituent. Examples of the substituents include a carboxyl group, a dialkylamino group, etc. The above mentioned esters are mono and diesters of pharmaceutically acceptable alcohols, such as the tert butyl ester1 benzyl ester, silyl ester, trichloroethyl ester, diphenylmethyl ester. Usable salts are pharmaceutically acceptable salts, examples of which include alkali metal salts, alkaline earth metal salts and salt of organic bases. The amino group may be in the free form or carry a protective group, for example, a benzyloxycarbonyl group, a tertbutyloxycarbonyl group, a chloroacetyl group, a trityl group or a formyl group. The present invention further relates to the synthesis of the described novel compounds a For producing the compounds of the present invention for example, the following two processes can be adopted 1 Cephalosporins shown by general formula 11 EMI4.1 wherein RÚ and X are the same as defined hereinabove Rê represents a lower alkyl group such as a methyl group, an ethyl group, a butyl group, etc., or an aralkyl group such as a benzyl group, etc.are reacted with compounds of the general formula EMI4.2 or esters thereof, e. g. lower alkyl esters such as methyl, ethyl, n butyl, etc., herein X is the same as defined abooe, or alkyl esters such as benzyl esters, etc. The amino group may carry a protective group, as described above. When the product is an ester, it may be converted into the free form by e. g. an ester removing reaction in a conventional manner. In case the amino group carries a protective group, the protective group can be split off by conventional means for removing the protective group. The reaction is carried out at a range from room temperature to 80 OC using an inert solvent, such as water, acetone, dioxan, acetonitrile, chloroform, methylene chloride, tetrahydrofuran THF , dimethylformamide DMF , formamide, etc. Hydrophilic organic solvents can also be used as a mixture with water. Further, if the reaction solvent is a mixture containing water, it is desired that the pH of the reaction liquid be controlled to 6 to 8 during the reaction. 2 Cephalosporins shown by general formula III or esters thereof are subjected to a condensation reaction with compounds shown by general formula V or reactive derivatives thereof EMI5.1 wherein R1 and X are the same as defined hereinabove and the amino group may be protected.As described in 1 , the carboxylic groups may be in the esterified form. The kind of the esters, the conversion thereof into the free form by an esterremoving reaction, the protection of the amino group and splitting off the protective group are as defined above under 1 . As the condensation reaction, conventional condensation reactions are adopted. Examples of suitable reactive derivatives of the compound V include acid halides, mixed acid anhydrides, active amides, active esters, etc. Particularly widely employed are acid chlorides, acid azides, dialkylphosphoric acid mixed anhydrides, phenylphosphoric acid mixed anhydrides, diphenylphosphoric acid mixed anhydrides, dibenzylphosphoric acid mixed anhydrides, halogenated phosphoric acid mixed anhydrides, dialkylphosphinic acid mixed anhydrides, sulfinic acid mixed anhydrides, thiosulfuric acid mixed anhydrides, sulfuric acid mixed anhydrides, alkylcarbonic acid mixed anhydrides, aliphatic carboxylic acid e.g. pivalic acid, pentanoic acid, isopentanoic acid, 2 ethylbutanoic acid, trichloroacetic acid mixed anhydrides, aromatic carboxylic acid e. g. benzoic acid mixed anhydrides, as well as symmetric acid anhydrides acid amides with imidazole, 4 substituted imidazoles, dimethylpyrazole, triazole or tetrazole cyanomethyl esters, methoxymethyl esters, vinyl esters, propargyl esters, p nitrophenyl esters, 2,4 dinitrophenyl esters, trichlorophenyl esters, pentachlorophenyl esters, methanesulfonyl esters, phenylazophenyl esters, phenylthio esters, p nitrophenylthioesters, p cresylthio esters, carboxymethylthio esters, pyranyl esters, pyridyl esters, piperidyl esters, 8 quinolylthioesters esters with N,N dimethylhydroxylamine, 1 hydroxy 2 1H pyridone, N hydroxysuccinimide or N hydroxyphthalimide, etc.Further, in the condensation reaction, the H2N group in V EMI7.1 may be protected with protective groups conventionally used for protecting amino groups, such as a trityl group, a formyl group, a chloroacetyl group, etc. The reaction of the aforesaid reactive derivatives with the compounds shown by general formula III is carried out in the presence of bases, such as alkali metal hydrogen carbonates, alkali metal carbonates, trialkyl amines, pyridine, etc. In the case of using solvents, these for example may be water, acetone, dioxan, acetonitrile, chloroform, methylene chloride, THF or DMF. Hydrophilic organic solvents can also be used in the form of a mixture with water. It is desired that the reaction be carried out generally under cooling or at room temperature. Further, in the reaction with the reactive derivatives, the compounds shownby general formula III may be reacted in the fqrm in which the carboxyl groups are converted into ester groups, such as t butyl esters, benzyl esters, silyl esters, trichloroethyl esters, diphenylmethyl esters, etc. After completion of the reaction, these ester groups are split off in a conuentional manner to obtain the free carboxyl groups. The isolation of the reaction product may be carried out appropriately by conventional isolation methods such as extraction, column chromatography, recrystallization etc. The thus obtained imidazole dicarboxylic acid derivatives can be converted into salts of inorganic bases such as alkali metal salts, e. g. sodium salts, potassium salts, etc. alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium salts, barium salts, etc. ammonium salts or salts of organic bases, such as lysine, procaine, pyrimidine, etc., in a conventional manner for preparing salts. These salts are preferred for producing medical preparations, because they are water soluble. Additionally, if the derivatives of the present invention are used as antibiotics, they can be used in the form of derivatives which are converted into the aforesaid derivatives by the metabolic action in vivo, for example in the form of esters such as pivaloyloxymethyl esters. In the use of the compounds for the therapeutic treatment there may be adopted for example the oral administration, intraperitoneal administration, subcutaneous administration, intravenous administration or intramuscular administration.In these cases, techniques for preparing medical preparations conventionally used for antibiotics are utilized. The dosage can be appropriately chosen depending upon the age and condition of the patient. The invention further relates to a pharmaceutical, especially an antibiotic preparation containing the above defined imidazole derivative as the active ingredient and which additionally may contain a usual pharmaceutical carrier and optionally usual pharmaceutical diluents, fillers, disintegrating agents and or binders. Hereafter the present invention will be described on more detail with reference to the examples, Example 1 In 18 ml of a phosphate buffer having a pH of 6.8 were dissolved 1.43 g of 7 12 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamidoZcephalo8poranic acid sodium salt syn isomer and 0.62 g of 2 mercaptoimidazole 4,5 dicarboxylic acid. After adjusting the pH of the solution to 6.8 with 2N NaOH, the solution was heated at 60 0C for 8 hours with stirring during which period the pH of the reaction solution was maintained at 6.8 by adding 2N NaOH. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was adsorbed to 1700 ml of an adsorption resin XAD II manufactured by Amberlite Co., Ltd. and eluted with water.Fractions containing the product were collected and freeze dried to obtain 0.8 g of the product, 7 2 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 4,5 dicarboxyimidazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4carboxylic acid sodium salt syn isomer .Infrared absorption spectrum nujol 1760 cm lactam Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D2O 63.55 2H, q, 2 CH2 , 3.98 3H, s NO CH3 , 4.08 2H, q, 3 CH2 , 5.19 lH, d, 6 H , 5.73 1H, d, 7 H , 7.01 1H, S, thiazole 5 H Mass spectrum FAB MS M Na H at N Z 606 1 Na salt, molecular weight, 605 M 2Na H at M Z 628 2Na salt, molecular weight, 627 N 3Na H at M Z 650 3Na salt, molecular weight, 649 Example 2 By a similar manner as in Example 1, 0.88 g of 7 2 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl0acetamido 3 1 methyl 4,5 dicarboxyS4dazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt syn isomer was obtained from 1.43 g of 7 2 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido cephalosporanic acid sodium salt syn isomer and 0.67 g of 1 methyl 2 mercaptoimidazole 4,5 dicarboxylic acid.Infrared absorption spectrum nujol 1760 cm B lactam Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum DMSO d6 j3.30 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.80 6H, b.s. imidazole 1 CH3 and NO CH3 , 4.40 2H, q, 3 CH2 , 4.94 1H, d, 6 H , 5.52 1H, m, 7 H , 6.70 1H, S, thiazole 5 H , 7.20 2H, b.s. H2N , 9.45 1H, b.d. CONH Mass spectrum FAB MS N Na H at M Z 620 1Na salt, mole cular weight 619 M 2Na H at M Z 642 2Na salt, mole cular weight, 641 M 3Na H at M Z 664 3Na salt, mole cular weight, 663 Example 3 To 18.9 g 0.1 mol of iminodiacetic acid diethyl ester, 33 g 0.72 g of formic acid was dropwise added with stirring. To the solution 30 g 0.3 mol of anhydrous acetic acid was dropwise added with stirring. The mixture was gradually heated and further stirring and heating were conducted at 80 C for 1.5 hour. After concentration of the reaction mixture, the residue was distilled under reduced pressure. Components distilled off at 145 70C 2 mm Hg were collected to obtain 18.5 g yield 85 of N formyliminodiacetic acid diethyl ester.Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum CDC13 1.30 6H, t, COOCH2CH3 , 4.15 8H, m, N CH2 COOCH2CH3 8.10 1H, s, HCO To 2.15 g 95 , 0.03 mol of sodium ethoxide there were added 20 ml of dry ether. With stirring, 4.4 g 0.03 mol of diethyl oxalate was added to the mixture in small portions. After stirring for about 20 minutes, 6.5 g 0.03 mol of N formyliminodiacetic acid diethyl ester previously synthesized was dropwise added. Stirring was conducted at room temperature for 2.5 hours. After allowing to stand for 3 days, 25 ml of ice water was added to dissolve and the ether layer was separated.With ice cooling and stirring 4.07 g 0.042 mol of potassium thiocyanate and then 6 ml of 12N HCl were added to the aqueous layer. To remove the remained ether, the mixture was somewhat concentrated and then heated at 50 to 60 C for 7 hours with stirring. After cooling in a refrigerator overnight, the precipitated solid was collected by filtration.After washing with 2N HCl and then H20, the solid was dried under reduced pressure. The obtained solid was added to a solvent mixture of ether and ethyl acetate 2 1 followed by stirring. After separating insoluble matters by filtration, the filtrate was concentrated to obtain 1.2 g of yellow orange powders of the product, 1 ethoxycarbonylmethyl 2 mercaptoimidazole 4,5 dicarboxylic acid diethyl ester, as the residue.Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum d6 DMSO 1.25 9H, m, 3 kinds of COOCH2CH3 , 4.20 6H, m, 3 kinds of COOH2CH3 , 5.08 2H, s, CH2COO To 4.5 ml of 6N NaOH was added 1.05 g 3.3 mmoles of the thus obtained ester described above. The mixture was heated and stirred at 800C for 1 hour. After treating with activated charcoal, 3.5 ml of conc. HCl was added under ice cooling. The aqueous solution was concentrated to about 10 ml and cooled to obtain 0.37 g of the product, 1 carboxymethyl 2 mercaptoimidazole 4,5dicarboxylic acid, as yellow brown powders.Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum d6 DMSO 5.18 2H, s, CH2 COO By a similar manner as in Example 1, 0.344 g 1.4 mmol of the thus obtained 1 carboxymethyl2 mercaptoimidazole 4,5 dicarboxylic acid was allowed to react with 0.62 g 1.3 mmol of 7 2methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido cephalosporanic acid sodium salt syn isomer .After isolation and purification, 0.42 g of the product, 7 2 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido 3 1 carboxymethy 4,5 dicarboxyimi dazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 carboxylic acid sodium salt syn isomer was obtained.Infrared spectrum nujol 1760 cm 1 B lactam Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum DMSO d6 3.40 2H, m, 2 CH2 , 3.82 3H, s, NO CH3 , 4.32 2H, q, 3 CH2 , 4.88 2H, si CH2COO at the 1 position of imidazole , 4.97 1H, d, 6 H , 5.56 1H, m, 7 H , 6.71 1H, s, thiazole 5 H , 7.20 2H, b.s.H2N , 9.48 1H, b.d. CONH Mass spectrum FAB MS M 2Na H at M Z 686 2Na salt mole cular weight, 685 M 3Na H at M Z 708 3Na salt, mole cular weight 707 M 4Na H at M Z 730 4Na salt, mole cular weight, 729 Reference Example 1 In 10 ml of a phosphate buffer having pH 6.86 were dissolved 0.5 g of 7 2 methoxyimino 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acetamido cephalosporanic acid sodium salt syn isomer and 0.12 g of 2 mercaptoimidazole. After adjusting the pH of the solution to 6.8 with ZN NaOH, the mixture was heated at 60 C for 8 hours with stirring, during which the pH of the reaction liquid was maintained at 6.8 with 2N NaOH. After completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was adsorbed to 250 ml of an adsorption resin XAD II , manufactured by Amberlite Co.,Ltd.Fractions eluted out with 20 8 methanol water which contained the product were collected. After freeze drying the fractions, 0.1 g of the product, 7 12 metho zeno 2 2 amino 1,3 thiazol 4 yl acet amido 3 imidazol 2 yl thiomethyl 3 cephem 4 car boxylic acid sodium salt syn isomer was obtained.Infrared spectrum KBr , 1760 cm 1 B lactam Nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum D20 3.63 2H, bs, 2 CH2 , 3.93 3H, s, NOCH3 , 4.40 2H, m, 3 CH2 , 5.16 1H, d, J 6Hz, 6 H , 5.72 1H, d, J 6Hz, 7 H , 6.90 1H, s, thia zole 5 H , 7.33 2H, s, imidazole 4,5 H Mass spectrum FAB MS M H at M Z 496 free, molecular weight, 495 M Na H at M Z 518 1Na salt, molecular weight 517 The antibacterial activities of the compounds prepared by the above examples are shown in Table 1.From these results, it is understood that the compounds of the present invention have excellent antibacterial activity as compared to the control compound and are useful as antibiotics. In particular, the compounds of the present invention are characterized by possessing carboxyl groups both at the 4 and 5 positions of the imidazole nucleus at the 3 position of cephalosporin. The synthesis of the compound without any carboxyl group is shown in Reference Example 1. As is noted from Table 1, it is understood that the antibacterial activity to Pseudomonas aeruginosa is greatly improved by the carboxyl groups. In addition, the compounds show a pronounced activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa even compared with Cefotaxime or Cefmenoxime containing a OCOCH3 group or a group EMI14.1 which is often employed conventionally as a substituent at the 3 position of cephalosporin.This activity is a significant characteristic of the compounds of the present invention. Table 1. Antibacterial Activities of the Compounds of the Present Invention EMI15.1 SEP Reference SEP Cefmenoxime SEP Cefotaxime tb SEP Example SEP No. SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP Example SEP 1 tb Pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP IFO SEP 3445 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 6.25 SEP 25 SEP 25 SEP 12.5 tb pseudomonas SEP aeruginosa SEP 5 SEP 1.56 SEP 3.13 SEP 6.25 SEP 25 SEP 12.5 SEP 12.5 tb Escherichia SEP coli SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 1.56 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Klebsiella SEP pneumoniae SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Proteus SEP vulgaris SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 tb Proteus SEP mirabilis SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.10 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.39 SEP 0.10 tb Serratia SEP marcescens SEP 0.20 SEP 0.20 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.78 SEP 0.20 tb The values of MIC were measured by the agar dilution method. CefmenoximeCefotaxime EMI15.2