# Novel zeolite and process for preparation.

## Abstract
A family of zeolites containing combined titanium, sili con, and oxygen is produced by hydrothermal synthesis of a mixture of a titanate, silica, and an amino alkyl bromide in an aqueous alkaline solution.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A crystalline molecular sieve consisting essentially of combined silicon, titanium, and oxygen. 2. A crystalline molecular sieve according to claim 1, which includes from 2 to 20 titanium calculated as titanium dioxide. 3. A crystalline molecular sieve according to claim 1 or 2, having an infra red absorption band at about 950cml. 4. A method of making a crystalline molecular sieve according to any one of the preceding claims, which comprises reacting an aqueous alkaline mixture of a soluble titanate, silica, and an amino alkyl halide under hydrothermal conditions until crystallization of the zeolite.

## Description
The invention is a new synthetic zeolite consisting essentially of silica and titania, and the method for its synthesis. Both natural and synthetic alumino silicate zeolites have been synthesized in the laboratory and some have been commercially produced. Zeolites having a crystalline structure similar to that of natural and synthetic alumino silicate zeolites, but consisting entirely or almost entirely of silica have been synthesized recently, as disclosed in U.S. Patents 4,073,865, toFlanigan, which refers to the product as a silica polymorph, and 4,061,724 to Gross, which names the product silicalite . The present invention is a molecular sieve zeolite which contains mostly silica with the remainder being from 2 to 20 titania, and a process for making the zeolite. Reference is made to the accompanying drawing which shows infra red absorption spectra of the invention and of silicalite and silicalite mixed with titania. The product of the invention is a molecular sieve zeolite consisting of combined silicon, titanium, and oxygen, and has molecular sieve and catalytic properties similar to the ZSM 5 zeolites described in U.S.Patent 3,702,886. An example of the synthesis of the zeolite is as follows A reaction mixture containing 11932 gm H2O, 142 gm sodium titanate, 880 gm tetra n propylammonium bromide, 3546 gm silica sol 40 wt SiO2 and 32 gm NaOH was pre pared. The mixture which had a pH of 10.85 was autoclaved at 1650C. for 163 hours in a five gallon stirred autoclave.The solid product was separated from the mother liquor by filtration, washed to a neutral pH then dried at 1100C.overnight. No titania was detected in the recovered mother liquor. The sodium titanate employed in this example was an acid salt of the formula NaTiO3H, available from Cerak, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconson. The X ray diffraction pattern of the product was found to be similar to that of ZSM 5. Differential thermal analysis of the product showed intense bands at around 375 to 5000C., indicating the presence of the tetrapropylammonium component. No bands were found in the 500 to 11000C. temperature range. The chemical composition of the material was as follows Na2O 0.15 wt A1203 0.1 wt SiO2 85 TiO2 4.55 C 8.61 N 0.70 A portion of the product was examined by SEM.The micrograph shows highly crystalline curved edge rectangular prisomatic crystals exhibiting extreme uniformity in size the crystals measure about 5 x 7.5 x 2 pm.The absence of twinning was noted. The product was also analyzed by infrared spectroscopy. The IR shows no bands at 700 cml Silicalite and silicapolymorph of Union Carbide showed bands at 700 cm1. IR spectra of titania silica molecular sieves of this invention, and silicalite were obtained and are shown in the drawing. It can be seen that titania silica sieves Spectrum C have an absorption band at around 950 cm l that is absent in silicalite Spectrum A . Furthermore, this band is also seen in the spectra of three acid treated titania silica sieve samples Spectra D, E and F from which 1t, 19 and 39 respectively of the original titania was leached out. Absence of 950 cm l absorption band in spectra of silicalite containing either rutile or anatase curvesB and G , which are two crystalline forms of titania, proves that the presence of this band in the titania silica sieve is not caused by titania occluded in a silicalite structure. This band is also absent in the IR spectrum of silicalite containing 4 sodium titanate, which is the source of titania in the preferred formulation. Therefore, this absorption band could not be caused by residual sodium titanate. From examination of this data, it is obvious that this material is unique and different from silicalite and titania is not present as an occluded extraneous material