# Method for producing tin free steel strips having improved lacquer adhesion.

## Abstract
Tin free steel sheets are produced by chromium plating a thin steel sheet through cathodic electrolysis in a chromium containing bath to deposit a metallic chromium layer, reversely electrolyzing the chromium plated steel steet by a successive anodizing treatment in the same or another chromium containing bath, and subjecting the reversely elec trolyzed steel sheet to an electrolytic chromate treatment in an aqueous chromate solution. The adhesion of lacquer to the TFS sheet is improved by carrying out the electrolytic chromate treatment in a chromate solution which contains chromic acid, chromates or dichromates as a main ingredient , and sulfuric acid, sulfates, thiocyanates, sulfonic acids or sulfonates as an assistant ingredient, in a molar ration of H₂SO₄ CrO₃ between 1 1000 and 1 100 provided that the main and assistant ingredients are converted into CrO₃ and H₂SO₄, respectively.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A method for producing a tin free steel strip having improved lacquer adhesion, comprising chromium plating a thin steel strip through cathodic electrolysis in a chromium ion containing aqueous solution to form a layer consisting essentially of metallic chromium, reversely electrolyzing the chromium plated steel strip by a successive anodizing treatment in said aqueous solution or in another chromium ion containing aqueous solution, and subjecting the reversely electrolyzed steel strip to an electrolytic chromate treatment in an aqueous solution containing as a main ingredient at least one selected from the group consisting of chromic acid, chromates, and dichromates, and as an assistant ingredient at least one selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, sulfates, thiocyanates, sulfonic acids, and sulfonates, wherein the solution in which said electrolytic chromate treatment is carried out has a molar ratio of H2SO CrO3 in the range between 1 1000 and 1 100 provided that the main and assistant ingredients are converted intoCr03 and H2SO4, respectively. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the chromium layer is formed to a build up of 50 to 200 mg per square meter on each surface. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the electrolytic chromate treatment is carried out to form a chromium oxide layer to a build up of 8 to 30 mg of Cr per square meter on each surface.

## Description
Method for Producing Tin Free Steel Strips Having Improved Lacquer Adhesion BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention relates to a method for producing tin free steel strips or sheets having improved lacquer adhesion. Electrolytic chromate treated steel sheets also known as tin free steel TFS of chromium type have improved properties as can forming material and are regarded as a substitute for tin plates, and the demand for them is increasing in recent years. Since TFS has a two layer coating of metallic chromium and hydrated chromium oxide layers on the surface, it does not possess sufficient weldability. A can is fabricated from a TFS sheet by coating the sheet with an epoxy phenol resin and cementing the mating edges of the coated sheet with a polyamide adhesive to form a can barrel. Recently, the extent of application of TFS cans has been further spread. That is, TFS cans are not only used for low temperature packs prepared by packing contents such as carbonated beverage and beer in cans at relatively low temperatures, but also used for the so called hot packs prepared by packing contents such as fruit juice in cans at relatively high temperatures for sterilization. TFS is also used in those cans requiring a high temperature retorting treatment for sterilization at the end of packing of coffee, for example. In the latter applications, there often occurred accidents of rupture of can barrels. This can barrel rupture occurs in cemented TFS cans during hot packing and retorting treatment because hot water penetrates through the coating at the barrel junction to deteriorate the interfacial adhesion between the lacquer film and the TFS substrate to eventually separate the lacquer film from the TFS. The inventors previously proposed in Japanese PatentApplication Kokai No. SHO 57 177998 a method for producing a tin free steel sheet having improved lacquer adhesion by chromium plating a steel strip, subjecting the strip to reverse electrolysis with the strip made the anode, and thereafter subjecting the strip to an electrolytic chromate treatment in an aqueous solution containing hexavalent chromium. The reverse electrolysis may be carried out in the chromium plating solution or in another aqueous solution containing chromium ion, with similar results with respect to lacquer adhesion. It was found that the method characterized by inserting the reverse electrolysis step between the chromium plating and electrolytic chromate treatment steps is fully effective in improving lacquer adhesion.Continuing research, we found that reversely electrolyzed steel strips tend to suppress the growth of a chromium oxide layer thereon during the subsequent electrolytic chromate treatment, as long as the chromate bath contains at least one selected from chromic acid anhydride., chromates and dichromates and concomitant anions such as sulfate , fluoride F and chloride C1 4 ions. The electrolytic chromate treatment then requires a large quantity of electricity in order to deposit the chromium oxide layer to a sufficient thickness to insure improved lacquer adhesion, resulting in an economic loss in commercial production. The surface state of steel strips after chromium plating and reverse electrolysis was examined by the electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis ESCA to find that as compared with the surface state observed after chromium plating, the quantity of sulfur probably in the form of sulfate codeposited in the chromium oxide layer is reduced and the bond energy of 01S is shifted to a lower energy level, that is, from 531.4 eV to 530.1 eV as diagrammatically shown in Fig. 1. This indicates that the proportion of ol linkages Cr OH in the chromium oxide layer is reduced and the proportion of oxo linkages Cr O is increased. This is the reason why the growth of a chromium oxide layer is suppressed on reversely electrolyzed steel strips. The inventors have studied how to promote the growth of a chromium oxide CrOX layer on reversely electrolyzed steel strips without detracting from subsequent lacquer adhesion. We have found that electrolytic chromate treatment may be advantageously carried out in an aqueous chromate solution which contains at least one chromium compound selected from chromic acid anhydride, chromates and dichromates as a main ingredient and at least one selected from sulfuric acid, sulfates, thiocyanates, sulfonic acids, and sulfonates as an assistant ingredient. It is, therefore, an object of the.present invention to provide an electrolytic chromate solution which allows chromium oxides CrOX to be effectively deposited on reversely electrolyzed steel strips without detracting from subsequent lacquer adhesion. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Tin free steel strips or sheets are advantageously produced by the steps of chromium plating a thin steel strip through cathodic electrolysis in a chromium ion containing aqueous solution to form a layer consisting essentially of metallic chromium, reversely electrolyzing the chromium plated steel strip by a successive anodizing treatment in said aqueous solution or in another chromium ion containing aqueous solution, and subjecting the reversely electrolyzed steel strip to an electrolytic chromate treatment in an aqueous solution containing as a main ingredient at least one selected from the group consisting of chromic acid, chromates, and dichromates.In order to improve the adhesion of lacquer to the thus treated steel sheets, the electrolytic chromate treatment should be carried out in the solution which contains as a main ingredient at least one selected from the group consisting of chromic acid, chromates, and dichromates, and as an assistant ingredient at least one selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, sulfates, thiocyanates, sulfonic acids and sulfonates, and has a molar ratio ofH2SO4 CrO3 in the range between 1 1000 and 1 100 provided that the main and assistant ingredients are converted intoCr03 and H2SO4, respectively. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING The above and other objects, features, and advantages of the present invention will be readily understood by reading the following description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a diagram showing 01S peaks measured by theESCA on the surface of chromium plated steel and reversely electrolyzed steel Fig. 2 shows the amount of hydrated chromium oxides as a function of the molar ratio of H2S04 CrO3 in the electrolytic chromate solution Figs. 3a and 3b illustrate a bonded samp.le of lacquered pieces and a testing holder having the sample mounted therein for the evaluation of lacquer adhesion DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The present invention is directed to TFS strips or sheets having a layer of metallic chromium CrM ranging from 50 to 200 mg per square meter on each sheet surface and a layer of hydrated chromium oxides CrOX ranging from 8 to 30 mg of Cr per square meter on the metallic chromium layer. TFS sheets generally have a metallic chromium layer of 50 to 200 mg m2 because thinner layers of less than 50 mg m2 have poor corrosion resistance. Thicker layers exceeding 200 mg m2 do not provide an additional improvement in corrosion resistance. TFS sheets have a layer of hydrated chromium oxides of 8 to 30 mg m2 calculated as metallic chromium because thinner layers of less than 8 mg m2 do not provide the necessary lacquer adhesion. Thicker layers exceeding 30 mg m2 have a poor appearance and are prone to cracking during subsequent processing and thus impractical. The chromate solution in which the electrolytic chromate treatment was carried out contains as a main ingredient at least one chromium compound selected from chromic anhydride, chromates and dichromates. Examples of the chromates and dichromates used herein include potassium chromate K2CrO4, sodium chromate Na2CrO4, ammonium chromate NH4 2CrO4, potassium dichromate K2Cr2O7, sodium dichromate Na2Cr207, and ammonium dichromate NH4 2Cr2O7. The concentration of the chromium compound should be limited to the range of 20 to 200 g of CrO3 per liter of the solution.At chromate concentrations of less than 20 g l of Cr03, the bath voltage must be increased, leading to an electric power loss. Chromate concentrations beyond 200 g l of Cr03 are costly because the loss of CrO3 due to entainment of solution with outgoing steel strips is increased. The assistant ingredient which is intentionally added to the chromate solution is at least one compound which is selected from the group consisting of sulfuric acid, sulfates, thiocyanates, sulfonic acids, and sulfonates.Examples of the sulfates, thiocyanates, and sulfonic acids and sulfonates used herein include potassium sulfate K2SO4, sodium sulfate Na2S04, and ammonium sulfate NH4 2SO4 potassium thiocyanate KSCN, sodium thiocyanate NaSCN, and ammonium thiocyanate NH4SCN and phenoldisulfonic acid and catecholdisulfonic acid and the potassium, sodium, and ammonium salts thereof. The following experiment was carried out to determine the optimum range of the assistant ingredient concentration in the chromate solution. Like the chromate converted intoCrO3, the assistant ingredient is converted into H2SO4 for calculation purpose. The molar ratio of H2 SO4 CrO3 was varied over the range between 1 2000 and 3 100. A number of reversely electrolyzed steel pieces were electrolytically chromated. The amount of hydrated chromium oxides CrOX formed thereon was determined and lacquer adhesion was tested. The results are plotted in Fig. 2 which shows that the assistant ingredient should be present in such concentrations that the molar ratio of H2 SO4 to CrO3 is in the range between 1 1000 and 1 100. In region I where the assistant ingredient is present in concentrations to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 of lower than 1 1000, the assistant ingredient is not effective to assist a chromium oxide layer in growing, failing to achieve the objects of the invention. On the other hand, in region III where the assistant ingredient is present in concentrations to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 of higher than 1 100, the chromate film is stained so that the resulting products become commercially unacceptable.For this reason, the assistant ingredient should be added to the chromate solution in an amount calculated as H2SO4 such as to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 between 1 1000 and 1 100 as shown by hatched region 11 in Fig. 2. It should be noted that the present invention is directed to a method for producing a tin free steel strip comprising chromium plating, reverse electrolysis, and electrolytic chromate treatment. Unless the reverse electrolysis is interposed between the chromium plating and electrolytic chromate treatment, tin free steel strips having improved lacquer adhesion cannot be obtained even if the electrolytic chromate bath contains the assistant ingredient in a concentration to give a molar ratio ofH2SO4 CrO3 in the range between 1 1000 and 1 100. Since a controlled amount of S042 is intentionally added to the electrolytic chromate bath according to the method of the invention, a great amount of metallic chromium is deposited during the electrolytic chromate treatment. The amount of metallic chromium CrM deposited is greater in the presence of reverse electrolysis than in the absence of reverse electrolysis. The method of the invention thus has the additional advantage of a reduced quantity of electricity required for chromium plating. The adhesion of lacquer to chromated steel is evaluated by carrying out both U and T peel tests in the following manner.U peel test As shown in Fig. 3a, a phenol epoxy lacquer was applied to one surface of a treated steel sheet 1 to a build up of 60 mg m2 and baked for 12 minutes at 2100C to form a lacquer film 1A. The same lacquer was applied to one surface of another treated steel sheet 2 to a build up of 25 mg m2 and baked under the same conditions to form another lacquer film 2A. The sheets were cut into pieces of 70 mm wide by 60 mm long. The longitudinal ends of two different pieces were overlapped each other over a distance of 8 mm with a nylon film 3 of 100 cm thick interposed therebetween as shown in Fig. 3a. Using a hot press, these two pieces were preheated at 200 C for 120 seconds and pressure cemented at 200 C for 30 seconds under a pressure of 3 kg cm2. Ten samples 4 were cemented in this manner for each run.The cemented samples 4 were mounted in a rectangular holder 5 as shown in Fig. 3b and placed in a retort kettle filled with steam at 130 0C. Some samples separated at the junction under retorting after 300 minutes. In this U peel test, lacquer adhesion was evaluated good when zero to one sample separated after 300 minute retorting. T peel test A phenol epoxy lacquer was applied to a treated steel sheet to a build up of 50 mg m2 and baked for 12 minutes at 2100C. The baked sheet was cut into pieces of 5 mm wide.A sandwich of two pieces with a nylon adhesive interposed between the lacquer films was cemented under a hot press at 2000C for 30 seconds. The cemented samples were immersed for 7 days in a 0.4 citric acid aqueous solution at 900C. Thereafter, T peel tensile strength was measured to evaluate secondary or wet adhesion of lacquer. In thisT peel test, samples whose T peel tensile strength was 2.5 kg 5 mm or more after 7 day immersion in 0.4 citric acid solution at 900C were evaluated good. Samples which passed both the U and T peel tests were evaluated to have excellent secondary or wet adhesion of lacquer. Examples of the present invention are presented by way of illustration and not by way of limitation.Examples Cold rolled steel sheets T4CA having a thickness of 0.22 mm were electrolytically degreased in a 5 homezarine solution at 80 0C, rinsed with water, immersed in a 10 H2 SO4 for 5 seconds for pickling, rinsed again with water, and then subjected to the following treatments in sequence 1 chromium plating, 2 reverse electrolysis, and 3 electrolytic chromate treatment. Steps 1 and 2 were successively carried out in the same electrolytic bath. These steps were carried out in the following conditions. 1 chromium plating Plating bath composition Bath A at a temperature of 50 0C CrO3 150 g l H2SO4 0.8 g l Na2SiF6 7 g l Cr3 3 g l Bath B at a temperature of 60 C CrO3 250 g l H2 504 2.5 g l Cr3 4 g l Electrolytic conditions Cathodic treatment Current density 50 A dm2 Time 1.2 seconds 2 Reverse electrolysis The steel sheets were subjected to reverse electrolysis 2 at a current density of 5 A dm2 for 0.2 seconds or at a current density of 15 A dm2 for 0.1 seconds while the sheet was made the anode in the same bath as used for chromium plating. For comparison sake, some steel sheets were not subjected to reverse electrolysis. 3 Electrolytic chromate treatment Cathodic treatment was carried out with an electricity quantity of 10 to 20 coulomb dm2 using various chromate baths based on CrO3 and Na2Cr2O7 and containing varying concentrations of the assistant H2SO4 at a temperature of 0 40 C. For comparison sake, one chromate bath was free ofH2 504. By carrying out 1 chromium plating, 2 reverse electrolysis, and 3 electrolytic chromate treatment in succession, there were prepared TFS sheets. The amount of chromium oxides CrOX formed on the TFS sheets was determined by X ray fluorometry and the amount of metallic chromium CrM was determined by electrolytic analysis.The U and T peel tests were carried out to evaluate lacquer adhesion after retorting. The results are shown inTable 1. Table 1Chromium plating Reverse electrolysis Electrolytic chromate treatmentCurrent Electricity Current Electricity CrO3 H2SO4 H2SO4 Electricity density quantity density quantity CrO3 quantityExample Bath A dm2 C dm2 A dm2 C dm2 mol 1 mol 1 mol ratio C dm2 1 A 50 60 5 1.0 0.6 3 x 10 4 5 10,000 15 2 40 3 x 10 3 5 1,000 3 60 0 0 4 40 5 1.0 3 x 10 2 2 100 5 15 0.1 1.0 9 x 10 3 9 1,000 10 6 B 6 x 10 3 6 1,000 7 5 1.0 2 x 10 3 2 1,000 8 A 9 x 10 3 9 1,000 60 9 B 10 50 60 Na2Cr2O7 6 x 10 3 6 1,000 15 11 Na2Cr2O7 3 x 10 3 5 1,000 0.6 comparison Table 1 con d Surface properties Wet lacquer adhesionOverallSamples separated T peel evaluationCrOX CrM after retorting at strength of wet 130 C 10 samples kg 5mm lacquerExample mg m2 mg m2 150 min. 300 min. Initial After immersion adhesion Appearance 1 7 100 2 8 6.8 2.5 poor good 2 15 102 0 0 7.0 4.1 good 3 18 110 9 10 6.0 0 poor 4 10 98 0 2 6.9 0 good poor 5 11 100 0 0 6.5 4.0 good 6 12 102 0 0 6.3 4.2 7 16 105 0 1 6.4 3.9 8 28 103 7 10 6.0 0 poor 9 28 97 8 10 4.0 0 10 15 100 0 0 6.8 4.3 good 11 14 103 0 0 6.9 4.0 comparison In Example 1 comparison , chromium plating 1 is followed by reverse electrolysis 2 and then by electrolytic chromate treatment in a bath containing H2 SO4 in such a lower concentration as to give a molar ratio ofH2SO4 CrO3 of 1 2000. A smaller quantity of chromium oxide CrOX was present and the wet secondary lacquer adhesion was unsatisfactory. Unlike Example 1 comparison , Example 2 used an electrolytic chromate bath having a proper H2 504 concentration to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 of 1 200, yielding a sufficient quantity of chromium oxide CrOX which ensures the improved wet lacquer adhesion. Example 3 comparison used an electrolytic chromate bath having the same H2 SO4 CrO3 ratio as in Example 2, but omitted reverse electrolysis 2 . The elimination of reverse electrolysis 2 resulted in inferior wet lacquer adhesion irrespective of an increased quantity of chromium oxide. Example 4 comparison carried out chromium plating 1 and reverse electrolysis 2 followed by electrolytic chromate treatment in a bath containing H2 SO4 in such a higher concentration as to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 of 2 100. Although wet lacquer adhesion was satisfactory, products were stained to a commercially unacceptable level. In Examples 5 through 7, chromium plating 1 and reverse electrolysis 2 were followed by electrolytic chromate treatment in a bath having a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 in the range of 1 1000 to 1 100, that is, the specific range according to the present invention.Sufficient quantities of chromium oxide were present and the wet lacquer adhesion was superior. Examples 8 and 9 comparison carried out reverse electrolysis anodic treatment 2 and electrolytic chromate treatment cathodic treatment 3 without chromium plating cathodic treatment 1 , failing to provide improved lacquer adhesion. These data, suggest that improved lacquer adhesion cannot be accomplished unless the series of three essential steps, that is, chromium plating 1 , reverse electrolysis 2 , and electrolytic chromate treatment 3 are carried out and unless an assistant ingredient capable of generating sulfate ion is intentionally added to the electrolytic chromate bath in such an amount as to give a molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 in the range of 1 1000 to 1 100. With these requirements met, TFS sheets having improved lacquer adhesion can be manufactured at a commercially acceptable cost. Although in the above described embodiment, reference is made to electrolytic chromate treatment in a bath containing Cr03 and Na2Cr207 as the main ingredient and H SO as the assistant ingredient, it should be understood 24 that similar effects are obtained when other compounds are selected as the main and assistant ingredients from the above described groups as long as the molar ratio of H2SO4 CrO3 falls within the optimum range as specified in the present invention.