# POWER ASSIST STEERING GEAR ASSEMBLY

## Claims
Servolenkungsanordnung für Fahrzeuge mit einem elektrischen Umlaufmotor 8 , einer Übertragungseinrichtung 4 zur Verbindung mit einer von einem Fahrer betätigbaren Lenkeinrichtung 1 zum Abfühlen einer darauf ausgeübten Lenkkraft und zur Abgabe eines entsprechenden Ausgangssignals, einer Motorsteuereinrichtung 11 , die entsprechend dem Ausgangssignal der Übertragungseinrichtung einen Lenkungsunterstützungsoutput des Motors festlegt, und mit einer Rotation in Translation umwandelnden Einrichtung 33, 29, 30 , die mit dem Output des Motors 8 zur Translationsbewegung eines Lenkteils 7 mit Kraftunterstützung des Motors verbunden ist, wobei die Rotation in Translation umwandelnde Einrichtung mit einem langgestreckten Lenkteil 7 verbunden ist, das axial in entgegengesetzten Richtungen zum Lenken des Fahrzeugs aufgrund einer mechanischen Kupplung 16, 17 bewegbar ist, die zwischen dem langgestreckten Lenkteil 7 und der von dem Fahrer betätigbaren Lenkeinrichtung 1 angeordnet ist,

## Description
This invention relates to a power assisted steering assembly for a vehicle which uses an electric motor as a power source to reduce or assist the steering force required for steering the vehicle. Steering devices are know which are of manually operated type and other devices of power assisted type are also known. In steering devices of the latter type, the steering force is reduced or assisted by the application of power. Power assisted steering devices can further be grouped into electric and hydraulic types. The electric type of power steering device, as compared with the hydraulic type does not require an oil pump as a power source. Such an oil pump is normally directly connected to the engine and affects the engine output and therefore electric power sources have various merits in that they do not detract from the engine power output, that there is no possibility of leakage, contamination, deterioration or the like of the hydraulic operating oil and maintenance is easy because such operating oil is not used, that hydraulic piping is not necessary and instead, electric wiring is only required and thus assembly is easy, and that an inexpensive system can be expected because a highly accurate and delicate device such as an oil pressure control valve is not necessary. Various electrically operated power assisted steering arrangements are known in the art. JP A 5547963 for example discloses a power assisted steering arrangement wherein power assistance is by means of an electric motor which drives gears through a centrifugal clutch. A ball, screw and nut arrangement transmits the force from the motor to a member which causes turning movement of the vehicle wheels. The electric motor, the clutch, the gears and the ball, screw and nut arrangement are all pivotally mounted as a unit. EP A 0101579, which belongs to the state of the art under the provisions of Article 54 3 EPC for all countries designated in the present application with the exception of Belgium, discloses an electrically operated power assisted steering apparatus having an elongate axially movable steering member coupled with a steering wheel by means of rack and pinion gearing, the rack being formed on the elongate steering member, and having a steering assisting electric motor coupled to the elongate steering member by means of a ball, screw and nut arrangement. The operation of the electric motor is determined by a torque transducer which senses torque in the steering column of a vehicle when the steering wheel is turned. The ball, screw and nut arrangement provides a low friction coupling between the electric motor and the elongate steering member and the rack and pinion gearing provides a direct coupling between the steering column and the elongate steering member which is effective for steering the vehicle even in the event of failure of the power assistance. Other prior art disclosures of electrically powered steering arrangements for vehicles are contained in US A 1231885, US A 2587377, US A 3983953, US A 4223254, GB A 1395954, DE A 2363080, DE A 3402332, and JP A 5544013 for example. It is not believed that any of these prior art arrangements have seen any significant commercial exploitation. As considered in relation to the abovementioned prior art documents with the exception of EP A 0101579, the present invention provides a power assisted steering assembly for vehicles comprising a rotary electric motor, transducer means for association with a driver operable steering control for sensing a steering force applied thereto and providing a corresponding output signal, motor control means responsive to the output of said transducer means for determining the provision of a steering assisting output from said motor, and rotation to translation converting means associated with the output of said motor for translationally moving a steering member with power assistance from the motor, said rotation to translation converting means being associated with an elongate steering member which is movable axially in opposite directions for steering the vehicle by virtue of a mechanical coupling being provided between said elongate steering member and said driver operable steering control and comprising a ball, screw and nut arrangement for coupling the motor to said elongate steering member, the motor being arranged for driving the nut of said ball, screw and nut arrangement thereby assisting axial movement of said elongate steering member by virtue of the application of a driving force through the balls of the ball, screw and nut arrangements to a screw thread formed on said elongate member. As considered in relation to all of the abovementioned prior art documents including EP A 0101579, the present invention provides such a power assisted steering assembly wherein the motor is axially or transversely spaced apart from the ball, screw and nut arrangement with respect to the axial direction of said elongate steering member. As will be appreciated from consideration of the following the present invention provides an electric type of power assisted steering device which, at least as regards the described embodiments, can be easily incorporated into a limited space within an automotive vehicle, the device comprising an electric motor portion and a movement converting ball, screw and nut mechanism, for converting the rotational movement of the motor into rectilinear movement of the steering member, which are made into units, respectively, and can be easily incorporated into an allowed space within an automotive vehicle. The above and further features of the present invention are set forth in the appended claims and will become fully apparent from consideration of the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein Figure 1 shows a system incorporating an embodiment of an electric power assisted steering device according to the present invention Figure 2 is a cross sectional view showing the embodiment of Figure 1 in more detail Figure 3 is an enlarged cross sectional view of essential portions of the embodiment of Figure 1 Figure 4 is a cross sectional view of a rack bushing portion of the embodiment of Figure 1 Figure 5 is a cross sectional view showing essential portions of a modification of the Figure 1 embodiment Figure 6 is a view similar to Figure 1 but showing an in line embodiment of the invention and Figure 7 is a cross sectional view of the embodiment of Figure 6. Referring to Figure 1 which shows a steering device for a vehicle provided with an electrical power assist steering mechanism according to the present invention, reference numeral 1 designates a steering wheel and reference numeral 2 denotes a steering shaft to which the steering wheel is secured. The steering shaft 2 is connected to a pinion shaft 5 through a universal joint 6. The pinion shaft 5 has a pinion gear 16 see Figure 2 at the end thereof, the pinion gear 16 meshing with a rack 17 formed on an elongated power transmitting member 7 leftwardly and rightwardly movably provided on a steering device body 3 which will later be described. The steering device body 3 which is a motion converting mechanism unit for converting a steering rotation input into a rectilinear movement for pivoting of the dirigible wheels of the vehicle is provided with a power assisting motor unit 8 as a separate member. The rotation output from the motor unit 8 drives the power transmitting member 7 through rotation transmitting means including electromagnetic clutch means 9, and the mechanism from transmitting rotation from the motor unit to the power transmitting member 7 will later be described in detail by reference to Figures 2 and 3. The steering shaft 2 is provided with a torque detector 4 for detecting the torque applied to the steering wheel, and the output of the torque detector 4 is connected to a control circuit 11. The control circuit 11 in turn may be connected to other input sources such as a vehicle speed detector 13 as required. Designated by 12 is an electric power source. The control circuit 11 is connected to the electric motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9 and controls the electric motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9 on the basis of the information of the torque applied to the steering shaft and or the vehicle speed, but this control circuit is not directly related to the present invention ond therefore need not be described in detail. Generally, the body 3 is fixed to the vehicle by brackets 14 and 15. Ball joints not shown are mounted at the opposite ends of the power transmitting member 7 and are connected to dirigible wheels not shown through knuckle arms or the like in a known manner. The body 3 of the electric type power assisting steering mechanism which is an embodiment of the present invention will now be described in detail by reference particularly to Figures 2 and 3. As previously described, reference numeral 16 designates the pinion gear formed on the pinion shaft 5 and reference numeral 17 denotes the rack gear having rectilinear teeth formed on the power transmitting member 7. Reference numeral 18 designates a pressure pad subjected to a load in the radial direction of the power transmitting member 7, i.e., the direction perpendicular to the lengthwise direction thereof, reference numeral 19 denotes a spring which imparts a meshing pre pressure to the helical pinion gear 16 and the rack gear 17 through the pad 18, reference numeral 20 designates a lid member which can adjust the meshing pre pressure, reference numeral 21 denotes a locking nut for fixing the lid member 20, and reference numeral 22 designates a housing member. On the other hand, a worm 29 is formed on another location on the power transmitting member, and a ball nut 30 surrounding a part of the worm 29 is provided. In the case of the present embodiment, the ball nut 30 is provided with two ball circulation paths 30a and 30b, and a number of balls 33 only one of which is shown are disposed to be circulated in these ball circulation paths 30a, 30b and between the ball nut 30 and the worm groove corresponding thereto and thus, the worm 29, the ball nut 30 and the balls 33 together constitute ball screw and nut means known per se as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 2,380,662. The ball nut 30 has its opposite ends rotatably supported on the housing 22 by ball bearings 26 and 27. The ball nut 30 has a flange 30c to which a gear 24 is secured. The gear 24 is in mesh engagement with a pinion gear 23 for taking out the rotation output of the electric motor unit 8 through the electromagnetic clutch 9 which will later be described . The gears 23 and 24 together constitute rotation transmitting means for transmitting the rotation output of the electric motor unit 8 to the ball nut 30 at a predetermined reduction gear ratio. Thus, in response to the forward or reverse rotation output of the motor unit 8, the ball nut 30 also rotates in the forward or reverse direction and in response to this rotation of the ball nut 30, the power transmitting member 7 rectinearly moves rightwardly or leftwardly. Reference numeral 230 designates a lid member for imparting a pre pressure to the bearings 26 and 27, reference numearl 231 denotes a locking nut for fixing the lid member 230, and reference numeral 232 designates a rack bushing for receiving the load in the radial direction of the rack shaft 7 as will later be described. The construction of the motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9 will now be described in detail by reference particularly to Figure 3. The motor unit 8 has a housing comprised of a cylindrical housing body 100 and opposite side members 101, 102 secured thereto. A stator 107 is provided on the inner peripheral portion of the housing body 100. A rotary shaft 104 is rotatably but axially immovably supported at the centers of the opposite side members 101 and 102 by bearings 105 and 106. A rotor 108 is provided on the motor shaft 104 in radially facing relationship with the motor stator 107. The rotor 108 is provided with an electromagnetic coil and is supplied with an electric power from the control circuit 11 through brushes 109, but the motor itself is of a conventional structure and need not be described in detail. In the case of the present embodiment, the motor unit 8 is so disposed above the rack 17 that the rotary shaft 104 is substantially parallel to the power transmitting member 7. The motor unit 8 or the rotary shaft 104 may be disposed at any desired position about the power transmitting member 7 or in suitably inclined relationship with respect to the power transmitting member 7 in accordance with the space in the vehicle in which the present steering device is installed, or may be provided oppositely in direction to the case of the present embodiment. In such a case, the rotation transmitting means for transmitting the motor output to the ball nut 30 is suitably modified. The rotary shaft 104 of the motor has a portion 104a outwardly projecting through the side member 102 of the housing, and a conical member 110 is secured to the portion 104a. The conical member 110 has a ring member 111 secured to the enlarged end portion thereof. A plate spring 112 is secured to the side surface of the ring member 111, and a rotation transmitting plate 113 formed of a magnetic material is secured to the plate spring 112. On the other hand, a clutch housing 120 is secured to the aforementioned steering mechanism housing 22 and the motor housing side plate 102, and a support ring 121 is secured to a portion of the inner peripheral surface of the clutch housing 120. An annular electromagnetic coil 123 is disposed on the support ring 121. The electromagnetic coil 123 is connected to the control circuit 11 Figure 1 and is ON OFF controlled by the control circuit 11. A shaft 127 is rotatably supported in the inner peripheral surface of the support ring 121 through ball bearings 125 and 126. That end portion of this shaft 127 which is adjacent to the motor is supported by the aforementioned conical member 110 and ring member 111 through a ball bearing 129. A friction disk 130 is secured to the shaft 127. A friction lining 130a or the like is suitably provided on that side of the friction disk 130 which faces the rotation transmitting member 113. The aforementioned pinion gear 23 is secured to the opposite end portion of the shaft 127. With such a construction, the rotation transmitting member 113 is normally biased to the right as viewed in Fgiure 3 by the action of the plate spring 112 and is in non engagement with the friction disk 113, but when the electromagnetic coil 123 is energized, the rotation transmitting member 113 is attracted leftwardly toward the electromagnetic coil 123 as viewed in Figure 3 with a result that the rotation transmitting member 113 comes into frictional engagement with the friction disk 130 and becomes capable of transmitting the rotation output of the motor to the shaft 127 and the pinion gear 23. As shown in Figure 5, the rotation transmitting plate 113 axially movable by the action of the electromagnetic coil, the plate spring 112 and the members 110, 111 may be connected to the pinion gear 23 and the axially immovable friction disk 130 and the shaft 127 may be mounted on the rotary shaft 104 of the motor. In the above described construction, the rack gear 17 and the worm 29 of the ball screw are formed at discrete locations on the power transmitting member 7. The pinion gear 16 is in mesh engagement with the rack gear 17 to transmit rotation of the steering wheel 1 in the lengthwise direction of the power transmitting member 7 and also cooperates with the pressure pad 18 to prevent the power transmitting member 7 from rotating about the lengthwisely central axis thereof. On the other hand, the nut 30 of the ball screw is supported by the bearings 26 and 27 through the balls 33 so as to be rotatable relative to the housing member 22 and is combined with the worm 29. The reduction gear 24 is formed integrally with the nut 30, and this gear 24 meshes with the pinion gear 23 to transmit the output of the electric motor unit 8 disposed parallel to the axis of the power transmitting member 7 to the reduction gear 24 through the clutch 9 and convert the rotation output of the electric motor unit 8 into a movement in the lengthwise direction of the power transmitting member 7. The control circuit 11 receives from the torque detector 4 and or the vehicle speed detector 13 electrical signals corresponding to the then steering wheel shaft torque and vehicle speed, respectively, processes these signals in a predetermined manner and outputs control signals to the electric motor unit 8 and the clutch 9. Thus, the electric motor unit 8 is controlled so that change over between manual steering and power steering is effected by the clutch 9 being suitably disengaged or engaged and that a suitable output is obtained in conformity with the torque and vehicle speed detected during the power steering. For example, during the low speed running in which the steering power is heaviest, the clutch 9 can be engaged to control the electric motor unit 8 so that an output corresponding to the detected torque is obtained and the steering power applied to the steering wheel 1 is reduced by an amount corresponding to the output of the motor unit 8, and during the high speed running in which the steering power is light and a more direct steering sense is required, the clutch 9 can be disengaged to provide manual steering and further, during the power assist steering, the output of the electric motor unit 8 can be controlled with the vehicle speed and the angle of steering being also taken into account. Also, to secure the fail safe, it is necessary to disengage the clutch 9 by the control circuit 11 so as to ensure manual steering to take place when abnormality occurs. Operation will hereinafter be described. When the clutch is not in its operative condition, the output shaft of the electric motor unit 8 and the shaft of the pinion gear 23 of speed reduction means are separated from each other. When the steering wheel 1 is operated in this state, the rotation thereof is converted into a movement in the axial direction of the power transmitting member 7 by the mesh engagement between the pinion gear 16 and the rack gear 17, and the direction of the dirigible wheels is determined through a ball joint and a knuckle arm, not shown. This operation is the same as that of the popular manual rack and pinion type steering device. When the clutch 9 is in its operative condition, the output shaft of the electric motor unit 8 and the shaft of the pinion gear 23 of speed reduction means are coupled together. When the steering wheel 1 is operated in this state, the steering wheel shaft torque corresponding to the load which the power transmitting member 7 receives from outside is detected by the torque detector 4 and is transmitted to the control circuit 11. Also, from the vehicle speed detector 13, the vehicle speed is transmitted to the control circuit 11. As previously described, the output of the electric motor unit 8 is controlled with a predetermined characteristic on the basis of these signals, and this output is transmitted to the power transmitting member 7 highly efficiently and at a great reduction gear ratio through the pinion gear 23, the reduction gear 24 and the ball screws 30, 33, 29. Figure 4 exaggeratingly illustrates an example of the bushing 32 which receives the load in the radial direction of the power transmitting member used in this electric type power assist steering device. The radial load on the side of the ball screw and nut means of the power transmitting member 7 is basically received by the bearings 26 and 27 through the ball screw portion, but as a countermeasure for bad road running or the like, it is desirable that the bushing 32 as shown in Figure 4 be formed by the use of an elastic material such as resin and in a range in which the radial load is small, the elastic deformability of the bushing be set to a great value so that almost all of the load is received by the bearings 26 and 27 through the ball screw and nut portion and when the amount of elastic deformation of the ball screw and nut portion and bearings 26 and 27 increases with the load exceeding a certain set value, the bushing 32 comes into contact with the housing 22 so as to directly receive a radial load exceeding a predetermined value. Besides the above described effect, this rack bushing 32 only contacts the power transmitting member 7 at several points in a normal range of steering in which the radial load is small, by being combined with the ball screw and nut means, and therefore the friction resulting from the axial movement of the power transmitting member 7 by the ball screws and nut means is small and light steering is possible and when a great radial load acts on the bushing from outside, the bushing 32 is deformed to increase the surface pressure of the surface contacting the power transmitting member 7, whereby friction is increased to prevent kick back and enhance the steering sense. In the above described embodiment, an actuator adopting ball screw and nut means is combined with the rack and pinion type steering device, and this eliminates the necessity of discretely providing a mechanism for preventing rotation of the worm 29 formed on the power transmitting member 7 which is indispensable in a ball screw and nut type direct acting actuator. Also, the reduction gear 24 is formed integrally with the nut 30 and is connected to the clutch 9 and the electric motor unit 8 through the pinion gear 23 which is in mesh engagement with the reduction gear 24 and therefore, the great reduction gear ratio which can also be obtained only by the ball and nut means screws can be made further greater so as to enable a compact, light weight, highly efficient electric motor to be used and also enable the electric motor unit 8 and the clutch 9 to be mounted in parallelism along the power transmitting member 7, and this is very advantageous in terms of the space for mounting the electric motor unit 8 and the clutch 9. Further, the reduction gear 24 formed integrally with the nut 30 can be made into a helical gear of resin, thereby reducing the inertia efficiency and enhancing the responsiveness of the steering and also decreasing gear noise. Now, in the above described embodiment, the torque detector 4 may be any of conventional ones using a strain gauge or magnetic strain and may also be installed on the pinion shaft 5. Also, the above described embodiment adopts a form in which the opposite ends of the power transmitting member 7 which is output shaft means are connected to the dirigible wheels through a ball joint, a knuckle arm, etc., but the present invention is also applicable to a so called center take off type device in which the central portion of the output shaft means is connected to the dirigible wheels. According to the embodiments described above, the output of the electric motor is transmitted through the reduction gear means and ball screw and nut means and this leads to a simple, compact and highly efficient structure and permits the use of s versatile electric motor generally having high speed and low torque characteristics. Further, according to the embodiments, the dirigible device portion including ball screw and nut means and a rack and pinion and the power assisting means by the motor are made into separate units, respectively, and therefore, even if the disposition of the motor is limited by the shape of the engine crank case, the differential gear case or the like of the automotive vehicle, it is possible to mount the motor in a location where there is a space and thus, it becomes possible to apply the electrical power assist steering device to small automotive vehicles. Furthermore, according to the embodiments, there is provided an electric type steering device in which the influence of the magnetism and heating of the power assisting electric motor portion is not imparted to the mechanism for converting a rotational movement into a rectilinear movement. Still further, according to the embodiments, there is provided an electric type steering device in which when the assisting power from the motor is being intercepted, the connection between the motor and the aforementioned converting mechanism is completely shut off to minimize the steering wheel torque and provide good return of the steering wheel. Furthermore, a power assisting electric motor and a mechanism for converting rotation to linear movement including rack and pinion gear means and ball screw and nut means, are made into separate units so that the electric motor unit may be disposed at a desired location, and therefore the electric type steering devices of the above embodiments can be assembled in various cars with no modification of the engine crank case as well as the differential gear case. Referring now to Figures 6 and 7 which show a steering device for automotive vehicle provided with an in line electric type power assist steering mechanism according to the present invention, reference numeral 1 designates a steering wheel and reference numeral 2 denotes a steering shaft to which the steering wheel is secured. The steering shaft 2 is connected to a pinion shaft 5 through a universal joint 6. The pinion shaft 5 has a pinion gear 16 see Figure 7 at the end thereof, and the pinion gear 16 is in mesh engagement with a rack 17 formed in an elongated power transmitting member 7 provided for movement to the left and right on a steering device body portion 3 which will later be described. A power assisting motor unit 8 is provided on the steering device body portion 3 which is a movement converting mechanism for converting the rotational input for steering into a rectilinear movement for pivoting of the dirigible wheels of the vehicle. The rotational output from the motor unit 8 drives the power transmitting member 7 through rotation transmitting means including electromagnetic clutch means 9, and the rotation tranmitting means from the motor unit to the power transmitting member 7 will later be described in detail. The steering shaft 2 is provided with a torque detector 4 for detecting the torque applied to the steering wheel, and the output of the torque detector 4 is connected to a control circuit 11. The control circuit 11 in turn may be connected to other input source such as a vehicle speed detector 13 as required. Designated by 12 is an electric power source. The control circuit 11 is connected to the electric motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9 and controls the electric motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9 on the basis of the torque applied to the steering shaft and or information such as vehicle speed, but this control circuit is not directly related to the present invention and therefore need not be described in detail. Generally, the body 3 is fixed to the vehicle by brackets 14 and 15. Ball joints not shown are mounted on the opposite ends of the power transmitting member 7 and are connected to the dirigible wheel not shown through a knuckle arm or the like in a known manner. Reference is now had particularly to Figure 7 to describe the electric type power assist steering mechanism which is an embodiment of the present invention. As previously described, reference numeral 16 designates the pinion gear formed on the pinion shaft 5 and reference numeral 17 denotes the rack gear having rectilinear teeth formed on the power transmitting member 7. Reference numeral 18 designates a pressure pad subjected to the load in the radial direction of the power transmitting member 7, i.e., the direction perpendicular to the lengthwise direction, reference numeral 19 denotes a spring for imparting a meshing pre pressure to the helical pinion gear 16 and the rack gear 17 through the pad 18, reference numeral 20 designates a lid member for enabling the meshing pre pressure to be adjusted, reference numeral 21 denotes a locking nut for fixing the lid member 20, and reference numeral 22 designates a housing member. On the other hand, a worm 29 is formed at the other location on the power transmitting member 7, and a ball nut 25 is provided which surrounds a part of the worm 29. In the case of the present embodiment, the ball nut 25 is provided with two ball circulation paths 25a and 25b, and a number of balls 33 only one of which is shown in these circulation paths 25a and 25b and between the ball nut 25 and the worm groove corresponding thereto and thus, the worm 29, the ball nut 25 and the balls 33 together constitute ball screw and nut means known per se as is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 2,380,662. The ball nut 25 has its opposite ends rotatably supported on a housing 30 by ball bearings 26 and 27. Reference numeral 130 designates a lid member for imparting a pre pressure to the bearings 26 and 27, reference numeral 131 denotes a lock nut for adjusting the lid member 130, and reference numeral 132 designates a rack bushing subjected to the load in the radial direction of the power transmitting member 7. The motor unit 8 has a housing comprising a cylindrical housing body 100 and opposite side members 101 and 102 secured thereto. In the present embodiment, the right side member 101 is formed integrally with the housing 22 of rack and pinion gear means, but alternatively the former may be separate from the latter. A stator 107 is provided on the inner peripheral portion of the housing member 100. A rotary shaft 104 is rotatably but axially immovably supported at the central portions of the opposite side members 101 and 102 by bearings 105 and 106. A rotor 108 is secured to the rotary shaft 104 in radially facing relationship with the motor stator 107. An electromagnetic coil 107a is provided on the motor stator and is supplied with electric power from the control circuit 11 shown in Figure 6, but the construction of the motor itself is conventional and therefore need not be described in detail herein. The rotary shaft 104 of the motor is in the form of a hollow cylinder and the power transmitting member 7 extends through the interior thereof. Thus, the motor structure comprising the housings 100, 101, 102, the stator 107, the rotor 108 and the rotary shaft 104 is arranged coaxially with the power transmitting member 7. The rotary shaft 104 of the motor has a portion 104a extending through the housing side member 102 and projecting into a clutch housing 109 which will later be described. The clutch housing 109 is a cylindrical member secured at one end thereof to the motor housing side plate 102 and at the other end thereof to the housing 30 of the ball screw and nut means. A cylindrical member 110 is secured to the portion 104a of the rotary shaft 104 of the motor which projects into the clutch housing, and a friction disc 110a is radially formed integrally with the end portion of the cylindrical member 110. The friction disc 110a is provided with a friction lining 111. A support ring 115 is secured to a portion of the inner peripheral surface of the clutch housing 109 which is adjacent to the motor. An annular electromagnetic coil 116 is disposed on the support ring 115. The electromagnetic coil 116 is connected to the control circuit 11 Figure 6 and is ON OFF controlled by the control circuit 11. On the other hand, a flange member 25c secured to the nut member 25 of the aforementioned ball screw and nut means is within the clutch housing 109. A rotation transmitted friction disc 124 is secured to the flange member 25c through a radially outwardly extending plate spring 117. The friction disc 124 is formed of a magnetic material and has a surface opposed to the friction lining 111 of the aforementioned friction disc 110a, and is normally biased to the left as viewed in Figure 7 by the action of the plate spring 117, and the friction transmitted member 124 is normally out of engagement with the friction disc 110a, but when the electromagnetic coil 116 is energized, the friction transmitted member 124 is attracted to the electromagnetic coil 116 rightwardly as viewed in Figure 7 and as a result, the friction transmitted member 124 comes into frictional engagement with the friction disc 110a to thereby become capable of transmitting the rotation output of the motor to the nut 25. In the above described construction, the rack gear 17 of the rack and pinion gear means and the worm 29 of the ball screw and nut means are formed at different locations on the power transmitting member 7. The pinion gear 16 is in mesh engagement with the rack gear 17 to convert the rotation of the steering wheel 1 into a linear movement of the power transmitting member 7 and also cooperates with the pressure pad 18 to prevent the power transmitting member 7 from rotating about the lengthwise center axis thereof. On the other hand, the nut 25 of the ball screw and nut means is supported by the bearings 26 and 27 through the balls 33 so as to be rotatable relative to the housing member 30 and is combined with the worm 29. The friction plate 124 is mounted on the flange member 25c secured to the nut 25, through the plate spring 117 and, when the electromagnetic coil 116 is ON or energized, this friction plate 124 meshes with the other friction member 111 against the force of the plate spring 117, and thereby the output shaft 104 of the electric motor spline coupled to the tubular portion 110 which is integral with the flange member 110a having the friction member 111 is drivingly connected to the nut 25. When the coil 116 is OFF or deenergized, the friction plate 124 is pulled toward the nut 25 by the plate spring 117 and the two friction plates 111 and 124 are separated from each other and thus, the output of the electric motor unit 8 is not transmitted to the nut 25. When the output of the electric motor unit 8 is transmitted, the ball screw and nut means converts the rotational output of the motor unit into the axial or linear movement of the power transmitting member 7 into the right or left direction and at this time, the power transmitting member 7 receives a reaction force which tends to rotate it, but the power transmitting member 7 is designed such that it is not rotated with the aid of the reaction forces of the portion of mesh engagement between the pinion gear 16 and the rack gear 17 and the pressure pad 18 as previously described. The control circuit 11 receives as inputs from the torque detector 4 and the vehicle speed detector 13 electrical signals corresponding to the steering shaft torque and vehicle speed, respectively, and processes these signals in a predetermined manner and puts out control signals to the electric motor unit 8 and the electromagnetic clutch 9. Thus, by suitably engaging or disengaging the electromagnetic clutch 9, the electric motor unit 8 is controlled so that change over between manual steering and power steering is effected or a suitable output is obtained in conformity with the torque and vehicle speed detected during power assist steering. For example, during the low speed running when the steering force is heaviest, the clutch 9 may be engaged to control the electric motor unit 8 so that an output corresponding to the detected torque may be obtained, and the steering force applied to the steering wheel 1 may be reduced by an amount corresponding to such output, or when the steering force is light and a more direct steering sense is required as during the high speed running, the electromagnetic clutch 9 may be disengaged and manual steering may be adopted and further, during power assist steering, the output of the electric motor unit 8 may be controlled with the vehicle speed and the angle of steering taken into account. Also, to secure the fail safe, it is necessary to disengage the electromagnetic clutch 9 by the control circuit 11 so that manual steering may be adopted whenever abnormality occurs. Operation will hereinafter be described. When the electromagnetic clutch 9 is disengaged or not in its operative condition, the output shaft 104 of the electric motor unit 8 and the nut 25 are separated from each other. When the steering wheel 1 is operated in this condition, the rotation thereof is converted into the axial or rectilinear movement of the power transmitting member 7 by the mesh engagement between the pinion gear 16 and the rack gear 17 and determines the direction of the dirigible wheels through a ball joint and a knuckle arm, not shown. This operation is the same as the operation of the popular manually operated rack and pinion type steering device. When the electromagnetic clutch 9 is engaged or in its operative condition, the output shaft 104 of the electric motor unit 8 and the nut 25 are coupled together. When the steering wheel 1 is operated in this condition, the steering shaft torque corresponding to the load which the power transmitting member 7 receives from the outside is detected by the torque detector 4 and is transmitted to the control circuit 11, and the vehicle speed is also transmitted from the vehicle speed detector 13 to the control circuit 11. As previously described, on the basis of these signals, the output of the electric motor unit 8 is controlled with a predetermined characteristic, and this output is transmitted to the power transmitting member 7 through the ball screw and nut means 25, 33, 29 at high efficiency and reduction gear ratio. A bushing 32 as shown in Figure 4 may be provided to receive the load in the radial direction of the power transmitting member 7. The radial load on the ball screw and nut means side of the power transmitting member 7 is basically received by the bearings 26 and 27 through the ball screw and nut means, but as a countermeasure for the running on a bad road, it is desirable that the bushing 32 as shown in Figure 4 be formed by the use of an elastic material such as resin and in a small range of radial load, the elastic deformability of the bushing be set to a great value so that almost all of the load is received by the bearings 26 and 27 through the ball screw and nut means and the bushing 32 be designed to contact the housing 22 and directly receive a radial load exceeding a predetermined value when the load exceeds a certain set value and the amount of deformation of the ball screw and nut means and the bearings 26, 27 is increased. In addition to the above described effect, this rack bushing 32 contacts the power transmitting member 7 only at several points in the normal range of steering in which the radial load is small, by being combined with the ball screw and nut means and therefore, the friction resulting from the axial or rectilinear movement of the power transmitting member 7 by the ball screw and nut means is small and thus, light steering is possible and when a great radial load acts from the outside, the bushing 32 is deformed and the surface pressure of the surface which is in contact with the power transmitting member 7 is increased, whereby the friction is increased to prevent kick back and improve the steering sense. A gear type speed reduction device or the like is not used between the electric motor unit 8 and the nut 25, and this leads to a simple structure of high efficiency low friction loss and low noise, which in turn leads to compactness and light weight of the device. Now, in the above described embodiment, the torque detector 4 may be any conventional one using a strain gauge or magnetic strain and may be installed on the pinion shaft 5. Also, the above described embodiment adopts a form in which the opposite ends of the power transmitting member 7 which is output shaft means are connected to the dirigible wheels through a ball joint, a knuckle arm, etc., but the present invention is also applicable to the so called center take off type one in which the central portion of the output shaft means is connected to the dirigible wheels. According to the last embodiment, as described above, a ball screw and nut means type actuator is combined with the rack and pinion gear type steering device and this eliminates the necessity of separately providing a mechanism for preventing rotation of the worm 29 formed on the power transmitting member 7 which is indispensable to a ball screw and nut means type direct acting actuator. The output of the power assisting electric motor is transmitted through the ball screw and nut means, and this leads to a simple, compact structure of high efficiency having an effect similar to that obtained when a reduction gear is employed and thus, it is generally made realistic from the viewpoints of space, efficiency, etc. to use an electric motor having characteristics such as high speed and low torque in a power assist steering device. According to the above described embodiments of the present invention, the ball screw and nut means, the dirigible device portion including the rack and pinion gear means and the power assisting means using the motor are made into units, respectively, and therefore there can be provided an electric type power assist steering device which is easy to assemble. Further, according to the above described embodiments of the present invention, there is provided an electric type power assist steering device in which the influence of the magnetism and heating of the power assisting electric motor portion is not imparted to the ball screw and nut means. Furthermore, according to the above described embodiments of the present invention, there is provided an electric type steering device in which when the assisting power from the motor is being intercepted, the connection between the motor and the converting mechanism is completely shut off to thereby minimize the steering wheel torque and ensure good return of the steering wheel.