# PROCESS FOR PRODUCING OPTICALLY ACTIVE ARYLOXYPROPIONIC ACIDS AND DERIVATIVES THEREOF

## Claims
Verfahren zur stereospezifischen Umwandlung des S Enantiomers einer α Aryloxypropionsäure der Formel I

## Description
This invention relates to a stereoselective process for producing individual isomers of optically active compounds, to a micro organism and to further processing of the isomers. The compounds to be prepared in the form of one enantiomer by the present process are α aryloxypropionic acids and their enzymic equivalents as hereinafter defined . Previously known commercial methods for producing a single isomer of a compound involved physical, chemical or microbiological techniques. Physical techniques have relied on different physical properties of the isomers in a racemic mixture, eg. different crystallisability though this is not appropriate to strict enantiomers , chemical techniques have relied on resolution of the chiral centre during production, eg. using a chiral catalyst, while microbiological techniques have generally relied on the use of micro organisms or their enzymes which are either capable of synthesising the desired isomer or are capable of separating a racemate eg. by chemically modifying one of the isomers such as by degradation of one. In many cases, these techniques have been applied to compounds very early in the route for producing the desired product thereby running the risk that racemisation may occur during one of the subsequent process steps in the route. It has now been found in accordance with the present invention, that α aryloxypropionic acids may be stereospecifically resolved by means of a microbiological system. In the operation of this system, the S enantiomer is inverted to form the R enantiomer, while the R enantiomer itself remains substantially unaltered. This process thus achieves enrichment of the R enantiomer from a racemic mixture rather than separation and wasteful loss of the S enantiomer. Accordingly the present invention provides a process for the stereospecific inversion of the S enantiomer of an α aryloxypropionic acid of formula wherein G is OR¹ or R¹ is hydrogen or a protecting group and R² is hydrogen or methyl, U and V each independently represent hydrogen or halogen, and R is a carboxyl group, or an enzymic equivalent thereof, which comprises contacting said S enantiomer with a microorganism having a stereospecific inverting enzyme system, or with an extract of the microorganism containing said enzyme system, to convert the S enantiomer to the corresponding R enantiomer. Preferably G in formula I is OR¹ wherein R¹ is as defined above. Examples of R¹ as protecting group are alkyl and benzyl. While it is possible to carry out the process of the invention using an S enantiomer in the substantial absence of the R enantiomer, the S enantiomer will normally be provided as part of the racemate of the particular α aryloxypropionic acid or equivalent compound. As the enzyme system is stereoselective for the S enantiomer and the R enantiomer is not significantly altered by it, the resulting mixture is enriched in respect of the R enantiomer. Thus, the resulting product formed from the racemate will certainly contain at least 50 of the R enantiomer and will normally contain at least 75 , preferably at least 90 up to, in theory, 100 of the R enantiomer. The inversion is performed in the presence of the stereospecific inverting enzyme system which may, if desired, be completely or partially extracted from the micro organism in which it occurs ie. in pure or crude form and may optionally be immobilised. However, it is preferred that the enzyme is present together with at least some of the cellular components of the micro organism to obviate the need for special separation steps and enzyme purification and or enzyme immobilisation procedures. The enzyme must be provided in an active and stable form in which the reaction will proceed and, when present in association with the cells, these may in theory be live or dead and be intact, detergent treated, autolysed or immobilised cells. If desired the detergent treated autolysed or immobilised cells may be homogenised. Particular methods of immobilising microbial cells include binding to water insoluble ion exchangers, Reference is made above to an enzyme system to cover the enzyme or enzymes needed for the reaction or reactions which achieve inversion and the possibility of any other substances present in the intact micro organism eg. cofactors or coenzymes such as NADH or metal ions being required for efficient operation of the enzyme. Reference is made herein to enzymic equivalents of the α aryloxypropionic acids to encompass those derivatives where for example the carboxylic group is modified, eg. to salt form, which are equally well recognised by the microbial enzyme system. It will be appreciated that the compound of formula I above can be an intermediate in the production of the active herbicides and hence while it is not itself a herbicide it has a herbicidal function. Thus, changes in the compound of formula I which do not affect its ability to give rise to active herbicides are also encompassed among the preferred α aryloxypropionic acids. The present process may also operate in respect of esters eg. the C₁ C₆, preferably C₁ C₄ alkyl esters of the compounds of formula I provided hydrolysis to the acid eg. in the presence of other microbial enzymes, can be prevented. Particularly preferred esters are the methyl, ethyl, The inversion reaction occurring in the process of this invention has been deduced from observations made in soil from many parts of the world. Many different soil micro organisms may therefore potentially possess the ability to carry out the inversion. Particularly preferred for this process are bacteria, especially the Microorganisms which are known to have the necessary properties for performing the inversion and which have been deposited at the National Collection of Industrial and Marine Bacteria NCIMB Aberdeen, Scotland are The fungus IMI 287163 may be provided in specific forms such as freeze dried, in composition with a solid or liquid diluent or as a culture in a culture medium eg. containing a source of assimilable carbon, a source of nitrogen and, if desired, vitamins and inorganic salts and or substantially free from other micro organisms. The exact method of contacting the S enantiomer usually in a mixture with the R enantiomer with the microorganism or extracted enzyme system may be chosen for convenience. Clearly the contact must be of sufficient duration for the transformation inversion to occur. Preferably, where the contact is with immobilised whole cells, these are packed into a column and the S enantiomer passed through the column either in a batchwise or preferably, a continuous or semi continuous process with the inverted R enantiomer being recovered at the bottom of the column. The column dimensions, rate of flow, substrate concentration, solvent and conditions of temperature and pH can be selected to give optimum yield of the R enantiomer. If live cells are used, the S enantiomer may also be separated in a column process or alternatively may be added to the culture and the product separated batchwise from the culture after a suitable period. Generally, the temperature employed will be in the range 20 to 45 C, preferably 28 to 37 C, especially about 32 C, while the pH will generally be 5 to 9, preferably 6 to 7.5, especially 6.8 to 7.2. The R enantiomers of formula I are capable of giving rise to active herbicides, in particular the acids of formulae II to IX below or their salts or esters which are useful in post emergence control of graminaceous weeds in broad leafed crops wherein Z and Y each represent fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine or hydrogen or a trifluoromethyl, difluoromethyl or chlorodifluoromethyl group provided that at least one of Z and Y is a halogenomethyl group or both Z and Y represent chlorine, and R represents a carboxyl group, and wherein B, D, J, U and V each represent hydrogen or halogen and R is as defined above wherein one of P and Q represents halogen or trifluoromethyl and the other represents hydrogen, n is 0 or 1 and R represents a carboxyl group wherein X represents O or S , P, Q and R are as defined above and T represents O or wherein A represents halogen or trifluoromethyl, C represents hydrogen, halogen or nitro and R is as defined above wherein A and R are as defined above wherein P, Q, X, T and R are as defined above. The asterisk indicates the chiral centre of these compounds. In the compounds of formula II, preferably Z is trifluoromethyl and Y is hydrogen, chlorine or fluorine. In the compounds of formula III and IV, preferably one of B and D is halogen eg. chlorine or fluorine and the other hydrogen, J is hydrogen and either U and V are both hydrogen or one is halogen eg. chlorine or fluorine, preferably in the 2 position, and the other is hydrogen. Desirably, when the quinoxaline or quinoline moiety is linked to the oxygen at the 2 position, B is hydrogen and D 6 position is halogen, while when it is linked at the 3 position, D is hydrogen and B 7 position is halogen. In the compounds of formula V one of P and Q is preferably halogen eg. chlorine, particularly Q 7 position and n is preferably 1. In the compounds of formula VI, one of P and Q is preferably halogen eg. chlorine, particularly Q 6 position when T is O and P 5 position when T is In the compounds of formula VII, A and C are preferably both halogen eg. chlorine or A is halogen eg. bromine and C is nitro or A is trifluoromethyl and C is hydrogen or halogen eg. chlorine. In the compounds of formula VIII, A is preferably trifluoromethyl. In the compounds of formula IX, one of P and Q is preferably halogen eg. chlorine, particularly Q 5 position when T is O and P 6 position when T is In order to prepare these herbicides, the inverted product of formula I above will be further reacted with an appropriate compound to produce the desired herbicide as well as perhaps further processed eg. optionally salified or esterified. Where the desired herbicide is of formula II to IX, the appropriate compound for the reaction will be of formula respectively, wherein Z, Y, B, D, J, P, Q, n, X, A and C are as defined above and W is a leaving group eg. halogen, preferably chlorine. When the compounds of formulae II to IX are in free acid form they are then preferably esterified to produce the preferred esters as follows the methyl, These further processing steps to produce indirect products of the inversion process also form a subject of the present invention. The indirect products of the present inversion process are capable of inhibiting the growth of unwanted graminaceous plants when applied in a herbicidally effective amount and, in particular, can inhibit the growth of graminaceous weeds among dicotyledonous crop plants if applied to the area of a crop in an amount sufficient to inhibit the growth of the weeds but insufficient to damage the crop substantially. The rate at which the compounds are usually applied in inhibiting the growth of weeds will depend upon factors such as the identity of the particular graminaceous weeds and broad leafed crop, but in general 0.025 to 2.5kg per hectare is suitable, with 0.1 to 1kg per hectare being preferred. The indirect products are usually applied as herbicidal compositions, comprising the indirect products as active ingredient together with a suitable solid or liquid diluent and optionally a further herbicidal compound or compounds, either having a similar spectrum of activity or a complementary activity to that of the first active compound. The invention is illustrated by the following Examples. A 50 µg ml solution A of RS 2 para hydroxyphenoxy propionic acid in dextrose peptone broth was prepared and a plate culture of After the 7 day reaction, 1 ml of the solution was removed and the product stereoselectivity analysed by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC using a method based on that of Y. Tapuhi The procedure of Example 1 was repeated but using the following microorganisms incubated at the specified temperature to give the indicated percentage R enantiomer in the products.