# Immunologically reactive non glycosylated amino acid chains of glycoprotein B of herpes virus types 1 and 2.

## Abstract
Plasmids are constructed containing the nucleotide sequence for selectively expressing immunologically active amino acid chains of glycoprotein B of HSV 1 and HSV 2 and chains are prepared to serve in vaccines.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A non glycosylated amino acid chain comprising a sequence corresponding to that occurring in glycoprotein B of HSV 1 or HSV 2 virus which is antigenic to HSV 1 or HSV 2. 2. An amino acid chain of claim 1 wherein the virus is HSV 2. 3. An amino acid chain of claim 1 wherein the virus is HSV 1. 4. An amino acid chain of claim 2 containing no more than 750 amino acid residues. 5. An amino acid chain of claim 4 including anN terminal hydrophobic leader and a membrane spanning sequence, a C terminal ionic sequence and 8 sites for saccharide addition. 6. An amino acid chain of claim 4 containing no less than 5 amino acid residues. 7. An amino acid chain of claim 6 which has a molecular weight of about 65,000 dalton and includes amino acid residues 135 629 inclusive referenced toTable 2. 8. An amino acid chain of claim 3 containing no more than 750 amino acid residues. 9. An amino acid chain of claim 8 including anN terminal hydrophobic leader and a membrane spanning sequence, a C terminal ionic sequence and 9 sites for saccharide addition. 10. An amino acid chain of claim 8 containing no less than 5 amino acid residues. 11. An amino acid chain of claim 10 which has a molecular weight of about 65,000 dalton and includes amino acid residues 165 629 inclusive referred in Table 2. 12. A DNA transfer vector comprising a deoxynucleotide sequence coding for a non glycosylated amino acid chain comprising a sequence corresponding to that occurring in glycoprotein B of HSV 1 or HSV 2 virus which is antigenic to HSV 1 or HSV 2. 13. A segment of DNA consisting essentially of DNA sequences coding for a non glycosylated amino acid chain comprising a sequence corresponding to that occurring in glycoprotein B of HSV 1 or HSV 2 virus which is antigenic to HSV 1 or HSV 2.

## Description
IMMUNOLOGICALLY REACTIVE NON GLYCOSYLATED AMINO ACID CHAINS OF GLYCOPROTEIN B OF HERPES VIRUS TYPES 1 AND 2The present invention relates to vaccines for prophylaxis and treatment of Herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2, generally abbreviated as HSV 1 and HSV 2. More specifically it relates to application of recombinantDNA technology to production of plasmids containing the nucleotide sequence for expressing amino acid chains comprising sequences identical to those occurring in glycoprotein B of HSV 1 and HSV 2 to the exclusion of other gene sequences, to amino acid chains expressed thereby and their derivatives which produce an effective immunogenic response to HSV 1 or HSV 2 and vaccines based on the amino acid chain products produced thereby. The invention provides DNA molecules which can be used to induce the synthesis of the protein part of glycoprotein B in a living prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell capable of having recombinant DNA introduced therein and recovered therefrom and capable of expressing such DNA molecule. The use of the recombinant DNA technology of this invention is cost efficient and the amino acid chain produced provides a synthetic prophylactic therapeutic agent without the hazard of contamination with live virus. The DNA of Herpes simplex virus of type, 1 and 2 contains 150 kb and has sufficient information to code for 100 200 proteins. About 30 of the proteins are present in the viral particle the remaining encoded proteins are associated with replication and assembly of the virus inside the host cell. In addition to the DNA core surrounded by a protein coat, the virus possesses an outer membrane structure. That membrane is composed of lipids and viral encoded glycoproteins. These glycoproteins are proteins with one or more saccharide chains initiated at particular amino acid residues.There are four HSV glycoproteins gA gB, gC, gD and gE, gA being a precursor to gB. HSV probably enters a host cell by the fusion of the viral and cellular membranes and this fusion is mediated by gB. The virus replicates in the nucleus.During replication glycoproteins are synthesized and transported to the cell surface, with much of the glycoprotein projecting through to the outside surface of the plasma membrane of infected cells. Since viral glycoproteins project outward from the viral and cellular surfaces they are the first viral molecules encountered by HSV specific antibodies. Vaccines in general consist of the entire virus particle live, attenuated or dead viruses or structural proteins of the virus subunit vaccines .Although there are reports of beneficial effects of liveHSV vaccines, most experts do not advise this route because of the possibility that HSV has carcinogenic or cocarcinogenic activity and because the virus is generally not of the life threatening type. Therefore subunit vaccines composed of one or more glycoproteins or their non glycosylated amino acid chain or immunogenically active portion thereof present a more desirable alternative. The live vaccine is attractive because it would be inexpensive to produce one needs very little since it multiplies after vaccination, but it is potentially dangerous. A subunit vaccine requires production of larger volumes masses of a protein and is more costly, but it is safer. Viral glycoproteins and protein ingredients thereof synthesized in E. coli by recombinant DNA techniques according to this invention are completely free of viral DNA. Only a single viral glycoprotein gene is present, not the entire viral DNA. Recombinant DNA technology removes risks due to live virus contamination from vaccine production. Of the major viral glycoproteins only one, gB, has known biological functions and has been established to be essential for viral growth. In the Tables following the Examples, there are presented the DNA coding sequences of gB for HSV 1 and HSV 2. The present invention provides a nucleotide sequence capable of expressing the amino acid chain of the glycoprotein B.Insertion of the gene into a microorganism permits synthesis of the protein corresponding to HSV glycoprotein gB. Only the protein and not the saccharide part of gB is synthesized in bacteria, but the protein is the chief source of immunogenic determinants. For expression, a microorganism, typically a bacterium such as E. coli, is grown in a conventional growth medium containing the plasmid capable of expressing the desired amino acid chain. The purified HSV protein of this invention, extracted from the membrane fraction of the bacteria, can be injected into animals, e. g. rabbits, to produce antibodies against the protein. These antibodies produced in the animals in response to gB protein made in bacteria can be tested for their ability to inactivate neutralize viruses. After maximization of HSV gB expression in bacteria and demonstration of appropriate virus neutralization by antibodies produced against gB, the gB protein vaccine is tested in animals and can be finally evaluated in clinical trials. One injection of about 3 ug protein 1kg in rabbits produces an antibody response. Although the entire coding sequences of gB could be expressed in bacteria, there are practical reasons why expression of only a portion of immunologically active gB is desirable. There are two extensive hydrophobic regions, the signal and membrane spanning regions seeSequence Summary below that if present could alter the three dimensional conformation of gB expressed in the cytoplasm of E. coli. When the mature protein is present in the membranes of infected cells the signal sequence is enzymatically removed and the membrane spanning residues are within the membrane.Remaining C terminal residues on the cytoplasmic side of the membrane are inaccessible to antibodies. Therefore, no more than 750 N terminal amino acid residues of a total of 903 are likely to be antigenically active as regards a vaccine. Hydrophilic residues are likely to reside on the surface of a protein these residues in regions of ss turns are candidates for antigenic determinants.However, since primary and tertiary structures are not linearly related, hydrophilic residues that form an antigenic site are not necessarily contiguous. Nonetheless, appropriately chosen contiguous residues 10 to 20 amino acids in length are often antigenic and can lead to the production of antibodies that combine with the native protein. Therefore the simplest vaccine is a short peptide with high antigenic activity whose sequence is derived from a knowledge of the nucleotide sequence of the gB gene. HSV 1 PLASMIDS A typical recombinant DNA clone of Herpes simplex virus type 1 of this invention, exemplified by the clone designated pKBXX, can be constructed by the following procedure. Purified DNA from the KOS strain is cleaved with the restriction endonuclease BamHI using reaction conditions as specified by the supplier of such enzymes. At the same time, vector DNA pBR322 cf. Bolivar et al.,Gene 2, 95 113,1977 is cleaved with BamHI. The enzymes can be removed and inactivated by extraction with an organic solvent, the DNA precipitated in the cold with ethanol and vacuum dried to remove residual solvent.The BamHI cut HSV 1 DNA is ligated to the similar cohesive ends in BamHI cut pBR322 vector, having a unique BamHI site in a tetracycline resistance gene Tcr . Ligation is conveniently accomplished by use ofT4 DNA ligase at about 40C according to the conditions supplied by the manufacturer. Both the cutting and sealing reaction are carried out in a closed plastic vessel. A similar sequence of reactions can be carried out, using again the KOS strain, by cleaving with a similar number of enzyme units of restriction endonuclease EcoRI and by subjecting the vector DNA pBR325 Bolivar, Gene 4, 121 136 1978 to cleavage with EcoRI. The enzymes are again removed and the EcoRI cut HSV 1 is ligated to the similar ends in pBR325 which has a unique EcoRI site in a chloramphenicol resistant CmI gene usingcompar arable ligation conditions. The plasmid pBR325 contains genes that specify drug resistance to ampicillin Apr , r tetracycline and chloramphenicol, and pBR322 specifies ampicillin and tetracycline resistant genes. Following the introduction of the ligated mixtures into E. coli, vectors that are inferred to contain HSV 1 fragments are identified by resistance to ampicillin but sensitivity to inability to grow in the presence of chloramphenicol for pBR325 or tetracycline for pBR322. Drug resistance and other genes are almost always inactivated by the insertion of a foreign piece or unrelated DNA. Recombinant plasmids containing the EcoRI F or theBamHI G fragment are identified by comparing the electrophoretic mobilities of HSV 1 inserts with published restriction maps of HSV 1 for these enzymes.Restriction fragments are denoted by capital letters of the alphabet A to Z in order of increasing mobilities on agarose gels, corresponding to decreasing nucleotide lengths. The same strain of HSV 1, i.e. KOS, will have only one restriction map for any one restriction endonuclease. However, a different strain of HSV l, since it may have evolved quite separately from KOS, will share most, but not necessarily all, of the same restriction sites. To identify subclones, especially of the EcoIRI F fragment obtained from the KOS strain and the tsB5 strain, use is made of the coordinates for the EcoRI F fragment of KOS. A restriction map of the subclones of the EcoIRI F fragment of HSV 1, strain KOS, shows the following restriction sites, using as restriction enzymes B mHI B ,BstEII T ,EcoRI E , EpaI H , KpnI K , PstI P ,SalI S , andXhoI X . 0.315 E 0.317 P 0.318 K 0.320 B 0.322 P 0.323 K 0.327 P 0.328 H 0.330 P 0.330 S 0.334 B 0.335 S 0.337 X 0.338 H 0.339 T 0.340 B 0.341 X 0.343 S 0.343 X 0.344 P 0.345 B 0.346 K 0.349 T 0.350 P 0.355 T 0.356 P 0.360 S 0.368 P 0.368 X 0.372 X 0.380 K 0.382 T 0.387 S 0.388 P 0.397 P 0.398 X 0.399 B 0.403 X 0.405 T 0.409 K 0.413 T 0.414 B 0.418 T 0.419 S 0.420 K 0.422 E. A comparison of the maps for the restriction endonuclease cleavage sites for the KOS strain and the temperature sensitive tsB5 strain shows sites specific for KOS at 0.318 K 0.344 P 0.355 T and 0.413 T and specific for tsB5 at 0.331 H, 0.355 P, and 0.389 X. A comparison between the restriction maps forEcoRI F fragments and the tsB5 strain shows that the two strains share all of the sites except for 7 in thatEcoRI F fragment, which is enclosed by genome coordinates 0.315 to 0.422. The genome of HSV 1 is a linear double stranded DNA molecule of 150kb. Therefore, 0.01 map units correspond to approximately 1.5 kb. A plasmid designated pKBXX of HSV 1 gB was constructed which contains HSV 1 sequences from the BamHI site at 0.345 to the XhoI site at 0.372. A BamHI G fragment with coordinates from the 0.345 site to the 0.399 site, is first prepared by the foregoing ligation procedure and then subjected to partial digestion with Sall and religated to delete SalI fragments. This yields fragment pKBG BS3, with coordinates from the 0.345 BamHI site to the SalI site at 0.387. It contains two XhoI 0.368 and 0.372 sites. To obtain the desired sequences in pKBXX, pKBG BS3 is subjected to a complete digest with BamHI and a partial digest with XhoI.Following agarose electrophoresis a 4.0 kb band corresponding to the 0.345 to 0.372 BamHI XhoI fragment is seen and is electroeluted from the gel and ligated toBamHI, SalI cut pUC9. pUC9 is a 2.7 kb plasmid with an ampicillin resistance gene and a multi cloning site, cf Vieira Messing, Gene 19 259 268, 1982 Messing BR Vieira, ibid 269 . The plasmid is commercially available from Bethesda Research Labs. The origin of replication of the plasmid and the ampicillin resistance gene are derived from pBR322 approximately nucleotides 2067 to 4362 . The remaining sequences of pUC9 about 400 nucleotides are derived from the beginning of the lac genes of E. coli.Specifically, the sequences contain a promoter for RNA synthesis , a ribosome binding site for protein synthesis , and an N terminal fragment of the first gene product, B galactosidase. The direction of RNA and protein synthesis is from left to right. The multiple cloning site contains the restriction sites HindIII PstI SalI BamHI SmaI EcoRI from left to right that are inserted between sequences specifying amino acids 4 and 5 of E. coli B galactosidase see Table 3 ,It has been shown that ss galactosidase protein synthesis is independent of the sequences of amino acids near itsN terminal end as long as the correct reading frame is maintained . Therefore, functional s galactosidase is synthesized in a cell containing pUC9 plasmid DNA.The vector, having unique restriction sites immediately adjacent to the HSV 1 cloned sequences but not present in HSV 1 sequences, also allows the HSV 1 clone to be recloned into any other vector that contains the same restriction sites. For the purpose of constructing pKBXX, pUC9 DNA was treated with BamHI and SalI andHSV 1 sequences BamHI to XhoI, 0.345 to 0.372 are ligated to these sites. The appropriate clone following transformation analysis is identified by restriction mapping. It has been shown that the HSV 1 sequences contained within pKBXX are those in the listing of restriction sites for the restriction map given hereinabove. It should be noted that SalI G TCGA C and XhoI CTCGA G cleave DNA at different sequences because their recognition sites differ at the terminal nucleotide sites, but they generate the same four base, internal sticky end site TCGA . Therefore, an XhoI site can be cloned into a SalI site and this was done in pKBXX.At the HSV 1 XhoI pBR322 SalI junction the base sequences become CTCGAC, a hybrid site. This site is not cleaved by either of the enzymes used in the generation of the recombinant plasmid. Nucleotides are numbered from 1 to 3997 in pKBXX in the right to left direction XhoI to BamHI . All of the nucleotides in pKBXX have been sequenced using the M13 cloning vector, dideoxy chain termination method. A summary of the sequence by nucleotide number follows. SEQUENCE SUMMARY R to 375 5 extra sequences beginning with the XhoI site at 0.372 375 to 499 5 mRNA regulatory sequences including two CAAT boxes beginning at nucleotides 406 and 443, and a TATA box at 476 499 to 789 mRNA start sequences starts at an A in the sequence CACCACAC the first A is num 501 to the first coding nucleotide which begins with nucleotide 790 790 to 3498 903 amino acid coding sequences including an N terminal hydrophobic leader and a membrane spanning sequence, a C terminal ionic sequence, and 9 sites for saccharide addition asnEMI9.1 The region of the glycoprotein that would be outside of the cell surface is about 750 amino acids.3499 to 3549 31 noncoding sequences including polyA addition signal beginning at 3518 and probable polyA addition site at 3549 3549 to 3997 3 nonessential sequences to the BamHI site at 3992 coordinate 0.345 . The complete table of the nucleotide sequence of pKBXX appears in Table I and of the translation product in Table 2. The significant features of the peptide include an N terminal, largely hydrophobic membrane insertion or signal sequences, nine possible N linked saccharide addition sites, hydrophobic membrane spanning sequences, and highly charged cytoplasmic anchor sequences 109 amino acids . N terminal signal sequences are removed by a specific signal peptidase during glycoprotein synthesis to produce the mature peptide. HSV 2 PLASMIDS HSV 2 specifies a gene homologous to the gB gene of HSV 1. A typical recombinant DNA clone of Herpes simplex virus type 2 of this invention, exemplified by the clone designated p52BXX, can be constructed by the following procedures. Purified DNA from the HG52 strain is cleaved with the restriction endonuclease EcoRI using reaction conditions as specified by the supplier of this enzyme. At the same time, vector DNA pBR325 is cleaved with EcoRI. The enzymes are removed and inactivated by extraction with an organic solvent, the DNA precipitated in the cold with ethanol, and vacuum dried to remove residual solvent. The EcoRI cut HSV 2 DNA is ligated to the same cohesive ends in EcoRI cut pBR325 vector, having a unique EcoRI site in a chloramphenicol resistance gene.Ligation is conveniently accomplished by the use of T4 DNA ligase at about 40C according to the conditions supplied by the manufacturer. The plasmid pBR325 contains genes that specify drug resistance to ampicillin, chloramphenicol and tetracycline. Following the introduction of the ligated mixtures into E. coli, cells containing vectors that are inferred to contain HSV 2 fragments are identified by their resistance to ampicillin or tetracycline and their sensitivity to inability to grow in the presence of chloramphenicol. Drug resistance and other genes are almost always inactivated by the insertion of a large piece of foreign DNA. A group of chloramphenicolsensitive clones colonies was screened to determine those containing HSV 2 gB sequences. To do this, separate bacterial colonies are re grown on a special filter paper overlaid onto a dish containing solidified growth medium. The resulting colonies are fixed in place and made permeable to externally added DNA by aNaOH treatment.This treatment also separates doublestranded DNA into single strands. A solution of radioactive single stranded DNA derived from the coding sequences of HSV 1 gB is poured over the filter, the filter is incubated and extensively washed with an appropriate buffer. Nucleotide sequences of HSV 1 will only bind, and be retained on the filter, if the HSV 2 containing plasmid DNA in a particular colony contains homologous essentially identical nucleotide sequences.This process is called hybridization, meaning that the double stranded DNA retained on the filter contains one radioactive strand of HSV 1 and a non radioactive strand of HSV 2. The filter paper is exposed to X ray film, and hybridization is detected as a dark spot in the position of the appropriate colony. In this way colonies were identified that contain a vector withHSV 2 EcoRI fragment designated p52EG. Two colonies gave intense hybridization and contained an insert whose mobility was indistinguishable from that of EcoRI G fragment measured by comparison with ESV 1 EcoRI F fragment which appeared to share the same coordinates .The insert also contained a unique HindIII site characteristic of EcoRI G fragment. The original clone p52EG was cleaved with B HI and HindIII and cloned into the same sites of pUC9, following gel elution of the fragment, and was designated p52EG BH. It has been found advantageous to reclone the clones derived from p52EG into a vector pUC9 that is especially suitable for expression of DNA into protein in bacteria. A smaller plasmid was constructed from p52EG BH by a completeBamHI and HindIII digest, followed by a partial digestion with XhoI there are XhoI sites at 0.354 and 0.372 . The appropriate gel eluted fragment BamHI XhoI XhoI or BXX was subsequently cloned into the BamHI and SalI sites of a second pUC9 vector creating a SalI XhoI hybrid site at 0.372. The coordinates of the insert were shown to be 0.345 to 0.372 by restriction mapping and eventually byDNA sequence analysis in the region of 0.368 to 0.348.About one restriction site of three is common to HSV 2 and HSV 1. These sites were used to normalize the coordinates of HG52 to those of the KOS strain of HSV 1.For example, the SalI site at 0.360 and the BstEII site at 0.348 are identical in the two strains. The HSV 2 derived plasmid p52BXX which is the HSV 2 analog to the HSV 1 plasmid pKBXX, contains approximately 4000 base pairs with about 450 nucleotides beyond the 5 and the 3 ends of the gB mRNA. It extends from aBamHI site near 0.345 to a XhoI site at 0.372 that is within 10 bp of the one at 0.372 in HSV 1. The site is probably at the identical nucleotide in the two genomes.The BamHI site in HSV 2 is about 50 nucleotides to the right of the one in HSV 1. The following table shows relative locations of restriction sites REPRESENTATIVE RESTRICTION SITES FOR HSV 1 AND HSV 2BETWEEN 0.345 and 0.372 MAP UNITS HSV l Kos HSV 2 HG 52 BamHI 0.345 0.3453 BstEII 0.349, 0.355 0.349 XmaI 0.347, 0.354 0.350, 0.3597, 0.357, 0.3597 0.371 NruI 0.369 0.369 PstI 0.350, 0.3563 0.356, 0.3563, 0.368 0.367, 0.368 XhoI 0.3682, 0.3716 0.354, 0.3716 SalI 0.360 0.358, 0.360 BalI 0.3575, 0.3675 0.3575, 0.3675 Table 2 also shows the DNA base and amino acid sequence comparison for HSV 2 and HSV 1 in gB. The HSV 1 nucleotide and amino acid sequences are given and any changes in the HSV 2 sequence relative to HSV 1 are indicated. HSV 1 gB contains 9 N linked saccharide addition sites asnEMI12.1 Of these, 8 are conserved in HSV 2 gB. The asn pro thrin the remaining site at residues 76 78 in HSV 1 is changed to gly pro arg in HSV 2. Finally it was observed that there are 5 codons present in HSV 2 that are absent from HSV 1. This is indicated by a space in the sequence for HSV 1 and the inserted sequence for BSV 2 is written above the open space. The HSV 2 gB gene is very homologous to the one in HSV l. EXPRESSION OF gB FRAGMENTSA. EXPRESSION FROM pKBXX In order to express gB from pKBXX the plasmid can be cleaved, for example, at the unique NruI site at nucleotide 482, and treated with Bal31 an enzyme preparation that contains both 5 to 3 and 3 to 5 exonuclease activities to remove most of the 5 noncoding and hydrophobic signal specifying nucleotides, or about nucleotides 1 to 911. Following religation and transformation of E. coli, clones of bacteria can be examined for their ability to produce gB using antibodies that precipitate gB. Note that in pKBXX, HSV 1 sequences have been inserted at a position in the multiple cloning site that corresponds to amino acids 6 to 8 of ss galactosidase see Table 3 . Therefore the gB gene is fused to the ss galactosidase gene at this point.However, gB is not fused to ss galactosidase at its carboxyl terminn 1 end because of the presence of the chain terminaticn codon of gB at nucleotide 3498 Table 2 . Although plBXX can be used to express essentially all of the mature gB peptide there are a number of reasons why exp ession of only a portion of antigenically active gB is advisable. First, large membrane proteins containing hydrophobic sequences are often unstable when expressed in bacteria. Second, only about 750 N terminal amino acids of the total peptide are antigenically active because the remaining residues are inside the membrane and therefore inaccessible to antibodies.Third, he relationship of three dimensional structure to ant genic activity is not known for any protein, so that one cannot predict a single set of sequences that are most likely to have the highest antigenic activity. Therefore, a nested set of DNA plasmids was chosen, each containing a portion of theN terminal part of gB beginning beyond the signal region for the production of antigenically active gB in bacteria. One set of plasmids involves the use of a 1477 bpBall restriction fragment extending from nucleotide 637 to 2114 in both the pKBXX and p52BXX. Purified fragment is incubated with Bal3l for different lengths of time to remove 0 to about 300 bp from each end of the fragment.Removal of 275 nucleotides from the 5 end gives a new 5 terminus at nucleotide 911 or just at the end of the hydrophobic signal sequence. After Bal3l digestion, nucleotide lengths of about 800 to 1477 bp obtain corresponding to 267 to 492 of the N terminal amino acid of gB. The nested set of fragments is pooled and blunt end ligated to HindII digested blunt ended pUC9.Following transformation of bacteria, the progeny of individual bacteria are examined for the production of antigenically active gB using a radioimmune assay see example 7 . A plasmid that leads to the production of large amounts of antigenically active gB is identified and its sequence determined to establish the nucleotide coordinates at the ends of the plasmid. Such fragments and those from an extended portion of the gB gene are used for the vaccine. Antibodies against the gB peptide can be used to quantify virus neutralization. In the event that the gB vaccine is not sufficiently antigenically active, expression will then employ a eukaryotic vector. One can employ a so called shuttle vector that replicates its DNA either in bacteria or in eukaryotic cells. The endogenous promoter sequences for gB transcription are eukaryotic in origin. However, it may require the presence of additional viral factors for efficient expression. Therefore, the use of a different promoter is advisable. The HSY l sequences of pKBXX can readily be re cloned onto the eukaryotic expression vector by making use of restriction sites on either site of the HSV 1 insert, for example HindIII and EcoRI. B. EXPRESSION FROM p52BXX In order to express gB from p52BXX the plasmid is cleaved, for example, at the unique NruI site at nucleotide 482 and treated with Bal3l an enzyme preparation that contains both 5 to 3 and 3 to 5 exonuclease activities to remove 5 non coding and hydrophobic signal specifying nucleotides nucleotides up to or beyond 911 . To remove the membrane spanning hydrophobic sequences beginning at approximately 3040 the DNA is cleaved with XhoI a unique site exists at 2672 the XhoI at 1 was converted to a SalI XhoI hybrid in the construction of p52BXX . The Bal31 blunt ended XhoI fragments were identified by agarose electro phoresis, gel eluted, and ligated to SmaI, SalI cleaved pUC8 DNA. The multiple cloning sites in pUC8, namely EcoRI SmaI BamHI SalI PstI HindIII are in the opposite orientation as in pUC9, Table 3 otherwise the vectors are identical. The direction of 8 galactosidase RNA and protein syntheses is from left to right. The insertion of the HSV 2 sequences is from Bal31 to XhoI so that its direction of synthesis is also from left to right. Note that SmaI leaves blunt ends. At the SmaI Bal31 junction all three reading phases are expected since the Bal3l exonuclease cleavage is not synchronous. Since bothSalI GTCGAC in the multicloning site of pUC8, and XhoI of HSV 2 CTCGAG , cleave after the first nucleotide of a codon, the correct reading phase is maintained at the 3 junction.Those codons that preserve the B galactosidase reading phase at the 5 ss galactosidase HSV 2 junction about one third of the total will express an authentic gB peptide fused to the first six ss galactosidase amino acids. At the 3 HSV 2 ss galactosidase boundary the reading phase is maintained so that the gB sequences are fused, this time at amino acid residue 10. In essence, four amino acid residues of ss galactosidase are replaced with about 500 of gB. The fusion protein uses the endogenous ss galactosidase terminator present in the vector which adds approximately 100 amino acid residues to the Cterminal side of gB residues. The ligated DNA is used to transform E. coli, strain RDP211, and ampicillin resistant colonies are obtained. The size and orientation of the HSV 2 inserts in these clones are determined by restriction mapping.The average insert size was found to be about 1.5 kb and all inserts were in the correct orientation. ss galactosidase cleaves lactose, a disaccharide, to glucose and galactose which are used as energy sources for cellular growth. Its synthesis is regulated at the level of RNA synthesis by the presence or absence of lactose or chemically similar gratuitous inducers that are not metabolized, such as isopropyl ss D thio galactoside, IPTG . Regulatory nucleotide sequences are present upstream 5 from the lac promoter page 7 .In order to identify clones with an in phase gBi galactosidase fusion product, cultures were grown in the presence of IPTG and examined using phase microscopy 400 power total magnification for the presence of inclusion bodies. Some foreign proteins, especially hydrophobic proteins, produced in large quantities in E. coli, will aggregate into inclusion bodies that are readily detectable as vacuolar regions within the bacteria. Approximately one third of the cultures examined that contained gB inserts contained inclusion bodies. In these clones, cell division was also inhibited and the cylindrically shaped cells become filamentous with inclusion bodies present at more or less regularly spaced intervals along the filaments.Cultures appeared normal when grown in the absence of inducer. Samples from cultures grown in the presence and absence of IPTG are prepared for protein analysis using sodium dodecyl sulphate SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Cells are pelleted by centrifugation and lysed. The lysis mixture was sedimented to leave the cytoplasmic soluble proteins in the supernatant and the membrane insoluble proteins in the pellet.The supernatant proteins are subsequently acidprecipitated and pelleted. Pellets from the cytoplasm and membrane fractions are resuspended in similar volumes of electrophoresis sample solution, and aliquots subjected to SDS electrophoresis. A major band is observed at a mobility corresponding to 65 kd in the membrane fraction of induced cultures. This is the expected size of gB ss galactosidase fusion product. The band is not detected in the cytoplasmic fractions obtained from induced cultures or from either the membrane or cytoplasmic fractions of uninduced cultures.Membrane fractions from i7 independent clones that contained inclusion bodies when grown in the presence ofIPTG gave a major band at a mobility of about 65 kd. By the use of standard marker proteins it is estimated that 15 50 ug of the fusion product protein are obtained from each ml of culture containing approximately 5 x 108 cell equivalents . The immunological reactivity of the 65 kd fusion protein is examined by transferring the electrophoretically separated proteins onto sheets of nitrocellulose, again using electrophoresis as the driving force.Electroblotting is done as prescribed by the manufacturer of the blotting equipment. Nitrocellulose sheets containing the proteins are soaked in preparations of commercially available antibodies to HSV 2 or to HSV 1. These antibody preparations include the IgG fraction of serum and were obtained from rabbits.Antibody is expected to bind preferentially to the 65 kd protein and is detected by an enzyme reaction. A secondary antibody, goat antirabbit IgG, with horseradish peroxidase covalently linked to the IgG, is added which will bind to the previously bound rabbit IgG. Finally a substrate for the enzyme is added which causes a colored blue precipitate to form at the site of the enzyme reaction. A blue band of precipitate is observed at mobility corresponding to 65 kd on the nitrocellulose blots. Its presence is only detected in the membrane fraction of cells grown in the presence of IPTG. The 65 kd protein crossreacts with HSV 1 antibodies although the reaction is not as strong as with the HSV 2 antibodies. One of the clones containing a plasmid designated p52hNX 60 is chosen for further studies. The 5 and 3 ends of the HSV 2 insert are recloned into M13 cloning and sequencing vectors, and the DNA sequence was determined at the 5 and 3 junctions in p52NX 60. TheHSV 2 insert contains sequences from amino acid residues corresponding to 135 to 629 inclusive of HSV l gB Table 2 . This is consistent with the insert size determined from restriction endonuclease analysis 1.5 kb and with the size of the fusion peptide 65 kd . This insert is shown to be in phase with B galactosidase specified codons at the 5 and 3 functions. For animal tests of the 65 kd peptide product from p52ANX 60, larger quantities of protein are required.The isolation procedure for the membrane fraction is scaled up and mg quantities of the 65 kd peptide are loaded onto a preparative electrophoresis apparatus.The apparatus has the capacity to elute proteins from the bottom of the gel and collect fractions in electrode buffer. Fractions are analyzed by analytical SDSelectrophoresis, peak fractions containing the fusion protein are pooled, and the pooled material is dialyzed against a phosphate buffered saline. Without further concentration the purified 65 kd protein concentration is 100 to 200 ug ml. This concentration is suitable for introduction into animals following a 1 1 dilution withFreund s adjuvant. The 65 kd protein extends in the 5 direction to nucleotide 1192 Table 2 . It may also be desirable to isolate additional DNA clones containing more HSV 2 sequences at this end. Therefore, clones with smallerBal31 produced deletions are constructed. Expression clones derived from pKBXX of HSV 1 can be constructed using similar procedures. The NruI site at 482 is common to HSV 1 and HSV 2.Example 1Cloning BamHI fragments of HSV l strain KOS into pBR322 to form BamHI G A. Restriction endonuclease treatment In a plastic, snap cap, Eppendorf vial 1 ul about 0.5ug of pBR322 Bethesda Research Laboratories , 36 ul about Sug KOS and 5 ul 8 units ul BamHI are digested in 110 ul of restriction buffer 1. Restriction buffer 1 contains 10mM Tris buffer, pH 7.4, 50mM sodium chloride, 10mM magnesium chloride, lOuM mercaptoethanol and 100 ug ml nuclease free bovine serum albumin.Digestion is carried out for 3 hours at 370C It should be noted that excesses in amounts of enzymes and duration of digestion were used. It should be understood to cut DNA, 1 unit will cut 1 ug of E. coli A phage DNA completely in 1 hour at 370C After digestion, the reaction mixture is diluted to 400 ul with TE lmM EDTA, 10mM Tris, pH 8.0 . The solution is heated to 650C for 15 minutes to inactivate the restriction endonuclease and then cooled to room temperature. The solution is then extracted twice with an equal volume of a 24 1 mixture of chloroform and 3 methylbutanol to inactivate and remove any remaining enzyme. An alternative to inactivation of restriction endonucleases by heat is to add sodium dodecyl sulphate SDS to about 1 final concentration.Both the SDS and inactivated enzyme are separated from DNA by passage through a miniature sephadex column. After transfer of 240 ul of the residual solution to another plastic vial 60 ul of 5M sodium chloride and 500 ul about 2 volumes of cold ethanol are added. The mixture is kept at 750C for 30 minutes, centrifuged, and the supernatant is discarded and the DNA pellet is vacuum dried to remove the ethanol. B. Ligation. The dried pellet is resuspended in 20 ul of ligase buffer containing 50mM Tris buffer, pH 7.8, 10mM magnesium chloride, 20mM dithiothreitol and 50 ug ul nuclease free bovine serum albumin with 17 ul of lmM adenosine triphosphate and 100 units of T4 DNA ligase Bethesda Research Laboratories 8202 . The mixture is incubated for 15 hours and used to transform E. coli RR1. C. Transformation A 20 ml culture of E. coli is grown at 370C with aeration in V medium tryptone 10 gm yeast extract, 5 gm NaC1, 7 gm KC1, 1.5 gm MgSo4.H20, 0.5 gm water, 1t to an optical density 620 nm of 0.3. The culture is chilled on ice for 10 to 30 minutes and the cells pelleted 6000g X 5 minutes at 4 C . The pellet is gently resuspended in 20 ml of cold 40C ST 25 mMTris HC1, pH 7.5, 10 mM NaC1 . Cells are pelleted as above and are resuspended gently in 10 ml CAST 25 mMTris HC1, pH 7.0 10 mM NaC1 50 mM CaC12 2H20 and kept on ice for 20 to 30 minutes. The cells are pelleted again and resuspended very gently in 1.35 ml cold 40C CAST in an Eppendorf vial and kept cold until used for transformation within 0 to 60 minutes . To 0.2 ml of a cell suspension in CAST is added 0.1 ml of plasmid 0.01 to 10 ug DNA in CAST and these suspensions are mixed gently and kept on ice for 60 minutes. The mixture is warmed to 370C for 2 minutes and then cooled for the same time interval. The contents of the vial are added to 2.7 ml of V medium in a culture tube and incubated with aeration for 2 to 3 hours to allow the plasmid DNA time to enter the cell and to be expressed for the protein synthesis from the ampicillin resistance gene specified by the plasmid .At this time the cells are diluted 5, 50 and 500 X inV medium and 0.2 ml aliquots are spread on the surface of V amp petri plates V medium hardened with 15 gm of agar and containing 25 mg l of ampicillin . The plates are incubated over night at 370C and colonies that grow are used to prepare plasmid DNA.Example 2Plasmid pKBG BS3. The BamHI G clone obtained in the preceding example is subjected to restriction enzyme treatment by the procedure of the preceding example. In the following typical reaction using SalI, the restriction buffer used is RB S which contains Tris buffer 6mM, pH 7.4 Sodium chloride 150mM Magnesium chloride 10mM Nuclease free bovine serum albumin 100ug ml ss mercaptoethanol 10mM Thus, lOug of BamHI G are partially digested with about I unit of the enzyme SalI for 15 minutes at room temperature, in 25 ul of RB S restriction buffer.Work up of Example 2 yields the fragment pKBG BS3, with coordinates from the 0.345 BamHI site to the SalI site at 0.387.Example 3.Plasmid pKBXX To obtain pKBXX a mixture of 10ug of pKBG BS 3 is digested completely with 8 units of BamHI for 2 hours followed by a partial digest using 1 unit of XhoI inRB 1. In both cases restriction buffer 1 is used. In a partial digest as used herein, one unit of enzyme is employed for 10 ug of DNA and the reaction time is reduced to 15 minutes. On agarose electrophoresis a 4.0 Kb band corresponding to the 0.345 to 0.372 Bam HI XhoI fragment is obtained. This fragment is electroeluted from the gel, extracted with an equal volume of a 24 1 mixture of chloroform to 3 methylbutanol and ethanol precipitated.This fragment is then ligated to BamHI SalI cut pUC9.Thus pUC9 is first subjected to the actions of BamHI andSalI by the foregoing procedures and then ligated by the general procedure of Example 1 B with the HSV 1 sequences BamHI to XhoI 0.345 to 0.372 of the fragment electroeluted above to the corresponding sites.Example 4Cloning EcoRI fragments of HSV 2 strain HG52 into EcoRI site of pBR325 A. Restriction endonuclease treatment In a plastic, snap cap, Eppendorf vial 2 ul 0.4 ug of pBR325 Bethesda Research Laboratories , 36 ul 4 ug HG52 and 5 ul 40 units EcoRI are digested in 110 ul of restriction buffer 2. Restriction buffer 2 contains 100mM Tris buffer, pH 7.4, 50mM sodium chloride, l0mM magnesium chloride, 10mM mercaptoethanol and 100 ug ml nuclease free bovine serum albumin.Digestion is carried out for 3 hours at 370C. After digestion, the reaction mixture is diluted to 400 ul with TE lmM EDTA, IOmM Tris, pH8.0 . The solution is heated to 650C for 15 minutes to inactivate the restriction endonuclease and then cooled to room temperature. The solution is then extracted twice with an equal volume of a 24 1 mixture of chloroform and 3 methylbutanol to inactivate and remove any remaining enzyme. After transfer of 240 ul of the residual solution to another plastic vial there are added 60 ul of 5M sodium chloride and 500 ul about 2 volumes of cold ethanol. The mixture is kept at 750C for 30 minutes, after which the supernatant is discarded and the DNA pellet is vacuum dried to remove the ethanol. B. Ligation to produce clone p52EG. The dried pellets are resuspended in 25 ul of ligase buffer containing 50mM Tris buffer, pH 7.8, 1OmM magnesium chloride, 20mM dithiothreitol and 50 ug ul nuclease free bovine serum albumin . 20 ul of HSV 2 sample is mixed with 2 ul of pBR325 DNA, 1.5 ul of IOmM adenosine triphosphate and 50 units of T4 DNA ligase Bethesda Research Laboratories num 202 . The mixture is incubated for 16 hours and used to transform E. coliRDP145.Example 5Cloning BamHI HindIII fragments from p52EG into pUC9 to form p52EG BH. In a first vial, 20 ul about 5 ug of p52EG are digested with 1 ul of BamHI, HindIII and EcoRI in 22 ul of 2X restriction buffer 1 for 90 minutes at 37 C. Then, 1 9 volume of 1M Tris is added and incubation is continued for 90 more minutes. In a second vial, 10 ul of pUC9 are incubated for 3 hours at 370C with 1 ul of B HI and HindIII with 45 ul of restriction buffer 1. Restriction buffer 1 contains 10 mM Tris, pH 7.4 and the buffer is otherwise the same as restriction buffer 2. Following digestion, the cutDNAs are separated by electrophoresis on 0.75 agarose gels, the desired bands electroeluted from the agarose and then extracted and ligated as in Example 4 and used to transform E. coli.Example 6Isolation of p52BXX from p52EG BH. In a first vial, 10 ul about 5 ug of p52EG BH are added with 1 ul of BamHI and HindIII in 40 ul of restriction buffer 1 and incubated for 2d hours at 370C.Then, 1 unit of XhoI are added and incubation is continued for 15 minutes to cut only one of the two XhoI sites in many of the molecules of p52EG BH. In a second vial, 10 ul of pUC9 are digested with 1 ul of amHI and 2 ul of Sall for 2h hours at 370C in 40 ul of restriction buffer RB S. The restriction buffer used is RB S which contains Tris buffer 6mM, pH 7.4 Sodium chloride 150mM Magnesium chloride 10mM Nuclease free bovine serum albumin 100ug ml 6 mercaptoethanol 1 0mM The DNAs are separated by agarose electrophoresis, electroeluted, extracted, ligated and used to transformE. coli RDP145 as in the preceding Examples. The fragment of p52EG BH electroeluted contains a 4.0 b fragment that extends from the BamHI site at 0.345 through the XhoI site at 0.353 to the XhoI site at 0.372. It should also be noted that a XhoI site has the same cohesive ends at SalI so that the HSV 2 XhoI site at 0.372 is cloned into the SalI site in pUC9.Example 7Expression of a gB fragment from pKBXX in bacteria.A. Production of a gB fragment 10ul of pKBXX DNA about 10 ug and 10 ul of Ball restriction endonuclease are added to an equal volume of 2X Ball buffer restriction buffer RB1 without NaC1 and the DNA is digested for 16 hours at 370C in an Eppendorf snap cap vial. Following the separation of the two DNA fragments 1.48 kb and 5.20 kb by electrophoresis through a 0.7 agarose gel, the desired 1.48 kb is electroeluted from the gel. The DNA is extracted twice with an equal volume of a 24 24 1 mixture of phenol, chloroform and 3 methylbutanol, respectively, to inactivate and remove remaining BalI enzyme. The aqueous DNA containing phase is brought to 0.15 M sodium acetate 3 M stock solution and precipitated by the addition of two volumes of cold ethanol and a 30 minute storage period at 750C. Ethanol is decanted and the DNA vacuum dried and resuspended in 25 ul of bovine serum albumin at 500 ug ul, to which is added an equal volume of 2X Bal31 buffer 40 mM Tris, pH 8.0 24 mM Cacti2, 24 mM MgC12, 400 mM Nail, 2 mM EDTA and 2 ul of Bal31 2.5 units .These concentrations of enyme and DNA cause the hydrolysis of about 100 nucleotides min from each end of the DNA. Bal3l preparations contain both 5 to 3 and 3 to 5 exonucleolytic activity, so that both strands of DNA are hydrolyzed. 5 ul samples are removed at 20 second intervals from 0 to 3 minutes and added to a single Eppendorf snap cap vial containing 50 ul of phenol chloroform 3 methylbutanol see preceding paragraph . The pooled DNA fragments are extracted and precipitated as before, resuspended in 50 ul of TE, and passed through a Sephadex minicolumn by spin dialysis to remove remaining mononucleotides with little change in sample volume. To this is added 1 ul of pUC9 vector DNA about 0.1 ug that has been blunt end cleaved by incubation with HincII. Usually 5 ul of 10X ligase buffer with 10 uM ATP see section 4 for 1X ligase buffer is added and 3 ul of T4 DNA ligase 4 x 105 units ml . The resulting solution is incubated at room temperature for 16 hrs and used directly to transform E.coli as in Example 1C.B. Antigenically active gB fragment. Bacteria from individual colonies, resulting from the above transformation experiment, are used to inoculate 10 ml cultures and are grown to an optical density OD of 0.5. Bacteria from each culture are pelleted and resuspended in 10 trichloroacetic acid TCA and the precipitate is washed with the same volume of 10 TCA in Eppendorf snap cap vials. The final pellet is washed in 100 ul of TE and neutralized by the addition of 2 ul of 2M Tris base, pH 8.0. 10 ul samples are added to nitrocellulose filters and air dried for 30 minutes at 37 C. The bacteria, proteins and DNA will remain bound to the filter. The nitrocellulose strip 145 x 190 mm is soaked in 5 ml of buffer A 10 mM Tris, pH 7.5 170 mM Narc1, 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and also contains 0.01 SDS, and 10 mM magnesium chloride. DNA is digested for 10 minutes by the addition of 10 ul of a solution of DNaseI at 2 mg ml. All treatments of the nitrocellulose strip are in an 18 x 150 mm screw cap test tube, the nitrocellulose being rolled up inside the tube. The strip is kept bathed in all successive incubations by rotating the test tube on a drum that revolves at about 10 rpm. DNaseI and nucleotides are removed by 2 x 5 ml washes for 5 minutes each in buffer A containing 0.01 SDS. Non specific binding of HSV 1 antibodies is blocked by treatment of the nitrocellulose with 3 ml of buffer A containing 0.01 SDS and 10 horse serum.Treatment is for 3 hours. The strip is washed with 2 x 5 ml for 10 minutes each in 5 ml buffer A containing 0.01 SDS. HSV 1 antiserum typically obtained from AccurateScientific is added to allow binding of gB antibodies in the sera to any antigenically active gB fragments present in the bacterial lysates. 10 ul of antiserum is added to 500 ul of solution B buffer A containing 1 mMEDTA, 0.1 SDS, 0.1 Triton X 100 and 4 horse serum and allowed to bind for 16 hours at room temperature.After 2 x 3 ml washes in solution B for 10 minutes, 500 ul of solution B containing 2 uCi of 125I protein A NewEngland Nuclear is added. Protein A is fromStaphylococcus aureus and binds to the constant region of IgG antibodies. Protein A is allowed to bind to these sites for 3 hours at room temperature. Finally, the filter is washed by 5 x 5 ml washes for 15 minutes each with solution B without horse serum, dried and exposed to X Omat X ray film for 24 to 72 hours. C. gB fragment for use as an antigen in rabbits. In order to examine the gB product synthesized in bacteria, the gB peptides synthesized from theBal31 digested DNA Example 7 and after preparation of the final clones see Example 8 can be examined by a radioimmune reaction of SDS electrophoretically separated peptides. Since the gB product is under the control of the lac promoter, its production should be induced by chemicals that induce the synthesis of lac proteins such as IPTG . Ten ml cultures of bacteria are grown in the presence and absence of IPTG to an OD of 0.5, the cells pelleted and resuspended in 1 ml of 10 cold TCA and kept cold for 30 minutes. After a second centrifugation the cells are washed with 10 TCA and the final pellet is neutralized with 2 ul of 2M Tris base, pH 8.0, and resuspended in 100 ul of electrophoresis sample solution 50 mM Tris, pH 7.0, 2 SDS, 5 ss mercaptoethanol, 0.005 bromphenol blue 10 ul samples are applied to a 9.5 gel and peptides separated for 6 hours at 100 volts. The peptides are electroblotted onto a nitrocellulose sheet and the sheet is air dried. The gB peptide is visualized by treating the nitrocellulose sheet as in Example 7 to assay for the presence of gB by the radioimmune assay. A peptide of the expected size should be visualized. In order to prepare gB fragment for use as an antigen to be injected into rabbits, induced bacterial cultures can be treated with TCA and resuspended in electrophoresis sample solution, as indicated in the first paragraph, except that all of the volumes are increased tenfold to obtain about 100 ug of gB peptide.gB from the appropriate region of the gel are mashed inFreund s adjuvant and injected into a rabbit for antibody production. 25 ug of peptide can be used in the initial and succeeding booster injections. Subsequently antisera from rabbits are tested for potency to precipitate gB and to neutralize virus and thereby preferred fractions are identified.Example 8Expression of a gB fragment from p52BXX in bacteria.A. Production of a gB Fraction pS2BXX DNA 25 ugm3 in an Eppendorf snap cap vial is ethanol precipitated, the pellet washed with 70 ethanol, vacuum dried and resuspended in 45 ul of RB6 100 mM NaCl, 6mM Tris HC1 at a pH of 7.4, 6 mM MgCl2 5 mM 2 mercaptoethanol, 100 ug ml BSA . Restriction endonuclease NruI 4 ul at 4 units ul is added and the mixture is incubated in bovine serum albumin overnight at 37 C. Stop solution 5 ul is added and the reaction mixture is subjected to two cycles of spin dialysis using BioGel P 100 in TE buffer to remove inactivated enzyme, and the detergent and dye present in the stop solution. The DNA is ethanol precipitated, washed and dried.DNA is resuspended in 25 ul BSA 500 ug ml , to which is added an equal volume of 2X Bal3l buffer 40 nM Tris, pH 8.0, 24 mM CaCl2 24 mM MgC12, 400 mM Nail, 2 mM EDTA and 3 ul of Bal3l 3.5 units . These concentrations of enzyme and DNA cause the hydrolysis of about 150 nucleotides min from each end of the DNA. Ba131 preparations contain both 5 to 3 and 3 to 5 exonucleolytic activity, so that both strands of DNA are hydrolyzed. 7 ul samples are removed at 30 second intervals from 1 to 4 minutes and added to vials containing 43 ul of TE and 5 ul of stop solution. The extent of Bal3l cutting is determined by running 10 ul samples on agarose gels 0.75 gel . Samples of DNA that appear to be shortened by about 1 kb 500 bp end by digestion with Bal3l are subjected to two cycles of spin dialysis. One tenth of the final volume of 10X RB1 and 1 ul of Xho I 15 units ul are added and the mixture is incubated for 8 hrs at 370C.Xho I cuts the DNA at nucleotide 2672 giving rise to two fragments. 5 ul of stop solution is added and one half of the DNA from each time point is added to each of two adjacent wells on a 0.75 agarose gel. Electrophoresis is conducted overnight at 54 volts. DNA is visualized by ethidium bromide staining and the 1.7 kb band is cut from the gel and electroeluted 3 hours at 108 volts in 0.1 X electrode buffer Ethidium bromide is removed by 3 extractions with equal volumes about 3 ml of n butanol saturated with TE. Two extractions with equal volumes of chloroform 3 methyl butanol 24 1 are done and the DNA is ethanol precipitated, washed with ethanol and dried. DNA is resuspended in 50 ul of TE and subjected to two cycles of spin dialysis as is 4 ug of pUC8 vectorDNA previously exposed to successive digestions with Smal and Salt . Vector DNA is ethanol precipitated, washed and vacuum dried prior to resuspension in 48 ul of SmaI buffer Tris.HCl pH 8.0 , 6 mM KC1, 20 mM MgCl2, 2 mercaptoethanol, 6 mM BSA, 100 ug ml . 2 ul of SmaI 10 units ul is added and after digestion theDNA is subjected to two cycles of spin dialysis on some occasions the SmaI is inactivated and removed by chloroform 3 methylbutanol 24 1 extractions followed by ethanol precipitation and drying the DNA . In either case the DNA is brought to 46 ul in RBS, 4 ul of Sall 10 units ul is added and incubation is for 2 hours at 370C. The HSV 2 DNA fragment from each time point about 2ug is mixed with 0.2 ug of pUC8 DNA. One tenth volume of 10X ligase buffer, 1 ul ATP ll mg ml and 3 ul of T4DNA ligase 4 x 10 units ml are added such that the total reaction volume is 50 ul. Ligation is over night at room temperature. The reaction mixture is used directly to transform E. coli RDP211 by the technique ofExample 1C. B. Antienically a ive 9B fragmentIdentification and immunological activity of the gB B galactosidase fusion protein. Individual bacterial colonies are obtained containing plasmids of the class designated p52ANX , with appropriate HSV 2 inserts, and inclusion bodies when grown in the presence of IPTG isopropyl ss D thiogalactoside . Cultures 10 ml from these colonies are grown in V medium in the induced state 4 ul of IPTG at 56 mg ml in 50 ethanol or uninduced state 150 ul of 20 V V glucose solution to an OD of about 1. Cells are pelleted 6000 g x 5 min and resuspended in 100 ul of a lysis buffer glucose, 50 mM EDTA, 10 mM Tris HC1 pH 8.0 , 25 mM containing 10 mg ml lysozyme and 4 ug ml pancreaticDNase I. After 30 minutes incubation on ice the reaction mixture is vortexed, freeze thawed twice and 5 ml TE added and the mixture vortexed.The sample is sedimented toe000 g x 10 min to pellet the membrane or insoluble proteins leaving the cytoplasmic or soluble proteins including ribosomes in solution. An equal volume of cold trichloroacetic and 10 , W V is added to the supernatant for 30 minutes on ice to precipitate the cytoplasmic proteins. These proteins are sedimented 6000 g x 10 min and resuspended in 100 ul of electrophoresis sample solution 0.05 M tris HCl pH 7.0 , 2 SDS, 5 g mercaptoethanol, 0.005 bromophenol blue, 5 M urea . 5 to 10 ul of 2 M tris base is added to neutralize remaining trichlorocetic acid in the pellet.The membrane proteins present in the first pellet are also solubilized in 100 ul of electrophoresis sample solution. 12 acrylamide gels analytical gels are made by dissolving acrylamide 12 gm andN,N diallyltartardiamide 0.56 gm in 100 ml of gel buffer 0.375 M tris.HCl, pH 8.8 SDS, 0.1 . 0.6 ml of an ammonium persulfate solution 1 gm to 9 ml of water and 30 ul N,N,N N tetramethylethylenediamine are added to 90 ml to catalyze the polymerization process. The solution is degassed under vacuum and 45 ml is used to form each separating gel. The solution is poured between two glass plates 15.9 X 19 cm separated by 1.2 mm spacers on each side and a third spacer at the bottom of the plates. The entire assembly is held together and to a plastic gel stand by clamps and the edges are sealed with agarose 1.6 gm 100 ml water . A plastic blank 18 cm wide X 2.5 cm long X 1.2 mm thick is inserted to form an even surface at the top of the gel.After the gel is polymerized 1 hour the blank is removed and 15 ml of a stacking gel made in the same way but containing only 5 acrylamide and in 0.12 M tris.HC1, pH 7.0 0.18 SDS is poured on top of the separation gel. A comb with 10 teeth each 8.5 mm wideX 15.2 mm long is added to the stacking gels.Following polymerization of the stacking gel 1 hour protein samples 5 to 10 ul in electrophoresis sample solution are added to each well formed by the teeth of the comb. Gels are electrophoresed at 108 volts for 4.5 hours in tris glycine electrode buffer Tris, 0.025 M glycine, 0.192 M SDS, 0.1 pH 8.5 . Following electrophoresis the gel plates are separated and the proteins in the gel are either stained or blotted. To visualize proteins Coomaisse Brilliant Blue stain 0.25 stain, 9.2 glacial acetic acid, 45.4 methanol is added to the gel for F hour and then destained in methanol acetic acid water 5 7.5 87.5 over night. Proteins to be used for antibody reactions are not stained but are blotted onto nitrocellulose paper following separation using electrophoresis on 12 polyacrylamide SDS gels. An electroblotter is used and blotting is done according to instructions supplied by the manufacturer. Blotting is conducted for 1 hours at 60 volts in an electrode buffer 192 mM glycine, 25 mM tris HC1, 1 SDS adjusted to a pH of 8.3 containing methanol to 20 V V . After the proteins are transferred to the nitrocellulose it is cut into strips that fit into 100 mm diameter plastic Petri dishes for the antibody binding assay. The strips are rinsed twice with 5 ml phosphate buffered saline PBS CaC12.2H20, 1.14 gm XCI, 0.2 gm NaHPO4, 1.02 gm KH2PO4, 1.02 gm SH2PO4, 0.2 gm MgC12.6H20, 0.1 gm NaC1, 8 gm adjust pH to 7.4 for 5 minutes for each wash. Non specific binding is minimized by treating the filter strips for 1 hours with 5 ml PBS containing 500 ul of horse serum.After two washes in 5 ml PBS the strips are exposed over night to commercial anti HSV 2 20 ul or anti HSV l 50 ul rabbit serum in 5 ml PBS containing 100 ul horse serum.Antiserum is removed by three washes in 5 ml PBS and a second antibody is added in 5 ml PBS and 100 ul horse serum. The second antibody is goat anti rabbit IgG which contains covalently conjugated horse radish peroxidase. The second antibody will bind to IgG present in the first antibody at the site of ESV 2 proteins. The nitrocellulose strips are exposed to the second antibody for 3 hours. After 5 washes in PBS 5 ml of substrate solution 4 chloro 1 naphthol, 10 mg ethanol, 1 ml 30 H2O2, 10 ul water 100 ml is added until blue color develops at the site of the indicator enzyme horse radish peroxidase . All incubations are carried out on a rotary shaker at 75 RPM.C. gB FRAGMENT. To obtain larger quantities of the 65 kd gB galactosidase fusion protein for animal tests the membrane fraction described above is prepared from liter quantities of induced cultures. A clone containing a plasmid designated p52ANX 60 is used. Up to 10 ml of the membrane fraction containing the 65kd fusion protein from the equivalent of a 1R culture is pipetted onto a 10 polyacrylamide SDS preparative el and electrophoresed 150 volts . Proteins are ron off the gel and fractions 2 ml collected over a 6 8 hour time period. Fractions containing the fusion protein are identified by polyacrylamide SDS gel electrophoresis of the fractions from the preparative gel. 50 ul samples are run on analytical gels and the mobilities compared with those of the unfractionated samples.Proteins are visualized by staining and destaining as indicated above. Relatively pure 65 kd fusion protein is obtained. The protein is dialyzed against PBS and diluted 1 to 1 with Freund s adjuvant. The 65 kd protein is then at a concentration of approximately 100 ug ml. One ml aliquots are used for injections at multiple sites on the haunches and back of goats and rabbits for antibody production. The regimen employed uses 5 injections at one week intervals with serum collection beginning after 7 weeks. To demonstrate protection in mice, 10 ul to 100 ul are injected into similar regions of mice. After different time intervals lethal doses of HSV 2 5 x 105 plaque forming units are injected into related regions of the mice. The protected mice show a significant enhancement in survival rate over controls. TABLE 1 Nucleotide sequence of HSV 1 gB and surrounding regions. The nucleotide sequence of HSV 1 KOS and between 0.372 and 0.345 map units is presented. The sequence originates a XhoI site at 0.372, and terminates at aBamHI site at 0.345 map units. The sequence is written five prime to three prime. Putative CCAAT .... , and TATA signals are underlined. Three possible mRNA start sites are indicated . The first possibleAUG translation initiation condon is shown with a box and arrow. The end of translation from the AUG condon is desinated with the word END. A putative polyadenylation signal AATAAA black squares is indicated, and shortly after a putative point of polyA addition is marked A . 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80CTCCASAASATBCT CGGGTCABCATCCACAACGAG TACTACCC CGAC TTC CCAC TC CTAAC CTTTACGGCXhel 40 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 SC CACACACTTCT CC CCT AC GCGGGCGGGGCACGGTACTCAGCAACCGCTCGGCGCCGGGCGTGTTCGACGCGCA 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 CCGGTTCATGCGABCGTCTCTCCTGCGACACCAGGTGGACCCGGCCCTGCTCCCCAGCATCACCCATC CTTCTTCGAGC 250 240 270 280 290 300 310 320TCGTCAACGGGCCCCTCTTTGATCACTCCACCCACA CTTCGCCCAGCCCCCAACACCGCGCT TATTACAGCGTCGAG 330 340 350 340 370 380 390 400AACGTGGGGCTCCTGCCGCACCTGAAGGAGGAGCTCGCCCGGTTCATCATGGGGGCGGGGGGCTCGGGTGCTGATTGGGC 410 420 450 440 450 460 470 480CGTCAGCGAATTTCAGAGGTTTTACTGTTTTGACGGCATTTCCGGAATAACACCCACTCAGCGCGCCGCCTGGCGATATA 490 500 510 520 530 540 550 560TTCGCGACCTGATTATCGCCACCACACTCTTTGCCTCGGTCTACCGGTGCGGGGAGCTCGAGTTGCGCCGCCC GACTGC 570 580 590 600 610 620 630 640AGCCGCCC ACCTCC GGTCGTTACCGTTACCCGCCCGGCGT T TCTCACGTACGACTCCTACTGTCCGCT GTGGC 650 660 670 680 690 700 710 720 CATCGTCGAGAGCGCCCCCGACGGCTGTATCGGCCCCCGGTCGGTCGT GTCT C ACGCCGACGTTTTCTC ATCCTCT 730 740 750 760 770 780 790 800 ACTCG TCCTCCAGCACCTCGCCCCCAGGCTACCTGACGGGGGGCAC AC GGCCCCCGTA TCCCGCCATGCACCAGGG 810 820 830 840 850 860 870 880CGCCCCCTCGTGGGGGCGCCGGTGGTTCGTGTTATGGGCGCTCTTGGGGTTGACGCTGGGGGTCCT GTGGCGTCGGCGG 890 900 910 920 930 940 950 940CTCCGAGTTCCCCCGGCACGCCTGGGGTCGCGCGCGACCTAGGCGGCGAACGGGGGCCCTGCCACTCCG C CC CCGCC 970 980 970 1000 1010 1020 1030 1040CTTGGCGCCGCCCCAACGGGGGACCCGAAACCGAA AA CAAAAAAACCGAAAACCCAACGCCACCACGCCCCGCCGG 1050 1040 1070 1080 1090 1100 1110 1120C ACAAC C CCGTCGCCGCGGGCCACGCCACCCTGCGCGAGCACCT CGGGACATCAAGGC GAGAACACCGATGCAA 1130 1140 1150 1160 1170 1180 1190 1200ACTTTTACGTGTGCCCACCCCCCCACGGGCGCCGCGGTGTGCAGTTC AGC GCCGCGCCGCT CCC ACCC CCCGAG 1210 1220 1230 1240 1250 1260 1270 1280GGTCAGAACTACACGGAGGGCATCGCGGT TCTTCAAGGAGAACATCGCCCC TACAA TTTAAG CTACTATGTACTA 1290 1300 1310 1320 1330 1340 1350 1360CAAAGACGTCACCGTTTCGCAGGTGTGGTTCGGCCACC CTACTCCCAGTTTAT GGATCTTT A ACCGC CCCCCG 1370 1380 1390 1400 1410 1420 1430 1440TCCCCTTCGAGGAGGTGATCGACAA ATCAACGCCAAGGGGGTCT TCG TCCAC GCCAAGTACGT C CAACAACCTG 1450 1460 1470 1480 1490 1500 1510 1520 AGACCACCGCGTTTCACCGGG C ACCAC GACCG CATGGAGCT ACC CCAAC CC C ACCC CAC GCCG 1530 1540 1550 1560 1570 1580 1590 1600 GGCT CACACCACC ACCTCAAGTACAACCCCTCAC GGT GA GCGTTCCACCGGTAC GGACGACGGTAAACT CA 1610 1620 1630 1640 1650 1660 1670 1480 TCGTC AGGAGGTGGAC C C CTCGGTGTACCCSTACGAC TTTGTGCT CGACT C ACTTTGTGTACATGTCC 1690 1700 1710 1720 1730 1740 1750 1760 CCGTTTTAC GCTACCGGGAG GGTCGCACACC AACACACCACGTACGCCGCC ACCCGCTTCAAGCA GTCGACGGCTT 1770 1780 1790 1800 1810 1820 1830 1840 CTACGCGCGCGACCTCACCACTAAGGCCC CCAC C CC ACC CCC AACCT CTCACGACCCCCAAGTTCACCG 1850 1860 1870 1880 1890 1900 1910 1920 T GCCT GGACTGGGTGCCAAAGC CCC TC TCT CACCATGACCAAGTGCCAGGAAGTGGACGAAATGCTGCGCTCC 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 AGTACGGCGGCTCCTTCCGATTCTCCTCCGACACCATATCCACCACCTTCACCACCAACCTGACCGAGTACCCGCTCTC 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 2070 2080 C CGTGGACCTGGGGGACTGCATCGGCAAGGAC CCCGCGACGCCATGGACCBCATCTTCACCC CAGGTACAACGCGA 2090 2100 2110 2120 2130 2140 2150 2160 CGCACATCAAGGT GGCCAGCCGCAGTACTA GCCAATGGGGGCTTTCTGATCGCGTACCAGCCCCTTCTCAGCAAC 2170 2180 2190 2200 2210 2220 2230 2240 ACGCTCGC GAGCT TAC TGCGGGAACACCTCC A AGCA AGCCGCAAGCCCCCAAACCCCACGCCCCCGCCGCCCGG 2250 2260 2270 2280 2290 2300 2310 2320 GCCAGCGCCAACGCGTCCGTGGAGCGCATCAAGACCACCTCCTCCATCGAGTTCGCCCGGCTGCAGTTTACGTACAACC 2330 2340 2350 2360 2370 2380 2390 2400 ACATACAGCGCCATGTCAAC ATATGTTGGGCC CGTT CCATCGCGTGGTACGAGCTACA ATCACGAGCT ACCCTG 2410 2420 2430 2440 2450 2460 2470 2480 TGGAACGAGGCCCGCAAGCTGAACCCCAACGCCATCACCTCGGTCACCGT GGCCGGCGGGTGAGCGCGCGGATGCTCGG 2490 2500 2510 2520 2530 2540 2550 2560 CGACGTGATGGCCGTCTCCAC T C T CC TC CCGCGGACAACGTGATCATCCAAAACTC ATGCGCATCAGCTCGC 2570 2580 2590 2600 2610 2620 2630 2640GGCCCGGGGCCTGCTACAGCCGCCCCCTGGTCAGCTTTCGGTACGAAGACCAGGGCCCGTTGGTCGAGGGGCAGCTGGGG 2650 2660 2670 2680 2690 2700 2710 2720 RTI ID 35.14 BAGAACAACGAGCTGC GCTGACGCGCGATGCGATCGAGCCGTGCACCGTGGGACACCGGCGCTACTTCACCTTCGGT G 2730 2740 2750 2760 2770 2780 2790 2800 GGGCTACGTGTACTTCGAGGAGTACGCGTACTCCCACCAGCT AGCCGCGCCGACATCACCACCGTCAGCACCTTCATCG 2810 2820 2830 2840 2850 2860 2870 2880 ACCTCAACATCACCATACYGGA GATCACCAGTTTGTCCCCCTGGAGGTGTACACCCGCCACGAGATCAAGGGCAGCGGC 2890 2900 2910 2920 2930 2940 2950 2960 CTGCTGGACTACACGGAGGTCCA CGCTGCAACCAGCTGCAC CCT C CTTCGCCGACATCGACACGGTCATCCACGC 2970 2980 2990 3000 3010 3020 3030 3040 CGACGCCAACGCCGCCATGTTCGCGGGCCTGGGCGCGTTCTTCGGGGGGATGGGCGACCTGGGGCGCGCGGTC CAAGG 3050 3060 3070 3080 3090 3100 3110 3120TGGTGATGGGCATCGTGGGCGGCGTGGTATCGGCCGTGTCGGGCGTGTCCTCCTTCATGTCCAACCCCTTTGGGGCGCTG 3130 3140 3150 3160 3170 3180 3190 3200 RTI ID 35.19 GCCGT GGTCTGTTGGTCCTGGCCGGCCTGGCGGCGGCCTTCTTCGCCTTTCGTTACGTCATGCGGCTGCAGAGCAACCC 3210 3220 3230 3240 3250 3260 3270 3280CATGAAGGCCCTGTACCCTCTAACCACCAAGGAGCTCAAGAACCCCACCAACCCGGACGCGTCCGGGGAGGGCGAGGAGG 3290 3300 3310 3320 3330 3340 3350 3360 CGGCGACTTTGACGAGGCCAA CTAGCCA CC GGAGATGATAC GTACATGGCCCTGGTGTCGGCCATGGAGCGC 3370 3380 3390 3400 3410 3420 3430 3440 CGGAACACAAGGCCAACAAGAA GCACGAGCC CT CTCAGC CCAAGGTCACCGACAT GTCATGCGCAAGCGCC 3450 3460 3470 3480 3490 3500 3510 3520CAACACCAACTACACCCAAGTTCCCAACAAAGACGGTGACGCC ACGAGGACGACCTGTGACGGGGGGTTTGTTGTAAATIN 3530 3540 3550 3560 3570 3580 3590 3600 AAAAACCAC GGT TTAAACCACAT C CATCTTTT GTTTTTT TTTGGTCAGCCCTTTTGTGTGTGTGTGGGAAGAAA 3610 3620 3630 3640 3650 3660 3670 3680 RTI ID 35.23 AAAAAGGAACACATAAACTCCCCCGGGTGTCCGCGGCCT TTTCCTCTTTCCTTTCCCGTGACAAAACGGACCCCCTTG 3690 3700 3710 3720 3730 3740 3750 3760 TCAGT CCGATTTCCTCCCCCCCAC CCTTCCTCCAC TCAA GCTTTT CATTGTAAAGCTACCCGCCTACCCGCCC 3770 3780 3790 3800 3810 3820 3830 3840CTCCCAATAAAAAAAAAAGAACATACACCAATGGGTCTTATTTGGTATTACCTGGTTTATTTAAAAAGATATACAGTAAG 3850 3860 3870 3880 3890 3900 3910 3920 ACATCCCATGGTACCAAAGACC C TCA C CCCCCATCATCT AGA AC AAC AATC GCGGCGCGGCCC 3930 3940 3950 3960 3970 3980 3990 4000 T TCAACGTCCACGTGTGCTGCGCTGCTGGCGTTGACAAGGCCCCGGCCTCCGC TT GAT CTCC GTT GGATCC M1 Table 2 Comparison of amino acid sequences of HSV 1 and ofHSV 2 gB. Listed on the bottom line is the amino acid sequence for HSV 1 gB. The line above that represents the nucleotide sequence for HSV 1 gB. Immediately above that line are shown nucleotides for HSV 2 gB only where they are different from those shown for HSV 1. X indicates those sequences of HSV 2 gB that remain to be determined corresponding to residues 17 41 of HSV 1 gB . The fourth line from the bottom shows the corresponding amino acid for HSV 2 gB where they are different from those of HSV 1 gB. The numbers at the top are the numbers of the amino acid residues for HSV 1 gB. It will be noted that five extra amino acid residues are present for HSV 2 gB at the gaps shown in the HSV 1 sequence. 1 10 20 erg gly oly oly leu ile cys ala leu val val glyala leu val G GG G G TTG ATT C C TG GTC GT GGG CG CTG GT XXX XXX XXX XXX ATG CAC CAG GGC GCC CCC TCG TGG GGG CGC CGG TGG TTC GTC GTA TGG GCG CTC TTG GGG met his gln gly ala pro zer trp gly arg arg trp phe val val trp ala leu leu gly 30 40 XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX TTG GCG CTG GGG GTC CTG GTG GCG TCG GCG GCT CCG AGT TCC CCC GGC ACG CCT GGG GTC leu thr leu gly val leu val ala ser ala ala pro ser ser pro gly thr pro gly val 50 60 ser pro val pro ala pro arg pro glu pro XXX T CC GT GCG C C CGT CC AG C GCG CGC GAC CCA GGC GGC GAA CGG GGG CCC TGC CAC TCC GGC GCC GCC GCC CTT GGC GCC ala arg msp pro gly oly glu arg gly pro cys his ser gly ala ala ala leu oly ala 70 80 arg esp his gln gly glu ala glu n gln erg ser gly arg arg CG GAC CAC CAA G G G G A C C A CGC A GC GG G G G C GCC CCA ACG GGG GAC CCG AAA CCG AAG AAG AAC AAA AAA CCG AAA AAC CCA ACG CCA CCA ala pro thr oly esp pro ly pro lys lys n lys lys pro lys n pro thr pro pro 90 100 sp ala val ala A C C C G C CGC CCC GCC GGC GAC AAC GCG ACC GTC GCC GCG GGC CAC GCC ACC CTG CGC GAG CAC CTG arg pro ala oly esp n ala thr val ala ala oly his ala thr leu arg glu his leu 110 120 olu val ala gln A TC G C C G G G CGG GAC ATC AAG GCG GAG AAC ACC GAT GCA AAC TTT TAC GTG TGC CCA CCC CCC ACG GGC arg sp ile lys ala glu n thr asp ala n phe tyr val cys pro pro pro thr gly 130 140 T G C G GGCC ACG GTG GTG CAG TTC GAG CAG CCG CGC CGC TGC CCG ACC CGG CCC GAG GGT CAG AAC ala thr val val gln phe glu gln pro arg arg cy pro thr arg pro glu gly gln n 150 160 ATAC ACG GAG GGC ATC GCG GTG GTC TTC AAG GAG AAC ATC GCC CCG TAC AAG TTC AAG GCC tyr thr glu gly ile ala val val phe lys glu n ile ala pro tyr lys phe lys ala 170 180 G GACC ATG TAC TAC AAA GAC GTC ACC GTT TCG CAG GTG TGG TTC GGC CAC CGC TAC TCC CAG thr set tyr tyr lys azp val thr val ser gln val trp phe gly his arg tyr ser gln 190 200 A C T TTTT ATG GGG ATC TTT GAG GAC CGC GCC CCC GTC CCC TTC GAG GAG GTG ATC GAC AAG ATC phe met gly ile phe glu asp arg ala pro val pro phe glu glu val ile asp lys ile 210 220 met C C G AAAC GCC AAG GGG GTC TGT CGG TCC ACG GCC AAG TAC GTG CGC AAC AAC CTG GAG ACC ACC n la lys gly val cys arg ser thr ala lys try val arg n n leu glu thr thr 220 240 lys val C G G G T C GGCG TTT CAC CGG GAC GAC CAC GAG ACC GAC ATG GAG CTG AAA CCG GCC AAC GCC GCG ACC ala phr his arg asp asp glu thr asp met glu leu lys pro ala n ala ala thr 250 260 GCGC ACG AGC CGG GGC TGG CAC ACC ACC GAC CTC AAG TAC AAC CCT TCG CGG GTG GAG GCG arg thr ser arg gly trp his thr thr asp leu lys tyr n pro ser arg val glu ala 270 280 T C C GTTC CAC CGG TAC GGG ACG ACG GTA AAC TGC ATC GTC GAG GAG GTG GAC GCG CGC TCG GTG phe his arg tyr gly thr thr val n cys ile val glu glu val asp ala arg ser val 290 300 T GTAC CCG TAC GAC GAG TTT GTG CTG GCG ACT GGC GAC TTT GTG TAC ATG TCC CCG TTT TAC tyr pro tyr asp glu phe val leu ala thr gly asp phe val tyr met ser pro phe tyr 310 320 GGGC TAC CGG GAG GGG TCG CAC ACC GAA CAC ACC ACG TAC GCC GCC GAC CGC TTC AAG CAG oly tyr arg glu gly r his thr glu his thr thr tyr ala ala asp arg phe lys gln 330 340 T GGTC GAC GGC TTC TAC GCG CGC GAC CTC ACC ACC AAG GCC CGG GCC ACG GCG CCG ACC ACC val asp gly phe tyr ala arg asp leu thr thr lys ala arg ala thr ala pro thr thr 350 360 val C G G T G ACGG AAC CTG CTC ACG ACC CCC AAG TTC ACC GTG GCC TGG GAC TGG GTG CCA AAG CAC CCG arg n leu leu thr thr pro lys phe thr val ala trp asp trp val pro lys arg pro 370 380 mla alaG G C GTCG GTC TGC ACC ATG ACC AAG TGG CAG GAA GTG GAC GAG ATG CTG CGC TCC GAG TAC GGC ser val cys thr met thr lys trp gln glu val asp glu met leu arg er glu tyr oly 390 400 C C GGGC TCC TTC CGA TTC TCC TCC GAC GCC ATA TCC ACC ACC TTC ACC ACC AAC CTG ACC GAGSLY er he phe er zer sp ala ile ser thr thr phe thr thr n leu thr glu 410 420 ser ARG olu ile T C C CG T G CTAC CCS CTC TCG CGC GTG GAC CTG GGG GAC TGC ATC GGC AAG GAC GCC CGC GAC GCC ATG tyr pro leu ser arg val esp leu oly asp cys il gly ly asp ala arg asp ala met 430 440 met ly G G A CGAC CGC ATC TTC GCC CGC AGG TAC AAC GCG ACG CAC ATC AAG GTG GGC CAG CCG CAG TAC esp arg ile phe ala erg erg tyr n la thr his ile lys val gly gln pro gln try 450 460 gln thr A CG C C C CTAC CTG GCC AAT GGG GGC TTT CTG ATC GCG TAC CAG CCC CTT CTC ACG AAC ACG CTC GCG tyr leu ala n oly oly phe leu ile ala tyr gln pro leu leu ser n thr leu ala 470 480 tyr t oly ola G T A G G GG T GGAG CTG TAC GTG CGG GAA CAC CTC CGA GAG CAG AGC CGC AAG CCC CCA AAC CCC ACG CCC olu leu tyr val arg glu his leu arg glu gln ser arg lys pro pro n pro thr pro 488 498 ala leu arg glu proGCG A T GG A G CCC CCG CCG CCC GGG GCC AGC GCC AAC GCG TCC GTG GAG CGC ATC AAG ACC ACC TCC pro pro pro oly ala ser ala n ala ser val glu arg ile ly thr thr ser 508 518 G T C G CTCC ATC GAG TTC GCC CGG CTG CAG TTT ACG TAC AAC CAC ATA CAG CGC CAT GTC AAC GAT er ile glu phe ala arg leu gln phe thr tyr asn his ile gln arg his val n p 528 538 ile val C G ATC G G C TATB TTG GGC CGC GTT GCC ATC GCG TGG TGC GAG CTA CAG AAT CAC GAG CTG ACC CTG TGG met leu oly erg val ala ile ala trp tys olu leu gln n his glu leu thr leu trp 548 558 ala C C C CAAC GAG GCC CGC AAG CTG AAC CCC AAC GCC ATC GCC TCG GTC ACC GTG GGC CGG CGG GTG n glu ala arg lys leu esn pro n ala ile ala mer val thr val gly arg arg val 568 578 ala pro C A C G C CAGC GCG CGG ATG CTC GGC GAC GTG ATG GCC GTC TCC ACG TGC GTG CCG GTC GCC GCG GAC ser ala arg met leu gly msp val met ala val ser thr cys val pro val ala ala asp 588 598 val thr G G G G ACGAAC GTG ATC GTC CAA AAC TCG ATG CGC ATC AGC TCG CGG CCC GGG GCC TGC TAC AGC CGC n val ile val gln n zur met arg ile ser er arg pro gly ala cys tyr ser arg 608 618 ile C A CCCC CTG GTC AGC TTT CGG TAC GAA GAC CAG GGC CCG TTG GTC GAG GGG CAG CTG GGG GAG pro leu val ser phe arg tyr glu sp gln gly pro leu val olu oly gln leu gly olu 428 638 leu C C C C C C AAC AAC GAG CTG CGG CTG ACG CGC GAT GCG ATC GAG CCG TGC ACC GTG GGA CAC CGG CGC n n olu leu arg leu thr arg asp ala il glu pro cy thr val oly his arg arg 648 658 ile T C TTAC TTC ACC TTC GGT GGG GGC TAC STG TAC TTC GAG GAG TAC GCG TAC TCC CAC CAG CTG tyr phe thr phe oly oly oly tyr val tyr phe glu glu tyr ale tyr ser his gln leu 668 678 val T B BAGC CGC GCC GAC ATC ACC ACC GTC AGC ACC TTC ATC GAC CTC AAC ATC ACC ATG CTG GAG ser erg ela asp ile thr thr val ser thr phe ile esp leu esn ile thr est leu olu 688 698 C G C GGAT CAC GAG TTT GTC CCC CTG GAG GTG TAC ACC CGC CAC GAG ATC AAG GAC AGC GGC CTG asp his glu phe val pro leu glu val tyr thr arg his glu ile lys sp ser oly leu 708 718 TCTG GAC TAC ACG GAG GTC CAG CGC CGC AAC CAS CTS CAC GAC CTG CGC TTC GCC GAC ATC leu asp tyr thr glu val gln arg arg asn gln leu his asp leu arg phe ale asp ile 728 738 arg cy G G TGAC ACG GTC ATC CAC BCC GAC GCC AAC SCC BCC ATG TTC GCS GGC CTG GGC GCG TTC TTC asp thr val ile his ale asp ala n ala ale met phe ala gly leu oly ola phe phe 748 758 val G 7 A C G A GGAG GGG ATG GGC GAC CTG GGG CGC GCG GTC GGC AAG GTG GTG ATG GGC ATC GTG GGC GGC glu oly met gly asp leu gly arg ala val gly lys val val met gly ile val oly oly 768 778 G C T C TGTG GTA TCG GCC GTG TCG GGC GTG TCC TCC TTC ATG TCC AAC CCC TTT GGG GCG CTG GCC val val ser ala val ser oly val ser ser phe met ser asn pro phe gly ala leu ala 788 798 val leu G C TC C CGTG GGT CTS TTG GTC CTG GCC GGC CTG GCG GCG GCC TTC TTC GCC TTT CGT TAC GTC ATG val gly leu leu val leu ela oly leu ala ala ala phe phe ala phe arg tyr val met 818 erg GOG leu gln A C T T C A CTTCGG CTG CAG ACG AAC CCC ATG AAG GCC CTG TAC CCT CTA ACC ACC AAG GAG CTC AAG AAC arg leu gln ser n pro est lys el leu tyr pro leu thr thr lys glu leu lys esn 828 835 asp pro gly oly val oly mla olu oly oly loy GA CC GG G T GG G A CG G GGG GGC GGGCCC ACC AAC CCG GAC GCG TCC GGG GAG GGC GAG GAG GGC GGC GAC TTT GAC pro thr asn pro emp ala ser oly olu oly olu olu oly oly asp phe p 845 855 T G C A A C A T T TGAG GCC AAG CTA GCC GAG GCC AGG GAG ATG ATA CGG TAC ATG GCC CTG GTG TCG GCC ATG glu ela lys leu ala glu ala arg glu est ile erg tyr et ala leu val er ala met 865 rg ala er GA GCC 7GAG CGC ACG EAA CAC AAG GCC AAS AAG AAG EGC ACG CGG CTG CTC ABC GCC AAS AAG GTC olu erg thr olu his lys ela lya lys lys oly thr r arg leu leu ser ele lys val 885 893 n leu n lys ala erg ser pro leu his olu A T C AA A G GG T T CG C C A G GACC GAC ATG GTC ATG CGC AAG CGC CGC AAC ACC AAC TAC ACC CAA GTT CCC AAC AAA GAC thr msp met val met arg lys erg rg n thr een tyr thr oln val pro msn lys emp 896 903 olu ela oly olu AG C GA G C AGGT GAC GCC GAC GAG BAC GAC CTG TGA oly asp ela esp glu asp asp l u TABLE 3 The multiple cloning site in pUC9 and pUC8. A multiple cloning site containing the indicated restriction sites is shown in the figure.The cloning site is near the N terminal end of the ss galactosidase gene and results in the insertion of 11 amino acids between amino acids 4 and 5 of this protein for pUC9 and between amino acids 6 and 7 for pUC8. The new amino acids are offset from the normal ss galactosidase amino acids. The direction of RNA and protein synthesis is from left to right. pUC9 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 2 3 4 PRO SER LEU AU ALA GLY ARG ARC ILE PRO GLY 5 6 7 8 THR ET ILE THR ASH SER LEU ALAATC AOC ATC ATT ACG OCA ACC TTG GCT CCA GGT CGA CGG ATC CC CGG AAT TCA CTG CCC Hind III Pst 1 BomMI EOOR1 Sal I SmaI ACC I Xmal Hind II pUC8 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 7 8 THR ET ILE T R ASH SER erg gly ser val esp leu gln pro ser leo ela LEU ALAATC ACC ATG ATT ACG AAT TCC CGC GGA TCC GTC GAC CTG CAG DCA ACC TTG GCA CTC GOC Eco R1 Bare MI Pst I Hind III Sma I Sal I Xma I ACC I Hind II