# Gamma interferon composition.

## Abstract
Gamma interferon obtainable from the human leuko cytes, which is unstable even during lyophilization and storage in solid state, can be stabilized by addition of albumin and or a sugar such as glucose, mannose, galac tose, fructose, sucrose, mannitol and xylitol. A stable, lyophilized gamma interferon composition is prepared by lyophilizing its aqueous solution containing the abovemen tioned stabilizer without lowering its activity.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A stable gamma interferon composition comprising a gamma interferon and an amount sufficient for stabilizing the gamma interferon of a sugar or an alubumin. 2. The stable gamma interferon composition ofClaim 1, wherein the sugar is a monosaccharide, a disaccharide or a sugar alcohol. 3. The stable gamma interferon composition ofClaim 2, wherein the sugar is glucose, mannose, galactose, fructose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannitol or xylitol. 4. The stable gamma interferon composition of any ofClaims 1 3, wherein the amount of the sugar is at least 5 mg per 1 x 102 1 x 107 units of the gamma interferon. 5. The stable gamma interferon composition ofClaim 4, wherein the amount of the sugar is 10 mg per 1 x 104 1 x 105 units of the gamma interferon. 6. The stable gamma interferon composition of any preceding Claim, which is in the form of a lyophilized solid. 7. The stable gamma interferon composition of any ofClaims 1 5, which is in the form of an aqueous solution. 8. The stable gamma interferon composition of any ofClaims 1, 6 and 7, wherein the amount of albumin is at least 3 mg per 1 x 102 1 x 107 units of the gamma interferon. 9. The stable gamma interferon composition of Claim 8. wherein the amount of albumin is S 10. mg per 1 x 104 1 x 105 units of the gamma interferon. 10. A process for producing the stable gamma interferon composition of Claim 6, which comprises lyophilizing the stable gamma interferon composition of Claim 7.

## Description
GAMMA INTERFERON COMPOSITION This invention relates to a stable gamma interferon hereinafter referred to as IFN y composition. IFN y is a glycoprotein having a molecular weight of about 20,000 to 40,000 which is produced when human leukocytes are stimulated with a mitogen such as phytohemagglutinin hereinafter referred to as PHA or concanavarin A hereinafter referred to as Con A used as an inducer. IFN y has a marked immunosuppressive, antiviral and anticellular action further, it gives a synergistic effect to the activity of IFN a and IFN B moreover, it has 10 to 100 times as high an antiproliferation effect against tumor cells as that of IFN e or IFN . Accordingly, a great expectation is placed on the clinical effect of IFN yas a medicine. But IFN y is unstable to acid conditions for example, pH of about 2 or to heat. It also has a poor storage stability in solution. Hence, when IFN p is to be used as a medicine, it would be deemed desidable to make a lyophilized product of it but actually, even during the lyophilization step it loses its activity.Accordingly, it is necessary to stabilize IFN y beforehand by some means. Under these circumstances, the Inventors, after extensive studies, have found out that, when a definite amount of a sugar or an albumin is made to exist together with IFN y, the IFN Y is stabilized no inactivation takes place during the lyophilization of the aqueous solution containing IFN y moreover the storage stability of the dry preparation formed by lyophilization is improved. This invention has been accomplished on the basis of above finding. Thus, this invention relates to a stable IFN y composition which comprises IFN y and a sugar or an albumin in an amount sufficient for stabilizing.IFN y. The IFN y to be used in this invention is usually th at which is obtained by purification by chromatography using an antigen column or the like of the crude IFN y produced by stimulation of human leukocytes with a mitogen such as PHA and Con A used as an inducer.But a wide variety of other IFN y including those produced by E.coli, yeast and the like by virtue of genetic engineering may also be used irrespective of their origin. The sugars to be used in this invention include not only a normal sugar such as monosaccharides and disaccharides, but also a sugar alcohol and the mixtures thereof. There may be mentioned, as examples of monosaccharides, glucose, mannose, galactose and fructose as those of disaccharides, sucrose, maltose and lactose and as those of sugar alcohols, mannitol and xylitol, A sugar may be used in admixture with albumin. The albumin to be used in this invention is preferably of human origin because of the antigenicity problem. Such albumins can be used without further limitation so long as they have been purified for medical use. The purity is preferably such that they contain at least 808 of albumin as determined by electrophoresis analysis. As the methods for obtaining human origin albumin, there may be mentioned, for example, the ethanol fractionation method Japanese Patent PublicationNos. 2869 72 and 5297 60 and the method of heating a fraction thereof in the presence of an organic acid Japanese Patent Publication Nos. 1604 68 and 401321 76 .Particularly, albumins which have been subjected to heat treatment preferably at 600C for about 10 hours to effect inactivation of hepatitis virus and the like are preferably used. The amount of sugar or albumin sufficient for stabilizing IFN t is in a ratio of at least 5 mg of sugar or at least 3 mg of albumin per 1 x 102 1 x 107 units of IFN Y , and preferably 10 mg of sugar or 5 10 mg of albumin per 1 x 104 1 x 10 units of IFN t. This compounding ratio is applicable to the stabilization of IFN Y in the form of either solid or aqueous solution. In the lyophilization of an aqueous solution of IFN y, addition of sugar to a concentration of at least 5 mg ml, preferably 10 mg ml of sugar or at least 3 mg ml, preferably 5 mg ml of albumin in the solution is sufficient to achieve the stabilization of IFN t, irrespective of the content of IFN Y in the solution. The lyophilization in the presence of sugar or albumin may be performed, for example, as follows. An aqueous solution containing purified IFN Y is adjusted to pH 5 to 9 sugar or albumin is added to the solution in a stabilizing amount mentioned above the resulting aqueous solution is filtered aseptically, dispensed in portions into uials, and then lyophilized in a conventional manner. The lyophilized preparation of IFN thus obtained has preferably a composition approximately corresponding to 10,000 500,000 units preferably 50,000 500,000 units of IFN y, 5 20 mg preferably 10 20 mg of sugar or 3 20 mg preferably 5 20 mg of alubmin and about 9 about 18 mg of sodium chloride. The IFN y preparation provided by the method of this invention is administered orally or parenterally. The dose varies depending upon the diseases to be treated, administration routes and so forth. When used as injections, for example, it is usually made up into a solution containing about 1 108 w v of IFN y with distilled water or physiological saline solution for injection, and administered intravenously or intramuscularly at a dose of 2 x 103 1 x 104 units of IFN y kg body weight depending on the symptoms of patients.In such case albumin would be administered in an amount of 0.1 0.4 mg kg and sugar in an amount of 0.2 0.4 mg kg. This invention will be described in more detail below with reference to Examples and ExperimentalExamples, but it is in no way limited thereto.Examples 1 to 9 IFN y produced in leukocytes with PHA used as the stimulant was purified by subjecting it to an affinity chromatography using Sepharose monoclonal IFN y antibody as column and 2M KSCN solution pH 8 as eluent to give a specific activity of 106 U mg or more. The purified IFN y was dialyzed against a phosphate sodium chloride buffer solution, pH 7. Then, a series of solution groups of various titers was prepared which con tained the dialyzed IFN y in concentrations of 1 x 102 units ml, 1 x 103 units ml, 1 x 104 units ml, 1 x 105 units ml and 1 x 106 units ml. To each of the solution groups, was added glucose Example 1 , mannose Example 2 , galactose Example 3 , fructose Example 4 , sucrose Example 5 , maltose Example 6 , lactose Example 7 , mannitol Example 8 or xylitol Example 9 to a concentration of 10 mg ml, respectively.The solutions were then filtered aseptically, dispensed in 2 ml portions into vials of 10 nil volume, and lyophilized at temperatures finally reaching 250C. The water content of the resulting lyophilized product determined according to the general method, criterion for biological preparations was found to be about 0.2 for every specimen. All of the lyophilized products dissolved immediately on addition of 2 ml of distilled water for injection and gave a clear, colorless solution. The amounts of remaining IFN y determined with these solutions all showed no difference from those before lyophilization. Example 10. Example 1 was repeated, provided that in place of glucose to a concentration of 10 mg ml albumin was added to a concentration of 5 mg ml. The resulting lyophilized product has a water content of about 2 and dissolved immediately. The property of the solution and the activity of remaining IFN y therein are same as in Example 1.Experimental Exampl 1 A series of experiments was carried out to confirm the stabilizing effect according to this invention. To a solution of purified IFN y 1 x 104 units ml the titer being determined according to the CPE inhibition method in PL Sindvis Virus system , was added glucose, sucrose, or mannitol to concentrations of 1 mg ml 5 mg ml and 10 mg ml, respectively, and the resulting solutions were lyophilized. The titer of the product was determined immediately before lyophilization, immediately after lyophilization, and after storage of 6 months at room temperature. The percentage of remaining.activity relative to the titer immediately after the addition of sugar was as shown in Table 1. Table 1EMI8.1 tb SEP Remaining SEP ratio SEP of SEP IFN y tb SEP Sugar SEP I SEP activity SEP tb SEP Immediately SEP Immediately SEP 6 SEP Months tb SEP Added SEP before SEP after SEP storage SEP at tb Kind SEP amount SEP lyophili SEP lyophili SEP room SEP tem tb SEP zation SEP zation SEP perature tb Glucose SEP 1 SEP 98 SEP 40 SEP 19 tb SEP 5 SEP 102 SEP 82 SEP 76 tb SEP 10 SEP 101 SEP 93 SEP 89 tb Sucrose SEP 1 SEP 99 SEP 46 SEP 15 tb SEP 5 SEP 97 SEP 86 SEP 78 tb SEP 10 SEP 100 SEP 96 SEP 90 tb Mannitol SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP 37 SEP 14 tb SEP 5 SEP 101 SEP 83 SEP 75 tb SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP SEP 99 SEP 91 SEP 87 tb None SEP 100 SEP SEP 32 tb Experimental Example 2 A series of experiments was carried out to confirm the stabilizing effect according to this invention. To a solution of purified IFN y 1 x 104 units ml the titer being determined according to the CPE inhibition method in FL Sindvis Virus system , was added human serum albumin to various concentrations 0 to 20 mg ml as shown in Fig. 1 , and the resulting solutions were lyophilized. The titer of the lyophilized product was determined immediately after lyophilization indicated by symbol 0 and after storage of 6 months at room temperature indicated by symbol . The. percentage of remaining activity relative to the titer immediately after the addition of human serum albumin was as shown in Fig. 1.