# Method to prepare calcium catalysts and their use in alkoxylation

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Alkoxylierungskatalysators,umfassend ein mindestens teilweises Solubilisieren von Calciumoxid,Calciumhydroxid oder Gemischen davon durch Vermischen einesvon diesen mit einem Aktivator der Formel

## Description
This invention relates to a method for providing calcium containing catalysts for the preparation of alkoxylationproducts, i.e., condensation reaction products of epoxides and organic compounds having at least oneactive hydrogen. In one aspect of the invention, these catalysts can be used to prepare alkoxylation products that have beneficial,narrow molecular weight ranges. In a further aspect of the invention, processes are provided for preparing calcium containingcatalysts for alkoxylation using calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide. A variety of products such as surfactants, functional fluids, glycol ethers, polyols, and the like, arecommercially prepared by the condensation reaction of epoxides with organic compounds having at leastone active hydrogen, generally, in the presence of an alkaline or acidic catalyst. The types and properties ofthe alkoxylation products depend on, among other things, the active hydrogen compound, the epoxide, andthe mole ratio of epoxide to organic compound employed, as well as the catalyst. As a result of thealkoxylation, a mixture of condensation product species are obtained having a range of molecular weights. In many applications of alkoxylated products, certain of the alkoxylation species provide much greateractivity than others. Consequently, alkoxylation processes are desired that are selective to the production ofthose alkoxylation species. Further, for many of these uses, mixtures of alkoxylation products falling within anarrow range of molecular distribution of reacted epoxide are believed to be superior to alkoxylationproducts in which a single alkoxylation specie predominates. For example, in a surfactant composition therange of materials on which the surfactant will be required to operate will normally vary. A range ofalkoxylation species, even though narrow, will enhance the performance of the surfactant to the variety ofmaterials which it may encounter. Further, mixtures of closely related alkoxylation species can provide amixture having other improved properties such as in respect to cloud point, freezing point, pour point andviscosity as compared to a single specie. There, however, is a balance, and if the distribution of speciesbecomes too broad, not only are less desirable alkoxylation species diluting the mixture, but also the morehydrophilic or lipophilic components than those in the sought range can be detrimental to the soughtproperties. Moreover, a wide range of alkoxylation species can restrict the flexibility in ultimate product formulationusing the alkoxylation reaction product. For example, in making oil in water emulsion products it is oftendesired to prepare a concentrated composition that minimizes the weight percent of water. This concentratemay then be diluted with water at the time of use, thereby saving the expense of shipping and storingwater. The ability to form a desirable concentrate is generally dependent, in part, on having a narrowdistribution of alkoxylation species since if heavier moieties are present, a greater portion of water is usuallyrequired otherwise gelling evidencing product instability may occur. The recognition that certain distributions of moles of epoxide to moles of organic compound inalkoxylation products can be important has long been recognized. For example,GB A 1,399,966 discloses the use of ethoxylates having a hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB of fromabout 10 to about 13.5 for use in a laundry detergent. In order to provide this HLB, the moles of ethyleneoxide reacted per mole of fatty alcohol is described as being critical. InGB A 1,462,133, the sought cleaning composition employed alkylene oxide cosurfactants sufficient to provideeven a narrower HLB, i.e., from about 10 to 12.5. In GB A 1,462,134, a detergentcomposition is disclosed which uses ethoxylates having an HLB of from about 9.5 to 11.5, with the preferredethoxylates having an HLB of 10.0 to 11.1. Thus, with the increased understanding of the properties to be provided by an alkoxylation product,greater demands are placed on tailoring the manufacture of the alkoxylation product to enhance the soughtproperties. Accordingly, efforts have been expended to provide alkoxylated products in which the distributionof reacted epoxide units per mole of organic compound is limited to a range in which the soughtproperties are enhanced. Alkoxylation processes are characterized by the condensation reaction in the presence of a catalyst ofat least one epoxide with at least one organic compound containing at least one active hydrogen. Perhapsthe most common catalyst is potassium hydroxide. The products made using potassium hydroxide,however, generally exhibit a broad distribution of alkoxylate species. See, for example, M. J. Schick, The distribution that will be obtained in alkoxylation processes can vary even using the same type ofcatalyst depending upon the type of organic compound being alkoxylated. For example, with nonylphenol, aPoisson type distribution can be obtained using a potassium hydroxide catalyst, However, with aliphaticalcohols such as decanol, dodecanol, and the like, the distribution is even broader. These distributions arereferred to herein as Conventional Broad Distributions . Acidic catalysts can also be used, and they tend to produce narrower, and thus more desirable.molecular weight distributions however, they also contribute to the formation of undesired by productsand,thus, are not in wide use commercially. Particular emphasis has been placed on controlling molecular weight distribution of alkoxylationproducts. One approach has been to strip undesirable alkoxylate species from the product mixture. Forinstance, US A 3,682,849 discloses processes for the vapor phase removal of unreactedalcohol and lower boiling ethoxylate components. The compositions are said to contain less than about 1 of each of non ethoxylated alcohols and monoethoxylates, less than 2 by weight of diethoxylates and lessthan 3 by weight of triethoxylates. This process results in a loss of raw materials since the lowerethoxylates are removed from the composition. Also, the stripped produce still has a wide distribution ofethoxylate species, i.e., the higher molecular weight products are still present in the composition to asignificant extent. To circumvent viscosity problems which would normally exist with straight chainalcohols,about 20 to 30 percent of the starting alcohol is to be branched according to the patent. Obtaining a narrower distribution of alkoxylated species at lower epoxide reactant to organic compoundmole ratios can be readily accomplished. US A 4,098,818 discloses a process in which the moleratio of catalyst e.g., alkali metal and alkali metal hydride to fatty alcohol is about 1 1. Ethoxylatedistributions are disclosed for Parts C and D of Example 1 and are summarized as follows The high catalyst content in combination with the low epoxide to alcohol ratio appears to enable anarrow, low ethoxylate fraction to be produced. However, as the ratio of epoxide to alcohol increases, thecharacteristic. Conventional Broad Distribution of alkali metal catalysts can be expected. Moreover, eventhough the disclosed process is reported to provide a narrower distribution of ethoxylate species, thedistribution is skewed so that significant amounts of the higher ethoxylates are present. For example, in Part C, over 15 percent of the ethoxylate compositions had at least three more oxyethylene groups than theaverage based on the reactants, and that amount in Part D is over 16 percent. EP A 0095562, published December 12, 1983, exemplifies the ability toobtain high selectivity to low ethoxylate species when low ratios of ethylene oxide reactant to alcohol areemployed as well as the tendency to rapidly loose that selectivity when higher ethoxylated products aresought. For instance, Example 1, described as a 1 mole EO adduct , which reports the use of adiethylaluminum fluoride catalyst, employs 300 grams of a 12 to 14 carbon alcohol and 64 grams ofethylene oxide and Example 5 described as a 1.5 mole EO adduct using the same catalyst, employs aweight ratio of alcohol to ethylene oxide at 300 118. Based on the graphically presented data, thedistributions appear to be as follows Several catalysts have been identified that are reported to provide molecular weight distributions forhigher ethoxylates that are narrower than those expected from a Conventional Broad Distribution. Inparticular, this work has emphasized ethoxylation catalysis by derivatives of the Group IIA alkaline earthmetals. Interest in these catalysts. which to date has been confined almost exclusively to the production ofnon ionic surfactants, stems from their demonstrated capability for providing hydrophobe ethoxylates havingnarrower molecular weight distributions, lower unreacted alcohol contents, and lower pour points thancounterparts manufactured with conventional alkali metal derived catalysts. Recently, Yang and coworkers were granted a series of U.S. patents which describe primarily the use ofunmodified or phenolic modified oxides and hydroxides of barium and strontium as ethoxylation catalystsfor producing non ionic surfactants exhibiting lower pour points, narrower molecular weight distributions.lower unreacted alcohol contents and better detergency than counterpart products prepared by state of the artcatalysis with alkali metal hydroxides. See U.S. Patent Nos. 4,210,764 4,223,164 4,239,917 4,254,287 4,302,613 and 4,306,093. Significantly, these patents contain statements to the effect that the oxides and orhydroxides of magnesium and calcium do not exhibit catalytic activity for ethoxylation although they mayfunction in the role of promoters for the barium and strontium compounds US A 4,302,613 . The molecular weight distributions of the ethoyylates disclosed in these patents, while being narrowerthan conventional distributions, appear not to meet fully the desired narrowness. For example, Figure 6 ofUS A 4,223,146 depicts the product distribution of an ethoxylate of a 12 to 14 carbon alcohol and60 percent ethylene oxide using various catalysts. A barium hydroxide catalyst is described as providing aproduct mixture containing, as the most prevalent component, about 16 percent of the six mole ethoxylate.The distribution is, however, still relatively wide in that the ethoxylate species having three or moreoxyethylene groups than the most prevalent component is above about 19 weight percent of the mixtureand the distribution is skewed toward higher ethoxylates. The strontium hydroxide catalyst run which is alsodepicted on that figure appears to have a more symmetrical distribution but the most prevalent component,the seven mole ethoxylate, is present in an amount of about 14.5 weight percent and about 21 weightpercent of the composition had three or more oxyethylene groups than the most prevalent component. Also, US A 4,239,917 discloses ethoxylate distributions using barium hydroxide catalyst and afatty alcohol. Figure 7 of that patent illustrates the distribution at the 40 percent ethoxylation level with thefour mole ethoxylate being the most prevalent component. Over about 19 weight percent of the mixture hasthree or more oxyethylene groups than the most prevalent component. Figure 4 depicts the distribution ofethoxylation at the 65 percent ethoxylation level. The nine and ten mole ethoxylates are the most prevalentand each represent about 13 weight percent of the composition. The distribution is relatively symmetrical but about 17 weight percent of the composition has at least three more oxyethylene groups than theaverage peak 9.5 oxyethylene groups . Interestingly, comparative examples using sodium hydroxidecatalyst are depicted on each of these figures and evidence the peaking that can be achieved withconventional base catalysts at low ethoxylation levels, but not at higher ethoxylation levels. McCain and coworkers have published a series of European patent applications describing the catalyticuse of basic salts of alkaline earth metals especially calcium, which are soluble in the reaction medium.These applications further disclose catalyst preparation procedures involving alcohol exchange in respect tothe alkoxy moiety of the metal alkoxide catalytic species. See EP A 0026544,EP A 0026547, and EP A 0026546. These workers have also disclosed the use of strong acids to partiallyneutralize and thereby promote the catalytic action of certain alkaline earth metal derivatives. SeeEP A 0092256, published October 26, 1983. These workers also tend to confirm Yang sfindings as to calcium oxide, in that McCain, et al., teach that calcium oxide does not form a lower alkoxidewhen treated with ethanol. In particular, calcium metal or calcium hydride is typically the starting material used by McCain, et a.,to make the calcium containing catalyst. These starting materials, however, are expensive. Consequently, adesire exists to use commonly found sources of calcium, such as calcium oxide quicklime and calciumhydroxide slaked lime , to make calcium containing catalysts for alkoxylation. Moreover, quicklime andslaked lime are by far the cheapest, most plentiful, least noxious, and most envionmentally acceptableof allthe alkaline earth metal derivatives. The calcium containing catalysts disclosed by McCain, et al.. provide enhanced selectivities to higheralkoxylate species as compared to mixtures produced using conventional potassium hydroxide catalyst.Indeed, bases exist to believe that these calcium containing catalysts provide narrower distributions ofalkoxylates than those provided by strontium or barium containing catalysts. However, there is still need forimprovement in providing a narrower yet distribution of alkoxylation products, particularly a distribution inwhich at least one component constitutes at least 20 weight percent of the composition and alkoxylationproducts having more than three alkoxyl groups than the average peak alkoxylation component comprisevery little of the product mixture. The present invention relates to a method for providingan alkoxylation catalyst, comprising solubilizing, at leastpartially, calcium oxide, calcium hydroxide, or mixturesthereof, by mixing any of them with an activator having theformula Preferably, the alkoxylation method produces a nonionicsurfactant comprising alkoxylated derivatives of an alcohol,comprising This invention relates to processes which provide alkoxylation product mixtures which have anarrow, but balanceddistribution of alkoxylation species. The produced mixtures are relatively free from large amounts ofsubstantially higher alkoxylation moieties, i.e, those having at least three more alkoxyl groups than theaverage peak alkoxylate specie. Advantageously, these narrow distributions can be obtained where the mostprevalent alkoxylation moiety has four or greater alkoxy units, that is, in the regions in which conventionalcatalyst provide a relatively wide range of alkoxylation species. These processes for preparing alkoxylation mixtures havingrelatively narrow alkoxylation product distributions, including the alkoxylation product mixtures of thisinvention, use modified, calcium containing catalysts. And in a further aspect of this invention, processesare provided for making alkoxylation catalysts using calcium oxide and or calcium hydroxide as sources forthe catalytically active calcium. The alkoxylation product mixtures which are prepared in the alkoxylation processof this invention are condensation reactionproducts of epoxides and organic compounds having at least one active hydrogen in which the mole ratio ofreacted epoxide per active hydrogen hereinafter E H Ratio is at least about 4, say, 4 to 16 or 24,preferably 5 to 12. These product mixtures have at least one alkoxylation moiety which constitutes at leastabout 20, say, 20 to 30 or 40, and most often 20 to 30, weight percent of the composition. The alkoxylationmixtures prepared in the alkoxylation process of this invention also have a relatively symmetrical distribution. Hence, the portion of the productmixture having three or more oxyalkylene unit groups per active hydrogen site of the organic compound than the peak alkoxylation specie is relatively minor, e.g., often less that about 12, say, less than 10, andoften 1 to 10, weight percent of the mixture. Similarly, the alkoxylation species having fewer oxyalkylenegroups per active hydrogen site of the organic compound by three or more oxyalkylene groups from theaverage peak alkoxylation specie is usually relatively minor, e.g., less than about 15, say, less than about10, often 0.5 to 10, weight percent of the composition. Generally, the one oxyalkylene unit higher and theone oxyalkylene unit lower alkoxylates in respect to the most prevalent alkoxylation specie are present in aweight ratio to the most prevalent alkoxylation specie of 0.6 1 to 1 1. The alkoxylation product mixtures which are prepared in a preferred embodiment of thealkoxylation process of this inventionare, e.g., described in a paper presented by K.W. Dillan at the AOCS 75th annual meeting,April 29 May 3, 1984 Fairmont Hotel, Dallas USA see JADCS July 1985, 1144 1151 .See also US A 4098878, US A 4223163, US A 4453022 and EP A 0104305 For purposes herein, the average peak alkoxylation specie is defined as the number of oxyalkylenegroups per active hydrogen site of the most prevalent alkoxylation specie when the next higher and lowerhomologs are each present in a weight ratio to the most prevalent alkoxylation specie of less than 0.9 1.When one of the adjacent homologs is present in a weight ratio greater than that amount, the average peakalkoxylation specie has an amount of oxyalkylene groups equal to the number average of those of the twospecies. The weight average oxyalkylene number is the weight average of the oxyalkylene groups of thealkoxylation species in the mixture including unreacted alcohol , i.e., The processes of this invention involve the condensation reaction of epoxide and at least one organiccompound having at least one active hydrogen in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of amodified. calcium containing catalyst. The modified catalyst comprises a strong, inorganic oxyacid providedin an amount of 0.2 to 0.9, e.g., 0.35 to 0.85, often, 0.45 to 0.75, times that required to neutralize thecatalyst composition, which is sufficient to narrow the distribution of the alkoxylation product mixture andprovide at least one alkoxylation specie in an amount of at least about 20 weight percent of the mixture. Themodified catalyst is prepared under sufficient agitation to ensure a relatively uniform product in which thefull oxysalt of calcium e.g. CaSO Another aspect of the invention provides a method for preparing an alkoxylation catalyst, which methodcomprises solubilizing, at least in part, calcium oxide and or calcium hydroxide. The term solubilizing asused herein is intended to mean that the calcium is provided in an active form which is not the case whencalcium is in the form of calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide, hence a solubilization is believed to exist however, the term is not intended to be limiting to the formation of a truly dissolved calcium specie whichmay or may not exist . The solubilization is effected by by mixing any of calcium oxide and calciumhydroxide with an activator having the general formula Z Solubilization of calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide results in the production of an alkaline slurry, whichalkalinity can be detected and measured by titration and which is referred to herein as titratable alkalinity . The catalyst composition can be directly contacted with alkylene oxides to form alkoxylates of theactivator itself, if having an active hydrogen, to produce alkoxylates. If the activator does not have an activehydrogen, excess activator should preferably be removed prior to alkoxylation. According to further embodiments of this aspect of the invention, an exchange reaction is carried outafter the reaction of the calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide with the activators under conditions at which anexchange reaction will occur, with at least one organic compound having an active hydrogen, e.g., analcohol, having a higher boiling point and usually a longer carbon chain length than said activator to formthe corresponding, catalytically active higher boiling derivative of calcium. This latter catalytic species canthen be directly contacted with alkylene oxide to form alkoxylates of the higher boiling material. In particularly preferred embodiments of the present invention, the calcium containing composition containing either the activator or the exchanged, higher boiling material is contacted with, and partiallyneutralized by, a strong, preferably oxy , acid to produce an essentially solid composition which is alsocatalytically active in the alkoxylation of organic compounds having at least one active hydrogen andprovides narrower molecular weight distribution alkoxylates than are obtained with the untreated catalyst.This acid treatment can be performed either before or after any removal of activator. Alkoxylation product mixtures comprise alkoxylation species that can be represented by the formula Organic compounds having active hydrogens include alcohols mono , di and polyhydric alcohols ,phenols, carboxylic acids mono , di and polyacids , and amines primary and secondary . Frequently, theorganic compounds contain 1 carbon to about 100 or 150 carbons in the case of polyol polymers and cancontain aliphatic and or aromatic structures. Most often, the organic compounds are selected from the groupof mono , di and trihydric alcohols having 1 to about 30 carbon atoms. Particularly preferred alcohols are primary and secondary monohydric alcohols which are straight orbranched chain such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, pentanol, hexanol, heptanol, octanol, nonanol, decanol,undecanol, dodecanol, tridecanol, tetradecanol, pentadecanol, hexadecanol, octadecanol, isopropyl alcohol,2 ethylhexanol, sec butanol, isobutanol, 2 pentanol, 3 pentanol and isodecanol. Particularly suitable alcoholsare linear and branched primary alcohols including mixtures such as produced by the Oxo reaction ofC Phenols include alkylphenyls of up to 30 carbons such as p methylphenol, p ethylphenol, p butylphenol,p heptylphenol, p nonylphenol, dinonylphenol and p decylphenol. The aromatic radicals may contain othersubstituents such as halide atoms. Alcohols polyols having 2 or more hydroxyl groups, e.g., two to six hydroxyl groups and have 2 to 30carbons, include glycols such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butylene glycol, pentylene glycol,hexylene glycol, neopentylene glycol, decylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol and dipropyleneglycol. Other polyols include glycerine, 1,3 propanediol, pentaerythritol, galactitol, sorbitol, mannitol, erythritol,trimethylolethane and trimethylolpropane. The epoxides which provide the oxyalkylene units in the ethoxylated products include alkylene oxidessuch as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, 1,2 butylene oxide, 2,3 butylene oxide, 1,2 and 2,3 pentyleneoxiae, cyclohexylene oxide, 1,2 hexylene oxide, 1,2 octylene oxide, and 1,2 decylene oxide epoxidizedfatty alcohols such as epoxidized soybean fatty alcohols and epoxidized linseed fatty alcohols aromaticepoxides such as styrene oxide and 2 methylstyrene oxide and hydroxy and halogen substitutedepoxidessuch as glycidol, epichlorhydrin and epibromhydrin. The preferred epoxides are ethylene oxide andpropylene oxide. The selection of the organic residue and the oxyalkylene moieties is based on the particular applicationof the resulting alkoxylation product. Advantageously, narrow distributions can be obtained using a widevariety of compounds having active hydrogens, especially monohydric alcohols, which provide desirablesurfactants. Because of the narrow distribution of the alkoxylation product mixture, especially attractive alkoxylation products are surfactants in which certain hydrophilic and lipophilic balances are sought. Hence,the organic compound often comprises a monohydric alcohol of 8 to 20 carbons and the epoxide comprisesethylene oxide. While the processes described herein are capable of selectively providing narrow distributions ofalkoxylates with the most prevalent having as low as one mole of oxyalkylene per mole of active hydrogensite, a particular advantage exists in the ability to provide a narrow distribution at higher levels ofalkoxylation, e.g., wherein the most prevalent specie has at least 4 oxyalkylene units. For some surfactantapplications, the most prevalent alkoxylation specie has 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 oxyalkylene units per activehydrogen site. For many surfactant applications, it has been found that a relatively few species provide thedesired activity, i.e., a range of plus or minus two oxyalkylene units. Hence, the compositions of thisinvention are particularly attractive in that the range of alkoxylation is narrow, but not so narrow that a rangeof activity is lost. Moreover, the relatively symmetrical distribution of alkoxylate species that can be provided by thisinvention enhances that balance while providing a mixture that exhibits desirable physical properties suchas cloud point, freeze point, viscosity, point point and the like. For many alkoxylation mixtures of thisinvention, the species falling within the range of Another class of alkoxylation product mixtures are the polyethylene glycols. For instance, triethyleneglycol and tetraethylene glycol find application in gas dehydration, solvent extraction and in the manufactureof other chemicals and compositions. These glycols can be prepared by the ethoxylation of ethylene glycoland diethylene glycol. Advantageous processes of this invention enable ethoxylate product compositionscontaining at least about 80, say, 80 to 95, weight percent of triethylene glycol and tetraethylene glycol. The alkoxylation product mixtures prepared by this invention are enabled by the use of calcium containingcatalysts that have been modified by strong, inorganic oxyacids sufficient to provide the defined narrowdistribution of alkoxylation products. The alkoxylation conditions may otherwise vary while still obtaining anarrower distribution of alkoxylate products. The acid for modification of the catalyst is a polyvalent acid and contains at least one, mostoften at least about 2, oxygen atoms that are conventionally depicted as double bonded to the nucleusatom. Such acids include sulfuric and phosphoric acid however, in general the most narrow distributionsare obtained using sulfuric acid. The amount of acid employed and the manner in which it is introduced to prepare the catalyst can bedeterminative of whether the desired narrow distribution with at least one alkoxylation specie being presentin an amount of at least about 20 weight percent of the composition, is achieved. While not wishing to belimited to theory, it is believed that active catalysts for producing narrow distributions of alkoxylationproducts comprise a calcium atom in association with the acid anion in a manner in which the calcium atomis activated. Since, for example, calcium sulfate is inactive as an alkoxylation catalyst, the associationbetween the calcium atom and acid anion must be different than that forming the neutralized salt.Accordingly, conditions that facilitate such salt formation should be avoided. In general, at the time of modification, the calcium containing catalyst may be represented by theformula Ca XR The amount of acid added is in an amount of 0.2 to 0.9, say, 0.45 to 0.75, times that required toneutralize the catalyst composition. Frequently, the molar ratio of acid sites sulfuric acid has two acid sitesand phosphoric acid has three acid sites to calcium atoms is 0.5 1 to 1.8 1. The acid appears to enable the desired catalytically active calcium species to form however, it hasbeen found that depending upon other conditions during the neutralization, different amounts of neutralizationwill provide the optimum catalyst in terms of selectivity and reaction rate during an alkoxylationprocess. As shown in Example 7, the run wherein the neutralization level of 84.8 percent was employed Run 7 , the highest selectivity to triethylene glycol and tetraethylene glycol was obtained. In Example 8, diethylene glycol rather than ethylene glycol was used as the medium during the neutralization, and thedependence of selectivity on the degree of neutralization is less pronounced and Run 1 with a neutralizationlevel of 74.7 percent provided the optimum selectivity. Note also that the reaction rate appears to increasewith increased degree of neutralization in the case of the diethylene glycol medium in Example 8, compareRuns 1 and 17 but decrease with increased degree of neutralization in the case of the ethylene glycolmedium in Example 7 compare Runs 5, 7 and 9 . Accordingly, an aspect of the invention is providing alevel of neutralization sufficient to achieve the narrow distribution of alkoxylate product mixtures. The medium containing the calcium catalyst can also affect whether the resulting modified calciumcatalyst enables the desired narrow distribution of alkoxylation products to be formed. If the mediumcomprises as the predominant component, i.e., solvent, a material that has a low dielectric constant, theacid can form a separate liquid phase and increased difficulty in obtaining an intimate admixture may beobserved. On the other hand, with solvents that are too polar, the organic moiety in association with thecalcium atom may be displaced with the solvent. Accordingly, undue amounts of water are typically avoidedduring the modification of the calcium containing composition. Most often, the medium and the organiccompound providing the moiety on the calcium atom are the same. Particularly convenient media includeethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, glycerol, butanediols, 1,3 propanediol,and the like.Conveniently, the medium employed, if not intended to be a reactant for producing alkoxylates, should havea sufficiently low boiling point that can readily be removed from the catalyst and organic compound reactantmixture by distillation. Most often, the medium comprises a solvent having at least two hetero atomssuchas the activators described herein. The acid is preferably added while the calcium containing composition is being vigorously agitated toavoid undue formation of the neutralized salt. In this regard, a slow addition of the acid to the calcium containingcomposition is preferred. Generally, less than 10 percent of the acid to be added is added to thecalcium containing composition at any one time. The addition of the acid can be conducted at a convenienttemperature. e.g., 10 C to 160 C, say, 50 C to 150 C. Preferably, a nitrogen atmosphere is advantageous. The calcium containing composition having at least one substituent of the formula XR The compounds having the formula HXR The preparation of the substituted calcium catalyst composition from calcium metal, hydride oracetylide is typically conducted at elevated temperature. e.g., from 30 C to 200 C or more and in a liquidmedium. The organic compound which provides the substitution is normally provided in excess of thatrequired for reaction with the calcium reactant. Hence, the weight ratio of calcium to the organic compoundfrequently is within the range of 0.01 100 to 25 100. The reaction may, if desired, be conducted in thepresence of an inert liquid solvent. The exchange reaction is also conducted under elevated temperatureand, optionally, under reduced pressure to facilitate removal of the more volatile components. Temperaturesmay range from 50 C to 250 C, say, 80 C to 200 C or 250 C, and pressures absolute are often in therange of 1 millibar to 5 bars, e.g., 10 millibars to 2 bars. It is usually desired that the organic substituent on the modified, calcium containing catalyst compositoncorrespond to the starter component for the alkoxylation process. The starter component is theorganic compound having the at least one active hydrogen with which the epoxide reacts. The alkoxylation is conducted using a catalytically effective amount of the calcium containingcatalyst,e.g., 0.01 to 10, often 0.5 to 5, weight percent based on the weight of the starter component. The catalystssubstantially retain their activities during the alkoxylation, regardless of the amount of epoxide employed.Thus, the amount of catalyst can be based on the amount of starter provided to the alkoxylation zone andnot the degree of alkoxylation to be effected. Moreover, the catalyst can be recovered since it is a solid from the reaction product and reused. Indeed, it has been found that conditioned preused catalysts mayprovide superior products. The catalysts also appear to be relatively storage stable and are relativelytolerant of water. Hence, storage can be effected under convenient conditions. Normally, the catalyst and the starter component are admixed and then the epoxide is added at thereaction temperature until the desired amount of epoxide has been added, then the product is neutralizedand can be finished, if desired, in any procedure including stripping unreacted starter material from theproduct mixture, filtration, or further reaction, e.g., to form sulfate. The temperature of the alkoxylation is sufficient to provide a suitable rate of reaction and withoutdegradation of the reactants or reaction products. Often, the temperatures range from between 50 C and270 C, e.g. from 100 C to 200 C. The pressure may also vary widely, but when low boiling epoxides suchas ethylene oxide and propylene oxide are employed, a pressurized reactor is preferably used. The alkoxylation reaction medium is preferably agitated to ensure a good dispersal of the reactants andcatalyst throughout the reaction medium. Also, the epoxide is usually added at a rate approximating thatwhich it can be reacted. While typically alkoxylation products are neutralized, upon removal of the catalysts employed inaccordance with the processes of the invention, the alkoxylation product mixture is relatively neutral e.g.,about a pH of 6 regardless of the pH of the catalyst containing product. Neutralization, however, may assistin the recovery of the catalyst from the alkoxylation product mixture. When neutralizing, acids that may tendto form catalyst containing gel structures or solids that clog filtering apparatus should be avoided.Conveniently, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, propionic acid, benzoic acid and the like armed. The present invention provides a procedure whereby calcium oxide quicklime and its hydrated form,calcium hydroxide slaked lime both herein referred to as lime , can be effectively used to preparecatalytic species which are active in the alkoxylation of organic compounds having at least one activehydrogen such as alcohols, especially long chain fatty alcohols, carboxylic acids, amines, polyols andphenols. This is accomplished by the following general procedure. Lime is first contacted with an activator under conditions at which the lime and the activator will reactor interact to form one or more catalytically active derivatives, hereinafter referred to collectively as thederivative . The activator may be any compound having the formula If, by way of further example, the activator is the monoethyl ether of ethylene glycol MEEG and thederivative is directly alkoxylated with ethylene oxide, the product will be a mixture of ethoxylates of MEEGwhose composition will be determined by the molar ratio of ethylene oxide to MEEG. As used herein, the term excess activator means that amount of activator which is not chemically orphysically bound to calcium and thus can be removed by simple physical means. The technique employedfor this operation is not critical. Vacuum stripping is recommended for its simplicity and efficiency, butevaporation and other known procedures may also be used. The derivative will be obtained as a finely divided, particulate solid, in slurry form, which can be readilyseparated from the reaction mixture by filtration, decantation, or similar procedures. The product soobtained is catalytically active in alkoxylation reactions, whether or not acid modified. It is a particularly desirable feature of this invention that the catalyst can be used to provide alkoxylatesurfactants having a uniquely narrow molecular weight distribution, low pour point, and low level ofunreacted starter component. In this usage, the catalyst is contacted with the starter component, e.g.,alcohol, under conditions at which reaction will occur, to perform an alcohol exchange which can also bereferred to as an alkoxide exchange reaction. A portion of the starter alcohol thus is present as analcoholate of calcium, which alcoholate is itself an active species for the alkoxylation reaction. This reaction mixture is then reacted with one or more epoxides, e.g. alkylene oxides such as ethylene oxide, accordingto known procedures to produce the desired surfactant. Referring now to the structural formula given above for the activator, X and Y are preferably more thanone carbon removed from each other, e.g., in the beta position relative to each other, and are preferablyoxygen, as in ethylene glycol, or oxygen and nitrogen, as in monoethanolamine however, X and Y can alsobe sulfur or phosphorous. Exemplary of other useful compounds are ethylenediamine, N methylethanolamine,tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, 2 mercaptoethanol, 1,2 propylene glycol, 2 methylthioethanol,2 ethoxyethanol, diethylene glycol, 1,3 propanediol and 1,4 butanediol. Z and Z are the same or different radicals and areselected from the group consisting of hydrogen, linear or branched alkyl of one to four carbon atoms,alkylene from two to six carbon atoms, phenyl, and cycloalkyl of three tosix carbon atoms. In the activator, CR The only perceived limitation on CR As lime is solubilized, the alkalinity of the medium increases thus, the building of alkalinity can beused as a screening technique to identify potentially useful activators. In this test, one should look forapproximately one or more grams of alkalinity, calculated as CaO, based on 5 grams of calcium calculatedas CaO charged, as determined by titration with 0.01 N HCl in ethanol alcoholic HCl , as will be describedmore fully below. It should be noted, however, that amines interfere with this test, thus, it cannot bedependably used with amine containing activator candidates. In the initial step of the process of this invention, as has been mentioned above, CaO and or Ca OH The temperature for this procedure is not considered critical, and can range from about 50 C up to theboiling point of the activator, typically well over 200 C. It is desirable to operate in the range of 90 to150 C, preferably 125 to 150 C, and the system can be put under either vacuum or pressure to maintainany desired temperature while maintaining the activator in the liquid phase. Advantageously, the conditionsof temperature and pressure are such that water can be vaporized and removed from the reaction medium.Preferably the catalyst preparation is conducted under a substantially inert atmosphere such as a nitrogenatmosphere. To perform this first step of the process, lime is simply added to the activator in a stirred vessel undersufficient agitation to create a slurry of the lime for a period of time adequate to solubilize at least a portionof the lime. Normally, this will be accomplished within a period of 1 to 4 hours. The amount of lime whichwill be solubilized will depend, of course, on the concentration of lime present, the effectiveness of theactivator used, and on the temperature, time and agitation employed. Ideally, the quantity of lime desiredfor the subsequent alkoxylation reaction is solubilized. The source of the lime for this step includes anycommercially available grade of quicklime or slaked lime, since the impurities typically contained in suchlime do not significantly adversely affect the catalyst formed by the procedures of this invention. The resulting lime activator derivative is suitable for use directly as a catalyst in alkoxylation reactions although it is preferably acid modified to enhance the narrowness of the alkoxylation product . This wouldbe the case where, for example, ethylene oxide is to be added to the material used as the activator, e.g.,ethylene glycol, to produce polyethylene glycols of any desired molecular weight. If the catalyst is to be used to produce a surfactant or other alkoxylation product using a differentstarter, an exchange can be performed as described above. For example, in producing a surfactant, thelime activator derivative can be added to a stirred vessel containing a surfactant range alcohol or mixture ofsuch alcohols, typically C The catalyst produced by the above described process is often in the form of a stable slurry of finelydivided e.g., about 5 µm particles, strongly basic pH 11 12 , and containing excess CaO. Although not required for alkoxylation reaction, it is highly preferred that the limetactivator derivative, orthe alcohol exchanged product thereof, be partially neutralized with acid prior to use as catalyst foralkoxylation if narrower distribution of alkoxylate products is desired. While the precise chemical nature ofthis procedure is not fully understood, it does result in a demonstrable improvement to the overall processin that the molecular weight distribution is narrowed still further. In addition, acid modified catalysts tend torequire little or no induction period in the alkoxylation reaction, and also increase that reaction rate over thatof their unmodified counterparts. In contrast, addition of acid to conventional catalysts, such as potassiumhydroxide, slows the alkoxylation rate while producing no beneficial effect on the product distribution. Useful acids are the polyvalent, oxyacids of Groups VA and B, VIA and B and VIIB elements, whereinthe oxyanion has a valence greater than one. Preferred oxyacids are sulfuric, phosphoric and molybdic andtungstic acids of these, sulfuric acid is especially preferred. The acid added may be in concentrated ordilute form, although the concentrated form is preferred in order to minimize the amount of water present.The acid may be added to the catalytically active reaction mixture at any time prior to the alkoxylation, andmay simply be stirred gradually into the reaction mixture slurry. The acid may be added under whateverambient conditions prevail, although it is preferred that the slurry be cooled to about 75 C or less prior toaddition of the acid. Neutralization will often occur without significant effect on the physical characteristics ofthe slurry. Often 20 to 90 , say, 25 to 75 , and sometimes 40 to 60 , of the titratable alkalinity of theslurry will be neutralized. Higher degrees of neutralization can be used, but care should be taken not toform the full calcium salt of the oxyanion. In no event should more acid be used than there are equivalentsof lime available to react with it. The point in the process at which the acid is added does not appear to becritical. Advantageous results can be obtained if the catalyst is used in its crude form, i.e., without separationfrom its reaction mixture or purification. Nevertheless, if desired, the lime activator derivative, whether acid modifiedor not, can be separated from its reaction mixture, purified, dried and stored. Such may beaccomplished in a straightforward manner, as by stripping off the excess activator or other organic materialcontaining active hydrogen, filtering the resulting slurry, reslurrying the wet solids with a solvent e.g.,tetrahydrofuran and refiltering, and drying, preferably under vacuum. The solids thus obtained will becatalytically active, but, frequently, they are substantially less active than the catalyst in its crude form.Reaction rate notwithstanding, however, the desired narrow molecular weight distribution and other benefitscan still be obtained. It is a highly desirable, and quite unexpected, benefit of this aspect of the invention that the overallprocess embodied in the various procedures described above for making catalysts from lime is remarkably forgiving of process variations. Thus, as already noted, considerable flexibility exists as to the point acidis added and, within reasonable limits, how much acid is used. Similarly, the unreacted activator may beremoved wholly or partially prior to, e.g.. an exchange reaction. if used, or it may be left present during theexchange reaction. Moreover, the catalyst may be reused indefinitely, used and stored in its crude form,or purified and dried, with any loss in reaction rate made up by increasing temperature. The procedures involved in carrying out the process of this invention are illustrated by the followingdescription directed toward the manufacture of nonionic sunfactants. The manner in which the process of this invention is practiced can be illustrated by the followinggeneralized procedure for preparing a slurry of calcium alkoxylation catalyst intended for use in the manufacture of peaked narrow molecular weight distribution linear alcohol ethoxylates nonionic surfactants . As applied to the specific case of the production of nonionic surfactants, the process of this invention ischaracterized by a considerable degree of operational latitude. This is particularly true in the preferredversion of the process wherein the acid modified form of the catalyst is produced. From the standpoint ofthe chemistry which takes place, there are two distinct steps in the preparation of the unmodified catalystsand three distinct steps in the preparation of the acid modified catalysts. Steps 1 and 2, which are commonto the preparation of both catalyst types, involve the following reactions In the preparation of the unmodified form of the calcium catalyst, steps 1 and 2, above, may becombined into one operation wherein the lime is reacted with a mixture of activator and detergent rangealcohol. In cases where especially effective activators are being used e.g., ethylene glycol, 1,2 propyleneglycol, ethylene glycol monethylether. etc. , this alternative procedure of combining the activator with thedetergent range alcohol is frequently preferred because it tends to minimize color build up in the catalystslurry. From the standpoint of the final product characteristics, both procedures are equally acceptable.Modified processes wherein the activator is fed into a slurry of the detergent range alcohol and the calciumbase or the detergent range alcohol is fed into a slurry or, in some cases, a solution of the calcium base inthe activator are also operationally viable, although their use offers no perceived advantage over the batch chargingversion. The preparation of the acid modified catalyst involves a third major processing operation which, like thatof steps 1 and 2, is a distinct step in terms of the chemistry which takes place. The acid modifier may, in most cases, optionally be added at the start of or during the lime activatorreaction, at the start of or during the activator stripping operation, at the conclusion of the activator strippingoperation, or even just prior to the start of the alkoxylation reaction itself. In the case of amino functionalactivators, of course, the modifiers cannot be added until all the activator has been removed from the slurry. Because of the fact that this process offers such wide operational latitude, there is no single procedurewhich can be said to represent the general procedure. This consideration notwithstanding, one procedurewhich will suffice to illustrate the process is that version which was used for carrying out many of thepreparations summarized in Table I. Lime as commercially supplied or calcined 6 hours at 600 C and 2 ethoxyethanol available fromUnion Carbide are charged to a suitably sized, agitated vessel equipped with a reflux condenser,thermocouple, 10 tray distillation column, and inert gas purge inlet. The reactants are charged in weightratios ranging from 60 to 80 parts of 2 ethoxyethanol to one part of lime. The charge is heated under anitrogen purge for a period of 2 to 6 hours at the reflux temperature about 135 C while refluxing solvent isremoved overhead continuously or intermittently at a make rate sufficiently slow such that during the entirereaction period only about 10 to 15 of the original solvent charge is removed overhead. The purpose ofthis operation is to remove from the system water which was either introduced with the reactants orproduced by chemical reaction. During the reflux period, the reaction mixture is sampled at periodicintervals to monitor the buildup of alkalinity which is indicative of the formation of catalytically activematerials. The analytical method used for this purpose is a titration with 0.01N HCl in 2 ethoxyethanolusingbromothymol blue indicator. When similar alkalinity levels are obtained from two successive titrations, thelime activator reaction step is considered to be finished. The usual timed period to reach this point is about4 hours under the conditions typical of the runs shown in Table I. At this point the reaction mixture is diluted with the detergent range alcohol to be ethoxylated typicallythe quantity of alcohol added is about 100 g. g. of lime calculated as CaO used in the initial reaction. Theresulting mixture is cooled to about 75 C and treated, under agitation, with sufficient acid modifier,preferably sulfuric or phosphoric acid, to neutralize about 50 on an equivalents basis of the alkalinityindicated to be present by the final titration performed on the lime activator reaction mixture. The temperature is then increased to permit removal of the activator from the reaction mixture bydistillation at atmospheric pressure. Distillation at atmospheric pressure is continued until the kettletemperature reaches about 175 to 180 C. At this point the pressure on the system is reduced to about 180mm Hg and stripping of the activator is continued until the kettle reaches a temperature of about 215 to225 C and both the kettle product and the distillate are free of activator as indicated by gas chromatographic GC analysis e.g., less than 1000 ppm by weight and often less than 100 ppm by weight . The thus obtained activator free slurry of catalyst in detergent alcohol can either be used directly as acharge to the ethoxylation reactor or, optionally, diluted with sufficient, dry detergent rangealcohol to affordany desired catalyst concentration in the slurry. A final alkalinity value on this slurry may, if desired, beobtained by the same titration procedure described earlier. The above procedure represents but one of many equally viable versions of this process. The runssummarized in Table I illustrate the use of several, but by no means all, of the versions which are possiblethrough different combinations of the options available in the various process steps. The invention is further illustrated by the following examples, which in no way are intended to limit theapplicability or scope of the invention. The general procedure described above was used under a variety of reaction conditions to produce anonionic surfactant started with either 1 dodecanol or one of two commercially available mixtures of C As has been indicated above, the preferred orocedure of this invention utilizes a the activator usedalone in the initial reaction with CaO, b H This version of the process was employed to prepare a series of surfactants by a sequentialethoxylation, wherein a single reactor charge was used and a portion of the reactor charge was used and aportion of the reactor contents was removed as each desired ethoxylation level was reached. Data for theseruns are shown in Table II. A further series of sequential ethoxylation runs was performed in full scale production facilities. Data forthse runs are summarized in Table III. In this table, Ca indicates the CaO derived catalyst and K indicates control runs using KOH catalyst. It will be observed from these data that the CaO derivedcatalystproduced a significantly narrower molecular weight distribution than the KOH catalyst, as evidenced by thelarger major GC peak found in the ethoxylate produced with the CaO catalyst. Moreover, the residualalcohol content was substantially lower for the CaO catalyzed products. The products of Runs 2, 3 and 7 were analyzed by capillary column gas chromatography and thefollowing compositions were determined error 10 based on response factors for each specie . As described above, the catalyst of this invention can be used not only in its crude form, as in thepreceding examples, but can also be recovered and purified prior to use. This example illustrates theproperties and use of the CaO derived catalyst separated, purified and dried according to the techniquespreviously described. Table IV presents the key data for runs utilizing acid modified vs. unmodified catalyst.For comparative purposes, appropriate data are given for a conventional potassium catalyst prepared byreacting potassium metal with 1 dodecanol. The latter is a homogeneous catalyst system and no attemptwas made to isolate the active catalyst species. The dry CaO catalysts were obtained as yellow colored,granular rather lumpy particulates which were too insoluble in MEEG or Alfol 1214 to yield a positive testfor alkalinity. In fact, these solids formed such poor slurries in the Alfol 1214 added at the slurry preparationstage that, once again, no positive test for alkalinity was observable. By poor slurry is meant that thesolids could not be adequately suspended i.e. the slurry was unstable and settled out within an hour ortwo . Characterization of these dry solids by reflectance IR, by powder X ray, and by microanalysisindicated that the solids were X ray amorphous, that some long chain organic was present, that sulfur waspresent in the acid modified species, and that unreacted CaO and Ca OH As indicated by the ethoxylation rate data given in Table IV, both solids were low activitycatalystsdespite their presence at quite substantial concentrations in the reactor charge. The unmodified catalyst,although present at a higher concentration than its acid modified counterpart, exhibited poor activity at140 C thus, the reactor temperature was increased to 160 C in order to achieve reaction. The low levels of activity exhibited by the two CaO based catalysts can be attributed to the very poor quality of the Alfol1214 slurries obtained with the isolated catalyst species. With Run No. 2, the intentional use of a less than optimum preparative procedure CaO was heated witha mixture of MEEG and Alfol 1214 rather than with MEEG alone probably also contributeo to the relativelylow catalyst activity. Under preferred preparative conditions where the catalyst is not isolated, activity levelsfrom 3 to 6 times those observed in this study would be expected. The 7.1 g min, rate shown in Table IV forthe potassium catalyzed control run is a typical value of KOH catalysis at 140 C in the particularcirculated loop reactor used to generate the data of these Examples. Thus, mechanical factors can bediscounted as a possible cause of the relatively low activities obtained with the isolated version of thecalcium catalysts. Albeit the isolated, CaO derived catalysts exhibited low activities, their performance characteristics wereotherwise indistinguishable from those of their unisolated counterparts. Thus, while both Cao basedcatalysts provided narrower molecular weight distribution ethoxylates than the potassium control catalyst,the acid modified catalyst was not only more active than its unmodified counterpart, but also more selectiveas judged by comparisons of the molecular weight distribution patterns narrower with acid modifiedcatalyst . This example depicts graphically the narrowed molecular weight distribution achieved by the process ofthis invention. Figure 1 shows typical molecular weight distributions for typical nominal 6 molethoxylates of 1 dodecanolmade using CaO catalyst activated with ethylene glycol acid modified ethylene glycol indicatedby H Figure 2 provides a similar comparison and also demonstrates the practical equivalence in performancebetween CaO and Ca OH Figure 3 illustrates ethoxylation of mixed surfactant grade alcohols Alfol 1214 using a CaO catalystactivated with ethylene glycol EG . Similarly to Figure 3, Figure 4 shows the use of MEEG activated CaO both unmodified and modifiedwith either H The distributions of the ethoxylates depicted in Figures 1 to 4 are determined using gas chromatographywith a packed column of 2 OV 1 on Chromesorb W packing. The temperature limit of the columnis such that little accuracy is achieved with ethoxylates containing eight or more oxyethylene groups. Three batches of CaO and activator monoethylene glycol are prepared as follows After preparing these three batches, Batch B and C were combined and admixed for about 20 hours.Alfol 1214 alcohol was added in lime as the mixture of Batches B and C was pumped to a distillationcolumn. The distillation column has 24 valve non sealing trays with 20 inch 50 centimeters spacing and anominal diameter of six feet 1.8 meters . The rate of addition of the alcohol was sufficient to provide a 5 3weight ratio of the alcohol to ethylene glycol. The distillation column was operated as a stripping columnwith the feed about 7000 to 9000 pounds per hour 3200 to 4000 kg per hour to the top tray of thecolumn. The head temperature of the column was about 114 C to 116 C at about 4.4 to 4.7 kPa 33 to 35mm Hg pressure absolute and the base was at about 205 to 215 C. The steam flow to the base wasabout 6000 to 7000 pounds per hour 2700 to 3200 kg per hour . The bottoms were removed periodicallydepending upon the liquid level in the column. The overhead make rate was about 3000 to 5000 pounds perhour 1400 to 2200 kg per hour . Batch A with some additional Alfol 1214 to provide the 5 3 weight ratio was then passed to the distillation column. The bottoms slurry from the batches were collected and storedin a circulated tank under a nitrogen atmosphere. Additional Alfol 1214 alcohol was added to the slurry toprovide a concentration of catalyst calculated as Cao of 1.0 weight percent. This slurry was analyzed tocontain about 0.1 weight percent ethylene glycol, evidencing that the stripping of ethylene glycol was notcomplete less then 0.05 weight percent ethylene glycol is preferred . This slurry, a master batch catalyst, served as the catalyst for a series of ethyoxylations of Alfol 1214with ethylene oxide at 140 C and pressure of 7 atmospheres gauge. The ethoxylation reactor was a 57,000ℓ 15,000 gallon capacity. circulated, nitrogen inverted reactor. The starter and catalyst slurry 0.1 weightpercent catalyst based on starter was heated to 120 C prior to initiating the flow of ethylene oxide. Theethylene oxide feed rate was initially about 3000 pounds per hour 1364 kg per hour and increased to 9000pounds per hour 4091 kg per hour until about 100.000 pounds 45,454 kg of ethoxylate were in thereactor. The residual ethylene oxide was reacted by holding the mixture et 140 C for one hour. Sulfuricacid or phosphoric acid was used to neutralize the products which were filtered. The details of the runs areset forth in Table V. This example illustrates procedures for preparing triethylene glycol TEG and tetraethylene glycol TETEG from ethylene glycol EG . The following general procedures were used for the runs. The calcium containingcatalyst was preparedat a temperature of 150 C and pressure of about 24 27 kPa 180 200 mm Hg over a four hour period withcontinuous, slow removal of ethylene glycol overhead. Concentrated acid was used for modification and was added after the catalyst was admixed with the ethylene glycol for the ethoxylation post addition except asotherwise indicated. The ethoxylations were conducted at about 140 C and 60 to 65 pounds per squareinch gauge about 4 atmospheres gauge in a two gallon capacity circulated reactor. The mole ratio ofethylene oxide to ethylene glycol was 2.3 1. The charge to the reactor was about 500 grams of the ethyleneglycol mixture. The products were neutralized at 80 C with phosphoric acid and filtered hot though a Filter Cal diatomaceous earth filter. Molecular weight distributions area percent were determined by gaschromotography using a packed column 2 percent OV 1 on Chromasorb W packing and the sampleswere derivatized by reaction with Regisil sane available from the Regis Chemical Company. The detailsare provided in Table VI. In the Table, DEG represents diethylene glycol. PENTEG, pentylethylene glycol and HEXAEG, hexaethylene glycol. This example illustrates procedures for preparing triethylene glycol and tetraethylene glycol fromdiethylene glycol. The same general procedures as described in Example 7 were employed except that the catalystactivator was diethylene glycol and the pressure during the catalyst preparation was 5.3 kPa 40 mm Hg .The mole ratio of ethylene oxide to diethylene glycol was about 1.3 1. The details are provided in Table VII.