# Finned heat exchanger tubes and method and apparatus for making same.

## Abstract
Improved method and apparatus for making finned tubing from difficult to work materials such as titanium and stainless steel uses spaced sets 26, 28 of finning discs on a plurality of arbors to form a tube 11 against a mandrel having different diameters 14, 16 under each set of discs. By forming the tips of the fin turns 11 min to their final O.D. in the first disc set 26 and by deepening their roots to bring the fin turns to their final height in the second disc set 28 , tubes with higher fin turn counts and or higher fin heights can be achieved than were formerly possible. The process of separately cold working the tips and roots also permits tubes to be made which are dimensionally identical to prior art tubes but with higher quality and productivity since tube stresses are greatly reduced. An improved titanium tube is also disclosed which has at least a fin turn per mm 26 fins per inch , a fin height of at least 0.86 mm 0.034 and an outside to inside surface area ratio of at least 3.0.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of making a finned heat exchange tube 11 from a difficult to fin material in a single finning pass comprising the steps of inserting a mandrel 12 inside a plain tube moving the axes of a plurality of rotating disc carrying finning arbors 24 toward said tube so that discs on said arbors will sequentially force portions of said tube toward said mandrel, characterised in that the mandrel has at least a first larger diameter portion 14 and a second smaller diameter portion 16 and in that the arbors carry first 26 and second 28 sets of discs respectively disposed radially outside said first and second portions of the mandrel said first set of discs 26 serving to initially form fin turns on said tube to at least approximately their final outside diameter and said second set of discs 28 serving to reduce the root diameter of the fin turns previously formed by the first set of discs 26 without substantially changing the outside diameter of the fin turns formed by said first set of discs. 2. A method of making a finned heat exchange tube according to claim 1, characterised in that all of the finning discs 26a...26h 28a...28f in each set are of different diameters and in that all the finning discs 26a...28f have a constant thickness and also have identical contours at their tips. 3. A method of making a finned heat exchange tube according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterised in that said sets of finning discs 26a...28f are sized so that the first set 26 will form fin turns of a height which is at about the normal limit for the particular tube material used to which the tips of the fin turns may be worked without splitting. 4. Apparatus for finning a heat exchange tube of difficult to fin material comprising a mandrel 12 for location within the tube and at least two disc supporting arbors 24 positioned around the mandrel for working the tube against the mandrel, characterised in that to obtain greater than normal fin heights in a single working pass, said mandrel has at least two axially spaced surfaces 14, 16 of different diameters, in that each arbor supports at least two sets 26, 28 of axially spaced finning discs 26a...28f which are of identical contour at their tips but of progressively increasing diameter, said at least two sets of discs 26, 28 being positioned so as to overlie said at least two axially spaced surfaces 14, 16 of said mandrel when a tube 11 is being finned, the first 26 of said sets of discs being adapted to form fin turns 11 on said tube 11 to at least about their final outside diameter but only a fraction of their final fin height and the second 28 of said sets of discs being adapted to deepen the roots of the fin turns formed by the first disc set 26 to their final depth while leaving the tips of the fin turns substantially unaffected. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, characterised in that said sets of discs 26a...28f are sized so that the first set 26 will form fin turns 11 of a height which is at about the normal limit, for the particular material used, to which the tips of the fin turns may be worked without splitting. 6. A finned heat exchange tube of a difficult tofin material such as titanium or stainless steel which is characterised by the fact that it is made by a process including the steps of placing a mandrel having at least two different diameter surface portions 14, 16 inside of the tube 11 and moving at least two spaced sets 26, 28 of finning discs 26a...28f into contact with the tube to force axially spaced portions of said tube against said at least two different diameter mandrel portions, said discs 26a...28f being shaped so that the first set 26 to contact the tube will form fin turns to at least about their final outside diameter but only to a fraction of their final height while the second set 28 will deepen the fin root and increase the fin to its final height without substantially increasing the outside diameter of the fin turns. 7. A heat exchange tube according to claim 6, characterised in that the tube is finned by said first set 26 of discs to an intermediate fin height which is at about the normal limit, for the particular material used, to which the tips of the fin turns may be worked without splitting. 8. A metallic heat exchange tube comprising at least one integral helical fin with a fin turn density of at least 1 fin turn per axial mm 26 f.p.i. of tube, characterised in that the tube is made of titanium or an alloy thereof containing at least 50 titanium and in that a fin height of at least 0.86 mm 0.034 is provided and the surface area ratio between the outer finned surface and inner surface of the tube is greater than 3.0. 9. A heat exchange tube according to claim 8, characterised in that the tube has 1 2.4 fin turns per mm and a fin height in the range of 0.86 1.9 mm. 10. A heat exchange tube according to claim 8, characterised in that the tube has 1 2 fin turns per mm and a fin height in the range of 0.86 1.5 mm. 11. A heat exchange tube according to claim 8, characterised in that the tube has 1 1.5 turns per mm and a fin height in the range of 1.0 1.3 mm.

## Description
Finned heat exchanger tubes and method and apparatus for making same The invention relates to heat exchanger tubes and particularly to such tubes which are provided with at least one external circumferential fin. Finned tubes are used extensively in applications such as refrigeration and processing where it is desirable to maximize surface contact area and minimize tube length, weight and volume. Materials for heat exchanger tubing vary widely depending upon their characteristics such as cost, corrosion resistance and fabricability. In recent years, titanium has been receiving increased usage due to its excellent corrosion resistance in a variety of environments as well as due to its increased availability and the decreased cost of welded tube relative to the extruded seamless tube formerly used. However, fabrication of finned tubing out of titanium is severely complicated by some differences in the mechanical and physical properties of titanium as compared with other materials, notably copper, aluminum and various nickel alloys. Most significant of these properties is the rate of work hardening. When metal is worked at a temperature below its crystallization temperature, its strength is increased while its ductility, or ability to be deformed without cracking, is decreased. Continued deformation in this region of temperature can continue until a point is reached where fracture occurs. This fracture may be complete separation of the part into two or more pieces.However, such total separation is usually preceded, except in the most brittle of metals, by localized cracking. In a normal production operation, it is desirable to establish conditions such that any form of cracking rarely occurs. Thus, to take into account the many vari ables involved in a finning operation, such as tool wear and variations in dimensions, material and temperature, a total deformation significantly below the values determined by destructive tests is chosen. There are several alternative methods of improving the workability of a material so as to increase its ability to accommodate more deformation without failure.These include increasing the working temperature of the material and heat treating the material between successive stages of deformation. As a general rule, the strength of a material decreases, and the ductility increases, with increasing temperature. However, with most metals and alloys, a point is reached, as temperatures increase, at which the material no longer work hardens. As rapidly as the material is deformed, the metal relieves itself of the effect of the strain and a new strain free, non work hardened structure is generated. Heat treatment is a broad term which covers any heating operation performed on a metal and its effects of course vary with each metal or alloy. Recrystallization is the heat treatment of most significance in the present context. During recrystallization, old grains, which have accommodated deformation and, consequently, have become strain hardened, are replaced progressively through the formation of new grains which are free of the effects of the previous strain and are thus ready to accommodate as much strain as were the original grains before any deformation occurred. Another heat treatment, known as recovery, involves the reduction or removal of work hardening strain hardening without apparent, or at least major, motion of grain boundaries, that is, without major recrystallization.Recovery will usually result in the ability of a metal to accept some more deformation prior to fracture, but not as much as would have been accommodated had the material been fully recry stallized. While high temperature working and heat treatments do offer some technical advantages, they are usually accompanied by increased costs due to increased equipment, labour, facility and other associated components of manufacturing. In the manufacture of finned metal tubing, the or each fin usually extends as a helix along the length of the tube and it produced through the use of forming tools which deform the tube and force a portion of the metal radially outwardly to form the fin turns while at the same time the internal diameter I.D. of the tube is reduced by the inner wall surface being forced radially inwards. The tools cooperate to produce a continuous fin which normally has an outside diameter O.D. equal to or slightly less than the starting outside diameter of the tube. Between each turn of the fin is a groove which is formed by the tools and which defines the root diameter R.D. of the fin. The R.D. is smaller than the original O.D. of the tube. In the conventional fin forming operation, the forming is done using one or more sets of discs which force the tube against an internal mandrel pin which has a work surface with a constant diameter which is less than the I.D. of the starting tube. During the deformation, the amount of work hardening present in each portion of the work piece will vary widely. For example, there will be areas of high work hardening near the outer diameter of the fin, with relatively low work hardening effect in the tube wall under the fin. If one then assumes that the areas of highest work hardening, which are produced near the outer diameter of the fin, are the maximum achievable prior to failure, one may conclude that this configuration limits the fin dimensions which are possible without use of hot working, heat treatment, and or metal removal procedures. Historically, in the development of finned tubing, fin counts and fin heights started with lower fin densities, such as 0.63 fin turns per mm 16 f.p.i. and higher fin turn heights, such as 1.25 mm 0.050 , especially in the easy to fin materials such as copper, copper alloys and low carbon steels. Most probably, this situation prevailed more because of the ability of manufacturers to fabricate suitable durable tools than because of the ability or inability of the material to withstand the work applied. At the present time, advances in tooling and in finning technology have allowed manufacture of products with fin turn densities of double or more the aforesaid figure of 0.63 fin turns per mm 16 f.p.i. .In the case of the easier to fin alloys, the prior fin turn heights have been held and even advanced to 1.5 mm 0.060 or so. Obviously, the general goal of development work in connection with finned tubing is to maximize heat transfer while minimizing tube length and cost. Where higher fin counts and higher fin turn heights can be achieved, it is obvious that the ratio of the outside area Ao to the inside area Ai will be increased, thus increasing heat transfer and permitting less length of tubing to be used than is the case with a lower Ao Ai ratio. In the situation of the difficult to fin refractory alloys such as titanium and stainless steel, it had been felt necessary, in the past, to have fin walls under the fin, for titanium, of about 1.07 mm 0.042 to produce fin densities of about 0.75 fin turns per mm 19 f.p.i. and fin turn heights of 0.9 mm 0.035 . Similar figures for stainless steel were 1.65 mm 0.065 wall, 0.63 fin turns per mm 16 f.p.i. and 1.25 mm 0.050 fin turn height. Later proposals were made to increase the fin density, such as to 1 fin turn per axial mm 26 f.p.i. , for titanium, while decreasing the fin turn height. to about 0.64 mm 0.025 and reducing the wall thickness under the fin to about the same value.The last noted parameters increased the ratio of the outside tube surface area to the inside area as compared to the parameters formerly used. The aforementioned later proposals are at least generally embodied in US A 4,366,859 which emphasizes that fin heights should not exceed 0.84 mm 0.033 for titanium, or 1.15 mm 0.045 for stainless steel, and argues that fin splits will occur if these heights are exceeded. US A 4,366,859 shows the tubing as being finned on a mandrel having a single diameter work surface against which the tube is forced by one or more arbors carrying single sets of discs. Another patent related to the finning of difficultto fin materials is US A 3,795,125 which discloses a method of forming fin turns with a height of at least 2.54 mm 0.100 on stainless steel tubes. The fin turns are formed in two completely separate finning operations through separate sets of discs with differing contours.The second finning operation produces both a substantial increase in the fin O.D. and a decrease in its R.D. but cannot be performed without an intermediate annealing operation. The technique is time consuming and costly.Also, it is not very practical when making the vast majority of tubes which require intermediate unfinned lands and plain ends due to the fact that there would be a non predictable varying amount of stretch of the tube between the separate finning passes. This situation would make it practically impossible to produce lands positioned within currently accepted dimensional specifications. Two patents relating to the finning of easy to fin material such as copper are US A 2,868,046 and US A3,383,893. Each shows a disc arbor with spaced sets of discs with the discs all being of different contours. The present invention seeks to provide a heat trans fer tube of a difficult to fin material such as titanium or its alloys which will provide an outside to inside surface area ratio which is at least 3.0 and higher than those previously available. Another aim is to provide such difficult to fin tubes with combinations of fin turn densities and fin heights which are similar to those used for easy to fin materials and which exceed those previously thought possible with difficult to fin materials. A still further aim is to provide an apparatus and method for finning a tube made from a difficult tofin material to provide combinations of previously unattainable fin heights and or fin turn counts in a single pass and in such a manner that the tube will not be overstressed.Yet another aim is to form tubes in a single finning pass which have combinations of fin heights and fin turn counts no greater than those previously obtainable but in a manner that reduces stresses in the work and tools and improves quality and productivity. The foregoing and other advantages are attained by an improved heat transfer tube and by the apparatus and method defined in the following claims. The improved tubing has, in the case of titanium or alloys thereof containing at least 50 titanium, at least 1 fin turn per mm 26 f.p.i. , a fin height of at least 0.86 mm 0.034 and a ratio between its outer and inner surface areas of at least 3.0. By way of comparison to a particular, hereinafter defined, part number of a tube, 305028 , made in accordance with the teaching of the aforementioned US A 4,366,859, a tube made in accordance with the present invention was calculated to provide an improvement of about 28 in the ratio Ao Ai of the areas of the outside tube surface to the inside tube surface. As is well known in the tube art in theUSA, part number 305028 means that the tube has 30 fin tips per inch in the axial direction of the tube, a root diameter of 5 one eighths of an inch 15.88 mm and an average wall thickness under the fin of 0.028 0.71 mm .According to US A 4366859, the fin height can be a maximum of O.81 mm G.w .t 2 , giving an AoiAi ratio of 3.0. However, in one example of a tube made in accordance with the present invention, a fin height of 1.19 mm 0.047 was achieved, providing an Ao Ai ratio of 4.0. When the rather unconventional ratio of the fin surface area after finning to the outside surface area prior to finning is considered, the improvement in the value of the ratio as compared to US A 4366859 can be calculated to be 32 3.2 vs. 2.4 . The latter ratio is the one discussed in US A 4366859 as representing a 26 improvement over the prior art. Obviously, the area ratio will vary, depending upon the particular part number tube being produced. To achieve the previously noted improvement in tube performance, it is preferred to make the tube in either one, two or three starts, but not limited to either, by at least two disc arbors, and preferably three or four, which each have at least two sets of discs separated by a relatively wide space. It is also preferable to use a mandrel having a surface characterized in that the diameter of the mandrel pin is different under each of the spaced sets of discs. This could be achieved by stepping or by a tapered surface. Finally, all of the discs are preferably ground to the same tip contour so they differ only in their diameters. The latter technique greatly minimizes tooling costs and also causes the fin s to be formed in a much different manner than would be the case with the discs disclosed in the various aforementioned patents.In practicing the improved method, the tube is first finned to obtain normal fin heights with the first tooling set in cooperation with the larger diameter portion of the mandrel. It is then additionally finned in the same pass, and without an intermediate annealing, by a second tooling set in cooperation with a smaller diameter portion of the mandrel.The first tooling set determines, or at least substantially determines, the final O.D. of the fin. The second tooling set does not change or at least does not appreciably change the O.D. but it does substantially reduce the R.D., thus producing substantially higher fin heights than is normally possible without excessive working of the material or without an intermediate heat treatment.The tooling holders or disc arbors which support the tooling discs are set at angles relative to the tube in the usual manner so as to advance the tube through the work station. They are also preferably geared together for rotation relative to each other and the tube so that when the tube has made a complete rotation, it will have advanced through 1, 2, 3 or more pitches.It will be appreciated that the foregoing apparatus and method will not move the fin tips up any more than is normal for low fin height finned tubes, as discussed in US A 4,366,859, and will thus not overly work the tips. It does, however, move the R.D. down in the second tooling set after the fin has been moved up in the first set, and thus permits a tube having the same fin turn count as in US A 4,366,859 to be provided with a substantially higher fin height without developing undesirable fin stresses or increasing the wear and tear on the tooling. However, it should be recognized, that, the 0.84 mm 0.033 maximum upper limit on fin heights ducussed in US A 4,366,859 is one which pushes the material and tooling to a limit. Thus, one could expect that the quality of the tubes produced and the productivity of the tooling would be somewhat compromised as compared to manufacturing a tube having a much lower fin height. The invention also relates to a novel method of achieving a high degree of overall working of the tube material in order to achieve a fin configuration which would either not be otherwise obtainable by a single working operation or would possibly compromise tube quality and or productivity. Additionally, the added expenses associated with either high temperature working and or one or more recrystallization steps are avoided. The invention provides a very substantial improvement in either the ratio of the outer to inner surface areasAo Ai or in tube quality and or productivity by taking advantage of the fact that the tube deformation during finning provides widely varying amounts of work hardening in different regions of the workpiece. As discussed in US A 4,366,859, work hardening at the fin tip would appear to limit the overall fin height. However, it has been determined that the amount of work hardening present in each portion of the workpiece will vary widely for reasons discussed hereinafter in detail in connection with the accompanying drawings.The drawings will indicate that a single finning pass forming the maximum fin height proposed , in US A 4,366,859 will produce areas of high work hardening near the outer diameter of the fin, but will produce relatively low work hardening effect in the tube wall under the fin. The present invention takes advantage of the large volume of material in the tube which has much less than the critical amount of work hardening in it. This is done by utilizing the amount of deformation available without exceeding the critical strain limit at any location. In the process described herein, a second fin forming operation is performed subsequent to the first one in which both the root diameter of the groove and the inside diameter of the tube are simultaneously reduced. This reduction is achieved through use of a second mandrel section whose diameter is smaller than the diameter of the first mandrel section used in the first finning operation to initially form the fin to a height and outer diameter within the limits proposed in US A 4,366,859.As the discs on the tooling arbors press against the groove from the outside of the tube, the pressure causes the tube I.D. to be reduced in diameter down to approximately the same diameter as the mandrel. There is no significant change in the fin O.D. during this step.Thus, the decrease in the groove diameter and the inside tube diameter lead to more surface area in the fin, thereby increasing the overall efficiency of the tube. Although the process described herein teaches that substantial increases in tube surface areas and or in tube quality can be made in a single finning pass using two sets of finning discs and two different diameter mandrel sections and without heat treatment steps, it would be within the scope of the present invention to use three or more sets of finning discs in combination with three or more different diameter mandrel sections to achieve a final desired tube shape. Furthermore, the height of fin achieved by the various sets of discs can be varied to optimize and or equalize the overall work hardening for a particularly desired final result of work patterns within the workpiece. Also, a lighter wall under the fin could be achieved than is possible with conventional techniques since less unit pressure needs to be applied. The preceding description of the invention makes particular mention of titanium and stainless steel as examples of difficult to fin materials. However, it is not intended to limit the invention to these materials since its advantage would also be applicable to other difficult to fin materials. For example, copper, although relatively easy to form to fin heights higher than previously thought possible in titanium or stainless steel, could be difficult to form to higher fin heights. The invention will now be further described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a side view, partially in section, showing the relationship of the spaced sets of finning discs and the varying diameter mandrel sect ions to the tube in an apparatus according to the invention showing the tube being formed with a helical fin Figure 2 is an enlarged view of part of the crosssection of a tube which schematically indicates the work hardening which might be present in the tube at region X in Figure 1 by means of lines which connect and define points of equal deformation and, as a first approximation, points of equal strain hardening Figure 3 is a view similar to Figure 2 but schematically showing the nature of the deformation which would take place in the tube cross section at region Y inFigure 1 Figure 4 is a view representing a summation of the strain hardening effects from both the first finning operation Figure 2 and the second finning operation Figure 3 as they would be embodied in the finished tube at region Z of Figure 1 and Figures 5a 5c are enlarged, partially broken away, views showing the relationship between the tube crosssection and the mandrel at regions W , X and Y inFigure 1. Referring to Figure 1, a tube indicated generally at 11 is shown in working relationship with respect to a mandrel holding rod 12 having a first larger diameter mandrel section 14 and a second smaller diameter mandrel section 16 held thereon by a fastening member 18. In order to provide relatively uniform finning pressure on the tube 11 during forming, a plurality of finning arbors 24 are located circumferentially around the tube 11 on skewed axes in the usual fashion, although only one such is shown in Figure 1. The arbors 24 are each provided with spaced sets 26 and 28 of finning discs which are separated by a spacer member 30 and retained on the arbor by fastener means such as a cup washer 32 and socket head screw 34.Preferably, the individual fin discs 26a 26h and 28a 28f all have their thicknesses tl and t2 equal to each other and they also all have their outer tip side and end contours 36 and 38 equal to each other. Thus, the 14 different discs shown differ only in that their outer diameters vary, thereby greatly facilitating their manufacture. The discs 28a 28f are each separated by a thin shim or spacer member 40 which, together with the disc thickness t2, causes the pitch, p2, between discs in the second set of discs 28 to be slightly greater than the pitch, P1, between discs in the first set of discs 26.This situation results in causing high fin turns 11 produced in a region Y of the tube 11 by the second set of discs 28 to have a slightly greater pitch than the less high fin turns 11 produced in a region X by the first set of fins 26. The fin turns 11 produced by the disc set 26 are lengthened considerably in a vertical direction as they pass through the second disc set 28. However, the thickness of their tips and their outer diameter remain substantially constant since the additional space between the fins in the disc set 28, which is provided by the shims 40, permits the tips of the fin turns to move further into the V shaped slots between the discs 28a...28f so that the roots of the fin turns will have their root diameters decreased from the dimension provided by the disc 26h to the dimension provided by the disc 28f.The difference in pitch F1 and p2 between the disc secs 26, 28 and the stretch introduced in the tube 11 as it is worked, causes the tube pitch to vary from the dimension of P1 when it leaves the first disc set 26 to the larger dimension P2 when it leaves the second disc set 28. Figures 2 and 3 illustrate the fact that the pitch distance P1 of the fin turns at the region X of Figure 1 is less than that at the region Y . These Figures also schematically indicate the work hardening present in the tube 11 as it is being formed in regions X and Y , respectively, in Figure 1. The lines 4, 5, 8 and 10 which have been drawn are intended to connect and define points of equal deformation, and as a first approximation, points of equal strain hardening, the higher numbers representing the higher stress. In Figure 2, it can be seen that the lines 8 of relatively high work hardening are near the outer diameter of the fin turns. In Figure 3, it can be seen that the lines 10 of highest work hardening are in the area of the tube wall under the fins, and thus do not affect the tips of the fin turns.Although small areas 10 of highest work hardening are also indicated immediately under the roots in Figure 2, this area is not as critical with respect to being additionally worked as the tips of the fin turns would be. Figure 4 represents a summation of the strain hardening effects from both the first finning operation Figure 2 and the second finning operation Figure 3 and would be representative of the composite strain hardening effects present in the tube 11 at a region indicated Z in Figure 1. It can be noted that the amount of working is more uniform than for either of the separate finning operations. Thus, the two step process takes full advantage of the cold workability of the starting material without the need for any expensive heat treatment processes. Figures 5a, 5b and Sc illustrate the relative thicknesses of the outer wall of the tube 11 and the dimensions of the mandrel and tube at the locations indicated W , X and Y in Figure 1. In Figure Sa the tube 11 has a wall thickness of ac before finning. Following the first finning operation with the set of discs 26 Figure 1 , the wall thickness under the fin turns is reduced to the dimension a b while the tip of each fin turn 11 is worked to a height of b c . Following the second finning operation with the set of discs 28, the wall thickness under each fin turn 11 is reduced to the dimension a b and the height of each fin turn 11 is increased to the dimension b c .As previously discussed, the mandrel diameter is also reduced from the diameter shown at 14 in Figures 1 and 5b to the relatively smaller diameter shown at 16 in Figures 1 and 5c. In an example of a tube made in accordance with the invention, a starting tube having an O.D. of 18.97 mm 0.747 , a wall thickness of 1.37 mm 0.054 and an I.D. of 16.25 mm 0.640 was finned in a three arbor finning apparatus. The tube was welded titanium Grade 2 which is a tube of essentially pure titanium. Referring to Figures 5a 5c, the first mandrel section 14 had anO.D. of 15 mm 0.590 , while the second mandrel section 16 had an O.D. of 14.73 mm 0.580 . The first set of discs 26 Figure 1 formed the fin turns 11 Figure 5b so that the fin turn height b c had a value of 0.81 mm 0.032 and an R.D. of 17.35 mm 0.683 .The second set of discs 28 Figure 1 formed the fin turns 11 Figure 5c so that the fin turn height b c had a value of 1.19 mm 0.047 and an R.D. of 16.59 mm 0.653 . The final I.D. of the tube was 15.16 mm 0.597 , producing a wall thickness under the fin of 0.71 mm 0.028 .The tube I.D. is somewhat larger than the 0.D. of the mandrel section 16 since the tube has an inherent springback which prevents it from assuming the same dimension as the mandrel. The final fin pitch P2 Figure 3 was 1.18 fin turns per mm 30 f.p.i. as compared to the P1 value of 1.26 fin turns per mm 32 f.p.i. Figure 2 produced by the first set of discs 26. The difference in pitch is a result of stretching of the tube 11 and is accommodated in the second set of discs 28 by placing the shims 40 Figure 1 having a thickness of about 0.05 mm 0.002 between each of the discs 28a 28f. The invention can produce metallic tubes of at least 50 titanium which have the following properties EMI15.1 tb SEP fin SEP turn SEP fin SEP height tb SEP density tb per SEP mm SEP per SEP inch SEP mm SEP inch tb approx. tb 1 SEP SEP 2.4 SEP 26 SEP SEP 60 SEP 0.86 SEP SEP 1.9 SEP 0.034 SEP SEP 0.075 tb 1 SEP SEP 2 SEP 26 SEP SEP 50 SEP 0.86 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP 0.034 SEP SEP 0.060 tb 1 SEP SEP 1.5 SEP 26 SEP SEP 40 SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 1.3 SEP 0.040 SEP SEP 0.050 tb