# Treatment process for removing fluoride impurities from zeolites.

## Abstract
The instant process relates to a process for treating zeolitic aluminosilicates which contain insoluble fluoride compounds by the use of soluble aluminum compounds.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. The process for treating fluoride containing aluminosilicates to decrease the amount of fluoride contained therein comprising treating said fluoride containing aluminosilicate with an effective amount of a solution of a soluble aluminum compound at an effective temperature and for an effective time whereby the amount of insoluble fluoride compounds associated with said aluminosilicate is decreased. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the aluminosilicate being treated is prepared by inserting silicon atoms as SiO4 tetrahedra into the crystal lattice of an aluminosilicate zeolite by contacting a crystalline zeolitic aluminosilicate having a SiO2 A1203 molar ratio of at least 3 and pore diameters of at least 3 Angstroms with a fluorosilicate salt in an amount of at least 0.0075 moles per 100 grams of the zeolitic aluminosilicate on an anhydrous basis. said fluorosilicate salt being in the form of an aqueous solution having a pH value within the range of 3 to about 7 and brought into contact with the zeolitic aluminosilicate at a rate sufficiently slow to preserve at least 60 percent of the crystallinity of the starting zeolitic aluminosilicate. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the effective temperature is between about 20 C and about 950C. 4. The process of claim 3 wherein the effective temperature is between about 20 C and about 750C. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein the fluoride is a fluoroaluminate. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein the soluble aluminum compound is at least one of aluminum sulfate, aluminum nitrate, aluminum chloride, aluminum acetate, organic salts and complexes, and mixtures thereof. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the soluble aluminum compound is provided as a water solution. 8. The process of claim 7 whereby the fluoride compounds are removed at a rate greater than that obtained by the use of water without the soluble aluminum compounds. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein the mole ratio of aluminum cation to fluoride in the treatment is less than 3.

## Description
TREATMENT PROCESS FOR REMOVING FLUORIDE IMPURITIES FROM ZEOLITESFIELD OF THE INVENTION The instant process relates to a process for treating zeolitic aluminosilicates which contain insoluble fluorides.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONS In recent years there has been substantial activity directed to the preparation of zeolitic aluminosilicates having higher SiO2 to Awl 203 ratios than the previously known zeolitic aluminosilicates. Much of this activity has been in secondary treatment processes involving secondary treatment media. A review of some of the patent literature relating to this effort is instructive. U.S. Patent 3,691.099 discloses a dealuminization process where an aqueous acidic media and a water soluble salt are employed to extract framework aluminum atoms from crystalline zeolitic aluminosilicates. U.S. Patent 3,506,400 discloses a process similar to that of U.S. Patent No. 3,691.099 except a pretreatment step is employed and an aluminum chelating agent is employed. U.S. Patent 4.093.560 discloses a process for removing aluminum from a zeolite wherein a water soluble acid is employed with an ammonium or alkali metal salt such that aluminum can be extracted from the zeolite by complexing. The mineral acid can be trifluoroacetic acid. U.S. Patent No. 3.594,331 discloses a method for increasing the thermal stability of crystalline zeolites by treating the zeolite with a dilute solution of a fluorine compound. The treatment with a fluorine compound is a fluoride treatment column 3, line 41 et. seg. . After the fluoride treatment has been completed the zeolite fluoride treated incorporates 2 to 15 grams of fluoride per 10,000 grams of zeolite. The patent notes that excess fluoride actually decreases the thermal stability of the zeolite. U.S. Patent No. 3.933.983 discloses a fluoride treatment process similar to U.S. PatentNo. 3,594.331 except that an ion exchange step is added see claim 1 . The dissolution of aluminum sodium fluoride Na3AlF6 in aqueous solution with A12 SO4 3. Al NO3 3 and AlCl3 has been reported by F. J. Frere. J. Am. Chem. Soc., 58, 1695 7 1936 and by A. Seidell, Solubilities ofInorganic and Metal Organic Compounds , Vol I, 4thEd p. 184. 1958 D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc.,Princeton. N.J. The above processes are generally directed to only the extraction or removal of aluminum from a aluminosilicate zeolite. A process directed to the removal of aluminum and insertion of SiO4 tetrahedra in the framework of the aluminosilicate is disclosed in copending U.S. Serial No. 315,853, filed October 28, 1982, commonly assigned and incorporated herein by reference thereto.This process inserts silicon atoms as SiO4 tetrahedra by treating an aluminosilicate having a SiO2 A1203 ratio of at least 3 with a fluoroaluminate salt in an amount of at least 0.0075 moles per 100 grams of the zeolitic aluminosilicate on an anhydrous basis, said fluorosilicate salt being in the form of an aqueous solution having a pH value within the range of 3 to about 7 and brought into contact with the zeolitic aluminosilicate at a rate sufficiently slow to preserve at least 60 percent of the crystallinity of the starting zeolitic aluminosilicate. The process relates to the preparation of numerous molecular sieves.Prodcuts prepared from zeolite Y are generally referred to in U.S. Serial No. 315,853 as LZ 210.The final products are water washed but residual fluoride containing species generally requires exhaustive wash treatment with water, ammonium acetate and boiling water.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The instant process relates to a process for treating fluoride containing aluminosilicates comprising treating the fluoride containing aluminosilicate with a solution of at least one soluble aluminum salt.DETAILED DESCRIPTION It has been discovered that fluoride containing aluminosilicates can be treated with water soluble aluminum salts to remove insoluble fluoride compound s associated with the aluminosilicates. The removal of such fluoride compounds is important if the aluminosilicate is to be employed in many catalytic areas or if it is to be employed for an extended period of time, since the pr esence of such insoluble fluoride compounds in physical admixture with the aluminosilicate generally increases the rate of degradation of the aluminosilicates due to fluoride attack on the zeolite s lattice. Such fluorides have a tendency to cause fluxing of inorganic materials under thermal or hydrothermal conditions which may destroy the zeolites structure. The term fluoride and or fluoridecontaining are used herein to refer to compounds which contain fluorine in a water insoluble form.Representative fluoro compounds include the various fluoroaluminate salts, e.g. alkali and alkaline earth salts of the form M3A1F6, M2AlF5,MA1F4 where M is a cation, typically NH 4, alkali or alkaline earth metal cations. In addition, fluoride can mean A1F3 and its hydrates. In general when the flouride is an aluminum fluoride the ratio of F A1 is greater than 3. The term soluble aluminum compound is used herein to refer to aluminum compounds which are soluble in water. Representative soluble aluminum salts include aluminum sulfate, nitrate, halide, e.g., chloride, acetate and soluble organic salts and or complexes, and mixtures thereof. The term treating is used according to its common meaning herein to mean the physical contacting of 1 a solution or solid salt of the soluble aluminum compound and 2 with the fluoride containing aluminosilicate.The salt of aluminum employed herein say be provided in the fors of an solution or added as a solid to a slurry of the fluoride containing aluminosilicate. The instant process comprises treating a fluoride containing aluminosilicate with an effective amount of at least one soluble aluminum compound for an effective time and at an effective temperature such that the fluoride content of the aluminosilicate is decreased. The present process provides for a decrease in the amount of wash solutions, e.g., water, required for effecting removal of the fluoride, as compared with washing with only water, which results in substantial savings in time and in the cost of production of such fluoride containing zeolites. The soluble aluminum compound is provided in an effective amount in a solvent, preferably water, in which it is preferably soluble in a molar amount greater than the solubility of the insoluble fluoride to be removed. The solvent may be any solvent in which the aluminum salt is soluble to the extent above noted and is preferably water or an alkanol in admixture with water. Water is the preferred solvent and the soluble aluminum salt s will preferably be a soluble sulfate, acetate or halide and is preferably aluminum chloride. The treating process of the instant invention is carried out at an effective temperature and for an effective period of time sufficient to decrease the amount of fluoride associated with the aluminosilicate but in all cases under the instant process this temperature and time and the amount of treating media solvent and soluble aluminum compound will be less than that employed when only the solvent is employed, i.e., when the solvent is employed in the absence of the soluble aluminum compound. Representative of effective treating temperatures are between about 200C and about 950C, preferably between about 200C and about 750C, it having been observed that at temperatures in excess of 950C that the removal of fluorides is diminished as compared with temperatures less than 950C. Representative of the effective time is from minutes and to several hours or more. The concentration of the soluble aluminum salt in relation to the fluoride containing aluminosilicate can vary depending on the fluoride concentration with the weight percent of soluble aluminum compound employable herein being from a few tenths of a weight percent up to a saturated solution. It has been found that if the concentration of the aluminum compound is correlated to the concentraton of fluoride in the fluoride containing aluminosilicate to provide a mole ratio of aluminum cation to fluoride of less than 3 that the removal of fluoride is markedly enhanced. Accordingly, such a correlation is preferred. After the fluoride removal treatment with an effective amount of soluble aluminum salt has been carried out the amount of fluoride compound is less than amount originally contained in the aluminosilicate and such amount is achieved at a rate which is faster.than obtained when only solvent, e.g. water, is employed and, further, is achieved by use of significantly smaller amounts of treating solution than when only the solvent, e.g.water, is employed. EXAMPLES To demonstrate the improved rate of removal of fluorides from fluoride containing aluminosilicates a series of experiments were carried out on fluoride containing aluminosilicates using aqueous solutions of soluble aluminum compounds and by using for comparison only a water wash process. The following examples were carried out to illustrate the instant invention and are not intended to be limiting in any way thereof. Examples 1 5 To demonstrate the improved removal of insoluble fluoride compounds from fluoride containing auminosilicates a preparation of LZ 210 was made following a procedure similar to that described inU.S. Serial No. 315,853, filed October 28, 1982. In these experiments the original ammonium exchanged Y zeolite material NH4Y had the following anhydrous composition expressed as weight percent Sio2, 64.6 A1203. 22.4 Na2O, 1.92 NH4 2 9.5. In a stainless steel vessel, equipped with an agitator, 25.6 lbs of the hydrated NH4Y zeolite 28.3 percent LOI Loss on Ignition at 10000CJ was slurried in 79 lbs of water. In a separate vessel 8.4 Ibs of technical grade ammonium silicofluoride t99 NH4 2SiF6 , was dissolved in 32 lbs of water. The zeolite slurry was heated to 750C and the ammonium fluorosilicate solution was heated to 50 C. The fluorosilicate solution was then slowly and continuously added to the agitated zeolite slurry at the rate of approximately 100 grams of solution per minute over a period of about 3 hours.During this time the contents of both vessels were maintained at temperature by means of external electrical heating. When the fluorosilicate addition was completed two 2 1800 gram portions of the treated zeolite slurry were placed in separate 3 liter flasks equipped with stirrers. Two solutions of aluminum sulfate were then prepared by dissolving 345 gram samples of A12 SO4 318H20 in two 832 gram portions of water. These two solutions were then added to the two water slurries ofLZ 210. One slurry was digested at 500C while the second slurry was digested at 950C. Weighed portions of each slurry were taken and analyzed after treatment times of 2 hours and 24 hours. Each portion of slurry weighed about 931 grams and gave approximately 100 grams of anhydrous LZ 210 product. The LZ 210 products were filtered and washed with 1000 grams of water. Analysis of the four products are shown in Table I.For comparison the analytical data on a similarly prepared LZ 210 sample prior to either water washing or treatment with a soluble aluminum salt is shown in Table I as example 5. It should be noted in Table I that digestion of the aluminosilicate product with a soluble aluminum salt A12 S04 3 at 950C does not allow for the washing of the product substantially free of all fluoride containing compounds. It is believed, but has not been conclusively demonstrated. that the fluoride residue in the product is not a fluoroaluminate salt but is rather an exchanged aluminum fluoride cation species such as A1F2 or A1F2 . When the extrazeolite F A1 mole ratio of the system is reduced below 3 substantial concentrations of such species should be present in the liquor. It is likely that such species do not exchange readily with zeolitic cations at the lower temperature but do undergo activated exchange at higher temperatures.It is therefore important in the practice of this invention to carry out the treatment with soluble aluminum salts at a temperature less than about 950C and most preferably less than about 50 C. Still lower temperatures can, of course, be used but dissolution rates of insoluble fluoride salts would be expected to be slower at such lower temperatures. It is generally observed that fluoro compounds result in zeolite crystal damage in LZ 210 zeolites as evidenced by loss of X ray crystallinity, surface area and adsorption capacity and increased lattice vacancy formation as indicated by increased IR adsorbtion at 3710 cm 1. TABLE IExample 1 2 3 4 5Al2 SO4 3 Treatment noneTime, hrs 2 24 2 24 Temp C 50 50 95 95 H2O wash weight weight 10 10 10 10 noneChemical Analysis, wt SiO2 81.5 81.9 77.3 75.1 63.9Al2O3 12.9 13.14 19.2 21.7 21.6Na2O 0.33 0.45 0.41. 0.3 2.636 NH4 2O 4.9 4.8 4.1 3.8 17.6F 0.32 0.24 5.7 7.8 26.65Molar SiO2 Al2O3 10.7 10.6 6.8 5.9 5.0Adsorption Capacity, wt. Oxygen 31.8 31.7 29.1 27.4 22.1Water 27.9 29.0 27.2 24.3 16.1DTA Peak, C 1110 1105 740 X Ray Crystallinity, 121 109 98 108 Nitrogen Surface Area, Mê g 841 850 420 730 353Unit Cell size, ao, 24.49 24.48 24.4 24 Anhydrous basis Measured at 100 mm Hg, 183 C Measured at 4.6 mm Hg, 25 C ExamPles 5 to 10 To demonstrate the advantages derived by the use of soluble aluminum salts in the removal of residual fluoride or fluoride containing compounds present in the zeolite product LZ 210 as a result of the use of aluminum fluorosilicate solutions in the preparation of LZ 210, examples 1 4 were duplicated herein using the same equipment and procedures.Example 5 is a comparative example similarly prepared but was not treated with an aluminum compound. On an anhydrous basis the starting Y zeolite ammonium form had the following chemical composition SiO2, 65.0 percent A1203 22.2 percent NH4 2Oa 9.6 percent an Na2O, 2.56 percent. The LZ 210 employed in the examples was prepared by forming a slurry of the Y zeolite by mixing 25.1 lbs of the ammonium form NH4Y , having a 28.1 percent LOI at 1000 C, with 65 lbs of water. In a separate vessel a solution of 7.8 lbs NH4 2SiF6 was dissolved in 31.2 lbs of H20 and heated to SOOC. This slurry was heated to 750C with agitation. To this slurry was added the ammonium fluorosilicate solution at a rate of 100 g solution per minute by means of a small adjustable laboratory pump. Total addition time for the fluorosilicate solution was about three 3 hours.At the end of the three 3 hour period the mixture was cooled to 500C and homogeneous samples of about equal size of the LZ 210 slurry were taken from the bulk mixture and treated separately with solutions of the following compounds fifteen wt aqueous solutions of Al2 SO4 3 .18H2 O. A1 NO3 3.3H2O and AlC13.6H2O and A12o3.3H20 crystalline gibbsite . In addition a sample example 5 was not treated with an aluminum compound for comparison purposes. Each slurry sample, prior to washing with water or treatment with the solution of soluble aluminum compound, weighed about 645 grams g and contained about 100 g of LZ 210 product anhydrous basis . The following weights of each aluminum compound were added to each slurry Aluminum ComPound Weight A1 NO3 3.3H2O 141.4 g A1C13.6H20 91.0 g A12o3.3H2O 29.4 g A12 SO4 3.18H2O 125.6 g in 304 g H20 Each slurry was then maintained at 50 C for two hours to permit equilibration. The solids were then filtered either on a Buchner funnel or a filter press and washed with water at a weight ratio of 10 1 water to solids , dried and analyzed.As a control, one 645 g sample example 6 of the LZ 210 slurry was not treated but was filtered after preparation directly and washed with the same quantity of water employed for the other examples. In examples 7 to 10 the amount of the aluminum compound added were sufficient to give aF A1 fluoride to aluminum mole ratio of 2.2 based on all non framework aluminum, i.e., aluminum that is not retained in the LZ 210 zeolite lattice.Thus, the total non framework aluminum is taken as equal to the sum of the moles of NH4 3A1F6 formed by the stoichiometric reaction of NH4 2SiF6 with aluminum extracted from the starting Y zeolite and the aluminum compound added in the treating step. The analytical data for examples 6 to 10 are set forth in Table II. The data show that theLZ 210 samples which had been treated with the aluminum compounds gave a higher DTA Collapse temperature. This higher DTA temperature indicates that the treated samples were more thermally stable with collapse of the lattice occurring at a higher temperature. As is readily apparent from the data setforth in Table II, the aqueous solution of aluminum salts, i.e.. chloride, nitrate and sulfate, were more effective in the removal of residual F as compared with the same amount of water at comparable washing conditions. Use of a crystalline aluminium hydroxide, A1203.3H2O, was no more effective than washing with water over the commercially practical short treatment period employed. The DTA Differential Thermal Analysis exotherm for crystal collapse occured at a much lower temperature for the water washed LZ 210 7720C than for LZ 210 samples washed with solutions of soluble aluminum saLts showing the deleterious effect of the 3.6 weight percent of the residual fluoride on the thermal stability of the aluminosilicate LZ 210. TABLE II1 EMI14.1 se tb rl SEP 10.1 SEP 10.8 SEP 10.7 SEP 10.8 SEP 4.4 tb SiO2 SEP 77.2 SEP 79.7 SEP 81.1 SEP 81.5 SEP 66.7 tb Al203 SEP 13.0 SEP 12.5 SEP 12.9 SEP 12.8 SEP 25.9 tb NH4 2O SEP 7.2 SEP 5.4 SEP 4.2 SEP 4.4 SEP 6.3 tb SEP Na2O SEP N SEP t S SEP S SEP b SEP o SEP o tb SEP cs tb SEP F SEP 3.6 SEP 0.4 SEP D SEP O SEP N SEP O SEP mr SEP o SEP N SEP tb SEP 3 tb ri SEP 6 SEP EN SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.2 tb Cation SEP Bal. SEP 1.19 SEP 0.9 SEP 0.68 SEP 0.70 SEP 0.51 tb SEP o SEP m tb SEP un SEP v SEP N SEP F SEP N SEP o SEP tb Treat. SEP Time SEP hr 44 SEP 50 SEP u tb Treat. SEP Temp. SEP FI SEP G SEP 2.0 SEP tSl SEP m SEP 2.0 SEP o tb SEP O tb SEP rl tb SEP m tb DTA SEP 772 SEP v SEP 1097 SEP 1101 SEP om tb SEP o SEP SEP N SEP tr SEP o SEP o SEP N SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP N SEP Z SEP b tb SEP H SEP X SEP SEP UZ SEP SEP o tb SEP b SEP un SEP D SEP O SEP mr tb SEP . SEP commat SEP O tb SEP SEP O SEP N SEP uN SEP O SEP O SEP EN SEP O SEP SEP O SEP c tb SEP SEP SEP H SEP UZ SEP SEP N tb SEP SEP H tb SEP 0s tb SEP SEP cs SEP O SEP N SEP CO SEP t SEP D SEP O SEP X tb SEP tD SEP O SEP b SEP X SEP b SEP O SEP X SEP xD SEP SEP O SEP CS SEP O SEP N tb SEP SEP SEP SEP CS SEP S SEP C SEP tb SEP b tb SEP er tb SEP sr tb SEP O tb SEP S SEP tb SEP N SEP X SEP 01 tb SEP 1 SEP SEP E SEP E SEP U SEP 4 tb SEP e tb SEP Q SEP o SEP X SEP o tb SEP SEP c SEP o tb SEP SEP x SEP o SEP X SEP fi SEP 4J SEP H SEP tb SEP g SEP SEP N SEP O SEP tr SEP O SEP SEP SEP U SEP X SEP X SEP g tb SEP X SEP SEP O SEP tN SEP SEP CS SEP KC SEP fi SEP ax SEP Q SEP SEP tb SEP x SEP SEP z SEP 5 SEP 1 SEP SEP sa SEP N SEP k SEP k SEP SEP Ez tb SEP X SEP C SEP SEP Z SEP X SEP X SEP U SEP O SEP Es tb 1 SiO2, Al2O3, NH4 2O, Na2O and F are given on a weight percent anhydrous basis and the ratios of Si Al2 and F Al are given on a mole basis. 2 O2 capacity calculated as in U.S. Serial No. 315, 853, filed October 28, 1982 3 Fluoride F to aluminium Al ratio. EMI14.2 EMI14.3 4 Time and temperature employed for wash step with water or with solution of aluminium compound.