# Web loading and feeding system, related web construction and method and apparatus for making web

## Claims
System zum Laden und Zuführen einer Bahn, das aufweist ein Paar von Bahnzuführzackenrädern 14, 16 , die voneinander längs einer gemeinsamen Drehachse 18 im Abstand angeordnet sind und für eine gleichlaufende angetriebene Drehbewegung um die Achse gelagert sind, wobei jedes Zackenrad eine Reihe von sich radial nach außen erstreckenden Vorschubstiften 30, 32 aufweist, die am Umfang des Zackenrads voneinander im gleichmäßigen Abständen angeordnet sind, wobei die gegenseitige Anordnung der Stifte im Abstand an dem einen Zackenrad identisch zu der gegenseitigen Anordnung der Stifte im Abstand an dem anderen Zackenrad ist, und eine auf die zwei Zackenräder zu ladende und durch diese anzutreibende Bahn 12 , wobei die Bahn eine Länge hat, die vielmals größer ist als ihre Breite, sich in Längsrichtung erstreckende seitliche Ränder und an jedem seitlichen Rand eine Mehrzahl von gleichmäßig im Abstand über die ganze Länge der Bahn angeordneten Transportlöchern hat, wobei die Transportlöcher eine erste Reihe von ersten Löchern 44 in einem Seitenrandteil 40 der Bahn und eine zweite Reihe von zweiten Löchern 48 in dem anderen Seitenrandteil 42 der Bahn aufweisen, wobei die ersten Löcher auf einer ersten Linie 46 parallel zu den seitlichen Rändern und die zweiten Löcher auf einer zweiten Linie 50 parallel zu den seitlichen Rändern angeordnet sind, und wobei die Bahn eine Arbeitsfläche aufweist, die durch ein längsverlaufendes Stück eines Zeichenherstellungsmaterials bereitgestellt und zwischen den Seitenrandteilen angeordnet ist, wobei die Bahn 12 einen längsverlaufenden blattförmigen Teil zur Verwendung bei der Herstellung von Zeichen umfaßt, und aus einer rückseitig mit Kleber versehenen Schicht eines ersten Materials 60 besteht, das auf einer Schicht eines Ablösematerials 64 mit seiner mit Kleber versehenen rückseitigen Fläche 62 in Eingriff mit der Schicht des Ablösematerials getragen wird, wobei sowohl die Schicht des ersten Materials als auch die Schicht des Ablösematerials sich über die gesamte Länge der Bahn ohne Unterbrechung erstrecken, wobei die ersten Löcher 44 über die Länge der Bahn gleichmäßig im Abstand voneinander angeordnet sind und die zweiten Löcher 48 gleichfalls über die Länge der Bahn gleichmäßig im Abstand voneinander angeordnet sind, wobei der gegenseitige Abstand der ersten Löcher und der gegenseitige Abstand der zweiten Löcher gleich dem gegenseitigen Abstand der Vorschubstifte der Zackenräder ist jeder Vorschubstift 30 des einen Zackenrades 14 hat einen entsprechenden Vorschubstift 32 an dem anderen Zackenrad 16 , welcher Stift 30 und sein entsprechender Stift 32 zumindest annähernd in der selben die Achse 18 enthaltenden Ebene angeordnet sind, und jedes der ersten Löcher 44 ein entsprechendes Loch der zweiten Löcher 48 hat, das sich mindestens annähernd auf der selben sich rechtwinklig zu den Seitenrändern der Bahn erstreckenden Linie befindet, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß zusätzliche Löcher 54, 56 in der Bahn gebildet sind, wodurch ein falsches Laden der Bahn auf die Förderzackenräder 14, 16 hinsichtlich einer Dimension der Bahn verhindert ist, die zusätzlichen Löcher auf der ersten und zweiten Linie gebildet sind und Indikatorlöcher 54, 56 bilden, die in Intervallen auf der ersten und zweiten Linie gebildet sind, um bestimmte erste und zweite Transportlöcher von anderen ersten und zweiten Löchern visuell zu unterscheiden, daß die Indikatorlöcher eine dritte Reihe von dritten Löchern 54 in dem einen Seitenrandteil der Bahn auf der ersten Linie angeordnet und eine vierte Reihe von vierten Löchern 56 in dem anderen Seitenrandteil der Bahn auf der zweiten Linie angeordnet aufweisen, wobei jedes der dritten Löcher zwischen zwei der ersten Löcher auf der ersten Linie angeordnet ist und jedes der vierten Löcher zwischen zwei der zweiten Löcher auf der zweiten Linie angeordnet ist, daß jedes der dritten Indikatorlöcher ein entsprechendes Indikatorloch der vierten Indikatorlöcher hat, das mindestens annähernd auf derselben rechtwinklig zu den Seitenrändern der Bahn verlaufenden Linie angeordnet ist, und alle dritten Löcher längs der Länge der Bahn voneinander in einem Abstand angeordnet sind und alle vierten Löcher auch längs der Länge der Bahn voneinander in einem Abstand S Nd angeordnet sind, wobei S der Abstand zwischen den dritten Löchern und auch der Abstand zwischen den vierten Löchern ist, d der Abstand zwischen den ersten Löchern und auch der Abstand zwischen den zweiten Löchern ist, und N eine ganze Zahl größer als 1 ist, derart, daß jedes dritte Indikatorloch und sein entsprechendes viertes Indikatorloch durch ihre Anwesenheit ein zugeordnetes Paar eines ersten und zweiten Transportlochs visuell anzeigen, und daß das Paar der gekennzeichneten Transportlöcher somit von benachbarten Paaren der ersten und zweiten Löcher unterschieden ist, die nicht derartige zugeordnete dritte und vierte Indikatorlöcher haben, und daß das gekennzeichnete Paar eines ersten und zweiten Transportlochs 44, 48 auf einem visuell gekennzeichneten Paar von Stiften 30, 32 G, H der Vorschubstifte 14, 16 angeordnet werden kann, um ein richtiges Laden der Bahn auf die Förderzackenräder bezüglich der seitlichen Ausrichtung der Bahn an den einander abgewandten Seiten der Bahn ohne die Notwendigkeit für ein zweites und in Längsrichtung im Abstand angeordnetes Paar von Bahnförderzackenrädern zur Sicherstellung einer derartigen Ausrichtung sicherzustellen.

## Description
This invention relates to web handling sign makers wherein a sign making web is fed longitudinally of itself by a pair of sprockets cooperating with holes in the two longitudinal side edge portions of the web, and deals more particularly with a web loading and feeding system for such a machine, including a related web construction and a method and apparatus for making the web, facilitating by way of visual aids the proper loading of a web onto the machine. In such sign making machines it is usually essential to error free operation that the web be properly loaded in the machine so that the sprocket pins engage the correct web holes. This means that two corresponding pins of the two sprockets located in a common plane passing through the sprocket drive axis should engage two corresponding holes of the web located on a common line extending perpendicular to the edges of the web. Often, particularly when the web is very wide, it is difficult to determine by eye which sprocket pins correspond with one another and which holes on the opposite sides of the web correspond with one another, and as a result web loading errors can easily occur. Moreover, sometimes when a web loading error is made the web thereafter nevertheless appears to feed in an apparently normal manner so that errors introduced by the web loading may be ascribed to other causes and not quickly traced back to the faulty loading. A general object of the embodiments is therefore to provide a visual means to enable a sign making machine operator to easily visually determine the proper placement of a web when loading it onto the feed sprockets of a machine. This invention is particularly well suited for the sign making machine as shown in United States patent No. 4,467,525 dated August 28, 1984 and EP A 101814 wherein the web is relatively wide and wherein in the course of a day s operation many different webs may be loaded onto the machine. The embodiments also have as an object the provision of a web construction usable to facilitate proper loading of it into the sign making machine and has as a related object the provision of a method and apparatus for efficiently making such a web. In prior specifications GB A 625,945 and GB A 632,590 there is disclosed a web and apparatus for feeding it. The web is a series of relatively narrow forms joined by transverse weakened tear lines. A row of feed holes is provided at each side of the web. At the head of each form, just below the tear line, one or more additional feed holes are provided in lateral inward alignment with the top feed hole of the form for co operation with additional sprocket means whereby tearing of the forms is inhibited and lengthwise positioning of the tear lines relative to the pairs of sprockets of the apparatus between which the web extends, is facilitated. According to the invention there is provided a web loading and feeding system,a web for use therein, a method of loading a web onto a machine, and a method of and apparatus for making such a web, as defined in the accompanying claims. In embodiments described below, a web handling machine includes two drive sprockets each having a series of radially outwardly extending pins uniformly spaced from one another circumferentially of the sprocket with two corresponding pins on the two sprockets that is, two pins located at least approximately in the same plane containing the axis of sprocket rotation being visually distinguished from the remaining pins, the web having similarly uniformly spaced holes located in rows extending along each of the side edge portions of the web with corresponding holes that is, two holes on opposite sides of the web located in substantially the same line extending perpendicular to the side edges of the web at intervals along the length of the web being visually distinguished from the remaining holes by means of extra holes, so that the visually distinguished web holes may be placed on the visually distinguished sprocket pins to assure proper web loading. The distinguished pair of sprocket pins may be so distinguished by means of extra pins engaging the extra holes of the web, or other visual means such as color differences may be used to provide the distinguishing features. The described embodiments also include the construction of the web itself whereby in addition to a row of first holes extending along one side edge portion of the web and a row of second holes extending along the other side edge portion of the web the first side edge portion includes third holes and the other side edge portion of the web includes fourth holes which third and fourth holes serve to visually distinguish corresponding pairs of first and second holes to aid in properly locating the web onto a handling machine. The embodiments also disclose a method and apparatus for making the web construction whereby the holes in the side edge portions of the web are made by a simple punch, step motor drive and control apparatus. In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a sign making machine having a web loading and feeding system embodying the present invention with various portions of the machine and of the web being broken away to reveal additional features. Fig. 2 is a fragmentary perspective view showing the relationship between the drive sprockets and the web during the loading of the web onto the machine of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a side elevational view of one of the web drive sprockets of Fig. 1. Fig. 4 is a reduced scale plan view of a portion of the web of Fig. 1. Fig. 5 is an enlarged scale, fragmentary sectional view through the web taken on the line 5 5 of Fig. 4. Fig. 6 is an enlarged scale, fragmentary plan view of the web of Fig. 4. Fig. 7 is a view similar to Fig. 2, but showing a different construction of the sprockets. Fig. 8 is a side elevational view of one of the sprockets of Fig. 7. Fig. 9 is a schematic view showing an apparatus for making the web of Fig. 1. Fig. 10 is a fragmentary perspective view showing another embodiment of the web. Referring to Fig. 1, the invention is there illustrated as embodied in a sign making machine 10 which is or may be generally similar to the one shown and described in more detail in EP A 101814. The machine 10 handles and works on an associated web 12. The web is moved longitudinally of itself, in the illustrated X coordinate direction, by a pair of drive sprockets 14, 16 forming part of the machine 10 and spaced from one another along and supported for driven rotation in unison about a common drive axis 18. As explained in more detail hereinafter, pins or teeth on the two sprockets 14, 16 engage holes in the two side edge portions of the web 12 to drive it in the X coordinate direction. A platen or roller 17 located between the two sprockets 14 and 16, and similar to that of a typewriter, supports that transverse portion of the web 12 aligned with the sprockets 14, 16. When the machine 10 is operating two web holddown bails, one for each sprocket 14 and 16, carried by a transverse rod 20 normally hold the web in engagement with the sprockets. In Fig. 1 only the one holddown bail 22 associated with the sprocket 14 is shown and this bail along with its supporting rod 20 is shown in its raised position to give a clearer view of the sprockets. The machine 10 also includes a tool head 24 suitably supported and driven in the illustrated Y coordinate direction relative to the web 12. In a normal sign making mode of operation, the tool head 24 is equipped with a knife type cutter 26 and the web 12 is an elongated piece of sign making stock consisting of an upper layer of adhesive backed plastic material, such as vinyl, supported by a bottom layer of release material on which the upper plastic layer is supported with its adhesive backed face in engagement with the release material. For example, in this case the basic material from which the web 12 is made may be a laminated sheet material made and sold under the trademark SCOTCHCAL by 3M Corporation. This SCOTCHCAL has an upper vinyl layer, usually three to five mils thick, made in various different colors, with a pressure sensitive adhesive on its lower surface, such vinyl upper layer being in turn carried by a lower release layer in the form of a ninety pound paper coated with silicone. With the web 12 made of such sign making stock and with the tool head 24 equipped with a knife type cutting tool 26 the web 12 and the tool 26 may be moved relative to one another simultaneously in the X and Y coordinate directions, through the operation of the machine 10, to cut alphanumeric characters or other indicia from the upper vinyl layer of the stock which characters or indicia can subsequently be transferred, as described in the aforesaid pending patent application, to another carrier to form a finished sign. Proper operation of the machine 10 requires that the web 12 be loaded into it that is, onto the sprockets 14 and 16 so that as the web is moved longitudinally of itself by rotation of the sprocket lines extending transversely of the web perpendicular to its side edges are parallel to the sprocket axis 18. Typically, the web 12 may be relatively wide say 381 millimetres fifteen inches wide and the holes formed in each side edge portion of the web may be relatively closely spaced to one another say on 12.70 millimetre one half inch centers. With such large width of the web and small spacing of the holes it is difficult to visually properly align the web with the sprocket pins when loading a web onto the machine. That is, assuming the holes on one side edge of the web are properly located relative to the pins of its associated sprocket the holes along the other side edge of the web may be placed on the wrong pins of the associated sprocket, and such error in the loading of the web may not be readily detected in the subsequent operation of the machine even though it introduces errors in the cutting or plotting function. In accordance with the invention, the machine 10 and web 12 of Fig. 1 are constructed to provide a web loading and feeding system whereby web loading errors of the type described above can be reduced or eliminated through the use of visual means facilitating proper web loading. Referring to Fig. 2, in the web loading and system of the invention the two sprockets 14 and 16 are both fixed to a common drive shaft 28 for rotation about the common axis 18. The sprocket 14 has a series of radially outwardly extending pins 30, 30 located in a common plane perpendicular to the axis 18 and uniformly spaced from one another circumferentially of the sprocket. The sprocket 16 in turn has a similar series of radially outwardly extending pins 32, 32 located in a common plane perpendicular to the axis 18 and uniformly spaced from one another circumferentially of the sprocket 16 in a manner identical to the spacing of the pins 30, 30 of the sprocket 14. The number of pins 30, 30 on the sprocket 14 is therefore equal to the number of pins 32, 32 on the sprocket 16. This number of pins may vary from application to application, but in the illustrated case the sprocket 14 has fourteen pins 30, 30 and the sprocket 16 likewise has fourteen pins 32, 32. Further, the pins 30, 30 of the sprocket 14 and the pins 32, 32 of the sprocket 16 are so relatively arranged that each pin 30 on the sprocket 14 has a corresponding pin 32 on the sprocket 16 which two pins are located in, or at least substantially in, a common plane passing through the axis 18. For example, in Fig. 2 one such common plane is shown at ABCD and contains a pair of corresponding pins 30 and 32 indicated at In keeping with the invention means are provided for visually distinguishing at least one pair of corresponding pins 30 and 32 from the remaining pins 30, 30 and 32, 32 of the sprockets 14 and 16. Such visual distinguishing means may take various different forms and in Fig. 2 consists of an extra, or third, pin 34 on the sprocket 14 and an extra, or fourth, pin 36 on the sprocket 16. The pin 34 on the sprocket 14 is located between two of the pins 30, 30 and likewise the pin 36 on the sprocket 16 is located between two of the pins 32, 32 on the sprocket 16 with the pins 34 and 36 being located in a common plane, such as the plane indicated at AEFD, containing the axis 18. The two extra pins 34 and 36 therefore visually distinguish from the remaining pins 30, 30 and 32, 32 at least one corresponding pair of pins 30 and 32. In Fig. 2 such visually distinguished pair of pins 30 and 32 may be taken to be the pins The web 12, as shown in Figs. 2, 4 and 6 comprises an elongated piece of sheet like material having parallel side edges 40 and 42. In the side edge portion of the web 12 adjacent the side edge 40 is a row of first holes 44, 44 all located on a first line 46 spaced slightly inwardly from the edge 40 and uniformly spaced from one another by a spacing equal to the spacing between the pins 30, 30 of the sprocket 14. Likewise, in the marginal edge portion adjacent the edge 42 is another row of second holes 48, 48 all located on a line 50 spaced slightly inwardly from the edge 42 and uniformly spaced from one another by a spacing equal to that of the spacing of the first holes 44, 44. Furthermore, the first holes 44, 44 are so placed relative to the second holes 48, 48 that each first hole 44 has a corresponding second hole 48 located directly opposite from it on the other side of the web. That is, as indicated by the one line 52 indicated in Fig. 4 which extends perpendicular to the side edges 40 and 42, each first hole 44 has a corresponding second hole 48 with such two corresponding first and second holes being located on a common line extending perpendicular to the web side edges and perpendicular to the lines 46 and 50 containing the rows of holes. As part of the invention, the web 12 in addition to the first holes 44, 44 and second holes 48, 48 includes additional holes serving to visually distinguish corresponding pairs of first and second holes at intervals along the length of the web. In Figs. 2, 4 and 6 these additional holes comprise a row of third holes 54, 54 located on the same line 46 as the first holes 44, 44 and a row of fourth holes 56, 56 located on the same line 50 as the second holes 48, 48. Each third hole 54 is located between two adjacent first holes 44, 44 and each fourth hole 56 is located between two adjacent second holes 48, 48. Further, the placement of each third hole 54 with respect to the two first holes 44, 44 between which it is received conforms to the placement of the third pin 34 of the sprocket 14 between the two pins 30, 30 between which it is received. Similarly, the placement of each fourth hole 56 with respect to the two second holes 48, 48 between which it is received conforms to the placement of the fourth pin 36 of the sprocket 16 with respect to the two pins 32, 32 between which it is received. Also, still referring to Figs. 2 and 4, each third hole 54 has a corresponding fourth hole 56 located directly opposite from it along a common line extending perpendicular to the side edges 40, 42 of the web and to the lines 46 and 50, one such common line being shown for example at 58 in Fig. 4. It will therefore be evident from Figs. 2 and 4 that each pair of corresponding third and fourth holes 54 and 56 serve to visually distinguish at least one corresponding pair of first and second holes 44 and 48. For example, in Fig. 2 the illustrated corresponding third and fourth holes 54 and 56 visually distinguish one pair of first and second holes indicated at As is obvious from what has already been said,the corresponding pairs of third and fourth holes 54 and 56 distinguish corresponding pairs of first and second holes on the web which visually aids in properly loading the web onto the sprockets 14 and 16. That is, in a loading procedure such as illustrated in Fig. 2, the sprockets are turned to bring the third and fourth pins 34, 36 to a web loading position at which the pins 34 and 36 extend generally upwardly. The web 12 is then moved over the sprockets until a corresponding pair of third and fourth holes 54, 56 are located generally above the sprocket pins 34, 36 and then the web is moved downwardly onto the sprockets bringing the holes 54, 56 onto the pins 34 and 36 and bringing the visually distinguished corresponding pair of first and second holes With reference to Fig. 4, the third holes 54, 54 are spaced uniformly from one another along the length of the web by a distance S which distance S is equal to Nd, where In Fig. 5 the web 12 is shown to comprise a piece of sign making stock such as the SCOTCHCAL trade mark material previously mentioned. As such it consists of an upper layer 60 made of a thermoplastic material such as vinyl on the order of three to five mil thickness and having an adhesive backing or coating 62. This upper layer is supported on a release layer 64, to which it is releasably held by the adhesive backing 62, which release layer may consist for example of a ninety pound paper coated or impregnated with silicone to give it its release property. Fig. 10 illustrates another embodiment of the web 12 which is similar to the embodiment of Fig. 2, but includes a row of fifth holes 90 located along the same line 46 as the first holes 44 and a row of sixth holes 92 located along the same line 50 as the second holes 48. Each pair of indicator holes 90, 92 is associated with the same feed holes 44, 48 as the corresponding pair of indicator holes 54, 56, so that the visually distinguished sets of feed holes 44, 48 are readily identifiable upon visual observation. In the embodiment of Fig. 10, however, the third holes 54 are not positioned equidistant between the first holes 44, but instead, are offset and placed closer to the visually distinguished first holes 44 which serve as the keyholes for placing the web on the sprockets. However, the fourth indicator holes 56 are not thus offset and not thus positioned closer to the second feed holes 48 that are transversely aligned along the perpendicular line 94 with the visually identified feed holes 44 at the opposite side of the web. The pins on the sprockets engaged by the web, of course, include pins fitting into the indicator holes 54, 56, and therefore having the same offset as the holes 54, 56, to serve as visual indicators for adjacent pins fitting into the visually distinguished holes 44 and 48 on the line 94. With uneven spacing between the holes 54, 56 and the adjcent holes 44, 48 produced by the above mentioned offset on one side of the web only, the web 12, even in the absence of the holes 90, 92 can only be loaded into the machine 10 with one orientation, that is, the holes 44 must always be engaged with a particular sprocket at one end of the drive shaft 28 and the holes 48 must be engaged with the sprocket at the opposite end of the drive shaft. Any reversal of the holes 44, 48 and the sprockets would result in the offset pins on the sprockets engaging the locations of the web on the side of the perpendicular line 94 opposite from the holes 54, 56. The rows of fifth holes 90 and sixth holes 92 are provided for this reason. It should be understood that the set of fifth holes 90 and the set of sixth holes 92 need not be transversely aligned with one another provided that the holes 54, 56 have the same misalignment. The fifth holes 90 must be offset from the distinguished hole 44 by the same amount that the fourth hole is offset from the distinguished hole 48, but on the opposite side of the line 94. Correspondingly, the sixth hole 92 must be offset from the second hole 48 by the same amount that the third hole 54 is offset from the visually distinguished hole 44 but on the opposite side of the line 94. With both sets of holes 54, 56 and 90, 92 the web 12 may be loaded into the machine without regard to its orientation or association of the holes at one longitudinal edge of the web with one or the other of the drive sprockets. Referring to Figs. 7 and 8, these figures show another embodiment of the invention in which the sprockets 14 and 16 do not include any extra pins and wherein other means are provided for visually distinguishing a pair of first and second pins from the remaining ones of such pins. In particular, the sprocket 14 includes a series of uniformly spaced first pins 66, 66 and the sprocket 16 similarly includes a corresponding series of uniformly spaced second pins 68, 68. On the sprocket 14 one of the first pins 66, 66 is visually distinguished from the others by having an appearance different from that of the others, such visually distinguished pin being indicated at The web 12 used with the sprockets 14 and 16 of Figs. 7 and 8 may be identical to that described above in connection with Figs. 2 to 6 and is so illustrated in Fig. 7. Again, as illustrated in Fig. 7, each pair of third and fourth holes 54, 56 of the web serve to visually distinguish two corresponding pairs of first and second holes from the remaining ones of such first and second holes of the web. One such pair of distinguished holes is the pair indicated at In the embodiment of Fig. 7 the holes 54, 56 do not receive any corresponding pins of the sprockets 14 and 16 and therefore it is not essential that the spacing of the third holes 54, 54 from one another along the length of the web, or the corresponding spacing of the fourth holes 56, 56 from one another along the length of the web be related to the number of teeth on the sprockets. That is, in the equation S Nd given above, for the embodiment of Fig. 7 it is not necessary that N be equal to the number of first or second pins on the sprockets but instead it is sufficient that N be some integer other than one. Locating all the holes on common lines such as the line 46 and the line 50 provides advantages and among other things allows a web 12 to be made from a previously unperforated length of sheet material by a simple punching method and apparatus. The simple punching method and apparatus referred to in the preceding paragraph is illustrated by Fig. 9. As shown in this figure, the apparatus comprises a supply roll 70 for supplying a quantity of unperforated web material 72, and a take up roll 74 for rerolling such material after it is punched. Between the supply roll 70 and the take up roll 74 are two punches 76 and 78 located directly opposite from one another along opposite edges of the web 72 for punching the holes in the opposite side edge portions of the web. Each punch 76 and 78 is of a type which punches one hole in the web 72 during each cycle of operation. Between the punches 76, 78 and the take up roll 74 are a pair of sprockets 80 and 82, driven in unison by a step motor 84 which engage the holes 44, 44 and 48, 48 formed in the web 72 by the punches to move the web past the punches 76 and 78. The operation of the stepping motor 84 and of the punches 76 and 78 is controlled by a controller 86. In operation the controller 86 commands the stepping motor 84 to move the web a proper distance for the punching of the next pair of corresponding holes by the punches 76 and 78. The motor is then stopped and the punches 76, 78 are then commanded to operate simultaneously to punch two corresponding holes in the opposite sides of the web, and the same cycle is then repeated. The distance the stepping motor moves the web between each punching operation is readily controlled by the controller 86, through preprogramming of it, to achieve proper spacing of the holes 44, 44 and 54, 54 along the one side edge of the web and correspondingly similar spacing of the holes 48, 48 and 56, 56 along the other side edge of the web.