# Method and device for removing material lying beneath the water surface.

## Abstract
Removal of material 1 lying on a bottom 3 under water by producing a downwardly directed, helical stream 4 by the outer blades 11 of a propeller 9 , thereby fluidizing the material. The inner blades 12 of the propeller 9 produce a rising stream 7 which lifts the material by cyclonic effect into a transport stream 8 , e.g. a river or tide.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of removing material 1 lying under water 2 , which material is lifted in a rising stream 7 containing water 2 and material 1 , which adjoins a downcoming stream 4 containing water 2 , characterized in that of the downcoming stream 4 and the rising stream 7 one envelopes the other and has mainly the shape of a sheath. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the rising stream 7 and the downcoming stream 4 have a helical shape. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that the rising stream 7 is enveloped by the downcoming stream 4 . 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, characterized in that at least one of the two streams 4,7 is produced by means of a rotatably driven propeller 9 . 5. A method as claimed in anyone of the preceding claims, characterized in that the rising stream 7 of material 1 and water 2 is supported by air introduced into the rising stream 7 . 6. A device for removing material 1 lying under water 2 comprising means 5 for producing a downcoming stream 4 of water 2 and an adjoining rising stream 7 of water 2 and material 1 , characterized in that the means 5 produce a downcoming stream 4 and a rising stream 7 , one of which 4 has the shape of a sheath enveloping the other 7 . 7. A device as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the means 5 produce helical downcoming and rising streams 4,7 . 8. A device as claimed in claim 6 or 7, characterized in that the producing means 5 comprise a propeller 9 . 9. A device as claimed in claim 6, 7 or 8, characterized in that the propeller 9 comprises two concentric crowns of blades 11, 12 . 10. A device as claimed in anyone of claims 6 to 9, characterized by two propellers 9 journalled in a common frame 20 and rotating in opposite senses. 11. A device as claimed in anyone of claims 6 to 10, characterized by means sensing the depth of the material 1 to be removed 29, 32 . 12. A device as claimed in anyone of claims 6 to 11, characterized by a screening frame 13 extending below each propeller 9 . 13. A device as claimed in anyone of claims 6 to 12, characterized by an air injector. 14. A device as claimed in anyone of caims 6 to 13, characterized in that each propeller 9 is rotatably journalled in a frame 20 suspended to cables 18 and to be maintained at a distance a above the material 1 to be removed, said frame 20 being positioned by means of steering wires 27 .

## Description
Method and device for removing material lying under water. The invention relates to a method of removing material lying under water, said material being lifted in a rising stream containing water and material and adjoining a downcoming stream containing water. Such a method is known. Herein the matter is loosened by downwardly directed jet lances and sucked up by a suction pipe. The jet lances produce a non controlled whirl which pushes the suspended matter in all directons and hence also to places treated earlier. This is particularly inconvenient when a surface of, for example, a filter bed has to be cleaned, for example, when material to be removed is lying on said filter bed. The invention has for its object to remove subaqueous matter in an improved, controlled maner. For this purpose either the downcoming stream or the rising stream envelops the other and has mainly the shape of a sheath. The invention relates to and provides a device as defined in claim 6. Preferably a helical rising stream is produced, which is located inside a helical downcoming stream. The means for producing the streams preferably comprise a propeller having two concentric blade crowns. The aforesaid and further features of the invention will be explained in the following description with reference to a drawing. The drawing schematically shows in Figure 1 a perspective view of a device embodying the invention during the execution of the method in accordance with the invention, Figure 2 a further developed device embodying the invention, Figure 3 an enlarged, perspective, exploded view of detail III in Figure 2, and Figure 4 an enlarged sectional view of detail IV ofFigure 2. Referring to Figure 1, material 1 lying on a bottom 3 under water 2 is removed in that a downwardly directed, helical stream 4 is produced by producing means 5 of a device 6 embodying the invention. This downcoming stream agitates the material 1 and fluidizes the same. Subsequently the downcoming stream 4 goes over into a helical rising stream 7 in which the material 1 with the water 2 is lifted by cyclonic effect as fas as into a transport stream 8 conducting the material 1 away. This transport stream 8 may be a river or a tide or it may be pruced by a ship s screw. The producing means 5 of the device 6 comprise a propeller 9 which is rotatably driven in the direction of the arrow 10 and which comprises two concentric crowns of blades 11 and 12.The outer blades ii are relatively short, but their number is high and they produce a practically closed sheath of a helical downcoming stream 4, inside which is located the rising stream 7, which is produced by a considerably smaller number of long blades 12. The propeller 9 is located at a considerable distance above the material 1. In order to further improve the effect of the device 6, compressed air is supplied from a source through a central pipe 14 connected with a ring pipe 15. This ring pipe 15 has outlet ports distributed along the circumference through which air is injected into the downcoming stream 4. This air has a strong lifting effect when it gets into the rising stream 7 with the material and water. The device 16 of Figures 2 4 comprise a vessel 17 to which a frame 20 is suspended by means of a hoisting cable 18 of a winch 19. In the frame 20 are rotatably journalled two propellers 9, which are driven in opposite senses indicated by arrows 10 by a motor 21. To the frame 20 are fastened two ring pipes 15 concentric with the propellers 9.The ring pipe is provided with nozzles 22 distributed along the circumference, out of which flows compressed air which is injected into the downcoming stream 4 of water produced by the blades 11 located just above the same. The crowns of blades 11 and 12 are separated from one another by an annular partition 23. The angular position of the inner blades 12 is adjustable, since these blades can tilt about a horizontal axis 24 and are fixably arranged in the propeller by means of shafts 25. In order to prevent the rotating propeller 9 from coming into contact with the bottom 1, which may be formed by a concrete element of a building or a filter bed, a screening frame 13 is fastened to the frame 20 as shown in Figures 2 to 4, inside of which frame 13 are produced two downcomer streams 4 and inside thereof the rising streams 7. Since the propellers 9 rotate in opposite senses, the torques exerted on the frame 20 neutralize one another. Figure 2 shows the transport stream 8, which carries along the suspension 26 of the rising stream 7. By means of steering wires 27 the frame 20 is suspended to winches 28, which are controlled in dependence on an echo sound 29 for assessing the depth of the bottom 3. If the bottom 3 is sloping in the direction of movement 30 of the vessel 17 and the slope of the producing means 5 are adjusted, in anticipation of the varying depth b, in the position shown by broken lines in Figure 2. For this purpose the echo sound 29 controls the winches 19 and 28 through control means 34. For accurate depth setting meters 32 can be arranged on the screening frame 13 for accurately measuring the distance c from the material 1 to be removed from the bottom 3. For moving the assembly into and out of the water 2 a lifting device 33 is provided. On board of the vessel 17 a compressor 35 is connected through a hose 36 with the ring pipe 15. By means of the hoisting cable 18 not only the hose 36 but also the electric or hydraulic duct 38 are wound on or off, said members connecting the motors 21 to a source of energy 37. In accordance with the nature of the material 1 the air pressure, the speed of rotation and or the angular position of the blades 12 can be set in order to lift the material 1 to the optimum extent, that is to say, to remove it as fast as possible. The speed of the vessel 17 is chosen so that the material 1 is removed to the desired extent. By way of example the following dimensions are given a preferred embodiment diameter of propeller 9 3 metres, speed of revoluton of the propeller 100 to 110 rev min, the air rate 8 ms3 min and the distance a 2.25 metres.With a speed of movement in the direction 30 of 15 ms min an 3 amount of 9 ms3 of material 1 can be lifted per minute. With a speed of displacement of the vessel of 2 ms min the amount may be 6 ms3 min. The blade angle d between the inner blades 12 and the horizontal plane may lie between 5 and 20 . The corresponding angle e of the blades 11 may be of order of magnitude of 30µ.