# Vaccine against diseases caused by reo viruses, combined vaccine with Newcastle disease virus, process for preparing them and reo virus strain used for their preparation.

## Abstract
Vaccines derived from avian reo virus to combat abera tions of the skeleton such as rachitis like symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, diarrhoea and growth inhibition, a process for their preparation, combined, inacti vated vaccines, ready for administration and active against at least Newcastle disease and disease symptomes caused by reo virus and process for the preparation of such vaccine, are disclosed. The combined vaccine is prepared by addition of a Newcas tie disease virus NDVl containing liquid, obtained by cultiva tion of a NDV, followed by inactivation of this liquid and optionally homogenizing it, together with a reo virus containing liquid, obtained by cultivation of a rea virus, fol lowed by inactivation of this liquid and optionally homogeniz ing it, to an oily phase containing as essential components at least one of the components selected from the group consist ing of light paraffinic mineral oils, plant oils and pafthenic mineral oils and one or more emulsifiers, such as non ionic surface active compound derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher natural fatty acids such as esters or ester ethers, optionally followed by homogenizing and or addition of a preservative. Also a reo virus strain LZ 671, deposited with the collec tion D Institut Pasteur, Paris under no. I 092 is disclosed.

## Claims
Claims 1. Inactivated vaccine against aberations in the skeleton such as rachitis like symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, caused by aviair reo virusses alone or in combination with others in poultry. 2. inactivated vaccine against aberations in the skeleton such as rachitis like symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, caused by aviair reo virusses alone or in combination with others and against diarrhoea and growth inhibition caused by aviair reo virusses in poultry. 3. Inactivated vaccine according to claim 1 and 2, characterized in that it is derived from the LZ 671 strain. 4. Process for preventing aberations in the skeleton such as rachitis like symptoms,osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, caused by reo virus in poultry by vaccinating the poultry with the vaccine according to claim 1, 2 and 3 in a manner known per se. 5. Combined inactivated vaccine ready for use against Newcastle disease and disease symptoms caused by reo virus in poultry. 6. Combined inactivated vaccine according to claim 5, characterized in that it is derived from a liquid containing at least a reo virus obtained by cultivasion of the LZ 671 strain, as deposited with the Collection d Institut Pasteur, Paris, under I 092 7. Inactivared vaccine according to claims 1,2,3, 5 and 6, characterized it contains an oily phase with essential components selected from the group consisting of at least i it paiaffinic mineral oils FDA quality , plant oils and naftenic mineral oils, together with one or more suitable emulsifiers in the form of non ionic surface active compounds derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher natural fatty acids C10 to C20 , such as esters or ester ethers. 8. Inactivated vaccine according to claims 1,2,3,5, 6 and 7, characterized in that the volume ratio of the aqueous phase, formed by the virus liquid, and the oily phase may vary from 1 1 to 3 7, and is preferably about 7 13 9 Combined titivated vaccine cording to claims 5 and 6, characterized in that the volume ratio of the liquid containing Newcastle disease virus and the liquid containing the reo virus varies from 3 4 to 5 1 and is preferably about 3 2. 10. Process for preventing symptoms caused by Newcastle disease and by aviair reo virus In poultry by vaccinating the poultry with the vaccine according to any one of claims 5 to 9 in a manner known per se. 11 Process for the preparation of inactivated reo virus vaccine comprising the steps of preparing a reo viruscontaining liquid by cultivating a suitable reo virus such as the LZ 671 strain in a brooded chicken egg or in an SPF chicken embryo fibroblast cell culture in the form of a monolayer rolling bottle culture or a culture of cells attached to solid inert carriers, collecting the cultivated virus in a liquid of a suitable titre, inactivating it, suspending it in a suitable buffered solution optionally homogenising it and mixing it with an oily phase. 12 Process according to claim 11, characterized in that ss propiolactone is added, optionally with a stabilizer. 13. Process according to claim 11, characterized in thaQ ropiolactone is added in a concentratin of 0.05 to 0.25 by height calculated on the aqueous phase weIght o the buffered virus containing livid. 14. Process for the preparation of a combined, inactivated, ready for use vaccine against Newcastle disease and disease symptoms caused by reo virus, characteried in that an NDV containing liquid is inactivated, is optionally homogenised and, together with a reo virus containing liquid being inactivated and optionally homogenized previously, is added to an oily phase containing, as essential components, at least one of the components selected from the group consisting of light paraffinic mineral oils FDA quality , plant oils and nafthenic mineral oils and one or more suitable emulsifiers in the form of non ionic surface active compounds derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher fatty acids C10 to C20 , such as esters and esterethers, optionally a preservation agent being added to the aqueous phase. 15. Process according to claim 14, characterized in that the volume ratio of aqueous phase formed by the virus liquid and the oily phase may vary from 1 1 to 3 7 and preferably about 7 13. 16. Process according to claim 14, characterized in that the volume ratio of the NDV containing liquid and he reo virus containing liquid may vary from 3 4 to 5 1 and s preferably about 3 2 17. Reo virus strain LZ 671, deposited with L 3t Collection d Institut Pasteur, Paris under no. I 092. Claims for Austria 1 2r as5 for the preparation of inactivated reo virus vaccine comprising the steps of preparing a reo viruscontaining liquid 5 cultivating a suitable reo virus such as a passaged nnecticut strain S 1133 or the LZ 671 strain, deposited wth the Collection d Institut Pasteur, Paris, under I 092, in a brooded chicken egg or in an SPF chicken embryo fibroblast cell culture in the form of a monolayer rolling bottle culture or a culture of cells attached to so lid inert carriers, collecting the cultivated virus in a liquid of a suitable titre, inactivating it, suspending it in a suitable buffered solution and optionally homogenising it and mixing it with an oilv phase. 2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the reo virus is cultivated in a cell culture in the form of a monolayer rolling bottle culture or a culture of cells attached to solid inert carriers of the starting cells in a culture medium comprising at least 85 to 95 parts ofEagle medium with optionally added thereto 5 to 15 parts of calf serum, a 2 to 4 sodium bicarbonate solution and 1 to 5 parts of a solution or suspension of one or more antibiotics such as penicillin G, streptomycin and natamycin, the culture liquid is separated when the cell culture is nearly closed, is inoculated with virus suspension, is incubated at 370C for 0.5 to 3 hours in order to attach the virus, and adding a maintenance medium consisting of at least Eagle s medium with 4 to 6 parts of calf serum, 3 to 6 parts of Tryptose nhospha te broth 100 g l , 10 20 parts of bovine amnion fluid and the additives mentioned hereinbefore, and harvesting the viruscontaining medium and cells after 0.5 to 3 days after the appearance of the CPE. 3. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that ss propiolatone is added in a concentration of 0.05 to 0.25 by weight calculated on the aqueous phase weight to the buffered virus containing liquid. 4. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that the virus containing liquid is mixed with an oily phase, having essential components selected from the group consisting of at least light paraffinic mineral oils FDA quality , plant oils and nafthenic mineral oils, together with or. or more suitable emulsifiers in the form of non ionic surfaceactive compounds derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher natural fatty acids C10 to C20 , such as esters or ester ethers. 5. Process according to claim 1, characterize in that the volume ratio of the aqueous phase formed by the vi liquid and the oi pflase may vary from 1 1 to 3 7 and preferably about 7 13. 6. Process according to claim i, characterized that there is started with a reo virus containing liqui having a title of a least 105.5 to 107.5EID 50 ml and preferably 106.0EID 50 ml. 7. Reo virus strain LZ 671 deposited with the ColX lection d Institut Pasteur, Paris, under I 092. 8. Process for the preparation of a combined inactivated, ready for use vaccine against Newcastle disease and disease symptoms caused by reo virus, characterized in that an NDV containing liquid is inactivated, is optionally homogenized and, together with a reo virus containing liquid being inactivated and optionally homogenized previously, is added to an oily phase containing, as essential components, at least one of the components selected from the group consisting of light paraffinic mineral oils FDA quality , plantDils and nafthenic mineral oils and one or more suitable emulsifiers in the form of non ionic surface active compounds derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher fatty acids C10 to C20 , such as esters and esterethers, optionally a preservation agent being added to the aqueous phrase. 9. Process according to claim 8, characterized in chat 6 propiolactone is added in a concentration of 0.05 to 0.25 by weight calculated on the aqueous phase weight to the buffered virus containing liquid. 10. Process according to claim 8, characterized in that there is started with an NDV liquid having a titre of 109.8 to 1010 5EID 50 ml. 11. Process according to claim 8, characterized in that there is started with an NDV liquid having a titre of 1010EiD 50PI, 42. Process according to claim 8, characterized in that there is started with a reo virus liquid having a titre of at least 10 to 107 5EID 50 ml, preferably 106 0EID 50 ml. 13c Process according to claim 8, characterized in that the volume ratio of the liquid containing Newcastle disease virus and the liquid containing the reo virus varies from 3 4 to 5 1 and is preferably about 3 2. 14. Process according to claim 8, characterized in that the volume ratio of the aqueous phase, formed by the virus liquid, and the oily phase may vary from 1 1 to 3 7, and is preferably about 7 13. 15. Process for preventing aberations in the skeleton such as rachitis like symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, diarrhoea and growth inhibition caused by aviair reo virus alone or in combination with others in poultry, by vaccinating the poultry with a vaccine, obtained according to the process of claims 1 6. 16. Process for preventing symptoms caused by Newcastle disease virus and by aviair reo virus in poultry by vaccinating the poultry with a vaccine, obtained according to the process of claim 8 to 14.

## Description
Vaccines against diseases caused by reo virus, and process for the preparation of those vaccines. The invention relates to vaccines against diseases aused by aviair rec virus in poultry, occurring freque.in recent years and causing big economic Losses in So farms. The invention also relates to combined vaccines infe tions in poultry and to the preparation of tne vaccine It is known that reo virusses may cause several diseases in poultry, such as arthritis tenosynovitis, myoc ditis, hepatitis, hydropericardium, and diseases In ne gestive tract and or the respiratory tracts. Avian Pathology 6 1977 pages z7 tc zb4 fo example, gives a survey of various pathogenic microorganism which may cause by themselves or in combination the viral arthritis tenosynovitis, such as Staphylococcus, SalmonellPasteurella, Erysipelotrixt Mycobacterium avium, Bacterium. arthropyogenes, Escherichia venezuelensis, Streptobacillus moniliformis, Mycoplasma glisepticum, Mycoplasma synoviae and reo virusses, such as the Connecticut reo virus isolateS 1133, the LZ 671 virus, or the RAM 1 virus, the reo virusses being considered the principal disease inducers. It has been found that viral arthritis tenosynovitis and other diseases caused by reo virus infection plays an important part in the cause of considerable economic losses in the poultry farming in many parts of the world. Furthermore, there is proposed a method for giving protection against viral arthritis by vaccination during the growth period and the subsequent transfer of maternally duces anti bodies to the descendants by means of vaccine with reo virus vaccines. It has been found experimentally in this conne that immunisation of breeding animals only protected the first generation descendants, but not the second generation descendants. It was known from e.g. Avian Pathology no. 3.7,407 is, that a synergistic relation might exist between M.syno es and reo virus, although not satisfactorily proved, at the experimental induction of formerly found symptoms in chickens, such as inflammation of hte synovial membrane, the tendon sheath particulary in the tarsometarsal region, and myocarditis. It also appears from prior publications, e.g. in ath j Vet. Si, Vol. 3, No. 1 1970 pages 5 to 10, that reo virusses, such as the LZ 671 reo virus, are considered to be responsible predominantly for synovitis symptoms in broiler parents, Moreover, Poultry Digest of February 1978, page 102, iso discloses that reo virus may cause growth inhibition and diarrhoea in broilers, and that oral infections with digestive suspensions may cause growth inhibition in chickens.Although virus material cultivated in eggs did not cause growth inhibition after oral administration, but caused pas ting, intrapenitoreal injection of virus cultivated in eggs caused growth inhibition. The observed disease symptoms are brought into relation with an apparently necessary combination of infectuous agents. On the other hand more recent publications discloses that the cause of rachitis like symptoms may be primariif attributed to the occurrence of toxic compounds produced by moulds such as Fusarium moniliforme Sheldon. Zbl Vet Med. B, 25 1978 pages 29 to 44, disclose, for example, tat rachitis symptoms observed during recent years in various countries in broilers appear to be caused primarily by toxic compounds produced by the above indicated mould, which appeared able to develop in the usual poultry feed from potentially present spores, preferablv under the somewhat moist conditions of the autumn and winter seasons. Although in the years preceding those in which the published symptoms occurred, the observed rachitis symptoms could reasonably be combatted by a vitamin therapy, this therapy did not lead or lead substantially less to improvement of the disease symptoms found lateron. It has been tried, therefore, to reproduce the symptoms observed lateron by administration of feed selected especially in this connection, and to influence those symptoms by administration of vitamins and or minerals and to investigate those symptoms more deeply, avoiding as far as possible the occurrence of diseases caused by parasites or microorganisms pathogenic for poultry, such as reo virusses,Mycoplasma gallisepticum and M.synoviae and other bacteria, y means of processes suitable for that purpose. It is concluded that, also in view of ha f n Primes of the methabolism products of especially f mono forme found in recent years and the mantioned diseas symptoms in broilers, there must be a caus al connection, despite the fact that no accurate decisive identification of the metabolites actually responsabile therefore has place. From, e.g. Feedstuffs, May 8, 1978, pages 95 and 96, it appears that the actual main cause of those rachiti symptoms has actually not yt been found. It was, however, ound surprisingly that the sti to a greater extent occurring abberations in the skeleton, such as rachitis like symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, in poultry, especially broilers, ofter occurring with growth inhibitions and diarrhoea, may be combatted bv vaccination of broiler mother animals and their descendants with inactivated vaccines derived from certain aviair reo virusses. It is known, however, from e.g.Avian Pathology 6 page 279 that attempts have been made in the past to inhibit viral arthritis tenosynovitis in poultry by vaccination with reo virus vaccines, but it was definitely not obvious for an expert to use reo virus vaccines to combat, aberations in the skeleton such as e.g. rachitis like symptoms, osteoterose femur degeneration, which become more and more serious is cent years in all parts of the world as a problem needs and more urgently an effective and efficient solution. The vaccination with reo virus vaccines propose now is preferably applied to broiler chicken mother animal and preferably immediately before the lay of those animals, in order to avoid the above indicated abberations of t . ske leton and the diarrhoea and growth inhibition sed by aviair virusses in broilers due to virus infections through the and addition, to protect the descendants against this infection by maternal immunity transfer during the first week after birth. The vaccines according to the invention may be obwined J preparing a reo virus containing lirAld by manners W n pr seR preferably by cultivating a able reo virus a ne 671 virus, described in detail in the past same of which was deposited with the Collection d Insti t Pasteur Paris under I.92, in an impregnated chicken egg or in an SPF chicken embryo fibroblast cell culture, by co lecting the cultivated virus in a liquid of a suitable titre and by inactivating it, suspending it in a suitably buf ed solution and optionally by homogenising it. According to a preferred process for the preparation a a liquid containing a suitable reo virus such as the virus strain deposited under I.092 with the Collection d InstitutPasteur, Paris, the virus is cultivated in an SPF chicken em bryo fibroblast culture, e.g. in a monolayer rolling bottle culture or a culture of cells attached to solid inert carriers, preferably in a monolayer rolling bottle culture. Preferably use is made of a cell culture obtained suspending the starting cells in a culture medium containing at least 85 to 95 parts of Eagle medium with or without 5 to 15 parts of calf serum, an aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution of 2 to 4 and 1 to 5 parts of a solution or suspen sion or one or more antibiotics such as penicillin G, streptomycin and natamycin, whereby the culture medium is separated when the cell culture is nearly closed. The solution of antibiotics contains, e.g. 2 to 3 x 104 units of penicillin, 20 to 30 mg of streptomycin and 0.4 to 0.8 mg of natamycin per ml. After inoculation with virus suspension the culture is incubated at 37 C for 0.5 to 3 hours to adhere the virus, and maintenance medium is added, consisting of Eagle s maintenance medium with 4 to 6 parts of calf serum, 3 to 6 parts ofTryptose phosphate broth 100 g l , 10 20 parts of bovine am nion fluid and the additives mentioned herebefore, and the virus containing medium and cells are harvested after 0.5 to 3 days after appearance of the CPE. The cell culture is preferably inoculated with a reo virus suspension having an activity of 2 x 106 108 TCID 50 rolling culture bottle, preferablu 30 x 106 TCID 50 rolling culture bottle. The inactivation of the starting virus liquid be carried out by means of the usual inactivators, e. propioloctone, combined or not combined with a stabil or with formaldehyde 0.02 0.5 , more particular y by propiolactone in a concentration of 0.05 to 0.25 we calculated on the aqueous phase weight to the buitered rus containing liquid, and by incubating that liquid durin to 2 hours, preferably during 90 minutes at abcur 37 C. Thr the virus liquid is homogensed in the sal way, if nec sary. If desired a preservarion compound may be added there after to the aqueous phase, such as thiomersal or formalin in a buffered solution. For the preparation of the vaccine to be adminisit red actually 300 to 500 ml cf an inactivated, optionally homo genised reo virus containing liquid is added to 500 to 700 ml of an oily phase. The essential components of that oily phase are at least one of the components selected from the group consisting of light paraffanic mineral oils FDA quality , plant oils and nafthenic mineral oils, and one or more suits ble emulsifiers in the form of non ionic surface active com pounds derived from alkylene oxide and or hexahydric alcohols and or higher natural fatty acids 10 to 20 carbon atoms such as esters and ester ethers. Example there of are mannide monooleate Span 8Arlacel A and polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleateTween 80 . The volume ratio of the aqueous phase1 fcir .e virus liquid, and the oily phase may vary from 1 1 to 3 is preferably about 7 13. It has been found that the aqueous phase must r ded to the oily phase under vigorous s sation in order to obtain the desired stable th liqu The oily phase contains 2 to 20 by weight calcula or. he oily phase weight of emulsifier, preferably 2 to 5 by weight cr Arlacel AS or Arlacel 80 or Spa 80 and 0.2 tt 4 Tween 80 The components of the oily phase are rably heated separately in an autoclave to at least 110 sterily filtered as a mixture. The invention also relates to inactivated virus vaccines derived from. a least a reo virus containing liquid i. nactivated sole vaccines derived from reo virus es as combined inactivated vaccines ready for use and deri e from reo virus and one or more other virusses. Such com ned inactivated vaccines are to be applied against various seases, which may be caused by reo viruses themselves such rai arthritis tenosynovitis, myocarditis, heptatitis, ydropericardium, diseases n the digestive tract and or resory tract, aberations of the skeleton such as rachitis symptoms, osteoperose c.q. femur degeneration, diarrhoe rowth inhibitior, and diseases mairly attributed to the of other virus types, e.g. Newcastle disease. It will be known to every es er twat disease symp Forms may often be caused by combinations of occuring virus bypes. In connection therewith poultry is, for practical reasons, simultaneously of shortly after each other vaccinated with two or more virus vaccines against the most frequently occurring virus diseases, hte hitherto usual method consisting of mixing standard volumes of different vaccines ready for use, and administering the vaccine dose composed on the spot, , which thus generally consisted of twice the volume of the vaccines to be applied separately. In addition an accurate mixing cannot be or can hardly be guaranteed and problems arise due to foreign infective compounds. therefore Is was aimed to provide an improved combined, read for use vaccine giving sufficient protection against Newcastle disease as well as against one or more of the diseases caused by reo virus, such as viral arthritis tenosynovitis, myocarditis, hepatitis, hydropercardium, diseases in the digestive tract and or respectory tract, aberations of the skeleton, such as rathitiy like symptoms, osteopexose c.q. femur dege neration, diarrhoea and growth inhibition. Therefore the invention also relates to combined inactivated vaccines anyhow acting against Newcastle disease ND and reo virus infections at least derived from NDV and reo virus containing liquids. It will be appreciated that also combined inactivated vaccines derived from more than these two mentioned v rustypes may be covered by the invention, e.g. combines cines derived from reo , Newcastle disease and adeno like russes. The Newcastle disease is still one of the most 1 portant respiration diseases in poultry and may cause a hic .r rate of mortality in poultry of all ages, especially young broilers. Various vaccines have been developed against theNewcastle disease, and it turned out that these vaccines a e preferably administered in the inactivated form, since tha form provides a high rate of safety and results in high hu . ral anti body titres especially with revaccinations. In tion the use of live vaccine sometimes caused distribution of the inoculation virus from vaccinated poultry to poultry susceptible to infections or not being immune. Although various relatively safe and good immunis1ng live ND vaccines have been developed in the mean time, as ap pears from British Patent Specification No. 1,510,100 their still a clear need for inactivated ND vaccines. Combined inactivated vaccines against respiratory diseases in poultry, characterized by the combination of a de vaccine against infectuous coryza, obtained by cultivatin. Haemophilus gallinarum strain in a natural nutriert red r and by inactivating the bacteria, with a dead vaccine or infectuous bronchitis virus and a dead ND vaccine are n e.g. from Dutch published Patent Application No. 117873 blished for opposition purposes under No. 17209 . U.S. Patent Specification No. 2,798,835 disclose combined vaccines consisting of a combination of a vaccine gainst infectuous bronchitis and an ND vaccine, both components being derived from live virusses. According to the process for t. preparation of the combined vaccines of the present invention an inactivatedNDV containing liquid is prepared according to a manner known per se, e.g. by cultivating the desired virus in an impregnated chicken egg, collecting the cultivated virus in a liquid of a titre usual for this kind of vaccine and inactivating, suspending the virus in a suitable buffered solution and or homogenising, and mixing with an inactivated reo virus liquid obtained by cultivating the virus according to methods described hereinbefore, collecting the formed virus in a liquid o a titre usable for this kind of vaccine and inactivating the virus liquid according to methods known per se. For the preparation of NDV containing liquid various, 1Itte virulent or practically avirulent, lentogenic or velogenic ND virusses having good immunising properties may be u sGd, such as the La Sota or Hitchner virus lentogenic or the Herts 33 56 virus velogenic . Specific examples of applicable virus strains are the strains P 76 5, P 76 4 and P 76 3 obtainable from Institut fur Medizinische Mikrobiologie, In ektionsund Seuchenmedizin der Ludwig Maximilians Universitt, München, the VR 108, VR 107, VR 109, VR 699, VR 623 strains, obtainable from the 3Xmerican Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland, USA, the Queensland V4 strain, obtainable from the Centr. Vet. Lab.Weybridge, Great Britain, or the LZ258P virus, deposited with the Collection d Istitut Pasteur, Paris under no. I 091. For the preparation of the combined vaccines 150 to 250 ml of an NDV containing liquid is inactivated, is optionally homogenised and, together with 100 to 250 ml of the reo virus containing liquid, being inactivated and optionally homogenised first, is added to 500 to 700 ml of an oily phase of the composition mentioned hereinbefore. The virus containing liquids have preferably been buffered. The volume ratio of the NDV containing liquid and the reo virus containing liquid may vary from 3 4 to 5 1 and is preferably about 3 2. The volume ratio of the aqueous phase, formed by both virus liquids, and the oily phase may vary from 1 1 and 3 7 and is preferably about 7 13. It has been found that the aqueous phase must be added to the oily phase with vigorous stirring and or homogenising in order to obtain the desired stable and thin liquid final emulsion. The oily phase contains 2 to 20 by weight caiculated on the oily phase weight of an emulsifier, and contains preferably 2 to 15 by weight of Arlacel A or Arlacel 80 oSpan 80 and 0.2 to 4 of Tween 80. The components of the oily phase are preferably ted to at least 110 C in an autoclave separately o filtered as mixture. The inactivation of both starting virus liquid com ponents may be carried out with the usual inactivators, e.a by mean3 of propiolactone optionally combined with a star liser, or formaldehyde. Preferably ss propil acrone is added in a concentration of 0.05 to 0.25 by weight calculated on the aqueous phase to a buffered ND virus containing liquid and the liquid is incubated 37 C during to anours and preferably during 90 minutes, while the buffered reo virus liquid is also inactivated by means cf t propiolaclone optnally combined with a stabilizer in a concentration of 0.0 0.25 by weight at 370C during 1 to 2 hours.Then the virus liquids are homogenised in the usual way, if necessary.preserving agent may be added to the aqueous phase, such as thiomersal or formaline in a buffered solution. For obtaining suitable combination vaccines with desired good properties, a NDV liquid having a titre of 10 to 1010,5 EID 50 ml, preferably 1010EID 50 ml and a reo virus liquid with a titre of 10 to 10 EID 50 ml, preferably 106.0EID 50 ml must be used. The vaccines prepared in this way are preferabll . ministered to 1 to 30 weeks old, preferably 10 to 20 week old, broiler mother animals before their lay. It will be appreciated, that the occurring immun logic response after application of the combined vaccines found to be of at least the same magnitude as those ones ca sed by the separate virus vaccines could in no way expect or predicted by a person skilled in the art, as this immunclogic response of the combined vaccine as commpared to one Q both separate single vaccines might decrease until an unaceep table level on account of number undesired interactions between the virus liquid components mutually or with one of the applied auxiliaries, which could not be previously excluded.Especially it might be expected that the applied propiolac tone should remain active for a too long time, as to one of the virus components, with reference to a less fast decomposition in the mixture.The application of the combined vaccine of the present invention involves as advantage that a smaller volume pro time has to be administered, which causes less local irritations and the administration of a smaller amount of chemicals strange to te body, or that less separate vaccinations are necessary.Moreover the earlier mentioned problems with reference to the mixing and the occurrence of strange infectuous matter are avoided. The invention is illustrated by the following examples. Example 1Preparation of reo virus vaccine. a Culture of reo virus. SPF eggs brooded for 10 days are inoculated withLZ 671 seed virus. After incubation at 370C for 76 hours theAAL amnion allantoic liquid is harvested. The AAL contains then about 106 0EID 50 ml. The virus suspension is frozen at 20 C and is stored for vaccine production. b Treatment of virus suspension. The frozen virus suspension is defrosted and inactivated in a water bath with 0.05 to 0.25 i propiolactone at 370C during 90 minutes. The suspension is kept overnight at 40C. The inactivation is controlled by observation of the formation of CPE s on CEF followed by a hemabsorption test.Moreover previously brooded SPF chicken eggs are incubated with the inactivated virus fluid and are subsequently controlled. The virus suspensions are homogenised by means of an Ultra Turrax homogeniser. The emulsion is optionally diluted with PBS 0.38 of formaline, depending on the TCID50 or the EID50 of the AAF and the titre of the reo virus suspension. The NDV AAL and the reo virus suspension are mixed thereafter in a ratio of 6 4 and used for emulsion preparation. c Preparation of emulsion. The virus suspension is injected in an oily phase t room temperature, while simultaneously homogenising with theUltra Turrax homogeniser. The addition of the aqueous phase is stopped when the ratio of 6.5 parts of oil to 3.5 parts of virus suspension is reached. Homogenising is continued until the drop size of the aqueous phase is about 0.05 0.5 pm. The oily phase used has the following composition Marcol 52 white paraffinic Esso oil 93.6 Arlavelt or Arlac or Spa 0 mannide mono,oleate 6.0 Tweeny 0 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleate 0.4 The compounds of the oily phase are separately heated to 1100C in the autoclave or sterily filtered as a mixture. A stable emulsion was obtained, tested by 1 pipetting directly after emulsifying drops onto a water surface, whereby the drops do not spread, but remain in tact 2 storing at 370C for 4 weeks without formation of any aque otis phase. The final concentrations of the thus prepared emulsion are 21 NDV containing buffered liquid and 1dZ reo virus containing buffered liquid. The vaccine obtained may be used in a dosage of 0.5 ml per animal intramuscularly in the breast or leg muscles or subcutaneously in the neck. Example 2Preparation of combined reo virus NDVJ vaccine. a Culture of reo virus strain LZ 671 From chicken eggs brooded for 10 days cell cultures are prepared in Bellco rolling culture bottles, starting from CEF in Eagle medium with 10 of newborn calf serum containing 0.22 by weight of NaHCO3 and 2 volume of an antibiotic solution containing per ml 25 x 103 units of penicillin G, 25 mg of streptomycin and 0.6 mg of natamycin. The medium is sucked off when the cell cultures are nearly closed. Then the cultures are inoculated with LZ 671 virus suspension and filled up with Eagle maintenance medium containing 4 volume of calf serum, 4 volume of Tryptose phosphate broth 100 g l 15 bovine amnion fluid, 0.22 by weight of NaHCO3 and 3 of the above mentioned antibiotic solution. The reo virus containing medium with the cells is harvested 1 day after appearance of CPE s. The virus suspension is frozen at 200C and is stored for vaccine production. A TCID50 of this suspension is determined. b Cultivation of NDV. SPF eggs brooded for 11 days are inoculated with LZ 258p seed virus. After incubation at 370C for 72 hours theAAF is harvested. The AAF contains then about 1010EID 50 ml. The virus suspension is frozen at 200C or lower and is stored for vaccine production. c Treatment of virus suspension. The frozen virus suspensions are defrosted and inactivated in a water bath witch 0.05 to 0.25 of iopropiolactone at 37 C for 90 minutes. The suspensions are ept overnight at 40C. The inactivation is controlled by testing the formation of CPE s on CEF or EID 50 test for the reo virus and EID 50test for the NDV. The virus suspensions are homogenised with an UltraTurrax homogeniser. The suspension is optionally diluted withPBS 0.3 of formaline, depending on TCID50 or EID50. The suspensions of the NDV and the reo virus ae then mixed in a ratio of 6 4 and are used for preparation of the emulsion. d Preparation of the emulsion. The mixed virus suspension is injected in the oily phase at room temperature, while simultaneously homogenising with the Ultra Turrax homogeniser. The addition of the aqueous phase is stopped when the ratio of 6.5 parts of oil to 3.5 parts of virus suspension is reached. Homogenising is continued until the drop size of the aqueous phase is about 0.05 0.5 m. The oily phase used has the following composition Marcol 52 white paraffinic Esso oil 93.6 Arlacel A or Arlacel 80 or Span 80 mannide nonooleate 6.0 Twee 0 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleate 0.4 The components of the oily phase were heated separately to 1100C in an autoclave or sterily filtered as a mixture. The final concentrations of the thus prepared emulsion are 21 NDV containing buffered liquid and 14 reo virus containing buffered liquid. The vaccine obtained is used in a dosage of 0.5 ml per animal intramuscularly in the breast or leg muscles or subcutaneously in the neck. 10 days after vaccination antibodies are detected by the immuno diffusion test. Example 3Preparation of combined reo NDV vaccine. a A reo containing liquid is prepared according to the corresponding step of Example 1. The virus suspension is inactivated with 0.02 0.5 formaldehyde during 20 hours at 220C and then homogenised by means of an Ultra Turrax homogeniser. b A NDV containing liquid is prepared according to the corresponding step of Example 2. The treatment of the NDV suspension is carried out in the same way as in Example 2. c The treated NDV AAF and reo AkF ane mixed there after in a proportion of 5 4. d The combined virus suspensions are added to and mixed with an oily phase in the proportion of 6 parts of oily phase 4 parts of virus containing liquid and an emulsion is prepared passing it through a colloid mill. The applied oily phase has the following composition Marco A 2 white paraffinic Esso oil 91.4vol Arlacel A or Arlacel 80 or Span 80 mannide monooleate 8.Ovol Twee 0 polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monooleate 0.6vol