# Gamma allenyl gamma aminobutyric acids.

## Abstract
This invention is for γ allenlyl γ aminobutyric acid de rivatives which are γ aminobutyric acid transaminase inhibi tors.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A compound of the formula EMI33.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R1 is hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 fo 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or sulfonylor sulfoxylalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, sulfonyl or sulfoxylaryl, or sulfonyl or sulfoxylhaloalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R4 is hydrogen, alkyl carbonyl wherein the alkyl moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, alkoxy carbonyl wherein the alkoxy moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIEMI33.2 wherein R6 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl R5 is hydroxyl, alkoxy of 1 to 22 carbons, alkyl amino of 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIIEMI34.1 wherein R7 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl A is CH CH or Formula IVEMI34.2 wherein Ra, R8 and R8 are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer 0 or 1. 2. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R5 is hydroxyl or an acyl radical of 1 to 22 carbon atoms and A is Formula IV EMI34.3 wherein R8, R8, and R811 are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer 0 or 1. 3. A compound according to Claim 2 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are hydrogen. 4. A compound according to Claim 3 which is 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof octyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate para toluene sulfonic acid ethyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate para toluene sulfonic acid or the hydrochloride salt or 4 N tert butyloxyzarbonyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid. 5. A compound according to Claim 2 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or methyl. 6. A compound according to Claim 5 which is 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 4 amino 7methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 4 amino 5,6 octadienoic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or octyl 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoate or its para toluenesulfonic acid salt. 7. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R1 or R2 is independently hydrogen or halo, R3 is hydrogen and R5 is hydroxyl or an acyl radical of 1 to 22 carbon atoms and A is Formula IVEMI35.1 wherein R8, R8, and R8,, are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer O or 1. 8. A compound according to Claim 7 which is 4 amino 7 chloro 5, heptadienoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or 4 amino 7 bromo5,6 heptadienoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 9 A compound according to claim 1 wherein R1 or R2 is independently hydrogen or halo, R3 is alkyl of 1 4 carbons and R5 is hydroxyl or an acyl radical of 1 to 22 carbon atoms and A is Formula IVEMI36.1 wherein R8, R8 and R81 are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer 0 or 1. 10. A compound according to Claim 9 which is 4 amino 7 chloro 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 11. A compound according to Claim 1 wherein R1,R2, R3 and R4 are all hydrogen, R5 is hydroxyl and A is CH CH , namely 4 amino 2,5,6 heptatrienoic acid and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 12. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. 13. A method for inhibiting y aminobutyric acid transaminase, which method comprises administering to a mammal an effective amount of a compound according toFormula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof either alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutical excipient. 14. A compound of the formulaEMI37.1 wherein R1, R2, R3 and A are the same as defined herein. 15. A compound according to Claim 14 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 16. A compound according to Claim 15 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are hydrogen. 17. A compound according to Claim 16 which is 5 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone. 18. A compound according to Claim 15 wherein R1,R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or methyl. 19. A compound according to Claim 18 which is 5 1 methyl 1,2 propadien 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone. 20. A process for preparing a compound of Formula EMI38.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R1 is hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or sulfonylor sulfoxylalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, sulfonyl or sulfoxylaryl, or sulfonyl or sulfoxylhaloalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 and RD are independently hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R4 is hydrogen, alkyl carbonyl wherein the alkyl moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, alkoxy carbonyl wherein the alkoxy moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIEMI38.2 wherein R6 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl R5 is hydroxyl, alkoxy of 1 to 22 carbons, alkyl amino of 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIIEMI39.1 wherein R7 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl A is CH CH or Formula IVEMI39.2 wherein R8, R81 and R8 are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer 2 or 3 and n is O or 1, which process comprises a. hydrolyzing a compound of Formula IA EMI39.3 wherein R1, R2, R3 and A are defined herein above with acid or b. esterifying the free acid of the compound ofFormula I wherein R5 is hydroxyl or c. amidizing a compound of Formula I wherein R5 is hydroxyl or d. amidizing a compound of Formula I wherein R4 is hydrogen or e. converting the free base of the compound ofFormulas I with an acid to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt or f. converting the free acid of the compound ofFormula I with a base to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid salt or g. converting an acid salt with a base to the corresponding free acid or h. converting an acid addition salt with a base to the corresponding free base or i. converting an ester to the free acid with an acid or to the corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salt with a base or converting an amide to the amine with a base or to the acid addition salt with an acid. 21. The compounds prepared according to Claim 20. 22. A process according to Claim 20 wherein the active ingredient prepared in accordance with Claim 20 is mixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 23. The use of a compound of Claim 1, its optical isomers or the pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts thereof in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition.

## Description
y ALLENYL y AMINOBUTYRIC ACIDS This invention relates to y allenic substituted amino acids and in particular, y aminobutyric acid. A number of studies have demonstrated that y aminobutyric acid is a major inhibitory transmitter of the central nervous system i.e. Y. Godin, et. al.Journal of Neurochemistry, 16, 869 1969 . A perturbation of the excitation and inhibition interplay can lead to disease states such as Huntington s chorea,Parkinsonism, schizophrenia, epilepsy, depression, hyperkinesis and manic depressive disorders Biochem. Pharmacol., 23, 2367 2649 1974 . A number of compounds, most notably y monofluoromethyly aminobutyric acid, y acetylenic and y vinyl y aminobutyric acid are potent irreversible inhibitors of y aminobutyric acid transaminase and significantly increase the brain level of y aminobutyric acid in animals rendering them useful in the treatment of the aforementioned disease states. It has been found that y allenyl y aminobutyric acid derivatives are potent inhibitors of y aminobutyric acid transaminase. The novel compounds of this invention have the formula EMI2.1 and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R1 is hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or sulfonylor sulfoxylalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, sulfonyl or sulfoxylaryl, or sulfonyl or sulfoxylhaloalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen, halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms or substituted phenyl or alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms wherein the substituents are halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, thioalkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or amino alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon.atoms R4 is hydrogen, alkyl carbonyl wherein the alkyl moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms, alkoxy carbonyl wherein the alkoxy moiety contains from 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIEMI2.2 wherein R6 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl R5 is hydroxyl, alkoxy of 1 to 22 carbons, alkyl amino of 1 to 22 carbon atoms or Formula IIIEMI3.1 wherein R7 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, benzyl or p hydroxybenzyl A is CH CH or Formula IVEMI3.2 wherein R8, R8, and R8 are independently hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, phenyl or substituted phenyl wherein the substituents are halo or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and n is the integer 0 or 1. In a second aspect, this invention covers the lactams of Formula I, represented by Formula IA which isEMI3.3 wherein R1, R2, R3 and A are the same as defined herein above. In another aspect this invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In yetanother aspect this invention is drawn to a method for inhibiting y aminobutyric acid transaminase, which method comprises administering to a mammal an effective amount of a compound according toFormula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof either alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutical excipient. In yet another aspect this invention relates to a process for preparing a compound of Formula I which process comprises a. hydrolyzing a compound of Formula IA EMI4.1 wherein R1, R2, R3 and A are defined herein above with acid or b. esterifying the free acid of the compound ofFormula I wherein R5 is hydroxyl or c. amidizing a compound of Formula I wherein R5 is hydroxyl or d. amidizing a compound of Formula I wherein R4 is hydrogen or e. converting the free base of the compound ofFormulas I with an acid to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt or f. converting the free acid of the compound ofFormula I with a base to a pharmaceutically acceptable acid salt or g. converting an acid salt with a base to the corresponding free acid or h. converting an acid addition salt with a base to the corresponding free base or i. converting an ester to the free acid with an acid or to the corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salt with a base or j. converting an amide to the amine with a base or to the acid addition salt with an acid. The preferred compounds of this invention are those wherein R1, R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms and R5 is hydroxyl or an acyl radical of 1 to 22 carbon atoms. More preferred are those compounds wherein R1, R2 and R3 are hydrogen, or wherein R1, R2 and R3 are independently hydrogen or methyl. Most particularly preferred are 4 amino S, 6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid and 4 amino 5,6 octadienoic acid. The compounds of this invention are useful in inhibiting the enzyme y aminobutyric acid transaminase. As such these compounds increase the level of r aminobutyric acid GABA in the body generally.But more importantly, these compounds will increase the level of GABA in the mammalian brain making the compounds useful for treating a number of diseases associated with lowered GABA levels in the brain such as Huntington s chorea, Parkinsonism, schizophrenia, epilepsy, depression, hyperkinesis and manic depressive disorders.For a review of the pharmacological effects of GABA transaminase inhibitors see Metcalf, 8. W., Biochem.Pharm., 28, 1705 1979 and Loscher, W., Arch. Int.Pharmacodyn., 257, 32, 1982 . As GABA transaminase inhibitors, these compounds are also useful for treating parasitic infections, for example helminthic and protozoal infections, see Wang, C. C., TIBS, 354 1982 . The term halo refers to fluoro, chloro, bromo and iodo. Alkylcarbonyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms refers to a straight or branched carbon chain containing a carbonyl group which forms an amide with the nitrogen. Alkoxycarbonyl groups having 1 to 22 carbons refer to a straight or branched carbon chain attached to the ether oxygen of an ester function. An alkyl group of one to four carbon atoms encompasses both straight and branched alkane radicals such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, t butyl and sec butyl. Alkoxy carries the conventional definition, herein having up to 22 carbon atoms either straight or branched and exemplified by the following methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, n butoxy, t butoxy, n pentoxy, n hexyloxy, n heptyloxy, n octyloxy or the like. Alkyl phenyl of 7 to 9 carbon atoms refers to benzyl, phenethyl, and phenylpropyl. The phenyl ring may be substituted with one or more of the same or different substituents such as halo, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbons, alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbons, thioalkyl wherein alkyl comprises 1 to 4 carbons or monoalkylamino where again the alkyl moiety has 1 to 4 carbons. Up to five substituents may be present on the ring. However it is preferred to have 1 to 3 substituents. While the substituent pattern may be a mixture of substituents, it is preferred to have multiple substituents be the same, for example l,4,6 trichlorobenzyl or 1,4,6 trimethylphenethyl. The compounds of this invention have at least one asymmetric carbon, the N bearing carbon of Formula I and IA. Additionally, certain other carbons of the intermediate structures necessary for preparing these compounds may be asymmetric depending on the particular intermediate. This invention is intended to cover all optical isomers, whether they exist as a d,l mixture or after they have been resolved into their respective antipodes. Unless otherwise specified, the intermediates and the compounds of Formula I and IA will be a mixture of the d,l isomers. If desired, the compounds herein may be resolved into their optical antipodes by conventional resolution means for example by separation e.g. fractional crystallization of the diastereomeric salts formed by the reaction of these compounds with optically active acids. Exemplary of such optically active acids are the optically active forms of camphor l0 sulfonic acid, 2 bromo camphor 10 sulfonic acid, camphoric acid, menthoxyacetic acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, diacetyltartaric acid, pyrrolidine 5 carboxylic acid and the like. The separated pure diastereomeric salts may then be cleaved by standard means to afford the respective optical isomers of the compounds of Formula I. Where R1, R2 and R3 are dissimilar, the compounds may exist as diastereomers. It is intended that mixtures of stereoisomers and the individual isomers be covered by this invention. Administration of the active compounds and salts described herein can be via any of the accepted modes of administration for agents which are transaminase inhibitors. These methods include oral, parenteral and otherwise systemic or aerosol forms. Depending on the intended mode of administration, the compositions used may be in the form of solid, semi solid or liquid dosage forms, such as, for example, tablets, suppositories, pills, capsules, powders, liquids, suspensions, or the like, preferably in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The compositions will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and an active compound of Formula I or the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and, in addition, may include other medicinal agents, pharmaceutical agents, carriers, adjuvants, etc. For general methods for making esters, amides, carbamates, salts and peptides of amino acids, see J.P.Greenstein and M. Winitz, Chemistry of the Amino Acids ,John Wiley, Vol. 1 3, 1961. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable, formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid and the like, and organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, menthanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p toluenesulfonic acid, salicylic acid and the like. The compounds of Formula I in free base form may be converted to the acid addition salts by treating the free base with a stoichiometric excess of the appropriate organic or inorganic acid, such as, for example, phosphoric, pyruvic, hydrochloric or sulfuric acid and the like. Typically, the free base is dissolved in a polar organic solvent such as ethanol or methanol, and the acid added thereto. The temperature is maintained between about OOC and 1000C. The resulting acid addition salt precipitates spontaneously or may be brought out of solution with a less polar solvent. The acid addition salts of the compounds ofFormula I may be decomposed to the corresponding free base by treating with a stoichiometric excess of a suitable base, such as potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide, typically in the presence of aqueous solvent, and at a temperature of between about 0 C and 1O00C. The free base form is isolated by conventional means, such as extraction with an organic solvent. Salts of the compounds of Formula I may be interchanged by taking advantage of differential solubilities of the salts, volatilities or acidities of the acids, or by treating with the appropriately loaded ion exchange resin. For example, the interchange is effected by the reaction of a salt of the compounds of formula I with a slight stoichiometric excess of an acid of a lower pKa than the acid component of the starting salt. This conversion is carried out at a temperature between about ODC and the boiling point of the solvent being used as the medium for the procedure. The salt derivatives of the compounds of Formula I and IA are prepared by treating the corresponding free acids of the compounds of Formula I with at least one molar equivalent of a pharmaceutically acceptable base.Representative pharmaceutically acceptable bases are sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, trimethylamine, lysine, caffeine, and the like. The reaction is conducted in water, alone or in combination with an inert, water miscible organic solvent, at a temperature of from about OOC to about 1000C, preferably at room temperature. Typical inert, water miscible organic solvents include methanol, ethanol, or dioxane. The molar ratio of compounds of Formula I to base used are chosen to provide the ratio desired for any particular salt. Salts derived from inorganic bases include sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium, calcium, magnesium, ferrous, zinc, copper, manganous, aluminum, ferric, manganic salts and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium, potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines, cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins, such as isopropylamine, trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine, ethanolamine, 2 dimethylaminoethanol, 2 diethylaminoethanol, tromethamine, dicyclohexylamine, lysine, arginine, histidine, caffeine, procaine, hydrabamine, choline, betaine, ethylenediamine, glucosamine, methylglucamine, theobromine, purines, piperazine, piperidine,N ethylpiperidine, polyamine resins and the like.Particularly preferred organic non toxic bases are isopropylamine, diethylamine, ethanolamine, tromethamine, dicyclohexylamine, choline and caffeine. PREPARATIONS AND EXAMPLES The compounds of this invention can be readily made by at least two procedures. In the first procedure, succinimide or an analog is reacted with a ss hydroxy acetylene compound using the procedure of 0. Mitsunobu,M. Wada and T. Sano, J.A.C.S., 94, 679, 1972. This resulting N substituted succinimide, or an analog, is then treated with a reducing agent such as sodium borohydride to give a 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone compound.The procedure of A.R. Chamberlin and J.Y.L. Chung, Tet.Lett., 23, 2619, 1982 is preferred. A rearrangement of the acetylene group is then effected by means of aAza Cope rearrangement under the conditions described byD.J. Hart and T.K. Yang, ibid, 23, 2761, 1982 and P.M.M.Nossin, J.A.M. Hamersima, and W.N. Speckamp, Tet. Lett., 23, 3807, 1982. The pyrrolidone ring is then opened by dilute acid under an inert atmosphere under reflux conditions, for example, dilute HC1 under argon at reflux for 2 or more days. In the second procedure, a 1,5 diacyl 2 pyrrolidone is prepared from glutamic acid, an alkyl or aryl anhydride, 4 dimethylaminopyridine, and triethylamine according to the method of Steglich W. Steglich, et al.,Liebigs, Ann. Chem., 1753, 1974 . The lithium salt of trimethylsilylacetylene or an appropriate analog thereof is reacted with the 1,5 diacyl 2 pyrrolidone under dry, inert atmosphere conditions at reduced temperature in an inert solvent by addition of the pyrrolidone to a preformed lithium trimethylsilylacetylide salt solution.Removal of the trimethylsilyl group is effected at room temperature by the addition of a base such as sodium hydroxide. Rearrangement of the acetylene group to give the substituted allenyl is done according to the method of P. Baret, E. Barreins, A.E. Greene, J.L. Luche, M.A.Teixeira, and P. Crabbe, Tetrahedron, 35, 2931, 1979 .The pyrrolidone ring is then opened in the same manner as described above for the first procedure. Schematically, preparation of the compounds of this invention may be carried out as follows. Reaction Scheme I outlines the process for preparing those compounds of this invention. REACTION SCHEME IEMI12.1 The substituents Rg and R10 may be independently hydrogen, alkyl or benzyl. Reaction Scheme II illustrates an alternative method for making the compounds of this invention. REACTION SCHEME IIEMI13.1 In the foregoing formulas in Scheme II, R1 andR2 are defined herein above, R3 is defined as herein above excluding halo, and m is the integer 1 or 2. A fuller and more complete understanding of the invention may be had from the following non limitingExamples. EXAMPLE I 2 N Succinimidyl 4 pentyne The compound 2 N succinimidyl 4 pentyne was prepared according to the method of Mitsunobu, M. Wada and T. Sano, J.A.C.S., 94, 679, 1972 . 1.0 equivalent of diethylazodicarboxylate 4.7 ml was added dropwise to a stirred ice cooled solution of 4 pentyn 2 ol 3 gm , triphenylphosphine 7.9 gm , and succinimide 3.6 gm in 75 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The reaction mixture was allowed to reach room temperature and was left standing overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the residue taken up in 300 ml of 30 ethyl acetate petroleum ether. Upon concentration, an oily residue was obtained which, after fractional distillation, gave 2.0 gm of 2 N succinimidyl 4pentyne, bp 80 840C, 0.15 mm Hg.IR neat 1700, 1770, 2118 cm 1. H NMR d CDCl3 1.4 d, 3H, 3 7.5Hz, CH3 , 1.97 t, 1H, J 2.6Hz, CEC H , 2.4 3.1 m, 6H, CH2 , 4.1 4.7 ppm m, 1H, CHN . Compound 2 N succinimidyl 4 hexyne was prepared in the same manner. 2 N succinimide 4 hexyne b.p 100OC, 0.2 mm Hg H NMR 6 CDC13 1.4 d, 3H, 7.2 Hz,CH3 , 1.73 t, 3H, 3 2.2 Hz, CH3C C , 2.4 3.0 m, 6H , 2.67 s, CH2CH2 , 4.1 4.6 m, 1H, CHN , threo 2 N succinimidyl 3 methyl 4 pentyne was prepared from trans 2,3 epoxybutane and lithium acetylide as reported by Meinwald et al., J.A.C. S., 5364, 1974 H NMR 6CDCl3 1.27, 1.37 2d, 6H, J 6.7 Hz, CH3 , 1.97 d, 1H, J 2.2 Hz, HCEC, 2.27 s, 4H, CH2 , 3.0 3.5 m, 1H, HC CH3 CEC , 4.0 4.5 ppm m, 1H, Jvic 11.5 Hz, CHN .Erythro 2 N succinimidyl 3 methyl 4 pentyne was obtained from a mixture of cis, trans 2,3 epoxybutanes and lithium acetylide after separation from the threo isomer by HPLC reverse phase chromatography eluting with 40 MeOH H20 . H NMR 6CDC13 1.05 d, 3H, J 6.8 Hz, HC CH3 CC , 1.54 d, 3H, J 6.9 Hz, NCH CH3 , 2.7 s, 4H, CH2 , 3.0 3.5 m, 1H, CH CEC , 4.1 4.6 ppm m, 1H, Jvic 11.5 Hz, CHN . EXAMPLE II l 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone Following the method of A.R. Chamberlin and J.Y.L.Chung, Tet. Lett., 23, 2619, 1982 2 , 3.0 equivalents ofNaBH4, 2.0 gm, were added portion wise to 2 N succinimidyl 4 pentyne 4.2 gm in methanol 100 ml with stirring at OOC. Two hours after the addition, the reaction mixture was quenched with 100 ml of 5 NaHC03 and the methanol removed in vacuo. The resulting residue was diluted further in water and the aqueous portion extracted repeatedly with dichloromethane. The organic fractions were pooled, washed once with water, brine, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Upon concentration 3.0 gm of an oily residue of l 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone was obtained. The two diastereomers could be separated on silica gel, eluting with ethyl acetate petroleum ether.IR neat 3100 3600, 2118, 1640 1660 cm 1. H NMR 6 CDC13, both diastereomers 1.37, 1.42 d, 3H,CH3 , 1.8 3.7 m, 7H, CH2, CEC H , 4.25 m, 1H,CHN ,5.4 app.t, 1H, HCOH NR . Alternatively, the reduction can be accomplished with 0.55 equivalents ofRED AL sodium bis 2 methoxyethoxy aluminum hydride in toluene at 780C for two hours. Unreacted hydride is then destroyed with methanol and after treatment of the resulting mixture with Rochelle s salt, extraction with dichloromethane, drying and concentration of the organic extract, a high yield of product is obtained. Compounds 1 4 hexyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone and erythro and threo 1 3 methyl 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone were made in the same manner. EXAMPLE III 5 1,2 Propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone 1 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone 1.0 gm was taken in 10 ml of 95 97 formic acid at room temperature under argon and left standing for several days three to five . The formic acid was then removed in vacuo and 5 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone was obtained pure by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with ethyl acetate. IR neat 3100 3600, 1955, 1670 1690 cm 1, H NMR d CDC13 2.0 2.5 m, 4H,CH3 , 4.1 4.35 m, 1H, CHN , 4.8 4.95 m, 2H,CH2 C C , 5.05 5.25 m, 1H, HC C C , 4.9 ppm broad,NH . Proceeding in the same manner, 5 1,2 butadienl yl 2 pyrrolidone and 5 l methyl 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone were prepared. In the former case, threo l 3 methyl 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone gave mainly 8 2 ratio of the S,S and R,R diastereomer 5 1,2 butadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone, whereas erythro l 3 methyl 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone gave only the R,S and S,R diastereomer. The diastereomers have identical H and 13C NMR resonances and only in the presence ofEu fod 3 are the allenic methyl signals different.IR neat 1958 cm 1 C C C H NMR d CDCl3 1.6 2.8 dd, 3H, J 3.3, 7.0 Hz, CH3CH C , 1.8 2.5 m, 4H, CH2 , 4.0 4.3 m, 1H, CHN , 5.0 5.5 m, 2H,HC C CH , 5.6 6.1 ppm broad s, 1H, NH . 13C NMR 6CDCl3 14.1 q, CH3 , 28.2 t, CH2 , 29.5 t,CH2 , 53.42 d, CHN , 89.1 d, HC C C , 92.7 d,HC C C , 178.2 s, C02 , 203.6 s, C C C . Alternatively, the arrangement of l 4 pentyn 2 yl 5 hydroxy 2 pyrrolidone can be carried out more effectively in 20 CF3C02H CH2C12 at 50 for 5 days. The reaction mixture is then neutralized with saturated Na2C03 and the aqueous portion extracted repeatedly with dichloromethane. The combined organic extracts are washed once with water, brine, dried over anhydrous MISS04 and concentrated in vacuo to an oil. EXAMPLE IV 4 amino S, 6 heptadienoic acid 5 1,2 Propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone 3.0 gm was heated to 800C in 30 ml of 20 HC1 under argon with stirring. After 2 days, the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ether. The pH of the aqueous portion was adjusted to 3.0 with 1.ON NaOH, and the sample introduced in an ion exchange column Ag 50W x 8 was eluted with 20 pyridine water.Upon concentration of the eluant, a residue was obtained and 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid was crystallized from acetone water. mp 1710C. IR KBr 1957 cm 1. H NMR d D20 1.9 2.5 m, 4H, CH2 , 3.7 4.0 m, 1H, CHN , 5.1 app. dd, 2H, H2C C C , 5.3 ppm app. t, 1H,HC C C . 13C NMR d D20 210 s,C C C , 183.9 s,C02 , 90.5 d, HC C , 82.0 t, H2C C C , 52.5 d, CHN , 36.1 t, CH2 , 32.0 ppm t, CH2 . Anal.Calcd. for C17HllNO2H20 C, 52.82 H 8.23 N 8.80 Found C, 52.67 H, 8.07 N, 8.79. The compound 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid was also prepared using this method. The compounds 4 amino 5,6 octadienoic acids both diastereomers were also prepared using the above method. IR KBr 1965 cm H NMR 6D20 1.7 dd, 3H, J 3.3, 7.1 Hz, CH3 , 1.7 2.4 m, 4H, CH2 , 3.6 3.9 m, 1H, CHN , 5.1 5.7 m, 2H, CH C CH C NMR BD20 16.0 CH3 , 32.06 CH2CHN , 36.11 CH2CO2H , 52.74, 52.97 CHN , 90.69 CH3CH , 93.93, 94.08 CH CHN , 184.04 C02H , 206.78 C C C . EXAMPLE V 1,5 Diacetyl 2 pyrrolidone Following the method of W. Steglich, et al.,Liebigs, Ann. Chem., 1753, 1974, 21.0 gm of glutamic acid in 75 ml of acetic anhydride , 150 mg of 4 dimethylamino pyridine, and 75 ml of triethylamine was heated 6O0C overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo, the residue taken up in dichloromethane and washed with water. The organic portion was treated with charcoal, filtered, concentrated and 1,5 diacetyl 2 pyrrolidone was obtained crystalline from ether dichloromethane, mp 620C. H NMR d CDC13 1.8 2.8 m, CH2 , 2.3 s, 3H, CH3 , 2.55 s, 3H, CH3 , 4.8 5.0 ppm dd, 1H, CHN . EXAMPLE VI 5 l Acetoxy l methy l prop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone Under dry and oxygen free conditions, 4.1 ml of 1.6M n butyl lithium was added to 0.84 ml trimethylsilylacetylene at 780C in 30 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran.After 20 minutes, 1.0 gm of 1,5 diacetyl 2 pyrrolidone was added to the reaction mixture dropwise in tetrahydrofuran. The reaction mixture was then allowed to warm up to room temperature over a 1 1 2 2 hour period. A 1.0 M solution of sodium hydroxide was then added and the reaction mixture was left standing for another 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then neutralized with 5 HC1 at 0 C and, after diluting with water, it was extracted repeatedly with chloroform. The chloroform fractions were pooled, washed once with water, brine, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. On concentrating, 5 1 hydroxy 1 methylprop 2 yn 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone was obtained as an oil. H NMR d CD30D 1.45 s, 3H, CH3 , 2.0 2.5 m, 5H, CH2, CrCH , 3.65 3.85 m, H, CHN . The resulting oil was next taken to 800C in 1.85 ml of acetic anhydride and 10 ml of pyridine for 24 hours.The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo, dissolved in chloroform and washed with water, 5 Na2CO3, and brine. The chloroform portion was next dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give an oil which crystallized from etherdichloromethane giving 5 1 acetoxy 1 methylprop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone as an approximate 6 4 ratio of diastereomers. H NMR d CDC13 1.6 s, 3H, CH3 , 2.0 s, 3H, CH3CO , 2.1 2.7 m, 5H, CH2, C CH , 3.75 4.0 m, 1H, CHN , 7.0 broad d, 1H, NH . EXAMPLE VII 5 l methyl l , 2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone Lithium dimethylcuprate was prepared in the following manner Cuprous iodide Baker Grade 2.03 gm was washed with 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran in the reaction flask. The tetrahydrofuran was then removed by syringe and finally by blowing with argon. The dry solid residue was then suspended in 20 ml of dry diethyl ether. AT 200C, 15.3 ml of methyl lithium was added dropwise to give a yellow suspension which turned into a homogeneous dull yellow solution. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 780 and 260 mg of 5 l acetoxyl methylprop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone in 4 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise to an excess 8.0 equivalents of the lithium dimethylcuprate solution. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional, 3 hours after which 5 ml of methanol were added at 780C.After 5 min., 40 ml of a saturated solution of NH4C1 was added, followed by 30 ml of a 0.8M solution ofNH40H. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and the aqueous portion repeatedly extracted with chloroform. The combined organic fractions were washed once with water, brine, and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. On concentrating, an oily residue was obtained consisting of 5 l methyl 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone, and 5 l methyl 1,2 butadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone, in a 4 1 ratio.Compound 5 l methyl1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone was separated from 5 1 methyl 1,2 butadien 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone by HPLC RP 18, 50 methanol water . 5 l methyl 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone had IR neat 3100 3400, 1951, 1670 cm 1, H NMR d CDC13 1.7 app.t, 3H, CH3 , 1.9 2.5 m, 4H, CH2 , 4.0 4.2 m, 1H, CHN , 4.7 4.9 m, 2H, H2C C C , 5.8 broad, 1H, NH . 5 l methyl 1,2 butadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone IR neat 1950, 1680 cm H NMR d CDC13 1.55 1.7 m, 6H, CH3 , 1.8 2.5 m, 4H, CH2CH2 , 3.95 4.2 m, 6H, CHN , 5.0 5.3 m, 2H, HC C CH , 5.7 ppm broad, 1H, NH , 13CNMR d CDCl3 both diastereomers 200.6 C C C , 178.3 CO , 99.7 C CH3 C CH CH3 , 87.8, 87.7 C CH3 C CH CH3 , 14.8, 14.2 CH3C C C CH3 . EXAMPLE VIII 4 amino S methyl S, 6 heptadienoic acid The compound 5 l methyl 1,2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone was converted to 4 amino 5 methyl5,6 heptadienoic acid by heating 140 mg of the 5 C l methyl l, 2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone at 800C in 10 ml of 20 HC1 under argon with stirring for 2 days.After refluxing, the reaction mixture was concentrated and the sample applied on a short column of RP 18 material eluting with water. Upon lyophilization 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid was obtained as a fluffy white material, mp 140 C dec , IR KBr 1958, 1640 cm 1, H NMR d D20 1.75 app.t, 3H, CH3 , 1.9 2.45 m, 4H, CH2 , 3.75 3.9 m, 1H, CHN , 2H, CH2 C C . Using the processes of Examples V, VI, VII to prepare the precursors, and the foregoing reagents or appropriate variations thereof, and conditions of thisExample, the following exemplary compounds may be prepared 4 amino 5 ethyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 phenyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 4 chlorophenyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 phenylpropyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5,7 dimethyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 butyl 5,6 heptadienoic acid 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 octadienoic acid 4 amino 5 butyl 5,6 octadienoic acid 5 amino 6 methyl 6,7 dodecadienoic acid 5 amino 6,8 dimethyl 6,7 dodecadienoic acid 5 amino 6 butyl 6,7 dodecadienoic acid 5 amino 6,7 dodecadienoic acid and 5 amino 6,8 dibutyl 6,7 dodecadienoic acid. EXAMPLE IX Octyl 4 amino S, 6 heptadienoate para toluene sulfonic acid salt In 10 ml of benzene, 60 mg of 4 amino S, 6 heptadienoic acid, 1 ml of octanol, and 100 mg of para toluene sulfonic acid were refluxed in a Dean Stark apparatus for 2 days. Benzene and excess octanol were removed in vacuo, the resulting residue was taken up in acetone and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated and ether added.Octyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate para toluene sulfonic acid salt crystallized out of solution mp 87 880C, IR KBr 2500 3300, 1957, 1725 cm 1, H NMR 6 CDC13 0.8 2.5 m,2 H , 2.37 s, CH3Ph , 3.75 m, 1H, CHN , 4.0 t, 6.4 Hz, OCH2 , 4.8 app.dd, 2H, H2C C C , 5.15 m, 1H, CH C C , 7.15 d, 2H, CH3PhSO3 , 7.77 d, 2H, CH3PhS03 , 8.05 ppm broad, 3H, NH, OH Anal. calcd. for C22H35N05S C, 61.77 H, 8.03 N, 3.15 S, 7.7 Found C, 62.09 H, 8.29 N, 3.29 S, 7.53. The ethyl ester was made in the same way mp 73 740C, IR KBr 2500 3300, 1958, 1723 cm 1, H NMR ca CDC13 1.2 t, 3H, 7.2 Hz, CH3 , 1.8 2.5 m, 7H , 2.37 s, CH3Ph , 3.73 m, 1H, CHN , 4.07 g, 2H,J 7.2 Hz, OCH2 , 4.8 app. dd, 2H, H2C C C , 5.17 m, 1H, HC C C , 7.15 d, 2H, CH2PhS03 , 7.87 d, 2H, CH3PhS03 , 8.05 broad, 3H, NH, OH . Anal. calcd.for C22H35N05S C, 61.77 H, 8.03 N, 3.15 S, 7.7 Found C, 62.09 H, 8.29 N, 3.29 S, 7.53. In the same manner, octyl 4 amino 5 methyl5,6 heptadienoate para toluene sulfonic acid salt was made. mp. 620C, IR KBr 1760, 1725 cm l H NMR ca CDC13 0.8 2.5 m, 21H , 2.37 s, 3H, CH3Ph , 3.7 Cm, 1H, CHN , 4.0 t, 2H, J 6.7 Hz, OCH2 , 4.9 m, 2H, H2C C , 7.15, 7.77 d, 4H, Ph , 7.25 broad s, 3H, NH, OH . EXAMPLE X 4 N tert butyloxycarbonyl 5, 6 heptadienoic acid The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of M. Toh, D. Hagiwara and T. Kamiya, Tett.Lett. 4393, 1975. mp 73 730C, H NMR d Cock3 1.47 s, 9H, t butyl , 1.65 2.1 m, 2H, CH2 , 2.45 app.t, 2H, CH2CO , 4.2 m, 1H, NH , 4.65 m, 1H, CHN , 4.9 Cm, 2H, CH2C C C , 5.2 Cm, 1H, HC C C , 10 11 ppm broad, 1H, OH . EXAMPLE XI N Benzyloxymethylene 5 carbomethoxy 2 pyrrolidone 5 Carbomethoxy 2 pyrrolidone, prepared from pyroglutamic acid, thionyl chloride and methanol according to the method of S. Shigeyoshi, et al., Chem.Pharm. Bull., 1980, 28 5 , 1449, was added dropwise in dry THF to a slurry of 1.1 equivalent of KH in THF at OOC. Two hours after the addition 1 1 equivalent of chloromethyl benzyl ether was added dropwise at OOC and then left for 24 hours at room temperature. A 5 NaHC03 solution was then added and the resulting mixture extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate. The organic extract was washed once with water, brine and then dried over anh. MgSO4. Concentration in vacuo gave an oily residue which on purification by chromatography on silica gel, eluting with ethyl acetate petroleum ether gave the desired product.IR neat 1740, 1705 cm l, H NMR d CDC13 2.9 3.6 m, 4H, CH2CH2 , 3.72 s, 3H, OCH3 , 4.5 AB, 2H, J 12 Hz, CH2Ph , 4.7 m, 1H, CHN , 4.9 AB, 2H, J 12 Hz, NCH20 , 7.35 s, 5H, Ph . EXAMPLE XII N Benzyloxymethylene 5 formyl 2 pyrrolidone To N benzyloxymethylene 5 carbomethoxy 2 pyrrolidone in ethanol at OOC was added portion wise 5.0 equivalents of NaBH4. After the addition, the reaction mixture was left stirring overnight at room temperature. It was then treated with 10 HC1 to destroy excess hydride, followed by 5 NaHC03. The resulting mixture was evaporated in a rotary evaporator to remove the bulk of the ethanol and then repeatedly extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic fractions were washed with brine, dried over anh. MgSO4 and concentrated to a viscous oil. The product N benzyloxymethylene 5 hydroxymethyl 2 pyrrolidone was then oxidized to the title compound with DMSO by following the method of Swern et al, JOC 43, 2480, 1978.Hence 4.2 ml of DMSO in 10 ml of dry dichloromethane was added to a 700C dichloromethane solution containing 2.6 ml of oxalyl chloride. 6.0 gm ofN benzyloxymethylene 5 hydroxymethyl 2 pyrrolidone in 20 ml of dry CH2C12 was added dropwise and after 5 min., 18.6 ml of NEt3. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and 200 ml of water was added. Repeated extraction with CH2Cl2, washing of the combined organic fractions with water, brine, drying over anh.MgS04 and concentration gave a dark oil. Purification by chromatography on SiO2 gave 3.0 gm ofN benzyloxymethylene 5 formyl 2 pyrrolidone. IR 1700 1710 cm1 H NMR d CDC13 2.5 Cm, 4H,CH2CH2 , 4.2 4.4 m, 1H, CHN , 4.55 AB, 2H, J 12Hz, CH2Ph , 4.9 AB, 2H, 3 12 Hz, NCH20 , 7.35 s, 5H, Ph , 9.6 d, 1H, J 2.2 Hz . EXAMPLE XIII N Benzyloxymethylene 5 l hydroxyprop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone The title compound was prepared as described inExample VI. Hence, 3.0 ml of a 1.65 M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane was added to 15 ml of a THF solution containing 0.7 ml of trimethylsilyl acetylene at 400C with stirring and under nitrogen. After 20 min.the reaction vessel is cooled to 700C and 0.97 gm of N benzyloxymethylene 5 formyl 2 pyrrolidone in 2 ml ofTHF was added dropwise. After 1 hour, the reaction mixture was warmed to 400C and after another hour 10 ml of a 1.0 M NaOH was added. The reaction mixture was then left stirring at room temperature overnight. 30 ml of water was added and the aqueous portion extracted with 4 x 50 ml of ether. The ether extracts were combined, washed with brine, dried over anh. Mugs04, and concentrated to give a 3 2 ratio of diastereomers of N benzyloxymethylene 5 1 hydroxyprop 2 yn 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone as a light yellow oil.IR neat 3100 3000, 3300, 2120, 1700 cm 1. H NMR d CDC13 , 2.9 3.7 m, 5H, CH2CH2, OH , 2.5 d, 1H, J 2.2 Hz, C CH , 3.7 4.0 m, 1H, CHN , 4.4 5.4 m, 5H, NCH20CH2CHOH , 7.35 s, 5H, Ph . 1 NMR C a CDCl3 19.4, 20.0 CH2CHN , 29.6, 29.7 CH2CO , 62.1 63.1 CHN , 63.6, 63.7 CHO , 70.72, 70.78, 71.53, 71.87, 74.0, 74.3, 81.35, 81.85 NCH20CH2, CHC , 127.4, 127.5, 127.7, 128 Ph , 136.7, 137.1 Ph , 176.9, 177.2 ppm CO . EXAMPLE XIV N Benzyloxymethylene 5 3 bromo 1,2 propadien 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone Following the procedure of Verneer, JOC 47, 2194, 1982, 1.35 g of N benzyloxymethylene 5 l hydroxyprop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone in 20 ml of dry THF at 70 C was treated with a 1.65 ml n butyl lithium hexane solution.A precipitate formed and 15 min. after the addition, 1.05 gm of LiCuBr2 in 10 ml of THF prepared from 2.1 gm of CuBr and 0.64 gm of LiBr . The resulting mixture was left at 700C for 1 hour and then it was slowly warmed to room temperature and left for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was then quenched with 100 ml of saturated NH4C1 and extracted with 5 x 50 ml of ether.The combined ether extracts were washed once with brine, dried over anh. MgSO4, and concentrated to an oil.Purification by chromatography on SiO2 gave the title compound as a mixture of diastereomers. IR neat 1958, 1700 cm 1. H NMR d CDC13 1.8 2.7 m, 4H,CH2CH2 , 4.35 m, 1H, CHN , 4.6 AB, 2H, CH2Ph , 4.95 AB, 2H, J 12 Hz, NCH20 , 5.35 dd, 1H, J 6.5, 6.0 Hz, HC C , 6.1 m, 1H, HC Br C , 7.35 ppm s, 5H,Ph . N Benzyloxymethylene 5 3 chloro ls2 propadien l yl 2 pyrrolidone was made in a similar way by usingLiCuC12. IR neat 1960, 1700 cm 1 H NMR d Ci CDC13 1.9 2.6 m, 4H, CH2CH2 , 4.4 m, 1H, CHN , 4.6, 4.9 2 AB, 4H, NCH2OCH2Ph , 5.6 app t, 1H, J 6.0 Hz, HC C C , 6.17 m, 1K, HC Cl C , 7.35 ppm s, 5H, Ph . EXAMPLE XV 4 Amino 7 bromo 5,6 heptadienoic acid N Benzyloxymethylene 5 3 bromo 1,2 propadien 1 yl 2pyrrolidone was refluxed in 1 1 THF 20 HC1 for 2 days under argon. The reaction mixture was diluted with water extracted with ether, and ion exchange chromatography perforomed Ag 50W x 8 eluting with 20 pyridine water. Upon concentration, the resulting residue was applied on a reverse phase HPLC RP 18 column yielding the title compound as a mixture of diastereomers after lyophilization of the appropriate fraction.IR KBr 1962 w , 1660 m , 1540 s , 1390 s cm 1. H NMR Ca D20 1.9 2.5 m, 4H, CH2CH2 , 4.05 m, 1H,CHN , 5.65 Ct, 1H, J 6.0 Hz, HC C , 6.55 app dd, 1H,HC Br C . 13C NMR d D20 31.6, 31.8 CH2CHN , 36.0 CH2CO , 51.7, 51.8 CHN , 79.4 CH C , 99.6, 99.8 HC C , 183.6 C02 , 204.2, 204.4 C C C . 4 Amino 7 chloro 5,6 heptadienoic acid was made in the same manner. IR KBr 1965, 1575 cm 1 H NMR d D20 1.9 2.5 m, 4H, CH2CH2 , 4.05 m, 1H,CHN , 5.95 app t, 1H, J 6 Hz, HC C , 6.62 app dd, 1H, KC Cl C . 13C NMR ca D20 31.7 CH2CHN , 36.0 CH2CO , 52.3 CHN , 95.8 HC C , 101.38, 101.51 HC C1 C , 183.7 CO2 , 204.6, 204.8 C C C . EXAMPLE XVI Ethyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate hydrochloride salt To 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid in anhydrous ethanol at OOC was added gaseous HC1. The reaction was left overnight at room temperature and then evacuated to a residue. This was taken in ethyl acetate, decolorized with charcoal, and then crystallization accomplished from ethyl acetate ether to give the title compound.mp. 81 830C IR KBr 1952, 1710 cm 1 H NMR d D20 1.3 t, 3H, J 6.9 Hz, CH , 1.9 2.8 m, 4H,CH2CH2 , 3.95 m, 1H, CHN , 4.2 q, 2H, J 6.9 Hz, Oak2 , 5.0 5.4 m, 3H H2C C CH . Anal. Calcd. for C9H16C1N02 C, 52.56, H, 7.84, N, 6.87 Found C, 52.45, H, 7.95, N, 6.98. EXAMPLE XVII 4 Amino 5 methyl 7 chloro 5,6 heptadienoic acid To a toluene solution of 5 Cl hydroxy l methylprop 2 yn l yl 2 pyrrolidone at room temperature was added 4.0 equivalents of pyridine and 1.5 equivalents of thionyl chloride. The reaction mixture was left for four days. It was then quenched with cold water, extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate and the organic extract washed once with water, brine, dried over anh. MISS04 and concentrated to give an oil. Purification by chromatography over silica gel gave a 1 1 ratio of 5 methyl 3 chloro 1,2 propadien 1 yl 2 pyrrolidone IR 1960 cm l and 5 l methyleneprop 2 yne l yl 2 pyrrolidone IR 2100 cm 1The mixture was then refluxed in a 1 1 solution of THF 20 HC1 for 2 days, diluted with water, and washed with ether. The aqueous phase was passed through an ion exchange column Ag 50W x 8 eluting with 20 pyridine water.The concentrate was then chromatographed on HPLC RP 18 giving two diastereomeric allenes which separated under the HPLC conditions. 4 Amino 5 methyl 7 chloro 5s6 heptadienoic acid IR KBr 1962, 1545 cm 1, H NMR d D20 1.93 d, 3H, J 2.2 Hz, CH3 , 1.9 2.5 m, 4H,CH2CH2 , 3.9 m, 1H, CHN , 6.49 m, 1H, HC C , mass spectrum M C1 154 , 102, 84 and 4 amino 5 methylene6 heptynoic acid IR 3165, 2130, 1610, 1540 cm 1 H NMR Ca D20 1.9 2.5 Cm 4H, CH2CH2 , 2.58 s, 1H, C CH , 2.96 m, 1H, HCN , 5.8 d, 2H, J 7.3 Hz, H2C C . EXAMPLE XVIII Trans 4 amino 2,5,6 heptatrienoic acid To ethyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate hydrochloride in chloroform containing one equivalent of NEt3, was added 1.0 equivalent of di tert butyl dicarbonate at OOC. The reaction mixture was then warmed to room temperature and left overnight. Dilution with chloroform was followed by washing with water, brine, drying over anh. MgS04, and concentration in vacuo to give ethyl 4 N tertbutoxycarbonyl 5,6 heptadienoic as an oil. This was added in dry THF to an LDA solution 2.2 equivalents at 700C, dropwise, and under argon. One hour after the addition, 1.0 equivalents of phenylselenium bromide was added according to the method of Sharpless et al, JACS, 6137, 1973.After 1 hour the reaction mixture was warmedto OOC and quenched with 10 acetic acid and extracted repeatedly with CH2Cl2. The organic fractions were combined, washed with 5 NaHCOa, brine, dried over anh. MgS04 and concentrated to an oil. Partial purification by chromatography on SiD2 gave three allene products starting material, ethyl 4 N tert butoxycarbonyl 2 phenylselenyl 5,6 heptadienoate, and N tert butoxyearbonyl 5 1,2 propadien 1 yl 3 phenylselenyl 2 pyrrolidone. The allene samples were dissolved in methanol and treated with 3.0 equivalents of Nail, at room temperature overnight.The reaction mixture was then concentrated, diluted with water and extracted repeatedly with CH2C12 to give after drying over anh. MISS04 and concentration, an oil consisting of cis and trans ethyl 4 N tert butoxycarbopyl 2,5,6 trienoate. This was partially purified on SiO2.The allene fractions were combined and treated with a 1 1 solution of THF 20 HC1 at reflux for two days. Water was added to the reaction mixture and the latter extracted with ether. Ion exchange chromatography Ag 50W x 8 , eluting with 20 pyridine water gave a residue which on purification by HPLC RP 18 gave trans 4 amino2,5,6 heptatrienoic acid. H NMR d D20 4.5 m, 1H, HCN , 5.1 5.3 m, 2H, H2C C C , 5.35 5.65 m, 1H, CH C C , 6.1 dd, 1H, J 0.65, 15.8 Hz, HC C , 6.5 dd, 1H, J 6,3, 15.8 Hz, HC C mass spectrum, m e 100 MH 140, MH H28 122 , MH NH2 124 , 100. EXAMPLE IXX ASSAY PROCEDURES Mammalian aminobutyric acid transaminase GABA T was purified from pig brain by the procedure ofChurchich and Moses 3. Biol. Chem., 256, 1101 1981 .Bacterial succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase SSDH was prepared by sodium borohydride inactivation of bacterialGABA T in preparations of GABASE from Pudomonas fluorescens purchased from Stigma Chemical Co. . Mammalian GABA T was incubated with inhibitor 25 micromolar to 1 millimolar at pH 8.6, 25 C and 1 mM ss mercaptoethanol in the presence or absence of different effectors such as 2 oxoglutarate, pyridoxal P.At appropriate time intervals aliquots of the incubation mixture were withdrawn and residual GABA T activity determined. The residual activity measurements were determined by coupling the formation of succinic semialdehyde toSSDH dependent reduction of NADP and following the formation of NADPH at 340 nm in a spectrophotometric cuvette using a modification of a method outlined bySigma Chemical Co. for product No. G 7507, BacterialGABASE. The cuvette contained the following medium 100 mM pyrophosphate buffer pH 8.6 6 mM y aminobutyrate 5 mM 2 oxoglutarate 3 mM S mercaptoethanol 1 mM NADP and sufficient SSDH so that GABA T activity was rate limiting. EXAMPLE XX C. ELEGANS ASSAY The compounds tested were dissolved in DMSO at 10 mg ml to give sample stock solutions. During assay, 1 mlM9 buffer 69 Na2HP04, 39 KH2P04, Sg NaCl, and 0.259 MgS04 H20 per liter was placed in each of the 24 wells in a tissue culture plate. 10p1 of sample stock solution was added respectively to each of 23 wells. The remaining well served as drug free control. At time 0, 1 drop of C. elegans suspension was dropped into each well 25 50 adults . At 1 hour, the number of active worms versus total in each well was recorded. Compound Active Control 100 Octyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate 45 para toluene sulfonic acid salt Octyl 4 amino 5 methyl 5,6 25 heptanoate EXAMPLE XXI N. BRASILIENSIS ASSAY The compound was tested at 50pg ml against the third larval stage of N. Brasiliensis at approximately 50L3 well this mixture was incubated at 370C for total of 7 days. Activity of the compound was checked on days 1, 4, and 7 post inoculation. Compound Percent Viable Control day 1, 100 day 4, 100 X day 7, 100 Octyl 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoate day 1, 64 para toluene sulfonic acid salt day 4, 0 day 7, 0 EXAMPLE XXII Toxicity Test of 4 amino 5,6 haptadienoic acid 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid prepared in CMC vehicle was administered once daily to groups of 6 male mice at doses of 0, 62w5, 125, 250 and 500 mg Kg. The animals were observed for 21 days and no deaths were noted in any of the dose groups. Therefore, the LD50 acute, oral, mouse for 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid is greater than 500 m Kg. Other compounds of the invention exhibit similar toxicity. EXAMPLE XXIIIIn vivo activity of 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid Isoniazid is capable of inducing seizures in redents by inhibition of pyridoxal phosphate linked enzymes. Groups of male Swiss Webster mice weighing 17 to 25 g were administered either water or 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid at 200 rng kg, i.p. 4 hours prior to a challenge with 250 mg kg, i.v. of isoniazid. The mice were subsequently housed individually and observed for the occurrence of seizures and death during the first hour after isoniazid administration. All mice receiving a water pretreatment experienced both tonic extensor and clonic seizures and died within the first hour. Only 22 percent of the animals pretreated with 4 amino 5,6 heptadienoic acid experienced seizures and death. This experiment demonstrated in vivo central nervous system activity of 4 amino 5,6 h.eptadienoic acid.