# Process for the oxidation of hydrogen sulphide to elemental sulphur and or sulphur dioxide

## Claims
Ein Verfahren zur Oxidation von Schwefelwasserstoff, in welchem Verfahren ein schwefelwasserstoffhaltiges Gas in Anwesenheit eines freien Sauerstoff enthaltenden Gases mit einer ersten Katalysatorzusammensetzung bei einer Temperatur zwischen 150 und 450 C kontaktiert wird, um Schwefeldioxid zu bilden, oder bei einer Temperatur zwischen 150 und 350 C kontaktiert wird, um Schwefeldioxid und oder elementaren Schwefel zu bilden, wobei die erste Katalysatorzusammensetzung aus Titan oder einer Titanverbindung auf einem Siliciumdioxid enthaltenden Trägermaterial besteht.

## Description
The invention relates to a process for the oxidation of hydrogen sulphide to elemental sulphur and or sulphur dioxide. Hydrogen sulphide H₂S containing gases become available, for example, in oil refineries and from processing coke oven gas. Natural gas may also contain H₂S. H₂S may be removed from H₂S containing gases by absorption in a regenerable absorbent. Subsequent regeneration of the absorbent yields a gas having a much higher H₂S content than the H₂S containing starting gas and usually also containing carbon dioxide CO₂ . The H₂S containing gases obtained by this regeneration are usually fed to a Claus type process for the production of elemental sulphur. Elemental sulphur is hereinafter also referred to as sulphur . In a first version of the Claus type process an H₂S containing gas is partially combusted with a free oxygen containing gas in a furnace referred to herein as thermal zone . In the thermal zone the following reaction takes place with regard to sulphur formation which can be considered as occurring in two steps In the thermal zone the H₂S is converted to sulphur in accordance with reaction 1 , the quantity of free oxygen containing gas being such that only one third of all H₂S can be oxidized to sulphur dioxide SO₂ in accordance with reaction 2 . The effluent gas from the thermal zone contains H₂S, SO₂, sulphur vapour, nitrogen, water vapour and usually also CO₂, carbon monoxide CO , carbonyl sulphide COS , carbon disulphide CS₂ and hydrogen. The effluent gas from the thermal zone has a temperature usually in the range of from 600 C to 1650 C and is cooled to condense most of the sulphur vapour present, to a temperature suitably in the range of from 120 C to 200 C. Thus, sulphur is recovered as a valuable product. The gases are then re heated, to a temperature usually in the range of from 230 C to 280 C and introduced into a first catalytic zone where H₂S reacts with SO₂ to produce more sulphur in accordance with reaction 3 . The effluent from the first catalytic zone is cooled to condense sulphur. The gas stream freed from sulphur is re heated, toa temperature usually in the range of from 200 C to 280 C and introduced into a second catalytic zone to produce more sulphur. The second catalytic zone may be followed by a third and, if desired, the third by a fourth catalytic zone to produce still more sulphur at a temperature usually in the range of from 200 C to 280 C. Only gases containing much H₂S more than, for example, 40 by volume can be readily combusted in the thermal zone in accordance with reaction 1 . Gases containing less H₂S between, for example, 20 and 40 by volume can be processed according to a second version of the Claus type process. In the second version the H₂S containing gas is split into a first portion, representing at least one third and not more than two thirds of the total H₂S containing gas and a second portion containing the balance of the total H₂S containing gas. The first portion is combusted with a free oxygen containing gas in an amount stoichiometric with respect to oxidation of one third of the total amount of H₂S according to reaction 2 , thus forming a limited amount of sulphur. The effluent gas from the thermal zone is cooled to condense the major part of the sulphur formed and then introduced, in admixture with the said second portion of the H₂S containing gas, into a first catalytic zone from where the operation is continued as described for the first version. Gases containing less than, for example, 20 by volume of H₂S, can be processed according to a third version of the Claus type process. In the third version the H₂S containing gas is pre heated and introduced in admixture with a free oxygen containing gas into a catalytic zone where H₂S is oxidized to sulphur in accordance with reaction 1 , at a temperature usually in the range of from, for example, 200 C to 280 C. The operation is then continued as described for the first version. The remaining gases as obtained after condensation of sulphur from the gases leaving the final catalytic zone of any version of the Claus type process are also referred to herein as Claus tail gases . These gases contain nitrogen, water vapour, some H₂S and SO₂ and usually also CO₂, CO, COS, CS₂ and hydrogen. H₂S and SO₂ are present because of the position of the equilibrium of reaction 3 at the temperature maintained in the final catalytic zone referred to hereinbefore. COS and CS₂ are present because at least part thereof has been formed in the thermal zone and they have only partly been hydrolyzed in the catalytic zone or zones mentioned hereinbefore. Viewed in the light of increasingly stringent requirements with respect to air pollution abatement, various procedures have been developed to remove H₂S from process off gases, for example from Claus tail gases, and even recover, if possible, H₂S or reaction products of H₂S contained therein. To remove these sulphur compounds, selective absorption by contacting the Claus tail gases with a suitable absorption solvent, after a hydrogenation treatment of the tail gases, has been practised. In this procedure, the bulk of the desorbed H₂S after regeneration of the absorption solvent, is returned to the Claus unit, and the final off gas of this Claus tail gas treating process, which off gas contains nitrogen, CO₂ and quite minor amounts of H₂S, is incinerated. By the incineration, H₂S is converted to SO₂, a material which generally has not been subjected to emission requirements as rigid as those applied to H₂S. However, incineration is costly because of the necessary heat input. Thus, there exists a need for an economical method for the purification of H₂S containing streams, particularly off gas streams of the type mentioned, which method would provide substantial conversion of the H₂S in the off gas, and concomitantly provide low SO₃ emissions. The method should be economical in that the necessary heat input should be as low as possible as evidenced by relatively low process temperatures. Moreover, the catalysts to be applied should show an activity which remains constant over a long period. It is an object of the present invention to satisfy that need. Another object is to catalyze reactions 1 and 2 more effectively than hitherto has been the case. Accordingly, the invention provides a process for the oxidation of hydrogen sulphide, in which process a hydrogen sulphide containing gas is contacted in the presence of a free oxygen containing gas with a first catalyst composition at a temperature between 150 and 450 C to form sulphur dioxide on at a temperature between 150 and 350 C to form sulphur dioxide and or elemental sulphur, wherein the first catalyst composition consists of titanium or a titanium compound on a silica containing carrier. Reference is made to EP A 39 266 and FR A 2 481 254 relating to oxidizing H₂S by contacting an H₂S containing gas in the presence of oxygen with a catalyst. These publications are not relevant to the present invention since they do not disclose oxidizing H₂S by contacting an H₂S containing gas in the presence of an oxygen containing gas with a catalyst composition comprising titanium on a silica containing carrier. Preferably, the metal is applied as an oxide or sulphate thereof. Most preferably, at least one oxide of titanium is applied on the carrier. These oxides are themselves active catalysts or are converted to active catalysts in contact with the starting gas. Very good results have been obtained with titanium dioxide. Modifying the process according to the present invention by replacing the first catalyst composition with pure TiO₂ results in high SO₃ emissions. Surprisingly, SO₃ emissions are low when TiO₂ on a silica containing carrier is used. The metal s is are applied in an atomic ratio of metals to silicon which can be varied. As a rule, atomic ratios of metal to silicon in the range of from 0.001 to 1.0 are preferred, atomic ratios in the range of from 0.03 to 0.3 being particularly preferred. Suitably, at least 50 by weight of silica is applied in the silica containing carrier. Preferably, at least 75 and, most preferably, at least 90 by weight of silica is applied in the carrier. Among the synthetic silicas commercially available those containing at least 98.0 by weight of silica are generally the most suitable. According to a very attractive embodiment of the present invention a carrier is used which has been prepared by the following process steps The silica support thus prepared has a very high attrition resistance and a very high mean side crushing strength. A description of this method of preparation can be found in EP A 0067459. A suitable way of preparing the first catalyst composition comprises incorporating a compound or compounds of titanium into the silica when the silica is being prepared, for example during step a or subsequent to step f and prior to step g . If desired, a portion of the said compound or compounds may be incorporated into the silica during step a and the balance subsequent to step f and prior to step g . The first catalyst composition may further be prepared by such conventional techniques as, for example, dry mixing followed by calcination, co gellation, co precipitation, impregnation and ionexchange. For example, a mixture of a titanium salt and a silica so may be co gelled, the material then being dried and ground to an appropriate size, or the co gelled material may be slurried and spray dried. However, the first catalyst composition may, for example, also be prepared by reacting the hydroxyl groups at the surface of a silica with a titanium salt by the procedure described in U.S. patent specification No. 3,166,542, 3,220,959 or 3,274,120, thus producing a first catalyst composition in which titanium is in chemical combination with silica. Examples of suitable titanium salts are titanium tetrachloride, titanium oxalate and titanyl sulphate, TiOSO₄ , the latter dissolved in a mixture comprising sulphuric acid and water. In yet another technique, a fumed pyrogenic catalyst, in particular a pyrogenic titania silica composition is prepared by combustion of hydrogen and oxygen with a mixture of silicon tetrahalide and a titanium halide, halide referring to fluoride, chloride, bromide or iodide. Another suitable way of preparing the first catalyst composition comprises impregnating silica with a substantially non aqueous solution of a titanium compound in a non basic, essentially inert, oxygen substituted hydrocarbon as a solvent, removing solvent from the impregnated silica and thereafter calcining the impregnated silica, again producing catalyst compositions in which titanium is in chemical combination with silica. A description of this method preparation is found in British patent specification No. 1,332,527. The first catalyst composition may be subjected to a pre treatment prior to utilization in the process. As a rule, it is preferable to do so in order to obtain a higher activity. The pre treatment suitably consists in heating the first catalyst composition in the atmosphere of a non reducing gas, such as, for example, nitrogen, argon, CO₂ or of a free oxygen containing gas, such as, for example, air. However, the most suitable method of pre treatment in general also depends upon the form of chemical combination in which the metal compound is provided. In many instances titanium compounds have to be converted into oxide. This conversion may as a rule suitably be effected by heating in a non reducing atmosphere, at temperatures in particular in the range of from 250 C to 800 C for periods in the range of from 1 to 18 hours. The first catalyst composition may be used according to the invention in any convenient physical form, for example, as a powder, flakes, spheres or pellets. Very good results have been obtained with spheres. The equilibrium position of reaction 1 in a given case depends on the water content, if any, of the H₂S containing starting gas. It may be desirable to dry the H₂S containing gases to remove water in order to shift this equilibrium position to the right hand side. The oxidation of H₂S to sulphur in the presence of the first catalyst composition can be carried out in a wide range of temperatures and space velocities. Suitably, the temperature is in the range of from 150 C to 350 C and the space velocity in the range of from 250 to 20,000 Nm³ gas per m³ first catalyst composition per hour. It has been found that even when relatively low temperatures and relatively high space velocities are applied thermodynamic equilibrium of reaction 1 is reached, the first catalyst composition being very effective. Preferably, temperatures in the range of from 180 C to 250 C and space velocities in the range of from 1,000 to 10,000 Nm³ gas per m³ first catalyst composition per hour are applied. As stated hereinbefore gases containing less than, for example, 20 by volume of H₂S can be processed according to the third version of the Claus type process. The H₂S introduced into the catalytic zone of the third version can suitably be oxidized to sulphur in the presence of the first catalyst composition. The amount of free oxygen to be used for the oxidation of H₂S to sulphur is important in that a stoichiometric amount of oxygen with respect to reaction 1 is required the amount of oxygen to be used if no SO₂ is desired should therefore be as close as possible to 50 by volume of the amount of H₂S being used. As stated hereinbefore, the oxidation of H₂S to sulphur can be considered as occurring in an oxidation step reaction 2 followed by a Claus reaction reaction 3 . The sulphur containing gas obtained is cooled to condense sulphur therefrom, leaving an off gas containing H₂S and SO₂. If desired, this off gas may be used as a starting material for further production of elemental sulphur by contacting it with the first catalyst composition at a temperature below the dew point of sulphur. Hydrogen sulphide containing gases usually contain minor amounts of COS and CS₂. These two compounds are present because at least part thereof has been formed in the thermal zone and they have only partly been converted in the catalytic zone or zones mentioned hereinbefore. During the process according to the present invention they are hydrolyzed according to the reactions and The H₂S thus formed is subsequently oxidized to sulphur according to the present invention. The oxidation of H₂S to SO₂ in the presence of the first catalyst composition can also be carried out in a wide range of temperatures and space velocities. The temperature is in the range of from 150 and 450 C, and suitably the space velocity is in the range of from 250 to 20,000 Nm³ gas per m³ first catalyst composition per hour. It has been found that even when relatively low temperatures and relatively high spaced velocities are applied H₂S is substantially converted to SO₂ according to reaction 2 . Preferably, temperatures in the range of from 250 C to 450 C and space velocities in the range of from 1000 to 10,000 Nm³ gas per m³ first catalyst composition per hour are applied. The amount of free oxygen to be used for the oxidation of H₂S to SO₂ is important in that a stoichiometric excess, preferably a large excess, of free oxygen is desired in order to oxidize substantially all H₂S and any COS and CS₂ present. In general, at least twice and normally up to five times the stoichiometric amount of oxygen required for the oxidation to SO₂ may be supplied. Preferably, an excess of 20 to 280 of the stoichiometric amount of oxygen, based upon all total combustibles, will be supplied. Amounts as high as 100 or even 200 times the stoichiometric amount of free oxygen may be supplied, if desired. The SO₂ formed may be discharged into the atmosphere or recovered in a manner known to those skilled in the art. Although the oxidation of H₂S to SO₂ according to the invention is applicable to any H₂S containing gas of low to moderate H₂S content, the invention is ideally suited to the treatment of H₂S containing off gases from various processes from which no further or little recovery of other materials is made, for example to the incineration of a Claus tail gas. Additionally, as indicated, off gases may previously have been processed by an off gas treating process in order to reduce the contents of combined and elemental sulphur thereof. The invention is eminently suited to the removal of H₂S from off gases of a Claus tail gas treating process. Such a process may comprise the step of catalytically reducing SO₂, COS, CS₂ and sulphur trioxide SO₃ contained in the gas under suitable conditions to H₂S. So, according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention in which hydrogen sulphide is oxidized to elemental sulphur, the hydrogen sulphide has been obtained by reducing Claus tail gases at a temperature above 175 C with a free hydrogen and or carbon monoxide containing gas over a second catalyst composition comprising a sulphided metal from Group 6 and or Group 8 of the Periodic Table of the Elements and an inorganic oxide carrier supporting the said sulphided metal s . The hydrogen sulphide present in the reduced Claus tail gases is then oxidized to sulphur in the presence of the first catalyst composition. The reduction of Claus tail gases in the presence of the second catalyst composition is preferably carried out in the presence of at least the stoichiometric quantity of hydrogen and or CO for complete conversion of sulphur and SO₂ into H₂S. Generally, 1.3 2.0 times the required stoichiometric quantity is used. Water present in Claus tail gases hydrolyses COS and CS₂ according to reactions 4 and 5 , respectively. Methods of preparation and the most suitable composition of the second catalyst composition and the conditions at which the reduction may be carried out, such as the pressure, the gas hourly space velocity and the composition of the free hydrogen and or free carbon monoxide containing gas are found in British patent specification No. 1,356,289. The reduced Claus tail gas is preferably dried to remove water prior to the oxidation of H₂S to sulphur, thus moving the equilibrium position of reaction 1 to the right hand side. Drying may be carried out by, for example, condensation of water from the reduced Claus tail gas. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention elemental sulphur is removed from the gases after having contacted the first catalyst composition and H₂S remaining in the substantially sulphur free gases is oxidized to sulphur dioxide, preferably in the presence of the first catalyst composition. As in this manner 98.5 to 99.0 of the combined and elemental sulphur can be removed from Claus tail gases, the gases obtained after oxidation to SO₂ over the first catalyst composition can usually be discharged into the atmosphere without objection. According to another preferred embodiment of the present invention in which hydrogen sulphide is oxidized to sulphur dioxide, the hydrogen sulphide has been obtained by reducing Claus tail gases at a temperature above 175 C with a free hydrogen and or carbon monoxide containing gas over a second catalyst composition comprising a sulphided metal from Group 6 and or Group 8 of the Periodic Table of the elements and an inorganic oxide carrier supporting the said sulphided metal s , absorbing the H₂S present in the reduced gases followed by desportion of the H₂S and recycle of the desorbed H₂S to the Claus plant, the hydrogen sulphide to be oxidized to sulphur dioxide remaining in the final off gas from said absorption of H₂S. This hydrogen sulphide is oxidized to sulphur dioxide in the presence of the first catalyst composition. The pressures employed in the process according to the invention are not critical and may vary within a wide range. The total pressure may be at or in excess of atmospheric pressure, although sub atmospheric pressure may be used. Preferably, the presusre is at least atmospheric and may be up to, for example, 10 bar. The free oxygen may be supplied as, for example, pure oxygen, oxygen enriched air, air, or other gaseous streams containing significant quantities of oxygen and other components which do not interfere significantly with the reaction contemplated. The following Examples further illustrate the invention. The pore volumes of the starting silicas have been measured by means of absorption of liquid water. An amount bulk volume 250 ml, weight 98 g of silica gel spheres pore volume 1.10 ml g, surface area 300 m² g was kept for 15 min under a pressure of 0.02 bar abs. The spheres were then impregnated with tetraisopropylorthotitanate under nitrogen of atmospheric pressure. The impregnated spheres were dried at a temperature of 110 C and the temperature of the dried spheres was increased to 250 at a rate of 100 C h and to 500 C at a rate of 50 C h. The temperature was kept for one hour at 500 C, increased at a rate of 50 C h to 550 C and kept for 3 h at 550 C. Then, the spheres were allowed to adopt ambient temperature. The catalyst composition thus prepared is referred to hereinafter as first catalyst composition A some properties thereof are stated in Table I. A cylindrical tube having an inside diameter of 4.09 cm was charged over a height of 38.1 cm with a fixed bed of first catalyst composition A. A gaseous feed composed as shown in Table II was conducted in downflow through the fixed bed. Conditions of operation are shown more specifically in Table II. Significant H₂S removal is obtained at temperatures above 200 C the results for three different temperatures are presented in Table III. Pressure atmospheric A feed composed as stated in Table IV was conducted with a space velocity of 1000 Nl per 1 first catalyst composition A per hour through the catalyst bed used in Example 1. Three different temperatures were used. The H₂S and SO₂ contents of the off gas are presented in Table IV. Table IV shows that significant conversion of H₂S to sulphur takes place at temperatures above 175 C. Example 1 was modified in that a gas composed as stated in Table V was conducted with a space velocity of 2000 Nl per 1 first catalyst composition per hour through the bed of first catalyst composition A. Table VI states which combinations of temperature and water content were used and also presents the composition of the off gas and the total sulphur conversion. The thermodynamic equilibrium was reached in each of these five experiments. Table VI clearly shows that removal of water from the feed has a very favourable effect on the total sulphur conversion. An amount 46.19 g of tetraisopropylorthotitanate was added dropwise under nitrogen to water 150 ml and the precipitate thus formed was filtered off and washed three times with water 10 ml each time . The TiO₂ thus obtained was added to a solution of oxalic acid 12.6 g in water 80 ml . Then, oxalic acid 10.23 g was added. The mixture thus obtained was filtered off, yielding 110 ml of an opale liquid. An amount 84.5 g, bulk volume 200 ml of silica gel spheres pore volume 1.02 ml, surface area 349 m² g was impregnated with this solution 110 ml . The impregnated spheres were dried at a temperature of 120 C and the temperature of the dried spheres was increased to 320 C at a rate of 100 C h, kept for 0.5 h at 320 C, increased at a rate of 100 C h to 600 C and kept for one hour at 600 C. Then, the spheres were allowed to adopt ambient temperature. The first catalyst composition thus prepared is referred to as first catalyst composition B some properties thereof are stated in Table I. A cylindrical tube having an inside diameter of 4.09 cm was charged over a height of 38.4 cm with a fixed bed of first catalyst composition B. A gaseous feed composed as shown in Table VII was conducted in downflow through the fixed bed at a space velocity of 1000 Nl per I first catalyst composition B per hour. Table VII presents the composition of the off gas. The temperature and a further result are stated in Table VIII. The experiment described in Example 4 was modified in that a temperature of 300 C was applied. Table VIII presents the results. TiCl₄ 38.85 g was added dropwise at a temperature of 4 to 13 C to water 150 ml . An amount 146 ml of the solution thus obtained was used for impregnation of silica gel spheres 128.4 g, bulk volume 300 ml, pore volume 1.02 ml g, surface area 349 m² g . The impregnated spheres were then treated as described for first catalyst composition B except that a temperature of 500 C instead of 600 C was used. The first catalyst composition thus prepared is referred to as first catalyst composition C some properties thereof are stated in Table I. The experiment described in Example 4 was modified in that first catalyst composition C was used. The result is presented in Table VIII. An aqueous solution of sodium silicate was mixed with a solution obtained by dissolving TiO₂ in dilute aqueous sulphuric acid, using a volume ratio of the latter to the former solution of 0.75. The hydrosol thus obtained was shaped into droplet form, the droplets were shaped in air and pre dried at 120 C for 7.5 min. The pre dried particles were quenched with water to 20 C and the temperature of the particles was increased over a period of 2.5 h from 20 C to 150 C in the presence of liquid water and kept for 1h at 150 C. The particles were allowed to adopt a temperature of 20 C, washed with dilute sulphuric acid, dried for 20 h at 120 C, heated over a period of 5 min from 20 C to 875 C and kept for 10 min at 875 C. Then, the particles were allowed to adopt ambient temperature. The catalyst composition thus prepared is referred to as first catalyst composition D some properties thereof are stated in Table I. The experiment described in Example 4 was modified in that first catalyst composition D was used. The result is presented in Table VIII. The experiment described in Example 4 was modified in that the bed of first catalyst composition B was replaced with silica spheres. Reaction 1 had reached only 54 of the thermodynamic equilibrium. The experiment described in Example 4 was modified in that a gaseous feed composed as shown in Table IX was used at the temperatures shown in Table VIII. Table VIII also presents the results. The experiments described in Examples 9 and 10 were modified in that first catalyst composition C was used. Table VIII presents the results. The experiments described in Examples 9 and 10 were modified in that first catalyst composition D was used. Table VIII presents the results. The experiment described in Example 10 was modified in that first catalyst composition B was replaced with pure titanium dioxide. The off gas contained less than 4 ppmv of H₂S and 50 ppmv of SO₃.