# CARTON OPENING MECHANISM

## Abstract
A carton opening mechanism for use in opening knock ed down cartons. The carton opening mechanism has a carton storage magazine which has a discharge opening through which knocked down cartons may be withdrawn one at a time. The carton opening mechanism has a first suction face which is circumferentially spaced 120 degrees from the discharge opening of the magazine. The carton opening mechanism is mountable in a carton opening machine so as to locate the receiver compartment equidis tant from the discharge opening and first suction face with the entranceway of a receiving compartment opening to ward a central axis. A rotary transfer mechanism is mounted for rotation about the central axis, the transfer mechanism having a suction head formed with a transfer suction face. The transfer suction face is movable, in response to rotation of said transfer mechanism, between, a first position in which the transfer suction face is directed toward said discharge opening and positioned to engage a wall of a carton blank located in the storage magazine and, a second position in which the transfer suction face is directed toward and disposed opposite the first suction face of a carton opening mechanism to press an opposite wall of the carton into engagement with the first suction face, and, a third position in which the transfer suction face is directed toward and disposed adjacent the entranceway of the receiver to deposit an open carton in a receiver compartment. The transfer mechanism then returns to the first position. A suction control mechanism is provided to generate a nega tive pressure at said transfer suction face when it is in said first position and during movement of the transfer suction face between said first, second and third positions so as to secure a wall of a knocked down carton thereto, withdraw it from the storage magazine, transport it to and open it by engagement with the opening suction cup of the opening mechanism and deposit the open carton in the receiver compartment and thereafter to relieve the negative pressure to release the open carton.