# Method of producing tubular boron bodies suitable for use as pick up cantilevers.

## Abstract
The cantilever is a tubular body composed of an inner layer 2 of crystalline or amorphous boron and at least one outer layer 2 of amorphous boron. These and other bodies are made by forming at least one boron layer on a metallic substrate by chemical vapour deposition and removing the substrate from the boron layer s to leave the latter as a self supporting body, the substrate removal being effected by an etchant comprising a solution in, for example, an alcohol of at least one of bromine, iodine, iodine trichloride, iodine monochloride and iodine monobromide.

## Claims
Claims 1. A tubular boron pick up cantilever, character ised in that it is composed of an inner layer of crystalline or amorphous boron and at least one outer layer on amorphous . 2. A cantilever according to claim 1, character ised in that the layer of crystalline boron is 0.5 to 10 microns thick. 3. A cantilever according to claim 1 or 2. characterised in that the or each layer of amorphous boron is 3 to 15 microns thick. 4. A method of making a bordn body, chararacterised by forming at least one boron layer on a metallic sub streate by chemical vapoar deposition, and removig the substrate from the resulting layer or layers to leave the latter as a self supporting body, said substrate removal being effected by an etchant comprising a solution of at least one of bromine, iodine, iodine trichloride, iodine monochloride and iodine monobromide. 5. A method according to claim 4, characterised in that the solvent for the solution is met hanol and or ethanol. 6. A method according to claim 4 cr 5, character ised in that the metallic substrate is of tantalum. tungsten, nickel, molybdennm, titanium or iron. 7. A method ancording to any of claims 4 to 6. characterised in that the boron layer formed by, chemical vapour deposition is formed on a chromiumcontnining inyet on the metallie substrate. 8. A method according to claim 7, characterised in that the chromium containing layer is of chromium, chromium boride, an alloy of chromium with iron, cobalt or nickel, or a boride of said alloy. 9. A method according to claim 8, characterised in that the alloy is chromium iron having an iron content not excceding 30 atom 46, chrarnium cobalt having a cobalt content not exceeding 20 atom A or chromium nickel having a nickel content not exceeding 10 atom . 10. A method according to any of claims 7 to 9, characterised in that the chromium containing layer is 0.5 to 20 microns thick. 11. A method aceordin to any of claims 4 to 10, characterised in that, priorto chemical vapour deposition of the boron layer,, an amorphous boron layer is deposited on the substrate and boron is diffused into the surface of the substrate to cause boride formation. 12. A method according to claim 11, characterised in that the amorphous boron layer is deposited with said substrate at a temperature of 900 to 1100 C. 13. A method according to claim 11 or 12, characterised in that the boron is diffused inte the surface at a substrate temperature of 1200 to 1300 C. 14. A method according to any of claims 4 to 13, characterised in that a crystalline boron layer is formed on the substrate by chemical vapour deposition and nt least one amorphous boron layer is deposited thereon. 15. A method according to claim 14, characterised in that the crystalline boron layer is P rhombohedral boron and, optionally, tetragonal boron. 16. A method according to any of claims 4 to 15, characterised in that a piurality of amorphous boron payers are formed by successive chemical vapour deposition treatment. 17. A method according to claim 16, characterised in that edch amorphous boron layer is 3 to 15 microns thick.

## Description
Boron pick up cantilevers and production of auch cantilavers and other heron bodies Thi invention relates to boron cantilevers for use in pick up styli for converting shape signals recorded on a recording medium to electric signals , aud a method of producing such cantilevers and other boron bodies. Boron has a hardness nxt to that of diamond and a very large resistance to abrasior, so that it is useful e.g. fo cutting tools, sliding components and bearings. Further, since it has a low density and a large elastic medulu E , its elastic ratio E P is ver large. This means that the sound wave propagatin velocity in boron is vcry thigh, so that boron is particularly useful or a cantilever for supporting 2 nick up. It is difficult to obtain a dense body of boron by casting or rolling, so a boron cantilcver is usually made by forming a boron coating on a substrate other than boron by vacuum deposition, sputtering or chemical vapour deposition CVD , such that the cantileve is composed of not on y boron but also the substrate, This is dis advantageous, because thc properties of the cantilever ire impaired by the substrate. It has been tried to chemically or phyaically separate the boron layer from the substrate in order to obtain n pure oron cantilevcr. However, there has been suggested no satisfactory methods therefor according to the usual method, strain occurs between the boron layer and the substrate due to their differential thermal expansion, so that cracks are likely to occur in the boron layer, and thus it IS difficult to obtain, with a high production yield, a boron cantilever having a high mechanical strength. We have now developed improved pire or substantially pure boron cantilevers, particularly tubular cantilevers, having a high mechanical strength and a large elastic ratio, and the production thereof in high production yield. The main features of thin invention are as follows t 1 A boron cantilever, particularly of tubular form, made by sepa rating a beron layer from a boron, layer substrate combination which substrate is made of a metal or a metal boride by etching the substrate. 2 A boron cantilever made by coating chromium or chromium alloy with iron, cobalt, nickel, zirconium, aluminium vanadium or st,1icon, or one of, their borides, of an appropriate thickness on a substrate,CVD déposition boron on the coating, and stching the substrate. 3 A boron cantilever made by coating an amorphous boron layer on a metal substrate, heating it for diffusing boron into the metal substrate to form a borIe layer, CVDdepositing boron on the boride layer, and etching at least the metal substrate. 4 A boron cantilever maae by CVD deposition a crystal boron layer on a metal substrate, CVD depositing an amorphous boron layer on the crystal boron layer, and etching the metal substrate for form r a boron double layer. 5 A boron cantilever made by CVD depositing a 1st amorphous boron layer on a substrate, CVD depositing a 2nd boron layer on the first boron layer .... , andCVD depositing ann th boron layer on the n 1 th boron layer for forming an amorphous boron multi layer, Excellent results can be obtained by one or com binaticn of the above firs points. In the flowing, CVD method will be described. A substrate is placed in a reaction chamber. It is then heated by infrared ray heating, high frequency heating, resistor heating or current heating. Then, a boron halide gas and hydrogen gas are introduced into the chamber. Thereby, boron is separated on the substrate according to the following reaction. 2BX3 3H2 2B 6HX where X. is C1, Br or I. Instead of boron halides, boron hydrides can also be used. By the boron separation reaction, various crystal forms of boron can be obtained depcnding e.g. on the heating temperaturc, the g.s pressure and the amount of gas introduwed. Among the various forms, ss rhnmbohedral, tetragonal and amorphous borons are preferable in view of their higb density and high mechanical strength. Amorphous boron is most preferable. Each form can be used alone, or two or all of them ca n be used together. For removing the substrate, chemical treatment, such as etching is used. The substrate is required to be refractory betause the CVD deposition of borot is done at a high temperatur 500 C or higher . Preferable examples of substrate materials are metals such as iron. tantalum, niobium, molybdenum, tungsten and titanium because they can be formed to a complicated substrate structure and can be easily heated by current application ol high frequency applicatlon. Among them, more preferable ones are tantalum, molybdenum and tungsten because they are less w0akcned by hydrogen iii the CVD process.In order to minimize the thermal strain between the deposited boron layer s and the substrate, it is most preferable to use tantalum or titanium, which have thermal expansion coefficients of about 7 to 8 x 10 6 C and about 8 x 10 6 C, respectively, these being closest to the thermal expansion coefficient of boron, which is S X lo 6 oC In order to remove the metal substrate from the substrate boron layer combination in which the boron layer is formed by CVD process, the combination is immersed in a solution having one or more of bromine, iodine, iodine trichloride, iodine monochloride, iodine monobromide dissolved in an alcohol. Thereby, the metal substrate and, if necessary, the metal boride layer can be removed.Thereby, a boron eipe cantileve r can be obtained. It maybe considered to use an aqueous solution or an acid, an alkali or a salt instead of an alcohol solution. However, according to the present inventors experiments t most of such aqueous solutions have been fond to dissolve or etch not only the metal substrates but also the boron layer. It may not be impossible to apparently dissolve or etch only the substrate by adjusting the combination or concentration of such acid, alkali and salt. However, upon dIssolving the metal substrate into the aqueous solution, gases are produced which then cover the surface of the metal substrate. Once the substrate is covered with the gases, the dissolving speed of the metal substrate becomes extremely low. Further, the boron cantilever made by removing the substrate by the aqueous solution has very low mechanical strength. Upon observing the thus obtained boron cantilever using a microscope, corrosio.l traces are often observed along crystal grain boundaries. Etchants of methanol or ethanol having bromine Br2 or iodine I2 dissolved therein are known as etchants for etching metals and intermetallic compounds. The present inventors have found that metals and metal borides can be dissolved or etched by an etchtint of an alcohol having one or more of bromine Br2 , iodine I2 , iodine trichioride icy3 , iodine monochloride ICl and iodine monobromide IBr dissolved therein, without dissolving or etching boron. That is, the present inventors have found an etchant which selective y etches metals such as tantalum. The alcohols referred to herein are lower alcohols.Particularly preferable ones are methanol and ethanol0 Most preferable one is the latter in view of less toxicity, higher boiling point and easter handliny.Better results can be obtained when such alcohol has less moisture content. As the moisture content increases, the resultant boron cantilever has wcrse properties. That is, absolute alcohol produces best results. But an alcohol with a moisture content of up to about 5 can be satisfactorily used if the thickness of the deposited boron layer on the substrate to be etched is large, or if the material of the substrate is adequately selected. en bromine is used, a proper etchant can be obtained by merely dropping a necessary amount of liquid bromine into an alcohol and stirring the alcohol. Whenesolid iodine is used, a proper etchant can be obtained by throwing a necessary amount of solid iodine into an alcohol and stirring the alcohol for dissolving the iodine therein. In this case, a saturation solution can be easily obtained by using an excessive amount of solid iodine. Among the above described halogens, bromine is most preferable because it is easier to handle, and it has a larger etching effect. Iodine is easiest to handle, although it has a less etching effect than bromine. Iodine trichloride, iodine monochlorlde and iodine monobromide are also solids, so that they can be treated in the same manner as for solid iodine. Although iodine monobromide is deliquescent, it is not a problem from a practicai point of view.Further, these solids do not substantially produce a halogen gas from themselves or from the alcohol solutions. Iodine trichloride has about the same etching effect as bromine, next to which is iodine monochloride. Highest etching speed is obtained with each saturation solution, butunsaturated solutions can also be used practically. Further, two or three of chlorine, bromine and iodine can be dissolved at the same time in an alcohol in a molecular form. In etching or dissolving tile metal substrate, it is effective to stir the etchant or apply ultrasonic vibration to the etchant for promoting the dissolving of the metal substrate. Such promotion can be done also by heating the etchant. However, excessive heating causas dissolving of or etching of boron. So care should be paid in heating the etchant. Usually, an appropriate temperature ranqe therefor is 20 to 5O0r. After a boron cantilever is obtained by etching a corrbination of boron layer metal substrate, the boron cantilever should be washed by using e.g. alcohcls. In the case when a boron layer is CVD deposited on a metal plate, a metal boride is formed between the boron layer and the metal substrate because the metal substrate is heated to a high temperature. However, as afore described, such a metal boride layer can also be etched or dissolved away by using the abeve described etchants. As to the form of the metal substrate, preferable ones are determined by forms of intended pipe cantilevers.Usually, a plate or rod form having a rectangular cross section or a wire from having a circular cross section is preferable, because if the form is too much complicated, it takes a long time to etch away the substrate, and further the strains in the combination of metal substrate boron layer are likely to remain unrelieved so that cracks are likely to occur in the toron layer. It has been further found according to this invention, that if chromium, chromium boride, an alloy of chromium plus one of iron, cobalt, nickel, zirconium, aluminium, vanadium and silicon, or a boride of such alloy is coated on the above described metal substrate by electroplating, CVD using e.g. chromium iodide , or sputtering, and a boron layer is deposited on the thus coated metal substrate, occurrence of cracks in the boron layer can be pievented, and the obtained boron layer pipe boron cantilever has a high mechanical strength. The following experiments have been made using a chromlum plate because an appropriate chromium wire is not easily available. That is, when a chromium plate was used as a metal substrate, and boron was CVD deposited on the plate, the plate was deformed by the heating of CVD. Further, since chromium has a large thermal expansion coefficient, theCVD deposited boron layer çot cracked or broken at the end of the CVD. Similar troubles appeared when chromium o , a lump form or a plate of the above described chromium alloy was used instead of the chromium plate. Thus, for attaining the aboJe described effect found by this invention, the thickness of the chromium coating on the metal substrate should be appropriately selected. This preferable thickness depends a little on the thickness of the metal substrate alsa. When a tantalum wire has a circular cross section of 200 to 300 micron diameter, a preferable thickness of the chromium, chromium alloy, chromium boride or chromium alloy boride is 0.1 to 20 microns. A too thick chromium coating is likely to cause cracking in the resultant boron layer, while a too thin chromium coating does not produce titintended effect. A most preferable thickness of the chromium coating is 0.5 to 2 microns Preferable materials of the metal substrate on which the chromium coating is to be applied are tantalum, niobium, molybdendum, titanium and tungsten. first preferable one is tantalum. This is considered to be because the thermal expansion coefficient of tantalum is close to that of boron, and tantalum is little weakened by hydrogen , and presumably because of good reaction between tantalum and the chromium coating. As an experiment, a chromium layer about 3 microns thick was coated on a tantalum wire of diameter 250 microns, and on the chromium coated wire, boron was applied byCVD. The cross section of the, thus obtained material is schematically shown in Figure 1, in which reference numeral 1 designates a tantalum wire, 2 is a boron layer, 3 is a chromium boride layer as determined by X ray diffraction analysis ., and 4 designates an air gap. It is thus apparent that the chromium layer preliminarily coated on the tantalum wire is usually converted to chromium boride upon the CVD depositon of boron. Sc,me times, the air gap. 4 is not observed by a microscopicobservation. It is considered that the effect of the chromium coating is because the thermal expansion coe fficient of the chromium boating actually chromium boride coating is larger than that of boron, and that the bonding between the chromium layer and the boron layer is relatively weak, resulting ina larger or smaller air gap between the chromium Layer and the boron layer. Thus, the thermal strain between the metal substrate and the boron layer is relieved by the air gap, which leads to the suppression of the cracking or breaking of the resultant tubular boron can.tilever and to the. improvement of production yield. A tubular boron cantilever according to the invention is shown in Figure 2, in. which 2 denotes an inner layer and 2 an outer layer, both being of, boron. The chromium coating may be of, for example, chromium, chromium boride1 chromium iron alloy and borido of chromium iron alloy in view of production yield and mechanical strength of resultant boron cantilevers. If the chromium coating is chromium alloy, sputtering method is most conventient arnong the coating methods. There is no observable difference between the chromiuin boride layer made by reacting the chromium layer on the metal substrate with a boron halide and the chromium boride layer made by sputtering chromium boride on the metal substrate.The provision of the chromium coating contributes to the improvement of the mechanical strength of the CVD deposited boron layers irrespective of the crystal forms of the boron layers, although a deposited amorphous boron layer and a deposited S rhombohedral boron layer are stronger than other forms of deposited boron layers. It has been further found according to this invention that if a an amorphous boron layer of an approprinte thickness iS formed on the metal substrate, b the thus formed amorphous boron is diffused into the metal substrate by heat treatment, and c a dense and strong boron layer is coated by CVD on the thus boron diffused metal substrate, a mechanically strong boron pipe cantilever made of the CVDdeposited boron layer can be obtained, in which cracks or breakings do not occur upon separating the boron .ayer from the metal sibstrat2, namely upon dissolving or etching the metal substrate by the afore described selective etchant. Crystal forms of boron layers CVD deposited on the metal substrates can be varied by varying the heating temperature of the metal substrates for CVD. At 800 to 1200 C, amorphous boron is obtained, while at above around 1200 C, borons of a rhombohedral form, ss rhombohedral form and tetragonal form are obtained. If the heating temperature is lower than about 8000C, .boron separation speed by the CV D is too low, and the separated or deposited boron is in a powder form. So, it becomes difficult to diffuse the amorphous boron into the metal substrate by the heat treatment.On the other hand, if the heating temperature is above about 1200 C, aand ss rhombohedrel Borons are separated or deposited, and it becomes difficult to obtain amorphous boron. Borons of crystal forms, namely those other than amorphous boron are not sufficiently diffused into the metal substrates upon the diffusion heat treatment. So, the intimacy between the metal substrates and the separated boron becomes insufficient.This causes crackswand or breakings in. the separated boron layer on the metal substrate, resu lting in low mechanical strength and 16w elastic or Young s modulus of the,resultant boron cantil evers. The temperature of the heat treatment for boron diffusion, after the amorphous boran separation, should not be lower than 1200 C, because otherwise the diffusion takes a too long time However6 a too high temperaturs is also not preferable. If it is higher than 1500 C, the diffusion speed is too rast, resulting in the formation of a non uniform metal boride layer on the metal substrate. This cases a low mechanical strength of the borom layer as a cantilever. The crystal. forme of the boron layer on the boron diffused metal substrate are preferably amorphous or 6 rhombohedral. It has been found according to this invention that a boron pipe cantilever of two boron layers, made by CVDdepositing a crystal boron layer on a metal substrate, further CVD depositinc an amorphous boron layer on the crystal boron layer, and removing the metal substrate using a selective etchant, has a high mechanical strength and can be produced oith a high production yield. Preferable metal substrates are tantalum, niobium, molybdendum, tungsten and titanium, and the most preferable one is tantalum as described above. Preferable crystal borons, as the first layer, are 6 rhonbohedral boron and a mixed crystal of ss rhombok.edral and tetragonal borons. The use of a rhombohedral is unpreferable because the resultant layer surface is likely to be rough. Preferable thickness of the first layer, i.e.crystal boron, is 0.5 to 10 microns. A too thin first layer is not effective for obtaining a high elasticity of the resultant cantilever, and a too thick first layer is unprefer s for obtaining a high mechanical strength of the cantilever. It has been found according to this invention that a stronger boron cantilever can be obtained by a boron multilayer pipe, in which each layer is in a limited thickness.The thicknss of the wall of the pipe cantilever is determined by required weight of the cantilever, required acoustic properties, etc. It iias been Wound according to this invention that a boron cantilever pipe haviny a certain wall thickness and composed of plural boron layers is stronger than a boron cantilever having the same wall thickness composed of a single boron layer. Among various known methods for forming a boron layer, the above described CVD is considered to produce a best quality boron lyaer. By CVD, forms of deposited borons such as B rhombohedral, a rhombohedral, tetragonal, amorphous and their mixed crystals can be varied by va rying conditions of CVD. Generally, a pure amorphous boron layer is best in view of mechanical properties such as tensi le strength. However, commercially available boron fibers are sometimes mechanically weak dusto porositi.es, inner strains, micro cracks, etc. Further, when a metal substrate having an amorphous boron layer thereon is removed by, for example, etching the metal substrate, the amorphous layer sometimes gets broken. This is considered to be because of the inner strains in the boron layer. On the other hand, a CVD deposited boron multilayer on a metal substrate according to the finding of this invention is strong even after the removal of the metal substrate, and is qood in appearance also. The thus prepared boron cantilever is excellent as a cantilever and a vibration plate of a sound speaker also. In this case, the thickness of each amorphous borcn layer in the multi layer s tructure is pref rably between 3 and 15 microns. If the thi cicness is too small, it i s difficult to produce uniform thickness multi layer, and takes a lony time to prepare a given thickness of the multi layer. If the thickness is too large, crystal borons are likely to occur locally, and abnormal growth of amorphous boron is also likely to occur, resulting in a decrease of mechanical strength. Multi layered amorphous boron cantilevers have been made by various methods, and it has been found that the thus made cantilevers are superior to those of a mono layer amorphous boron as to the layer quality and easiness of controlling production conditions. The points which will be described hereinafter are directed to the CVD method for obtaining amorphous boron layers. Conventionally, in order to obtain a thick amorphous boron layer by CVD, boron is CVD deposited at a relatively low temperature, or a large amount of starting gas is fed to a reaction chairS3er. A disadvantage of such methods is that the starting gas is not efficiently used. Another disadvantage is that the deposited boron layer is likely to abnormally grow, and a crystal boron is likely to be produced locally, when the temperature cf the metal substrate fluctuates and or when there is a foreign mutter on the metal substrate. A further disadvantage is that the mechanical strength of the deposited boron layer is low.This low mechanical strength is likely to become remarkable when the metal substrate is removed e.g. by etching. The method according to this invention here comprises a process of gradually increasing the thermal energy applied to the metal substrate during a constant amount of an introduced flowing starting gas in the reaction chamber, and a process of cutting off the thermal energy application chen the temperature of the metal substrate reaches to a predetermined temperature. By repeating these two processes, plural amorphous boron layers are formed on the metal, substrate.By using this method, the temperature of the metal substrate i.e. the predetermined temperature can b e higher than the conventional upper limit temperature for producing an amorphous boron layer. That is, according to the conventional method, when the temperature is above th upper limit, crystal boron is formed. On the other hand, according to is invention here, the predetermined temperature is not kept for a longtime, so that the formation of crystal borons is preventable. Amorphous borons made at an higher reaction temperature are better in layer properties than those mde at a lower reaction temperature. In the first process, namely the process of gradually heightening the temperature of the substrate, amorphous boron starts deposited when the temperature reaches to a certain once. en the thermal energy supply is stopped soon there after, the substrate temperature rapidly decreases, whereby the boron deposition is stopped. The thus formed or deposited boron layers are of uniform amorphous boron without any abnormal growth or lccal crystallization. According to the above described manner, the thickines of each amorphous boron layer formed by one cycle of theEMI17.1 EMI17.2 because the time in which the amorphous boron is deposited is short. In order for each amorphous boron layer to have a relatively large thickness, the metal substrate should be kept for a certain time period at the predetermined temperature before the cut off of the thermal energy supply after the temperature of the substrate has reached to the predetermined temperature by gradually heating the substrate. While the substrate is kept at the predetermined temperature, boron continues deposited on the substrate whereby a comparatively thick boron layer is obtained. The time period for which the predetermined temperatue can be kept depends on the predetermined temperature. If the time period is too long, abnormal growth of boron is likely to occur. The above method is effective in both the cases ofCVD under a reduced pressure and CVD under an ordinary pressure. By using such a higher substrate temperature, starting gas can be more efficiently utilized. As a modification of this method, the first layer on the substrate can be a crystal boron layer, with the remaining plural boron layers being amorphous boron layers. Such modified st ucture also is superior to the conventional structure as to the mechanical strength and the appearance. In this modified case, preferable thickness of the first layer crystal boron is 0.5 to 10 microns. This invention will be described in detail hereinafter in the following Examples. However, it should be noted that these Examples are meant to only illustrate this invention, and are not construed to limit thereby all the scope of this invention. Example 1 A tantalum wire having a cross section of 300 micron diameter was prepared as a metal substrate. By using a mixed gas of b.oron trichloride and. hydrogen, a boron layer of lC0 micron thick was deposited on the tantalum wire using CVD method. Thd temperature of the wire was kept at 13000C by directly flowing a current in the wire. It was found by X ray diffraction analysis that the thus deposited boron was crystal. The thus prepared wire with the boron layer was cut into wire segments by pl.anes perpendicular to the axis of the wire by using a YAG laser. The wire segments were ì me sed in various processing liquids etchants listed in Table 1, respectively. The processing liquids were each put in a sealed container for preventing mix in of moisture from the ambient air and also preventing evaporation of the contents of the processing liquids. Each liquid was kept at room temperature and was supplied with constant ultrasonic vibrations. Table 1 lists time required for completely dissolving the wire in each wire segment1 and mechanical strength of the thus obtained boron pipe from each wire segment.The mechanical strength is defined by a minimum load required for breaking each boron pipe when both cnds of the boron pipe are supported while the load is applied to the center of the boron pipe. Unless otherwise noted, the mechanical strength herein is defined in this manner. It is apparent from this Table 1 that the etchants described afore according to this invention are superior to otherS, and that among them, best ones are those using bromine and iodine trihloride. By using the same etchants as those above and by substitating W, Ni, Ti, Mo, Fe and stainless s teel for tantalum, similar experiments to those done above were performed.Thereby it was found that operable boron pipes were obtained by using the etchants according to this invention, although the properties of the thus obtained were a little inferior to those of the tantalum case. Observing the etching processes of the tantalum wire segments using the etchants of this invention, it was observed that the etchants could dissolve not only tantalum but also tantalum boride thereon. Instead of tantalum of wire form, a thin tantalum plate was used as a substrate, and was subjected to the same experiments as done above. Thereby, similar results to those obtained above were obtained. Instead of absolute methanol, absolute ethanol was used, and was subjected to the same experiments as done above. Thereby, similar results to those obtained above were obtained. then the substrates were iron and stainless steel, good results were obtained also by using a commercially available alcohol instead of the absolute methanol, although the etching speed was a little slower in such case. As to the substrates of W, Ni, Tí, Mo, Fe and stainless steel, selective etching of the substrates was tried by using appropriate acids and alkaline liquids. However, in all such cases, the boron layers were very much.damaged thereb. The elastic ratio of each of the above obtained boron pipes according to this invention was about 15 x 108 cm. Exampl e T Four tantalum wires each of 25Q micron diameter were heated by an appropriate means to various temperatures listed in Table 2 in a reaction chamber for CVD method, and on each of such wires, a boron layer of 50 microns was deposited by CVD as in Example 1. Each of the thus treated wires was cut into plural wire segments as in Example 1, and each wire segment was immersed in an etch ant made by introducing 25 grams of bromine in 1OQ.ml of absolute methanol and stirring it.This immersing treatment is kept for 20 hours with the etchant being supplied with ultrasonic vibrations during the immersing. measured results as to the thus obtained bo ron pipes are listed in Table 2. As apparent from this table, boron pipes having proper mechanical strengths can be obtained according to this method with various crystal forms of boron. However, it is also apparent from Table 2 that the obtained mechanical strengths depend on the crystal forms of boron. Further, the elastic ratios of the thus obtained boron pipes were similar to the elastic ratio obtained in Example 1 although the elastic ratios obtained here were a little different from each other depending on the crystal forms of deposited boron. It was condirmed here that boron pipes having sufficient mechanical strengths had elastic ratios of 13 x 108 to 15 x 108 cm. So, it is apparent that the confirmation of the mechanical strengths of boron pipes substantially gives confirmation of the elastic ratios of the boron pipes without necessitating direct measurements of elastic ratios. Example 3 Seventeen tantalum wires each of 300 micron diameter were prepared. On the wires, except one, chromium and chromium boride were coated to various thicknesses and by various coating methods as listed in Tables 3A and 3B. On each OL the thus treated sixteen wires and the remaining one wire, a crystal boron layer of 70 microns was deposited by CVD. Ey cutting each wire by a plane perpendicular to the wire axis, wire segments each of about 10 mm was made. Each of the thus made seventeen kinds of wire segments was immersed in an etchant according to this invention for 50 hours in a similar manner to that of Example 1, in order to remove the metal substrate and thereby make a boron pipe. The mechanical strengths and the production yields of thus made boron pipes are listed in Tables 3A and 3B. It is apparent from these tables that the chromium coating contributes to strengthening the rcsultant borcn pipes. When tantalum was replaced by W, Ti, Ni and Ilo, the chromium coating including chromium boride contributed to the strengthening of resultant boron pipes, although the strengthening effect here was a little less than that in the case of tantalum. Care should be taken to select appropriate preparation conditions for obtaining good boron pipes, because mutual diffusion between chromium and the metal substrate becomes remarkable at high temperatures. When a tantalum thin plate was used instead of the tar.talum nvire and was subjected to the same experiments as done above, similar desired results were obtained. Further, when an amorphous boron layer was deposited on the metal substrate instead of the crystal boron layer, similar contribution of the chromium coating to, the, st,rengt,hening of ,a resultant boron pipe was confirned. Example 4 Twenty four tantalum wires each of 200 micron diameter were prepared. On these wires, except two, chromium, alloys of chromium with iron, cobalt, nickel, zirconium, aluminum, vanadium and silicon and their borides were coated by various coaLing methods as listed in Table 4. On each of these twenty four wires, layers of crystal borons and amorphous borons each of 30 microns were CVD deposited.Each wire was cut into wire segments each of 3mm length, and the thus made wire segments were immersed in an etchant according to this invention for removing the metal substrates so as to obtain boron pipes Table 4 lists the thickness of each chromium coating, production yield of each case, mechanical strength of each boron pipe and the crystal form of each boron pipe layer . As apparent from Table 4, the chromium coatings according to this invention contribute to the strengthening of resultant boron pipes. Among the various chromium coatings, chromium iron alloy and its boride are most effective for the purpose to about the same extent as in the case of chromium and its boride. Preferable amount of iron in chromium iron alloy is up to 30 atom . Preferable amount of cobalt in chromium cobalt alloy is up to 20 atom t. Preferable amount of nickel in chromium nickel alloy is up to 10 atom t. Such preferable amounts apply to the cases of their boridesats . Further, in the cases of alloys of chromium each with zirconium, aluminum, vanadium and silicon and their borides, preferable amount of chromium therein is from 20 te 100 atom . If chromium is not used and one of iron., cobalt and nickel is used as a coating on the tantalum metal substrate, the desired effect of the coating may be obtained. But such coating has a disadvantage that it is difficult to control the CvD conditions ten. When each of N, Ti, Ni and .io was used instead of tantalum and was subjected to the same experiments as done above, operable boron pipes were obtaIned, although some of the thus obtained boron pipes wer a little inferior to those of the tantalum case. In case of this Example also, care should be taken to select appropriate preparation conditions for obtaining good boron pipes, because mutual diffusion between chromium coating and the metal substrate becomes remarkable at high temperatures. Sinilar good results were obtained even when each tantalum wire was replaced by a tantalum plate or a tantalum rod having a rectangular cross section. As apparent from this Example, chromium coatings are effective irrespective of methods of dissolving the metal substrates. By combining the technique of chromum coatings with other unique techniques of this invention, these techniques effect each other to produce better effects.The thus obtained boron pipes in this Example had elastic 8 ratio values each of about 15 x 10 cm. Example 5 Two tungsten wires and twelve tantalum wires each of 500 micron diameter were prepared. On each of the wires, a boron layer of 60 micron thick was CVD deposited as follows.At first, a thin amorphous layer was CVD deposited on the wire, and was heated for diffusing the thus deposited boron into the wire leaving no thickness of the firstly deposited amorphous boron layer. This deposition and dIffusion process usually cake a few minutes at longest. Next, a boron layer of 60 micron thick was CVD deposited cn the thus treated wire, and was cut into wire segments. The thus obtained wire segments were subjected to an etching process for forming boron pipes. Features of the method and the results of the boron pipes are listed in Table 5. It is apparent from Table 5 that mechanically strong boron pipes can be obtained by this Invention. Preferable temperature for forming the first amorphous boron layer is 990 to 11000C. Further, preferable temperature for diffusing the first amorphous layer into the wire is 1200 to 13000C. The thus obtained boron pipes each had an elastic ratio of about 14 x 108 cm. It should be noted that sample Nos. 1 to 3 of Table z areEMI25.1 samples made for comparison. The mechanical strengths in the Table are defined as relative values on the basis that the mechanical strength of a z w boron pipe of B rhombohedral made by a conventional method using a tungsten wire as a metal substrate is 100. It was confirmed that the three processes in this method could be done in either an ordinary gas pressure or a reduced gas pressure, for obtain ing similar results, although the reduced gas pressure is more preferable e.g.because the temperature uniformity of the metal substrate is better. Further this method is applicable for a metal substrate having any cross section. Example 6 Two tungsteii wires and ten tantalum wires each of 200 micron diameter were prepared. A crystal boron layer wasCVD deposited on each of nine wires at a high temperature, and on the thus deposited crystal boron layer1 a amorphous boron layer was CVD depositcd by using a lower temperature. The thus obtained double boron layer had a thickness of 30 microns. On each of the other three wires, a crystal boron single layer or an amorphous boron single layer was CVDdeposited. Each of the thus treated wires was cut into wire segments, and these wire segments were subjected to the etching for producing borcn pipes. Table 6 lists the structure of the boron layers of the thus obtained boron pipes, and the measured mechanical strengths thereof, wherein each mechanical strength therein is a relative value on the basis that the mechanical strength of the ss rhombohedral boron pipe made from a tungsten wire substrate is 100. In Table 6, sample Nos. 1 to 3 are cv nnat ve samples listed for comparison. It is apparent from Table 6 that the unique boron pipes thus obtained have excellent mechanical strengths.,The elastic ratio of each of the unique boron pipes thus obtained was about 14 x 108 cm. Preferable thickness of the crystal boron layer in the double boron layer is 2 to 10 microns. It was further confirmed that similar results could be obtained irrespective of whether the CVD tmosphere had a reduced pressure or an ordinary pressure, and whether the cross section of the metal substrate was rectangular or of any other forms.. Fig. 2 schematically shows a cross section of the double layer boron pipe cantilever, where reference numeral 2 is an amorphous boron layer, and 2 is a crystal boron layer. C . . . , . Example 7 Two tungsten wires and seven tantalum wires each of 150 micron diameter were prepared. On each of the wires, an amorphous boron layer of 60 microns of either single layer structure or multi layer structure was CVD deposited by either performing a long continuous CVD or by intermittent CVD as afore described. Each wire was then cut into wire segments, and these wire segments were subjected to the etching so as to produce boron pipes. Table 7 lists the thickness of the single amorphous layer or each layer in the amorphous multi layers, and the measured mechanical strengths of the boron pipes. In Table 7, sample Nos. 1 and 2 areEMI27.1 samples.The mechanical strengths shown therein are relative values on the basis that the mechanical strength of the amorphous single layer of 6C microns made by using a tungsten wire substrate is 100. It is apparent from Table 7 that the unique boron pipes have high mechanical strengths. Each of such unique boron pipes had an elastic ratio of 14 x 108 t.e 16 x 108 cm. It was confirmed that similar good results could be obtained regardless ot the gas pressure in CVD and of cross section forms of the metal substrate. Table 1. EMI28.1 No. SEP Substrate SEP Etchant SEP Etching SEP Mechanical SEP Comment tb SEP Reguired SEP etching SEP Comment SEP strength tb 1 SEP Ta SEP aqueous SEP solution SEP over SEP 48hr SEP boron SEP is SEP broken SEP SEP boron SEP is tb SEP of SEP HF SEP at SEP 48hr SEP ocmpletely tb SEP broken SEP finally tb 2 SEP Ta SEP aqueousl SEP solution SEP over SEP 102hr SEP SEP SEP SEP of SEP KOH SEP SEP H2O2 tb 3 SEP Ta SEP 100ml SEP absolute tb SEP nathanol SEP plus SEP about SEP 15hr SEP good SEP high SEP SEP 25g SEP bromine tb 4 SEP Ta SEP absolute tb SEP methanol SEP about SEP 75hr SEP good SEP high SEP SEP sacuration tb SEP solution SEP of SEP iodine tb 5 SEP Ta SEP 100mlo SEP absolution tb SEP methanol SEP plus SEP about SEP 30hr SEP good SEP a SEP little SEP high SEP SEP 25g SEP ICl tb 6 SEP Ta SEP absolute SEP dethanol tb SEP saturation tb SEP solution SEP of SEP about SEP 15rh SEP good SEP high SEP SEP ICl3 tb 7 SEP Ta SEP 100ml SEP absolute tb SEP methanol SEP plus SEP about SEP 70hr tb SEP 25g SEP IBr SEP good SEP a SEP little SEP high SEP Cammercially available absolute methanol for Karl Fischer measurement Table 2 EMI29.1 No. SEP Substrate SEP Crystal SEP forms SEP Mechanical tb SEP temperature SEP of SEP beron SEP Etching SEP strength tb 1 SEP 1100 C SEP amorphous SEP Boron SEP is SEP a SEP little tb SEP non crystal SEP likely SEP to SEP break SEP by SEP high tb SEP etching tb 2 SEP 1150 C SEP amorphous SEP plus SEP Boron SEP is SEP a SEP little tb SEP alpha SEP rhombohedral SEP likely SEP to SEP break SEP by SEP medium tb SEP etching tb 3 SEP 1250 C SEP ss rhombohedral SEP Boron SEP hardly SEP breaks SEP high tb SEP by SEP etching tb 4 SEP 1350 C SEP ss rhombohedral SEP Boron SEP hardly SEP breaks tb SEP plus tetragonal SEP by SEP etching SEP medium tb Table 3A EMI30.1 SEP Chromium SEP coating SEP Thickness SEP of SEP chromium SEP Production SEP yleld SEP Mechanical tb No. SEP method SEP layer SEP after SEP etching SEP strength tb 1 SEP none SEP 0. SEP micron SEP about SEP 10 SEP tb SEP most SEP are SEP broken SEP 10w tb SEP by SEP etching tb 2 SEP OC. SEP sputtering SEP 1.5 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb 3 SEP AC. SEP sputtering SEP 1.0 SEP micron SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb 4 SEP DC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP 0.2 SEP micron SEP Fe SEP 8.0 SEP microns SEP about SEP 95 SEP SEP a SEP little tb SEP and SEP then SEP Cr SEP high tb SEP plating tb 5 SEP CVD tb SEP CrI2 H2 Cr 2HI SEP 2.0 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb 6 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP 0.1 SEP micron SEP about SEP 20 SEP tb SEP many SEP are SEP broken SEP low tb SEP by SEP etching tb 7 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP 0.4 SEP micron SEP about SEP 80 SEP SEP a SEP little tb SEP high tb 8 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP 0.5 SEP micron SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb 9 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP 4.5 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb 10 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP 6.0 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP a SEP little tb SEP high tb EMI31.1 No. SEP Chromium SEP coating SEP Thickness SEP of SEP chromium SEP Production SEP yield SEP Mechanical tb SEP method SEP layer SEP after SEP etching tb 1 SEP DC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 1.2 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb SEP boronizing SEP usihg tb SEP BCl3 tb 2 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP CR SEP and SEP then SEP 1.0 SEP micron SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb SEP boronizing SEP using tb SEP BCl3 tb 3 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of SEP 0.35 SEP micron SEP about SEP 30 SEP tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP SEP many SEP are SEP broken SEP low tb SEP boronizing SEP using SEP by SEP etchning tb SEP BCl3 tb 4 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 0.53 SEP micron SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb SEP toronizing SEP using tb 5 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 3. SEP micron SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb SEP boronizing SEP using tb SEP BCl3 tb 6 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 4.5 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP high tb SEP borontzing SEP using tb SEP BCl3 tb 7 SEP AC SEP sputtering SEP of tb SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 7.0 SEP microns SEP about SEP 100 SEP SEP a SEP little tb SEP boronizing SEP using SEP high tb SEP BCl3 tb Table 4EMI32.1 SEP Thickness SEP tb SEP Coating SEP Coating SEP cf SEP coating SEP Production SEP Mechanical SEP Crystal SEP form tb SEP . SEP SEP SEP No. SEP material SEP method SEP layer SEP yield SEP strcngth SEP of SEP boron tb SEP micron tb 1 SEP none SEP SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP low SEP mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP 2 SEP none SEP SEP SEP 10 SEP SEP low SEP mainly tb SEP ss rhombohedral tb SEP 3 SEP Cr SEP r.f. SEP sputtering SEP 0.8 SEP 92 SEP SEP high SEP mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP tb 4 SEP 9Oat SEP plus tb e SEP 10 SEP at SEP SEP SEP SEP sputtering SEP . SEP tb SEP loy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP e SEP 25 SEP at SEP SEP SEP sputtering SEP 0.85 SEP 94 SEP SEP high tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r SEP f. SEP Mainly tb SEP 6. SEP SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP SEP SEP SEP 1.0 SEP SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Fe SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP SEP sputtering SEP SEP SEP SEP high SEP SEP amorphous tb SEP 7 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. SEP a SEP little SEP Mainly tb SEP 25 SEP at SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Fe SEP 75 SEP at SEP SEP sputtaring SEP 1.0 SEP 40 SEP SEP low SEP amorphous tb SEP 8 SEP Cr SEP r.f. SEP Mainly tb SEP sputtaring SEP 0.9 SEP 100 SEP SEP high SEP ss rhombohedral tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. SEP Mainly SEP tb SEP 9 SEP 9Oat SEP plus SEP sputtering SEP 0.7 SEP 100 SEP high SEP SEP 8 SEP ss rhombohedral SEP tb SEP Fe SEP 10 SEP at SEP SEP sputtaring SEP SEP 100 SEP SEP high SEP ss rhombohedral tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 10 SEP 75 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. SEP Mainly tb SEP Fe SEP 25 SEP at SEP SEP sputtaring SEP 0.8 SEP 100 SEP SEP high SEP ss rhombohedral tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb SEP 11 SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP sputtaring SEP 1.0 SEP 83 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP Fe SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP ss rhombohdral tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb SEP 12 SEP 25 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP sputtering SEP 1.0 SEP 58 SEP SEP a SEP little SEP Mainly tb SEP Fe SEP 75 SEP at SEP SEP low SEP ss rhombohedral tb Table 4 Continued EMI33.1 SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb SEP sputtering tb SEP SEP SEP Cr SEP and SEP then SEP 1.2 SEP 98 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP tb SEP bride SEP and SEP then SEP 1.2 SEP Nainly tb SEP using SEP BCl3 tb SEP boride SEP of SEP alloy SEP r.f. tb alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP sputtering SEP 1.1 SEP 99 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP 75 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP and SEP then SEP ss rhombohedral tb SEP Fe SEP 25 SEP at SEP SEP boronizing tb SEP using tb SEP SEP BCl3 SEP tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb SEP 95 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP sputtering tb SEP 5 SEP Ni SEP 5 SEP at SEP SEP 1.5 SEP 92 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP tb SEP 6 SEP 90 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Ni SEP 10 SEP at SEP SEP sputtering SEP 0.9 SEP 80 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP 7 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 60 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Ni SEP 40 SEP at SEP SEP sputtering SEP 0.9 SEP 50 SEP SEP a SEP little SEP Mainly tb SEP low SEP amorphous tb SEP 18 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 90 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Co SEP 10 SEP at SEP SEP sputtering SEP 1.3 SEP 100 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP 19 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 80 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Co SEP 20 SEP at SEP SEP sputtering SEP 1.1 SEP 90 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 20 SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Co SEP 50 SEP at SEP SEP supptering SEP 1.0 SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP Mainly tb SEP low SEP amorphous tb SEP 21 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb SEP 80 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Zr SEP 20 SEP at SEP SEP supptering SEP 1.0 SEP 93 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous tb SEP 22 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr tb 80 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP r.f. tb SEP Al SEP 20 SEP at SEP SEP sputtering SEP 1.5 SEP 92 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP amorphous. tb 23 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb 80 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP sputtering SEP 1.3 SEP 90 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP V SEP 20 SEP at SEP SEP amorphous tb SEP 24 SEP alloy SEP of SEP Cr SEP r.f. tb 80 SEP at SEP SEP plus SEP sputtering SEP 1.1 SEP 94 SEP SEP high SEP Mainly tb SEP Si SEP 20 SEP at SEP SEP amorphous tb Table 5EMI34.1 Temperature SEP of SEP Temperature SEP of SEP Crystal SEP forms tb SEP No. SEP Substrate SEP forming SEP diffusing SEP of SEP boron SEP Mechanica tb SEP amorphous SEP layer SEP amorphous SEP layer SEP deposited SEP Strength tb SEP 1st SEP process . SEP 2nd SEP process SEP 3rd SEP process tb SEP C SEP C tb 1 SEP w SEP B rhombo SEP 100 tb SEP hedral tb SEP 2 SEP Ta SEP SEP SEP ss rhombo SEP 150 tb SEP hedral tb 3 SEP Ta SEP SEP SEP Amorphous SEP 170 tb 4 SEP SEP Ta SEP 800 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombo SEP 310 tb SEP hedral tb SEP 5 SEP Ta SEP 900 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombo SEP 365 tb SEP hedral tb SEP 6 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombo SEP hedral tb SEP 7 SEP Ta SEP i100 SEP O SEP SEP 1300 SEP hedral SEP 510 tb SEP 8 SEP Ta SEP 1200 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombo SEP 290 tb SEP hedral tb 9 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1100 SEP RTI ID 34.5 B rhombo SEP 270 tb SEP hedral tb 10 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1200 SEP ss rhombo SEP 470 tb SEP hedral tb SEP 11 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 500 tb SEP 12 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1400 SEP ss rhombo SEP hedral SEP 300 tb SEP 13 SEP Ta SEP 1000 SEP 1300 SEP Amorphous SEP 570 tb SEP 14 SEP W SEP 1000 SEP 1300 SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 450 tb Same as No. 6 EMI35.1 SEP Crystal SEP forms SEP of SEP Thickuess SEP of SEP firstly SEP Thickness SEP of SEP seondly SEP Mchanical tb No. SEP Substrate SEP boron SEP firstly SEP deposited SEP deposited SEP crystal SEP deposited SEP amorphous SEP strength tb SEP boron SEP layer SEP microns SEP boron SEP layer SEP microns tb 1 SEP W SEP all SEP ss rhombohedral SEP of SEP 30 SEP microns SEP 100 tb 2 SEP Ta SEP all SEP ss rhombohedral SEP of SEP 30 SEP microns SEP 100 tb 3 SEP Ta SEP all SEP amorphous SEP 30 SEP microns SEP 120 tb 4 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 3 SEP 28 SEP 500 tb 5 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 5 SEP 24 SEP 490 tb 6 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 390 tb 7 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 250 tb 8 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 2 SEP 28 SEP 470 tb SEP SEP tetragonal tb 9 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 5 SEP 25 SEP 470 tb SEP SEP tetragonal tb 10 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 10 SEP 20 SEP 350 tb SEP SEP tetragonal tb 11 SEP Ta SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 20 SEP 10 SEP 200 tb 12 SEP W SEP ss rhombohedral SEP 6 SEP 24 SEP 390 tb Table 7EMI36.1 tb SEP Thickness SEP of SEP Number SEP of SEP Mechanical tb No. SEP Substrate SEP each SEP amorphous SEP amorphous SEP layer SEP SEP SEP Comment tb SEP layer SEP microns SEP in SEP boron SEP pipe tb SEP Crystal SEP borons SEP .t SEP tb 1 SEP W SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 100 SEP likely SEP to SEP be SEP for SEP tb SEP locally, SEP dan SEP bon tb 2 SEP Ta SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 200 SEP pipe SEP is SEP weak SEP c SEP tb SEP paratively tb 3 SEP Ta SEP 2.3 SEP 26 SEP 490 tb 4 SEP Ta SEP 3.5 SEP 17 SEP 620 tb 5 SEP Ta SEP 5.1 SEP 12 SEP 635 tb 6 SEP Ta SEP 10.5 SEP 6 SEP 590 tb 6 SEP Ta SEP 15.0 SEP 4 SEP 550 tb SEP Surface SEP is SEP a tb SEP tle SEP non unifo. tb 8 SEP Ta SEP 20.3 SEP SEP 3 SEP 430 SEP and SEP boron SEP pip tb SEP a SEP little SEP weak tb SEP comparatively tb 9 SEP W SEP SEP 4.0 SEP 15 SEP 470 tb