# Preparation of glass for optical fibers.

## Abstract
Glass for optical fibers comprising a quartz glass tube 4 and at least one glass layer deposited onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube 4 , the glass layer being formed by depositing a gaseous raw material mixture 5 , a glass fiber produce from which shows greater difference in refractive indexes between a core and a cladding.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Glass for optical fibers comprising a quartz glass tube and at least one glass layer deposited onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube, the glass layer being formed by depositing a gaseous raw material mixture which comprises SiFX3 wherein X is a chlorine or bromine atom and oxygen. 2. Glass according to claim 1, wherein the raw material mixture further comprises at least one material selected from the group consisting SiC14, GeCl4, POC13, BC13 and Flon trade mark gases. 3. Glass according to claim 1, which comprises at least two glass layers having different refractive indexes. 4. Glass according to claim 1, wherein the refractive index of the gloss layer varies in its radial direction. 5. Glass according to claim 3, wherein the innermost layer consists of pure SiO2. 6. A process for producing glass for optical fibers comprising introducing a raw material for synthesizing glass which comprises SiFX3 wherein X is the same as defined in claim 1 and oxygen into a quartz glass tube and externally heating the quartz glass tube using a moving heat source thereby to deposit a synthetic glass layer onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube. 7. A process according to claim 6, wherein the quartz tube is rotated. 8. A process according to claim 6, wherein the exterior of the quartz tube is heated to a temperature of from about 1,000 to 1,5000C. 9. A process according to claim 6, wherein the ratio of SiFX3 to other raw material s is varied with the passage of time.

## Description
GLASS FOR OPTICAL FIBERS AND PREPARATION THEREOF This invention relates to glass for optical fibers and preparation thereof. More particularly, it relates to glass for optical fibers containing fluorine as a dopant for controlling a refractive index and a process for preparing the same. One of the generally known processes for synthesizing glass for optical fibers is a chemical vapor deposition method hereinafter referred to as CvD method as disclosed in Japanese Patent Kokai Publication unexamined No. 57635 75. Fig. 2 schematically illustrates the CvD method. As a raw material 5 for synthesizing glass e.g. SiC14, BBr3, GeCl4, POC13, 02, etc. is introduced into a rotating quartz glass tube 4 while heating the quartz glass tube 4 externally by means of a heat source 6 which reciprocates along the tube 4 to oxidize the raw material 5 introduced. Thereby, a synthetic glass layer deposits on the inner wall ofthe quartz glass tube. The quartz glass tube with the deposited glass layer is collapsed to form a preform for optical fibers. The raw material for synthesizing glass for optical fibers usually contains a dopant for controlling a refractive index of the resulting fiber. In case of using boron as the dopant, it has been proved that the refractive index is adversely affected by thermal history such as quenching involved in the subsequent drawing. Thus, many proposals have been made to use fluorine as a dopant free from the above described disadvantage.For example, it has been proposed to use SF6, CF4 or SiF4 as a dopant for controlling a refractive index cf. K. Abe, 2ndEuropean Conference 76, page 59 and to use CC12F2, sulfur tetrafluoride or boron trifluoride for the same purpose cf.Japanese Patent Kokai Publication unexamined No.57846 78 . However, these dopants have several disadvantageous such as a low synthesizing rate, a low yield or insufficient doping of fluorine. These disadvantages may be ascribed to insufficient decomposition of a fluorine containing gas mostly Flon trade mark gases in the CVD process, which results in insufficient doping of fluorine, or to formation of gaseous SiF4 according to the following reaction formula even if the sufficient decomposition of the fluorine containing gas can be achieved, thereby to reduce the production proportion of solid materials 3SiCl4 2SF6 202 3SiF4 2S02 6C12 4 2 As a result of the extensive study to overcome the above described disadvantages of the conventional methods and dopants, it has now been found that effectively doped glass for optical fibers can be produced by the use of a silicon halide of the formula as a dopant SiFX3 wherein X represents a chlorine or bromine atom. According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided glass for optical fibers comprising a quartz glass tube and a glass layer deposited onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube in which the glass layer comprises SiFX3 wherein X is the same as defined above and oxygen. According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a process for producing glass for optical fibers comprising introducing a raw material for synthesizing glass which comprises SiFX3 wherein X is the same as defined above and oxygen into a quartz glass tube and externally heating the quartz glass tube using a moving heat source thereby to deposit a synthetic glass layer onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube. Figs. 1 a to f are the graphs each showing a refractive index distribution of the typical optical fiber of the present invention. Fig. 2 shows a schematic view illustrating the CVD method. One of the characteristics of the invention resides in that the raw material 5 for synthesizing the glass of the inner layer comprises SiFX3 eg. SiFC13 andSiFBr3 . The ratio of SiFX3 to oxygen is usually from 1 1,000 to 1 1, preferably from 1 100 to 1 10. The use of SiFX3 as a dopant makes it possible to dope fluorine in silica to a high concentration without reducing the synthesizing rate. The doping mechanism of the present invention can be explained by comparing bond energy of atoms which participate in the oxidation reaction of the raw material. For example, in case of SiFC13, the Si Cl bond having a bond energy of 296 KJ mol is easily cleaved in the course of the conventional CVD method to form a Si O bond having a bond energy of 432 KJ mol, while the Si F bond having a bond energy of 590 mol is not easily cleaved and remains as such, which results in the deposition of a solid phase consisting of SiOl 5F. On the contrary, according to the conventional CVD method using SiC14, O2 and Flon trade mark gas e.g. CF4 , it is believed that the active fluorine forms an Si F bond upon reaction of these gases. As a result, probability of the formation of the Si O bond decreases and gaseous molecules eg. SiF4, SiOF2, etc. form, whereby the yield of solid phase glass decreases. Further, even when a Si F Cl type compound is used as a raw material, those compounds having two or more fluorine atoms in their molecule e.g. SiF2C12, SiF3Cl, etc. tend to form molecules such as SiOF2, SiOo 5F3 andSiF4. In this case, formation of solid phase nuclei is insufficient and it is difficult to form a solid silica phase containing fluorine. This is the reason why Si compounds having one fluorine atom per molecule are preferred for the purpose contemplated in this invention. However, those compounds having one fluorine atom and also at least one hydrogen atom per molecule eg. SiH3F,Si CH30 3F, etc. sometimes introduce moisture in the glass produced. Therefore, they are not suitable as a raw material for the glass of the invention. The raw material for synthesizing the glass of the present invention comprises SiFX3 and optionally at least one other raw material eg. SiC14, Gel4, POCl3, BC13, Flon trade mark gases, etc. . Combined use of these raw materials makes it possible to control the amount of fluorine to be doped. When GeC14, POCK3 or BC13 is used in combination with SiFX3, a F doped GeO2 SiO2 type glass, anF doped P2O SiO2 type glass or an F doped B203 SiO2 type glass can be synthesized respectively. In this case, the ratio of SiFX3 to other raw material s is usually from 1 100 to 100 1, preferably from 1 10 to 10 1. The introduction rate of the raw material mixture is usually from 10 to 1,000 cc min., preferably from 100 to 500 cc min. According to the present invention, not only a multi mode fiber as shown in Figs. 1 a to d but also a single mode fiber as shown in Figs. 1 e and f can be produced. In Fig. 1, numerals 1, 2 and 3 denote a core, a cladding, and a jacket respectively. Furthermore, by virtue of the present invention, it is possible to produce a fiber having a high refractive index namely, a high NA fiber or a fiber having a great difference in refractive index between a core and a cladding which is suitable as an image fiber e.g. a fiber of Fig. 1 b at high efficiency, and also to produce optical fibers having a core consisting mainly of pure silica which are excellent in radiation resistance e.g. fibers of Figs. 1 c , d and f . When the mixing ratio of SiFX3, e.g., Sic13, to other raw materials e.g. SiCl4 is varied with the passage of time, an optical fiber with its refractive index being varied in its radial direction e.g., fibers of Figs. 1 a and c can be produced. The present invention is applied to the CVD method as hereinbefore described, but it may also be applied to a modified CVD method wherein a fluorine doped cladding is synthesized onto the inner wall of the quartz glass tube and a preliminarily prepared glass rod is then inserted as a core into the quartz glass tube. The size of the quartz tube may be the same as that used in the conventional CvD method. For example, the outer diameter of the quartz tube is from 10 to 50 mm, preferably from 15 to 30 mm. The method of the invention may be carried out under the substantially same conditions eg. temperature, pressure, time, etc. as those of the conventional CVD method. Preferred conditions are as follows Temperature 1,000 1,5000C Rotating rate of quartz tube 20 100 rpm Reciprocating rate of heater 1 20 cm min.The quartz tube is preferably rotated to uniformly heat it. The present invention will be hereinafter explained further in detail by following Examples. Example 1 t A gaseous mixture of the raw materials shown inTable 1 below was introduced at a predetermined rate in a quartz glass tube having an outer diameter of 20 mm and a wall thickness of 1.7 mm which rotated at 50 rpm, while heating the quartz glass tube with an oxyhydrogen burner which reciprocated along the tube at a speed of 10 cm min.The outer wall of the tube was thus heated to about 14000C. After the raw materials were introduced at the same temperature for 5 hours, introduction of SiFC13 was terminated while introduction of SiC14 and O2 were continued at the same temperature for 4 minutes, thereby to deposit pureSiO2. Then, introduction of the raw materials was terminated and the temperature was raised to 1,7000C to collapse the thus formed glass. The resulting preform was drawn into fiber at a drawing ratio of 20 m min. at 2,0000C to obtain a single mode fiber having a refractive index distribution shown in Fig. 1 f .According to the results shown inTable 1, the yield of the 3lass was as high as 50 based onSi and the difference of refractive indexes between the cladding and the core SiO2 was as great as 0.3 . Further, the resulting fiber showed attenuation as low as 0.5 dB Km at a wavelength of 1.3 micrometers. Examples 2 to 3 and Comparative Examples 1 to 2 The same procedures as described in Example 1 were repeated but using a gaseous mixture of the raw materials shown in Table 1. The results are shown in Table 1. As is apparent from the results shown in Table 1, the fibers of the present invention show greater differences in refractive index between the core and the cladding and higher yields of glass produced than those obtained inComparative Examples in which Sic13 was not used as a raw material. The greater refractive index difference between the core and the cladding indicates that fluorine was doped to higher concentration. Table 1 EMI9.1 Raw SEP materials SEP cc min SEP Difference SEP in SEP Yield SEP tb refractive SEP index SEP Si SEP basis tb SiFCl3 SEP SiCl4 SEP O2 SEP Others SEP SiO2 SEP basis SEP tb Example SEP 1 SEP 15 SEP 150 SEP 1000 SEP SEP SEP 0.3 SEP 50 tb Example SEP 2 SEP 40 SEP 150 SEP 1000 SEP SEP SEP 0.7 SEP 40 tb Example SEP 3 SEP 40 SEP 150 SEP 1000 SEP POCl3 SEP SEP 0.7 SEP 45 tb 5 tb Comparative SEP SEP 150 SEP 1000 SEP SF6 SEP SEP 0.2 SEP 20 tb Example SEP 1 tb 40 tb Comparative SEP SEP 150 SEP 1000 SEP CF4 SEP SEP 0.1 SEP 40 tb Example SEP 2 tb 40 tb While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof, it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.