# Apparatuses for creep control of rotating drums.

## Abstract
Where large drums 1 and 2 are to be rotated about a horizontal axis to enable an annular weld 3 to be deposited, irregularities may cause the drums to move axially whilst being rotated. The invention provides a support by which the tendency to creep may be corrected. The support provides rollers 25 on which the drum 1 is welded. The rollers 25 are mounted on a rocker carriage id that can tilt about a spindle 19. By altering slightly the tilt of the carriage 14, the axis of the drum can be easily shifted laterally in the sense that will tend to counteract the tendency to creep.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A support on which a drum may rest whilst being rotated about its axis, the support including rollers spaced apart transversely of the axis on which the drum may lie, the rollers being mounted on a carriage, the carriage being tiltably carried from a base so that the inclination of the carriage in a plane transverse to the axes of the rollers may be adjusted, and means being provided by which adjustment of the inclination of the carriage relatively to the base may be effected. 2. A support as claimed in claim 1 in which the carriage is pivotably mounted on a spindle that is fixed relatively to the base. 3. A support as claimed in claim 2 in which the means by which adjustment of the inclination of the carriage may be effected is such as to hold the carriage in the position relatively to the base to which it is adjusted. 4. A support as claimed in claim 1 in which the carriage is tiltably carried from the base by arms lying one on each side of the carriage and on which the carriage is pivotably mounted, the arms being pivotally connected to the base at a common axis spaced apart from that at which the carriage is connected to the arms and being provided with means by which the orientation of the arms to the base may be varied. 5. A support as claimed in claim 4 in which the means by which the orientation of the arms to the base may be varied includes a hydraulic cylinder. 6. A support as claimed in either of claims 4 and 5 in which a hydraulic cylinder extends between the carriage and the base so that the orientation of the carriage relatively to the base may be varied. 7. A support as claimed in any of the preceding claims in which there are four rollers arranged in two pairs, each pair being mounted on a bracket pivotally connected to the carriage to pivot about an axis parallel to the axis about which the carriage can tilt, the brackets being symmetrically disposed relatively to that axis and the rollers being so arranged that a drum of the appropriate diameter resting on the rollers makes contact with each.

## Description
Improvements in or relating to Apparatus for Creep Control of Rotating Drums DESCRIPTION This invention arose from a consideration of the problems involved in the welding together end to end of drums. In a known technique for so welding thickwalled drums having diameters between, say, 1.2m and 4.6m., the drums rest on rollers end to end and with their axes aligned. Bridging members are then connected internally to both drums to hold them together so that they can then be rotated as a unit about their axis on the rollers during the welding process.To deposit a weld that will occupy the entire thickness of the walls, many rotations of the drums may be necessary. If either or both drums are not exactly true to their common axis, or the rollers on which the drums turn are not precisely positioned or have their axes at all out of parallel with the drum axis, then the drums are liable to creep, in the sense of moving axially as they rotate. Whilst the creep may be only in the order to 1 cm. per rotation, this can obviously be inimical to the formation of a reliable weld. It may also happen that the axes of the two drums are not in precise alignment. Unless it is sufficient that the drums, when connected together by bridging members, should be supported on rollers at only two locations, then the means that provides additional support must be able to accommodate this lack of alignment. The present invention is concerned with means by which creep may be countered and embodiments of the invention are such that support can be provided throughout the rotation of the drums at more than two locations even though the drums that are connected together are somewhat out of true. By the present invention there is provided a support on which a drum may rest whilst being rotated about its axis on the support including rollers spaced apart transversely of the axis on which the arum may lie, the rollers being mounted on a carriage, the carriage being tiltably carried from a basf so that the inclination of the carriage in a plane transverse to the axes of the rollers may be adjusted and means being provided by which adjustment of the inclination of the carriage relatively to the base may be effected. By way of example, an embodiment of the invention will now be described in which Figure 1 is a sketch illustrating in side view two drums held together end to end and mounted on supports which enable them to be rotated during welding Figure 2 is a front view of the support shown at the left hand end of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a plan view of the support shown inFigure 2 Figure 4 is a side view from the right of Figure 3 Figure 5 is a front view of each of the two central supports shown in Figure 1 Figure 6 is a plan view of the support shown inFigure 5 and Figure 7 is a side view from the right of Figure 6. In Figure 1 there are indicated two thick walled drums 1 and 2 ready for welding end to end. The ends are chamfered to provide a groove 3 in which weld material is to be deposited during several rotations of the drums. Each of the drums is borne by two supports installed on the floor of a workshop drum 1 on supports 5 and 6 and drum 2 on supports 7 and 8. Each support is provided with rollers on which the drums are cradled. Support 8 is of a known kind and may be called a driver. It provides means by which one, at least, of the rollers on which the drum rests may be rotated so that, through its frictional engagement with the drum, the drum may be rotated about its axis with the axis remaining in a fixed position.Support 5 is illustrated in Figures 2 to 4 and supports 6 and 7 are each as illustrated in Figures 5 to 7. The support 5 which may be called a creep control supporttincludes a base 10 that is bolted, at 11, to the work shop floor. A rocker carriage 14 is mounted on the base 10. The rocker carriage 14 is in the form of an elongated rectangular box extending transversely of the drum 2.It comprises side plates 15 rigidly connected together by end plates 16. For the mounting of the rocker carriage 14, the base 10 is provided with two bracket constructions 18 between which is fixed a spindle 19 that passes through the side plates 15 and forms an axle on which the rocker carriage 14 can oscillate in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the drum. To provide a cradle for the tube 1, the rocker carriage 14 is provided with four rollers 25 arranged in pairs, carried in a roller bracker 26. Each bracket comprises a pair of plates 27 that are generally triangular, right angled and isosceles . Each pair of plates 27 is held together by two spindles 28, on one of each of which a roller 25 can rotate between the plates 27. The roller brackers 26 lie between the side plates 15 of the rocker carriage 14 and each is mounted on a spindle 30 extending between the side plates 15 and passing through the right angle corner of the plates 15. Since the roller brackets 26 can rock relative lt tO t le rocker carriage 14, they can cradle the drum throughout a range of variations in the position of the axis of the drum relatively to the rocker carriage 14. Means are provided by which the rocker carriage 14 can be tilted to a small controlled extent about its spindle 19. This means includes a base strut 30 extending to one side of the rocker carriage 14 and fixed to the base 10 and a bracket 31 fixed to the rocker carriage 14 and extending above the base strut 30. A screw shaft 32 is captive in a swivel 33 mounted in the base strut 30 and rotatable in and through a swivel 34 mounted in the bracket 31. A handle 35 enables the screw shaft 32 to be rotated to vary the tilt of the rocker carriage 14. The supports 6 and 7 are illustrated in Figures 5 to 7. Each includes a base 10, a rocker carriage 14 and roller brackets 26 so similar to those shown in Figures 2 to 4 that they may be denoted by the same reference numerals. In Figures 5 to 7, however, the rocker carriage 14 is mounted on the base in such a way that its height above the base 10 can be varied and the carriage 14 can rock in response to loads applied to it by the tube that is cradled on it. As in the previous embodiment, a spindle 19 passes through the rocker carriage 14 but its ends are fixed tofloatingplates 40 lying outside the rocker carriage 14 between the carriage 14 and side strut walls 41 that extend upright from the base 10, parallel to, and for much of the length of, the rocker carriage 14. Base struts 42 extend parallel to the walls 41 and project to one side of the rocker.carriage 14 and at one end each plate 40 is pivotally mounted on a spindle 43 that extends between a side strut wall 41 and a base strut 42. At their other ends, each plate 40 is supported by a hydraulic cylinder 47 that is fixed to the base 10 through means 48 tat permit a small degree of oscillation of the cylinder 47. The upper end of the cylinder 47 carries a fork 50 in which a thinned portion 40a of the plate 40 is received and to which it is connected by a pivot pin 51. From the end of the rocker carriage 14, there projects a bracket 60 and a hydraulic cylinder 61 is pivotally connected at one end to the bracket 60 and at the other end to the base strut 42. By operating on both of the cylinders 47 and 61 separately, the height and inclination of the rocker carriage 14 can be set initially whilst in subsequent operation they will act as hydraulic springs to accommodate small variations in the height of the drum that rests on it. Cylinder 61 may be seen as a creep control cylinder and the cylinders 47 may be called equalising cylinders. The equalising cylinders 47 are single acting with a stroke of about 7.5 cms each will support a load of about 20 tonnes and have a hydraulic pressure requirement of about 3 tonnes per sq. cm. The creep control cylinder 61 is double acting with astrokeof about 25 cms. In Figure 5, 65 denotes columns extending upward from the base 10.The rocker carriage 14 can tilt relatively to the columns 65 but is laterally supported by them. In using the apparatus that has been described, the drum lis rested on supports 5 and 6 and the drum 2 on supports 7 and 8. The rocker carriage 14 of supports 6 and 7 are then adjusted in height and inclination, by appropriate operation of the cylinders 47 and 61, to ensure that the axes of the drums 1 and 2 are as nearly aligned as possible.Bridging pieces 4 are then welded temporarily internally to the drums 1 and 2 to hold them together until the final annular weld has been completely deposited. To effect the final weld, the united drums are rotated and it is desirable that during this rotation creep should be kept to a minimum. Creep is controlled by the support 5. By adjustment of the handle 35 the axis of the drum can be tilted to the optimum position for the reduction of creep. This setting might be retained throughout the completion of the weld but it is envisaged that, using sensing devices to detect variations in the orientation of the axis of tlle drums, adjustment may be made during any complete rotation of the drums or after a number of rotations. Throughout rotation of the drums during the welding process, the supports 6 and 7 are continually effective for the cylinders 47 and 61 act as hydraulic springs so allowing the height of the drums to sink below a maximum and yet tending to restore them to that position. By using tilting of the rocker carriage 14, correction for creep is effected essentially by lateral movement of the axis of the drums and, in this way only a comparatively small force is needed.By the use of hydraulic cylinders, in place of the screw shaft 32, control could be effected remotely. In modifications of the supports shown inFigures 2 to 7, each roller bracket 26 and the rollers 25 that it carries could be replaced by a single roller of which that axis is fixed relatively to the rocker carriage 14. By using a large number of rollers, the risk of serious indentation of the drum is reduced however.