# Integrated circuit and method of manufacture.

## Abstract
A CMOS integrated circuit having a plurality of complimentary insulated gate field effect transistors and method of manufacture are disclosed. The method of manufacture includes a first process for forming dielectric isolation regions within deep trenches separating the complementary P and N type channel field effect transistors. The isolation trench is coated with a layer of semiconductor oxide and filled with unoxidized polycrystalline semiconductor material to prevent the formation of air gaps and provide a thermal coefficient of expansion matching that of the substrate to reduce thermal stress which tends to cause PN junction leakage current, and also prevents latch up operation failure of the transistor. The method of manufacture also includes a second process for producing self aligned areas of refractory metal silicide on the source, drain and gate elements of the field effect transistor to lower the resistivity of the ohmic contacts and interconnect resistance. Two layers of different refractory metals are provided, including an inner layer of low resistivity refractory metal, such as titanium or tantalum, which forms the refractory metal silicide with the silicon. An outer layer of refractory metal which does not readily oxidize, such as molybdenum, covers the inner layer to prevent oxidation of such inner layer so that those portions of the inner layer on the oxide layer which do not form silicide can be selectively removed by etching. A third process of forming birds beak free field effect transistors employs silicon nltride side walls as a protective cover over the vertical sides of the silicon dioxide insulation layer to stop lateral diffusion of the oxygen atoms thereby preventing the growth of a birds s beak portion of greater thickness in such oxide layer.