# ACOUSTIC SURFACE WAVE DEVICE

## Claims
Akustische Oberflächenwellenfilteranordnung mit einem piezoelektrischen Substrat zum Ausbreiten akustischer Oberflächenwellen einschließlich Wellen mit der Mittenfrequenz der Frequenzkennlinie der Anordnung auf einer ihrer Flächen, mit einem ersten elektroakustischen, auf der Fläche gebildeten Zweirichtungswandler zum Ausbreiten akustischer Oberflächenwellen einschließlich Wellen mit der Mittenfrequenz mit ersten und zweiten Fortpflanzungswegen auf dieser Fläche, mit einem zweiten elektroakustischen auf der Fläche gebildeten Zweirichtungswandler zum Empfangen akustischer Oberflächenwellen einschließlich Wellen mit der Mittenfrequenz, die auf den ersten und zweiten Fortpflanzungswegen an jeweiligen Eingangstoren ausgebreitet werden, und mit wenigstens einem Paar reflexiver und auf der Fläche gebildeter Mehrstreifenkoppler, wobei die zwei Koppler des oder jedes Paares den ersten bzw. zweiten Wegen zum Empfangen akustischer Oberflächenwellenenergie mit der Mittenfrequenz, die auf einem Abschnitt des zugeordneten Weges ausgebreitet wird, bzw. zum Wiederausbreiten wenigstens eines Teils dieser Energie als akustischer Oberflächenwellen auf einem anderen Abschnitt des zugeordneten Weges zugeordnet sind, wobei jeder Wandler eine interdigitale Elektrodenreihe enthält, welche Elektroden sich senkrecht zu den Längenrichtungen der Fortpflanzungswege an der Begegnungsstelle dieser Wege mit dem betreffenden Wandler erstrecken, und die Elektroden in wenigstens einer Reihe eine einheitliche Mitte zu Mitte Abstand besitzen,

## Description
This invention relates to an acoustic surface wave filter device comprising a piezo electric substrate for propagating acoustic surface waves, including waves having the centre frequency of the frequency response characteristic of the device, at a surface thereof, a first bi directional electro acoustic transducer formed on said surface for launching acoustic surface waves, including waves having said centre frequency, along first and second propagation paths at said surface, a second bidirectional electro acoustic transducer formed on said surface for receiving acoustic surface waves, including waves having said centre frequency, propagating along said first and second paths at respective input ports thereof, and at least one pair of reflective multi strip couplers formed on said surface, the two couplers of the or each pair being associated with said first and second paths respectively for receiving acoustic surface wave energy having said centre frequency propagating along a portion of the associated path and relaunching at least part of that energy as acoustic surface waves along another portion of the associated path, each transducer comprising an interdigital array of electrodes which extend at right angles to the length directions of the propagation paths where those paths adjoin the relevant transducer, the electrodes in at least one said array having a uniform centre to centre distance. A device of this kind, which will be referred to as a device of the kind set forth, is known from, for example, Fig. 5 of published French patent application serial number 2290785 and is shown in Fig. 1 of the accompanying diagrammatic drawings. In Fig. 1 which is a diagrammatic plan view an acoustic surface wave device comprises a piezo electric substrate 1 on the top surface of which are formed first and second transducers 2 and 3 respectively for launching and receiving, respectively, surface acoustic waves at said top surface. Each transducer comprises an interdigital array of electrodes 4, 5 and 6, 7 respectively as shown, an input signal being applied between the two combs which make up the transducer 2 and an output signal being generated between the two combs which make up the transducer 3. Each transducer is bidirectional, i.e. acoustic surface waves are propagated by transducer 2 simultaneously in two oppositely directed tracks the length directions of which extend at right angles to the electrodes 4 and 5. These tracks are indicated by arrows 8 and 9 respectively. Similarly transducer 3 receives and transduces simultaneously acoustic surface waves incident thereon from two oppositely directed tracks the length directions of which extend at right angles to the electrodes 6 and 7. These tracks are indicated by arrows 10 and 11 respectively. Tracks 8 and 10 constitute first and second portions respectively of a first surface acoustic wave propagation path from transducer 2 to transducer 3, and tracks 9 and 11 constitute first and second portions respectively of a second surface acoustic wave propagation path from transducer 2 to transducer 3. A pair of reflective multistrip couplers 12 and 13 respectively are also formed on the top surface of substrate 1. Coupler 12 receives surface acoustic wave energy propagating along track 8 and relaunches at least part of that energy along track 10. Similarly, coupler 13 receives surface acoustic wave energy of a given frequency propagating along track 9 and relaunches at least part of that energy along track 11. To this end the portions 14 of the conductive strips 14 of the coupler 12 which extend over and at right angles to the track 8 have a centre to centre distance This potentially low insertion loss is very useful, for example, when the device is used to provide front end selectivity in radio or other receivers, but can be achieved only if the transducers are correctly matched to the external circuits to which they are connected in operation. With the known devices this entails the provision of matching networks as external components, which networks may have to be individually tuned, thus adding to the cost of providing the filter. It is an object of the invention to mitigate this disadvantage. The invention provides an acoustic surface wave filter device comprising a piezo electric substrate for propagating acoustic surface waves, including waves having the centre frequency of the frequency response characteristic of the device, at a surface thereof, a first bi directional electro acoustic transducer formed on said surface for launching acoustic surface waves, including waves having said centre frequency, along first and second propagation paths at said surface, a second bidirectionalelectro acoustic transducer formed on said surface for receiving acoustic surface waves, including waves having said centre frequency, propagating along said first and second paths at respective input ports thereof, and at least one pair of reflective multi strip couplers formed on said surface, the two couplers of the or each pair being associated with said first and second paths respectively for receiving acoustic surface wave energy having said centre frequency propagating along a portion of the associated path and relaunching at least part of that energy as acoustic surface waves along another portion of the associated path, each transducer comprising an interdigital array of electrodes which extend at right angles to the length directions of the propagation paths where those paths adjoin the relevant tranducer, the electrodes in at least one said array having a uniform centre to centre distance, characterized in that said centre to centre distance of the electrodes in said at least one said array is such that the synchronous frequency of the corresponding transducer lies below said centre frequency, and said centre to centre distance and the number of electrodes in the corresponding array are such that the susceptance versus frequency characteristic of the corresponding transducer exhibits a minimum which substantially coincides with said centre frequency and the value of the susceptance at this minimum is substantially zero. It has now been recognised that, because the frequency response characteristic of a device of the kind set forth is determined mainly by the reflective multi strip couplers, there is a considerable amount of latitude available in the design of the transducers. Because of this, and because the susceptance versus frequency characteristic of each transducer exhibits a minimum at a frequency which depends on the centre to centre distances and number of the electrodes in the corresponding array, the value of the susceptance depending on the number of electrodes in the corresponding array, it is possible to construct one or both transducers in such a way that its impedance is substantially real within a range of frequencies which contains the centre frequency of the frequency response characteristic of the device, thereby eliminating the need for external tuned matching networks. In other words it can be arranged that the motional inductance of one or both transducers substantially exactly tunes out the static capacitance thereof at said centre frequency. When the device is to be used to provide front end selectivity in a radio or other receiver it will often be required that the impedance of the said corresponding transducer at the centre frequency be equal to that of free space, i.e. in addition to being real, be substantially equal to 50 ohms. The conductance versus frequency characteristic of each transducer depends on the size of the aperture thereof so, accordingly, the size of the aperture of said corresponding transducer may be such that the impedance of corresponding first transducer is substantially equal to 50 ohms at said centre frequency. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying diagrammatic drawings, in which The configuration shown in Fig. 2, in which corresponding components have been given the same references as their counterparts in Fig. 1, is very similar to that shown in Fig. 1, the main difference being that the reflective multistrip couplers are of the kind disclosed in coopending British patent applications 8219372 and 8219373 PHB 32892 and PHB 32893 European patent application 83200986.4 , i.e. of the kind in which the centre to centre distances of the strips 14 and 15 where they overlay the tracks 8 11 are alternately large Fig. 2 shows, for clarity, only the general configuration of an embodiment of the invention. In the actual embodiment, in which the substrate was 128 The susceptance B normalised to 1 50 ohms versus frequency f characteristic of each of the transducers 2 and 3 was as shown by curve 25 of Fig. 3, and the conductance G normalised to 1 50 ohms of each was as shown by curve 26 of Fig. 3. Thus the impedance of each transducer was substantially real within the range R between approximately 162.5 MHz and 165.5 MHz, i.e. over the band of frequencies within which the couplers 12 and 13 couple substantially all the acoustic surface wave energy incident thereon from their input tracks into their output tracks, the size of which band is approximately 1 of the frequency corresponding to λ The position along the frequency axis of the minimum in the susceptance curve depends on the centre to centre spacing and number of the electrodes of the transducers. For transducers with uniform centre to centre spacings of their electrodes this position in general lies some way above their synchronous frequency, moving closer to the synchronous frequency as the number of electrodes is increased. The position of the minimum in the susceptance curve along the susceptance axis depends on several factors. For example it will correspond to a higher value of susceptance, resulting in the susceptance versus frequency characteristic not touching or crossing the axis at all, if the number of electrodes included in the corresponding transducer is decreased, and will correspond to a lower value of susceptance, resulting in the susceptance versus frequency characteristic crossing the axis too steeply, if the number of electrodes included in the corresponding transducer is increased. As another example it depends on whether or not the relevant transducer is apodized if it is, the number of transducer electrodes required to produce a given value of susceptance at the minimum will in general be larger. As another example it depends on the particular substrate material and particular cut employed. If the material and or cut are such that the coupling between the substrate and the various electrodes is weaker than in the example quoted, the number of transducer electrodes required to produce a given value of susceptance at the minimum will in general be increased. As yet another example it depends on the mark to space ratio of the succession of transducer electrodes. For this reason the actual transducer configuration required to give the desired result in a particular situation will have to be individually calculated. For this purpose reference may be made to the general treatment given in the article entitled Analysis of generation and detection of surface and bulk acoustic waves by interdigital transducers by Milsom et al contained in IEEE Transactions on Sonics and Ultrasonics, SU 24, May 1977, pages 147 166, particularly equations 1 38 therein. The real part of the impedance of each transducer in general scales inversely with the lengths of its electrodes. Fig. 4, in which similar components are denoted by the same reference numerals as their counterparts in Fig. 2, shows the general configuration of another embodiment of the invention. Instead of including just one pair of reflective multistrip couplers 12 and 13, this configuration includes three such pairs, and 29, 30 respectively. These couplers are all identical, and identical to the couplers 12 and 13 described with reference to Fig. 2. Moreover the substrate 1 and transducers 2 and 3 are identical to the substrate 1 and transducers 2 and 3 described with reference to Fig. 2. A rectangular layer 31 of acoustic surface wave absorbent material, for example silicone rubber, is provided between the couplers 27 and 28 to prevent cross talk from occuring at frequencies different from the centre frequency of the device response. In all the embodiments described with reference to Figs. 2 and 4 the reflective multistrip couplers may, as an alternative, have one of the other configurations disclosed in the aforementioned patent applications 8219372 and 8219373 or as shown in Fig. 1 of the accompanying drawings. In particular, the couplers 12 and 13 in Fig. 2 may be modified so that the comparatively large centre to centre distances