# Mini electrical syringe needle destroyer.

## Abstract
The invention is related to a mini electrical syringe needle destroyer, consisting of a syringe needle destroyer, a neighbouring needle detaching device contained in the same framework as the said destroyer, and a needle collecting box that can be plugged into the said framework for automatic collection of waste needles.

## Claims
The claimed Part of this Invention 1. A mini electric syringe needle destroyer that con sists of a needle head destroy device and an outer case consisting of a needle head detaching device, and a needle head collector, featured by the flash electric heat destroy method of the needle head destroy device. 2. The needle head destroy device as described in item 1 of the claimed part that consists of power wires, an electric circuit, a transformer, two electrodes, and fuse, featured by the two electrodes that separate and intercross when not in use. 3. The needle head destroy device as described in item 1 of the claimed part that consists of a round needle head inserting hole and more than one needle head sliding track next to the needle head inserting hole the needle head inserting hole is opened on top of the two electrodes of the needle head destroy device such that a downward pressure will be formed when the needle head is inserted. The needle head inserts into the supporting frame, and the width of the hoof shaped support frame equals that of the needle slide track, but is smaller than the shoulder of the needle head and larger than the rest of the needle head. The needle head slide track is located on one side or more than one side of the needle head in serting hole.

## Description
Title of the Invention Mini Electrical Syrinoe Needle Destroyer Background of the InventionUsually hospital people either throw away used syringe needler or sterilize them and reuse them. In case that these needles are thrown away, infections may be spread out and may endanger carelessly hurt human bodies and cause infections cleaners health. If these needles are reused, they may hurt medical people and cause infections in the process of detaching, sterilizing and storing these needles. For security considerations, basically all medical people usually throw away their needles. In vieu of this, this invention is made to provide a mini electrical syringe needle destroyer. Summary of the InventionThe major point of this invention is to provide a oini electric syringe needle destroyer with a power control switch, a circuit protecting device fuse , a transformer, and two inter crossing, non contacting electrodes uhich can bring about flash electric heat to destroy syringe needles.Another point of this invention is to provide a mini electric syringe needle destroyer with a needle detaching device which consists of a round needle head inserting hole located on top of the outer case, i.e., on tnp of two non contacting electrodes of the needle destroying device, and a needle detaching slide track with its upper end connecting to the needle head inserting hole, of which the width is between the neck of the injector and the shoulder of the needle head.The major advantage of this invention is that the user simply holds the injector and plugs the used needle head into the needle head destroy device so that the needle is in contact with both non contacting electrodes. At this moment the used needle will absorb the strong current resulting from flash short circuit of the two electrodes.The second advantage of this invention is that the destruction, the detachment, and the collection of the needles can be done all at once, thus simplifying the operation. Description of the Preferrred Embodiment Six figures are attached to aid the illustration of this invention.Figure 1 An illustration of the needle head destroy device of this invention.Figure 2 The System Configuration of this invention.Figure 3 The anatomic illustration of this invention.Figure 4 A cross section A A of figure 2.Figure 5 The operating flowchart of this invention.Figure 6 The operating flowchart of the needle head slide track. Please refer to figure 1 and figure 2. Figure 1 is a better illustration of actual use of the syringe needlehead destroy device, while figure 2 is the overall system configuration. This invention consists of the needle head destroy device shown in figure 1, the outer case shown in figure 2, and the needle head collecting box within the case. The needle head destroy device consists of the power wires 11 that fit home use power supply 110 V or 220 V , a switch 12, a transformer 13, two electrodes 14, 15 and fuse 16. The electrodes 14 and 15 are, respectively, high molding point platinum coated 141, 145, and alloy of copper and gold inner layer 142, 145. As shown in figure 2, there is a needle head detaching device 21 on top of the outer case. The needle head detaching device 21 includes a needle head inserting hole 211 and a needle head slide track 212.The needle head inserting hole 211 is a round hole on top of the two electrodes 14 and 15 so that when needle heads are inserted they will cause a downward pressure on the electrodes. A hoof shaped supporting frame is located under the said hole, somewhat lower than the needle head slide track 212, and with the same width as that of the needle head slide track. The hoof shaped supporting frame 213 has a width as large as that of the needle head slide track 212, but a little smaller than the needle head shoulder 311, and larger than the rest of needle head. The drawer like needle head collector 22 is equipped with a heat insulating metal plate. These are the overall picture of this invention.Please refer to the figure 1 6. Figures 5 and 6 are the flow charts of the operation of this invention.As shown in the figures, this invention as completed looks small and simple like a small window, taking up only a little space, and is easy to place. The operations proceed as follows 1 First press down the switch connector 12 for power supply. 2 After heated, insert the needle head 31 into the needle head insertion hole 211. Then the needle head 31 forms a short circuit between electrodes 14 and 15. As the cross section of the needle head is very small, and its electric resistance is larger than the elec trodes Electric resistance reversely pro portionates with the cross section. , the needle head can completely absorb the strong current resulting from the flash of short circuit. The needle head 31 will thus be melted and deformed by the high temperature enabling the injector to mowe downward until the needle head shoulder 311 is stuck by supporting frame 213. 3 Then the injector and the needle head can con tinue its movement along the other side of the needle head slide track 212. Since the sup porting frame 213 is a little lower than the needle head slide track 212, the shoulder of the needle head, 311, will be stuck under the needle head slide track. As shown in Figure 6 the needle head is detached from the syringe by movement the syringe from the left to the right side along the supporting frame. 4 Hence in the sliding process the needle head that could be destroyed at any time leaves the injector 32 and drops on the metal plate 221 in the needle head collecting box 22 and completes destroying, detaching, and needle head collecting safely. Since transformer 13 decreases several times the input voltage such that the voltage across the electrodes is only 3 4 voltages, limiting the fuse 16 current between a safe range of 5 30 Amp. The operating procedures are shown in figure 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. In the illustrated example, the fuse 16 current is 5 30 Amp. When accidental short circuit on the electrodes 14 and 15 is incurred by any accidental objects, the fuse will be burned up to cut off power and prevent any extension of danger.The invention covers any device that modifies or changes the detailed structure, configuration or operation described herein without leaving the spirit and limit of this invention.