# Antigenic, immunogenic Herpes virus subunit and process for preparing it.

## Abstract
Herpes virus subunit antigens suitable for vaccine use are prepared by 1 treating virus infected cells with a surfactant and varying concentrations of salt to extract and solubilize viral directed glycoproteins, 2 fractionating the solubilized material by chromatographic procedures to enrich the viral directed glycoproteins and to remove unwanted proteins and nucleic acids, and 3 optionally treating the subunit antigens with deoxyribonuclease and formaldehyde to assure safety.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process of preparing an antigenic, immunogenic, herpes virus subunit comprising infecting the cells of a tissue culture with a herpes virus capable of growing in the tissue culture, incubating the infected tissue culture until a majority of the cells exhibit cytopathic effect, contacting the infected cells with a nonionic or anionic surfactant to obtain an extract, hydrolyzing substantially all of intact double stranded DNA in the extract, and fractionating the extract by chromatographic means. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the incubation is continued until about 75 of the cells exhibit cytopathic effect. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein the surfactant is an aryl ether adduct of ethylene oxide. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein the extraction is effected in the presence of salt. 5. A process according to claim 4 wherein the salt concentration is from about 0.1 to about 2 molar. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein the hydrolysis of double stranded DNA is effect by treatment with DNase. 7. A process according to claim 1 wherein the chromatographic means comprise affinity chromatography. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein the affinity chromatography is effected by a lectin. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein the lectin is removed by treatment with a polymerized dextran. 10. A process according to claim 1 wherein the chromatographic means comprise anion exchange chromatography. 11. A process according to claim 10 wherein the anion exchange chromatography is effected by DEAE cellulose. 12. A process according to claim 1 wherein the fractionated extract is adsorbed on alum and the adsorbed extract is washed to remove unbound surfactant. 13. A process according to claim 1 wherein the virus is HSV1, HSV2, EBV, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster virus or simian B virus. 14. An antigenic, immunogenic HSV2 subunit having 3 groups of viral directed glycoproteins, a first group of from about 110,000 to about 130,000 daltons, a second group of from about 83,000 to about 90,000 daltons and a third group of from about 55,000 to about 60,000 daltons. 15. A subunit according to claim 14 having about 6 major and about 5 minor polypeptides. 16. An antigenic, immunogenic HSVl subunit having a first group of viral directed glycoproteins of about 123,000 molecular weight and a second group of viral directed glycoproteins of about 60,000 molecular weight. 17. A subunit according to claim 16 having about 3 major and about 6 minor polypeptides.

## Description
HERPES SUBUNIT VACCINE SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION Primary chick embryo cells infected withHSV1 or HSV2 are prepared and subjected to the following sequence of operations to extract and concentrate the viral directed glycoproteins, separate them from unwanted materials and treat them to assure safety when used as a vaccine 1 the infected cells are treated with a surfactant, and a salt. 2 the surfactant solubilized material is fractionated by DEAE cellulose or lectin chromatography. 3 the viral glycoprotein containing fraction optionally is treated by Sephadex G 50 chromatography, with deoxyribonuclease and with formaldehyde. The resulting products are useful as HSV1 and HSV2 vaccines. The general process is applicable to other members of the herpesvirus group when the viruses are propagated in the host cell system appropriate for the particular herpesvirus.DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 Polypeptide composition of theHSV2 antigen isolated by Lens culinaris lectinSepharose affinity chromatography. Electrophoresis was done as described in Courtney, McCombs andMelnick, Virology 43, 356 365 1971 . Polypeptides were stained with Coomassie blue and the densitometer tracing was obtained by scanning the gel at a wavelength of 540 nm. The numbers accompanying the peaks are molecular weights. Figure 2 .Glycopolypeptide composition of the HSV2 antigen isolated by Lens culinaris lectinSepharose affinity chromatography. The viral glycoproteins were labeled in vitro by adding 3H glucosamine to the infected cells four hours after infection.infection. Electrophoresis was performed as described in Fig. 1 and the radioactivity profile was obtained by slicing the gel into 2 mm segments, dissolving the polyacrylamide in 30 hydrogen peroxide and monitoring for radioactivity in a scintillation spectrometer. Figure 3 Polypeptide composition of t HSV1 antigen isolated by con A Sepharose affinity chromatography. Electrophorsis was done as described in Fig. 1. Figure 4 Glycopolypeptide composition of the HSV1 antigen isolated by con A SepharoEe ajrity chromatography. The analysis was done as aescrn b2 in Fig. 2.DETAILED DESCRIPTION According to the present invention the starting material is herpesvirus infected cells propagated in cell culture. The virus may be any member of the herpesvirus group such as KV1, HSV2, varicella zoster, cytomegalovirus, EBV, simian virus and the like. The cell may be any cell capable of being infected with the particular herpesvirus an of producing the desired viral antigens and considered acceptable for the preparation of a vaccine. For uSVl and HSV2 vaccines for man, for example, a suitable cell culture system is primary chick embryo cells propagated as monolayers in roller bottles by procedures commonly used by those skilled in the art.The cells are infected with the HSV1 or HSV2 viruses at a low multiplicity of infection MOI, i.e., the number cf virus particles per cell , such as an MOI of fro about 0.001 to about 1.0, preferably bout 0.01, by techniques commonly used by those skilled in the art and the cultures are incubated until viral cytopathogenic effect is observed in a large proportion of the cells, typically about 75 of the cells. At the end of the incubation period, the cell culture medium is removed and the cell monolayer is optionally washed with a balanced salt solution.Alternately, the cells may be collected from the culture vessel by mechanical means, washed with a balanced salt solution, disrupted by procedures such as sonication, and the resulting disrupted cell suspension clarified by low speed centrifugation or the like. The instant method for solubilizing and extracting viral directed meSbrane ound glycoproteins from virus infected cells can be applied as effectively to the above described intact cells in monolayers as to the disrupted cell extracts. Direct chemical extraction of the intact monolayer cell cultures offers a significant practical advantage for large scale vaccine manufacture as it does not require mechanical removal of the cells from the cell growth surface.It has also been found to give a higher protein yield by reducing physical losses involved in mechanical harvesting of cells and it permits elimination of the sonication step and the low speed centrifugation step.Under properly controlled conditions this procedure improves antigen purity by selective extraction of antigens, that is to say, less DNA is extracted compared to the mechanical harvesting and sonication procedure. The surfactant employed for extraction may belong to the nonionic or anionic category. The nonionic surfactant employed may be, for instance, one or more of the following types 1. Aryl ether adducts of ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene alkyl phenols. Specific examples of this type are polyoxyethylene octyl phenol Triton X 100, Rohm Haas, Nonidet P 40,Shell Beloid EMP, Geigy , polyoxyethylene 9 9.5 nonyl phenol Renex 698, Atlas , polyoxyethylene 9 10 nonyl phenol Triton N101, Rohm Haas and polyoxyethylene 10.5 nonyl phenol Tergitol NPX,Union Carbide . 2. Aliphatic ether adducts of ethylene oxide, such as polyoxyethylene aliphatic alcohols. Specific examples of this type are polyoxyethylene 10 oleyl alcohol Brij 96, Atlas , polyoxyethylene 7 trimethylene 7 linear alcohol C11 C15 Tergitol 15 S 7, UnionCarbide . 3. Ester adducts of ethylene oxide, such as polyoxyethylene fatty acids. A specific example of this type is polyethylene glycol 400 monolaurate Cithrol 4ML 400, Croda . 4. Amine adducts of ethylene oxide, such as, polyoxyethylene fatty amines. Specific examples of this type are polyoxyethylene 15 stearyl amine Ethomeen 18 25, Armour , polyoxyethylene 15 coco fatty amines, average molecular weight 860 EthomeenC 25, Armour and polyoxyethylene 5 soya fatty.amines Ethomeen S 15, Armour . The anionic surfactant employed or extraction may be a bile salt such as, for example sodium deoxycholate, sodium cholate or sodium taurocholate. For extraction, a preferred type of nonionic surfactant is a polyoxyethylene alkyl phenol wherein the alkyl group has from about 6 to about 12 carbons, e.g. Triton X 100 or Nonidet P 40. Treatment with the nonionic surfactant extracts viral glycoproteins while treatment with the nonionic surfactant optionally in the presence of salt, typically from about 0.1 M up to about 2M salt depending upon the virus, enhances extraction of viral glycoproteins. The salt may be an alkali salt, an alkaline earth salt or a salt of a trivalent cation. Examples of such salts are KC1, NaCl, NH4C1, MgC12 or Caul2. The extraction preferably takes place at neutral pH and a buffer, e.g. Tris ECl, may be employed to adjust pH if necessary. A proteolytic inhibitor, e.g. phenyl methyl sulfonyl fluoride PMSF , is optionally present. The extraction may take place at refrigerator temperature up to incubator temperature, i.e. from about 40 to about 37 C for a period of from about 15 minutes to several days.The extraction period may extend up to that time at which degradation of the desired antigenic material occurs. However, there is generally no advantage to an extracting period of more than a few hours. Typically, the extraction is carried out in 2 Triton X 100, 0.15 M to 1M Nail, 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, and 2 mM PMSF at 20 23dC for 1 to 4 hours. Following extraction, the extract medium is centrifuged to remove insolubles cell debris, cell nuclei and viral nucleocapsids. The centrifugation may be carried out at from about 50,000 x gor above for from about 15 minutes to several hours, typically at about 100,000 x g for about 1 hour. The soluble extract is non infectious but contains some residual intact double stranded DNA and RNA. Double stranded native DNA and RNA are measured by the ethidium bromide assay of Xarsten et awl., Anal. Biochem., 46, 135 148, 1972. The assay detects DNA in amounts as low as 50 ng and RNA in amounts as low as 100 ng. Total DNA single and double stranded DNA, and DNA fragments is measured by the method of Kissane et al., J. Biol. Chem., 233, 184 188, 1958, which detects amount as low as 50 ng. Optionally the soluble material resulting from the extraction may be treated at this stage or subsequently during the process with DNase to hydrolyze any residual DNA and yield a product substantially free of intact double stranded DNA less than 50 ng 100 Wg protein . The soluble material resulting from the extraction procedure with the nonionic surfactant is especially suitable as starting material for chromatographic purification of membrane bound herpesvirus glycoproteins. Chromatographic fractionation in the presence of the surfactant results in enrichment of the virafl glycoproteins, removal and or reduction ofDNA fragments, RNA and other undesirable proteins.Fractionation of the soluble material may be effected by anion exchange chromatography by methods known to those skilled in thwart. The anion exchange medium may be, e.g., DEAE cellulose. If DNase digestion is omitted, the product of DEAE cellulose chromatography is substantially free of double stranded DNA L50 ng 100 Wg protein but may contain residual total DNA 1 wog 100 Wg protein . If DNase digestion is carried out before chromatography the product is substantially free of all DNA c50 ng 100 Wg protein . More preferably the soluble material may be fractionated by affinity chromatography on an immobilized lectin by procedures know to those skilled in the art.Lectins are cell agglutinating proteins which occur most commonly in seeds of leguminous plants, but they are also found in other parts of the plants, in plants other than legumes, and in animals. Lectins cause agglutination by binding to carbohydrates on cell surfaces and it is this specificity which makes lectins useful in the isolation and purification of carbohydrate containing macromolecules, such as glycoproteins. In their utility as glycoprotein purification reagents the lectins are usually insolubilized and immobilized by being covalently bound to an inert matrix such as, for example, dextrans, agarose, cellulose, and the like. Preferably the lectin is immobilized on column. Specific lectins are, for example, Lens culinaris lectin, Concanavalin A Canavalia enisformis lectin , Soybean agglutinin Glycine max lectin ,Wheat germ agglutinin, Horse gram lectin Dolichos biflorus lectin , Lotus tetragonolobus lectinPhaselous lunatus lectin lima bean lectin , Phaselous vulgaris lectin kidney bean lectin , Peanut lectin,Pisum sativum lectin garden pea lectin , Vicia graminea lectin, Robinia pseudoacacia lectin black locust lectin , Vicia faba lectin, Ulex europeus lectin gorse lectin , Vicia cracca lectin, Solanum tuberosum lectin potato lectin , Abrus precatorius lectin, Triticum vulgaris lectin wheat lectin , Momordia charantia lectin, Agaricus campestris lectin meadow mushroom lectin , Sesanum indicum lectin, Helix pomatia lectin vineyard snail lectin , Wisteria floribunda lectin,Laburnum alpinum lectin, Sophora japonica lectin,Phaseolus limensis lectin, and Limulus polyphemus lectin, horseshoe crab lectin . For HSV2 a prefered lectin is tens culinaris, and for HSV1 a preferred lectin is concanavalin A. The product obtained from lectin affinity chromatography is substantially free of both double stranded and total DNA 4 50 ng 100 Wg protein even without DNase treatment and contains no detectable RNA C 100 ng 100 Wg protein . Optionally the viral subunit isolated by adsorption on the immobilized lectin may be treated with a material capable of adsorbing lectins which may have bled from the adsorbant. Such material may be a polymerized dextran, such as one of the Sephadex gels. The viral directed glyoproteics isolated by either ion exchange or affinity chromatography optionally can be further purified and separated by adsorption onto the calcium phosphate containing adsorbents, e.g., brushite CaHPO42H2O or, more preferably, hydroxylapatite t Cal0 po4 6 oH 2 . Adsorption chromatography is performed in the presence of a surfactant by procedures know to those skilled in the art. The viral subunit antigen resulting from treatment with either the anion exchange resin or the immobilized lectin is free of detectable double stranded DNA and can be utilized as a vaccine to induce neutralizing antibody and cell mediated immune responses and to protect laboratory animals against paralysis and death caused by the herpes virus. The viral subunit isolated by lectin adsorption contains no detectable DNA or RNA as determined by the foregoing as says while the viral subunit isolated by adsorption onto anion exchange medium contains about 1.0 totalDNA fragments or kNA. The viral subunit vaccine may be sterile filtered and optionally treated with inactivating means such as, for example, heat, W, DNase, formalin or thimerosal to insure safety. The immunizing effect of the viral subunit vaccine may be potentiated by adsorbing the viral subunit antigen on alum or by utilizing other Immunologic adjuvants. For use as a vaccine, the viral subunit antigens must be substantially free of surfactant. The adsorption of the antigen to alum provides a particularly convenient means for removal of any unbound residual surfactant. The present invention is applicable to any herpes family virus, such as, for example, herpes simplex type 1, herpes simplex type 2, EBV virus, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster and simian B virus. The immunogenic antigens of the present invention may be prepared for vaccine use by combining with a physiologically acceptable composition such as, e.g. PBS, saline or distilled water and sterile filtering. An antimicrobial preservative, e.g. thimerosal, optionally may be present. Likewise, an inactivating agent, e.g., formaldehyde may be present to kill any residual live virus, and to inactivate any single stranded nucleic acid. The vaccine of the present invention may be employed, if desired, in combination with vaccine stabilizers and vaccine adjuvants. Typical stabilizers are, for example, gelatin, casein and albumin. An example of an adjuvant is alum.An adjuvant formulation may be prepared from peanut oil, isomannide monooleate and aluminum monostearate.The vaccine of the present invention may be stored under refrigeration or in frozen or lyophilized form.These antigens are immunogenic in mammalian species and are useful as vaccines based on induction of antibodies in guinea pigs, marmoset and Cebus monkeys, cats, and based on protection against lethal homologous virus infection in mice. The following examples illustrate the present invention without, however, limiting the same thereto. EXAMPLE 1 The Curtis strain of HSVZ was received from Dr. A. J. Nahmias of memory University, Atlanta,Georgia, with a passage history of 3 passages in primary rabbit kidney. This virus was passed 3 more times in rabbit kidney cells and then adapted to chick embryo cells by 8 serial passages. Chick embryos from 11 day embryonated eggs from a leucosìs free flock are trypsinized and the resulting single cell suspension is planted in roller bottles in medium 199 containing 2 fetal calf serum and 50 pg ml neomycin and incubated at 360C on a roller mill. On day 4 the monolayer cultures are infected with the HSV 2 virus at an MOI of 0.01 with an initial adsorption period of 2 hours. The infected cultures are incubated at 340 on roller mills until cytopathic effect is observed in about 75 of the cells, at about 44 48 hours. The supernatant growth medium is discarded and the monolayer cultures are washed gently 3 X 50 ml with PBS while rotating on the roller mill to remove residual fetal calf serum. After the washing , an extractive medium containing 2 Triton X 100, 1M NaCl, 50 mM Tris HC1, pH 7.5, 2 mM PMSF, and 4.75 ethanol is added to the bottles while rotating on the mill at a temperature of 20 230C and the extraction is allowed to proceed for about 30 minutes. The extracting medium is collected, the vessels are washed with additional extracting medium, and the wash fluid is added to the original extracting medium. The pooled cell extract is kept at a temperature of 20 230C for a total time period of no less than 1 hour from the time of the first addition of extracting medium to.the cell culture bottles and then centrifuged at 105,000 g for 1 hour at 20 230C. The supernatant is adjusted to pH 7.0, MgC12 is added to a final concentration of 0.005 M, and deoxyribonuclease from bovine pancreas 1 mg ml in deionized, distilled water is added to give a final concentration of 50 Wg ml. The mixture is incubated at 20 230C for 4 hours. This mixture is now substantially free of intact double stranded DNA. The mixture is fractionated on a Lens culinaris lectin affinity column. The Lens culinaris lectin Sepharose affinity adsorbent is prepared by Co valently linking Lens culinaris lectin to CNBractivated Sepharose 4B or activated CH Sepharose 4B by known procedures. The adsorbent is suspended in 0.18 Triton X 100, 1.0 M Nail, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 starting buffer and poured into a chromatography column the final dimensions of the adsorbent bed are 2.6 cm inside diameter X 10 cm 53.1 ml bed volume .The adsorbent is washed with 250 ml of 0.2M a methyl Dmannoside in starting buffer and this is followed by at least 5 column volumes of starting buffer.Flow rate of the column is maintained at 100 ml hr with a peristaltic pump. The mixture is pumped onto the adsorbent column and the column subsequently washed with 5 column volumes of starting buffer. Then, the viral directed glycoproteins are desorbed from the column with 5 column volumes of 0.2 M a methyl D mannoside in starting buffer. The glycoprotein enriched fraction contains 6 major and 5 2 minor polypeptides as shown in figure 1 which include three groups of viral directed glycoproteins about 110,000 130,000 daltons about 83,000 90,000 daltons and about 55,000 60,000 daltons as shown in figure 2. This fraction contains t50 ng of DNA and 100 ng of RNA per 100 g protein. No intact or disrupted viruses or nucleocapsids are detected by electron microscopy and no live virus is isolated by tissue culture methods. The glycoprotein fraction from the Lens culinaris lectin Sepharose column is chromatographe or a small column of polymerized dextran, i.e., Sephadex G 50, to remove any lectin which may have leat from the affinity adsorbents and the unadsorbed fraction collected. This treatment is optional and may be omit, The unadsorbed ESV2 glycoprotein fraction is sterile filtered through a 0.2 porosity Nuclepore filter and diluted to the protein use level with sterile pyrogen free physiologically acceptable phosphate buffered saline.Optionally, formalin is added to a concentration of 100 Wg ml and the mixture incubated for 72 hours at 360C to further insure against the possiblity of the presence of residual infectious p n virus and to inactivate any residual single stranded . For use as a vaccine, the HSV2 subunit antic en is adsorbed to alum and residual unbound Triton X lQ0 is removed by the following procedure. The antigen is adjusted to the desired protein use level and 10 AlK S04 2512H20 alum is added to give a fina alum concentration of 8.5 mg ml. During the addition of al, 1N NaOH is used to maintain a pH of 5.2 6.0. After stirring at room temperature for 1 hour, the mixture is centrifuged for 10 minutes at 270 g. The supernatant is removed and the protein is measured Lowry in both the supernatant and the alum vaccine to determine the amount adsorbed. The alum is resuspended to a volume equal to the original antigen solution in sterile physiological saline pyrogen free or in saline con taining 1 20,000 thimerosal. The alum adsorbed vaccine may be washed once or twice with saline in order to reduce the Triton X 100 concentration to minimal amounts before resuspension. The alum adsorbed vaccine is stored at 40C. EXAMPLE 2 The process of Example 1 is repeated except that the infected cells are removed mechanically from the culture vessels and washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS i.e., 0.15 M NaCl, 0.0063 M sodium phos phate, pH 7.2. The washed cells are resuspended in pyrogen free distilled water to give a cell concentration of approximately 1 2 X 107 cells ml and are disrupted by flow sonication 3 cycles at 150 ml min. with a heat exchanger to maintain the temperature at about 40C.The disrupted cells are centrifuged at 800 g for 20 minutes at 40C and the supernatant fluids are pooled.The supernatant fluid is adjusted to a final concentration of 2 Triton X 100, 1.0M NaCl, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 2 mM PHSF, 4.75 ethanol to solubilize thePMSF , and a dowry protein concentration of about 2 mg ml. The mixture is suspended with a tissue homogenizer and incubated at 20 230C for 1 hour with intermittant homogenization, and then centrifuged at 105,000 g for 1 hour at 20 230C. The supernatant fluid is collected and further processed as described in Example 1. ExAMPLE 3 The processes of Example 1 and Example 2 are repeated except that DEAE cellulose chromatography is substituted for Lens culinarus lectin affinity chromatography and Sephadex G 50 chromatography is omitted. The supernatant of the Triton X 100 extract is dialyzed against 1t Triton X 100, 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 starting buffer at 40C. The dialyzed extract is applied to a DEAE cellulose column equilibrated in starting buffer and chromatographed at 40C. After all the sample has entered the column, it is washed with the starting buffer to remove unadsorbed proteins and the adsorbed proteins are eluted with a 0 0.6 M NaCl gradient in starting buffer. The 25 200 mM NaCl fractions, which are richest in viral glycoproteins, are pooled.This pool is free of detectable double stranded DNA but contains about 1 single stranded DNA or DNA fragments and 1 28 RNA. There are 30 polypeptides ranging in molecular weight from c 17,000 to 322,000. The fraction also contains 3 groups of viral directed glycoproteins about 110,000 130,000 daltson about 83,00090,000 daltons and about 55,000 60,000 daltons. No intact or disrupted viruses or nucleocapsids are detected in the fraction by electron macroscopy and no live virus is isolated by tissue culture methods. EXAMPLE 4 Herpes simplex type 1 HSV1 infected cells are prepared essentially as described in Example 1 except that HSV1 is used in lieu of HSV2. The infected cells are harvested and extracted essentially as described in Example 2 except that the low speed supernatant from the sonicated cells is centrifuged at 105,000 g for 1 hour at 40C to concentrate the virus, and the Triton X 100 extracting medium in which the pellet is resuspended contains 0.15 M NaCl instead of 1.0 M as employed for HSV2. The resulting extract is fractionated on the lectin concanavalin A as described below. The affinity adsorbent, Con A Sepharose concanavalin A covalently linked to Sepharose , obtained from a commercial supplier, is suspended in 1 Triton X 100, 0.15 M Nail, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 starting buffer . It is placed into a 1.6 cm inside diameter chromatography column and allowed to settle to a height of 3.3 cm. The adsorbent is washed 20 ml hr with 20 ml of 0.2 M a methyl D mannosde in starting buffer1 followed by 2 M NaCI in startit buffer, and finally washed with four bed volumnes of starting buffer. The extract is pumped onto the adsorbent and the adsorbent is washed with 20 ml of the starting buffer. The glycoprotein fraction is eluted from the adsorbent with 30 ml of 0.2 M a methyl D mannoside in starting buffer. The adsorbed fraction contains three major and six minor polypeptides as shown in figure 3, among which are the major viraldirected glycoproteins of 123,000 and 60,000 molecular weight as shown in figure 4. No intact or disrupted viruses or nucleocapsids are detected by electron microscopy and no live virus is isolated by tissue culture methods.