# Novel halopyridines and methods of making.

## Abstract
Novel halopyridine, e.g. 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine and methyl 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate, the latter being useful as an herbicide.

## Claims
1. A compound having the formulaEMI19.1 wherein Y is I or Li and X is C1, OH, EMI19.2 where W is H, Na, K, Mg, Ca a N R 4 orEMI19.3 and Z represents CO2H, CO2M, CO2R, COSR, CONR 2, CSNH2, CN, CH2OR or CH2O2CR R represents C1 C8 alkyl or C3 C6 alkoxyalkyl each R independently represents H or C1 C4 alkyl and each RX independently represents H, C1 C4 alkyl or C2 C3 hydroxyalkyl. 2. Compound of Claim 1 where Y is I and X isC1. 3. Compound of Claim 1 where Y is I and X is OH. 4. Compound of Claim 1 where Y is I and X isEMI20.1 5. Compound of Claim 4 where W is H, Na or K. 6. Compound of Claim 4 where W isEMI20.2 7. Compound of Claim 6 where Z is CO2H. 8. Compound of Claim 6 where Z is CO2CH3. 9. A method of preparing 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine which comprises a reacting 5 bromo 2, 3 dichloropyridine with an effective amount of a lithiating agent at a temperature below 700C in an inert carrier medium to form 2,3 dichloro 5 lithiopyridine in situ, and then b adding to the reaction mixture an effective amount of 12 at a temperature below 700C whereby 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is formed. 10. The method of Claim 2 wherein the lithiating agent is n butyl lithium and the inert carrier medium is ethyl ether.

## Description
NOVEL EALOPYRIDINES AND METHODS OF MAKING This invention relates to novel compounds having the formulaEMI1.1 wherein y is I or Li and X is Cl, OH,EMI1.2 where W is H, Na, K, Mg, Ca, N R 4 orEMI1.3 and Z represents CO2H, CO2M, CO2R, COSR, CONR 2, CSKH2, CN, Cz20R or cH 0 CR R represents C1 C8 alkyl or C3 C6 alkoxyalkyl each R independently represents H or C1 C4 alkyl and each R independently represents H, C1 C4 alkyl or C2 C3 hydroxyalkyl. More particularly, the invention relates to 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine and its use to make 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionic acid and agriculturally acceptable derivatives thereof. In one embodiment of the present invention, 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine is lithiated by reacting it with a lithiating agent, such as, n butyl lithium or lithium diisopropylamide, in an inert carrier medium, such as, tetrahydrofuran, dry ethyl ether or other etherial solvents, at a reduced temperature of about 700C or lower. This lithiation reaction results in the formation, in situ, of 2,3 dichloro 5 lithiopyridine, a novel intermediate which is transitory and non isolatable but is within the scope of the present invention. After the lithiation reaction is complete, usually in from 5 to 60 minutes, iodine I2 is added to the reaction mixture whereby 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is formed.The iodine addition is also conducted at a reduced temperature of about 700C or lower and the iodination reaction is also usually complete in from about 5 to about 60 minutes. The amount of inert carrier medium is not critical but it is advantageous to employ enough inert carrier medium to keep the 5 bromo 2,3 dichloro pyridine in solution at reaction temperatures, generally from 10 to 20 parts by weight inert carrier medium per part by weight pyridine starting material. The relative proportions of reactants to be employed is not critical because some of the product will be formed when employing any proportions of reactants. The reaction consumes the reactants, however, in the ratio of one mole of 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine per mole of lithium and iodine. It is preferred to use an excess molar amount of lithium and iodine so that the 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine starting material and 2,3 dichloro 5 lithiopyridine intermediate are completely consumed. In carrying out this reaction, neither the rate of addition nor the order of addition of the reactants is critical. Usually, the 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine and the inert carrier medium are added to an appropriate reaction vessel and cooled to a temperature less than about 700C and preferably less than or equal to about 780C. The lithiating agent, preferably n butyl lithium, is then added slowly to the reaction mixture. The 12 is then added, preferably immediately after formation of 2,3 dichloro 5 lithiopyridine because of the relatively unstable nature of the lithiopyridine intermediate, to the reaction mixture resulting in the formation of 2, 3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine. This reaction is typically conducted in the presence of mild agitation sufficient to maintain an essentially uniform dispersion of the reactants in the carrier medium. Ambient pressures are advantageously employed although not critical. After completion of the reaction, the desired product is recovered and isolated employing standard separatory and purification techniques, such as solvent extraction and recrystallization. Alternatively, this compound is prepared by reacting 5 chloro 6 hydroxynicotinic acid with Iê in an aqueous alkaline iodide solution to form 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol. This reaction is conveniently conducted at an elevated temperature of between 400C and 1500C and preferably at about 1000C. Lowering the pH of the reaction mixture to 1 such as, for example, by addition to the reaction mixture of S02, will precipitate the 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol from the reaction mixture. The 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol is then reacted with a suitable chlorinating agent, such as, C12, COC12 phosgene , Pal51 Pock3, thionyl chloride SOCl2 or mixtures thereof, at an elevated temperature, preferably at reflux. The reaction mixture is then poured into cold water or crushed ice and the resulting precipitate isolated by filtration. The product, i.e., 213 dichloro 5 iodo pyridine, may then be further purified employing standard purification and isolation techniques, such as, for example, solvent extraction and recrystallization. In a further embodiment of the invention, 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine is dissolved in ethyl ether and cooled to about 78 C. A slight excess molar quantity of n butyl lithium, dissolved in hexane, is slowly added to the reaction mixture with mild agitation.After about 0.5 hour of stirring, a slight excess molar quantity of I2 dissolved in ethyl ether, is added to reaction mixture with mild agitation. After about 0.5 hour of stirring, the reaction mixture is allowed to warm to room temperature and the 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is isolated employing standard separatory and purification techniques. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol is reacted with an effective amount of a PC15 POC13 mixture at reflux until 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is formed, usually from about 1 2 to about 24 hours. The reaction mixture is then poured into crushed ice resulting in the precipitation of the desired product, i.e., 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine, which is isolated and purified. In a still further embodiment of the invention, 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxyj phenoxy propionic acid, and agriculturally acceptable derivatives thereof, hereinafter referred to as the present compounds , are prepared by reacting 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine with 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy propionic acid, or a derivative thereof, in an inert carrier medium in the presence of a base. The resulting product is then recovered employing standard separatory and purification techniques. A second method of preparing the present compounds is by reacting 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine with hydroquinone whereby 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenol is formed This pyridyloxyphenol is then reacted with a 2 halopropionate to form the present compounds. The 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenol intermediate is also a novel compound. The term agriculturally acceptable derivative , when used to describe the present compounds is meant to encompass any salt, amide, ether or ester of 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionic acid which does not substantially affect its herbicidal activity. Agriculturally acceptable derivatives include compounds of the following Formula I EMI6.1 wherein Z, is as above defined. Preferred compounds include the compounds of Formula I wherein Z represents C02H the acid , C02M the salts and CO2R the esters . Especially preferred compounds are the esters wherein R represents methyl, ethyl, n butyl, propyl or ethoxyethyl. The terms C1 C4 alkyl and C1 C8 alkyl refer to different size alkyl groups which may be straight, branched, or cyclic, when the group contains at least three carbon atoms, and contain 1 4 or 1 8 carbon atoms respectively. The terms C2 C3 hydroxyalkyl and C3 C6 hydroxyalkyl refer to different size hydroxyalkyl groups having 2 3 or 3 6 carbon atoms, respectively, and the alkyl portion may be straight or branched, or cyclic when the group contains at least three carbon atoms. In practicing this embodiment of the invention, 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is reacted with 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy propionic acid, or an acceptable derivative thereof, in an inert carrier medium in the presence of a base. Suitable as an inert carrier medium are polar aprotic solvents, such as, for example, dimethylsulfoxide DMSO , dimethylformamide DMF ,N methylpyrrolidinone, hexamethylphosphoramide, tetrahydrofuran THF or sulfolane. Suitable bases include K2CO31 NaOH, KOH, sodium methoxide and NH4OH.The reaction is advantageously carried out at a temperature under about 1000C and preferably about 800C at ambient pressure. The reaction is essentially complete in from 24 to 72 hours and is advantageously conducted under an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen. The amount of inert carrier medium is not critical but it is advantageous to employ enough inert carrier medium to keep the organic reactants in solution at reaction temperatures, generally from 1.5 to 20 parts by weight inert carrier medium per part by weight reactants. The relative proportions of reactants to be employed is not critical because some of the product will be formed when employing any proportions of reactants.The reaction consumes the reactants, however, in the ratio of one mole of 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine per mole of hydroxyphenoxy propionate or derivative with an equivalent molar amount of base being employed to transform the hydroxyphenoxy propionate into the reactive anion form. It is preferred to employ a slight molar excess of hydroxyphenoxy propionate and base so that the 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine reactant is completely consumed. In carrying out this reaction, neither the rate of addition nor the order of addition of the reactants is critical. Usually the inert carrier medium and base are mixed and the hydroxy phenoxy propionate reactant is added thereafter to form the anion of the hydroxyphenoxy propionate.The 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine is then added to the reaction mixture resulting in the formation of the desired produced. This reaction is typically conducted in the presence of mild agitation sufficient to maintain an essentially uniform dispersion of the reactants in the carrier medium. Ambient pressures are advantageously employed although not critical. Substantially anhydrous conditions, are preferably employed. After completion of the reaction, the desired product is recovered and isolated employing standard separatory and purification techniques, such as solvent extraction and recrystallization. A second method of making the present compounds is carried out by reacting 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine with hydroquinone to form 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyloxy phenol, a novel compound which is encompassed by the present invention.A base is employed to transform hydroquinone into the reactive dianion form. Polar aprotic solvents, described hereinbefore, are employed as the inert carrier media. 4 3 Chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyloxy phenol is then reacted with a chloro or bromo propionate, or an acceptable derivative thereof, to form the desired compound. The following examples further illustrate the present invention.Example 1 Preparation of 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine STEP A A one liter 1 1 3 necked round bottom flask, fitted with a mechanical stirrer, a gas sparge tube, and a dry ice acetone condenser with a drying tube, was charged with 75.0 grams g 0.539 mole of 6 hydroxynicotinic acid obtained from AldrichChemical Company and 500 milliliters ml of deionized water Chlorine 45.88 g 0.647 mole was bubbled into the reaction over a 1.5 hour period while the temperature was kept 250C. The resulting tan slurry was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature.A tan solid was isolated by vacuum filtration, washed with 50 100 ml of deionized water and air dried.The tan solid was further dried by placing the solid in a one liter 3 necked round bottom flask, equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a thermometer with a temperature controller, a Dean Stark trap with a condenser and a heating mantle, and azeotropically distilling the water with toluene 700 ml charged initially . The resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature and the tan solid was isolated by filtration. After drying overnight under aspirator vacuum at 500C, 77.0 g 82 83 of theoretical of solid was obtained. STEP B A 250 ml 3 necked round bottom flask with a thermowell was equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a dropping funnel and a condenser topped with aN2 inlet and charged with 34.0 g 0.196 mole of 5 chloro 6 hydroxynicotinic acid, from Step A, and 40 ml 67.0 g 0.437 mole of phosphorus oxychloride POCl3 . The resulting tan slurry was heated to 1050C where the liquid refluxed briefly. Within 15 minutes, the tan solid dissolved resulting in a black solution and the refluxing ceased. The reaction mixture was stirred and heated under N2 at 1050C for 2.5 hours.After the solution had cooled to room temperature, the black liquid was poured into a 2 liter 3 necked round bottom flask, fitted with a mechanical stirrer and a condenser, and charged with ice. The original reaction vessel was rinsed with water and the contents added to the second vessel. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at ambient temperature. A solid was isolated by vacuum filtration, washed with water and air dried. The solid was transferred to a 2 liter 3 necked round bottom flask fitted with a mechanical stirrer, a thermometer and a Dean Stark trap topped with a condenser with a N2 inlet. A small amount of acetone was used to rinse the funnel and was added to the flask together with about one 1 liter of toluene. The acetone and residual water were removed by distillation. The mixture was filtered while hot to remove a small amount of black solid and gave a clear brown liquid. The brown liquid toluene solution was cooled to give 23.1 g of crude product tan solid having a melting point of 1500 1560C.Evaporation of the toluene produced an additional 12.12 g of tan solid. STEP C An oven dried, 250 ml 3 necked round bottom flask, equipped with a reflux condenser topped with anN2 inlet, an addition funnel, a mechanical stirrer and a thermometer with a temperature controller, was flushed with N2 and charged with 12.0 g 0.0625 mole of 5,6 dichloronicotinic acid from Step B , 17.45 g of 0.0806 mole of red mercuric oxide and 100 ml of CCl4.The reaction mixture a red orange slurry was stirred under N2 at reflux, using two 175 watt infrared heat lamps as the heat source, for 2 hours. A solution of 12 g 0.075 mole of Br2 in 25 ml of CCl4 was added to the refluxing reaction mixture over a 5 hour period.The reaction mixture was stirred under N2 at reflux overnight. In the morning, with most of the deep red color dissipated, 40 ml of saturated NaBCO3 solution was added to the cooled reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was stirred for one hour at ambient temperature and filtered through a Celite pad. The resulting precipitate was thoroughly washed with methylene chloride.The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 x 100 ml and 100 ml of saturated NaCl solution, dried over anhydrous MgS04, filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residual light brown oil was taken up in pentane, filtered and evaporated to dryness resulting in 10.35 g of a tan oil that was 89.5 pure as indicated by the area percent on a capillary gas chromatograph gc 0.5 pl of neat oil employing standard gas chromatography gc procedures. The tan oil was transferred to a 50 ml miniware flask and was distilled through a short path distillation head. Only one fraction was observed that had a boiling point of 550 650C commat 1 l torr. The oil, which was 95 percent pure as indicated by gc, crystallized to a white solid which had a melting point of 30.00 31.00C. STEP D All glassware used in Step D was dried in an oven at 1000C overnight and cooled to room temperature under N2 prior to use. A 250 ml 3 necked round bottom flask, equipped with a magnetic stirrer, a thermometer, a septum, and an addition funnel topped with an N2 inlet, was charged with 5.7 g 25 mmol of 5 bromo 2,3 dichloropyridine from Step C and 125 ml of ethyl ether freshly distilled from sodium benzophenone ketyl. The reaction mixture was cooled to 780C and 16.1 ml of 1.6 M n butyl lithium in hexane was slowly added to the reaction mixture from a dried syringe. Little or no exotherm was noted although the reaction mixture immediately turned brown.The reaction mixture was stirred for 0.5 hour at 780C and then 7.61 g 30 mmol of I2 in 30 ml of freshly distilled ether was slowly added so that the temperature was maintained less than 700 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 0.5 hour at 780C and then allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into water and the layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with 50 ml of 1.0 N sodium thiosulfate, 50 ml of water and 50 ml of saturated NaCl solution.The organic layer was dried over anhydrous MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to dryness to give a brown oil. The oil was taken up in pentane, filtered through glass wool and evaporated to dryness resulting in 5.7 g of a brown oil that upon standing partially crystallized to needles. The mixture of oil and needles was warmed to give a homogeneous solution.The neat oil was analyzed by capillary gc and showed one major product 80 by area with a longer retention than the starting material. The oil was taken up in methanol and recrystallized to give 2.05 g of a white solid having a melting point of 56.50C 57.50C. The structure of the product being 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine was confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectra NMR and mass spectroscopy.Example 2 Preparation of 2,3 Dichloro 5 iodopyridine STEP 1 A 250 ml 3 necked round bottom flask, fitted with a reflux condenser, thermometer, addition funnel and magnetic stirrer, was charged with 3.47 g 0.02 mole of 5 chloro 6 hydroxynicotinic acid fromExample 1, STEP A and 8.6 g 0.03 mole of sodium carbonate in 90 ml of water. The reaction mixture was stirred and heated to 1000C under N2. A solution of 5.1 g 0.02 mole of iodine and 5.1 g 0.03 mole of KI in 35 ml of water was added to the reaction mixture over 0.5 hour to minimize foaming.The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 1000C. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and the addition funnel was replaced with a gas sparge tube. S 2 was passed through the mixture causing the formation of a tan precipitate. The S02 addition was maintained until the pH was 1. The slurry was stirred for 1 hour. The precipitate was isolated by filtration, washed with water and air dried resulting in 4.05 g of a tan solid having a melting point of 202 209 C. STEP 2 A 50 ml 3 necked round bottom flask, equipped with a thermometer, a reflux condenser topped with a N2 inlet, a stopper and a magnetic stirrer, was charged with 3.50 g 0.0137 mole of 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol, from STEP 1 above, 3.00 g 0.0144 mole of phosphorus pentachloride and 5 10 ml of phosphorus oxychloride. The reaction mixture was heated to reflux and the solid dissolved resulting in a golden brown solution. The reaction mixture was stirred under N2 at reflux for 4 hours and then cooled to room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into crushed ice and allowed to stand for about 1 hour.A tan precipitate, which was shown to be product and unreacted starting material, formed and was isolated by filtration and washed with pentane. The aqueous layer was also wahsed with pentane. The combined organic layers were washed with deionized water and saturated NaCl, dried over anhydrous MgSO,, filtered and evaporated to dryness to give 0.4 g of a dark oil that crystallized upon standing. The product had a melting point of 56.5 57.5 C. Example 3 Preparation of 2,3 Dichloro 5 iodopyridine STEP 1 Substantially the same procedures described in STEP 1 of Example 2 were employed using 12.6 g 72.6 mmoles of 5 chloro 6 hydroxynicotinic acid, 12.83 g 121 mmoles of Na2C03, 20.47 g 80.7 mmoles of 12, 20.09 g 121 mmoles of KI and 500 ml ofH2O. The reaction produced 17.2 g of a tan solid. STEP 2 A 100 ml 3 necked round bottom flask, fitted with a condenser topped with a N2 inlet, a mechanical stirrer and a thermometer, was charged with 17.2 g 0.0673 mole of 3 chloro 2 hydroxy 5 iodopyridine, 14.85 g 0.0713 mole of PC15, and 1 ml 1.68 g 0.0109 mole of POC13. The reaction mixture, containing solids, was slowly stirred and slowly heated to 1300C. The reaction mixture was stirred under N2 for 5 hours after which it was cooled to room temperature and allowed to stand overnight. The reaction mixture was cautiously poured into crushed ice and allowed to stand for 1 hour. Methylene chloride 200 ml was added to the reaction mixture to dissolve the solids present in it. The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed with dilute base, water and saturated NaCl. After drying over anhydrous MgSO4 and filtration, the solvent was evaporated leaving 11.8 g of a yellow solid. The solid was recrystallized from methanol resulting in 6.60 g of solid that had spectral and physical properties identical to the product obtained inExample 1, STEP D. The compound 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinol exists in equilibrium with its tautomer, 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridone. Tautomerism is a phenomenon well known to those skilled in the art and the present invention contemplates both of the above tautomers.Example 4 Preparation of Methyl 2 41 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate A 50 milliliter ml 3 necked, round bottom flask, fitted with a mechanical stirrer, a condenser topped with a N2 inlet, and a thermometer, was charged with 6.00 grams g of 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine 21.91 m moles , 4.73 g of methyl 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy propionate 24.1 m moles , 6.05 g of anhydrous potassium carbonate 43.4 m moles and 25 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO . The DMSO was previously stored over molecular sieves. The reaction mixture was heated, with stirring, to 800C under N2 for 69 hours. Samples were withdrawn from the reaction mixture at 24, 48 and 69 hours.Samples were diluted with methylene chloride CH2C12 and analyzed employing standard gas chromatography gc procedures. Percent product formation, represented as area , was 32 24 hour sample , 75 48 hour sample and 83 69 hour sample . The heating was terminated after 69 hours and the brown mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature.Solids, were removed from the reaction mixture by filtration and washed with 100 ml of CH2C1. The filtrate was washed with 80 ml of H20, 80 ml of dilute HC1 10 , 80 ml of 4 NaOH, 80 ml of H2O and 80 ml of saturated Nazi. The light yellow solution was dried over MgSO4, filtered and rotary evaporated to dryness to give 5.39 g of a viscous oil. This viscous oil partially solidified over the weekend. Analysis by gc indicated it to be about 91 area pure product.The oil was taken up in acetone and recrystallized from acetone hexane to give 4.67 g of white solid.Analysis by gc indicated that the white solid was 99 pure. The caustic extract from above was acidified to pH 1 with concentrated HC1 to give a white solid.The white solid was taken up in about 100 ml of k2C12, washed with 80 ml of H2O and 80 ml of saturatedNaCl, then dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to dryness to give 2.00 g of tan solid which likely corresponds to 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionic acid. Example 5 Preparation of Methyl 2 4 3 chloro 5 iodo 2 pyridinyl oxy phenoxy propionate Substantially the same procedures described in Example 4 were repeated using the following amounts of materials 9.00 g of 2,3 dichloro 5 iodopyridine 32.9 m moles , 7.60 g of methyl 2 4 hydroxyphenoxy propionate 38.7 m moles , 9.10 g of K2CO3 65.8 m moles added to the reaction mixture initially, plus an additional 2.00 g of K2C03 added to the reaction mixture after 42 hours, and 40 ml of DMSO. The reaction was conducted for 66 hours and resulted in the formation of 9.26 g of crude product which was shown to be 91 pure by area gc. Recrystallization from acetone hexane resulted in 6.75 g of product which was 98.6 pure by gc and had a melting point of 820 84aC.