# Isoflavone derivatives, their production and use.

## Abstract
Novel isoflavone derivatives of the formula CHEM exhibit mild estrogenic activity, and are of value as an agent for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A compound of the formulaEMI8.1 2. The compound according to claim 1, which is 7 isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one 3. A pharmaceutical composition suitable for prevention or treatment of osteoporosis which comprises, as an active ingredient, an effective amount of compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 and 2 in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient or diluent therefor. 4. A compound as claimed in any one of claims 1 and 2 or a pharmaceutical composition as claimed in claim 3 for use in therapeutical treatment of a female. 5. A method for producing a compound of the formulaEMI8.2 which comprises isopropylating a compound of the formulaEMI8.3 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein 7 isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl H l benzopyran 4 one is produced by isopropylating 7 hydroxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H benzopyran 4 one.

## Description
Isoflavone derivatives, Their Production and Use This invention relates to novel isoflavone derivatives which are of value as medicines, and method for producing said derivatives. More particularly, this invention relates to a novel isoflavone derivative 4H l benzopyran 4 one derivative of the formula EMI1.1 which exhibits mild estrogenic activity, and is of value as an agent for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, and its production. Osteoporosis is a disease condition or illness which occurs frequently in postmenopausal females, particularly those in their sixties, and wherein the quantitative loss of bones progresses beyond a certain limit to thereby present some symptoms or risk manifestations. Among its main clinical manifestations are kyphosis, low back pain, and fractures of femoral neck, lower end of the radius, ribs, upper end of the humerus, etc. While the causative factors are variegated, including endocrine disorder and nutritional disorder, apparently the most important cause is a decreased secretion of estrogen due to hypoovarianism in females during the postmenopausal period. Therefore, of all the therapeutic agents for osteoporosis, the theoretically most effective drugs are estrogen preparations.However, the estrogens so far available are so strong in effect as to cause side effects such as genital bleeding, mastodynia, hepatic disorder, and, for this reason, have not been used recently on as many occasions as in the past. There are other types of therapeutic agents such as calcitonin, vitamin D and calcium preparations, which however are disadvantageous in that they are either only indefinitely effective or ineffective when administered by the oral route. Therefore, for the prevention or treatment of osteoporosis, it has been demanded a drug which would display a milder estrogenic activity than the conventional estrogens in oral administration and be free from side effects which are encountered with the known estrogens. The present inventors conducted an intensive research for developing such a drug and found that the 4H l benzopyran4 one derivative of the formula I has a mild estrogenic activity in oral administration and does not cause those side effects which are caused by the conventional estrogens.EMI2.1 Therefore, it is an object of this invention to provide a novel 4H l benzopyran 4 one derivative of the formula I which is of value as a drug. It is another object to provide a new method for producing said derivative. It is still another object to provide a pharmaceutical preparation for prevention or treatment of osteoporosis which contains a 4H l benzopyran 4 one derivative of the formula 1I as an active component. The compound I according to this invention is produced by isopropylating a hydroxy compound II with an isopropyl halide III in accordance with for example the following reaction formula EMI3.1 wherein X is a halogen atom such as chlorine, bromine, iodine. The starting material II used in accordance with this invention can be produced, for example by the method of E. M. Gaydou et al Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr., 1978, II 43 , i.e. by demethylating a 7 hydroxy 3 methoxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one, and the hydroxy group may be present in any substitutable position of the phenyl group. As examples of starting material III , there may be mentioned isopropyl chloride, isopropyl bromide and isopropyl iodide. Generally, the reaction according to this invention proceeds advantageously in the presence of an inert solvent.The solvent may be any solvent that will not interfere with the contemplated reaction and includes, among others, alcohols such as methanol, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane, dichloroethane, chloroform, petroleum ether, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, pyridine, aldehyde collidine, water, etc., as well as mixtures thereof. The reaction proceeds advantageously in the presence of a deacidifying agent, such as an alkali hydrogen carbonate e.g., sodium hydrogen carbonate and potassium hydrogen carbonate , an alkali hydroxide e.g., sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide , an alkali carbonate e.g., sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate , a sodium amide, sodium hydride, an alkali metal e.g., sodium and potassium , a sodium alcoholate e.g., sodium methylate and sodium ethylate , and an organic base e.g., pyridine, aldehyde collidine, dimethylaniline and triethylamine . The temperature and other conditions may be selected in an adequate manner. One of the compounds I according to this invention was tested for its estrogenic activity and toxicity and the following results were obtained. Test Example 1Estrogenic activity of 7 isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H 1 benzopyran 4 one hereinafter referred to as compound A in young oophorectomized rats Sprague Dawley rats, 33 days old and 11 days after oophorectomy for elimination of endogenous estrogenic activity, were used in groups of 6 to 7 animals. Compound A was suspended in a 1 aqueous solution of hydroxypropyl cellulose and administered orally for 3 days, while as a representative example of the conventional estrogen drug, estrone was dissolved in sesame oil and administered subcutaneously for 3 days. On the fourth day, each animal was autopsied and its uterine wet weight was recorded. As shown in Table 1, compound A at the daily dose levels of 100 mg kg and 400 mg kg produced uterine weight increasing effect with a dose response curve of moderate gradient.In contrast, estrone showed uterine weight increasing effect with a dose response curve of steep gradient. Table 1EMI5.1 tb SEP Number SEP dose SEP Number SEP Uterine SEP wet tb Compound SEP Daily SEP dose SEP of SEP weight tb SEP mg kg SEP animals SEP mg SEP SEP S.D. tb SEP O SEP 7 SEP 31.1 SEP SEP 1.1 tb SEP control SEP group tb SEP 6.25 SEP 7 SEP 32.6 SEP SEP 1.2 tb Compound SEP A SEP 25 SEP 7 SEP 39.2 SEP SEP 2.3 tb SEP 100 SEP 7 SEP 56.3 SEP SEP 3.7 SEP tb SEP 400 SEP 6 SEP 83.0 SEP SEP 6.9 tb Estrone SEP 0.0025 SEP 7 SEP 121.1 SEP SEP 7.0 tb SEP 0.005 SEP 7 SEP 200.5 SEP SEP 14.3 tb SEP 0.01 SEP 7 SEP 247.2 SEP SEP 14.6 tb Significant as compared with control group P 0.01 Test Example 2Acute toxicity Five week old ICR mice and 5 week old Sprague Dawley rats were respectively used in groups of 10 males and 10 females, and suspensions of compound A in olive oil were administered orally 2,500, 5,000 and 10,000 mg kg or subcutaneously 1,250, 2,500 and 5,000 mg kgi. The animals were kept under observation for 14 days. None of the groups showed deaths nor toxic symptoms attributable to compound A and therefore, LD50 values could not be calculated. The daily dosage of the compound of the formula I for human beings is generally about 1 to 50 mg kg and preferably about 5 to 30 mg kg for oral administration, and about 200 to 600 mg can be orally taken daily, once a day or, if necessary, in 2 to 3 divided doses. The compounds are preferably formulated into such dosage forms as tablets, capsules, etc. by the established pharmaceutical procedure.Such tablets and capsules can be prepared using suitable excipients such as lactose, starch, binders such as hydroxypropylcellulose, and lubricants such as magnesium stearate.The tablets may be sugar coated, if necessary. Example 1 A mixture of 54 g of 7 hydroxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one, 350 ml of dimethylformamide, 52 g of isopropyl bromide and 52.5 g of anhydrous sodium carbonate is stirred thoroughly with heating at 80 C for 5 hours and then poured into 1.8 liters of cold water. The resulting crystalline precipitate is collected by filtration and recrystallized from dichloroethane to give 7 isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one as white crystals.mp 184 185 C. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C18H16O4 C, 72,96 H, 5.44 Found C, 7276 H, 5.38 NMR DMSO d6 6 1.33 6H,d,CH3x2 , 4.55 4.95 lH,m,CH , 6.8 7.5 6H,m,aromatic H , 8.28 lH,s,C2H , 9.5 lH,bs,OH In the same manner as above, there are obtained the following compounds. 7 Isopropoxy 3 3 hydroxyphenyl 4H 1 benzopyran 4 one NMR DMSO d6 6 1.35 6H,d,CH3x2 , 4.5 5.0 1H,m,CH , 6.7 7.5 6H,m,aromatic H , 8.04 1H,d,C5 H , 8.30 1H,s,C2 H , 9.5 lH,bs,OH 7 Isopropoxy 3 2 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 One NMR DMSO d6 1.34 6H,d,CH3x2 , 4.5 5.0 lH,m,CH , 6.8 7.4 6H,m,aromatic H , 7.95 1H,d,C5 H , 8.20 1H,s,C2 H , 9.4 1H,bs,OH Example 2 Tablets I 7 Isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one 200 g II Lactose 15 g III Starch 45 g IV Carboxymethylcellulose calcium 10 g V Magnesium stearate 1 g The above components I through V are admixed to prepare 1000 uncoated tablets with a diameter of 8.5 mm. Example 2 Capsules I 7 Isopropoxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one 200 g II Lactose 40 g III Starch 50 g IV Hydroxypropylcellulose 7 g V Magnesium stearate 3 g The above components I through V are admixed and filled into 1000 No. 1 capsules.