# Telephone exchange comprising peripheral control domains.

## Abstract
For the communication between the peripheral control domains PCD s and the central control CC of a telephone exchange digital information is exchanged in time division multiplex via multiplex lines ML

## Claims
1. A telephone exchange comprising a number of peripheral control domains PCD1.....PCDn which via a switching network DTN are coupled to the central control CC and to each other, transmission channels being present between the peripheral control domains and the switching network for the synchronous transmission of information, characterized in that the telephone exchange comprises at least one transmission channel arranged for asynchronous transmission of information arranged between the peripheral control domain and the switching network. 2. A telephone exchange as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that each peripheral control domain comprises a domain to DTN interface transmission receiving circuit which is coupled to the switching network via a multiplex line, the said transmission channels being formed by time slots located in corresponding positions in consecutive frames, that the domain to DTN interface receiving circuit comprises a first buffer for sequentially entering therein the bits received in each time slot, that the domain toDTN interface receiving circuit comprises at least one second buffer for entering therein once per frame the bits received in a predetermined time slot, that the first buffer is read once per time slot and that the second buffer is read once per frame, that the domain to DTN interface transmission circuit comprises a first transmit buffer for sequentially entering therein the bits to be transmitted in each time slot, that the domain to DTN interface transmission circuit comprises at least one second transmission buffer for entering therein once per frame the bits to be transmitted in one predetermined time slot and that the domain to DTN interface transmission circuit comprises a selector connected to the transmission bu fers for transmitting in predetermined time slots via the outgoing multiplex line the bits stored in the transmission buffers

## Description
Telephone exchange comprising peripheral control domains . The invention relates to a telephone exchange com prising a number of peripheral control domains PCDlo.... PCDn which are coupled via a switching network DTN to the central control CC and to each other, transmission channels being present between the peripheral control domains and the switching network for the synchronous transmission of information. Such a telephone exchange is described in theEuropean Patent Application 75.998. Speech, data and control information is transmitted between the peripheral control domains and the switching network. In order to obtain a good transmission quality this information is transmitted synchronously, the peripheral control domains being synchronized with the clock signal coming from the switching network0 A problem is that in the event of interference in a peripheral control domain which results in loss in synchronization, communication is no longer possible between the control domain and the switching network. The invention has for its object to provide a telephone exchange with which transmission of information is possible also in the event of interference in the peripheral control domain. According to the invention, the telephone exchange of the type set forth in the opening paragraph is characterized in that the telephone exchange comprises at least one transmission channel arranged for asynchronous transmission of information arranged between the peripheral control domain and the switching network. If, due to an interference transmission of information via the synchronous channels is not possible then messages can be transmitted from and to the peripheral control domain via the asynchronous channel. With the aid of these messages it is thus also possible to recover the synchronism again and the transmission of information can take place via the normal, synchronous channels. Preferably, the telephone exchange according to the invention is of such a construction that each peripheral control domain comprises a domain to DN interface transmission receiving circuit which is coupled to the switching network via a multiplex line, the said transmission channel being formed by time slots located in corresponding positions in consecutive frames, that the domain to DTN interface receiving circuit comprises a first buffer for sequentially en1ing therein the bits received in each time slot, that the domain to DTN interface receiving circuit comprises at least one second buffer for entering therein once per frame the bits received in one predetermined time slot, that the first buffer is read once per time slot and that the second buffer is read once per frame, that the domain to DTN interface transmission circuit comprises a first transmit buffer for sequentially entering therein the bits to be transmitted in each time slot, that the domainto DTN interface transmission circuit comprises at least one second transmissing buffer for entering therein once per frame the bits lDbe transmitted in one predetermined time slot and that the domain to DTN interface transmission circuit comprises a selector connected to the transmission buffers for transmitting in predetermined time slots wia the outgoing multiplex line, the bits stored in the transmission buffers. The invention and its advantages will now be further described by way of example with reference to the accompanying Figures, in which Fig. 1 shows a block circuit diagram of a telephone exchange in which the measures according to the invention are applied and Fig. 2 shows an embodiment of an asynchronous interface circuit for use in the telephone exchange shown inFig. 1. The telephone exchange shown in Fig. 1 comprises a number of peripheral control domains PCD1, PCD2, PCDn which are coupled to each other and to a central control CC via a switching network DTN only the peripheral control domains PCD1and PCDnare shown in the Figure . Teach peripheral control domain PCDi i 1, 2, ...n comprises a number of interface circuits CTU1,1...CTUk,i to which subscriber equipment is connected. Subscriber equipment must be understood to mean a telephone set, a data terminal, a facsimile arrangement etc.In addition, each peripheral control domain comprises a signaling unit SAS a domainto DTN interface circuit DDI. and a peripheral domain switching stage PDSi. The interface circuits CTUj,i i 1, 2, ...k , the signaling unit SASi, the switching stage PDSi and the domain to DTN interface circuit DDIi are all 1 1 under the control of a peripheral domain control PDCi. The interface circuits CTUj i the signaling unit SASi and the peripheral switching stage of one specific peripheral control domain are connected to the switching network PI S. of that specific control domain.The signaling unitSASi can receive signaling information from the subscriber equipment via the peripheral switching stage PDS. and the relevant interface circuit CTUj i and can. transmit signal ing information to the subscriber equipment Fig. 1 shows such a connection by means of a dotted line . The domainto DTN interface circuits DDIi i 1, 2, 0.On are further connected via multiplex lines Mli to the trunk switching network DTN for transmitting speech, data and message traffic from and to other peripheral cobol domains or to the central control CC, as the case may be.By means of a thick, solid line, Figure 1 shows by way of example a speech link between a subscriber connected to the first peripheral control domain PCD1 and the last control domain PCDn . At the same time, also by way of example, message links are shown by means of broken lines between the peripheral domain controls PDS1 and PDS respectively, n to the central control CC via trunk switching network DTN. In a preferred embodiment the multiplex lines ML. each comprises a number of for example 32 or 12S time division multiplex channels for example with a capacity of 64 kbits sec. each o A good signal transmission between DTN and PCD is only possible if the PCD is synchronized with the clock generator of the DTN, as the transfer of signals between PCD and DTN would not only cause bit loss with digital transmission of the signal but would also require additional equipment capable of compensating for bit rate variations for example a breathing buffer store . If, for example due to an interference the synchronization between a peripheral control domain PCD and the trunk switching network DTN becomes lost, then adequate signal transmission between PCD and DTN can no longer take place as the synchronization information would then be missing or be faulty. To enable the peripheral control domain to again be brought to the synchronized state, at least one channel of each multiplex line ML. is, in accordance with the invention, of a type through which asynchronous information transmission can take place. The relevant channel, for example channel 02 must be provided for this purpose with an asynchronous interface circuit. Loss of information will also occur in this channel during the asynchronous period.However, as only short messages are conveyed, for triggering the PCD and faulty messages are repeated if necessary, sufficient communication capacity is present to bring the PCD again to the synchronized state. Fig. 2 shows an embodiment of the structure of an asynchronous interface circuit. Such an interface circuit forms part of each of the domain to TN interface transmission receiving circuits TIT i 1, 2, .,,n , The incoming multiplex lineML. is connected to a series parallel converter SPI of theDDI receiving circuit. The multiplex line comprises, for example, 128 time division multiplex channels0 Each channel is formed by a series of consecutive frames present in 125 us time slots. Each time slot contains 8 bits.The series parallel converter SPI converts the 8 bits which come in serially in each time slot into parallel form and stores them in a first 8 bit buffer EUl1. The bits in one time slot, for example time slot O, are stored t a second 8bit buffer BUI2. The time slot 0 is identified in customary manner, namely by utilizing the synchronization characteristic present per frame. The conversion by seriesparallel converter SPI and writing the two buffers BUI is effected under the control of the clock signals on the in coming multiplex line Mlii timing A . The two buffers BUI are read under the control of local clock signals timingB and further processed after parallel series conversion.To that end an output of buffer BUI is connected to parallel series converter PSI1 and an output of buffer BUI2 is connected to parallel series converter PSI2. An nutput of parallel series converter PSI2 is connected to the peripheral domain control PDC.. In general, the frequencies of the two clock signals timing A, B will not be accurately equal to each other. As in buffer Bill2 the 8 bits from time slot 0 are not available for one time slot as in buffer BUI but for 128 time slots, the probability that buffer BUI2 is read under the control of timing B before the new 8 bits are present is very remote.At a frequency difference of 100 Hz between timing A and B which both have nominally a frequency of 8192KHz the 125 usec frames of timing A and timing B will overlap once in every 10 seconds, a byte from the channel 0 consequently being skipped or being read twice. In 10 seconds 80,000 bytes will be transmitted via the channel 0, so that the error probability in an n byte message is n. If channel 0 80,000 is used, as it is here, as a message channel from and to the peripheral domain control PDCi, then this channel will remain available even when a relatively large difference between timing A and timing B occurs. At the same time this enables the synchronization to be recovered via the still present channel 0 on less of synchronization in the data channels 1 127 . Transferring data and control information from the peripheral control domain PCDi to the multiplex line MALI. 1 1 is effected in the corresponding, inverse way via the DDI transmission circuit. The data are written into a first buffer BUO1, via a first outgoing series parallel converter SPO1 whilst the time slots of channel 0 are read into a second buffer BU02 via a second series parallel converter SPO2. The series parallel converters SPD and SPD2 and the buffers BUO and BU02 were controlled by the regime of timing A. The buffers BU01 and BU02 are read by a selectorSEL under the control of timing B, and the 8 bit words obtained are multiplexed into one 8192kbit s bit stream via parallel series converter PSO. It is of course alternatively possible, if the need is felt for more than one asynchronous channel, to include for those channels separate buffers BUI, BUO and parallelseries PSI and series parallel converters.