# INDUSTRIAL SCALE PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF POLYOLS BY FERMENTATION OF SUGARS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Glycerin und oder Erythrit und oder Ribit in industriellem Umfang durch aerobe Gärung eines geeigneten Zuckers mit Moniliella tomentosa var. pollinis, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß ein Unterstamm des Moniliella Organismus verwendet wird, der eine möglichst große Fähigkeit zur Sporenbildung besitzt.

## Description
The invention relates to an industrial scale process for the production of glycerol and or erythritol and or ribitol, by aerobic fermentation of a sugar with a sugar tolerant fungus such as It is known that aerobic fermentation of a suitable sugar by the yeast like fungus In investigating the design of an industrial process for the production of polyols, especially erythritol and ribitol by the fermentation of sugars using Accordingly, therefore, the invention is an industrial process for the production of glycerol and or erythritol and or ribitol by the aerobic fermentation of a suitable sugar by We have found that when spores of We have also found that when low spore forming colonies white colonies of In order to obtain the optimum spore forming organism for use in the process according to the invention, spores of The medium on which the organism is grown is suitably a mixture of malt extract 4 , yeast extract 2 , agar 2 , the balance being water. Having selected a high spore forming substrain of the After this incubation and growth period, the culture is ready for use in the fermentation process where it is used to inoculate a medium containing sugar and a nitrogen source. The desired products of the process according to the present invention are erythritol and or ribitol. Prior art workers have reported production of glycerol and arabitol, in addition to erythritol, from the fermentation of sugars by Air is supplied to the fermentor at a rate which depends on the size of the fermentation vessel and the degree of agitation of the contents of the vessel but is generally in the range 0.1 to 1.5 litre air litre fermentation medium minute. For example, in a 2 litre vessel, the air flow rate was 1 litre litre minute at a stirrer speed of 400 to 800 rpm, while, in a 600 litre vessel, the rate was 0.5 to 1.0 litre litre minute without agitation other than that produced by the air flow. The fermentation is conducted at a temperature of between 27 C and 32 C at a starting pH of between 3 and 6, preferably 4 to 5. The fermentation is stopped when the sugar has been consumed. The amount of sugar contained in the medium can be between 20 and 45 , preferably 30 to 35 . Suitable sugars for use in both the culture and the fermentation are dextrose glucose , sucrose, fructose or maltose. In the prior art process, as described by Hajny, various sources of nitrogen were described for use in the fermentation, for example, yeast extract, urea, corn steep liquor, malt sprouts, black strap molasses, malt extract and distillers dry solubles. In the process of the present invention good results are achieved with 0.5 yeast extract plus 0.1 urea or with 2 corn steep liquor plus 0.02 urea. The starting pH should be between about 3.0 and 6.0, which decreases to about 2.0 to 3.5 during the fermentation. According to L. Hanssens, A. Van Regenmortel and H. Verachtert, Applied Microbiology, Vol. 24, No. 5, pp 831 833 November 1972 laboratory fermentations held at different constant pH s result in substantial differences in yields of total polyols and erythritol. We have found that, when working with larger scale fermentations 2 litre fermentors or larger the total polyol and erythritol yields are less sensitive to starting pH within the 4.0 to 6.0 range. In order to avoid or minimise problems of contamination, a starting pH of 4 to 5 is preferred. The fermentation is conducted until all of the sugar has been consumed fermentation times will normally be between 4 and 12 days, depending upon the amount of sugar used , after which the culture is stopped and the cells are removed from the culture broth, e.g. by centrifuging. The cell free culture broth, which contains erythritol, ribitol and glycerol, can be used as such, with or without refining e.g. by ultrafiltration and demineralisation , for certain applications, e.g. in the polymer industry. The refined culture broth can also be concentrated to 60 to 80 dissolved solids and the erythritol crystallised therefrom, e.g. by the technique described by J.M. Roxburg, J.F.T. Spencer and H.R. Sallens, Canadian Journal of Technology, Vol. 34 pp 248 253 1956 . The liquor remaining after recovery of the erythritol crystals, which is also a mixture of non crystallised erythritol, ribitol and glycerol, can also be used after appropriate treatment. The process according to the invention is advantageously carried out in the presence of the polysaccharide Xanthan gum which has the property of retaining the cells of the The overall process is also improved by including in the fermentation medium a conventional antifoam agent. Synthetic antifoam agents e.g. silicone type or fatty alcohols are preferred over the natural e.g. lard oil products because they can be used in smaller quantities and the final fermentation broth does not need extensive refining for their removal. With most synthetic commercial antifoam agents, 200 300 or 400 ppm is sufficient for optimum foam control. The following examples are intended to illustrate the practice of the invention. A black substrain exhibiting a high spore forming ability was selected following a above. In the same manner, a white substrain exhibiting a low spore forming ability was also selected and cultivated by a similar technique until a stable substrain was obtained. Both substrains were compared in shaken erlenmayer flasks in a medium comprising 32 dextrose, 0.5 yeast extract and 0.1 urea in two series of experiments 4 black and 4 white . The flasks were incubated for seven days and each member of both series was then analysed and was also used to inoculate a new fermentation medium. This procedure was repeated six times to give six successive sets of results. The four results in each set of the sequence were averaged and these results are given in the following Table A 2 litre fermentor containing 1.5 litre of a culture medium comprising 32 dextrose, 2 corn steep liquor 50 dissolved solids , 0.02 urea, 300 ppm SAG 471 antifoam dimethylpolysiloxane from Union Carbide and 300 ppm Xanthan gum was inoculated with the seed culture. The air flow rate was 1 litre air litre fermentation medium minute and the impeller speed 740 rpm. The fermentation was allowed to proceed for 11 days after which time the erythritol content of the fermentation medium was found to be 11 and the total polyol content 15 . The average daily dextrose consumption was 30g litre day. A 600 litre tower fermentation vessel containing 450 litres of a culture medium comprising 32 dextrose, 0.5 yeast extract, 0.1 urea, 300 ppm Xanthan gum and 300 ppm antifoam SAG 471 was inoculated with 5 of a seed culture. The starting pH was 5 and the air flow rate through the tower was 225 litres per minute. After 13 days, the final culture broth contained 10.8 erythritol, 5.6 glycerol, 1.7 ribitol and 0.8 dextrose. The erythritol yield was 34 and the total polyol yield was 56 of the consumed dextrose. In a typical recovery operation cells were removed by centrifugation and the medium clarified by ultrafiltration and refined with ion exchangers. The colourless broth was concentrated to 70 dissolved solids and erythritol was crystallised from the liquor in the following manner. The temperature was brought to 65 C and then cooled, at a rate of 2 C per hour, to about room temperature. The crystals were recovered by filtration and washed once with ethanol. A typical crystallisation yield was 74 and the composition of the liquor remaining was erythritol, 132 g l glycerol, 152 g l ribitol, 79 g l. In general, the composition of the liquor remaining after crystallisation of the erythritol may contain ribitol, glycerol and erythritol in the following proportions based on total polyols ribitol, 5 30 glycerol, 30 60 the balance being erythritol. These percentages being weight weight .