# OPTO ELECTRIC LOGIC ELEMENT

## Claims
Opto elektrisches Logikelement mit einem Halbleiterlaser 104 , einer Einrichtung zum Liefern mindestens eines Lichteingangssignals an den Laser 104 und eines Schaltkreises 102 zum Liefern eines Injektionsstroms i an den Laser 104 ,

## Description
This invention relates to an opto electric logic element comprising a semiconductor laser, means for supplying at least one light input signal to the laser, and a circuit for supplying an injection current to the laser. Optical communication utilising optical fibers in a transmission path is expected to be used widely in the future partly because optical fibers have a wide frequency bandwidth and partly because the optical fibers are immune from induction noise. In an optical communication system, information to be transmitted is converted into an optical signal from an electric signal, and the optical signal is transmitted through optical fibers and then converted back into an electric signal at a receiving apparatus. Thus the optical signal is utilised as a transmission medium that sends a signal from one point to another by taking advantage of the fact that the transmission loss of the optical fibers constituting the transmission path is very small, but the optical signal does not play a positive role in signal processing such as logical operation or the like. US A 3 654 497 describes an opto electric logic element comprising a semiconductor laser with an enhanced concentration of saturable absorption trapping centres, referred to as the memory laser A, two input or read lasers B and C for supplying light input signals to the memory laser, and a circuit for supplying an injection current to the memory laser. This known logic element can carry out logic operations or storage of light input signals. The logic operations are made possible by suitably choosing the value of the injection current and the levels of the two light input signals. Thus if the current threshold of lasing for zero light input is I According to the present invention therefore, an opto electric logic element of the kind defined hereinbefore at the beginning is characterised in that the current supplying circuit has an electrical input for an electrical logic signal signal and includes control means responsive to the logic value of the electrical logic signal to set the magnitude of the current supplied to the laser to either one of two values in dependence upon the logic value of the electrical logic signal, at least one of the said two values being less than the laser threshold value of current for the laser in the absence of any light input signal. The invention will be described in more detail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1A shows a first embodiment of this invention which comprises a semiconductor laser 104 inputted with optical input signals 106 and 107 and outputting an optical output signal 105, and a current drive circuit 102 which varies current i supplied to the semiconductor laser 104 via a signal line 103 in accordance with a signal on an input electric signal line 101. As shown in Figure 1B, the current drive circuit 102 shown in Figure 1A comprises a transistor 201 with its base electrode connected to the signal line 101, a resistor 202 of a resistance value R₁, having one end connected to the emitter electrode of transistor 201, a resistor 203 connected between the emitter and collector electrodes of the transistor 201 and having a resistance value of R₂, and a power supply terminal 204 supplied with a voltage of V When a sufficiently large positive voltage is applied to the base electrode of the transistor 201 via signal line 101, the transistor 201 is turned off so that a current i which is V When the base potential of transistor 201 is zero, the transistor 201 is turned on to supply a current i which is V The semiconductor laser 104 has a differential gain characteristic, and Fig. 2A shows the relation between the light quantity P The curve of Fig. 2A is plotted for P Fig. 2B shows the relation between the total quantity of input light P Fig. 2C shows the relation between the total quantity of input light P Fig. 2D shows the relation between the total quantity of the input light P To execute a logical product operation, i.e. a logical AND, the correspondence between the value and the logic level of each of P A light quantity P If all of P On the other hand, when either one of P Fig. 3A is a truth table showing the above logical relation, in which the character X represents an arbitrary level which may be either L or H level. This truth table shows that when at least one of P On the other hand, to execute a logical sum operation, i.e. a logical OR, the values of P The light quantity P For example, when P Fig. 3B is a truth table showing this logic relation, in which the character X represents an arbitrary level which may be H or L level. This truth table shows that only when all of P Similar logical operation can be accomplished by using a semiconductor laser of an optically bistable characteristic having the same construction as that of the semiconductor laser possessing the differential gain as described above. The differential gain and optical bistable characteristic of a semiconductor laser is described in detail in Proceedings of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Vol. 119, Pt. I, No. 4, AUGUST 1981, pages 141 148, Optical bistable switching operation in semiconductor lasers with inhomogeneous excitation . Fig. 4A shows for a semiconductor laser possessing an optically bistable characteristic, the relation between the output light quantity P The curve of Fig. 4A is plotted for P Fig. 4B shows the relation between P Fig. 4C shows the relation between P Fig. 4D shows the relation between P Correspondence between the values of P To execute a logical sum operation, the light quantity P Fig. 5 shows a second embodiment of this invention which comprises an optical waveguide path 702 which receives an optical data input signal D at one end 701, an optical gate 703 having an input terminal at the other end of the optical waveguide path 702 and enabled and disabled by a gate input signal G on a signal line 708, an optical waveguide path 704 with one end connected to the output terminal of the optical gate 703, a bistable semiconductor laser 705 connected to the other end of the optical waveguide path 704, an optical waveguide path 706 with one end connected to the output terminal of the bistable semiconductor laser 705 and the other end 707 emitting light, and a control circuit 709 for controlling the value of current i injected into the bistable semiconductor laser 705 via conductor 710 in accordance with a gate input signal G on the signal line 708. Figs. 6A and 6B are graphs of characteristic curves useful for explaining the operation of the bistable semiconductor laser 705 shown in Fig. 5 and show relations between current i injected into the laser 705 via the conductor 710, the quantity of input light P Fig. 6A shows the relation between current i and P Fig. 6B shows the relation between P Fig. 7 is a table for explaining the operation of the embodiment shown in Fig. 5, the table showing relations among the injection current i, the quantity of input light P Suppose now that gate signal G is not supplied to signal line 708 shown in Fig. 5. At this time, since the optical gate 703 is disabled, the input light quantity of the laser is zeroed irrespective of the optical data input signal D inputted to the optical gate 703. At the same time, control circuit 709 injects current i When a gate input signal G is applied, the control circuit 709 supplies an injection current i The optical gate 703 Fig. 5 which is operated by an electric signal, can be an electronic optical switch or the first embodiment of the invention shown in Fig. 1. Electronic optical switches are described in detail, for example, in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Journal of Quantum Electronics, Oct. 1982, Integrated optical switch matrix for single mode fiber networks .