# Phosphorus containing surface active agents and their preparation.

## Abstract
New phosphate ester reactants are reacted with an amine reactant which may be primary, secondary or tertiary amine to produce phosphobetain compounds, which com pounds exhibit outstanding foaming, viscosity building, wetting, cleansing, detergency, anti static and emulsifying properties and are extremely well tolerated by human tis sue.

## Claims
I ET IS CI.AIMED 1. A process for the production of phosphorus containing surface active agents, which process comprises reacting a phosphorus ester reactant selected from phosphate di and tri esters and phosphite di esters, having either a labile halogen or a cyclic structure susceptible to nucleophilic attack, with an amine having at least 6 carbon atoms, to produce said surface active agent. 2. Process as claimed in claim 1 where said phosphorusester reactant is of the formula where inEMI51.1 Hal is halogen A is selected from OM, and OY Hal. B is selected from H, 0by , and Oyllal with the proviso that M is an organic radical Y may be alkylene, optionally interrupted by up to 3 oxygen atoms, of up to 12 carbon atoms, which alkylene chain may optionally be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxy or hydroxyalkyl, e.g., of not more than 10 carbon atoms each M and M are individually selected from the following a hydrogen, b an organic radical selected fron alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, polyhydroxyalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, glyceryl, cycloalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, aryl or arylalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, or c a salt radical selected from alkali metals e.g., sodium or potassium , alkaline earth metals e.g., magnesium or calcium , and mono , di , or triethanolamine. 3. Process as claimed in claim 2 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI52.1 wherein Hal is halogen A is selected from OM, and OY Hal B is selected from H, OM , and OYHal with the proviso that is an organic radical M and tt are individually selected from the following a hydrogen, b an organic radical selected from alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, polyhydroxyalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, glyceryl, cycloalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, aryl or arylalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, or c a salt radical selected from alkali metals e.g., sodium or potassium , alkaline earth metals e.g., magnesium or calcium , and mono , di , or triethanolamine andY isEMI52.2 4. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester is of the formula EMI53.1 whereinA is OMB is OM M is NaM is Glyceryl 5. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI53.2 whereinA is OMB is QM M is GlycerylM isEMI53.3 6. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI53.4 wherein A is CMB is H M is Glyceryl 7. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI54.1 whereinA is OMB is HM isEMI54.2 8. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI54.3 whereinBoth A and B areEMI54.4 9. Process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said phosphorus ester reactant is of the formula EMI54.5 whereinA is OM B is OY HalM is Na 10. Phosphorus containing surfactant agent having the structureEMI55.1 wherein Hal is halogen A is selected from QM, and OY Hal B is selected from H, OM , and oY Hal with the proviso that M is an organic radical Y may be alkylene, optionally interrupted by up to 3 oxygen atoms, of up to 12 carbon atoms, which alkylene chain may optionally be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxy or hydroxyalkyl, e. g., of not more than 10 carbon atoms each R is a primary, secondary or tertiary amine having more than six carbon atoms. M and M are individually selected from the following a hydrogen, b an organic radical selected from alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, polyhydroxyalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, glyceryl, cycloalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, aryl or arylalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, or c a salt radical selected from alkali metals e. g., sodium or potassium , alkaline earth metals e. g., magnesium or calcium , and mono , di , or trietha nolamine. 11. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 1 having the structure EMI56.1 wherein R is a tertiary amine radical of from 6 to 40 carbon atoms and X is an anion. 12. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 11 having the structure EMI56.2 R g C7 to C17 alkyl 13. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 11 having the structureEMI57.1 R 70 C11 alkyl 14. Phosphorus containing surfactant of the formula EMI57.2 wherein R is a quaternary ammonium radical. 15. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 14 wherein R isEMI57.3 and R1 is C7 to C17 alkyl, 16. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 14 whereinR isEMI57.4 andR is C7 to C17 alkyl. 17. Phosphorus containing surfactant of the formulaEMI58.1 wherein R is a quaternary ammonium radical. 18. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 17 wherein R isEMI58.2 and R is C7 to C17 alkyl. 19. Phosphorus containing surfactant as claimed in claim 17 wherein R isEMI58.3 R is C7 to C17 alkyl.

## Description
The present invention relates to a novel process for the preparation of phosphorus containing amphoteric quaternary and zwitterionic surface active agents, and to certain novel surface active agents per se. Background of the Invention Quaternaries, betaines and certain substituted betaines are knolxn in the art but the specific compounds made in accordance with the process of the instant invention have been found to be particularly useful. Thus, the compounds made by the present invention exhibit outstanding foaming, viscositybuilding, wetting, cleansing, detergency, anti static and emulsifying properties and are therefore useful in industrial applications calling for high performance surface active agents. The compounds are also highly stable species and are extremely well tolerated by human tissue, i.e., they exhibit exceptionally low ocular irritation and oral toxicity, and are therefore eminently suited and useful as surface active agents in personal care compositions. The Invention Essentially, the process of the invention comprises reacting a phosphorus containing reactant, more specifically a phosphate ester reactant, with an amine reactant, which nay be a primary, secondary, or tertiary amine, to produce certain phosphobetain compounds. In additional aspect, the invention provides certain novel phosphate ester reactants employed in said process and a process for making such phosphate ester reactants in a manner which makes such reactants eminently suitable for conversion into highly efficacious surface active agents. The phosphate esterÇreactants utilized in the invention can be represented by the formulaEMI2.1 where in Hal is halogen A is selected from OM, and OY Hal. B is selected from H, OM , and OYHal.with the proviso that M is an organic radical Y may be alkylene, optionally interrupted by up to 3 oxygen atoms, of up to 12 carbon atoms, which alkylene chain may optionally be substituted with lower alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxy or hydroxyalkyl, e.g., of not more than 10 carbon atoms each M and M are individually selected from the following a hydrogen, b an organic radical selected from alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, polyhydroxyalkyl of up to 10 carbon atoms, glyceryl , cycloalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, aryl or arylalkyl of up to 1t carbon atoms, or c a salt radical selected from alkali metals e.g., sodium or potassium , alkaline earth metals e.g., magnesium or calcium , and mono , di , or tricthanolamine. The amine reactant can be a primary, secondary, or a tertiary amine. Thus, the amine reactants can carry one, two, or three organic radicals, i. e., they can be primary amines having two hydrogens hereinafter designated R , secondary amines hereinafter R , or tertiary gamines hereinafter R . Preferably, the amine reactant contains not less than 6 or more than 60 carbon atoms total. The amines employed in the invention contain from one to three organic radicals, i. e., they may contain optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, and alkynyl groups, optionally interrupted by hetero atoms, such as oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur, and can contain other functional groups, e. g., ester or amido moieties, and the amine substituents may, in the case of the secondary and tertiary amines, be themselves linked together to form N heterocyclic structure, e. g., morpholino. In preferred and more specific embodiments of the invention, the amine reactant is an amidoamine reactant of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein R1 is alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, or hydroxyalkyl of from 5 to 22 carbon atoms each, or aryl or alkyryl of up to 20 carbon atoms. R2 is hydrogen or alkyl, hydroxyalkyl or alkenyl of up to 6 carbon atoms each or cycloalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms, preferably of from 2 to 5 carbon atoms, or polyoxyalkalene of up to 10 carbon atoms. R3 send R4, which may be the same or different, are, in the case of the tertiary amines R , selected from alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, carboxyalkyl of up to 6 carbon atoms in each alkyl moiety, and polyoxyalkylene of up to 10 carbon atoms in addition, R3 and R4, taken together with the nitrogen to which they are attached, may represent an N heterocycle, e.g., a morpholino structure, in which the Y radical is bonded to a ring atom of said N heterocycle other than the nitrogen of the R moiety in the case of the secondary amines R , one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen, and in the case of the primary amines R , both R3 and R4 are hydrogen is is an integer from 2 to 12. The term polyoxyalkylene radical as used above in the definition of R2, R3 and R4 may be of the formula R5 0 R5 m wherein R5 and R5 are alkyl of from 1 to 4 carbon atoms and m is an integer from about 2 to 10 .In different specific and preferred embodiment, the secondary R and tertiary R amine reactants of the invention may be all N heterocyclic radical which may contain one additional hetero atom e.g., oxygen or another nitro gen and contains 5 to 6 total ring carbon atoms optionally, said heterocyclic radical may be substi tuted with alkyl and or hydroxyalkyl of up to 20 carbons atoms each.Typical of such N heterocyclic radical are imidazolyl, N alkylmorpholino, alkyl pyrimidino, alkoxazolinyl, and the like. The substi tuents in formula l c are as follows EMI5.1 where in Z is N or 0 o is an integer from 0 to 3 p is an integer from 1 to 3 provided that the sum of o p is from 3 to 4 R1 is defined as before and is linked to a ring carbon atom and R6 is, in the case of the tertiary amines R , alkyl of from 2 to 6 carbon atoms which may be substituted with a hydroxyl group at the terminal or a non terminal carbon atom, in the case of the secondary amines R , R6 is hydrogen. The process of the invention is explained below with specific reference to the tertiary, secondary, and primary amine v1riant.. Tertinry Amine Reactants Widen using a tertiary amine reactant for reaction with the phosphate ester reactant, the process of the invention may be represented by the following generic reaction scheme 1 EMI6.1 wherein R is n tertiary amine, i.e. , carrying three organic radicals, preferably containing a total of from 6 to 60 carbon atoms X is an anion and 2 is an integer from 0 to 2 and z is oE a value necessary for charge balance. When both A and B in formula la is 0 Y Hal, three moles of R are required per mole of phosphate reactant. When B in formula I a is o y lEl, two moles of R are required per mole of phosphate ester reactant Ia . Still more specific sub embodiments of reaction scheme 1 , i.c., in which particular phosphate ester reactants are employed, can be represented as follows EMI7.1 wherein Hal halogen and the other radicals are defined asEMI7.2 wherein the radicals are defined as above andEMI7.3 wherein the radicals are defined as above. EMI8.1 Secondary Amine Reactants Mizen using a secondary amine reactant with the phosphate ester reactant, the process of the invention may be represented by the following generic reaction scheme EMI9.1 wherein R is a secondary amine, i.e., carrying two organic radicals, preferably of a total of 6.to 60 carbon atoms, and q is an integer from 1 to 2.It will be understood that when one mole of phosphate ester reactant is employed per mole of secondary amine reactant R i.e., when q 1 , the reaction proceeds as follows EMI9.2 wherein the radicals are defined as above. When two moles of the secondary amine reactant are supplied i.e., when q 2 , the reaction leads to Åa biscompound, as follows EMI10.1 wherein the radicals are defined an above, and one of the A or B radicals is 0 as shown, for charge balance. lllc secondary amine reactant R cart, in preferred and specific aspect, be of the formula I b given supra, provided, however, that R3 therein is hydrogen, to give the secondary amine function. Also, R can be a cyclic amine reactant of the formula I c given supra, with the proviso that R6 therein is hydrogen, to give the secondary amine function. Primary Amine Reactants When using a primary amine reactant with the phosphate ester reactant, the process of the invention may be represented by the following generic reaction scheme EMI11.1 wherein R is a primary aminc, i.e., carrying one organic radical, preferably of a total of 6 to 60 carbon atoms, and q is on integer from 1 to 3. It will be understood that when one mole of phosphate ester reactant is employed per mole of primary amine reactant K i.e. . when q 1 , the reaction proceeds as follows EMI11.2 wherein the radicals are defined as ahove. When two moles of the primary amine reactant are supplied per mol of phosphate ester reactant, i.e., when q is 2, the reaction leads to a bis compound, as follows EMI12.1 wherein the radicals are defiled as before. When three moles of the primary atniiie rcactant are supplied, i.e. , when q is 3, the reaction leads to a triscompound, as follows EMI12.2 wherein the radicals are defined as before, and one of the A orB radicals is O as shown, for charge balance. The primary amine reactant R can, in preferred and specific aspect, be of the formula I b given above, provided, however, that h and R4 therein are hydrogen, to give the primary amine function. An alternative process for making certain of the surfactants utilizes a novel reaction between the amine reactant and a cyclic hydroxypropylene containing phosphate ester reactant, to produce 3 hydroxypropylphosphobetaine, as shown schematically below for a tertiary amine reactant EMI13.1 wherein the reactants are defined as before, it being understood that the anion X can be supplied by the halide Hal group which is split from reactant IVa or VIa in which case X Hal or from another source, as explained above. The designations HO C3H5 or C3H50H herein refer to a hydroxypropylene function in which the hydroxy can be linked to any one of the three carbons and the cyclic oxa moiety is linked to one of the three carbons, either at the 3 or 2 position of the propyl group. The reactions proceed in the same manner using primary amines R or secondary amines R , instead of the tertiary amine R shown, it being understood that use of secondary amines can give bis compounds as in Reaction 7 , supra, and use of primary amines can give bis or tris compounds, as shown inReactions 10 and 11 , supra, when the cyclic phosphate reactant is supplied in appropriate multiple molar ratio 2 1 or 3 1, respectively . The reactants required in the processes can be prepared as follows Preparation of Intermediate Amine Reactants The amine reactants R R , and R are known or are generally prepared in accordance with conventional techniques.For instance, when making a tertiary amine R of the amidoamine type Ib , this can be prepared by reacting an acid with an aminoalkyl substituted tertiary or secondary or primary, in the case of R and R amine to result in the amidoamine function. Alternatively, an acid can be reacted with an aminoalkyl substi tuted secondary or primary amine, followed by further treatment of the reaction product with alkylene oxide, to give the tertiary or secondary reactants, respectively. WI C1 R or R in the N heterocyclic structure Ic , c.g., imldazolyl, this can be prepared in accordance with known techniques, e.g., as taught in U.S. Patent No. 2,267,965. Reaction 14 below yields the non cyclic reactants R and Reaction 15 illustrates the prepararion of a typical cyclic amine reactant R Imidazolyl EMI15.1 wherein R1 is defined as above and R7 is alkyl of 2 to 6 carbon atoms which may be substituted with a hydroxy group at ttic terminal or a non terminal carbon ntom . This cyclic reactant can be prepared as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 2,267,965. Preparation of Phosphate Ester Intermediate Reactants The preparation of the phosphate ester intermediate reactants I a through VIII a as set forth in the reaction sequences above are also prepared by reactions which are illustrated as follows EMI16.1 A wide variety of commercially available amines are suitable for these reactions. The amines can.be primary, secondary or tertiary with only the proviso that the total number of carbons be greater than 6, i.e., to give a hydrophobe necessary for surface active properties. All other substitutions and modifications of the amine are usable in the present process. Of the commercially available aliphatic amines, there may be mentioned Armeen Armak Chemical , e.g., octyl amine through dodecyl amine.Illustrative aliphatic secondary amines 9f simi lar molecular weight include such secondary atnines as the Armeen 2C dicocamine through the disoya amine, tallow aminc.Tertiary amines may be simple aliphatic tertiary amines such as the type alkyl dimethyl amine, dialkyl methyl amine, and trialkyl amine, marketed by Armak Chemical Company and an example is Armeen DM14D which is the N tetradecyl dimethyl amine . iurtitcr, ethoxylated aliphatic anilines can also be used.These products are marketed under the names of Ethameen . vAny substitution is possible as illustrated elsewhere herein. The cyclic phosphate ester intermediate reactants required for the alternative synthesis routes 12 and 13 supra, can be prepared as follows EMI18.1 It will be noted that Reactions 23 and 24 utilize reactants similar to the reactants needed in Reactions 17 and 18 supra although with the more limited hydroxypropyl definition , but that different, cyclic, products are obtained. The different products are the result of a different pll adjustment thus, while reaction 17 is carried out at a pH of about 4 5, reaction 18 is carried out at a pH of 9.5 to 10.5, resulting in a cyclic product.This cyclic product may contain also some vicinal epoxy material so that the formulaEMI19.1 should be understood as including not only one or more of the isomers resulting from linkage of the oxa oxygen to any one of the hydroxy propylene carbons t6 make a 5 , or 6 membered ring , but also the following structure EMI19.2 Operation at a higher pH, e.g., 10.5 or higher, favors formation of the vicinal epoxy containing material. The reaction of epichlorohydrin with phosphoric acid and various phosphate salts has not been investigated to an appreciable extent and very little has been written in the literature on this reaction. We have observed that a variety of products can be obtained with variation of certain experimental parameters. The most important of these parameters include the pH of the phosphate salt, the mole ratio of the phosphate salt to the epichlorohydrin and the temperature at which the reaction is run. Reactions No. 16 through 18 occur in an acidic, aqueous solution. Consequently, the reaction proceeds by attack at the epoxide resulting in a 3 chloro 2 hydroxypropyl phosphate intermediate.This intermediate, containing a labile organic chlorine, is reacted with certain nucleophilic species such as amine to give the product conforming to the general phosphobetaine structure. The pH at which this reaction occurs must be strictly contolled. The desired pH range is from 4 to 5. If the pH drops below 4 there is significant hydrolysis of the phosphate ester.If the pH at which the reaction is run is too high, there will be loss of labile organic chlorine. When the reaction is carried out in an alkaline environment of a pH 9.5 10.5 optimally, the resulting intermediate had surprisingly lost its labile organic chlorine and formed a cyclic diester . This diester is quite resistant to hydrolysis but extremely reactive towards certain nucleophilic species. This nucleophilic attack, particularly under conditions at which it is maximized, coupled with the proper selection of amine having a hydrophobic nature makes thisprocess of the invention a commercially viable procedure for preparing surface active agents possessing unusual and valuable properties. The following conditions represent preferred operating conditions 1 The reaction should be carried out in an aqueous environment at a concentration of the reactants of 30 50 based on total solution the balance being water most preferably the reactants constitute about 40 of the total reactant water mixture. 2 The phosphate salt used should have the pH of 9.5 10.5 before the additionof epichlorohydrin. This will allow for maximum formation of the cyclic phos phate diester. 3 The reaction is preferably initially conducted at a temperature of 80 850C under some pressure, e.g., 5 psig of nitrogen, to prevent azeotrope reflux. The temperature is gradually increased to 100C and held until theoretical inorganic chloride is generated. The reaction of epichlorohydrin with disodium and tri sodium phosphate has been described or reported in the literature O. Bailly, Compt. Rend. 172, 689 91 1921 C.A. 15, 1884 1921 and 0. Bailly, Bull. Soc. Chim. 4 31, 848 62 1922 C.A. 17, 264 1923 . In the reported reaction of disodium hydrogen phosphates with epichlorohydrin a diglycerophosphoric acid di ester was thought to have been obtained. As noted above, however we have found that the pH of this system has a profound effect on the product which is obtained. For example, by reacting NaH2P04 with epichlorohydrin, the following two products can be obtained, depending on the mole ratio of the two reactants. If one mole of epichlorohydrin is reacted, the product is 3 chloro 2 hydroxypropyl phosphate Intermediate Reactant A, below . If two moles are reacted, there is obtained bis 3 chloro2 hydroxypropyl phosphate Intermediate Reactant D , below.These reactions are carried out at a pll of 4 5. Under these conditions, as can be seen from the products obtained, the phosphoric acid moiety attacks the epoxy ring. As the pH is increased to form disodium phosphate, a nucleophilic attack occurs with a displacement of significant quantities of chloride ions. This is shown in the appended drawing, in which Fig. 1 is a plot showing the effect of pal on chloride generation. At a pll of 9.5 10.5, theoretical chloride generation is achieved. Although it was assumed that simultaneous attack was occurring at the epoxy moiety, it was surprisingly discovered that the epoxide group was being retained essentially intact.The product obtained under these conditions was 2,3 epoxymonosodium propyl phosphate Intermediate Reactant C , below .The presence of the epoxy group was subsequently verified by reaction with various amine compounds. The various intermediates were used to react with varibus primary, secondary and tertiary amines to form the ultimate amphoteric phosphobetaine compounds. Although similar product would be expected to be obtained when utilizing Intermediate Reactants A and C, distinctly different properties were found for products prepared from these two intermediates. In the case of Intermediate Reactant C, significantly higher foam ing products were obtained and this was later shown to be a function of p11 of the initial phosphate salt used this effect is depicted in the drawing wherein Fig. 2 is a graph captioned Foam Profile , which is a plot of foam height versus the pH of the initial phosphate salt used. One of the interesting phenomenon of these products is thus their pil dependent solubility. Not only are the products pll dependent, but they are also concentration dependent in that very dilute concentrations tend to become cloudy. The concen tration at which this clouding phenomenon occurs is affected by the pll of the initial phosphate salt. This is shown in the appended drwine wherein Fig. 3 is a plot of pH versus concentration at which cloudiness occurs. At a pM of 9.5 10.5, there is a leveling off of the solubility. As noted above, the process parameters must be controlled in order to maintain the reactive organic chlorine atom in the phosphate ester reactants and to avoid hydrolysis of these phosphate esters. Thus, the ply of the phosphate salt employed1 the temperature of the reaction and the reaction time were all found to be important in yielding the desired intermediate product. The nature of the intermediate product in turn has a profound effect on the properties of the final products. Indeed, the surprising reactivity of the cyclic phosphate ester intermediate reactants, like that of their Iabile chlorine containing analogues, while at the same time their stability against hydrolysis renders eminently suitable for use in the basic process of the invention to yield the ultimate surfactants. Ilhen amine reactants are employed, which are sufficiently hydrophobic to surfacc active, highly efficacious surface active products are produced.However, non surface active analogues can also be prepared by using low molecular weight or hydrophilic amines. Specific phosphate ester intermediate reactants which were prepared according to reaction sequences 16 22 supra and which were used in the examples, infra, in conjunction with certain tertiary amine reactants, are set forth below Phosphate Ester Intermediate Reactants Reactant A Prepared According to Reaction SequenceEMI24.1 Reactant B Prepared According to Reaction SequenceEMI24.2 Reactant C Prepared According to Reaction SequenceEMI25.1 and orEMI25.2 Reactant D Prepared According to Redaction SequenceEMI25.3 Reactant E Prepared according to Reaction SequenceEMI25.4 Reactant F Prepared according to the Reaction SequenceEMI25.5 Reactant G Prepared According to Reaction SequenceEMI25.6 Reactant II Prepared According to Reaction SequenceEMI25.7 In carrying out the reactiens 1 to 13 as set forth above leading to the ultimate compounds of the invention, the amine intermediate reactant R, R , or R , is reacted with the appropriate phosphate ester intermediate reactant and these reactions are generally carried out in an aqueous system at 80 1000C. The optimum concentration range of the reactants in reac tions 1 to 13 in aqueous solution is from 30 50 and most prefer ably the reactants constitute about 40 of the aqueous reactant mixture. In this respect, the preferred concentration are similar to those set forth above for certain intermediate reactions, e.g., in the preparation of the cyclic intermediates according to reactions 16 to 18 the resulting reactions product mixture, which pre ferably will contain about 40 of active reactants, inay be used as such in carrying out the final reaction. leading to the ultimate phosphorus containing surface active products. The phosphate ester reactant should have a pH of about 5 to 6 before the amine addition and the pH should be maintained at between 7 to 9 after said amine addition below a pH of 7 the rate of quaternization slows significantly and, of course, the pH of the amines used themselves limit the pH on the alkaline topside at about pH 9. As noted above, the reactions 1 to 13 are generally carried out at a temperature of about 80 1000C. The reaction is preferably initially conducted at a temperature of 80 1000C and may be conducted under some pressure, e.g., under 5 psig of nitro gen. However, under pressure, higher temperatures can be used, e.g., temperatures up to about 1300C and the ceiling temperature is determined by the sensitivity of the reactants, e.g., the amine reactant, since it will be found that color loss and evidence of other degredation occurs at unduly high temperatures. Many specific examples of ultimate phosphobetaine preparation are set forth below. The ultimate reaction products are good surfactants and quite unexpectedly exhibit good foam volume and superior foam stability in comparison to commercially available amphoteric and zwitterionic surfactants. This was determined by an adaptation of the well known Ross Miles foam test principle Oil and Soap 18, 99 102 1941 in the following manner. Lanolin, anhydrous, cosmetic grade is mixed with dioxane technical grade in the proportion of 2.5 grams lanolin and 100 grams of dioxane. The lanolin is first mixed with 25 cc of dioxane. This mixture is heated over a steam bath to 450C in order to dissolve the lanolin in the dioxane. The remainder of the dioxane is then added and mixed. This lanolin dioxane solution, which is stored in an amber bottle, should be prepared fresh on the day that the tests are run. The composition to be tested is diluted by adding 376 cc of distilled water to 4 grams of the composition and then by adding 20 cc of the lanolin dioxane solution described above while mixing. Heat is produced when the lanolin dioxane solution is added to the solution of the composition in water and care must be taken in adjusting the temperature of this solution to 24 25 C. Both of these intermediate solutions should therefore be adjusted to 230C before mixing. The cooling of the lanolindioxane solution should be gradual in order to avoid precipita tion of the lanolin. This will produce a final solution with a temperature of 24 25 C. The final solution of the composition to be tested, water, dioxane and lanolin described above, is then run in a modified Ross Miles foam column in the usual way. All tests are conducted in duplicate, and the average of the two results is taken. Foam stability is determined by measuring the decay in foam height after two minutes, expressed as a percentage of the original height. Typical foam values obtained utilizing the above procedure for an alkylamidophosphobetaine, an alkylamido betaine and an alkylamido sultaine are listed below Example Foam Decay No. Volume ml After 2 min.Lauric Myristic Amido 3 liydroxypropyl Phos 10 250 4.0 phobetaineCocamido Disodium 3 Hydroxypropyl Phosphobetaine 9 240 10Cocamido Disodium EthylPhosphobetaine 47 210 19Cocamido Propyl betaine 225 31.0Cocamido Propylsultaine 200 60.0 As can be seen from the above results, the phosphobetaines made by the process of the invention exhibit excellent foam volume and stability, whereas the stability of the betaines and sultaines is significantly less. In another series of tests, additional species of the phosphobetaine compounds of the invention were tested by a cylinder shake test for the evaluation of foaming characteristics. In this test, test solutions containing 0.1 by weight of the candidate surfactant in water of 100 ppm hardness calcium to magnesium ration 3 2 were used and placed in 100 ml stoppered cylinders which had been cleaned so that water drains down its walls in an unbroken film. Each cylinder filled with test solution was shaken 20 times in a standard manner and net foam in ml is noted one minute and again five minutes after shaking. The test were run in three replicates.The results were as follows Example 1 5 LauriclMyristic Type Number Minute Minutes Lauric Myristic Amido Betaine 67 60Sodium Lauryl Sulfate 85 74Lauric Myristic Amido Monosodium Phosphobetaine 2 88 78Lauric Myristic AmidoDisodium Phosphobetaine 10 85 78Lauric Myristic AmidoGlyceryl Phosphobetaine 2 86 78Lauric Myristic Amido CarboxyDisodium Phosphobetaine 62 87 73N cocamidoethyl N hydroxyethyl glycine 76 67 Example 1 5 Coco Type Number Minute MinutesCocobetaine 65 56Cocamidobetaine 70 63Cocoamido MonosodiumPhosphobetaine 1 79 74Cocamido Glyceryl Phosphobetaine 20 71 74Coco Imidazoyl MonosodiumPhosphobetaine 37 83 78Coco Imidazoyl Di sodium Phosphobetaine 49 80 75Bis Coco Imidazoyl Phosphobetaine 63 75 69 In addition, the compounds of the present invention possess a surprisingly low ocular irritation potential when compared to commercially available amphoteric and zwitterionic surfactants. The test employed is the modified Draize Test J.M. Draize et al, Toilet Goods Assn. No. 17, May, 1952, No. 1Proc.Sci.Sect. . In this method, a 0.1 1 ml sample of a neutral solution of the compound under investigation is dropped into one eye of an albino rabbit, the other eye serving as a control. Six rabbits are employed for each compound. Observations are made after 1, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours and 7 days after initial instillation second and third instillations are made after the 24 and 48 hour readings. Results may vary from substantially no change, or only a slight irritation in the appearance of the rabbit s eye after 7 days, to severe irritation and or complete corneal opacity. Ocular lesions are scored for the cornea, iris and conjunctiva with a higher number indicating greater ocular irritation and the scores are added to give a total numerical value for each reading for 6 rabbits and average. The averaged score is an indication of the irritation potential of the composition under test. Based on the averaged score, descriptive irritation evaluation may be given, e.g., none, slight, moderate, severe, etc. Typical results for a betaine, sultaine and a phosphobetaine in accordance with the present invention when subjected to the above test procedure are as follows Eye Irritation Potential IrritantCompound 1 hr. 24 hr. 24 hr. 72 hr. 96 hr. Day 7 RatingLauric Myristic Amido 3 Hydroxypropyl Phosphobetaine 7.7 0.3 1.3 1.0 0.0 slightCocamidoPropylbetaine 11,7 4.2 9.3 13.2 11.2 5.8 severeCocamidoPropylsultaine 15.0 8.5 15.6 25.0 severe All tests were conducted at a concentration of 3 wt wt. In further series of tests carried out as above, but using only one test rabbit per compound, the following results were obtained Example D a y Irritant Number 1 2 3 4 7 RatingLauric Myristic Disodium Amido Phosphobetaine 10 7 0 1 1 0 very slightGlyceryl CA 35 33 4 0 0 0 0 very slighLauric Myristic CarboxyDisodium Phosphobetaine 62 2 2 0 0 0 very slight ComparisonAmphoteric 20 21 15 7 5 0 moderateLauric Myristic AmidoBetaine 8 15 25 severeCocobetaine 23 26 19 17 25 severeCocamidobetaine 21 19 14 9 6 severeSodium Lauryl Sulfate 18 16 16 16 10 severe CA 35 26 21 21 16 0 severe N cocamidoethyl N hydroxyethyl glycine 2 undecyl 1 hydroxyethyl prop ironic acid imidazoline As can be readily seen, the phosphobetaines in accordance with the present invention exhibit only slight ocular irritation, whereas the betaines and sultaines are severe irritants. The following examples illustrate the processes of the invention and the novel intermediates utilized therein.Example 1 REACTANT A 60.00 parts of deionized water are charged into a suitable reactor to which 22.58 parts of NaH2PO4 and 0.70 parts of NaOH are charged under good agitation. Mix well until a solution is obtained. 17.42 parts of Epichlorohydrin is charged under good agitation. The reactor is sealed and 5PSIG N2 is applied. Heat to 80 850C. holding the heated mixture at this temperature for 2 hours after the batch clears approximately 3 hours total . Reaction is complete when theoretical reduction in acid value is obtained. Inorganic chloride will be less than 0 . 50 . The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI33.1 Example 2 REACTANT B 60.00 parts of deionized water are charged into a suitable reactor to which 17.37 parts of Na2HPO4 are charged.Mix well until a solution is obtained. 22.63 parts ofEpichlorohydrin are charged under good agitation. The reactor, is sealed and 5 PSIG N2 is applied. Heat to 80 850C. holding the heated mixture at this temperature for approximately 2 hours after the batch clears approximately 3 hours total . Reaction is complete when theoretical chloride is obtained and theoretical reduction in acid value is realized. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI34.1 Example 3 REACTANT C 60.00 parts of deionized water are charged into a quite able reactor to which 24.22 parts of Na9HPO4 are charged. Mix well until a solution is obtained. l5.7 parts of Epichlorohyd rin are charged under good agitation. The reactor is sealed and 5 PSIG M2 is applied. Heat to 80 850C. holding the heated mixture at this temperature for 2 hours after the batch clears approximately 3 hours total . Reaction is complete when theoretical reduction in acid value and theoretical inorganic chlo ride values are obtained. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI35.1 Example 4 REACTANT D 60.000 parts of deionized water are charged into a suitable reactor to which 17.09 parts of NaH2P04 and 0.70 parts ofNaOH are charged. Mix well until a solution is achieved. 22.91 parts of Epichlorohydrin is charged under good agitation. Reactor is sealed and 5 PSIG N2 is applied. Heat is applied to approximately 80 850 C and the heated mixture held at this temperature for approximately 3 hours after the batch clears approximately 5 hours total . Reaction is complete when acid value is reduced by the theoretical amount. Inorganic chloride will be less than 0.5 . The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI35.2 Example 5 REACTANT E 60.000 parts of deionized water are charged into a suitable reactor to which 21.17 parts of NaH2P03 is added. Mix well until solution is achieved. 18.83 parts of Epichlorohydrin is charged under good agitation. Reactor is sealed and 5 PSIG N2 is supplied. Heat is applied to 80 850 C, and the reaction mixture is held at this temperature for approximately 3 hours after the batch clears aprox 5 hours total . Reaction is complete when acid value is reduced by theoretical amount.The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI36.1 Example 6 REACTANT F EMI36.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, slowly charge 16.20 parts of Na2HPO3 under ood agitation. Heat to 40 S0 C. Slowly charge 23.79 parts epichlorohydrin under good agitation. Seal reactor and apply 5 PSIG nitrogen. Ileat to 90 95 C and hold 3 4 hours. Reaction is comrXlCtC when theoretical reduction in acid value has occurred and inorganic chloride reaches 50 of theoretical. Example 7 REACTANT G EMI37.1 TO 60.000 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, slowly charge 12.28 parts NaH2P03 under good agitation. Heat slowly to 40 45 C. Slowly charge 27.72 parts epichlorohydrin under good agitation. Seal reactor and apply 5 PSIG nitrogen. Heat to 90 950 C and hold 3 4 hours. Reaction is complete when there is no acid value.Example 8 REACTANT H To 60.000 parts of water charge 21.1 parts of mono sodium phosphate in a suitable reaction vessel under good agitation. Apply heat to 50 550C. Slowly charge 27.9 parts epichlorohydrin. Seal reactor and apply 5 psig N2. Pleat slowly to 80 850C and hold 2 to 3 hours. Reaction is complete when acid value has been reduced to vanishingly small levels. Inorganic chloride levels will likewise be vanishingly small. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI37.2 Example 9 20.5 parts of Reactant A and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to 50 C. 19.5 parts of molten 3 cocamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged under good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 95 C and held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours.Reaction reaches 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI38.1 R1 C7 to C17 alkylExample 10 20.8 parts of Reactant A and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under goodagitation. Heat is applied to approximately 50 C. 19.2 parts of a 70 30 blend of lauramidopropyl dimethylamine and myristamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged to the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950 C and held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reached 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI39.1 R1 70 C11 alkyl 30 C13 alkylExample 11 22.88 parts of Reactant A and 60.0 parts water are charged into a suitable reaction vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to 5O0C. 17.12 parts of l hydroxyethyl 2 alkyl 2 imidazoline the alkyl has 7 17 carbon atoms are charged under good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950C. and the heated mixture held at this temperature for 4 hours. Re action reaches 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having,the following structure EMI39.2 R C7 to C17 alkyl Example 12 20.8 parts of Reactant A and 60.0 parts of water are charged into a suitable reaction vessel under good agitation Heat is applied to 500C. 19.2 parts of l hydroxyethyl 2 alkyl 2 imidazoline being C17 are charged under good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 95 C and the heated mixture held at this temperature for 4 hours. Reaction reaches 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI40.1 R C17 alkylExample 13 26.8 parts of Reactant B and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to approximately 500 C. 13.2 parts of 3 cocamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged to the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950C and the heated mixture held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 98 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI41.1 R C7 C17 alkylExample 14 26.4 parts, of Reactant 11311 and 60.0 partsof water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to approximately 500C. 13.6 parts of a 70 30 blend of 3 lauramidopropyl diethylamine and 3 myristamidopropyl diethylamine are slowly charged tD the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950C and the heated mixture held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 987. during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure Example 15 22.4 parts of Reactant C and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to approximately 50 C. 17.6 parts of 3 cocamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged to the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 95 C and held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and.tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel producthaving the following structure EMI42.1 R1 C7 C17 alkylExample 16 25.7 parts of Reactant C and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to approximately 50 C. 14.3 parts of a blend of 70 30 lauramidopropyl dimethylamine and myristamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged to the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950 C. and held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 97 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI43.1 R1 70 C11 alkyl 30 C13 alkylExample 17 14.4 parts of Reactant D and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to 5O0C. 25.6 parts of molten 3 cocamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged under good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 95 C. and the heated mixture held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 98 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI43.2 c7 C17 alkylExample 18 15.3 parts of Reactant D and 60.0 parts of water are charged in a reacting vessel under good agitation. Heat is applied to approximately 500 C. 24.7 parts of 70 30 blend of 3 lauramidopropyl dimethylamine and 3 myristamidopropyl dimethylamine are slowly charged to the above solution using good agitation. Heating is continued to 90 950 C and the heating mixture held at this temperature for 3 to 4 hours. Reaction reaches 98 during this time via inorganic chloride and tertiary amine analysis. The product is an aqueous solution of a novel product having the following structure EMI44.1 R 70 C11 alkyl 30 C13 alkylExample 19EMI44.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in d suitable reactor, charge 19.66 parts of Reactant G under good agitation. Heat to 45 500C and charge 20.34 parts of 3 cocamido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. iIeat to 90 95 C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vaiiishingly small. The product is an aqueous solution of the above material.R C7 C17Example 20EMI45.1 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 2,0.81 parts of Reactant G under good agitation. Heat to 5 50 C and charge 19.19 parts of 3 lauramido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Heat to 90 95 C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small. The product is an aqueous solution of the above material. R Cl1 . Example 21EMI45.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 23.10 parts of tcactant G under good agitation. Heat to 45 500C and charge 16.90 parts of 3 caprylamido propyl dimethyl 3mine under good agitation. Heat to 90 95 c and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above materialR C7 Example 22EMI46.1 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 22.14 parts of Reactant sF under good agitation. Heat to 45 50 C and charge 17.86 parts of l hydroxyethyl 2 alkyl 2 imidazoline alkyl being C7 t9 C17 under good agitation.Heat to 90 950C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above material.R C7 C17Example 23EMI46.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 21.12 parts of Reactant F under good afJitation. Ileat to 45 500C and charge 18.88 parts of 3 eolamido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Ileat to 90 950C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above material R C7 C17 Example 24EMI47.1 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 20.06 parts of Reactant E under good agitation. Heat to 40 45 C and charge 19.94 parts of a 70 30 blend of 3 lauramido propyl dimethyl amine 3 myristamido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Heat to 90 95 C and hold 4 5 hours.Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is qenerated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous soluti6n of the above materialR 70 C11 30 C13.Example 25EMI47.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 20.82 parts of Reactant wE under good agitation. Heat to 45 500 C and charge 19.18 parts of 3 lauramido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Heat to 90 950 C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above material. R C11 Example 26EMI48.1 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 23.10 parts of Reactant E under good agitation. Heat to 45 500 C and charge 16.9 parts of 3 caprylamido propyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Heat to 90 950 C and hold 4 5 hours.Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above materialR C7Example 27EMI48.2 To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 24.45 parts of Reactant E under c ood agitation. Heat to 45 500 C and charge 15.55 parts of 3 caprylamido propyl dimethyl amineunder good agitation. Heat to 90 950 C and hold 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when theoretical inorganic chloride is generated and when residual tertiary nitrogen levels become vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the above materialR C5.Example 28To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 12.01 parts of Reactant H under good agitation. Ileat to .f5 500C and slowly chary 27.99 parts of cocamidopropyl dimethyl amine under good agitation. Heat to 90 950C and hold for 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete, when inorganic chloride reaches theoretical and residual tertiary nitrogen levels are vanishingly small. The product is an aqueous solution of the material shown below EMI49.1 R C7 to C17. Example 29To 60.00 parts of soft water in a suitable reactor, charge 12.17 parts of Reactant H sunder good agitation. Heat to 45 50 C and slowly charge 27.83 parts of l hydroxyethyl 2 alkyl imidazoline alkyl being C7 to C17 under good agitation. lleat to 90 95 C and hold for 4 5 hours. Reaction is complete when inorganic chloride reaches theoretical and residual tertiary nitrogen levels are vanishingly small.The product is an aqueous solution of the material shown below EMI50.1 R C C 7 17