# SUBSTITUTED PHENYL ALIPHATIC ISOXAZOLES USEFUL AS ANTIVIRAL AGENTS AND PREPARATION THEREOF

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates to novel substituted phenyl aliphatic isoxazoles useful as antiviral agents and, to the preparation thereof. U.S. Patent 4,268,678, discloses antivirally active compounds having the formula wherein Ar is phenyl substituted by one or two substituents selected from the group consisting of halogen, lower alkoxy, nitro and hydroxy Y is CH₂ The present invention relates to compounds having the formulas wherein The invention further relates to compounds having the formulas wherein R₅ and n have the meanings given above, which are microbial conversion products of compounds of Formula I where X 0, R CH₃, R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ H, and the dihydro oxazole moiety is in the 4 position in the phenylene ring. It is noted that compounds of the Formula III fall within the scope of Formula I. Compositions for combatting viruses comprise an antivirally effective amount of a compound of Formulas I, II, III or IV in admixture with a suitable carrier or diluent. A process for preparing a compound within the scope of Formula I or II having the formulas or wherein R is alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms R 1, R 2, R 3 and R 4 are each hydrogen, or alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms and R₅, R₆, X and n have the meanings given above, comprises reacting a compound of the formula with a lower alkanol in the presence of a strong acid, and heating the resulting imino ester with a compound of the formula A process for preparing a compound within the scope of Formula I where X is O having the formula wherein R is alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms R 1, R 2, R 3 and R 4 are each hydrogen, or alkyl or hydroxyalkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms and R₅ and n have the meanings given above, comprises A method for combatting viruses comprises contacting the locus of said viruses with a composition containing an antivirally effective amount of a compound of Formula I, II, III or IV. The invention further relates to intermediates of the formulas VII and IX above. The compounds of Formulas I IV are basic enough to form stable acid addition salts with strong acids, and said salts are within the purview of the invention. The nature of the acid addition salt is immaterial provided it is derived from an acid the anion of which is essentially non toxic to animal organisms. Examples of appropriate acid addition salts include the hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, acid sulfate, maleate, citrate, tartrate, methanesulfonate, p toluenesulfonate, cyclohexanesulfamate, and the like. In the compounds of the invention wherein R₅ is lower alkyl, lower alkoxy or lower alkylthio, the alkyl moiety preferably has from one to four carbon atoms and in compounds where R₅ is halogen, any of the four common halogens, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine are contemplated with fluorine and chlorine being preferred. In the process involving the conversion of the intermediates of Formulas V and VI to the final products of Formulas I and II, respectively, the first step, conversion of the nitrile to an imino ester is carried out by treating the nitrile with a lower alkanol, preferably methanol or ethanol in the presence of a strong acid. A preferred procedure is to saturate a solution of the nitrile in a lower alkanol with gaseous hydrogen chloride at a reduced temperature 0 to 70 C and allow the mixture gradually to warm to room temperature until the reaction is complete. The hydrochloride salt of the imino ester is obtained. The second step is the reaction of the imino ester with a hydroxyalkylamine of the formula H₂NC R 1R 2 CH R 3 OH. The reaction can be carried out by heating the reactants together at a temperature between about 100 C and 150 C. The intermediate nitriles of Formula V are in turn prepared by reacting the alkali metal derivative of a 3 R 5 methylisoxazole with a halide of the formula where Hal is bromine or iodine and m n 1. The compounds of Formula X where X is O are obtained by reacting cyanophenol with a dihalide of the formula Hal CH₂ The compounds of Formula X where X is a single bond are prepared by procedures analogous to those shown in U.S. Pat. 4,093,736 June 6, 1978 starting with the appropriate cyanophenyl compounds. For example, starting with 4 cyanobenzaldehyde and methyl cyclopropyl ketone, and following the reaction of sequence A of said patent, there is obtained 6 4 cyanophenyl hexyl bromide. The intermediate nitriles of Formula VI are prepared by reacting a cyanophenol under basic conditions with a compound of the formula where Hal is bromine or iodine. The compounds of Formula XI are in turn prepared by a reaction sequence involving conventional side chain homologation reactions starting with a 5 R₆ isoxazole 3 carboxylic acid. This is illustrated by the procedures described hereafter in Example 7. An alternative procedure for preparing a compound of Formula I where X is O comprises reacting a compound of Formula VII with an alkali metal derivative of a 3 R 4 R 4 5 methylisoxazole. Said alkali metal derivative is prepared The intermediates of Formula VII can be prepared by the reaction sequences set forth in the following flow sheet A hydroxybenzoate XII, Alk lower alkyl in the presence of a base reacts with an alkylene dibromide to form a bromoalkyl ether XIII . The ester group is then hydrolyzed, preferably with a strong acid, to give the corresponding carboxylic acid XIV . The latter is converted to its acid chloride XV which reacts with hydroxyethylamine or an alkylated or hydroxyalkylated derivative thereof to give an amide of the Formula XVI. The amide is then cyclized with thionyl chloride to give the desired intermediate of Formula VII Hal Br . In an alternative approach, the ester XII is converted to the amide XVII and the latter cyclized to a phenolic dihydro oxazole IX . Etherification with an alkylene dibromide then gives VII Hal Br . The bromine atom can, if desired, be replaced by iodine by treating with a metallic iodide in an inert solvent. A second alternative procedure for preparing a compound of Formula I where X is O comprises reacting a compound of Formula VIII with an alkali metal salt of a compound of Formula IX. The reaction takes place by heating the reactants in an inert solvent in the presence of an alkali metal base, e.g. potassium carbonate, at a temperature between about 50 and 150 C. The intermediate of Formula VIII is prepared by reacting an alkali metal derivative of a 3 R 4 R 4 5 methylisoxazole with an alkylene dihalide, Hal CH₂ The compounds of Formula I or II where one or more of R, R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ are lower alkyl substituted by lower alkanoyloxy, lower alkoxy, chloro or N Z are prepared from the corresponding compounds of Formula I or II where one or more of the recited R groups are hydroxyalkyl. Esterification of a hydroxyalkyl compound by conventional procedures, as by reaction with a lower alkanoic acid anhydride or halide gives the corresponding lower alkanoyloxy derivative. The lower alkanoyl groups preferably have from one to four carbon atoms. Etherification of a hydroxyalkyl compound by conventional procedures, as by reaction with a lower alkyl halide in the presence of a strong base, gives the corresponding lower alkoxy derivative. The lower alkoxy groups preferably have from one to four carbon atoms. A hydroxyalkyl compound can be converted to a chloroalkyl compound by reaction with a reagent such as thionyl chloride or phosphorus trichloride, capable of replacing aliphatic hydroxy groups by chlorine. The chloroalkyl compounds are in turn convertible to aminoalkyl compounds by reaction with ammonia or an amine, HN Z. Compounds where HN Z is lower alkanoylamino are prepared by acylation of the compounds where HN Z is NH₂ with a lower alkanoyl halide or anhydride, lower alkanoyl preferably having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The compound of Formula I where R is CH₃, R₁, R₂, R₃, R₄ and R₅ are H, X is O, n is 7, and the dihydro oxazole moiety is in the 4 position, was subjected to the fermentative enzymatic action of a variety of microorganisms. Two microorganisms, The structures of the compounds of the invention were established by the modes of synthesis, by elementary analysis, and by infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra. The following examples will further illustrate the invention. It is further contemplated that by replacing the 2 hydroxyethylamine in Example 1, part c by a molar equivalent amount of tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane tromethamine, HOCH₂ ₃CNH₂ there can be obtained 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 4,4 bishydroxymethyl 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole I R CH₃, R₁ and R₂ CH₂OH, R₃, R₄, and R₅ H, X O, n 7 . 5 7 4 4,5 Dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole Example 1c 1 g was added to each of three 10 liter fermentation tanks containing a culture of The procedure of Example 11 was repeated but using A solution of 2.80 g of 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 isoxazolemethanol Example 11 and 0.82 g of acetic anhydride in pyridine was allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water and the solid material which formed was collected, dried and recrystallized from isopropyl alcohol to give 2.5 g of 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 isoxazolemethanol acetate, colorless solids m.p. 76 77 C. To a solution of 2.1 ml of thionyl chloride in 5.0 ml of methylene dichloride cooled in an ice bath was added over a 30 minute period a suspension of 5 g of 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methyl 4 isoxazolemethanol Example 29b in 20 ml of methylene dichloride. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours and then at room temperature for 3 hours. The solvent was then removed A solution of 2.8 g of 4 chloromethyl 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole Example 35 and 1.3 g of pyrrolidine in 50 ml of dimethylformamide was heated on a steam bath for six hours and then kept overnight at room temperature. The solvent was removed By replacing the pyrrolidine in the foregoing example by a molar equivalent amount of ammonia, ethylamine, dimethylamine, piperidine or morpholine, it is contemplated that there can be obtained, respectively, 4 aminomethyl 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 4 ethylaminomethyl 3 methylisoxazole 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 4 dimethylaminomethyl 3 methylisoxazole 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methyl 4 1 piperidylmethyl isoxazole or 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methyl 4 4 morpholinylmethyl isoxazole. It is further contemplated that the 4 aminomethyl 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole can be caused to react with acetyl chloride to produce the corresponding 4 acetylamino compound. To a stirred suspension of 1.08 g of sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was added over 33 minutes a solution of 6.6 g of 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 5 hydroxymethyl 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole Example 23 . The mixture was heated at gentle reflux for one hour, then cooled to room temperature, and 4.30 g of methyl iodide in 25 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was added over a 15 minute period. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature, then filtered and concentrated It is further contemplated that by carrying out the procedures of Example 9 but replacing the methyl 4 hydroxybenzoate in part a of that example by a molar equivalent amount of methyl 3 nitro 4 hydroxybenzoate, methyl 3 methylthio 4 hydroxybenzoate, or methyl 3 trifluoromethyl 4 hydroxybenzoate, there can be obtained, respectively, 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl 2 nitrophenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole I R CH₃, R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ H, R₅ 2 NO₂, X O, n 7, oxazole at 4 position 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl 2 methylthiophenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole I R CH₃, R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ H, R₅ 2 SCH₃, X O, n 7, oxazole at 4 position or 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl 2 trifluoromethylphenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole I R CH₃, R₁, R₂, R₃ and R₄ H, R₅ 2 CF₃, X O, n 7, oxazole at 4 position . Biological evaluation of compounds of the invention has shown that they possess antiviral activity. They are useful in inhibiting virus replication The MIC values were determined by a standard plaque reduction assay as follows HeLa Ohio cells in monolayers were infected at a concentration of virus to give approximately 80 plaques per monolayer in the virus control no drug present . The compound to be tested was serially diluted and included during infection and in the agar medium overlay. The MIC was determined to be that concentration of compound which reduced the number of plaques by 50 with respect to the untreated virus control. Extensive testing of a preferred compound, 5 7 4 4,5 dihydro 2 oxazolyl phenoxy heptyl 3 methylisoxazole, demonstrated In the The following tables give the results obtained with the compounds of the invention. The antiviral compositions ore formulated for use by preparing a dilute solution or suspension in a pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous, organic or aqueous organic medium for parenteral administration by intravenous or intramuscular injection, or for intranasal or ophthalmic application or are prepared in tablet or capsule form with conventional excipients for oral administration.