# Use of ethyl silicate as a crosslinker for hydroxylated polymers.

## Abstract
The solvent resistance, flexibility and hardness of various hydroxylated polymers is enhanced by crosslinking with alkyl silicates or their hydrolyzed condensates.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Method of enhancing the solvent resistance, flexibility and hardness of hydroxylated polymers which comprises blending said hydroxylated polymers with an alkyl silicate or alkyl silicate hydrolyzate in the presence of trace amount of acid and thereafter curing the resultant mixture. 2. Method claim in Claim 1 wherein the alkyl silicate is tertraethyl orthosilicate or ethyl silicate hydrolyzed to a degree of 40 percent or of 80 percent. 3. Method claim in Claim 1 wherein the hydroxylated polymer is an hydrolyzed vinyl chloride vinyl acetate or a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxyalkyl acrylate terpolymer or a thermoplastic poly hydroxyethe. derived from bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin or an hydroxyalkyl acrylic or methacrylic acid polymer having 2 to 4 carbons in the alkyl group or a polyester polyol polymer derived from organic carboxylic acids and polyhydric alcohols. 4. Method claimed in Claims 1 to 3 wherein the ration of hydroxylated polymer to alkyl silicate is in the range of 25.1 to 1.1.

## Description
DESCRIPTION USE OF ETHYL SILICATE AS A CROSSLINKER FOR HYDROXYLATED POLYMERSBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION This invention pertains to ethyl silicate or its hydrolyzates and more particularly to hydroxyl containing polymers crosslinked with them.BACKGROUND ART The preparation of polyvinyl butyral ethyl silicate condensation products is disclosed in U.S. 2,432,113. The purpose here was to provide a silicate coating on a polarizing sheet with polyvinyl butyral by impregnating the sheet with tetraethyl orth silicate. In U.S. 2,456,251 z binder for bindig r..ca flakes to each other was produced by incorporating a minor amount of ethyl silicate in a resinous binder material having as its base one or more resins select from the group consisting of polymerized vinyl acetate, partially hydrolyzed polymerized vinyl acetate, polymerized acrylic ester resins and polymerized styrene resins. In U.S. 2,487,063, a polarizing composite similar to that disclosed in U.S. 2,432,113 was described comprising a stretched iodo polyvinyl butyral silicate. U.S. 3,624,014 teaches the preparation of stable polymeric gels as reaction products of tetralkyl ortho silicates and hydroxy terminated diene polymers. It is an object of this invention to provide solvent resistant versions of presently existing polymers having numerous attributes but poor solvent resistance. It is another object of this invention to provide a method for introducing flexibility into low molecular weight resins. It is still a further object of this invention to impart hardness to presently used coatings resins.Disclosure of Invention It has been found that alkyl silicates or their hydrolyzates may be used to improve the solvent resistance, flexibility, hardness and other mechanical properties of certain hydroxyl containing polymers by crosslinking them.Suitable hydroxyl containing polymers susceptible to this treatment include hydroxyalkyl acrylic or methacrylic acid ester copolymers having 2 to 4 carbons in the alkyl group, polyester polyol polymers derived fre organic carboxylic acids and polyhydric alcohols which reaction products contain at least two hydroxyl groups as alcoholic OH per molecule, and cyclic ester polymers containing at least two hydroxy groups per molecule prepared fro epsilon caprolactone or other lactones and the copolymers of such lactones with polyhydric alcohols, vinyl chloride vinyl acetate vinyl alcohol terpolymers, which are prepared by first copolymerizing vinyl chloride with acetate in various proportions and then partially hydrolyzing the resultant copolymer to afford a terpolymer containing vinyl chloride, vinyl acetate, and vinyl alcohol moeties, thermoplastic polyhydroxyetbers, described in U.S. 3,356,646, hydroxylated acrylic copolymers and vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxyalkyl acrylate terpolymers having relatively low molecular weights. Suitable vinyl chloride vinyl acetate vinyl alcohol terpolymers include those having between 10 and 90 percent vinyl acetate and 5 to 50 weight percent vinyl alcohol copolymerized therein having molecular weights represented by inherent viscosities of 0.05 to 1.0 measured as 0.2 gra.. samples in 100 nl cf cyclohexanone at 30 C according to ASTM Method D 1243. Representative hydroxylated acrylic copolymers include those containing hydroxyethyl, hydroxypropyl, or hydroxybutyl acrylate or methacrylate copolymerized esters having 1 to 18 carbons in the alkyl moist and, optionally, acrylic or methacrylic acid. Typical of the polyfunctional organic carboxylic acids that can be employed in producing polyester polyols useful in this invention are dicarboxylic aliphatic acids such as succinic, adipic, sebacic, azelaic, glutaric, pimelic, malonic and suberic acids and dicarboxylic aromatic acids such as phthalic acid, terephthalic acid, and isophthalic acid. Other polycarboxylic acids that can be employed are the dimer acids such as the dimer of linoleic acid. Hydroxylcontaining monocarboxylic acids such as ricinoleic acid can also be used. Alternatively, the anhydrides of any of these various acids can be enployed in producing the polyester polyols. The polyhydric alcohols organic polyols that can be employed in producing the polyester polyol starting material useful in this invention include the monomeric polyhydric alcohols such as, for example, glycerol 1,2,6 hexanetriol ethylene glycol diethylene glycol tritnethylol propane trimethyolethane pentaerythritol propylene glycol 1,2 , 1,3 and 1,4 butylene glycols 1,5 pentanediol and sorbitol including mixtures thereof. Other polyhydric alcohols that can be employed in producing the polyester polyols useful in this invention are the poly. eric polyhydric alcohols which include the linear and branched chain polyethers having a plurality of acyclic ether oxygens and at least two alcoholic hydroxyl radicals. Illustrative of such polyether polyols are the poly oxyalkylene polyols containing one or more chains of connected oxyalkylene radicals which are prepared by the reaction of one or more alkylene oxides with acyclic and alicyclic polyols. Examples of the poly oxyalkylene polyols include the poly oxyethylene glycols prepared by the addition of ethylene oxide to water, ethylene glycol or diethylene glycol poly oxypropylene glycols prepared by the addition of propylene oxide to water, propylene glycol or dipropylene glycol mixed oxyethylene oxypropylene polyglycols prepared in a similar manner utilizing a mixture of ethylene oxide or a sequential addition of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide and the poly oxybutylene glycols and copolymers such as poly oxyethyleneoxybutylene glycols and poly oxypropylene oxybutylene glycols. Included in the term poly oxybutylene glycols are polymers of 1,2 butyleneoxide and 2,3 butyleneoxide. Illustrative of further polyester polyols are the reaction products of any of the aforesaid polycarboxylic acids and the polyhydric alcohols prepared by the reaction of one or more alkylene oxides such as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, butylene oxide and mixtures thereof, with any of the following glycerol trimethylolpropane, 1,2,6hexanetriol pentaerythritol sorbitol glycosides such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl and 2 ethylhexyn arabin side, xyloside, fructoside, glucoside, and rharside sucrose, mononuclear polyhydroxybenzeres such as resorcinol, pyrogallol, phloroglucino , hydroquinone, 4,6 di tertiarybutylcatechol, and catechol pclynuclear hydroxybenzenes polynuclear designating at least two benzene nuclei such as the di , tri and tetraphenylol compounds in which two to four hydroxybenzene groups are attached either directly by means of single bonds or through an aliphatic hydrocarbon radical containing one to twelve carbon atoms, such compounds being typically illustrated by 2,2 bis p hydroxyphenyl propane bis p hydroxyphenyl methane and the various diphenols and diphenol methanes disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,506,486 and 2,744,882, respectively. Another type of polyester polyol is that produced by reaction of a polycarboxylic acid and the polyether adducts formed by reaction of ethylene oxide, propylene oxide or butylene oxide with phenol fomaldehyde condensation products such as the novolaks. Suitable vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxyalkyl acrylates include those containing 10 to 80 weight percent vinyl acetate and 5 to 50 percent by weight of hydroxyalkyl acrylate. Preferred hydroxyalkyl acrylates are hydroxyethyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, and hydroxybutyl acrylate.These low molecular weight polymers have inherent viscosities in the range of 0.05 to 1.0 when measured as a 0.2 gram sample in cyclohexanone at 30 C. Although other alkyl silicates can be used in this invention, the preferred alkyl silicate is ethyl silicate in the form of the monomer tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS or its hydrolyzates. Alkoxyalkyl silicates can also be used if preferred. Alkyl silicates are produced by the reaction of silicon tetrachloride and alcohols or alkoxy alcohols, generally in a reactor equipped with a stirrer, condenser and vat scrubber. The hydrogen chloride by product is removed by reflux which may be carried out at reduced or atmospheric pressure. Through this process, the most colon products TEOS and Cellosolve Trademark of Union Carbide Corporation for monoalkyl ethers of ethylene glycol silicate are made. Subsequently, these products may be hydrolyzed by the addition of water and an acid catalyst. The amount of water added determines the degree of hydrolysis in the final product.Commercially available products derived from ethanol include the unhydrolyzed TEOS, condensed EthylSilicate about 7 percent hydrolysis , EthylSilicate 40 40 percent hydrolysis containing 40 percent Six , and ethyl silicate having an 80 to 85 percent hydrolysis level. A trace of acid is necessary to catalyze the crosslinking reaction. The term trace is use herein to mean at leastEMI7.1 0.01 weight percent based on the weight of the hydroxyl containing polymers. Thermoplastic polyhydroxyether resins are a family of amorphous, high molecular weight phenoxy resins derived from diphenols and epichlorohydrin.A commercially available polyhydroxyether is Phenoxy PKHE Trade designation for a resin sold by UnionCarbide Corporation derived from Bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin having a degree of polymerization of about 100 and average molecular weight of at least about 20,000 . The crosslinking of the hydroxylated polymers with the silicates involves simply the addition of an alkyl silicate or one of its hydrolyzates to a solution of the polymer in the presence of a trace quantity of acid, followed by the removing of solvent and curing of the resultant product at elevated temperature. Since addition of acid to solutions of hydroxylated polymers and TEOS or ES 40 results in gelation, it is preferred to add the acid as the last component. The invention is further described in the examples which follow. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified.Control A A solution of a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxypropyl acrylate terpolymer containing about 20 percent hydroxypropyl acrylate and about 10 percent of vinyl acetate by weight at a concentration of 232 by weight in methyl ethyl ketone Y.EK was prepared for use as a reference sample. The solutionEMI8.1 was applied to a 4x12 inch Q panel and allowed to air dry for 30 minutes. Then the coated panel was baked for 20 30 minutes at 130 C. The resulting coating,EMI8.2 approximately 1 mil thick, was tested for solvent resistance by the ME double rub test and for flexibility by the falling dart direct impact tesr. EMI8.3 The sample was rated at iu its double rubs and 8 in.lbs. direct impact. EX MrLE 1 To 13g of the solution of hydroxylated vinyl resin prepared as above in Control A were added tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS, 1 gram and a trace of sulfuric acid about 0.01 gram . The solution was coated on a Q Panel to provide a l nil EMI8.4 dry film, air dried, and baked at 130 C for 2r 30 minutes. Evaluation of the cured coating showed excellent solvent resistance greater than 100 MEK double rubs and excellent flexibility greater than EMI8.5 80 in. lbs. direct impact . These results demonstrate the dramatic improvement in properties resulting from crosslinking of the hydroxylated vinyl resin film with ethyl silicate.EXAMPLES 2 4 Example 1 was repeated with the exception that tne hydroxylated vinyl resin TEOS ratios were 6, 1.5 and 3, respectively. Coatings prepared as inExample 1 from these solutions had excellent solvent resistance all were greater than 100 MEK double rubs and excellent flçxibility direct impact wasEMI9.1 greater than0, 78 and 80 in. l bs. , respectively .This demonstrates that the hydroxylated vinyl resin TESO ratio is not critical with regard to attainment of excellent properties. These data are delineated in Table I. Note that a ratio of 3 1 provides roughlyI TEOS molecule for every OB in the polymer. EXAMPLES 5 8 These examples were prepared from combinations of a 23 percent solution of hydroxylated vinyl resin in MEK and a solution of 85 percent hydrolyzed ES 40 in isopropanol with a silica content of 20 percent. Examples 5,6,7 and 8 were composed of the following ratios of the hydroxylated vinyl resin hydrolyzed ES 40 solutions 90 10, 83 17, 67 83, 50 50. Coatings were prepared, cured and tested as in the Example 1 with the following results MEK double rubs all greaterEMI9.2 than 100o direct impact greater than 80, 78, 48 and EMI9.3 8 in. lbs . In addition, it should be noted that samples 6 and 7 exhibited a slight haze in the film, while Example 8 had a ribbed, opaque appearance.These results, summarized in Table lI, indicate that hydrolyzed ethyl silicate can be used to crosslink hydroxylated vinyl resin but that as the quantity of crosslinking agent increases, some incompatibility becomes noticeable. This does not necessarily detract from the usefulness of the crosslinked films.Control B As a reference sample, a solution ofPhenoxy PKHB in tetrahydrofuran THF was coated on to a steel panel, dried and baked as in Example 1.The evaluations for solvent resistance, impact and hardness qave these results MEK double rubs 9. EMI10.1 direct impact greater than 80 in. lbs. pencil hardness 3B.EXAMPLES 9 11 These samples were prepared by addition of the following reagents to a 20 percent solution ofPhenoxy PKHH 20 grams in THF ethyl silicate 1 gram ES 40 0.7 grams 80 percent hydrolyzedES 40 with a silica content of 20 percent 1.4 grams . A trace of sulfuric acid was added to each sample and the coatings prepared and cured as inExample 1. The properties were evaluated with the following results MEK double rubs all greaterEMI10.2 than 100 direct impact all greater thant80 pencil hardness H, BB, BB. In addition, a slight haze was noticed in films from Examples 10 and 11 whileExample 9 produced a clear film.These results, compared in Table III with those in control B, demonstrate that ethyl silicate and its hydrolyzates are effective crosslinkers for Phenoxy PREY. Control C An hydroxylated acrylic polymer was prepared by addition of a solution containing ethyl acrylate 35 grams , methyl methacrylate 45 grams , hydroxypropyl methacrylate 20 grams , azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN, 1 gram t dodecylmercaptan 0.5 grams and MEK 100 grams to a refluxing solution of AIBN 0.5 grams in tEK 200 grams over a 3 hour period. Heating was continued for an additional 2,5 hours to insure polymerization of most of the monomers. A coating from this solution was prepared for use as a reference sample and exhibited the followingEMI11.1 properties MEK double rubs 3 direct impact 10 in. lbs. pencil hardness H.Example 12 Ethyl silicate 3.2 grams was added to the polymer solution prepared in Control C 11 grams along with a trace of sulfuric acid. A coating was prepared from this solution as described in Example 1 and evaluated for solvent resistance, direct imrrant and hardness The results were as follows EMI11.2 MEK double rubs greater than 10D direct impact 30 in. libs pencil hardness 3 B. These results, when compared in Table IV with those of Control C, clearly show the beneficial effect of crosslinking this hydroxylated acrylic polymer with ethyl silicate. TABLE I ExampleComponents Control A 2 3 4Vinyl ChloridePolymer a 3g 3g 3g 3g TEOS lg 0.5g 2gMEK 10g 10g 10g 10g Acid 3 Trace Trace TraceProperties 2 MEK Double Rubs 10 100 100 100 Direct Impact 85 80 80 78 in. lbs. EMI12.1 Pencil Hardness F F F EB 1 TEOS is tetraethyl orthosilicateEMI12.2 2 Properties measured on t1 mil dry films on steel Q panels after baking 20 30 minutes at 130 C. 3 Acids used were sulfuric or benzoic. a vinyl chloride vinyl acetate hydroxypropyl acrylate terpolymer containing 67 vinyl chloride 108 vinyl acetate and 20 hydroxypropyl acrylate copolymerized therein. TABLE II ExampleComponents 5 6 7 8Vinyl Chloride lg ig ig ig Polymer a 80 HydrolyzedES 40, 208 Si02Content 0.5g lg 2g 5gMEK 3.59 3.3g 3.3g 3.3gProperties 2 MEK Double Rubs 100 100 100 100 Direct Impact 80 78 48 8 in. lbs. EMI13.1 Pencil Bardness B BB 2B 2BAppearance Clear Very Slight Ribbed, Slight Haze opaque Baze 1 Properties measured on 1 mil dry films on steel Q panels after baking 20 30 minutes at 1300C. TABLE III PHENOXY PKHH CROSSLINKED WITH ETHYL SILICATE ExampleComponents Control B 9 10 11Phenoxy PKHH 4g 4g 4g 4gTEOS None lg ES 40 None 0.79 80 HydrolyzedES 40 20 SiO2 None 1.4gTHE 16g 169 16g 16g E2504 None O.Olg O.Olg 0.015 Properties 1 MEK Double Rubs 9 100 100 100 Direct ImpactEMI14.1 in. lbs. EMI14.2 80 80 80 80 Pencil Hardness 3B H H3 HBAppearance Clear Clear Hazy HazyEMI14.3 1 Properties measured on 1 mil dry films on steel Q panels after baking 20 30 minutes at 130 C. TABLE IV ACRYLIC POLYMER 1 CROSSLINKED WITH ETHYL SILICATE ExampleComponent Control C 12Acrylic Polymer llg llgTEOS 3.2gMEK 39g 39gH2SO4 0.02gProperties 2 MEK Double Rubs 3 100 Direct Impact in. lbs EMI15.1 10 EMI15.2 Pencil Hardness H 3H 1 Acrylic polymer composition MMA EA HPMA 45 35 20, prepared at 22 Total Solids in MEK using AIBN initiator and t dodecyl mercaptan as chain transfer agent.EMI15.3 2 Properties measured on C1 milidry films on steel Q panels after baking 20 30 minutes at 1300C. TABLE V CROSSLINKINC OF POLYESTER WITH HYDROLYZED ES 40FORMULATION FORMULATION NUMBERCOMPONENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9POLYESTER POLYOL 10g 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10MEK 2g 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 80 HYDROLYZED ES 40 2g 5 5 5 10 10 10 15 20 SiO2 CONTENT 20 H2SO4 1 DROP 3 DROPS 1 DROP 3 DROPS SOLIDS RATIO Polyester SiO2 95 5 89 11 81 19 74 26 68 32 rolyolBAKE CONDITIONS 1350C 30 EMI16.1 PROPERTIES MEK DOUBLE RUBS 9 29 38 39 100 76 100 100 100 PENCIL HARDNESS 4B 4B 4B 4B 3B F F B BBAKE CONDITIONS 160 C 30 minPROPERTIES MEK DOUBLE RUBS 18 60 85 90 100 100 100 100 100 PENCIL HARDNESS 4B 3B 2B 2B 2H H 2H H F 1A polyester polyol derived from isophthalic acid and trimethylol propane having an OH value of 152, an equivalent weight of 370, an acid number of 10 and a viscosity of Z4 Z6. TABLE VI CROSSLINKING OF ROHK AND HAAS AT 400 WITH HYDROLYZED ES 40EMI17.1 tb FORMULATION SEP FORMULATION SEP NUMBER tb COMPONENTS SEP 1 SEP 2 SEP 3 SEP 4 SEP 5 SEP 6 SEP 7 SEP 8 SEP 9 tb AT 400 SEP 47g SEP 47 SEP 47 SEP 53 SEP 53 SEP 53 SEP 60 SEP 60 SEP 60 tb MEK SEP 15g SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 15 tb 80t SEP HYDROLYZED SEP ES 40 SEP 15g SEP 15 SEP 15 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 5 tb SiO2 SEP CONTENT 20 tb p TOLUENE SEP SULFONIC SEP ACID SEP 1.2g SEP 0.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 1.2 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.1 tb SOLIDS SEP RATIO SEP AT 400 Si02 SEP 92 8 SEP 95 5 SEP 98 2 SEP tb BAME SEP CONDITIONS tb SEP 135 C 30min tb PROPERTIES tb SEP MEY SEP DOUBLE SEP RUBS SEP 25 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 18 SEP 40 SEP 90 SEP 15 SEP 10 SEP 25 tb SEP PENCIL SEP HARDNESS SEP 4B SEP B SEP B SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP 4B tb BAME SEP CONDITIONS tb SEP 200 C 30 SEP min tb PROPERTIES tb SEP MEK SEP DOUBLE SEP RUES SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP 100 SEP tb SEP PENCIL SEP HARNESS SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP F SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP 4B SEP B SEP B SEP HB SEP tb Example 13 The procedure described in Example 1 was repeated with the exception that a polyester polyol derived from isophthalic acid and trimethylol propane was substituted for the hydroxylated vinyl resin and 80Z hydrolyzed ES 40 was substituted for the TEOS. The formulations, curing conditions and properties of the baked polymers are delineated in Table V.Example 14 The procedure described in Example 1 was repeated except that the hydroxylated vinyl resin was replaced by Rohm and Haas AT 400, a copolymer of butyl acrylate, styrene, hydroxyethyl acrylate and acrylic or methacrylic acid copolymerized therein in a weight ratio of 45 36 14 5 respectively , having a number average molecular weight of 2000, a weight average molecular weight of 17000, an acid number of 28 and an OH number of 86. 802 Hydrolyzed ES 40 was also substituted for the TEOS. The formulation, curing conditions and properties of the cured polymers are presented inTable VI.