# Semiconductor integrated circuit.

## Abstract
A semiconductor integrated circuit which has a CMOS inverter formed of p and n channel MOSFETs QP10 and QN10 , and a D type n channel MOSFET QN13 couped at the gate to the output terminal of the CMOS inverter, at one end of the current path to a high voltage terminal VH applied with a high voltage and at the other end to the current path of the p channel MOSFET QP10 is provided.

## Claims
Claims 1. A semiconductor integrated circuit characterized by comprising a circuit point supplied with an input signal, a voltage terminal VH applied with a high voltage, inverting means QP2, ON3 QP10, QN10 for generating a signal having a logic value opposite to the input signal supplied to said circuit point, an output terminal OUT , and switching means QP1, QN2,QN5, QN6 , QN13, QN12, QN14 coupled between said voltage terminal VH and said output terminal OUT for controlling conduction state by the output signal from said inverting means QP2, ON3 QP10, QN10, QN15 . 2. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 1, characterized in that said inverting means comprises at least first and second MOSFETs QP10, QN10 coupled at the gates thereof to said circuit point and coupled in series with a current path, the node between these first and second MOSFETs QP10, QN10 is coupled to said output terminal OUT , said switching means comprises a third MOSFET QN13 coupled at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT , coupled at one end of the current path thereof to said voltage terminal VH , at the other end of the current path thereof to said output terminal OUT through one of said first and secondMOSFETs. 3. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 2, characterized in that said switching means further comprises a fourth MOSFET QN12 coupled at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT , and coupled at the current path thereof in series with said third MOSFET QN13 and said first and second MOSFETs QP10, QN10 . 4. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 2 or 3, characterized in that said switching means comprises a MOSFET QN14 coupled at the gate thereof to said circuit point, and at the current path thereof between a power source terminal VC and a node between said third and fourth MOSFETs QN13 and QN12 . 5. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 2, 3 or 4, characterized in that said inverting means further comprises a MOSFET QN15 applied at the gate thereof with a predetermined voltage and coupled between said output terminal OUT and the other one of said first and secondMOSFETs QP10, QN10 . 6. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 1, characterized in that said inverting means comprises at least first and second MOSFETs QP2, QN3 coupled to first and second power source terminals VC and VS , at the gates thereof with said output terminal OUT , and at the current path thereof in series between these first and second power source terminals VC and VS , said switching means comprises a third MOSFET QP1 coupled at the gate thereof to the node between said first and second MOSFETs, and at the current path thereof between said voltage terminal VH and the output terminal OUT . 7. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 6, characterized in that said switching means further comprises a fourth MOSFET QN2 coupled at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT and at the current path thereof in series with said thirdMOSFET QPl between said voltage terminal VH and said output terminal OUT . 8. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 7, characterized in that said switching means further comprises a fifth MOSFET QN5 coupled at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT and at the current path thereof between said third and fourth MOSFETs QP1 and QN2 , and a MOSFET QN6 coupled at the gate thereof to the node between said first and second MOSFETs QP2 and QN3 , at one terminal of a current path thereof to a predetermined voltage and at the other terminal of the current path thereof to the node between said fourth and fifthMOSFETs QN2 and aN5 . 9. A semiconductor integrated circuit characterized by comprising a voltage terminal VH applied with a high voltage, an output terminal OUT , load circuit means QN24, QN25 , and a MOSFET QN21 couped at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT , and at the current path thereof in series with said load circuit means QN24, QN25 between said voltage terminal VH and said output terminal OUT . 10. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 9, characterized by further comprising aCMOS inverter INV for inverting a signal on said output terminal OUT and a MOSFET QN22 receiving at the gate thereof the output signal of said CMOS inverter INV and coupled at the current path thereof between a power source terminal VC and said load circuit means QN24, QN25 . 11. A semiconductor integrated circuit characterized by comprising a voltage terminal VH applied with a high voltage, an output terminal OUT , a firstMOSFET QN34, QN42 coupled at the current path thereof between said voltage terminal VH and said output terminal OUT , gate voltage setting means QN31, QN33 QN44, INV, ON43 QN44, QN45 for setting the gate voltage of said first MOSFET in accordance with the voltage of said output terminal OUT , capacitive means C2 , and a clock pulse generator CLG for supplying a clock pulse to the gate of said first MOSFET QN34, QN42 through said capacitive means C2 . 12. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 11, characterized in that said gate voltage setting means comprises a second MOSFET QN33 couped at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT and at the current path thereof between said voltage terminal and the gate of said first MOSFET QN34 . 13. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 12, characterized in that said gate voltage setting means further comprises a third MOSFET QN31 coupled at the current path thereof between said voltage terminal VS and the gate of said firstMOSFET QN34 and supplied with an external signal to the gate thereof. 14. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 11, characterized in that said gate voltage setting means further comprises a MOSFET QN44 coupled at the gate thereof to said output terminal OUT and at the current path thereof between said output terminal OUT and the gate of said firstMOSFET QN44 . 15. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 14, characterized in that said gate voltage setting means further comprises a CMOS inverter INV for inverting a signal on said output terminal OUT , and a MOSFET QN43 coupled at the current path thereof between the gate of said first MOSFET QN42 and a reference voltage terminal VS , and receiving at the gate thereof the output signal of said CMOS inverter INV . 16. The semiconductor integrated circuit according to claim 11, characterized in that said gate voltage setting means comprises a second MOSFET QN44 couped at the current path thereof between the gate of said first MOSFET QN42 and said output terminal OUT , and a MOSFET QN45 coupled at the current path thereof between the gate of said second MOSFET on44 and said output terminal OUT .

## Description
Semiconductor integrated circuit The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit which selectively supplies a high voltage in response to an input control signal. An electrically erasable and programmable read only memory E2PROM which has a floating gate and a control gate to electrically rewrite the stored content has recently prevailed instead of a conventional ultraviolet ray erasable semiconductor memory. The electric rewriting of this memory is executed by injecting electrons to a floating gate by a tunnel effect through an extremely thin oxidized film or by emitting, on the other hand, electrons of the floating gate. A writing voltage higher than a reading voltage applied at a reading time is required at the rewriting time utilizing a tunnel current, but, in this case, almost no electric power is consumed. Thus, a voltage boost circuit charge pump circuit is provided in a chip to internally generate a high voltage different from that at the reading time, thereby writing at this high voltage and erasing.Since this necessitates only a sole power source of, for example, 5 volts as an external power source, a user can very readily handle it. An example of a memory cell of such an E2PROM is shown in Figs. 1A to 1D. Fig. 1A shows a plan view, and Figs. 1B to 1D are sectional views respectively taken along the lines B B, C C and D D in the E2PROM shown in Fig. 1A. This E2PROM has an n type drain 2 formed in the surface region of a p type Si substrate, an n type source 3 formed in the surface region of a p type Si substrate, a floating gate 4 formed through a thin gate oxidized film 5 on a channel region, and a control gate 6 formed through a gate oxidized film 7 on the floating gate 4. As shown in Fig. 1D, part of the floating gate 5 is extended through an extremely thin oxidized film 8 on an n type layer extended from the drain 2 to form a rewriting region. A principle of the operation of the memory cell is as follows In the writing operation, the drain 2 and the source 3 are maintained at a zero voltage, a high voltage is applied to the control gate 6 to raise the voltage of the floating gate 4 by capacitive coupling, and electrons from the n type drain 2 is injected to the floating gate 4 through the extremely thin oxidized film 8 in the rewriting region. In the erasure, the control gate 6 is maintained at zero voltage, a high voltage is applied to the drain 2, and the electrons of the floating gate 4 are emitted on the contrary to the case of the writing. Since the threshold voltage of the memory cell becomes high even if a voltage of 5 volts is, for example, applied as a reading voltage to the control gate 6 in the state that the electrons are injected to the floating gate 4, the memory cell does not become ON.When the reading voltage of 5 volts is applied to the control gate 6 in the state that the electrons are not stored in the floating gate 4, the memory cell becomes ON. Thus, the memory cell selectively stores data 1 or 0 . Such memory cells are arranged in row and column directions in a matrix, the control gates are, for example, commonly connected in the row direction, and the drains and sources are commonly connected in the column direction to compose a memory cell array.In order to produce a high voltage for program writing and erasing by stepping up a power source voltage in a chip, a charge pump circuit as shown in Fig. 2 is, for example, employed. This charge pump circuit has n stages of step up section coupled between a load MOSFET QR and an output terminal VO, and a depletion type MOSFET QX coupled between a power source terminal VC and the output terminal VO. Each stage of the step up section has one of MOSFETs Q1 to On, and one of capacitors C1 to Cn coupled at one ends to the gate and the drain of this MOSFET. A clock pulse 1 shown in Fig. 3 A is applied to the other terminals of the capacitors in the odd numbered stages of the step up sections, and a clock pulse 2 having a predetermined phase difference to the clock pulse cpl, shown in Fig. 3 B is applied to the other terminals of the capacitors in the even stages. In this charge pump circuit, a high voltage, for example, 20 volts is obtained at the output terminal VO by sequentially repeating the operation such that the charge stored in the capacitor C1 through the load MOSFET QR from the power source VC is transferred to the next capacitor C2 through theMOSFET Q1 by applying the clocks cell 2 as shown inFig. 3 and the charge of this capacitor C2 is transferred to the next capacitor C3 through theMOSFET Q2. When such a charge pump circuit is rewritten by applying a high voltage to a selected row of a memory cell array in combination with an address decoder, the following problem has arisen. There is no trouble in the supply of the high voltage thus stepped up to the control gate of the row selected by the fact that the output of the address decoder becomes high. As the charge pump circuit in Fig. 2 utilizes the charge stored in the capacitor, the current supplying ability of the capacitor is extremely low. When the outputs of the address decoders are at a low level in the remaining rows not selected, the current from this charge pump circuit must not flow out through the output stage.Therefore, if the above described current flowout occurs in the rows not selected, a sufficient high voltage cannot be applied to the row thus selected. It is an object of the present invention to provide a semiconductor integrated circuit capable of suppressing the current flowout from a charge pump circuit to the minimum and supplying a sufficiently stepped up voltage to a memory cell array, thereby improving the reliability. In order to achieve the above and other objects, there is provided according to the present invention a semiconductor integrated circuit comprising a switching circuit coupled between a high voltage terminal applied with a voltage higher than a power source voltage and an output terminal, and a control circuit for controlling the transmission of a high voltage applied to the high voltage terminal to the output terminal by controlling the conduction state of this switching circuit. According to one aspect of the present invention, the control circuit is, for example, composed of an inverter. Therefore, a semiconductor integrated circuit which has a simple arrangement and can suppress the current consumption to the minimum can be provided. This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1A is a plan view of a memory cell having a conventional floating gate Figs. 1B to 1D are sectional views showing the constructions of the memory cell taken along the lines B B, C C and D C in Fig. lA Fig. 2 is a circuit diagram showing a charge pump circuit for selectively generating a step up voltage and a power source voltage Fig. 3 is a waveform diagram of drive pulses for driving the charge pump circuit shown in Fig. 2 Fig. 4 is a block diagram of a memory device using a semiconductor integrated circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention Fig. 5 is a circuit diagram of a semiconductor integrated circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention Fig. 6 is a circuit diagram of a modified embodiment of the circuit shown in Fig. 5 Fig. 7 is a circuit diagram of a semiconductor integrated circuit according to another embodiment of the present invention Fig. 8 is a circuit diagram showing modified embodiment of the present invention shown in Fig. 7 Fig. 9 is a circuit diagram showing a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention Fig. 10 is a circuit diagram showing a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention Figs. 11 and 12 are circuit diagrams respectively showing semiconductor integrated circuits having functions for stepwisely stepping up the output voltages by using capacitors Figs. 13A to 13C are voltage waveform diagrams for describing the operation of the circuit shown inFig. 12 and Fig. 14 is a circuit diagram showing a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Fig. 4 shows a semiconductor memory device using a semiconductor integrated circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention. This semiconductor memory device comprises a memory cell array 11, an address buffer 12, an address decoder 13, an I O circuit 14 including an I O buffer and a sense amplifier, a charge pump circuit 15 for generating high level voltage and a control circuit 16 for controlling the operations of these units and circuits. A semiconductor memory device having these constituents 11 to 16 is heretofore known. The memory cell array has the memory cells described with reference to Figs. 1A to 1D and arranged in a matrix form, and the charge pump circuit 15 has the circuit as shown in Fig. 2.The point of the semiconductor memory device different from the conventional one is that a step up drive voltage generation circuit 17 is provided at the output terminal of the address decoder 13. This step up drive voltage generation circuit 17 is operated to supply a high voltage e.g., VH 20 volts stepped up from a power source voltage in case of rewriting and to supply a reading voltage substantially equal to the power source voltage in case of reading to the selected row of the memory cell array 11 in the case that the output of the decoder 13 is 1 , and to supply zero voltage without flowing out a current to the remaining nonselected rows in the case that the output of the decoder 13 is O . An example of a concrete construction of the step up drive voltage generation circuit 17 is shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 5 shows a unit circuit section connected to one output terminal of the decoder 13, and similar circuits are respectively provided at the output terminals of the decoder 13. In other words, an input terminal IN is a terminal connected to one output terminal of the decoder 13, and an output terminal OUT is a terminal for supplying a selected signal voltage to the control gate of the selected row of the memory cell array 11. An n channel depletion type D type MOSFET QN1 controlled by a read write control signal R w is provided as a transfer gate between the input terminal IN and the output terminal OUT.The output voltage of the charge pump circuit 15 is supplied to a step up voltage high voltage receiving terminal VH, and a p channel enhancement type E type MOSFET QP1 and an n channelD type MOSFET QN2 are connected in series between the output terminal OUT and the step up voltage receiving terminal VH. A substrate of the MOSFET QP1 is connected to a connecting node N1 between theseMOSFETs OPl and QN2, and the gate of the MOSFET QN2 is coupled to the output terminal OUT. On the other hand, the output terminal OUT is connected to the input terminal of a CMOS inverter having an n channelE type MOSFET QN3 and a p channel E type MOSFET QP2, and the output node N2 of the CMOS inverter is coupled to the gate of the MOSFET QP1.An n channelE type MOSFET QN4 is provided in series with theMOSFET QN3 at the ground side of the CMOS inverter, a p channel E type MOSFET QP3 is provided in parallel with the MOSFET QP2 at the power source VC side, and the gates of these MOSFETs QN4 and QP3 are controlled by an inverted signal R w of the read write control signal R W. An operation of the circuit shown in Fig. 5 will be described. The threshold value of the n channel D type MOSFETs QN1 and QN2 is 3 volts, the threshold value of the n channel E type MOSFETs QN3 and QN4 is 1 volt, and the threshold value of the p channel E type MOSFETs QP1, QP2 and QP3 is 1 volt. A writing mode will be first described. R W 5 volts and R w O volt are applied in the writing mode, and a step up voltage of 20 volts is supplied from the charge pump circuit 15 to the terminal VH. Assume now that the input terminal IN is 5 volts, i.e., the output of the decoder is 1 level, a voltage of approx. 3 volts is presented at the output terminalOUT according to the threshold value of the MOSFETQN1. Thus, a gate voltage of 3 volts is applied to the gate of the MOSFET QN2, and approx. 6 volts is presented at the node N1.On the other hand, since R W 5 volts, the MOSFET QN4 is ON and the MOSFET QP3 is OFF, the CMOS inverter is operated, the voltage of the output terminal OUT is inverted by the CMOS inverter, the output node N2 becomes zero volt, and the MOSFET QP1 thus becomes ON. As a result, the voltage of the node N1 is transmitted to the output terminal OUT. Since the MOSFET QN1 becomes OFF when the voltage of the output terminal OUT rises to 3 volts or higher, a current does not flow from the stepped up output terminal OUT to the input terminal IN. Thus, the voltage of 20 volts of the output terminal OUT is applied to the control gate of the selected row of the memory cell array 1, thereby writing data in the memory cell in accordance with the data input from the I O circuit 14. Then, since R W O volt when the output of the decoder is 0 level, i.e., the input terminal IN isO volt, a voltage on the output terminal OUT is not stepped up, the output node NZ of the CMOS inverter is 5 volts, the MOSFET QP1 is maintained in OFF state, and the stepped up voltage VH is not transmitted to the output terminal OUT. Therefore, no current is flowed from the charge pump circuit 15 to the output stage of the decoder having the output 0 . Then, a reading mode will be described. It is necessary to supply an output voltage corresponding to the input voltage of 5 or 0 volt applied to the input terminal IN to the output terminal OUT. In the reading mode, the MOSFET QX is turned ON, the charge pump circuit 15 does not generate a step up voltage, and a power source voltage of 5 volts is supplied to the terminal VH. When a voltage on the input terminal IN is 5 volts, since it becomes R W 5 volts at this time, no voltage drop occurs in the MOSFET QN1, and this is transmitted to the output terminal OUT. Further, when the input terminal IN is 0 volt, 0 volt appears at the output terminal OUT.Since the MOSFET QN4 is OFF and the MOSFET QP3 is ON due to the R W O volt, the output node N2 of the CMOS inverter is 5 volts irrespective of the voltage of the output terminalOUT, the MOSFET QP1 thus becomes OFF state, and the voltage of the terminal VH is not presented at the output terminal OUT. Thus, the voltage of 5 volts is supplied to the control gate in the row selected by the decoder 13 to read information. Fig. 6 shows a modified embodiment intended to stabilize the operation of the unit circuit inFig. 5. The points different from the embodiment in Fig. 5 are that an n channel D type MOSFET QN5 is inserted between the node N1 and the MOSFET QP1, and an n channel D type MOSFET QN6 is inserted between the node N1 and the power source VC. Since the fundamental operation of this circuit is not different from that in Fig. 5, only the operations of the MOSFETs QN5 and QN6 will be described. When altering from the reading mode to the writing mode, the terminal VH is at the step up voltage of 20 volts, and when the input terminal IN varies from 5 volts to 0 volt, a DC current flows from the terminal VH to the input terminal IN in the case that the MOSFET QN1 instantaneously varies from 5 volts to 0 volt. The MOSFET QN5 suppresses the flowout of the DC current in this transient state. Thus, it can prevent the step up voltage supplied to the output terminal OUT when the input terminal IN becomes 5 volts from decreasing. In case that the voltage of the terminal VH does not sufficiently decrease such as to approx. 10 volts, when altering from the writing mode to the reading mode, the application of the voltage to the output terminal OUT causes an erroneous operation.At this time the MOSFET QN6 becomes ON state under the control of the output node N2 of the CMOS inverter, and even if the voltage of the terminal VH is high, the high voltage is not applied to the output terminal OUT by clamping the voltage of the node N1 to the power source VC. Since the output node N2 of the CMOS inverter isO volt, i.e., the MOSFET 0N6 is OFF state in the writing mode using the step up voltage of 20 volts, no current flows from the terminal VH to the power source VC through this MOSFET QN6. Fig. 7 shows a semiconductor integrated circuit according to another embodiment of the present invention. This circuit has a p channel MOSFET QP10 and an n channel MOSFET QN10 forming a CMOS inverterINV and the drains of which are coupled to an output terminal OUT, and a D type n channel MOSFET QNll and a E type p channel MOSFET QPll coupled in series between a power source terminal VC and the output terminal OUT.The source of the MOSFET QN10 is coupled to a ground terminal VS, and the source of the MOSFET QP10 is coupled to a high voltage terminalVH coupled to the output terminal of a charge pump circuit shown in Fig. 2 in series through D type n channel MOSFETs QN12 and QN13. The node N3 between the MOSFETs QNl2 and QN13 is coupled to the power source terminal VC through a D type n channel MOSFET QNl4. The gates of the MOSFETs QP10, QPll, QNl0 and QN14 are coupled to an input terminal IN, the gates of the MOSFETs QN12 and QNl3 are coupled to the output terminal OUT, and the gate of the MOSFET QNll is coupled to receive a control signal R w. Further, the back gates a substrate of the MOSFETs QP10 andQPll are coupled to the node N3. An operation of the circuit thus constructed will be described. It is first considered the case that the control signal R w is 0 level, i.e., data is to be written in a memory cell, to which the output signal from this circuit is supplied. In this case, a high voltage is applied to the high voltage terminalVH. When an input signal applied to the input terminalIN is set to 0 level an earth voltage Vs 0 volt in this state, the MOSFET QP10 in the inverter INV becomes ON, and the MOSFET QN10 becomes OFF. After a high voltage of 20 volts is, on the other hand, applied to the high voltage terminal VII, the node N3 is charged toward the 20 volts through the MOSFET QN13. At this time, the gate of the MOSFET QN14 becomes 0 level 0 volt , and the voltage Vc of 5 volts is applied to the source of the MOSFET QN14, and the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN14 is set to 5 volts with respect to the source of the MOSFET QN14. Assume now that the absolute value of the threshold voltage of the MOSFET QN14 is set to 5 volts or lower also similar in the other D type MOSFETs , this MOSFET QN14 becomes OFF.Thus, the node N3 charged toward the step up voltage of 20 volts through the MOSFET QN13 is not discharged by the MOSFET QN14. Therefore, the output terminal OUT is charged toward the step up voltage of 20 volts through the MOSFET QN12 and the MOSFET QP10. Thus, the MOSFETs QN12 and QN13, the gates of which are connected to an output lineOL, are lowered in the impedances between the sources and the drains thereof, and the output line OL is charged toward the step up voltage of 20 volts. Since the MOSFET QNll is turned OFF by the control signal R W of 0 volt at this time, the output terminal OUT is not discharged toward the power source voltage through the two MOSFETs QPll and QNll. As described above, when the input signal is set to 0 level, a voltage near the step up voltage is obtained as the output signal. In the memory cell whose control gate is connected to receive this output signal, data is written. When the step up voltage is obtained as the output signal, the flowout of the current from the high voltage terminal VH, to which the step up voltage is applied, may be only for charging the output lineOL, and the ordinary flowout of the current does not occur. On the other hand, assume that the input signal becomes l Vc 5 volts this time when the control signal R w is 0 level. In this case, the MOSFETQN10 becomes ON. When the MOSFET QN10 becomes ON, the output line OL is discharged toward the earth voltage Vs, and the output signal is set to 0 level. On the other hand, when the input signal is set to 1 level, the MOSFET QN14 is turned ON, and the node N3 is charged to 5 volts. Since the gate of the MOSFET QN13 is set to the earth voltage Vs, i.e., 0 volt, the gate voltage with respect to the source side of the MOSFET QN13 which uses the node N3 side as its source is set to 5 volts. Thus, the MOSFETQN13 is cut off. Since the back gates of the two pchannel MOSFETs QP10 and QPll are connected to the node N3 charged to 5 volts, the both MOSFET QP10 and QPll are cut off. When the input signal is set to 1 level in this manner, the earth voltage Vs, i.e., 0 volt is obtained as the output signal. In the memory cell, to which the voltage is applied to the control gate, no variation in the threshold voltage occurs. When 0 volt is obtained as the output signal, the flowout of the current from the high voltage terminal VH becomes only the leakage current. More specifically, when a high voltage is applied to the high voltage terminal VH and this high voltage is outputted in response to the input signal, the flowout of the current from the high voltage terminal VH is only for temporarily charging the capacity existing in the output line, and the ordinary flowout of the current is prevented. Then, it is considered the case that data is read out in the memory cell, not shown, to which the output signal from this circuit is supplied. In this case, the control signal R W is set to 1 level.The ordinary voltage Vc of 5 volts is applied to the high voltage terminal VH instead of the high voltage of 20 volts. When the input signal is set to 0 level in this state, the output line OL is charged to 5 volts in series through the MOSFETs QNl3, QN12 and QP10.Since the control signal R W, on the other hand, becomes 1 , the MOSFET QNll becomes ON. Further, the MOSFET QPll also becomes ON by the input signal.Thus, the output line OL is charged also through theMOSFETs ONll and QPll. The reasons for charging the output line OL through the two routes are as follows When the input signal is switched from 1 level to 0 level or vice versa when the high voltage of 20 volts is applied to the high voltage terminal VH, a penetrating current might temporarily take place between the high voltage terminal VH and the ground terminal VS, with the result that the high voltage might decrease to extremely low level. Thus, theMOSFET QN12 is provided so as to reduce the value of the above described penetrating current as low as possible. Thus, the charging ability of the output line OL due to the routes of the MOSFETs QNl3, QN12 and QPl0 is not sufficient.Therefore, the charging operation is also conducted through the routes of theMOSFETs QNll and QPll so as to abruptly charge the output line OL to 5 volts. On the other hand, since the MOSFET QNl0 becomesON and the MOSFET QPll becomes OFF when the input signal is 1 level, the output line OL is discharged to 0 volt. In other words, when the control signal R W is set to 1 level, the output signal from this circuit is set to 5 volts or 0 volt in response to the input signal. When the output signal is set to 5 volts, the memory cell, to the control gate of which the output signal of 5 volts is supplied, is set in the selected state, and supplies data previously stored therein, while the memory cell, to the control gate of which the output signal of 0 volt is applied, is set in the nonselected state. According to the circuit of the embodiment of the invention as described above, the step up voltage can be supplied to the control gate of the memory cell without the ordinary flowout of the current from the high voltage terminal VH. Further, the value of the temporary penetrating current generated when the input signal is switched can be sufficiently reduced. Fig. 8 is a circuit diagram showing a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. The point of the circuit of this embodiment different from those of the embodiment in Fig. 7 is that a D type n channel MOSFET QN15 is connected between an output line OL and an n channel MOSFET QNl0. A predetermined voltage VX higher than 0 volt is applied to the gate of this MOSFET QN15. In the circuit of this embodiment, the direct application of a high voltage to the MOSFET QN10 is prevented by theMOSFET QN15. The reason why a voltage higher than 0 volt is applied to the gate of the MOSFET QNl5 is that the breakdown voltage of the MOSFET QNl0 becomes lowest when the voltage of the gate is 0 volt.Thus, the voltage of higher than 0 volt is applied to the gate of the MOSFET QN15 to step up the breakdown voltage of the MOSFET QNl5, and the direct application of the high voltage to the drain of the MOSFET QN10 is prevented. Fig. 9 is a circuit diagram showing a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. In the circuit of this embodiment, the two MOSFETs QNl2 and QNl4 in Fig. 7 are omitted, and the source of theMOSFET QN13 is connected directly to the source of the MOSFET QP10. Further, the back gate of theMOSFET QP10 is connected to its own source instead of the connection to the node N3.Moreover, an E type p channel MOSFET QP12 and a D type MOSFET QN16 are connected in series between a power source terminalVC and an output line OL instead of the two MOSFETs ONli and QPll, the gate of one MOSFET QP12 is coupled to an input terminal IN, and a control signal R W is applied to the gate of the other MOSFET QN16. When the input signal is set to 0 level in case that the control signal R w is now 0 level and a high voltage is applied to the high voltage terminalVH in the circuit arrangement described above, theMOSFET QN10 becomes OFF, and the output line OL is charged toward the step up voltage in series through the two MOSFETs QN13 and QPl0. More particularly, a high voltage is outputted as the output signal from the output terminal OUT. On the other hand, when the input signal is set to 1 level 5 volts , the MOSFETQNl0 becomes ON, and the output line is discharged to ground level.At this time, the gate voltage of theMOSFET ON13 is 0 volt, and when the source voltage of the MOSFET QP10 is charged to the voltage VTl corresponding to the absolute value of the threshold voltage of the MOSFET QNl3, the MOSFET QN13 is cut off. On the other hand, the gate voltage of the MOSFET QPl0 is 5 volts at this time, and this back gate is connected to the source of the MOSFET QP10. Thus, if the sum of the source voltage VT1 of this MOSFET QP10 and the threshold voltage of the MOSFET QP10 is set to 1 level of the input, i.e., 5 volts or lower, the MOSFET QP10 is cut off. In other words, even in this embodiment, the flowout of the ordinary current from the high voltage terminal VH can be prevented.In Fig. 9, the backgate of MOSFET QPl0 can be connected to the high voltage terminal VH instead of the source of the MOSFET QPl0. When the control signal R W is set to 1 level in the circuit of this embodiment, the output line OL is charged or discharged mainly by the p channelMOSFET QPl2 and the n channel MOSFET QNl0 controlled to ON or OFF in response to the input signal to set the output signal to 5 volts or 0 volt. Fig. 10 shows a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. This circuit comprises a D type n channelMOSFET QN20 coupled between an input terminal IN and an output terminal OUT, D type n channel MOSFETs QN21 and QN22 coupled at the sources thereof to a node N4,E type p channel and n channel MOSFETs QP20 and QN23 forming a CMOS inverter INV, and D type n channelMOSFET QN24 and E type n channel MOSFET QN25 coupled in series between the node N4 and the output terminalOUT. The gates of the MOSFETs QN21, QN23 and QP20 are coupled to the output terminal OUT, and the gate of the MOSFET QN22 is coupled to the drains of theMOSFETs QP20 and QN23. The gate of the MOSFET QN24 is coupled to its own source, and a first step up voltage terminal VH1 is coupled to the gate of the MOSFET QN25. A second step up terminal VH2 and a power source terminal VC are respectively coupled to the drains of the MOSFETs QN21 and QN22. A signal R w which becomes 1 level at reading time and 0 level at step up operation time such as at writing and erasing times is applied to the gate of theMOSFET QN20. The MOSFETs QN21 and QN22 form a first switching circuit, and the MOSFET QN25 forms a second switching circuit. Then, an operation of the semiconductor integrated circuit in Fig. 10 will be described. At the step up operation time such as at the writing or erasing time, a high voltage e.g., 20 volts is first supplied to the high voltage terminals VH1 and VH2, the control signal R w becomes 0 level e.g., 0 volt , the voltages of the input terminal IN and the output terminal OUT are independent from each other, and can be set. When the input signal is 1 level, e.g., 5 volts in this case, a 1 level signal is outputted to the output terminal OUT.Since the output signal of the inverter INV thus becomes 0 , the MOSFET QN22 becomes OFF, the MOSFET QN21 becomesON, and the step up voltage of the high voltage terminalVH2 is outputted to the output terminal OUT through the MOSFETs QN21, QN24 and QN25. In this state, if the MOSFET QN20 is at the gate voltage 0 volt, at the source voltage or the input signal, for example, 5 volts, and the threshold value of the MOSFET QN20 is 5 volts or higher, the MOSFET QN20 is cut off.Thus, no current is leaked through the MOSFET QN20. When the input signal is 0 level, the signal output terminal OUT becomes 0 level, and the output signal of the inverter INV becomes 1 level, so that the MOSFET QN22 becomes ON and the MOSFET QN21 becomes OFF, with the result that substantially power source voltage e.g., 5 volts is outputted to the node N4. Since the MOSFET QN21 is cut off because the gate voltage is 0 volt and the source voltage is approx. 5 volts, no current is leaked through theMOSFET QN21. At no step up operation time such as at reading time, the step up terminal VH2 becomes substantially the power source voltage, the step up terminal VH1 becomes 0 level, and the control signal R W becomes 1 level. Since the high voltage terminal VH1 is 0 volt, the MOSFET QN25 becomes OFF, the passage of the current from the high voltage terminal VH2 and the power source terminal VC to the signal output terminalOUT is completely interrupted, and 1 or 0 level output signal is accordingly produced at the signal output terminal OUT in response to the input signal to the input terminal IN. When this decoder circuit Fig. 10 is used, for example, as a row decoder, signal output terminals OUT correspond to row lines, hundred and several tens to several hundreds of decoders are required according to the capacity of the memory, no leakage current is produced from the power source terminal VC at the reading time, the current consumption can be suppressed to the minimum, and the circuit can be readily associated in a circuit for the purpose of reducing the current at the operation time like aCMOS circuit. Fig. 11 shows a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. This circuit comprises n channel MOSFETsQN30 and QN31 as well as p channel MOSFET QP30 coupled at the gates to an input terminal IN, aD type n channel MOSFET QN22 coupled between the drain of the MOSFET QN30 and an output terminal OUT, an n channel MOSFET QN33 coupled between the drain of the MOSFET QN31 and a high voltage terminal VH, an n channel MOSFET QN34 coupled between the output terminal OUT and the high voltage terminal VH, and a D type n channel MOSFET QN35 coupled between the drain of the MOSFET QP30 and the output terminal OUT.A clock pulse generator CLG is coupled to a node N5 between the MOSFETs QN31 and QN33 through a capacitorCl, and coupled to the gate of the MOSFET QN34.Further, the gates of the MOSFETs QN32 and QN33 are respectively coupled to the power source terminal VC and the output terminal OUT, and a control signal R S is supplied to the gate of the MOSFET QN35. In Fig. 11, in case of reading data, the control signal R w of 1 is supplied, and an output signal from the clock pulse generator CLG becomes 0 level.In this case, a voltage equal to the power source voltage VC is supplied to the high voltage terminal VH, and the output signal of the output terminal OUT becomes 0 or 1 level in response to the 1 or 0 level of the input signal to the input terminal IN. Then, in case of writing or erasing data, the control signal R W of 0 level is supplied, the step up voltage e.g., 20 volts is applied to the high voltage terminal VH, and a clock pulse is generated from the clock pulse generator CLG. When the input signal is 1 level, a 0 level signal is generated from the output terminal OUT, but when the input signal is 0 level, the MOSFETs QN30 and QN31 become OFF, the gate voltage of 0 level is applied to the MOSFET QN35, which becomes ON due to the D type MOSFET, MOSFET QP30 which becomes ON due to the p channel MOSFET, and the voltage of the output terminal OUT does not become 0 volt.Therefore, after the MOSFET QN33 starts to be conductive, charge is stored in the capacitor C1, the voltage of the node N5 becomes VCP VCL , where VCP represents the voltage difference between the both terminals of the capacitor C1, and VCL represents the voltage of the clock pulse, the MOSFET QN34 becomes ON, the voltage of the output terminal OUT gradually rises at every clock pulse. Thus, as the output terminal OUT thus rises, the MOSFET QN33 becomes more strongly ON, and the voltage of the node N5 accordingly approaches VCL VCH where VCH represents the voltage of the terminal VH . Since the MOSFET QN34 becomes more strongly ON, the voltage of the output terminal OUT becomes VCH.At this time, the gate voltage of theMOSFET QN35 becomes O level, and the voltage of the drain is Vc level, and the MOSFET QN35 is completely turned OFF to prevent a current from flowing from the output terminal OUT to the power source terminal Vc. In the circuit in Fig. 11, the current consumption in the nonselective decoder can be prevented. In other words, a 1 level signal is supplied to the input terminal IN, the MOSFET QN30 and QN31 become ON, and the gates of the MOSFETs QN33 and QN34 become 0 level. Therefore, the MOSFET QN33 and QN34 become OFF, so that the current does not pass from the high voltage terminal VH to the output terminal OUT, with the result that this high voltage decoder circuit does not consume the current. Thus, since the current consumed in the nonselective high voltage decoder becomes less, a charge pump shown inFig. 2 for generating a high voltage is provided in a chip to be able to thereby write data and to erase the data. Since the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN34 for switching the high voltage from the charge pump circuit becomes higher in the amount corresponding to the voltage across the both terminals of the capacitor C1 than the high voltage, the ON resistance of the MOSFET QN34 becomes low, and the voltage drop at the MOSFET accordingly becomes low. Since the capacitor C1 is charged by the high voltageVCH, the rise of the output voltage of this circuit shown in Fig. 11 is accelerated. Fig. 12 shows a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the present invention. This circuit comprises a D type n channel MOSFET QN40 coupled between an input terminal IN and an output terminal OUT, p and n channel MOSFETs QP40 and QN41 forming a CMOS inverter INV, an n channelMOSFET QN42 coupled between a high voltage terminal VH and the output terminal OUT, and a clock pulse generatorCLG. The output terminal of this clock pulse generator CLG is coupled to the source and the drain of a D type n channel MOS capacitor C2. The gate of this capacitor C2 is coupled to the gate of theMOSFET QN42. The gate of the MOSFET QN42 is coupled to a ground terminal VS through the MOSFET QN43, and to the output terminal OUT through the MOSFET QN44.The gates of the MOSFETs QP40 and QN41 are coupled to the output terminal OUT, and the gate of the MOSFETQN43 is coupled to the drains of the MOSFETs QP40 and QN41, the gate of the MOSFET QN44 is coupled to its own source, and a control signal R W is supplied to the gate of the MOSFET QN40. In this case, the threshold values of the E type n channel MOSFETs QN41, QN42, QN43 and QN44 are set to 1 volt, the threshold value of the D type n channel MOSFET QN40 is set to 3 volts, and the threshold value of the E type p channel MOSFET QN40 is set to 1 volt. An operation of the circuit shown in Fig. 12 will be described with reference to signal waveform diagrams in Figs. 13A to 13C. It is considered the case that the control signal R w is now 0 level, i.e., the memory cell array 11 in Fig. 2 is set to the writing mode. In this case, the step up voltage VCH is applied to the high voltage terminal VH, and a pulse shown in Fig. 13A is generated from the clock pulse generator CLG. Assume now that 5 volts, i.e., 1 level decoded output signal is supplied to the input terminal IN. The voltage of 3 volts is presented corresponding to the absolute value of the threshold voltage of the MOSFET QN40 at the output terminal OUT as shown in Fig. 13B.Thus, the voltage of 2 volts lower in the amount of the threshold voltage 1 volt of the MOSFET QN44 than the voltage of 3 volts at the output terminalOUT is applied to the gate of the MOSFET QN42 as shown in Fig. 13C. When the clock signal from the clock pulse generator CLG becomes 1 level, i.e., 5 volts under this state, this clock pulse is superposed on the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42, and the gate voltage of this MOSFET QN42 is abruptly risen up to substantially 6 volts as shown in Fig.13C. Thus, the voltage of 5 volts obtained by subtracting the threshold voltage 1 volt of thisMOSFET QN42 from the gate voltage is supplied to the output terminal OUT as shown in Fig. 13B. When the clock signal then becomes 0 level, the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 instantaneously lowers to approx.2 volts as shown in Fig. 13C, but is immediately raised up to approx. 4 volts by the voltage of 5 volts of the output terminal OUT. When the clock signal becomes 1 in this state, the voltage of the output terminal OUT and the gate voltage of theMOSFET QN42 are respectively raised in the same manner as described above as shown in Fig. 13B and 13C, similar operation is repeatedly executed, and the voltage of the output terminal OUT is raised to become the value equal to the step up voltage VCH applied to the high voltage terminal VH.In this case, since the gate voltage and source voltage of theMOSFET QN40 are respectively set to 0 volt and 5 volts, i.e., the gate voltage of this MOSFET QN40 is set to 5 volts with respect to the source thereof, the MOSFET QN40 does not become ON unless the absolute value of the threshold voltage of thisMOSFET QN40 is 5 volts or higher. Therefore, the current does not flow from the output terminal OUT to the input terminal IN through the MOSFET QN40. Further, in this case, since the output signal of theCMOS inverter INV composed of the MOSFETs QP40 andQN41 is maintained at 0 volt, the MOSFET QN43 remains OFF. On the other hand, when the input signal is 0 level, the output signal of 1 level is generated from the CMOS inverter INV, and the MOSFET ON 43 becomes ON. Thus, the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 is maintained at 0 level irrespective of the clock pulse from the clock pulse generator CLG. In this manner, the MOSFET QN42 is maintained in OFF state, and the voltage applied to the high voltage terminal VH is not transmitted to the output terminalOUT through the MOSFET QN42. It is then considered the case that the control signal R w of 1 level is generated so as to read out the data from the memory cell array 11 inFig. 2 . In this case, the clock pulse generator CLG stops operating, and the voltage equal to the power source voltage is applied to the high voltage terminalVH. When the input signal is 1 level, this 1 level input signal is transmitted to the output terminalOUT through the MOSFET QN40. In this case, the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 becomes approx. 4 volts, but when the MOSFET having small drive ability as the MOSFET ON42 is used or the voltage of 5 volts is applied to the high voltage terminal VH, the voltage of the output terminal OUT is not lowered.When the input signal is further 0 level, the voltage of the output terminal remains 0 level. Fig. 14 shows a semiconductor integrated circuit according to still another embodiment of the invention.This circuit is constructed substantially in the same manner as that in Fig. 12 except that the n channelMOSFETs QN45 and QN46 are employed instead of theMOSFETs QP40, Q541 and QN43 in the circuit in Fig. 12.An E type MOSFET QN45 is coupled at the gate and the source thereof to an output terminal OUT, and a D type MOSFET QN46 is coupled between a power source terminal VC and the drain of the MOSFETQN45. The gate of the MOSFET QN44 is coupled not to the output terminal OUT but to a node N6 between the MOSFETs QN45 and QN46, and a reset pulse generator RPG for generating a rest pulse when a predetermined period of time is elapsed after the writing operation of a selected memory cell is finished is coupled to the gate of the MOSFET QN46. When the voltage of 5 volts is applied to the input terminal IN, the voltage of approx. 3 volts is presented at the output terminal OUT. In this case, the voltage at the node N6 is maintained at approx. 3 volts. Thus, the voltage lower in the amount corresponding to the threshold voltage of the MOSFETQN44 than the voltage of the note N6, i.e., approx. 2 volts is applied to the gate of the MOSFET QN42. When a clock signal from the clock pulse generatorCLG becomes 1 level or 5 volts in this state, the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 is raised to approx. 6 volts. Thus, the voltage of the output terminalOUT is raised to the voltage level of 5 volts obtained by subtracting the threshold voltage of 1 volt of the MOSFET QN42 from the gate voltage of 6 volts. When the voltage of the output terminal OUT is 5 volts or higher, the voltage of the node N6 is maintained at the level lower by 1 volt than this.Thereafter, the voltage of the output terminal OUT is stepwisely raised in response to the clock signal from the clock pulse generator CLG until becoming equal to the step up voltage VCH in the same manner as the case of the embodiment shown in Fig. 12. In this case, the output signal from the reset pulse generator RPG is 0 level, and the MOSFET QN46 coupled at one terminal to the power source terminalVC is maintained OFF. Whenover the writing operation of a selected memory cell is finished, the control signal R w becomes 1 level, the voltage of the output terminal OUT is decreased toward the voltage of the input terminalIN through the MOSFET QN40, and the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 also decreases as the voltage of the output terminal OUT is decreased. The reset pulse generator RPG generates a rest pulse when a predetermined period of time is elapsed from when the control signal R W becomes 1 level to turn the MOSFET QN46 ON. Thus, the voltage of the node N6 is decreased to the power source voltage through the MOSFET QN46. At reading operation time, the output signals of the clock pulse generator CLG and the reset pulse generator RPG are maintained at 0 level. When the input signal is 1 , the input signal of 1 level is transmitted to the output terminal OUT through theMOSFET QN40. In this case, the voltage of the nodeN6 is set to approx. 4 volts, and the gate voltage of the MOSFET QN42 is set to approx. 3 volts, but the voltage of the output terminal OUT is not lowered by employing the MOSFET having low drive ability as theMOSFET QN42 or applying the voltage of 5 volts to the high voltage terminal VH in the reading mode. When the input signal is 0 level, the MOSFETs QN42 and QN44 become OFF, so that the output terminalOUT is electrically separated from the high voltage terminal VH by the MOSFET QN42, with the result that the voltage of the output terminal OUT is maintained at 0 level. The present invention has been described with respect to various embodiments. The present invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described above. For example, in the embodiment shown in Figs. 7 and 8, one terminals of the MOSFETs QP 11 and QNll can be respectively coupled to the power source terminal VC and the output line OL. However, in this case, the back gate of the MOSFET QPll is coupled not to the note N3 but to the power source terminal VC. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 11, the current path between the step up terminal VH and the ground terminal VS is interrupted by the MOSFET QN32.However, this MOSFET QN32 may be omitted by setting the breakdown voltage of the MOSFET QN30 to a high voltage. Further, in the embodiments described above, the semiconductor integrated circuit associated with the address decoder has been described. However, any semiconductor integrated circuit may be applied to the present invention if any for controlling the supply of the high voltage in response to the input signal is employed.