# ONE PIECE FRAME FOR AN ELECTRIC LAMP

## Claims
Einstückiger Rahmen 2 für die Montage einer kapselförmigen Lichtquelle innerhalb der äußeren Hülle einer elektrischen Lampe, mit einem einstückigen Körper, der mittels Biegens aus einem einzelnen Blatt steifen, elektrisch leitenden Materials geformt ist, wobei dieser einstückige Körper zwei Stege 12, 14 und eine einzelne Brücke zwischen diesen beiden Stegen aufweist, steif genug ist, um eine Stütze für die Montage der kapselförmigen Lichtquelle auf ihm zu bilden, und genügend elektrische Leitfähigkeit besitzt, um als ein Teil des elektrischen Schaltkreises zu fungieren, durch den elektrische Leistung von einer äußeren Quelle zur kapselförmigen Lichtquelle transportiert wird, und wobei die Stege 12, 14 ferner untere freie Enden aufweisen, die vermöge Klemmelementen an der äußeren Hülle angeordnet sind, um den Rahmen 2 an dieser äußeren Hülle elastisch montiert zu befestigen.

## Description
The invention relates to a one piece frame for mounting a light source capsule within the outer envelope of an electric lamp comprising a one piece body formed by means of bending a single sheet of stiff electrically conductive material, said one piece body having two struts and bridges between said struts to provide support for mounting said light source capsule thereon and having electrical conductivity to act as a part of an electrical circuit through which electrical power is conveyed to said light source capsule from an external source, as disclosed by US A 30 94 640. FR A 11 36 381 discloses a one piece frame for mounting a light source capsule within the outer envelope of an electric lamp comprising a one piece body formed by means of bending a single strand of stiff electrically conductive wire, said one piece body having two struts and bridges between said struts to provide support for mounting said light source capsule thereon and having electric conductivity to act as a part of an electrical circuit through which electrical power is conveyed to said light source capsule from an external source. The object underlying the invention is to be seen in not only enabling the manufacture of the lamps in question to be simpler and more economical and to improve the structural and electrical integrity of such lamps but also to simplify and enhance the mounting and securing of the one piece frames to the outer envelopes of such lamps. These objects are accomplished by the invention in accordance with a first solution by providing a one piece frame for mounting a lightsource capsule within the outer envelope of an electric lamp comprising a one piece body formed by means of bending a single sheet of stiff electrically conductive material, said one piece body having two legs and a single bridge between said legs, said body being rigid enough to provide support for mounting said light source capsule thereon and having electrical conductivity enough to act as a part of an electrical circuit through which electrical power is conveyed to said light source capsule from an external source, the legs having also lower free ends attached to the outer envelope by clamping means for elastically mounting and locking said frame on said outer envelope. In accordance with a second solution these objects are accomplished by providing a one piece frame for mounting a light source capsule within the outer envelope of an electric lamp comprising a one piece body formed by means of bending a single wire of stiff electrically conducting material, said one piece body having two legs and a single bridge between said legs, said body being rigid enough to provide support for mounting said light source capsule thereon and having electrical conductivity enough to act as a part of an electrical circuit through which electrical power is conveyed to said light source capsule from an external source, the legs having also lower free feet fitting into mating grooves of the outer envelope for elestically mounting and locking said frame on said outer envelope. Further and favourable developments of these solutions are subjects of the two subclaims. Two embodiments in accordance with the said two solutions are described in more detail by means of the accompanying drawing in which For a better understanding of the present invention, together with other and further objects, advantages and capabilities thereof, reference is made to the following disclosure and appended claims taken in conjunction with the above described drawings. FIG. 1 illustrates frame 2, being the clamp on type. Frame 2 has clamps 4 and 6 as means for mounting frame 2 on the outer envelope of the lamp. Leg 12 may be longer than leg 14, as shown in the drawing, in which case extension 16 provides a convenient mount for one lead in wire of the light source capsule. FIG. 2 shows a pre cut flat blank from which frame 2 can be formed by bending operations only. The dashed lines in FIG. 2 show where the bends in the blank should be made. Bends 20, 22 and 24, each made through a right angle, approximately, will form the portion of the frame positioned within the outer envelope. Bends 26, 28 and 30 form the mounting and locking means for leg 12. Likewise, bends 32, 34 and 36 form the mounting and locking means for leg 14. Bend 26 is made through a right angle, approximately, with tab 40 protruding away from leg 12. Bend 28 is essentially C shaped with the opening facing leg 12. Bend 30 is essentially another C shaped bend in the reverse direction, i.e., with the opening facing away from leg 12. As shown in FIG. 1, the composite of bends 28 and 30 forms essentially a reverse S shaped curve. since barbed tip 8 has been pre cut in this embodiment, leg 12 will be completely formed solely by the described bending operations. In similar manner, bends 32, 34 and 36 may be made in tab 42. thereby completing leg 14. FIG. 3 illustrates frame 52, being the push on type. Frame 52 has legs 54 and 56. Loop 58 may be formed as a part of leg 54 in which case loop 58 provides a convenient mount for one lead in wire of the light source capsule. Loop 58 may be employed by itself or in combination with top 60 as a support for one lead in wire of the light source capsule. Feet 62 and 64 provide means for mounting frame 52 to the outer envelope of the lamp. Segments 66, 68 and 70 of foot 62 fit into mating grooves of the outer envelope. The segments are held securely within the mating grooves by the mounted lamp base. Likewise, segments 72, 74 and 76 provide mounting means for foot 64. Barbed tips 78 and 80 provide means for locking the lamp base on the outer envelope. FIG. 4 shows a pre cut strand from which frame 52 can be formed by bending operations only. The dashed lines in FIG. 4 show where the bends in the strand should be made. All bends are made in the plan determined by legs 54 and 56 except for bends 82 and 98 which are made such that segments 70 and 76 are approximately perpendicular to such plane. The respective directions of segments 70 and 76 are determined by the mating grooves of the outer envelope. As shown in FIG. 3, loop 58 is essentially C shaped with the opening facing the outside of the frame. Bend 100 may comprise a single bend of relatively uniform curvature or it may comprise several bends of varying curvature. In the embodiment of the invention shown in FIG. 3, segment 59 is virtually nonexistent bends 90 and 91 may be described as a single bend of approximately 180 . In an alternate embodiment,bends 90 and 91 each may be separately formed through approximately 90 with straight segment 59 between them. As has been mentioned, the purpose of loop 58 is to provide a mount or an additional mount for one lead in wire of the light source capsule. In some embodiments of the invention, loop 58 may not be necessary. Each of the remaining bends is made through a right angle, approximately. The respective directions of each bend may be determined by inspection of FIG. 3. As may be observed in the drawing, bend 90 and 92 essentially form top 60 and legs 54 and 56. Bends 86, 84 and 82 form foot 62 and bends 94, 96 and 98 form foot 64. In both embodiments of the invention shown in FIGS. 1 and 3, the order of the bending operations is not necessarily critical. Although completely pre cut or pre stamped blanks are described herein, it may be desirable in alternate embodiments to mix cutting and bending operations. Materials employed for frames 2 and 52 should have structural rigidity and elasticity so that the frames will securely support the light source capsule, mount the outer envelope, and lock the lamp base to the outer envelope. The material must be electrically conductive, because frames 2 and 52 are part of the electrical circuit of the lamp. In laboratory examples, frame 2 was constructed from a blank of .020 inch .051 centimeter thick nickel plated stainless steel sheet frame 52 was constructed from a strand of .050 inch .127 centimeter diameter stainless steel wire. The elimination of fastening joints provides one piece frames for electric lamps which are easier and cheaper to manufacture, which have improved structural rigidity and precision, and which have improved electrical integrity. In the case of the evolving art of tungsten halogen replacements for standard Edison type lamps, the one piece frame disclosed herein provides a suitable component for commercially feasible products.