# USE OF DEFIBROTIDE IN THE TREATMENT OF STATES OF ACUTE RENAL INSUFFICIENCY

## Claims
Anwendung von Defibrotide zur Zubereitung einer pharmazutischen Zusammensetzung nützlich für die Therapie von akuter Niereninsuffizienz, verursacht durch thrombotische Mikroangiopathie.

## Description
The present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition useful for the treatment of forms of acute renal insufficiency. More specifically the composition according to the present invention permits, in the case of acute renal insufficiencies characterized by the presence of thrombotic microangiopathy, not only the evolution of the clinical situation towards the chronicity to be stopped,but also, in a number of cases, a complete remission of the disease to be obtained. The acute renal insufficiency induced by alteration of the glomerular circuit often does complicate the evolution situation of the following pathologies The anatomo pathologic alterations characterizing these forms, are represented by the formation as shown by the histological examination of ialine macrothrombi which occlude the terminal small artheria and glomerular capillar vessels. Such a condition, known under the name of thrombotic microangiopathy , represents the most insidious and persistent event. The appearance of extended anury, hyving hipertension and neurological symptomatology represents an unfavourable prognostic sign both as regards the recovery of the renal functionality and, sometimes, as regards the patient survival. To date such a type of disease has not found in the present by available therapeutical means something capable of ensuring satisfactory results. Some of the active principles are hereinafter listed which have been used and or are used and or have been suggested for the therapy of the syndrome known under the name of acute renal insufficiency. Besides the pharmacotherapeutical treatments, other treatments exist which are based on mechanisms having different action, such as the plasma transfusion and the dialysis. In fact, some successful results have been very recently obtained through a plasma transfusion. The rationale of such a therapeutical approach, which is not yet fully clarified, consists in the removal of a toxic factor from the plasma and or in the affording of a lacking plasmatic factor, which in the normal subjects has a platelet anti aggregating activity and an inducing activity of prostacycline synthesis. At present status of the knowledge, such a therapeutical approach, which can not be easily carried out awaits further confirmation in the therapy. In turn the dialytic treatment, sometimes used in the acute phase of the disease, does not prevent a chronic renal damage to be developed. Furthermore, the carrying out of such a therapy is reserved to the centers having suitable equipment and specialized personnel. To date, consequently, no pharmacologicai or other treatment has achieved the purpose of restoring, at the renal level, the glomerular filtration, by canalyzing again the vessels affected by thrombosis. Consequently, otherwise stated, the therapeutical intervention as carried out to date had as the maximum objective that of stopping the evolution of the disease towards the chronical form. It is has been now found and is the subject of the present invention that by the administration of the defibrotide, namely of the polyanionyc sodium salt of nucleotidic fractions polydesoxyribonucleotides having low molecular weight, is capable of stopping the evolution of acute renal insufficiencies towards the chronic form and frequently of determining the functional recovery and the complete remission of the disease. The defibrotide, DCI, liste 21, Chronique OMS, More particularly the paper of Niada et al, on the basis of experimental evidences, emphasized the antithrombotic activity of Defibrotide, already suggested in the related literature, explaining it both on the basis of the already assessed profibrinolytic activity of the drug but also on the assumption that Defibrotide increases the production of prostacyclin in turn playing an important role in preventing thrombus formation. DE B 1,202,439 discloses the preparation of desoxyribonucleic acids with high polymerization degree, obtained from sperm of some fishes, with removal of proteins and ribonucleic acid bonded to the desoxyribonucleic acid. FR M 2575 and FR M 54 CAM disclose pharmaceutical preparations using the desoxyribonucleic acid of DE B 1,202,439 in the treatment of uremia especially per os. In Pharmacol. Res. Comm., Vol. 14, No. 10, November 1982, pages 949 957, the antithrombotic acitivity of orally administered Defibrotide in connection with the PG12 generation is reaffirmed. . Thus the prior art suggested the use of desoxyribonucleic acid in uremia, which is a characteristic systemic manifestation of chronical renal insufficiency, whereas it is fully absent in the case of acute renal insufficiency. From the above properties, however, not only it was unforeseable but none might even remotely guess that such an active principle might have the above indicated activity in the case of the acute renal insufficencies, account being also taken of the fact that in the preceding listing of the active principles to date used or proposed for such type of diseases, some compounds as the urokinase show relevant problems and insufficiencies. It has been now found that Defibrotide is therapeutically useful in the therapy of acute renal insufficiency induced by thrombotic microangiophathy and thus the gist of the present invention is the use of Defibrotide in the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions useful for the above purpose, both orally and intravenously or intrasmucularly administered. As it is confirmed from the several research works published on defibrotide, such an active principle is practically devoid of toxicity and likewise devoid of unfavourable side effects. Defibrotide was the subject of in vivo experimental tests in patients. Five patients 3 children and 2 adults affected by uremic haemolytic syndrome or by thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura were treated. All the patients, who needed the dialytic treatment, at the time of the hospitalization were anuric the creatinine concentration was of between 5.3 and 8.7 mg day the platelet count was low between 11000 and 35000 cubic mm lastly all the patients had a high circulating level of products of fibrin degradation FDP . At the time of hospitalization three of them were affected by synptoms of neurologic nature. The defibrotide was administered in vials of 2.5 ml content, containing 200 mg of defibrotide, through intravenous infusion at the daily dosage of 10 mg kg. The treatment was started at 16 28 hours after the hospitalization and continued on the average for 14 days. In all patients a fast diminution of the fibrin degration products in circulation as well as an increase of the platelet number were found. The diuresis increased and the creatinine concentration in the serum was reduced in four patients, with a total recovery of the renal functionality in a time varying from 12 to 47 days. The administration of the defibrotide furthermore involved the disappearance of the synptoms of neurologic type. Like experiments carried out on patients affected by medical nephropathies gave essentially like results. Except that in the cases of nephropaties with long course the treatment was continued by oral route by means of tablets a a specific purpose of preventing a chronicity status from being set out. From the in vivo experimental results as above reported the importance clearly appears of the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention in the therapy of a syndrome which generally brings the patient, if not to the death, at least to a constant dependency on a dialysis treatment. It is furthermore to be pointed out that such an activity of the defibrotide might not be supposed on the basis of the to date known properties of such an active substance since, as previoulsy mentioned, the treatment of states of acute renal insufficiencies with anti thrombotic and fibrinolytic agents never gave place not only to a recovery of the renal functionality but not even to a stopping of the evolution towards the chronic state. It is lastly to be observed that the preparation of the pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention provides both oral forms capsules, tablets and injectable forms vials for parenteral and intravenous use , as prepared with the known galenic techniques and by means of the usual vehicles, excipients, solvents, etc.