# MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES

## Claims
Monoklonaler Maus Anti Peroxidase Antikörper, dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß er

## Description
This invention relates to mouse monoclonal antibodies capable of forming complexes with horse radish peroxidase, herein designated monoclonal peroxidase anti peroxidase PAP complexes, and to the hybrid cell lines hybridomas which may be used in the preparation of such monoclonal antibodies. The monoclonal antibodies of the invention, the PAP complexes derived from them and compositions containing PAP complexes are useful in research and diagnosis including immunohistological methods. Whilst the fusion of mouse myeloma cells to spleen cells from immunised mice to produce hybridomas which secrete monoclonal antibodies is known in the art, Kohler and Milstein, Nature, 256, 495 497 there are many difficulties to be overcome and variations required for each specific case. For any given case, the choice of animal species, and myeloma cell line and the selection technique used for isolating the desired hybridoma cell line are all critical to the outcome. Reference can be had in this regard to, for example, Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology, Volume 81, F. Melchers, M. Patter, N. Warner, Springer Verlag, 1978 and Handbook of Experimental Immunology, Third Edition, Volume 2, chapter 25, D.M. Wier, Editor, Blackwell, 1978. There is no assurance prior to attempting to prepare a hybridoma producing a desired monoclonal antibody that one will be successful, that the hybridoma will be stable enough to produce the antibody under practical conditions of production, if at all, and that the antibody will have the desired properties. References which describe methods of producing peroxidase containing complexes and monoclonal antibodies against horse radish peroxidase are According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a mouse monoclonal anti peroxidase antibody characterised in that it is The antibody is preferably produced by a hybridoma formed by fusion of spleen cells from a Balb c mouse previously immunised with horse radish peroxidase and cells from the mouse myeloma cell line Sp2 O Ag14. The hybridoma is preferably that which, when injected into the peritoneal cavity of a pristane treated Balb c mouse produces an average of at least 5,5ml, preferably at least 9,5ml, of ascites fluid on 3 taps, at 2 day intervals between taps. According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a hybridoma formed by fusion of spleen cells from a Balb c mouse previously immunised with horse radish peroxidase and cells from an Sp2 O Ag14 mouse myeloma cell line capable of producing a monoclonal antibody as described above. According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for preparing a hybridoma, as described above, which comprises the steps of The preferred method of producing such hybridomas comprises the steps of The hybridomas produced as described above may be placed in a suitable medium to produce antibodies and the antibodies recovered therefrom. Preferably the hybridomas are administered intraperitoneally to Balb c mice previously treated with an irritant such as pristane, the resultant ascites harvested and the antibody recovered therefrom. The antibodies described above are useful in producing monoclonal peroxidase anti peroxidase complexes useful in immunohistological procedures. These complexes form another aspect of the invention. Preferred methods for putting our invention into effect will now be described by way of illustration only. The invention is further illustrated by reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein Figures 1 and 2 are plots obtained from subjecting certain supernatants and ascites fluids to the ELISA assay and Figure 3 is a plot of elution volume against the log of molecular weight in a gel chromatography analysis. Assay for Antiperoxidase activity. Enzyme linked immunoabsorbant assay. ELISA Monoclonal culture supernatants and ascites fluid were typed using a mouse monoclonal typing kit, Serotec, product code no MMT 01K . This contained sheep anti mouse immunoglobulin for testing the class and subclass specificity of mouse monoclonals. 75 µl of the test solution was pipetted into the central hole of one of the rosettes. The culture supernatants were used undiluted and the ascites fluid was diluted 1 in 100. 10 µl of each of the 6 antisera, IgG₁, IgG₂a, IgG₂b, IgG₃, IgA and IgM were pipetted into each of the outer 6 wells. The proteins were allowed to diffuse for 24 hours at room temperature. After this period, precipitin lines corresponding to the immunoglobulin specificity were observed. The gel was then dried in contact with a piece of filter paper. The gel was stained with Kenacid Blue R for 30 minutes and then de stained with water. The purity of the antibody of the invention and fractions containing it was monitored by standard methods known in the art such as sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE . 10 days after fusion, hybrid clones were noted in all wells of the 10 plates. The supernatants were screened by ELISA described above . Of these 18 showed the presence of antibodies to horse radish peroxidase. The results of the ELISA assay on the supernatants from these wells are shown in Figure 1. The cells from the well showing the highest concentration of antibody were selected for further cloning by limiting dilution. The cells in the selected wells were subjected to cloning by limiting dilutions and the stable monoclonal producing cell line used for isolation, purification and characterisation of antibody. Each clone was subjected to 3 further limiting dilutions. Ascites fluids produced by the growth of the cloned cells in the abdominal cavity of Balb c mice were assayed by the ELISA assay and the results are shown in Figure 2. The ascites fluids from the cloned cell lines set out in Figure 2 were examined by a method described in paragraph 7 hereinafter for the presence of antibody capable of binding to horse radish peroxidase without significantly interfering with the catalytic activity of the enzyme to form a monoclonal peroxidase anti peroxidase PAP complex. Of these fluids, only four were found to contain suitable antibody, i.e. antibodies of the class IgG₁ and having the characteristics identified above. These fluids are identified by the codes E1D, F11D, L5E and M6F in Figure 2. A number of the fluids were found to contain antibodies of the class IgG Monoclonal PAP complex was prepared using ammonium sulphate purified anti peroxidase from ascites fluid in 0.05 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.5. To ensure a two to one ratio of peroxidase PO to anti peroxidase anti PO , excess PO, typically a molar ratio of antibody to peroxidase of 3 1, dialysed in the above buffer was used. The purified anti PO was mixed with the PO solution and incubated for 2 hours at 37 C. The PAP complex was separated from the excess PO by gel filtration on Sephacryl S 200 Pharmacia 2,6 x 85 cm , equilibrated with the above buffer. Three ml fractions were collected at room temperature at 20 ml hr. The absorbance of each fraction was read at 280 nm and 403 nm on a Unicam SP8 100 spectrophotometer. The PAP complex fractions were pooled and the RZ value O.D. 403 nm O.D. 280 nm and protein concentration measured. The PAP solution was assayed for PO activity in the following way. The solution was diluted to about 1µg protein in 3 ml 0,1 phosphate buffer, pH 7,0. The temperature was maintained at 25 C. 50 µl of an aqueous solution of guaiacol 0.02 M was added. After adding 30 µl of an aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide 12,3 mM , the solution was mixed and the absorbance read at 436 nm after exactly 1 minute. The PO activity was read off a standard curve run at the same time as the unknown sample. The molecular ratio MR of PO to anti PO in PAP was calculated as follows The PAP complex solutions were stored at 4 C in the presence of 2 bovine serum albumin BSA Sigma A 4378 and 0.01 Thimerosal Merck 818957 . Of the various ascites fluids set out in Figure 2, only four monoclonal antibodies purified therefrom as already described produced PAP having the required characteristics, in particular the molar ratios of peroxidase to antibody of at least 1,78 and an RZ value of at least 0,55. The molecular weight of these PAP complexes was determined by elution volume on gel filtration using Sephacryl S 200 and was found to be about 240,000. The results of this analysis are shown graphically by Figure 3. Clearly therefore these monoclonal PAP complexes are different to the PAP complexes produced by Mason et al as hereinbefore described. Furthermore, in all complexes the enzyme activity had been reduced by less than 30 . The results obtained for these four PAP complexes are set out in Table I below Production of ascites fluid from cell lines E1D, F11D, L5E and M6F was also examined. The mice used were all Balb c mice from the same genetic stock. The mice were 8 weeks old at the time of the first injection of cells and all mice had been pristane primed 10 days prior to injection 3 taps were taken. The interval between the taps was an average of 2 days. The results obtained are set out in Table II below