# Fungicidal triazole and imidazole compounds.

## Abstract
Compounds of the general formula The novel compounds may be made by reacting a corresponding starting material wherein X is OH with a suitable halogenating ageht.

## Claims
Claims 1. A compound of Formula I EMI35.1 wherein A is CH or N X is F, C1, or Br R1 is H or C1 C4 alkyl and R2 is C1 C6 alkyl, C3 C6 cycloalkyl,EMI35.2 where R3 and R4 are independently H, halogen, OR5, OCF3, SR5, S02R5, CF3, NO2, CN, C1 C6 alkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, halogen, CF3, or mixtures of these three and R5 is C1 C6 alkyl and fungicidally active salts of said compound with protic acids, and complexes of said compound with metal ions. 2. A compound of Claim 1 wherein X is fluorine. 3. A compound of Claim 2 whereinR2 isEMI35.3 R3 and R4 are independently H, CH3, OCH3, OFF3, SCH3, S02CH3, halogen, or phenyl. 4. A compound of Claim 3 wherein R3 and R4 are independently H or halogen. 5. A compound of Claim 4 wherein A is nitrogen. 6. The compound of claim 5 that is 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyll lH l,2,4 triazole and fungicidally active salts of said compound with protic acids, and complexes of said compound with metal ions. 7. The compound of claim 5 that is 1 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and fungicidally active salts of said compound with protic acids, and complexes of said compound with metal ions. 8. The compound of claim 5 that is l 2 fluoro 2,2 lDis 4 chlorophenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and fungicidally active salts of said compound with protic acids, and complexes of said compound with metal ions. 9. A composition for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises an effective amount of a compound of any of claims 1 to 8 and at least one of the following surfactant solid inert diluent or liquid inert diluent. 1Q. A method for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises applying to the locus of infestation to be protected an effective amount of a compound of any of claims 1 to 8. 11. A process for the preparation of a compound of claim 1 which comprises reacting a compound of general formulaEMI36.1 wherein R1, R3, R4 and A are as defined in claim 1, with a suitable halogenating agent, whereafter if desired the product of formula I is reacted with a protic acid to form a salt or with a metal compound to form a complex with a metal ion. Claims 1. A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula I EMI37.1 wherein A is CH or N X is F, C1, or Br R1 is H or C1 C4 alkyl and 2 is C1 C6 alkyl, C3 C6 cycloalkyl,EMI37.2 where R3 and R4 are independently H, halogen, OR5, OCF3, Sirs, 502R5, CF3, NO2, CN, C1 C6 alkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, halogen, CF3, or mixtures of these three and R5 is C1 C6 alkyl or a fungicidally active salt of said compound with a protic acid, or a complex of said compound with a metal ion, which comprises reacting a corresponding compound of general formulaEMI37.3 wherein R1, R3, R4 and A are as defined above, with a suitable halogenating agent, whereafter if desired the product of formula I is reacted with a protic acid to form a salt or with a metal compound to form a complex with a metal ion. 2. A process of claim 1 wherein said halogenating agent is selected from diethylamino sulfur trifluoride, thionyl chloride or bromide, triphenylphosphine carbon tetrachloride or triphenyl phospine carbon tetrabromide. 3. A process of claim 1 or 2 wherein X is fluorine. 4. A process of claim 3 whereinR2 isEMI38.1 R3 and R4 are independently H, CH3, OCH3, OCF3, SCH3, SO2CH3, halogen, or phenyl. 5. A process of claim 4 wherein R3 and R4 are independently H or halogen. 6. A process of claim 5 wherein A is nitrogen. 7. A process of claim 1 wherein the product is a compound selected from 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH l ,2,4 triazole 1 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyla lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chlorophenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and fungicidally active salts of said compounds with protic acids, and complexes of said compounds with metal ions. 8. A composition for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises an effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1 to 7 and at least one of the following surfactant solid inert diluent or liquid inert diluent. 9. A method for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises applying to the locus of infestation to be protected an effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1 to 7.

## Description
FUNGICIDAL TRIAZOLE AND IMIDAZOLE COMPOUNDS Background of the Invention This invention concerns fungicidal triazole and imidazole compounds useful for controlling fungal diseases of plants. U.S. Patent 4,102,891 discloses compounds of the formula EMI1.1 wherein X is halogen and R is halogen, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfonyl, haloalkyl, N02, CN, phenyl or phenoxy n 0 3 . It is taught that the compounds are useful as fungicides. U.S. Patent 4,256,754 discloses compounds of the formula EMI1.2 wherein X is hydrogen, halogen, lower alkylmercapto, or lower alkenylmercapto and R is halogen n 0 2 . It is stated that these compounds are useful as insecticides. EP A 55,997 discloses fungicidal compounds of the formula EMI1.3 where R1 is alkyl, cycloalkyl, or substituted phenyl and R2 is substituted phenyl or benzyl. Belgian Patent 867,245 discloses compounds of the formula EMI2.1 where Z is aryl R1 is CN, H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkenyl, alkynyl, substituted aryl, or substituted aralkyl R2 is H, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, cyclo alkenyl, alkynyl, substituted aryl, sub stituted aralkyl, alkoxy, alkenoxy, alkyn oxy, OH, substituted aryloxy, or substi tuted aralkyloxy m is O or 1 and n is 1 or 2.These compounds are disclosed as agricultural fungicides. U.S. Patent 4,327,104 discloses compounds of the formula EMI2.2 wherein R is halogen, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkyl sulfonyl, haloalkyl, N02, CN, phenyl, substituted phenyl, phenoxy or substituted phenoxy n 0 3 , and Rl is alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl, benzyl, substituted benzyl, styryl or substituted styryl. These compounds are disclosed as fungicides. Summary of the Invention The present invention provides novel compounds of Formula 1, agriculturally useful compositions of the compounds, and the method of using these compounds to control plant fungus diseases.EMI3.1 wherein A is CH or N X is F, C1, or Br R1 is H or C1 C4 alkyl and R2 is C1 C6 alkyl, C3 C6 cycloalkyl,EMI3.2 where R3 and R4 are independently H, halogen, OR5, OCF3, SR5, S02R5, CF3, N02, CN, C1 C6 alkyl, phenyl, or phenyl substituted with C1 C4 alkyl, halogen, CF3, or mixtures of these three and R5 is C1 C6 alkyl.Also provided by the present invention are fungicidally active salts of compounds of Formula I with protic acids and complexes of compounds of Formula I with metal ions. Preferred for their high activity and favorable ease of synthesis are compounds of general Formula I wherein X is fluorine. More preferred for their higher activity and or more favorable ease of synthesis are compounds of the preferred scope wherein R2 isEMI3.3 and R3 and R4 are independently H, CH3, OCH3, OCF3, SCH,S02CH3, halogen, or phenyl. Most preferred for their highest activity and or most favorable ease of synthesis are compounds of the scope immediately described above wherein R3 and R4 are independently H or halogen, and A is nitrogen. Specifically preferred for their fungicidal activity and ease of synthesis are e l 2 fluoro 2, 2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH l ,2,4 triazole l 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and r 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole. Detailed Description of the InventionSynthesis The Formula I compounds of this invention can be prepared by reacting a compound of general formula II,EMI4.1 in which R1 R4 and A are as defined above, as follows.To prepare compounds of Formula I wherein X is fluorine, compounds of Formula II can be reacted with diethylamino sulfur trifluoride. To prepare compounds of Formula I wherein X is chlorine, Formula II compounds can be reacted with thionyl chloride in the presence of a tertiary amine, such as triethylamine, or with triphenylphosphine carbon tetrachloride. To prepare compounds of Formula I wherein X is bromine, the procedure for the compounds where X C1 is followed, but with the corresponding bromo reagents, thionyl bromide or triphenylphosphine carbon tetrabromide. In these reactions, roughly equimolar amounts of the reactants can be used, although the halogenating reagent is preferably used at a 5 10E molar excess.The reaction is run in an organic solvent. Suitable solvents include non polar aprotic solvents such as dichloromethane, chloroform, or 1,2 dichloroethane or ether solvents such as tetrahydrofuran. A polar, inert solvent such as acetonitrile can also be used.The triphenylphosphine reagent can be used in carbon tetrachloride X C1 or in carbon tetrabromide X Br as the solvent. The reaction temperature can vary between 1000C and OOC, preferably between 7OC and 20 C, when the halogenating reagent is diethylamino sulfur trifluoride, thionyl chloride, or thionyl bromide. When triphenylphosphine carbon tetrachloride or triphenylphosphine carbon tetrabromide are used, the reaction temperature can be about 200 1000C. As those skilled in the art will recognize, the optimum temperature and reaction time can vary with the exact choice and concentration of reactants and with the choice of solvent. Generally, reaction times of 1 2 hours are required. Reactions are normally conducted at atmospheric pressure but can be conducted under autogenous pressure as well. The above described reactions provide compounds of Formula I which are frequently contaminated with the by product of their own dehydrohalogenation. Formula I compounds in which X is fluorine are more readily purified or separated from their by products by procedures well known in the art and for that reason are preferred. The intermediate compounds of general Formula II can be prepared by reacting 1,2,4 triazole or imidazole with either compounds of Formula III or Formula IV EMI6.1 where Y1 is chlorine or bromine and R1, R2, R3, and R4 are as described previously. The intermediate compounds of Formula II can also be prepared by reacting a compound of Formula V with a Grignard reagent VIEMI6.2 wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, and A are as defined previously and Y2 is a halogen atom preferably C1, Br, or I . This reaction is conducted in an ether solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of between 00 60eC, depending on the identity of the Grignard reagent and the solvent. Compounds of Formula V can be obtained by reaction of 1,2,4 triazole or 1,3 imidazole with compounds of general Formula VIIEMI6.3 where R1, R3, R4, and Y1 are as defined above lfor a general reference to compounds of Formula VII, see J. Med. Chem., 12, 784 1969 1. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the preparation of the triazole compounds of this inven tion can produce a mixture of two triazole isomers, the lH l,2,4 triazol l yl compound and the 4H l,2,4 triazol 4 yl compound. Since the former isomer will be the predominant one, Formula I is drawn to depict its structure, and the compounds will be referred to as the lH,lyl triazoles. It is to be recognized, however, that the 4H,4yl isomer can be present, and since this isomer is also fungicidally active, no separation of the isomers is necessary after preparation of the compounds. It will be further recognized that the Formula I compounds can contain up to two asymmetric carbon atoms when R1 C1 C4 alkyl and or when R2 is different from the substituted phenyl group that is in the B position relative to the heterocycle . The stereoisomers that can result all have fungicidal activity, and separation of these isomers is not required. In the following examples, abbreviations for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra are as follows s singlet d doublet, t triplet q quartet and m multiplet. Peak positions for NMR are reported as parts per million downfield from the internal tetramethylsilane standard. Infrared IR peak positions are reported in reciprocal centimeters cm . Also, unless otherwise stated, ether refers to diethyl ether. Example 1Preparation of l 2,2 bis 4 Chlorophenyl 2 fluoro ethylj lH l,2,4 triazole A solution of l 2,2 bis 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethylj lH l,2,4 triazole 2.5 g, 7.5 mmol in 30 ml of dry methylene chloride was cooled to 700C.A solution of diethylamino sulfur trifluoride 1.3 g, 8.1 mmol in 5 ml of methylene chloride was added dropwise over a 10 minute period. The solution was warmed to about 22 C and stirred for 1 hour. goivent was removed and the residue was chromatographed ether on silica gel. Eluted first were less polar by products followed by the subject compound, which was eluted as a white solid 1.0 gm, 404 m,p. 187 189 C 1H NMR CDC13 6 8.2 d, J 2Hz, 1H , 7.8 s, 1H , 7.3 s, 8H , 5.1 d, J 27Hz, 2H . Example 2Preparation of l 2 l,l1 Biphenyl 4 yl 2 fluoro 3 phenylpropyli lH l,2,4 triazole A solution of l 2 l,l biphenyl 4 yl 2hydroxy 3 phenylpropyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole 10.0 g, 28.2 mmol in 30 ml of dry methylene chloride is cooled to 78 C. A solution of diethylamino sulfur trifluoride 4.9 g, 30.4 mmol in 20 ml of methylene chloride is added dropwise at such a rate that the temperature remains below 700C. The solution is warmed to about 22 C and stirred for 1 hour. Solvent is removed and the residue is chromatographed 4 1 methylene chloride acetone on silica gel to purify product. Example 3Preparation of 1 2 Fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 methylethyll lH 1,2,4 triazole A solution of l,l bis 4 fluorophenyl l propylene oxide 20.0 gm, 81.3 mmol and potassium triazole 22 gm, .205 mol in 200 ml of ethanol was heated at reflux under nitrogen for 40 hours. The solution was poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate.The extract was washed with water and with brine and dried MgSO4 . Removal of solvent gave a gummy oil which was chromatographed on silica gel 9 1 methylene chloride acetone to afford 8.0 gm 31 of 1 12,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl 2 hydroxy 1 methylethyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole as a white solid. A portion of this material 4.0 gm, 12.7 mmol was dissolved in methylene chlor id. and cooled to 75 C under a nitrogen atinosphere. Diethylaminosulfur trifluoride 1.9 ml, 15.6 mmol was added dropwise. The solution was warmed to room temperature and solvent was removed. The residue was chromatographed 19 1 methylene chloride acetone on silica gel to afford 1.95 gm 48 of product as a white solid m.p. 87 88 C. 1H NMR CDC13 68.1 d, J 2Hz, lH , 7.7 s, 1H , 7.4 d of d, J 9,6Hz, 2H , 7.2 d of d, J 2 9,2Hz , 7.1 t, J 9Hz, 2H , 6.9 t, J s 9Hz, 2H , 5.5 d of q, J 29, 7Hz , 1.5 d, J s 7Hz . Example 4Preparation of 1 2 Chloro 2 4 methoxyphenyl 3,3 dimethylbutyli lH l,2,4 triazole A solution of 1 12 hydroxy 2 4 methoxyphenyl 3,3 dimethylbutyl 1,2,4 triazole 10.0 g, 38.0 mmol and thionyl chloride 4.98 g, 41.9 mmol in 250 ml dry tetrahydrofuran is cooled to OOC. Triethylamine 4.5 g, 44.5 mmol is added dropwise over a 30 minute period, and the solution is then stirred an additional 90 minutes while gradually warming to about 22 C. The solution is filtered and concentrated. The residue is chromatographed on silica gel ether to purify product. Example 5Preparation of 1 2 Bromo 2 cyclohexyl 2 phenylethyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole A solution of 1 2 cyclohexyl 2 hydr oxy 2 phen ylethyl lH l,2,4 triazole 10.0 g, 38.9 mmol and thionyl bromide 8.89 g, 42.8 mmol in 250 ml dry tetrahydrofuran is cooled to 0 C. Triethylamine 4.5 g, 44.5 mmol is added dropwise over a 30 minute period and the solution is then stirred an additional 90 minutes while gradually warming to about 220C. The solution is filtered and concentrated. The residue is chromatographed on silica gel ether to purify product. Example 6Preparation of the 1 1 Complex of 1 2 Fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and cuprous chloride A mixture of 3.0 g 0.01 mol of 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and 1.0 g 0.01 mol of cuprous chloride in 150 ml of tetrahydrofuran is refluxed under N2 for 30 minutes, and the resulting deep green solution is evaporated to yield the title compound as a green solid, m.p. 75 77 C. The following additional metal complexes can be prepared similarly using the appropriate metal salt 1 1 complex with cupric chloride 2 1 complex with cupric chloride 1 1 complex with zinc chloride and 1 1 complex with manganous sulfate. Example 7Preparation of the 4 Dodecylbenzenesulfonate Salt of 1 2 Fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyll lH 1,2,4 triazole A solution of 3.0 gm 0.01 mol of l 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyll lH 1,2,4 triazole in 30 ml of dichloromethane is combined with a solution of 3.3 g 0.01 mol of 4 dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid in 30 ml of dichloromethane. The resulting solution is evaporated to yield the title compound as a waxy solid, m.p. 95 1040C, The following additional acid complexes can be prepared similarly using the appropriate acid. 1 1 complex with hydrochloric acid 1 1 complex with nitric acid, m.p. 151 1520C and 1 1 complex with trifluoroacetic acid. Following the procedures described earlier and exemplified in Examples 1 5, the compounds in Table I can be prepared. Table IEMI11.1 EMI11.2 tb SEP R4 SEP R2 SEP SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. OC tb H SEP F SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 120 1220 tb CH3O SEP CH SEP 3O SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP Cl 1CH2 SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 88 91 tb SEP ci tb SEP SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb C1 SEP SEP CF3 SEP F SEP H SEP F SEP N tb C1 SEP SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP 2 tb CN SEP SEP Br SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb CH35 c o, SEP F CH2 SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP C1 tb Table I continued EMI12.1 tb SEP R tb SEP Ri SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. oC tb SEP SEP SEP SEP tb CH3SO2 SEP CH2 SEP H SEP FN tb SEP SEP H SEP FN tb X SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP 3 SEP H SEP FN tb FM SEP CH3CH2CH2 SEP CH2 SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb C1 SEP SEP Cl SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb CH3OM SEP Hz SEP CH30 SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb SEP SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb Cm SEP SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb SEP SEP H SEP F SEP H tb SEP ClCH2 SEP H SEP F tb Dy SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb Table I continued EMI13.1 tb SEP R SEP Hz SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP XF SEP A SEP m.p. OC tb SEP F tb X SEP X tb CHASM SEP SEP CH2 SEP SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb Br SEP SEP H SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb FM SEP Hz SEP CH3CH2CH2CH2 SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb Cl SEP Cl SEP M SEP Hz SEP CH3 SEP F SEP N tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP N tb ClCH2 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP N tb SEP C1 tb 3 SEP CH3 SEP C SEP OMCH2 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP CH3 SEP F SEP CH tb Cl SEP SEP C1 SEP HzCH2 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP CH tb SEP C1 SEP C1 tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP F SEP CH tb Table I continued EMI14.1 tb SEP R3 tb SEP R SEP Hz SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. C tb SEP R1. tb SEP SEP SEP n C4Hg SEP F SEP N tb Cl SEP ClCH2 SEP n C4H9 SEP F SEP N tb SEP C l tb SEP C1 SEP C1 tb CH35 SEP CH2 SEP 2 SEP n C,H, SEP F SEP N tb SEP C M SEP CH30 SEP n C SEP 4H9 SEP F SEP N tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP C1 SEP N tb SEP CH3 SEP Cl SEP N tb SEP CH3 SEP CH3 SEP Br SEP N tb O SEP O SEP CH3 SEP Cr SEP N tb CH3 SEP CH3 SEP H SEP C1 SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP H SEP C1 SEP N tb CH3OM SEP t C4H9 SEP H SEP C1 SEP N tb Table I continued EMI15.1 tb SEP R SEP SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. OC tb SEP 2 SEP 1 tb SEP ClCH2 SEP H SEP Cl SEP N tb SEP C1 tb X SEP CH3 SEP H SEP Br SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP H SEP Br SEP N tb Cly SEP SEP SEP H SEP Br SEP N tb SEP C1 tb H SEP Q SEP H SEP Br SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP Hz SEP C2H5 SEP F SEP N tb FM SEP F 03 SEP FM SEP Hz SEP n c3H7 SEP F SEP N tb FM SEP FM SEP sec C4Hg SEP F tb FM SEP n C6H13 SEP H SEP F SEP N tb SEP ci tb Cl SEP n C6H13 SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb CiM SEP H SEP F SEP N tb Table I continued EMI16.1 tb SEP R tb SEP R4 SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. 0C tb SEP F SEP C1 tb SEP C1 tb Cl SEP R SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP N tb FM SEP CH3 SEP H SEP F SEP N tb F SEP 9 SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb C2H5SO2 SEP Hz SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP N tb n C6H135 2 SEP H SEP H SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb SEP SEP HFN tb SEP S 2CH3 tb SEP OCH3 tb H SEP HFN tb C2KsOM SEP C SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb n C6H13 SEP C SEP H SEP F SEP N tb CH3 SEP SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP CH tb t C4H9 SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb Table I continued EMI17.1 tb SEP RR SEP R2 SEP R1 SEP X SEP A SEP m.p. 0C tb SEP R tb F SEP C SEP SEP H SEP F SEP N tb H SEP Hz SEP C1 SEP Hz SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 186 1890 tb SEP C1 SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 141 1430 tb SEP F SEP m SEP C1 SEP 9 SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 141 143 tb F SEP 9 SEP X SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP 137 139 tb SEP F tb H SEP 4 SEP F SEP N tb Utility The compounds of this invention are useful as plant disease control agents.They are effective in controlling a broad spectrum of plant diseases, particularly foliar pathogens of ornamental, vegetable, field, cereal and fruit crops, such as, Puccinia recondita, Sphaerotheca fuliginea, Erysiphe graminis,Podosphaera leucotricha, Venturia inaequalis, Pyricularia oryzae, Bipolaris oryzae, Cercospora arachidicola, Cercospora beticola and Monilinia fructicola.They also control soil borne pathogens such asRhizoctonia solani.Formulation and Use The compounds of this invention will generally be used in formulation with a liquid or solid diluent or with an organic solvent. Useful formulations of the compounds of Formula I can be prepared in conventional ways. They include dusts, granules, pellets, solutions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly. Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from about one to several hundred liters per hectare. High strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, contain about 1 to 99 by weight of active ingredient s and at least one of a about 0.1 to 20 surfactant s and b about 5 to 99 solid or liquid inert diluent s .More specifically, they will contain these ingredients in the following approximate proportions Percent by Weight Active Ingredient Diluent s Surfactant s Wettable Powders 20 90 0 74 1 10Oil Suspensions, 5 50 40 95 0 15Emulsions, Solutions, including EmulsifiableConcentrates Aqueous Suspensions 10 50 40 84 1 20Dusts 1 25 70 99 0 5Granules and Pellets 1 95 5 99 0 15High Strength 90 99 0 10 0 2Compositions Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course, be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound. Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable, and are achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described in Watkins, et al., Handbook of Insecticide Dust Diluents andCarriers , 2nd Ed., Dorland Books, Caldwell, NewJersey. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for the wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvents Guide, 2nd Ed.,Interscience, New York, 1950. Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at 0 C. McCutcheon s Detergents andEmulsifiers Annual , Allured Publ. Corp., Ridgewood,New Jersey, as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia of Surface Active Agents , Chemical Publ. Co., Inc.,New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses.All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foam, caking, corrosion, microbio logical growth, etc. Preferably, ingredients should be approved by the U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency for the use intended. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fine solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example, Littler, U.S. Patent 3,060,084 . Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon preformed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J. E.Browning, Agglomeration , Chemical Engineering,Dec. 4, 1967, pp. 147ff. and Perry 5 ChemicalEngineer s Handbook , 4th Edn., McGraw Hill, N.Y., 1963, pp. 8 59ff. For further information regarding the art of formulation, see for example H. M. Loux, U.S. Patent 3,235,361, Feb. 15, 1966, Col. 6, Line 16 through Col. 7, Line 19 andExamples 10 through 41. R. W. Luckenbaugh, U.S. Patent 3,309,192,March 14, 1967, Col. 5, Line 43 through Col. 7, Line 62 and Examples 8, 12, 15, 39, 41, 52, 53, 58, 132, 138 140, 162 164, 166, 167, 169 182. H. Gysin and E. Knusli, U.S. Patent 2,891,855,June 23, 1959, Col. 3, Line 66 through Col. 5, Line 17 and Examples 1 4. G. C. Klingman, Weed Control as a Science ,John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York, 1961, pp. 81 96. J. D. Fryer and S. A. Evans, Weed Control Hand book, 5th Edn. Blackwell Scientific Publications,Oxford, 1968, pp. 101 103. Examples of useful formulations of compounds of the present invention are as follows. Example 8Wettable Powder l 2 Fluoro 2, 2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH l,2,4 triazole 80 sodium alkylnaphthalenesulfonate 2 sodium ligninsulfonate 2 synthetic amorphous silica 3 kaolinite 15 The ingredients are blended, hammer milled, reblended and packaged. Example 9High Strength Concentrate l L 2 Fluoro 2, 2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH l ,2,4 triazole 98.5 silica aerogel 0.5 synthetic amorphous fine silica 1.0 The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce a high strength concentrate essentially all passing a U.S.S. No. 50 sieve 0.3 mm openings . This material may then be formulated in a variety of ways. Example 10Aqueous Suspension 1 2 Fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole 25 hydrated attapulgite 3 crude calcium ligninsulfonate 10 sodium dihydrogen phosphate 0.5 water 61.5 The ingredients are ground together in a ball, sand, or roller mill until the solid particles have been reduced to diameters under 10 microns. Example 11Solution l t3 2,4 Dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 4 fluorophenyl propyl lH l,2,4 triazole 30 dimethylformamide 70 The ingredients are combined and stirred to produce a solution, which can be used for low volume applications. Example 12Emulsifiable Concentrate l 2 Fluoro 2,2 bis 4 fluorophenyl ethyl lH l ,2,4 triazole 30 blend of oil soluble sulfonates and polyoxyethylene ethers 4 xylene 66 The ingredients are combined and stirred until the active is dissolved. A fine screen filter is included in packaging operation to insure the absence of any extraneous undissolved material in the product. Example 13Granule wettable powder of Example 8 15 gypsum 69 potassium sulfate 16 The ingredients are blended in a rotating or fluid bed mixer and water sprayed on to accomplish granulation. When most of the material has reached the desired range of 1.0 to 0.42 mm. U.S.S. No. 18 to 40 sieves , the granules are removed, dried, and screened. Oversize material is crushed to produce additional material in the desired range. These granules contain 12 active ingredient. The compounds of this invention can be mixed with fungicides, bactericides, acaricides, nematicides, insecticides, or other biologically active compounds in order to achieve desired results with a minimum expenditure of time, effort and material.Amounts of these biologically active materials added for each part by weight of the composition of this invention may vary from 0.05 to 25 parts by weight.Suitable agents of this type are well known to those skilled in the art. Some are listed below Fungicides methyl 2 benzimidazolecarbamate carbendazim tetramethylthiuram disulfide thiuram n dodecylguanidine acetate dodine manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate maneb 1,4 dichloro 2,5 dimethoxybenzene chloroneb methyl l butylcarbamoyl 2 benzimidazolecarbamate benomyl 2 cyano N ethylcarbamoyl 2 methoxyiminoacetamide cymoxanil N trichloromethylthiotetrahydrophthalimide captan N trichloromethylthiophthalimide folpet dimethyl 4,4 o phenylene bis 3 thioallophanate thiophanate methyl 2 thiazol 4 yl benzimidazole thiabendazole aluminum tris 0 ethyl phosphonate Aliette tetrachloroisophthalonitrile chlorothalonil 2,6 dichloro 4 nitroaniline dichloran N 2,6 dimethylphenyl N methoxyacetyl alanine methyl ester metalaxyl cis N E 1,1,2,2 tetrachloroethyl thio 4 cyclohexene 1,2 dicarbioximide captafol 3 3 ,5 dichlorophenyl N l methyl ethyl 2,4 dioxo l imidazolidine carboxamide iprodione 3 3,5 dichlorophenyl 5 ethenyl 5 methyl 2,4 oxazoli dinedione vinclozolin kasugamycinO ethyl S,S diphenyl phosphorodithioste edifenphos Bactericides tribasic copper sulfate streptomycin sulfate oxytetracyclineAcaricides senecloic acid, ester with 2 sec butyl 4,6 dinitro phenol binapacryl 6 methyl l,3 dithiolo2,3 quinonolin 2 one oxythioquinox 2,2,2 trichloro 1,l bis 4 chlorophenyl ethanol dicofol bis pentachloro 2,4 cyclopentadien l yl dienochlor tricyclohexyltin hydroxide cyhexatin hexakis 2 methyl 2 phenylpropyl distannoxane fenbutin oxide Nematicides 2 Ediethoxyphosphinyliminol 1,3 dithieta fosthietan S methyl l dimethylcarbamoyl N methylcarbamoyloxy thioformimidate oxamyl S methyl l carbamoyl N methylcarbamoyloxy thisformi midateN isopropylphosphoramidic acid, O ethyl O C4 methy1 thio m tolyl diester fenamiphos Insecticides 3 hydroxy N methylcrotonamide dimethylphosphate ester monocrotophos methylcarbamic acid, ester with 2,3 dihydro 2,2 di methyl 7 benzofuranol carbofuran 0 2,4,5 trichloro u chloromethyl benzylzphosphoric acid, O ,O dimethyl ester tetrachlorvinphos 2 mercaptosuccinic acid, diethyl ester, S ester with thionophosphoric acid, dimethyl ester malathion phosphorothioic acid, 0,0 dimethyl, O p nitrophenyl ester methyl parathion methylcarbamic acid, ester with a naphthol carbaryl methyl N methylamino carbonyl oxy ethanimidothioate methomyl N 4 chloro o tclyl N,N dimethylformamidine chlordimeform 0, O diethyl 0 2 isopropyl 4 methyl 6 pyrimidyl phos phorothioate diazinon octachlorocamphene toxaphene O ethyl O p nitrophenyl phenylphosphonothioate PN cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 4 chloro a l methyl ethyl benzeneacetate fenvalerate 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl cis,trans 3 2,2 dichloro ethenyl 2 , 2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylata permethrin dimethyl N,N thiobis N methylimino carbonyloxy j bisEethanimidothioate3 thiodicarb phosphorothiolothionic acid, O ethyl 0 4 methylthio phenyl S n propyl ester sulprofos a cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate cypermethrin cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 4 difluoromethoxy a methylethyl benzeneacetate Payoff 0,0 diethyl 0 3,5,6 trichloro 2 pyridyl phosphoro thioate chlorpyrifos 0,O dimethyl S 4 oxo 1,2,3 benzotriazin 3 4H yl methyl phosphorodithioate azinphos methyl 5,6 dimethyl 2 dimethylamino 4 pyrimidinyl dimethyl carbamate Pirimor S N formyl N methylcarbamoylmethyl 0 ,0 dimethyl phosphorodithioate formothion S 2 ethylthioetryl 0,0 dimethyl phosphiorothioate demeton S metnyl cx cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl cis 3 2,2 dibromovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate deltamethrin cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl ester of N 2 chloro 4 trifluororrethylphenyl alanine t Mavrik Application Disease control is ordinarily accomplished by applying an effective amount of the compound, normally as part of a formulation containing it, either pre or post infection to the portion of the plant to be protected, such as the roots, stems, foliage, fruit, seeds, tubers or bulbs, or to the medium soil or sand in which the plants to be protected are growing. The compound may also be applied to the seed from which the plants to be protected are to be grown. Rates of application for these compounds can be influenced by many factors of the environment and should be determined under actual use conditions.Nevertheless, foliage can normally be protected when treated at a rate of from less than 1 to 500 grams of active ingredient per hectare. Plants growing in soil treated at a concentration from about 0.1 to about 20 kg of active ingredient per hectare can be protected from disease. Seed and seedlings can normally be protected when seed is treated at a rate of from about 0.06 to about 3 grams of active ingredient per kilogram of seed. In the following Examples 14 28, which further illustrate the present invention, the test compound is l 2 fluoro 2,2 bis fluorophenyl ethyl lH l,2,4 tri azole. Other compounds tested are specifically listed where appropriate. Example 14 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhyaric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on wheat seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Puccinia recondita var. tritici, causal agent of wheat leaf rust, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 200 for 24 hours and then in a growth roo for an additional 7 days, when disease ratings were made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Treated plants had no rust pustules while the untreated plants had numerous rust pustules on each leaf. Using the test conditions described in Example 14, l 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole gave 100 and 90 control of Puccinia recondita var. tritici, respectively. Example 15 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on cucumber seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Sphaerotheca fuliginea, causal agent of cucumber powdery mildew, and incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Treated plants had no powdery mildew in contrast to untreated plants which were covered with powdery mildew. Using the test conditions described in Example 15, l 3 2,4 dichloropheny1 2fluoro 2 pheny1propyl lH l,2,4 triazole and 1 2 f1uoro 2,2 bis 4 eh1oro phenyl ethyl3 lH 1,2,b triazole also gave 100 control of Sphaerotheca fuliginea. Example 16 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed at 935 liters hectare at a rate of 70 grams hectare on small apple trees. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus, Podosphaera leucotricha, causal agent of apple powdery mildew, and incubated in a growth room for 7 10 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was 100 .Treated plants had no powdery mildew in contrast to untreated plants which were covered with powdery mildew, Example 17 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on apple seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Venturia inaegualis, causal agent of apple scab, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 200 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 10 12 days. Disease ratings were then made.Disease control was shown to be 100 . Treated plants had no apple scab lesions when compared to untreated plants which were covered with scab lesions. Using the test conditions described in Example 17, l 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and l 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole gave 90 and 100 control of Venturia inaequalis, respectively. Example 18 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on rice seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Bipolaris oryzae, causal agent of rice brown leaf spot, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 200 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, after which disease ratings were made. Disease control was shown to be 94 .Treated plants had few or no lesions while the untreatec plants had numerous lesions on each leaf. Using the test conditions described in Example 18, 1 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and l 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole gave 50 and 60 con trol of Bipolaris oryzae, respectively. Example 19 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on peanut seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Cercospora arachidicola, causal agent of peanut early leafspot, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 270 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 14 days, after which disease ratings were made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Treated plants had no leafspots while the untreated plants had numerous leafspots. Using the test conditions described in Example 19, l 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and l 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethyl lH 1,2,4 triazole gave 90 and 100 control of Cercosporidium personatum, respectively. Example 20 The test compound was dissolved in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed at 374 liters hectare at a rate of 70 grams hectare on small sugar beet plants. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Cercospora beticola, causal agent of sugar beet leafspot, and incubated in a humidity chamber at 300C for 7 10 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be lOû . Treated plants had no leafspots when compared to untreated plants which had numerous leafspots. Example 21 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 5 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 700 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . Canned peach halves were dipped in this suspension for three minutes and then placed to air dry in sterile containers. Upon drying, the peach halves were inoculated with two pieces ofMonilinia fructicola mycelium, causal agent of stone fruit brown rot, and incubated in the sterile containers for five days. At that time the radii of the colonies growth were measured on each peach. Colonies on treated peaches did not grow while those growing on untreated peaches covered the entire surface of the peach.Disease control percent growth inhibition of colonies on treated peaches as compared to that of colonies on untreated peaches was 100 . Example 22 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6S of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on rice seedlings. The follow ing day, the plants were inoculated with a mixture of bran and the mycelium of the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, causal agent of sheath blight of rice, and incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 80 .Treated plants had little sheath blight in contrast te untreated plants which were covered with sheath blight. Example 23 The test compound was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.5 kilogram hectare when added to cotton seeds and soil in pots. Seeds and soil were then inoculated with a mixture of sand, cereal and mycelium of the fungusRhizoctonia solani, causal agent of cotton blight, and incubated in a growth room for 14 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 89 . Treated seeds germinated well and had little blight in contrast to the untreated plants which failed to germinate or were blighted shortly after germination. Example 24 The test compound was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.1 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds were air dried, planted, incubated in a growth room for 14 days, then inoculated with a spore suspension of tne fungus Puccinia recondita var. tritici, causal agent of wheat leaf rust. Inoculated plants Were incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 200C for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, when disease ratings were made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Plants grown from treated seeds had no rust pustules while plants from untreated seed had numerous rust pustules on each leaf. Example 25 The test compound was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.1 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds were air dried, planted, incubated in a growth room for 14 days, then inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Erysiphe graminis var. tritici, causal agent of wheat powdery mildew, and then further incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Plants grown from treated seeds had no powdery mildew in contrast to plants from untreated seed which were covered with powdery mildew. Example 26 The test compound was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.1 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of barley seed. Treated seeds were air dried, planted, incubated in a growth room for 14 days, then inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Erysiphe graminis var. hordei, causal agent of barley powdery mildew, and then further incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 100 . Plants grown from treated seeds had no powdery mildew in contrast to plants from untreated seed which were covered with powdery mildew. Example 27 The test compound was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.5 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds were air dried, planted, incubated in a growth room for 7 days, then inoculated witn a spore suspension of the fungus Bipolaris orvzse, causal agent of rice brown leafspot, and then further incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Disease control was shown to be 91 . Plants grown from treated seeds had little or no lesions in contrast to plants from untreated seed which had numerous lesions on each leaf. Example 28 The test compound was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 100 ppm in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactant TREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This suspension was sprayed to the point of run off on rice seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Pyricularia oryzae, causal agent of rice blast, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 280 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, after which disease ratings were made. Using as test compounds 1 3 2,4 dichlorophenyl 2 fluoro 2 phenylpropyl lH 1,2,4 triazole and 1 2 fluoro 2,2 bis 4 chloro phenyl ethyl 1H l, 2,4 triazole gave 9C and 60 control of Pyricularia oryzae, respectively.