# Improved overcoat for optical recording media.

## Abstract
This disclosure concerns protective overcoatings g for an information storage record which includes an informa ton layer adapted for optical data recording. The protective overcoatings g are transparent to recording radiation and especially adapted to enhance service life and recording characteristics. A typical coating g comprises the polymer ization product of a formulation including at least one radiation cured bulk resin e.g., an acrylamide or an acrylate monomer or pre polymer , plus an associated non yellowing photo initiator, a non yellowing adhesion promoter and related coating constituents. Once applied, this coating g is cured by exposure to UV radiation such as to cure it without heating it significantly so that said radiation functions as the sole or principal polymerizing agent, acting quickly, and with little or no supplement heat, and without extended tackiness . This formulation will readily level to render the desired coating to serve as a mechanical chemical barrier.

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A method of developing a relatively hard acrylic outer seal coating to serve as a mechanical chemical barrier on a disk substrate, this substrate including at least one recording area wherein information is to be recorded on a prescribed information layer using prescribed recording radiation, the method comprising the steps of formulating a coating mixture relatively transparent to the recording radiation and comprising the polymerization product of a coating formulation including at least one radiation cured acrylamide or acrylate monomer or pre polymer as the bulk resin, plus an associated non yellowing photo initiator, a non yellowing adhesion promotor and related coating constituents applying this mixture in a prescribed fashion to very uniformly cover the surface of the recording area and exposing this coating to the curing radiation such as to cure it without heating it significantly so that said radiation functions as the sole or principal polymerizing agent, acting quickly, and with little or no supplemental heat, and without extended tackiness the mixture being so formulated and so applied as to be capable of leveling and so rendering the desired coating. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the formulation is principally comprised of a non solventbased acrylated epoxy mixture apt for such radiation curing. 3. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein the curing is effected with prescribed UV radiation exposure, using an associated UV initiator constituent. 4. The method as recited in claim 3 wherein said adhesion promotor is selected and adapted to be nonyellowing as well as to assist in clarifying the resultant coating. 5. The method as recited in claim 4 wherein the adhesion promoter is selected and adapted to include moieties acting to so clarify the coating by combining with aqueous and or other hydroxyl groups. 6. The method as recited in claim 5 wherein the disk substrate recording surface is comprised of a fluoropolymer layer and the formulation includes a compatible wetting agent. 7. The method as recited in claim 6 wherein the fluoro polymer layer is etched or is covered with a light adhesion promoting, hydroxy affinity film adapted to enhance wetting of said coating formulation as applied thereon. 8. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein said film comprises either a metallic or metal oxide strike , or a deposit including polar groups. 9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein the strike comprises SiO2 or A1203 or MgF12. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 wherein the film comprises a light SiO2 flash coat. 11. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein the recording surface is comprised of a reconstituted fluoro polymer deposit. 12. The method as recited in claim 5 wherein theUV initiator includes epoxy constituents. 13. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein the formulation includes cross linking moieties and sufficient saturated resin to yield superior moisture resistance and shrink resistance. 14. The method as recited in claim 13 wherein said saturated resin comprises a polystyrene or polystyrene derivative. 15. The method as recited in claim 13 wherein the formulation also includes a compatible wetting agent and a cross linking monomer comprised of a tri functional acrylate. 16. The method as recited in claim 15 wherein the formulation also includes a compatible diluent and or flexibilizer. 17. The method as recited in claim 16 wherein the formulation includes a flexibilizing acrylate monomer. 18. The method as recited in claim 17 wherein said formulation is so effected and said W exposure is such as to quickly cross link and polymerize the coating in situ and relatively completely without raising its temperature above about 700 800C. 19. The method as recited in claim 18 wherein said formulation and UV exposure are such as to enable such curing within a few minutes or less for a coating thickness on the order of a few mils to a few dozen mils. 20. The method as recited in claim 19 wherein said formulation and W exposure are such as to enable such curing, with initial W cure taking place in air , then later, in an inert atmosphere, such as to avoid serious wrinkling . 21. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said formulation bulk resin also is comprised of an epoxy resin. 22. The method as recited in claim 21 wherein said formulation bulk resin also is comprised of an acrylated epoxide. 23. A method of developing a relatively hard acrylic outer seal coating on a disk substrate, this substrate including at least one recording area wherein information is to be recorded on a prescribed information layer using prescribed recording radiation, the method comprising the steps of formulating a coating mixture relatively transparent to the recording radiation and comprising the radiation polymerization product of a coating formulation including at least one radiation cured unsaturated resin, plus an associated non yellowing photo initiator, non yellowing adhesion promoter and relative coating constituents applying this mixture in a prescribed fashion to very uniformly cover the surface of the recording area and exposing this coating to the curing radiation such as to cure it without heating it significantly so that said radiation functions as the sole or principal polymerizing agent quickly, and with little or no supplemental heat and without extended tackiness the mixture being so formulated and so applied as to be capable of leveling and so rendering the desired coating this coating serving as a mechanical chemical barrier while also being relatively transparent to said recording radiation. 24. The method as recited in claim 23 wherein said coating formulation includes a radiation cured unsaturated acrylic monomer or pre polymer and is applied and cured to be sufficiently thick to defocus said recording radiation and is sufficiently firmly bonded to said surface as to seal the latter from serious degradation by external contaminants for an extended period of years. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the recording surface is comprised of a fluoro polymer layer and the formulation includes a compatible wetting agent. 26. The method as recited in claim 25 wherein the formulation is principally comprised of an acrylated epoxy resin, a tri functional cross linker and an acrylated flexibilizing monomer. 27. The method as recited in claim 26 wherein the formulation also includes a fluorocarbon wetting agent plus a clarifying adhesion promoter. 28. The method as recited in claim 27 wherein the formulation also includes a saturated resin such as a polystyrene derivative, and said cross linker is tri acrylated. 29. The method as recited in claim 28 wherein the recording surface comprised reconstituted fluoro polymer deposit wherein the curing radiation is in the ultraviolet spectrum principally wherein the UV initiator includes epoxy constituents and wherein the adhesionpromoter is selected and adapted to include moieties acting to so clarify the coating by combining with aqueous and or other hydroxyl groups. 30. The method as recited in claim 29 wherein the wetting agent is a fluorocarbon apt for wetting the surface. 31. The method as recited in claim 30 wherein the fluoro polymer layer is etched or is covered with a light adhesion promoting hydroxy affinity film adapted to enhance the wetting of said coating formulation as applied thereon. 32. The method as recited in claim 31 wherein the coating is applied to the disk surface by nozzle means, with the surface kept rotated relative to the nozzle means, so as to lay down adjacent, or near adjacent , beads . 33. The method as recited in claim 32 wherein the formulation viscosity is adjusted to allow the so applied beads to quickly merge into a uniform coating. 34. A method of developing a relatively hard acrylic outer seal coating to serve as a mechanical chemical barrier on a disk substrate, this substrate including at least one recording area wherein information is to be recorded on a prescribed information layer using prescribed recording radiation, the method comprising the steps of formulating a sheet of such acrylic, relatively transparent to the recording radiation, this sheet comprising the polymerization product of a coating formulation including at least one radiation cured acrylamide or acrylate monomer or pre polymer as the bulk resin, plus an associated non yellowing photo initiator, non yellowing adhesion promoter and relative coating constituents and applying this sheet in a prescribed fashion to very uniformly cover the surface of the recording area. 35. The method as recited in claim 34 wherein the coating is so formulated and is distributed in bead segments laid down in contiguity, or near contiguity, to one another so as to be self leveling , being dispensed through nozzle means, and having been formulated to exhibit a prescribed viscosity apt for such dispensing, as well as to exhibit a prescribed thixotropy and wetting characteristic relative to said disk surface whereby the beads will set up thereon sufficient to allow the leveling action. 36. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the formulation includes one or more acrylate pre polymer entities, and a compatible co functional flexibilizing diluent, together with sufficient low viscosity crosslinker to give the desired coating toughness, plus sufficient compatible diluent to impart the needed low viscosity for such application to the disk surface. 37. The method as recited in claim 36 wherein the pre polymer entities include a clear, high molecular weight acrylate plus sufficient related low molecular weight compatible organic diluent to reduce viscosity to allow convenient spreading of the formulation on the disk surface. 38. The method as recited in claim 37 wherein the cross linker comprises a multi functional acrylate like a triacrylate or trimethacrylate of tri methyl ol propane. 39. The combination as recited in claim 38 wherein the entities comprise a high molecular weight acrylated acrylate plus sufficient low molecular weight acrylated epoxide to so reduce viscosity. 40. The combination as recited in claim 36, wherein the record unit is an optical mass memory disk for laser recording and wherein the coating is at least several mils thick, being applied over the information layer, or over a thin super coat thereon, and adapted to serve for an extended period of years. 41. A method of providing a protective extended life outer seal coating of at least several mils and very high thickness uniformity over a disk having at least one optical recording area wherein information is to be recorded with prescribed laser radiation beam, the method including the steps of formulating a coating mixture relatively transparent to the recording radiation and comprising the radiation polymerization product of a coating formulation including at least one radiation cured unsaturated resin, plus an associated non yellowing photo initiator, non yellowing adhesion promoter and relative coating constituents applying this mixture to the surface of the recording area, while rotating it at a prescribed rpm this mixture being so formulated and so applied as to be capable of leveling and so rendering the desired coating this coating serving as a mechanical chemical barrier, while also being relatively transparent to said radiation then radiation curing the coating in situ . 42. The method as recited in claim 41 wherein the coating is applied to a thickness of at least a few mils, yet so as to maintain precise thickness uniformity, on the order of a few um across a span of several inches or more and wherein the formulation includes one or more UV cured acrylic monomer or pre polymer entities, and sufficient low viscosity cross linker to give the desired coating necessary toughness and strength, plus sufficient compatible low molecular weight diluent to give the needed low viscosity for application to the disk surface the pre polymer entities including a clear, high molecular weight acrylate plus sufficient related low molecular weight compatible, co functional flexibilizer diluent to reduce viscosity to enhance a quick, convenient spreading of the formulation. 43. The combination d5 recited in claim 42 wherein the cross linker comprises a multi functional acrylate like triacrylate or trimethacrylate of tri methyl ol propane, the mixture being so formulated and the bead segments so distributed, in contiguity or near contiguity to one another, as to be at least somewhat self leveling . 44. The method as recited in claim 42 wherein the mixture is dispensed through a nozzle, being formulated to exhibit a prescribed viscosity apt for such dispensing, as well as to exhibit a prescribed thixotropy and wetting characteristic relative to said disk surface whereby the beads will set up thereon for sufficient time to allow the leveling action, the mixture being formulated to include said prescribed setting surfactant specified for the indicated wetting , while also setting up the beads.

## Description
IMPROVED OVERCOAT FOR OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA The present invention relates to a novel information storage record, and more particularly to such a record including an information layer adapted for optical data recording which has protective overcoat means and related coatings adapted to enhance service life and recording characteristics.INTRODUCTION, BACKGROUND Optical storage of digital data is a relatively volatile technology now, being concerned with the storage and retrieval of digital information utilizing optical techniques and using a special related ODD, optical digital data medium, such as an ODD disk. By analogy such data is conventionally stored on magnetic media like tapes or disks commonly used with high speed digital computers today. Here described are some novel approaches to making rendering protective coatings over a sensitive optical recording medium e.g., one resisting oxidation or like environmental degradation, wherein sensitivity is improved, extended life is feasible and fabrication parameters are simplified over what is now conventional. Various types of protective overcoatings for such media have been suggested by workers, especially relative to tuned media e.g., media using a dark mirror effect for instance see U.S. 4,222,071 to Bell, et al also see Review of Optical Storage Media by Zech, SPIE Vol. 177, OpticalInformation Storage, 1979, page 56, et sequ. also see Optical Recording Media Review by Bartolini, page 2, et sequ. of 1977, SPIE Vol. 123, Optical Storage Materials andMethods and see Melting Holes in Metal Films for Real TimeHigh Density Data Storage by Cochran and Ferrier, SPIEProceedings, August 1977, pages 17 31 and other citations below . Extended Archival life Optical data storage technology is attractive because it promises increased storage capacity. An optical data disk as here contemplated will be assumed to store information thereon for an extended archival life the goal is 3 10 years or more under typical, and extreme, service conditions for data processing DP apparatus. Such extended life is a goal as yet unattained in the art, though workers have long striven towards it. The present invention points toward improved ODD media better adapted for such archival life media which are especially adapted for optical mass memory and like applications, with emphasis on improved overcoat means. Thus, as a feature hereof, we contemplate the use of a novel overcoat structure and materials for records which preferably exhibit extended archival life, i.e., records which are made extremely resistant to oxidation or like environmental degradation during typical DP storage and use thus, with little or no loss of recorded information occurring over extended storage life, with reflectivity remaining stable enough to read something no practical storage medium or associated system can yet provide especially where good sensitivity is also required.The invention teaches means toward this end. Overcoat generally The typical recorded spots bits are contemplated as being about one micrometer in diameter. But surface dirt e.g., oil, fingerprints or particulate contaminants, such as air borne dust, are this large, or larger, and thus can obstruct a recorded bit . For instance, common smoke particles can be about six microns 6 um, or about 240 microinches in diameter. Consequently, such contaminant particles will commonly mask , and so obliterate, recorded bits data if one or several of them sits just above on the overcoat. So, it has become conventional to specify a thick overcoating layer for defocusing such contaminant particles and all smudges, spots or smears e.g., here, by providing a transparent overcoating on the order of 100 to 180 micrometers thick. Thus, any dust particles that do settle on the surface of such a protective layer, and are not wiped away will be defocused i.e., thrown out of the focal range of the objective used to detect recorded data and the rest of the optical train optically they disappear . As a second purpose, such an overcoat should provide mechanical protection for the recording layer and prevent damage from handling, etc. e.g., during fabrication, testing or service . Now, in some cases, workers have suggested relatively hard materials as a protective transparent overcoat, while in others they have proposed softer materials. For instance, some have suggested an elastomer outer coat cf a silicone rubber like Silastic RTV by GE see U.S. 4,101,907, to Bell, et al where an ablatable absorber, such as certain organic dyestuffs, was overcoated with a barrier layer of Ski02, or of derivatives of sucrose or resin acids and this super coated with such a silicone resin . But known overcoatings of soft, resilient rubbery materials have characteristically exhibited a tacky exposed surface which readily attracts and retains dust and in certain instances, such elastomeric coatings still seem to constrict the underlying absorber.Also, elastomers may require a curing temperature that is too high or, if they cure at room temperature it may take far too long yet, when heated for quick curing they present a serious risk of overheating the tri layer a silicone elastomer like RTV presents all these shortcomings, along with cure stress, and excessive moisture uptake in service . On the other hand, other workers have considered a hard outer sealing overcoat applied directly over the absorbing layer e.g., see Optical Disk Systems Emerge byBartolini, et al IEEE Spectrum, August 1978, where, in a tri layer structure, Si02 is specified above and below a titanium absorber yet they have been forced to concede that, such a hard overcoat perhaps because it unyieldingly confines and constricts the absorber appears to degrade recording sensitivity, to the point where it renders an otherwise acceptable recording medium essentially unrecordable . Also, hard outer coatings like Si02 are too absorptive e.g., of water vapor to be long lived. Hard Soft overcoat A salient aspect of this approach is to provide an overcoating which avoids most or all of the foregoing shortcomings, doing so by providing a two part overcoating made up of a soft pad inner layer and a hard outer sealing layer i.e., with a Hard Soft overcoat. The relatively softer inner pad is intended to be placed against the absorber, to be yielding and quite compressible as a mushy cushion allowing the subjacent absorber to distort and or move during write heating, while also providing good thermal insulation very low thermal conductivity relatively low specific heat . In short, this soft pad seems to better isolate the absorber, mechanically and thermally on the other hand the hard outer coat gives optimal mechanical protection e.g., a seal against vapor entry .Of course, such layers should also inter bond well, be highly transparent to the contemplated read write wavelengths and preferably be convenient and inexpensive to apply. As mentioned, the mechanical properties of certain such soft pads e.g., of a fluoro polymer, see below appear to better accommodate motion or deformation of the underlying absorber during write heating e.g., as a top pad also as a bottom pad if the soft material is used as a spacer too . Such soft pads evidently because they so decouple the absorber, mechanically and thermally, from its surrounding environment are found able to markedly increase sensitivity e.g., well over what can be expected using only a hard overcoating like fused silica i.e., the latter will require more energy to write a given bit or hole . A soft pad is so effective as such isolation that even where only used as a subjacent spacer e.g., with Si02 directly over absorber it has been seen to enhance sensitivity e.g., vs. replacing it with an Si02 spacer . And, as mentioned below, such a soft pad coating may, in certain cases, be applied with essentially the same facilities as those used to deposit the reflector and absorber layer e.g., during a related, succeeding deposition step, and with common equipment . The consequent convenience and reduced cost, time, etc., will be evident. And, advantageously, it is often possible to use the same soft pad material for both sides of an absorber i.e., as spacer and overcoat . One may choose from a class of plasma polymerized polymers in some instances, such as polyvinyl fluoride PVF other fluorinated polymers such as fluorinated ethylene polymer F P , or polyethylene P e .Preferably, one evaporo deposits such a soft pad layer at the same time, and with the same equipment, as that for depositing the absorber layer and or the spacer layer .Alternatively, one may in certain instances deposit otherwise, such as by plasma polymerization deposition. The thickness of this soft pad overcoat is preferably such as to so decouple the absorber layer thermally and mechanically from any supercoating especially a hard layer applied over the soft pad and also to bond favorably with the underlying absorber e.g., so that sensitivity is not badly compromised and so the absorber is suitably decoupled from a hard outer overcoating, while also preventing the hard overcoating, and or any stress therefrom, from constraining the absorber and so interfering with pit formation therein yet bonded well enough to the hard coat to prevent delamination , moisture intrusion, etc., in service, these easily upsetting the needed optical properties cf. a mere 100 A0 shift can destroy the required tuning . It is important to protect the absorber from any such deleterious effects for instance, especially where one uses absorbers which deform and or are displaced in the course of recording and creating a bit spot . It will be apparent to workers that a hard overcoating e.g., SiO or SiO2 as known applied directly on the absorber layer can be expected to constrict it, and restrain such deformation or translation during bit writing thus interfering with bit formation and degrading sensitivity and recording efficiency, so that more write energy is needed. Also, most silicon oxides absorb too much moisture. We have experienced these problems using SiO2 evaporo deposited on a cool substrate much less so with materials like the preferred fluoropolymers cf these can be deposited as relatively non porous films under like circumstances . Workers will see how important and useful a proper soft pad of the type described can be, especially where one wants to enhance the recording efficiency of an adjacent OD absorber layer. Thus, it will usually be desired to so provide a soft pad coating over an absorber layer and, where possible, to do so using common deposition techniques whether or not one also provides a like soft pad spacer layer beneath the absorber whereby one may thermally and mechanically isolate the absorber from interference generated from above and or below . It will be recognized that this involves so applying a fluoropolymer soft pad which is sufficiently soft and yielding as to mechanically decouple the adjacent absorber layer, freeing it to move as written, while also isolating it thermally i.e., to so function, either as a subjacent spacer or as an overlying soft overcoat or as both . One will thus want to so provide such a soft pad spacer using an organic layer which is made strongly adherent to an underlying reflector layer while also being relatively differently adherent to a superposed absorber layer. And one will prefer to provide such a soft pad overcoat which bonds to a superposed hard overcoat relatively firmly but may bond differently to the subjacent absorber . Novel Hard supercoat As mentioned above, another salient feature hereof is that the above characterized soft pad overcoat is, in turn, preferably super coated with a compatible hard outer protective layer. When one superposes a hard protective overcoating outward of this soft pad overcoat it can serve as a good vapor barrier, and as a mechanical cover and an anti static surface, as well as to complete the necessary optical thickness for defocusing surface contaminants i.e., yield a Hard SoftN overcoat. And, as a more specific feature, a family of novel UV cured acrylic epoxy polymers is here taught for such a hard outer coating for an archival OD optical data disk also, a preferred associated novel method is taught for coating such disks with such material. These Acrylated epoxy polymers will be relatively clear to recording read beams and somewhat flexible in addition to the mentioned overcoat requirements e.g., passing all related environmental tests without delamination, cracking, etc. A novel pre polymer formulation is described below e.g., see Mix T l it is intended to provide such a hard protective overcoating for such OD disks extended archival life, etc. and especially as a super coat over such a soft pad overcoat. More particularly, it is intended to provide a clear coating transparent at the contemplated R W wavelengths , of a thickness to help defocus surface dust, etc., e.g., up to 6 8 mils here and to provide an environmental barrier against mechanical interference or vapor intrusion especially water, aqueous aerosols, sulfates or NaCL or other chlorides .It is intended to so function rather like known overcoatings of a glass for instance , and to provide good mechanical protection, e.g., allowing one to lightly squeeze the disk, though it need not resist a positive cutting action, such as scraping with fingernail. Known hard outer coatings Workers in this art have considered various materials for similar protective coatings. For instance, it has become common to suggest a glassy form of overcoat, such as with fused silica SiO , or SiO but for present 2 purposes OD disks, etc. these seem to be disqualified.For example, they are typically highly porous and can take up too much moisture thus they are too prone to swell and crack especially under the mentioned extreme temperature humidity cycling tests also such moisture contaminants badly degrade optical characteristics. Also, they are not optimal for the desired vacuum evaporation deposition e.g., impractical to so deposit several mils or more . Besides such inorganic overcoatings, workers have considered certain organic materials for providing protective overcoats in similar situations. For instance, as mentioned, some workers have considered using a silicone rubber or like elastomeric polymer for this e.g., some silastics which may be conveniently curable at room temperature, typically liberate harmful contaminants like acetic acid during cure, or see plastic sheet of U.S. 4,334,233 . In a similar vein, we have considered using various fluoropolymers but, in the thicknesses contemplated 6 to 8 mils typical fluoropolymer deposition methods are not favored e.g., typically require dissipating too much solvent see problems below with solvent dissipation and associated shrinkage, etc. . More seriously, this could involve a cure heating which is entirely too intense at about 3900C , whereas the subjectOD disks and associated coatings are not intended to survive more than about 660C e.g., otherwise their coatings, such as the organic soft fluoro polymer overcoat and the absorber layer, would be destroyed, and or constituents could migrate, etc. .Moreover, such polymers are apt to exhibit a tacky , dust retaining, surface and are not believed optimally transparent at the subject read write wavelengths cf. 600 900 N. meters . Also considered for such a hard protective overcoat were various solvent based solvent applied polymers like epoxy. However, drying curing these involves dissipating relatively large proportions of solvent, with a great deal of problematical shrinkage likely. This has seemed to disqualify these materials, especially for coatings as thick as those contemplated also, bubbles, etc., would probably form in such a thick coating of these materials . Also contemplated were various two component curing polymers such as RTV 6 by GE or epoxy.However, these are somewhat difficult to apply, typically having a relatively high viscosity possibly requiring problematical heating or dilution to soften enough for quick, smooth application e.g., dilute certain RTV example, Sylgard 184 and Dow Corning 200 they also typically present out gas problems further, many cure relatively slowly and at a relatively high temperature e.g., 15 minutes at about 660C and, even then, the cured material often exhibits a tacky surface and is too apt to scratch, peel off, etc. . Moreover, such materials typically have too brief a pot life on the order of one day yet another application shortcoming. The subject preferred radiation cured epoxy acrylic polymers do not seem to present the foregoing problems, e.g., they don t require solvents and are cured at room temperature in a short time. Preferred materials for HARD overcoat Accordingly, the foregoing families of chemical coatings are disfavored. An attempt was made at using a radiation cured acrylic epoxy type polymer acrylic monomer, or pre polymer mix plus epoxy resins with various additives, similar to the Mixture T l discussed below . It was found, somewhat surprisingly, that when properly applied e.g., see spiral technique, below with appropriate setting surfactant and appropriate solventleveling , etc. such an overcoat could satisfy most, if not all of the mentioned requirements, whereas other materials seem less apt for doing so. Thus, it is an object of this disclosure to teach the use of such radiation cured acrylated epoxy polymers as a hard protective overcoat for such optical data disks, as well as teaching related methods of preparing and applying them. As detailed below, a preferred family of hard coat materials radiation cured polymers is made up of epoxy plus a number of acrylated monomers or pre polymers , i.e., an oligomer or resin that will undergo further polymerization especially where the principal constituent is a suitable acrylate or acrylamide A preferred version Mix T l includes an appropriate acrylated epoxide together with an acrylate cross linker, an acrylate flexibilizer and associated acrylate diluent plus UV initiator and clarifying adhesion promoter , and preferably including a suitable surfactant constituent.Also, a minor portion of the Mix may comprise one or more additives preferably organics which will participate in the UV polymerization, e.g., N methyl styrene, vinyl acetate, etc., do this . Such acrylics are evidently eminently suitable for several reasons they do not include any significant portion of problematic components like shrink prone solvents and they require no problematic cure conditions such as extreme heat . They seem to be especially apt for providing a final Hard and glossy polymeric overcoat which has the required characteristics. And, such acrylic epoxy radiation cured polymers will be recognized as satisfying essentially all the other cited requisites of the desired Hard overcoat i.e., they don t readily crystallize, they have no massive solvent content or associated shrinkage problems, they are cured quickly and conveniently and without excessive heating and they are relatively easy to apply e.g., as a low viscosity solution . They appear quite superior in resisting degradation and attack by common environmental components they are not 11tacky or dust retentive, and, unlike the two component cured polymers, they are compatible with a wide number and variety of additives e.g., their curing is not affected thereby, as seen in the Examples below . Workers will recognize that the required cureradiation may be something as inexpensive, quick and convenient as a few seconds exposure to a W source of appropriate Xr, intensity, etc. and involve as little as a few shrinkage. Or, where cost is not a major concern, one may instead cure with electron beam or gamma radiation. Alternatively, a UV activated epoxy derivative catalyst cure may be feasible. And, whatever the primary curing mode, it will be understood that light supplemental heat may, in certain cases, be so applied to hasten complete curing. Application as spirals According to a related feature, such acrylic epoxy overcoat polymers are apt for application in a spiral configuration on a host substrate disk, being evenly distributed thereon e.g., with appropriate disk rotation and inclusion of an appropriate leveling agent , and allowed or in some cases induced to settle and flow out evenly. This is seen to spread the mix across this surface with exceptional smoothness and uniform thickness. Workers in the art will recognize the simplicity and novel advantages of such a coating technique. Thus, it is an object hereof to provide the foregoing, and other related, features and advantages. A more particular object is to do so, teaching the use of soft pad materials adjacent an optical recording layer with a relatively Harder supercoat on the soft pad.Another object is to teach such for improved recording sensitivity, adequate for low power lasers as well as for extended service life. A further object is to teach preparation of such a Hard supercoating using acrylated epoxy materials. Another object is to provide such hard overcoatings and associated preferred materials.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be appreciated by workers as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description of the present preferred embodiments, these being considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference symbols denote like elements FIG. 1 provides a cross sectional view of a recording medium embodiment exhibiting a construction in accordance with features of the present invention and FIG. 2 very schematically indicates a preferred method of applying overcoat material of the kind taught herein. FIG. 3 is a view after the manner of FIG. 1 indicating a modified embodiment. Exemplary OD recording Example I FIG. 1 tri layer with overcoat FIG. 1 will be understood to schematically and in idealized fashion depict a fragmentary section of an optical data disk RD t including a substrate disk A supporting a recording tri layer T L and overlying protective overcoat o C. Disk RD will be understood as intended and adapted for recording by a known radiation source Laser L directing a beam LB in phantom at a tri layer T L so as to record certain bits therein these to be read using prescribed associated detect D , as known in the art. The wavelength of the reading laser beam LB ofFIG. 1 is chosen so that unrecorded regions of the diskRD exhibit the desired anti reflection condition readbeam intensity will be kept low enough so as to not disturb the integrity of data recorded on the disk. Substrate A preferably comprises a relatively conventional magnetic recording disk with smoothing layer B, applied thereon as necessary. Tri layer T L preferably comprises a transparent spacer layer d atop a reflector film c, with a suitable absorber or recording film e superposed on spacer d. It will thus be understood that the reflected read beam will be intensity modulated by optically detectable changes at bit sites where data was recorded. Thus, the read beam will experience relatively high reflection when incident on a bit and relatively low reflection when incident on unwritten regions. Protective means O C is aHard Soft composite overcoat chosen and arranged so that dust particles on its upper surface will be displaced far from the focal plane of the optical system i.e., placed out of focus and so have a negligible effect on the recording and reading operations. It is conventionally assumed that, for the laser beam to write i.e. record and produce an optically detectable disturbance in the reflectivity of the thin film absorber layer c absorber film e, at any given bit site, must be heated to a prescribed minimum writetemperature Tw . The level of minimum temperature Tw is believed to depend on the properties of absorber c e.g., on its thickness, metallurgy, microscopic structure, etc. and also on the properties of subjacent spacer d, as well as upon interface characteristics between the spacer d and absorber e, and possibly between overcoat o C and absorber e. It will be found that a finite time is required for writing at a bit site on which the writing laser beam is here assumed to be focused to reach this requisite minimum recording temperature Tw. But while a bit site is being so heated, some of the applied heat is typically assumed to be escaping through underlying dielectric spacer d also through O C, possibly and thus wasted . To the extent such heat is lost, more time energy are required to write of course, i.e., recording sensitivity is commensurately degraded. It is also believed that such heat loss can reduce the quality of the recording and thereby reduce recording density for a given medium. Soft pad as Tri layer Spacer preferred materials As an optimizing feature, it is preferred to use certain soft pad e.g., fluorinated hydrocarbon polymer as such a dielectric spacer layer d FIG. 1 . Such a soft pad spacer is believed to help reduce the loss of write energy i.e., less writing energy escapes from the bit site . Preferred materials are fluoro ethylene polymer another fluorinated polymers or copolymers e.g., those commercially available under the name Teflon , a trademark of DuPont. Such a fluorinated polymer can be deposited over the reflective layer c in a thin uniform layer as workers will understand. Preparation of Tri layer T FIG. 1 0 About 600 900 A of a good archival reflector like gold prefer about 600 A , vapor deposited is applied as the reflector c atop an aluminum disk A, preferably smoothed properly with a subbing layer B as known in the art. Aluminum may replace gold where reduced cost is required and archivability can be compromised. The reflector c may be so evaporated under high vacuum, in a large, batch coating chamber with corresponding large coating distances and double rotation of substrate etc., to better ensure uniformity. All dust and stains on parts should be reduced to a strict minimum, using rigorous Clean Room techniques. The spacer d is similarly deposited atop reflector c. Under present practice spacer d serves as a dielectric material which is relatively transparent to the worKing portion of the laser spectrum. A one quarter wave of laser L thickness of soft pad fluoropolymer is preferred, for the subject purposes e.g., assume write read 0 at h 6328 A Note from an optical standpoint, a spacer of thickness t S n A r will disappear . 5 Absorber layer e may be understood to comprise an ultra thin layer of gold which is vapor deposited thermally evaporated in island form onto spacer layer d on a relatively flat 1 20 record surface thereof as contrasted with a more conventional absorber of tellurium e.g., see Optical Properties of TelluriumFilms Used for Data Recording by Ash and Allen, SPIEProceedings, 222, 1980 and see Design and Production of Tellurium Optical Data Disks by Rancourt, SPIEProceedings, num 299, 1981t or see U.S. 4,222,071 or U.S.4,334,299 . Here, test recording will be assumed as performed with a gas He Ne laser beam operating at 6328 A with recording exposure from 30 470 n.sec usually 10 mW, 40 n.sec or about 400 p.J. this intended to yield minimum adequate read out, or about 40 dB S N, when read at lower power e.g., 150 500 pJ cm2, where pJ 10 watt sec. or Joules , with the same or similar laser equipment. Note for this contemplated setup, assume the laser beam is focused on bit site of b to 1 micron diameter, i.e., 5000 10,000 A , with a write pulse about 40 n.sec.long this also accommodating disk rpm of 1800 and associated galvo mirror focus characteristics3. Thus, the spacer layer d e.g., in such a dark mirror arrangement will preferably comprise a soft pad which is vapor deposited on a reflector layer, and upon which the absorber recording layer may in turn be deposited. This spacer layer will preferably comprise a so deposited fluoropolymer e.g., about 1100 A thick which is highly transparent to the contemplated read write wavelengths and which also provides good thermal and mechanical insulation, isolating the absorber layer from the reflector layer, note the reflector is typically a highly conductive metal which could otherwise function as a heat sink, draining recording energy away from the absorber layer and reducing its effectiveness . Thus, as further described below, for one example we prefer a vacuum evaporated fluoropolymer, like polytetrafluorocarbon Teflon prepared from tetrafluoroethylene by plasma polymerization. Alternatively,PVF may be substituted. Note this will be distinguished from hard silicate coating silicon oxide or silicon dioxide cf. fused silica more conventionally for such a spacer e.g., see U.S. 4,195,312 or 4,195,313 or 4,216,501 toBell, et al or compare Design and Production ofTellurium Optical Data Disk by J. Rancourt, SPIEProceedings Advances in Laser Scan Technology, page 57,Vol. 299, 19813. Such a soft pad spacer material, including associated deposition methods is especially apt for suchOD disks and even more especially such which are typically convenient for low energy recording with present laser equipment e.g., writing with a He Ne laser in a 5 20 mW 40 n.sec. pulse cf. 25 MHz rate . The subject record RD FIG. 1 is so recorded upon. It is found relating to comparable situations in the literature, etc. that relatively moderate power laser pulses can heat and agglomerate the gold island film sufficient to yield good read out e.g., bit reflectance of 50 vs. background of 1 396 at 0 ss 6328 A and with relatively no noise . Workers will be familiar with present preferred methods for high vacuum evaporation, and reconstitution on the Al film, of such thin layers of organic materials like the fluoropolymer cf. cited Rancourt article also re similar deposition . Fluoropolymers like those preferred are of a generally paraffinic structure, with some or all of the hydrogen replaced by fluorine. Both are sold by DuPont Co. under the trademark TEFLON . They are highly inert unaffected by reactive chemicals and are quite stable chemically and mechanically, under the contemplated extremes of temperature and humidity they have low dielectric constants and appear to bond satisfactorily. For present purposes, Sensitivity will be understood as characterizing the write energy Ew, i.e., w the laser beam necessary to change reflectivity or a like read out characteristic sufficient to give the specified minimum read out. The intensity and time exposure of the focusedWrite beam here will be understood as sufficient to so elevate the temperature of absorber layer e as to cause the indicated change in reflectivity, giving desired read out quality, etc. e.g., so that adequate contrast, S N ratio may be realized, as understood by workers in the art, cf. an exemplary S N ratio of 40 50 dB peak to peak signal vs. RMS noise for a bandwidth of about 15 MHz. Laser recordings are made on the resulting optical medium at 2400 revolutions per minute using apparatus of the general type referred to in connection with FIG. 1 above . A Helium Neon laser is again used for recording wavelength of 0.633 um . The focused laser beam spot on the medium film 98 is approximately 0.5 um Resulting sensitivity of such recordings will be found to be quite good better than conventional approaches have led one to expect. Moreover, the fluoropolymer gives a nice optically clear layer with a relatively low refractive index about 1.3 vs. about 1.5 for fused silica, a value somewhat higher than optimum . Alternative deposition by plasma polymerization or other techniques will be feasible in certain instances, as workers will appreciate. Also, workers will contemplate that other like soft pad polymers may be similarly deposited by vacuum evaporation, although the choice will be somewhat limited in view of the subject, rather stringent requirements. The preferred materials and thickness have been found to be quite versatile for instance, in many cases one may use a different absorber metal without changing the materials or thickness of this spacer or of the soft pad overcoat, as described below . Soft pad as supercoating on absorber As mentioned, it is preferred to use such a soft pad layer as a buffer supercoat directly over the absorber layer, e.g., helping to further isolate it thermally and mechanically especially where a like soft pad is present underneath the absorber. For instance, it is believed that this further helps to conserve write energy, while giving the gold isle mass more freedom to move or deform while being write heated e.g., vs. a conventional silica supercoat which is believed to seriously constrict hole formation . On both counts sensitivity should be enhanced. Such was found to be the case as noted below. In the course of using such a soft pad layer 0 e.g., 9500 A as the in contact buffer supercoat over such an absorber, a salient feature of this teaching is to, in turn, overcoat the soft overcoat with a Hard barrier layer of acrylic epoxy, etc., as specified below.It is believed we determined that such a soft pad supercoat should preferably exhibit the following characteristics Table I TABLE 1 Soft Pad Supercoat desiderata 1. Optically compatible good transparency at R W 7 2. Good uniform thickness and surface flatness 3. Moderate to weak adhesion to absorber Little or no resistance to hole writing and associated deformation and or movement of absorber yet no orange peel, lifting, delamination, etc.4. Strong bond to Hard overcoat 5. Stable under contemplated environment i.e., despite varying temperature and humidity, contaminants, etc. e.g., surviving service temperature without degrading, even adjacent the hole formation site chemically stable too e.g., no release of solvent or other contaminants during cure or under extended extreme temperature and humidity cycling.6. Relative softness allowing movement deformation as in 3 considerably more than Hard overcoat and thick enough to accommodate bit writing with minimal degradation of sensitivity from overcoating s .7. Good thermal insulator e.g., low thermal diffusivity, low specific heat survives temperature of fabrication, and of writing . Now, others have suggested some kind of polymeric supercoating for such absorbers. For instance, U.S.4,101,907 mentions silicone resins for such e.g.,General Electric s RTV 615 or RTV 602, these curing at room temperature with certain curing agents or DowCorning s Sylgard 184 e.g., suggesting these for use over titanium preferably with an intervening barrier layer of Si02 or certain complex organic materials. Alternative soft pad embodiments Workers will recognize that such a soft pad spacer may be otherwise implemented in appropriate instancee e.g., with another relatively soft , relatively non reactive, stable, durable polymer such as a like modified fluoropolymer or polyethylene, polypropylene or polystyrene these will typically decompose and polymerize in similar fashion . Likewise for such a soft pad supercoat . And, other deposition techniques will, in appropriate cases, be feasible, such as with a plasma deposition technique like glow discharge especially for fluoro carbons or sputtering, especially where chemical breakdown is not complete. And workers may well change the optical absorber e.g., to another more compatible, high sensitivity, thin film, low thermal conductivity material which also couples properly to the soft pad . Further, workers will contemplate other like applications and uses of such a soft pad. Preferred overcoat embodiment Hard Soft overcoat o c Disk RD in FIG. 1 only small schematic section shown illustrates a preferred example of the features mentioned above, and especially the general teaching of a Hard overcoat applied over a soft pad layer covering an absorber optical recording film i.e., a novel Hard Soft overcoating structure o C cf. FIG. 1,Hard coat g and soft pad layer f over absorber e, which is part of the ODD tri layer T L applied on substrate A .It will now be described with reference to this schematic showing. Except as otherwise specified, workers will understand that here and for all embodiments all materials, methods and devices and apparatus herein will be understood as implemented as above or by other known expedients according to present good practice. In the course of this description some variations which could prove useful in certain circumstances will also be pointed out. Substrate The substrate is preferably the surface of disk A, as treated, when necessary, with a smoothing or subbing layer B to make its surface sufficiently smooth. Thus, substrate A is preferably a common Winchester disk, such as used in commercial magnetic recording disks for computer media. It comprises an aluminum alloy, prepared as is typical for fabricating disks for high speed magnetic recording of digital data e.g., as used in computer memory systems . The surface of such disks is commonly polished, diamond turned or otherwise smoothed, as workers well know.Alternatively, a suitable glass or plastic disk may be substituted in certain instances. Subbing layer B will be understood as applied to the bare, well cleaned disk surface. The subbing preferably comprises an organic material to so smooth the microscopic irregularities on the surface of substrate A to well under hole size e.g., about 0.5 um or less in diameter . If the surface is already smooth enough e.g., if a highly polished glass disk is used , a subbing layer may not be necessary, as workers know. This substrate is thus understood as preferably comprising a 14 disk to be operated at about 1800 to several thousand rpm, with good surface smoothness. A radiation laser beam of prescribed energy and wavelength will be understood as applied to medium RD from a laser source L see FIG. 1 , being activated and focused at write time so as to render a pit , hole or like optical anomaly apt for the contemplated read out on recording layer e in the course of writing . More particularly, one may, for example, contemplate using a 0 10 mW gaussian beam with diameter of 0.8 um i.e., 8000 A and scanning at 45 n.sec. to form an optical transition with 2 a certain minimum length and width, e.g., 0.8 um , though not necessarily square, circular or other prescribed shape.Now, this requirement is too stringent for conventional means, as workers realize e.g., for archival records . So, where each pit bit is recorded, the anti reflective background will be disrupted such as to yield bit marks adapted for high contrast read back. And, where the recording wavelength is shifted, the spacer thickness is readily altered to give like results. In this tuned tri layer or Dark Mirror configuration, surface reflectance on absorber e can be made zero , or other selected value, by adjusting absorber thickness and spacer thickness. A tri layer being here understood as comprising a transparent spacer with absorber on one face and reflector on the other, thicknesses being adjusted for optical tuning as workers will know . Thus, the coating parameters here will be understood as selected to preferably provide an anti reflective condition for the so coated disk at the contemplated recording frequency when the write beam is focused on this absorber layer. Regarding such see above, and also Anti Reflection Structures for Optical Recording byBell and Spong, Journal of Quantum Electronics, Vol.QE 14, No. 7, July 1978 and, for general prior art, see exemplary articles Optical Disk Systems Emerge ,IEEE Spectrum by Bartolini, et al, August 1978, page 20 and Optical Storage Materials and Methods , SPIEProceedings, Vol. 177, Optical Information Storage, 1979, page 56 . Recording portion Dark Mirror type The recording face of disk RD may be visualized as an absorber layer e together with an appropriate subjacent spacer layer d and a reflector layer c , below spacer d, as well known in the art. As another aspect of this disclosure, such layers c, d and e are preferably applied by successive evaporative coating sequences with appropriate materials in a single highvacuum chamber, and preferably together with soft pad overcoating f also as described above. Alternatively, these applications might be rendered by a suitable plasma polymerization technique or other appropriate methods for producing films of the mentioned type. Workers will recognize, as a feature of advantage here, the teaching of materials and techniques which may accommodate such a series of like deposition steps using a common a deposition apparatus, e.g., especially where spacer layer d and a soft overcoating f both comprise like soft pads . Reflector layer c comprises, preferably, a layer of high reflectivity metal such as vapor deposited gold or aluminum as above discussed e.g., deposited until layer c is just opaque under the contemplated illumination, as viewed through layer c as workers knowledgable about making evaporated reflectors well know, too thick a reflector will degrade reflectivity . And as workers know, other metals can, at times, be used so long as they provide sufficient high reflectance at the contemplated R W wavelengths.Another option is to use dielectric films of alternating high and low index and with a quarter wave reflector. Spacer layer d, is intended to function, in combination with the reflector layer c and absorber layer e, to reduce the reflectance of the tri layer assembly to zero, or to some other predetermined reflectance value.The materials used will preferably be relatively nonabsorbing and highly transparent to the contemplated R W wavelengths. The thickness of spacer d will depend on its optical properties and those of the other layers in this tri layer. Preferably a thickness of 0.5 to 1.5 quarter waves will be used. Alternatively, multiple half wave thick.esses can be added as workers will see. Note from an optical standpoint, a spacer of thickness t n oX will disappear . 5 Layer e FIG. 1, still is the absorbing film in which the working incident write energy is to be concentrated. Overcoat portion Soft pad coating f preferably consists of a 0 convenient thickness e.g., a few thousand A of a fluoropolymer e.g., preferably and conveniently be the same material and deposition method as for spacer layer d .It is preferably formulated and deposited on absorber e as described above, most preferably being laid down in the same overall deposition sequence cf. with tri layer T L for convenience. Where using the tri layer , it will be convenient to detect and control thickness with layer f being deposited as one or more half waves. As workers will realize, a number of half wave thicknesses will make the soft overcoating disappear optically, and thus not reflect read write energy meant for the absorber layer this would reduce system efficiency . Soft pad supercoating f will be sufficiently soft and yielding to maximize sensitivity, will be relatively non porous, thermally insulative, with a relatively low specific heat, as well as being highly transparent to the contemplated R W wavelengths r vr as mentioned above. Also, it will bond firmly to the superposed Hard barrier layer, but couple rather loosely to the underlying absorber e.g., which preferably will be relatively non reactive with the pad also a flash inter coating can, of course, be used. It should also be chemically stable, compatible not project contaminants in record RD and able to be matched thermally and mechanically to adjust layers i.e., to absorber e and hard coat g .Ideally it will also be cost effective and convenient to apply e.g., with same deposition methods and equipment as layers c,d,e . The above described fluoropolymer material will be found to meet most, if not all, these stringent requirements as summarized in Table I above , though other like materials e.g., like plasma polymerized fluoropolymers will be suitable in appropriate instances. And, when such soft pads sandwich an absorber on both sides, the thermalmechanical isolation thus afforded will be recognized as exceptional. Further treatment of soft pad overcoating f may be necessary to optimize its compatibility and bonding to contiguous coatings e.g.,to enhance adhesion of its exposed surface to the hard overcoating and or to weaken its bond with the underlying absorber layer . For instance, it has been found that certain promoters applied to the exposed surface of such a soft pad are often preferable for enhancing the wetting, etc., of a hard overcoating g like the radiation cured acrylics described below. Such a promoter can evidently reduce moisture absorption and raise the surface energy E of the soft pad, and lower 5 the free energy of the substrate coating system.One may prefer to promote wetting and hydroxyl affinity providing related polar groups on a TFE or FEP soft pad surface these increasing surface energy E e.g., vs. other S coatings which raise E . A methyl methacrylate, or MMA 5 provides such a compatible polar group. One may deposit such a polar strike by plasma branching polymerization e.g., for 10 minutes in the case of MMA or by plasma etching or the like. Alternatively, one may lower E and S favor coating of such a soft pad via a light transparent strike of metal or metal oxide these raising E and 5 improving wetting . As a feature hereof, such soft pad supercoatings will be seen to give strong adhesion to a hard supercoat thereon, but be coupled relatively loosely to the underlying absorber layer. The rest of the overcoating O C on absorber e i.e., the outer portion is made up according to a related feature hereof of Hard overcoating layer g, comprised of the below specified acrylic epoxy. This serves not only to provide outer mechanical protection and the needed defocusing thickness with pad f , but also serves as a good vapor barrier and anti static surface. The preferred formulations for hard overcoat g and related preferred methods for preparing and applying such are detailed below. The thickness of layer g will, to some extent, depend on the optical system used e.g., correcting spherical aberration in the focusing objective may be involved it has been found that thicknesses on the order of 200 micrometers are quite suitable for this embodiment. Results Ex. I, FIG. 1 The hard soft overcoat embodiment suggested above with the acrylated epoxy as in Mix T l below, applied on the soft pad with underlying absorber, tri layer, etc. will be seen to give surprisingly good sensitivity e.g., superior to analogous records where a thick Si02 overcoat overlays the absorber , as well as providing the other desired characteristics mentioned above e.g., Table I . Of course, workers will understand that this embodiment is rather generally described, with further particulars of materials, deposition, etc., of the Hard and Soft pad coatings given elsewhere herein cf. Hard Example II below, etc. . The Hard soft overcoating will be recognized by workers as superior to such common non composite coatings as fused silica e.g., reducing required writeenergy, giving longer better environmental stability and service especially in respect of moisture uptake . The Hard overcoat resulting not only combines well with the soft pad e.g., bonding satisfactorily thereto it also exhibits the usual properties expected of such a protective outercoat e.g., hardness, abrasion resistance, non tacky , be readily cleaned e.g., of dust, oil, fingerprints , be clear and transparent to A r and exhibit low permeability to contaminants like water vapor, oxygen, etc. Such a Hard coat material is preferably applied by spin coating according to present good practice or by other suitable techniques known to workers e.g., in certain instances, spray coating, dip coating, flow coating or curtain coating may be feasible alternatives .Radiation cured acrylic epoxy coatings like those detailed below will be understood as apt for most such instances. Other materials for Hard soft overcoating Workers will understand that, in appropriate instances, other soft pad and or hard overcoat materials may be used to effect some or all of the indicated functionality of the preferred embodiments here detailed.For instance, in certain instances the hard overcoat may take the form of a transparent pre formed sheet of acrylic epoxy laminated onto the soft pad or vice versa in some instances the soft pad may also serve as the adhesive for the Hard coat. Preferred Hard overcoat materials Expanding on the foregoing, we will next describe a family of materials which are especially, and surprisingly, apt for use in protective Hard overcoatings like those above discussed i.e., as a supercoating over a soft pad on the OD disk of FIG. 1, etc. . Thereafter, we will describe a preferred novel associated technique for applying such hard coating material to an OD disk or like substrate. Example I A Hard coating for Ex. I Preparation, application, curing This Example is intended to describe the preparation and characteristics of a apreferred radiation cured acrylicepoxy hard coating mixture T l as applied to the Example I embodiment on soft pad supercoat overlying the absorber and also to describe a general method of applying this to a substrate and then curing it in situ. Later, further details of a particular preferred method for applying this to a prescribed optical data disk will be described see description below in connection with FIG. 2 . Workers will agree that the desired Hard outercoat for such optical disks should not only function as a protective layer to protect the media from dust contamination and environmental degradation, etc. , but also should have other properties such as high optical transmission, minimum effect on sensitivity and S N performance of the medium, W curable coatings are more acceptable for industrial applications than conventional thermal cured coatings, e.g., because they have a faster cure cycle, less energy consumption and less environmental pollution no problematic solvent emission . It should not attract dust be static free should be very clear and highly transparent to R W r, very strong, somewhat flexible, adhere well to soft pad and not badly degrade optical R W performance.It should have good mechanical integrity despite humidity temperature cycling e.g., not be brittle or easily fracture, no delaminate or curl due to internal stress and have good abrasion resistance. In general, the UV curable coating here will comprise an unsaturated resin, unsaturated monomer and photoinitiator. The formulation of ingredients is state of the art , but requires a complete understanding of the functions of the constituent parts and their function. Working at room temperature and otherwise standard conditions, the following Hard overcoat prepolymer mixture T l is prepared, being intended for application as a Hard protective overcoating, about 7 10 mils thick, and having the described characteristics as uniformly spread and cured on a prescribed optical data disk surface. This surface may be understood as comprising a properly treated aluminum disk substrate e.g., with smoothing pre coat thereon with a tri layer optical recording matrix superposed thereon, followed by a plasma polymerized thin, soft pad supercoating of soft pad fluoropolymer . Such a fluoropolymer is, thus, the substrate of choice here. Mix T 1 Wt Approx. Mix T l Pref. Range Celrad 3701 Acrylated epoxy resin 36 30 40TMPTA Tri acrylated monomer for cross linking 24 20 30 2 EhA mono acrylated monomer to flexibilize 36 30 40FC 430 Fluoro carbon wetting agent 1 0.5 2 In184 non yellowing UV initiator 2 1 4 Z 6020 clarifying adhesion promoter 1 0.5 2 The Celrad 3701 Celanese Corp. will be understood to be an acrylated epoxide basic bulk resin which is readily cured by ultraviolet light as below when properly initiated. This basic resin is selected to impart the desired strength and chemical stability to the cured coating over relatively extended service life and because it very quickly and conveniently cures and yields fairly good clarity. Importantly, it allows relatively little moisture absorption. Also, like all the other constituents it is preferred here because it is generally low cost, easy to formulate and apply, and because it yields the desired archival protective coating as mentioned elsewhere . The viscosity of Mix T l should be monitored lest it become too thick and viscous to apply readily see preferred spiral application technique below e.g., mix must flow through a dispensing nozzle . Also, the cured coating should exhibit little or no water uptake lest it might later tend to swell and crack. However, since 3701 can tend to discolor slightly over time, it should be used with additives that promote clarification and resist yellowing as noted below. Workers will recognize that other like, low viscosity co monomers or pre polymer, low viscosity diluents may be substituted, adjusting viscosity accordingly. For instance, certain other Celrad formulations may be suitable in some instances. However, other common coating polymers are not feasible for instance, acrylated urethane which is prone to cause orange peel . And other like acrylated resins are not apt for substitution. For instance,Celrad 3200, another acrylated epoxide is apt to induce coating separation, delamination, cracking or fracture is less viscous, with more flexibility and less tensile strength . And Celrad 1700 acrylated acrylate gives similar problems. And moisture intrusion and shrinkage can be reduced by adding a saturated resin e.g., a derivative of polystyrene like polyvinyl acetate . The trimethyl ol propane triacrylate TMPTA is a trifunctional acrylate monomer, serving to promote cross linking in this mixture. Other like acrylate cross linking agents might be substituted, such as trimethyl ol trimethacrylate . Some such cross linker will usually be used to enhance coating strength, etc., as workers well know preferably another acrylate cross linker . Elimination of TMPTA or the Celrad without replacing by equivalents will tend to soften the cured overcoat and reduce shrinkage. The 2 etllylhexyl acrylate 2 EHA, Celanese Corp. is a mono functional acrylate monomer, supplemental to the 3701 and added, here, to improve flexibility of the final polymer coat. Workers will recognize that other such diluents may be substituted such as isodecyl acrylate or styrene. The Irgacure 184 1 184 Ciba Geigy is a photoinitiator apt for such UV curing of such a mixture.This UV initiator is found surprisingly possibly uniquely apt for such purposes, especially because it is surprisingly resistant to discoloration yellowing of the cured overcoat e.g., when used in such a mixture as T l, including Z 6020 as discussed below . This is especially surprising because such discoloration yellowing does result when a closely similar companion UV initiator Irgacure 651 by Ciba Geigy also replaces the Irgacure 184 possibly because num 651 has more unsaturated bonds and or might include quinonidal end groups cf. 184 go hydroxy cyclo hexyl phenone 651 2,2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone . The Z 6020 by Dow Corning is a diamino primer added to T 1 to promote coating adhesion to soft pad substrate and also to clarify the coating reduce yellowing or amber color otherwise resulting . This clarification is somewhat unexpected. The yellowing mechanism is not fully understood hydroxyl groups may play a role. For instance, replacement of Z 6020 with another conventional adhesion promoter, Z 6040 or Z 6030 are good , leaves the T l coating subject to yellowing. Thus, it will be understood as critical to the desired results to employ an initiator like I 184 and an adhesion promoter like Z 6020. MIX T 2 By contrast, elimination of Z 6020 in T l and replacement of In184 with the mentioned In651 yielded a coating T 2 that exhibited decided yellowing under ambient conditions also toughness was inferior. Viscosity was about 110 cp at 250C, density 1.07 gm cc. MIX T 3 Now, replicating Mix T 2, but replacing In651 with I 184, reduces the yellowing, but still leaves the coating with a light amber tone. This coating is tougher than that of T 2. A thickness of about 10 mils gave transmission of 0 as high as 92.4 at 6328 A MIX T l Now, adding Z 6020 to Mix T 3 to produce T l, essentially eliminates all discoloration leaving a very clear, transparent coating . This promoter Z 6020 is believed to react with the moisture and hydroxyl groups in the mix solution. I believe it removes the amber colorant of the hydroxyl group. Tests indicate this T l film has much stronger adhesion to the substrate and maintains good flexibility. after being in the environmental chamber for 50 hours at 0 70 C and 80 R.H., this film did not show any crack or delamination on the tri layered disk . That is, a disk with an overcoat film made with T l mix will pass severe environmental testing conditions MILSTD 810C . It can be placed in a chamber with conditions of 700C and 80 R.H. for 50 hours and will show no visible delamination or cracks at all. The FC 430 is a fluoropolymer surfactant additive by 3M Co. characterized as a non ionic surfactant for organic polymeric coating systems. It is added to promote good wetting, leveling and spreading functions and as a flow control agent, being adapted for reducing surface tension of certain coatings on certain substrates. It is promoted as being very non reactive and as compatible with water based or solvent based systems and with most polymers . FC 430 might, with certain adjustments, be replaced by a like surfactant such as zonyl FSN by DuPont. The Mixture T 1 should be viscosity adjusted to optimize spreading and disk application here, final viscosity should be about 41 cp 250C, density 1.07 gm cc , given the subject ambient conditions room temperature, fluoropolymer substrate surface, etc. . The T l formulation and similar mixtures is quite tolerant of any number of other additives of widely varying chemistry so, where appropriate, these may be added e.g., an anti static agent. Curing With the material spread evenly across the subject disk fluoropolymer surface and essentially all oxygen driven off e.g., by N2 or like inert pre flush, etc., as detailed below , the coating is photo cured by exposure to ultraviolet light for a few minutes while the disk is slowly rotated. This renders a good fully cured hard overcoating no supplemental heat needed, no aging time necessary for complete polymerization . More particularly, and preferably, a nitrogen pre flush is invoked e.g., for about 1 minute to drive off all oxygen then exposure, under nitrogen, to UV for about 3 5 minutes, or sufficient to cure the coating as desired. Preferably, this is done while slowly rotating the disk e.g., 20 rpm note the preferred UV beam falls mostly in A 0.3 to 0.4 urn. range, with intensity varying with , e.g., 50 mW cm2 for 3.5 minutes at .366 urn. longer if less initiator is used . Workers will recognize that other related techniques and or materials and associated adjustments may be substituted in appropriate cases, taking care to assure adequate stability over extended archival life and to avoid inducing stress cracks or decomposition of materials. Radiation curing is preferred over other superficially related methods. For instance, thermal curing is unduly complex and hard to control also it uses more energy and introduces solvent pollution risks. Results Mixture T 1, when so applied on a disk, fluoropolymer surface and so cured, will be seen to provide a hard clear protective coating, essentially satisfying all of the mentioned subject requirements e.g., resisting moisture intrusion and associated swell cracking, shrinkage , with fine optical clarity and exhibiting good scratch resistant, while being easily surface cleaned. Moisture resistance was particularly surprising and impressive e.g., though not 100 impermeable, this hard coat will exhibit no swell cracking even after extended immersion in water. Similarly, the hard overcoat has been observed to withstand extended extreme temperature humidity 0 cycling e.g., from room temperature to 140 C and from about 40 humidity up to 80 humidity, for many weeks . Further, this Hard outer coating will be observed to exhibit extended stability e.g., withstanding extended exposure to a rather extreme temperature humidity cycling.This stability and associated toughness, etc., is believed to derive from the relatively cross linked, long chain polymer epoxy groups produced. AlSO, this hard coat adheres satisfactorily to the fluoropolymer soft pad , as is desired. Such adhesion might not result where the hard coat and or the soft pad were changed in such a case, a separate intermediate compatible e.g., fully transparent adhesive inter layer might be called for however it is disfavored e.g., it complicates thickness control . EXAMPLE II Example I is repeated, except that proportions are modified as below Mix T 4 otherwise it is similarly formulated, applied and cured. Mix T 4 Parts by wt.Celrad 1700 17Celrad 3200 17TMPTA 32 2 EHA ethylhexyl acrylate 31FC 430 1Darocur 1173 vs. I 184 2 Results 100 The results were essentially like those in Example I, except that the overcoat was more brittle and more prone to moisture intrusion and swell cracking . Compared with T 1, this mix gave a coating with much less ultimate tensile strength e.g., 2000 psi vs. about 4000 psi with T 1 . EXAMPLE III Another alternative Mix, T 5, is formulated, applied and cured as with T l. Mix T 5 Parts by wt.RDX 52225 39TRPGDA Celanese 39N VP GAF 14Methyl diethanolamine 3Irgacure 651 5 100 Results Essentially as with T l, except for improved surface hardness, but with orange peel on the surface. Disfavored formulations Somewhat surprisingly, certain similar radiationcured acrylic mixtures do not seem practical and are disfavored for the instant purposes. For instance, a formulation like Mix T 6 below will not be sufficiently clear and transparent at the contemplated 0.4 0.8 um.wavelengths . Mix T 6 Mix T l is replicated, except that Z 6030 replaces the Z 6020 adhesion promoter . Results Clarity badly impaired Z 6020 evidently incompatible with the other ingredients. Coating methods Following are examples of novel techniques for depositing hard coating mixtures like those in the foregoing Examples onto OD disk substrates like fluoropolymer to yield an outer protective overcoat thereof especially one that is several mils thick, yet highlyuniform, is radiation cured in situ, giving the mentioned environmental and other protection for such a disk over a prescribed extended life. Workers will recognize that these techniques emphasize convenient, cost effective methods of coating and curing, with very close control of thickness, and thickness uniformity. While the subject coating is applied to give a highly uniform thickness of about 7 mils, workers will appreciate that thicknesses of up to about 20 mils can be satisfactorily rendered. Workers will recognize that hard coat formulations like those described are quite apt for a spiral method of application e.g., to an OD disk, as below according to another feature hereof, such material lending itself to such surprising simplicity and ease of dispensing, yet under close control and yielding the described surprisingly precise control of thickness uniformity. Formulation T l will now be understood as to be applied to the OD disk surface f in FIG. 1 in a certain preferred spiral fashion. This will be understood as an aluminum disk on which the described tri layer optical recording structure has been applied and, over this, a layer of fluoropolymer or of a like soft pad polymeric surface . In general, the method will be seen as involving the deposition of the coating material on the prescribed fluoropolymer disk surface in a prescribed number of spiral rows, or beads so the beads are spread out, or leveled into a very smooth, very uniform coating and thereafter curing and hardening this coating to render the desired Hard protective overcoat. Some particular and preferred forms of this application method will now be described. Example M 1 Application of T l to fluoropolymer substrate Step 1 Mix preparation A preferred form of the novel coating method will now be described wherein a preferred Hard coating mix preferably T 1 described above , will be understood as selected, prepared and disposed for application to the disk in a spiral row of uniform symmetrical beads , being thereafter leveled by a prescribed wetting to induce a rapid, highly uniform leveling of the beads on the prescribed surface with the disk contemporaneously rotated slowly i.e., just fast enough to induce inter merging of adjacent beads. Step 2 Dispense as Spiral Beads More particularly, and with illustrative reference to FIG. 2, Mix T l will be supplied as known by workers to a prescribed controlled rate dispensing means n like a syringe nozzle n, as workers know affixed on a reciprocable arm A. Nozzle n is adapted and controlled by known means to dispense a prescribed, carefullycontrolled, uniform stream st of the mix down onto the receiving fluoropolymer surface on the subject disk d at a constant rate.Thewhile arm A will be understood as to be continuously shifted radially inward of disk d, carefully controlled so that this stream st moves radially of disk d while the disk rotates whereby to describe the specified spiral SR e.g., arm A translated by a linear motor as with magnetic recording heads maintaining uniform separation, and size, of the beads . Disk rpm may also be varied, as necessary, see below . As workers will appreciate, one may vary one or several of the three variables of disk rpm, arm velocity and dispensing rate, while keeping the other variables constant to deliver uniform size beads. Thus, nozzle n is controllably swept across a prescribed radius of disk d, as the disk is rotated, deploying mix in the continuous uniform spiral SR of bead segments b being of uniform separation, size and shape, as workers in the art will appreciate . The Mix may be supplied to nozzle n via a known syringe pump not detailed , arranged to dispense at a prescribed rate to form such a spiral e.g., at 1 3 gm min. yielding about 40 beads across a 3.5 radial band B . Control of mix viscosity is found to be very important to get good distribution and uniform settling. Care should be taken to avoid holidays or pinholes voids where little or no solvent condenses, giving a different wetting there or none at all note increased ambient temperature seems to enlarge such voids, probably because too much solvent evaporates too fast . Step 2 A bead leveling The technique of applying such a precisely uniform polymer coating thickness of 170 10 um on a fluoropolymer surface is difficult. The following procedure is a preferred method of overcoating via a spinning technique.The spinning process includes the dispensing of coating solutions on a spinning substrate followed by leveling and curing. To have a uniform coating we dispense the exact amount of coating solution at low spin speed preferably 4 16 rpm here on the substrate surface in a spiral fashion.It is important that this coating solution properly wet this substrate surface this is controlled by the viscosity and the surface tension of the coating solution and by the surface tension of the substrate surface material, as well as by outward spreading forces the effect of the centrifugal force induced by spinning the disk substrate . The coating beads on each track will be laid down so as to just barely touch one another and thus wet the entire surface. Thewhile, spinning rpm should be carefully controlled such that the coating solution will not move radially outward appreciably under the influence of centrifugal force yet so the surface tension forces and centrifugal force will overcome the retarding coating viscosity and thus spread the coating solution uniformly. Because the surface tension of a fluoropolymer is quite low, such an applied coating solution is apt to wet only very slowly. To improve and accelerate such wetting, we maintain a relatively low flow rate from the dispensing syringe , with a relatively high spinning rpm during dispensing leading to a relatively large number of relatively thin beads spiral track on the substrate, with adjacent beads kept tangent to one another and the substrate so wetted more quickly and completely across its entire surface . The dispensing rate may be kept, for instance, at a constant 1 gr. min. to 3 gr. min. One possible problem is that the flow stream bead spiral will not be continuous unless the syringe tip is kept relatively close to the disk substrate. Thus, to render a continuous spiral track using a tip with .033 ID, one must keep this distance between the tip and the coating surface to about 170 250 um. The tip can now help spread out the dispensed drops and level them. This was observed to work quite successfully. The dispensing tip was translated radially i.e., relatively to the center of the spinning substrate so as to lay down enough beads tracks to cover the entire surface. In addition to so controlling radial translation speed, disk rpm spinning speed was also varied relatively continuously from 4 rpm at the OD to 11 rpm at the ID so the tangential velocity will be for all tracks, from outside to inside radially this prevents from oversplitting . Step 3 Cure After the entire substrate is so covered with coating, the disk is preferably spun up to enhance facilitate, accelerate leveling here about 4 rpm for about 7 minutes is satisfactory . The coating may then be cured e.g., 3 minutes under ambient UV conditions then another 3 minutes UV exposure under a N2 environment. Such an initial air cure first 3 min. is preferred to avoid wrinkling . We find, surprisingly, that if the initialUV cure takes place in an N2 atmosphere, the top of the coating is apt to retard penetration of the shorter wavelengths and become wrinkled evidently because its base then cures less or more slowly e.g., it may remain fluid longer . With leveling complete and the coating thus evenly distributed across the face of disk d, it will now be cured, in situ, and otherwise treated to yield the desired hard protective overcoating. Thus, disk rotation may cease and the disk be subjected to curing conditions preferably without moving it from the coating station , lest coating uniformity be disturbed or contaminants be introduced e.g., dust settle on the now tacky surface . UV curing may be invoked at a curing station. That is, with the material evenly spread across the subject disk surface, the coating is photo cured by exposure to ultraviolet light under air then under an inert atmosphere e.g., N flush to expel all oxygen until the coating is properly 2 cured and hard . We find about 3 minutes total exposure 2 to 0.3 0.4 um UV e.g., 50 mW cm intensity at .366 um in air then a like exposure under N2 is quite satisfactory. Alternatively, workers will understand that other like curing methods e.g., other radiation may be used in certain instances, with appropriate adjustments e.g., of the type, concentration of photoinitiator . Results As mentioned before, the thickness uniformity is quite excellent on the order of 168 182 um. over a 3.5 band for a nominal 7 mil coating is impressive, especially in view of the simplicity of the application apparatus and the type of coating mixture involved . As mentioned, the cure times and temperatures are quite convenient, as are the rest of the treatment conditions. Example M 2 Si02 flash on fluoropolymer Whatever bead application technique is used, it may be advisable to pre treat the substrate as suggested elsewhere to enhance wetting, adhesion and related characteristics. For instance, in Example M l above, or a modification thereof, one may wish to enhance the hydrophilicity of the substrate and the wetting thereto of the T l beads. In such a case, we have found it advantageous to apply or etch a very transparent flash coating of SiO2 on the fluoropolymer prior to applying the beads of T l or the like, cf. Si02 on layer f ofFIG. 1 . Encapsulated record, FIG. 3 FIG. 3 depicts a modified record R in the manner of FIG. 1 and with all elements thereof identical primedesignation in structure, material and fabrication to RD except as otherwise stated. Here, the substrate disk A is smoothed with a primer coat P and subbing layer B , on which a mirror layer c is laid, with a spacer d atop mirror c and absorber layer e atop the spacer. A similarHard Soft overcoat OC is applied atop the absorber e , except that it is made to surround and encapsulate the sensitive layers and so enhance archival life. Thus, soft pad coating f extends beyond the recording tri layerT L and along the exposed periphery of layers e , d , c protectively sealing the outer edges and interfaces thereof to bond with the radially extended outer portion of subbing B .In like fashion, Hard overcoat layer g is preferably extended radially beyond soft layer f and subbing B , and down along their outer peripheral edges sealingly to bond with extended outer portions of disk A , or primer P thereon. Alternative uses Workers will recognize that one may prepare and apply such a Hard coating to other, somewhat different, surfaces, such as on a modified soft pad coating. And, even where the substrate surface is radically different e.g., a silicone elastomer , workers will recognize that an otherwise unsuitable substrate may be pre coated or otherwise treated, in certain instances, to accommodate application of a Hard overcoat as above. For instance, in the plastic coating and converting arts, ways are known for treating a wide variety of polymeric substrates to enhance their wettability . Such may, in appropriate instances, be adopted and combined with the invention. It will be understood that the preferred embodiments described herein are only exemplary, and that the invention is capable of many modifications and variations in construction, arrangement and use without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example, Hard outer coatings like those here taught may, of course, be used to cover and protect other substrates for like purposes and may be applied in other than the described spiral coating methods and may be applied in other than the described spiral coating methods and with other materials, with appropriate adjustments .And such coating structures may in appropriate instances be otherwise rendered e.g., deposit a soft pad onto a Hard coating substrate e.g., onto an epoxy acrylate disk , then deposit the absorber onto soft pad, then deposit spacer reflector, etc., onto absorber as required and, finally, applying adhesive and press bonding this onto associated Winchester disk , or like carrier . Further modifications of the invention are also possible. For example, the means and methods disclosed herein are also applicable to soft pad coated recording tape, floppy disks and the like. Also, the present invention is applicable for providing a like protective outer coating for media used in other forms of recording and or reproducing systems, such as those in which data is recorded and or reproduced using exposure with different radiation. The above examples of possible variations of the present invention are merely illustrative. Accordingly, the present invention is to be considered as including all possible modifications and variations coming within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.