# Fungicidal triazoleethanols.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula 1 The novel compounds may be used to control fungal disease in plants by foliar application, soil application, or as a seed dressing. The novel compounds may be made by reacting an appropriate 2 halo 1,1 diaryl 1 propanol or 1,1 diaryl 1 propylene oxide with 1,2,4 triazole.

## Claims
For the des t 1 Q contracting states, CH, SEDE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, Claims 1. A compound of Formula I EMI39.1 wherein X1, X2, Y1 and Y2 are independently H, F, or Cl, with the proviso that at least one of X11 X2, Y1 and Y2 is F or C1 or fungicidally active salts of compounds of Formula I with protic acids or complexes of compounds of FormulaI with metal ions. 2. A compound of Claim 1 wherein at least one of X1 and Y1 and at least one of X2 and Y2 are independently C1 or F. 3. A compound of Claim 2 wherein at least one of X1 and Y1 and at least one of X2 and Y are F. 2 4. The compound of Claim 1 that is a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol, or a fungicidally active salt of said compound with a protic acid or a complex of said compound with a metal ion. 5. A composition for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises an effective amount of a compound of any of claims I to 3 and at least one of the following surfactant solid inert diluent or liquid inert diluent. 6. A composition for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises an effective amount of the compound of claim 4 and at least one of the following surfactant solid inert diluent or liquid inert diluent. 7. A method for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises applying to the locus to be protected an effective amount of a compound of any of claims 1 to 3. 8. A method for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises applying to the locus to be protected an effective amount of the compound of claim 4. 9. Seed dressed with a fungcidally effective amount of a compound of any of claims 1 to 4. 10. A method for the preparation of a compound of claim 1 which comprises reacting a compound of formulaEMI40.1 wherein X is C1, Br or I and X1, X2, Y and Y2 are as defined in claim 1, with a an alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole or b 1,2,4 triazole in the presence of an acid acceptor whereafter if desired the product of formula I is converted into a fungicidally active salt thereof with a protic acid, or into a complex thereof with a metal ion. For the designated contracting state ATClaims 1. A method for the preparation of a compound ofFormula I EMI41.1 wherein X1. X2, Y1 and Y2 are independently H, F. or Cl, with the proviso that at least one of X11 X2, Y1 and Y2 is F or Cl or a fungicidally active salt of said compound with a protic acid or a complex of said compound with a metal ion which comprises reacting a compound of formulaEMI41.2 wherein X is. C1, Br or I and X1, X2, Y and Y2 are as defined above, with a an alkali metal salt of 1,2,4 triazole or b. 1,2,4 triazole in the presence of an acid acceptor whereafter if desired the product of formula I is converted into a fungicidally active salt thereof with a protic acid, or into a complex thereof with a metal ion. 2. A process of claim 1 wherein said reaction is performed in a solvent medium at a temperature between 250 and 1000C, optionally in the presence of a phase transfer catalyst. 3. A process of claim 1 or 2 wherein at least one of X1 and Y1 and at least one of X2 and Y2 are independently C1 or F. 4. A process of claim 3 wherein at least one ofX1 and Y1 and at least one of X2 and Y2 are F. 5. A process of claim 1 wherein X1 and X2 are F and Y1 and y2 are H. 6. A composition for controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises an effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1, 3,4, or 5 and at least one of the following surfactant solid inert diluent or liquid inert diluent. 7. Seed dressed with a fungicidally effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1, 3, 4 or 5. 8. A method of controlling fungus disease in plants which comprises applying to the locus to be protected an effective amount of a compound of formula I as defined in any of claims 1, 3, 4 or 5. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said compound comprises a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol, or a fungicidally active salt thereof with a protic acid or a complex thereof with a metal ion. 10. The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein said compound is applied to the foliage of said plants, to the soil, or as a seed dressing.

## Description
FUNGICIDAL TRIAZOLEETHANOLS This invention relates to novel fungicidal triazoleethanols and their use for controlling fungus disease of plants. US A 4,414,210 very broadly discloses fungicidal compounds of the formula EMI1.1 wherein Z is an aryl or substituted aryl group R1 Rê. and R3, are independently H, cyano, alkyl. cycloalkyl. alkenyl, cycloalkenyl, alkynyl, aralkyl or substituted aralkyl, or aryl or substituted aryl. andW is 1 or 4 1,2,4 triazole . In the above definitions, the aryl substituent is a C6 C10 aromatic, preferably phenyl or naphthyl, optionally substituted with up to three substituents selected from halogen.nitro, trihalomethyl, cyano. C1 C4 alkyl or alkylthio. C1 C4 alkylsulfinyl. C1 C4 alkylsulfonyl, phenoxy, phenylthio. phenylsulfinyl. phenylsulfonyl. or either of these last four substituted with up to two substituents selected from halogen. nitro. trifluoromethyl, cyano, methyl. methoxy, inethylthio, methylsulfinyl.and methylsulfonyl. GB A 1,529,818 broadly discloses fungicidal compounds of the formulaEMI1.2 where R1 and R2 are independently hydrogen or optionally substituted hydrocarbyl Y is halogen.nitro, C1 C4 alkyl. or optionally substituted amino, and n is 1 5 multiple Y being the same or different . Summary of the Invention The present invention is directed to compounds of Formula 1. agriculturally useful compositions of the compounds. and the method of using these com pounds to control plant fungus diseases.EMI2.1 wherein X1. X2. Y1 and Y2 are independently H. F. or Cl. with the proviso that at least one of X1, X2, 1 and Y2 is F or Cl. The present invention further relates to the fungicidally active salts of compounds of Formula I with protic acids and complexes of Formula I with metal ions. Preferred for reasons of high fungicidal activity are compounds wherein at least one of X1 and Y1 and at least one of X2 and Y2 are independently C1 or F. More preferred are compounds wherein at least one of X1 andY1 and at least one of X2 and Y2 are F. Specifically preferred is the compound a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol. The compounds of the present invention are also useful as intermediates for the production of the fungicidal compounds taught in our EP Aof even date herewith, claiming priority from our U.S.Application Serial No. 529,626, filed 6 September 1983. Detailed DescriPtion of the InventionSynthesis The Formula I compounds of this invention can be prepared by reacting either compounds of Formula II orFormula III with triazole potassium salt EMI3.1 wherein X Cl. Br or I and X1, X2, Y1. and Y2 are as defined above.Lithium and sodium triazole salts may also be used.Approximately equimolar amounts of the reagents are used with the triazole salt often taken in excess of theory. In addition, triazole itself can be used if an acid acceptor is added. Suitable acceptors include alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium tert butoxide, inorganic bases such as potassium carbonate or sodium hydride. tertiary amines such as triethylamine and excess triazole. When the acid acceptor is a good nucleophile, such as sodium methoxide, an excess should be avoided to prevent undesired side reactions. Suitable solvents include protic solvents such as ethanol or ethylene glycol polar. aprotic solvents such as dimethylformamide, dimethyl sulk oxide or acetonitrile ethers such as tetrahydrofuran or l,2 dimethoxyethane and ketones such as 2 butanone.Addition of a suitable phase transfer catalyst such as a crown ether may enhance the reaction rate. Non polar solvents, for example aromatic hydrocarbons such as toluene, may also be used if a suitable phase transfer catalyst such as tetrabutylammonium bromide is added. The reaction temperature can vary between 0 and 2000. preferably between 25 and 100 . The reactions can be conducted under elevated pressure. but it is generally preferable to operate at atmospheric pressure. The optimum temperature and reaction time will vary with the concentration and choice of reagents, and especially with the choice of solvent. The intermediate compounds of general Formula II can be prepared by oxidation of compounds of FormulaIV using methods set out in the literature EMI4.1 wherein X1. Y1, X2 and Y2 are as defined above. Suitable reagents which can effect this oxidation include peracids such as peracetic acid, m chloroperbenzoic acid or E nitroperbenzoic acid hydroperoxides such as tert butylhydroperoxide in the presence of an appropriate metal catalyst such as molybdenum hexacarbonyl or hydrogen peroxide in combination with a nitrile such as acetonitrile or with an isocyanate such as phenyl isocyanate. Alternatively. the transformation of Formula IV compounds into Formula II compounds can be effected by first forming the halohydrin with hypochlorous acid or hypobromous acid and then reacting the intermediate halohydrin with a proton acceptor such as potassium tert butoxide. sodium hydroxide or sodium hydride. The intermediate compounds of general Formula IV may be prepared from compounds of general Formula V X1, X2, Y1 and Y2 are as defined previously by standard literature dehydration conditions. For example, reacting the appropriate Formula V compound with thionyl chloride in pyridine as solvent effects conversion to Formula IV compounds,EMI5.1 The intermediate Formula IV compounds may also be prepared by reaction of benzophenone compounds ofFormula VI, wherein X1, Y1, Z2 and Y2 are as defined above. with triphenylphosphine ethylide. EMI6.1 Suitable solvents for this reaction include ether solvents such as tetrahydrofuran or ethyl ether. The triphenylphosphine ethylide is generated from an ethyltriphenylphosphonium halide bromide, chloride or iodide and a strong base such as butyllithium, potassium hydride or potassium tert butoxide. The temperature of the reaction may range from 100 to 30 C depending on the solvent and on the strong base. Compounds of Formula V can be prepared. in turn.by reacting the appropriate benzophenone compound ofFormula VI. wherein X1, Y1, Z2 and Y2 are as defined previously, with an ethylmagnesium halide, wherein Z is a halogen atom, preferably C1, Br, or I.or with ethyllithium.EMI6.2 This reaction is conducted in an ether solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of between 0 600C for the Grignard reagent and 700 30 C for the lithium reagent. In a second method for the preparation ofFormula V compounds, the appropriate propiophenone compound of general Formula VII can be reacted with the appropriate Grignard reagent M MgZ or lithium reagent M Li VIII wherein X1. X2. Y1. Y2 andZ are defined as previously described.EMI7.1 The Grignard reactions are run in an ether solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at temperatures of between 0 60 C. depending on the identity of the Grignard reagent and the solvent. The lithium reactions are also run in an ether solvent at temperatures of between 100 to OOC. Intermediate compounds of general Formula III can be prepared by reacting a Grignard reagent VIII with a compound of general Formula IX wherein Xi. X2, yl. Y2, X and Z are as defined above EMI7.2 This reaction is run in an ether solvent such as diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran at a temperature of between 0 60 C. depending on the identity of theGrignard reagent and the solvent. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the preparation of the triazole compounds of this invention can produce a mixture of two triazole isomers.the 1H 1.2.4 triazol 1 yl compound and the 4H l.2.4 triazol 4 yl compound. Since the former isomer will be the predominant one, Formula I is drawn to depict its structure. and the compounds will be referred to as the iH,lyl triazoles. It is to be recognized, however, that the 4H,4y1 isomer can be present, and since this isomer is also fungicidally active, no separation of the isomers is necessary after preparation of the compounds. It will be further recognized that the Formula I compounds can contain one or two asymmetric carbon atoms. The stereoisomers that can result all have fungicidal activity, and separation of these isomers is not required. In the following examples, abbreviations for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra are as follows s singlet d doublet, t triplet q quartet and m multiplet. Peak positions for NMR are reported as parts per million downfield from the internal tetramethylsilane standard. Infrared IR peak positions are reported in reciprocal centimeters cm . Also, unless otherwise stated, ether refers to diethyl ether. Example laPreparation of l,l bis 4 Fluorophenvl l propanol A suspension of 4.0 g 0.164 mol of magnesium turnings in 75 mL of tetrahydrofuran was stirred under nitrogen while a solution of 18 mL 0.164 mol of 4bromofluorobenzene in 75 mL of tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise with cooling in ice water to maintain a temperature below 30 C. After stirring for 1.5 hours at room temperature, the solution was chilled in ice and a solution of 21.0 mL 0.151 mol of fluoro propiophenone in 100 mL of dry tetrahydrofuran was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours, chilled in ice and quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride.After partitioning the reaction mixture between ether and water, the organic layer was separated. washed with brine and dried MgSO4 . Removal of solvent afford the title compound as a viscous oil 1H NMR CDC13 6 0.86 t. J 7Hz. 3H 2.1 s, 1H 2.24 q. J 7Hz, 2H , 7.0 t. J 9Hz, 4H 7.3 d of d,J 9,6Hz, 4H . Example ib Preparation of 1 2 Fluorophenyl 1 4 fluorophenyl l propanol A suspension of 4.0 g .164 mol of magnesium turnings in 50 mL of ether was stirred under nitrogen while a solution of 13 mL .174 mol of ethylbromide was added dropwise with cooling in ice water to maintain a temperature below 30 C. After stirring at room temperature for 1.5 hours, the solution was cooled in ice and a solution of 24.0 mL 0.137 mol of 2.4 difluorobenzophenone in 100 mL ether was added dropwise.The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hours, chilled in ice. and quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The ether layer was separated, washed with water and brine, dried MgSO4 and concentrated to a viscous yellow oil. Chromatography 4 1 hexanes methylene chloride on silica gel to elute the less polar of two components afforded the title compound as a viscous oil 1H NMR CDCl3 6 0.9 t, J 7Hz, 3H 2.2 m, 1H 2.4 m, 1H 2.6 s. 1H 7.9 7.6 m. 8H . Following the procedures described earlier and exemplified by Examples la and lb. the compounds inTable I can be prepared. Table IEMI10.1 Y1 X2 Y2 PropertiesCl C1 H HCl H F HH Cl H ClCl H H ClF F F HCl Cl Cl ClH Cl H HF F H HF H H HCl H H FF H H ClCl H Cl H m.p. 38 43 C Example 2a Preparation of 1,1 bis 4 Fluorophenyl 1 propene A solution of 34.0 g .137 mol of l,1 bis 4 fluorophenyl l propanol in 100 mL of pyridine was cooled to 0 C under nitrogen. Thionyl chloride 12.0 mL, 0.164 mol was added dropwise over twenty minutes.The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hours, poured into 300 mL of ice chilled 2N hydrochloric acid and acidified by addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The mixture was extracted with three 100 mL portions of ether. The ether was dried MgSO4 and evaporated to afford the title compound which solidified upon distillation bp 78 820C 0.4 mm m.p. 39 420C 1H NMR CDC13 b 1.7 d. J 7Hz. 3H 6.1 q, J 7Hz, 1H 6.9 t. J 9Hz, 2H 7.1 m, 6H . Example 2bPreparation of l.1 bis 4 Fluorophenyl l propene A solution of ethyltriphenylphosphonium bromide 40.8 g, 11.0 mmol in 200 mL of dry dimethylsulfoxide was cooled in an ice bath while potassium tert butoxide 12.3 g, 0.11 mol was added portionwise. The solution was warmed to 200C and 4,4 difluorobenzo phenone 21.8 g, 10.0 mmol was added portionwise.The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 1 2 hours and 200 mL of water was added. The white solid which formed was filtered and the filtrate was extracted with two 200 mL portions of hexanes. The hexanes were washed with water and dried MgSO4 . Removal of solvent gave the title compound which solidified upon distillation m.p. 43 45 C. Following the procedures described earlier and exemplified by Example 2. the compounds in Table II can be prepared. Table IIEMI12.1 X1 Y1 X2 Y2 PropertiesCl Cl H HCl H F HH Cl H ClF H H FCl H H ClF F F HCl Cl Cl ClH Cl H HF F H HF H H HCl H H F 20.8Cl H Cl H nD20.8 1.6062 Example 3aPreparation of l,1 bis 4 Fluorophenyl l propylene oxide To a suspension of 27.27 g 0.118 mol of 1,1 bis 4 fluorophenyl l propene and 25 g of solid sodium bicarbonate in 500 mL of methylene chloride was added 24.0 g 0.118 mol of 85 m chloroperbenzoic acid.The solution was stirred at room temperature 24 hours and washed with saturated aqueous sodium bisulfite, saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, water and brine. Drying MgSO4 and removal of solvent afforded the title compound as a viscous oil which crystallized m.p. 75 800C 1H NMR CDCl3 1.2 d. J 7Hz, 3H 3.4 q, J 7Hz, 1H 6.9 7.8 m, 8H . Following the procedures described earlier and exemplified by Example 3a, the compounds in Table IIIa can be prepared. Table Illa EMI14.1 X1 Y1 X2 Y2 PropertiesCl Cl H HCl H F HH Cl H ClF H H F nD30.1 1.5465Cl H H ClF F F HCl Cl Cl ClH Cl H HF F H HF H H HCl H H FF H H ClCl H Cl H m.p. 136 139 C Example 3bPreparation of 2 Chloro l.l bis 4 chlorophenyl l propanol A suspension of 4.0 g 0.164 mol of magnesium turnings in 75 mL of tetrahydrofuran is stirred under nitrogen while a solution of 31.4 gm 0.164 mol of 4bromochlorobenzene in 175 mL of tetrahydrofuran is added dropwise with cooling to maintain a temperature below 300C. After stirring for 1.5 hours at room temperature, the solution is chilled in ice and a solution of 30.7 g .151 mol of 2.4 dichloropropiophenone in 100 mL of tetrahydrofuran is added dropwise.The resulting mixture is stirred at room temperature for 16 hours, chilled in ice and quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. After partitioning the reaction mixture between ether and water, the organic layer is separated, washed with brine and dried MgSO4 . Removal of solvent affords the title compound. Following the procedures described earlier and exemplified by Example 3b, the compounds in Table IIIb can be prepared. Table IIIbEMI16.1 X1 Y1 X2 Y2 XF F H H C1 Cl H F H ClH Cl H Cl ClF H H F ClCl H H Cl ClF F F H ClF H F H BrCl H Cl H BrF H F H I Cl H Cl H I Example 4aPreparation of alpha , alpha bis 4 Fluorophenyl ss methyl 1H 1,2, 4 triazole 1 ethanol A solution of 1,1 bis 4 fluorophenyl 1 propyl ene oxide 18.65 g, 76.0 mmol , potassium triazole 13.0 g, 121 mmol and 18 crown 6 1.5 g in 200 mL of dimethylformamide was heated at 80 900C under nitrogen for 20 hours. The solution was diluted with 350 mL of ether and washed three times with water and once with brine. Drying MgSO4 and removal of solvent gave a viscous yellow oil which solidified on standing.Trituration with hexanes afforded 11.7 g 49 of title compound as a white solid m.p. 147 1490C 1H NMR CDCl 1.6 d, J 7Hz, 3H 5.5 s, 1H 5.6 q. J 7Hz, 1H 6.8 7.8 Cm, 8H 7.8 s, 1H 8.0 s, 1H . Example 4bPreparation of alpha , alpha bis 4 Chlorophenyl ss methyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol A solution of 10.0 g 0.032 mol of 2 chloro 1,1 bis 4 chlorophenyl 1 propanol and 6.8 g 0.064 mol of potassium triazole in 100 mL of dimethylform amide is heated at 80 90 C under nitrogen for 3 days.The solution is poured into water and extracted with ether. The ether is washed three times with water and once with brine. Drying MgSO and removal of solvent gives the title product which is purified by chromatography on silica gel m.p. 111 112 C. Following the procedures described earlier and exerplified by Examples 4a and 4b. the compounds inTable IV can be prepared. Table IVEMI18.1 X1 Y1 X2 Y2 m.p. C Cl Cl H HCl H F H 117 121H Cl H ClF H H F 110 112Cl H H ClF F F HCl Cl Cl ClH Cl H HF F H HF H H HCl F F FF H H Cl Example 5Preparation of the 1 1 Complex of a.a bis 4 Chloro phenyl ss methyl lH 1.2,4 triazole 1 ethanol and cuprous chloride A mixture of 3.5 g 0.01 mol of a,a bis 4 chlorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2.4 triazole 1 ethanol and 1.0 g 0.01 mol of cuprous chloride in 150 mL of tetrahydrofuran is refluxed under N2 for 30 minutes, and the resulting deep green solution is evaporated to yield the title compound. The following additional metal complexes can be prepared similarly using the appropriate metal salt 1 1 complex with cupric chloride 2 1 complex with cupric chloride 1 1 complex with zinc chloride and 1 1 complex with manganous sulfate. Example 6Preparation of the 4 Dodecylbenzenesulfonate Salt of awa bis 4 Chlorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol A solution of 3.5 gm 0.01 mol of a, bis 4 chlorophenyl fl methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol in 30 mL of dichloromethane is combined with a solution of 3.3 g 0.01 mol of 4 dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid in 30 mL of dichloromethane. The resulting solution is evaporated to yield the title compound. The following additional acid complexes can be prepared similarly using the appropriate acid. 1 1 complex with hydrochloric acid 1 1 complex with nitric acid and 1 1 complex with trifluoroacetic acid. Useful formulations of the compounds of FormulaI can be prepared in conventional ways. They include dusts, granules. pellets. solutions, emulsions, wettable powders, emulsifiable concentrates and the like. Many of these may be applied directly. Sprayable formulations can be extended in suitable media and used at spray volumes of from as little as one up to several hundred liters or more per hectare. High strength compositions are primarily used as intermediates for further formulation. The formulations, broadly, contain about 1 to 99 by weight of active ingredient s and at least one of a about 0.1 to 20 surfactant s and b about 5 to 99 solid or liquid inert diluent s .More specifically, they will contain these ingredients in the following approximate proportions Percent by Weight Active Inqredient Diluent s Surfactant s Wettable Powders 20 90 0 74 1 10Oil Suspensions, 5 50 40 95 0 15Emulsions, Solutions, including EmulsifiableConcentrates Aqueous Suspensions 10 50 40 84 1 20Dusts 1 25 70 99 0 5Granules and Pellets 1 95 5 99 0 15High Strength 90 99 0 10 0 2Compositions Lower or higher levels of active ingredient can, of course. be present depending on the intended use and the physical properties of the compound. Higher ratios of surfactant to active ingredient are sometimes desirable. and are achieved by incorporation into the formulation or by tank mixing. Typical solid diluents are described in Watkins. et al., Handbook of Insecticide Dust Diluents andCarriers , 2nd Ed., Dorland Books, Caldwell, NewJersey. The more absorptive diluents are preferred for the wettable powders and the denser ones for dusts. Typical liquid diluents and solvents are described in Marsden, Solvents Guide, 2nd Ed.,Interscience, New York, 1950. Solubility under 0.1 is preferred for suspension concentrates solution concentrates are preferably stable against phase separation at 0 C. McCutcheon s Detergents andEmulsifiers Annual , Allured Publ. Corp.. Ridgewood.New Jersey. as well as Sisely and Wood, Encyclopedia of Surface Active Agents . Chemical Publ. Co., Inc.,New York, 1964, list surfactants and recommended uses. All formulations can contain minor amounts of additives to reduce foam, corrosion. microbiological growth. etc. Preferably. ingredients should be approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for the use intended. The methods of making such compositions are well known. Solutions are prepared by simply mixing the ingredients. Fine solid compositions are made by blending and, usually, grinding as in a hammer or fluid energy mill. Suspensions are prepared by wet milling see, for example. Littler, U.S. Patent 3.060.084 . Granules and pellets may be made by spraying the active material upon preformed granular carriers or by agglomeration techniques. See J. E.Browning, Agglomeration , Chemical Engineering,Dec. 4, 1967, pp. 147ff. and Perry s ChemicalEngineer s Handbook . 4th Edn., McGraw Hill, N.Y., 1963. pp. 8 59ff. For further information regarding the art of formulation, see for example H. M. Loux. U.S. Patent 3,235.361. Feb. 15.1966. Col. 6. Line 16 through Col. 7, Line 19 andExamples 10 through 41. R. W. Luckenbaugh. U.S. Patent 3.309.192, March 14. 1967. Col. 5, Line 43 through Col. 7. Line 62 and Examples 8. 12, 15. 39, 41, 52, 53. 58, 132. 138 140. 162 164, 166. 167, 169 182. H. Gysin and E. Knusli, U.S. Patent 2.891,855, June 23. 1959. Col. 3. Line 66 through Col. 5, Line 17 and Examples 1 4. G. C. Klingman. Weed Control as a Science ,John Wiley and Sons. Inc., New York. 1961. pp. 81 96. J. D. Fryer and S. A. Evans, Weed Control Handbook , 5th Edn. Blackwell Scientific Publications,Oxford, 1968, pp. 101 103. J. B. Buchanan, U.S. Patent 3.576.834, April 27, 1971, Col. 5. Line 36. through Col. 7, Line 20 andExamples 1 4. 17, 106. 123 140. R. R. Shaffer. U.S. Patent 3,560.616. February 2.1971, Col. 3, Line 48. through Col. 7, Line 26 andExamples 3 9. 11 18. E. Somers. Formulation , Chapter 6 in Torgeson. Fungicides . Vol. I. Academic Press, New York, 1967. Examples of useful formulations of compounds of the present invention are as follows. Example 7Wettable Powder awa bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1.2,4 triazole l ethanol 80 sodium alkylnaphthalenesulfonate 2 sodium ligninsulfonate 2 synthetic amorphous silica 3 kaolinite 13 The ingredients are blended and hammer milled. Example 8High Strenqth Concentrate afa bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol 95 silica aerogel 0.5t synthetic amorphous fine silica 4.5 The ingredients are blended and ground in a hammer mill to produce a high strength concentrate essentially all passing a U.S.S. No. 50 sieve 0.3 mm openings . This material can then be formulated in a variety of ways. ExamPle 9Dust wettable powder of Example 7 10 pyrophyllite powder 90 The wettable powder and the pyrophyllite diluent are thoroughly blended and then packaged. The product is suitable for use as a dust. Example 10Aqueous SusPension a, a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol 50 dodecylphenol polyethylene glycol ether 0.5 crude calcium ligninsulfonate 5.0 xantham gum thickener 0.2t paraformaldehyde 0.2 water 44.1 The ingredients are ground together in a sand.ball, or roller mill to produce particles essentially all under five microns in si2e. Example 11Solution a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl B methyl 1H 102,4 triazole l ethanol 30 dimethylformamide 70 The ingredients are combined and stirred to produce a solution, which can be used for low volume applications. Example 12Emulsifiable Concentrate a, a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol 30 blend of oil soluble sulfonates and polyoxyethylene ethers 4 xylene 66 The ingredients are combined and stirred until the active is dissolved. A fine screen filter is included in packaging operation to insure the absence of any extraneous undissolved material in the product. Example 13Granule wettable powder of Example 7 80 sugar 20 The ingredients are blended in a rotating or fluid bed mixer and water sprayed on to accomplish granulation. When most of the material has reached the desired range of 1.0 to 0.42 mm. U.S.S. No. 18 to 40 sieves , the granules are removed, dried, and screened. Oversize material is crushed to produce additional material in the desired range. These granules contain 64 active ingredient. Example 14Dust Seed Coat a, bisf4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol 75 permanent red 2 B, calcium salt, extended on Blanc Fixe 58 diatomaceous earth 20 The ingredients are blended, coarsely hammer milled and passed through a fluid mill to produce particles of active ingredient that are essentially all below 10 microns in diameter.The product is reblended before packaging. Product is used by dusting on seed at rates of 1 800 gms 100 kg. Example 15Slurry Seed Coat a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole l ethanol 65 calcium ligninsulfonate 4 trimethyl nonyl polyethylene glycol ether 4 Rhodamine B 1 permanent red 2 B. calcium salt a extended on Blanc Fixe 1 diatomaceous earth 25 The liquid surfactant is sprayed on the diatomaceous earth, the other ingredients are then added and thoroughly mixed together in an efficient blender.The mixture is then coarsely hammer milled and passed through a fluid mill to produce particles of active ingredient that are essentially all less than 10 microns in diameter. The product is reblended before packaging. Product is used by making about a 30 40 slurry in water and applying the slurry to seed in a commercial seed treater. Utility The compounds of this invention are useful as plant disease control agents. They are effective in controlling a broad spectrum of plant diseases, particularly foliar pathogens of ornamental, vegetable.field, cereal and fruit crops, such as, Puccinia recondita. Erysiphe graminis. Bipolaris oryzae, Venturia inaequalis. Sphaerotheca fuliainea, Cercosporidium Personatum Monilinia fructicola, and soil borne pathogens. such as Rhizoctonia solani, Helminthosporium sativum, and Thielaviopsis basicola. Disease control is ordinarily accomplished by applying an effective amount of the compound, normally as part of a formulation containing it, either pre or post infection to the portion of the plant to be protected. such as the roots, stems, foliage, fruit, seeds1 tubers or bulbs, or to the medium soil or sand in which the plants to be protected are grow ing. The compound may also be applied to the seed from which the plants to be protected are to be grown. Rates of application for these compounds can be influenced by many factors of the environment and should be determined under actual use conditions.Foliage can normally be protected when treated at a rate of from less than 1 to 500 grams of active ingredient per hectare. Plants growing in soil treated at a concentration from 0.1 to about 20 kg ha can be protected from disease. Seed and seedlings can normally be protected when seed is treated at a rate of from 0.06 to about 3 grams per kilogram of seed. The compounds of this invention can be mixed with fungicides, bactericides. acaricides, nemati ciders, insecticides, or other biologically active compounds in order to achieve desired results with a minimum expenditure of time, effort and material.Amounts of these biologically active materials added for each part by weight of the compound of this invention may vary from 0.05 to 25 parts by weight.Suitable agents of this type are well known to those skilled in the art. Some are listed below Fungicides methyl 2 benzimidazolecarbamate carbendazim tetramethylthiuram disulfide thiuram n dodecylguanidine acetate dodine manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate maneb 1.4 dichloro 2.5 dimethoxybenzene chloroneb methyl 1 butylcarbamoyl 2 benzimidazolecarbamate benomyl 2 cyano N ethylcarbamoyl 2 methoxyiminoacetamide cymoxanil N trichloromethylthiotetrahydrophthalimide captan N trichloromethylthiophthalimide folpet dimethyl 414 o phenylene bis 3 thioallophanate thiophanate methyl 2 thiazol 4 yl benzimidazole thiabendazole aluminum tris O ethyl phosphonate Aliette tetrachloroisophthalonitrile chlorothalonil 2,6 dichloro 4 nitroaniline dichloran RTI ID 27.2 N 2,6 dimethylphenyl N methoxyacetyl alanine methyl ester metalaxyl cis N 1,1,2,2 tetrachloroethyl thio 4 cyclohexene 1.2 dicarbioximide captafol 3 3,5 dichlorophenyl N l methyl ethyl 2,4 dioXo 1 imidazolidine carboxamide iprodione 3 3,5 dichlorophenyl 5 ethenyl 5 methyl 2,4 oxazoli dinedione vinclozolin kasugamycinO ethyl S.S diphenyl phosphorodithioate edifenphos Bactericides tribasic copper sulfate streptomycin sulfate oxytetracyclineAcaricides senecioic acid, ester with 2 sec butyl 4,6 dinitro phenol binapacryl 6 methyl 1,3 dithiolot2,3 ss quinonolin 2 one oxythioquinox 2.2.2 trichloro 11l bis 4 chlorophenyl ethanol dicofol bis pentachloro 2,4 cyclopentadien l yl dienochlor tricyclohexyltin hydroxide cyhexatin hexakis 2 methyl 2 phenylpropyl distannoxane fenbutin oxide Nemati ci des 2 diethoxyphosphinylimino 1,3 dithietane fosthietan S methyl l dimethylcarbamoyl N methylcarbamoyloxy thioformimidate oxamyl S methyl l carbamoyl N methylcarbamoyloxy thioformi midateN isopropylphosphoramidic acid. O ethyl O 4 methyl thio m tolyldiester fenamiphos Insecticides 3 hydroxy N methylcrotonamide dimethylphosphate ester monocrotophos methylcarbamic acid, ester with 2.3 dihydro 2,2 di methyl 7 benzofuranol carbofuran 0 2,4,5 trichloro alpha chloromethyl benzyl phosphoric acid, Ol O dimethyl ester tetrachlorvinphos 2 mercaptosuccinic acid, diethyl ester1 S ester with thionophosphoric acid, dimethyl ester malathion phosphorothioic acid, O,O dimethyl. O ç nitrophenyl ester methyl parathion methylcarbamic acid, ester with a naphthol carbaryl methyl N methylamino carbonyl oxy ethanimidothioate methomyl N 4 chloro o tolyl N.N dimethylformamidine chlordimeform O,O diethyl 0 2 isopropyl 4 methyl 6 pyrimidyl phos phorothioate diazinon octachlorocamphene toxaphene O ethyl O g nitrophenyl phenylphosphonothioate EPN cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 4 chloro a 1 methyl ethyl benzeneacetate fenvalerate 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl cis,trans 3 2.2 dichloro ethenyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate permethrin dimethyl N,N thiobis N methylimino carbonyloxy bis ethanimidothioatel thiodicarb phosphorothiolothionic acid, 0 ethyl 0 4 methylthio phenyl S n propyl ester sulprofos a cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2.2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate cypermethrin cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl 4 difluoromethoxy alpha methyl ethyl benzeneacetate Payoff o,O diethyl 0 3,5,6 trichloro 2 pyridyl phosphoro thioate chlorpyrifos 0,0 dimethyl S 4 oxo 1,2,3 benzotriazin 3 4H yl methyl phosphorodithiaate azinphos methyl 5,6 dimethyl 2 dimethylamino 4 pyrimidinyl dimethyl carbamate Pirimor S N formyl N methylcarbamoylmethyl 0,0 dimethyl phosphorodithioate formothion S 2 ethylthioethyl O,O dimethyl phosphiorothioate demeton S methyl alpha cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl cis 3 2,2 dibromovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate deltamethrin cyano 3 phenoxyphenyl methyl ester of N 2 chloro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl alanine 11Mavrik This invention is further illustrated by the following examples. Example 16 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the fornelation per hectare on wheat seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Puccinia recondita var. tritici, causal agent of wheat leaf rust, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 200 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, when disease ratings were made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Treated plants had no rust pustules while the untreated plants had numerous rust pustules on each leaf. Table V Compound Control Wheat Rust a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl iH 11214 triazole ethanol 100 Example 17 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on wheat seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Erysiphe graminis var. tritici, causal agent of wheat powdery mildew, and incubated in a growth room for 14 days, when disease ratings were made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Treated plants had no powdery mildew while the untreated plants were covered with powdery mildew. Table VI Control Compound Wheat Powdery Mildew a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl R methyl 1H 1.2.4 triazole l ethanol 100 Example 18 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on rice seedlings.The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of Bipolaris oryzaea causal agent of rice brown leaf spot, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 20 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, when disease ratings were made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table. Treated plants had no lesions while the untreated plants had numerous lesions on each leaf. Table VII Control of Compound Rice Brown Leaf Spot a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl R methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 100 Example 19 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on apple seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Venturia inaequalis, causal agent of apple scab, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 20C for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 10 12 days.Disease ratings were then made and recorded as shown in the following table. Treated plants had no apple scab lesions when compared to untreated plants which were covered with scab lesions. Table VIII Compound Control Apple Scab a1a bis 4 fluorophenyl i3 methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 100 Example 20 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on cucumber seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Sphaerotheca fuliginea. causal agent of cucumber powdery mildew, and incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Treated plants had no powdery mildew in contrast to untreated plants which were covered with powdery mildew. Table IX Control Cucumber Compound Powdery Mildew a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 100 Example 21 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on peanut seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a spore suspension of CercosPoridium ter sonatum, causal agent of peanut late leafspot, and incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 27C for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 14 days, when disease ratings were made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Treated plants had no leafspots while the untreated plants had numerous leafspots. Table X Control of Compound Peanut Late Leafspot a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 112.4 triazole l ethanol 100 Example 22 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.1 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds were air dried1 planted, incubated in a growth room for 14 days, then inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Puccinia recondita var. tritici, causal agent of wheat leaf rust. Inoculated plants were incubated in a saturated humidity chamber at 20 for 24 hours and then in a growth room for an additional 7 days, when disease ratings were made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Plants grown from untreated seed had no rust pustules while plants from untreated seed had numerous rust pustules on each leaf. Table XI Compound Control Wheat Rust a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 11214 triazole l ethanol 100 Example 23 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.1 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds were air dried. planted, incubated ina growth room for 14 days. then inoculated with a spore suspension of the fungus Erysiphe graminis var. tritici, causal agent of wheat powdery mildew1 and then further incubated in a growth room for an additional 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table. Plants grown from treated seed had no powdery mildew in contrast to plants from untreated seed which were covered with powdery mildew. Table XII z Control Wheat ComPound Powdery Mildew a.a bis 4 fluorophenyl R methyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 100 Example 24 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 5 of the final volume and then suspended at a concentration of 23 ppm in purified water containing 700 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . Canned peach halves were dipped in this suspension for three minutes and then placed to air dry in sterile containers. Upon drying, the peach halves were inoculated with two pieces of Monilinia fructicola cesium, causal agent of stone fruit brown rot, and incubated in the sterile containers for five days.At that time the radii of the colonies growth were measured on each peach. Colonies on treated peaches did not grow or grew only a few milliliters in diameter while those growing on untreated peaches covered the entire surface of the peach. Percent disease contol percent growth inhibition of colonies on treated peaches as compared to that of colonies on untreated peaches is expressed in the table below. Table XIII Control Compound Brown Rot a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 11214 triazole l ethanol 98 Example 25 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone in an amount equal to 6 of the final volume and then made into a spray formulation by suspension in purified water containing 250 ppm of the surfactantTREM 014 polyhydric alcohol esters . This compound was sprayed at a concentration of 93 grams hectare 935 liters of the formulation per hectare on rice seedlings. The following day, the plants were inoculated with a mixture of bran and the mycelium of the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, causal agent of sheath blight of rice, and incubated in a growth room for 7 days. Disease ratings were then made. Percent disease control is shown in the following table.Treated plants had no sheath blight in contrast to untreated plants which were covered with sheath blight. Table XIV S Control of Compound Rice Sheath Blight a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl lH 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 100 Example 26 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone so that 1 ml of solution yielded a concentration of 0.2 gram kilogram of seed when evenly coated on 5 grams of wheat seed. Treated seeds in soil were then inoculated with a mixture of sand, cereal and mycelium of the fungus Helminthosporium sativum, causal agent of wheat root rot, and incubated in a growth room for 14 days. Disease ratings were made and percent disease control is shown in the following table. Plants grown from treated seed had no root rot in contrast to plants from untreated seed which were heavily rotted. Table XV Control of Compound Wheat Root Rot a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl ss methyl 1H 1.2.4 triazole l ethanol 100 Example 27 A compound of this invention was dissolved in acetone and applied to cotton seeds and soil in pots at a concentration equivalent to 5.0 kilogram hectare. Seeds and soil were then inoculated with a mixture of sand, cereal and mycelium of the fungus Thielaviopsis basicola, causal agent of cotton black root rot, and incubated in a growth room for 14 days. Disease ratings were made and percent disease control is shown in the following table. Treated seeds germinated well and had lit tle root rot in contrast to the untreated seeds which germinated but were rotted by 14 days. Table XVI z Control of Compound Cotton Black Root Rot a,a bis 4 fluorophenyl R methyl 1H 1,2,4 triazole 1 ethanol 96