# Hand held labeler.

## Abstract
There is disclosed a hand held labeler having a print head with electrically selectable printing elements for printing and applying pressure sensitive labels. The labeler has a housing with a handle and structure for mounting a roll of pressure sensitive labels releasably carried on a carrier web. The labeler has a movable section which mounts a keyboard and a control circuit on a circuit board. The control circuit controls the printing elements. Labels are printed by the printing elements as the carrier web is advanced, and labels are delaminated at a delaminator and dispensed into label applying relation to an applicator. The print head is mounted on a support and is continuously spring urged toward the platen. Movement of the print head toward the platen is limited to prevent damage. The support and the print head can be moved away from the platen from the outside of the labeler to facilitate threading of the web. The print head support can be skewed to provide uniform pressure contact of the printing elements with the labels. An electrical energy source, for example a battery, can be located in a hole in the label roll. Electrical energy from the battery terminals passes to the control circuit via contacts associated with the label roll mounting structure. In another embodiment, the handle can comprise a rechargeable battery. The drive includes an electrical stepping motor and in another embodiment, the drive is mechanically accomplished. Printing is accomplished by a plurality of individually controllable printing elements, preferably arranged in a single line array disposed on the print head in a direction transverse to the direction of advancement of the web. The array may be only one character width or height long, or may extend across the entire width of the web, in order to permit any size characters of any font and any orientation to be printed. When a long array is used, a serial to parallel converter may beincorporated in the print head to reduce the number of connections that need be made to the head. By utilizing thermal printing elements, the characters can be made to appear as if they were formed of individual print elements, or as if they were continuously printed simply by controlling the length of time that the printing elements are engaged to thereby control the amount of smear and burn produced on the web.