# CLARIFICATION OF FLUIDS

## Abstract
There is provided an apparatus for clarifying fluid in a fluid container, e.g., a tank, basin or lagoon. The apparatus comprises a first means for defining a quiescent zone in the container. The first means includes a pair of end walls, a pair of side walls, and a bottom wall comprising at least one surface having open and closed areas to permit settled solids to pass out of the quiescent zone. Means are provided to introduce fluid containing suspended solids into the quiescent zone. Preferably, the bottom wall also permits fluid containing suspended solids to pass into the quiescent zone. For instance, the bottom wall may comprise spaced, sloping surfaces extending across the bottom. A second means is located below the first means and defines a fluid flow path below and in communication with the bottom wall of the quiescent zone. The second means has both an inlet and an outlet. A pump means is provided which is located substantially adjacent to the outlet of the second means and which creates a low pressure area at this outlet. This low pressure area causes the fluid to flow into the inlet of the second means, along the flow path. Preferably, a portion of the fluid passes into the quiescent zone through the open areas in the bottom wall and a portion of the fluid passes out of the outlet. Settled solids pass through the open areas in the bottom wall from the quiescent zone into the flow path. A third means is provided in the first means for removing clarified fluid from the top of the first means and from the fluid container.