# Pivot means for walkway.

## Abstract
Dual path moving walkway of the type where pallets of treadplates circulate about the terminal ends has a swiv el joint connecting the inner sides to enable the pallets to move in a horizontal plane or up an incline. The swivel joint consists of overlapping links mounted at the trailing edge of one pallet and the leading edge of the adjacent pallet and interconnected by vertical pivot pin which carr ies a ring located in an aperture in one of the links. The outer surface of the ring and the corresponding wall of the aperture are spherical to permit relative movement in a vertical plane between the ring and the link. Consequently, the adjacent pallets can pivot relative to each other in a horizontal plane and in a vertical plane.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A dual path moving walkway having an endless series of pallets forming the passenger carrying floor of each path and passing around the ends of the walkway from oue path to the other, means releasably locating the outer sides of adjacent pallets together when forming said floor, characterised in that swivel joint connecting means 20, 21, 22 couples the inner sides of adjacent pallets permitting relative pitoval movement between adjacent pallets 2 in a horizontal plane and in a vertical plane. 2. A walkway as claimed in Claim 1, characterised in that said swivel joint connecting means 20 to 22 comprises a pair of overlapping links 21, 22 each mounted on respective leading and trailing edges of adjacent pallets 2 in a substantially horizontal disposition and connected together by an upright pivot member 20 . 3. A walkway as claimed in Claim 2, characterised in that the overlapping links 21, 22 comprise a male link 21 located between vertically spaced plates 35, 36 of a female link 22 said male link 21 and said plates 35, 36 having co axially aligned apertures 32 , the male link aperture having spherical walls and housing a ring 33 whose external walls are correspondingly spherical, the pivot member being located through the aperture in the links 21, 22 and in the ring 33 to hold the latter firmly to permit relative movement between the ring and said male link 21 . 4. A walkway as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterised in that the pallets 2 are mounted on front and rear transport wheels 6 and the pivot point of the pallets is co axial with the axle centre of the front or rear transport wheel or wheels. 5. A walkway as claimed in Claim 4, characterised in that tit. said front or rear transport wheel or wheels 6 forms part of a latch means which releasably holds together adjacent pallets 2 in the passenger carrying areas. 6. A walkway as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 5, characterised in that each pallet includes a toothed bar 23 adapted to co operate with rotary toothed drive means, the adjacent faces of the toothed bars on adjacent pallets 2 permitting relative alteration of the pallets in a vertical plane.

## Description
This invention relates to dual path moving walkways of the type where pal.lets or treadplates circulate about the terminal ends. So far as is own, all existing walkways operate throughout their length in this single plane or flat configuration. This invention extends the scope of dual path moving walkways in general and as described and claimed in our Patent Application number 6654 77 in particular to permit this type of walkway to negotiate inclines or changes of level within the lfiflits laid down in 13.S. 2G55 4 1969, i.e. a maximum slope of 12 degrees and a transitional curve of 20 metres radius or whatever perameters may be spocified in the future Thus it is an object of this invention to provide a coupling for connecting adjacent pallets such that they can circulate in a single horizontal plane for normal dual path walkways or on an incline or change of level, i.e. for a biplanar dual path walkway Acceding to the present invention there is provided a dual path moving walkway having an endless series of pallets forming the passenger carrying floor of each path and passing around the ends of the walkway from one path to the other, means releasably locating the outer sides of adjacent pallets together when forming said floo and swivel joint connecting means coupling the inner sides of adjecent pallets permitting relative pivelal movement betwoen adjacent pallets in a horizontal plann and in a verti plane. Pr ferably, said swivel jonint connecting ans com priaez z pair of overlapping links each mounted on respective leading and trailing edges of adjacent pallets in a substantially horizontal disposition and connected together by an upright pivot member An embodiment od the present invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a plan vi.ew of a portion of a dual path moving walkway showing pallets moving from a straight passengercarrying area into a return bend, and Fig. 2 is a fragmentary side view showing a coupling according to the invention. Referrin to the drawings, Fig. l illustrates three pallets 2 which are mounted on front and rear sets of transport wheels 6, which are conveniently in pairs. The pallets are connected at their inner sides by a pivotal coupling which includes a horizontal guide wheel 7 mounted in a guide channel 5. The pallets are releasably connected at their outer sides by any suitable latch means such as is described more fully in our co pending Application No. EMI2.1 filedEMI2.2 One coupling is shown in detail in Fig. 2 and is in the form of a swivel joint comprising a pair of overlapping male and male links 21 and 22 respectively which are each mounted on the trailing and leading edge respectively of adjacent pallets 2, and connected together by a pivot member 20. The male link 21 comprises a substantially flat plate 30 which is mounted below the trailing edge of a pallet 2 and a neck portion 31 which extends rearwardly beyond the pallet. The neck portion has an aperture 32 therethrough the axis of which is upright and the sides of which are spherical. A ring 33 is located in said aperture 32 and has a spherical outer face complementary with the shape of the aperture sides. The female link 22 has a plate 34 which is mounted below the leading edge of the rearwardly adjacent pallet 2 and a bifurcated end which extends forwardly beyond the pallet and comprises horizontal upper and lower plates 35, 36. The plates 35, 36 have co axial apertures therethrough to receive the upright pivot member 20, as has the ring 33 whose thickness permits it to lie between the plates 35, 36. Thus, the swivel joint is formed by locating the ring 33 in aperture 32, locating the neck part 31 between the plates 35, 36 so that the apertures in these plates and the ring 33 coincide then locating the pivotal member 20 therethrough.The pivot 20 holds the ring 33 firmly so that the male link 21 can move relative to it. The links 21, 22 can then pivot about the pivot member 20 in a horizontal plane or pivot relative to each other in a vertical plane by movement of the male link 21 relative to the ring 33. The pivot member 20 forms the hub of the guide wheel 7 which is provided with a substantial rib or annuls 25 to assist maintaining the wheel 7 in the guide channel 5. In the preferred embodiment the pallets 2 are driven by rotary toothed members not shown such as rack and pinion drives spaced at intervals along the lengths of the two paths which toothed bars 23 on each pallet co operate with the rotary drive members. The toothed bars may be on the inner side of each pallet as shown in Fig. 2 or on the under side thereof with the drive member correspondingly located adjacent theinner sides of the pallets or below the pallets. In order to accommodate the variations in the pallets disposition relative to the horizontal, the adjacent faces of adjacent. pallets are slightly upwardly divergent at sector 24 Fig. 2 for example, forming an angle of 30 when both adjacent pallets are horizontal, On entering a transition curve the leading pallet will start to rise or fall. As the leading pallet starts to go up hill, it will pivot and toothed bars 23 of the driving means and sector 24 will close and thus the ability to articulate is limited to the size of the sector removed from the driving means. The drive is designed to accommodate this requirement, for example, the three degree arc from the centre line of the swivel joint which is used merely as an example of the type of relationship which this sector has to the transition curves. An alternative form of drive may be by means of linear motors spaced along the paths with reaction plates on each pallet. The pivot point 20 of the pallets 2 is arranged to be transversely co axial with the front or rear set of transport wheels 6 ,in this case with the rear pair of wheels, thus ensuring that the pallets can be guided horizontally or on an incline without substantial alteration of the clearances between them The latch means which rolcasably connects the pallets, particularly the outer sides thereof,niay conveniently be the latch means 13 16 described in our co pending Application No. EMI5.1 In such an arrangement, the pivot point 20 of the pallets 2 is co axial with the centres of the axles 15 of the pivotal transport wheels 6 when these are in the raised, latched position. Further, if the walkway incorporates a gradient the transport wheels will negotiate it, and because they are co axially located, neither the wheel centres nor the Bi Planar joint centre will alter. The side guide wheel 7 is also co axial in the vertical plane with the swivel joint thus enabling it to negotiate the turnaround area without upsetting the axial relationship in this plane. The toothed bars of the driving means are so arranged that the throat of the tooth form is at the lowest point where it reaches the corner of each pallet, thus it is practical to design the tooth form to permit the required articulation in the horizontal plane which occurs at the axis of every pallet as it negotiates the turnaround area. Advantages of a walkway having swivel joint connections as hereinbefore described, a.re as fol.lows 1 The pallets are able to turn round the terminal ends and move either horzontally or on an incline in the passenger carrying area. 2 The walkway is able to articulate in the vertical plane as required. 37 The uie members are built with a change of direction in the vertical plane. 4 The pallets are joined together co axia.lly so that the wheels and the articulation means all pivot about the common axis in the horizontal plane.