# Method for fabricating vertical NPN and lateral PNP transistors in the same semiconductor body.

## Abstract
The lateral transistor is described which has both its base width and the emitter region of the transistor mini mized. The lateral transistor which may be typically PNP transistor is formed in a monocrystalline semiconductor body 22 having a buried N region 21 within the body. A P type emitter region 94 is located in the body. An N type base region 68 is located around the side periphery of the emitter region 94 . A P type collector region is located in the body surrounding the periphery of the base region 68 . A first P polycrystalline silicon layer 64 is located on the surface of the body 22 to make physical and electrical contact with the collector region. A second P polycrystal line silicon layer 90 acting as an emitter contact for the emitter region is in physical and electrical contact with the emitter region and acts as its electrical contact. A vertical insulator layer 70 on the edge of the first polycrystalline silicon layer isolates the two polycrystalline silicon layers from one another. The N base region 68 at its surface is located underneath the width of the vertical insulator layer. An N reach through region 24 extending from the sur face of the body 22 to the buried N region 21 acts as an electrical contact through the N buried layer to the base region, 68 . The width of the vertical insulator has a width which is equal to the desired base width of the lateral PNP transistor plus lateral diffusions of the collector and emitter junctions of the lateral PNP. The preferred structure is to have the emitter 94 formed around the periphery of a channel or groove which has at its base a insulating layer 84 such as silicon dioxide. The parasitic transistor is al most totally eliminated by this buried oxide isolation.