# A packaging method for sheath extrusion of compactable products, and apparatus for carrying out the method.

## Abstract
The method comprises the sheath extrusion of com pactable products such as, for example, spun paste cheeses at temperatures in the range of 55 65 C the sheath por tion, in which the product is introduced by extrusion, passes in a first constructive path serving to reduce the circum scibed area of the sheath by cutting and closing operations, the sheath is divided into packages which owing to the undergone construction take a section different form cir cular and such as to be modifiable in rectangular or square section by passing in a second constructive path causing by cooling at least partial compaction of the product and as a result the stabilization of the new shape.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A packaging method by sheath extrusion of compactable products, such as spun paste cheeses, closing and separation of sheaths filled lengths to form closed packages, characterized in that at filling step the sheath portion filled with compactable product is caused to take a different section from circular, and the package obtained after closing and cutting operations of a predermined length of filled sheaths of different section from circular is forced along a forming channel of a section substantially corresponding to the desired section for the package, in which channel the section taken by the package is stabilized by at least partially compaction of the contained product. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized by substantially maintaining at a constant value the ratio of the sheath perimeter and area defined by said perimeter when taking a shape different from circular and stabilized shape. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the product is compacted by cooling. 4. A Method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that the product is hot extruded. 5. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that cooling step is simultaneous with forming action exerted by the forming channel. 6. An apparatus for carrying out the method, comprising means for extruding the compactable product in a protective sheath and means for separating and closing sheath filled lengths to provide closed packages, characterized by further comprising, following the separating and cutting means, means for imposing a shape different form circular to the sheath being filled and means for forcing the closed packages in a forming channel of section substantially corresponding to the desired section for the package, where the section taken by the packages is stabilized by at least partial compaction of the contained product 7. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that the means for imposing a shape different from circular comprise an adjustable idle roller constructive path. 8. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that the idle rollers are arranged in two parallel rows bilaterally defining the constructive path. 9. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that said means for forcing the packages in the forming channel comprise pushing means directly acting on the packages. 10. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 9, characterized in that said pushing means comprise at least one arm with unidirectionally rotatable part, said arm being operated by a pressure fluid jack. 11. An apparatus as claimed in Claim 6, characterized in that said forming channel comprises cooled, adjustable, movable walls 12. An apparatus as claimed in Claim ii, characterized in that said walls are located at right angle to one another.

## Description
A packaging n etllod fcr sheath extrusion of comDact2hle products, apparatus for carrying out the method and package obtained This invention relates to a packaging rr,ethod for extrusion within protective sheath of cor,pactable products, particularly so called spun paste cheeses, and apparatus for carrying out the method and package thus obtained. Extrusion packaging of a compactable semifluid or pasty product within a protective cylindrical sheath is a process used in many fields of alimentary and not alimentary industry. The resulting package is a cylinder closed at the ends by sealing of the borders or by clips or clamping metal elements. The disadvantages resulting from the cylindrical shape are as follows larger space 210 required in packaging with respect to a parallelepiped product and consolidated practices of some markets adverse to the cylindrical shape for example, the U.S. market of spun paste cheeses is accustomed to parallelpiped or briquette shape. This invention is particularly directed to produce a sub stantially parallelepiped package, while using extrusion of a compactable product within a protective sheath0 It is known that among all of the geometrical figures having a same perimeter, the circumferential figure is that of maximum area. As a result, to provide a square or rectangular section with a given protective sheath, the area circumscribed by the protective sheath has to be reduced in order to restrict the filling thereof. To this end, the method according to the invention provides that at filling step the sheath portion filled up with the compactable product is caused to pass in a bilateral levelling or flattening path to obtain, after cutting and closing of such a filled up portion, a package of cross section different from a circular section, or substantially levelled or flattened along two parallel planes, package which is then forced and stabilized by at least partial compaction of the product along a channel of a section corresponding to the defined section of the package. The apparatus allowing to carry out the method comprises per se known means for extruding the compactable product within a protective sheath, means also per se known for shearing and closing filled up lengths of sheath to provide a series of packages, and means for imposing a shape other than circular to the sheath while the latter is being filled, and means for forcing the packages into a conduit of the desired shape1 where the product is at least partially compacted. The package thus obtained comprises a protective sheath enclosing a compacted product and is of substantially parallele piped shape. The invention will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description, given by mere way of unrestrictive example, of a preferred embodiment thereof, as shown in the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a view showing partly in side view and partly in longitudinal sectional view the apparatus according to the invention Fig. 2 is a view showing a detail of Fig. 1 at a different operative position Fig. 3 is a sectional view taken along line A A of Fig. 1 Fig. 4 is a sectional view taken along line B B of Fig. 1 and Fig. 5 is a plan view of the apparatus at loading step with a new cartridge of protective sheath. Referring to the figures of the accompanying drawings, reference numeral 1 denotes as a whole the bearing structure of the apparatus which, in this example, carries an ordinary screw extruder 2 provided with an outlet end comprising a length of conical connection and a tubular end or elongate nose 4, having slipped thereon the cartridge 5 of protective sheath G made, for example of heat sealable material. The extruded material, which is at pasty state and is compactable by cooling, emerging from end 4 fills up and draws the sheath therealong. In order to avoid that the material draws along a larger amount of sheath than necessary, there is provided an ordinary arrowing or rising device 6 comprising two coupled annular parts 7 and 8 and a friction ring 9 made, for example, of rubber, and entrained within said two parts. One of these parts is shaped about as a rotation paraboloid on the side to said extruder 2. Immediately downstream of the braking device, there is provided a conventional cutting and closing device 10 for the sheath G to produce closed packages C containing the processed material. This device comprises upper and lower heat sealing jaws 11 and 12, vertically aligned to each other and movable under pressure fluid control in the direction of arrows F.Within the upper jaws 11, a cutting blade 13 roves in the same direction, also pressure fluid controlled and operating on the sheath following the sealing jaws 11 and 12. Inunediately domastrear of said cutting and closing device 10, there is provided a bilateral idle roller levelling path denoted as a whole at 14, which is located to receive the sheath being filled up and advancing under the thrust of the filling material.In this cxample, said path 14 comprises a pair of guide standards or uprights 15, two horizontal bars 16 and 17 slipped in and guided by said standards or uprights, a series of horizontal rollers 18 idly cantilever supported in each of said two bars 16 and 17, a threaded perforated extension 19 integral with each of said bars and cantilever projecting from the opposite side of the rollers, a handwheel screw 20 provided with two opposite threaded lengths which, by cooperating with the corresponding threads of said extensions 19 allow the two series of idle rollers to be moved near and respectively away from each other when the handwheel is rotated. This allows see Fig. 3 through the levelling as bilaterally exerted on the sheath at filling step, to reduce the area circumscribed by the sheath to restrict the filling thereof. Thus, it should be noted that prior to entering the path, the section of the filled sheath is circular and should it remain as such after closing giving rise to package C, it would not be possible to convert the section of the latter in a different shape, for example square or rectangular shape. The roller path, located just after the cutting and closing device, is effective to operate the reduotion in area as circumscribed by the sheath and accordingly prepares the package to take the final parallelepiped shape. This operation of taking the final shape is assigned to a cooled forming device, denoted as a whole at 21, at which the packages C arrive by a conveyor belt 22 operated by drive means, not shown. The forming device 21 comprises a tubular body or enclosure of square section 22, for exarile cf sturdy sheet metal, which supports a channel 23 col,prisirg four movable walls 24 orthogonal to one another defining a forming channel 50, made of metai and preferably run through by a cooling channel or coil connected at one end to a source of cooling fluid for example to the water supply network and at the other end to a discharge or recovery. Each of said walls 24 are displaceable in two directions perpendicular to each other as shown by the arrows in Fig. 4 through a mechanism comprising a disc or plate 25 integral with the wall and provided with a bushing 26, in which the end of a screw 27 terminating with a handwheel 30 is located for rota tion, but not for axial movement. The screw meshes and passes through the threaded hole in a slide 2e guided in a cross slit 29 Fig. 1 provided in the corresponding wall of body 21. The movement along said slit 29 is assigned to a screw 31 provided with handwheel 32, which passes through and meshes with a threaded bushing 33 secured to the adjoining wall of body 21.Said screw 31 is connected for rotation, but not axial movement with a bracket 34 integral with said slide 28. By operating on the several handwheels 30, 32, it is possible to vary within given limits or ranges the section of the forming channel 50, along which the packages C are forced. Forcing of the packages is assigned to a double acting jack 40, mounted on the upper face of body 21, and the stem 41 of which carries a downward facing arm 42 comprising two parts, that is an upper part 43 integral with the stem and the other or lower part 44 hinged at 45 to the former, but for totation only in counterclockwise direction, as shown by broken lines in Fig. 1. After finally taking the substantially parallelepiped shape, said packages C arrive at a conventional outlet ccynroyor, denoted at 60. The braking head. 6, cutting and closing device 10, levelling path 14 and conveyer 22 are mounted on an arm 70, which is supported by the apparatus frame for rotation about a vertical axis 71 and be thereby sidewise shifted, as hown in Fig. 5, to allow the introduction of a new sheath cartridge 5A on said nose 4 of the extruder. Prior to describing the operation of the apparatus, it would be suitable to remind that generally the extrudable products are fluid, semifluid or pasty at given temperatures, at which they are extruded, while being at solid state, or compacted, at lower temperatures, such as at room temperature.Therefore, it is evident that when desiring to retain the desidered shape, it is necessary to cool down the product mass contained within the sheath, or at least the outermost layers of the mass. Some products, such as spun paste cheeses, show a particularly useful behaviour under this aspect as being extrudable at temperatures in the range of 550 6500, while being solid just at temperatures in the range of 350 400C. For such products, it is only needed to provide with the cooled movable plate device 21 a decrease in temperature of 300C so that the package C retains the shape imparted thereto by said forming channel 50. The operation of the apparatus is as follows. The product, for example spun paste cheese at 550 6500, that is at pasty or semifluid state, draws along the sheath G closed at the front when emerging from said nose 4 under the action of the extruder screw 2. 8aid sheath G is suitably unrolled from the cartridge 5 due to the provision of braking element 6 and its product filled portion enters said device 14, where the respective rollers prevent the sheath from taking a cylindrical shape, which in other terms means te fill a sheath length with a product volume less than that, at a same length and perimeter, could be contained if enabled to take a circular section, or cylindrical shape.The adjustment of the distance or spacing between the two series of horizontal rollers can be effected by the handwheel 20 and is selected so that the package C, upon emerging from the forming channel 50, has the desired section, or the same ratio of perimeter and enclosed area. When a suitable amount of product has been supplied, the two heat sealing jaws 11 and 12 close on the sheath which between the welding points or locations is cut by said knife or blade 13.Thus, a package C see Fig. 2 is formed and the sheath end is closed, se that the sheath can advance under the thrust or force of the supplied product when said jaws 11 and 12 are opened again and said knife or blade 13 is removed. The sheath under filling advances and displaces the package s in front which then arrive at the conveyor 22 suitably spacing apart the packages from one another, moving at a higher speed than that at which said packages advance in said device 14. When a package arrives at a certain location, for example takes the position Z shown by broken lines in Fig. 1, it shuts off the light beam colliding against a photocell not shown , which causes the activation of jack 40, of which the stem 41 moves to the left as seen in Fig. 1 . The lower portion 44 of arm 42 clockwise rotates when it encounters the package, moving back to the original position upon stepping over the latter. At the end of stroke a contact non shown invertes the direction of movement of stem 41, the arm 42 of which, by acting on the rear end of the package, forces the latter in the forming channel 50 which, as shown in Fig. 1, has at the front inclined lead in extensions 100 associated with walls 24. The last package C entering the forming channel 50 causes the preceding packages to advance and the unloading of the first package downstream on the outlet conveyor belt 60.During the travel in channel 50 the package product is compacted by cooling to a sufficient extent to retain at the channel outlet the shape previously imparted thereto.The method and apparatus of the invention allow to complete the positive characteristics resulting from extrusion such as saving, lack of preparations, hygienics, etc. with those of a more rational packaging and possibility of meeting the tastes and requirement of the most various markets.