# Use of a packaging laminate

## Claims
Verwendung eines Schichtpackstoffs mit einer Trägerschicht,einer extrudierten Kunststoffschicht aus einem Gemisch auslinearem Polyethylen niedriger Dichte LLDPE und Polyethylenniedriger Dichte LDPE , einer Sperrschicht ausgasundurchlässigem Material, wie Aluminium, und einer Haftschicht,für eine Verpackung von Speiseöl oder Speiseölenthaltenden Nahrungsmitteln,

## Description
The present invention relates to a particular use of a packaginglaminate as mentioned in claim 1. Such packaging materials to be used for thepacking of light sensitive materials such as photographicroll films, medicines, chocolate, fermentationproducts and developing solutions aredescribed in JP A 58 132 555. According to thisprior art a carrier layer of paper or cellophane iscovered on one side by an adhesive layer bondingan aluminum foil, a further adhesive layer bondinga layer comprising a mixture of aL LDPE LDPE carbon black making the complete laminatelight shielding. It is an object of the present invention toprovide a packaging laminate of such kind whichis suitable for the manufacture of packing containerscomprising a good oil resistance andwithout substantial stress cracking during or afterthe contact of the laminate with oil. Indeed, thepacking laminate should also comprise sufficientstiffness. Up to now, edible oil or products containingsuch oil are usually packed in lacquered sheetmetal cans, glass bottles or blow moulded plasticbottles. However, such package containers arerelatively expensive. The invention is represented by the use of the laminate ofclaim 1 and further embodiments thereof aredescribed in the dependent claims. It has been found that a particular sequence ofthe respective layers solve the present problemvery well. The packaging laminate comprises thedesired strength and impermeability characteristicsespecially with regard to edible oil so that itcan be well utilized as packaging material foredible oil or edible oil containing products. The present invention will now be described inmore detail with special reference to the schematicdrawing which in strong enlargement shows across section through a part of a preferredembodiment of the packaging laminate in accordancewith the invention. The packaging laminate 1 comprises a numberof material layers laminated to each other whichtogether form a packaging laminate of the desiredstrength and impermeability characteristics. Thepackaging laminate 1 has an external surface 2and an internal surface 3 which after the packaginglaminate has been converted to packingcontainers form the outside and inside respeclivelyof the packing container. It is evident fromthe figure that the greater part of the thickness ofthe laminate is taken up by a carrier layer 4 whichconsists of a material imparting stiffness, e.g.paper or foamed plastics. The carrier layer 4 hasan appreciably greater thickness than the remaininglayers of the laminate, but the exact thicknessmay vary depending upon the type and size of thepacking container into which the packaging laminateis to be converted. In the case of the packingcontainer sizes generally used of 0,282,0 litres, thepaper material chosen for the carrier layer 4 may have a weight per unit area of 120 440 g m On both sides of the carrier layer 4 comparativelythin layers 5,6 of a liquid tight, thermoplasticsmaterial, e.g. polyethylene, are present.The polyethylene layer 5 on the outside 2 of thepackaging laminate imparts a smooth and liquid tightexterior to the packaging laminate which,moreover, makes possible a sealing of the laminatewith the help of heat and pressure, a so calledthermosealing. This external layer ofthermoplastics consists of LDPE which has aweight of coating of 12 30 g m The thermoplastic LDPE layer 6 applies to theopposite side of the carrier layer 4 comprises asimilar weight of coating. Like the layer 5, thelayer 6 is applied to the carrier layer 4 by means ofextrusion which means that the layers 5, 6 areapplied to the carrier layer 4 in liquid state andpenetrate into the surface layer of the latter sothat the seal between the layers 5, and 6, respectively,and the carrier layer 4 is very good. Themain task of the layer 6 is to make possible theapplication of a metal foil layer 7 which in mostcases consists of alumium foil of a thickness of5 18 µm preferably 7 µm corresponding to a weight of coating of 19 g m The inner layer 8 of mixed LLDPE and LDPE hasa weight of coating of preferably 30 g m The intermediate adhesion layer 9 has a coatingweight of preferably 15 g m The manufacture of the packing laminate inaccordance with the invention takes place substantiallyin a conventional manner, in that thecarrier layer 4 by means of extrusion is coatedsuccessively with the different surface layers. Thealuminium foil 7 is applied from a roll, thepolyethylene layer 6 serving as a binder. Theadhesion layer 9 and the inner layer 8 can beapplied each separately directly after one anotheror through coextrusion. The conversion of the laminate to individualpacking containers may also be done in a conventionalmanner, e.g. by supplying the packaginglaminate in form of a roll to a packaging machine,wherein it is converted to a tube which is filled withcontents and sealed off by means of repeatedtransverse seals so that cushion shaped, filledpacking containers are produced. The cushion shapedpacking containers are then form processedto parallelepipedic shape in that theircorner lugs are flattened, folded down and sealedto the outside of the packing container. By making use of a combination of LLDPE andLDPE for the inner layer 8 an inner layer is obtainedwhich resists the effect of the oil even duringprolonged contact, and any appreciable reductionin the stretching ability of the inner layer could notbe observed in practical experiments. The mixing ratio between LLDPE and LDPE canbe varied, but experiments and tests have shownthat an admixture of LLDPE of approx. 85 byweight of the total weight LLDPE LDPE of thelayer provides a material layer of substantially thesame elongation properties in transverse as wellas longitudinal direction which is of decisiveimportance in order to prevent crack formationwhen the finished laminate is folded during itsconversion to packing containers. If the admixture of LLDPE is reduced to between50 and 85 by weight improved extrusionproperties are obtained, that is to say the extrusioncan be carried out at a faster rate without thethickness of layer or the uniformity being negativelyaffected. This has to be paid for though inpart by poorer elongation properties of thefinished layer, and if the admixture is reduced tobelow approx. 50 the transverse elongationproperties of the layer are worsened to such anextent that it becomes unsuitable for use in thepackaging of oil or oil containing products. Incorresponding manner there is an upper limit tothe admixture of LLDPE at approx. 90 by weight.Above this limit on contact with oil the longitudinalproperties are impaired and the material no longercan be used with such contents. An important factor regarding the possibilitiesof extruding the material is also the so called melt index of the material which can be variedto a certain extent depending upon the mixing ratio between LLDPE and LDPE together with themelt index of these two types of material makingup the mixture. Thus preferably an LDPE of a meltindex in the range of 5,5 8 g 10 min dg min ischosen which together with an LLDPE of a meltindex of approx. 3,7 g 10 min gives the mixture amelt index of at least 3,5 g 10 min. The melt indexof the mixture ought to be between 3,5 and 7,0 g 10min, which represents an easy flowing mixture ofgood extrudability. A typical laminate in accordance with the inventionwhich is used for the manufacture of packingcontainers of a volume of 1 litre TETRA BRIK comprises the following layers starting from theoutside of the laminate This material in practice proved to have excellentproperties for the packaging of oil, and the oil resistanceof the inner layer permits storage over along period without any stress cracking or otherdefects arising.