# CDNA CLONES CODING FOR POLYPEPTIDES EXHIBITING MULTI LINEAGE CELLULAR GROWTH FACTOR ACTIVITY AND OR MAST CELL GROWTH FACTOR ACTIVITY

## Claims
Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten BE, CH, DE, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, NL, SE

## Description
This invention relates generally to the application of recombinant DNA technology to elucidate the control mechanisms of the mammalian immune response and, more particularly, to the isolation of deoxyribonucleic acid DNA clones coding for polypeptides exhibiting multi lineage cellular growth factor activity and or mast cell growth factor activity. Recombinant DNA technology refers generally to the technique of integrating genetic information from a donor source into vectors for subsequent processing, such as through introduction into a host, whereby the transferred genetic information is copied and or expressed in the new environment. Commonly, the genetic information exists in the form of complementary DNA cDNA derived from messenger RNA mRNA coding for a desired protein product. The carrier is frequently a plasmid having the capacity to incorporate cDNA for later replication in a host and, in some cases, actually to control expression of the cDNA and thereby direct synthesis of the encoded product in the host. This technology has progressed extremely rapidly in recent years, and a variety of exogenous proteins have been expressed in a variety of hosts. By way of example, some of the eukaryotic proteins so produced include For some time, it has been dogma that the mammalian immune response was due primarily to a series of complex cellular interactions, called the immune network . While it remains clear that much of the response does in fact revolve around the network like interactions of lymphocytes, macrophages, granulocytes and other cells, immunologists now generally hold the opinion that soluble proteins e.g. the so called lymphokines play a critical role in controlling these cellular interactions. Lymphokines apparently mediate cellular activities in a variety of ways. They have been shown to have the ability to support the proliferation and growth of various lymphocytes and, indeed, are thought to play a crucial role in the basic differentiation of pluripotential hematopoietic stem cells into the vast number of progenitors of the diverse cellular lineages responsible for the immune response. Cell lineages important in this response include two classes of lymphocytes B cells, which can produce and secrete immunoglobulins proteins with the capability of recognizing and binding to foreign matter to effect its removal , and T cells of various subsets that induce or suppress B cells and some of the other cells including other T cells making up the immune network. Another important cell lineage is the mast cell a granule containing connective tissue cell located proximate to capillaries throughout the body, with especially high concentrations in the lungs, skin, and gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts. Mast cells play a central role in allergy related disorders, particularly anaphylaxis, and this role can be briefly stated as follows once certain antigens crosslink special immunoglobulins bound to receptors on the mast cell surface, the mast cell degranulates and releases the mediators e.g., histamine, serotonin, heparin, kinins, etc. which cause allergic reactions, e.g. anaphylaxis. Research to better understand and thus potentially treat therapeutically allergy, anaphylaxis and other immune disorders, through the study of mast cells, T cells and the other cells involved in the immune response, has been hampered by the general inability to maintain these cells Apparently almost all blood cell types are continuously generated in the adult vertebrate bone marrow through the growth and differentiation of the hierarchy of hematopoietic progenitor cells. At the apex of this hierarchy is the pluripotent stem cell, which can repopulate a lethally irradiated animal for most, if not all, immunological cell types e.g., red cells, platelets, lymphocytes, various granulocytes and monocytes macrophages . The pluripotent cell not only has the capacity to regenerate the pluripotent stem cell compartments self renewal , but also gives rise to progenitor cells committed to development along one particular lineage pathway. Progeny of a particular committed stem cell appear to share the same lineage commitment as the parent cell Metcalf, D., Hemopoietic Colonies , Springer Publishing Co., New York, N.Y. 1977 . One of the better characterized factors is interleukin 1 IL 1 , a factor released from macrophages, which induces replication of thymocytes and peripheral T cells Mizel, S. Whereas both mouse IL 2 and IL 3 have been at least partially characterized biochemically Gillis, S. Although such molecular weight differences could perhaps be partially explained by varying amounts of glycosylation, clarification of the issue requires additional structural data, e.g., substantially full length sequence analysis of the molecules in question. Protein sequencing offers, of course, a possible means to solve the problem, but it is very difficult work experimentally and often can provide neither completely accurate nor full length amino acid sequences. Moreover, having the capability of making bulk quantities of a polypeptide exhibiting mammalian MCGF or CSF activity will greatly facilitate the study of the biology of mast cells and other cells involved in the immune response e.g., by minimizing the necessity of relying on ConA conditioned media for stimulating cell growth. Accurate and complete sequence data on an MCGF or CSF will also serve to simplify the search for other immunological factors. Finally, additional information on any lymphokine will help in evaluating the roles of the various growth factors and cells of the immune network and thus provide insight into the entire immune system with the concomitant therapeutic benefits. Thus, there exists a significant need for extensive nucleotide sequence data on the DNAs coding for, and amino acid sequences of, proteins exhibiting MCGF or CSF activity, as well as a simple and economic method of making substantial and essentially pure quantities of such materials. The present invention fulfills these needs. The present invention provides cDNA clones coding for polypeptides exhibiting mammalian mast cell growth factor MCGF activity and or multi lineage cellular growth factor activity. A nucleotide sequence for a cDNA and a putative amino acid sequence for an associated polypeptide are shown in Figure 1. The cDNA sequence can be integrated into various vectors, which in turn can direct the synthesis of the corresponding polypeptides in a variety of hosts, including eukaryotic cells, such as mammalian cells in culture. More specifically, the invention provides a nucleic acid sequence that codes for a Said nucleic acid sequence may be preceded by the following sequence encoding a leader sequence of the polypeptide and is terminated with the STOP codon TAA . The invention further provides a recombinant DNA molecule consisting of or According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a process for producing a polypeptide exhibiting murine multi lineage cellular growth factor activity and or murine mast cell growth factor activity, said process comprising the steps of Preferably, the cDNA sequences are derived from a mRNA sequence coding for the polypeptides, and the host is an organism such as a eukaryotic, e.g. mammalian, cell transfected or transformed with the vector. Further, the vector preferably comprises also a second nucleotide sequence capable of controlling expression of the nucleotide sequence coding for the polypeptide. This second sequence coding can include a promoter sequence, one or more intron sequences and a polyadenylation sequence, to permit, respectively, transcription, splicing and polyadenylation of the nucleotide sequence coding for the polypeptide. Particularly, when the host is a mammalian cell, such as a COS 7 monkey kidney cell, the vector contains the promoter sequence of the simian virus 40 SV40 early region promoter and the polyadenylation sequence of the SV40 late region polyadenylation sequence. The mouse cDNA sequence of Figure 1 see below is capable of hybridizing with other DNA sequences, such as DNA coding for other mammalian growth factors from a cDNA or genomic library. It is noted that the described cDNA sequences seem to contain information for a leader sequence. The polypeptides of the present invention are capable of enhancing mammalian mast cell and other cell growth, particularly in Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description, which describes, in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and by way of example, the present invention. In Figure 3, transcription of the 950 bp cDNA insert contained in the pcD expression vector from the SV40 early promoter is indicated by the arrow. The locations of the splice donor and acceptor sites are shown. The polyadenylation signal, also derived from SV40, is located at the 3 end of the cDNA insert. The cDNA insert is heavily shaded. The remainder of the vector sequences are derived from pBR322, including the β lactamase gene Amp In accordance with the present invention complementary DNA cDNA clones are provided for polypeptides exhibiting mammalian mast cell growth factor MCGF activity and or multi lineage cellular growth factor multi CSF activity. After the cDNA sequences have been incorporated into replicable expression vectors, and the vectors transfected into an appropriate host e.g. a mammalian cell culture , the expressed polypeptide or polypeptides will possess the ability to allow the expansion of mast cells and hematopoietic cells to multiple lineages. An exemplary, putative amino acid sequence based on the isolated nucleotide sequence is shown in Figure 1. A portion of the predicted sequence amino acids 33 to 41 is identical with the reported NH₂ terminal sequence of mouse Interleukin 3 IL 3 , which has been shown to exhibit mouse MCGF activity and multi CSF activity Ihle, J. When transfected into COS 7 monkey cells, one of the cDNA clones of this invention directs the synthesis of biologically active MCGF and multi CSF. Addition of this expressed cloned gene product to cultures of mouse bone marrow cells allows the expansion of hematopoietic cells committed to multiple lineages it supports the formation of burst forming erythroid colonies BFU E , granulocyte macrophage colonies CFU G M , mast cell colonies CFU mast , as well as colonies of multiple lineages CFU Mixed , and sustains multipotential stem cells CFU S in liquid culture. A variety of methods may be used to prepare the cDNAs of the present invention. By way of example, total mRNA is extracted e.g., as reported by Berger, S. A preferred method of obtaining the full length cloned cDNAs of this invention is the procedure developed by H. Okayama and P. Berg Mol. and Cell. Biol., 2 161 170 1982 . This method has the advantage of placing the cDNA inserts in a bacterial cloning vector at a position whereby the cDNA can also be directly translated and processed in mammalian cells. Briefly, the first cDNA strand is primed by polydeoxythymidylic acid covalently joined to one end of a linear plasmid vector DNA. The plasmid vector is then cyclized with a linker DNA segment that bridges one end of the plasmid to the 5 end of the cDNA coding sequence. By employing a DNA fragment containing the Simian Virus 40 SV40 early region promoter and a linker containing a modified SV40 late region intron, the cDNA can be expressed The desired cDNA clones can also be detected and isolated by hybridization screening with appropriate mRNA samples Heindell, H. Once the cDNA library in the Okayama Berg plasmid vector has been completed, the cDNA clones are collected, and random pools are checked for the presence of the desired cDNAs by hybrid selection, translation, and assay e.g. by measuring MCGF or multi CSF growth factor activity, the existence of antigenic determinants, or other biological activities . Pools positive by these criteria can then be probed with an appropriate subtracted probe, e.g., cDNA from a B cell line and or uninduced T cell line. Thereafter, the positive, probed pools are divided into individual clones which are tested by transfection into a suitable host such as a mammalian cell culture , and the host supernatant assayed for the desired activity e.g. multi CSF or MCGF activity . Positive clones are then sequenced. In further describing the procedures relating to preparing cDNA clones of the invention, the mast cell and other lines will be considered first, followed by general descriptions of the procedures of the The preferred cells for use in connection with the present invention are those developed as described by Galli, J. The MC 9 cells are used to assay for MCGF activity, preferably by a ³H thymidine incorporation assay according to established methods e.g., Nabel Total cellular mRNA can be isolated by a variety of well known methods, e.g., by using the guanidinium thiocyanate extraction procedure of Chirgwin Filter hybridizations are preferably performed essentially as described by Parnes The cDNA library can best be constructed using the pcDV1 vector primer and the pL1 linker fragment available from P L Biochemicals Inc., Milwaukee, WI according to procedures which result in greatly enriched full length copies of mRNA transcripts e.g. Okayama, H. and Berg, P., Mol. Cell Biol., 2, 161 170 1982 and Mol. Cell Biol., 3, 280 289 1983 . The plasmid vector, which contains SV40 early promoter and SV40 RNA processing signals, is designed to promote expression of the cloned cDNA segment in mammalian cells. Using the Okayama and Berg procedure, the cyclized vector cDNA preparation is transformed into a competent bacterial cell, such as If desired, a ³²P cDNA probe is enriched for ConA induced sequence by two cycles of cDNA absorption in order to remove cDNA sequences common between Cl.Ly 1 2 9 and closely related, but differentiated, cells of the immune system, such as B cell myelomas see Davis, M. Approximately 1x10⁶ COS 7 monkey kidney cells are seeded onto 60 mm plates the day prior to transfection. Transfections are best performed with 15 µg of plasmid DNA in 1.5 ml of DME containing 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4, and 400 µg ml DEAE Dextran Pharmacia Fine Chemicals, Uppsala, Sweden . This solution is then removed after 4 hr and replaced with 2.0 ml DME 4 fetal calf serum. The medium is collected after 72 hr and assayed for MCGF or multi CSF activity as described above. DNA transfections may be carried out in a variety of other cell sources as well see below . Multi CSF activity comprises testing for the ability to act on multipotential progenitor cells, or a number of lineage restricted cells, or both. See generally Iscove, N. Bone marrow cells can be harvested from the femurs of C57B1 6 mice. The cells are washed once and a single cell suspension prepared in Iscove s modified Dulbecco s Medium, IMDM GIBCO, Grand Island, New York 3 Fetal Calf Serum FCS GIBCO . The single cell suspension is plated in plastic tissue culture dishes and incubated 1 2 hours in a 37 C incubator with 6 CO₂ to allow cells to adhere to the dish. The non adherent cells are then removed and in some cases placed over a discontinuous Percoll Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO gradient consisting of 2 ml layers of 40 , 50 , 60 , 70 Percoll solution as reported by Kakiuchi CFU c s can be assayed by using a modification of the methyl cellulose procedure of Iscove The above procedure is acceptable, with the following modifications. Either at the time of plating in methyl cellulose or 3 days later, sheep erythropoietin Step III, Connaught Medical Research Laboratories, Philadelphia, PA is added at a concentration of 0.5 1 unit per plate. Erythroid containing colonies BFU E or CFU E are scored after 10 14 days from time of plating as colonies containing visibly read elements. Individual colonies are extracted and stained as above for morphological analysis. Bone marrow is extracted from femur bones of C57B1 6 mice. Cells are washed twice with Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DME GIBCO and either injected immediately into the tail vein of lethally irradiated 1000 rads C57B1 6 recipients or treated further. Treatment consists of the following various procedures 1 lysis of the cells with anti ϑ and complement, followed either by immediate injection into recipients, or by culture for various times under various conditions before injection 2 alternatively, no antiserum lysis is performed, and cells are placed immediately into culture under various conditions. The culture conditions can be as follows cells are resuspended at 1 x 10⁶ cells ml in medium consisting of DME GIBCO 2 ME 5 x 10 ⁵M , MEM Vitamins 1 100 GIBCO , non essential amino acids 1 100 GIBCO , L glutamine 1 100 GIBCO , penicillin streptomycin 1 100 GIBCO , a mix of arginine, asparagine, and folic acid, 15 FCS GIBCO , 2mM sodium pyruvate various factors to be tested for maintenance of CFU s final concentration 25 . This cell preparation is then plated in 24 well tissue culture plates Falcon at 1 ml well and incubated in a 37 C 10 CO₂ incubator for various times minimum of 7 days . Every 3 4 days, non adherent cells are removed, spun down, resuspended in fresh media containing the appropriate factor, and replated. For assays in which incubation lasted more than 7 days, cells are moved up to larger plastic tissue culture vessels in order to maintain all non adherent cells at a concentration not exceeding 5 x 10⁵ per ml. At the end of incubation, cells are washed twice and resuspended in DME no supplements and injected into the tail vein of lethally irradiated C57B1 6 mice. Cells are injected either at specific viable cell numbers or at specific volume fraction of the culture. Nine to twelve days following injection, spleens are excised and placed in Borin s fixative Mallinkrodt, St. Louis, MO . Spleen colonies are scored as visible nodules on the spleen surface with the aid of a dissecting microscope 4x . DNA clones of rodent genes have been used to identify and isolate DNA encoding the homologous human genes. Because of the relatively low degree of homology between human and rodent genes, the stringency of hybridization conditions must be adjusted to allow for cross hybridization between sequences which are only 75 80 homologous. Several different experimental protocols have been used to achieve this purpose. For example, the human C A preferred method entails plating γ phage clones from a library of human genomic DNA Maniatis, T. After 10 12 hours incubation at 37 C, the plates are refrigerated for two hours and then a 132 mm nitrocellulose filter is applied to the agar surface of each plate. The filter is allowed to remain in contact with the plate for at least five minutes, during which time the filters are keyed to the plates by puncturing with an ink filled 22 gauge needle. The filters are then peeled from the plates and incubated successively for at least two minutes first in 250 ml of 0.1 N NaOH, 0.5 M NaCl then in 250 ml of 0.5 M Tris HCl pH 7.5, 1.5 M NaCl. The filters are dried on paper towels and then baked at 80 C for 4 8 hours. For hybridization, the filters are wetted in 1x SET 0.15 M NaCl, 30 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0, 1 mM Na₂EDTA , then incubated in a solution of 3x SET, 5x Denhardt s Denhardt, D.T., B.B.R.C. 23 641 646 1966 , 10 dextran sulfate, 0.1 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS , and 50 µg ml each poly rA , poly rC , and poly rG , at 65 C for 2 hrs 1.5 2 ml filter with constant agitation. This solution is then discarded, and the filters are hybridized with 0.5 µg 10⁸ cpm of a nick translated mouse DNA probe in the same solution fresh , 1.5 2 ml filter at 65 C for 1 hour and then at 55 C for 12 20 hours. The filters are then washed successively in 3x SET, 1x Denhardt s 0.1 SDS and 1x SET, 0.1 SDS 10 15 ml filter at 55 C for one hour with gentle agitation. The filters are dried on paper towels, then autoradiographed for 12 24 hours with appropriate film and an intensifying screen. Hybridizing plaques are picked from the agar plates with sterile pasteur pipets, and each is expelled into 1 ml of 0.1 M NaCl, 0.01 M Tris HCl pH 7.5, 10 mm MgCl₂, 100 µg ml gelatin, with 50 µl of CHCl₃ added. After at least 4 8 hours in the cold, the phages from each plaque are rescreened at low density 2000 4000 Plaques 150 mm plate by a procedure identical to that described above. In the same manner as described previously in the mouse system, positively hybridizing phage clones verified by re screening can then be used as a probe to screen random colonies from a human cDNA library. The human cDNA library should be prepared using RNA from an appropriate cellular source, such as human peripheral blood T lymphocytes see Gray, P. Prokaryotes, such as Those skilled in the art will realize that not only prokaryotes but also eukaryotic microbes, such as yeast, may also be used in protein production. In addition to microorganisms, cell cultures derived from multicellular organisms especially mammalian cells may also be used as hosts. Examples of such useful host cell lines are HeLa cells, Chinese hamster ovary cell lines, and baby hamster kidney cell lines. Expression vectors for such cells ordinarily include, as necessary, an origin of replication, a promoter located in front of the gene to be expressed, along with any required ribosome binding sites, RNA splice sites, polyadenylation sites, and transcriptional terminator sequences. When used in mammalian cells, the expression vector often has control functions provided by viral material. For example, commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma, Adenovirus 2, and most frequently SV 40. See generally U.S.P. 4,399,216, WO 81 02425 and WO 83 03259. To express cDNA clones of the present invention in To express an MCGF or multi CSF cDNA clone in yeast, the The multi CSF and MCGF polypeptides expressed in For preparing pharmaceutical compositions containing the polypeptides described by this invention, these polypeptides are compounded by admixture with preferably inert, pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Suitable carriers and processes for their preparation are well known in the art see e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences and U.S. Pharmacopeia National Formulary, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, PA 1980 . The preferred course of administration is parenteral and can include use of mechanical delivery systems. Preferably, the pharmaceutical composition is in unit dosage form. In such form, the preparation is subdivided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of the active component. The quantity of active compound in a unit dose of preparation may be varied or adjusted from 1 µg. to 100 mg., according to the particular application and the potency of the active ingredient. The composition can, if desired, also contain other therapeutic agents. The dosages may be varied depending upon the requirement of the patient, the severity of the condition being treated and the particular compound being employed. Determination of the proper dosage for a particular situation is within the skill of the art. Generally, treatment is initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter, the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached. For convenience, the total daily dosage may be divided and administered in portions during the day if desired. The following experimental information and data are offered by way of example and not by way of limitation. Frozen cell pellets from uninduced or ConA induced Cl.Ly 1 2 9 were suspended in guanidine isothiocyanate lysis solution. Twenty ml of lysis solution was used for 1 2 x 10⁸ cells. Pellets were resuspended by pipetting, then DNA was sheared by 4 passes through a syringe using a 16 gauge needle. The lysate was layered on top of 20 ml of 5.7 M CsCl, 10 mM EDTA in 40 ml polyallomer centrifuge tube. This solution was centrifuged at 25,000 rpm in a Beckman SW28 rotor Beckman Instruments, Inc., Palo Alto, CA for 40 hrs at 15 C. The guanidine isothiocyanate phase containing DNA was pipetted off from the top, down to the interface. The walls of the tube and interface were washed with 2 3 ml of guanidine isothiocyanate lysis solution. The tube was cut below the interface with scissors, and the CsCl solution was decanted. RNA pellets were washed twice with cold 70 ethanol. Pellets were then resuspended in 500 µl of 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 0.05 SDS. 50 µl of 3M sodium acetate was added and RNA was precipitated with 1 ml ethanol. The RNA was collected by centrifuging and the pellets washed once with cold ethanol. Washed and dried total RNA pellet was resuspended in 900 µl of oligo dT elution buffer 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5 SDS . RNA was heated for 3 min. at 68 C and then chilled on ice. 100 µl of 5 M NaCl was added. The RNA sample was loaded onto a 1.0 ml oligo dT cellulose column Type 3, Collaborative Research, Waltham, MA equilibrated with binding buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5 M NaCl, 0.5 SDS. . Flow through from the column was passed over the column twice more. The column was then washed with 20 ml binding buffer. Poly A mRNA was collected by washing with elution buffer. RNA usually eluted in the first 2 ml of elution buffer. RNA was precipitated with 0.1 volume 3 M sodium acetate pH 6 and two volumes of ethanol. The RNA pellet was collected by centrifugation, washed twice with cold ethanol, and dried. The pellet was then resuspended in water. Aliquots were diluted, and absorbance at 260 nm was determined. 100 µl containing 100 µg of poly A mRNA from D. 2 was heated at 65 C for 1 min. and then layered onto a 10 ml 5 25 sucrose gradient 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 100 mM NaCl, and 1 mM EDTA . The gradient was centrifuged in a Beckman SW41 rotor at 26,000 rpm for 19 hours at 5 C. 450 µl fractions were collected, precipitated with 2 volumes of ethanol and resuspended for injection into oocytes see below . A parallel gradient was layered with a mixture of radio labelled ³H uridine ribosomal RNA BRL, Bethesda, MA centrifuged as described above, and 450 µl fractions were counted in the scintillation counter. The size fractionated Poly A mRNA, following injection in Oocytes were removed from female The assay results from supernatants collected from untreated or ConA stimulated Cl.Ly 1 2 9 cells are shown in Table I. Titration of all samples, including the reference standard, was performed in triplicate. One unit of MCGF is the amount of factor that results in 15 of the maximal level of ³H thymidine incorporation obtained using Cl.Ly 1 2 9 supernatant. The procedure of Okayama Berg Mol. Cell. Biol. 2 161 170 1982 was used with only minor modifications and adapted to the pcDV1 and pL1 plasmids described by Okayama Berg Mol. Cell. Biol. 3 380 389 1983 . An 80 µg sample of pcDV1 DNA was digested at 30 C with 20 U of The oligo dG tailed linker DNA was prepared by digesting 75 µg of pL1 DNA with 20 U of The reaction mixture 10 µl contained 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3, 8 mM MgCl₂, 30 mM KCl, 0.3 mM dithiothreitol, 2 mM each dATP, dTTP, dGTP, and dCTP, 20 µCi ³²P dCTP 3000 Ci mmole , 2 µg polyA RNA from Con A induced Cl.Ly 1 2 9, 60 units RNase Biotec, Inc., Madison, WI , and 2 µg of the vector primer DNA 15 pmol of primer end , and 45 U of reverse transcriptase. The reaction was incubated 60 min at 42 C and then stopped by the addition of 1 µl of 0.25 M ETDA pH 8.0 and 0.5 µl of 10 SDS 40 µl of phenol CHCl₃ was added, and the solution was blended vigorously in a Vortex mixer and then centrifuged. After adding 40 µl of 4 M ammonium acetate and 160 µl of ethanol to the aqueous phase, the solution was chilled with dry ice for 15 min., warmed to room temperature with gentle shaking to dissolve unreacted deoxynucleoside triphosphates that had precipitated during chilling, and centrifuged for 10 min. in an Eppendorf microfuge. The pellet was dissolved in 10 µl of 10mM Tris HCl pH 7.3 and 1 mM EDTA, mixed with 10 µl of 4 M ammonium acetate, and reprecipitated with 40 µl of ethanol, a procedure which removes more than 99 of unreacted deoxynucleoside triphosphates. The pellet was rinsed with ethanol. The pellet containing the plasmid cDNA mRNA was dissolved in 20 µl of 140 mM sodium cacodylate 30 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 buffer containing 1 mM CoCl₂, 0.1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.2 µg of poly A , 70 µM dCTP, 5 µCi ³²P dCTP, 3000 Ci mmole, and 60 U of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. The reaction was carried out at 37 C for 5 min. to permit the addition of 10 to 15 residues of dCMP per end and then terminated with 2 µl of 0.25 M EDTA pH 8.0 and 1 µl of 10 SDS. After extraction with 20 µl of phenol CHCl₃, the aqueous phase was mixed with 20 µl of 4 M ammonium acetate, the DNA was precipitated and reprecipitated with 80 µl of ethanol, and the final pellet was rinsed with ethanol. The pellet was dissolved in 30 µl of buffer containing 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 7 mM MgCl₂, 60 mM NaCl, and 0.1 mg of BSA per ml and then digested with 10 U of A 9 µl sample of the To replace the RNA strand of the insert, the ligation mixture was adjusted to contain 40 µM of each of the four deoxynucleoside triphosphates, 0.15 mM β NAD, 4 µg of additional Transformation was carried out using minor modifications of the procedure described by Cohen Approximately 1 x 10⁶ independent cDNA clones were generated and, of these, 10,000 clones were picked up individually and inoculated into wells of microtiter plates containing 200 µl of L broth, 50 µg ml ampicillin, and 7 DMSO. Random pools of approximately 1000 clones each were generated, and plasmid DNA prepared for hybrid selection experiments. Hybrid selections were performed with eight cDNA plasmid preparations, taken from the random pools described above. All plasmid DNAs were linearized by digestion with 0.9 cm Millipore HAWP filters wet with distilled water were fitted into Schleicher and Schuell microfiltration apparatus. The denatured and neutralized DNA solution from above was filtered through by centrifugation at 500 rpm for 5 min. Filters were washed with 1 ml of 6xSSC 0.15 M NaCl, 0.015 M Na citrate and then air dried before baking 2 hrs. at 80 C. Hybridizations were performed in 200 µl containing 65 v v redistilled formamide, 20 mM PIPES, pH 6.4, 0.4 M NaCl, 200 µg ml calf liver tRNA, and 100 µg ml polyA mRNA from ConA induced Cl.Ly 1 2 9. Each hybridization solution was heated for 3 min at 70 C and then two DNA filters 10 µg DNA filter were cut into quarters and added to the solution. Hybrids were incubated at 50 C for 4 hours followed by 4 hour incubations at 46 and 42 C. After this period the supernatants were removed and the filters washed 3 times with 1 ml of 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 0.15M NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 0.5 SDS. This was followed by three 1 ml washes with the same buffer lacking SDS. Both buffers were kept at 65 for the washes. To elute the hybridized mRNA, 400 µl of distilled water with 5 µg calf liver tRNA was added to the vial with the filters. The tubes were boiled for 3 min and then quick chilled in dry ice ethanol. Samples were thawed and the eluted RNA precipitated with 2 volumes of ethanol and 0.1 volume 3M Na acetate pH 6 . RNA pellets were collected by centrifugation and washed twice with 70 ethanol. The dried pellets were resuspended in 2 µl of oocyte injection buffer and the entire sample was injected into oocytes see above . Of 8 initial pools which were screened in this manner, several were positive, and one pool showing the highest level of MCGF activity was chosen for further analysis. This pool, which consisted of 672 individual clones, was subdivided further into 14 sub pools of 48 clones each. Plasmid DNA from these sub pools was used in a second series of hybrid selections. Only one of these sub pools gave a positive signal. The 48 clones were then screened with the two subtracted cDNA probes as described below. 2 µg of polyA mRNA from the MCGF peak fraction of the sucrose gradient from above was resuspended in 2 µl of water. This was heated for 5 min at 65 C, then added to a reaction containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.3, 8 mM MgCl₂, 30 mM KCl, 0.7 mM DTT, 1 mM each of dATP, dGTP and dTTP, 34 µM dCTP, 10 µg ml oligo 12 18 dT Collaborative Research , 100 µg ml Actinomycin D, 500 µCi α³²P dCTP Amersham, 3000 Ci mmole and 150 units reverse transcriptase Life Sciences, Inc., St. Petersburg, FL in a total volume of 100 µl. Following a 2 hr incubation at 40 C, 0.5 µl of the reaction was removed for precipitation in trichloroacetic acid to determine the amount of ³²P incorporated. Then, 100 µl of 0.2 N NaOH was added, and the sample was heated 20 min at 70 C to hydrolyze the RNA. After cooling, the reaction was neutralized with 20 µl of 1 N HCl, and 4 µl of 1 mg ml tRNA was added as carrier. The sample was extracted twice with an equal volume of phenol chloroform 1 1 . It was then precipitated with an equal volume of 4 M ammonium acetate and 2 volumes of ethanol. The pellet was resuspended in 100 µl water, the precipitation repeated, and the pellet washed twice with 80 ethanol. ³²P cDNA synthesized as described above was co precipitated with 20 µg of polyA mRNA from WEHI 3 and 20 µl of poly A mRNA from a B cell hybridoma. The pellet was resuspended in 7 µl water, 1 µl 4 M Na phosphate pH 7, 0.1 µl 20 SDS, and 0.1 µl 0.1M EDTA, and then the entire sample was sealed in a capillary tube. The sample was heated 30 min at 90 C, then shifted to 68 C for 14 hrs Cot 5000 . The hybridization mixture was then diluted to 1 ml with 0.12 M sodium phosphate pH 7.0 and 0.1 SDS, and the temperature of the mixture raised to 60 C. The mixture was then loaded on a column of 0.4 gm hydroxyapatite equilibrated in the same buffer and kept at 60 C. The flowthrough was collected and the column was then washed with 5 ml of the same buffer at 60 C. 1 ml fractions were collected and 1 µl aliquots of each fraction were counted in a scintillation counter. The peak of single stranded cDNA in fractions 2, 3, and 4 was pooled. This material, representing 66.5 of the starting ³²P cDNA, was concentrated to 0.4 ml by extraction with 2 butanol and then desalted by chromatography on a 2 ml Sephadex G 25 column. The desalted sample from above was concentrated by ethanol precipitation and then co precipitated with 9.5 µg of poly A mRNA from uninduced Cl.Ly 1 2 9. The washed and dried pellet was resuspended in 10 µl water, 1.5 µl 4M sodium phosphate pH 7, 0.15 µl 20 SDS and 0.15 µl 0.1 M EDTA. The sample was incubated in a sealed capillary tube for 30 min at 90 C and then at 68 C for 20 hr. Chromatography on hydroxyapatite was repeated as described above. The single stranded cDNA which eluted from the column at 60 C represented 17 of the starting material. This ³²P cDNA was used for colony hybridizations of the 48 colonies in the sub pool identified by hybrid selections. Three colonies hybridized with the probe and were used for further hybrid selection. One of these, designated clone 5G, was reproducibly positive. 30 µg of plasmid DNA representing the entire cDNA library pcD X DNA was digested separately with the restriction enxymes DNA was eluted from each gel slice using the glass powder method of Vogelstein and Gillespie Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 76 615 619 1970 . The eluted DNAs from the 3 digests were pooled on the basis of size, and treated with T4 ligase to recyclize in a total volume of 15 µl containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 10 mM MgCl₂, 10 mM DTT, 1 mM spermidine, 1 mM ATP and 100 µg ml BSA. The ligation reactions were incubated 16 hr at 12 C. 3 µl of each combined size fraction was used to transform Preliminary restriction endonuclease analysis, as well as DNA sequence data, indicated that the cDNA insert for clone 5G identified by hybrid selection was approximately 650 base pairs long. An internal We therefore used the same probe from the 5G cDNA insert to screen the sub library enriched for 1 2 kb inserts from above . We employed the method of Hanahan and Moselson Gene, 10 63 1980 as described by Maniatis, T. Approximately 20,000 colonies were screened and 19 colonies were reproducibly positive following rescreening with the probe. Plasmid DNA from these colonies was prepared and used in transfection experiments. One day prior to transfection, approximately 10⁶ COS 7 monkey cells were seeded onto individual 60 mm plates in DME containing 10 fetal calf serum and 2 M glutamine. To perform the transfection, the medium was aspirated from each plate and replaced with 1.5 ml of DME containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4, 400 µg ml DEAE Dextran and 15 µg of the plasmid DNAs to be tested. The plates were incubated for four hours at 37 C, then the DNA containing medium was removed, and the plates were washed twice with 2 ml of serum free DME. 2.0 ml of DME containing 4 fetal calf serum and 2 mM glutamine was added to the plates, which were then incubated 72 hours at 37 C. The growth medium was collected and assayed for MCGF activity as described above. Five of the six initial positive clones were examined by transfection and the results are shown in Table II. Mock infected COS 7 cells were treated identically, but omitting DNA. A plasmid pcD MCGF carrying a full length MCGF and multi CSF see below cDNA insert is shown in Figure 3, and an Three cDNA inserts contain a single open reading frame consisting of 166 codons beginning with the methionine codon at position 28. In addition to this putative initiation codon, two other methionine codons occur, 12 and 18 codons downstream from the first. A fourth cDNA clone starts 40 base pairs downstream from the 5 ends of the other three inserts. This shorter cDNA clone lacks the first methionine codon but still makes active MCGF upon introduction into COS cells. Thus, one of the two ATG codons downstream can apparently serve as the initiation codon. Clone B9 expressed in COS 7 cells COS MCGF was used to evaluate, in the absence of other T cell products, its spectrum of activities. The expressed material is not mitogenic for T or B cells, fails to induce immunoglobulin production by B cells Table III , and does not induce macrophage Ia expression. However, this gene product does stimulate the formation of hematopoietic colonies in bone marrow cells suspended in methylcellulose, demonstrating that a single gene product can exhibit both MCGF and colony stimulating activities. Specifically, the expressed B 9 clone was tested under conditions which allow generation of BFU E, CFU G M and CFU Mixed. Table III shows that three types of colonies could be identified and enumerated in cultures of bone marrow cells incubated with the expressed material. The most prevalent type consisted of colorless colonies lacking hemoglobinized elements. Their morphology was typical of granulocyte macrophage colonies, the existence of which was later confirmed by histochemical staining. Also present were some large macroscopic colonies containing a multicentric arrangement of uniformly red cell clusters, which were designated BFU E. We further observed a few colonies containing hemoglobinized cells mixed with large and small translucent cells, which were counted as mixed. The composition of these various colonies was analyzed by applying selected colonies to glass slides and staining with Wright Giemsa or nonspecific esterase stains. Over 300 colonies were examined. The majority of these colonies 89 were composed of granulocytes, macrophages or a granulocyte macrophage mixture, while four percent consisted of mast cells. The remainder were composed of mixed lineages other than neutrophil macrophage. Differential counts of 10 representative mixed colonies compiled from several experiments are presented in Table IV. The presence of several cell types within single colonies suggests that these colonies derive from pluripotent progenitor cells. The effects of the expressed B 9 clone were assessed on early uncommitted stem cells according to a CFU S assay of Till and McCullock Radiat. Res., 14 213 222 1961 , as modified by Schrader, J., and Clark Lewis, I. J. of Immunol., 129 30 35 1982 . When non adherent bone marrow cells, depleted of T cells, were incubated for one week in COS MCGF medium and injected by vein into lethally irradiated mice, macroscopic colonies appeared in the spleen Table V . In contrast, cells incubated in supernatants of mock transfected COS 7 cells formed no colonies. Light density 1.077 C57B1 6 bone marrow cells treated with anti Thyl antibody and complement were plated at 1 x 10⁶ cells ml in Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium supplemented with 20 fetal calf serum, 50 µM 2 ME and 30 conditioned medium, as indicated above. Non adherent cells were removed three times during the one week incubation period and replated in fresh medium. The cells were harvested after one week, washed twice and diluted to the original culture volume in phosphate buffered saline. Each lethally irradiated 1,000 R C57B1 6 recipient was ejected i.v. with 0.1 ml of the cell suspension. After 9 days, the spleens were removed and the spleen nodules were counted using a dissecting microscope. To summarize, in addition to the mast cell growth factor activity characterized initially, COS MCGF has erythroid burst promoting activity and allows expansion of stem cells and early committed progenitor cells of several lineages, including monocytic granulocytic, erythroid and megakaryocytic cells. This range of activities indicates that the cDNA clones of the present invention encode proteins having the characteristics of growth factors for hematopoietic cells for multiple lineages. From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that the cDNA clones of the present invention provide accurate and complete sequence data on mammalian multi CSF and mast cell growth factors. The invention also provides to those skilled in the art means for producing significant quantities of such factors essentially free from other hematopoietic factors for the improved