# Method of preparing DNA complementary to the genome of coronaviruses.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a new and fast method of prepar ing synthetic DNA s which correspond to genome RNA or to messenger RNA s m RNA s of coronaviruses. The proteins obtained after expression of the so obtained synthetic DNA s can be used for the preparation of vaccines. According to this new method among others vaccines against infectious bronchitis virus, feline infectious peritonitis virus, and transmitable gastroenteritis virus can be obtained.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A method of preparing synthetic cDNA s or for the determination of nucleotide sequences of coronaviruses, characterized in that cDNA s are prepared which correspond to genome RNA or mRNA s with the use of a primer for the synthesis of the first cDNA strand which binds to the repeating intergenic sequences in the genome RNA or the mRNA s, and, if desired, using as a starting point a primer for the synthesis of the second cDNA strand which is homolgous to a part of the leader occurring in each of the RNA s. 2. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characaterized in that 3 TAGATTAGATTTGA 5 is used as a first strand primer and 5 TACCCTCTCAACTCTAAAAC 3 is used as a second stand primer. 3. A method as claimed in Claim 1 or 2, characterized in that cDNA s of the mous hepatitis virus strain A59 are prepared. 4. A method as claimed in claims 1 3, characterized in that cDNA s of the mouse hepatitis virus strain A59 are prepared. 5. A method as claimed in Claim 1, characterized in that cDNA s of the coronoviruses infectious bronchitis IB virus, feline infectious peritonitis FIP virus or trans mutable gastroenteritis TGE virus are prepared. 6. cDNA s obtained by means of the method as claimed inClaims 1 5. 7. A method of preparing coronovirus proteins, characterized in that peplomer proteins and or matrix envelope proteins, or parts thereof are prepared by using the method as claimed in Claims 1 5. 8. Proteins or parts thereof oligopeptides obtained by means of the method as claimed in Claim 7. 9. A vaccine comprising at least one protein or oligopeptide of c ainì 8.

## Description
Method of preparing vaccines against coronaviruses.The invention relates to a new and fast method of preparing synthetic DNA s which correspond to genomic RNA or to messenger RNA s mRNA s of coronaviruses. The DNA molecule obtained according to the method of the invention can be introduced into a cloning vector which is capable of bringing DNA molecules to expression after the cloning vector has been brought in a suitable host cell by transformation. The product protein obtained after expression may be used for the preparation of a vaccine which stimulates the formation of antibodies or a cellular immune response against coronaviruses.Another application of the method according to the invention is that the nucleotide sequences of the viral RNA s can be determined from the DNA clones, after which synthetic oligopeptide vaccines which provide protection against diseases caused by coronaviruses can be prepared by means of the knowledge of said nucleotide sequences.The method of the invention may also be used for the direct determination of the nucleotide sequence of viral RNA s by using a DNA primer which binds to the RNA. Said primer then serves as a starting point for the sequencing reaction.Up till now, virus vaccines have been prepared on the basis of either attenuated live virus, or inactivated virus.Such vaccines comprises the whole virus particle.It has further been tried to prepare a so called sub unit vaccine from a few viruses. Such vaccines do not comprises the whole virus particle, but only one or a few immunogenically active virus proteins. The latest development in the field of the vaccine preparation is the use of recombinant DNA techniques. DNA molecules which comprise completely or partly the nucleotide sequence of the virus genome, can be introduced into a cloning vector. When such cloning vectors are introduced into a suitable host cell by transformation, the virus DNA can come to expression. The proteins to be obtained in this manner may be used for the preparation of vaccines.Copy DNA cDNA molecules from positive stranded RNA viruses have so far been obtained by initiating priming the reaction with oligo dT which binds to the poly A stretch located at the 3 end of the virion RNA or of the mRNA s.By means of this known technique it is easier to obtain recombinant DNA clones which correspond to the 3 end of the genome than with the 5 end. That this is true may appear from the fact that for the most intensively studied coronaviruses, i.e. mouse hepatitis virus strain A 59 MHV A59 , so far only the nucleotide sequence of genes coding for the N and E1 protein, which are located at the extreme 3 end of the genome have been described. The genetic information which codes for the E2 molecules which elicite neutralising antibodies, is much more difficult to clone and sequence.A method has now been found by means of which synthetic cDNA s which correspond to genome RNA or mRNA s of coronaviruses can rapidly be obtained.Recent research has shown that the 6 subgenomic mRNA s of mouse hepatities virus MHV which are synthesized together with the positive stranded genome in the cyto plasma of the host cells are composed of a leader sequence and a body sequence which are joined together by a mechanism which is analogous to, but differs clearly from, the mechanism found in conventional RNA splicing. This mechanism involves that non contiguous sequences are joined to produce functional mRNA in the cytoplasma of coronavirus infected cells.Corona viruses are eveloped positive stranded RNA viruses.The genome RNA is linear and 15,000 20,000 bases in length. Of the corona viruses, MHV strain A59 has been studied most intensively. MHV replicates in the cell cytoplasma and viral genetic information is expressed in infected cells as one genome RNA and several sub genomic mRNA s. These mRNA s are formed in non equimolar amounts but in a relatively constant proportion during the infection period see J.L. Leibowitz et al., Virology 114 1981 , pp. 39 51 . By analysis of oligonucleotides obtained after RNase T1 digestion of viral RNA it was found that the T1 oligonucleotides 10 and 19 from mRNA7 of the MHV strain A59 for the nomenclature used seeM.M.C. Lai et al, J.Virol. 41 1982 , . 557 565 are not present in the corresponding 3 end of the genome seeW.J.M. Spaan et al, J.Virol. 42 1982 , E. 432 439 .This might be an indication that these oligonucleotides are derived from a leader sequence which all mRNA s have in common. Oligonucleotide 10 was found in the larger mRNA s and in genome RNA, but for oligonucleotide 19, mRNA specific electrophoretic mobility differences could be demonstrated. This oligonucleotide is present in mRNA7, mRNA6 and mRNA5 as oligonucleotide 19, 19a and 3a, respectively.The oligonucleotides 19 and 19a have a strongly resembling base composition. Oligonucleotide 17 which has been found in mRNA6 and in larger mRNA s, but no in mRNA7, also has a base composition which resembles that of oligonucleotides 19 and 19a see J. Armstrong et al, Nucl.Acids Res. 11 1983 , . 883 891 . At the 5 end the mRNA s have at least 5 nucleotides in common with each other. These data can be represented in the model of Figure 1. InFigure 1 the symbols and AN represent the 5 terminal structures and the 3 terminal polyadenylate structures, respectively. RNase T1 resistant oligonucleotides are indicated by numbers. The sequences X and Y have not yet been identified. E1 matrix envelope protein and N nucleocapside protein are the translation products of mRNA6 and 7, respectively. The boxed regions are represented on a larger scale than the other region of the mRNA s.In the model of Figure 1 the sequences which are present at the 5 end of genome RNA or mRNAl have also to be present at the 5 end of each sub genomic mRNA. These sequences will hereinafter be referred to as leaders Based on the above findings, MHV A59 nucleotide 10 will have to be present in these sequences. A part of the MHV A59 oligonucleotides 19 and l9a will also have to be present within the leader, but differences will arise from fusion of the leader sequences with the various bodies of the mRNA s. Oligonucleotide 17 will represent sequences at the 5 end of the mRNA7 body, part of which is lost in building up mRNA7 but not, for example, in that of mRNA6. The model of Figure 1 was tested by means of electronmicroscopic analysis of hybrids which are formed between single stranded cDNA copied from mRNA7 with genomic RNA or mRNA6. The data obtained in this manner strongly support the model of Figure 1.The model of Figure 1 is also confirmed by the differences found in the nucleotide sequence of the region immediately upstream of the nucleocapside gene present both in mRNA7 and in the genome.Further support for the Figure 1 model was found by direct determination of the sequence at the 5 end of mRNA7 which has to be indentical to the correspoding region of the genome of MHV A59.The above described findings are summarized in Figures 2 and 3. Figure 2 relates to the location of the fusion site of body and leader of MHV A59 mRNA s. The sequences were determined as follows RNA7 by direct sequencing on the RNA with a DNA primer genome mRNAl by sequencing of a recombinant cDNA clone so oligonucleotide 19a by looking for maximum homology with the two preceding sequences.From this it will be clear that the 5 end of the MHV A59 mRNA7 body cannot extend beyond position 21, the site of divergence of mRNA7 and the genome. As stated above, T oligonuclotide 19a which is specific for mRNA6 and T1 oligonucleotide 19 which is specific form mRNA7 have a very similar base composition. By predicting the sequence of l9a from the base composition see M.M.C. Lai et al,J.Virol. 41 1982 , E.557 565 , and comparison with theMHV A59 sequence between the positions 24 and 2 Figure 2 it can be seen that the 3 terminus of the leader sequence fused to mRNA6 cannot extend beyond the first base difference read from 5 to 3 in oligonucleotides 19 and 19a.From this it follows that for MHV A59 the fusion of leader and body sequences producing the oligonucleotides 19 and l9a takes place somewhere within the sequence 5 AAUCUAAUCUAAACU 3 . Hence everthing indicates that the repeating palindrome AUCUA or the sequence AAUCU during the fusion process serves as a recognition signal.The available data can be explained by means of a polymerase jumping mechanism see J.Perrault, Curr.Top.Microbi ol.Immunol. 93 1981 , 151 207 . Such a mechanism involves the synthesis of a short RNA transcript from the 3 end of the regatively stranded template . The polymerase leader complex or the leader alone is then translocated to an internal position on the negatively stranded template where the transcription is resumed. This translocation may or may not involve dissociation of the leader from the template.The above described mechanism is surprising not only from a scientific point of view, but it also opens up new routes for the preparation of cDNA molecules of specific genes, and for determining the sequence of these genes.This will be demonstrated with reference to MHV A59 as an example. As has been demonstrated hereinbefore, the fusion between the leader and the body sequence takes place in the sequence 5 AAUCUAAUCUAAACU 3 . This sequence is present in the internal region of the genome between gene F and gene G. The invention is also based on the fact that this sequence may be assumed to be present also, either completely or partly in the other intergene regions. This menas that a primer molecule which is complementary to this sequence or a part thereof for example, 3 TAGATTAGATTTGA 5 may be used as a starting point for the preparation of cDNA or for establishing the sequence thereof. When genome RNA is used, this will result in the synthesis of a number of discrete single stranded cDNA molecules having dimensions which are characteristic of the gene to which they correspond.The correct DNA molecule can be selected, after which the second strand can be synthesised and cloned.It is also possible to bind the same primer to a purified mRNA 1 to 7 . When the correct concentration is used, this will bind in an internal position, but not in the leader, so that among others single stranded cDNA molecules are obtained corresponding to the region of the mRNA which is not present in the next following smaller mRNA.This cDNA molecule can be isolated and a second strand may be made by priming with a nucleotide which corresponds to RNase T1 oligonucleotide 10 5 TACCCTCTCAACTCTAAAAC 3 or a similar molecule from that region. The invention will now be described in greater detail with reference to the ensuing specific examples.EXAMPLE IRNA6 was isolated from cells infected with MHV A59 as described by W.J.M. Spaan et al in J.Virol. 42 1983 , 422 439 and used as a matrix for the synthesis of cDNA.The above mentioned primer 3 TAGATTAGATTTGA 5 was used as a starting point for the first DNA strain. The reaction mixture 10 ul contained 1 ug of RNA, 50 ng of primer and in addition 50 mM of Tris HCl pH 8.3 , 50 mM of KC1, 8 mM of MgC12, lmM of dithiothreitol, 2 units ug of RNA reverse transcriptase J.W. Beard, J.Virol. 29, 517 522 1979 , 500 uM each of dCTP, dGTP, and TTP, 250 uM of dATP 32 and 5 10 uCi of alpha P dATP The Radiochemical CentreAmersham, England 400 400 Ci mmmol . The mixture was then incubated at 42 C for 30 minutes. The cDNA formed was analysed via gel electrophoresis. There was a major product of the expected size approximately 770 bases .In order to be able to monitor the synthesis of the secondDNA strand, the experiment was repeated with the following concentrations of desoxynucleotide triphosphonates in the reaction mixture 500 uM of dATP, dGTP and TTP each, 200 uM of dCTP and 25 uCi of 3H dCTP 21 Ci mmol the Radiochemical Centre Amersham, England . After the synthesis of the first cDNA strand, the RNA template was hydroxlyzed by alkaline treatment. 0.5 M EDTA pH 8.0 and 150 mM of NaOH were added successively to the reaction mixture until a final concentration of 20 mM and 50 mM, respectively.After an incubation at 650C for 1 hour and at 370C for 8 hours, the mixture was neutralised and the cDNA was re isolated by extraction with phenol chloroform as described by T.Maniatis et al in Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1982, . 233. The composition of the reaction mixture for the synthesis of the second DNA strand 15 ul was 100 mM ofHepes KOH pH 6.9, 50 mM of KC1, 4 mM of MgC12, 0.5 mM ofDTT, 500 uM of dCTP, dGTP and TTP each, 250 uM of dATP, 32 5 10 uCi of alpha P dATP The Radiochemical Centre, Amersham, England 400 Ci mmol , 0.7 units of cDNA polymerase 1 Klenow enzyme, Boehringer Mannheim , 10 ng of cDNA to RNA6 and 100 ng of the primer 5 TACCCTCTCAACTCTAAAAC 3 . Before the addition of the heat labile components, the reaction mixture was heated to 960C for 10 minutes and then slowly cooled to stimulate the bonding of the DNA primer. After starting the reaction, incubation was carried out at 220C for 2 hours.The formed 2nd cDNA strand was analyzed by means of gel electrophoresis and proved to co migrate with the first cDNA strand.The conclusion is that RNA6 indeed comprises at its 5 end a sequence identical to the second strand primer. So this part must be identical to the 5 end of RNA7 on the guidance of which the primer was synthesized. Hence it is possible by means of the second strand primer to initiate the second cDNA strand of sub genomic messenger RNA s other than RNA7. EXAMPLE IIUsing the same method as described above a larger quantity of double stranded ds cDNA to RNA6 was prepared. For this purpose, instead of purified RNA6 so called poly A RNA s were used, prepared from Sac cells infected with MHV A59. This RNA preparation contains all viral mRNA s which in infected cells constitute approximately 5 of the total RNA in the cell. It was purified via chromatography over oligo dT cellulose. T. Maniatis et al,Molecular Clcning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, . 197 198 . The double stranded cDNA comprised, in addition to the above described products, also larger molecules, probably originating from the other mRNA s. Without a second strand primer no detectable DNA synthesis took place. After digestion T.Maniatis et al,Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring HarborLaboratory, . 104 106 of portions of the cDNA with the restriction enzymes RsaI or FnuDII the restriction fragments were cloned in the SmaI site of the replicative form of M13 mp9 DNA. Fragments obtained after digestion of cDNA with the restriction enzyme HpaII were cloned in the AccI site of the replicative form of M13 mp8 J. Messing, Genetic Engineering Principles and Methods 1982 ,Vol IV, 19 36, edited by J.K. Setlow and A. Hollaender,Plenum Press, New York . The fragments were ligated to the vector in a reaction mixture 15 ul containing 50 mM ofTris HCl pH 7.5 , 10 mM of MgC12, 0.5 mM of ATP, 10 mM of dithiothreitol, 50 ug ml of BSA, 1 mM of spermidine, 20 ng of vector linearized by SmaI or AccI , and 35 ng of cDNA digest.For sticky end ligation HpaII , 40 NewEngland Biolabs units of ligase New England Biolabs,Beverly, Massachusetts, USA were used per reaction, for blunt end ligation RsaI, FnuDII 400 units of ligase were used per reaction. Ligase reactions were carried out overnight at 40C. Subsequently competent Escherichia coliK12 JM 103 cells were transfected with the ligase reaction mixture. Lac plaques 3 11 of the overall number of plaques were isolated, and phage was grown up F. Sanger et al, J.Mol.Biol., 145 1980 , 161 178 , from which viral DNA was isolated after isolation phage DNA was used immediately for dideoxy sequence analysis of the cDNA insert using a single stranded DNA sequence P.L.Biochemicals, Inc. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA . Notably the sequence of the DNA clone RSA855 is relevant. This is shown in Figure 3 and compared with the corresponding leader sequence in RNA7. The data are in complete agreement with Example I and demonstrate that priming of the synthesis of the second strand of cDNA can indeed take place in the manner invented by means of the so called second strand primer 5 TACCCTCTCAACTCTAAAAC 3 .