# Plasmids and their preparation and use, and protoplast regenerated microorganisms containing such plasmids.

## Abstract
The invention provides novel plasmids pMZ 1 and pMR 2 obtainable from a microorganism or genus Micromono spora and a method for the preparation of the same by cultur ing a microorganism of the genus Micromonospora contain ing plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2 in a medium, lysing the cells of the culture, and isolating plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2 from the lyed cells. The plasmids pMZ 1 and pMR 2 are useful as vec tors in an axtinomycete host vector system e.g. in the pro duction of various physiologically active substances such as antibiotics from microorganisms of the genus Micromo nospora and other streptomycetes by genetic engineering.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A plasmid designated pMZ 1 which has a molecular weight of 6.4 0.2 megadaltons and has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Kpn I 1, Bam HI 1, Bgl II 2, Bcl I 2, Hpa 1 2, Eco RI 0, Hind III O, Pvu II O, Xho I O 2. A plasmid according to claim 1, which has the following restriction enzyme map EMI18.1 3. A plasmid designated pMR 2 which has a molecular weight of 7.4 i 0.2 megadaltons and has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Hind III Eco RI 1, Bcl I 1, Pvu II 1, Sma I 2 Bam HI 3, Hpa I O, Xho I O, Pst I O. 4. A plasmid according to claim 2, which has the following restriction enzyme map EMI19.1 5. A method for preparing a plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2, which comprises culturing a microorganism of the genus Micromonospora containing plasmid pMZ 1 or plasmid pMR 2 in a medium, lysing the cells of the culture, and isolating plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2 from the lysed cells. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the microorganism of the genus Micromonospora isMicromonospora zionensis NRRL 5466 or Micromonospora rosaria NRRL 3718. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein the microorganism of the genus Micromonospora is protoplastregenerated strain Micromonospora zionensis MCRL 6001 FERM BP 563 or protoplast regenerated strainMicromonospora rosaria MCRL 6101 FERM BP 564 . 8. A protoplast regenerated strain of the genusMicromonospora containing plasmid pMZ 1 or plasmid pMR 2. 9. A strain as claimed in claim 8 which isMicromonospora rosaria NRRL 3718 or Micromonospora rosaria MCRL 6101 FERM BP 564 . 10. The use of plasmid pMZ 1 or plasmid pMR 2 as a vector in a genetic engineering technique for the production of a desired substance, e.g. an antibiotic.

## Description
PLASMIDS AND THEIR PREPARATION AND USE, AND PROTOPLAST REGENERATED MICROORGANISMS CONTAINING SUCH PLASMIDS The present invention relates to novel plasmids and a method for the preparation thereof. More particularly, it relates to novel plasmids pMZ 1 and pMR 2. obtainable from microorganisms of the genus Micromonospora and to a method for the preparation of the same. It is well known in the Escherichia coli host vector system that an extrachromosomal gene plasmid is useful as a vector in genetic engineering. Recently, active studies on genetic engineering techniques have been made with a view to applying such techniques to the actinomycetes which are capable of producing various physiologically active substances such as antibiotics.However, since the useful actinomycetes produced products usually require sets of several enzymes for their biosynthesis, it is not easy to transfer all of the corresponding genes to Escherichia coli and to express the genes within the cells thereof. It has therefore been desired to obtain a vector for which actinomycetes microorganisms can be used as a host. Various attempts have been made to use some plasmids isolated from Actinomycetes. However, almost all of such attempts have been on microorganisms of the genus Streptomycetes e.g., Molecular and General Genetics, 185 1982 , 223 238 , and with respect to the genus Micromonospora only plasmid pATM 2 is known, which is obtained from Micromonospora coeruleaATCC 27008 cf. Japanese Patent First PublicationNo. 179196 1982 . The present invention is based upon the discovery, isolation and characterization of novel plasmids from antibiotic prcducing strains of the genus Micromonospora, i.e. aminoglycoside antibiotics producing strains and macrolide antibioticsproducing strains. The present invention provides a novel plasmid pMZ 1 which has a molecular weight of 6.4 0.2 megadaltons and has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Kpn I 1, Barn HI 1, รง II 2, Bcl I 2, Hpa I 2, Eco RI O, Hind III 0, Pvu II O, Xho I O and a novel plasmid pMR 2 which has a molecular weight of 7.4 0.2 megadaltons and has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Hind III 1, Eco RI 1, Bcl I 1, Pvu II 1, Sma I 2, Bam HI 3, Hpa I O, Xho I O, Pst I O. These plasmids can be prepared by cultivating a microorganism of the genus Micromonospora containing the plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2 in a medium, lysing the cells of the culture, and isolating the plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2 from the lysed cells. Plasmid pMZ 1 is a deoxyribonucleic acid having a molecular weight of 6.4 0.2 megadaltons and has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Restriction enzymes Number of cleavage sites Kpn I 1 Bam HI 1 Bql II 2 Bcl I 2 Hpa I 2 Eco RI O Hind III O Pvu II O Xho I 0 and has a restriction enzyme map as shown in the accompanying Fig. 1. Plasmid pMR 2 is a deoxyribonucleic acid having a molecular weight of 7.4 0.2 megadaltonsand has the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes Restriction enzymes Number of cleavage sites Hind III 1 Eco RI 1 Bcl I 1 Pvu II 1 Sma I 2 Bam HI 3 Hpa I 0 Xho I O Pst I O and has a restriction emzyme map as shown in the accompanying Fig. 2. The above mentioned restriction enzymes are referred to using abbreviat ions derived from the microorganisms from which they originate, as follows Bam HI Bacillus amyloliguefaciens H Bgl II Bacillus globigii Kpn I Klebsiella pneumoniae Hpa I Haemophilus parainfluenzae Hind III Haemophilus influenzae Eco RI Escherichia coli PY13 R1 Sma I Serratia marcescens Sb Bcl I Bacillus caldolyticus Pvu II Proteus vulgaris Xho I Xanthomonas holcicola Pst I Providencia stuartii These restriction ensymes are commercially available from Takara Shuzo K.K. Japan and New EnglandBiolabs. Co. U.S.A. . Microorganisms useful for the preparation of the plasmids of the present invention include all microorganisms of the genus Micromonospora containing the plasmid pMZ 1 or pMR 2, for example, Micromonospora zionensis or Micromonospora rosaria, more specifically,Micromonospora zionensis NRRL 5466 or Micromonospora rosari NRRL 3718, which are available from NorthernRegional Research Laboratory, U.S.A. The morphological characteristics of Micromonospora zionensis NRRL 5466 andMicromonospora rosaria NRRL 3718 are described in TheJournal of Antibiotics, 29, 483 487 1976 and ibid., 25, 641 646 1972 , respectively. Media useful for cultivating these microorganisms include any conventional medium wherein the microorganisms can grow retaining the plasmids within the cells. An example of the medium contains carbon sources such as e.g. glucose, sucrose, molasses, organic acids, dextrin or starches, nitrogen sources such as e.g. peptone, meat extract, bact.yeast extract manufactured by Difco,U.S.A. , Kazamino Acid manufactured by Difco, U.S.A. orNZ amine manufactured by Shefield, U.S.A. , and various inorganic salts such as e.g. phosphates, calcium salts, magnesium salts, potassium salts, sodium salts, manganese salts and iron salts. The medium may also contain e.g.vitamins and various amino acids, depending upon the microorganism strain used. The culture of the microorganisms can be carried out by conventional methods, for example, at a temperature of about 20 to 320C, preferably about 27 to 320C, for a period of time of about 3 to 10 days, preferably about 4 to 7 days. In order to obtain the desired plasmids in good efficiency, it is preferable to form protoplasts from the Micromonospora microorganism, to culture the protoplasts in a regeneration medium to obtain cells regenerated from the protoplasts, and then to culture the regenerated cells in a medium under the above conditions. Suitable examples of protoplast regenerated strains are Micromonospora zionensis MCRL 6001 deposition number at the Fermentation Research Institute, Agency ofIndustrial Science and Technology, Japan, under Budapest treaty FERM BP 563 and Micromonospora rosaria MCRL 6101 FERM BP 564 . Both of these strains were deposited at the Fermentation Research Institute on 11th July 1983.The morphological characteristics of Micromonospora zionensisMCRL 6001 FERM BP 563 are the same as those of the parent strain i.e., Micromonspora zionensis NRRL 5466 except that the former strain has only one kind of plasmid i.e., pMZ 1 whereas the latter strain has two kinds of plasmids. The morphological characteristics ofMicromonospora rosaria MCRL 6101 FERM BP 564 are the same as those of the parent strain i.e., Micromonospora rosaria NRRL 3718 except that the former strain has only one kind of plasmid i.e., pMR 2 whereas the latter strain has two kinds of plasmids. The formation and regeneration of such protoplasts can be carried out by a known method as used, for example, for streptomycete protoplasts cf. Journal ofGeneral Microbiology, 80, 389 400 1974 . In this method for formation of protoplasts, the buffer solution used, however, preferably has a comparatively lower concentration of salts than usual, e.g. a concentration of 1 mM to 10 mM of salts such as magnesium, calcium, potassium and sodium salts. Also, the medium used for the regeneration of protoplasts preferably has a comparatively lower concentration of sucrose than usual, e.g. a concentration of 0.2 to 0.3 M of sucrose. The protoplastregenerated strain can be obtained, for example, by cultivating the starting microorganism in a medium having a concentration of glycine e.g. 0.05 to 0.3 at which the growth of the microorganism is slightly inhibited, collecting the cells, lysing the cell walls of the cells with a cell lytic enzyme such as lysozyme in a buffer for the formation of protoplasts which contains e.g.sucrose, Mg and Ca to form protoplasts, and then cultivating the protoplasts thus formed in a medium for regeneration of protoplasts which contains sucrose at a concentration of 0.2 to 0.3 M. The cell lysis can be performed by using any conventional method, for example, using a cell lytic enzyme such as lysozyme, and various other enzymes can also be used e.g. Pronase E manufactured by Kaken yakuhin K.K., Japan or Ribonulease A manufactured byMiles Laboratories, South Africa for the purpose of eliminating proteins and ribonucleic acids, and various surfactants e.g. SDS manufactured by Wako Junyaku K.K.,Japan or sarcosin for the purpose of promoting the cell lysis. Isolation of the plasmids from the lysed cells can be carried out by known methods, for example, by the ethanol precipitation method, sucrose density gradient method, cesium chloride ethidium bromide equilibrium density gradient centrifugation method, dialysis, or by a combination of two or more of such methods. The thus obtained plasmids pMZ 1 and pMR 2 are autonomously replicable in Micromonospora zionensis,Micromonospora rosaria, or industrially useful homologous microorganisms, and have cleavage sites for various restriction enzymes, and hence they are useful as vectors for recombining genes which participate in the production of e.g. various useful physiological substances such as antibiotics from microorganisms of the genusMicromonospora and other steptomycetes. Recombination of a gene with the plasmids of the present invention to obtain a recombinant plasmid can be carried out by the conventional methods cf. ScientificAmerican, 233, 1, 24 33 1975 , and further, transformation of a host microorganism with the recombinant plasmid can also be carried out by conventional methods cf. Nature, 274, 398 400 1978 , Journal of Bacteriology, 151, 668 677 1982 . The present invention is illustrated by the following Example, but should not be construed to be limited thereto. In the Example, means w v unless specified otherwise. Example Preparation of plasmid pMZ 1 1 Preparation of protoplast Micromonospora zionensis NRRL 5466 strain is inoculated intoa 250 ml flask containing 50 ml of S medium glucose 1.0 , polykeptone 0.3 , bact. yeast extract 0.4 , magnesium sulfate heptahydrate 0.05 , dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 0.2 , disodium hydrogen phosphate dodecahydrate 0.8 and shake cultured at 320C for 6 days. The culture broth 8 ml is transferred to a 500 ml flask containing 100 ml of S medium containing additionally glycine 0.1 , and then shake cultured at 320C for 18 hours.The culture broth 8 ml is centrifuged 8,000 rpm, for 10 minutes, at 40C to collect the cells. The cells are washed with 17.1 sucrose 8 ml , and then again centrifuged likewise to collect the cells. The cells are suspended in M1 buffer 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.1 , 0.5 M sucrose, 5 mM magnesium chloride hexahydrate, 5 mM calcium chloride dihydrate, 5 mM sodium chloride and thereto is added lysozyme at a final concentration of 1 mg ml, and the mixture is cultured at 300C for 1 3 hours to obtain protoplasts. 2 Isolation of a protoplast regenerated strain containing pMZ 1 The protoplaststhus obtained are appropriately diluted with M1 buffer. The diluted protoplast 50l is spread on MR1 medium for regeneration 0.025 M DOTITE TES i.e. N tris hydroxymethyl methyl 2 aminoethanesulfonic acid, pH 7.2 with with NaOH , 0.2 M sucrose, glucose 1.0 , polypeptone 0.3 , bact. yeast extract 0.4 , magnesium chloride hexahydrate 0.3 , calcium chloride dihydrate 0.02 , L glutamine 0.2 , agar 1.8 and cultured at 30 C for 10 20 days to grow colonies. The colonies are transferred to MR1 agar slant medium, and further cultured at 320C for 7 10 days.Each colony thus obtained is inoculated into a test tube inner diameter 21 mm containing 10 ml of 0.1 glycine containing GPY medium glucose 1.0 , polypeptone 0.3 , bact. yeast extract 0.1 , NaC1 0.4 , magnesium sulfate heptahydrate 0.04 , dipotassium hydrogen phosphate 0.2 , disodium hydrogen phosphate dodecahydrate 0.8 and then subjected to reciprocal shake culture at 280C for 5 10 days. The culture broth 1 ml is placed in a 1.5 ml test tube manufactured by Eppendorf, Co. and centrifuged 12,000 rpm, for 5 minutes, at room temperature to collect the cells. The cells are suspended in 300gel1 of lysozyme solution which is prepared by dissolving lysozyme 2 mg ml in 0.05 M TES buffer 0.05 M Trisaminornethane HCl pH 7.4 , 0.05 M ethylenediamine tetraacetate EDTA , 0.05 M sodium chloride and then reacted at 370C for 20 30 minutes. To the reaction mixture is added 300 tL1 of a cell lytic solution 0.5 M sodium chloride, 2 SDS, 0.0625 M cyclohexanediamine tetraacetate and the mixture is reacted at 370C for 15 minutes to lyse the cells.To the reaction mixture is added 6007to of a phenol chloroform solution a lower layer of a solution prepared by mixing phenol 500 g, chloroform 500 ml, 0.5 N sodium hydroxide 200 ml, and 8 hydroxyquinoline 0.5 g , and the mixture is stirred with a vortex mixer for 30 60 seconds and centrifuged 12,000 rpm, for 5 minutes, at room temperature . The upper layer 30 50 it of the mixture thus obtained is subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis to detect plasmids,by which a strain having only pMZ 1 is selectively collected from the protoplast regenerated strains to give the desired protoplast regenerated strain MCRL 6001 FERM BP 563 . 3 Cultivation of the protoplast regenerated strain Micromonospora zionensis MCRL 6001 thus obtained is inoculated into a 250 ml flask containing 50 ml of S medium, and shake cultured at 320C for 6 days. The culture broth 8 ml is transferred to a 500 ml flask containing 100 ml of a 0.1 glycine containing GPY medium, and subjected to rotary culture at 320C for 1 2 days. The culture broth is centrifuged 5,000 rpm, for 10 minutes, at 40C to collect the cells. The cells are suspended in 0.05 M TES buffer, and then again centrifuged 10,000 rpm, for 20 minutes, at 40C to give washed cells. 4 Isolation of plasmid pMZ 1 The cells obtained above are again suspended in 0.05 M TES buffer at a concentration of 1 g of the wet cells per 20 ml of the buffer, and thereto are added lysozyme a 4 solution in 0.05 M TES buffer at a final concentration of 1 mg ml and ribonuclease A manufactured by Miles Laboratories, a solution in 0.8 NaCl so as to be in a concentration of 5 mg ml, which is previously heat treated at 950C for 10 minutes at a final concentration of 50ml. The mixture is reacted at 370C for one hour, and to the reaction mixture is added 10 SDS dissolved in 0.05 M TES buffer in a final concentration of 1.5 , and the mixture is reacted at 370C for 20 minutes to completely lyse the cells.The cell lysed solution is centrifuged 20,000 rpm, for 20 minutes, at 200C and the supernantant is collected and thereto is added 5 M NaCl dissolved in 0.05 M TES buffer at a final concentration of 1 M, and the mixture is stirred.Thereafter, the mixture is ice cooled for 2 hours and centrifuged 6,000 rpm, for 15 minutes, at OOC to collect the suppernatant. To the supernatant is added Pronase E a 5 mg ml solution in 0.05 M TES buffer at a final concentration of 100 fg ml, and the mixture is reacted at 370C for one hour. To the reaction mixture is added 40 polyethylene glycol 6,000 dissolved in 0.05 M TES buffer at a final concentration of 10 , and the mixture is well stirred and allowed to stand at 40C overnight. The mixture is centrifuged 3,500 rpm, for 10 minutes, at OOC to collect precipitates of plasmid DNA. The plasmid DNA precipitates thus obtained are dissolved in 0.025 M TES buffer 3 ml , and the solution is dialysed against the same buffer at room temperature for more than 3 hours.To the dialysed solution is added 0.025 M TES buffer so as to total 4 ml, and therein is dissolved cesium chloride 4.26 g . A solution 0.5 ml of ethidium chloride 4.8 mg ml in 0.05 M TES buffer is uniformly mixed with the above reaction mixture.The resulting mixture is transferred into a Quick seal polyallomer tube manufactured by Beckmann and after heat sealing the tube, the mixture is subjected to equilibrium density gradient centrifugation at 60,000 rpm, 200C overnight with a vertical rotor VTi type 80, manufactured by Beckmann . A fraction about 0.5 ml of the plasmid band,confirmed under ultraviolet 320 nX, is collected from the bottom of the tube. To the fraction is added an isopropyl alcohol saturated with cesium chloride solution the upper layer of a mixture prepared by mixing cesium chloride 10 g, 0.025 M TES buffer 9.4 ml and isopropyl alcohol 10 ml, followed by allowing to stand in order to remove ethidium bromide.The plasmid containing solution is dialysed against 0.025 M TES buffer one time and against DSB solution 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.6 , 10 mM NaCl, and 1 mM EDTA three times . The desired pMZ 1 30.5jug is obtained from the dialysed solution obtained above. 5 Properties of plasmid pMZ 1. The molecular weight and restriction enzyme map of pMZ 1 are determined by subjecting a product digested by restriction enzymes to agarose gel electrophoresis. The plasmid pMZ 1 0.1 1.0 g is reacted with twice the amount of various commercially available restriction enzymes in an appropriate solution 40 1 at 370C for one hour. The reaction mixture is treated with 10 of or a reaction halting solution 50 sucrose, 108 mM EDTA, 0.025 bromophenol blue at 700C for 5 minutes, and then is rapidly cooled. The resulting solution is subjected to electrophoresis with 0.6 1.0 agarose at 20 mA for 16 18 hours using TEAS buffer 50 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.05 , 20 mM sodium acetate, 2 mM EDTA, 18 mM NaCl as a buffer for electrophoresis.After the electrophoresis, the gel is dyed by soaking it in an ethidium bromide solution 1 gg ml , and then DNA fragments are detected by photographing the bands which are fluorescent under ultraviolet irradiation 305 nm . The molecular weight of each fragment is calculated by comparing with the migration distance of standardDNA fragments having known molecular weight, i.e. Hind III digested lambda DNA. The calculation of the molecular weight of each fragment is carried out in the light of value disclosed in the catalogue of New England Biolabs 1982 1983 The molecular weight and restriction enzyme map of pMZ 1 are determined from the molecular weight of the fragments obtained by the treatment with one or two of the various restriction enzymes. As a result, the plasmid pMZ 1 has a molecular weight of 6.4 0.2 megadaltons, the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes and a restriction enzyme map as shown in Fig. 1. Restriction enzymes Number of cleavage sites Kpn I 1 Bam HI 1 Bgl II 2 Bcl I 2 Hpa I 2 Eco RI o Hind III 0 Pvu II o Xho I 0 Example 2 Micromonospora rosaria NRRL 3718 strain is treated in the same manner as described above to give a protoplast regenerated strain, and the protoplastregenerated strain is cultured likewise and the presence of plasmidsis checked in the colonies thus produced in the same manner as described above. The strain having only pMR 2 is collected to give a pure protoplast regenerated strain, Micromonospora rosaria MCRL 6101 FERM BP 564 . The strain is cultured, cell lysed in the same manner as described above, and the plasmid DNA is isolated togive pMR 2 49j q from the culture broth 600 ml . The molecular weight and restriction enzyme map of the pMR 2 are determined in the same manner as described above. As a result, the plasmid pMR 2 has a molecular weight of 7.4 0.2 megadaltons, the following number of sites sensitive to restriction enzymes and a restriction enzyme map as shown in Fig. 2. Restriction enzymes Number of cleavage sites Hind III 1 Eco RI 1 Bcl I 1 Pvu II 1 Sma I 2 Bam HI 3 Hpa I O Xho I O Pst I O