# SHIFT REGISTER

## Claims
Schieberegister mit einer Vielzahl von Schaltungsstufen, die in Kaskade verbunden sind und erste Φ₀ und zweite Φ₁ Taktsignale empfangen, die in ihrer Phase voneinander verschieden sind, um das Schieberegister zu treiben, wobei jede der genannten Schaltungsstufen umfaßt

## Description
The present invention relates to a shift register, and more particularly to a MIS dynamic shift register which can be composed by using a small number of circuit elements. In a MIS dynamic memory device, for example, a so called auto refresh operation for refreshing data stored in each memory cell is effected by memorizing the number address of a word line to be refreshed in the memory device, and by incrementing the number of the word line and refreshing the memory cells connected to each word line. In Japanese Patent Application No. 58 115887 filed on June 29, 1983 by the present applicant, there is disclosed a memory device which comprises a shift register disposed parallel to a row decoder and in which a selecting signal for a word line to be refreshed is generated using an output signal of the shift register, thereby sequentially selecting a word line to be refreshed. The shift register used in such a memory device is characterized in that, among all the bits thereof, the output of only one bit is 1 and the outputs of other bits are all 0 . By using the output of the one bit which is 1 , only one target word line is selected. It is also necessary that the width of one circuit stage on a semiconductor substrate of such a shift register be not larger than the pitch length of the word lines. Generally, since the pitch length of the word lines is very narrow, it is necessary that the structure of each circuit stage of the shift register be very simple and the number of circuit components used therein be small. In a conventional shift register which can memorize and transmit data having any pattern, each circuit stage has a very complex circuit structure and a large number of circuit components. Therefore, the circuit width of each circuit stage on a semiconductor device is relatively large, and it is impossible to use such a shift register in the above mentioned memory device. In view of the problems of the aforementioned conventional shift register, the present invention adopts an idea of constituting each circuit stage in a MIS dynamic type shift register by using three MIS transistors as base components. GB A 2 022 953 discloses a shift register having features corresponding to those of the preamble of accompanying claim 1. According to the present invention, there is provided a shift register having a plurality of circuit stages connected in cascade and receiving first and second clock signals different in phase from each other for driving the shift register, each of said circuit stages comprising An embodiment of the present invention can simplify the circuit structure of each circuit stage and decrease the number of circuit components used in each circuit stage, thereby decreasing the width of the space occupied by each circuit stage on a semiconductor substrate. Reference is made, by way of example, to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 illustrates a dynamic memory device wherein a shift register, possibly a ring counter type shift register, is used to sequentially designate a word line connected to memory cells for the purpose of a refresh operation. The memory device of Fig. 1 comprises a memory cell array MCA having a plurality of memory cells MC each being connected to a bit line BL and a word line WL, a column decoder CD, a word decoder WD, and the above mentioned shift register SR. The word decoder comprises a NOR gate NG for decoding address signals and an electronic switch SW for every word line WL. In the memory device of Fig. 1, an access operation such as a readout operation or write in operation is effected in a state in which the switch SW is positioned so as to connect the output of the NOR gate NG to the corresponding word line WL. The word line WL is selected by a decoded signal, i.e., the output signal of the NOR gate NG, and the bit line BL is selected by the column decoder CD. Thus, the memory cell MC is selected and the access thereto is performed in a known manner. The switch SW is controlled by a refresh enable signal RFE of, for example, a high potential level so as to connect each of the output terminals of the shift register SR to the corresponding word lines. The shift register SR shifts a data 1 cyclically, and selects a word line sequentially, thereby refreshing memory cells connected to each word line. Figure 2 illustrates a structure of a shift register as an embodiment of the present invention used, for example, in the memory device of Fig. 1. In Fig. 2, the circuit portion surrounded by a dot dash line constitutes a circuit of one stage of the shift register, and comprises three MIS transistors Q₄ , Q₅ , and Q₆ , and one capacitor C₂. The shift register of Fig. 2 is controlled by two kinds of clock pulses ø₀ and ø₁ , and these clock pulses ø₀ and ø₁ have phases mutually different, for example, by 180 , as shown in Fig. 3. The clock pulse ø₁ has an amplitude extending between power supply voltages V Assume that the potential of an output node N2 of the pre stage circuit is high, as shown in Fig. 3. At a time t₀ , the transistor Q₄ is turned on in response to the rising of the clock pulse ø₀ from a low level, e.g. 1.5 Vth, to a high level. Hence the potential of a node N3 rises to a high level, and the transistor Q₅ is turned on. At a time t₁ , the clock pulse ø₀ falls and the clock pulse ø₁ rises from a low level, i.e., V Figure 4 illustrates a circuit of one stage of a shift register as another embodiment of the present invention. The circuit of Fig. 4 differs from that of Fig. 2 in that a transistor Q₄ is connected in parallel to the input transfer gate transistor Q₄ , a voltage V In the circuit of Fig. 4, the parallel circuit of the transistors Q₄ and Q₄ effects the same operation as that of the transistor Q₄ of Fig. 2. That is, when the clock pulse ø₀ is low, the transistor Q₄ is turned off and the nodes N2 and N3 are connected only via the transistor Q₄ . Since the voltage V In the circuit of Fig. 4, it is not necessary to strictly regulate the voltage level of the clock pulse ø₀ , and it is advantageously possible to enlarge the allowable error of the voltage level of the clock pulse ø₀ . Figure 5 illustrates a circuit of one stage of a shift register as still other embodiment of the present invention. The circuit of Fig. 5 further comprises transistors Q₆ and Q₆ connected to the transistor Q₆ in the circuit of Fig. 2. The transistors Q₆ and Q₆ are mutually cross coupled at the gates and the drains, and a signal from the output node N6 of the succeeding stage is input to the drain of the transistor Q₆ , i.e., a node N4 via the transistor Q₆ . The other portions are the same as those of the circuit of Fig. 2 and are designated by the same reference symbols. In the circuit of Fig. 5, a high level voltage of, for example, the node N4 is transmitted to the succeeding stage circuit, and when the output node N6 of the succeeding circuit becomes high, the potential of the node N4 , i.e., the gate of the transistor Q₆ becomes high, thereby clamping the potential of the node N4 to V As mentioned above, according to the present invention, it is possible to constitute a shift register, for example a ring counter type shift register by using a very simple circuit structure, and to considerably reduce the width occupied by each circuit stage on a semiconductor substrate. Therefore, it becomes very advantageous to dispose the shift register parallel to a decoder as mentioned before.