# Compressed absorbent aggregate.

## Abstract
The invention provides a compressed aggregate of superabsorbent and a filler. The aggregate is in the form of tablets or granules and absorbs liquid rapidly. The aggregate may be used in disposable absorbent products, such as diapers, tam pons and sanitary napkins, and in containers such as colostomy bags, urinary bags, bedpans and the like.

## Claims
CLA 1. A compressed absorbent aggregate comprising superabsorbent material in the amount of about 25 to about 75 parts by weight blended with from about 75 parts to about 25 parts by weight of a non swellable, nondisintegrating, hydrophilic filler and subjected to pressure in an amount from about 100 to about 29,000 psi. 2. The aggregate of Claim 1 wherein the pressure forms a tablet. 3. The aggregate of Claim 2 wherein the tablet is broken into at least four pieces. 4. The aggregate of Claim 1 wherein the compression forms a slug which provides granules. any one of to 4 5. The aggregate of1Clai sl wherein the filler is selected from the group consisting of fumed silica, fumed alumina, aluminum silicates, resilient fibers, verniculite, perlite, diatonaceous earth, fibrous silicates, glass fibers, ground glass and mixtures thereof. 6. The aggregate of Claim 5 wherein the resilient fibers are selected from the group consisting of polyester fibers, acrylic fibers, extruded silicate fibers, alpha cellulose fibers and thermo nechanical pulp fibers. 7. A disposable diaper having as the absorbent pad a loosely compacted cellulosic fibrous web containing therein a compressed absorbent aggregate comprising superabsorbent material in the amount of about 25 parts to about 75 parts by weight blended with from about 75 parts by weight to about 25 parts by weight of a non swellable, non disintegrating, hydrophilic filler and subjected to pressure in the amount from about 100 psi to about 25,000 psi to form a compressed aggregate, said disposable diaper containing in the absorbent pad at least about 3 compressed aggregates. 8. A disposable diaper as in Claim 7 wherein said compressed aggregates are tablets. 9. A disposable diaper as in Claim 7 wherein said compressed aggregates are granules. 10. A sanitary napkin comprising an absorbent pad partially encompassed by a liquid barrier with a moisture permeable overwrap, said absorbent pad being a lightly compacted cellulosic fibrous web containing a compressed absorbent aggregate comprising superabsorbent material in the amount of about 25 parts to about 75 parts by weight blended with from about 75 parts to about 25 parts by weight of a non swellable, non disintegrating, hydrophilic filler and subjected to pressure in the amount from about 100 psi to about 25,000 psi to form a compressed aggregate, said napkin containing at least about two compressed aggreqates in said fibrous web. 11. A sanitary napkin as in Claim 10 wherein said compressed aggregates are tablets. 1. A sanitary napkin as in Claim 10 wherein said compressed aggregates are granules. 13. A tampon connrising a loosely compacted cellulosic fibrous web containing a compressed absorbent aggregate comprising superabsorbent material in an amount of about 25 parts to about 75 parts by weight blended with from about 75 parts to about 25 parts by weight of a nonsuellable, non disintegrating, hydrophilic filler and subjected to pressure in the amount of from about 100 psi to about 25,000 psi to form a compressed aggregate. 14. A tampon as in Claim 13 wherein said compressed aggregate is a tablet. 15. A tampon as in Claim 13 wherein said compressed aggregate is a multiplicity of granules. 16. A colostomy bag containing at least about two 1 to 6. compressed aggregates as defined in any one of Claims 17. A urinary bag containing at least about two compressed agqregates as defined in one of Claims 1 to 6. 18. A method for forming a compressed absorbent aggregate comprising admixing superabsorbent material in the amount of about 25 parts to about 75 parts by weight with from about 75 parts to about 25 parts by weight of a nonswellable, non disintegrating, hydrophilic filler and subjecting the resulting admixture to pressure in the amount from about 100 psi to about 25,000 psi for a period of at least about five seconds.

## Description
COrlPRESSED AB .ORBE0Jm AGGREGATEBackground of the Invention he present invention relates to new and improved absorbent products, and more particularly, to new and improved compressed absorbent aggregates of superabsorhent and a filler.Disposable absorbent products have been known for sone tine, including such products as disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, wound dressings, bandages, incontinent pads and the like. These products incorporate an absorbent batt which is used to absorb and hold or contain body fluids. Initially, in many of these products, especially diapers and sanitary napkins, the absorbent batt conprised what is terned wadding or plies of tissue. mhe wadding was disposed between an inperneable hacking and a permeable facing, and the plies of tissue were used to absorb and hopefully contain the liquid within the product. A diaper which utilizes such an absorbent batt is disclosed in U.S. Reissue Patent rlo. 261151. The wadding type of batt was replaced, for the most part, by an improved absorbent batt which comprises what is termed fluffed wood pulp fibers. This absorbent batt comprises a layer of individualized wood pulp fibers. The layer having substantial thickness. A diaper which incorporates such a fluffed wood pulp absorbent batt is described in U.S. Patent No. 2,788,003. aphis diaper had improved absorbency and somewhat better cont inment than a diaper using a wadding layer. Also, the fluffed wood pulp layer is quite soft, flexible and conformable, and hence, produces an improved diaper over diapers using the wadding as an absorbent layer. Though the fluffed wood pulp absorbent hatts have improved capacity, the capacity is still substantially limited.For instance, in a disposable diaper product the fluid to be absorbed is generally deposited in a localized area within the absorbent batt. Although techniques have been provided to assist the movement of the fluid to other portions of the absorbent batt, the stability of the batt when wet is poor. When the wood pulp fibers become wet, they tend to collapse. Thus, limiting the storage area available for the fluid which has been deposited. U. ,. Patent No. 3,owl7,304 discloses an absorbent product which incorporates in the product a densified paper like layer. This paper like layer acts as a wick, i.e., liquid which is placed on the layer tends to move rapidly along the plane of the layer. then incorporated in combination with fluffed wood pulp fibers, the resulting product uses the absorbent capacity of the fluffed wood pulp much more efficiently. Diapers which incorporate this paper like layer combined with fluffed wood pulp are disclosed and described in U.S. Patent flows. 3,612,055 and 3,938,522. This concept of combining a wicking or capillary skin or layer with fluffed wood pulp fibers has gained wide acceptance in many absorbent products including disposable diapers and sanitary napkins. Even though these products make much greater use of the capacity of the absorbent batt, they still do not totally contain the absorbed liquid. It is probable that these products will leak before the full capacity of the batt is used for absorption. shis is especially true if pressure is placed on the batt while wet. For example, a baby sitting down on a previously wetted diaper will very often cause the batt to leak.Recently, elastic leg diapers or stretch diapers have been introduced into the marketplace. Though these diapers provide no better absorbent batt than flat diapers or the prior art diapers, they have indicated improved contain ment of liquid. Such diapers are disclosed and described in U.S. Patent tWos. 3,860,003, 4,050,462 and 4,324,245.Though the containment features are better in the prior art products, the elasticized products fit nore tightly permitting less air circulation. Frequently, this can become irritating to the skin and the tighter the elastic or the more close fitting of the diaper, the greater the irritation. This is especially true adjacent the area where the elastic leg portion of the product contacts the wearer.Another type of liquid body exudate retention product is a container such as a bag, e.g., a colostomy bag, a urine bag or the like, a bedpan or other container like product.Though such products entrap the liquid exudate, opportunity for spilling the liquid out of the container occurs frequently. Ideally, the liquid when entering the container or absorbent product would be converted to a non liquid state, or entrapped so that even when pressure is applied there is no leakage or spill out of liquid.A number of years ago superabsorbent materials, i.e., materials which will absorb many times their weight of liquid were developed. Since the development of such materials, people have been trying to incorporate them in absorbent products such as diapers, tampons and sanitary napkins to enhance the absorptive performance of these products. Theoretically, a minimum amount of superabsorbent incorporated in a product would make that product perform as well or better than the prior art products. Perhaps one of the first products to incornorate such a superabsorbent material in a disposable diaper is disclosed in U.S. Patent no. 3,670,731.This patent discloses an absorbent dressing comprising an absorbent layer sandwiched between a permeable facing and an impermeable backing sheet. mhe absorbent layer contained water insoluble cross linked hydrocolloid polymer as the superabsorbent material.Even though superabsorbent materials have been available for some tine, they have not gained wide acceptance in absorbent products such as disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, tampons, colostomy hags, urinary bags, bed pans and kitty liter and the like. A primary reason for this lack of acceptance of the superabsorbents is failure to develop a product capable of economically utilizing the highly increased absorptive capacity of the superabsorbent material. In order to economically utilize a superabsorbent, the superabsorbent material needs to be placed in contact with the water in its entirety. Thus, the superabsorbent must be available to receive the liquid without impairment by other superabsorbent material which is becoming gel like. As the superabsorbent material absorbs liquid, it must be allowed to swell.If the superabsorbent is prevented from swelling, it will cease absorbing liquid. Although the void zone is relatively small in the disposable absorbent products and the liquid in a container product resides in a small area, it has not been possible heretofore to place superabsorhent in a relatively small area and have the superabsorbent material function adequately. Over the years a number of techniques have been disclosed in an attempt to provide structures which make efficient use of the sunerabsorbent material. Such products are disclosed in U.S. Patent flows. 4,103,062, 4,102,340, and 4,235,237. In addition, methods for incorporating superabsorbent into suitable layers or suitable configurations, which can he placed in an absorbent product, are disclosed in U.S. Patent flows. 4,186,165, 4,34C,057 and 4,364,9 2. To date, none of these products has met with any substantial commercial success. Attempts have been made to treat superabsorbent material to improve its ability to accept liquid without impairing the ability of adjacent superabsorbent materials to receive liquid. Such methods are disclosed in U.S. Patent Twos. 3,932,322 and 4,051,086. Presently, none of these methods is being used in commercial products to solve the problem of making the superabsorbent material readily available to rapidly entrap liquid and to continue to absorb liquid.The present invention provides a new and improved compressed absorbent aggregate which rapidly absorbs liquid and more effectively utilizes a higher portion of the theoretical absorptive capacity of superabsorbent materials. This new aggregate makes use of this capacity even though the liquid to be absorbed is placed in contact with the aggregate in a small region. Furthermore, the new absorbent aggregate may be used in known disposable absorbent products such as disposable diapers and sanitary napkins and containers, such as colostomy bags, etc.Unexpectedly, the new absorbent aggregate will contain liquid in a product such as a disposable diaper without the use of elastic leg members in the product.Surprisingly, the new aggregate will contain absorbed liquid even when pressure is placed upon the product durinq use. In addition, the new product rapidly absorbs liquid and substantially prevents spill out from bedpans and other container like products. Summary of the InventionThe present invention provides a compressed absorbent aggregate comprising a superabsorbent material and a filler. The superabsorbent material is present in an anount from about 25 percent to about 75 percent by weight of the aggregate, and the filler is present in an amount from about 75 percent to about 25 percent by weight of the aggregate. The filler and the superabsorbent are blended to become a substantially homogeneous blend prior to being subjected to compression. The compression applied is sufficient to provide granules or tablets and mixtures thereof.The filler is selected from the group consisting of fumed silica, fumed alumina, aluminum silicates, resilient fibers, verniculite, perlite, glass fibers, rock wool, ground glass, and diatomaceous earth and the like and mixtures thereof. The superabsorbent material is generally in the form of powder, fibers, or small granules prior to blending.The compressed absorbent aggregate is readily combined with a fibrous batt to place the aggregate in disposable products, such as disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, and tampons, and is readily utilizable in a container like product.The compressed absorbent aggregate of the present invention absorbs a large single void or a continuous stream of liquid many times its weight. Furthermore, the aggregate continues to accept and hold liquid in a quantity approaching its theoretical capacity. In fact, the compressed aggregate has sufficient attraction capability to draw liquid from the paper like densified layer of a wood pulp fiber batt and from embossed lines placed in the wood pulp fiber batt.nrief Description of the DrawingsFigure 1 is a perspective view illustrating ne embodiment of the present invention Figures 2A, 2n, 2C, 2D, 2r. and 2F depict the acceptance of liquids by one embodiment of the present invention over a period of time Figure 3 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the present invention Figure 3A is a cross sectional view through lines 3A 3t ofFigure 3 Figure 4 is a perspective view illustrating still another embodiment of the present invention Figure 5 is a perspective view of a further embodiment of the present invention Figure 6 is a perspective view of a still further embodiment of the present invention Figure 7 is a perspective view of the final product ofFigure 6 Figure 8 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the present invention andFigure 9 is a persnective view of still another embodiment of the present invention.Detailed Description of the InventionReferring now to the drawings, Figure 1 represents a perspective view of an aggregate of the present invention.The aggregate is a tablet 10 which contains superabsorbent in an amount of about 50 percent and a filler in an amount of about 50 percent. The filler and the superabsorbent are dry blended and then subjected to a standard tableting operation. Figure 2 is a series of drawings showing the tablet of Figure 1 being placed in water. In Figure 2A, a flat dish 20 has a predetermined amount of water 22 placed in it, and the tablet 10 is then placed in the dish. In Figure 2n, swelling has started to take place after one second and the tablet 10 begins to lose its identity as a tablet. In Figure C, after three more seconds the swelling has substantially increased and the entire tablet has lost its identity and shape as a tablet.In Figure 2D after two additional seconds the tablet 10 has swelled and begun to topple to one side as the superabsorbent is swelling and functioning to the point that each superabsorbent particle is itself swelling and becoming gelatinous. In Figure 2E, after a total of 10 seconds have elapsed, the tablet 10 has now toppled and is primarily a gelatinous mass. Almost all of the water 22 has been absorbed. In Figure 2F, all of the water has been absorbed and what was a tablet is now a gelatinous mass.Referring now to Figure 3, a sanitary napkin 30 is depicted. A moisture pervious overwrap 36, such as a nonwoven fabric, provides the exterior surface for the sanitary napkin. Three of the superabsorbent tablets 32 are placed in the sanitary napkin as depicted inFigure 3A. Figure 3 is taken along lines 3A 3A of figure 3. In Figure 3A, the moisture pervious overwrap 36A overwraps a liquid barrier 35A, the tablet 32A is in a recessed portion below the liquid barrier 35A. Surrounding the tablet 32A is wood pulp fiber fluff 34A. On the side of the fluff batt opposite the liquid barrier is the moisture permeable overwrap 36A which permits ingress of body fluid. Thus, as the fluid in the central portion of the sanitary napkin comes into contact with the superabsorbent tablet, the tablet draws the fluid from the absorbent batt and absorbs the liquid, swells and loses its identity as a tablet.Figure 4 depicts a urinary pad 40 which has a moisture permeable top surface wrap 42 and a liquid barrier 46 which comes around and is heat bonded to the noisturepermeable surface but leaving an opening as depicted by the dotted lines. An absorbent aggregate 44 in granular form is placed in the interior of the urinary pad in the front portion thereof amongst the wood pulp fibers in the fibrous batt 48. The compressed absorbent aggregate is composed of 60 percent superabsorbent powder blended with 40 percent by weight fumed silica. The blend is then subjected to standard granulating techniques using compression.In Figure 5, a disposable diaper SO is depicted. vhis diaper has a moisture permeable facing 52, a moistureimpermeable backing 54 and elastic 56 placed in the side margins so as to form elastic legs. In the fibrous batt lying between the facing 52 and the backing 54 are compressed absorbent aggregates 58 in the form of tablets scattered throughout the fibrous batt. To secure the diaper about the waist of the wearer, tape tabs 57 are provided. The diaper product 50 readily accepts liquid through the moisture impermeable facing. 52 primarily in the region wherein the tablets 58 are shown. When the urine touches the tablets, the tablets rapidly absorb it and go through the stages depicted in Figures 2A 2F and become a soft gel.The gel remains beneath the noisture permeable facing amongst the wood pulp fibers in the absorbent batt of the diaper and prevents the urine from coning back through the facing, thus, keeping the infant very dry.Figure 6 depicts a blank 60 for manufacturing a tampon consisting of a fibrous batt having granular aggregates 62 lightlv pressed into one surface of the fibrous batt. vhis surface is the surface that is rolled into the interior of the tampon. Figure 7 depicts the tampon 70 in its final forn. Figure 8 illustrates a urinary bag 0 containing at the bottom portion thereof granular aggregates 82.Figure 9 depicts a typical colostomy bag 90 containing granular aggregates 92.The aggregates of the present invention comprise at least two components, the first of which is a superabsorbent material. This superabsorbent material is generally a water insoluble but iater swellable polymeric substance capable of absorbing water in an amount which is at least 10 tines the weight of the substance in its dry form. he superabsorbent material is in the form of particles which may be in the shape of fibers, spheres, bits of film, globules, powder or the like.One suitable form of superabsorbent material may be described chemically as having a backbone of natural or synthetic polymers with hydrophilic groups or polymers containing hydrophilic groups being chemically bonded to the backbone or in intimate admixture therewith. Included in this class of materials are such modified natural and regenerated polymers as polysaccharides including, for example, cellulose and starch and regenerated cellulose which are modified by being carboxyalkylated, phosphonoalkylated, sulphoalkylated or phosphorylated to render them highly hydrophilic. Such modified polymers may also be cross linked to improve their water insolubility.These same polysaccharides may also serve, for example, as the backbone onto which other polymer moieties nay be bonded by graft copolymerization techniques. Such grafted polysaccharides and their method of manufacture are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,105,033 to Chatterjee et al.and may be described as polysaccharide chains having grafted thereon a hydrophilic chain of the general formula EMI11.1 wherein A and B are selected from the group consisting of OR , O alkali metal , OHNH , NH2, wherein RÚ, Rê andR are selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and alkyl having 1 to 4 or more carbon atoms, wherein r is an integer having a value of 0 to about 5000 or more, s is an integer having a value of 0 to about 5000 or more, r plus s is at least 500, p is an inteqer having a value of zero or 1 and q is an integer having a value of 1 to 4.The preferred hydrophilic chains are hydrolyzed polyacrylonitrile chains and copolymers of polyacrylamide and polysodiun acrylate.In addition to modified natural and regenerated polymers, the hydrocolloid particle component may comprise wholly synthetic hydrophilic particles. Examples of those now known in the art are polyacrylonitrile fibers which may be modified by grafting moieties thereon such as polyvinyl alcohol chains, polyvinyl alcohol itself, hydrophilic polyurethane, poly alkyl phosphonates , partially hydrolyzed polyacrylamides e.g., poly N N dimethyl acrylamide , sulfonated polystyrene, or a class of poly alkylene oxide . These highly hydrophilic synthetic polymers may be modified by other chemical treatments such as cross linking or hydrolysis.Further examples known in the art are the non ionic hydrophilic polymers such as polyoxyethylene, polyoxypropylene and mixtures thereof which have been suitably cross linked, eit . r chemically or by irradiation. Still another more recent type is a derivative of isobutylene maleic anhydride copolymer. Hydrophilic polymers formed from water soluble acrylate monomers, such as sodium, potassium, ammonium or combinations of cations , acrylate, may be placed on the absorbing layer by spraying or otherwise placing a solution thereon followed by polymerization and crosslinking, for example, by irradiation.Other suitable superabsorbent includes naturally occurring materials such as gums, and the like. Guar gun acacia gum and locust bean gum are examples of suitable guns.The filler is a non disintegrating substance selected from the group consisting of fumed silica, fumed alumina, aluminum silicates, fibrous silicates, resilient fibers, vermiculite, perlite, diatonaceous earth, ground glass, glass fibers and the like. The resilient fibers are polyester fibers, thermonechanical pulp, acrylic fibers, extruded silicates, alpha cellulose fibers, and the like. In preparation of the aggregate of the present invention, the filler and the superabsorbent material are blended sufficiently to obtain a substantially horlogeneous mixture. The mixture is then formed into granules or tablets as desired. When forming the tablets, the mixture is subjected to compression from about 100 psi to about 25,000 psi. If the superabsorbent material and the filler are of substantially different particle sizes, it may be desirable to add moisture up to about 20 percent.When forming the granular form of the aggregates of the present invention, either wet or dry granulation procedures may be used. In the granulation procedures, compression in the amount of at least about 100 psi and preferably about 2000 psi is used. Superabsorbent in the amount of up to about 75 percent may be used in the aggregate. If the superabsorbent is in a powder form, it may be desirable and more economical to use a smaller portion of superabsorbent and a larger portion of filler. In other words, when the superabsorbent is a powder, filler may be used in an amount up to about 75 percent by weight of the aggregate.It is theorized that the outstanding result achieved by the present invention is based on a number of happenings. Whether superabsorbent be in the form of particles, fibers, globules, or powder and the like, it is known that the surface area of each particle must come in contact with the liquid in order for the superabsorbent particle to function. When superabsorbent particles are placed in close contact, such as in a layer or pile, and liqUid comes in contact with the layer or pile, only those particles on the exterior surface will be able to absorb any liquid, and those particles will absorb liquid only on the exposed side. The side of the layer or pile exposed to the liquid becomes gelatinous and restricts the entry of any more liquid to other parts of the layer or pile. shis phenonenon is known in the art as gel blocking. In order to utilize superabsorbent effectively, it is necessary to disrupt the gel blocking tendency of superabsorbent. In addition, it has been observed that sufficient capillary pressure is needed to continually transport liquid from one particle of superabsorbent to another as well as from one side of a particle to another.It has been discovered that the fillers disrupt the gel blocking of superabsorbents and the pressure applied to make tablets or granules supplies the initial capillary pressure required to transport liquid from the portion contacted by the liquid to another portion. What appears to be only a small difference in capillary pressure is all that is required for one particle superabsorbent particle or inert filler particle to attract and drain liquid from an adjacent particle. The force causing a liquid to enter a cylindrical capillary is expressed by the equation EMI14.1 wherein the force is represented by the capillary pressure andP is the capillary pressure y is the surface tension of the liquid o is the liquid particle contact angle, and r is the capillary radius. Frith a given liquid, the pressure, capillary force increases with the cosine of the liquid fiber contact angle reaching a maximum where the angle is zero and also increases with narrower capillary radii so that narrower capillaries will draw liquid from wider ones.When the aggregate is formed under pressure it is quite possible that the interfaces of the superabsorbent change shape so that interlocking with the filler takes place.The interlocking of the superabsorbent and filler may be similar to that of jigsaw puzzle pieces. slhen the superabsorbent is contacted by liquid, it swells resulting in a change of shape which may release it from any interlock or at least the swelling changes the forn of attachment of the superabsorbent. As a result, gel blocking is disrupted and a channeling system to permit ingress of liquid toward the interior of the tablet or granule is provided.the filler preferably is non swelling, non disintegrating and hydrophilic. Thus, a low contact angle is provided and the filler readily attracts liquid. The filler also should be non coalescing in the presence of liquid, and the bonds created by compression should be easily released in the presence of liquid. The superabsorbent should be able to push the filler particles away as it swells while absorbing liquid, otherwise the superabsorbent would be constrained, preventing the continued absorption of liquid.The tablets or granules of the present invention may be placed in products in a number of ways to enhance utilization of the superabsorbent present. For instance, the tablets may be placed in pockets in an absorbent fluff batt, or lightly adhered to the base of a receptacle. The granules can be placed in a liquid perneable bag to form a packet or scattered throughout a fibrous pulp layer. froth tablets and granules might be used in the sane product, for instance, placed in the folds of a transversely folded or corrugated web. There are many other ways in which the compressed aggregates of the present invention may be used.Examples of methods of preparing the compressed absorbent aggregates of the present invention are as follows. These examples are not intended to be limiting in any way and extensions and nodifications thereof without departure from the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent from tcs Examples. The term liquid when used in the following examples is a simulated urine solution of 1 sodium chloride and 0.05 xylene Red B. Dye and which has a surface tension of 30 50 dynes cm. Example ISuperabsorbent material identified as Permasorb 10 manufactured and sold by National Starch Company in the amount of 5 grams is admixed with Hisil, fumed silica manufactured and sold by Hercules Powder Company. The fumed silica is present in an amount of 50 percent by weight of the aggregate. The blend is subjected to a tabletting procedure wherein pressure in the amount of about 10,000 psi for 5 seconds is used. The tablets when in finished form weigh less than 0.5 gram each. When liquid cones in contact with the tablet, the tablet proceeds through the stages shown in Figures 2A .F in approximately 2 minutes absorbing at least about 10 tines the weight of the tablet.Example II Superabsorbent fibers prepared in accordance withU.S. Patent 4,105,033 in an amount of about 50 parts bv weight are admixed with fumed silica in an amount of about 50 parts by weight. The mixture is moistened to about 20 percent by weight of water and subjected to a tabletting operation using a compression of about 10,000 psi. These tablets having a diameter of 0.5 inch and weighing about 0.4 gram absorb on an average about 10 milliliters of water in a period of time less than about 2 minutes. Example III uperabsorhent material identified as EnkaS is a nonwoven material of hicorlponent fibers wherein the core of the fiber is polyester and the sheath of the fiber is polyethylene. The nonwoven weh is made by air laying the fibers and then heating the resulting web sufficiently that the polyethylene becomes tacky and adheres the fibers one to another to provide stability to the web. This web is then subjected to saturation by a solution of the monomer sodium acrylic acid. The saturated web is subjected to irradiation sufficient to polymerize the mononer resulting in adherence of polysodium acrylate to the web in the form of qlobules and film adhered to the fiber junctions of the web.This web containing polysodium acrylate is ground into particulate material and admixed with thermo mechanical pulp fibers in an amount of about 50 parts of the superabsorbent material and 50 parts of the therno nechanical pulp fibers. The mixture is formed into tablets by subjecting it to compression at about 10,000 psi. The liquid holding capacity is increased by about 80 percent and the absorption rate of the Pnka PSA superabsorbent material by about 200 percent.Example IVThe Enka PSA ground material from Example III is admixed with Hisil in an amount of about 50 parts by weight ofEnka PSA and 50 parts by weight of Hisil. The mixture is subjected to a standard granulation procedure wherein granules are formed, which have an increased absorption rate of at least 200 percent and an increased liquid holding capacity of at least 50 percent.Example VFour grams of Solka Floc alpha cellulose fibers, manufactured and sold by Brown Company, Plew York, slew York and four grams of superabsorbent fibers manufactured according to T3.S. Patent 4,105,033 are blended until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. The blend is slugged under a pressure of 5000 psi for five seconds into a tablet slug having a diameter of 2.25 inches. The slug is dry screened by compaction through a screen of 18 mesh and the granules are collected on a screen of 40 mesh. mhe average size of granules ranges from 0.425 to 1 mm in diameter.Other methods for preparing the compressed absorbent aggregates of the present invention may be used.From the foregoing, it will be observed that numerous variations and modifications may be effected without departing from the true spirit and scope of the novel concept of this invention.