# Osseointerfaced implanted artificial tooth.

## Abstract
An artificial tooth 10 is implantable in a jaw bone 26 by means of a tooth root 12 having distal and proximal end portions 28, 24 . The distal end portion 28 of the root 12 extends into the jaw bone 26 and is fixed to the jaw bone 26 . A hollow 18 extends from the proximal end portion 24 of the root which is accessible from the outer surface of the jaw bone, toward the distal end portion 28 of the root. A post 44 has a first end portion 46 which extends into the hollow 18 of the root 12 and is fixed to the root. A second portion 48 of the post 44 extends outwardly from the hollow 18 and has an outer surface 50 which slopes downwardly toward the first portion 46 of the post. A weakened portion 62 is provided in said second portion such that any excess lateral or shear forces will cause breakage thereof and thereby protect the root 12 in the jaw bone 26 . A crown 70 is connected to the second portion 48 of the post.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An artificial tooth 10 implantablo in a jaw bone 26 comprising a. an implantable tooth root 12 , said root having a distal end portion 28 intended for extending into the jaw bone and a proximal end portion 24 being accessible from the outer surface of the Jaw bone said root further including a hollow 18 extending from said proximal end portion of said root toward said distal end portion of said root b. means 30 for fixing said root to the Jaw bone c. a post 44 said post having a first portion 46 fitting within said hollow of said root and a second portion 48 extending outwardly from said hollow said second portion having an outer surface 50 which slopes downwardly toward said first portion of said post, said second portion of said post further including a base 58 connected to said first portion of said post a stem 60 extending from said base and a weakened portion 62 at said connection between said base and stem for breakably connoting said base to said stein d. means 34 for fixing said first portion of said post within said hollow of said root and e. a crown 70 connected to said post. 2. An artificial tooth as claimed in claim 1 in which said weakened portion at said connection between said base and said stem includes an undercut portion 64 thereat. 3. An artificial tooth as claimed in claim 1 or 2 which furtner comprises a layer of resilient material 68 laminated between said crown and sáidfipost.t 4. An artificial tooth as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which said base 58 of said second portion of said post includes a dimension that extends a greater distance transversely in relation to said rootjl2 than a transverse dimension of said stem 60 of said second portion of said post, said second portion outer surface sloping downwardly toward said first portion being defined to also slope inwardly toward the centre of said post 44 . 5. An artificial tooth as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 in which said post 44 additionally comprises a spacer 74 and means 76 for fixing said spacer adjacent satd post between said root and said crown, said spacer providing said sloping outer surface 50 , 6. An artificial tooth as claimed in claim 5 in which said spacer includes means 82 for turning same in relation to said post. 7. An artificial toots ao claimed in any preceding claim tn which said root includes means 16 for tapping said root in relation to the Jaw bone during placement of said root in the Jaw bone. 8. An artificial tooth as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7 in which said second portion 48,84 of said post, and said layer of resilient material 68 further include means 92, 96 for holding a denture thereto.

## Description
OSSEOINTERFACED IMPLANTED A RTIFICIAL TOOTH The present invention relates to a novel osseo interfaced implanted artificial tooth which provides a permanent replacement for a natural tooth. In th past, many systems have been proposed for the implant ation of artificial teeth. For example, diverse designs with screws, nails, blades, and the like which are loaded immediately upon insertion in the Jaw bone. Theso implants generally result in scar formation around the implant with insufficient gingival seal, causing chronic infection, bone loss, and the eventual removal of the implant itself. For example, United States Patents 2,857,670 and 3,579,831 describe these systems. Later designs, such as that shown by UnitedStates Patent 3,589,011 describe a two stage implant where a shank, or hollow pin, is used as the root of the artificial tooth. A superstructure is then attached to the shank by utilizing the hollow herewithin to support the super structure, including the crown of the artificial tooth thereabove. United States Patents 3,797,113 3,979,828 4,178,686 4,195,409 4,259, 072 i,270,905g and 4,324,550 6seribe this type of system. The root portion in many cases becomes resorbable which eventually weakens the implant necessitating removal.Many materials such as polymethylmethacrylate eventually cause tissue necrosis and scar formation0 United States Patents 4,215,986 and 4,318,696 describe implants which address the problem of protecting destruction of the artificial tooth by the masticatory forces that overload. It has besn found that adjacent natural teeth have also been damaged by this type of implant, causing the breakdown of tissue support ing the natural tooth. An artificial implant system which overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art hereinabove described would be an extremely useful advance in the dental field. Accordingly, the present invention provides an artificial tooth implantable in a Jaw bone comprising a. an implantable tooth root, said root having a distal end portion intended for extending into the Jaw bone and a proximal end portion being accessible from the outer surface of the Jaw bone said root further including a hollow extending from said proximal end portion of said root toward said distal end portion of said root b. means for fixing said root to the Jaw bone c. a post, said post having a first portion fitting within said hollow of said root and a second portion extending outwardly from said hollow said second portion having an outer surface which slopes downwardly toward said first portion of said post said second portion of said post further including a base connected to said first portion of said post a stem extending from said base and a weakened portion at said connection between said base and stem for breakably connecting said base to said stem d. means for fixing said first portion of said post within said hollow of said root and e. a crown connected to said post. The novel and useful osseointerfaced implant system in accordance with the present invention may be permanently affixed to the Jaw bone. The artificial tooth of the present invention is implantable in the Jaw bone alveolar and employs an tmplantable tooth root. The tooth root has a distal end portion extending into the jaw bone and a proximal end portion being accessible from the outer surface of the Jaw bone. The root further includes a hollow extending from the proximal end portion of the root toward the distal end portion of the root. The root may include means for tapping, or self tapping the same in relation to the Jaw bone during placement.Means, such as a threaded surface, is also provided for fixing the root to the Jaw bone. The hollow of the tooth root provides a place of fixation for the remainderOf the artificial tooth. A post threads or otherwise fixes to the hollow of the tooth root and extends upwardly away from the Jaw bone. The hollow say be sealed during a healing period to further strengthen the tooth root, and to maintain an unobstructed place of fixation for the post. The post has a first portion fitting within the hollow of the root and a second portion extending outwardly from the hollow. The post second portion also has an outer surface which slopes downwardly toward the first portion of the post, and preferably, inwardly toward the centre of the post. The so called obtuse angle thus provided provides a tight contact between the gingiva and the implant and also protects this contact. A crown is connected to the post, specifically the second portion of the post extending outwardly rrom the hollow of the tooth root. The second portion of the post is also formed such that a base connects to the first portion of the post and a stem extends from the base of the second portion of the post. Means are also provided for breakably connecting the base to the stem of the second portion of the post. In this manner, excessive lateral forces would shear the post rather than traumatizing the implant or the Jaw bone itself. To limit the elasticity of the upper structure, the second portion of the post may be coated with a polymer or plastics substance which would lie between the crown and the post. The polymer or plastics acts as a shock absorber and protects the bone against sudden high stress. Moreover, the polymer or plastics coating must have an elasticity which would limit mobility of the implant system thus precluding damage to the bone around the natural teeth. The base of the second portion of the post may include a dimension that extends a greater distance transversely in relation to the root. tnan a trans verse dimension of the stem of the second portion of the post. Thus a platform is provides for the plastics or polymer coating against shear stresses thereupon. Another embodiment of the present invention utilizes a spacer and spline aa the pest. Means for fixing the spacer adjacent to the spline and between the root and the crown is also provided. Tne spacer may include the sloping outer surface of the post. such a spacer would provide the dental practitioner with a method for adjusting the height of the same above the artifi cial tooth root. The spacer would also have means of turning the same in relation to the spline. Thus, the spacer and post fittingly engage one another. The implant of the present invention may also include means for permitting the attachment of a denture to the post and the plastics, metal or like coating there around. The present invention provides an artificial tooth implantable in a Jaw bone which provides satisfactory service over a long term. Moreover, it also provides an artificial tooth which closely resembles the mobility of the natural tooth, thus permitting the patient to ohew in a normal manner and protect against parafunctional forces. An artificial tooth in accordance with the invention may be used in substitution for a single tooth or a group of teeth as well as being connect able to natural teeth. An artificial tooth implantable in a Jaw bone in accordance with the invention protects against food particles being wedged between the gingiva and the implant during the chewing process, and against traumatizing of the contact site between the ging iva and implant. Moreover, the artificial tooth of the invention has a predetermined breakage point of a portion thereof, upon the application of a predetermined shear force, thus protecting the implant and or the Jaw bone itself. In accordance with a development of the invention the artificial tooth utilizes a post having a removable section which permits the dental practitioner to adjust the height of the post in relation to the tooth root. The dental practitioner is, of course, permittEd to remove all portions of the implant of the invention and replace the sue with new portions, except the artificial root. Other particular characteristics and features of the invention will be cone apparent as the specifi cation continues. The invention will be described further, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a sectional view of a first embodiment of the artificial tooth of the present invention showing a portion of the Jaw and guui tn brokeu away configurationg Fig. la is Åa view taken along line 1A 1A ofFig. 1 Fig. lb is a view taken along line lB lB ofFig. 1 Fig. 1a is a view taken along line lC lC of Fig. 1 Fig. 2 is a sectional view of a second embodiment of the present invention and Fig. 3 is a sectional view of a third embodiment of the present invention. Various aspeots of the present invention will evolve from the following detailed description which should be taken in conjunction with the hereinabove described drawings. The invention as a whole is shown in the figures by reference character 10 and includes as one of its elements an implantable tooth root 12. The root 12 may be constructed of a relatively rigid biocompatable material. For example, titanium would be a satisfactory material under this criteria.The root 12 is roughly cylindrical in shape and possesses a threaded surface 14. The root 12 may also include a self tapping construction 16, Fig. 1 broken away portion of known construction. The root 12 includes a hollow portion 18 which extends from the upper surface 20 of root 12 toward the lower surface 22 thereof. Thus, a proximal end portion 24 of root 12 extends to the outer surface of the Jaw bone 26 and a distal end portion 28 of root 12 extends into theJaw bone 26 as far as is necessary for a satisfaotory implantation. A plan view of the root 12 itself is shown in Fig. 1B . The threaded outer surface 14 of the root 12 threadingly engages the threaded surface of the Jaw bone Fig. 1C 26 created by the self tapping means 16.Thus, this threading engagement may be considered means 30 for fixing the root 12 to the Jaw bone 26. A slot 32 permits the dentist to use a driving means to turn the root 12 during the tapping of the Jaw bone 26. It should be noted that a screw 34 shown in broken lines in Fig. 1 and in plan view in Fig. 1A may be temporarily placed in the hollow portion 18 and is held in place by the threaded surface 36 of the screw 34 engaging a threaded surface 38 of the root 12 within the hollow portion 18. The screw 34 is temporarily inserted into hollow 18 during first stage of the implant as will be further described hereinafter. A Posi 44 includes a first portion 46 which fits within the hollow 18 of the root 12 and a second portion 48 which extends outwardly from the hollow 18 and upwardly from the surface of the Jaw bone 26. The second portion 48 includes an outer surface 50 which slopes downwardly toward the first portion 46 of the post 44 and inwardly toward the centre of the post 44. This permits the tight fitting of the gingiva 52 to the outer surface 50. The sloping surface 50 also acts as a shelter against food particles wedging between said surface 50 and the gingiva 52. It should be added that the prevention of food particles from entering the space between the gingiva and the outer surface 50 of the post prevents damage to the implant and the living tissue thereat.Means 54 fixed the first portion 46 of the post 44 within the hollow 18 of the root 12. Such means may take the form of providing the first portion 46 of the post 44 with a threaded surface 56 which engages the threaded surface 38 of the hollow 18. It will be apparent that the threaded surface 36 of the screw 34 previously engaged the same threaded surface 38 of the hollow 18. The Post 44 may again be constructed of a fairly rigid material such as hxtanius. The second portion 48 of the post 44 includes a base 58 connected to the first portion 46 of the post 44.A stem 60 extends from the base 58 upwardly from the jaw bone 26. As shown in the embodiment in Fig. 1, the stem 60 is narrower transversely than the base 58. Means 62 breakably connects the base 58 to the stem 60. In other words, the second portion 48 of post 44 includes a weakened undercut portion 64 which surrounds the connection area between the base 38 and the stem 60. Thus,any excess lateral or shear forces will oause the breakage of the storm 60 in relation to the base 58 and thereby protect the root 12 in the bone 26. The undercut portion 64 is filled with a glue 66 which also surrounds the stem 60. The glue 66 is used to attach a layer of resilient material 68 such as silicone, polysulphone, or the like.The thickness and quality of the resil ient layer 68 may be predetermined to restrict the range of movement of the upper structure to about 200 microns. The resilient layer 68 also acts as a shock absorber to protect the bone 26 against sudden high stress. Finally, a crown 70 is formed and positioned as shown in Fig. 1. Turning to Fig. 2, it may be seen that another embodiment of the present invention is provided.The post 44 includes a first portion 46 which fixes to the root 12 in the same manner as the post shown in Fig. 1. However, the upper portion 48 of the post 44 has been split into a spline 72 and a washer or spacer 74. Means 76 fixes the spacer 74 to the spline 72. As shown in Fig. 2, the means 76 takes the form of a threaded outer surface 78 of the spline 72 engaging a threaded surface 80 of the spacer 74. Mean 82 is provided for turning the spacer 74 in relation to the spline 72. An upper portion 84 of the spline 72 may again break in relation to the lower portion 86 thereof via means 62.In certain cases, the spacer 74 may be replaced with one having a different height to compensate for dimensional adjustments to the root 12. Means 82, in the form of opening 88 and 90, permit the use of a tool to perform this turning or rotational action. Turning to Fig. 3, it may be seen that the upper portion 84 of the spline 72 may be reduced in size and a new resilient layer having a groove 92 may be placed over upper portion 84. A denture 94 may be snapped into place by the use of 0 ring 96. It should be noted that if any portion of the spline 72 or the post 44 break by the use of means 62, the remainder of the post 44 or the spline 72 within the root 12 may be removed and replaced. In operation the Jaw bone 26 is made visible to the dental practitioner by the use of a surgical device. The root 12 is tapped into place using the tapping means 16 such that the upper surface 20 of root 12 see Fig. 1B is accessible at the outer surface of the bone 26. The drills used to locate the root opening are cooled to protect the bone against burning during this process. The screw 34 is inserted into the hollow 18 of the root 12 and covered by gingiva 52 for approximately four months. After this time period a pilot hole 42 permits the dental practitioner to locate the screw 34 through the gingiva 52 oovering the screw 34.A special cutting instrument removes the overlying tissue to reveal the screw 34,The screw 34 is then removed and the post 44 or the spline 72 and the spacer 74 are inserted within the hollow 18 of the root 12. It should be apparent that the superstructure consisting of the crown and the resilient layer 68 could be attached to the post 44 or the spline 72 and the spacer 74 after fixation of the post 44 or the spline and the spacer 72, 74 to the root 12. The resilient layer 68 will separate under pressure, such as the pressure applied by a plier like device. Separation of the resilient layer 68 from the post 44 permits the dental practitioner to inspect, and or alter the superstructure of the implant system. The post 44 would also be removable from the roof 12. As heretofore described, the spacer 74 may be replaced with a spacer of a different height. The upper portion 84 of the spline 72 may be cut down to provide for the insertion of a denture. Thus, all portions of the artificial tooth are replaceable, except the root 12. While only the foregoing embodiments of the present invention have been set forth in considerable detail for the purposes of making a complete disclosure of the invention, it may be apparent to those of skill in the art that numerous changes may be made in such detail without departing from the principles of the invention.