# Interactive force transmission.

## Abstract
An interactive force transmission that can be produced in a variety of modes. The most common mode would couple a planetary gear system 12 to a torque drive 10 with a hydraulic fluid intermediate substance 26 . An outer counter rotation device 11 and a reverse action is added. The reverse action is achieved by stopping a sun gear 38 which varies the ratio and rotation of the wheel gears 34 35 and the sun gears which results in the overturning of the output gear 32 and a reverse action. The interaction of forces from the thruster 25 through the hydraulic fluid 26 and the resisting loads in the receiver 28 result in a turning force on the receiver 28 , which, in turn, furnishes variable speed into the planetary gear system 12 in such a manner as to produce a variable output force on the planetary gear system 12 .

## Claims
CLAD I CLAIM 1. An interactive force transmission composed in combination of a planetary gear means a torque drive means an intermediate substance means within the torque drive means an anti oounter rotation device and, an interactive force means to produce a variable speed. 2. A planetary gear mains as described in Claim 1 in which the wheel gears are rotated about the sun gear and together they prodce a force on the output gear. 3. A planetary gear nx3ans as described in Claim 1 in which the wheel gear rotation about the sun gear may be varied by the torque drive in such a manner as to produce a variable speed in the output gear. 4. A planetary gear means as described in Claim 1 in which the rotation of the sun gear is varied by the torque drive to produce a variable speed in the output gear. 5. A planetary gear means as described in Claim 1 in which when the wheel gears are rotated the same speed as the sun gear the output gear will also travel at that speed. 6. A planetary gear means as described in Claim 1 in which the sun gear is rotated the same speed as the wheel gears and the output gear will travel at that speed. 7. A planetary gear nas as described in Claim 1 in iich the ratios and rotation of the wheel gears and sun gears causes an overturning movement in the output gear resulting in a reverse action. 8. A torque drive neans as described in Claim 1 in which the distance between the thruster and receiver is varied to produce the desired torque transfer. 9. A torre drive means as described in Claim 1 in which a torque drive or driver has more than one compartment to allow different specific arrounts of torque for different applications or acceleration rates. 10. A torque drive means as described in Claim 1 in which the proportional size relationship between the thruster and receiver is varied to produoe the desired torque transfer. 11. A torque drive means like that described in Claim 1 in which a variable speed motor is used. 12. A torque drive weans like that described in Claim 1 hich receives two ratioed inputs to the opposing gears of a differential gear arrangement and their interaction is placed on the traveling gear which becomes the torque drive output. 13. A torque drive means like that described in Claim 1 in which the vane angles of the thruster and receiver may be varied to increase or decree the force transfer efficiency. 14. A torque drive means as described in Claim 1 in which the efficiency of the force transfer in the intenmediate substance may be controlled during acceleration by the use of centrifical force or hydraulic pressure. 15. A torque drive means as described in Claim 1 which includes a locking device which may be used to lock the torque drive to the input to eliminate slippege when the exact 1 1 ratio is required. 16. A torque drive weans as in Claim 1 which contains a barrier between the thruster and receiver to control the efficiency of the transfer of force. 17. An intermediate substance means like that described in Claim 1 in which the intermediate substance may be a friction coupling. 18. An intermediate substance oe means as described in Claim 1 in which the intermediate substance is a fluid. 19. An intermediate substance means as described in Claim 1 in which the interrelate substance may be pellets. 20. An intermediate substance means as described in Claim 1 in which the intermediate substance may be an electrcinagnetic force. 21. An intermediate substance means as described in Claim 1 in which the efficiency of the transfer of force by the intedrmediate substance may be varied by the amount of substance present. 22. An intermediate substance means as described in Claim 1 in which the efficiency of the transfer of force may be varied by changing the pressure. 23. An interactive force means like that described in Claim 1 in which it is the interaction of the input force transmitted from the thruster through the intermediate substance and the resisting loads in the receiver that result in the turning force on the receiver.

## Description
INTERACTIVE FORCE TRANSMISSION BACKGPOUND OF THE DNVENTION This is a Continuation in Part of application 435,760 for a similar invention filed October 21, 1982 and nowField of the Invention This invention relates to transissions and in particular those automatic transmissions that are compound and composed of additional planetary gear systems, couplings and or torque convertor systems.Description of the Prior Art A search of the prior art in the field revealed hundreds of patents represented by U.S. Patents 3,398,603 4,129,050 4,125,037 3,974,718 4,191,070 4,214,489 4,299,996 4,287,792 3,752,013 3,705,522 3,511,113 3,503,281 2,974,543 and 3,893,350. None of these patents reveal the invention, for btiiie they may contain the same elements of this invention, they do not couple them together in the same tanner and they do not contain all the benefits of this system. The outstanding advantage of this invention over the prior art is that oonstant variable speed can be obtained with gears and the speed is controlled by other elements within the transmission. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONIn this invention a planetary gear system and a torquem drive are cooped together. The main surpose of the torque drive is to provide a variable input to the gear system thus producing various speeds in the inter active force transmission. Inputs to the transmissicn are entered in two plares. the is the planetary gear system and the other the torque drive.In the torque drive a force is pitted against resisting loads the result being a torque drive output to supply a variable speed to the gear system. When the torque drive places a secondary input to the planetary gear system at the same speed as the other input, the input and output of the transmission are identical. When the he resisting load forces the input from the torque drive to stop moving the output of the torque drive, the ratio of the gear train in the planetary gear system determines the output speed.It will be seen to those skilled in the art that an infinite number of speeds can be obtained by introducing different speeds to the two planetary gear inputs. In that way the movement of the gears controls the output speed of the transmission. An anti oounter rotational device may be added to the system in such a manner that the torque drive input cannot counter rotate. This counter rotational device is to stop internal movement which sould destroy the transmission output when the torque drive input is insufficient. The inter active force transmission can be used in many applications by modifying the torque drive for the required application and adding coupling, clutches and gears before and after the interactive force transmission. For example a motor vehicle application may be trade by placing a coupling in front of the transmission to disconnect the engine when the vehicle is at a standstill.Placing additional gears before or after the transmission can install a reverse and overdrive.Additionally with proper selections of ratios and arrangements of the components a clutch and another type of reverse may be incoroorated in the interactive force transmission. It is an object of this invention to increase the efficiency of all component parts caused by utilizing the interactive forces between the input force and the resisting load to prcperly adjust the gear ratios. Still another object of this invention is the use of a constant meshing gear system instead of belts or gears with external controls to change speeds. A still further object of this invention is to produce a selfcontrolled internal mechanism without the need of externally controlled clutches, except for reverse, to activate the system. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIGURE 1 is a cross sectional view of a reactive force transmission. FIGURE 2 is a section of Figure 1 through Line 2 2 depicting a planetary gear system and the rotational movement of the wheel gears. FIGURE 3 is a cross sectional view of an alternate planetary gear system FIGURE 4 is a section of Figure 3 through 4 4 depicting the planetary gear system input gear, wheel gears and their relative rotation within the alternate planetary gear systemFIQURE RE 5 is a section of Figure 3 through 5 5 depicting the output gear, wheel gears and their relative rotation within the alternate planetary gear system.FIGURE 6 is a cross section of an optional planetary gear system which incorporates a reverse. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROEFERRED EMBODIMENTTurning now to Figure 1 a torque drive 10, a planetary gear system 12 and counter rotational device 11 are depicted. Power input shaft 20 is connected to the sun gear 13 of the planetary gear system 12. Power is also applied to thruster 25 of the torque drive. Power is transmitted by the gear teeth from the sun gear 13 through the wheel gears 14, 15, 16, 17 to the output gear 18. The wheel gears 14, 15, 16, 17 are mounted on bearings 23 so that they may rotate freely and act as idler gears in the gear train. Wheel gears 16 and 17 are not essential to the transmission, but they are used for balance and to add strength to the planetary system 12. Bushing 24 supports the torque drive on shaft 20 and allows the free movement between the torque drive and the planetary gear system.when there is no input from the torque drive 10, the planetary gear system 12 becomes a standard gear train and the output is determined by the ratio within the gear train. The torque drive 10 through an interaction of input force and resistant loads rotates the wheel gears 14, 15, 16, 17 about the sun gear 13. When the wheel gears 14, 15, 16, 17 are rotated about the sun gear at the same speed and direction as the sun gear 13, the entire planetary gear system 12 is traveling at the same speed, producing a 1 1 ratio between the input and output of the invention. Any partial rotation of the wheel gears 14, 15, 16, 17 about the sun gear 13 moves that portion at a 1 1 ratio. The retraining portion is moved by the sun gears 13 movement of the gear train. Thus the output speeds are changed by the variance of the torque drive rotating wheel gears 14, 15, 16 17 about the sun gear 13. Figure 3 is an alternate mode of the invention. The same torque drive 10 is used and the drive shaft 31 is keyed to gear 33. Gears 34 and 36 are given a variable rotational input by the torque drive which produces a variable output on gear 32 which is transmitted through 35 and 37. This alternate planetary gear system 34, 33, 36, 35, 32 and 37 is used to achieve a larger gear ratio in a smaller space. The drive shaft 31 may be a direct input fran the power source or a variable input from the torque drive. Figure 6 is an alternate node of the invention in which a direct power input is made to the rotation of gears 34, 35, 36, 37, 39 and 40. The variable input is transmitted from the torque drive to the gear 33. The output is transmitted through gear 32 to output shaft 41. Gear 38, 39 and 40 are placed in the system for a reverse action which is described below. In the Figure 6 system for forward drive a variable input is transmitted to gear 33 which produces a variable output on gear 32 by the rotation of gears 34, 35, 36 and 37. Gears 35 and 37 rotate less than required by the system and drag gear 32 through the balance of its rotation. gear gear 38 is made stationary, the overturning of gears 35, 37, 39 and 40 causes the reversing action on gear 32. Gear 32 is no longer dragged through its rotation, it is rather overturned to the reverse direction causing a reverse output on shaft 41. The renryzal of the counter rotation device 11 and proper raticning of the gears 32 40 stops the transfer of notion thro the output gear 32 until the torque drive not shewn stops or positively roves the input to the sun gear. torque drive 10, Figure 1 may be made by modifying hydraulic, electro magnetic, friction and pellet type couplings and clutches. A variable speed rotor or a differential gear arrangement. with two ratioed inputs can also be used as a torque drive.The e arrangement of the components to the shafts and housing say vary to fit the coupling modification and the adaption to the planetary gear system 12. The thruster 25 transmits forces to the receiver 28 through the intermediate substance or force 26. The inter mediate force or substance may be oil, pellets, friction devices or magnetic forces. As there is no direct linkage between the thruster 25 and the receiver 28 these components say travel at different speeds. The speed of the receiver 28 is determined by the efficiency of the transfer of force through the inbenmediate substance 26 and the resisting load not shown which is transmitted from the planetary gear system 12. The efficiency of the transfer of force is regulated in such a manner that only a specific amount of torque can be transferred. If the work load is greater than the force provided by thruster 25, the intermediate substance 26 will allow slippage. Htswever, the thruster 25 continues to furnish the specific torque so A the load decreases the slippage decreases and the receiver 28 turns a proportionate amount. When the resisting load slows the torque drive 10 this slows the variable input which changes the gear ratio. When the gear ratio is lo, the resisting loads are decreased due to the mechanical advantage of the gears until the speed of receiver 28 is matched to the required working ratio. Wyhen the interactive force transmission is used with sane equipment in an acceleration node such as a motor vehicle, the specific torque in the torque drive may be varied during the acceleration to increase the efficiency of the motor vehicle. Adjustments can be accomp lished by increasing or decreasing the distance between the thruster 25 and the receiver 28 and varying the arno,nt of pressure of the intermediate substance 26.In the case of hydraulic coupling the angle of the vanes and the proportionate size of the thruster and receiver may also be used to adjust the specific force. In order to reverse the variable inputs from the wheel gears to the sun gears as depicted between Figures 1, 3 and 6 the position of the receiver and the thruster are reversed within the torqOe drive.The control ofadjustments during acceleration may be accomplished by the use of centrifical force and or regulated pressure. As the torque drive allows same slippage, it is desirable to lock the torque drive to the input shaft when 100 efficiency is required, Such a device mEy be added with the other control devices. Multiple compartments or combina ticns of torque drives can add nore control options to the operation of the transmission. Acceleration rates can be changed by using different specific torque in each compartment. The addition of a compartment would change the acceleration rate. This would be advantageous for a motor vehicle where one may want one compartment for a powerful acceleration but by adding a second compartment one could obtain a gas saving acceleration rate. The e efficiency of the transfer of force from the thruster to the receiver can be varied by placing a moveable barrier between them. This barrier may be moveable to change the transfer torque. Industrial and machine tool applications would involve selecting the speed by adjusting the specific force to produce the desired speed.Both input force and particular load would be constant. The input of forces to the planetary gear system can be reversed. It can be seen that many variations of the present inveention are possible without varying from the soope and spirit of the attached claims.