# Diagnostic method and kit.

## Abstract
A method for ascertaining whether a human infant is at risk from the sudden infant death syndrome comprising the steps of a measuring the concentration in a blood sample from the infant of at least one of morphiceptin and β casomorphin and b determining the risk to the infant using the blood concentration measurement s . Also provided are labelled morphiceptin, labelled β casomorphin and a diagnostic kit of value for the perform ance of the said method.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A method for ascertaining whether a human infant is at risk from the sudden infant death syndrome comprising the steps of a measuring the concentration in a blood sample from the infant of at least one of morphiceptin and B casomorphin and b determining the risk to the infant using the blood concentration measurement s . 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the concentration of 5 casomorphin is measured. 3. The method of either of claims 1 and 2 wherein the concentration is measured by immunoassay. 4. The method of either of claims 1 and 2 wherein the concentration is measured by radioimmunoassay. 5. The method of either of claims 1 and 2 wherein the concentration is measured by radioimmunoassay using a compound labelled with 1251. 6. The method of any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the concentration in plasma prepared from the blood sample is measured. 7. The method of any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the concentration in serum prepared from the blood sample is measured. 8. As a mercantile unit, a kit comprising a at least one of morphiceptin and B casomorphin labelled in a manner enabling determination of the amount thereof bound in an immunoassay procedure, b complementary to a at least one of antibodies against morphiceptin and antibodies against B casomorphin, and c complementary to a a standard of at least one of morphiceptin and B casomorphin, the materials being held in separate sealed vessels. 9. The kit of claim 8 comprising, as a , at least one of radiolabelled morphiceptin and radiolabelled B casomorphin. 10. The kit of claim 8 comprising, as a , at least one of 1251 labelled morphiceptin and 1 5I labelled B casomorphin. 11. The kit of any of claims 8 to 10 comprising, as a , labelledB casomorphin. 12. The kit of claim 8 comprising a 125I labelled B casomorphin, b antibodies against B casomorphin, and c a standard of 13 casomorphin. 13. The kit of claim 8 additionally comprising a sealed vessel containing a buffer solution. 14. The kit of claim 8 additionally comprising a sealed vessel containing a protease inhibitor. 15. A compound selected from morphiceptin labelled in a manner enabling determination of the amount thereof bound in an immunoassay procedure, andB casomorphin labelled in a manner enabling determination of the amount thereof bound in an immunoassay procedure. 16. A compound selected from 125H I iodo Tyr Pro Phe Pro NH2 and 125H I iodo Tyr Pro Phe Pro Giy Pro I le 0H.

## Description
DIAGNOSTIC METHOD AND KITThe present invention relates to a method for the identification of human infants at risk from the sudden infant death syndrome, and to compounds and a diagnostic kit of value for the performance thereof.The sudden infant death syndrome SIDS , alternatively called cot death or crib death, has been defined as the sudden death of any infant or young child which is unexpected by history and in which a thorough post mortem examination fails to demonstrate an adequate cause for death . It is recognized as a distinct clinical entity that results in about 1500 deaths a year in the United Kingdom and 8000 deaths a year in the United States ofAmerica in one study the syndrome accounted for 45 of postperinatal infant deaths and 20p of all deaths from 8 days to 14 years of age for reviews seeValdes Dapena, M.A. Pediatrics 66 597, 1980 and Guntheroth, W.G. Am. Heart J. JO 78all, 1977 .Despite increasing research into the syndrome its pathogenesis remains obscure and there is no satisfactory method for the identification prediction of infants at risk. The problem at hand is identified thus by Valdes Dapena loc. cit. Ideally, the physician should be able to determine, upon the basis of physical examinations and certain tests, whether or not a newborn baby is apt to die of sudden infant death syndrome. Unfortunately, although some progress has been made toward that end within the past decade, that day has not yet arrived . . . Thus, at this time, there is no reliable screening mechanism for sudden infant death syndrome it remains an entity, the occurrence of which, for any specific infant, cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty .The present invention provides a method for the identification of such at risk infants based on a determination of the level concentration in their body fluids, preferably blood, of either or both of the peptides morphiceptin I and B casomorphin II H Tyr Pro Phe Pro NH2 I H Tyr Pro Phe Pro Gly Pro Ile OH II all chiral amino acid radicals are in the L configuration .It is envisaged that such a determination procedure will form a part of the routine perinatal assessment of all infants with those shown to have an abnormally high blood level of either or both of the said peptides being regarded as at risk from the syndrome. There is therefore enabled the possibility of monitoring thus selected infants in an attempt to avert their falling victim to SIDS.In one aspect therefore there is now provided a method for ascertaining whether a human infant is at risk from the sudden infant death syndrome comprising the steps of a measuring the concentration in a blood sample from the infant of at least one of morphiceptin and B casomorphin and b determining the risk to the infant using the blood concentration measurement s .In a preferred aspect the concentration of B casomorphin is measured.Measurement of the peptide concentration s in the blood sample step a may be effected using any conventional technique however, for general convenience, immunoassay is preferred. When an immunoassay procedure is employed the known peptide s may be labelled in any manner enabling determination of the amount bound radiolabelling radioimmunoassay is particularly convenient using for example a compound labelled with 3H or, preferably, a y emitting isotope such as 1251. Conveniently the assay is carried out upon a morphiceptin B casomorphin containing fraction prepared from the blood sample as originally withdrawn, for example plasma, serum or a fraction thereof. 125 Morphiceptin and B casomorphin may be labelled with I by the chioramine T method standard in the art to provide respectively the compounds Ia and IIa H 1251 iodo Tyr Pro Phe Fro NH2 Ia H l25I iodo Tyr Pro Phe Pro Gly Pro Ile OH via A diagnostic kit of value for the performance of the method described herein comprises a at least one of morphiceptin and B casomorphin labelled in a manner enabling determination of the amount thereof bound in an immunoassay procedure, b complementary to a at least one of antibodies against morphiceptin and antibodies against B casomorphin, and c complementary to a a standard of at least one of morphiceptin and casomorphin, the materials being held in separate sealed vessels.In a preferred aspect such a kit comprises, as a , at least one of 125I labelled morphiceptin and 125I labelled B casomorphin in a more preferred aspect a is 1251 labelled B casomorphin.Conveniently the said kit also comprises at least one of d a sealed vessel containing a buffer solution, and e a sealed vessel containing a protease inhibitor, for example bacitracin.One or more of the above indicated materials may, if desired, be held in a freeze dried lyophilized condition until required for use. Blood sample collection and fractionation 1. Draw 1 mL blood into tubes containing EDTA 2. Place the tubes in a 4 C ice bucket 3. Centrifuge to separate the cells from the plasma 4. Mix 0.5 mL plasma with 0.5 mL cold 10 trichloroacetic acid 5. Centrifuge to separate the resulting precipitate from the supernatant 6. Prepare a reverse phase C 18 Sep Pack cartridge wet the cartridge with methanol, then 0.1 M acetic acid 7. Apply the supernatant from 5. to the prewetted C 18 Sep pack cartridge 8. Wash the cartridge with 30 mL 1 M acetic acid 9. Elute peptides from the cartridge with 3 mL acetic acid methanol 1 17 10. Dry the eluate under nitrogen 11. Lyophilize the residue 12. Dissolve the residue in 0.20 M phosphate buffer pH 7.4 13.Assay for morphiceptin like and B casomorphin like activitiesRadioimmunoassav for morDhiceDtin like and B casomorDhin like activities 1. Synthetic morphiceptin and B casomorphin were prepared using solidphase techniques.2. Antisera against morphiceptin and S casomorphin were raised in male NewZealand white rabbits. The respective peptide was conjugated to bovine serum albumin tPentex 5 x crystallized by 11. glutaraldehyde in 0.20 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 for 15 min. at room temperature. The conjugate was separated from reacted peptide by gl filtration chromatography on aSephadex G 25 column. The void volume fraction containing conjugate 200 Vg peptide was then emulsified with an equal volume of Freund s complete adjutant and injected into rabbits subcutaneously on both sides of the body and intramuscularly on both hind paws.The rabbits were boosted every three weeks with the conjugate about 50 ug peptide emulsified with Freund s incomplete adjutant. 3. Radioimmunoassay RIA using protein A containing Staphylococcus as solid phase support ref. 1 was employed. Specific antiserum 0.5 mL was incubated with washed Staphylococcus in a 50 mM Tris. HCl buffer pH 7.7 containing 0.5 mM EDTA and 0.5 Triton X 100 for 3 hrs. to absorb most IgG.The igu absorbed Staphylococcus was then washed twice with the same buffer.The final pellet uas suspended in 5 times the original serum volume and stored at 40C. 125I labelled morphiceptin and B casomorphin were prepared by the chloramine T method ref. 2 . An aliquot 5 10 uL, 3 mCi of carrier free and freshly prepared Na 125I Union Carbide was added to 100 uL of 0.25 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 containing 1.5 nmoles of peptide. The iodination was initiated by adding 20 uL of 0.5 mg mL Chloramine T and terminated 20 seconds later by adding 20 us of 1 mg mL sodiummetabisulfite. 100 uL of 0.1 bovine serum albumin containing Tris. HCl 50 mM buffer was added 30 sec. later. The whole reaction mixture was applied to Biol Gel P 2 12 mL pre equilibrated with Tris. HCl 0.1 bovine serum albumin buffer solution. The iodinated peptide peats 8 9 mL fractions for B casomorphin, 10 11 mL fractions for morphiceptin were collected.5. RIA was carried out in 0.20 mL of sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 which is 0.5 mM with respect to EDTA and contains 1 Triton X 100 for 18 hrs.at 40C with about 10,000 cpm of 125I labelled peptide. At the end of the incubation, 1 mL of the same cold buffer was added to each tube and the mixture centrifuged for 20 min. at 3500 rpm in a Sorvall RC 5 rotor GSP25 . The supernatant was aspirated. The tubes containing Staphylococcus were counted in a y counter at 75 efficiency. The nonspecific binding less than 5 was determined by the presence of an excess of unlabelled peptide 10 uM .6. The amounts of morphiceptin like and B casomorphin like activities in unknown samples were determined from standard curves obtained with the synthetic peptides.Ref. 1 O Keefe, E. and Bennett, V. 1980 J. Biol. Chem. 255, 561 568 Ref. 2 Hunter, W.M., et al. 1962 Nature 194, 495 496 Alternative radioimmunoassay procedureReagents 1. Buffer. All dilutions made in 154 mM NaCl, 25 into Na2HPO4 pH 7.5, Triton X 100 trade name .2. Bacitracin. 25 mg ml in buffer, to give 0.5 mg ml final concentration in the assay. Store at 40C. 3. Solid Phase Immunoadsorbent. Donkey anti rabbit IgG immobilized on beaded cellulose Wellcome Reagents Anti Rabbit Sac Cel . Wash and resuspend to original volume in buffer.4. Antiserum rabbit . Prepare a working dilution of 1 200 in buffer. Final dilution in assay to be 1 10,000.5. Radiolabel. Prepare a working concentration of radiolabel of 5 7 x 10 cpm ml to give approximately 35,000 cpm per assay tube.6. Standards. Prepare stock solutions of each peptide at 1.0 mM in buffer. Store at 200C. Prepare initial working dilutions of 1.0 for B casomorphin or 2.0 for morphiceptin microinolar in buffer. Dilute this by factors of 3 to prepare 6 standards ranging from 5 1000 nM 10 2000 to give 0.02 5.0 pmole tube 0.04 10.0 in the assay.7. NSB Standard. Use 0.1 mM peptide in buffer to give 500 pmole tube in the assay. Protocol 1. All reagents, procedures are performed at 40C. 2. All tubes are adjusted to a final volume of 250 microlitres in the assay.3. Reagents 1 and 5 may be combined prior to addition for convenience, as may reagents 3 and 4.4. The assay is initiated with the addition of the antibody gel reagent. Incubation ranges from 3 4 hours at 40C. 5. The assay is terminated with the addition of 4 mL of ice cold buffer to all tubes except TA .6. Centrifuge samples 15 minutes at 3000 rpm in Sorval RC 3 at 4 C. 7. Aspirate and count pellets.Condition Buffer Bacit. Label Stds NSB Unkn Antib. GelTotal Added TA 5 Total Bound TB 210 5 5 5 25Non Specific NSB 205 5 5 5 5 25Standard Curve 205 5 5 5 5 25Unknowns serum var 5 5 var 5 25 all volumes are microlitres Sample data B casomorphin Condition cpm Average NSB B Bo pmol tubeTotal Added 35740 35672 35604Total Bound 2350 2376 2039 100.0 2402Nonspecific 330 337 344Standard a 560 599 262 12.8 5.0 638 b 899 923 586 28.7 1.7 947 c 1431 1462 1125 55.2 0.6 1493 d 1850 1946 1609 78.9 0.2 2042 e 2110 2261 1924 94.4 0.06 2412 f 2300 2348 2011 98.6 0.02 2396Unknown a 1024 952 615 25 9 2.1 879 b 1650 1611 1274 53.6 0.67 1571 c 2075 2019 1682 70.8 0.32 1963