# Treatment of flue gas.

## Abstract
A method of removing acid gases from hot flue gases wherein the flue gas is fed through a pipe 3 and up through a tubular reaction chamber 1 having a diverging bottom wall 2 which causes a rapid reduction in axial velocity. Further flue gas is introduced tangentially through a pipe 5 to produce a rising swirling stream of flue gas, in which a powdery absorption agent and liquid water, that have been introduced through an inlet 4 , are entrained. The agent reacts with the acid gas in the presence of evaporating liquid water to produce powdery reaction products which are subsequently removed in separators 7,7 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A semi dry method of removing an acid gas from hot flue gas, wherein an absorption agent and liquid water are introduced and dispersed in a stream of the hot flue gas in a tubular reaction zone 1 having a central vertical axis, whereby the acid gas is absorbed by and reacts with the absorption agent in the presence of evaporating liquid water to produce a dry powder comprising reaction products and unreacted absorption agent suspended in the flue gas, whereafter the powder is separated from the flue gas in a separating zone 7 , characterized by introducing, dispersing and suspending the absorption agent and the water in a rising swirling stream of the hot flue gas at the lower part of the reaction zone, introducing at least a part of the hot flue gas axially at the bottom of the reaction zone as a stream which is subjected to a rapid reduction in axial velocity at the lower part of the reaction zone removing the resulting dry powder from the upper part of the reaction zone suspended in and entrained by the flue gas and separating the powder from the suspension in a separate separating zone. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the axial velocity of the axially introduced stream of hot flue gas is within the range of 10 60 m sec, preferably 25 45 m sec, that the axial velocity of the rising swirling stream of hot flue gas in the middle of the reaction zone is within the range 2 20 m sec, preferably 3 6 m sec, and that the rapid reduction in axial velocity at the lower part of the reaction zone corresponds to a velocity ratio v. Vinitial vreduced within the range 3 20, preferably 4 9. 3. A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, characterized in that the rapid reduction in axial velocity takes place during a period of time within the range 0.05 0.2 times the gas retention time in the reaction zone. 4. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the rapid reduction in axial velocity is provided by directing the rising axially introduced stream of hot flue gas through a divergent annular frustoconical bottom part 2 of the reaction zone, preferably having an apex angle greater than 120, e.g. with the range 12 1200, in particular 40 900. 5. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the swirling flow of the hot flue gas in the reaction zone is provided by bringing the gas into rotation before it is introduced axially into the reaction zone Figure 2 . 6. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized in that the swirling flow of the hot flue gas in the reaction zone is provided by introducing a second stream of the hot flue gas tangentially into the reaction zone Figure 1 . 7. A method according to claim 6, characterized in that the swirling flow of the hot flue gas in the reaction zone is provided by introducing a second stream 5 of the hot flue gas tangentially at one or several positions at the lower part of the reaction zone 1 . 8. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the absorption agent is selected from the group comprising oxides and hydroxides of calcium and magnesium, and oxides, hydroxides and carbonates of alkali metals. 9. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the absorption agent and the water are introduced as a suspension or solution of absorption agent in water. 10. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the gas retention time in the reaction zone 1 is within the range 1 5 seconds, preferably 2 3 seconds, and that the material retention time in the reaction chamber is within the range 1 8 minutes, preferably 3 5 minutes. 11. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that a part of the powder precipitated in the separating zone is recirculated to the reaction zone, and that the external powder recirculation rate is equal to 10 70 times, preferably 15 30 times, the input rate of absorption agent and solid particles present in the hot flue gas. 12. A method according to claim 11, characterized in that the dry powder precipitated in the separating zone is subjected to size adjustment before it is recirculated to the reaction zone. 13. A method according to claim 12, characterized in that the dry powder precipitated in the separating zone is subjected to comminution before it is recirculated to the reaction zone. 14. A method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that water is introduced into the reaction zone in an amount corresponding to 50 100 of the amount needed to cool the flue gas to the adiabatic saturation temperature. 15. A method according to any one of the preceding claims characterized in that the separating zone comprises two subzones, a first subzone for precipitation of coarse particles and a second subzone for precipitation of fine particles. 16. Apparatus for carrying out the method according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in comprising a tubular reaction chamber 1 having a central vertical axis, an annular bottom wall 2 which slopes downwardly and inwardly, an inlet for hot flue gas comprising a gas inlet opening arranged centrally in the bottom wall and means 5,5 for giving the flue gas a swirling movement, at least one duct 4 for feeding absorption agent and water into the lower part of the reaction chamber, and a suspension outlet 6 at the top of the reaction chamber connected to a particle precipitator 7 having a powder outlet 9 and a gas outlet 8 . 17. Apparatus according to claim 16, characterized in that the apex angle of the annular bottom wall is greater than 12 , preferably within the range 12 1200, in particular 40 900. 18. Apparatus according to claim 16 or claim 17, characterized in that the ratio A between the areas of the upper and lower part of the annular bottom wall is within the range 3 20, preferably 4 9. 19. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 18, characterized in that the inlet for hot flue gas comprises a swirl chamber 5 arranged below the central gas inlet opening in the bottom wall 2 of the tubular reaction chamber 1 . 20. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 18, characterized in that the inlet for hot flue gas comprises at least one tangentially arranged gas inlet 5 in the tubular reaction chamber 1 , preferably in the lower part thereof. 21. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 20, characterized by a common feeding duct 4 for the water and absorption agent. 22. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 21, characterized in that the water, or water and absorption agent, feeding duct is provided with a venturi injection nozzle. 23. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 22, characterized in that the tubular reaction chamber 1 is provided with a powder inlet duct 10 arranged at the lower part of the tubular reaction chamber and connected to the powder outlet 9 of the particle precipitator 7 . 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, characterized in that it is provided with means subjecting the dry powder withdrawn from the particle precipitator 7 to size adjustment before it is recirculated to the reaction zone 1 . 25. Apparatus according to claim 23 or claim 24, characterized in that it is provided with means subjecting the dry powder withdrawn from the particle precipitator 7 to comminution before it is recirculated to the reaction zone 1 . 26. Apparatus according to any one of claims 16 to 25, characterized in that the particle precipitator comprises a coarse separator 7 arranged upstream of a fine separator 7 . 27. Apparatus according to claim 26, characterized in that the coarse separator is a cyclone 7 . 28. Apparatus according to claim 26 or claim 27, characterized in that the fine separator is an electrostatic filter or a fabric filter 7 .

## Description
TREATMENT OF FLUE GAS The present invention relates to a semi dry method, hereinafter referred to as of the kind described, of removing an acid gas, particularly including oxide s of sulphur from hot flue gas, wherein an absorption agent and liquid water are introduced and dispersed in a stream of the hot flue gas in a tubular reaction zone having a central vertical axis, whereby the acid gas is absorbed by and reacts with the absorption agent in the presence of evaporating liquid water to produce a dry powder comprising reaction products and unreacted absorption agent suspended in the flue gas, whereafter the powder is separated from the flue gas in a separating zone. The invention relates also to an apparatus for carrying out this method. The term dry powder as used in the present specification is intended to indicate a non sticky easy flowing powder containing 0 15 , preferably 5 10 , by weight of water. Various processes for removing sulphur oxides and other acid gases from flue gas from e.g., power plants and incinerators are known. A review of such processes is given inUS A 4197278. Most of these fall within one of the following main groups i Wet methods comprising scrubbing the flue gas with suspensions or solutions of hydroxides or carbonates of alkali or alkaline earth metals wherein the reaction products are withdrawn as a sludge. The main advantages of the wet methods are high sulphur oxide removal even at high sulphur oxide concentrations in the hot flue gas and high absorbent utilization. the main disadvantages are undesirable end products occurring as a sludge presenting serious disposal problems and water saturated exit gas which must be heated prior to discharge to the atmosphere.Furthermore, clogging and corrosion in the scrubber lead to operational difficulties and un availability of wet scrubbers.ii Dry methods wherein the flue gas is brought into contact and reacted with dry absorption agents and wherein the reaction products are withdrawn as a dry powder. The main advantages of the dry methods are elimination of clogging risks, dry solid end products and an exit gas which can be easily discharged to the atmosphere. However, since the gas solid reactions are relatively slow, the sulphur oxide removal and absorbent utilization are low.iii The semi dry methods wherein the flue gas is brought into contact with aqueous suspensions or solutions of hydroxides or carbonates of alkali or alkaline earth metals under such conditions that the water is evaporated and the reaction products are withdrawn as a dry powder. The semi dry methods provide highly improved sulphur oxide removal and absorbent utilization compared to the dry methods, although in general not as high as may be obtained by the wet methods, easily dischargeable desulphurized flue gas, and a dry, fluent solid powder as end product. Semi dry methods are described in a number of patents and patent applications US A 3932587 describes 502 removal by treating a hot flue gas with an aqueous alkali metal carbonate and or bicarbonate solution or slurry in a spray dryer after fly ash has been removed from the hot flue gas. GB A 2021086 describes a similar process utilizing a less expensive absorption agent Ca OH 2 suspended in water. Improved lime utilization is achieved by avoiding fly ash removal from the hot inlet gas and by recirculation of a part of the powdery end product from the spray dryer to the aqueous slurry directed to the spray dryer. The viscosity of the aqueous slurry of absorption agent and recirculated powder, however, puts narrow limits to the amount of powder recirculated. In order to overcome this disadvantage it is suggested in Danish Patent Application No. 3959 79 to recirculate the powder by blowing the dry powder directly into the spray dryer. It is known that a key parameter determining the operating conditions of semi dry methods is AST, i.e., approach to saturation temperature , defined as reaction zone exit gas temperature minus gas saturation temperature, and that sulphur oxide removal in a spray dryer as well as in an associated fabric filter increases dramatically when AST tends to zero. It is, however, impractical to operate a spray dryer at low AST values because the risk of wet bottom , i.e. accumulations of moist or wet product on the walls and the bottom of the spray dryer, increases with decreasing AST. Such accumulations are highly undesirable because they lead to troublesome handling and discharge of solid material precipitated in the spray dryer. Low AST values are also undesirable because they will lead to inoperable conditions in an associated bag filter. Another problem when developing suitable semi dry flue gas desulphurization methods consists in providing a method with sufficient turn down ratio to cope with the varying flue gas rate characteristic of power plants. Although great efforts have been devoted to developing semi dry flue gas desulphurization methods employing spray dryers, and although such methods have been realized on an industrial scale there is a need for an effective, commercially feasible method and a simple compact apparatus for removing sulphur oxides and other acid gases from flue gas, in particular from flue gas produced in power plants and incinerators, providing adequate sulphur oxide removal and efficient utilization of absorption agent at varying flue gas loads. It has now been found that it is possible to perform a method of the kind described allowing large concentrations of suspended material in the reaction zone and providing a radically increased gas solid contact, resulting in adequate sulphur oxide removal and efficient utilization of absorption agent at varying flue gas loads without risk of the wet bottom phenomena of spray dryers, and which can be worked in a compact apparatus of uncomplicated design. This is achieved by a method of the kind described which, according to the invention, is characterized by introducing, dispersing and suspending the absorption agent and the water in a rising swirling stream of the hot flue gas at the lower part of the reaction zone, introducing at least a part of the hot flue gas axially at the bottom of the reaction zone as a stream which is subjected to a rapid reduction in axial velocity at the lower part of the reaction zone removing the resulting dry powder from the upper part of the reaction zone suspended in and entrained by the flue gas and separating the powder from the suspension in a separate separating zone. This method provides an extremely intimate gas solid contact due to interplay between centrifugal forces, gravity forces and frictional forces between gas and suspended material. Interplay between gravity forces and frictional forces results in axial transport of suspended material, whereas interplay between centrifugal forces and frictional forces leads to precipitation in the reaction chamber. Interplay between these two mechanisms may give rise to any desired internal recirculation rate of the material in the reaction chamber. It is therefore possible to maintain desired particle hold up in the reaction zone providing efficient treatment at both high and low flue gas load, since the method according to the invention at high flue gas loads is operated with more intensive swirl, resulting in a higher internal recirculation rate of material in the reaction zone. Moreover, the above described movement of gas and suspended material leads to high relative velocities between gas and suspended material, leading to reduction of the gas phase diffusion resistance. The new method allows a significantly higher concentration of suspended material in the reaction zone than that achieved by methods operating with a descending or horizontal co current gas particle flow, e.g. by the known spray dryer methods. Furthermore, the large hold up and high recirculation rate of material in the reaction zone provides a reduced risk of disturbances due to too low AST values. The temperature of the hot flue gas introduced into the reaction zone is in general above 1200. When the hot flue gas is flue gas from a power plant, the temperature is in general within the range 110 250, typically 140 1800C. If desired fly ash may be removed totally or partially from the hot flue gas before it is introduced into the reaction zone. The axial velocity of the hot flue gas introduced at the bottom of the reaction zone may vary depending on load and size of the particles circulating in the reaction zone. However, it must be sufficiently high to maintain particle hold up in the reaction zone and to prevent particle fall out from the bottom of the zone. The reduced velocity of the flue gas must be sufficiently high to ensure transport of the particles out of the upper part of the reaction zone, but sufficiently low to enable proper material build up in the reaction zone, taking into consideration that increasing swirl movement results in increasing internal recirculation, i.e. increasing material hold up Preferably, the axial velocity of the hot axially introduced stream of flue gas is within the range 10 60 m sec, most preferably 25 45 m sec, while the axial velocity of the rising swirling stream of hot flue gas in the middle of the reaction zone is within the range 2 20 m sec, most preferably 3 6 m sec, and while the reduction in axial velocity at the lower part of the reaction zone corresponds to a velocity ratio vinitial vreduced within the range 3 20, preferably 4 9. The rapid reduction in axial velocity preferably takes place during a period of time within the range 0.05 0.2 times the gas retention time in the reaction zone, e.g. by directing the hot flue gas through a divergent annular frustoconical bottom part of the reaction zone, in particular having an apex angle greater than 120, preferably within the range in in particular 40 Apex angles greater than 1200 are not desirable because of risk of undesirable material build up on the frustocinical bottom of the reaction zone. The swirling flow of the hot flue gas may be provided by means known per se from the technology of vortex chambers and separating cyclones, e.g. by bringing the hot gas stream into rotation, e.g. by passing the gas stream through a swirl inducing zone, before it is introduced axially into the reaction zone, by means of radial guide vanes arranged n the reaction zone, or by introducing a second stream of hot flue gas tangentially into the reaction zone.This second stream may be introduced at one or several postions, preferentially close to the bottom part of the reaction zone. When it is desired to remove fly ash from the hot flue gas before it is introduced into the reaction zone, and when the swirl movement is provided by passing the gas stream through a swirl inducing zone before it is introduced axially at the bottom of the reaction zone, the swirl inducing zone may comprise a vertical cyclone arranged directly below the reaction zone, the cyclone functioning as both fly ash precipitator and swirl inducer. The arrangement comprising tangential introduction of a second stream of hot flue gas is particularly advantageous because the tangenvially introduced hot gas will lead to formation of a layer of hot gas circulating along the walls of the tubular reaction zone. This layer has an AST value higher than the AST value in the central part of the reaction zone and hereby the risks of operating with low AST values in the reaction zone, i.e. the risks of formation of deposits of material on the walls and blocking the reaction zone, are reduced. The absorption agent is preferably selected from the group comprising oxides and hydroxides of calcium and magnesium, and oxides, hydroxides and carbonates of alkali metals. For economic reasons Ca OH 2, preferentially slaked in a detention attrition slaker or ball mill, is the preferred absorption agent. The absorption agent may be introduced as a dry powder or suspended or dissolved in water. In order to achieve a high absorption agent utilization, the absorption agent is preferably introduced suspended or dissolved in water, but also in this case it is possible, if desired, to introduce additional water. The water or the suspension or solution of absorption agent in water is preferably introduced in the reaction zone at a position where the flue gas velocity is high. Preferred operating conditions are characterized in that the gas retention time in the reaction zone is within the range 1 5 seconds, preferably 2 3 seconds, and that the material retention time in the reaction chamber is within the range 1 8 minutes, preferably 3 5 minutes, where the material retention time tM is defined as tM where HM is the material hold up in the reaction zone kg , and WMis the material input kg min. of fresh absorption agent plus solid particles present in the hot flue gas. As mentioned above the powder comprises reaction products and unreacted absorption agent. However, the flue gas entering the reaction zone will in general entrain fly ash particles which will be precipitated in the separating zone. Fly ash may contain reactive alkalis capable of reacting with sulphur oxides and other acid gases under proper conditions, resulting in a reduced demand for absorption agent. A part of the powder precipitated in the separating zone may be recirculated to the reaction zone. When operating with this external powder recirculation, the external powder recirculation rate may be equal to 10 70 times, preferably 15 30 times, the input rate of absorption agent and solid particles present in the hot flue gas, where input rate of absorption agent is defined as input rate of fresh absorption agent not comprising unreacted absorption agent introduced with the powder. When the method is operated at high flue gas loads high intensive swirl is generated giving rise to particle build up due to high internal recirculation of material in the reaction zone necessitating only a moderate external recirculation, if any. Whereas at low flue gas load the method is operated with less intensive swirl necessitating a higher external recirculation in order to provide a desired particle hold up in the reaction zone. The average particle diameter of the externally recirculated powder is preferably within the range 50 250 micron. This preferred size may be ensured by subjecting the dry powder separated in the separating zone to size adjustment, e.g. screening, or size reduction by comminution, e.g. in a hammer mill, before it is transferred to the reaction zone. Proper AST values are obtained when water is introduced into the reaction zone in an amount corresponding to 50 100 of the amount needed to cool the flue gas to the adiabatic saturation temperature. AST falls in general in the range 0 40 C, preferably in the range 5 200C, in particular within the range 8 16 0c. The water may be introduced totally or partially as a mixture of water and absorption agent. If desired, e.g. when operating with very low AST, the exit gas may be reheated, e.g. by by passing a portion of the hot flue gas around the reaction zone. After leaving the reaction zone, the flue gas is dedusted, whereby powder comprising unreacted absorption agent, reaction products and fly ash are removed in the separating zone in one or two steps in separators known per se. The separating zone may comprise two subzones, a first subzone for precipitation of coarse particles and a second subzone for precipitation of fine particles. The invention also includes an apparatus for carrying out the method, the apparatus being characterized in comprising a tubular reaction chamber having a central vertical axis, an annular bottom wall which slopes downwardly and inwardly, an inlet for hot. flue gas comprising a gas inlet opening arranged centrally in the bottom wall and means for giving the flue gas a swirling movement, at least one duct for feeding absorption agent and water into the lower part of the reaction chamber, and a suspension outlet at the top of the reaction chamber connected to a particle precipitator having a powder outlet and a gas outlet. The extremely intimate gas solid contact and the high concentration of solid material in the reaction zone permit the use of a very compact apparatus of simple design and corresponding low investment costs. Preferably the apex angle of the annular bottom wall is greater than 120, most preferably within the range 12 1200, in particular 40 900, and the ratio A upper Alower between the areas of the upper and lower part of the annular bottom wall is within the range 3 20, preferably 4 9. According to one construction the inlet for hot flue gas comprises a swirl chamber arranged below the central gas inlet opening in the bottom wall of the tubular reaction chamber. According to another construction, the inlet for hot flue gas comprises at least one tangenti ally arranged gas inlet in the tubular reaction chamber, preferably arranged at the lower part of the chamber. The absorption agent may be introduced into the reaction chamber suspended or dissolved in water. In this case water and absorption agent are fed through the same feeding duct. The feeding duct for the water and absorption agent is preferably provided with a venturi injection nozzle. When it is desired to operate the apparatus with an external powder recirculation, the tubular reaction chamber may be provided with a powder inlet duct arranged at the lower part of the tubular reaction chamber and connected to the powder outlet of the particle precipitator. The apparatus may be provided with means subjecting the dry powder withdrawn from the particle precipitator to size adjustment or comminution before it is recirculated to the reaction zone. Any known type of particle precipitator may be used. According to one arrangement, the particle precipitator comprises a coarse separator, e.g. a cyclone separator, arranged upstream of a fine separator, e.g. an electostatic filter or a fabric filter. The invention will now be further described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in whichFigures 1 and 2 show diagrammatically examples of an apparatus according to the invention. Referring to the Figures, the apparatus comprises a tubular reaction chamber 1 provided with an annular bottom wall 2, an inlet duct 3 for hot flue gas, an inlet duct 4 for absorption agent suspended or dissolved in water, and means for giving the flue gas a tangential velocity component comprising a gas inlet duct 5 tangentially arranged at the lower part of the tubular reaction chamber shown in Figure 1 and a swirl chamber 5 shown inFigure 2. The top of the reaction chamber is, via a duct 6, connected to a particle precipitator comprising a separating cyclone 7 with material outlet 9. The exit gas from the separating cyclone 7 is via a gas outlet duct 8, directed to an electrostatic filter 7 with a material outlet 9 and a gas outlet duct 8 . The fine powder precipitated in the particle precipitator is discharged as waste product.However, a part of this powder may be recirculated to the reaction chamber via a powder transfer duct 10. If desired, the inlet duct 4 may be replaced by two ducts, one for water and another for absorption agent.Example Tests were carried out in a pilot plant with a capacity corresponding to a 2.5 MW power plant. the lay out of the pilot plant was as illustrated inFigure 1 with a bag filter instead of the electrostatic filter 7 . The dimensions of the reaction chamber were height of cylindrical part 7000 mm diameter 900 mm apex angle 600. Instead of hot flue gas, hot humified air containing 802 was used. The 802 concentration was set by injecting bottled 802 in a stream of hot humified air. An aqueous slurry of calcium hydroxide as absorption agent was injected into the reaction chamber via a two phase air liquid spray nozzle located axially in the central gas inlet opening to the reaction chamber. To measure the performance of the system the SO, concentrations at the gas inlet and outlet of the reaction chamber were measured by W spectrophotometric S02 analyses H RADASIG .Proper care was taken for measuring 802 concentration in humid and dusty environment, especially at the reaction chamber outlet. The 802 concentrations at the outlet of the fabric filter were monitored by a Dupont UV 802 analysis. Chemical and physical properties of the calcium hydroxide appear from Table I. Operating conditions and test results are presented in Table II. Excellent 802 removal was obtained, and even when operating with very low AST values no wet bottom problems were observed. TABLE IChemical analysis by weightCalcium oxide CaO 73.0Magnesium oxide MgO 0.7Silicon oxide siO2 0.60Aluminium oxide awl203 0.25Iron oxide Fe203 0.20Phosphorus pentaoxide P205 0.05Sulphur s 0.04Carbon dioxide CO2 0.70Loss on ignition at 580 C 24.00 Physical properties Sieve analysis Residue on a 0.2 mm sieve 0.3 Residue on a 0.09 mm sieve 3.5 Specific surface according to DIN 66132 BET 15 m2 g TABLE IIExperi Total hot Tangent Ratio tang Gas velocment air flow ial hot ential axial itiesNo. at inlet air flow m3 hr m3 hr x xx Axial Tang ential most m s 3.111 12160 3890 32 68 32.5 12.0 3.112 12160 3890 32 68 32.5 12.0 3.113 12160 3890 32 68 32.5 12.0 3.121 10450 3760 36 64 26.3 11.6 3.122 10450 3760 36 64 26.3 11.6 3.123 10450 3760 36 64 26.3 11.6 3.124 10450 3760 36 64 26.3 11.6 3.151 11070 3825 35 65 28.5 11.8 3.152 11070 3825 35 65 28.5 11.8 3.153 11070 3825 35 65 28.5 11.8 3.154 11070 3825 35 65 28.5 11.8 3.161 11250 3780 34 66 29.4 11.7 3.162 11250 3780 34 66 29.4 11.7 3.163 11250 3780 34 66 29.4 11.7 3.164 11250 3780 34 66 29.4 11.7 3.165 11250 3780 34 66 29.4 11.7 x At the bottom of the reaction chamber the axial gas velocity in the middle of the reaction chamber was in all cases about 4 4.5 rn s . xx Close to the cylindrical wall of the chamber. TABLE II contd. Experi Solids Slurry feed Ca OH 2 Hot air tempment re rate feed rate erature atNo. circu inlet lation flow Kg hr kg hr kg hr C 3.111 2700 400 46.5 137 3.112 2700 384 45.0 142 3.113 2700 384 45.0 141 3.121 2700 380 44.5 142 3.122 2700 360 44.5 138 3.123 2700 380 44.5 138 3.124 2700 385 45.0 141 3.151 3360 390 51.5 146 3.152 3360 385 51.0 141.5 3.153 3360 366 48.5 140 3.154 3360 370 49.5 141 3.161 3360 375 49.5 144 3.162 3360 370 49.0 138 3.163 3360 385 50.5 142 3.164 3360 380 50.0 143 3.165 3360 385 50.5 140 TABLE II contd. Experi S02concentration Reaction 2 Re 802 ment corrected chamber removal exit gas efficiencyNo. Inlet Reaction Bag Temp. Dew Reaction Total ppm chamber filter point chamber exit exit 0C 0C ppm ppm 3.111 1520 650 50 45 64 3.112 1520 800 53 45 56 3.113 1340 430 50 45.5 73 3.121 1630 525 250 50 45.5 69 85 3.122 1370 315 75 49 46 77 94 3.123 1570 270 50 49 45.5 82 97 3.124 1820 390 150 50 45.5 79 92 3.151 1680 460 150 53 45 72 91 3.152 1585 310 250 50 45.5 81 85 3.153 1530 445 200 52 45 71 87 3.154 1390 280 51 45.5 80 3.161 1690 580 54 45 65 3.162 1540 350 250 50.5 45.5 77 85 3.163 1500 295 100 50.5 45.5 80 93 3.164 1565 410 100 52 45.5 74 94 3.165 1420 250 50 45.5 83