# Acetabular cup prosthesis.

## Abstract
An acetabular cup 10 for insertion into an acetabulum 16 comprises an outer metallic shell 12 and an inner resilient plastic insert 14 , the insert 14 having a spherical shaped inner surface 20 adapted to articulate with a femoral head 22 and an outer surface 26 comprising a truncated cone 28 terminating at the upper end thereof in a spherical crown 30 , the shell 12 having an inner surface 32 substantially congruent with the insert outer surface 26 and an essentially hemispherical outer surface 34 terminat ing in an annular flange 36 adapted to be countersunk into the acetabulum 16 , the shell outer surface 34 having an annular ridge 38 of uniform height spaced from and parallel to the flange 36 , the flange 36 and the ridge 38 being adapted to facilitate centering the cup 10 in the acetabulum 16 with the shell outer surface 34 uniformly spaced from the wall 40 of the acetabulum 16 . Novel acetabular reamers 58,72 for use in installing the acetabular cup 10 are also disclosed.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An acetabular cup 10 comprising an outer metallic shell 12 and an inner resilient plastic insert 14 for insertion into an acetabulum 16 , characterized in that said insert 14 has a spherical shaped inner surface 20 adapted to articulate with a femoral head 22 and an outer surface 26 comprising a truncated cone 28 terminating at the upper end thereof in a spherical crown 30 and said shell 12 has an inner surface 32 substantially congruent with said insert outer surface 26 and an essentially hemispherical outer surface 34 terminating in an annular flange 36 adapted to be countersunk into said acetabulum 16 , with said shell outer surface 34 having an annular ridge 38 of uniform height spaced from and parallel to said flange 36 and said flange 36 and said ridge 38 being adapted to facilitate centering said cup 10 in said acetabulum 16 with said shell outer surface 34 uniformly spaced from the wall 40 of said acetabulum 16 . 2. The cup 10 of claim 1 wherein said insert outer surface 26 and said shell inner surface 32 are provided with congruent mating detent means 44,48 52,54 to secure said insert 14 within said shell 12 . 3. The cup 10 of claim 2 wherein said detent means 44,48 include at least one projection 44 on said insert outer surface 26 to engage congruent indent means 48 in said shell inner surface 32 . 4. The cup 10 of claim 3 wherein said projections 44 comprise a plurality of equispaced substantially rectangular ridges parallel to and adjacent the base 46 of said insert 14 . 5. The cup 10 of claim 2 wherein said detent means 52,54 include at least one projection 52 on said shell inner surface 32 to engage congruent indent means 54 in said insert outer surface 26 . 6. The cup of claim 5 wherein said projections 52 comprise at least one semicylindrical protrusion parallel to the axis of said truncated cone 28 to prevent rotation of said insert 14 within said shell 12 . 7. The cup 10 of claim 1 including an ileopsoas cutout 82 at the mouth of said cup 10 to preclude abrasion of the ileopsoas tendon by said cup 10 . 8. An acetabulum reamer 58 for use in installing the cup 10 of claim 1, characterized in comprising a smooth hemisphere 60 girdled at the base thereof by a cutting flange 62 provided with teeth 64 for countersin king the periphery of said acetabulum 16 for receipt of said cup flange 36 to a depth limited by contact of the apex 68 of said hemisphere 60 with the bottom 70 of said acetabulum 16 . 9. An acetabulum reamer 72 for use in installing the cup 10 of claim 1, characterized in comprising a hemisphere 74 girdled at the base thereof by a smooth flange 76 , with said hemisphere 74 being provided with cutting teeth 78 to ream said acetabulum 16 concentric with said smooth flange 76 .

## Description
ACETABULAR CUP PROSTHESIS This invention concerns an acetabular cup for a total hip joint prosthesis and its insertion within an acetabulum to provide a uniform spacing between the cup and its supporting bone member. Numerous types of prostheses are available for use in hip joint repair or replacement, these prostheses generally employing an acetabular cup with a concave spherical surface and a femoral stem with a spherical joint head which fits into the cup. Currently, a major problem with acetabular cups during reconstructive surgery is the asymmetric placement of the cup within the natural acetabulum. This asymmetric placement produces an unequal layer of bone cement surrounding the cup, resulting in localized pressure points around the cup and early loosening of the cup from the acetabulum during subsequent use. It is therefore a primary objective of the present invention to provide an acetabular cup prosthesis of improved stability with instrumentation for its insertion which readily and consistently places the prosthesis in the center of the acetabulum with an equispacing of cement all around the prosthesis. A method of controlling the thickness of cement applied between a prosthetic insert and a support member by use of a cement spacer is disclosed in U.S.Patent 4,285,071. Prior acetabular cups having peripheral flanges and concentric ribbing are disclosed for example, in U.S. Patents 3,698,017, 4,031,570 and 4,141,088. An acetabular cup comprising a cup member encased in a metallic outer shell member is disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,172,296. The desired objective is accomplished with an acetabular cup which comprises an outer metallic shell and an inner resilient plastic insert, the insert having a spherical shaped inner surface adapted to articulate with a femoral head and an outer surface comprising a truncated cone terminating at the upper end thereof in a spherical crown, the shell having an inner surface substantially congruent with the insert outer surface and an essentially hemispherical outer surface terminating in an annular flange adapted to be countersunk into an acetabulum. The shell outer surface has an annular ridge of uniform height spaced from and parallel to the flange, the flange and the ridge being adapted to facilitate centering the cup in the acetabulum with the shell outer surface uniformly spaced from the wall of the acetabulum. Preferably, the insert outer surface and the shell inner surface are provided with congruent mating detent means to secure the insert within the shell. This detent means may include at least one projection on the insert outer surface to engage congruent indent means in the shell inner surface, the projections comprising a plurality of equispaced substantially rectangular ridges parallel to and adjacent the base of the insert.The detent means may also include at least one projection on the shell inner surface to engage congruent indent means in the insert outer surface, the projections comprising at least one semicylindrical protrusion parallel to the axis of the truncated cone to prevent rotation of the insert within the shell.The cup may further include an ileopsoas cutout at the mouth of the cup to preclude abrasion of the ileopsoas tendon by the cup. Also provided are acetabulum reamers for use in installing the present acetabular cup, including a conventional hemispherical reamer with cutting teeth to denude the acetabulum. A second reamer comprises a smooth hemisphere girdled at the base thereof by a cutting flange provided with teeth for countersinking the periphery of the acetabulum for receipt of the cup flange to a depth limited by contact of the apex of the hemisphere with the bottom of the acetabulum.A third reamer comprises a hemisphere girdled at the base thereof by a smooth flange, the hemisphere being provided with cutting teeth to ream the acetabulum concentric with the smooth flange. The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment thereof in conjunction with the accompanying drawing wherein like reference numerals indicate like structure throughout the several views. Figure 1 is a front elevational view of an acetabular cup prosthesis, according to the present invention Figure 2 is a top plan view of the cup partially broken away to illustrate a detent means Figure 3 is a bottom plan view of the cup Figure 4 is a side elevational view of the cup Figure 5 is a cross sectional view taken along the line 5 5 of Figure 2 showing the cup inserted in the acetabulum Figure 6 is a front elevational view of the liner of the acetabular cup of Figure 1 Figure 7 is a bottom plan view of the liner shown in Figure 6 Figure 8 is a cross sectional view thru the shell of the acetabular cup of Figure 1 Figure 9 is an enlarged cross sectional view showing a detent means during placement of the insert into the shell Figure 10 is a schematic diagram of a conventional hemispherical reamer within an acetabulum Figure 11 is a schematic diagram of a second reamer forming a countersunk area within the acetabulum and Figure 12 is a schematic diagram of a third reamer entering the countersunk acetabulum during its final stage of preparation. Referring to the drawing, Figures 1 thru 9 illustrate an acetabular cup 10 of a total hip replacement comprising an outer metallic shell 12 and an inner resilient plastic insert 14. The cup 10 serves as a replacement for the natural acetabulum cup and is constructed for introduction into an acetabulum 16 in the pelvis 18. The cup 10 may be used on either the right or the left of the pelvis 18, being introduced into the acetabulum 16 after appropriate preparation thereof. Such preparation requires reaming of the acetabulum 16 which, in the case of the present invention, includes a countersinking step as explained more fully below. Insert 14, which may be of such as high density polyethylene, has a spherical shaped inner surface 20 which articulates with the spherical head 22 of a femoral prosthesis 24. The outer surface 26 of insert 14 comprises a truncated cone 28 terminating at the upper end in a spherical crown 30. Such shape for insert outer surface 26 provides improved distribution of compressive loading in the body and also simplifies the fabrication of the insert 14. Shell 12, fabricated of such as cobalt chromium molybdenum alloy, has an inner surface 32 substantially congruent with insert outer surface 26 and an essentially hemispherical outer surface 34 which terminates in an annular flange 36 adapted to be countersunk into acetabulum 16. Shell outer surface 34 also has an annular ridge 38 of uniform height spaced from and parallel to flange 36, the flange 36 and ridge 38 being adapted as explained below to facilitate the centering of cup 10 within the acetabulum 16 such that shell outer surface 34 is uniformly spaced from the wall 40 of acetabulum 16. Ridge 38 may be contiguous, but is preferably segmented to aid in the uniform flow of bone cement during placement of cup 10 in acetabulum 16. Shell outside surface 34 also includes two concentric, spaced undercuts 42 to help retain cup 10 within acetabulum 16. Insert outer surface 26 and shell inner surface 32 are provided with congruent mating detent means to secure the insert 14 within shell 12. Such means include three equally spaced projections in the form of substantially rectangular ridges 44, parallel to and adjacent base 46 of insert 14, which engage congruent indents 48 in shell inner surface 32. Insert 14 is further provided with an undercut 50 behind each ridge 44, the function of undercut 50 being shown in Figure 9. As insert 14 is placed inside shell 12, undercut 50 allows ridge 44 to deform inward toward the center of insert 14 and thereby slip by shell 12. When insert 14 is fully within shell 12, ridge 44 snaps into indent 48 and thereby locks insert 14 securely within shell 12. Shell 12 is also provided with a semicylindrical protrusion 52 parallel to the axis of truncated cone 28 which engages a congruent indent 54 on insert outer surface 26. This indent means combination of protrusion 52 and insert indent 54 not only provides an alignment guide upon the insertion of insert 14 into shell 12, but also prevents rotation of the insert 14 within shell 12 after the insertion. The proper placement of cup 10 within acetabulum 16 requires a careful preparation of acetabulum 16.Such preparation will be described with the aid ofFigures 10 thru 12. Initially, as shown in Figure 10, acetabulum 16 is denuded with a conventional hemispherical reamer 56.Then, as shown in Figure 11, a second reamer 58, which comprises a smooth hemisphere 60 girdled at its base by a cutting flange 62 provided with teeth 64, planes the bone of pelvis 18 surrounding acetabulum 16 and thereby creates a countersunk area 66 to seat flange 36 of cup 10. The depth of such countersinking is limited by contact of the apex 68 of hemisphere 60 with the bottom 70 of acetabulum 16. A third reamer 72, shown in Figure 12, comprising a hemisphere 74 which is girdled at its base by a smooth flange 76 and is provided with teeth 78, finally reams acetabulum 16 concentric with flange 76. This reaming preparation takes advantage of the configuration of shell 12 and provides a simple method of assuring symmetrical insertion of cup 10 within the acetabulum, the depth of insertion being limited by flange 36 abutting countersunk area 66 while sidewise movement is prevented by contact of ridge 38 with wall 40. The resulting uniform spacing 80 between cup 10 and wall 40 of typically about 2 millimeters insures uniform application of bone cement around cup 10, thereby minimizing localized stress. Acetabulum cup 10 is of a low profile design to minimize removal of bone from acetabulum 16. The cup additionally includes an ileopsoas cutout 82 to prevent abrasion.of the ileopsoas tendon not shown against cup 10. While the invention has been described in connection with a preferred embodiment, it also includes alternatives, modifications and equivalents within the spirit and the scope of the appended claims.