# STAMP DISPENSER

## Claims
Vorrichtung zur Ausgabe einer Briefmarke, umfassend

## Description
The invention relates to an apparatus for dispensing stamps and more particularly to apparatus for dispensing stamps in response to a data transmission from a sender for the dispensing of a selected number of stamps. In this specification including the claims, the word stamp is intended to mean a small piece of paper or other material which can be adhesively or otherwise attached to a package or an envelope to signify that a carrier s fee has been paid in respect of carriage of the item to its destination. There are a number of issued patents for different stamp dispensers for vending stamps. Typical devices are disclosed in U.S. Patent Specifications Nos. 3,655,109 issued to Stevens, U.S. 3,548,991 issued to Flubacker, and U.S. 4,040,510 issued to Peters, et al. Such devices use a feed wheel or drive roller which is coin actuated and which rotates for a predetermined number of steps to feed a strip of stamps in step wise increments through an aperture of the device. The number of stamps dispensed is counted by counting the number of steps of rotation of the wheel by the use of microswitches or by the use of solenoid latches and a counting wheel. None of these conventional devices is suitable for use in a post office window operation where it is desirable that the dispensing operation be entirely controllable by a computer. In U.S. Patent No. 4040510, the stamp dispenser is controlled by a computer, but separate microswitches are provided for counting the rotations of the feed wheel to determine the number of stamps dispensed and for detecting when the roll of stamps has run out. In U.S. Patent No. 3621964, the stamp dispenser has a light source and photodetector combination for counting the number of stamps dispensed by detecting the pulses of light that pass through the perforations in the strip of stamps. A separate switch is provided for detecting the out of stamp condition. According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided apparatus for dispensing a stamp, comprising means for selectively transporting a plurality of sequentially connected stamps means for receiving stamp dispensing data arranged in a message of predetermined format and including data representative of the number of stamps to be dispensed means for actuating said transporting means in response to stamp dispensing data received by said receiving means, whereby the number of stamps to be dispensed from the plurality of sequentially connected stamps is transported from an undispensed position to a dispensed position means for counting the number of stamps, said counting means comprising an LED and phototransistor combination disposed for generating a pulse upon the passage of perforations of the sequentially connected stamps between the LED and phototransistor out of stamp detector means and indicator means responsive to said out of stamp detector means for indicating an out of stamp condition characterized in that said out of stamp detector means comprises said LED and phototransistor combination. According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for dispensing stamps, comprising the steps of receiving and storing a transmitted data message, said data message including data corresponding to a quantity of stamps to be dispensed generating a signal responsive to the number of stamps to be dispensed, said signal being arranged to actuate a stamp transporting means to dispense the quantity of sequentially connected stamps through a dispensing aperture counting the number of stamps dispensed by counting pulses from counting means comprising an LED and phototransistor combination disposed for generating a pulse upon the passage of perforations of the sequentially connected stamps between the LED and phototransistor monitoring for an out of stamp condition and indicating the presence or absence of the out of stamp condition characterized in that said data message is a serial data message and in that the method comprises the further step of decoding said serial data message to obtain the quantity of stamps to be dispensed and in that said out of stamp monitoring step comprises monitoring for the absence of pulses from said LED and phototransistor combination during actuation of said stamp transporting means. In a disclosed embodiment, the apparatus for vending stamps includes an interface for communication with a sender device, suitably a central computer. The interface receives data in a predetermined serial data format and transmits its status and other predetermined signals in a similar serial data format to the computer for the purposes of accounting and indication of errors in the dispensing function. The interface apparatus decodes the messages from the computer and converts them into actuating signals for actuating the stamp dispensing mechanism. The numbers of stamps dispensed or any errors in the dispensing operation are detected and subsequently encoded into the predetermined format and sent to the computer. In an embodiment of the invention, a motor drives a Geneva driver assembly for intermittent step rotation of a stamp feed wheel. For best results, projections on the stamp feed wheel engage the perforations of a strip of stamps being fed from a roll of stamps so as to feed stamps through a dispensing aperture of the device. It will be appreciated that, while the disclosed mechanism is preferable, other means for feeding the stamps are known in the art and they may be substituted for the dispensing mechanism if desired. The Geneva drive assembly preferably comprises a Geneva star wheel having five slots and a driver arm driven by a reduction gear such that, for each advance of one step of the Geneva star wheel, the feed wheel advances the strip of stamps a distance of one half stamp width through the dispensing aperture. For best results, the driver arm has affixed thereto an arcuate flange, suitably of 120 of arc, which is disposed so as to interrupt the beam of an LED which normally impinges on a photodetector. This device serves as an encoder of the position of the driver arm and the light and dark encoding of the position of the driver arm enables precise actuation of the motor in response to actuation signals. A pivotable lockable arm forms an arcuate guide about the feed wheel to retain the strip in engagement with the feed wheel. Suitably, the driver arm has means for locking the Geneva star wheel from further rotation after the appropriate number of stamps have been dispensed. The projections on the feed wheel in combination with the arcuate guide form a gate which prevent other stamps from being pulled through the dispensing aperture and also as a bar against which the dispensed strip may be torn for removal from the device. The interface for communicating with the computer for dispensing stamps may comprise a Central Processing Unit, a Programmable Read Only Memory, and Input Output device with Random Access Memory, and a Programmable Communication Interface or Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter USART all in communication through a suitable address and data bus as is known in the art. The dispensed stamps are counted by the passage of perforations of the sequential stamps on the strip between the beam of the LED and the photodetector so that an electrical pulse is created as the normally blocked beam passes through the holes of the perforations. The LED Photodetector combination also serves as the out of stamps detector as the detector remains on when there are no longer stamps to block the beam. The motor may be driven either in a forward or reverse direction. The control of the motor is preferably by means of an SCR in the line to the appropriate winding of the motor. The SCR is preferably controlled by a conventional optically isolated SCR which is gated on by a signal from the appropriate pin of the output port of the Input Output device. For best results, LED s are disposed in known manner for displaying the presence or absence of signals in each of the various lines communicating information to the interface. These are particularly helpful for service in the field. In addition, for diagnostic purposes, the device may be equipped with a test button which, when depressed, will command the actuation and test of the motor in each direction to clear a jam. Suitably, the communication between the central computer and the interface in accordance with the invention uses the conventional RS 232 standards. While the present configuration is appropriate for a 1200 or 2400 baud transmission rate, serial asynchronous transmission, it will be appreciated that other rates may be accommodated with appropriate modifications apparent to those skilled in the art. The invention will be better understood from the following non limiting description of an example thereof given with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 shows at 10 an exploded perspective view of one of preferably three identical stamp dispensing assemblies or modules. The construction and operation of a similar module is disclosed in U.S. Patent Specification No. 4,033,494 issued to Middleton et al to which the reader is referred if further details are required. Motor 12 is mounted on an interior frame member 14. Motor shaft 16 has a driver arm 18 affixed thereon. The distal end 20 of arm 18 has a pin 22 which, on each revolution of the shaft 16, engages successive slots 24 of Geneva star wheel 26 for step wise rotation of the Geneva star wheel. Wheel 26 is affixed on shaft 28 which is rotatingly received on frame 14 along with gear 30. Gear 30 in turn engages gear 32 for driving feed wheel 34 to which gear 32 is connected by shaft 36 also rotatably mounted on frame 14. A roll of stamps 38 is disposed on a spindle not shown mounted on the frame and the strip extending therefrom is carried about an idler roller 40 and threaded about the feed wheel 34. Rows of projecting teeth 42 radially protrude from feed wheel 34 and are arranged for engagement with rows of perforations in the stamp strip indicated at 44. For best results, the gear ratio between gear 30 and gear 32 is such that the feed wheel 34 rotates an amount sufficient to advance the stamp strip one half the distance between the rows of perforations for each step rotation of the Geneva star wheel. A pivotable and lockable guide member, a portion of which is indicated at 46 has grooves 48 which are arranged to receive the corresponding teeth of the feed wheel. The strip of stamps is thus engaged and guided between the feed wheel 34 and the guide member 46 and from there to a dispensing aperture not shown in an outer enclosure indicated at 50. The arm 18 has an arcuate flange 52 opposedly extending from the distal end thereof. The flange 52 is disposed so as to extend into a slot 54 in fixture 56 during a portion of the rotation of the arm 18. Preferably, the flange encompasses an arc of approximately 120 , but it will be appreciated that other arc segments might be utilized with appropriate routine modifications. Fixture 56 has a light emitting diode 58 on one side and phototransistor 60 on opposing sides of the slot 54. It will be understood that other light sources and detectors may also be used in similar manner. The flange 52 interrupts the beam of light from the LED to provide a simple on off light dark encoding of the position of the driver arm 18. The strip of stamps leading from the roll of stamps is fed through a slot 62 of fixture 64. At one side of the slot is photodetector 66 which is disposed to receive a beam of light from LED 68 on the opposing side of the slot. The beam of light emanating from the LED thus impinges on the detector only when the perforations 44 allow transmission. The passage of the perforations as the stamps are being transported thus generates an electrical pulse from the photodetector which, as discussed below, enables counting of the number of stamps dispensed. Further, the uninterrupted beam which occurs when there is no stamp in the slot provides an out of stamp signal indication to indicate a ruptured strip or that the end of the roll of stamps has been reached. An embodiment of the stamp dispensing interface in accordance with the invention is shown generally in the schematic diagram in Fig. 2. The operation of the interface is controlled by a Central Processing Unit CPU 70, suitably an 8085 8 bit microprocessor available from INTEL and an Input Output device 74 having a Random Access Memory, suitably a 2048 bit RAM with I O Ports 8155 available from INTEL. Communications are received from a sender, such as a central computer not shown , in a predetermined serial format along with other signals on parallel transmission lines, e.g. 76, 78, 80, respectively, through inverting drivers 82 connected to a programmable communication interface 84, e.g. a Universal Synchronous Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter, preferably a conventional 8251 Programmable Communication Interface PCI available from INTEL. Signals to the central computer from the USART are transmitted along lines 86, 88, 90, respectively, suitably through a plurality of inverting dual input gates 92. For best results and for ease of servicing, a plurality of Light Emitting Diodes 94, 96, 98, 100, 101, 102, and 103 are connected in suitable manner through, respective, known resistors and diode networks so as to indicate the presence of signals on each of the individual lines. Conventionally serial data is transmitted from the PCI 84 along line 90 and received on line 80 at times controlled by signals on the remaining lines as well known in the art. A particular format of serial data used with the instant interface has a message format of from five to 256 data bytes as illustrated in Table 1. The message is transmitted in the order listed in Table I and consists of a start of text, STX, byte, suitably 02H and an End of Text byte, ETX, suitably 03H. VLI is a byte representing the total number of bytes in the message. XOW represents a mandatory word for control of operation. For instance, each bit of this word may be made to represent control functions and status of the last message transferred. Suitably the lowest bit of this byte may indicate the presence of a text and its absence a supervisory control. To assure data integrity, a byte is generated, which suitably is the byte resulting from the Exclusive OR of all of the same bit positions in the message. The TXT portion may contain data or status words or the like. Conveniently these are ASCII encoded bytes from the sender to inform the stamp dispensing device as to the amounts of stamps to be dispensed from the dispensing device. For example, a stamp dispenser order from the central computer to dispense 2.15 worth of stamps from a first roll of .20 stamps, a second roll of .10 stamps, and a third roll of .05 stamps is suitably as shown in Table II. The bytes Q1, Q2, Q3 indicate in ASCII characters that 10 stamps are to be dispensed from roll 1, none from roll 2, and 1 stamp from roll 3. FNC is a word of text which is utilized to command the dispensing of the stamps and may be utilized as well to command diagnostic tests. ESC may be utilized as an error word. It will be appreciated that other words may be included as desired to provide other indications, error flags, or commands. For instance, the interface may send to the computer text bytes identifying errors encountered on the previous dispense orders. The stamp sensors 104, 105, 106, each of which is as has been previously described in conjunction with Fig. 1 for monitoring the transport of stamps, are connected through inverting drivers 108 to suitable port pins of I O device 74. Similarly the outputs of each of the light dark encoders 110, 111, 112 are connected respectively to others of the port pins of the I O device 74. Preferably, a microswitch 114 is connected so as to open while a cover not shown is open for access to the rolls of stamps. Suitable test indications are preferably initiated by the operation of test switch 116, operated conveniently only by service personnel. The signals are preferably fed through inverting drivers 117 to suitable port pins of I O 74. Again light emitting diodes may be used to sense the presence of the signals. Motors 12a, 12b, and 12c are arranged for each dispensing mechanism as illustrated in Fig. 1 for motor 12. The motors are operable in either a forward or reverse direction in conventional manner by the application of power to the appropriate windings of each motor through SCR 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, and 123. Preferably the appropriate SCR s are gated in turn by optically isolated switches 124, 126, 128, 130, 132, and 134 driven by signals from port pins in the I O device 74 through inverting drivers 136. Conveniently, signal indicators such as LED s 138, 140, 142, 144, 146, and 148 are utilized in conventional manner to show the presence of an appropriate signal on for the I O device. An out of stamp indication is displayed on LED s 150, 152, and 154 and is set by signals from port pins on the I O device through inverting drivers 156. Suitably LED s 158, 160, and 162 also indicate the out of stamp signal for servicing. As mentioned previously, data is received at PCI USART 84 in serial format. The data is converted to a parallel format and is output therefrom upon receipt of an appropriate signal to communicating bus 164. Addresses and data from the CPU 70 are also communicated to the bus 164. The addresses are latched in known manner by latches at 166, suitably a 74LS373 device available from Signetics. The latched addresses are communicated by appropriate timing signals from the CPU 70 to EPROM 72 along address lines shown generally at 168. Data from the EPROM 72 is then communicated to bus 164 for transmission to the remaining devices. The bus 164 also connects the I O RAM address data input output pins to CPU 70. It will also be appreciated that the presence of 12v, 12v, and 5v are assumed to be available to the interface from a power supply not shown and are filtered in known manner by a filter network indicated generally at 170. Fig. 3 is a flow diagram of the operation of the stamp dispenser in accordance with the invention. Upon power up, the CPU proceeds through a routine to check the PROM and RAM. If the RAM checks bad, the test stops and suitably one of the out of stamp LED s is made to flash slowly. The program is in a loop and no other operation occurs. If the PROM checks bad, the test stops and the program enters a loop which causes two of the out of stamp indicators to flash slowly. In either event, the machine power must be removed in order to exit the error condition. If its memories test OK, no indication is given and the apparatus is ready for normal operation. It is assumed that the dispenser will process only one message at a time. Acknowledgement of the message will occur after the dispense order or diagnostic exercise is complete and will include an appropriate status message for communication to the central operation if required. The lowest bit of the transfer control word is checked to see if the transmission is a text message. If there is a text, the operation jumps to the DTEXT subroutine to set the number of stamps to dispense. If there is no text or after the text has been decoded, the bits of the transfer word are again examined to see if there was an acknowledgement of the last message transmitted by the dispenser. If the message was not acknowledged, the previous message is again transmitted and the system returns to the beginning of its loop to receive the next transmission. If the previous message from the dispenser has been acknowledged, the word is further checked to see if there is a reset command. If there is a command to reset, then a message OK status is sent to the central computer and a reset pulse is generated to reset. If there is no reset indication, the received message is then looped back for retransmission if required by the subsequent message from the central computer. The status of the cover is then checked. If the cover is open, microswitch 108 is open and a cover open signal is present at the part of the I O 74. If open, a cover open status message is sent to the central computer and the program returns to the beginning to await the next transmission without dispensing any stamps. It will be appreciated that this precludes any unauthorized and unaccounted dispensing of stamps. If the system is operative to this point, the motor control functions are initiated. The dispensing parameters are set up for motor 1, the motor is operated by control of the corresponding SCR until either the required number of stamps are dispensed or until an error is encountered in the dispensing operation. Suitably, if an error is encountered, an appropriately coded byte is configured for transmission in the status message to the central computer. Conveniently, the Out of Stamps LED for Roll 1 of the dispenser is also lit to provide a visual indication of a dispensing error. Preferably, the interface sets the parameters for the second motor and runs the motor until the required stamps have been dispensed and then the 3rd motor is sequenced but it will be appreciated that the three motors could be operated substantially simultaneously if desired. If no errors are encountered in the dispensing, the interface is again ready to receive the next message from the central computer. Otherwise, the status of the dispenser is formed as a word and is transmitted to the computer upon indication that the computer is ready to receive the message. The DTEXT subroutine illustrated in Fig. 4 examines each of the words in the text portion of the message. The Function byte of the Text portion of the message is first examined to see whether a Diagnostic Test has been commanded by the computer. If the Diagnostics are required the routine jumps to the diagnostic sub routine. If no test is commanded, the interface proceeds with the decoding and storing of the numbers of stamps to be dispensed from each roll. For each roll, the data is initialized by setting the number of dispensed stamps to zero. Thus at the end of this sub routine, the dispenser has data corresponding to the number of stamps to be dispensed and an initial setting for the number of stamps dispensed. The operation of the dispenser will now be described. Assuming that the central computer sends the command illustrated in Table II, the interface in accordance with the invention receives and stores the message bytes. The control word is checked to see if the message includes TEXT bytes. Since in this case it does, the TEXT is then decoded. The Function bytes is checked. In this example, there is no requirement for a diagnostic test and the remaining byte words are checked. Thus the one hundreds, tens, and digit bytes are decoded and summed for each motor. Thereafter, for motor 1, the number of stamps to be dispensed from the roll is set at ten, the number for the second motor is zero, and the number the 3rd motor is to dispense is set to one. For each motor the number of stamps dispensed is set to zero. Again assuming no errors and that the cover remains closed, the motor control bytes are set up and the dispenser begins to dispense stamps. The encoder positioning of each motor in the home position is arranged such that it provides a dark signal. The motor is actuated by providing the appropriate signal to gate SCR 118 for driving the motor 12a in the forward direction. Preferably each full revolution of the motor dispenses or transports ½ a stamp. Thus the encoder goes through 4 transitions to dispense one stamp, i.e. dark to light, light to dark, dark to light, and finally light to dark. Each phase or half revolution has a corresponding time interval for its normal occurrence. Referring again to Figure 1, it is seen that for each revolution of the motor 12 12a in this instance , the pin 22 in arm 18 engages a corresponding slot 24 of the wheel 26. As the arm revolves the pin in the slot drives the wheel 26 until the pin again leaves the slot. Preferably, as illustrated in Fig. 1, the arcuate portion of the arm near the shaft projects into a corresponding arcuate recess in the circumference of the wheel 26 to lock the wheel from further rotation. At the end of the dispensing cycle then, the projections 42 of feed wheel 34 extending into grooves 48 form a gate or barrier against which the stamps may be torn and the above described locking feature prevents any further stamps from being dispensed by pulling on the previously dispensed strip of stamps. At appropriate time intervals, the stamp sensor 104 provides the appropriate pulse indication of the passage of a row of perforations which indicates the dispensing of each stamp. So long as each of these indications occur at the proper interval, the signal to SCR 118 is provided and motor 1 continues to run until the number of stamps dispensed matches the number required to be dispensed. In this example, 10 stamps are dispensed and the routine proceeds to Motor 2 which in this case is not required to dispense stamps. If a timeout signal occurred during the dispensing interval, a stamp or motor jam would be assumed and an appropriate error byte generated for transmission to the central computer, and the Out of Stamp LED will be lit for out of stamp conditions. The routine in the interface proceeds to set the parameters for Motor 2, i.e. motor 12b of Fig. 2. In this case, there are no stamps to be issued and thus motor 3, motor 12c of Fig. 2 is actuated. Since there is only one stamp to be dispensed, SCR 122 is appropriately gated to operate the motor for two complete revolutions to dispense the one stamp. It will be understood that the computer may also send diagnostic exercise commands in the text as well as reset commands, or loop back commands so as to check the message as received by the dispenser. Thus as mentioned in conjunction with the DTEXT sub routine, the function byte is checked to see if such command is present. The intent of such an exercise is to allow the computer operator to check any of the motors. In most cases, the exercise of the motor should be effective to clear a motor or stamp jam without further intervention by an operator. A typical exercise to be utilized by such command would, for example, switch on SCR s 119, 121, and 123 to operate the motors for one revolution in the reverse direction. Subsequent commands would then advance the motors until one stamp was dispensed and the mechanism is again in home position. Other similar jam clearing exercises will occur to one in the art and which can be implemented in a routine manner. It will be further appreciated that a particular motor may be selectably actuated by providing for transmission and receipt of a predetermined text byte. Test switch 116 is intended to provide a service person with a means to test the operation of the dispenser. For best results, each motor is sequentially energized so as to make one revolution in the reverse direction. After motor 3 stops, all three motors are energized in the forward direction and simultaneously feed one stamp, that is 3 revolutions forward. The out of stamp indicators are flashed to provide indication of the various errors which are tested during the energization of the motors. If errors are encountered, the test stops at the point that the error occurred and one or more of the Out of Stamp indicators are made to flash. Preferably after such error is detected, no orders will be receivable by the stamp dispenser interface and the dispenser can only exit this mode by the removal of power from the dispenser. For example, in the instant embodiment the following sequence is implemented. Motor errors are indicated by fast flashing of the corresponding out of stamp indicator. Communication errors are indicated by slow flashing of the out of stamp indicators. If during testing of the communication port, a status error is detected it may be indicated by slow flashing of indicator 1, LED 150. If no character is received, a time out occurs and indicator 2, LED 152, is made to flash slowly. If the wrong byte is received, indicators 150 and 152 are made to flash slowly. Other combinations of signal will occur to one skilled in the art for encoding various detectable errors. It will be understood that the claims may cover changes and modifications of the embodiment herein chosen for the purpose of illustration, cf. Art.69 1 EPC.