# Molecularly cloned diagnostic product and method of use

## Claims
Verfahren, welches das Produzieren eines typspezifischen Fragments von gC Glykoprotein Polypeptidvon Herpes simplex Virus vom Typ 2 in einer rekombinanten,stabilen, kontinuierlichen Säugetier Zelllinie umfasst, wodurch das Glykoproteinfreiliegende Antigen Determinanten aufweist, so dass das Fragment fähig ist, komplementäreAntikörper von Herpes simplex Virus vom Typ 2, nicht aber von Herpes simplex Virusvom Typ 1, spezifisch zu binden und dadurch fähig ist, zwischen HSV 1und HSV 2 zu unterscheiden.

## Description
This invention relates to immunological diagnosticproducts derived from recombinant DNAtechnology, and to their methods of use. Analysis of the immune response to a varietyof infectious agents has been limited by the factthat it has often proved difficult to culturepathogens in quantities sufficient to permit the isolationof important cell surface antigens. The detection of HSV 1 IgG and IgM antibodieshas been performed by enzyme linked immunosorbantassay ELISA A,B . In both of these techniques,extracts of HSV infected cells are disclosedfor use as antigens. The disadvantages of usinglive antigen in a laboratory environment are wellknown, including the requirement of culturing andcontainment of the infectious agents. The advent of molecular cloning has overcomesome of these limitations by providing a meanswhereby gene products from pathogenic agentscan be expressed in virtually unlimited quantities ina non pathogenic form. Surface antigens from suchviruses as influenza 1 , foot and mouth disease 2 , hepatitis 3 , vesicular stomatitis virus 4 , rabies 5 , and herpes simplex viruses 6 have nowbeen expressed in This is particularly true in the case of membraneproteins, which, because of hydrophobictransmembrane domains, tend to aggregate andbecome insoluble when expressed in Herpes Simplex Virus HSV is a large DNAvirus which occurs in two related, but distinguishable,forms in human infections. At least four of thelarge number of virus encoded proteins have beenfound to be glycosylated and on the surface ofboth the virion and the infected cells 9 . Theseglycoproteins, termed gA B, gC, gD, and gE, arefound on both HSV type 1 HSV 1 and HSV type 2 HSV 2 , while in the case of HSV 2, an additionalglycoprotein gF has been reported to be found 10 . Although their functions are not fully understood,these glycoproteins appear to be involved invirus attachment to cells, cell fusion, and a varietyof host immunological responses to virus infection 11 . Although HSV 1 and HSV 2 show only about50 percent DNA sequence homology 12 , theglycoproteins appear to be, for the most part, type common.Thus, gA B, gD, and gE show a largenumber of type common antigenic determinants 13 16 , while gC, which was previously thought tobe completely type specific 17,18 , has also beenfound to possess some type common determinants.Type specific antigenic determinants can,however, be demonstrated using monoclonal antibodiesfor some of the glycoproteins 10,19 , showingthat some amino acid changes have occurredsince HSV 1 and HSV 2 diverged. One of the most important glycoproteins withrespect to virus neutralization is gD 11 . Watson etal Science 218, 1982 , 381 and Weis et al Nature, 302, 1983 , 72 disclose the nucleotidesequence and expression of the gD gene in E. coli,and detection of the expression product by immunoprecipitation.Considerable evidence has beenadduced strongly suggesting that the respective gDproteins of HSV 1 and HSV 2 are related. For example,recombination mapping has localized therespective genes to colinear regions in both virusgenomes. Amino acid analysis showed gross homologybetween the two proteins. The gD proteinsinduce neutralizing antibodies to both type 1 andtype 2 viruses in a type common manner 19 21 .In addition, most monoclonal antibodies generatedto these glycoproteins are type common, also suggestinga high degree of structural relatednessbetween the two types of glycoproteins 20 . Somemonoclonal antibodies, however, were found toreact type specifically, suggesting significant differencesbetween the proteins 19 . Peptide maps ofthe proteins also unambiguously revealed such differences 22 . These results although suggestingthat these polypeptides are related, are insufficientto indicate exactly how close the relationship is. In order to examine the nature of the type commonalityof HSV 1 and HSV 2 gD proteins, theDNA sequences of the gD genes from HSV1 andHSV2 were determined. The derived amino acid sequences showed similarity. The resultant derivedprotein sequences were also analyzed for structuraldifferences by using a program designed to determinehydrophobic and hydrophilic regions of theprotein. This analysis demonstrated a high degreeof conservation on a gross structural level. Althoughseveral amino acid substitutions were foundbetween the two glycoproteins, the vast majority ofthese substitutions were conservative, suggestingan important structural requirement of thisglycoprotein to the virus. In the light of this information about the structureof the gD protein, as described more fullyherein, it was decided to express the gD proteinDNA in mammalian cells to see whether such waspossible, and if possible, whether the expressedprotein would bind to the host cell membrane, andwhether a truncated form of protein lacking themembrane binding domain would be secreted fromthe host cell, and in either of the latter caseswhether the expression product proteins could bindwith antibodies effective against HSV 1 and orHSV 2. This procedure is fully described in EuropeanPatent No 139417. As shown in that application, such expressionproduct proteins are capable of raising antibodieseffective against HSV 1 and or HSV 2 and are thususeful as a vaccine. As the results herein will show,such expressed proteins obtained by recombinantDNA processes, being capable of recognition byantibodies against HSV 1 and or HSV 2, also areuseful diagnostic products for detecting and ormeasuring the presence of antibodies characteristicof those viruses. Mapping studies 22a suggestthat the protein sequence derived from the HSV 2genome corresponds to gF, the HSV 2 homologueof HSV 1 gC. HSV 1 gC has been considered to be type specificwithout homology in HSV 2 since antibodiesagainst this glycoprotein were found toreact almost exclusively with HSV 1 gC 17 . Inaddition, no detectable immunological reactionscould be demonstrated between HSV 1 gC andantisera made against HSV 2 virus 18 . A proteinhaving the same electrophoretic mobility as HSV 1gC has been demonstrated in HSV 2, however itdid not map colinearly with HSV 1 gC 35 . In contrast to HSV 1, HSV 2 appears to encodeyet another glycoprotein, termed gF 22b,10,22c,22d . Although the HSV 2 gF had anelectrophoretic mobility which was much fasterthan HSV 1 gC, mapping studies with recombinantviruses revealed that this protein was encoded by aregion of the HSV 2 genome which was approximatelycolinear with the gene for HSV 1 gC 22c,22d . In addition, it has been recently demonstratedthat a monoclonal antibody against HSV 2gF will cross react weakly with HSV 1 gC 22f and that a polyclonal antiserum made against HSV 1virion envelope proteins precipitated gF 22d ,suggesting a possible structural homology betweenthe two glycoproteins. Thus, it appeared that apossible homologue to HSV 1 gC was the HSV 2gF protein. This relationship was investigated inaccordance with the present invention. Norrild et al J. Virol. 1982, 43 2 , 395 402 suggest that for some of the HSV glycoproteins theepitopes reside primarily in the polypeptide core,rather than in the carbohydrate portion. Glorioso etal Virology, 1983, 126 1 , 1 18 shows that thepartially glycosylated proteins produced in thepresence of glycosylation inhibitor are antigenicallyrelated to the corresponding mature forms.EP 1365A discloses separation of the naturallyproduced HSV glycoproteins from the virus infectedcells by means of a surfactant, with the objectof producing a vaccine. Middleton et al J. Virol.1982, 43 3 , 1091 101 discloses the recombinantexpression of HSV DNA segments in mouse cellsproducing early and immediate early infected cellpolypeptides corresponding to HSV nuclear proteins.Goodenow et al Science, 1982, 215, 677 679 indicates that the HSV TK gene can be functionallyexpressed in a recombinant mouse cellline. According to one aspect of the present invention there isprovided a process which comprises producing in a recombinant,stable, mammalian, continuous cell line a type specific fragmentof gC glycoprotein polypeptide of Herpes simplex virus type 2whereby the glycoprotein has exposed antigenic determinants suchthat said fragment is capable of specifically bindingcomplementary antibodies of Herpes simplex virus type 2, but notHerpes simplex virus type 1, and is thereby capable ofdistinguishing between HSV 1 and HSV 2. In one embodiment, there is initially produced a truncatedderivative of a membrane bound gC glycoprotein polypeptidedevoid of membrane binding domain, whereby the derivativepolypeptide is free of said membrane and has said exposedantigenic determinants. The invention also provides a diagnostic test kit comprising In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method for thedetection of antigen contained in a biologically derived fluidsample, comprising the steps of In accordance with the present invention, recombinantDNA technology is utilized to providegene products in large quantities in a non pathogenicform for use as diagnostic agents. The advantagesof such gene products are illustrated byreference to the diagnosis of certain infections suchas HSV. Present methods used to diagnose HSVinclude a the culture of clinical isolates, b theuse of reagents prepared from live viruses, or c the use of monoclonal antibodies coupled to a labelsuch as fluorescence or enzyme. The first methodis labor intensive and typically requires severaldays to obtain a result. The second approach oftenis not practical because it requires biochemicalprocedures beyond the range of most clinical laboratories.The third method depends upon the detectionof an open lesion and the availability ofdetection means, for example, a fluorescent microscopeor a fluorescent label. Because of this, laboratoryconfirmation of clinical diagnosis commonlyis not employed. The present system employs a diagnosticproduct as defined below comprising a polypeptidewith antigenic determinants capable of specificallybinding complementary antibody. In one embodiment,the polypeptide is functionally associatedwith the surface membrane of a recombinanthost cell capable of its production. In a typicalinstance, such functional association comprises abinding of the polypeptide with the surface membraneso that the polypeptide projects through themembrane. The recombinant cell line is derivedfrom a stable, continuous line for the diagnosticproduct to be supplied on a commercial scale. In another embodiment, the diagnostic productcomprises a polypeptide with the same antigenicdeterminants, but which is not functionally associatedwith the surface membrane. As set out inmore detail below, one such polypeptide is a truncated,membrane free derivative of a membrane boundpolypeptide. The derivative is formed byomission of a membrane binding domain from thepolypeptide, allowing it to be secreted from therecombinant host cell system in which it has beenproduced. In another embodiment, the polypeptide is formed first infunctional association with a surface membrane and thereafter thepolypeptide is dissolved, preferably in a non ionic surfactant, tofree the polypeptide of the membrane. The diagnostic product of thepresent invention is utilized in place of the counterpart derivedfrom a live pathogen in analogous immunoassays. In that regard, acommercial diagnostic test kit would include the above diagnosticproducts with a variety of other immunological products, at leastone of which is labeled, for the detection of its complementaryantibody or other antigen. The system has been described withrespect to the molecular cloning of the gD proteins from HSV 1 andHSV 2, which possesses sufficient antigenic determinants to renderit capable of specifically binding complementary antibody, namelyantibody to HSV 1 and HSV 2. However, as indicated above, the invention as claimed relates to the expression and use of type specific fragments of HSV gC 2. The specific techniques for cloning,sequencing and expression of the HSV 1 gD protein are set forth inExample 1 below. As set forth therein, the hydropathy plot ofFigure 2 revealed a hydrophilic carboxy terminal domain preceded bya hydrophobic region. This structure is characteristic of amembrane bound glycoprotein. Its function is to anchor the proteinin the cellular and viral membranes. To examine the relatedness between HSV 1 and HSV 2, it has beendetermined that a DNA sequence of a 2.29 kb region of the HSV 2genome is colinear with the HSV 1 gC gene. Translation of a largeopen reading frame in this region demonstrates that a protein.whichhas significant homology to HSV 1 gC is encoded in this region. Itis suggested that this region encodes the HSV 2 gF gene and that thegF protein is the HSV 2 homologue of HSV 1 glycoprotein C. As set forth herein, a glycoprotein in HSV 2, formerly referredto as gF, is more properly designated a gC. The terms HSV 2 gF , HSV 2 gC and gC 2 will be used interchangeably for thisproduct. It has been found that a segment of gC 2 is type commonto HSV 1 gC or gC 1 while another segment is type specific. A diagnostic product formed of a fragment of gC 2 containing thetype specific segment but excluding the type common segment permitsthe detection of HSV 2 in contradistinction to HSV 1. If thediagnostic test is positive, the subject has HSV 2. Using this testin combination with another test which is common for HSV 1 and HSV 2would permit diagnosis of HSV 1. For example, a positive readingusing gD in a diagnostic test corresponds to the presence of HSV 1and or HSV 2 virus. If type specific gC 2 test is also positive,the subject has HSV 1 and HSV 2 if negative, the subject only hasHSV 2. Thus, for the first time, a diagnostic test has been devisedwhich is capable of distinguishing HSV 1 from HSV 2. Although not specifically claimed herein, other known glycoproteins of HSV 1 or HSV 2, e.g. gA, gB or gE,or others not yet identified, may be used for diagnostic productsfor HSV 1 or HSV 2. If such glycoproteins include type specificdeterminants for HSV 1 or HSV 2, then analogous recombinanttechniques to those set forth herein with respect to gC and gD maybe used to form such glycoproteins into diagnostic products capableof distinguishing HSV 1 from HSV 2. If the glycoproteins alsoinclude type common determinants, then the same recombinanttechniques set forth herein with respect to gC 2 production may beused to isolate the type specific fraction isolated from thetype common fraction for specific diagnosis of HSV 1 or HSV 2. Ifthe glycoprotein only includes type common fractions, then it may beproduced by recombinant techniques in a manner analogous to gC. It is believed that only certain techniques ofmolecular cloning produce a polypeptide with suitablespecific antigenic determinants for detectionby its complementary antibody. Thus during formation,the polypeptide must be formed in a mannerto fold properly, to be glycosylated and to becorrectly processed. As illustrated in Example 1,one technique for accomplishing the production ofa cell with these desired characteristics is for thepolypeptide to be molecularly cloned in a mannerto be functionally associated with the surface membraneof a recombinant host cell. For this purpose,it is believed necessary to use a eukaryotic hostcell system, and preferably a mammalian cell system.Thus, for example, the HSV 1 glycoprotein Dexpressed in Chinese Hampster Ovary cells, CHO produces a membrane bound gD proteinwith suitable antigen characteristics. Other suitablerecombinant host cell systems include mouse Lcells, etc. As used herein, the term recombinant refersto cells which have been transfected with vectorsconstructed using recombinant DNA technologyand thus transformed with the capability of producingthe polypeptide hereof. Functional association is meant being bound to the membrane,typically by projecting to both sides of the membrane,in such manner as to expose antigenic determinantsfolded in a native conformation recognizableby antibody elicited against the nativepathogen. Membrane bound in reference to polypeptideshereof refers to a class of polypeptidesordinarily produced in eukaryotic cells and characterizedby having a signal sequence which isbelieved to assist its secretion through various cellmembranes as well as a membrane binding domain usually hydrophobic in nature and occurringat the C terminal end which is thought to precludeits complete secretion through the cell membrane.As such, it remains functionally associated orbound to the membrane. This invention is particularlydirected to the exploitation of thosemembrane bound polypeptides associated withpathogenic organisms, e.g., herpes virus. Once the antigenic determinants of the polypeptidesof the present invention are provided byfunctional association with the surface membrane,thereafter, the membrane may be removed fromthe polypeptides without destroying the antigeniccharacteristics. Thus, for example, the membrane boundpolypeptide may be removed from themembrane by solubilization with a suitable solution,preferably one containing a non ionic surfactant, toremove the polypeptide from the membrane. Anadvantage of doing this is to isolate the polypeptidefrom extraneous cellular material, raising potentialpotency in its use in a vaccine. A technique forremoving the membrane from the polypeptide isdescribed below. In another embodiment, membrane free preparationsmay be obtained by creation of a secretionsystem. As described in more detail below, suchsecreted polypeptide possesses at least some ofthe antigenic sites necessary for antibody stimulation. In another embodiment, the membrane may beremoved by secreting the polypeptides from itsmembrane bound environment. It has been foundthat such secreted polypeptide possesses at leastsome of the antigenic sites necessary for antigenicdetection. A suitable technique for accomplishingthis is described in Example 3 below. There are a number of known techniques forthe determination of an unknown quantity of antigenor antibody in the biological fluid, such asserum, urine, or from skin samples or the like. Inprinciple, the present invention utilizes such knowntechniques but substitutes certain molecularly cloneddiagnostic reagents of a type set forth above inthe otherwise known procedures. Accordingly, theprocedures themselves will be described only generallywith reference being made to conventionalimmunology text for the details of the procedures.It would be well known to skilled workers in thefield how to utilize the novel diagnostic products ofthe present invention in conventional immunologicaltechniques. For simplicity of description, the general term diagnostic product will be used in describing the antigen functional product of the present invention.The term diagnostic product is defined as apolypeptide with antigenic determinants capable ofspecifically binding corresponding antibody inducedby the pathogen organism and being formedin a recombinant host cell capable of its productionand derived from a stable, continuous recombinantcell line. The polypeptide either may be functionallyassociated with a surface membrane of therecombinant host cell or not. In the latter instance, the polypeptide is typicallyin truncated form and formed by a secretionfrom the recombinant host cell system, or is freedof the membrane by dissolution of the membranein a solution such as or solution of a non ionicsurfactant. In general, the diagnostic products may beused for the detection of either antibody or antigenin a biologically derived fluid sample. For the detectionof antibody, the fluid sample is contactedwith the diagnostic product to bind the diagnosticproduct with complementary antibody in the fluidsample, and such binding is detected and, preferably,also measured. For the detection of antigen,the fluid sample is contacted with the diagnosticproduct having the same antigenic determinants asthe sample antigen. Then, the sample antigen isdetected, and, preferably measured, using a competitiveassay. As set forth above, one known scheme utilizesextracts of HSV infected cells as antigen in anELISA sandwich type technique. The general procedureof such techniques may be used in thepresent invention. Referring to the system of detecting antibody,the diagnostic reagent is typically formed by beingbound e.g. by adsorption or covalent bonding to asolid surface, typically the surface of a well or testtube. Other suitable solid surfaces can include asurface capable of immobilizing the diagnosticreagent such as a bead. The solid surface to be layered with the diagnosticproduct should be sufficiently impermeableto liquid to permit effective removal by washingof unbound reagent. It should also permit bindingof the diagnostic reagent. If covalent bonding isdesired, suitable surfaces include plastic such aspolystyrene. Suitable coupling techniques betweenthe surface and diagnostic region are set forth inBennich et al., U.S. Patent 3,720,760. In the sandwich technique for the determinationof an unknown antibody in a sample, the bounddiagnostic product is reacted with the antibody andwith soluble labeled anti antibody capable of specificallybinding the complementary antibody in thesample. In this manner the sample antibody isbound on the solid surface both to the diagnosticproduct and the labeled anti antibody in a sandwich.Then the solid surface is washed to removeunreacted labeled anti antibody. Thereafter, thelabeled anti antibody on the solid surface or in thewash solution is detected as an indication of theantibody quanitity in the sample. The reaction onthe solid surface forms a reaction product in order,comprising solid surface diagnosticproducts sample antibody labeled anti antibody.The signifies a bond. For example, the bondbeteween the surface and diagnostic product maybe a covalent bond or an adsorptive bond. Bondsbetween the diagnostic product and the sampleantibody and between the sample antibody and thelabeled anti antibody comprise immunologicalbonds. As is well known, in ELISA, the label is anenzyme which is colorimetrically detected after reactionwith its complementary substrate to a coloredform. Such colorimetric detection has the advantageof not requiring instrumentation. Otherknown labels include radioactive or fluorimetricones which are detected by instrumentation. Labeling of the anti antibody with enzyme ispreferably performed by conventional techniques oflinkage by one or more covalent bonds. Such covalentbonds may be accomplished by the addition ofexternal coupling or bridging molecules, or by directcondensation of existing side chains. Functionalbridging agents for accomplishing this purposeare well known in the art. The system of the present invention is alsoapplicable to the so called competitive bindingtechnique for the immunoassay of antibodies to bedetected in a biologically derived fluid. In this instance,the diagnostic product is also bound in alayer to a solid surface as set forth above. Thissolid phase is contacted with the biologically derivedfluid containing the antibody to be detectedand with free soluble labeled antibody of the sameimmunological type as the antibody to be detected.A competitive immunological reaction is caused tooccur between the bound diagnostic product andboth a the antibody in the sample to be detected,and b the enzyme labeled antibody. Thus, theconcentration of antibody to be detected in thebiologically derived fluid is inversely proportional tothe enzyme labeled antibody bound to the solidsurface. After the above competitive reaction, the solidsurface is separated from the liquid phase. When atest tube or a well is employed, this constituteswashing of the test tube or well. This washingremoves unbound labeled antibody from the surface. Then, the labeled antibody in the solid or liquidphase is detected as a measure of the sampleantibody. Suitably this is accomplished by contacting the separated solid phase with a solution containingsoluble substrate for the enzyme to causethe substrate to be converted to a colored form. The above sandwich or competitive techniquesare particularly effective for measuring antibodiesto pathogen in a biologically derived sample indiagnosis wherein the presence of the antibodies inthe sample is an indication that the patient hasbeen infected with the pathogen. Thus, for example,a measure of antibodies to HSV is an indicationthat the patient has been infected. Other pathogenic antibodies to which the inventionis applicable following a viral infection areadenovirus, coxsackie, cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr,feline leukemia virus, hepatitis, hog cholera,influenza, measles, Newcastle disease virus,parainfluenza, rabies, respiratory syncytial virus,rotavirus, rubella, sendai, varicella. Parasitic infectionsinclude amebiasis, babesia, cysticercosis, echinococcosis,Leishmaniasis, onchocerciasis, malaria,viceral larval migrans, toxoplasmosis, try panosomiasis,trichinosis, and schistosomiasis.Other applications of the present invention extendinto the area of autoimmune diseases where theproduct comprises a membrane bound proteinfrom the host and is used to measure antibodiesdirected against that protein, e.g. the acetylcholinereceptor protein. The diagnostic products of the present inventionare also applicable to the determination of anypolypeptide or protein, pathogenic or not, in thebiologically derived sample with the same antigenicdeterminants as the molecularly cloned diagnosticproduct. For example, the system is useable forthe determination in a serum sample of humanhormones, such as human growth hormone andinsulin like growth factors, blood protein such ashuman tissue plasminogen activator tPA interferons,and the like. One technique which may be employed for thedetection of such proteins, designated antigens, isdirectly analogous to the competitive technique describedabove. Antibodies are bound to the solidsurface instead of the diagnostic product of thepresent invention. In the competitive technique, thediagnostic product is labeled as described above,such as with enzyme, and mixed with the solid boundantibody and the serum sample containingthe protein with antigenic determinants to be measured.A competitive immunological reaction occursbetween the immobilized antibody and both theantigen to be detected and the enzyme labeleddiagnostic product. The concentration of the antigento be detected is inversely proportional to theenzyme labeled diagnostic product bound on a solidsurface. After the competitive reaction, the solid phaseis separated front the liquid phase and the labeled diagnostic product is measured. The linking of the label to the diagnostic productmay be accomplished by the aforementionedconventional techniques. For example, an enzymelabel may be linked to the gD protein by use ofgluteraldehyde cross linking agent. In another technique for measuring antigen in asample, a first competitive type binding step isfollowed by a second sandwich type binding step.In the first step, the diagnostic product is bound toa solid surface as set forth above. It is mixed with aliquid sample containing the unknown antigen to bedetermined and with a known quantity of complimentaryantibody. A competitive reaction is setup between the free sample antigen and the diagnosticproduct on the surface. Then the solidsurface is washed and labeled anti antibody immunologicallyreactive with the antibody on thesolid surface is added to the system. This stepcomprises a sandwich technique in which a reactionproduct is formed in order, comprising solidsurface diagnostic products antibody labeled anti antibody.The amount of labeled anti antibodybound to the antibody is a measure of the unknownantigen in the liquid sample. Test kits utilizing the aforementioned diagnosticproduct are useful in the diagnosis of antigens orantibodies by the above techniques. One such kitincludes the diagnostic product and labeled anti antibodycapable of specifically binding antibodycomplementary to the antigenic determinants of thepolypeptide of the diagnostic product. This test kitis suitable for a sandwich type ELISA for sampleantibody. Another test kit may include the diagnosticproduct, labeled anti antibody and unlabeled antibodycomplementary to the antigenic determinantsof the polypeptide. This test kit is effective for theso called competitive sandwich technique for thedetermination of sample antigen. A further test kit includes the diagnostic product together withlabeled antibody complementary to the antigenic determinants of thepolypeptide of the diagnostic product. This test kit is suitablefor the determination of antibody in the sample by a competitivetechnique. The diagnostic product in the test kit may be in solution orbound to the solid surface in the form in which it is to be used.For example, the diagnostic product may be layered onto the innersurface of a test tube or well of a multi welled sheet for directuse in.the ultimate immunoassay. This form highlights theadvantages of stability of the molecularly cloned diagnostic productin comparison to the use of the live virus. Of course, it greatlyfacilitates testing in a laboratory or in a doctor s office becausethe molecularly cloned product is not infectious as would be thelive pathogen used in immunoassays of the prior art. The following Examples provide information and illustrative techniques useful in the present invention. This example illustrates the method of formationand characterization of the gD proteins fromHSV 1 and HSV 2 proteins. HSV1 strain Hzt and HSV2 strain G weregrown on Hep 2 cells at 37 C and at 33 C,respectively. The viral DNA was isolated from infectedcell cultures by proteinase K digestion andCsCI banding 23 . Previous mapping and cloning studies had localizedthe HSV1 gD gene to a 6.6 kb BamH1fragment 6,24 . HSV1 DNA was cleaved withBamH1, and the 6 7 kb region was isolated byagarose gel electrophoresis. This fragment wasligated into BamHl digested pBR322, and the resultantmixture was used to transform Although the gD gene from HSV2 was previouslymapped by recombination with HSV1, theexact location of this gene was unknown. Therefore,an 10 kb Hindlll fragment from the smallunique region of the HSV2 genome 4 was ligatedinto the Hindlll site of the bacteriophage lambdacloning vector 590 25 . Various fragments from the HSV1 and HSV2gD genes were subcloned into the ml3 phage vectormp9 29 , and were sequenced by the dideoxynucleotidemethod of Sanger 30 . The nucleotide sequences were analyzed usingthe HOM program 31 . The hydropathy of thededuced protein sequence was analyzed using awidth of 12 and a jump of 1 31a . Other studies had localized the HSV1 gD geneto the 6.6 kb Since most of the genes from the HSV1 andHSV2 genomes appear to map colinearly 35 , theregion from the small unique region of the HSV2genome which corresponded to the HSV1 gD region the Hindlll L fragment 12 , was cloned into alambda phage vector. Screening of the resultantplaques with a Figure 1 illustrates the two gD DNA sequencescompared with the HOM program 31 . Nucleotidenumber 1 is chosen is the A of the ATG initiatormethionine. Gaps have been introduced by theHOM computer program to maximize the sequencehomologies 31 . Nucleotide differences are shownby the symbol , while amino acid differences areshown boxed. Amino acid differences between theHSV1 gD sequence reported here, determined forthe Hzt strain of HSV1, and that reported by Watson The hydropathy of each glycoprotein was analyzedusing the program developed by Hopp The DNA sequence analysis demonstrates thatthe HSV1 and HSV2 gD proteins are 80 percenthomologous. The majority of the differences foundbetween these two proteins were in the amino andcarboxy terminal regions. The amino terminal regionof these proteins contains a highly hydrophobicregion which contains an arginine residue nearthe amino terminal methionine. This hydrophobicdomain is the signal sequence which is characteristicof secreted and membrane bound proteins andwhich presumably functions to direct at least aportion of the protein into the lumen of the endoplasmicreticulum 33 . A comparison of the firsttwenty amino terminal amino acids showed thatthere were a total of 12 differences between thetype 1 and type 2 genes. Virtually all of the differences,however, are conservative since they encodeother hydrophobic amino acids. The exceptionsare the gly arg replacement at residue 3 andthe arg gly replacement at residue 7. Althoughthese replacements are not conservative, they donot change the net structure of the signal domain.Both genes maintain a positively charged residuewithin the first 10 amino acids. The hydropathy plot in Figure 2 revealed ahydrophilic carboxy terminal domain preceded by ahydrophobic region. This structure is characteristicof membrane bound glycoproteins and has beenpreviously found in other viral surface antigens 5,34 . Its function is to anchor the protein in thecellular and viral membranes and, as such, performsan important role for virus infection. Twelveamino acid changes in this region of the gD proteinsfrom residues 333 to 362 were found, most ofwhich are conservative. This suggests that the onlycriterion for the amino acids in this region is thatthey be predominantly apolar in order to span thelipid bilayer. In addition, the region after the membranedomain residues 363 375 , which probablyserves to anchor the protein in the membrane 33 ,shows 5 changes in its first 13 residues followedby a long homologous stretch. This result suggeststhat the initial 10 15 residues in the carboxy terminalhydrophilic domain may only serve an anchoringfunction and therefore only need to be charged,while the subsequent 23 residues may serve someother function important to the gD protein specifically. Although many other amino acid changes arefound throughout these two proteins, the vast majorityof the changes are conservative. This fact isunderlined by the structure revealed by thehydropathy program shown in Figure 2. As can beseen in this comparison, the two glycoproteinsshow very similar plots. The amino acid changeswhich are not conservative do not appear tochange the hydropathy of the protein. In order to establish a permanent membrane boundgD producing cell line, the gD containingfragment was ligated Figure 3 into a mammalianexpression vector 36 containing the selectablemarker, dihydrofolate reductase The plasmid pgD.dhfr was constructed as follows The 4.6 kilobase Hindlll Bam H1 fragmentcontaining the entire gD coding sequence was isolatedfrom the Bam H1 fragment cloned from theHSV 1 genome. see above . The 2.8 kilobaseHindlll Sal 1 fragment containing an SV40 origin earlypromoter and the pBR322 ampicillin resistancegene and origin of DNA replication wereisolated from the plasmid pEHBal 14. The 2.1kilobase Sal 1 Bam H1 fragment containing amurine dihydrofolate reductase cDNA clone underthe control of a second SV40 origin early promoterwas isolated from the plasmid pE348HBV E400D22 36 . These three fragments were ligated togetherin a triple ligation using T4 DNA ligase, and theresultant mixture was used to transform The plasmid was introduced into Chinese HamsterOvary cells CHO deficient in the productionof Figure 5A compares autoradiographs obtainedwith the gD12 cell line and HSV 1 infected cells control immunoprecipitation from the gD12 celllysate with normal rabbit serum lane 1 It is seen lanes 4 and 5 that a diffuse band of59 60 kd was specifically precipitated from thegD12 cell line using either rabbit anti HSV 1 antibodiesor the monoclonal anti gD antibody, 55 S,specific for the HSV 1 protein 41 . This molecularweight agrees well with that reported for gD isolatedfrom HSV 1 infected KB cells 42 . It is seenthat the same monoclonal antibody precipitatedproteins of similar but different molecular weightsfrom HSV 1 infected human cell lines. The majorproduct precipitated from the A549 human lungcarcinoma cell line lane 2 was 53 kd and thatprecipitated from the human embryonic lung cellline HEL was 56 kd lane 3 . Previous studies 43 have shown that the molecular weight of HSVglycoproteins varies depending on the host celland that these difference are due to differences inglycosylation. To determine whether the gD proteinproduced in CHO cells was, in fact, glycosylated,the cells were metabolically labeled with The human cell lines A549 ATCC CCL 185 and HEL 299 ATCC CCL 137 were grown toconfluence in 3.5 cm tissue culture dishes andinfected with HSV 1 at multiplicity of 10 pfu percell. Virus infected cells were labeled by a methodsimilar to that described by Cohen To further explore the post translational processingof cloned gD, pulse chase studies wereconducted. Fig. 5B shows immunoprecipitation ofcloned gD from gD 12 cells with rabbit anti HSV 1antibodies Dako, Corp. at various times afterpulse labeling with To determine whether gD was exported to thecell surface, indirect immunofluorescence studieswere conducted. In these studies rabbit, mouse,and human anti HSV antibodies were reacted withunfixed cells under conditions which do not permiablizethe cell membrane 49 . gD12 cells andthe parental CHO cells 1 1 ratio were plated ontoglass coverslips 2.2 x 2.2 cm and grown until thecells were approximately 60 percent confluent. Humanserum known to contain antibodies to HSV 1 50 was diluted forty fold with phosphate bufferedsaline PBS and 100 µl was pipetted onto washedcells and was incubated for 30 min. at room temperaturein a humidified chamber. The cells wereimmersed 3 times in PBS to wash away unboundantibody and then were incubated with 100 µl of20 fold diluted tetramethylrhodamineisothiocyanate labeled goat anti human lgG antibodies Cappel Laboratories for an additional 30min. The unbound labeled antibody was washedaway with PBS and the cells were dehydrated inice cold 50 percent ethanol and 100 percentethanol and rehydrated with glycerol on a microscopeslide 49 . The cells were then viewed underphase contrast and fluorescence optics in fluorescencemicroscope Zeiss . Fig. 4 shows A, gD12and CHO cells viewed visualized with phase contrastoptics B, fluorescence image of the samecells as in A. Comparison of the phase contrastimages with the fluorescence images Figure 4 showed that the gD12 cells were heavily labeled,while the parental CHO cells bound little or nolabeled antibody. In control experiments with normalmouse sera, normal rabbit sera, or human seraknown to be negative for HSV antibodies, no specificlabeling of the cells could be detected. Thesestudies suggested that the gD was exported to thecell surface. Experiments with CHO and gD12 cellsfixed prior to labeling with agents known to permiablizethe cell membrane methanol or acetone gave a different labeling pattern. In these studieswe observed heavy perinuclear labeling of thegD12 cells with anti HSV 1 antibodies, and no specificlabeling of the CHO cells. In order to determine whether gD12 cells expressedantigenic determinants relevant to humanHSV 1 and HSV 2 infections, the binding of antibodiesfrom individuals known to possess anti HSV 1or anti HSV 2 antibodies 50 was examined.Radioimmunoprecipitation of lysates from metabolicallylabeled gD12 cells gave results comparable tothose obtained with rodent anti HSV sera Figure5 . Similarly, human anti HSV 1 sera gave specificlabeling of gD12 cells in an indirect immunofluorescenceassay Figure 4 and did notlabel the parental CHO cell line. Taken together,the results obtained with various rodent anti HSV 1and HSV 2 antisera, monoclonal anti gD antibodiesand human anti HSV antisera provide evidence thatgD expressed on the surface of gD12 cells possessesa number of antigenic determinants in commonwith the native virus and that the structure ofthese determinants is not dependent on interactions with other HSV 1 proteins. The fact that oneof the monoclonal antibodies tested 1 S is knownto neutralize HSV 1 This example illustrates the use of gD12 cellsformed in Example 1 in a sandwich type immunoassayfor quantitatively measuring the binding ofanti HSV antibodies to gD12 cells in an enzyme linkedimmunosorpton assay ELISA 52 . In thesestudies gD12 cells and CHO cells were plated andchemically fixed into alternate wells of 96 wellmicrotiter tissue culture plates. Various antiseraknown to possess antibodies to HSV were thenserially diluted and allowed to react with the fixedcells see reference 52 . At the end of the assay,the absorbance in each well was measured andnormal binding curves were constructed. The specificbinding of antibodies to the gD12 cells wasdetermined by subtracting the values obtained withthe parental CHO cells from those obtained fromthe gD12 cells. Specific binding by high titer seracould be detected at dilutions of 1 10,000. We compared serum titers determined usingthe gD12 cell ELISA assay with anti HSV 1 andanti HSV 2 titiers determined by conventionalmethods. Human sera previously titered 50 against HSV by conventional assays, i.e., inhibitionof hemagglutination IHA or complement fixation CF , was serially diluted into wells of microtiterplates containing either gD12 cells or the parentalCHO cell line and the binding of anti gD antibodieswas monitored in an ELISA assay. gD12 cells andthe parental CHO cells were seeded into alternatewells of 96 well microtiter tissue culture plates Falcon Labware and were grown to confluence inF12 medium GIBCO containing 10 percent fetalbovine serum. The cells were washed three timeswith phosphate buffered saline PBS and thenwere chemically fixed with 0.0625 percent glutaraldehydein PBS. The cells were again washed threetimes with PBS and stored until needed at 4 The studies described demonstrate that stablecell lines constitutively express on their surface atransfected gene product which binds with antibodiesgenerated by herpes virus infection. A variety of transfection schemes are possible,of course, using a variety of selectable markers.For example, mouse L cells can be usefully transfectedusing a mutant A cell line such as gD12 may be used, This example illustrates the removal of themembrane from the expressed membrane boundprotein. The foregoing description relates to the productionof membrane bound gD protein. However,as discussed above in relation to Fig. 2, analysis ofthe amino acid sequences of the gD protein ofHSV 1 and HSV 2 identified in each case ahydrophobic hydrophilic carboxy terminal membranebinding domain. A Schematic Diagram of the HSV 1 Glycoprotein D gD Figure 7 Hydrophobic shaded and hydrophilic market regions of the protein were determined from thehydropathy analysis 31a of the gD protein sequencederived from the gene sequence. Onlythose regions thought to be important for membranelocalization and binding are shown. The functionaldomains are a the signal sequence 33 , b the hydrophobic transmembrane domain, and c the charged membrane anchor. The three putativeN linked glycosylation sites are shown by the letterG. The expression plasmid consisted of thepBR322 bacterial origin of replication and ampicillinresistance gene, a cDNA insert encoding themurine dihydrofolate reductase gene under thetranscriptional control of the SV40 early promoter 53 and a Hindlll Hinf1 fragment which encodesthe first 300 amino acids of gD under the transcriptionalcontrol of a second SV40 early promoter.The Hindlll site of this fragment lies 74 bp to the 5 side of the initiator methionine of the gD gene. TheHindlll site of the SV 40 early region vector 36 lies 250 bp to the 3 side of the Goldberg Hognessbox of the SV40 promoter. The Hinf1 site bluntedwith Klenow DNA polymerase and 4 deoxynucleotidetriphosphates is ligated to the Hpa1site of the 3 nontranslated region of the hepatitis Bvirus surface antigen gene 36 . This method isalso useful for preparing a truncated HSV 2 gene. The plasmid pgDtrunc.dhfr was constructed asfollows The 2.9 kilobase gD containing Sac 1 fragmentwas isolated from the Bam H1 fragment clonedfrom the HSV 1 genome see above in theplasmid pFM3 see above cut with Sac 1. A 1.6kilobase Hindlll Bst N1 fragment containing the entiregD gene was subcloned into Hindlll Bst N1digested pFM42 EPO Application No. 68693 . Thisplasmid was then cut with Hinf 1, blunted withKenow DNA polymerase and four deoxynucleotidetriphosphates, and then subsequently cut with Hindlll.The 960 base pair Hindlll blunt Hinf 1 fragmentcontaining the truncated gD gene was isolated andligated to Hindlll Hpa1 digested pEHBal14. Theresultant construction pgDCos trunc contained thetruncated gD gene with the hepatitis B surfaceantigen gene at its 3 prime end. A 2.3 kilobaseHindlll Bam H1 fragment containing the truncatedgD gene was isolated from pgDCos trunc. The 2.8kilobase fragment containing the SV 40 origin earlypromoter and the pBR322 ampicillin resistancegene and bacterial origin of replication were isolatedfrom the plasmid pEHBal 14. The 2.1 kilobasefragment containing the murine dihydrofolate reductasecDNA clone under the transcriptional controlof a second SV 40 early promoter was isolatedfrom the plasmid pE348HBVE400022 36 . Thesethree fragments were ligated together with T4 DNAligase, and the resultant mixture was used to transform Plasmid pEHBal 14 was constructed by cleavingpE342ΔR1 described below , an SV40 hepatitischimera, with Xbal, which cleaves once in thecoding region of the HBV surface antigen, andsequentially removing sequences surrounding thisXba I site by using nuclease Bal31. The plasmidwas ligated in the presence of the syntheticoligonucleotide 5 AGCTGAATTC, which joins theHBV DNA with a Hindlll restriction site. Resulting plasmids were screened for an EcoR1 Hind III fragment of 150 b.p. pEHBal 14 wassequenced, which verified that a Hindlll site hadbeen placed at a point just upstream of where theHBsAg initiation codon is normally found. This constructionthus places a unique Hindlll site suitablefor cloning at a position where a highly expressedprotein HBsAg initiates translation. Any putativesignals necessary for high expression of a proteinshould be present on this 5 leader sequence. Plasmid pE342 which expresses HBV surfaceantigen also referred to as pHBs348 E has beendescribed by Levinson et al, EPO Publication No.0073656, March 9, 1983. Briefly, the origin of theSimian virus SV40 was isolated by digesting SV40DNA with Hindlll, and converting the Hindlll ends toEcoRl ends by the addition of a converter AGCTGAATTC . This DNA was cut with Pvull,and RI linkers added. Following digestion with EcoRl,the 348 base pair fragment spanning the originwas isolated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresisand electroelution, and cloned in pBR322. Expressionplasmid pHBs348 E was constructed by cloningthe 1986 base pair fragment resulting fromEcoRI and Bglll digestion of HBV The resultant sequence creates a stop codon TAA immediately after amino acid 300 of the gDgene. The transcription termination andpolyadenylation sites for the truncated gD genetranscript are encoded by the 3 untranslated regionof the hepatitis B surface antigen gene 36 . The resulting vector was transfected 40 into adhfr CHO cell line 39 , and a suitable clonegG10.2 selected which produced the truncated gDprotein and secreted it into the surrounding medium.The protein was extracted from the mediumand the cells were tested for immunogenic activity.Figure 9 shows the results of immunoprecipitationsof intra and extra cellular Radioimmunoprecipitation of cell associated andsecreted forms of gD. Cells were grown inHam s F12 medium Gibco supplemented with 7percent commercially dialyzed fetal bovine serum Gibco , penicillin 100 u ml , and streptomycin 100 u ml . When the cultures were approximately80 percent confluent, the medium was removed,the cells were washed twice with phosphate bufferedsaline PBS , and labeling medium Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium containingone tenth the normal concentration of methionine was added to a final concentration of 0.05 ml cm2. As can be seen, evident are an intracellularform of 35,000 Daltons and a secreted and apparentlyglycosylated extracellular gD protein. gD10.2 cells were grown to confluence in polystyrenetissue culture roller bottles Corning 25140 in F12 medium supplemented with 7 percent commerciallydialyzed fetal calf serum, 50 µg ml streptomycin,and 0.3 µg glutamine. After reaching confluencethe medium was removed and the cellswere washed three times in the same mediumlacking fetal calf serum and supplemented with 2mg ml Hepes buffer serum free medium . Thecells were then grown 3 4 days in serum freemedium and the conditioned medium was thenharvested and stored at 20 C. The medium wasthawed at 37 The advantages of using the truncated proteinfor diagnostic applications is that, being secretedinto the extracellular medium, it is contaminatedwith far fewer proteins than would be found in awhole cell preparation. It will be noted that the present invention usesa permanent cell line to produce the protein. Upontransfection the vector is incorporated into thegenome of the cell line and can produce the proteinwithout cell lysis. The cell line can thus beused for continuous production of the protein, especiallyin the truncated form which is secretedfrom the cell. For example, the cells expressingtruncated protein can he continuously used in aperfusion system by constantly removing antigen richmedium from the cells and replacing it with fresh medium. The particular cell line used here was a CHOline deficient in dhfr production, transfected with avector containing a dhfr marker. By exposing thecell line to methotrexate Mtx under suitable conditions 54 the dhfr production and hence thelinked gD protein production can be amplifiedThree cell lines derived by transfection of the truncatedgD gene into dhfr To quantitate the relative amounts of truncatedgD secreted into the culture medium by cell linesbefore and after selection in methotrexate, a competitiveELISA assay was performed. gD12 cellsexpressing a membrane bound form of gD wereplated out and fixed with glutaraldehyde to thesurface of 96 well microtiter plates as previouslydescribed. Conditioned medium from various celllines known to produce the truncated gD was seriallydiluted across the microtiter plate and wasincubated with a fixed quantity 2 µl of rabbit anti HSV 1antibody Dako Corp for 1 hr at 20 C.Unbound antibody and soluble truncated gD anti bodycomplexes were removed by washing eachwell 3 times with PBS. Horseradish peroxidasecoupled to goat anti rabbit IgG was then reactedwith the fixed cells for 1 hr at 20 C and unboundantibody was removed by washing 3 times withPBS. The colorometric substrate, OPD o phenylenediamine , was then added to each welland allowed to react with the bound horseradishperoxidase antibody complexes for 15 min. Thereaction was terminated by the addition of sulfuricacid to a final concentration of 0.25 N. The absorbanceof the OPD in each well was determinedwith the use of an automated microtiter plate scanner Titertek multiskan and dilution curves wereplotted. The binding of anti HSV 1 antibodies to theparental CHO cell line was used to measure theextent of nonspecific binding at each dilution. Theamount of truncated gD in each culture supernatantwas inversely proportional to the amount of absorbancein each well. Open circle, binding of anti HSV 1antibodies to gD12 cells in the presence ofmedium conditioned by cells secreting truncatedgD before amplification with methotrexate. Closedcircle, binding of anti HSV 1 antibodies to gD12cells in the presence of medium from gD10.2.2cells selected for growth in 250 nM methotrexate.Open square, binding of anti HSV 1 antibodies togD12 cells in the presence of 100 fold concentratedmedium from unamplified cells secretingtruncated gD. This procedure was carried out onthe gD10.2 cell line to produce an amplified cellline gD10.2.2 which was capable of growth in 250nM Mtx and which secreted approximately 20 foldmore truncated gD into the culture medium thanthe parental gD10.2 cell line see Figures 10 and11 . The dhfr marker amplification system can beused with other cells which are able to acquire andstably incorporate foreign DNA. The success of this work in demonstrating that a truncatedform of a membrane bound protein, lacking that part of thehydrophobic hydrophilic carboxy terminal region responsible forbinding it to the membrane, can yet be immunogenic indicates thatsimilar results can be expected with other immunogenic membranebound proteins, thus providing an improved source of vaccine againstviruses, parasites and other pathogenic organisms. In the foregoing example, the DNA of gD proteinwas truncated at residue 300 because therewas a convenient restriction site there. This had theresult that the carboxy terminalhydrophobic hydrophilic region was completely removed,as can be seen from the hydropathy plot ofFig. 2 indeed an additional preceding region wasremoved from residue 301 to 332 without, apparently,destroying the immunogenic character of theprotein. It would seem to follow, therefore, that withthis protein, and probably with other immunogenicmembrane bound proteins, the extent of truncationcould be considerably less if desired, so long as ithas the effect of removing the membrane bindingcharacter so that the protein is secreted into thesurrounding medium. Example 4 relates to an HSV 2 gC protein formerly designated a gF protein . HSV 2 strain G was grown on HEp 2 cellsafter infecting the cell culture at an input multiplicityof 0.1 for 3 days at 33 C in Dulbecco s ModifiedEagles Medium containing 10 percent fetal bovineserum and antibiotics. HSV 2 DNA was isolated byproteinase K digestion followed by CsCI ultracentrifugation as described 23 . Restriction enzymes, DNA polymerase Klenowfragment, T4 DNA ligase, and T4 polynucleotidekinase were purchased from Bethesda ResearchLabs and were used according to the suppliersdirections. The EcoR1 P fragment, which correspondsto approximate map position 0.650 of the HSV 2genome, was isolated from EcoR1 digested HSV 2DNA on 5 percent acrylamide gels. The isolatedfragment was cloned into EcoR1 digested pUC9 28 . This plasmid was called pUC R1P. The pUC R1P subclone was then used to localizea Sac1 fragment of the HSV 2 genomewhich contained the EcoR1 P fragment. Southernblot experiments 27 revealed that a 4.9 kb Sac1fragment of HSV 2 contained the EcoR1 P fragment.This fragment was isolated on 0.1 percentagarose gels and was cloned into a pBR322 derivedplasmid which contained a unique Sac1 site 55 . This plasmid was called pBRSac1 E . Furtherrestriction enzyme analysis of pBRSac1 E demonstrated a 2.9 kb Sal1 fragment with sequenceshomologous to the EcoR1 P fragmentwhich was subcloned into Sal1 digested pUC9 asdescribed above. This plasmid was calledpgC The majority of DNA sequences were determinedusing the dideoxy nucleotide chain terminationtechnique. Various fragments were subclonedinto the replicative form of the m13 phage vectorsmp7, mp8, and mp9, and the DNA sequence wasdetermined as described previously 29 . In somecases, fragments were Restriction endonuclease digested HSV 2 DNAand plasmid DNA were fractionated on 1.5 percentagarose gels and blotted onto nitrocellulose usingstandard procedures. The single stranded ends ofthe Sac2 fragment, marked with a star in Figure 12,were filled in with the Klenow fragment of DNApolymerase 1, and the resultant blunt ended fragmentwas ligated to Sma1 digested m13mp7 replicativeform 29 width T4 DNA ligase. Thesingle stranded DNA prepared from this ligationand transfection was used as a template for thesynthesis of The strategy adopted for the isolation of the gFgene of HSV 2 was based on the assumption thatthis gene was colinear with the HSV 1 gC gene.This assumption was supported by the recent findingthat a 75,000 dalton glycoprotein, gF, withantigenic relatedness to HSV 1 glycoprotein C isfound in HSV 2 and that the gene for this protein isapproximately colinear with the HSV 1 gC gene 22d,59 . In addition, the isolation of a monoclonalantibody which binds to both HSV 1 gC and HSV 2gF further suggested that these two proteins maybe homologous to each other 22f . It was thusreasoned that DNA sequence analysis of the HSV 2genomic region which is colinear with the HSV 1gC gene would result in the derivation of proteinsequence information which would localize theHSV 2 gF gene. The 600 basepair EcoR1 P fragment of theHSV 2 genome has been shown to map at position 0.650 12 . This region is approximately colinearwith the known coding region of the HSV 1 gCgene which maps between approximately 0.630and 0.640 of the HSV 1 genome 59 . This fragmentwas isolated from an EcoR1 digest of HSV 2DNA, cloned in the plasmid pUC9 28 , and itsDNA sequence was determined 29,56 . Comparisonof the resultant sequence with the HSV 1 gCsequence 59 revealed a remarkable degree ofsequence homology between the EcoR1 P fragmentand the 3 end of the HSV 1 gC codingregion. Thus, the EcoR1 P fragment was subsequentlyused as a probe to isolate a Sac1 restrictionendonuclease fragment from HSV 2 genomicDNA that overlapped the EcoR1 p fragment sufficientlyto include the remainder of the HSV 2 genewhich was homologous to the HSV 1 gC gene.Figure 12 illustrates the steps taken to isolate a 2.9kb Sal1 fragment from the HSV 2 genome whichcontained the EcoR1 P fragment and which was used for subsequent DNA sequence analysis. The 4.3 kb Sac1 E fragment, which wasisolated from the HSV 2 genome based upon itssequence homology to the EcoR1 P fragment,was further digested to give a 2.9 kb Sal1 fragmentwhich was termed pgC Specifically Figure 12 shows the cloning ofpgC Figure 13 illustrates the DNA sequence obtainedfrom pgC Referring again to Figure 13 the illustrated derivedsequence of HSV 2 was compared with theDNA sequence of the gC gene region of HSV 1 59 which showed an overall sequence homologybetween these two fragments was approximately68 percent. However, certain regions of the sequenceshowed either a much higher or lower degreeof sequence homology than others. For example,the sequences between positions 0 and 570 ofthe HSV 1 and HSV 2 sequences showed only 51percent homology, while the region between position570 and 1740 showed a much higher degreeof sequence homology 80 percent . An additionalhighly homologous region 70 percent was alsofound at the end of the two sequences from position1975 to position 2419. In addition to thenucleotide sequence changes, the two genomesshowed various deletions or insertions when comparedto each other. The most notable was an 81basepair region found at position 346 426 of theHSV 1 gC sequence which is missing from theHSV 2 genome. From this overall sequence comparisonit appeared that there was a high degree ofsequence homology between the HSV 1 gC regionand the HSV 2 region sequenced here. Frink In order to determine if the 81 basepair deletiondescribed above was actually found in theHSV 2 genome or if it was an artifact of cloning orsequencing, Southern blot analysis of the HSV 2genomic DNA and the cloned HSV 2 DNA wasperformed. A Figure 14 illustrates Southern blot analysis ofHSV 2 genomic DNA and pgC The results shown in Figure 14 demonstratethat the predicted restriction sites surrounded theregion missing the 81 basepairs in both the HSV 2genomic DNA and the cloned HSV 2 DNA. In addition,the HSV 2 genomic fragments and the clonedfragments comigrated exactly, demonstrating thatthe deletion is not an artifact of cloning or sequencing. Analysis of the potential coding sequenceswithin the 2.9 kb Sal1 DNA fragment of HSV 2revealed an open reading frame of 479 amino acidswhich began with the methionine encoded at position199 201 of the HSV 2 sequence shown inFigure 13 and ended at the TAA termination codonat position 1735 1737 of the HSV 2 sequence inthis figure. As can be seen from Figure 13, boththe HSV 1 gC protein and the HSV 2 open readingframe initiate at approximately the same position inthe two sequences, relative to the TATA boxhomologies. In addition, while it initially appearedthat the HSV 2 open reading frame found in thisregion terminated 12 codons before the HSV 1 gCgene, resequencing of the carboxy terminal regionof the gC gene sequence of HSV 1 strain F revealedthat the sequence reported by Frink Figure 15 illustrates translation of the HSV 2large open reading frame and comparison with theHSV 1 gC amino acid sequence. The single letteramino acid symbols were used. HSV 1 gC refers tothe HSV 1 gC sequence, and HSV 2 gF refers tothe HSV 2 open reading frame sequence. The proteinswere compared using the HOM program,which maximized homologies by inserting gapswhere necessary 57 . Stars are placed over non homologousamino acids. Putative N linkedglycosylation sites NXS or NXT 62 are shaded,and cysteine residues C are boxed. Only aminoacids, and not spaces are numbered. Also shownare translation of the second HSV 2 open readingframe and comparison with the HSV 1 730 basemRNA protein. 730 ORF HSV 2 is the incompleteamino acid sequence of the second HSV 2 openreading frame from positions 1975 2406 of theHSV 2 sequence shown in Figure 13. 730 ORFHSV 1 is the amino acid sequence derived for theprotein encoded by the 730 base mRNA of HSV 1 59 . Conserved amino acid changes, with respectto charge, are marked C and nonconservedchanges, with respect to charge, are marked N inFigure 15. Figure 15 illustrates the high degree of sequencehomology between the HSV 1 gC gene andthe 479 amino acid HSV 2 open reading frame.The first 19 amino acids contain approximately 80percent sequence homology with the changes inthe first 25 amino acids being all conservative withrespect to charge. From residue 124 of HSV 1 gC residue 90 of the HSV 2 sequence to the end ofboth proteins there is about 74 percent sequencehomology with 75 percent of the amino acidchanges being conservative with respect to charge.Five putative N linked glycosylation sites NXS orNXT 62 are conserved between the two proteins,and all 7 cysteine residues are located in homologouspositions relative to the C terminus. In additionto the overall conservation of sequences in thecarboxy terminal three fourths of the proteins, thereare also large regions of contiguous amino acidsequence homology up to 20 residues in length i.e., position 385 405 of the HSV 1 sequence and352 372 of the HSV 2 sequence . It may be concludedfrom this sequence comparison that theopen reading frame in this region of the HSV 2genome encodes a protein which is homologous to HSV 1 gC. While the HSV 2 protein encoded in this regionshows a remarkable degree of sequence homologyto the HSV 1 gC sequence, there are several notabledifferences between the two sequences. Themost striking difference is a deletion of 27 aminoacids in the HSV 2 sequence which are found inthe HSV 1 gC sequence from residues 50 76 Figure 15 and which corresponds to the 81basepair deletion described above. In addition tothis large deletion, both sequences show minordeletions of one or two amino acids. All of thesedeletions are found in the amino terminal regions ofthe proteins. In addition to these deletions, thereare a large number of amino acid changes in theamino terminal region of the proteins which areclustered between residues 29 123 of the HSV 1gC sequence residues 31 90 of the HSV 2 sequence .Only 30 percent of the amino acids in thisregion are homologous, with much of this homologydue to conserved proline residues. 43 percentof the amino acid substitutions found in this regionare non conservative with respect to charge. Theonly other regions which showed such a largenumber of changes are a carboxy terminal hydrophobicdomain residues 476 496 of the HSV 1sequence and 443 463 of the HSV 2 sequence where the proteins are 55 percent homologous butwhere all the changes are conserved, uncharged,hydrophobic amino acids and the carboxy terminiof the proteins where the sequences are only 25percent homologous, but where the overall aminoacid composition is similar residues 500 512 of theHSV 1 sequence and 467 479 of the HSV 2 sequence .While five of the putative N linkedglycosylation sites are conserved between the twoproteins, the HSV 1 gC sequence contains twomore sites than the HSV 2 sequence 9 versus 7total . The HSV 1 gC sequence contains 2 N linkedglycosylation sites in the 27 amino acids deletedfrom the HSV 2 sequence, and an overlapping pairof sites between residues 109 and 112 of Figure15. The HSV 2 sequence contains two N linkedglycosylation sites not found in the HSV 1 sequence,one of which is proximal to the aminoterminus. In order to more fully examine the possiblestructural homologies between the HSV 1 andHSV 2 sequences, hydropathy analysis was performed 31a . Figure 16 illustrates hydropathy analysisof the HSV 1 gC protein and the HSV 2 majoropen reading frame protein. The hydropathy ofeach protein was determined using the program ofHopp and Woods 31a . Hydrophobic regions areabove the midline and hydrophilic regions are belowthe midline. Stretches of 12 amino acids wereanalyzed, and the average hydropathy was calculated.Putative asparagine linked glycosylationsites 62 are marked O . gC 1 HSV 1 gC proteinhydropathy. gC 2 gF HSV 2 major open readingframe protein hydropathy. Figure 16 shows that both proteins exhibited anextraordinary degree of structural homology basedon the hydrophilic and hydrophobic properties ofthe amino acid sequences. Each show an N terminalhydrophobic domain followed by a stretch ofhydrophilic amino acids which contain either 6 of 9total HSV 1 or 3 of 7 total HSV 2 putative N linkedglycosylation sites. The peaks and valleyswhich follow this hydrophilic region are very similarin both proteins, including the hydrophilic domaincontaining the final N linked glycosylation site. Thecarboxy termini of both proteins shows a very hydrophobic20 residue region followed by a hydrophiliccarboxy terminus. The 27 contiguous aminoacids found exclusively in the HSV 1 gC proteinappear to encode a relatively hydrophilic regionbetween residues 50 76 Figure 16 . In conclusion,this analysis reveals that the hydropathic featuresof both the HSV 1 gC and the HSV 2 protein arevery similar and that the least conserved amino terminalregions of the proteins are found in hydrophilicregions which have the potential to be highlyglycosylated. Translation of the final 431 basepairs of theHSV 2 sequence shown in Figure 13 residues1975 2406 revealed a second open reading frameof 105 amino acids. Although the sequence informationreported here is insufficient to contain theentire HSV 2 second open reading frame, comparisonof this sequence with the open reading frameencoded by the 730 base mRNA of HSV 1 reportedby Frink The above results demonstrate that the HSV 2genome encodes a colinearly mapping homologueof the HSV 1 glycoprotein C. The colinearity of thesequences found here is strengthened by the finding of a sequence 3 of the HSV 2 major openreading frame which apparently encodes a homologueof the HSV 1 730 base pair mRNA 10 .Previous mapping of the HSV 2 gF gene 33 ,together with the properties described here for themajor open reading frame in this region of theHSV 2 genome including several potential N linkedglycosylation sites and an apparent amino terminalsignal sequence 5 as well as a putative carboxy terminaltransmembrane domain 28 allow the conclusionthat the HSV 2 protein described here isthe glycoprotein, gF. In addition, the size of thetranslated HSV 2 protein 52,000 daltons is similarto that reported for the endoglycosidase H treated,native size for HSV 2 gF 54,000 daltons 22d . Finally, the large extent of amino acid sequencehomology as well as the conservation ofseveral potential N linked glycosylation sites and ofall 7 cysteine residues indicates structural homologybetween HSV 1 gC and HSV 2 gF. Theseresults, then, strongly suggest that the HSV 1 gCprotein and the HSV 2 gF protein are homologousto each other. These results help explain previous resultswhich demonstrated that the HSV 2 gF and HSV 1gC proteins were mainly type specific, but thatthey did have type common determinants 17,22d,22f,43 . Since several previous studies 17,18,43 demonstrated that these proteins inducedpredominantly type specific antibodies, it is reasonablethat the most antigenic regions of the proteinsare found within the more divergent N terminalsequences which follow the putative hydrophobicsignal sequences. The hydrophilic nature of thedivergent regions, along with their high content ofpotential N linked glycosylation sites 62 , suggeststhat these regions would be located on the surfaceof the protein. Exposure of these divergent sequencesto the outside of the proteins may beresponsible for the generation of type specific antibodiesdirected against these divergent epitopes.However, type common antibodies could likely alsobe generated by the more highly conservedcarboxy terminal three fourths of the proteins, sincehydrophilic regions conserved between gC and gFcould be exposed to the outside of the proteinsand may be, in one case, glycosylated residues363 366 of HSV 1 gC and 330 332 of HSV 2 gF .Thus, HSV 1 gC and HSV 2 gF share both type specificand type common determinants, but it appearsthat the type specific determinants are moreantigenic. Although an explanation of the type specificand type common determinants of gC and gF isnot known, it is possible that the proteins have atleast two functions, one of which is important forthe viability of both viruses, the type commondomain, and one of which is specific for each virustype, the type specific domain. While the function s of gC and gF is at present unknown, and whileviable gC minus mutants of HSV 1 have beenisolated Previous sequence comparison of the gDgenes of HSV 1 and HSV 2 58 demonstrated thatthe amino terminal signal sequence 63 and thecarboxy terminal transmembrane domain 64 wereable to tolerate a large number of mutations aslong as the substituted amino acids were hydrophobic.The gC and gF sequence comparisondemonstrates a similar finding in the carboxy terminal,putative transmembrane domain 64 from residues476 496 of gC and 443 463 of gF. The largenumber of heterologous hydrophobic substitutionsin this region suggests that, as in gD, any aminoacid which is lipid soluble can be tolerated in thisregion. In contrast to gD, however, the amino terminalsignal sequences of gC and gF are highlyhomologous in the first 19 residues. Thus, eitherthis region has an important conserved functionother than direction of the glycoproteins into therough endoplasmic reticulum 5 , or there may bean overlapping gene or other functional sequencein this region of the genome which must be conserved 66 . Although insufficient HSV 2 sequence is presentedhere for a complete comparison, the region5 to the start of HSV 1 gC mRNA transcriptionshows an identical CGGGTATAA sequence in boththe HSV 1 and HSV 2 genomes. In addition, bothsequences are followed by a G rich region immediatelypreceding the start of transcription. Thus, aswas previously found for the gD genes of HSV 1and HSV 2, upstream sequence homologies existbetween the two virus types which suggest thepossibility that these regions are involved in transcriptionalregulation of these genes. Interestingly,the second TATA box homology found in bothvirus genomes, which probably controls transcriptionof the 730 base mRNA 59,60 , also shows arelatively high degree of sequence homology inHSV 1 and HSV 2. These TATA boxes are precededby CG rich sequences, which are similar,but not identical, to those preceding the first TATA regions shown in Figure 13, and they are both followed by a 14 basepair region showing 80percent sequence homology. The entire region ofhomology surrounding this region is only 33 basepairswith an overall sequence homology of 75percent. If this region is involved in transcriptionalregulation of the 730 base mRNA, then it appearsthat a relatively short sequence may be sufficientfor recognition by transcriptional regulatory elements. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that theHSV 1 gC and HSV 2 gF glycoproteins are highlyhomologous, and that they encode type commonand type specific domains. Since the two proteinsdo show significant sequence homology, and sincethey apparently map colinearly, we favor the proposalof Zezulak and Spear 22d to rename HSV 2gF as HSV 2 gC or gC 2. In addition, the sequencingdata reported here opens the way for a functionalanalysis of the gC 1 and gC 2 proteins bythe interchange of various type specific regionsbetween the two proteins The cloned gC 2 glycoproteins may be expressedin a manner analogous to the expressionof gD set forth in Example I. A fragment of gC 2which includes a sequence which is type specificfor gC 1, but which excludes the sequence which istype common for gC 1 and gC 2, is highly useful asa diagnostic agent which distinguishes HSV I fromHSV 2.