# WIRE DOT MATRIX PRINTER HEAD

## Claims
Nadel Punktmatrix Druckerkopf mit einer Tintenzufuhreinrichtung 2 , einer Nadelführungseinrichtung 12, 13 mit einem Teil 12d das so angeordnet ist, daß es Tinte von der Tintenzufuhreinrichtung 2 aufnimmt, und das eine freie Endfläche 13c besitzt, einer Druckernadel 11 , deren freies Ende in einem Loch 13a in der Nadelführungseinrichtung 12, 13 mit einem dazwischen befindlichen Spalt montiert ist, mit einem in der Drahtführungseinrichtung 12, 13 vorgesehenen Tintenkapillarenweg A, B , der sowohl mit dem Teil 12d und der freien Endfläche 13c der Nadelführungseinrichtung 12, 13 und mit dem freien Ende der Druckernadel 13 in Verbindung steht, um dieser Tinte zuzuführen und mit wenigstens einer mit dem Loch 13a in Verbindung stehenden Tintensammelnut 13b in der freien Endfläche 13c der Nadelführungseinrichtung 12, 13 , in die überschüssige Tinte auf der freien Endfläche 13c der Nadelführungseinrichtung 12, 13 unter Kapillarwirkung gezogen wird und die zur Atmosphäre offen ist,

## Description
The present invention relates to a wire dot matrix printer head having wires supplied with ink at distal end faces and movable against a sheet of print paper for transferring ink to the sheet in the form of dots to record a character, a figure, a graphic image or the like on the sheet. An ink supply system for a wire dot matrix printer is known in which an ink ribbon is not used, but ink is supplied from an ink tank to the distal ends of the wire and transferred from the wires directly to a sheet of print paper. One known ink guide mechanism for such an ink supply system is disclosed in US A 4,194,846 and comprises a porous member capable of absorbing ink from an ink tank, the ink guide mechanism having wires contacting the porous member. The porous member contains fine holes whose sizes or diameters vary in a certain range, with the result that the ink absorbing capability varies from porous member to porous member, and both excessive and insufficient quantities of ink are liable to be supplied to the distal ends of the wires. The quantities of ink retained in the vicinity of the distal ends of the wires differ widely, and the porous member is liable to vary in dimensions or to be deformed due to coaction with the sides of the wires. Consequently, the ink densities of the so formed dots are irregular. EP A 97,009 which was not published at the two earliest priority dates of the present application discloses another ink supply mechanism in which ink is supplied from an ink tank to the distal ends of wires by means of a pump. The ink supply mechanism of EP A 97,009 has, however, the disadvantage that the construction of the connection between the pump and a printer head is complex and results in increased cost. It is necessary to provide a good seal so as to obtain good pump performance, and a large torque drive source is required for driving the pump. The ink supply mechanism is particularly complex in the case of a multi colour printer head, and such an ink supply mechanism is not suitable for use with a small printer head. It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a high quality and highly reliable dot matrix printer head of a simple construction which is capable of supplying a stable and appropriate quantity of ink from an ink tank to the distal ends of a wire or wires and is less subjected to the influence of environmental changes such as temperature variations than prior constructions. In DE A 2,546,835 there is disclosed a wire dot matrix printer head comprising an ink tank a wire guide means having a portion which is arranged to receive ink from the ink tank and a printing wire a distal end portion of which is mounted in a hole in the wire guide means, the wire guide means having a capillary ink path which communicates both with the said portion of the wire guide means and with a distal end portion of the printing wire so as to supply ink to the latter. In DE A ,2,546,835, however, the ink tank contains liquid ink which enters one end of the capillary ink path, with the result that ink flow is liable to vary or to be interrupted if the liquid ink contains particles of dust etc which clog the capillary ink path. Furthermore, the wire guide means is so constructed that any air which has been drawn into the ink by capillary force cannot escape therefrom prior to reaching the distal end surface of the wire guide means, with the result that the air can expand under the low pressure which is present and cause flow problems. Additionally, no means are provided for preventing excessive ink accumulating on the distal end surface of the wire guide means. In EP A 0,042,293 there is disclosed a wire dot matrix printer head comprising an ink supply means a wire guide means having a portion which is arranged to receive ink from the ink supply means and which has a distal end surface and a printing wire a distal end portion of which is mounted in a hole in the wire guide means with a gap therebetween, the wire guide means having a capillary ink path which communicates both with the said portion and the distal end surface of the wire guide means and with the distal end portion of the printing wire so as to supply ink to the latter, the said hole communicating with at least one ink collection groove situated in the distal end surface of the wire guide means into which ink collection groove any excessive ink on the distal end surface of the wire guide means is drawn under capillary attraction, the or each ink collection groove being open to the atmosphere. In this construction, however, there is no provision for ensuring that the force of capillary attraction increases in the direction from the ink supply means to the said distal end surface with the result that there can be wastage of ink in the said ink supply means, especially if air is trapped in the latter. According, therefore, to the present invention, there is provided a wire dot matrix printer head comprising an ink supply means a wire guide means having a portion which is arranged to receive ink from the ink supply means and which has a distal end surface and a printing wire a distal end portion of which is mounted in a hole in the wire guide means with a gap therebetween, the wire guide means having a capillary ink path which communicates both with the said portion and the distal end surface of the wire guide means and with the distal end portion of the printing wire so as to supply ink to the latter, the said hole communicating with at least one ink collection groove situated in the distal end surface of the wire guide means into which ink collection groove any excessive ink on the distal end surface of the wire guide means is drawn under capillary attraction, the or each ink collection groove being open to the atmosphere. The ink supply means comprises an ink tank containing ink absorbing means which has pores therein whose average diameter decreases in a predetermined direction so that there is a capillary path through the ink absorbing means the force of capillary attraction in which increases in the said predetermined direction, the said portion of the wire guide means extending into the ink tank so as to receive ink directly from a part of the ink absorbing means in which the average diameter of the pores is smallest. The said ink absorbing means reduces the chance of particles of dust being carried into the capillary ink path. Moreover, air which has been drawn into the ink by capillary force can escape therefrom through the ink collection groove or grooves, while the latter serve to prevent excessive ink building up on the distal end surface of the wire guide means. Preferably, the said portion of the wire guide means has an ink guide groove therein whose width is less than the average diameter of the smallest pores. Preferably, the width of the gap between the printing wire and the wire guide hole is substantially less than the width of the ink guide groove. Preferably the bottom of the ink tank has at least one slot in its internal surface which communicates with an ink supply port in which the said portion of the wire guide means is disposed, the width of the or each said slot being substantially less than the average diameter of the smallest pores. The or each ink collection groove may be V shaped. The said portion of the wire guide means may comprise a porous member. The ink absorbing means may comprise first and second porous members which are in contact with each other so that ink may flow from one to the other, the first porous member being disposed further from the said portion of the wire guide means than the second porous member and having pores therein whose average diameter is greater than those of the second porous member. Alternatively, the ink absorbing means may comprise a porous member whose pores are progressively reduced in size in the direction towards the said portion of the wire guide means. Moreover, the ink absorbing means may comprise a porous member which is compressed in the vicinity of the said portion of the wire guide means. The ink tank may be provided with internal projections which engage the ink absorbing means so that there is a space between the latter and the internal surface of the ink tank. The ink tank is preferably detachably mounted on a head body, the ink tank having at least one projection which is engageable in a guide slot in the head body for positioning the head body and ink tank relatively to each other when the ink tank is mounted on the head body. There may be a plurality of ink tanks for storing differently coloured inks, and a plurality of printing wires which are respectively arranged to be supplied with ink from said tanks. The printing wires may be inclined with respect to the direction in which in operation the printer head moves over a sheet of material to be printed. The invention is illustrated, merely by way of example, in the accompanying drawings, in which Figures 8 and 9 of the accompanying drawings illustrate an ink tank construction previously known to the applicants comprising an ink impregnated member 160, e.g. of a porous material, which fills a tank 140. The ink tank construction of Figures 8 and 9 is of a simple shape and can supply a suitable amount of ink to a printer head body under appropriate capillary attraction by the ink impregnated member 160. The member 160 can be impregnated with a large quantity of ink while preventing unwanted ink outflow from an air hole 142 in the tank 140 and from an ink supply port 141. When ink is supplied from the ink tank 140 of such a construction, the ink in the ink tank 140 which is remote from the ink supply port is moved toward the ink supply port 141 under a pressure difference which is developed between the ink close to the ink supply port 141 and the ink remote therefrom as capillary attraction of the ink impregnated member 160 in the vicinity of the ink supply port 141 is increased due to ink consumption. However, as can be seen in porous materials, as the quantity of impregnated ink is reduced, ink impregnated members are generally subjected to an increased resistance to ink flow and to the fact that interrupted ink paths prevent smooth ink flow. If the ink flow is prevented before a pressure difference is produced high enough to move the ink in the ink tank 140, then the ink remote from the ink supply port 141 remains in position and unused, resulting in a short ink supply duration. As shown schematically in Figure 9, the ink tank 140 frequently has pockets or layers of air trapped therein. When the ambient temperature rises or the atmospheric pressure is lowered in such circumstances, an air layer 143 communicating directly with the air hole 142 is expanded and is discharged out of the air hole 142 as indicated by arrows A without applying any pressure to the impregnated ink, whereas a pocket 144 of completely trapped air is expanded as indicated by the arrows B and thus moves the surrounding ink. Upon arrival of such an air pocket 144 at the ink supply port 142, the resulting undesired ink outflow can cause a sheet of print paper to be smeared by an ink spot or can allow ink to find its way into the printer head mechanism, with a resulting malfunction of the latter. The object of the present invention is thus to provide a construction in which the ink supply is less subjected to temperature and other environmental variations. In one embodiment of the present invention, a printer head is adapted for use in a multi colour printer. Movement is effected of the head of such a printer or of a sheet of print paper or both, a wire corresponding to a desired one of the colours being directed against the print paper at a prescribed position thereon to form an ink dot. Desired characters and figures can thus be produced by repeating the above cycle. In such a colour image printer using inks of different colours a sheet of print paper or other material may be scanned by a printer head in a direction normal to the direction of feed of the print paper to form a one dot line in one scanning stroke, and the print paper may be fed along by line pitches to record images. The construction of a multi colour printer is schematically shown in Figure 10. A printer head 70 is movable back and forth in the directions of an arrow X, and a sheet of print paper or other material 71 is fed along successively at a one line pitch in the direction of an arrow Y. An array of wire positions 72, 73, 74, 75 on the printer head 70 extends along a straight line inclined at an angle ϑ with respect to the scanning directions X, the wire positions being spaced in the direction Y at a pitch of L sin ϑ. Yellow ink, magenta ink, cyan ink, and black ink wires not shown are located at the positions 72, 73, 74 and 75, respectively, to effect colour image printing free from undesired colour mixing. Since a dot of one colour is put on top of a dot of another colour for mixed colour formation, multi colour image printers are generally liable to suffer from unwanted colour mixing because the ink of the former colour is applied to the wire carrying the ink of the latter colour. In the printer construction of Figure 10, yellow ink, which is the ink most affected in colour by inks of the other colours, is first applied to the print paper so as to prevent the inks of the other colours from being applied to the tip of the wire carrying the yellow ink, thus avoiding the mixture of the yellow ink with the inks of the other colours. The present invention is concerned primarily with a printer head, and no further detailed description of the overall printer construction will therefore be given. Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a printer head according to a first embodiment of the present invention, and Figure 2 is a vertical cross sectional view of the printer head of Figure 1. An ink tank 2 is detachably mounted by a holder 70a on top of a printer head body 1. The ink tank 2 is of a double construction composed of an ink tank 2 For each ink, the printer head body 1 has in its front portion an ink supply guide 12 Figure 2 having ink guide grooves with ends leading to the respective ink impregnated member 60 and a wire guide 13 having a wire guide hole 13 There are thus as shown in Figure 1 four ink tanks and associated wires etc, but in order to simplify the description below, reference will normally be made only to a single ink tank and its associated wire etc. The ink supply guide 12 and the wire guide 13 jointly form an ink path from the ink tank 2 to the distal end portion of the wire 11. The printer head shown in Figures 1 and 2 is adapted for use in a four colour printer plotter or in a four colour image printer, and four wires 11 are employed respectively corresponding to the four colours. A wire driver unit for each of the wires 11 includes a magnetic circuit composed of a yoke 18 having a coil core 16 around which a coil 17 is wound, a yoke plate 19, and a plunger 15. Movement of the plunger 15 is transmitted through a clapper 14 to the wire 11. The wire driver unit is covered by a cover 21 which limits the stroke of the clapper 14. In a standby position, the distal end portion of the wire 11 is located rearwardly of a distal end surface 13 An ink guide assembly, which comprises the ink supply guide 12 and the wire guide 13, will be described in greater detail with reference to Figure 3. The ink supply guide 12 has a central hole 12 The ink tank 2 will now be described in detail with reference to Figure 4. The ink tank 2, or each ink tank 2 The space or hollow interior defined by the bottom 40 In the ink guide assembly and the ink tank thus constructed, the capillary attraction is successively greater along the ink path, that is, successively from the porous member 61 having the larger average hole diameter to the porous member 62 having the smaller average hole diameter and thence to the ink guide slots 45 A construction for removably attaching the ink tank 2 will be described with reference to Figures 1 and 5. The printer head body 1 has a head frame 30 including side walls extending from upper and back portions of the printer head body 1 and serving as a holder support 31. Each of the side walls of the holder support 31 has a holder support hole 32, a leaf spring 36 which is defined by two vertical recesses 33 The ink tank 2 can be attached to the holder 70 The holder 70 The ink supply port 41 is now positioned correctly above the arm 12 In operation, when the coil 17 is energized, the plunger 15 opposite to the coil core 16 is attracted towards the latter. The clapper 14, to which the plunger 15 is secured, is thus turned so as to cause the wire 11 to be projected outwardly since the wire 11 engages the distal end of the clapper 14. The distal end of the wire 11 projects through the ink meniscus, carries ink thereon, and hits a sheet of print paper not shown to transfer the ink to the print paper. When the wire 11 is in a standby position the distal end thereof is located inwardly of the distal end surface 13 Any excessive ink on the distal end surface 13 The operation of the ink supply mechanism of the inked wire dot matrix printer head according to the present invention will now be described. In order to obtain a proper dot density, it is necessary to apply an appropriate quantity of ink stably to the distal end of the wire 11. Therefore, the wire guide hole 13 In the printer head construction described above, the ink guide path from the ink tank 2 to a position in the vicinity of the distal end of the wire 11, is composed of slots, grooves, and gaps. By selecting suitable dimensions of the widths of the slots, grooves, and gaps, the amount of ink necessary for printing can be guided to the distal end of the wire 11 under appropriate capillary attraction without causing an overflow. Since the gaps A, B between the wire guide 13 and the ink supply guide 12 can be dimensioned to retain ink therein under capillary attraction, an appropriate quantity of ink can be supplied even when the ink supply from the ink supply grooves 12 The dimensions of the ink supply grooves and gaps, the hole diameters of the porous members 61, 62 and the widths of the slots 45 The ink is consumed from the ink tank 2 as printing progresses, ink flows from the porous member 62 through the ink guide grooves 12 The ink guide mechanism in the printer head body operates to produce the same advantage. If the flow of ink is interrupted in the ink path by reason of vibrations or the like, a mass of ink which has been so interrupted is moved forward until it is joined to a preceding mass of ink since the capillary attraction is greater in the ink path than in the ink tank. Since the capillary attraction is greater in the vicinity of the distal end of the wire 11 than in the portion of the ink path in which the flow of ink is interrupted, no ink is retracted from the distal end of the wire 11, and hence the dot density will not be rendered unstable even momentarily, so that all ink on the distal end of the wire 11 can be used up. In the ink tank construction described above, the ink impregnated members 61, 62 are supported on the ridges 47, 51 in the ink tank body 40. The ink impregnated members 61, 62 are therefore surrounded by a layer of air which communicates by way of the air hole 42 with the ambient air. Since the ink is impregnated under a low pressure, there is substantially no air layer or pocket enclosed by the ink in the ink impregnated members 61, 62. Therefore, any expansion of the air in the tank 2 caused by a temperature rise or by a reduction in atmospheric pressure is released through the air hole 42, so that the pressure in the tank 2 is equalized to atmospheric pressure and does not force the ink out of the ink tank 2. The ink tank 2 is therefore protected from an ink outflow due to variations in temperature and atmospheric pressure, and is capable of supplying ink stably. The ink tank 2 and the ink guide path for supplying ink to the wire 11 have dimensions dependent on the accuracy of the shapes of the components. Since the components can be easily formed with high dimensional accuracy, as by moulding, the ink tank 2 and the ink guide path can be highly dimensionally accurate and have a stable ink supply capability. The ink tank 2 and the ink guide path can easily be assembled as they are composed of a small number of parts. They may be maintained free from wear and deformation for a long period of use and can keep their initial performance partly because of the lubrication effected by the ink. Figure 6 is an exploded perspective view of an ink guide member 12 according to a second embodiment of the present invention. The ink guide member 12 has an ink guide groove 12 Figure 7 is an exploded perspective view of an ink tank 2 which may be used in a third embodiment of the present invention. The parts of the ink tank of Figure 7 other than a porous member 60 are the same as those in the embodiment shown in Figure 4. The porous member 60 has different front and rear thicknesses so that the thicker front portion, which is disposed adjacent to the ink supply port 41, is compressed by the tank lid 50 when the porous member 60 is introduced into the tank body 40. Therefore, even if the porous member 60 has uniform hole diameters, the front portion thereof, which is adjacent to the ink supply port 41, has a smaller average hole diameter, with the hole diameter becoming progressively greater toward the rear portion, which is remote from the ink supply port 41, at the time when the porous member 60 is placed in the ink tank body 40. The porous member 60 is structurally equivalent to a plurality of porous sheet layers of different average hole diameters which are placed in the ink tank body 40 with the average hole diameters becoming progressively greater from the front to rear portion of the member 60 . Therefore, the operation of the porous member 60 is basically the same as that of the porous members 61, 62 shown in Figure 4. Although in the embodiment of Figure 1, the ink tank 2 is placed above the printer head 1, the ink tank 2 may be located below the wires to achieve a stable printing density through the ink guiding process described above. In the constructions described above, ink can be stably supplied through a simple construction from an ink tank to the distal end of a wire, and ink is stably attached to the distal end of the wire for producing a stable and proper ink dot density. The ink will not be interrupted in the ink guide path and the risk of a supply failure will be reduced. The quantity of ink absorbed in the ink guide path is smaller than would be the case with a known arrangement in which a porous member is used to apply ink to the distal end of the wire. Therefore, any wasted ink which is not used for printing is of a small quantity, and hence substantially all the ink in the ink tank can effectively be used for printing. If the ink tank runs short of ink, or if the ink in the ink tank is rendered highly viscous by being dried at a high temperature, or if the supply of ink fails due to its solidification, a fresh cartridge ink tank can be mounted in place so that fresh ink can immediately be supplied to the distal end of the wire for resuming the desired printing operation. In the printer head described above, no ink flow occurs due to variations in temperature and atmospheric pressure and a stable ink dot density is available. Unwanted ink flow out of the ink tank is prevented, thus avoiding smearing the print paper with undesired ink spots. No ink will enter the printer head mechanism, which is prevented from malfunctioning. The cartridge ink tank can easily be detached and attached for ink replenishment. Since the ink supply system of the invention is simple in construction, it takes up only a small space. Where a multi colour printer head employs ink supply systems as described above, the ink supply systems for different ink colours can be spaced widely so that any unwanted colour mixing can be avoided.