# Nickel iron alloys and uses and applications thereof.

## Abstract
A corrosion resistant synthetic iron nickel alloy is pre pared having the composition of the mineral awaruite. It is employed as a corrosion resistant coating on industrial metals. Articles of manufacture having high resistance to cor rosion can be fabricated from the synthetic nickel iron alloy per se or from industrial ferrous metals coated with said alloy.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A product comprising an industrial metal having a corrosion protective coating of either 1 a corrosion resistant synthetic alloy consisting essentially of from about 64 to about 83 atomic 8 nickel and from about 17 to about 36 atomic iron, said synthetic alloy having a an ordered crystalline structure which is in the single phase V region of the phase diagram ofV. T. Heumann and G. Karsten Figure 1 , and having b essentially the properties of the naturally occurring iron nickel mineral awaruite or 2 a corrosion resistant synthetic alloy consisting essentially of from about 72.5 to about 78 atomic nickel and from about 27.5 to about 22 atomic iron, said synthetic alloy having a an ordered crystalline structure which is in the single phase r region of the phase diagram ofL. M. Viting Figure 2 and having b essentially the properties of the naturally occurring ironnickel mineral awaruite, or 3 naturally occurring, ordered, iron nickel mineral awaruite which consists essentially of from about 64 to about 83 atomic nickel and from about 17 to about 36 atomic iron. 2. A product according to claim 1 wherein the coating is of a synthetic alloy. 3. A product according to claim 2 in which the synthetic alloy contains up to about 5 atomic , preferably up to 2 atomic of copper or cobalt, or mixtures thereof. 4. A product according to claim 2 or 3 in which the atomic percent ratio of nickel to iron is 75 25. 5. A product according to any one of claims 1 4 wherein said industrial metal is an industrial ferrous metal. 6. A product according to any one of claims 1 5 in an environment normally corrosive to said industrial metal, said product having increased resistance to corrosion by the environment due to the coating of said synthetic alloy. 7. A product according to any one of claims 1 6 in which said environment is a marine environment or an underground environment. 8. As articles of manufacture, a product according to any one of claims 1 to 7 in which the coated industrial metal is in the form of a steam turbine component, bridge component, heat exchanger component, building component, exterior component of a vehicle, boiler tube, radiator, convertor, marine, surface, underground or underwater piping, shaft, propeller, cable, sheet, concrete reinforce bars, plate, rivet, sign, bolt, antennae, marker or reflector, bearing seal, tower, oil well Christmas tree , or buoy. 9. A product according to any one of claims 1 or 5 8 having a corrosion protective coating of naturally occurring mineral awaruite consisting essentially of from about 72.5 to about 78 atomic nickel and from about 27.5 to about 22 atomic iron.

## Description
NICKEL IRON ALLOYS AND USES AND APPLICATIONS THEREOFBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Industrial metals, especially the industrial ferrous metals, are used in a great variety of applications in natural environments, such as pipes, bridges, ships, towers, oil and gas drilling rigs, marine piping and valves, rock mining equipment, electrical facilities, and pipe lines for the transport of fluids and slurries.Corrosion protection for ferrous metals used in various natural and artificial environments is provided by coatings such as paints, wrappings and galvanizings, and metal laminations. There are many patents and literature articles directed to the prevention of corrosion of ferrous metals.There are many ferrous alloy formulations known as stainless steels that are corrosion resistant.However, stainless steel is expensive and coatings of paint, plastics, hydrocarbons and galvanizings are not permanent, especially in corrosive geochemical environments such as marine environments and various undergound environments within soil and rock. It is common knowledge that the ferrous metal members of bridges, for example, have to be protected from corrosion, usually by galvanizing or painting. Components of ships require constant attention by painting to retard corrosion of the metal by sea water. It is generally understood and accepted that ferrous metal and alloys thereof will become corroded and decomposed by rusting within several to tens of years when exposed to the weather, or used in marine and underground applications, or used in corrosive environments such as boilers and heat exchangers. Many various coatings used to retard corrosion of ferrous metals are themselves unstable in natural environments. Awaruite is the mineral name for naturally occurring iron nickel alloys having the Y gamma prime structure. The most common composition of awaruite corresponds to the formulaFeNi3 which is that of an ordered, stoichiometric phase. Awaruite may contain small amounts of copper and cobalt metal, e.g., less than about 5 atomic percent each. It is formed in nature during the hydrothermal alteration of ultramafic rock serpentinization at temperatures around 300 4000 centigrade. Awaruite is known both as a mineral component of altered ultramafic rocks and as detrital grains in sediments produced by the erosion of altered ultramafic rocks. In both examples it has been shown that the awaruite has survived for thousands to millions of years.Awaruite is stable over wide ranges of Eh, pH, temperature, pressure and varying compositions of groundwater. Awaruite is stable in groundwater containing substantial amounts of chloride ions, oxygen and other solutes in natural geochemical environments. The ranges of compositions and temperatures within which alloys of iron and nickel have the ordered face centered cubic structure or gamma prime have been studied by Josso l 1950 , Geisler 2 1953 , Viting 3 1957 and Heumann and Karsten 4 1963 . The single phase stability field for y is centered about the composition FeNi3 see Figure 1. The stability field first appears at approximately 5000C and broadens to compositions with greater and less nickel with decreasing temperature. The single phase stability field of r is separated from the single phase field of disordered facecentered cubic iron nickel alloys y or gamma by a two phase region of co existing y and y .At temperatures below 3450C, relatively nickel poor u alloy transforms to a two phase assemblage of a alpha iron and y alloy. This transformation may be inhibited or prevented at low temperatures by slow kinetics. The positions of the y y and singlephase y stability field boundaries are disputed.Low temperature data of Heumann and Karsten indicate that the y field is broad. This result is supported by the high temperature differentialdilatometry data of Josso as it is interpreted byGeisler. The interpretation of the phase boundaries by Viting, based on electric resistance, microstructure and differential thermal analyses data, shows a much narrower single phase stability 1 See footnote 1 at end of specification. 2 See footnote 2 at end of specification. 3 See footnote 3 at end of specification. 4 See footnote 4 at end of specification. field for y see Figures 1 and 2. At 4000C, the single phase y field extends from about 64 to about 83 atomic percent nickel according to the diagram of Heumann and Karsten, whereas the single phase y field extends from about 72.5 to about 78 atomic percent nickel according to the results of Viting. Reported compositions of terrestial ironnickel alloys range from 64 to 96 atomic percent nickel, but occurrences of natural, single phase alloys known to have the y structure exhibit a more limited range of compositions, supporting the interpretation of Viting of a narrow y field seeFigure 3. The preparation of a wide variety of nickel iron alloys is known to the art. For instance, U.S. Pat. No. 1,762,730 to McKeehan discloses alloys of nickel and iron which contain 60 to 80 Ni. The alloys are stated to havedesirable magnetic characteristics. U.S. Pat.Nos. 4,192,765 and 4,337,167 in the name of JohnM. Bird et al disclose the use of nickel iron alloy as a container for radioactive nuclear waste.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 is a phase diagram of the ironnickel system between 900 and 2000C Figure 2 is the iron nickel phase diagram in the region FeNi3 according to Viting and Figure 3 its an extrapolation of the ironnickel phase diagrams of Viting and of Heumann andKarsten in the region FeNi3 down to 0 C. OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION It is an object of the invention to improve the corrosion resistance of industrial metals, especially so called industrial ferrous metals, by forming a cohesively bonded coating thereon of an ordered, crystalline synthetic alloy of nickel and iron. It is another object of the invention to provide industrial products or components thereof from ordered, crystalline, synthetic nickel iron alloys per se or from industrial metals coated with such synthetic alloys, said industrial products or components having the ability to resist undesirable deterioration in the atmospheric environment, in the marine environment, in the underground environment, or in man made environments such as concrete, reactors, heat exchangers, boilers, and other corrosive surroundings. It is a further object of the invention to provide methods for fabricating highly corrosion resistant metals or alloys, coated or otherwise, which are used as materials of construction or as finished products which in their environment of use exhibit enhanced resistance to corrosion. One or more of the above objects, as well as other objects that will become apparent from consideration of this disclosure, can be achieved by the practice of the invention s . THE INVENTION In a broad aspect, the invention is directed to novel industrial metals, especially industrial ferrous metals, the surface of which is characterized by a coating or bonding of an ordered, crystalline, synthetic alloy of nickel and iron. The resulting novel coated industrial metals have a very long life time because they exhibit high corrosion resistance substantially exceeding the corrosion resistance of the industrial metal s per se to a wide variety of chemical and hydrothermal conditions which are generally associated in marine, underground, atmospheric and man made environments. The ordered, crystalline nickel iron alloy, while synthetically made, essentially has the properties of the naturally occurring ironnickel mineral awaruite produced under thermodynamically stable conditions within serpentinetype rocks and a composition in the range exhibited by the mineral awaruite. In a broad aspect, the synthetic alloys used in the practice of the invention s are within the range which consists essentially of from about 64 to about 83 atomic percent nickel and from about 36 to about 17 atomic percent iron and are within the singlephase r region of thesphase diagram Figure 1 of the work by V. T. Heumann and G. Karsten 1963 . In a preferred aspect, the synthetic alloys are within the range which consists essentially of from about 72.5 to about 78 atomic percent nickel and from about 275 to about 22 atomic percent iron and are within the single phase Y region of the phase diagram Figure 2 of the work by L. M. Viting 1957 . It is preferred to employ synthetic alloys in which the atomic percent ratio of nickel to iron is approximately 75 25. At this ratio relatively fast cooling rates can be used to bring a melt of FeNi3 to an ordered crystalline state. Small amounts of cobalt or copper, or both, can be contained in the synthetic alloy, e.g., up to about 5 atomic percent cobalt, copper, or mixture of both.Desirably, the synthetic nickel iron alloy will not contain more than about 2 atomic percent of Co and or Cu. The term corrosion , as used herein, represents the undesirable deterioration of a metal, i.e., an interaction of the metal with its environment which adversely affects those properties of the metal which it is desired to preserve 5 . Industrial metals, especially industrial ferrous metals, are used in a great variety of applications, natural and artificial. Thus, the novel highly corrosion resistant coated metals as well as the synthetic nickel iron alloy per se have wide applicability in marine environments, e.g., aqueous environment such as sea water and fresh water, underground environments within soil and rock, man made environments, and atmospheric environments. Illustrative of industrial metal products or components thereof fabricated from the 5 See footnote 5 at end of specification. synthetic alloy per se or coated with the synthetic alloy are steam turbine components, boiler tubes, radiators, convertors, heat exchanger components, rivets, buoys, sheets, plates, ship hull components, bearing seals, oil well Christmas trees , marine and surface piping, signs, antennae, cables, bolts, shafts, propellers, metallic markers and reflectors, towers, bridge components, I beams, girders, concrete reinforcing bars, building panels and other components, components and parts of vehicles, e.g., automobile, train, motorcycle, boat, etc., especially exterior parts such as bumpers, fenders frames, chassis and other body portions of an automobile.Additionally, such fabricated or coated industrial metal products or components can be used as a material of construction in, for example, drilling rigs, rock mining equipment, paper mills, sulfate processing plants, power plants, petroleum cracking and refining plants, radioactive processing plants, fertilizer plants, diffusion plants, and desalination plants. By the practice of one aspect of the invention, there are obtained novel coated articles of commerce as illustrated above which are characterized by a higher resistance to corrosion as compared to the corrosion resistance of the corresponding uncoated article of commerce.In preferred aspects of the invention the novel coated article or component is characterized by high corrosion resistance which represents a difference in kind compared to the corrosion resistance of the corresponding uncoated article or component. The synthetic nickel iron alloys of the invention are particularly applicable as a coating for the various industrial metals including the well known metals and alloys of construction, to improve their corrosion resistance in a wide variety of corrosive environments illustrated previously. Industrial metals include, in particular, the various so called ferrous metals, alloys, and other common metals of construction, e.g., cast iron, steel, etc. The synthetic nickel iron alloy can be prepared by melting in a furnace, preferably in an inert atmosphere, a mixture of nickel and iron in the proper proportion, e.g., 75 atomic Ni and 25 atomic Fe, followed by slowly cooling the melt. At approximatey 5000C the single phase v forms. Slow cooling is continued, preferably with annealing at about 4900C to 4000C for several hours, until there is obtained the syntehtic ordered FeNi3 alloy at room temperature, e.g., about 200C. The synthetic alloy of the invention can be coated on industrial ferrous metals and other metals by various conventional techniques including, for example, hot dipping, arc plasma spraying, hot pressing and rolling, or any other method which does not significantly alter the composition of the FeNi3 alloy. The coating or bonding of the synthetic alloy on the industrial metal substrate greatly enhances the resistance of the metal substrate against the corrosive effects of the various environments illustrated previously. The thickness of such coating or bond on the metal substrate can be in the range of several angstroms to several microns, and thicker, e.g., several mils. In various embodiments the novel product or article may consist essentially of the synthetic Ni Fe alloy per se. EXAMPLEPreparation of Synthetic FeNiw Alloy A sample of artificial awaruite was prepared by melting a mixture of 25 weight Fe and 75 weight Ni. This melt was produced and cooled in an inert atmosphere in an induction furnace. The melt was cooled slowly to room temperature. An ingot about 1 x 3 was produced. Samples of this ingot were used for Debye ScherrerX ray deffraction analysis and electron microprobe analysis. Grains about 1 mm in largest dimension of natural awaruite, collected at the type locality ,Awarua Bay, New Zealand Cornell University collection 25.5 2 were mounted and polised for electron microprobe analysis similar size grains from the same collection were mounted on a glass fiber for Debye Scherrer X ray diffraction analysis see Table I below.METHOD The properties of artificial awaruite that determine its chemical behavior, in comparison with natural awaruite, are dominantly compositional and structural. Since it is known that natural awaruite is very stable in various geologic environments, including surface oxidizing and metamorphic both oxidizing and reducing conditions 6 , the electron microprobe analysis was done to compare the composition and the X ray diffraction analysis was done to compare the structure of both the natural and artificial specimens of awaruite. For economy purposes, the composition selected for the artificial awaruite was 75 Ni 25 Fe by weight . TABLE I Debye Scherrer X ray Diffraction d spacings Artificial Awaruite Natural Awaruite hkl dhkl intensity dhkl intensity 2.25 weak 2.25 weak 111 2.04 intense 2.04 intense 1.955 very weak 1.947 very weak 200 1.771 strong 1.772 strong 1.382 very weak 1.382 very weak 220 1.255 strong 1.255 strong 1.182 very weak 1.179 very weak 1.131 very weak 1.130 very weak 311 1.071 intense 1.070 intense 222 1.026 strong 1.026 strongFeKa radiation Fe target Mn filter 30 kV 10 mA aO unit cell spacing calculated from d spacings 12 hr. exposure a0 3.55At 6 See footnote 6 at end of specification. The results of the X ray diffraction analyses on the artificial awaruite synthetic alloy of FeNi3 and on the natural awaruite Awarua Bay established that they have esentially identical structures, i.e., FeNi3, having an ordered, single phase y structure. Other specimens of natural awaruite may and oftentimes do exhibit different proportions of Ni, Fe, and small amounts of additional components. The results of the electron microprobe analyses establish that the artificial awaruite and the natural awaruite have essentially the same chemical composition. Therefore, the behavior of the natural and artificial awaruite in various geochemical environments, and indeed, various corrosive environments, would be the same.Various geologic occurrences of natural awaruite demonstrate the remarkable chemical stability of this mineral over very long intervals of time, exceeding millions of years 6 . Artificial awaruite would behave the same as natural awaruite in such various geochemical environments. Though not economically feasible at the present time, the naturally occurring iron nickel mineral awaruite can be used in the practice of the invention s described herein. The question of economics with respect to the mineral awaruite is dependent mainly on its availability and size of its deposits which are limited at this time. 6 See footnote 6 at end of specification. References to footnotes 1 Josso, E., 1950, Diagramme d equilibre de la transformation ordre desordre dans les ferronickels voisins de Ni3Fe, Comptes Rendus, 230, p. 1467 1469. 2 Geisler, A. H., 1953, Discussion the order disorder transformation viewed as a classical phase change, Trans. Am. Soc. Metals, 45, p. 1051 1054. 3 Viting, L. M., 1957, Investigation of the iron nickel cobalt system in the region of the metallic compounds Ni3Fe and FeCo I. The metallic compound Ni3Fe and the zone of its existance in the iron nickel system, J. Inorg. Chem., USSR, 2, p. 217 228. 4 Heumann, V. T., and Karsten, G., 1963, Karbonylverfahren und aufdampfverfahren zur bestimmung von phasengleichgewichten im temperaturbereich geringer beweglichkeit am beispiel der eisen nickel legierungen, Archiv Eisenhuttenwesen, 34, 781 785. 5 Uhlig, H. H. Ed , 1958, The Corrosion Handbook. Glossary of terms used in corrosion, page xxvi . Inter Society Corrosion Committee Glossary of Terms. Corrosion. 14, 319t. 6 Bird, J. M., Basset, W.A., and Weathers, M.S., 1979, Widmanstaetten patterns in josephite, a metal bearing terrestrial rock. Science, 206, p. 832 834 and Bird, J. M. and Weathers, M.S., 1979, Origin of josephinite, Geochemical Journal, Vol. 13, p 41 45.