# Ripple reduction in DC power supply circuits.

## Abstract
A power supply circuit for producing at least one output which is essentially free from current ripple is disclosed. A chopped DC voltage source V These multiple inductors in the first output stage can be combined in series or in parallel. A chained approach to coupl ing inductors as well as the use of an add on ripple trans former can also be employed to produce at least one essen tially ripple free output.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A DC power supply circuit having an input transformer P1 with two output windings 51,52 , each connected in a respective output circuit including components presenting an effective inductance Ll,L2 , the inductive components being magnetically coupled, characterised in that each output circuit includes a rectifying diode D1,D2 stipulating relatively reversed current flow through the coupled inductive components, which components are uncoupled from the input to the transformer and in that, for the case where the intended voltage outputs of the two output circuits are respectively V1 for the L1 inductance output circuit and V2 for the L2 inductance output circuit and the effect of ripple in the V2 output is to be reduced, without increasing the ripple in the V1 output, the mutual inductance M of the magnetic coupling of the output circuits tends to Ll.V2 V1 as the permitted ripple tends to zero. 2. A DC power supply circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the input to the transformer is a chopped DC source, each output circuit including a filter, of which its coupled inductance component forms a part, and a free wheeling diode D3,D4 providing a current flow path for its inductance component when there is no input from the transformer. 3. A DC power supply circuit as claimed in claim 2 wherein the coupled components comprise an add on transformer. 4. A DC power supply circuit as claimed in claim 2 in which there are further similar output circuits, each coupled in parallel to the L1 output circuit. 5. A DC power supply circuit as claimed in claim 2 in which there are further similar output circuits, each coupled in series to the L1 output circuit. 6. A DC power supply circuit as claimed in claim 2 in which there are further similar output circuits, each, save the L1 output circuit and a last output circuit being inductively coupled to both its immediate neighbours, to provide sequential coupling of the output circuits to the L1 output circuit.

## Description
RIPPLE REDUCTION IN DC POWER SUPPLY CIRCUITS The present invention relates to ripple reduction in DC power supply circuits. In most DC power supply applications, it is desirable to produce output voltage levels which do not vary. Undesirable variations can be produced by changes in input voltage levels, changes in loads on the supply, and temperature induced changes in component characteristics. In principle, these variations can be virtually eliminated by closed loop regulation. In addition to these types of variations, there are unwanted variations aggociated with the pulsating or discontinuous waveforms caused by the switching rectifying function being performed within the supply i.e., ripple .The conventional technique used to reduce the amplitude of an intolerable ripple is to enlarge the inductors and capacitors in each output. This approach naturally leads to bulky components. It is possible to reduce the total volume of the magnetic components, and to reduce the number of components, by winding all the output inductors in a multi output supply on one core.The resulting coupled inductor is not intended to provide any additional ripple reduction beyond uncoupled inductors.Indeed, such coupled inductors are constructed with turns ratios which preclude obtaining significant ripple reduction.These coupled inductors may provide some performance advantages related to cross regulation, and, in principle, provide at least some ripple reduction compared to uncoupled inductors. Inductors coupled to deliberately obtain substantially reduced ripple have been used in some versions of the Cuk converter see U.S. Patent 4,184,197 or its equivalent, GB A 2O06552 . This converter has an inductor in both the input and output circuits, so that by proper coupling, it is possible to obtain negligible ripple in either the input or output current. Extensions of coupled inductor Cuk converters include 1 coupling of both input and output conductors to an intermediate transformer to obtain negligible ripple in both input and output inductors simultaneously and 2 coupling two output filter inductors to obtain negligible ripple in one output. The body of background art concerned with the use of coupled inductors constructed to produce negligible ripple is constrained by 1 use with only the Cuk converter 2 pairwise use, either input output or two outputs and 3 impractical implementations, which start with a fixed turns ratio and then minimise ripple by either adjusting the size of the air gap in the magnetic core, or by adding an uncoupled inductor of appropriate value in series with one of the windings. The present invention provides a DC power supply circuit having an input transformer P1 with two output windings S1,S2 , each connected in a respective output circuit including components presenting an effective inductance Ll,L2 , the inductive components being magnetically coupled, characterised in that each output circuit includes a rectifying diode D1,D2 stipulating relatively reversed current flow through the coupled inductive components, which components are uncoupled from the input to the transformer and in that, for the case where the intended voltage outputs of the two output circuits are respectively V1 for the L1 inductance output circuit and V2 for the L2 inductance output circuit and the effect of ripple in the V2 output is to be reduced, without increasing the ripple in the V1 output, the mutual inductance M of the magnetic coupling of the output circuits tends to L1.V2 V1 as the permitted ripple tends to zero. This arrangement recognises the full flexibility of coupled inductors to virtually eliminate ripple in at least one output. A dedicated ripple reduction winding can also be used solely to cancel out the ripple in an output at a reduced cost or via a smaller filtering section. The following description of embodiments of the invention also discloses several techniques for reducing the complexity of magnetic components coupled to the filter inductors of multiple output power supplies. In addition, there is disclosed a technique for tailoring the characteristics of the magnetic output structure to obtain reduced ripple in a particular output by using uncoupled shunt inductors in parallel with the output windings i.e., the circuit designer can choose to reduce ripple within a range from significant ripple in all outputs to essentially zero ripple in all but one output or reduced ripple in all outputs based on tradeoffs such as cost and performance . This parallel shunt configuration has at least two advantages over uncoupled series inductor configurations. First, the DC current can be split into the parallel shunt paths based on the resistance in each path.This ability to separate the DC current path from the components whose function is to control ripple might be used in two ways 1 the DC current could be placed nearly entirely in the shunt inductors, thus allowing the coupled windings to be constructed of light wire on a smaller core, or 2 the DC current could be placed mainly in the coupled windings, thus allowing the tailoring or trimming shunt inductors to be of low current construction. The second advantage of the use of parallel shunt inductors is that the converter could be operated for test without the shunt inductors, or with shunt inductors but without coupled inductors. Thus, active trimming of the ripple magnitude could be performed by inserting appropriate shunt elements without interrupting the high current path. These advantages also apply to coupled inductor versions of forward converters and other converters using averaging LC filters. The present invention will be described further by way of example with reference to embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which Fig. 1 is a diagram of one form of DC power supply circuit according to the present invention Fig. 2 is an illustration of the idealised current ripple waveforms present in a circuit using uncoupled inductors Fig. 3 is an illustration of current ripple waveforms for the circuit of Fig. 1 using two representative sets of circuit parameters Fig. 4 is an illustration of the calculated ripple current for the circuit of Fig. 1 as a function of inductor coupling for various values of the normalised turns ratio Fig. 5 is an illustration of the calculated minimum inductance required to maintain continuous inductor current for various output power ratios Fig. 6 is an illustration of the normalised calculated ripple as a function of the normalised turns ratio for a coupled case Fig. 7 is an illustration of the calculated minimum inductance required to maintain continuous inductor current Fig. 8 is a diagram of one form of multi output power supply circuit of the present invention for obtaining reduced current ripple in all but one output thereof Fig. 9 is a diagram of another form of multi output power supply circuit of the present invention Fig. 10 is a diagram of a further multi output power supply circuit of the present invention Fig. 11 is a diagram of yet another multi output power supply circuit of the present invention andFig. 12 is a build up sequence of diagrams illustrating yet another power supply circuit of the present invention. Coupling output filter inductors in a switched mode forward averaging power supply introduces new flexibility in the filter design. This flexibility can be used to a drastically reduce the inductor current ripple in one output, while the other inductor current has ripple no worse than the uncoupled case or b reduce the minimum inductance required to maintain continuous inductor current. A combination of these effects may also be obtained i.e., a modest decrease in ripple current and required inductance . To obtain the minimum ripple, however, n increase in inductance, compared to the uncoupled case, may be required, if the uncoupled inductors were sized to just maintain continuous conduction.Even in this case, however, the increase is modest 20 to 30 for outputs of comparable power. Arrangements according to the present invention can provide negligible ripple current in all but one output filter of a multi output DC supply that uses LC output filters of course the circuit designer can also apply the present invention and still choose for cost reasons to reduce the ripple but not to the point where it is negligible . It produces this performance advantage by incorporating all the filter inductors into one component which magnetically couples all the inductor windings in a manner described by the induced open circuit voltage criterion explained below. The one output with ripple has ripple no larger than the ripple it would have if the magnetic coupling were zero. Furthermore, this one output with ripple may also be used solely to provide the ripple reduction for other outputs.Thus, even a single output supply can be provided with coupled inductor ripple reduction, by the addition of an output11 not used to deliver power to an external load, but dedicated to ripple reduction. The characteristics which the coupled inductor magnetic component must have in order to produce the drastic ripple reduction in all but one output, with no increase over the uncoupled value for the one remaining output with ripple, can be described most easily in terms of open circuit induced voltages. In operation, the circuit imposes voltage on the inductor windings. For uncoupled inductors, each winding sustains its voltage by an appropriate time derivative of the current through the winding EMI7.1 where Vn t voltage across winding n L inductance of winding n n i t current through winding n. n The voltages imposed on the various inductor windings of a given multi output supply are in fixed ratios to each other.The voltages change in time during a cycle of operation of the supply, but they remain proportional to each other. For convenience of discussion of coupled inductors, the one winding with ripple will be designated as winding 1. With magnetic coupling, it is possible to have the voltage imposed on winding num j j f 1 to be sustained, not by current change in winding num j, but through the mutual coupling Mlj, by current change in winding num 1. Mathematically,EMI7.2 Since the voltages remain proportional, even though changing in time, no change in winding current j is required. The current is a constant direct current.Furthermore, the winding with ripple i.e., winding 1 performs as if it were an uncoupled winding therefore, its ripple does not increase above the uncoupled case. The required value of mutual inductance is defined mathematically by equation 3 M1j L1 Vj V1 An equivalent, more physical interpretation, however, is easily developed. If winding j is disconnected from its filter i.e., open circuited , but remains coupled to output 1, which is left intact and operating, then the induced open circuit voltage observed across winding j is identical to the voltage imposed on winding num j when it is connected. An equivalent out of circuit measurement can also be performed.If winding 1 is driven with a convenient test signal of known voltage amplitude, and the induced open circuit voltage on winding num j is measured, then the ratio of measured voltage on num j to test voltage on 1 should be the same ratio as the ratio of the voltage imposed on num j to the voltage imposed on 1 during circuit operation. If this criterion is met, then winding j will have negligible current ripple. Since the designation of num j was arbitrary, it is evident that this criterion can be applied to the pair interaction of winding 1 and any number of other windings.Thus, the coupled inductor magnetic component which produces negligible ripple current in all but one winding is equivalent to a transformer constructed to provide a specified set of output voltages when driven at the winding intended to have ripple. The only additional requirement is that the core must be large enough to accommodate the DC flux from the direct currents flowing in the windings. Despite the efforts to combine single inductors on one core for reduced component number, there may be cases in which a single coupled inductor component may not be desirable, even if it provides the ripple reduction advantages described above. Multi winding components, whether transformers or coupled inductors, have problems of complexity, lead break out, and discrete turns ratios. The present invention, therefore, provides several techniques for reducing the complexity of the coupled inductor while still maintaining the desired ripple reduction. Specifically, it provides techniques for obtaining negligible ripple current in all but one output filter using several separate components, each of which has only two windings.All of these techniques, however, extract penalties by requiring large inductances more turns or larger cores for at least some of the windings than would be required in a single component, if output filter num 1 is to have ripple no worse than the uncoupled case. In addition, the present invention provides a technique for adjusting the characteristics of the output filter structure to obtain reduced ripple in all but one output by using uncoupled shunt inductors in parallel with the coupled windings of the inductor. This parallel arrangement has at least two advantages over a series arrangement of uncoupled inductor and coupled winding, which has been used to tailor coupling in a Cuk converter. First, the DC current can be split into parallel paths based on the resistance of each path.This additional flexibility can be used in two ways 1 The DC current could be placed almost entirely in the shunt inductors, allowing the coupled windings to be constructed of light wire on a small core, or 2 The DC current could be placed almost entirely in the coupled windings, allowing the tailoring or trimming uncoupled shunt inductors to be of low current construction. Secondly, the power supply can be operated for test without the shunt inductors, or with shunt inductors but without coupled inductors. Thus, active trimming of the ripple magnitude can be performed by inserting appropriate shunt elements without interrupting the high current path.Included in this concept is the use of ripple transformers which can be used to enhance the ripple performance of some outputs of power supplies previously designed with separate inductors. The uncoupled shunt inductor approach has been compared here to the uncoupled series inductors used in a Cuk converter merely to provide a reference point. In fact the shunt inductor approach is applicable to the full range of power supply converter circuits in which coupled filter inductors can be used. The shunt inductor or add on ripple transformer approaches, however, either require more total inductance or allow larger ripple in the one output with ripple, than the single component multi winding coupled inductor. Referring to Fig. 1, the power supply output filters of the present invention include coupled inductors L1 and L2 as well as capacitors C1 and C2. Transformer T1, with primary, Pl, provide plural transformer outputs S1 and 52, each with a rectifier diode D1 and D2 and an LC freewheeling diode filter L1, C1, L2, C2, D3 and D4 . The two inductors L1 and L1 have parameters including self inductance and mutual coupling M such that up to all of the ripple in one output V1 can be cancelled by operation of the other, V2.A typical usage is a forward transistor switching regulator TSR where it is desired that one output be ripple free, and the other supplies a ripple tolerant load or is used solely for the described operation with the first output. The loads are R1 and R2 and the TSR includes a switching transistor Q1 operated by a pulse width modulator control PWM to chop the DC Vb applied to the primary P1 of T1 and provide the desired TSR regulation. The accompanying waveforms of Fig. 2 illustrate typical inductor currents for the common, uncoupled, design. Fig. 3 illustrates two possible waveforms solid and dotted that may be obtained with coupled inductors. In Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, AT and At represent the ON and OFF times for Q1, respectively.More specifically, AT is the ON time for D1 and D2 and At is the OFF time for D1 and D2. In order to succinctly describe the conditions for which these waveforms shown in Fig. 2 andFig. 3 occur, it is necessary to define parameters which characterise the coupled inductors. The degree of interaction between the inductors L1 and L2 is indicated by the coupling coefficient k. This parameter is the usual coupling coefficient of transformers, defined as the mutual inductance divided by the geometric mean of the self inductances i.e., k M Ll L2 . For any coupled inductor, the magnitude of k must be less than or, in the limit, equal to 1. The other parameter needed is the turns ratio. A general rule is that inductance increases as the square of the turns in a winding increases. Following this rule, the turns ratio squared is equal to the inductance ratio for windings on a common core. This equality is a good approximation for multi turn windings on a high permeability core, such as iron. However, for few turns on a ferrite core, the differences in winding details, such as position in the window or mean turn length, can cause measurable deviations from the simple equality between the square of the turns ratio and the ratio of self inductances. The general mathematical formulation describing transformers, used here for the coupled inductors, does not explicitly contain the turns, but readily yields expressions containing the square root of the inductance ratio. Thus, this parameter, not the turns ratio, is used here.Furthermore, if the ratio of the output voltages, V1 and V2 inFig. 1, is also introduced, the algebra is simplified to that of an equal turns transformer. The discussions and developments which follow, then, use a parameter defined asEMI12.1 which conceptually represents the turns ratio of coupled inductors for equal voltage outputs, while maintaining generality and mathematical rigour. For convenience, T is called, imprecisely, the normalised turns ratio. Other work with coupled inductor output filters have been constrained to the ease of T12 l. Indeed, it has been purported that T12 must equal one. This fallacy is based on two points 1 for the time interval during which the free wheeling diodes D3 and D4 conduct, the output voltages appear across the inductor windings, and 2 the voltage ratio for transformer windings in this case, the coupled inductor is equal to the turns ratio that is, the volts per turn of the windings must be equal. While point 1 is accurate when diode voltage drops andIR drops in the wiring are neglected, point 2 is correct only in the limit of tightly coupled windings k l . For example, if two inductors are uncoupled k 0 , no voltage is induced across one, no matter what voltage amplitude or waveform is applied to the other. The present invention addresses the advantages which may be obtained by using the flexibility of turns ratio and coupling strength of the coupled inductors. For the discussions and analysis which follow, all components are assumed to be ideal i.e.,no capacitor equivalent series resistance, no winding resistance, no forward diode drop and all voltage waveforms are assumed to be perfect square waves, with the output voltages V1 and V2 constant. While the exact values from an analysis based on these simplifying approximations may not be present in a practical circuit, they are significantly close. For example, while it may not be possible to achieve zero ripple in a practical, economical circuit, a drastic reduction can be expected. Referring to Fig. 4, the calculated inductor current ripple is shown as a function of the coupling coefficient for three fixed normalised turns ratios. The ripple is normalised to the case of uncoupled inductors of the same values Ll andL2. Negative values of the ripple ratio indicate that the slope of the current during a time interval is of the opposite sign compared to the slope for the uncoupled case. This effect is illustrated by the dotted waveform i2 in Fig. 3. The plots of Fig. 4 demonstrate several features of the coupled inductor filter. A If T12 1, there is a k for which the ripple in L2 goes to zero. For t12 1, the ripple in L1 can be eliminated. The critical values of k are k T12 and k l T12. B At the value of k for which one ripple goes to zero, the other ripple is equal to the ripple for the uncoupled case. For example, at k T12, Ai 0 and Qil Ai1 k o . 2 1 C For T12 l, the minimum ripple ratio of i occurs in the limit k 1. Zero ripple is not possible. D If T is chosen so that zero ripple occurs at a k 12 value near 1, the magnitudes of both ripple currents are quite sensitive to small variations of k in the region of zero ripple compare Fig. 4 a and b . Feature D , above, would appear to encourage designs with modest, not tight, coupling. Maintaining continuous inductor current, however, favours tight coupling. The output filter of Fig. 2 L1, L2, C1 and C2 operates in the continuous conduction mode. To ensure continuous inductor current, the maximum variation in inductor current must not exceed twice the average current IAii 2 iave For uncoupled inductors, the requirement becomes. 5 L i R At Lcrit k O The most severe restriction occurs at light load max. R and high bulk max off time At . For coupled inductors, there are two conditions which must be satisfied a direct condition expression 5 generalised for kf0 and a reflected condition based on the direct condition for the other output reflected back through the coupled inductors L1 and L2. As might be expected, this reflected condition depends on the relative power delivered by the outputs. minimising the ripple current of a high power output coupled to a low power output imposes a more severe restriction than the opposite case. Figure 5 shows the calculated minimum L1 imposed by the reflected condition that i2 be continuous, evaluated at Biles. If hit 0, the direct condition on L1 is automatically satisfied by any L1 0.The reflected condition favours tight coupling to avoid large inductors. In the discussion which follows, it is presumed that the power ratio P1 P2 is evaluated under the conditions of most severe restrictions. Furthermore, it is convenient to fix the coupling coefficient k and vary the normalised turns ratioT12. Because of the interaction of these parameters, fixing both P1 P2 and T12 is equivalent to fixing the inductor size margin, the factor by which L exceeds Crit in the uncoupled case. Such an analysis would be somewhat arbitrary since this factor would likely be chosen through experienced consideration of a number of ill defined engineering compromises. Furthermore, varying T12 with k fixed corresponds to a more practical adjustment. Changing the number of turns, a relatively easy manipulation, changes T12.Changing k requires cumbersome shifts of winding positions on a core, or other core geometry changes such as adjustments of core gap. Thus, for presentation of calculations, k is fixed and T12 varied. Fig. 6 shows the calculated inductor current ripple as a function of the normalised turns ratio, with k fixed. Figure 7 shows the calculated Lorit for the same parameters used inFig. 6. Both direct conditions independent of relative power and reflected conditions with P1 P2 as a parameter are presented. Several features should be noted. A For any power ratio, the minimum required inductance where the direct condition crosses the reflected occurs at the same z12 for both outputs. For example, with Pl P2 , the minimum occurs at T12 1.03. This matching of minimum conditions of L1 and L2 occurs for any fixed P1 P2 and k, and provides a minimum total required inductance solution, with some ripple improvement over the uncoupled case. B At zero ripple, a substantial increase of Lcrit beyond the uncoupled value occurs only if the zero ripple output is coupled to one of lower power. Expressed differently, the power which output 2 must handle to provide zero ripple in output 1 is P2 L EMI16.1 This result is particularly useful for sizing outputs dedicated to ripple reduction. C There is a range of effects available, including a reduction in both ripple current and required inductance for both outputs. D While T12 l approximately halves the ripples and required inductances, this choice does not allow maximum ripple reduction for either output, nor does it yield the minimum Lcrit if the output powers are unequal. It seems reasonable to expect similar versatility and constraints in modes other than continuous condition, and other circuits using coupled inductors in this manner. These other situations, however, require case by case investigation. It is tempting to consider connecting the coupled inductors with opposite sense, cancelling the DC core flux, and thereby achieving a reduction in the core size needed to obtain a required AC inductance. In the analysis here, such a connection is equivalent to changing the sign of k so it has values in the range of l k 0. Such a connection, however, would significantly increase both the ripple and minimum required inductance for both outputs. Thus, DC flux cancellation appears to be unpromising. Summarising the discussions above, coupling output inductors introduces new flexibility in design, with the capability to significantly reduce the current ripple in one inductor. The desired values of coupling and turns ratio must be determined by considering the relative output powers and choosing some compromise of ripple magnitude, required inductor size, and sensitivity to small parameter variations. A thorough explanation of the detailed mathematics specifically associated with Figs. 1 7 are as follows. The voltage current relations for a two winding loss less transformer are EMI17.1 Solving equations 6 and 7 for the current changes yieldsEMI18.1 For the case considered here, V1 and V2 are constant in time, which simplifies the integration. However, during the time interval of D3 and D4 off, the output voltages appear across the inductors with a polarity opposing the average inductor current. Thus,EMI18.2 Equations 12 and 13 are plotted in Fig. 4 and Fig. 6. If T12 l, i1 A i1 k 0 equals i2 Ai2 k 0 equals l k l k2 l l k . This result is plotted in Fig 4c. No zero ripple is possible. The requirement of continuous inductor current, uncoupled case, isEMI19.1 orEMI19.2 orEMI19.3 For the coupled case, the direct requirements are given by using equation 12 and 13 for Ai in equation 14 .EMI19.4 The reflected requirements are derived using equation 11 . 19 L1 T122 vl V2 2 L2 T122 Vl v2 2 L2critEMI20.1 orEMI20.2 Similarly,EMI20.3 From equations 12 and 13 , the inductor conditions may be expressed as Direct Reflected Condition ConditionEMI20.4 If k l T12, ssil 0 and the direct condition on L1 vanishes, as does the reflected condition on L2. Furthermore, since Ai2 is equal to the uncoupled case, the direct condition on L2 is the same as for the uncoupled case. However, the reflected condition on L1 remains. 24 L1 A1 0 1 k2 P1 P2 Llcrit k 0 .This result is plotted in Fig. 5. Finally, if the uncoupled inductors have size factors f and f2 that is, if 25 L1 fl Licit k 0 and L2 f2 L2 k 0 , where f1, f2 1 thenEMI21.1 Thus, if both T12 and P1 P2 are fixed in the presentation of calculated values, there is a hidden assumption of a fixed size factor ratio for the uncoupled inductors. Referring now to Fig. 8, it is also possible to obtain reduced ideally zero current ripple in all but one output of an averaging filter supply by using a multi winding extension of the two winding coupled inductor filter in the present invention illustrated in Fig. 1. Fig. 8 illustrates this approach which employs a complex inductor L to magnetically couple coils n1 through n together. Here the coupled n inductor L, which is designed to obtain no di dt in currents i2 through in, and hence no ripple voltage across loads RL2 through RLN, has nearly as many windings as the multi output transformer T. Such a component may be unduly cumbersome and can present problems in lead break out and discrete turns ratio similar to those encountered in T. Referring to Figs. 9 11, the present invention can also be applied to multi output power supplies to reduce the complexity of inductor L used in Fig. 8. Specifically, Fig. 9 illustrates an embodiment of the present invention which employs three separate i.e., uncoupled series inductors, nl2, n13 and n14 in the first output stage of a four output stage power supply i.e., N l series inductors are used in the first output stage for an N output stage power supply . Each of the three inductors Ll, L2 and L3 can now be separately designed to provide zero ripple in outputs 2 4. Each inductor, however, now has to do this job with only a fraction of V01 voltage.To obtain zero ripple, then, for comparable couplings, requires that the turns ratios n2 n12, n3 n13 and 4 no4 in this embodiment be larger than the ratios n2 n1, n3 nl, n4 n1, r etc. in Fig. 8. Referring now to Fig. 10, the present invention can also be embodied using three separate parallel i.e., uncoupled inductors nl2, n13 and n14 in the first output stage. Again, as in Fig. 9, each of the three inductors can now be separately designed to provide zero ripple in output stages 2 4. In contrast to Fig. 9, the turns ratios n2 n12, n3 n13, n4 n14 in Fig. 10 will be comparable to the corresponding ratios n2 nl,n3 nl, n4 n1 in Fig. 8.The effective inductance in the first output stage, however, is the parallel combination of windings with turns nl2, nl3 and nl4. Thus, the inductance of each of these windings must be larger than the inductance of winding nl in Fig. 8, so that the parallel combination provides a comparable inductance for the first output stage. Furthermore, care must be taken to ensure that the DC current in the first output stage splits in such a manner that each winding nl2, nl3 and nl4 maintains continuous current throughout the switching period. Referring now to Fig.ll, the present invention can also be embodied using a chaining approach with two parallel windings not coupled to one another. This approach uses the ability of coupled inductors to produce a reversal in direction of di dt, compared to uncoupled inductors. Thus, although output stages 2 4 have zero ripple, only winding n4 carries current with zero ripple. In output stages 2 and 3, the parallel windings carry current with compensating variations, so that the sum is a constant current, as shown in the sketched waveforms in Fig.10. In those parallel windings in the zero ripple outputs, there is no need to govern the DC current split. The current in one winding may reverse direction without causing discontinuous operation, as shown in the sketch of i3 . In this approach, the turns ratios n2,, n1, n3 n2,, n4 n3 will need to be larger, for comparable coupling, than the corresponding ratios n2 n11 n3 n2, n4 n3 in Fig. 8, although the increase is modest. Furthermore, the effective inductance which winding nl presents to the first output stage will be somewhat less than the uncoupled inductance. In Fig. 8, the effective inductance of n1 is equal to its uncoupled value. Any given set of electrical, manufacturing, and packaging constraints may favour one of the embodiments set forth inFigs. 9 11, or may suggest a combination. All of these embodiments have the feature of allowing the designer to obtain N l ripple free outputs using magnetic structures having no more than two windings each. The Fig. 11 embodiment has the unique feature of using the sign reversal of di dt to compensate for the conventional ripple in a parallel inductor. While these embodiments have been presented for output stages of a forward averaging supply, they would work as well with other switcher circuits using similar inductor capacitor averaging output stages. In addition, they would work in a coupled inductor, multi output converter, in which the input is magnetically coupled to multiple outputs. In order for the two winding structures to operate properly in the above approaches, they must satisfy the appropriate coupling turns ratio conditions derived above with respect to Fig. 1 7. Referring now to Fig. 12a, the present invention can also be embodied using an uncoupled inductor in parallel with a winding. Some previous DC to DC converters have used separate, uncoupled inductors in series with the coupled inductor windings in order to tailor the characteristics of the magnetic structure to obtain reduced ideally zero current ripple in a particular winding. The embodiment of the present invention set forth in Fig. 12a accomplishes the same results by instead using uncoupled shunt inductors in parallel with the windings. The use of parallel shunt inductors has two significant advantages over series inductors. First, theDC current is split into the two shunt paths based on the DC resistance in each path.This ability to separate the DC current path from the components whose function is to control ripple might be used in two ways 1 The DC current could be placed nearly entirely in the shunt inductors, thus allowing the coupled windings to be constructed of light wire on a smaller core, or 2 The DC current could be placed mainly in the coupled windings, thus allowing the tailoring or trimming shunt inductors to be of low current construction. The second advantage of the use of parallel shunt inductors is that the converter could be operated for test without the shunt inductors, or with shunt inductors but without coupled inductors. Thus active trimming of the ripple magnitude could be performed by inserting appropriate shunt elements without interrupting the high current path. These advantages also apply to coupled inductor versions of forward converters and other converters using averaging LC filters. Fig. 12b illustrates the currents present in the circuit of Fig. 12a. The embodiment of the present invention illustrated inFig. 12c employs an add on ripple transformer T2. This add on ripple transformer T2 is added to an existing converter to reduce the current ripple in the second output stage i.e., V02 to essentially zero at the expense of only a small ripple increase in the first output stage i.e., V01 . The requirement thatEMI25.1 i.e., conventional ripple EMI25.2 i.e., negative ripple 0 results in the constraint that EMI26.1 where a 1 K2. The ripple added in the first output stage is given by the added change in hi, during the off timeEMI26.2 conventional ripple added ripple. In summary, then, the use of uncoupled shunt inductors with coupled inductors provides a means of separating the ripple reduction function from the DC high current path.Thus, it is a low cost, convenient means of obtaining zero ripple. It can also be extended to converters with more than two outputs, to obtain zero ripple in all but one output. Thus there has been described a power supply circuit with reduced ripple current for producing a first output and a second output and comprising a voltage source a transformer having a primary input coil, a first secondary output coil for providing a first input voltage and a second secondary output coil for providing a second input voltage, the primary input coil being connected to the voltage source a first diode connected to the first secondary output coil for rectifying the first input voltage a second diode connected to the second secondary output coil for rectifying the second input voltage a first filter means connected to the first secondary output coil and the first diode for filtering the first input voltage, the first filter means including a first inductor and a second filter means connected to the second secondary output coil and the second diode for filtering the second input voltage, the second filter means including a second inductor magnetically coupled to the first inductor whereby the characteristics of the first inductor and the second inductor are selected such that the ripple in the current through the second inductor is much lower than the ripple in the current through the first inductor.The voltage source can be a chopped DC voltage source and the first filter means may, additionally, include a first freewheeling diode for providing a path for the current through the first inductor when the voltage source is switched off and the second filter means additionally includes a second freewheeling diode for providing a path for the current through the second inductor when the voltage source is switched off. There may be a plurality of secondary output coils, the plurality of secondary output coils providing a plurality of input voltages, a plurality of output stages for providing the plurality of outputs, each of the plurality of output stages being connected to a different one of the plurality of secondary output coils, one of the plurality of output stages including a plurality of inductors while all the other of the plurality of output stages including only one inductor each, each one of the plurality of inductors being magnetically coupled to a different one of the inductors included in the other of the plurality of output stages whereby the characteristics of the plurality of inductors and the inductors included in the other of the plurality of output stages are selected such that the ripple in the current through the inductors included in the other of the plurality of output stages is essentially reduced to zero. The plurality of inductors can be serially connected or connected in parallel. Alternatively, the inductors can be coupled each to the next. in a chain, to load the ripple onto the first output circuit. The arrangement may be in the form of add on transformer means for reducing current ripple, the add on transformer means, added onto the output circuits including respective first and second inductors and including at least a third inductor and a fourth inductor, the third inductor magnetically coupled to the fourth inductor and connected in parallel to the first inductor, the fourth inductor being connected in parallel with the second inductor so that the ripple in the combined current through the second inductor and the fourth inductor is essentially reduced to zero.