# Reactive azo compounds, processes for their preparation and their use for dyeing fibers and textiles.

## Abstract
Reactive azo compounds, in the free form, represented by the formula

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1.. A reactive azo compound which, in the. free ad,id form, is represented by the formula EMI17.1 wherein R1 is amino or methyl R2 is anilino having one or two sulfo or carboxy arid optionally substituted by methyl o.r.chlom methoxy amino alkylamino having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and optionally substituted by hydroxy, carboxy or sulfo, and R3 and R3 each represents chloro or fluoro in dependently. 2. A reactive azo compound as claimed in claim 1 which, in the free acid form, is represented by the formula EMI17.2 3. A reactive azo compound as claimed in claim 1 which, in the free acid form, is represented by the formula EMI18.1 4. A reactive azo compound.as claimed in claim 1 which, in the free acid form, is represented by the formula EMI18.2 5. A reactive azo compound as claimed in claim 1 which, in the free acid form, is represented by the formula EMI18.3 6. A reactive azo compound as claimed in claim 1 which, in the free acid form, is represented by the formula EMI18.4 7. A process for preparing a reactive azo compound represented by the formula 1 which comprises reacting one mole of a compound represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI19.1 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, with one mole of a compound represented by the formula EMI19.2 wherein R2 and R3 are as defined above. 8. A process for preparing a reactive azo compound represented by the formula 1 which comprises reacting one mole of an azo compound represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI19.3 wherein R1 and R3 are. as defined above, with one mole of a compound represented by the formula EMI19.4 wherein R2 and R3 are as defined above. 9. A process for preparing a reactive azo compound represented by formula 1 which comprises reacting one mole of a compound represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI20.1 wherein Ri, R3 and R3 are as defined above, with one mole of a compound represented by the formula R2H 7 wherein R2 is as defined above. 10. Use of the compounds defined in claims 1 to 6 for dyeing fibers and textiles.

## Description
The present invention relates to reddish yellow azo uvinpounds which give.clear and fast dyeings when dyeing cellulosic fibers, especially by printing or continuous dyeing. In more detail, this invention relates to reactive azo compounds which, in the free acid form, are represented by the formula EMI1.1 wherein R1 is amino or methyl, R2 is anilino having at least one sulfo or carboxy and optionally substituted by methyl or chloro methoxy amino alkylamino having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and optionally substituted by hydroxy, carboxy or sulfo, and R3 and R3 each represents chloro or fluoro independently, processes for preparing such compounds and a method for dyeing therewith. The reactive azo compounds of this invention have the advantage of high colour value and clear shade over the dyestuff disclosed in the known Japaneseprovisional patent publication No. 3334 1972wherein EMI2.1 substitutes for NHCH2CH2NH of formula 1 . Examples of the groups represented by R2 in formula 1 of this invention are as follows 4 or 2 or 3 sulfophenylamino, 2 sulfo 4 methylphenylamino, 2, 5 disulfophenylamino, 3 sulfo 4 methyl phenylamino, 2 carboxy 4 or 5 sulfophenylamino, 4 chloro 3 sulfophenylamino, amino, methylamino, ethanol amino, diethanolamino, carboxymethylamino, 2 sulfoethylamino and the like. The reactive azo compounds represented by formula 1 can be prepared by the methods set forth below. The first method comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI2.2 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, with a compound of the formula EMI2.3 wherein R2 and R5 are as defined above. The reaction can be practised in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 7 9 and at 30 600C. The compound of formula 2 can be obtained by condensing a compound represented by the formula EMI3.1 wherein R1 is as defined above, with cyanuric halide represented by the formula EMI3.2 wherein R3 is as defined above, in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 4 8 and below 200c. The compound of formula 3 can be obtained by condensing cyanuric halide of formula 10 with a compound of formula 7 below in the known manner, adding hydrochloride of ethylenediamine or ethylenediamine and hydrochloric acid to adjust the pH to 4 6, and then effecting the reaction at 10 600C while keeping the pH at 4 6 by addition of acid binding agents,such as sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate. The compound of formula 8 can be obtained by diazotizing 2 aminonaphthalene 3,. 6, 8 trisulfonic acid in the know manner and then coupling with 3 acetylaminoaniline or 3 aminophenyl u.rea in the known manner. The second method for the preparation of Åa reactive.azo compound of formula 1 comprises reacting an azo compound of the formula EMI3.3 wherein R1 and R3 are as defined above, with a compound of formula EMI4.1 wherein Rz and R 3 are as defined above. This reaction can be effected in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 7 9 and at 30 60 C. The compound of formula A can be obtained by condensing a compound of formula 2 with ethylenediamine, preferably at a pH of 4 6 and at 20 60 C. The compound of formula 5 can be obtained by condensing a cyanuric halide of formula 10 with a compound represented by formula R2 H 7 wherein R2 is as defined above, in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 4 9 and 0 30 C. As examples of the compounds of formula 5 , for example, 2 2 or 3 or 4 sulfo anilino 4, 6 dichloro S triazine, 2 2 5 disulfoanilino 4, 6 dichloro S triazine, 2 amino 4, 6 dichloro Striazine, 2 methoxy 4, 6 dichlor S triazine, 2 2 sulfoethylamino 4, 6 dichl6ro S triazine, 2 diethanol amino 4, 6 dichloro S triaz ine, 2 carboxymethylamino 4, 6 dichloro S triazine, 2 3 sulfo 41 methylphenylamino 4, 6 difluoro S triazine, 2 2 carboxy 4 or 5 sulfo phenylamino 4, 6 difluoro S triazine, 2 4 chloro 3 sulfophenylamino 4, 6 difluoro S triazine, and 2 ethanolamino 4, 6 difluoro S triazine may be mentioned. The third method comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI5.1 wherein R1, R3 and R3 are as defined above, with the compound of formula 7 . The reaction can be effected in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 4 9 and at 10 50 OC. The compound of formula 6 can be obtained by condensing the cOmpound of formula 4 as used in the second method with cyanuric halide of formula 10 in an aqueous medium, preferably at a pH of 7 9 and below 200C. The new reactive azo compound of this invention is applicable to natural and synthetic fibers such as wool, silk, polyamide, cotton, viscose rayon, regenerated cellulosic fiber, but it is particularly suitable for dyeing cellulosic fibers. As examples of cellulosic fibers used for the dyeing method of this invention cellulosic fibers such as cotton, linen, viscose rayon, viscose staple fiber, cupra, and their mixed spun, woven and knitted products may be mentioned.The compounds of this invention are advantageously applicable for dyeing cellulosic fibers by usual dip dyeing, printing or padding. As examples of acid binding agents used in dyeing, for example, sodium hydrogen carbonate, sodium metaphosphate, trisodium phosphate, sodium ortho or meta silicate, sodium carbonate and sodium hydroxide may be mentioned. When the compound of this invention is applied using a relatively long liquor to goods ratio, for example, a batch type dip dyeing method, a dye bath is usually prepared with an inorganic salt such as sodium chloride or sodium sulfate and the dyestuff, then dyeing is effected at 30 1000C for 10 60 minutes, an acid binding agent is added, and the dyeing is further proceeded at 60 l000C for 20 60 minutes. The acid binding agent may be added to the dye bath at the start of the dyeing, or it is also poss.ible to effect the dyeing first under neutral conditions and then fixing the dyestuff by by using another bath con taining an acid binding agent and inorganic salt. When the compound of this invention is applied using a relatively short liquor to goods ratio, for example, a continuous or semi continuous dyeing method, a dye bath is usually prepared with a dyestuff, an acid binding agent, a penetrant and, if necessarybradding urea, then the fibers are dipped in the bath for a short time, squeezed, and left to stand at room or elevated temperature or subjected to steaming or baking for a short time. In some cases the fibers may first be dipped in a solution of the acid binding agent and then padded in a neutral dye bath. Otherwise the fibers may first be padded in the neutral dye bath, treated with a solution of the acid binding agent saturated with an inorganic salt, and left to stand or treated with heat. When the compound of this invention is used for printing, the fibers are usually treated with a colour paste formed by incorporating the dyestuff, an acid binding agent and urea into a stock paste such as sodium alginate or an emulsion paste. The printed fibers are then either subjected to intermediate drying followed by heat treatment or left to stand at room or elevated temperature to fix the dyestuff.On occasion the fibers may first be immersed in a solution of an acid binding agent, and then be printed with a neutral colour paste and left to stand or treated with heat. After the above mentioned dyeing, padding or printing process, the coloured fibers are washed with water or, if necessary, are subjected to hot soaping in a solution containing a surfactant. The azo compound of this invention fixes on fibers at a high rate. Therefore, it is very easy to remove from the unfixed azo compound the fibers dyed or printed and thus it is possible to save substantially time and cost required for rinsing fibers. It is also a great advantage of the compound of this invention that the dyeings of deep shade can be obtained with a relatively small quantity of. the reactive azo compound, because the side reaction of reactive azo compound with water is very slight. Moreover a bright shade of dyeings is also characteristic of the reactive azo compound of this invention and there is no dullness of the shade which occurs generally when two reactive groups are introduced. The following examples illustrate the present invention, but they are not intended to limit it thereto. In the following examples, parts are by. weight. EXAMPLE l 38.3 parts of 2 naphthylamine 3, 6, 8 trisulfonic acid were dissolved in 400 parts of water under neutral conditions and diazotized with 22 parts of 35 hydrochloric acid and 6.9 parts of sodium nitrite. 15.1 parts of 3 aminophenylurea were added to the resulting mixture and then sodium carbonate was slowly added to make a neutral solution. After the coupling has been completed, 18.4 parts of cyanuric chloride were added to the solution at a temperature below 200C and stirred for 3 hours while keeping the pH at 4 7 with sodium carbonate. Upon completion of the condensation, 34.5 parts of a compound represented by the formula EMI8.1 were added and the reaction was carried out at 40 500C while keeping the pH at 7.5 8 with sodium bicarbonate.When the reaction ended, red crystals were salted out by addition of 15 common salt to the quantity of the solution. The product thus obtained was a reddish yellow reactive azo compound which is represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI8.2 X max. 430 rim and can print the cellulosic fibers to produce dyeings having excellent fastnesses and bright shade. The compound of formula 11 was prepared by first condensing 17.3 parts of aniline Orsulfonic acid with 18.5 parts of cyanuric chloride, further condensing 6.o parts of ethylenediamine with dihydrochloride at 50 600C and a pH of 4 6, filtering and washing thoroughly with water. Gken the compound of the formula EMI9.1 was used as the condensing component in place of t he compound of formula 11 above, an azo compound represented by the formula EMI9.2 max. 430 nm was obtained. The fastness of the compound is almost equal to that of the compound of formula 12 . EXAMPLE 2 To 69.3 parts of the compound of the formula EMI9.3 which was synthesized by the method as described inExample 1, was added an aqueous solution of 6 parts of ethylenediamine and 18 parts of 35 hydrochloric acid, condensation was carried out at 30 400C and a pH of 4 6, then salt was added and filtered. To this was added the condensation product obtained with 18.5 parts of cyanuric chloride and 17.3 parts of aniline 4 sulfonic acid and the reaction was carried out for 3 hours adjusting the temperature to 40 50 C and the pH at 8.After completion of the reaction, crystals are salted out by addition of 108 salt to the quantity of the.reaction solution. The product thus obtained is an azo compound which is represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI10.1 k max 431 nm and can produce dyeings having excellent fastnesses. EXAMPLE 3 In a similar manner as described in Example 1, 38.3 parts of 2 naphthylamine 3, 6, 8 trisulfonic acid were diazotized, and to this were added 15.0 parts of 3 acetylaminoaniline then coupling was carried out while adjusting the pH to 5 6 with sodium carbonate.After coupling, 18.4 parts of. cyanuric chloride were added by itself or as its acetone solution and condensed at a temperature below 20 C and a pH of 4 After the condensation is completed, 34.5 parts of the compound of the formula EMI10.2 were added to complete the reaction at 40 50QC keeping the pH at 7.5 8.0 with 20 parts of sodium bicarbonate. Then by addition of 10 salt to the quantity of the solution, there were salted out red crystals which are represented by the formula in the free acid form EMI11.1 A max. 420 nm This azo compound printed cellulosic fibers to produce a dyed cloth having bright shade and excellent fastnesses. EXAMPLE.4 To 71.8 parts of the compound of the formula EMI11.2 which was prepared in the manner as described in Example 2, there were added 18.4 parts of cyanuric chloride at a temperature below 200C and condensed while adjusting the photo 7 8. Then a solution of 12.5 parts of 2 sulfoethylamine in 50 parts of water was added and condensed at 40 500C and apHof8.Upon addition of 15 salt to the quantity of the solution red crystals were salted out. This product was a reddish yellow azo compound which, having A max. 430 nm, is represented by the formula EMI12.1 and dyed cellulose to produce bright and fast colour shade. In a similar manner as describ.ed in Examples 1 to 4, dyes which are represented by the formula EMI12.2 wherein R1, R2, R3 and R are given in the table below, were obtained.EMI12.3 tb No. SEP R1 SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R3o SEP X SEP max SEP nm tb SEP 1 SEP I tb 21 SEP NH2 SEP NHCH3 SEP Cl SEP Cl SEP 430 tb SEP s63H tb 22 SEP NH2 SEP NECH2COOH SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP 430 tb 23 SEP NH2 SEP NH SEP 9 SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP 430 tb SEP SO3H tb 24 SEP NH2 SEP NH2 SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP 430 tb SEP I tb 25 SEP NH2 SEP Na SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP 430 tb SEP COOH tb EMI13.1 tb No. SEP Rl SEP R2 SEP R3 SEP R3 SEP X SEP max SEP nm tb SEP SO3H tb 26 SEP CH3 SEP NH SEP 4 SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP 420 tb SEP SO3H tb 27 SEP CHa SEP NH SEP 9 SEP C1 SEP Cl SEP 420 tb SEP SO3H tb 28 SEP CH3 SEP NHCH2CH20H SEP C1 SEP C1 SEP 420 tb 29 SEP CH3 SEP OCH3 SEP . SEP C1 SEP CI SEP 420 tb 30 SEP NH2 SEP NHCH3 SEP F SEP C1 SEP 430 tb 31 SEP NHp SEP NH cl tb SEP F SEP p SEP 430 tb SEP H tb SEP ,SOJH tb SEP SO3H tb 33 SEP CH3 SEP NH SEP 9 SEP SO3H SEP Cl SEP F SEP 420 tb SEP COOH tb EXAMPLE 5 Azo compounds represented by formula 12 ofExample 1, formula 20 of Example 4 and the formula EMI13.2 which is included in the Japanese provisional patent publication No. 3334 1972 and compound of formula EMI14.1 were subjected to the comparative tests as described below. The colour paste used was prepared by the following composition EMI14.2 tb Azo SEP compound SEP X SEP parts SEP Sodium SEP bicarbonate SEP 20 SEP parts tb 50 SEP sodium tb alginate SEP 500 SEP parts SEP Reduction SEP inhibitor SEP 10 SEP parts SEP tb Urea SEP 100 SEP parts SEP Water SEP 370 X SEP parts tb Note X represents 10, 30 or 60. Polimin L new made by Nippon Rayaku was used as the reduction inhibitor. Mercerized cotton cloth was printed with the colour paste as given above, dried at 600C for 10 30 minutes, treated in saturated steam at 1000C for 10 minutes and rinsed with running water. Then the printed material was treated for 10 minutes in a soaping bath at 1000C containing an anionic surfactant at a rate of lg. per liter, rinsed with water and. dried. Among those cloths dyed as above, the materials dyed with the azo compounds of formulae 12 and 2Q of the present invention showed 10 158 higher colour value and brighter colour shade rating of 4 or 4 5 according to Standard Grey Scall for Change in ShadeJIS. L 0804 as compared with those dyed with the azo compounds of formulae 34 and 35 , regardless of the values of X, 10, 30 and 60. Thus the advantage of the azo compounds of this invention was confirmed. EXA4PLE 6 1,000 parts of colour paste were prepared from 30 parts of the azo compound of formula 16 obtained by the method described in Example 2 above, 500 parts of 50 sodium alginate, 100 parts of urea, 10 parts of a reduction inhibitor, 20 parts of sodium carbonate and 340 parts of water. The colour paste was printed on a mercerized cotton cloth, dried at 600C and baked at 1500C for 3 minutes. Then the printed material was rinsed with water, soaped in a bath containinq an anionic surfactant at 1000C for 10 minutes,rins.e with water and dried. The dyed cloth thus obtained has excellent fastness, especially wet fastness. EXAMPLE 7 A padding bath was prepared in the composition as given below.Azo compound of Example 1, formula 14 X partsSodium alginate 1 partReduction inhibitor 2 partsUrea 50 X 10 parts 100 X 30 parts 150 X 60 partsSodium carbonate 20 partsWater 767 X 60 parts 847 X 30 parts 917 X 1Q parts Note X represents 10, 30 or 60. Polimin L new made by Nippon Kayaku was used as a reduction inhibitor. A non mercerized cotton cloth was padded in the bath described above, squeezed with a mangle to a squeezing rate of 60 , dried at 1000C for 2 minutes and baked at 1500C for 3 minutes. Then the cloth was rinsed with running water, treated in a soaping bath containing an anionic surfactant at a rate of 1 g. per liter at 1000C for 10 minutes,rinsedagain with running water and dried.Regardless of the value of X as noted above, i.e. 10, 30 or 60, a reddish yellow dyeing was obtained having excellent fastness to light and chlorine, especially so superior in wet fastness as rating of 5 of cotton staining in the washing fastness test. EXAMPLE 8 1,000 parts of a padding bathwere prepared from 10 parts of the azo compound af formula 18 as given in Example 3, 100 parts of urea, 20 parts of sodium carbonate, 1 part of sodium alginate, 5 parts of a reduction inhibitor and 864 parts of water. A spun rayon cloth was padded in this bath, squeezed to a squeezing rate of 60 and steamed in saturated steam at 100 C for 7 minutes. Then the cloth was rinsed with water, soaped, rinsed again with water and dried.Thus, . a bright reddish yellow dyeing of especially excellent wet fastness was obtained.