# Adhesive and coating composition.

## Abstract
A hot melt adhesive and coating composition comprising a copolymer of ethylene and acrylic acid or methacrylic acid is provided said copolymer characterized as having a melt flow of at least 0.97 and an acrylic acid or methacrylic acid content such that the copolymer has an acid number ranging from 8 to 93.

## Claims
EMI13.1 1. A hot melt adhesive and coating composition comprising a normally solid ethylene acrylic acid or methacrylic acid copolymer characterized as falling within the boundries defined by Points A, B, D and E of the trapezoidal figure set forth in the Drawing, whereinPoints A, B, D and E represent the following characteristics of the copolymer A, a copolymer having an acid number of 23 and a flow rate of 0.97 B, a copolymer having an acid number of 93 and a flow rate of 69 D, a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 69 and E, a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 0.97. 2. The compositions of Claim 1 including a tackifier. 3. The compositions of Claim 1 including a wax. 4. The compositions of Claim 1 including a wax and a tackifier. 5. The composition of Claim 1 wherein the copolymer is an ionomer. 6. A hot melt adhesive and coating composition comprising an ethylene acrylic acid or methacrylic acid copolymer characterized as falling within the boundaries defined by Points A, C, D and E of the trapezoidal figure set forth in the Drawing whereinPoints A, C, D, and E represent the following characteristics of the copolymer A, a copolymer having an acid number of 23 and a flow rate of 0.97 C, a copolymer having an acid number of 65 and a flow rate of 69 Point D, a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 69 and E, a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 0.97. 7. The composition of Claim 6 including a wax and a tackifier. 8. The composition of Claim 6 wherein the copolymer is an ionomer. 9. A method of bonding two substrates together which comprises applying to the surface of at least one first substrate, the composition of Claim 1 at a temperature ranging from 930 to 2320C, compressing to the first substrate in contact with the hot melt adhesive a second substrate and permitting the substrates to become bonded. 10. A method of bonding two substrates together which comprises applying to the surface of at least one first substrate, the composition of Claim 6 at a temperature ranging from 930 to 2320C, compressing to the first substrate in contact with the hot melt adhesive composition a second substrate and permitting the substrates to become bonded.

## Description
ADHESIVE ANDEMI1.1 COATING COMPOSITION Many normally solid heat activatable ethylene based interpolymers e.g., Co and terpolymers have been developed which are useful as hot melt adhesives and coatings. These include copolymers of ethylene vinyl acetate, ethylene acrylic acid, and ethylene methacrylic acid. These polymers are usually mixed with various waxes and tackifiers to form combinations which provide strong, tough adhesives and coatings which adhere to a variety of polar, nonpolar, porous and nonporous substrates.However, it has always been a problem in this art in providing a copolymer of ethylene and acrylic acid which not oniy functioned well as an adhesive and coating but also was compatible with a wide range of waxes and tackifiers employed to improve the adhesive and coating properties of the base ethylene acrylic acid resin. Applicants have discovered an ethylene acrylic acid copolymer which not only provides good hot melt adhesive properties, is good for coating various substrates, but also is compatible with a wide variety of waxes and tackifiers known in the art. This invention comprises a hot melt adhesive composition comprising a normally solid heat activatable ethylene acrylic acid or methacrylic acid copolymer characterised as falling within the boundries defined by the trapezoidal figure of the drawing wherein pointsA, B, C, D and E define the boundries.Point A represents a copolymer having an acid number hereinafter defined of 23 mg KORtg and a flow rate of 0.97 gm lO mini. Point B is a copolymer having an acid number of 93 and a flow rate of 69 gm lO min. Point C is a copolymer having an acid number of 65 and a flow rate of 69 gm lO min. Point D is a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 69 gm lO min. and Point E is a copolymer having an acid number of 8 and a flow rate of 0.97 gm lO min. The preferred copolymers are those falling within the boundries defined by Points A, C, D and E. Flow rate, as used herein, is determined byASTM Method D 1238 70, Procedure A, Condition A. As the flow rate of the copolymer is increased the acid number of the resin may also be increased. Thus, at an acid number of 8 to 23 the flow rate should be at a minimum of 0.97 while at an acid number of 93 the melt flow may range up to 69. Acid number, as employed herein, is determined by the method described in U.S. Patent No. 4,132,690 Column 3, line 53 through Column 4, line 16 . These compositions can be employed in such hot melt adhesive applications as, for example, in case sealing, bag making, tray forming, overlap paper laminations, book binding, disposable non wovens, fusable interfacing and interliners, composite tube assemblies, pallet stabilizations, and heat sealable labels and tapes. They can also be employed as protective coatings such as in paper board liquid containers and the like. The drawing depicts the region which characterizes the scope of the claimed invention in terms of flow rate and acid content of the copolymer as shown on a log log graph. The copolymers are those contained within the boundaries of the trapezoidal figure defined by Points A, B, C, D and E. The copolymer can be prepared in any convenient.manner. For example, it can be produced by polymerization techniques which produce a random copolymer of ethylene and acrylic methacrylic acid such as taught in U.S.Patent Nos. 4,351,931 and 3,520,861. The copolymer can also be produced by graft polymerization techniques such as taught in U.S. Patent No. 3,177,269. The copolymers may be treated to neutralize some or all of the acid group with a metal ion such as an alkali metal ion. The neutralized copolymers are referred to in the art as ionomers. The hot melt formulation can be mixed with a wide range of waxes nd tackifiers to provide a composition having good ccmpatibility. By good compatability it is meant that there is limited phase separation of the different constituents at a temperature of 220C to 232eC, preferably at 1200C to 2320C, for at least 24 hours and more preferably for at least 72 hours. This makes the composition useful in a wide range of applications where various specific characteristics are desired. Tackifiers are those materials which improve the adhesion properties of the compositions. Preferred are tackifiers based on hydrogenated rosin esters, rosin esters, dibasic acid rosin esters, hydrogenated rosen, terpefle hydrocarbons, terpene phenolics, aromatic hydrocarbons, aliphatic hydrocarbons. Examples of these materials are taught in U.S. Patent No. 4,018,733,Column 3, lines 23 68, and glycerol esters of fumaratemodified resin as described in U.S. Patent No. 3,787,346.The tackifier is used to promote adhesion or modify the viscosity of the composition. Normally the tackifier ranges from 0 to 80 percent by weight of the hot melt composition, preferably from 10 to 40 percent by weight. Various waxes are employed in hot melt adhesives primarily as diluents, viscosity modifiers and softening point modifiers. Petroleum waxes such as paraffins and microcrystalline waxes and synthetic waxes such as Fischer Tropsch wax, or polyethylene waxes described in U.S. Patent Nos. 2,504,400 2,683,141 and 2,712,534 are useful. For example, waxes based on polyethylene, oxidized polyethylene, paraffin, oxidized paraffin, oxidized hydrocarbons, and various synthetic waxes such as Polywax 655 a polyethylene wax from Barreco Allied 629 an oxidized polyethylene wax from Allied Chemical 180M a microcrystalline wax from Witco B120 an oxidized paraffin wax from Durachem Efton D Super an oxidized hydrocarbon wax from Durachem Cardipol LP a synthetic wax fromBarreco are useful.The wax is normally employed in an amount ranging from 0 to 80 percent, preferably from 10 to 40 percent by weight of the composition. Other additives such as pigments, fillers, and processing oils, can be included. The various additions can be blended with the copolymer in any suitable manner batch or continuous for example, by melt blending in a stirred vessel. The compositions of the present invention can be adhered to various substrates employing delivery systems such as extruders, gear pumps, piston pumps, handguns, and as a powder, through slot dies, nozzels single or multihead and various other methods. The adhesive compositions can be applied to a substrate at an elevated temperature, e.g., of about 900C, preferably from 930C to 2320C, most preferably at about 1770C. The composition provides good adhesion to substrates such as treated and untreated polyolefins, polyester films, paper, metallic substrates e.g., aluminum, steel, copper glass, cellophane, leather and nylon.Similar and dissimilar materials can be bonded together employing the composition of the present invention.The composition is used as an adhesive by applying sufficient heat to a layer of the composition and applying a second substrate or the composition can be. cooled and can be employed as a protective coating on nonporous and porous substrates, for example, on cake mix boxes, milk cartons, ice cream containers, margarine wrappers, food trays, paper and foil bags, disposable diapers and protective overwraps. When employed as a coating, a laminate is formed containing the solid substrate and a uniform layer of the composition.Example 1 Four different ethylene acrylic acid copolymers were prepared by a constant state, continuous free radical, random polymerization process as described inU.S. Patents 3,520,861 and 4,351,931. They differed in their physical properties, e.g., flow rate, acid number, and density. These properties were controlled by controlling the process conditions. For example, the flow rate was controlled by varying the temperature and pressure of the reaction. Various physical properties of the four copolymers were determined. These are reported in the following Table I. TABLE I ASTM Copolymer Properties Method A B C DAcrylic Acid 3.08. 3.49 9.45 5.84 X by weightFlow Rate D 1238 0.97 3.94 4.33 20.0 gm 10 minutes Condition AMelt Index D 1238 100 580 726 2600 gm 10 minutes Condition EDensity D 792 0.921 0.919 0.932 0.922 gm ccTensile Ultimate D 632 6.76 5.86 8.27 4.83MPaElongation D 638 365 175 525 150 2 Secant Modulus D 790 89.6 82.7 62.7 65.5MPaHardness Shore A D 2240 95 95 95 95Low Temperature D 746 330 230 200 200 Brittle Point, CIzod Impact D 256 22 20 15 500C J m notchVicat Softening D 1525 77.30 740 630 600 CRing Ball E 28 1160 1090 1010 Softening CBrookfield 85.2 43.0 23.4 6.95Viscosity Pa S 176.70C These can be cohverted to acid numbers by using known mathematical conversion factors. Calculated approximate melt indexes ASTM D 1238 Condition E 1900C under 2160 grams total load . Example 2 The adhesive properties of Resins A, B and C described in Example 1 were determined by applying approximately a 4.7 mm bead of hot melt adhesive formulation onto various substrates using a Meltex brand hot melt gun and a rotating table. By varying the speed of rotation of the table, air pressure employed to discharge the adhesive and orifice size of the hot melt gun, a relatively constant bead weight bead size was applied at an operating temperature of 4000F 2040C . Immediately following the application of the bead to one substrate, a second substrate of the same material as the first was laminated to the first using a 440 gram weight. The force required to pull the two substrates apart was then determined employing an Instron TensileTester Model 1123 after a period of 24 hours. The type of substrate employed and the results of these tests are set forth in the following Table II. TABLE II Peel Strength newton meter width Substrate Resin A Resin B Resin C Kraft Paper 354 427 429 74 g m2 Aluminum Foil 138 245 278 0.051 mm Nylon1 28 53 194 0.025 mm LDPE2 275 263 256 0.037 mm The substrate failed before the adhesive 1 Pylon commercial Nylon 6 purchased from Allied Chemical.2 LDPE a 2 melt index homopolymer of polyethylene having a density of 0.922.Example 3 Tests were conducted by preparing samples using the hot melt gun described in Example 2. The adhesive was extruded from the nozzle onto one end of the substrate, then the end of another substrate was pressed onto the adhesive. Samples were then tested on an Instron Tensile Tester Model 1123 equipped with an environment chamber. The area of the adhered portion was measured and the lap shear strength was calculated for each sample. The substrate consisted of 2.5 cm wide birch 3.2 mm thick wood. The resins consisted of Resins A, B and C as reported in Example 1. The results are set forth in Table III. TABLE IIITemperature at Which Lap Shear Adhesion kPa Test Was Conducted Resin A Resin B Resin C 720F 220C 807 1130 1960 1500F 65.60C 420 430 630Example 4 The compatibility of resins A, B and C as reported in Example 1 with various commercially available tackifiers and waxes was determined by observation of phase separation and increase in viscosity, if any.The tests were conducted by placing a 50 50 weight ratio of resin and wax and or tackifier in a forced air oven at 350at 176,7at . The samples were allowed to sit in the oven for 1 1.5 hours and then stirred. They were then allowed to sit in the oven for a period of 12 to 18 hours. The samples were then examined for phase separation i.e., separation into two or more layers .Using a glass stirring rod, the viscosity of the hot mixture was examined visually and physically for any significant increase or decrease in viscosity over the sample as originally mixed and stirred after a period of 1 to 1.5 hours. Those mixtures where phase separation occurred or those which thickened significantly, were determined to be incompatible. It was found that the resins were compatible with the following materials. TABLE IV Tackifiers WaxesRosin Esters Hydrogenated Polyethylene Polywax 655 6 Foral 85 1 Epolene C 16 7 Staybellite Ester 10 1 Epolene D 43 7 Staybellite Ester 5 1 Epolene N 10 7 Foral 105 1 Staybellite 1 Rosin Esters Oxidized Polyethylene Pentalyn 344 1 Vestowax AW 1050 8 Vestowax AO 1699 8 Vestowax AS 1551 8 629 10 655 10 316 10 Polywax E 2020 6 Rosin Esters Dibasic Acid Cellolyn 21 1 Ro sin Hydro genated Microcrystalline Pexalyn A600 1 Amber Ultraflex 6 Pexalyn A500 1 Victory 6 Starwax 100 6 Be Square 195 6 Fortex 6 180 M 9 Terpene Hydrocarbons Paraffin Wingtack 95 4 140 45 11 Zonatac 105 3 Piccolyte A125 1 Piccolyte. 5125 1 Terpene Phenolic Oxidized Paraffin Piccofyn A135 1 Durachem B120 8 Aromatic Hydrocarbons Oxidized Hydrocarbon Cumar P 25 2 Duroxon R 21 8 Efton D Super 8 TABLE IV Continued Tackifiers Waxes Aliphatic Rydrocarbons Synthetic Waxes Escorez 1310 5 Escorez 2101 5 Cardis 319 6 Petrolite C 7500 6 Petrolite C 400 6 Cardipol LP 6 1 Rerculer 2 Neville 3 Arizona 4 Goodyear 5 Exxon 6 Barreco 7 Eastman 8 Durachem 9 Witco 10 Allied 11 National Wax