# Thienobenzazepine derivatives, processes for their production and pharmaceutical compositions containing them.

## Abstract
Thienabenzosepines of formula I, A is a radical of formula AI or AII

## Claims
WHAT WE CLAIM IS 1. A compound of formula I,EMI11.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acylated by an alkanoyl group of 2 to 18 carbon atoms or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, and A is a radical of formula Al or AII EMI12.1 wherein R3 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoro methylthio, trifluoromethylsulfinyl, trifluoromethylsulfonyl or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 car bon atoms, R4 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 car bon atoms, with the proviso that one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other of R3 and R4 is other than hydrogen, and R5 is halogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 car .. bon atoms or an acid addition salt thereof. 2. A process for the production of a compound of formula I, as defined in claim 1, which comprises reacting a compound of formula II,EMI12.2 wherein R1 and A are as defined in claim 1 and X is a leaving group, with a compound of formula III,EMI13.1 wherein R2 is as defined in claim 1. 3. A compound of claim 1, wherein A is a radical of formula Al, R is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acetylated or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, R3 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms or halogen and R4 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms with the proviso of claim 1. 4. A compound of claim 3, wherein R1 is hydrogen or chlorine or fluorine in the 7 position, R2 is methyl, R3 is hydrogen or methyl or chlorine, R4 is hydrogen or methyl with the proviso of claim 1. 5. A compound of claim 1, wherein A is a radical of formula AII, R1 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl, alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, in position a or b, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acetylated or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms and R5 is halogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms. 6. A compound of claim 1, which is 2 methyl 4 4 inethyl l piperazinyl 10H thieno 3,20 l benzazepine. 7. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of claim 1 in free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form in association with a pharmaceutical carrier or diluent.

## Description
THIENOBENZAZEPINE DERIVATIVES, PRCCESSES FOR THEIR PRODUCTION AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING THEM The present invention relates to thienobenzazepines, processes for their production and pharmaceutical compositions containing them. The present invention provides compounds of formula I,EMI1.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluorom..ethyl or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkyisulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acylated by an alkanoyl group of 2 to 18 carbon atoms or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, andA is a radical of formula AI or AII EMI2.1 wherein R3 is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoro methylthio, trifluorornethylsulfinyl, trifluorornethylsulfonyl or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylsulfinyl or alkylsulfonyl, each of 1 to 4 car bon atoms, R4 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 car bon atoms, with the proviso that one of R3 and R4 is hydrogen and the other of R3 and R4 is other than hydrogen, and R5 is halogen or alkyl of 1 to 4 car bon atoms. Halogen means fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine, preferably fluorine or chlorine, especially chlorine. Any alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio radical of 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferably of 1 to 2 carbon atoms.Hydroxyalkyl has preferably 2 or 3 carbon atoms. Preferably the hydroxy group is attached to a carbon atom other than the carbon atom adjacent to the nitrogen atom. The alkoxy moiety in alkoxyalkyl is preferably located in the terminal position of the alkylene chain which preferably has 2 or 3, especially 2 carbon atoms.The alkoxy radical in alkoxyalkyl is preferably methoxy.The alkanoyl group has preferably 2 to 4 carbon atoms, especially 2 carbon atoms. R1 is preferably hydrogen or halogen in the ring positions marked a and b. R2 is preferably alkyl. R3 is preferably alkyl, halogen or alkylthio. R4 is preferably hydrogen. R5 is preferably halogen. The present invention also provides a process for the production of a compound of formula I as defined above, which comprises reacting a compound of formula II,EMI3.1 wherein R1 and A are as defined above and X is a leaving group, with a compound of formula III,EMI4.1 wherein R2 is as defined above. The reaction may be effected in conventional manner for the production of similar thienobenzazepines. X is preferably chlorine. The process may be conveniently effected at a temperature of from 500 to 1700 C in an inert organic solvent such as xylene or dioxane. The starting material of formula II may be prepared in known manner, e.g, as described herein, for example via the corresponding lactam, e.g. by reaction with phosphoroxychloride. Free base forms of the compounds of formula I may be converted into acid addition salt forms in conventional manner and vice versa. Suitable acids are hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid and methanesulphonic acid. Insofar as the production of starting materials is not particularly described these compounds are known or may be produced in analogous manner to known compounds. In the following Examples the temperatures given are in degrees Centigrade and are uncorrected. Example 1 2 Methyl 4 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl lOH thieno 3,2 c 1 benzazepine A AI 10 g of 2 methyl 4,5 dihydro 10H thieno 3,2 c l benzazepin 4 one, 70 ml of phosphoroxychloride and 3 ml of N,N dimethylaniline are boiled for 3 hours. The resulting solution of the imidochloride of the lactam is evaporated to dryness and the residue evaporated twice more after the addition of xylene. The residue is then boiled for 4 hours with 10 ml of dioxane and 40 ml of N methylpiperazine. The resulting mixture is evaporated to dryness. The residue is treated with ice water and ammonia and extracted with ether. The etcher phase is washed twice with water and treated with 1N acetic acid.The acetic acid phase is made alkaline with concentrated ammonia and extracted with ether.The ether phase is washed with water dried over anhydrouc sodium sulphate and evaporated. The residue is crystallized from ether petrolether to give the title compound, m.p. 138 1400. The starting material 2 methyl 4 ,5 dihydro lOH thieno 3,2 c 1 benzazepin 4 one may be obtained as follows 20 g of 2 2 isocyanato benzyl 5 methylthio phene and 200 g polyphosphoric acid are heated or 1 hour at 1100. The reaction mixture is then under cooling made alkaline with concentrated ammonia. The resulting solid is filtered, washed with water and treated with charcoal acetone. M.p. 218 221 . In analogous manner to that described in Example 1, the following compounds of formula I may be obtained, wherein A is AI Example R1 R2 R3 R4 m. p. 2 7 F CH3 CH3 H 160 162 3 7 C1 CH3 CH3 H 164 166 4 7 C1 CH3 H CH3 204 206 5 7 F CH3 H CH3 102 105 6 7 F CH3 Cl H 142 145 7 7 C1 CH3 Cl H 182 185 8 H H CH3 H 167 170 9 H H Cl H 148 150 10 H CH3 Cl H 137 139 11 H H H CH3 172 176 12 H CH3 H CH3 146 148 13 H CH2CH2OH CH3 H 119 122 14 H CH3 C2H5 H 121 124 15 H CH3 SCH3 H 107 110 16 7 C1 CH3 SCH3 H 17 H CH3 SO2CH3 H .214 217 18 H CH3 i C3H7 H 19 H CH3 Br H 20 7 C1 CH3 i C3H7 H In analogous manner to that described in Example 1, the following compounds of formula I may be obtained wherein A is AII Example R1 RZ R5 m. p. 21 H CH3 CH3 109 112 22 7 C1 CH3 CH3 158 160 23 7 F CH3 CH3 144 146 24 H H CH3 124 129 25 H CH3 C1 121 123 26 7 C1 CH3 C1 27 7 F CH3 C1 The compounds of formula I exhibit pharmacological activity. In particular, they exhibit sedative, antipsychotic and neuroleptic activity, as indicated in standard tests. For example, in one standard test an inhibition of spontaneous motility is observed in mice on p.o. administration of from 0.1 to 5 mg kg animal body weight of the compounds in accordance with the principles of Caviezel and Baillod Pharm.Acta Helv. 158 , 33, 465 484 . Additionally, the compounds on administration od from 0.01 to 30 mg kg i.p. to mice inhibit the hyper mobility induced by 4, dimethyl m tyramine in a test carried out according to the principles of J.B. Lassen,Psychopharmacologia 37, 331 340 1974 . The compounds are therefore indicated for use as sedative, antipsychotic and or neuroleptic agents. As sedatives and or neuroleptics an indicated daily dose is from about 5 to about 100 mg, conveniently administered in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form containing from about 1 to about 50 mg, or in sustained release form. As antipsychotics an indicated daily dose is from about 5 to about 500 mg and dosage forms may contain from about 1 to about 250 mg. Additionally, the compounds exhibit muscle relaxing activity as indicated in standard tests, e.g. in rabbits on i.v. administration of from 0.001 to 0.1 mg kg animal body weight a significant muscle relaxing effect is observed in accordance with the method of Teschendorf et al., Arch.Exp.Pharmacol. 266, 467 468 1970 and an inhibition of the rigor induced by Thalamonal is observed in rats on i.v. administration of from about 0.001 to about 5 mg kg, The compounds are therefore further indicated for use as muscle relaxants. For this use an indicated daily dose is from about 5 mg to about 100 mg, conveniently given in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day in unit dosage form containing from about 1.25 to about 50 mg or in sustained release form. The compounds of formula I, especially those wherein R2 is hydrogen, exhibit anti depressant activity as indicated in standard tests, e.g. an inhibition of tetrabenazine induced catalepsy and ptosis in rats on intraperitoneal administration of from 5 to 15 mg kg animal body weight in accordance with the method described byStille Arzneimittel Forsch. 1964, 14, 534 . The compounds are therefore indicated for use as anti depressant agents. For this use an indicated daily dose is from about 5 to about 500 mg, conveniently administered in divided doses 2 to 4 times a day, in unit dosage form containing from about 2 to about 250 mg or in sustained release form. The compounds of formula I may be administered in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form. Such acid addition salt forms exhibit the same order of activity as the free base forms. The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I, in free base form or in pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt form, in association with a pharmaceutical carrier or diluent.Such compositions may be in the form oft for example, a solution or a tablet. The preferred compounds are those of Examples 1, 3, 10, 21 and 22. The preferred utility is the neuroleptic utility. In one group of compounds A is a radical of formula Al, R1 is hydrogen, halogen, alkyl, alkoxy or alkyl thio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acetylated or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms, R3 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms or halogen and R4 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms,.subject to the proviso above. Conveniently R1 is hydrogen or chlorine or fluorine in the 7 p6sition, R2 is methyl, R3 is hydrogen or methyl or chlorine, R4 is hydrogen or methylwsubject to the proviso above. In another group of compounds A is a radical of formula AII. Ri is hydrogen, halogen, trifluoromethyl, alkyl, alkoxy or alkylthio, each of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, in position a or b, R2 is hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, hydroxyalkyl with a maximum of 4 carbon atoms, which may be acetylated or alkoxyalkyl with a maximum of 6 carbon atoms and R5 is halogen or alkyl of 1 to 3 carbon atoms.