# Dental composite and porcelain repair.

## Abstract
A filled resin composition useful for porcelain repair and as a dental composite and therefore made up of non toxic materials and a method for repairing porcelain or teeth. The composition comprises a methacrylate functional resin us able in dental composites, powdered filler colorant therein, at least one photoinitiator for the resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5,000 foot candles, the photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 1,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for the resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about one half hour of any portion of the resin not receiving sufficient light to effectuate complete cure before then. The method comprises mixing the components together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions, emplacing the mixture within a few minutes of the mixing, and curing at least a substantial portion of the emplaced mixture in situ for one half minute under intense visual light illumination of at least 5000 foot candles. Any resin then uncured by light is cured within the next half hour by the peroxide curing agent.

## Claims
1. A filled resin composition useful for porcelain repair and as a dental composite and therefore made up of non toxic materials, comprising a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, powdered filler colorant therein, at least one photoinitiator for said resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5,000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said. resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about an hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light to effectuate complete cure before then. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein said photoinitiator is 2,3 bornanedione with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate. 3. The composition of claim 1 wherein said photoinitiator is 2,3 bornanedione with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate. 4. The composition of claim 1 wherein said photoinitiator is benzil with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate. 5. The composition of claim 1 wherein said photoinitiator is benzil with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate. 6. A two part system for making a filled methacrylate functional resin composition by mixture of the two parts, comprising first part dental type filler powder with an accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin, second part dental type methacrylate functional resin with photoinitiator therefor, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it within about half a minute after the first part and second parts are mixed and then exposed during cure to at least 5,000 foot candles visible light, said peroxide curing agent being present in an amount effective to complete cure of any resin portion not sufficiently exposed to said light within about an hour. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the first part is in the form of a powder. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the second part is in the form of a liquid. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the powder to liquid weight ratio is from about 1 1 to about 4 1. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein the second part is in the form of a gel and also contains some filler. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the powder gel weight ratio is from about 1 20 to about 3 1. 12. The system of claim 6 wherein both the first and second parts are in paste form, both containing substantial amounts of filler. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the first and second parts are so formulated to enable mixture of equal parts by weight at the time of use. 14. A porcelain repair and dental composite composition of matter consisting essentially of a powder component consisting essentially by weight of Dental filler colorant material 99.85 to 97.7 Gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane 0.10 to 1.55 Peroxide curing agent 0.05 to 0.70 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.05 and a liquid component consisting essentially, by weight of a methacrylate functional resin suitable for use in dental composites 99.3 to 82 exciplex forming photoinitiator for said resin 0.7 to 18 said photoinitiator an exciplex of either 1 2,3bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, and said powder and resin being mixed together in a weight ratio between 1 1 and 4 1 of powder to liquid. 15. The porcelain repair and dental composite composition of matter of claim 14 wherein said filler colorant consists essentially by weight of ingredients totaling as in claim 14 and selected from the group consisting of Barium glass 0 to 30 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 99. 85t Flint silica 0 to 10 Borosilicate glass 0 to 99.85 Fumed synthetic silica 08 to 99.858 Quartz 0 to 99.858 Custer feldspar 0 to 10 said powder component also. including, in addition to the silane, the peroxide curing agent, and the glacial acetic acid Titanium dioxide 08 to 0.15 Metal salts 08 to 5.00 said methacrylate functional resin totaling as in claim 14 and consisting essentially by weight of ingredients Bis GMA 08 to 808 Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 99 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 08 to 60 Di ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 08 to 60 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 08 to 608 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate 08 to 60 Exciplex forming photoinitiator 0.78 to 188 16. The composition or system of anyone of claims 1, 6, and 14 wherein said peroxide curing agent is benzoyl peroxide. 17. A porcelain repair and dental composite restorative material consisting essentially of a a powder component,consisting essentially of a powdered dental filler colorant, with a powdered peroxide curing agent in an amount between 0. 05 and 1 by weight of said powder component, and b a liquid component, consisting essentially of 1 a methacrylate functional resin suitable for use in dental composites in an amount of 84 96 by weight of said liquid component, and 2 a photoinitiator for said resin consist ing of an exciplex incorporating as one ingredient either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate in an amount of about 0.7 to 108 by weight of said liquid component, the other ingredient being either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and present in an amount of 0.01 8 , by weight of said liquid component, for a total photoiniti ator amount by weight of said liquid component of about 0.7 to 18 , said powder and liquid components being mixed together just before use in a weight ratio of from 2 1 to 3 1 2 powder to liquid. 18. The restorative material of claim 17, wherein said powder component, by weight of said powder component contains Barium glass 23 30 Lithium aluminum silicate 54 70 Flint silica 1 70 for a total filler content of about 97 1 2 to 99.85 . 19. 19. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said powder component also contains glacial acetic acid and gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane. 20. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said glacial acetic acid is present in an amount of about 0.001 0.05 , by weight of said powder component, and said silane is present in an amount of about 1 10 of 1 to about 1 1 2 by weight of said powder component. 21. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said resin is ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate in an amount of about 82 to 99.38 by weight of said liquid component. 22. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said resin is a mixture, by weight of said liquid component, of about 60 848 ethoxylated bisphenol Adimethacrylate and about 40 16 triethylene glycol dimethacrylate. 23. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said resin is a mixture, by weight of said liquid component, of about 55 Bis GMA and about 36 of triethanol glycol dimethacrylate. 24. The restorative material of claim 17 employing 2,3 bornanedione in amounts by weight of said liquid component of 0.02 0.28. 25. The restorative material of claim 17 wherein said liquid component also includes BHT in an amount of about 0.02 by weight of said liquid component. 26. A two paste system for porcelain and dental restoration, said pastes being mixed together at the time of use in substantially equal amounts by weight, both pastes containing methacrylate functional resin suitable for use in dental components and dental filler material an an amount totaling over 95 thereof by weight of each paste, one said paste containing a peroxide curing agent for said resin in an amount of about 0.1 to 1.08 by weight of that paste, the other said paste containing an exciplex visible light reactive photoinitiator for said resin in an amount of about 1 to 3.5 by weight of that paste, said exciplex being a mixture of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate. 27. The system of claim 26 in which each paste also contains gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane in an amount of about 0.05 to 1.2 by weight of each paste. 28. The system of claim 26 in which at least one of the pastes also contains glacial acetic acid in an amount of at least 0.0015 by weight of that paste. 29. The system of claim 26 wherein said resin is ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate. 30. The system of claim 26 wherein said resin is present in the peroxide containing paste in an amount of about 14 40 and is present in the exciplex containing paste in an amount of 14 368. 31. The system of claim 26 wherein said filler is chosen from a the group consisting of strontium glass and a mixture of barium glass with lithium aluminum silicate, and also includes fumed silica. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein the filler comprises, by weight of each paste about 18 of fumed silica and about 80 of strontium glass. 33. The system of claim 31 wherein the filler comprises, by weight of each paste, about 1 of fumed silica, about 23 25 of barium glass, and about 54 58 of lithium aluminum silicate. 34. A paste powder system for use in dental and porcelain restoration, the paste and powder being mixed at the time of use at a ratio of paste to powder of about 10 1 to 20 1, said paste comprising the mixture of methacrylatefunctional dental resin and powdered dental filler in a total amount of about 96 998 by weight of the paste and having an exciplex, visual light reactive photoinitiator, said powder consisting essentially of a dental filler and a peroxide curing agent for the resin in an amount of about 0.3 98 of the powder, said exciplex being made up of a 2,3 bornanedione in an amount of about 0.03 to 0.06 by weight of said paste and, b either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate in an amount of about 0.75 to 3.25 by weight of said paste. 35. The system of any of claims 1, 6, 17 and 34 wherein said resin is selected from the group consisting of ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate, bis GMA a mixture thereof with an ethylene glycol dimethacrylate, and a mixture of bis GMA with an ethylene glycol dimethacrylate. 36. The system of claim 34 wherein the resin is from 16 64 ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate, by weight of said paste. 37. The system of claim 34 wherein the resin is a mixture of about 13 ethoxylated bisphenol Adimethacrylate and about 3 1 4 of triethylene glycol dimethacrylate, both by weight of said resin. 38. The system of claim 34 wherein the resin is a mixture of about 10 bis GMA and about 6 1 28 triethylene glycol dimethacrylate, both by weight of said resin. 39. The system of claim 34 wherein at least the powder contains gamma methacrylox.y propyl trimethoxy silane, in an amount of about 1.25 to 5.25 by weight of its component. 40. The system of claim 34 wherein at least the powder contains glacial acetic acid in an amount of about 0.02 to 0.2 by weight of its component. 41. A gel powder system for use in dental and porcelain restoration, the gel and powder being mixed at the time of use for cure by visible light, in a ratio of about 20 1 to 1 3 of gel to powder, the gel consisting essentially of about 3 4 methacrylate functional dental resin and about 1 4 dental filler to a total amount of about 93 98 by weight of said gel and an exciplex, visible light reactive photoiniti ator having two ingredients, one of which is either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, said powder consisting essentially of a dental filler and an accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an amount of about 0.1 10 by weight of said powder, said exciplex being made up of a 2,3 bornanedione in an amount of about 0.005 to 0.15 by weight of said gel and, L either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate in an amount of about 2.0 to 8 by weight of said gel. 42. The system of claim 41 wherein said resin is ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate. 43. The system or material of claim 17 or claim 41 wherein said filler for the powder component is selected from the group consisting of barium glass, strontium glass, lithium aluminum silicate, flint silica and mixtures of the members of this group with each others. 44. The system or material of claim 41 wherein said filler for the powder component is a mixture of barium glass, lithium aluminum silicate and flint silica. 45. The system of claim 41 wherein said filler for the powder component contains, by weight of the powder, 26 308 barium glass, 62 70 lithium aluminum silicate and 1 10 flint silica. 46. The system of claim 34 or claim 41 wherein said filler for the gel component is fumed silica. 47. The system of claim 34 or claim 41 wherein said filler for the gel componen t is a mixture of barium glass and lithium aluminum silicate. 48. The system of claim 41 wherein said filler for the gel component comprises, by weight of the gel, about 2 5 barium glass, about 5 10 lithium aluminum silicate and about 7 10 fumed silica. 49. The system of claim 41 wherein at least the powder component contains gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane, in an amount of about 0.05 to 2.0 by weight of its component. 50. The system of claim 41 wherein at least the powder component contains glacial acetic acid, in an amount of about 0.01 to 0.05 by weight of its component. 51. A method for repairing porcelain or teeth, comprising mixing together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions, a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, powdered dental filler colorant, at least one photo initiator for said resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about an hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light to effect complete cure before then, emplacing the mixture within a few minutes of the mixing, and curing at least a substantial portion of the emplaced mixture in situ for one half minute under intense visual light illumination of at least 5000 foot candles, any resin then uncured by light being cured within about another hour by said peroxide curing agent. 52. The method of claim 51 wherein the resin is at least one resin chosen from the group consisting of ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate, bis GMA, and an adduct of 2,2 propane bis 3 4 phenoxy 1, 2 hydroxy propane l methacrylate and moflo or di isocyanate. 53. A method for preparing a storable filled resin composition useful for porcelain repair and as a dental composite, comprising mixing a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites with at least one photo initiator for said resin, in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, storing the resin photoinitiator mixture in an opaque container, coating a powdered dental filler colorant with at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an effective amount substantially less than stoichiometric, and sufficient to effect completion of polymerization within about an hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light during said half a minute, storing said filler colorant and peroxide mixture, and at the time of use, mixing said resinphotoinitiator mixture with said peroxide coated fillercolor ant under ordinary indoor illumination. 54. A method for repairing porcelain or teeth, comprising preparing under ordinary indoor lighting conditions, a liquid mixture consisting essentially of a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, and at least one photoinitiator for said resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, preparing under ordinary indoor lighting conditions a powdered mixture of powdered dental filler colorant and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about an hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light to effect complete cure before then, mixing said powder mixture and said liquid mixture together under ordinary. indoor lighting conditions in a powder to liquid ratios of about 1 1 to 4 1 just prior to use to provide a repair mixture, emplacing the repair mixture within a few minutes of the mixing, and curing at least a substantial portion of the emplaced mixture in situ for one half minute under intense visual light illumination of at least 5000 foot candles, any resin then uncured by light being cured within the next half hour by said peroxide curing agent. 55. The method of claim 54 wherein said exciplex constitutes about 0.78 to about 18 by weight of said liquid mixture and said peroxide constitutes about 0.1 to about 0 8 of said powder mixture. 56. The method of claim 54 having the step in between preparing and mixing of storing said powder in a container and of storing said liquid in an opaque container. 57. A method for repairing porcelain or teeth, comprising providing under ordinary indoor lighting conditions first paste consisting essentially of a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, a powdered dental filler colorant, and at least one photoinitiator for said resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 either 2,3 bornanedione or benzil and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2dimethyl amino benzoate, providing a under ordinary indoor lighting conditions. second paste consisting essentially of a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, a powdered dental filler colorant, and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about an hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light to effective complete cure before then, mixing under ordinary indoor lighting conditions said first and second pastes in approximately the same amount of each, to form a paste mixture, emplacing the paste mixture within a few minutes of the mixing, and curing at least a substantial portion of the emplaced mixture in situ for one half minute under intense visual light illumination of at least 5000 foot candles, any resin then uncured by light being cured within about an hour thereafter by said peroxide curing agent. 58. The method of claim 57 wherein said first paste, at least, is prepared long in advance and comprising the step of storing said first paste in an opaque container until said mixing step. 59. The method of claim 57 in which said exciplex constitutes about 1 to 4 by weight of said first paste and said peroxide constitutes about 0.1 to 1.0 by weight of said second paste. 60. A method for repairing porcelain or teeth, comprising mixing together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions a paste consisting essentially of a methacrylate functional resin usable in dental composites, powdered dental filler colorant, at least one photoinitiator for said resin in an amount sufficient to initiate polymerization and complete it in depth within about half a minute when exposed to a visible light output of at least 5000 foot candles, said photoinitiator being an exciplex of 1 an aromatic ketone or acetal and 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, mixing together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions a powder consisting essentially of a powdered dental filler colorant and at least one accelerator free peroxide curing agent for said resin in an effective amount for completing polymerization within about one half hour of any portion of said resin not receiving sufficient light to effective complete cure before then, mixing together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions, immediately before used, said paste and said powder in a ratio of paste to powder of about 20 1 to 10 1, to form a thick paste, emplacing the thick paste within a few minutes of the mixing, and curing at least a substantial portion of the emplaced mixture in situ for one half minute under intense visual light illumination of at least 5000 foot candles, any resin then uncured by light being cured within about an hour thereafter by said peroxide curing agent. 61. The method of any of claims 51, 53, 54, 57, or 60 wherein said peroxide curing agent is benzoyl peroxide. 62. The method of claim 60 wherein said mixing of said paste is done well in advance of use including the step of storing said paste in an opaque container prior to said mixing of the powder with the pad. 63. The method of claim 60 wherein said exciplex constitutes about 0 7 to 4 of said paste and said peroxide constitutes about 0.3 to about 10 of said powder. 64. A method for repairing porcelain or teeth, comprising mixing together under ordinary indoor lighting conditions, a gel consisting essentially of about 3 4 methacrylate functional dental resin and about 1 4 dental filler to a total amount of about 93 to 97 1 2 by weight of the gel and an exciplex, visible light reactive photoinitiator having two ingredients, one of which is either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate, in a total amount of about 2 to 88 by weight of the gel, with a powder consisting essentially of a filler and an accelerator free peroxide curing agent for the resin in an amount of about 0.1 5 by weight of the powder, in a ratio of about 20 1 to 1 3 of gel to powder. 65. The method of claim 64 wherein the resin is ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate. 66. The method of claim 64 wherein the filler for the gel component is fumed silica. 67. The method of claim 64 wherein the filler for the gel component comprises, by weight of the gel, about 2 58 barium glass, about 5 10 lithium aluminum silicate and about 7 10 fumed silica. 68. The method of claim 64 wherein the exciplex is made up of a either 2,3 bornanedione or 2 isopropyl thioxanthone in an amount of about 0.005 to 0.15 by weight of the gel and, b either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate in an amount of about 2.0 to 7.5 by weight of the gel. 69. The method of claim 64 wherein the filler for the powder component is selected from the group consisting of barium glass, lithium aluminum silicate, flint silica and mixtures of the members of this group with each other. 70. The method of claim 64 wherein the filler for the powder component contains, by weight of the powder, 16 30 barium glass, 62 70 lithium aluminum silicate and 1 10 flint silica.

## Description
DENTAL COMPOSITE AND PORCELAIN REPAIR SPECIFICATION This invention relates to dental composites and porcelain repair material and to methods for making them.Background of the Invention Over the years many dental composites have been introduced, each composite possessing certain physical properties. However, substantially all of these dental composites can be categorized into two main groups, selfcured materials and light cured materials. The self cured composites have involved free radical polymerization initiated by benzoyl peroxide or another suitable peroxide and accelerated, typically by a tertiary amine such as N,N,dimethyl p toluidine. The curing agents must be stored sepatately from. the resin they are to cure, and they are mixed together just before use. The light cured composites have involved free radical polymerization initiated by the photoexcitation of light sensitive compounds by ultraviolet or visible light.They are single component systems, typically pastes, stored in opaque containers until the time of cure. Some of the photoinitiators that have been employed are the benzoin ethers, benzil ketals, dialkoxyacetophenones, benzophenones, thioxanthones, and hydroxyalkylphenones. In the practice of dentistry, some tooth repairs have been better achieved by self cured composites and some have been better achieved by light cured composites.While many factors have helped to determine whether a dentist would or should choose a self cured material or a light cured material, the prime factors have been working time, setting time, and the architecture of the cavity preparation. The light cured composites, combined with special high lumen lighting units employing fiber optics, have offered variable working times and fast snap sets.Setting can take between ten and forty seconds in many instances. However, the use of light cured composites has been limited by the depth of the repair and the ease of light penetration. Relatively unobstructed, clean, shallow repair surfaces have been required. Visible light cured materials have helped in solving some of the limitations caused by repair depth, by roughly doubling the depths at which cure is effective as compared to ultra violet lightcured material. Also, many dentists have felt more comfortable using a visible, as opposed to an ultraviolet, activating light source. The amount of cure is variable and is a function of exposure to lumens of visible light. These facts result in extremely dangerous situations in many dental restorations because most dentists do not realize this deficiency, because light cured systems are advertised to be able to be cured through tooth structure. In reality, the situation is, at best, a gradient level of cure obtained in relation to the amount of lumens of light energy available to the restorative resin. That is to say, layers close to the light source undergo greater percent polymerization than the underlying layers. Consequently, the incompletely polymerized restoration may wash out, leak, or fail in adhesion.Yet thesurface or bulk of the restoration may appear clinically adequate, even though new secondary decay may be beginning, and, because of its concealment, result in death of the pulp or loss of the tooth. When a light cured resin liner is used with a light cured paste composite at a depth of around 3 mm. or greater, the resin liner may not cure because of insufficient light reaching the resin. Uncured resin liner can cause leaching, pulpal irritation, and loss of adhesion. Heretofore, the resin liner had, therefore, to be polymerized prior to placement of the composite. With this invention, such double cure is unnecessary. Self cured systems have offered assurance of polymerization throughout the polymer mass used in any repair surface architecture. However, their use has been limited by manufacturer de termined work times and set times. The peroxide and the accelerator could be adjusted to give widely varying setting times the quicker the set time, the quicker the placement had to be made. Thus, in order to give enough time for accurate placement, the set times had to be longer than were desirable. Generally, set times have been at least two or three minutes after mix, and placement has had to be completed within forty five seconds after mix. This had made dentists work somewhat faster than was desirable for many placements, and even then the patient had to be immobilized longer than was desirable before the composition set. This invention overcomes the deficiencies of light cured systems, while preserving their functional benefits. It also overcomes the deficiencies of the selfcured systems by enabling quicker set times coupled with longer placement times, if desired. The system of this invention thus offers the best properties of both types of curing systems without suffering from the limitations of either, and therefore it significantly advances the practiceof dentistry and the science of dental materials. The system of the present invention can be in a powder liquid, paste paste, paste powder, or gel powder form, so that there is no loss in versatility of possible embodiments. Similar problems occur with porcelain repair systems in general, not only in dental uses, but for repairing such porcelain articles as bathtubs, and the invention solves these problems also. Summary of the Invention This invention comprises a composite system combining a small amount of peroxide curing agent, free from accelerator, with certain photoinitiator systems called exciplexes. A two component system is required, with mixture just before use. Conveniently, the resin and its exciplex members can be stored in opaque preferably black containers as one component, with or without some of the filler. The peroxide is stored in a separate component, including much or all of the filler colorant, in a container which need not be opaque. The two components are mixed just prior to application, and there is a wide latitude of mixing time, because no accelerator is used.The curing effect of the peroxide in the resin is quite slow, while the exposure of the resin and photoinitiator exciplex members in ordinary light whether daylight or artificial light will not result in substantial curing. The time for placement is not critical, because neither the photoinitiator exciplex nor the peroxide causes quick curing at this stage. After placement, a high lumen light source is used with a fiberoptics bundle to effect rapid cure typically, ten to forty seconds down to a substantial depth. If the cavity being filled is deeper than that depth, or if some of the placed material has been shaded from the light or not adequately illuminated, the light alone does not effect sufficient cure. However, the cured deposit covering the uncured material holds the uncured material in place, and the peroxide has been found to effect cure of the uncured material in about an hour, and usually in about half that long. To explain exciplexes as in photoinitiator systems generally, absorption of light by the ketone group of some photoinitiators. results in promotion of the photoinitiator to a chemically reactive excited state alpha cleavage results, and free radicals are formed. In the case of appropriate donor acceptor systems, interaction between an electronically excited molecule ani a ground state molecule of another type may form ar excited state complex, termed an exciplex . Roffey, C.G., Photopolymerization of Surface Coatings, p. 70, JohrWiley and Sons, Ltd., New York, 1982. The incorporation of a suitable peroxide1 preferably benzoyl peroxide, with the photoinitiate composite system has a synergistic effect on the freeradical polymerization, resulting in uniform cure without iimitation after exposure to the activating light source.The peroxide content is preferably about 0.05 to about 0.3 of the total composition. The exciplex photoinitiators of this invention are a combination of 1 either. 2,3 bornanedione or benzil anc 2 either ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate or ethyl 2dimethyl amino benzoate. The amount should be enough tc initiate polymerization in the selected resin and complete it in depth within about half a minute when the filledresin composition is exposed to a visible light output of at least 5,000 foot candles. The peroxide should bs present in amount sufficient to complete, within about an hour, the resin s polymerization, where it is not completed by the photoinitiator derived action, as where the light never reaches the resin in the needed amount. Thus, suitable photoinitiators for this invention are the following exciplex forming photoinitiators 2,3 Bornanedione with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate 2,3 Bornanedione with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate Benzil with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate Benzil with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate. There are, of course, many other compounds capable of photoinitiation. Many of these are taught in U.S.4,222,835, to Dixon. However, Dixon s formulations were intended for industrial fabrication, whereas the present invention involves formulations which can be left in the h umanmouth for many years. Consequently, compounds which are known or are suspected to be toxic, carcinogenic, teratogenic, mutagenic, etc. are not considered. In addition there are those disclosed in our earlier filed and co pending application Serial NumberEMI6.1 filed EMI6.2 The present invention provides a much deeper cure than do light cured composites and obtains a much more uniform degree of cure than do such systems. It obtains a certainty of cure under overhangs, as opposed to prior art light cured composites, and a more reliable cure through tooth structure than the prior art light cured composites.It provides more uniformity of cure, regardless of exposure time or intensity. It provides better adhesion to the teeth or to substrates such as porcelain as used in dentistry and in plumbing fixtures, apparently due to more complete polymerization. It has a longer shelf life than self cured composites. It has better physical properties than most prior art light cured composites, especially lower water absorption. It does not develop color bodies in composites using chemically active glasses, such as strontium glass, where some curing systems do develop objectionable color. Moreover,,the composite, when installed and cured in a dental environment, looks like the tooth, not only in ordinary light but also in ultra vioet light. In ultraviolet light it fluoresces to substantially the same degree as the tooth itself. As stated above, the product is made up of two separate formulations, one containing all or much of the material to be cured along with the exciplex photoinitiators. This formulation is kept from light, as in an opaque container. The other formulation contains the peroxide curing agent, preferably along with any ingredient not itself cured thereby, such as the filler colorants. In many instances as in paste paste systems it is preferred that the composition be so formulated that equal amounts of the two formulations are mixed together when they are to be used. In powder liquid systems, there is usually two to three and one half as much powder as liquid in each mixture. Description of Some Preferred Embodiments The binders or resins to be cured comprise substantially all of those currently used in aën ta t composites. These are all methacrylate functional resins. Typical is ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate. Others include Bis GMA and the adducts disclosed in Waller s U.S. Patent No. 3,629,187, Mixtures of resins may be used. Waller1s adducts are of 2 2 propane bis 3 4 phenoxy 1,2 hydroxy propane l methacrylatel and a mono or di i socy anate. The curing agents, as said, are of two types peroxides and photoinitiators. A suitable and preferred pero xide is benzoyl peroxide. Some other peroxides are either inoperable or have dangerous toxic side effects. The photoinitiators are ordinarily in the same component a s the resin or gel, the resins or gel photo initiator exciplex components mixture being kept in opaque containers until use. The peroxide is ordinarily kept separate from the resin, usually with or upon the filler colorant or most of the. filler colorant. In paste paste systems, some of the resin may be in the same component as the peroxide. The suitable exciplex forming photoinitiators are the following 2,3 Bornanedione with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate 2,3 Bornanedione with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate Benzil with ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate Benzil with ethyl 2 dimethyl amino benzoate. To the best of our knowledge, no one has previously suggested that the combination of any of these light curing exciplex photoinitiators with any peroxide could bring about better curing of these. dental resins.Likewise, it is not ordinary to utilize peroxide in such small amounts as those utilized in this invention to initiate polymerization of these resins. Furthermore, peroxide curing agents are conventionally employed with accelerators, and no accelerator is used here.Consequently, the results obtained by this invention were totally unexpected. Practically all inert filler colorants currently used or usable in dental composites are usable herein.Preferably, they are neither too coarse nor too fine. The compositions employed in this invention may contain at least about 10 by weight and up to about 90 by weight, and preferably about 70 808 by weight, of a finely divided, inert inorganic filler colorant. The fillercolorant, which may be in the form of spheres, platelets, fibers, whiskers, or particles of any regular or irregular shape and which preferably is transparent or translucent, may comprise for example, apatite, soda glass, barium glass, strontium glass, borosilicate glass, silica, fumed silica, flint silica, alumina, quartz, lithium aluminum silicate, or the like. Mixtures of more than one fillercolorant may be used. The particle size of the fillercolorant may range from about 0.005 to about 0.5 microns in the case of microfine silica, to not greater than about 500 microns in the case of irregularly shaped particles. Further, a range of particles sizes may be used. Where the filler colorant is in the form of fibers, the maximum dimension of the fibers preferably is not greater than about 110 micron s. On the other hand, where the fillercolorant is in the form of spheres or platelets or is irregularly shaped, the maximum dimension of the particles preferably is not greater than about 350 microns. The identity of the filler colorant is not critical, but barium containing glass hereinafter called barium glass , strontium containing glass hereinafter called strontium glass , lithium aluminum silicate, flint silica, and fumed silica are excellent fillers and mixtures of these are usually preferable to the use of just one of them. For example, lithium aluminum silicate has a negative heat coefficient of expansion, giving lower overall thermal dimensional changes to the composite.Barium and strontium glass impart opacity to X rays. Flint silica imparts tooth like color, and fumed silica adjusts viscosity and improves polishability. One example af barium glass is Ray Sorb T 2000, a product of Kimble Division of Owens Illinois GlassCompany. The same company makes Ray Sorb T 4,OOO, an example of strontium glass. Preferably, the peroxide is dispersed on the filler colorant powder, or by being dissolved in a suitable solvent, is sprayed on the filler colorant powder, and the solvent evaporated. Preferably, the peroxide is deposited in combination with a silane, such as gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane sold byUnion Carbide as A 174 silane , which is used to improve bonding between the filler and the resin. The benzoyl peroxide and the silane may be dissolved in methylene chloride, chloroform, ether, or acetone, for example. Then a slurry is made with the powdered filler colorant the solvent is stripped off, leaving the silane and the peroxide deposited on the dry powder filler colorant. Glacial acetic acid is often used, in very small amounts, because the hydrolysis reaction which attaches the silane molecule to the filler colorant particle is carried out most effectively at a pH slightly less than neutral. Butylated hydroxytoluene is sometimes used in order to scavenge small amounts of free radicals which can form during extended shelf storage. The invention can assume several fdrms a powderliquid form, a paste paste form, a paste powder form, and a gel powder form. These forms will be considered in order.Powder liquid systems In general, the powder in this form comprises a suitable filler colorant material, a suitable silane, such as gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane, and a suitable peroxide curing agent such as benzoyl peroxide.Preferably, these ingredients are in the following approximate range of proportions by weight Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Filler colorant 99.85 to 97.70 Silane 0.10 to 1.55 Peroxide curing agent 0.05 to 0.70 Glacial acetic acid 0.00 to 0.05 As stated above, the filler colorant may be a mixture of some or several of the filler colorants listed above, or it may be just one type of filler. Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Resin 99.93 to 81.95 Photoinitiator exciplex 0.7 to 18 Butylated hydroxy toluene 0.00 to 0.05 The formulae may be further generalized in a somewhat more specific manner as follows it being understood that the various types of ingredients e.g., filler colorant, resin, etc. will be used in quantities that will total to the amounts just spelled out above Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Barium glass 0 to 30 Lithium.aluminum silicate 0 to 99.85 Flint silica 0 to 10 Borosilicate glass 0 to 99.85 Custer feldspar 0 to 10.00 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 99.85 Quartz 0 to 99.85 Titanium dioxide 0 to 0.15 Tinting agents e.g., iron oxides 0 to 5 A 174 Silane 0.1 to 1.55 Peroxide curing agent 0.05 to 0.70 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.05 Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Bis GMA 0 to 80 Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 99.3 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 60 Diethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 60 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 60 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 60 Photoinitiator one or more from the exciplex list above 0.7 to 18 Butylated hydroxy toluene 0 to 0.05 Tinting agents are used to impart a more toothlike color. Red and yellow iron oxides are usually employed. Storage life for each mixture is very long, no deterioration having been noticed so far over a period of two and one half years. The powder and the liquid are mixed together in a ratio of weight from about 1 1 to about 4 1 powder to liquid, just before they are needed.Mixing may be accomplished on a paper mixing pad, with a plastic instrument. Mixing may be done under normal room lighting conditions, as found in the dental operatory, illumination typically varying in intensity from about 80 to about 100 foot candles. Under these conditions, the paste begins to gel after about 10 to 30 minutes, depending on the particular formulaions and illuminations. When it is desired to initiate curing, the mixed material is exposed to the output from a dental visible light curing unit. For all examples cited herein, a Visar curing light, marketed by Den Mat, Inc., Santa Maria,California, was used. This unit utilizes a type EKE or EJV quartz halogen light bulb, operating at 21 VAC. The light is transmitted to the work site by a flexible fiber optic bundle, 1 4 inch in diameter by four feet in length. Other units are available from other manufacturers. All are similar in principle and results. Results of these examples would be expected to differ only in degree if other units were used. The output of the Visar unit used is 180 x 104 Candella per square meter, giving illumination of about 20,000 foot candles on the material being cured. Satisfactory operability can be achieved with 5,000 foot candles. Under these conditions, the material cures in from 10 seconds to 30 seconds, with a cured depth of from 0.60 to 5.60 mm. Upon further standing, that is, from 5 minutes to 35 minutes, the material exhibits a cure depth of greater than 12 mm. It shows a tensile strength, measured by the diametral method on samples 6 mm diameter by 3 mm high, of between 4800 psi and 7000 psi. A popular priorart, light cured dental composite, when tested in identical fashion, showed a cure depth of 3.05 mm immediately after exposure to the curing light, but this cure depth did not increase over a period of 16 hours after cure, and its diametral tensile strength was only 2030 psi. EXAMPLE 1 Powder Liouid System Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Barium glass 28.6 3 Lithium aluminum silicate 67.84 Flint silica 2.84 Benzoyl peroxide 0.20 A 174 silane 0.47 Glacial acetic acid A 174 silane is a Union Carbide product, chemically gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane. The barium glass may be Ray Sorb T 2000, a product ofKimble Division of Owens Illinois Glass Company or may be barium aluminum silicate. Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 95.538 2,3 Bornanedione 0.17 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 4.30 The powder and the liquid were mixed together, preferably in a ratio by weight of about 2 1 to about 3 1 2 1, powder to liquid, just before they were needed.Mixing took about twenty seconds. The mixtures are preferably applied within about five minutes. The setting time was about twenty minutes when not exposed to a dental curing light, but was less than thirty seconds on exposure to a dental curing light. The result was a hard filling. EXAMPLE 2 Hardness comparisons with some prior art systems A disk of a commercially available light curable dental composite.was prepared, 20 mm diameter by 1 mm thick. One half of this disk was shaded with aluminum foil, and the disk then was placed under a photoflood lamp for 15 minutes. The sample was removed from under the lamp, the foil removed from the sample, and Barcol hardness measured on both the shaded and unshaded halves.The unshaded half showed a Barcol hardness of 82, while the shaded side had a Barcol hardness reading of less than 1. This same experiment was performed on a disk made of the mixed but uncured material of Example 1, and both sides of both disks showed a Barcol hardness of 92.EXAMPLE 3 Comparison of degree of cure A. series of tests was performed on several commercially available light curing composites to determine the degree of cure of the resin matrix. Testing was accomplished by preparing duplicate samples, 1 mm thick by 40 mm in diameter. These samples were cured by exposing them to a photoflood lamp for 30 minutes, and then they were placed in 370C. water for 24 hours. The samples were then dried, and placed in a desiccator and weighted daily until constant weight 0.5 mg. was achieved. The samples were then granulated, placed in a glass thimble and extracted for 12 hours in a Soxhlett extraction apparatus with methylene chloride. After extraction, the samples were weighted and the weight loss converted to percent uncured monomer removed. When two popular commercially available lightcured dental composites were tested in this manner, the cured product contained 3.08 and 5.26 extractables, representative of the amount of uncured monomer. The material of Example 1 of this invention, when tested in the same manner, contained only 1.87 extractables, showing a much higher degree of cure.EXAMPLE 4 Comparison of degree of water sorption A series of three light cured dental restoratives were tested in order to determine the degree of water sorption. Samples were in duplicate , and were configured and tested in accordance with American Dental AssociationSpecification No. 27. Two popular commercially available light cured dental restoratives were found to have water sorption values of 1.05 and 0.95 mg cm2, respectively. The material of Example l gave a value of only 0.86 mg cm2.EXAMPLE 5 powder liquid system of porcelain repair The powder liquid system of Example 1 was tested as a porcelain repair material, as described in U.S.Patent No. 4,117,595. A commercially available material marketed to practice the above mentioned patent had test results of 2015 psi bond strength average of 5 samples when tested 7 days after preparation, being stored meantime in water at 370C. The material of Example 1, when tested in the same fashion, with the same test equipment, gave results of 2400 psi bond strength or 26.6 higher. EXAMPLE 6 Comparison with a conventional powder liquid system using larger amounts of benzoyl peroxide than this system Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Strontium glass Ray sorb T 4000 95.698 A 174 Silane 1.448 Benzoyl peroxide 2.87 Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 77.21 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 19.31 l Hydroxy 4 methoxy benzophenone 1.93 Butylated hydroxytoluene 0,058 N,N 2 hydroxyethyl p toluidine 1.50 . The powder and liquid were mixed in a weight ratio of 3 1 of powder to liquid and cured properly. However, a bright green color was formed on curing. The mixture was repeated after acid washing the strontium glass, but the green color persisted. The mixture was again repeated using N,N 3,5 tetramethylanaline as a substitute for the N,N 2 hydroxyethyl p toluidine. Again the green color developed. The mixture was repeated once again using X,N dimethyl p toluidine as activator instead of theN,N 2 hydroxyethyl p toluidine. This time the green color did not develop, but the curing characteristics of the composite degraded. Then the experiment was repeated, using the following powder and liquid Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Strontium glass Ray sorb T 4000 98.300 A 174 Silane 1.4758 Benzoyl peroxide 0.200 Acetic acid 0.0258 Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 76.418 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 19.10 2,3 Bornanedione 0.17 Ethyl 4 dimethyl amino benzoate 4.308 Butylated hydroxytoluene O.02 No color developed, the material cured satisfactorily under the output from a Visar dental curing light, and exhibited a depth of cure of 5.20 mm immediately after exposure to the light, and 12 mm depth of cure after 30 minutes. Diametral tensile strength was 6000 psi. EXAMPLE 7 Powder Liquid System Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Barium glass 28.638 Lithium aluminum silicate 66.80 Flint silica 2.84 Benzoyl peroxide 0.20 A 174 silane 1.518 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 95.53 2,3 Bornanedione 0.17 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 4.30 Again, the powder and liquid were mixed together in a weight ratios varying from about 2 1 to about 3 1 21, powder to liquid. Curing time was 30 seconds with a depth of 5.50 mm when exposed to a visible light dental curing unit. Diametral tensile strength was 6500 psi. The paste had a workable time of 30 minutes under normal room fluorescent lighting. EXAMPLE 8 Powder Liquid System Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Lithium aluminum silicate 66.80 Barium glass 28.638 Flint silica 2.84 Benzoyl peroxide 0.20 A 174 silane 1.51 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 Liquid Ingredients Percentage by Weight Bis GMA, i.e., 2,2 propane bis 13 4 phenoxy 1,2 hydroxy propane l methacrylate 57.40 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 37.94 2,3 Bornanedione 0.02 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 4.648 Three parts of the powder and one part of the liquid were mixed together to form a paste. This paste, when exposed to a visible light dental curing unit for 30 seconds, cured to a depth of 5.40 mm.Under normal room fluorescent lighting, the paste had a workable time of approximately 20 minutes. The diametral tensile strength was 6900 psi. EXAMPLE 9 Powder Liquid System Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Litiium aluminum silicate 66.808 Barium glass 28.63 Flint silica 2.84 Benzoyl peroxide 0.20 A 174 silane 1.518 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 Liquid Inqredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 75.98 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 19.36 2, 3 Bornanedione 0.02 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 4.64 Three parts of the powder and one part of the liquid were mixed together to form a paste. This paste, when exposed to the output from a Visar dental visible light curing unit for 30 seconds, cured to a depth of 5.30 mm. When left exposed to room fluorescent lighting, the paste had a working time of about 40 minutes and a diametral tensile strength of 6940 psi. EXAMPLE 10 A comparison of curing of various powder liquid systems utilizing different exciplex forming photoinitiators A series of resin blends was prepared, all as indicated below as resins A N, where all the percentages of ingredients are given by weight. Also a standard blend of powder was prepared. Benzoyl peroxide was added to the powder in different levels. The resultant powders were mixed with the resin blends and exposed to the output from a Visar dental curing light for 30 seconds, and the depth of cure measurement was taken. As controls resin blends were made without one or all of the exciplex members. On some of these samples, glass tubes 12 mm long were filled with the test material, and were wrapped with black vinyl tape to exclude light for 30 seconds,then the time was measured until the material at the opposite end of the tube was cured. This test will be referred to as the Infinite Depth of Cure Test in the following text. As a control, a popular commercially available light cured composite was tested in the same manner. It initially cured in 30 seconds to a depth of 3.05 mm, and there was no increase in cure depth when measured after 16 hours.Standard Blend of Powder Barium glass 29.54 Lithium aluminum silicate 68.96 A 174 silane 1.48 Glacial acetic acid 0.028 Resin A Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 100.00 Resin A was mixed in a ratio of 1 2 with a powder blend containing 0.61 added benzoyl peroxide. No cure was observed.Resin B Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 95.538 2, 3 Bornanedione 0.17 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 4.30 Resin B was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with powder blends containing 0.20 and 0.22 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depths observed were both 5.50 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend made with the 0.22 added peroxide was 30.Resin C Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 91.70 Benzoin methyl ether 8.308 Resin was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.208 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 1.32 mm. There was no subsequent increase in cure depth. Resin D Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 84.60 Benzoin methyl ether 7.70 E thyl 4 d imethylamino benzoate 7.70 Resin D was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 2.55 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 60.Resin E Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 82.30 Benzoin methyl ether 7.708 Ethyl 2 dimethylamino benzoate 10.00Resin E was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.208 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 2.65 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 45.Resin F Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 86.608 Benzoin methyl ether 3.40 Ethyl 2 dimethylamino benzoate 10.00Resin F was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.208 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 2.74 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 60. Resin G Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 88.80 Benzoin methyl ether 3.508 Ethyl 4 dimethy lamino benzoate 7.70 Resin G was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.208 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 3.53 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 50. Resin E Ethoxylated bisphenol A d imethacrylate 91.70 Benzil 8.30 Resin H was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 4.06 mm. There was no subsequent increase in the depth of cure.Resin I Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 84.60 Benzil 7.70 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 7.70 Resin I was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 4.84 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 25. Resin J Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 84.60 Benzil 7.7096 Ethyl 2 d imethy lamino benzoate 7.70 Resin J was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 5.02 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 25.Resin K Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 91.50 2, 3 Bornanedione 0.17 Ethyl 2 dimethylamino benzoate 8.33 Resin K was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 5.56 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 60.Resin L Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 88.808 Dibenzyl ketone 3.40 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 7.80 Resin L was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.208 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 1.87 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 45 minutes. Resin M Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 86.608 Dibenzyl ketone 3.40 Ethyl 2 dimethylamino benzoate 10.00 Resin M was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 0.84 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 50 minutes.Resin N Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 96.60 Dibenzyl ketone 3.40 Resin N was mixed in a ratio of 1 3 with a powder blend containing 0.20 added benzoyl peroxide. The cure depth was 1.55 mm. The time in minutes after light exposure for infinite cure of the blend was 52 minutes.Paste Paste Systems Some dentists and perhaps other users prefer to work with pastes most of these users also prefer to use equal amounts of the two pastes, so that paste paste systems are usually formulated to enable use of equal amounts. In general, the paste paste system of the present invention may be formulated as follows Paste A Ingredients Percentage by Weight Resin 14 to 39.6 3 Filler colorant 84.68 to 59.46 Peroxide 0.10 to 0.75 A 174 silane 1.21 to 0.06 Butylated hydroxytoluene 0.01 to 0.10Paste B Ingredients Percentage by Weight Resin 14 to 35.43 Filler colorant 83.24 to 53.17 Exciplex forming photoinitiator 1.5 to 3.5 A 174 silane 1.21 to 0.05 Glacial acetic acid 0.05 to 0.01 The two pastes are preferably mixed. in equal amounts. Mixing time, working time, and setting time are approximately the same as for the powder liquid systems, described above, and the results in cure and hardness are approximately the same, too. Again, ordinary room lighting has little curing effect. The resin may be the same in both pastes, as may the filler.The silane is preferably deposited on the filler of both pastes prior to making the pastes. The presence of both resin and peroxide in Paste A seems not to effect a cure nor to affect substantially the storage life. More specifically considered, the paste paste system employs the following formulations Paste A Ingredients Percent by Weight Bis GMA 0 to 32 Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 40 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Diethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Barium glass 0 to 25 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 85 Flint silica 0 to 8.5 Borosilicate glass 0 to 85 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 52 Quartz 0 to 85 Strontium glass 0 to 85 Titanium dioxide 0 to 0.13 Tinting agents e.g., iron oxides 0 to 4 A 174 Silane 0.06 to 1.21 Peroxide curing agent 0.10 to 0.75 Butylated hydroxy toluene 0.01 to 0.1 Paste B Ingredients Percent by Weight Bis GMA Q to 32 Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 40 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Diethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Barium glass 0 to 25 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 85 Flint silica 0 to 8.5 Borosilicate glass 0 to 85 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 52 Quartz 0 to 85 Strontium glass 0 to 85 Titanium dioxide 0 to 0.13 Tinting agents e.g., iron oxides 0 to 4 A 174 Silane owe05 to 1.21 Exciplex forming photoinitiator 1.5 to 3.5 Glacial acetic acid 0.01 to 0.05 This formulation should be read with the more general one preceding it, to supply the percentages of fillers, resins, and silane needed, along with appropriate amounts of the curing agents.All percentages are by weight. EXAMPLE 11 Paste Paste System Paste A Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 17.66 Benzoyl peroxide 0.30 Butylated hydroxytoluene 0.04 Barium glass 24.258 Lithium aluminum silicate 56.43 Fumed silica 0.92 A 174 silane 0.408The fumed silica may be Aerosil 200 of Degussa Corp. ofTeterboro, New Jersey. Paste B Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 14.94 2,3 Bornanedione 0.06 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 1.558 Barium glass 24.394 Lithium aluminum silicate 56.928 Fumed silica 0.92 A 174 silane 1.2 Glacial acetic acid 0.016 The two pastes are preferably mixed in equal quantities just before application and are cured by a dental curing light, such as Visar, or equivalent. When so mixed and exposed to a visible light curing unit for 30 seconds,the material cured to a depth of 5.43 mm. The diametral tensile strength was 6990 psi. EXAMPLE 12 Paste A Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 17.66 Benzoyl peroxide 0.308 Butylated hydroxytoluene 0.04 Strontium glass 79.88 Fumed silica 0.92 A 174 silane 1.20 The strontium glass may be Ray sorb T 4000 ofKimble Division of Owens Illinois. Paste B Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 14.94 2,3 Bornanedione 0.06 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 1.55 Strontium glass 81.3284 Fumed silica 0.92 A 174 silane 1.208 Glacial acetic acid 0.0016 Equal or substantially equal amounts of pastes A and B are mixed together just before use. When so mixed and exposed to a visible light curing unit for 30 seconds, the material cured to a depth of 5.50 mm. The diametral tensile strength was 4790 psi. EXAMPLE 13 The pastes from Examples 11 and 12, mixed in equal parts, were exposed to the output from a Visar dental curing unit for 30 seconds. The samples were tested to determine the time required to achieve a 12 mm or infinite depth of cure. The samples were tested as described previously. Pastes A and B of Example 11 when mixed together obtained infinite cure in 35 minutes.Pastes A and B of examples 12 when mixed together obtained infinite cure in 35 minutes.Paste Powder Systems A third type of system is somewhat ofa blend between the powder liquid system and the paste paste system. Here, the powder remains substantially the same as in the powder liquid system, except that it has a larger percentage of peroxide. However, the paste contains the exciplex forming members dissolved in a liquid resin, and the filler, suspended therein This paste material should be stored in a light free container. Typically, a black polyethylene or polypropylene syringe may be used as the container, as in the paste paste systems. The powder is coated with a suitable silane, such as gamma methacryloxy propyl trimethoxy silane, and has benzoyl peroxide dispersed over its surface. This component may be stored in a container suited to dispers ing small amounts. A small cylindrical plastic vial with a small orificed dropper tip is preferred. In practice, an amount of the paste is expressed onto a mixing pad, then a very small amount l l0 to 1 20 of the powder is mixed in so the powder has more peroxide in it than in previous systems discussed. The result is that the paste is thickened a condition desired by some dentists and also that depth of cure and cure efficiency are improved. A general formulation may be expressed as follows Paste Ingredients Percentage by Weight Resin 13.00 to 63.4 Filler colorant 84.78 to 32.85 Exciplex forming photoinitiators 0.7 to 3.696 A 174 silane 1.50 to 0.05 Glacial acetic acid 0.02. to 0.004Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Filler colorant 99.58 to 83.83 A 174 silane 0.10 to 6 Peroxide 0.30 to 10.00 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 to 0.17 The mixture is preferably done in a ratio varying between 20 to 1 of paste to powder to 10 to 1 of paste to powder.More specifically, this system may comprise the following, with resin, filler, etc., ingredients always lying within the above given ranges and percentages being by weight Paste Ingredients Percent by Weight Bis GMA 0 to 32 Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 63.4 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Diethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 24 Barium glass 0 to 25 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 85 Flint silica to 8.5 Borosilicate glass 0 to 85 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 52 Strontium glass 0 to 85 Quartz 0 to 85 Titanium dioxide 0 to 0.13 Tinting agents e.g., iron oxides 0 to 4 A 174 Silane 0.05 to 1.25 Exciplex forming photoinitiators 0.7 to 3.70 Glacial acetic acid 0.004 to 0.02Powder Ingredients Percent by Weight Barium glass 0 to 30 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 99.65 Flint silica 0 to 10 Borosilicate glass 0 to 99.65 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 99.65 Strontium glass 0 to 99.65 Titanium dioxide 0 to 0.15 Tinting agent e.g., iron oxides 0 to 5 A 174 silane 0 to 6.0 Peroxide curing agent e.g. benzoyl peroxide 0.30 to 10 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 to 0.17 EXAMPLE 14 Paste Powder System Paste Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 63.408 2,3 Bornanedione 0.056 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 3.1 Fumed silica 16.05 Barium glass 16.59 Titanium dioxide 00.05 Yellow iron oxide 00.16 Butylated hydroxytoluene 0.0058 Glacial acetic acid 0.004 2 Hydroxy 4 methoxy benzophenone 0.585 Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Fumed silica 86.07 Benzoyl peroxide 8.60 A 174 silane 5.16 Acetic acid 0.17 When a small amount 10 by weight of the powder is added to the paste, the resulting heavy paste has a working time of over,20 minutes.When so mixed and exposed to the Visar curing light for 30 seconds, the depth of cure measured at least 4.50 mm. Diametral tensile strength was 5000 psi. EXAMPLE 15 Paste Powder System Paste Ingredients Percentage by Weight Bis GMA 9.74 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 6.49 2,3 Bornanedione 0.03 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 0.76 Barium glass 24.52 Lithium aluminum silicate 57.21 A 174 silane 1.23 Glacial acetic acid 0.02 Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Barium glass 29.0596 Lithium aluminum silicate 67.78 A 174 silane 1.45 Benzoyl peroxide 1.696 Glacial acetic acid 0.024 The paste and powder are mixed at a weight ratio of 100 5, paste powder. When so mixed and exposed to aVisar curing unit for 30 seconds, the depth of cure was 5.40 mm. The time to obtain a 12 mm cure was 25 minutes.The diametral tensile strength was 7090 psi. EXAMPLE 16 Paste Powder System Paste Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 12.98 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 3.258 2,3 Bornanedione 0.03 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 0.76 Barium glass 24.52 Lithium aluminum silicate 57,218 A 174 silane 1.23 Glacial. ,acetic acid 0.02 Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Barium glass 29.05 Lithium aluminum silicate 67.78 A 174 silane 1.45 Benzoyl peroxide 1.6968 Glacial acetic acid 0.024 The paste and powder are mixed together at a weight ratio of 100 5, paste powder. When so mixed and exposed to the output from a Visar curing unit for 30 seconds, the depth of cure was 5.15 mm. The time to a 12 mm cure was 35 minutes. The diametral tensile strength was 5250 psi. Gel Powder Systems Using powder like that used in the powder liquid system but employing a gel instead of a liquid, a general formulation for these systems may be as follows Gel Ingredients Percentage by Weight Resin 49 to 80.4 Filler 49 to 10.3 A 174 silane 0 to 1.25 Exciplex forming photo initiator 2 to 8 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.05 Powder Ingredients Percentage by Weight Filler 99.95 to 93.786 A 174 silane 0 to 1.50 Peroxide 0.05 to 4.69 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.024 The mixture may vary from about one part of powder to twenty parts of gel to about three parts of powder to one part of gel. More specifically, while adhering to the general formulation above, the system may use individual ingredients as follows Gel Ingredients Percent by Weight Bis GMA 0 to 72 .Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 0 to 90 Ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 54 Di ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 54 Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0 to 54 Polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate O to 54 Barium glass 0 to 15 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 50 Flint silica to 5. Borosilicate glass 0 to 50 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 50 Strontium glass 0 to 50 Quartz 0 to 50 Titanium dioxide 0 to 1 Tinting agents e,g., iron oxides 0 to 5 A 174 Silane 0 to 1.25 Exciplex forming photoinitiators 2 to 8 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.05Powder Ingredients Percent by Weight Barium glass 0 to 30 Lithium aluminum silicate 0 to 99.95 Flint silica 0 to 10 Borosilicate glass 0 to 99.95 Fumed synthetic silica 0 to 99.95 Strontium glass 0 to 99.95 Titanium dioxide 0 to 1.50 Tinting agent e.g., iron oxides 0 to 5 A 174 silane 0 to 1.50 Peroxide curing agent e.g. benzoyl peroxide 0.05 to 4.69 Glacial acetic acid 0 to 0.024 EXAMPLE 17 Gel Powder System Gel Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 76.40 2, 3 Bornanedione 0.06 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 2.28 Fumed silica 8.30 Barium glass 3.8318 Lithium aluminum silicate 8.9388 A 174 silane 0.188 Glacial acetic acid 0.003 Powder The powder is the same as that of Example 16. The powder and gel are mixed together in a weight ratio of 3 1, powder to gel. When exposed to a visible light dental curing unit for 30 seconds, the material cured to a depth of 4.90 mm. Under normal room fluorescent lighting, the paste had a workable time of approximately 35 minutes. The diametral tensile strength was 5800 psi.EXAMPLE 18 Gel Powder System Gel Ingredients Percentage by Weight Ethoxylated bisphenol A dimethacrylate 76.34 2, 3 Bornanedione 0.148 Ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 2.288 Fumed silica 21.248 Powder The powder is the same as that used in example 16The powder and gel are mixed in a ratio of 3 1, powder to gel. When, exposed to a visible light dental curing unit 30 seconds, the material cured to a depth of 5.40 mm.Under normal fluorescent lighting, the paste has a workable time of 25 minutes. The diametral tensile strength was 7090 psi. This restorative system may be used in the repair of fractured porcelain material, natural teeth, or in any other intra oral situation where a resin material is desired to replace or simulate tooth structure that is capable of being polymerized by visible light and having the process continue after the light is removed. Also, this restorative system, which is essentially a light cured system, achieves uniform polymerization within thirty minutes to one hour after insertion in the patient s mouth, even though variable amounts of light be exposed to the polymerizing resin. This system eliminates the color changes that tend to occur when certain resins mixed with curing resins are exposed to ultra violet or visible light. To those skilled in the art to which this invention relates, many changes in construction and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest themselves without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in any sense limiting. What is claimed is