# Procedure to manufacture shaped products with an expanded material, and products made with such procedure.

## Abstract
This invention consists of a procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 , such expanded material being obtained by starting with at least two components 11 17 of which at least one 11 is able to expand and at least partially to cure or harden when brought into contact with the other component 17 , the two components 11 17 being pre arranged physically separately and with at least one momen tary contact surface, such other component 17 cooperating at least initially with a carrier filler 12 112 28 , the expansion and cure or hardening taking place as a result of the diffusion of the component 11 able to expand and harden, through such surface into the space where the other component 17 is present. The invention also consists of products composed at least partially of an expanded material, the products being obtained with the above procedure.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 , such expanded material being obtained by starting with at least two components 11 17 of which at least one 11 is able to expand and at least partially to cure or harden when brought into contact with the other component 17 , the two components 11 17 being pre arranged physically separately and with at least one momentary contact surface, such other component 17 cooperationg at least initially with a carrier filler 12112 28 , the procedure being characterized by the fact that the expansion and cure or hardening take place as a result of the diffusion of the component 11 able to expand and harden,through such surface into the space where the other component 17 is present. a 2 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed inClaim 1, by which procedure the carrier filler 12 112 28 comprises spaces of a triangular Gibbs channel type at least momentarily. 3 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed inClaim 1 or 2, by which procedure the carrier filler 12112 28 is at least partially granular or powdered. 4 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed inClaim 1, by which procedure the carrier filler 12 112 28 is at least partially porous. 5 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed inClaim 1, by which procedure the carrier filler 12 112 28 has a fibrous structure. 6 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed Claim 1, by which procedure the carrier filler 1 2 11 2 2E is tape wise Figs.3 . 7 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at leact partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure the carriei filler 12 112 28 comprises a covering layer on at least one surface at least momentarily. 8 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure the expansion and cure or hardening take place at least momentarily in cooperation with a mould 21 121 . 9 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure at least one component 11 is applied by spraying Figs.2 . 10 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 8 inclusive, by which procedure at least one component 11 is applied by casting. 11 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure at least the component 11 able to expand and harden is applied in a layer. 12 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure the carrier filler 12 112 28 is at least reduced after the cure or hardening. 13 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure the expansion and cure or hardening take place as far as a depth which can be pre set. 14 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in Claims 1 and 13, by which procedure the depth of expansion and cure or hardening is regulated by means of the quantity of diffusable component applied 11 . 15 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in Claim 13 or 14, by which procedure a cut is made in a non expanded zone 32 and products 30 are thus obtained having a surface free to accept a diffusable component 11 thereafter. 16 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure the speed of reaction is conditioned by means of external means. 17 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in Claims 1 and 16, by which procedure the conditioning of the speed of reaction takes place through heat exchange. 18 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in Claims 1 and 16, by which procedure the conditioning of the speed of reaction takes place by means of radiations. 19 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 as claimed in Claim 18, by which procedure the radiations are of radio frequency. 20 Procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material 14 16 25 30 a claimed in any claim hereinbefore, by which procedure at lea two components 11 17 are applied in different ways. 21 Product 14 16 25 30 composed at least partially of ar expanded material,characterized by being obtained with a procedure according to any of the claims hereinbefore. 22 Product 16 25 as claimed in Claim 21, which has at least one single layer Figs.2 and 4b . 23 Product 12 30 as claimed in Claim 21, which comprises at least two differentiated layers. 24 Product 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any of Claims 21 to 23 inclusive, which comprises at least closed cells. 25 Product 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any of Claims 21 to 24 inclusive, which comprises at least open cells. 26 Product 14 16 25 30 as claimed in any of Claims 21 to 25 inclusive, which is applied to a support 31 , the expansion and cure or hardening taking place at least partially while the product is being set up for work.

## Description
PROCEDURE TO MANUFACTURE SHAPED PRODUCTS WITH AN EXPANDED MATERIAL, AND PRODUCTS MADE WITH SUCH PROCEDURE This invention concerns a procedure for the formation of products with an expanded material. The invention also concerns products made with such procedure. To be more exact, the invention envisages the formation of products by spontaneous mixing of two components, which unite and thus lead to the formation of a foamed product. Procedures are known which are intended to obtain foamed materials having closed or open cells. A first known procedure discloses the mixing of two or more components, for instance a resin and a catalyst, and the casting or injection of the mixture thus obtained into a mould.The expansion of the mixture takes place within the mould itself. A first drawback of this known art lies in the fact that the components have to be mixed before being introduced into the mould. Another drawback lies in the fact that the time of introduction of the mixture into the mould has to be controlled and, of necessity, restricted if it is desired that expansion will begin only after the introduction of the components into the mould has been completed. Another known procedure envisages introduction of the expandable material into the mould together with a gas able to form the cells within the material itself. In any event this art envisages that material already mixed is introduced into the mould. Such material may include a resin and an accelerator as well as the gas, or else a resin which expands as a result of the negative pressure occurring after the departure of the resin from an appropriate injection device and which hardens spontaneously. According to this art there are needed at least an injection device and also cylinders or generators of gas under pressure. The injection moulding, for instance, of panels having an inner layer of foamed polyurethane or other foamed resins is known. Such panels are used commonly in the field of thermal insulation. In any event, whatever the specific application may be, the known art generally envisages the introduction of already mixed components into the mould and their hardening thereafter, with the resulting drawbacks listed above. Procedures are also known in which the foaming of the material is obtained by catalysis of a prepolymer with subsequent expansion. Patent US A 3,853,652 discloses a procedure in which a layer of material is impregnated with an aqueous catalyst. A prepolymer mixed beforehand with materials suitable for conducting water, such as fibrous substances or the like, is spread on such layer of material. A further layer of material impregnated with an aqueous catalyst is then superimposed the latter diffuses into the prepolymer, which forms a foam and hardens. Patent DE A 2.946.540 discloses a procedure in which a granular carrier is impregnated with moisture and is then coated with a prepolymer, which reacts with the moisture and forms a foam. As an alternative, the granules of the carrier can be coated directly with a mixture of prepolymer and water. Patent US A 3,114,722 also discloses the impregnation of a granular carrier with water and the subsequent mixing of the impregnated carrier with a prepolymer. The whole is then heated to cause the formation of foam and hardening of the same. Patent FR A 2.249.124 discloses a similar procedure in which a low density carrier is injected with water before being mixed with a polyurethane prepolymer. Patent FR A 2.211.341 discloses a procedure comprising injection of a prepolymer under pressure into a mould holding a carrier impregnated beforehand with water. Patent GB A 1,001,464 discloses a procedure with a supply of heat such as to provide a maximum temperature not less than 1200C within a polyurethane material. The purpose of this is to obtain expansion and hardening of the polyurethane. Patent CH A 499.577 discloses a generic procedure to obtain foamed products by agglomerating particles of a granular material by means of a different material, which can be a thermoplastic material or a synthetic material that can be hardened. A procedure which is also a part of the known art discloses a procedure to obtain polyurethane rolls by winding a treated fabric in the presence of moisture. The basis of the procedure of the present invention lies in the fact that the components are pre arranged physically separately. The invention envisages the employment, as an initial carrier of one of the components, of a substantially granular or spongy filler in which some channels are present. These channels can have diverse conformations and, particularly in the case of granular fillers, will be spaces substantially of a triangular channel type according to Gibbs. The component not supported by the filler is brought into contact with a surface of the filler itself. For instance, this second component can be disposed on the walls of a mould, the walls being smeared superficially with the second component or having a layer thoroughly impregnated with such component. It is also possible to apply the second component by spraying or other like methods. Again according to the invention, at least one of the components can be applied by being cast, for example, onto the surface of a carrier impregnated beforehand with the other component. The invention also envisages the injection of at least one of the components at least within a zone of the carrier or within part of the mould, if the latter is used. According to the invention it is possible to pre arrange two layers of carrier, one for one component and one for the other component, and to bring these two layers into contact thereafter. It is also possible to pre arrange one layer or support carrier onto which the components are delivered, for instance, onto separate surfaces. For example, it is possible to have a carrier in the form of a porous panel, onto opposite faces of which the two components are deliverd by spraying or casting or otherwise and spread and come into contact with each other inside the carrier. The product thus made will comprise two layers separated by a transition zone. According to the invention the components, however they may be pre arranged separately, mix with each other by capillary diffusion within the above mentioned channels contained at least within the carrier, or filler, which supports one of the components. The mixing therefore takes place after the pre arrangement of the components in correspondence with the layer to be formed, the components being brought into contact with one another on a sur, e without prior mixing. In traditional materials the spaces of Gibbs remain open.The result will ct, for example, the formation of condensate, the lack of a seal against vapour, etc. Instead, in the material of the invention the Gibbs cells are closed by the diffusion and expansion of the resin or polymer. One advantage of the present invention is the ability to employ a mould, the components being introduced at momentarily separated times which are pre set in this way it is possible to have all the time required to pre arrange the mould itself, even with substantially three dimensional dispositions. Another advantage of the invention is that it does not require auxiliary equipment or apparatus of any kind, apart from moulds where necessary. A further advantage of the invention is tknt it enables products to be formed by free expansion, namely without a mould. In fact, such products require only a support for at least one of the components in the forming process. As we said earlier, the invention envisages the use of fillers which remain incorporated in the resulting product. Such fillers may consist of a variety of granular or fibrous materials such as, for instance, vermiculite, perlite, expanded clay, spheroidal foamed polystyrol Styropor BASF, for example , scrap consisting of granular foamed polystyrol, chips, saw dust, granular cork,sand or still other materials, depending on the end properties density, porosity, thermal resistance, etc. which it is desired to obtain. According to a variant, for particular types of products it is possible by thermal or chemical means to eliminate or reduce the filler introduced. In this way a material having open communicating cells can be produced. Many types of plastic materials offer the ability to make foamed products by selecting a su5 abl material and production technique it is possible to obtain a very wide range of variations from the mechanical, physil, thermal and chemical points of view. Among the macromolecules theoretically suitable for the manufacture of expanded products the following raw materials have in practice become established so far natural and synthetic rubber, polyvinyl chloride, polystyrol, condensate of urea resins, phenol and formaldehyde condens ate, polyadducts of diisocyanate, viscose, polyvinyl acetal, and polythene. According to the invention resins which harden in union with a catalyst can be employed as components to obtain expansion. For instance, one of the following resins can be used as a suitable component Desmodur Bayer E21, Desmodur Bayer E22, a polyisocyanate prepolymer or others again which are able to provide hardening and expansion according to the invention. As a catalyst to be employed with such resins, a possible formulation will be the following water 700 grs. Bayer stabilizer OS 25 20 grs. Bayer Desmorapid PS 207 3 grs. Bayer Desmorapid DB 4 grs. Bayer Desmorapid SO 4 grs. It may also be possible to employ water alone, but in this case the expansion of the invention does not take place in the best manner. According tn zone invention the speed of reaction can be conditioned. This can be done, for instance, by the application or reduction of heat or by exposure to radiations of a suitable frequency, for instance radio frequency. The invention therefore consists of a procedure to manufacture shaped products composed at least partially of an expanded material, such expanded material being obtained by starting with at least two components of which at least one is able to expand and at least partially to cure or harden when brought into contact with the other component,the two components being pre arranged physically separately and with at least one momentary contact surface, such other component cooperating at least initially with a carrier filler, the procedure being characterized by the fact that the expansion and cure or hardening take place as a result of the diffusion of the component able to expand and harden, through such surface into the space where the other component is present. The invention is also embodied with a product composed at least partially of an expanded material, the product being obtained by means of the above procedure. We shall describe hereinafter the procedure of the invention and also some variants of the same with the help of the attached figures, which are given as a non restrictive example and in which Figs.1a 1b and 1c show the formation of a panel with two outer layers spaced apart and an inner layer of filler Figs.2a 2b and 2c show the formation of a panel, starting with a fibrous carrier Figs.3a 3b and 3c show the lining of a tubular product Figs.4a and 4b show a possible variant of the procedure of the invention Figs.Sa 5b and 5c show a further variant. With reference to the figures we can see in Fig.1a two walls 10 for the formation of a sandwich panel. The walls 10 can be kept spaced apart with the help of a mould, which is not shown here. The inner surfaces of the walls 10 are laid up Fig.1a with a prepolymer 11 the quantity depending on the thickness of the shaped body to be produced and on its relative density , or else if the shaped bodies are to include a reinforcement fibreglass fabric or fabrics such as jute, for example, etc. , such reinforcement is laid up by hand or by machine together with the prepolymer 11 and the laid up side is positioned towards the inside of the mould, which is still empty. A granular filler material 12 having spheroidal, cubic, cylindrical or prismatoid granules is impregnated, within a suitable receptacle 13 for instance, with a hardener component or catalyst and is poured into the space between the walls 10. If a mould or frame is being used, the degree of filling should preferably be such that, when the mould is closed, the granular iller is slightly subjected to pressure. In this way the edge surfaces of the particles of the filler material 12 form a polyhedral structure and therefore substantially triangular channels in accordance with Gibbs with the power of capillary aspiration. According to a variant the formation of triangular channels in accordance with Gibbs can also be obtained by partially welding together the granules composing the filler material 12. The partial welding can be obtained, for instance, by applying heat to the filler. The filler material 12 can also be subjected to radiations, for instance at radio frequency, so as to obtain the partial welding action. When the mould is closed or, in any event, when the filler 12 has been int oduced, the prepolymer molecules begin to penetrate from the hovering layers, and from the inner sides of the mould respectively, into the Gibbs channels where the catalyst is present. The catalysis process with formation of foam begins at once or almost at once. So as to accelerate or possibly slow down this process, it is possible to take corrective action with external means such as the application or reduction of heat, exposure to radio frequencies, etc. Acceleration of the reaction enables the quantity of diffusing component employed to be reduced. In particular, according to tests conducted by the present applicants, it is found to be very practical to use radiations at radio frequency so as to condition the speed of reaction. The excess quantity of catalyst still present in the triangular Gibbs channels is thrust out of such channels by the prepolymer, which is expanding, onto the inner surfaces of the walls 10 or onto the reinforcements, if any, treated with the prepolymer. The prepolymer 11 on the walls 10 thus forms a foam and hardens without any prior mixing process. After a given time, which depends on the volume of the shaped body to be produced, the formation and hardening process is ended and a sandwich panel 14 is obtained. If reinforcements impregnated with prepolymer 11 are employed, the walls 10 of the mould will be coated with release agents such as waxes, fats or plastic films or other materials, which are known in themselves in the art in a great variety of types. As an alternative the prepolymer 11 can be pre arranged, by being sprayed for instance, directly on the layer of release agent present on the walls 10 of the mould. Where moulds or frames are employed and the walls 10 are not permeable to the prepolymer 11, such moulds need not be treated with release agents. The procedure hitherto describe n be varied as follows Figs. 2 . Preformed bodies 15 having the shape of the final body to be produced are obtained with the suitable filler particles mentioned earlier. It should be noted that, when the individual particles are united and pressed together, only a maximum of 20 of the triangular Gibbs channels formed by means of the bonding means employed adhesives, synthetic resins, high frequency welding, etc. is closed. A network of triangular Gibbs channels is formed in this way in the preformed body 15, and therefore a capacity of capillary absorption in the preformed body 15 is obtained. As an alternative the preformed body 15 can be made of a fibrous or spongy material, such as mat, mineral wool, chipboard, sponge or a like material provided that it is substantially porous. If such preformed bodies 15 are in the form of panels or the like, they can have a covering layer on one side. In this way it is possible to obtain on their usage site a thermal, acoustic or damp proof lining or insulation, among other things for old or new masonry composed of very different materials. Such preformed body 15, with or without a covering layer on one side, is treated soaked, impregnated, etc. with a catalyst 17 until it has been impregnated to the required degree. The prepolymer 11 is then applied to at least one surface of the preformed body 15. Where a covering layer is present, the prepolymer 11 will be applied to parts of the preformed body which do not comprise such a layer. In the example shown the prepolymer 11 is sprayed onto the body 15. The prepolymel 1 thus applied spreads by capillary action as per the arrows 18 within the preformed body 15 and produces a foam inside. When hardening has ended, a product 16 obtained by means of the preformed body 15 has been made. A possible application of this variant of the procedure of the invention could be the following. A wall, consisting of masonry for instance, to be insulated is laid up with prepolymer 11. The preformed bodies 15, possibly provided with covering layers opposite to the wall to be insulated, are kept at a distance from the wall and in a direction required, perhaps by means of an expendable framework applied to the wall beforehand. The open channels containing catalyst 17 in the preformed body 15 are filled and therefore are filled with foam by the prepolymer 11 as a result of capillary absorpt on within the preformed body 15. The possible covering layer fixed provisionally to the preformed body 15 is also connected by means of this procedure at the same time after the hardening. The covering layer, preformed foamed body 15 and wall to be insulated thus form a solidly united whole when hardening has been completed. Lack of flatness and other faults in or on the wall to be lined are eliminated in this way. The procedure described serves preferably for the production of bodies of expanded materials or panels having a big surface and a high content of filler materials, for such bodies can be laid up on all their sides and be reinforced on one side or two sides or on all their sides. In any event, the filler material holding the catalyst in the preformed body 15 and the connecting resin which forms the foam do not have to be mixed mechanically or by hand. The procedure is especially suit. t 19 for the production on site of plates, panels, linings an shaped bodies. According to another variant it is possible to produce insulating bodies or tubular supporting bodies by means of a winding procedure Figs.3 . A tape containing cells, such as a woven fabric 19 119, can be employed as a filler material and, at the same time, as a reinforcement. The rolls of such woven fabric 19 119 can possibly be enclosed in containers so as to be able to carry out impregnation of one roll 19 with catalyst 11 and of the other roll 119 with resin 17, or a component suitable for hardening, without any losses and without dirtying the hands and working equipment. In the example of Fig.3a such impregnation is shown diagrammatically with pouring of the components 11 17 on the respective rolls of supporting tape 19 119. A tubular core 20 is first lined with one 19 of the two impregnated rolls and thereafter with the other 119 Figs.3b and 3c . The reciprocal diffusion and mixing of the two components 11 17 in the capillary spaces of the tapes 19 119 causes the formation of foam and hardening. This procedure can be applied to the insulation cladding of pipes and also as a replacement for traditional orthopaedic plaster casts after the limb concerned has been lined beforehand with a separator layer impermeable to the components employed. If it is required to obtain an independent tubular lining, the tubular core 20 is coated beforehand with a layer of release agent. Figs.4a and 4b show a further variant of the procedure of the invention. Under this variant a cylinder 22 having outlf holes 23 can slide within a mould 21. A stationary piston 5 closes the cylinder 22 at its lower end. The cylinder 22 is filled with one 111 of the two rompo nents. Filler material 112 impregnated with the other component 117 is introduced the material 112 may possibly be compressed to suit the final density required. The cylinder 22 is lowered, thus causing the component 111 to be sprayed from the holes 23. The component 111 spreads within the material 112, thus forming a foam and becoming hard in contact with the component 117 contained in the filler material 112. The resulting product 25 is withdrawn Fig.4b , the walls of the mould 21 and cylinder 22 having been coated beforehand with a release agent. Hollow bodies can be readily formed with this variant. For instance, a possible application of this variant can be the formation of grinding wheels, the filler 112 in such a case being composed of an abrasive material. Figs.5 show a further variant intended to obtain products suitable for forming an insulating lining for walls. According to this variant a mould 121 has guides 26 able to cooperate with profiles 126. The profiles 126 are solidly fixed to a covering tile 27 made, for example, of stoneware or another lining material. A like tile 127 is positioned at the bottom of the mould 121. The mould 121 can be closed at its front and rear with walls, which are not shown here and can be embodied in any known way. The tiles 27 127 are treated with a layer of a component 11 able to expand and there is introduced between them 27 127 a porous shaped layer 28 consisting, for instance, of a polystyrol such as BASF Styropor or another. The layer 28 is impregnated beforehand with a catalyst according to the methods described earlier. The thickness of the liquid film of component 11 is selected in such a way as to lead to diffusion and subsequent expansion within the layer 28 to a depth which does not reach the centre line of the layer 28. Thus, when expansion has ended Fig.Sb , the layer 28 has a central zone which has not expanded 32. The partial product 29 thus obtained is withdrawn from the mould 121 and is cut in half, thereby providing two products 30 ready to be applied to a wall and having layers 128 comprising one free and not expanded face. Such application to a wall can take place as shown inFig.5c a wall 31, equipped with guides 226 able to cooperate with profiles 126 of a product 30, is coated with a liquid layer 11 of prepolymer. The layer 128, impregnated with accelerator on its side facing the wall 31, is applied to the wall 31 itself and is kept in place by guides 226 cooperating with profiles 126. The liquid layer 11 spreads within the layer 128, expands and hardens. Moreover, the product 30 is thus glued automatically to the wall 31. The complete lining of the wall 31, for insulation cladding purposes for example, can be formed with further neighbouring products 30. INDEX 10 walls 11 component or prepolymer 111 component or prepolymer 12 filler or carrier 112 filler or carrier 13 receptacle 14 sandwich panel 15 preformed body 16 product obtained with preformed body 17 component or catalyst 117 component or catalyst 18 diffusion 19 tape 119 tape 20 tubular core 21 mould or frame 121 mould 22 cylinder 23 outlet holes 24 piston 25 product 26 guides 126 profiles 226 guides 27 covering tile 127 tile 28 porous shaped layer 128 porous shaped layer 29 partial product 30 ready product 31 wall 32 zone not expanded