# Novel enzyme product and its use in the saccharification of starch.

## Abstract
A novel acid amylase is provided, isolated from amylo glucosidase, having a greater thermostability than amyloglu cosidase and a comparable pH optimum. This acid amylase can be used advantageously in conjunction with amyloglu cosidase and optionally with an acid pullulanase in the saccharification of starch and starch hydrolysates. Also, a novel enzyme product is provided comprising acid amylase having α 1,4 glucosidic bond splitting activity and amyloglu cosidase and optionally acid pullulanase.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A microbial acid amylase having substantially a 1,4 glucosidic bond splitting activity. 2. A microbial acid amylase showing optimum saccharification at a pH from 3.5 to 5.0 at a temperature from 60 to 750C. 3. The acid amylase of claim 1 or 2 which is derived from a fungus. 4. The acid amylase of claim 3 which is derived fromAspergillus niger. 5. An enzyme product comprising amyloglucosidase and acid amylase as defined in any one of claims 1 to 4 in a ratio of at least 0.16 AAU per AGI, as hereinbefore defined. 6. An enzyme product according to claim 5 containing 0.2 to 4. 5 AAU per AGI. 7. An enzyme product according to claim 5 or 6 wherein the anyloglucosidase is derived from Aspergillus niger. b. An enzyme product according to any one of claims S to 7, substantially free of transglucosidase. 9. An enzyme product according to any one of claims 5 to b also containing an effective amount of acid pullulanase. 10 An enzyme product according to claim 9 wherein the acid pullulanase is a pullulanase as described in EuropeanPatent Application Publ. No. 0 063 909. 11. A process for converting starch into dextrose in the form of a syrup which comprises saccharifying starch or a starch hydrolysate in the presence of an enzyme product as defined in any one of claims 5 to 10. 12. A process according to claim 11 wherein a starch hydrolysate containing at least 30 by weight of dry solids is saccharified. 13. A process according to claim 11 or 12 wherein the saccharification is conducted in the pH range of from 3 to 5 and at a temperature in the range of from 40 to 70 C. 14. A process according to claim 13 wherein the saccharification is conducted at pH 4 to 4.5 at a temperature of 50 to 650C. 15. A process according to any of claims 11 to 14 wherein the amount of amyloglucosidase used is from 8 to 30AGI per g of total dry solids. 16. A process according to claim 15 wherein the amount of amyloglucosidase used is from 14 to 22 AGI per g of total dry solids. 17. A process according to any one of claims 11 to 16 wherein the saccharification is conducted in the presence of acid pullulanase.

## Description
NOVEL ENZYME PRODUCT AND ITS USE IN THE SACCHARIFICATION OFSTARCH FIELD OF THE INVESiTION The present invention relates to enzymatic starch degradation. More specifically, the invention provides a novel enzyme product useful in the saccharification of starch, especially liquefied starch, and a process for its preparation. STATE OF THE ART Native starch is known to contain two types of macromolecules composed of glucose units. One type of molecule, called amylose, is linear and consists exclusively of 1,4 linked glucose units. Starch contains about 25 of amylose. The second type of molecule, called amylopectin, is highly branched and contains a l,4 as well as 1,6 linked glucose units. The overall content of a 1,6 linkages is generally less than 5 . Sugars from starch, in the form of concentrated dextrose syrups, are currently produced at the rate of several million tons per annum by a two stage enzyme catalyzed process involving 1 liquefaction or thinning of solid starch with an amylase into dextrins having an average degree of polymerization of about 7 10, and 2 saccharification of the resulting liquefied starch i.e. starch hydrolysate with amyloglucosidase, which results in a syrup of high glucose content 92 96 by weight of the total solids . Iluch of the dextrose syrup produced commercially is then enzymatically isomerized to a dextrose fructose mixture know as isosyrup. The two enzymes used, amylase and amyloglucosidase, differ in two important aspects. First, amylase, which is a so called endo enzyme, attacks macromolecules at random. Amyloglucosidase, on the other hand, is a so called exo enzyme and splits glucose units successively from the non reducing end of the dextrin molecule in the starch hydrolysate. Secondly, amylase exclusively attacks 1,4 linkages whereas amyloglucosidase splits alpha 1,6 linkages as well. The recommended name of amyloglucosidase is exo 1,4 alpha D glucosidase, the Enzyme Committee number 3. 2. 1. 3 and the systemic name a 1,4 glucan glucohydrolase. Amyloglucosidase is also called AG or glucoamylase and it will be understood that the terms amyloglucosidase, AG and glucoamylase, as used hereinafter, are synonymous. Whereas amylopectin is only partially degraded by amylase because this enzyme exclusively attacks a 1,4 linkages, substantial hydrolysis of the branched oligosaccharides occurs in the subsequent saccharification step catalyzed by amyloglucosidase which also hydrolyses a 1,6 glucosidic linkages, though at a considerably lower rate than the a 1,4 linkages. The saccharification stage of the commercial process outlined above has long been recognized to be deficient in certain regards. In particular, the amyloglucosidases currently available catalyse both saccharification and dextrose reversion reactions, e.g. conversion of dextrose into isonaltose, at rates which depend on the substrate concentration. The formation of by products in this way has linited the saccharification of starch hydrolysates into dextrose to not more than about 95 by weight of dextrose on dry solids basis hereinafter termed DX in syrups containing at least 33 dry solids by weight. It is true that the formation of by products from reversion reactions nay be suppressed by up to about 50 with a conconitant increase of starch conversion of about 1 2 if a relatively high level of amyloglucosidase combined with a dilution of the substrate to about 15 dry solids is employed cf. U.S. Patent No. 4,017,363 , but the concentration of the resulting dextrose solution to the conventional higher dry solids levels is energy consuming. In an effort to further increase the DX value it has been proposed to use a debranching enzyme, in conJunction with amyloglucosidase, so as to hydrolyze more efficiently the branched oligosaccharides containing cx l, 6 glucosidic bonds present in the liquefied starch. European Patent Application No. 82302001.1,Publication No. 0 063 909, describes a debranch1ntD enzyme of the pullulanase type which is produced by a Bacillus ealleil Bacillus acidopullulyticus. According to this specification the debranching enzyme has optimum activity at a pH in the range of 3.5 to 5.5 under defined conditions and its thermel activity optimum at pH 4 5 is at least about 60 C. The residual activity after 72 hours at 60µC at pH 5 is 502 or more.This acid pullulanase is used together with one of the saccharifying enzymes amyloglucosidase or amylase. The use of this acid pullulanase in conjunction with amyloglucosidase is reported to result into a higher dextrose level which is higher by about 1 as compared with the level obtained with amyloglucosidase alone under similar conditions. Alternatively the same dextrose level may be achieved using about half the amount of amyloglucosidase. U.S. Patent No. 4,335,208 discloses the combined action of amyloglucosidase and another debranching enzyme, namely isoamylase from Pseudomonas amyloderamosa. According to this reference the isoamylase has a pH optimum close to that of amyloglucosidase so that the amount of the latter can be considerably reduced to obtain the same or even a higher dextrose level than with amyloglucosidase alone. However, the process has a serious drawback in that the isoamylase is heat labile. This means that no saccharification in the presence of isoamylase is technically feasible above about 550C, whereas amyloglucosidase by itself is normally used at 60 C in the saccharification of starch hydrolysate. Moreover, microorganisms of the genus Pseudomonas are not so called GRASmicroorganisms Generally Regarded As Safe , so that enzymes produced by such microorganisms are not permitted in food and food processing in the USA. U.S. Patent No. 3,897,305 discloses the combined use of amyloglucosidase and pullulanase from Aerobacter aerogenes Klebsiella pneumoniae which is stated to give an increase inDX of up to 2 in syrups containing at least 30 dry solids.Practically no saving of amyloglucosidase is achieved however, because of the unfavourable pH optimum 5.5 6.0 , of the enzyme from K. pneumoniae which makes it necessary to conduct the saccharification at a relatively high pH at which the activity of amyloglucosidase is severely reduced. Marshall et al Febs Letters, Vol. 9 No. 2, July 1970, pages 85 88 reported that amyloglucosidase obtained from Aspergillus niger contained an a amylase like impurity apparently essential for complete hydrolysis of starch to glucose. No attempt was however made to characterize or isolate this impurity. OBJECTS OF THE INVElEION It is an object of the invention to provide a novel acid amylase, which can be derived from amyloglucosidase preparations, having substantial 1,4 glucosidic bond splitting activity. The novel enzyme product has a glucosidic bond splitting activity at acidic pH, and can be used in the saccharification of starch and, preferably, liquefied starch. It is a further object of the invention to provide a novel process for converting starch into syrups with a high dextrose content. THE INVENTION According to its first aspect the present invention provides a microbial acid amylase, obtainable from amyloglucosidase, and having substantial l,4 glucosidic bond splitting activity. This acid amylase effects optimum saccharification at a pH between 3. 5 and 5.0 at temperatures from about 60 to about 750C. Under ordinary storage conditions it is stable over a period of several months. The acid amylase of the invention occurs as a component in amyloglucosidase preparations and can be obtained in substantially pure form from such preparations using an appropriate separation technique, such as high performance liquid chromatography which is also the preferred method. Although the novel acid amylase described below is obtained from a commercially available amyloglucosidase derived from the microorganism Aspergillus niger, and this is the preferred amyloglucosidase, it will be appreciated that many genera of microorganisms contain species known to produce an amyloglucosidase. Any and all such amyloglucosidases can be used as the source of the novel acid amylase of this invention. Preferably, a fungal amyloglucosidase is used as the source. The thernostability of the acid amylase derived fromAspergillus niger is better than that of the A. niger amyloglucosidase. Also the stability and residual activity of said acid amylase exceeds the same of said amyloglucosidase. The invention further provides a novel enzyme product having both x 1,4 and a 1,6 bond splitting activity at acidic pH, which comprises amyloglucosidase and the novel acid amylase in a ratio of at least 0.16 AAU per AGI, as hereinafter defined. Such preparations may be made by adding the novel acid amylase to a known amyloglucosidase preparation so as to increase the acid amylase content of the latter. Preferably, the anyloglucosidase is an Aspergillus niger amyloglucosidase and is enriched with the novel acid amylase also derived from Aspergillus niger. The novel enzyme product of the invention can be prepared by adding the new acid amylase, preferably in substantially pure form, to the anyloglucosidase.Alternatively, an amyloglucosidase producing strain or variant or mutant thereof, preferably belonging to the genusAspergillus and more preferably to the species A. niger, may be found which produces an anyloglucosidase with a relatively high acid amylase content as compared with the amyloglucosidases known in the art, in which case the enzyme product may be obtained by cultivating the said microorganism in a suitable nutrient medium containing carbon and nitrogen sources and inorganic salts. The novel enzyme product may also be prepared by selectively improving the fermentation conditions for acid amylase or partly inactivating the amyloglucosidase in existing preparations. The amyloglucosidase used in this invention and also the novel enzyme product are preferably free from transglucosidase, since the latter enzyme may cause the formation of undesired by products. This can be effected e.g. by producing amyloglucosidase with a transglucosidase negative strain or by removal of the transglucosidase from the amyloglucosidase preparations used, for example with bentonite. The novel enzyme product of the invention comprises at least 0.16 AAU of acid amylase per AGI. One unit of acid amylase activity AAU as used herein is the amount of enzyme which hydrolyses 1.0 mg of soluble starch 100 of dry matter per minute under standard conditions pH 4.2 60 C into a product which, after reaction of an iodine solution of known strength, gives an optical density at 620 nm equivalent to that of a colour reference as described in the Iodine StarchAmylase Test described below. One unit of amyloglucosidase activity AGI as used herein is defined as the amount of enzyme that releases 1 lumol of dextrose from soluble starch 100 of dry matter per minute at 60 C under optimum conditions of starch degradation, as described hereinafter.Preferably, the novel enzyme product contains from about 0.2 to about 4.5 AAU of acid amylase per AGI, more preferably from about 0.3 to about 3.0 AAU per AGI and particularly from about 0.7 to about 1.5 AAU per AGI. It has been surprisingly found that the amyloglucosidase preparations enriched with acid amylase, when used in the saccharification of liquefied starch, result in unexpectedly and significantly higher dextrose levels at shorter saccharification times. The results are comparable with those obtained by the simultaneous action of amyloglucosidase and acid pullulanase, as described in the aforementioned European Patent Application Publ. No. 0 063 909, under similar conditions. Accordingly, the invention further provides a process for converting starch into dextrose in the form of a syrup, which comprises saccharifying the starch optionally and preferably after a liquefaction step to form a starch hydrolysate, in the presence of the novel enzyme product, as hereinbefore defined. The use of the new enzyme product in the process has the advantage that substantially lower amounts of amyloglucosidase can be used for saccharification of starch hydrolysates resulting in higher yields of glucose per enzyme unit AGI . The new enzyme product has also the great advantage that higher substrate concentrations can be used s r the saccharification of starch and starch hydrolysates The use of higher substrate concentrations substantially reduces evaporation costs. The saccharification is suitably carried out at a r in the range of from 2.5 to 6, preferably of from about 3 ti about 5 and more preferably of from about 4.0 to about 4.5.The process is suitably effected at temperatures in the range of from 40 to 70 C, preferably of from about 50 to about 65 C, with reaction times in the range of from 15 to 96 hours to obtain maximum yields. Preferred proportions of anyloglucosidase for the saccharification of starch hydrolysates are normally in the range of from about 8 to about 30 AGI and preferably from about 14 to about 22 AGI per g of dry solids. It has also been found that the saccharification of starch or a starch hydrolysate can be further improved, when the process is conducted in the presence of the novel enzyme product as defined hereinbefore, which also contains an effective amount of acid pullulanase. A suitable acid pullulanase which can be used for the purpose of this invention is, for example, an acid pullulanase as described inEuropean Patent Application Publ. No. 0 063 909. Preferred dosages of acid pullulanase which can be used in conjunction with the novel enzyme product are in the range of from 0.005 to 5 pullulanase units PU , the units being as defined in said European Patent Application.The use of the novel enzyme in conjuction with acid pullulanase in the process has the advantage that unexpectedly and significantly high dextrose levels can be obtained at short saccharification times. Another suitable method to determine the amount of acid amylase in enzyme preparations is the modified PhadebasAmylase Test described below. One unit of acid amylase activity AAU1 as used herein is defined as the amount of enzyme that gives one unit of absorbance at 620 nm under modified Phadebas amylase test conditions described below. The value of at least 0.16 AAU of acid amylase per AGI underIodine Starch Amylase Test conditions, as defined herein before, corresponds with the value of at least 0.12 AAU of acid amylase per AGI under modified Phadebas Amylase Test conditions. A drawback of the latter method is a synergistic effect which occurs when amyloglucosidase is present.Moreover, it is very difficult or even impossible to automatize this method. It will be understood that, unless otherwise stated, the AAU values which are mentioned in this specification are expressed in units according to the modified Iodine StarchAmylase Test method. The following test methods and Examples illustrate the invention. IODINE STARCH AtIYLASE TEST This method is based on the measurement of the optical density of iodine starch complexes in the presence of an amyloglucosidase inhibitor. Acarbose, Bay g 5421, was used as the amyloglucosidase inhibitor, cf. Schmidt et al, Naturwissenshaften 64 1977 535.Reagents A 2 solution of soluble starch Lintner, J.T. Baker Co. in citrate buffer 0.013 M, pH 4.2 . Iodine stock solution containing 22 g iodine and 44 g potassium iodide per litre of distilled water. Diluted iodine solution 4 ml of iodine stock solution and 110 g potassium iodide dissolved in distilled water. Distilled water added up to 1 litre. Colour reference containing 250 g cobaltous chloride 6 aq. and 38.4 g potassium bichromate per litre in 0.01 N HC1. Procedure The starch solution 20 ml was preheated at 60 C for 20 min. Starting at time 0 exactly 10 ml of the enzyme sample containing 1.4 1.8 AAU ml room temperature was added to the substrate solution. If amyloglucosidase is believed to be present in the enzyme sample, the amyloglucosidase inhibitor Bay g 5421 is previously added to the enzyme sample in a concentration of 1 ug per AGI. After 20 min. of incubation 1 ml of the solution was transferred to 5 ml of the diluted iodine solution. The optical density was immediately measured at 620 nm in a 1 cm cuvet using distilled water as the blank. This procedure of transferring and measuring was repeated at 1 min. intervals until readings were found which were lower than the readings of the colour reference.The time T needed to reach the absorbance equal to that of the colour reference was established graphically.The acid amylase activity in units AAU present in the incubation solution was calculated from 400 T in which 400 mg of soluble starch in the incubation solutionT reaction time needed min. MODIFIED PHADEBAS AMYLASE TEST The standard Phadebas amylase test Marciniak et al., Starch 34 1142 1982 modified for conditions of acidic pH and a temperature of 600C was effected as follows. In a glass vial with screwed cap 1 ml of enzyme sample containing 10 AGI and 4.0 ml acetate buffer 0.3to, pH 4.0 were pipetted.Then a Phadebas tablet Pharmacia, batch no. HE 74112 was added and after vortexing for 15 sec. the tube was closed and placed in a water bath at 60 C. The reaction was stopped exactly 15 min. after the addition of the tablet by adding 0.3 N NaOH 5 ml and shaking. After centrifugation the supernatant was removed and the optical density OD was measured in the range 0.2 to 2.0 in a 1 cm cuvet at 620 nm relative to destilled water. A blank distilled water underwent the same procedure. The ss OD is a measure of the acid amylase activity. One unit of acid amylase activity AAU is defined as the amount of enzyme that gives one unit of absorbance t OD 1 at 620 nm under these test conditions. AMYLOGLUCOSIDASE ASSAY Soluble starch 2 ml Lintner Starch, J.T. Baker Co. in a concentration of 16 g l of acetate buffer 0.04I1, pH 4.3 was preheated at 60 C for 5 min. and then added to 2 ml of enzyme solution 0.15 0.55 AGI ml . After mixing the suspension was incubated at 60 C. The reaction was terminated after 15 min. by adding 20 ml IJaOH 0.005 N and the glucose concentration determined by the glucose oxidase method. THE SACCHARIFICATION PROCESS The saccharification process was effected on maltodextrin liDO3 Roquette Frères having a dextrose equivalent DE of 16.5. This substrate contains some oligosaccharides having fructosyl end groups, from which as much as 0.4 0.5 of the disaccharide naltulose is formed in the saccharification step. To a solution of this substrate 33Z dry solids 2100AGI 100 g dry solids were added. The pH was adjusted to 4.20 with 1 N acetic acid. The mixture was incubated at 60 C in a water bath. Aliquots of 0.1 ml were taken from the reaction mixture at 16, 24, 48, 64, 72, 80 and 92 hr and added to 3 ml of distilled water in a closed test tube. Each diluted sample was inmediately placed into a boiling water bath for 10 min. in order to inactivate the enzyme. After cooling about 150 mg of dried Amberlite lIB 3 resin BDH were added to each sample in order to remove HPLC disturbing salts. After standing for 1 hr the resin was removed and 40 p1 of sanple were injected onto the HPLC for glucose determination according to the method of Scobell et al. Cereal Chem., 54 4 , 1977 905 917 , modified in that a bio Rad HPX 87C 300 mn column was used. The precision and accuracy of the assay were found to be 0.1 and 0.2 absolute respectively at a glucose concentration in the range of 90 96 . Under these conditions a peak level of 94.6 94.8 of glucose was achieved using current commercial amyloglucosidase preparations from Miles DIAZYlIE and OPTIDEX , Novo AMG andGist Brocades AMIGASE GM . EXAMPLE I Isolation and Identification of Acid Amylase In order to identify and isolate amylolytic components present in an amyloglucosidase preparation, an amyloglucosidase enzyme preparation produced by a transglucosidase negative strain of A. niger was subjected to high performance liquid chromatography. The system comprised an anion exchange column and a gel filtration column coupled in series. After injection of a part of the AG preparation onto the ion exchange column, the solvent, which was 0.05 M sodium acetate buffer with a pH of 4.0, was led through both columns until the positively charged and uncharged components had reached the gel column. The molecules adsorbed on the ion column were eluted by a salt gradient 0. 05 1. 65 M sodium acetate buffer, pH 4.0 and then the molecules bound on the gel column were eluted with the original solvent. This procedure revealed an excellent separation as can be seen from the accompanying Fig. 1, between the amylolytic enzymes, and both amyloglucosidase isomers and an cc amylase were identified by fractionating the effluent and incubating the collected fraction with suitable substrates, i.e. maltose and soluble starch 10 dry solids . The isolated amyloglucosidase components produced glucose from starch and maltose, whereas the isolated a amylase produced a typical oligosaccharide pattern from starch. The characteristics of the amylase, in particular in relation to pH and temperature, were determined using soluble starch as a substrate. The amounts of the main products formed di and trisaccharides showed an optimum at a pH of 3. 5 to 5. 0 indicating that the enzyme is a true acid amylase AA . The effect of temperature was investigated at a pH of 4.0 and the acid amylase had its optimum between 65 and 70 C as was determined from the behaviour of the tri saccharides formed. These results indicate that the acid amylase is sufficiently stable at the standard saccharification temperature of 60 C. The fractions containingAA, the activity of which was stable for more than 3 months, were used for enrichment experiments. EXAMPLE II Saccharification with Acid Amylase Enriched Samples Saccharification was accomplished on maltodextrin tO03 having a dextrose equivalent DE of 16.5, and, to a solution of this substrate 33 dry solids , 2100 AGI 100 g dry solids were added. Also, various amounts of acid amylase were added, the activity of which was previously determined according to Phadebas method described above. During the saccharification, the starch hydrolysate was maintained at a pH of 4.0 4.2 and a temperature of 600C. Under these conditions the degree of saccharification or glucose formation was measured over the period between 17 and 91 hrs.The experiments with acid amylase enriched samples which were completely free of transglucosidase demonstrated that the glucose yield was increased and the saccharification time was shortened as can be seen from the results of Table I below. TABLE I EMI13.1 SEP Glucose SEP yield SEP tb Sample SEP AAU AGI SEP AAU AGI SEP AAU AGI SEP Saccharification SEP time SEP in SEP hr. tb No. SEP a SEP b SEP c tb SEP 17 SEP 24 SEP 41 SEP 48 SEP 65 SEP 72 SEP 91 tb 1 SEP 0.08 SEP SEP 0.074 SEP 89.1 SEP 92.5 SEP 94.1 SEP 94.1 SEP 94.7 SEP 94.7 SEP 94.5 tb 2 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.07 SEP 0.20 SEP 90.7 SEP 93.6 SEP 94.6 SEP 94.8 SEP 94.7 SEP 94.7 SEP 94.5 tb 3 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.15 SEP 0.35 SEP 91.7 SEP 94.2 SEP 94.9 SEP 94.8 SEP 95.0 SEP 94.8 SEP 94.6 tb 4 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.35 SEP 0.73 SEP 92.7 SEP 94.6 SEP 94.9 SEP 94.9 SEP 94.6 SEP 94.8 SEP 94.5 tb 5 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.70 SEP 1.40 SEP 93.5 SEP 95.0 SEP 94.8 SEP 94.8 SEP 95.0 SEP 94.8 SEP 94.2 tb 6 SEP 0.08 SEP 1.50 SEP 2.92 SEP 94.0 SEP 94.9 SEP 94.8 SEP SEP 94.4 SEP 94.4 SEP 94.3 tb 7 SEP 0.08 SEP 2.32 SEP 4.48 SEP 94.4 SEP 95.1 SEP 94.7 SEP SEP 95.0 SEP 94.5 SEP 94.4 tb a present in original amyloglucosidase preparation measured with modified Phadebas method b AAU of added acid amylase measured with modified Phadebas method c acid amylase activities converted into AAU as defined hereinbefore in the Iodine Starch Amylase Test The results of Table I show that acid amylase increases the yield of glucose from 94.7 to 95.1 under these conditions while the saccharification time for optimum yields decreased from 70 hours to 211 hours. This makes the use of acid amylase commercially important and equivalent to the results obtained with pullulanase. A portion of the amyloglucosidase can be replaced with the acid amylase while obtaining economically attractive glucose yields and saccharification times. EXAMPLE III Using the saccharification procedure of Example I, tests were run with the normal and one half normal dosages of amyloglucosidase and with one half normal dosages of amyloglucosidase with enrichment of acid amylase and acid pullulanase, described in European Patent ApplicationPublication No. 0 063 909, alone and in combination.1 pullulanase unit PU is defined as the amount of enzyme necessary to produce lyumole of reducing sugar from pullulan per minute under standard conditions. The results are reported in Table II. TABLE II EMI15.1 SEP Glucose SEP yield SEP tb Sample SEP AGI SEP AAU SEP AAU SEP AAU SEP PU gDS SEP Saccharification SEP time SEP in SEP hr. tb No. SEP relative SEP AGI SEP AGI SEP AGI tb SEP dosage SEP a SEP b SEP c SEP 17 SEP 24 SEP 43.5 SEP 48 SEP 65 SEP 71 SEP 89 tb 1 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.08 SEP SEP 0.074 SEP SEP 90.8 SEP 92.3 SEP 94.3 SEP 94.4 SEP 94.6 SEP 94.7 SEP 94.7 tb 2 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP SEP 0.074 SEP SEP 80.1 SEP 87.0 SEP 91.0 SEP 91.8 SEP 93.1 SEP 93.7 SEP 94.4 tb 3 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.88 SEP 1.74 SEP SEP 85.4 SEP 91.4 SEP 94.6 SEP 94.5 SEP 95.0 SEP 95.0 SEP 95.3 tb 4 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP 0.88 SEP 1.74 SEP 1.2 SEP 87.3 SEP 93.5 SEP 95.5 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.5 SEP 95.7 SEP 95.5 tb 5 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP 1.68 SEP 3.26 SEP SEP 88.1 SEP 93.3 SEP 94.9 SEP 95.0 SEP 95.1 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.6 tb 6 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP SEP SEP 1.2 SEP 83.4 SEP 90.4 SEP 95.2 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.5 SEP 95.5 SEP 95.7 tb 7 SEP 0.5 SEP 0.08 SEP 1.68 SEP 3.26 SEP 1.2 SEP 90.3 SEP 94.2 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.4 SEP 95.3 SEP 95.5 tb a present in original amyloglucosidase preparation measured with modified Phadebas method b AAU of added acid amylase measured with modified Phadebas method c acid amylase activities converted into AAU as defined hereinbefore in the Iodine Starch Amylase Test The results of Table II show that the glucose level reached its peak after about 80 hours using half the normal anyloglucosidase AG and an acid amylase AA enrichment factor, which is slightly longer than the 70 hour saccharification time using the normal amyloglucosidase dosage.However, the peak level of glucose increased from 94.7 to 95.5 which may be due to less isomaltose formation consequent upon the smaller amount of amyloglucosidase used. Similar results were obtained when pullulanase and amyloglucosidase were used together, although significant differences in glucose production were noted at the shorter saccharification times. The combination of acid amylase, pullulanase and one half of amyloglucosidase showed a faster saccharification resulting in higher yields of glucose per enzyme activity AGI per hour. These results indicate that acid amylase substantially contributes to the hydrolysis of starch in the saccharification step. This surprising effect competes with that of the acidic pullulanase, although the two enzymes act by basically different mechanisms. While pullulanase is thought to be an endo 1,6 bond splitter, acid amylase has a 1,4 bond splitting activity. EXAIIPLE IV Using the novel acid amylase in the saccharXfication of starch makes possible an increase in the glucose peak levels, a shortening of the saccharification times and a reduction of the necessary amyloglucosidase dry solids DS ratio. Another advantage in using acid amylase in the saccharification of liquefied starch is the increase in substrate concentration which is then possible, which can substantially reduce evaporation costs. Solutions containing substrate IID03 in various dry matter contents were adjusted to pII 4.2 and heated to 60 C. half normal AG dosages 10.5 AGI gDS and a 9 fold amount of acid amylase were added. Aliquots were taken at various intervals and analyzed as described in Example I. Control experiments with normal and halved AG dosages without additional acid amylase were also carried out. The results are given in Table III below. TABLE IIIEMI17.1 tb SEP Saccharification SEP maximum tb DS SEP AGI gDS SEP AAU AGI SEP time SEP h SEP glucose SEP tb SEP 25 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.074 SEP 140 165 SEP 95.6 tb SEP 25 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.74 SEP 64 SEP 96.1 tb SEP 29 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.074 SEP 140 165 SEP 95.3 tb SEP 29 SEP 10.5 SEP o.74 SEP 90 SEP 95.8 tb SEP 33 SEP 10. SEP 5 SEP 0.074 SEP 140 165 SEP 94. SEP 6 tb SEP 33 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.74 SEP 90 SEP 95.2 tb SEP 37 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.074 SEP 140 165 SEP 93.9 tb SEP 37 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.74 SEP 71 SEP 94.7 tb SEP 45 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.074 SEP 140 165 SEP 91.3 tb SEP 45 SEP 10.5 SEP 0.74 SEP 71 SEP 92.8 tb SEP 21 SEP 0.074 SEP 71 SEP 94.7 tb maltodextrin MDO3 The data in Table III show that when amyloglucosidase is used in conjuction witch the new acid amylase the dry matter content DS can be elevated to yield maximum glucose levels which are higher then those obtained under similar conditions using commercial amyloglucosidase preparations. For example, a glucose peak level of 94.7 was obtained with a connercial amyloglucosidase preparation at 33 DS.The same maximum glucose level was achieved at the same incubation time with a 10 fold addition of acid amylase and half the amount of AG at 37 DS. EXAMPLE V Acid a amylases from other sources, i.e. bacterial enzymes, which are active in the acidic pH range and at 60 C, can also be used to improve the saccharification brought about by amyloglucosidase. Thus a crude fernentation sample of the bacterium ATCC 31199 see British Specification No. 15396911 CPC International , containing amylase activity, was used in a saccharification experiment with amyloglucosidase. Using the crude sample in a ratio of AAU AGI 0.74 gave significant higher glucose levels compared with those obtained with amyloglucosidase only in a control experiment, although the values were lower than those obtained by a corresponding amount of the fungal acid amylase. The results are shown in the following Table IV. TABLE IV EMI19.1 SEP Glucose SEP yield SEP tb Sample SEP AAU AGI SEP AGI gDS SEP Saccharification SEP time SEP in SEP hr. tb SEP 24 SEP 40 SEP 47 SEP 64 SEP 71 SEP 88 SEP 95 SEP 112 tb AG SEP 0.074 SEP 10.5 SEP 80.2 SEP 88.9 SEP 90.3 SEP 92.2 SEP 92.8 SEP 93.6 SEP 94.0 SEP 94.3 tb AG SEP SEP Bacterial SEP AA SEP 0.74 SEP 10.5 SEP 81.7 SEP 90.4 SEP 91.6 SEP 93.1 SEP 93.5 SEP 94.1 SEP 94.2 SEP 94.6 tb AG SEP SEP Fungal SEP AA SEP 0.74 SEP 10.5 SEP SEP 94.4 SEP 94.7 SEP 95.1 SEP 95.2 SEP 95.2 SEP SEP cf. SEP Example SEP 1 tb EXAMPLE VI Saccharification experiments were performed by the same procedure as described hereinbefore. Solutions containing substrate MD03, 33 DS were adjusted to pH values between 3.5 and 5.0 and heated to 600C.Amyloglucosidase 21 AGI g DS together with a 9 fold amount of AA compared with the amount present in the AG preparation were added. Aliquots were taken at various intervals and analyzed. Control experiments were also performed. The following data were obtained, see Table V. TABLE VEMI20.1 tb tarting SEP pH SEP pH SEP after SEP 94 SEP h SEP saccharification SEP glucose SEP peak tb SEP time SEP h SEP level SEP tb SEP 3.5 SEP 3.45 SEP 71 SEP 95.3 tb SEP 4.0 SEP 3.85 SEP 64 SEP 95.3 SEP 94.9 4 SEP tb SEP 4.2 SEP 3.95 SEP 64 SEP 95.3 SEP 94.8 µ SEP tb SEP 4.5 SEP 4.1 SEP 64 SEP 95.3 SEP 94.6 µ SEP tb SEP 5.0 SEP 4.2 SEP 64 SEP 95.2 tb Controls AG dosages without extra AA addition Thus, using excess of acid amylase comparable glucose peak levels were obtained in the pH range of 3.5 to 5.0. EXAMPLE VII Solutions containing substrate MD03, 33 DS were adjusted to pH 4.2 and heated to various temperatures.Amyloglucosidase 21 AGI gDS and a 9 fold amount of acid amylase were added. Aliquots were taken and analyzed as described in Example II. Controls AG dosages without extraAA addition were also carried out. The results are given inTable VI below. TABLE VIEMI21.1 tb Temperature SEP AAU AGI SEP saccharification SEP glucose tb SEP tine SEP in SEP hr. SEP yield SEP tb SEP 55 SEP 0.074 SEP 65 SEP 94.6 tb SEP 0.74 SEP 47 SEP 95.0 tb SEP 57. SEP 5 SEP 0.074 SEP 71 SEP 95.0 tb SEP 0.74 SEP 47 SEP 95.5 tb SEP 60 SEP 0.074 SEP 71 SEP 94.8 tb SEP 0.74 SEP 64 SEP 95.3 tb SEP 62. SEP 5 SEP 0.074 SEP 90 SEP 94.8 tb SEP 0.74 SEP 64 SEP 95.4 tb SEP 65 SEP 0.074 SEP 117 SEP 93.0 tb SEP 0.74 SEP 89 SEP 94.6 tb These results confirm that acid amylase is stable at temperatures up to at least 650C, which makes it very suitable for use in conjunction with amyloglucosidase at relatively high saccharification temperatures. The lower glucose values at 65 C are likely caused by the lower thermostability of the AG enzyme relative to AA. The presence of acid amylase has a beneficial effect on the glucose production at higher temperature.