# A T DNA DERIVED VECTOR

## Claims
Vektorplasmid für den Transfer von Fremd DNA in das Genom von pflanzlichen Aufnahmezellen, umfassend eine heterologe, pflanzenexprimierbare DNA Sequenz, die beidseits von einer sich wiederholenden T DNA Sequenz flankiert ist, die aus der Gruppe RoTL A , RoTL B , RoTR C und RoTR D ausgewählt ist, wobei diese die folgenden Nucleotidsequenzen haben

## Description
The field of this invention involves the insertion of foreign DNA which is desired to be expressed in a plant, into a transformation vector, i.e., a plasmid capable of introducing the DNA into plant cells and then maintaining that DNA. Plant cells containing foreign genes which have been introduce by this transformation vector, are used to regenerate morphologically normal plants that carry foreign genes. In an ideal situation, these foreign genes should be carried through meiosis to subsequent generations of plants. A goal of plant genetic manipulation is to introduce desired genes into a plant in such a manner that these genes will be functional in the desired tissue at the correct time. The most promising vehicle for such plant genetic manipulations makes use of the Ti plasmid of In addition, specific foreign DNA fragments have been inserted into the T DNA region of the Ti plasmids of Transformation vectors, e.g., Ti plasmids, can carry foreign genes and stably introduce them into plant cells by transfer of the T DNA regions into the plant genome. These vectors should be able to transform single cells or protoplasts. Such a transformation has been achieved by i fusion of bacterial spheroplasts with protoplasts Hasezawa, S. When any of these methods are used, a selectable marker should be available. One possibility is to use antibiotic resistance markers but it would be undesirable to spread such resistance genes in the commercial applications of genetic engineering. Transformed cells which form tumors are generally to be avoided because it is sometimes difficult to regenerate plantlets from such tumor tissue. A possibility of avoiding tumor formation is to use crippled Ti plasmids which do not cause the formation of tumors but still insert their T DNA into the plant genome Leemans, J. In summary, the field of the present invention is the construction of plant transformation vectors which possess maximum efficiency in the transfer of foreign genes to a plant genome and which then can be amplified in the plant genome whenever desired. These plant transformation vectors should confer maximum expression of these foreign genes in the desired tissues and at the desired time. Crown gall disease of dicotyledonous plants results from an infection by the gram negative soil bacterium The transferred T DNA produces observable phenotypes in the host such as opine synthesis. The earliest opines to be identified resulted from the condensation of an amino acid and a keto acid Goldman, A., Tempe, J. and G. Morel 1968 Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci. Paris The T DNA the DNA transferred from the Ti Plasmid to the plant nucleus varies from one Ti plasmid group to another. The octopine A type plasmids transfer two pieces of plasmid DNA to plant cells either together or separately Thomashow, M. F., Nutter, R., Montoya, A. L., Gordon, M. P. and E. W. Nester 1980 Cell The transferred T DNA is integrated into the chromosomal DNA of the transformed plant cells Thomashow, M. F. Tumor cells containing T DNA can be maintained in culture indefinitely. Further, unlike normal plant cells, tumor cells can be grown on a chemically defined medium which lacks added auxins and cytokinins plant growth hormones A. C. Braun 1958 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. The genetic organization of the T DNA of a number of tumors promoted by strains of In order to regenerate plants from transformed tissue culture, mutants can be obtained in the tms, tmr and tml loci. However, it then becomes difficult to distinguish transformed tissues from untransformed tissue leading to a requirement for some form of selection. One form of selection has been by the insertion of antibiotic resistance genes into the T DNA Ursic, D. In any program involving the genetic alteration of plants, foreign DNA of interest must be inserted into a transformation vector, i.e., a plasmid, which in turn can stably introduce the DNA into plant cells. These plant cells containing the foreign genes introduced by way of the transformation vector can then be used to regenerate morphologically normal plants. In an ideal situation, the altered plants should transmit the foreign genes through their seeds. The best available transformation vector at present is the T DNA fragment which is transferred and integrated into the plant genome from the Ti plasmid of After the work described in the Detailed Description of the Invention was completed, Van Slogteren This invention makes use of unique T DNA constructions from the Ti plasmid of According to the present invention, there is provided a vector plasmid for the transfer of foreign DNA into the genome of recipient plant cells comprising a heterologous DNA sequence which is expressible in a plant, and which is flanked on each side by a T DNA repetitive sequence selected from the group consisting of RoTL A , RoTL B , RoTR C and RoTR D having the nucleotide sequences set out hereafter. Preferably, the vector plasmids of the invention contain a versatile restriction endonuclease site with sticky ends which are compatible to the sticky ends of a number of restriction endonucleases and which can therefore be used for the insertion of foreign DNA fragments obtained with the aid of different restriction endonucleases. In these T DNA constructions, the tumor forming genes may be deleted and no antibiotic resistance genes need be utilized. In the presence of a toxic amino acid analog, normal, untransformed cells are unable to grow in culture media or only able to grow extremely slowly, whereas transformed cells containing one or more opine synthase genes are able to detoxify the toxic amino acid analog and so are able to grow. The difference between the growth rates of normal and transformed cells is quite clear when a variety of toxic amino acid analogs are used to select for transformed cells or protoplasts. In the absence of tumor inducing genes, it is easier to regenerate plantlets from tissue culture cells or protoplasts. Accordingly, the present invention also provides a method of selecting non tumorous plant cells transformed with a DNA sequence comprising a plant expressible opine synthase gene and a plant expressible heterologous gene, said sequence being flanked on each side by a T DNA repetitive sequence selected from the group consisting of RoTL A , RoTL B , RoTR C and RoTR D having the nucleotide sequences as defined hereafter from a mixture containing said transformed plant cells and untransformed plant cells comprising In addition , the T DNA constructions used in this normal invention permit the recognition of plant cells or protoplasts which have incorporated only parts of TL DNA, only parts of TR DNA or parts of both TL DNA and TR DNA. Since multiple copies of TR DNA are often found in a transformed plant genome, this very desirable feature could be used when a high level of expression of foreign genes is required. This invention relates to the construction of recombinant plasmids derived from the T DNA region of Ti plasmids of Plant cells, which have become infected by In order to be able to precisely construct a variety of recombinant T DNA plasmids with the characteristics described above, the complete nucleotide sequence of T DNA 22,874 nucleotides and approximately 900 nucleotides on each side of the T DNA was obtained. A number of T DNA restriction fragments were sub cloned into pBR322 and propagated in either The nucleotide sequence of a portion of the Ti plasmid 15955 containing the T DNA region is shown Fig 2 . Only one strand of the DNA sequence is presented. It is orientated from 5 to 3 and extends continuously for 24,595 bases, from a A restriction endonuclease map of the sequenced region is shown for five different restriction enzymes Fig. 3 . It has been reported that extended direct repeats of 21 25 bases occur at the borders of the T DNA Bevan, M. W., and Chilton, M D. 1982 Ann. Rev. Genet. Within the total T region there are 26 open reading frames Fig. 3 longer than 300 nucleotides which start with an ATG initiation codon. These possible transcripts would encode polypeptides ranging in size from 11.2 kilodaltons to 83.8 kilodaltons. Fourteen of these open reading frames show possible eukaryotic promoter sequences with close homology to the Goldberg Hogness box. They also show close agreement to the possible eukaryotic ribosome binding site reported by Kozak M. Kozak 1978 Cell The information made available by the present invention as described above enables the construction of a variety of recombination plasmids eminently useful in the transfer of foreign genes and or foreign DNA into the genome of recipient plant cells. Foreign genes and or foreign DNA are here defined as DNA nucleotide sequences which are not normally present in the T DNA of a Ti plasmid. Knowledge of the nucleotide sequence provides information on the locations of the promoter regions of the various genes and the boundaries of the open reading frames and therefore, as a corollary, also gives the amino acid sequence and molecular weight of the various encoded proteins. In addition, the nucleotide sequence has located all of the direct repeat regions which are of vital importance in the transfer of the T DNA including various foreign genes and or foreign DNA from the Ti plasmid to the plant cell genome. Examples 2 7 give details of the construction of a number of useful recombinant T DNA s which can be inserted into a wide host range plasmid. In each of these constructions, suitably located unique restriction sites are available for the insertion of foreign DNA containing one or more genes. In addition, antibiotic resistance genes are incorporated in the vector region of the recombinant plasmid, i.e., outside the T DNA repetitive regions which include the selective opine synthase gene and the foreign DNA and or foreign genes. A novel feature of these T DNA recombinant constructions is that the tumor inducing genes tms, tmr and tml are preferably deleted or inactivated with the result that it becomes easier to regenerate intact plants from transformed cells. However, it also becomes more difficult to distinguish between transformed and normal cells, since they no longer form tumors and so a new method of selecting transformed cells must be devised. Van Slogteren They claimed that, when small normal shoots and octopine synthase containing crown gall shoots were transferred to solidified agar media containing various levels of homoarginine HA , growth of normal shoots was clearly inhibited after two to three weeks. In contrast, the crown gall shoots were not inhibited at all at the lower concentrations of homoarginine and only slightly inhibited at the higher concentrations. Van Slogteren Independent experiments by us gave different results. Crown gall tumor lines 15955 1 and 15955 01 were used for these studies these tissues are derived from single cell clones obtained from tumors incited on Surprisingly, therefore, further experimentation with a number of other amino acid analogs showed that selection of octopine synthase containing transformed plant cells was successful with some of the analogs but not with others. The relative differences in growth of tissues on medium that contained L 2, 4 diamino n butyric acid an analog of L ornithine or 2 thiazolyl alanine an analog of histidine were small and inconsistent from experiment to experiment and work with these analogs was abandoned. The same two tissue culture lines i.e., 15955 1 and 15955 01 as were used to test the selective abilities of homoarginine, were also used to test the selective abilities of canavanine SO₄ also an analog of arginine and 2 amino ethyl cysteine an analog of L lysine . In view of the failure to select for cells with the ability to synthesize octopine synthase by growth on medium containing homoarginine, it was most surprising to find a considerable degree of selection for such cells when tests were conducted on canavanine SO₄ CS Fig. 4 . Even more surprising was the powerful and absolute selection for transformed octopine synthase producing cells when the selection was done on medium containing even very low concentrations of 2 amino ethyl cysteine AEC Fig. 5 . These two amino acid analogs CS and AEC can be used to select for transformed cells in tissue cultures and regenerating plants obtained from these tissue cultures or for transformed protoplasts. Furthermore, the same approach to selection is useful with the agropine synthase genes. Agropine and mannopine appear to be derived from condensation of glutamine and a carbohydrate and results from this invention have also clearly demonstrated that when agropine mannopine synthase genes are present in transformed cells, then the use of a toxic amino acid analog distinguishes transformed cells from normal cells. In principle, nopaline synthase could be used to detoxify an appropriate toxic analog of its arginine substrate to achieve selection in the described manner. An appropriate analog has not been identified to date. A number of strains of In all experiments 50mg pieces of tissue were used initially. Three pieces were placed on each petri dish and duplicate dishes were used. These tissue pieces were grown for 9 weeks before they were harvested, dried and weighed. In one set of experiments two strains of In a second set of experiments, an agropine mannopine negative strain WC 58 Table 2 and an agropine mannopine positive strain W B634 of Thus, the results revealed in this invention teach a unique method of selecting for transformed tissues, cells and protoplasts. These results make use of the fact that untransformed cells lacking the genes for opine synthesis cannot grow in the presence of toxic amino acid analogs, whereas transformed cells containing opine synthases are able to grow. Furthermore, the selection can be used either when the octoplne synthase genes are present or when the agropine mannoplne synthase genes are present. The ability to select for transformed cells by selecting for the octopine synthase or the agropine mannopine synthase genes permits a further refinement in the engineering of foreign genes which are desired to be expressed. Thus, the transformed cells may be obtained by selecting for one of the opine synthase biosynthetic pathways and inserting the foreign gene s into the reconstructed T DNA in such a manner that expression of these genes comes under the control of the other opine synthase. For example, it would be possible to construct a T DNA containing RoTL A , octopine synthase, RoTL B , agropine mannopine synthase RoTR D . An analog of lysine, e.g., 2 amino ethyl cysteine could be used to select for transformed cells by selecting for octopine synthase while the unique A further advantage of such a T DNA construction would be that the two repetitive sequences RoTL A and RoTL B as well as the octopine synthase gene used to select for transformed gene s which would still be expressed under the control of the agropine mannopine synthase gene promoter region. In summary, the use of reconstructed T DNA plasmids containing only the direct repeats involved in incorporation of the T DNA into the plant genome and one or more opine synthesizing genes has resulted in the following useful results 1. The tumor inducing genes have been deleted resulting in greater success of plant regeneration from transformed tissue cultures or protoplasts. 2. The opine synthesizing genes have been used to select for those plant cells which have incorporated the T DNA and therefore in addition any foreign genes which have been inserted . 3. The invention now permits the recognition of plant cells which have incorporated only parts of TL, only parts of TR or parts of both TL and TR. Since multiple copies of TR are found in a transformed plant genome, this feature could result in a much higher level of expression of foreign genes incorporated into some of these T DNA constructions. Fragments of T DNA and the flanking regions obtained by use of restriction endonucleases were cloned into pBR322 and then propagated in either Clone p233 consiste of the Next the Finally, the wide host range plasmid pSUP106 which will replicate in Restriction enzymes and ligase were all used according to the recommendations of the supplier. As described in Example 2, the The next step is to amplify the Then the 3 overhang produced by cleavage of fragment 4 with Finally the wide host range plasmid pSUP106 is linearized with The agropine mannopine synthase genes include open reading frames 24, 25, and 26 Fig. 3 but it is not yet known which of these open reading frames corresponds to agropine synthase and which corresponds to mannopine synthase. Reading frames 24 26 are therefore referred to as agropine mannopine synthase genes ags mas . The Next Fragment 1 Fig. 7 , fragment 6 Fig. 11 and fragment 7 Fig. 12 are mixed together and ligated. Since no more than two of the six ends have compatible cohesive ends, the three fragments can only ligate in one orientation to give fragment 8 Fig. 12 A ags mas D with a Clone p233 which spans the A second fragment fragment 10 which includes the agropine mannopine synthase genes and the direct repeat at the right hand border of T The wide host range vector pSUP106 which can replicate in Fragment 1 was obtained as described in Example 2 Fig. 7 . This fragment has a Clone p233 which spans the The wide host range plasmid pSUP106 is finally linearized with the restriction endonucleases This construction has the advantage that, if desired, the foreign genes can be inserted into one of the opine synthase genes and the promoter of that gene then used for the expression of the foreign genes while the second opine synthase gene can be used for the selection of transformed cells. The methods of obtaining the fragments used in the present T DNA construction have been described in the previous examples. Fragments 1 and 2 were obtained as described in Example 2 Figs. 6 and 7 . Fragment 4 is obtained as described in Example 3 Fig. 10 and fragment 13 is obtained as described in Example 6 Fig. 15 . In the present example, fragments 2 and 13 are ligated together to give fragment 14 containing two octopine synthase genes and two repetitive RoTL B sequences in opposite orientations Fig. 17 . Following repurification of the ligated fragment, the correct orientation is checked by a restriction endonuclease map and the purified, ligated fragment 14 is then mixed with fragments 1 and 4 to yield fragment 15 Fig. 17 containing all the required elements. Fragment 15 is inserted into the wide host range mutant pSUP106 following linearization of the vector with the restriction endonucleases pES1 H. E. Schnepf The sequence of the crystal protein gene see below b H. C. Wong Note that only three out of 23 base pairs have been changed the underlined nucleotides of a , thereby assuring good hybridization properties. The crystal protein gene is removed from mWB2344 ES1 A Cla by digestion with Excess linkers are trimmed off of the crystal protein gene bearing fragment by digestion with pKS111, which is a pRK290 clone corresponding to the T DNA clone p403 Fig. 3 which encodes a gene covering 1.6kb C. F. Fink 1982 M.S. thesis, University of Wisconsin Madison , or p403 itself, is digested with The above manipulations are done with the following rationale The T DNA gene in pKS111 is shown below in summarized form as follows By removing the pKS The linkers are trimmed by digestion with pA ocs B pA ocs B The purpose of this example is to demonstrate a procedure to select transformed cells from mixtures of transformed and non transformed cells. Generally, transformed cells are selected for their hormone autonomous growth. However, when Ti plasmids that have been mutated in tms, tmr or tml are used, then transformed cells are not autonomous and a selectable marker becomes desirable. Kanamycin or G418 resistance is a possibility, but it requires engineering a resistance gene. Another possibility is the use of octopine synthase as an enzyme to detoxify exogenously added toxic amino acid analogs, e.g., 2 aminoethyl cysteine 2AEC . In this invention, it has been demonstrated that non transformed tissues were killed by low levels of AEC Fig. 5 whereas crown gall tissues expressing octopine synthase were not killed. Therefore, the present example uses Ti plasmids that are mutated in tms, tmr or tml but contain a non mutated octopine synthase gene. Plants are first stem inoculated as previously described K. A. Barton Once the cells have started to grow, the entire filter is transferred to hormone media containing 2AEC. The transformed cells will be expressing octopine synthase that will detoxify the amino acid analog thus allowing them to grow whereas the untransformed cells will be killed. Colonies that grow on 2AEC are picked and tested for octopine synthase. These cells can then be regenerated and can be shown to carry T DNA containing the octopine synthase gene. Aqueous solutions of the amino acid analogs were adjusted to pH 5.6 5.8 and sterilized by filtration 0.45 micron Millipore filter . Serial dilutions of each analog were added to cytokinin and auxin free agar medium Linsmaier, E. M. and F. Skoog 1965 Physioi. Plant Octopine synthase was assayed using some modifications of previous methods Birnberg, P.