# CELLS AND THEIR USE IN METHODS FOR PRODUCING PRODUCT COMPOUNDS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung einer Produktverbindung unter Verwendung von Zellen, um ein Rohmaterial in die genannte Produktverbindung umzuwandeln, wobei die genannte Produktverbindung eine Verbindung ist, die nicht Teil des Glykolyse Wegs ist das Verfahren umfassend die Schritte Auswahl als Zellen, um die genannte Umwandlung zu erzielen, von Zellen, die a nicht die Fähigkeit besitzen, Tricarbonsäurezyklus TAC bzw. Zitronensäurezyklus Zwischenverbindungen aus Glykolyse Wegprodukten zu ergänzen und b Zellen, die manipuliert sind, um das genannte Rohmaterial in die genannte Produktverbindung umzuwandeln oder dessen Umwandlung in diese über einen Biosyntheseweg zu fördern, der frei von TAC Zwischenverbindungen ist Kultivieren der ausgewählten Zellen in einem Kulturmedium und Gewinnen der genannten Produktverbindung aus dem genannten Medium.

## Description
This invention relates to producing a desired compound and to cells used in such production. In conducting fermentation, the cell mass should be adequate to convert raw material into product, but product yields will be reduced if raw material is squandered in producing a cell mass substantially in excess of the amount needed for a reasonable rate of raw material conversion. Accordingly, it is desirable to control cell mass, for example by controlling nutrients in the cell medium. At the same time, the method used to control cell mass should not adversely affect the ability of the cell structure to produce the desired fermentation product. According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of producing a product compound using cells to convert a raw material into said product compound, said product compound being a compound that is not part of the glycolytic pathway, the method comprising the steps of selecting as cells to accomplish said conversion cells that a are defective in their ability to replenish tricarboxylic acid cycle TAC intermediates from glycolytic pathway products and b have been engineered to convert, or enhance conversion of, said raw material to said product compound via a biosynthesis pathway that is free from any TAC intermediates culturing the selected cells in a culture medium and recovering said product compound from said medium. As used herein, glycolytic pathway products means the products in the Embden Meyerhof pathway sequence glucose glucose 6 phosphate fructose 6 phosphate fructose 1,6 diphosphate dihydroxyacetone phosphate glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate 1,3 diphosphoglycerate 3 phosphoglycerate 2 phosphoglycerate phosphoenolpyruvate PEP pyruvate acetaldehyde and acetate. The TAC intermediates are succinate, oxalacetate, malate, fumarate, 2 keto glutarate, isocitrate, and citrate. In a second and alternative aspect of this invention, that is provided a cell characterised by permanent incapacity to form oxalacetate from glycolytic pathway products, said cell being engineered to enhance or to enable production of a desired product compound via a bioconversion pathway that is free from any tricarboxylic acid cycle TAC intermediates, said product compound being a compound that is not part of the glycolytic pathway. In preferred cells, there is a vector comprising DNA encoding an enzyme that catalyzes a reaction in the said bioconversion pathway and the cells are capable of replacing TAC intermediates solely via the glyoxalate shunt, which comprises reactions catalyzed by isocitrate lyase and malate synthase, and is subject to inhibition. In preferred arrangements, the cells are just cultured to a desired cell mass under growth medium conditions such that cells can replace TAC intermediates in sufficient amounts to support growth of the cells, and are thereafter cultured under product production medium conditions such that cell growth is substantially inhibited due to inadequate replacement of TAC intermediates. In this way we provide a convenient method of controlling the extent of the cell mass. The method is not dependent on limiting any nutrient that is required for effecting the conversion of raw material to end product, and the method channels the cell s metabolism away from growth pathways, thereby increasing the efficiency of conversion of raw material to end product. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments and from the claims. The single Fig 1 of the drawings is a flow diagram showing various bioconversion pathways used in growth and fermentation. In the preferred embodiment, the metabolic characteristics of the cells are illustrated in Fig. 1. In Fig. 1, cells derive energy from carbohydrates by degradation through a variety of pathways to PEP, which enters the tricarboxylic acid pathway. As used in this application, carbohydrates means glucose, other saccharides, and polysaccharides which the cell can hydrolyze to saccharides. The TAC includes a catabolic route shown in solid line in Fig. 1 , which produces energy using the four carbon intermediates quasicatalytically ie, a highly oxidized four carbon intermediate is fused to a less oxidized two carbon intermediate then two relatively highly oxidized one carbon molecules carbon dioxide are severed leaving a less oxidized four carbon molecule. Useful energy is derived by oxidizing that four carbon molecule back to the starting point ie, oxalacetate. The net effect of this catabolic portion of the TAC is production of energy and carbon dioxide with a net loss of acetate. There is no net consumption of the four carbon TAC intermediates. The TAC has another important function in the cell, however. It provides a pool of biosynthetic precursors for a variety of important cellular components, including amino acids and nucleic acids. Thus, while the four carbon TAC intermediates are not consumed in the above described catabolic cycle, these intermediates are siphoned off, particularly during cell growth, to form various cellular components, and a mechanism for replacing these intermediates is needed to support cell growth. Pathways for replacing TAC intermediates are known as anaplerotic filling up pathways. In one such pathway dashes in Fig. 1 , PEP is converted to oxalacetate via the enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. In another such pathway dots in Fig. 1 , called the glyoxalate shunt of the TAC cycle, citrate is converted via isocitrate to succinate and glyoxalate by the enzyme isocitrate lyase. Acetate is combined with glyoxalate by the enzyme malate synthase to yield malate. The net result of the glyoxalate shunt is the replenishing of the TAC by a gain of a four carbon TAC intermediate at the expense of two two carbon molecules acetate . A cell that has lost its ability to replenish TAC intermediates from phosphoenolpyruvate can nevertheless grow on acetate, because TAC intermediates are replenished via the glyoxylate shunt. However, the glyoxylate shunt is inhibited by products of the glycolytic pathway upstream from acetate. Thus cells which are capable of growth on acetate alone are inhibited from growth by the addition of glucose. Kornberg 1966 Biochem. J. It is possible to develop cell strains whose growth on a non carbohydrate such as acetate is inhibited by glycolytic pathway substances produced from carbohydrates, and which nevertheless retain their viability and their ability to produce a desired fermentation product in the presence of carbohydrates and or acetate. As explained below, growth of such cells may be readily controlled, e.g. in a fermentation process. The products thus produced include compounds which 1 are not produced in the glycolytic pathway and 2 are produced by a pathway which does not produce a net increase of a TAC intermediate. The cells may be formed by modifying a parent cell to enable or enhance the effectiveness of a pathway for forming those product compounds, and modifying parent cells to impair their ability to form phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, and thus their ability to convert PEP to oxalacetate. Suitable cell lines include those belonging to the following genera Bacillus, Streptomyces, Escherichia, Klebsiella, Salmonella, and Saccharomyces, and particularly strains derived from wild type strains capable of converting carbohydrates to TAC intermediates. A particularly preferred species is Strain KB260, a strain which demonstrates control of cell mass growth, is constructed as follows. Strain YMC9 ATCC accession No. 33927 is mutagenized with the mu Strain KB243 is plated on agar plates containing M9 salts, 2mg ml glucose, 1 µg ml thiamine, 40 µg ml L arginine, and 0.5mg ml succinate and incubated at 42 C. This results in the death of most cells on the plate because of lethal functions on the mud Strain KB244 is transduced to arginine prototrophy with Pl bacteriophage grown on The mutation in the KB260 gene responsible for affecting phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase PPC synthesis is a point mutation, and, therefore, there is the possibility of reversion, resulting in acquisition of the ability to synthesize PPC. Other strains are described below in which the loss of PPC synthesis is attributable to a type of mutation that is less susceptible to reversion. Strains KB280 and KB285, which demonstrate control of cell mass growth in a fermentation process, are constructed as follows. Strain YMC9 is mutagenized with the This property confirms that the lesions in KB279 and KB284 are in fact in the The strains described above are cultured to a predetermined cell mass, and then further cell mass growth is readily controlled. Specifically, the strain is cultivated on a carbohydrate free medium. If carbohydrates are present initially, they will be metabolized to inhibiting compounds which will stop growth. Eventually, the carbohydrates and glycolytic intermediates may be depleted by various metabolic pathways, and growth can begin. Once desired cell mass is achieved e.g. after about eight hours a carbohydrate is added to inhibit continued cell growth by inhibiting the non glucose to TAC pathway, thus depriving the cell of its only source of TAC cycle intermediates needed for cell growth. The amount of carbohydrate added will depend largely on whether the carbohydrate serves solely as a generator of inhibiting substance, or whether it also serves as the raw material for production of the desired compound. About 2 to 4 mg ml of glucose is satisfactory to inhibit cell growth. More glucose is added either at the outset of the fermentation phase or continuously during that phase when glucose serves as the raw material for fermentation in order to maintain sufficient raw material levels to drive fermentation pathway sections. As specifically related to the above described strains of The growth rate of KB260 is like that of its parent YMC9 when grown entirely on acetate, but KB260 and YMC9 respond dramatically differently to the addition of glucose. YMC9 increases its growth rate and reaches a higher saturation density with glucose than either YMC9 or KB260 on acetate alone. KB260 in contrast, ceases accumulation of cell mass shortly after the addition of glucose, and fails to accumulate new cell mass over intermediate to long times. Unlike many other schemes in which an added substance halts cell growth, however, the addition of glucose to the KB260 culture does not significantly impair the viability of the cells. Depending on the desired product and the capability of the parent cells, strains may require modification, such as by the addition of a plasmid with DNA coding for an enzyme catalyzing a reaction in the product fermentation pathway. For example, to produce L phenylalanine a component of a non sugar sweetener useful in a wide variety of food products the strains described above are transformed with a plasmid pKB663 described below. A fragment of DNA carrying the Strains YMC9, KB280, and KB285 are transformed with pKB663 see Bolivar, F. and Backman, K. Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 68 1980 yielding YMC9 pKB663, KB280 pKB663, and KB285 pKB663. Due to their tendency to shed their plasmids, these strains are maintained on agar plates containing M9 salts, 2mg ml glucose, 0.5mg ml succinate, 1 µg ml thiamine, and 100 µg ml ampicillin. Cultures of YMC9 pKB663, KB280 pKB663, and KB285 pKB663 are grown at 37 C in 20ml of M9 salts, 4mg ml sodium acetate, 1µg ml thiamine to a density of either 45 to 60 or 130 to 150 Klett units green filter , at which time the culture is collected by filtration, the cells are resuspended in an equal volume of fresh medium, and glucose is added to a final concentration of 4mg ml. The pattern of cell growth thereafter resembles YMC9 described above for YMC9 pKB663 or KB260 also described above for KB280 pKB663 and KB285 pKB663 following glucose addition. Incubation is continued at 37 C for 10 to 15 hours, at which point culture density, cell viability, and L phenylalanine content of the medium are determined. Additional information concerning the method of modifying YMC9 and the method of culturing the modified cells to produce L phenylalanine is described in our co pending European Patent Application No. 84306841.2 Publication No. EPO145156 , the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Other arrangements are possible within the scope of this invention. For example, the cells used may be microbial cells or cell tissue from multi celled organisms.