# Power conserving control system.

## Abstract
A control system, as for controlling automotive body functions, is powered by a limited capacity electrical power source and is structured and controlled in a manner to mini mize consumption of electrical power. The control system conducts data transactions between a central control station and one or more remote controllers connected therewith, and the central control station includes a provision for electronic signal processing for controlling the data transactions with the remote controllers. A power FET is operatively connected to the power source and to a portion of the control system for selectively connecting or disconnecting power to that control system portion. The system employs a NMOS microprocessor. The portion of the control system from which power may be disconnected will typically include the processor. The level of system activity is monitored and a power down, or sleep control signal is automatically provided if a predetermined condition of inactivity occurs. That power down control signal is operatively applied to certain control circuitry for in turn causing the power switch to disconnect power when the power down control results. Correspondingly, a timer, which preferably is continuously powered, times a sleep interval during which power is disconnected from the relevant control system portion and generates a power up control signal at the end of some predetermined time. The control circuitry re sponds to this power up control signal by causing the power switch to reapply power to the previously disconnected por tions of the control system.