# Novel liquid delivery system for toiletries.

## Abstract
Device for applying liquid materials to the skin, said device having a convex, hollow, shaped poromeric plastic applicator head 20 .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED 1. A liquid applicator suitable for use in the application of liquids to a surface of the human body comprising a container having a container body adapted for storing a quantity of said liquid, said container having an opening at the upper end thereof, substantially hollow, shaped applicator means, having a convex upper surface, positioned in said opening, said applicator means being releasably secured in said opening, said applicator means comprising a non flexible, non deformable, sintered, porous synthetic resin structure having a controlled porosity and omni directional interconnecting pores. 2. The liquid applicator of Claim 1 wherein said applicator means is hemispherically shaped. 3. The liquid applicator of Claim 1 comprising, in addition, a cap fitted over said applicator means.

## Description
NOVEL LIQUID DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR TOILETRIES This application is a continuation in part of application Serial No. 322,627, filed November 9, 1981, which, in turn, is a continuation of application Serial No. 86,225, filed October 18, 1979, now abandoned. The present invention relates to a liquid applicator for dispensing toiletries to the skin, and particularly for the application of antiperspirants and deodorants to the human axilla. Liquid applicators in general are well known in the prior art, particularly theroll on type commonly used for antiperspirants and deodorants. These are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patents 2,749,566 2,923,957 and 2,998,616.Because of problems with roll on type applicators, Karl HeinzRosenthal, OLS 2,151,741 and Berghahn et al., U.S. Patents 4,050,826 and 4,111,567, devised liquid applicators comprising a container fitted with an applicator head having a fixed, solid, shaped form made of a non flexible, non deformable, sintered porous synthetic plastic resin having a controlled porosity and having omni directional, interconnecting pores.In a real sense, these porous plastic applicators resemble the conventional roll on applicator except that it is stationary. The present invention provides a delivery system for liquid toiletry products which is an improvement over the delivery systems of Rosenthal and Berghahn et al. and comprises a substantially hollow non flexible, non deformable, sintered, porous synthetic plastic resin applicator head having a controlled porosity and omni directional interconnecting pores, which applicator head has a convex upper surface, in combination with a container which has the product to be delivered therein. The substantially hollow applicator head of the device of the present invention may be of any suitable configuration, but a convex upper surface has been found to be particularly suitable for contact with various parts of the human body. Thus the applicator head may have, for example, a hemispherical or mushroom like shape. The use of a substantially hollow applicator head, it has been discovered, provides significantly improved delivery of product.The delivery of product through the substantially hollow applicator head is markedly more uniform than through a solid applicator head, wherein, due to the varying distances to be travelled through the solid structure by the product contacting the bottom of the solid shape, much more of the product is delivered through the lower exterior regions of the structure since the product will more quickly travel the shorter distance between the bottom surface of the solid shape and the lower exterior surfaces of the applicator head. Such a preferential delivery through the lower exterior surface bf the applicator head is particularly undesirable, inasmuch as the apex of the applicator head is generally the portion thereof which is in contact with the skin during use. The substantially hollow, shaped applicator head also has the advantage of being substantially more uniform in density and porosity than a solid structure, thereby also contributing to a more uniform rate of flow of product through all portions of the applicator head. The substantially hollow, shaped applicator head of the present invention s system further provides quicker delivery of the product to be dispensed there through since there is a shorter distance for said product to travel through the applicator head. Accordingly, the user need not wait as long for there to be delivery of product. The substantially hollow, shaped applicator head of the present invention s system has the further advantage over the solid head of, for example, U.S.Patent No. 4,050,826, in that it will vent more easily, the applicator of U.S. Patent No. 4,050,826 holding a vacuum for a longer period of time, thereby impeding, and perhaps even preventing, delivery. Finally, the substantially hollow, shaped applicator head of the present invention s system permits much greater flexibility in controlling flow of the product to be delivered therethrough inasmuch as a wide variety of materials may be used in combination therewith, if desired, such as flow restrictors and the like, to yield optimum delivery for any given situation. Obviously, too, controlling the porosity and or thickness of the porous plastic material will also permit the attainment of this objective in many instances. In a preferred embodiment the substantially hollow, shaped applicator head of the system of the present invention is relatively thinner at the apex of the convex upper surface thereof than on the sides thereof, so that there is preferential flow through the apex which would generally be the portion of the applicator head in contact with the surface to which product would be applied through the head, when the device is inverted during use. Such a thickening of the lower area of the applicator head offers the further advantage of providing greater structural support for the head. Such an applicator head is disclosed, for example, in commonly assigned copending application Serial No. 368,327 filed April 14, 1982, the pertinent portions of the disclosure of which are hereby incorporated by reference thereto.Of course, depending upon the pattern of delivery of product desired, this thinning of a portion or portions of the applicator head relative to other portions thereof may be used to achieve any such pattern. The materials which are used to make the substantially hollow, shaped applicator head of the system of the present invention are non flexible, non deformable, sintered porous synthetic resins having a controlled porosity and having omni directional interconnecting pores, formed of aggregates of united polymer particles. The degree of porosity of the porous materials can be controlled in their manufacture, thus insuring a wide range of porosity to suit a wide range of liquid products of varying viscosities. Sintered, porous applicator heads may be fabricated of hiPh densitv polyethylene, low density polyethylene, ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinylidene fluoride, and the like. Products are available commercially under, for example, the trade designations Porex porous plastics and Porous Poly .Preferably, ultra high molecular weight, low bulk density polyethylene is the porous plastic used. Such a material is available, for example, from American HoeschtCorporation as HOSTALENTM GUR 212. The pore size of the applicator head may vary widely, depending on the liquid to be delivered. Low viscosity liquids, such as perfumes, may best be delivered via a small pore plastic applicator, e.g., one micron or less. In general, the pore size may vary between about one and 200 microns, and for most purposes, generally about 10 50 microns are preferred. The container may obviously be of any suitable shape and or design and may be constructed of any suitable material, such as metal, glass, or plastic. The delivery system of the present invention may be used to deliver any topical liquid product to the skin. These may include, for example, after shave lotions, pre shave lotions, skin lubricants or emollients, suntan lotions, fragrances perfumes, colognes, etc. , topical therapeutics analgesics, acne formulations, antiseptics, etc. , and the like. The delivery system is particularly useful in applying antiperspirants and deodorants and avoids the problems associated with roll on applicators, the Berghahn et al. and or theRosenthal device. Thus, for example, the device of the present invention provides a means for applying a low viscosity, fast drying, non sticky solution of aluminum chlorhydrate, avoiding the undesirable features of roll ons, pump sprays, and sticks. Since the porous plastic materials are hydrophobic and do not wet with water, it may be necessary to add alcohol to an antiperspirant formula to transfer the product from the container to the applicator head. Crystallization of the solid components of the solution, such as aluminum chlorhydrate, may be avoided by the addition of certain esters, such as isopropyl myristate or isopropyl palmitate. The invention may be better understood by reference to the drawings in which, Figure 1 is a perspective view of a liquid delivery system within the scope of the instant invention with the cap of the package removed to show a substantially hollow, hemispherically shaped applicator head and Figure 2 is an elevational view with parts broken away to show a cross section of the applicator head and container of the embodiment of Figure 1 Referring to the Figures 1 and 2, the liquid delivery system of the present invention comprises an outer case 10 having a base 12 and a cap 14 which is attached by means of threads 16 at the top of case 10. It will be understood that cap 14 could be attached in another manner, such as, for example by a friction fit.Case 10 contains the liquid product to be dispensed A substantially hollow porous plastic applicator head 20 is fitted into the open end 22 of case 10.In the embodiment shown in the Figures, the applicator head 20 has a hemispherical outer surface 24. Applicator head 20 will be saturated with the liquid product upon inversion of the system, and friction or pressure against applicator head outer surface 24 delivers liquid product from the pores of applicator head 20. In the embodiment shown, an air vent 21 is provided through head 20 to equalize pressure in case 10 and provide continuous flow of liquid product. As aforesaid, a variety of liquid products may be dispensed by means of the system of the present invention.Illustrative products are set forth in the following specificExamples. AFTER SHAVE LOTIONS Example 1 After shave Lotion 0 0 Weight Alcohol SDA 40 or 39C 60.00 Propylene Glycol 3.00 Water, deionized 36.00 Fragrance 1.00 Example 2 after shave lotion high emollience X wt. Alcohol SDA 40 75.00 Di isopropyl Adipate 10.00 Propylene Glycol 5.00 Water, deionized 9.25 Fragrance 0.75Example 3 after shave lotion low alcohol, antiseptic X wt. Alcohol SDA 40 40.000 Hyamine lOX Rohm Haas 0.250 methyl benzethonium chloride Menthol 0.005 Ethyl p aminobenzoate 0.025 Water, deionized 59.720 Fragrance q.s. PRE SHAVE LOTIONSExample 4 pre shave beard softener and lubricant tXwt. Alcohol SDA 40 80.00 Di isopropyl Adipate 5.00 Menthol 0.05 Propylene Glycol 3.70 Lactic Acid 80X 0.30 Water, deionized 9.95 Perfume 1.00 Example 5 pre shave lotion X wt. Standamul G Henkel 10.00 octyl dodecanol Alcohol SDA 40 90.00 Perfume, Color1 Preservatives q.s.Example 6 pre electric shave X wt. Di Isopropyl Adipate 15.00 Alcohol SDA 40 or 39C 84.00 Perfume 1.00Example 7 pre electric shave Xlwt. Isopropyl Myristate 19.00 Alcohol SDA 40 71.00 Water, deionized 10.00 Perfume q.s.Example 8 pre electric shave astringent type X wt. Zinc Phenolsulfonate 1.00 Alcohol SDA 40 40.00 Menthol 0.10 Camphor 0.10 Distilled Witch Hazel Extract 40.00 Water, deionized 18.80 SKIN LUBRICANTS EMOLLIENTSExample 9 Xlwt. Mineral Oil, 50 cs. visc. 99.5 Perfume 0.5 Color, Preservatives q.s. Exampl e 10 Xlwt. Lantrol AWS Emery 10.00 Water, deionized 35.00 Alcohol SDA 40 95X 55.00 Perfume q.s. SUNTAN LOTIONSExample 11 suntan oil wt. Isopropyl Isostearate 45.00 Lanolin Oil 2.00 Amyl Dimethyl PABA 1.00 Mineral Oil, 355 cs. 51.90 Propyl paraben 0.10 Examplel2 clear hydroalcoholic suntan lotion X wt. Acetylated Lanolin Alcohol 2.5 Alcohol, SDA 40 95X 60.0 Example l3 clear hydroalcoholic suntan lotion cont d. X wt. Amyl Dimethyl PABA 2.5 Water, deionized 17.5 Glycerin 10.0 Oleyl Alcohol 7.5Example 14 suntan liquid X wt. Ucon Fluid LB 625 Union Carbide 60.775 P2G 24 Butyl ether Alcohol, SDA 40 95X 30.000 Homomenthyl Sal icylate 8.000 Perfume 1.200 Color 1X FD Yellow 6 0.025Example 15 X wt. Propylene Glycol para Amino Benzoate 4.0 Tween 20 polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate 9.0 Alcohol SDA 40 95X 45.0 Water 42.0 FRAGRANCEExample 16 cologne men s or ladies wit. Alcohol SDA 40 80 90 Perfume 4 6 Water, deionized 4 16 Example 17 emollient cologne wt. Alcohol SDA 40 70.5 Water, deionized 19.5 Dipropylene Glycol 5.0 Lantrol AWS Emery 5.0 PEG 75 Lanolin Oil Perfume q.s. TOPICAL THERAPEUTICSExample l8 analgesic for relief of muscular pain X wt. Methyl Salicylate 10.00 Oleoresin Capsicum 0.00 Methyl Nicotinate 0.25 Isopropyl Myristate 5.00 Alcohol SDA 40 83.75Example 19 acne treatment X wt. Salicylic Acid 3.00 Boric Acid 2.00 Methyl Benzethonium Chloride 0.08 Isopropyl Alcohol 63.00 Water, deionized 31.92 ANTIPERSPIRANT COMPOSITIONExample 20 Weight Aluminum Chlorhydrate 50 aq. 50.0 Ceraphyl 41 Van Dyk 5.0 C12 C15 Alcohol lactate ester SD 40 Ethanol 190 45.0