# Novel plasmid vector.

## Abstract
Vector plasmids are constructed to provide a plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by superinfection of helper phage and having suitable restriction sites for easy insertion of a desired gene and further having an advantage that the gene once inserted can be readily rearranged as desired.

## Claims
WHEAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by super infection of helper phage. 2. A plasmid vector which is capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by superinfection of helper phage, and constructed by integrating a fragment containing a base sequence necessary for propagation of a single stranded filamentous phage referred to as sfp hereinafter into an expression vector. 3. A plasmid vector according to Claim 2, wherein the single stranded filamentous phage is fl, fd or 013. 4. A plasmid vector according to Claim 2, wherein the sfp contains an origin for replication of C chain DNA of the single stranded filamentous phage, an origin for replication of V chain DNA of the single stranded filamentous phage, and an origin for packaging. 5. A plasmid vector according to Claim 2, wherein the expression vector contains a promoter of tryptophan operon, a promoter of lactose operon, a promoter of RecA, a promoter of lipoprotein, or a promoter of alkaline phosphatase. 6. A plasmid vector according to Claim 2, wherein a group of restriction enzyme cleavage sites for further inserting a desired foreign gene exist downstream from the promoter. 7. A process for modifying a recombinant DNA, characterized by rearranging as desired a foreign gene inserted into the plasmid vector defined in Claim 6 according to regulator sequences involved in the expression. 8. A microorganism containing a plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by superinfection of helper phage. 9. A microorganism according to Claim 8 which is selected from Escherichia coli YK960 FERM BP 368 , YK961 FERM BP 369 , YK962 FERM BP 370 , YK 965 FERM BP 371 and YKI966 FERM BP 372 .

## Description
TITLE OF THE INVENTION NOVEL PLASMID VECTOR Backqround of the Invention To express a cloned gene, it is necessary to place it at optimal distances from DNA sequences in expression vectors involved in transcription and translation control.For example, genes must be placed in frame when ligated to the translational initiation codon or signal sequence in a vector. In the case of an invention relating to the present applicant s prior application Japanese Patent ApplicationNo. 147726 82 , a set of three vectors Psi vectors having restriction enzyme cleavage sites in the different reading frames is provided. The procedure using these vectors is only applicable to those cases where ligation is done betweenDNA fragments digested by the restriction enzymes for which the sites exist in the vectors. To overcome these problems, a process which comprises making cleavage at a restriction enzyme site within a structural gene, removing the sequence uptream of the site corresponding to the N terminal region, and filling the space between the control signals for expression and the truncated structural gene with a synthetic DNA has been developed and utilized in the production of human growth hormone and ainterferon US Patent No. 4,342,832 . However, the said process requires synthesis of at least two oligonucleotides, and furthermore longer oligonucleotides must be synthesized, as the cleavage site for enzyme is more distant from the site corresponding to theN terminal amino acid of the desired protein. As a substitute for the said process, the method ofWallace is available R. B. Wallace et. al., Science 209, 1396 1400 1980 , which is known as oligonucleotide directed site specific mutagenesis. The said literature discloses a procedure to delete an intervening sequence from cDNA of a yeast tRNA. First, cccDNA covalently closed circular DNA of a plasmid is partially digested by a restriction enzyme in the presence of ethidium bromide to bring about nicks, and then single stranded circular DNA is formed by exonucleaseIII. With this as a template, a synthetic oligonucleotide of 21 mer complementary to both flanking regions of the part which is desired to be deleted is synthesized, and is used as a primer to form a heteroduplex by in vitro DNA synthesis and ligation.Then, the heteroduplex is used to transformEscherichia coli and the deleted mutant is segregated by replication. The plasmid DNA is extracted from the mixture of these colonies. The mutant plasmid is purified by retransformation, and the strain carrying the mutant plasmid is selected as a clone that can hybridize with the 32p labelled primer. According to the said process, only one oligonucleotide of about 20 mer is necessary as a syntheticDNA. The oligonucleotide can be utilized as.a primer or a probe, and there is also an advantage that the deletion is not limited by the availability of restriction enzyme site, etc. at all. However, there is a problem in the preparation of the template DNA in this process. That is, partial decomposition by a restriction enzyme, treatment with exonuclease III and purification of the single stranded DNA, etc. are complicated and difficult processes, and thus its preparation becomes more difficult with a plasmid of larger size. It is possible to prepare a single stranded DNA after subcloning to a single stranded phage vector, but there are troubles of frequent spontaneous deletions and decreases in the burst size of phage when a large DNA fragment is cloned. As a result of studies to overcome these problems, the present inventors have developed a plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by super infection of a helper phage and have established the present invention.Summary of the Invention The present invention relates to a plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by super infection of helper phage. The novel vector of the present invention has suitable restriction sites for easy insertion of a desired gene and further has an advantage that the gene once inserted can be readily rearranged as desired.Brief Description of the Drawings In the accompanying drawings Fig. 1 illustrates a process for constructing plasmid pYK314. Fig. 2 illustrates a process for constructing plasmid pK33O. Fig. 3 illustrates a process for constructing plasmids pYK331 and pyx332. Fig. 4 illustrates a process for constructing plasmids pYK335 and pYK336, where H represents HindIII P represents PstI Sal represents SalI X represents XbaI B represents BamHI Sma represents SmaI Sst represents SstI E represents EcoRI, respectively, and MCS represents multilinker sequence.Detailed Description of the Invention The present invention provides a plasmid vector capable of being packaged as a single stranded phage like particle by super infection of a helper phage. The present plasmid vector can be constructed by integrating into an expression vector a fragment containing a base sequence necessary for propagation of a single stranded filamentous phage hereinafter referred to as the sfp region as an abbreviation for single stranded filamentous phageness .. The sequence exists in a single stranded, filamentous phage DNA and consists of an origin initiation point for replication of C chain complementary chain DNA, an origin for replication of V stranded virus chain DNA, and an origin for packaging. Any single stranded filamentous phage can be used, and, specifically, preferable examples are fi, fd and M13.These phages are substantially identical with one another, and M13 and fd, and fl and fd are 97 identical with each other in base sequence. The sfp region of these phages, that is, the origin for replication of C chain DNA, the origin for replication of V chain DNA, and the origin for packaging, are all in the intergenic region of these phages, and contained in the region of 5489 5868 Beck Zink, 1981, Gene 16, 35 383. Any vector can be used as the expression vector, so long as it contains necessary signals for transcription, translation, secretion of a foreign gene, etc. Furthermore, a vector having a group of restriction enzyme cleavage sites for inserting a desired foreign gene downstream from these signals can be used with more advantage. As the expression vector, expression vectors containing a promoter of tryptophan operon Ptrp , a promoter of lactose operon Plac , a promoter of RecA of Escherichia coli, etc. Itenzo Nakamura Kagaku to Seibutsu 20, 47 58 1982 , and expression and secretion vectors containing a promoter of lipoprotein Plpp the above literature , a promoter of alkaline phosphatase PphoA of Escherichia coli Kikuchi et. al. Agri. Biol. Chem. 45, 2401 2402 1981 1, etc. can be used. Specifically, an expression and secretion vector pTA529 containing a phoA promoter Japanese PatentApplication No. 140748 83 is preferable and used in Example, but other vectors can also be used in substantially the same procedure. As the vector with cleavage sites for restriction enzyme, known expression vectors having the appropriate restriction sites or vectors constructed by introducing a linker into the expression vectors can be used. To ensure insertion of various restriction fragments, it is preferable to utilize a multi linker sequence comprising many restriction sites. As a specifically preferable example, M13mplO replication type RF DNA is used in Example, but other multi linker sequences can be likewise used. A process for constructing a plasmid vector according to the present invention will be described in detail below Introduction of multi linker sequence possessed byM13mplORF DNA right after the signal sequence of pTA529 M13mplORF DNA is cleaved by a combination of appropriate restriction enzymes to cut out a multilinker sequence, which is introduced into pTA529. For example,M13mplORF DNA is subjected to double digestion with HindIII and EcoRI to form a fragment of 45 base pairs bp containing a multilinker sequence. The fragment is isolated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and linked to a larger fragment 2.36 kilobases Kb of likewise double digested plasmid pTA529 using T4 ligase, whereby plasmid pVK3l4 is obtained. Refer to Fig. 1. Plasmid pYK314 can be directly used in the following construction process, but before that, a smallerEcoRI PvuI fragment of pYR314 is replaced with a fragment derived from pBR322 to delete two common restriction sites, whereby plasmid pYK330 is obtained. Refer to Fig. 2. Introduction of the sfp region of single stranded phage into pYK330 The RsaI fragment containing the sfp region of a single stranded filamentous phage, that is, an origin for replication of C chain DNA, an origin for replication of Vchain DNA, and an origin for packaging, is inserted into pYK330. These origins exist all together in the region of 5489 5868 in the intergenic region. Since the RsaI fragment of 514bp is a fragment between the sites 5487 and 6001, the whole sfp region is contained in the RsaI fragment. Insertion of RsaI into pYK330 is carried out by blunt ends or cohesive ends ligation by utilizing an appropriate restriction site of pYK330. When Escherichia coli YK660 F196 is transformed with a recombinant DNA obtained by inserting the RsaI fragment into pYK330, and when the transformants are infected with a wild type fd or fl phage, the desired single stranded circular pYK331, pYX332 and pYK333 DNAs can be obtained.Refer to Fig. 3. An assay of pYK331 and pYK332 by agarose gel electrophoresis after treatment with restriction enzymes has revealed that they originate from different plasmid DNA chains and are complementary to each other except some portions. It has been found that pYK331 and pYK333 have the same structure. pYK331, pYK332 and pYK333 are specific examples of the present plasmid vectors. Plasmid vectors recovered as single stranded circular DNA after insertion of a desired gene into the three plasmid vectors and successive transformation can be used as templates for the site specific deletion by appropriate synthesized oligonucleotides to adjust the site of the inserted gene according to the sequences involved in transcription, translation and secretion. Thus, with the present plasmid vectors, rearrangement of a desired gene can be made to make most of various functions such as transcription, translation, secretion, etc. without using a joint of synthesized DNA, etc. The general procedure for rearrangement will be described below 1.A recombinant obtained by inserting a DNA fragment containing a desired gene into the multilinker sequence of the present plasmid vector at an appropriate site is introduced into a host microorganism to obtain a transformant. For the primary selection of the transformant, an ampicillin resistance ApR , etc. is used. 2. A recombinant DNA is recovered from the transformant to prepare a restriction enzyme map and make sure of the direction of insertion of the desired gene. 3. The recombinant DNA is introduced into Escherichia coli F by transformation. The transformant is selected byApR. 4. The transformant is infected with a wild type fd or fl, or M13 phage and the phage particles are propagated. 5. The phage particles in the supernatant fluid of the culture broth are precipitated with polyethyleneglycol, and after the concentration, protein is removed by phenol extraction to obtain single stranded DNA.EMI7.1 tb 6. tb SEP signal SEP for SEP the SEP site SEP used SEP the SEP desired tb SEP expression SEP for SEP cloning SEP structural SEP gene tb vector SEP SEP SEP SEP tb SEP C SEP A SEP B tb The initiation point and end point of the deletion A and B, respectively in the above diagram are determined according to the purposes, and an oligonucleotide complementary to the sequences C A and B D more than 6 bp each flanking the region to be deleted is synthesized and the 51 terminal is phosphorylated with ATP and polynucleotide kinase to obtain a primer. 7. The said primer is added to a mixture of singlestranded DNAs containing a recombinant carrying the desired gene, and the mixture is heated at 1000C for one minute, and kept standing for cooling. Then a polymerization buffer together with the four deoxyribonucleotide 3 phosphates, ATP, dithiothreitol, Klenow fragment of Escherichia coli DNA polymerase I, and T4 DNA ligase is added, and the mixture is incubated to form a closed double stranded DNA. 8. F strain of Escherichia coli is transformed with the reaction mixture containing the said closed doublestranded DNA, and ApR strain are selected. 9. After mixing appropriate number of transformants, plasmids are extracted according to the rapid method H. C.Birnboim et. al., Nucleic Acid Research 7 1513 1979 3. The plasmids are completely digested with an appropriate restriction enzyme which has a restriction site in the deleted part, and used for retransformation to prevent contamination of the original plasmid and enhance the frequency of transformants with deletion. The transformant is selected by ApR. 10. Clones with the deletion is detected, separated and purified according to a colony hybridization method, using the said synthesized primer labelled with 32P04 as a probe. The foregoing operations can be carried out with pYK331, 332 and 333 containing phoA promoter, and can also be carried out with plasmids pYK335 and pYK336 containing both phoA promoter and lac promoter. pYK335 can be obtained by subjecting pYK331 and plasmid pBH20 containing lac promoter to double digestion with the restriction enzymes EcoRI and PvuI, respectively, and, after separation by agarose gel electrophoresis, ligating by T4 ligase the fragment containing the phoA promoter obtained from the former to the fragment containing the lac promoter from the latter. pYK336 can be obtained likewise by using pYK332 in place of pYK331. Construction and the restriction enzyme maps of pYK335 and pYK336 are shown in Fig. 4. Certain specific embodiments of the invention are described in the following representative example.Example 1 1 Introduction of multilinker sequence into tP vector A multilinker sequence was prepared by subjecting 50 vg of M13mplORF DNA product of Wako Junyaku Kogyo Co. to double digestion with the restriction enzymes HindIII andEcoRI products of Takara Shuzo Co. and isolating a fragment of 45 base pairs bp by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The digestion was carried out at 370C for one hour in 500 vQ of a buffer consisting of 7 mM tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane Tris HCl pH 7.4 , 7 mM MgC12, 7 mM 2mercaptoethanol and 50 mM NaCl and containing 100 units each of the enzymes. Then, 100 gQ of a stopper solution pH 7.6 consisting of 50 mM EDTA, 0.1 bromophenol blue BPB and 5 Ficoll4OO product of Pharmacia Fine Chemicals was added thereto, and the mixture was heated at 700C for 5 minutes to discontinue the reaction. The electrophoresis was carried out with 10 polyacrylamide gel using an electrophoresis buffer containing 40 mM Tris acetate pH 7.8 and 1 mM EDTA under an electric current of 20 mA for 15 minutes.After electrophoresis, the gel was stained with 0.5 llg mQ ethidium bromide for 10 minutes, and a band slightly above BPB at the front was cut out. The gel cutout was ground on a glass plate with a flat spatula and then suspended in 5 m of a DNA eluting solution consisting of 500 nwM ammonium acetate, 10 mM magnesium acetate, 0.1 mM EDTA and 0.1 sodium dodecylsulfate SDS and subjected to extraction with shaking at 370C for 2 hours. The supernatant was filtered through a 0.22 membrane filter product of Millipore Co. and concentrated to about 0.5 mt with sec butanol.After the concentration, an ethanol solution containing 10 parts by volume of ethanol and 1 part of a solution containing 3M sodium acetate, 0.1M magnesium acetate and 1 mM EDTA as auxiliary agents was added thereto, and the mixture was left standing at 400C for 30 minutes. Precipitates of the thus formed DNA was washed with 95 ethanol and then with ethyl ether, dried at room temperature and dissolved in 50 ijt of TES buffer pH 8.0 consisting of 0.03M Tris, 0.005M EDTA and 0.05M NaCl.The DNA comprises a fragment of 45 bp derived from M13mplO. Separately, pTA529, one of the 9 vectors, was prepared from Escherichia coli strain containing it JapanesePatent Application No. 140748 83 according to the method ofA. Coleman et. al. European J. Biochemistry 91, 303 310 1978 . Then, 50 ug of pTA529 was subjected to double digestion with EcoRI and HindIII in the same manner as above, and a fragment of 2.36 kilobase pairs Kb was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. The agarose gel electrophoresis was carried out with 1.0 agarose gel 20 x 15 x 0.5 cm under 150 volts for 2 hours buffer 40 mM Tris acetate pH 7.8 , and staining with 0.5 ug mi ethidium bromide was conducted for 5 10 minutes. After the staining, a portion containing the said fragment of 2.36 Kb was cut out under ultraviolet irradiation, wrapped in a parafilm, and frozen at 400C for 30 minutes. The frozen gel was pressed lightly with fingers and the liquid oozed from the gel was collected into an Eppendorf tube through openings of the parafilm.The liquid was treated with ethanol in the same manner as above, and DNA was recovered as precipitates. The precipitates were treated with ether, dried with air, and dissolved in 0.1 mi of TES buffer. Then, 1 ug of DNA fragment of 45 bp derived fromM13mplO and 20 ig of DNA fragment of 2.3 Kb derived from pYK529 were ligated by T4 ligase, utilizing their common sticky ends. The ligation reaction was carried out in a mixture of 10 units of T4 ligase product of New England Biolabs , 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 10 mM MgC12, 10 mM dithiothreitol, and 0.5 mM ATP at 250C for one hour. After the reaction,Escherichia coli MC1061 strain ÅalacZ Casadaban et al ,J. Bacteriol., 143 971 980 1980 l was transformed with the ligation mixture, and ampicillin resistant ApR strains were selected in a bouillon medium product of Eiken Kagaku Co. containing 100 g mQ ampicillin Ap . The transformation was carried out according to the method of Mandel Higa J. Mol. Biol. , 53, 159 1970 . The thus obtained ApR strains were treated in the same manner as above to prepare plasmids, and the plasmids were treated with restriction enzymes and analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. One of the thus obtained ApR strains contained a plasmid 2.36 Kb of desired structure as shown in Fig. 1 and the plasmid was named pvK3l4. 2 Construction of pYK330 from pYK314 Plasmid pYK314 had two restriction enzyme SmaI cleavage sites hereinafter referred to as SmaI sites and two BamHI sites and the part between the sequence derived from phoA and ss lactamase gene was derived from plasmid pACYC177. Thus, the following operations were conducted to reduce the two cleavage sites for each enzyme to one and to replace the part derived from pACYC177 by the part derived from pBR322. Plasmid pYK314 was prepared from strains containing it in the same manner as above. The thus obtained pYK314 was subjected to double digestion with EcoRI and PvuI product ofBehringer Mannheim GmbH. . The digestion was carried out at 370C for 60 minutes by dissolving about 10 g of pYK314 DNA in 200 gQ of TES buffer, adding 20 iji of a solution consisting of 70 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 , 70 mM MgCl2, 70 raM 2mercaptoethanol thereto, adding NaCl thereto to make the concentration 100 raM, and further adding 25 units each of the restriction enzymes thereto. After the reaction, a larger fragment was isolated therefrom by agarose gel electrophoresis in the same manner as above. Separately, pBR322 Bolivar et al., Gene, 2, 95 1977 was likewise subjected to double digestion, and a smaller fragment was isolated therefrom by agarose gel electrophoresis. The two fragments derived from pYK314 and pBR322 were ligated by T4 ligase, utilizing the common sticky ends.Escherichia coli MC1061 strain was transformed by the ligation mixture and ApR strains were selected. The foregoing operations were all conducted in the same manner as above. The structures of plasmids carried by the ApR strains were investigated in the same manner as above using appropriate restriction enzymes, and a strain having the plasmid of the desired structure was obtained. The plasmid was named pYK330 refer to Fig. 2 . Escherichia coli containing pYK330 was deposited with the FermentationResearch Institute, Agency of Industrial Science andTechnology FERM as Escherichia coli YK960 FERM BP 368 onSeptember 26, 1983. 3 Cloning of single stranded DNA phage fragment in pYR330 Plasmid pYK330 was prepared from the strain carrying it in the same manner as above. The thus obtained plasmid was linearized with PvuII product of Behringer Mannheim GmbH . The reaction was carried out at 370C for one hour by reacting about 10 ug of the plasmid with 25 units of the enzyme in 200 iii of a solution containing 7 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 , 7 mM MgC1, 100 mM NaCl and 7 mM mercaptoethanol. Replication form DNA of single stranded DNA phage fl flRF DNA was prepared in the following manner. Escherichia coli YK660 F strain was cultured with shaking in 1t of a bouillon medium at 370C. When the number of cells reached 108 me, the fl phage was added at 0.01 0.1 m.o.i. multiplicity of infection and culturing was continued at 370C overnight. After the recovery of the cells, phage DNA flRF DNA was prepared in the same manner as in the preparation of plasmid. Then, flRF DNA was cleaved with RsaI product ofNihon Gene Co. , and a DNA fragment of 514 bp was separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the same manner as above. The reaction with RsaI was carried out under the following conditions. That is, 25 llg phage DNA was reacted with 50 units RsaI at 370C for 2 hours in 7 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 , 7 mM MgCl2, and 7 mM 2 mercaptoethanol, and the reaction was discontinued in the same manner as above. A fragment of 514 bp was isolated by 5 polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Then, 10 ug of linearized pYK330 was reacted with 1 iig of the said flRF DNA fragment of 514 bp at 250C for one hour, using 2.5 units of T4 ligase to link each other through blunt end ligation. The reaction was discontinued by heating at 700C for 5 minutes, and those returned to the original pYK330 were destructed by PvuII treatment. Escherichia coliYK660 F196 was transformed with the ligation mixture, andApR transformants were selected in the same manner as above.The ligation reaction and transformation were carried out in the same manner as above, and the PvuII treatment was carried out at 370C for 60 minutes by adding 20 units of PvuII to the ligation mixture. The ApR transformants were cultured at 370C in 1 mi of a bouillon medium overnight together with about 106 me of fd wild type viruses, and then the culture broth was subjected to centrifugation at 15,000 rpm for 5 minutes to recover the supernatant. To the supernatant was added 0.2 mi of an aqueous solution consisting of 2.5 M NaCI and 20 polyethyleneglycol PEG 6,000, and the mixture was ice cooled for 30 minutes.Then, the mixture was subjected again to centrifugation at 15,000 rpm for 5 minutes to recover precipitates. The precipitates were suspended in 100 Q of TES buffer, and sodium dodecylsulfate SDS was added to 0.1 . The mixture was allowed to stand at 250C for 5 minutes, and then subjected to extraction once with a 10 fold volume of phenol, and twice with 10 fold volume of ether to obtain a singlestranded phage DNA solution. Then, 10 vQ of the solution was subjected to agarose gel electrophoresis to detect the single stranded DNA. Strains showing low molecular weight bands in addition to the single stranded DNA of fd wild type viruses added as a helper were selected, and the plasmids contained therein were recovered to analyze their structures. The structures of the thus obtained two plasmids are as shown inFig. 3 as pYK331 and pYK332. pYK331 and pYK332 had the identical structures except that the fragments of fl were inserted in opposite directions. Escherichia coli strains containing pYK331 and pYR332 were deposited with theFermentation Research Institute as Escherichia coli YK961 FERM BP 369 and Escherichia coli YK962 FERM BP 370 , respectively, on September 26, 1983. It was found by the following test that the singlestranded DNAs of pyx331 and pYK332 were derived from different plasmid DNA strands and were complementary to each other. Five vQ each of the single stranded DNAs purified in the same manner as above were together heated at 1000C for one minute in 25 mM Tris HCl, 7 mM MgS04 7H20, 10 mM NaCl, and 7 mM 2 mercaptoethanol, and then the mixture was allowed to stand for cooling and subjected to 0.8 agarose gel electrophoresis. As a result, it was found that bands of larger molecular weight were formed by the heat treatment and cooling of pYK331 and pYK332 together, and it was presumed from their sizes that partial duplex of two DNAs and their multimer were formed. It is found from the foregoing fact that pYK331 and pYK332 are single stranded phage like DNAs each derived from different DNA strands. DNA strands preferable for use will be determined on case by case basis considering the sequence of the synthesized DNA necessary for deletion. 4 Construction of single stranded DNA vector having a lac promoter Ten ijg of the said plasmid pYR331 and 10 llg of pBH20 Science, 198, 1056 1063 1977 were independently subjected to double digestion with restriction enzymes EcoRI and PvuI, and a larger fragment was isolated from pYK331 and a smaller fragment from pBH20 by agarose gel electrophoresis.These two fragments were linked together with 2.5 units of T4 ligase, and Escherichia coli YK660 was transformed with the ligation mixture. ApR strains were selected in the same manner as above. The plasmid of the thus obtained ApR strains was isolated, and its structure was analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis, whereby plasmid pYK335 having a structure as in Fig. 4 was identified. pYK335 is an expression vector in which phoA promoter and lac promoter exist on both sides of the multilinker sequence in opposite directions, and a desired gene inserted at the restriction site of the multilinker sequence is under control of phoA promoter or lac promoter, depending on the direction of its insertion. The site of the desired gene inserted can be adjusted as desired according to the regulatory sequence of expression and secretion by annealing a synthesized DNA that is designed to attain a desired modification adjustment of reading frame, removal of unnecessary sequence, and optimization of expression and secretion to the singlestranded DNA with an insertion of the desired gene, synthesizing a double stranded DNA with the synthesized DNA as a primer and the single stranded DNA as a template, and selecting the desired clone with the synthesized DNA as a probe. Plasmid pYK336 in which the sfp was inserted in the opposite direction was obtained in the same manner as above, except that pYK332 was used in place of plasmid pYK331. Escherichia coli strains containing pYK335 and pYK336 have been deposited with the Fermentation Research Institute as Escherichia coli YK965 FERM BP 371 andEscherichia coli YK966 FERM BP 372 , respectively.