# DIGITAL SIGNAL TRANSMITTING AND OR RECEIVING SYSTEM

## Claims
Digitales Datenübertragungssystem mit einer Datenübertragungsleitung 1 sowie mit einer Einrichtung 22 28 zum Erzeugen multiplexierter, kodierter und modulierter digitaler Audiosignale, die ein Notfallsignal mit zwei Pegeln beinhalten, wobei der eine Pegel den Notfall und der andere den notfallfreien Zustand anzeigt

## Description
This invention relates to a digital signal transmitting system and a digital signal receiving system. It is generally known, especially from traffic information systems, as e. g. disclosed in DE A 31 46 466, to implement such transmitting systems and receiving systems in a way to enable automatic switch over to a traffic information broadcast as soon as such a broadcast is transmitted. For this purpose, the transmitting system comprises means for transmitting multiplexed, coded, and modulated digital audio signals including an emergency signal of two possible levels, one indicating the case of emergency and the other the case of no emergency. The receiving system comprises a control means for checking whether the received and demodulated and decoded audio signals include the emergency signal of the level indicating that a traffic information broadcast is transmitted. If this is the case, the information broadcast emergency broadcast is received. Another system for transmitting an emergency broadcast and a system for receiving such a broadcast has been proposed in the art. Time division multiplexed digital audio signals of a plurality of channels are transmitted by using a vacant channel of a CATV transmission line. When using such a transmission system, a stereo broadcast of high quality, having a wide dynamic range, or emergency broadcast is possible. In order to discriminate whether the broadcast is the stereo or the emergency broadcast, a mode change over signal is time division multiplexed with a word synchronizing signal and a digital audio signal as a 4 bit service signal and then transmitted. At the receiver side, the service bit signal is decoded and used as a control signal for controlling the playback mode of a desired digital audio signal. It is the object of the present invention to provide a transmitting system and a receiving system for digital data which make it possible to receive emergency broadcast signals with higher reliability than in the prior art. The digital signal transmission system of the present invention, using a signal transmission line, comprises The digital signal receiving system of the present invention comprises In these systems, one broadcast medium, i. e. the radio broadcast can be used to control another broadcast medium, i. e. the television medium. For this purpose, digital audio signals are multiplexed with television signals which are accompanied by their own audio signals . The digital audio signals comprise an emergency signal. The TV signals may be signals of an emergency broadcast or of a normal broadcast. In the receiving system, the TV receiver is switched on automatically as soon as the emergency signal in the digital audio signals indicates that a TV emergency broadcast is transmitted. In the receiving system, it is of special advantage to mute the reproduction of the digital audio signals as soon as the TV emergency broadcast is received, so that the emergency broadcast can be noticed dominantly. Now, the present invention will hereinafter be described with reference to the drawings. In this invention, digital data of a plurality of channels and a service bit data for controlling a receiver terminal both of which will be transmitted through a CATV cable television line are transmitted in the form of signal formats as, for example, shown in Figs. 1A to 1F. That is, the data signal is a binary signal including a number of frames as shown in Fig. 1A. One frame thereof is formed of 256 words, W1 to W256 and one word thereof is formed of 168 bits, the cycle thereof being 1 44.1 kHz as shown in Fig. 1B. Each word includes a synchronizing code signal SYNC of 8 bits, a service bit signal SB of 4 bits, data bit signals CHA to CHD of 4 channels, each channel formed of 32 bits and an error correction code signal ECC of 7 bits x 4 in turn. In this case, as shown in Fig. 1A, the synchronizing code signal SYNC is made as a frame synchronizing signal FS in the word W1 which is the beginning of one frame and as a word synchronizing signal WS in the other 255 words, W2 to W256 and the bit patterns of the frame synchronizing signal FS and the word synchronizing signal WS are made different from each other. The service bit signal SB is used as a unit of one frame, namely, 4 x 256 1024 bits to indicate an address signal for each terminal, a content of service for the terminal, for example, the permission for receiving the pay channel audio broadcast and so on. If for the service bit signal SB of one unit 1024 bits , for example, 21 bits are used for addressing the terminals, it is possible to address 2²¹ 2,1 10⁶ terminals. The data bit signals CHA to CHD are each formed of 32 bits and construct 4 independent channels CHA to CHD, respectively. Each of the channels CHA to CHD can adopt any one of modes A to D which are shown in Figs. 1C to 1F. In the mode A, as shown in Fig. 1C, left and right channel stereo audio signals L and R are sampled by a sampling frequency of 44.1 kHz and encoded to PCM signals of 16 bits each. The signal format of these PCM signals corresponds to the same signal format of a DAD digital audio disc in a so called CD compact disc system. Accordingly, the mode A can provide the stereo audio signal of extremely high quality. In the mode B, as shown in Fig. 1D, two pairs of stereo signals L₁, R₁ and L₂, R₂ are respectively sampled by the frequency of 44.1 kHz and then encoded to PCM signals of 8 bits, respectively. In the mode B, the reduction for the noise caused by expanding and compressing in level the audio signals L₁ to R₂ is carried out, too. Consequently, in accordance with the mode B, it is possible to provide stereo broadcasting of high quality in two different channels. In the mode C, as shown in Fig. 1E, monaural signals M₁ to M₈ channels are sampled by a frequency of 22.05 kHz and then respectively encoded to PCM signals of 8 bits. In this case, in accordance with the use, some of the monaural signals M₁ to M₈ are used for facsimile and the like. Thus, in this mode C, it is possible to realize services such as news, weather forecast, emergency broadcast, facsimile and so on. Further, in the mode D, as shown in Fig. 1F, the mode B and the mode C are combined to each other so as to realize one channel so that this mode D can cope with more elaborate service. The modes A to D and the channels CHA to CHD can freely be combined with one another. 7 bits each of the error correction code ECC are used to carry out the error correction of the channels CHA to CHD and a BCH code, by way of example, can be used as the error correction code ECC. The PCM signal Sp with the signal format as described above has the transmission bit rate as given by By way of example, an explanation will be given on a case in which the channels CHA to CHD are assigned as shown in Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, free charge represents the broadcast which can be used or recieved by a fundamental charge of a receiving contract, while charge represents the broadcast which can be used only when the additional charge is paid. In this example, there are provided 128 terminals to which addresses 1 to 128 terminal numbers are assigned. The service bit signal SB has the signal format as shown in Figs. 3A and 3B. As described above, the service bit signal SB takes 1024 bits for one frame as one unit and includes address information and service information for each terminal. As shown in Fig. 3A, if the service bit signals SB of one frame are sequentially grouped into service bit signals SB1 to SB256, 4 bits of one word being made as one set, the service bit signals SB1 and SB2 indicate the content of the service for a terminal 1 and the service bit signals SB3 and SB4 indicate the content of service for a terminal 2. Accordingly, service bit signals SBN and SB N 1 N 1 to 255 indicate the content of service for a terminal N 1 2. The service bit signals SBN and SB N 1 formed of 8 bits are given with a meaning as, for example, shown in Fig. 3B. That is, assuming that the service bit signals SBN and SB N 1 are taken as one data, its first bit PR represents a parity bit for the service bit signals SBN and SB N 1 . And, this first bit PR is made to be 0 digital zero or 1 digital one so as to make the number of the consecutive digital ones of the service bit signals SBN and SB N 1 even. A second bit EM is a bit indicative of the presence or absence of emergency broadcast and becomes 0 in the absence of emergency broadcast, while it becomes 1 in the presence of emergency broadcast. A third bit FX is a bit which permits the receiving of facsimile and becomes 0 for the terminal having no contract for receiving the facsimile, while it becomes 1 for the terminal having concluded such contract. Further, a fourth bit AN is a bit which indicates the presence or absence of the announce broadcast for each terminal and becomes 0 in the absence of announce broadcast, while it becomes 1 in the presence of announce broadcast. A fifth bit ST1 is a bit used to permit the reception of a 16 bit stereo broadcast which uses the channel CHB. This fifth bit ST1 becomes 0 for a terminal having no receiving contract, while it becomes 1 for a terminal having concluded a contract for receiving such broadcast. A sixth bit ST2 is a bit used to approve the reception of an 8 bit stereo broadcast which uses the channel CHC. A seventh bit MN is a bit used to approve the reception of monaural broadcast which uses the channel CHD. An eighth bit GM is a bit used to permit the reception of a signal of a computer game which uses the channel CHD. The bits of the sixth bit ST2 to the eighth bit GM become 0 or 1 depending on the absence or presence of the contract similarly to the fifth bit ST1. Fig. 4 schematically illustrates an example of a CATV center. In Fig. 4, reference numeral 10 generally designates a television signal generator for carrying out an ordinary CATV broadcast. In this television signal generator 10, a television signal of each television channel is generated and the television signal thus generated is supplied to a mixing circuit 29. Reference numeral 20 designates a transmitter circuit for carrying out the above audio broadcast. In the transmitter circuit 20, stereo signals L and R which are respectively assigned to the channel CHA are respectively supplied through terminals 21A, 21B to A D analog to digital converters 22A and 22B, in which they are sampled at a sampling frequency of 44.1 kHz and then converted to PCM signals of 16 bits. These signals are respectively supplied to a multiplexer 23. Audio signals of channels CHB to CHD 3 channel stereo audio signal, 4 channel monaural signal and audio signals for emergency broadcast and announce broadcast are respectively supplied through terminals 21C to 21N to A D converters 22C to 22N, in which they are converted to PCM signals of respective standards and then fed to the multiplexer 23, too. A signal from a facsimile not shown and a signal of a computer game are respectively supplied through terminals 21O and 21P to interface circuits 22O and 22P, in which they are converted to PCM signals of standards of mode C. These signals are also supplied to the multiplexer 23. In a control signal generating circuit 24, the service bit signal SB, the synchronizing code signal SYNC, the error correction code signal ECC and so on corresponding to each terminal are generated and then supplied to the multiplexer 23. Thus, the multiplexer 23 generates the PCM signal Sp which was described in connection with Figs. 1 to 3. This signal Sp is supplied through a binary transversal filter 25, which serves to reduce the inter symbol interference to an AM amplitude modulation modulator 26 and then modulated to an intermediate frequency signal intermediate frequency is 38.9 MHz, for example . This intermediate frequency signal is supplied to a VSB vestigial side band filter 27 thereby converted to a VSB signal whose occupied band width is 6 MHz, namely, the same as that of the ordinary television signal. This signal is supplied to a frequency converter 28 to which the an oscillation signal is supplied from a local oscillator circuit 28 and then frequency converted to a television signal with a predetermined carrier, for example, 97.25 MHz. This television signal is delivered through th mixing circuit 29 to a coaxial cable 1. Fig. 5 schematically illustrates an example of the terminals. In Fig. 5, the address terminal number of the terminal is 2 and the terminal has concluded a contract for receiving facsimile. Reference numeral 30 designates a television receiver for receiving the ordinary CATV broadcast. This television receiver 30 receives the television signal through the coaxial cable 1 to perform the reception of the ordinary CATV braodcast. Reference numeral 40 generally designates a receiver for receiving the above service broadcast, in which the signal from the coaxial cable 1 is supplied to a front end 41 from which the VSB signal of the PCM signal Sp is derived and in which the signal is converted to an intermediate frequency signal. This intermediate frequency signal is fed through an intermediate frequency amplifier 42 to a demodulator 43 by which the PCM signal Sp is demodulated. This signal Sp is supplied through a wave form shaping circuit 44 to a channel selector 51 and a clock recovery circuit 45 including a PLL phase locked loop . The clock recovery circuit 45 produces a clock signal CK and supplies this clock signal CK to the channel selector 51. The signal Sp from the wave form shaping circuit 44 and the clock signal CK from the clock recovery circuit 45 are both supplied to a signal deriving circuit or control circuit and data register circuit 61 which produces a pulse Pa which becomes 1 at every frame synchronizing signal FS as shown by a solid line in Fig. 6A and a pulse Pb which is inverted as shown in Fig. 6B at every word synchronizing signal WS shown by a broken line in Fig. 6A . Further, as shown in Fig. 6C, the service bit signal SB is derived from the circuit 61 4 bits in parallel during each word period, held until the succeeding word period and hence produced by two word amount. This service bit signal SB is supplied to 4 bit latch circuits 62 and 63 as data input thereof. The pulse Pb from the control circuit and data register 61 is supplied to a counter 64 as a count input thereof and the pulse Pa derived from the circuit 61 is supplied to the counter 64 as a clear input thereof. The counted output from the counter 64 is supplied to a decoder 65. Then, derived from the decoder 65 is a decoded output Pd as shown in Fig. 6D. In other words, since the address of the terminal shown in Fig. 5 is 2 , the signal Pb becomes 0 when the counted value of the counter 64 is 2 . This signal Pd is supplied to the latch circuit 63 as the latch input thereof and the signals Pd, Pb are respectively supplied to an AND circuit 66 of negative logic input, from which an AND output Pe as shown in Fig. 6E is derived. This pulse Pe is supplied to the latch circuit 62 as the latch input thereof. Accordingly, the service bit signal SB3 at the rising edge of the pulse Pe is latched in the latch circuit 62, while the service bit signal SB4 at the rising edge of the pulse Pd is latched in the latch circuit 63. In other words, the service bit signals SB3 and SB4 corresponding to the terminal shown in Fig. 5 are respectively latched in the latch circuits 62 and 63. The outputs from the latch circuits 62 and 63 are respectively supplied to port input terminals of a one chip microcomputer 67, and the pulse Pd is supplied to an interrupt input terminal From the port output terminal of the microcomputer 67, the selection signal is supplied to the channel selector 51 so that the channel selector 51 produces the PCM signal corresponding to the channel broadcast which was specified by the user at the keyboard 68. The PCM signal thus produced is supplied to a decoder 52, in which it is subjected to error correction which then is supplied to D A digital to analog converters 53L, 53R and thereby converted to the original audio signals. These audio signals are respectively supplied through control circuits 54L, 54R and amplifiers 55L, 55R to speakers 56L, 56R. At that time, since the control signal from the microcomputer 67 is supplied to the control circuits 54L and 54R, when the broadcast of the channels CHA and CHC is selected, the level expanding operation noise reduction of the control circuits 54L and 54R is made off, while when the broadcast of the channel CHB is selected, that operation is made on. However, in this case, since the fifth bit ST1 to the seventh bit MN of the service bit signals SB3 and SB4 are interpreted in the microcomputer 67, it is identified whether or not the reception of the pay channel broadcast in the channels CHB, CHC and CHD is approved contracted . If it is not approved, even when the reception of the pay channel broadcast is specified by the keyboard 68, by the fact that the corresponding channel is not selected by the channel selector 51, the specifying for the reception of the pay channel broadcast is neglected. In the terminal shown in Fig. 5, the contract for receiving facsimile is concluded by the user. The presence of such receiving contract is identified from the third bit FX of the service bit signals SB3 and SB4 by the microcomputer 67, the channel selector 51 is controlled, a facsimile signal is supplied from the channel selector 51 to an interface circuit 57 and a facsimile receiver 58, and the power source of the facsimile receiver 58 is turned on by the port output of the microcomputer 67. Upon emergency broadcast, the microcomputer 67 identifies whether or not the second bit EM of the service bit signals SB3 and SB4 becomes 1 . When the bit EM is 1 , on the basis of the port output of the microcomputer 67, the power source of the television receiver 30 is turned on and its receiving channel is changed over to the emergency broadcast channel, the picture image for the emergency broadcast being received. Further, upon receiving the emergency broadcast, it may be possible that on the basis of the control signal from the microcomputer 67, the control circuits 54L and 54R are operated so as to mute the audio signal with the result that only the television receiver 30 becomes operative. As set forth above, according to this invention, it is possible to transmit various informations including the PCM audio signal of high quality to each terminal. Also, by the service specifying function which uses the service bit signal SB, it is possible to specify the content of service for each terminal, and thus elavorate service can be realized. Further, upon emergency, the muting operation is effected so as to stop all terminals from reproducing the music program broadcast and so on so that the emergency broadcast can dominantly be carried out. Furthermore, the same control operation can be carried out simultaneously for all the terminals or every group of the terminals. In addition, the above action and effect can be achieved by the band width of one channel which uses, for example, the vacant channel of the existing CATV transmission line.