# Improved fermentation process.

## Abstract
An improved process for manufacture of fermented whey having a high concentration of propionic acid is dis closed in which the whey medium having a solids content ranging from about 0.5 to about 18 by weight is subject ed to a sterilization step of heating to 121 C psig for 15 min utes or subjected to a sterilization step of direct steam injec tion, for a period of about 4 to about 20 seconds. The steril ized whey medium is then inoculated with an unacclimated or acclimated mixed culture of a propionic acidproducing bacterium and a lactic acid producing bacterium and incu bated for a sufficient period of time to maximize the fer mentation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for functionalizing whey containing up to 2 whey solids by weight by fermenting the whey with a propionic acid producing organism to produce propionic acid wherein the whey has been sterilized by autoclaving at 121 0C at 15 psig for 15 minutes characterised in that a the whey solids are increased to from above about 2 to about 18 by weight b a fermentation broth with the increased whey solids and yeast extract is produced c the fermentation broth is fermented with a mixed culture comprising a propionic acid producing bacterium and lactic acid producing bacterium to produce propionic acid concentrations greater than 1 by weight. 2. A process for functionalizing whey containing from about 0.5 to about 18 by weight whey solids by fermenting the whey with a propionic acid producing organism to produce propionic acid wherein the whey has been sterilized by direct steam injection that results in a whey medium temperature of at least 140 C held for from about 4 to about 20 seconds, characterised in that a a fermentation broth is formed with the whey solids and yeast extract and b the fermentation broth is fermented with a mixed culture comprising a propionic acid producing bacterium and lactic acid producing bacterium to produce propionic acid concentrations greater than 1 by weight. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the propionic acid bacterium is Propionibacterium shermanii and the lactic acid bacterium isLactobacillus casei. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 characterised in that the propionic acid bacterium is Propionibacterium shermanii ATCC 39393 and the lactic acid bacterium is Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392. 5. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the concentration of the yeast extract is from about 0.5 to about 4.0 by weight. 6. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 characterised in that the concentration of the whey solids is from about 6.0 to about 12.0 by weight. 7. A process as claimed in any of claims 1 to 6 characterised in that the propionic acid producing organism and the lactic acid producing organism are acclimated to each other and the culture medium by growing the two cultures together for several serial passages whereby production of propionic acid is enhanced by at least 25 compared to production of nonacclimated cultures.

## Description
IMPROVED FERMENTATION PROCESS Background of the Invention , a naturally occuring substance, is the serun or watery part of milk which is separated fran the curds in the process of making cheese. Dried whey is comprised of about 13 protein and 73 lactose, and the balance inorganic Salts. One of the uses of whey in amEnerce is to ferment it and incorporate it into bakery products, where it acts as a mycostatic agent, thus enabling the products to have substantially longer shelve lives than would otherwise be possible. It has been determined that the active mycostatic agent in whey is propionic acid Which is produced as a consequence of the fermentation process. Suggested bacteria for fermentation, as disclosed in U.S.Patents, 1,910,130 and 1,898,320, include Bacterium acidi propionici. In producing fermented Whey, it is desirable to sterilize the whey and to ferment it with a known non pathogenic culture in order to keep out pathogens, and oontrol the product quality and specifications. One of the steps in the process of fermentation is the sterilization of the whey sub strate, which must be done without adversely affecting the subsequent fer mentation. Sterilization is necessary in order to kill any residual organists in the whey prior to introducing the organism for fermentation. The bacterium organism of choice for the rmentation is a strain of Propionibacterium shermanii, although other propionic acid producing bacteria can be used In the normal prior art process, the whey is sterilized by autoclaving at 121 C, at 15 psig, for 15 minutes. The concentration of the whey component being sterilized is about 2 by weight.It has been found that when whey having a solids concentration of more than about 2 is sterilized by autoclave, successful subsequent fermented tion with the Propionibacterium shermanii is sanehow prevented. It is desirable to raise the solids concentration of the whey being sterilized so as to provide a high solids broth that increases the concentration of propionic acid produced in the fermentaticn process, and also to produce a concentration that is easier to process downstrean, as by air drying. Lactobacilli and Propionibacteria are often grown together. In fermented dairy products, such as Swiss cheese, the action of both microorganisms is necessary to obtain the desirable characteristics of the final product 4 . In silage fermentations, lactic acid bacteria are needed for rapid pH reduction and propionic acid inhibits the growth of urdesirable yeast 12 . In early propionic acid fermentation, lactic acid bacteria were used as accelerator organisms as disclosed in U.S. PatentNo. 1,895,329 Sherman, J.M. 1932. Propionic acid fermentation by the use of mixed strains of propionic bacteria. U.S. Patent 1,865,146 andSherman, J.M. and R.H. Shaw, 1923. The propionic acid fermentation of lactose. J. Biol. Chem., 56 695 708. Description of the Drawings Figure I shows a graph of a fermentation of Propionibacteritin shermanii ATCC 39393 and Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392 in a mediun con taming 7 Teklac whey and 1.0 yeast extract. Figure Ia shows a graph of a fermentation of Prapionibacteriun shermanii ATCC 39393 in a mediun containing APV sterilized 12 Teklac whey and 1 yeast extract. Figure II shows a graph of a fermentation of Propionibacterium shermanii ATCC 39393 and Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392 in a mediun con taining 12 Teklac whey and 1.0 yeast extract. Figure IIa shows a graph of a fermentation of Propionibacterium shermanii ATCC 39393 and Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392 in a medium con taining APV sterilized 12 Teklac whey and 1 yeast extract. Figure IIb shows a graph of a fermentation of acclimiated Propionibacterium shermanii ATCC 39393 and Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392 in a medium contianing ApV sterilized 12 Teklac whey and 1 yeast extract. Figure III shows a graph of a fermentation of Propionibacterium shermanii ATCC 39393 and Lactobacillus casei ATCC 39392 in a medium con tanning Aw sterilized 18 Teklac whey and 1.5 yeast extract. Description of the Invention Sterilizing whey medium at a whey concentration greater than 2 by autoclaving at 121 C and 15 psig for at least 15 minutes results in a medium that can not be fermented by P. shermanii. This inhibition most likely results fran the harse and destructive method of sterilization.When whey is autoclaved a browning reaction occurs, where the free amino groups of the protein interact with the aldehyde group of lactose, resulting in loss of nutritional value. The lactose may also undergo a rearrangenent to lactulose and becane unavailable to P. shermanii. Autoclaving may also produce toxic substances and metabolic inhibitors. SeeGordon, W.G. and E.B. Kalan. 1974. Proteins of milk. p. 102 103. InB.H. Webb, A.H. Johnson, and J.A. Alford eds. . Fzedamentals of Dairy Chemistry, 2nd ed. The AVI Publishers Canpany, Westport, Connecticut.Huthanen, C.N., F.W. Parrish, and K.B. Hicks 1980 . Inhibition of bacteria by lactulose preparations. apt1. Environ. Microbiol. 40 171 173. Thayanithy, K., G. Harding and D.A. case. 1982. Rearrangement of lactose on sterilization. Bio. Technol. Lett. 4 423 444. The inhibition was overcane by adding L. casei to P. shermanii mixed culture in whey mediun sterilized by autoclaving as described above and propionic acid was produced. The yield was 1.3 2.2 in 7 whey solids and 3.0 in 12 whey solids in about 88 hours. Sterilizing whey solutions having a solids content fran about 0.5 to about 18 by subjecting said whey solution to a direct steam injection while being passed through a transport mechanism wherein the steam has a temperature high enough to produce a medium temperature for the solution of at least 140eC, for a period of time ranging fran about 4 to about 20 seconds URr , a sterile whey solution of high solids content is produced which can be subsequently fermented by a pure culture of P. shermanii or other propionic acid producing bacteria thereby prcducing high concentrations of propionic acid. The yield was 1.6 2.2 propionic acid within about 70 hours on 12 whey solids. We have further discovered that by ccmbining t1HT sterilization and mixed culture fermentation using P. shermanii and L. casei high solids whey mediun containing up to 18 whey solids can be fermented to even higher concentrations of propionic acid. Propionic acid concentrations as great as 3.2 have been achieved in less than 50 hours, using 12 whey solids. Further, 6.5 propionic acid was produced in 18 whey solids within about 100 hours. We have further discovered that by prior acclimation of the mixed culture to the whey medium at least 4.5 propionic acid is produced within about 70 hours using 12 whey solids, canpared to about 3 propion ic acid using unacclimated mixed cultures. Higher concentrations ofTeklac will also produce oanparable increases in propionic acid production when acclimated cultures are used. Mixed culture fermentation of a sterilized whey broth canprising unhydrolyzed whey acid or sweet , and optionally yeast extract results in propionic acid formation and functionalization of the whey so that the whey product can be utilized as a food ingredient. This anaerobic fermetf tation can be carried out preferably in a pH range of 5.5 to 8.5, prefer ably with the pH maintained in a range fran about 6.0 to about 7.0. The fermentation can be carried out at a temperature fran about 20 to 35 C, preferably carried out at a temperature fran about 25 to about 30eC. Typical composition of Teklac sweet dairy whey is as follows CREMICAL AND PHYSICAL SPECIFICATI S IngredientListing WheyTypical Prcx2xBatB AnalysisProtein N x 6.38 12.7Fat 1.1 1.25 Maximum Moisture 4.5 5.0 Maximum Ash 8.0Lactose 71.3Calories, Cal lOOg 350.0 Typical Vitamin Mineral AnalysisVitamin A I.U. lOOg NilVitamin C mg 100g NilThiamin tt 100g 0.40Riboflavin mg lOOg 1.76Niacin mg lOOg 1.00Calcium 0.71Iron NilVitamin B12 ug lOOg 2.12Phosphorus 0.69Pantothenic Acid mg lOOg 4.09Microbiological StandardsStandard Plate Count 10,000 g Maximum Coliforms 9 g Maximum E. coli Negative Salmonella NegativeThe nutritional values listed above are within 80 of the value declared in wnpliance with Federal Nutritional Regulations 21 CFR S1,17 4 ii . Typical Range LimitSolubility Index 0.1 0.5 ml 1.25 ml Max.Acidity 0.10 0.14 0.16 Max.Alkalinity of Ash 175 200 ml 225 ml Max.Scorched Particles 7.5 mg 15.0 mg Max.Particle size Through 40 Mesh 99 100 98 Min. Concentration of whey solids can range fran 2 to about 18.0 , preferably fran about 6 to about 12 , and the concentration of added yeast extract in the fermentation broth can range fran about 0.5 to about 4.0 , preferably from about 0.5 to about 1.5 . Using autoclaved whey and mixed culture, propionic acid concentrations of from about 1.0 to about 3.5 are usually reached within 96 hours. Using UHT sterilized whey and mixed culture, propionic acid concentrations of about 3.0 are usually reached within 55 hours using 12 whey solids propionic acid asncentra tions of about 6.5 are usually reached within 100 hours using 18 whey solids.Using UHEE sterilized whey and an acclimated mixed culture, propionic acid concentrations of about 4.5 are usually reached within about 72 hours using 12 whey solids. All of the above weight percents are in weight per volume. EXAMPLES Microorganism Lactobacillus casei MCC 39392 was isolated fran Kraft 9wiss cheese. Twenty grans g of Kraft natural Swiss cheese were hanogenized in 180 milliliters ml cold sterile saline for 3 minutes in a Waring blender. The homogenate was plated on sodium lactate agar 10 g trypticase, 10 g yeast extract, 10 g sodium lactate, 0.25 gK2HF04, 20 g agar, one liter 1 deionized water at various dilutions, and incubated for five days, anaerobically, at 30 C. A clonal isolate was subsequently identified as L. casei and its authenticity confirmed by the American fFype Culture Collection Washington, D.C. . Propionibacteriun freudenreichii 55. shermanii MCC 39393 was a single colony isolate obtained fran a PS I Dry Vac specialty culture Chris Hansen s Laboratory, Milwaukee, WI . Whey Medium Preparation, Shake Flask, and Fennentor Operation The whey media contained 2 12 Teklac and 1 yeast extract. Teklac is a spray dried sweet dairy whey obtained fran Foremost Food Co.,San Erancisco, CA. The pH of the medium was adjusted to 7.0 with 50 Na before autoclaving. For shake flask reactions 500 ml screw caWed flasks Bellco, Vineland, NJ containing 250 ml of whey medium and 2 CaC03 were used. Sterilization was for 20 minutes, 121 C, 15 psig steam. The shake flasks were incubated at 30 C, 160 rpn on a NBS G 25 shaker NewBrunswick Scientific Co., Edison, NJ . For fennentors, New BrunswickScientific Co. Edison, NJ 7.5 liter Magnaferm fermentors or 2 literBioflo fermentors, containing 3 liters and 1.2 liters medium, respectively, were used. The fermentors were filled with about one liter water and sterilized by autoclaving for 50 minutes, 121 C, 15 psig steam. Aseptic ally, the water was removed and sterilized whey medium pumped in fran a carboy. The fermentation conditions were 30 C, 120 160 rpn, no gas sparged, pH controlled at 7.0 with H. The fermentors were used in either a batch fermentation mode or a drawnSanifill fermentation mode. In a batch mode, medium is pumped into the fermentor which is then inoculated and incubated for several days. A draw and fill mode is used to conduct serial fermentations in the same vessel and to acclimate the cultures through several stages. The broth fran a canpieted stage was remcçved, except for a small amount to be used as inculum for the next stage, and fresh medium added on top of the retained inoculum. The first and second stages were incubated for about 24 hours each. The third and final stage was incubated for 72 hours.Inoculation was at about 10 v v for stages two ard three. Ultra High Temperature URT Sterilization An APV heat exchanger APV CO., Inc. Tonawanda, N.Y. was modified to use direct steam injection by adding a pick heater. The medium was pupped fran the feed tank to a plate heat exchanger where it was preheated to 94eC. After leaving the preheater, the medium was heated in the pick heater, by direct contact with steam, to the sterilization temperature of 1460C. Sterilization tods place in a holding coil between the pick heater and the cooling section.The sterilization time, 15 20 seconds, depended on the mediun flow rate which was controlled. IL. hot medium was oooled in a plate heat exchanger, then transferred through a sterile manifold systen into sterile carboys for storage. It was later transferred asceptically to fermentors using a peristaltic pant. Culture Storage P. shermanii was stored in sodium lactate stabs 10 g trypticase, 10 g yeast extract, 10 g Na lactate, 0.25 g K2HO4, 12 g agar, 1 liter deionized water, 5 my 18 mm x 150 mn screcapped tube . Stabs were inoculated, incubated at 300C for 72 hours and stored at 4iC for up to 6 months. A stab was revived by overlaying with 5 ml Hansen s glucose broth fib 10 g trypticase, 5 g yeast extract, 5 g glucose, 1 liter deionized water and incubating for 48 hours at 300C. L. casei was stored in MRS stabs Lactobacilli MRS broth Difco and 2 agar . Stabs were inoculated, incubated at 30 C for 48 hours and stored at 40C for up to tm months. A stab was revived by overlaying with 5 ml MRS broth and incubating for 48 hours at 30 C. Preparation of Inocula A shake flask containing 2 Teklac median was inoculated with either 5 ml HGB fran one revived stab P. shermanii or 5 ml MRS fran one revived stab L. casei . The flasks were incubated for 48 hours. These cultures were then used to inoculate mixed culture shake flasks at 2.5 v v per culture. Pure culture flasks received a 5 v v inoculun and were used as controls. Mixed culture reactions were inoculated at 2.5 or 8 v v for P. shermanii and 2.5 or 8 v v for L. casei, unless otherwise indicated. Assays D and galactic acids, and lactose were estimated enzymatically using kits purchased fran BoehringerMannheirn Indianapolis, IN . Propionic acid HPr and acetic acid HAc were assayed by gas chranatography. A Packard Model 427 with a 6f glass column I.D. 2 mm, O.D. 6 mm paced with 10 AT 1000 on Chranasorb W All Tech Associates and a flane ionization detector were used. The colunn temperature was 1400C, isothermal injector and detector temperatures were 250 C. The carrier gas was nitrogen with a flow rate of 18 ml per minute. Sanples were prepared by centrifuging 5 ml broth to remove cells and other suspended solids and acidifying the supernatant with 1 H3P04 to a pH of 2.0.Three microliters of the acidified supernatant were injected using a 10 ul Hamilton N701 syringe. Results were calculated fran a standard curve. Determination of Viable Cell Number U in Mixed Culture P. shermanii and L. casei together in mixed culture were assayed simultaneously on sodium lactate gar 10 g trypicase, 10 yeast extract, 10 g sodium lactate, 0.25 g K2HP04, 20 g agar, 1 liter deionized waterSpread plates were incubated anaerrbically Gaspak 100, BBL 60627 at 30 C for four days. Under these conditions, P. shermanii grew as a smaller, tarcolored colony L. casei grew as a larger, milk white colony. EXAMPLE I Shake Flask Reactions At a Teklac concentration of 2 pure cultures of P. shermanii grew to 1.0 x 1010 colony forming units mi cE Uysrl , produced about 0.6 propionic acid and consumed all the lactose about 14 g l . At Teklac concentrations higher than 2 , no growth occurred, a negligible amount less than 0.05 of propionic acid was produced, and lactose was not metabolized. Pure cultures of L. casei grew to about 1 x 109 cFu nl and converted 80 85 of the lactose to lactic acid at all Teklac concentra tions examined. For example, in 7 TekIac about 49 g lactose l , L.casei produced 40 42 g lactic acidSl and consumed all the lactose. Typical mixed culture shake flask data for various Teklac con centrations are summarized in Table I. In 72 hours, at Teklac concentra tions of 5, 6 and 7 , about 1.3 1.6 propionic acid and 0.5 acetic acid were produced and most of the lactose was consumed. Lactic acid concentrations remained low throughout the fermentation. TABIE I Mixed culture fermentation using P. shermanii PS 109 and L. casei Tk 1 Ol growing in shake flasks. 48 hours 72 hours 1 1 Teklac Lactose, Lactic Lactic a g l at tn çEI Lactose acid HAcb HPrb pH Lactose acid Hcb HPrb 5 38 5.30 4 2.2 3.8 10.3 5.84 0.5 0.5 5.3 12.5 6 44 5.26 17 2.8 3.7 9.1 5.60 0.5 4.4 5.2 16.0 7 47 5.26 22 3.2 3.9 9.5 5.44 2.7 7.8 5.3 15.5 a The media also contained 1 yeast extract and 2 CaCO3. Initial EEl 6.90. Inocula ratio 1 8, ATCC 39392 to ATOC 39393. b HAc, Acetic acid HPr, Propionic acid. EXAMPLE II Fermentor Reactions Results frcm pH controlled mixed culture fermentor reactions using 7 and 12 autoclaved Teklac me shown in Figures 1 and 2, respectively. Within 88 hours, in 7 TekIac, about 2.2 propionic acid and 0.8 acetic acid were produced. In 12 Teldac, bout 3.0 propionic and 1 acetic acid were produced. In both reactions all the lactose was consumed and lactic acid did not accumulate. EXAMPLE III Batch fermentations using pure culture P. shermanii A CC 39393 resulted in 1.6 2.2 propionic acid produced within 70 hours. More than 50 of the lactose was not used. Figure Ia shows a typical reaction. In mixed culture, L. casei ATCC 39392 and P. shermanii ATCC 39393 produced about 3.2 propionic acid and most of the lactose was consumed within 55 hours. See Figure IIa. EXAMPLE IV When the Teklac concentration was increased to 18 with 1.5 Kat yeast extract , the fermentor operated in the batch mode and inoculated at 1 v v for each culture about 6.5 propionic acid was produced in about 100 hours. All the lactose was consumed see Figure III . EXAMPLE V Batch fermentations using unacclimated mixed cultures of P.shermanii ATCC 39393 and L. casei ATCC 39392 resulted in about 3.0 propionic acid produced within 70 hours. Figure IIa shows a typical reaction. In mixed culture, Le casei ATCC 39392 and P. shermanii AICC 39393 produced about 3.2 propionic acid and most of the lactose was consumed. EXAMPLE VI P. shermanii AICC 39393 and L. casei ATCC 39392 grown together acclimated through three stages in a draw and fill mode, produced about 4.5 propionic acid in 70 hours. All the lactose was consumed Figure IIb .