# Adducts and polymer polyols useful in the preparation of improved plastics, including polyurethane foams, elastomers.

## Abstract
Adducts and improved polymer polyols, both useful in the production of polyurethane foams and other synthetic materials are provided, as well as synthetic end products. The adducts are produced by combining polyols and compounds having carboxylic carbon atoms and or epoxy groups.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A polyurethane which is the reaction product of a mixture comprising an organic polyisocyanate and an adduct formed by reaction of a polyol with a co reactant, the co reactant being selected from the group consisting of A a polycarboxylic co reactant having at least . 3 carboxylic carbon atoms selected from the group consisting of polycarboxyliz acids, polycarboxylic acid anhydrides and mixtures thereof, in which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol B a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between 1 at least one polyhydroxyhydrocarbon having a molecular weight below about 200, and 2 at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least 3 carboxylic carbon atoms, and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least . 3 carboxylic carbon atoms, in which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the poly carboxylic compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction C an epoxy co reactant selected from the group consisting of diepoxides, polyepoxides having more than two epoxy groups and mixtures, in which at least one of the epoxy groups in the epoxy co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol or D a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between 1 at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least 3 carboxylic carbon atoms, and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least 3 carboxylic carbon atoms, and 2 at least one epoxy compound selected from the group consisting of diepoxides and polyepoxides having at least 3 epoxy groups, in which at least one of the epoxy groups of the epoxy compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction. 2. The polyurethane of claim I obtained from a mixture com prising a minor amount of the adduct , a major amount of a second polyol and an organic polyisocyanate. 3. . The polyurethane foam of claim 2 obtained from a mixture comprising a blowing agent. 4. A method of producing the polyurethane as claimed in claims 1 to 3 by copolymerizing a mixture of an organic polysocyanate and the adduct according claim 1 The method of claim 4 comprising copolymerizing a minor amount of the adduct a major amount of a second polyol and an organic polyisocyanate. 6. The method of claim 5 for producing a polyurethane foam by copolymerizing a mixture containing a blowing agent. CLAIMS FOR AUSTRIA 1. A method of producing a polyurethane by reacting a mixture of an organic polyisocyanate and an adduct formed by reaction of a polyol vith a co reactant, the co reactant being selected from the group consisting of A a polycarboxylic co reactant having at least .3 carboxylic carbon atoms selected from the group consisting of polycarboxy acids a polycarboxylic acid anhydrides and mixtures thereof, in ich at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol B r half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between 1 at least one polybydroxyhydrocarbon having a molecular weight below about 200, and 2 at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least 3 3 . carboxylic carbon atoms, and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least . 3 carboxylic carbon atoms,4 in which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the poly carboxylic compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction C an epoxy co reactant selected from the group consisting of diepoxides, polyepoxides having more than two epoxy groups and mixtures, in which at least one of the epoxy groups in the epoxy co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol or D a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between 1 at least one polycarboxylie compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least 3 carboxyl carbon atoms. and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least 3 carboxylic carbon atoms, and 2 at least one epoxy compound selected from the group consisting of diepoxides and polyepoxides having at least 3 epoxy groups, in which at least one of the epoxy groups of the epoxy compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 solar reaction. 2, The method of claim 1 wherein the mixture com prising a minor amount of the adduct a major amount of a second polyol and an organic polyisocyanate. 3. . The method of claim 2 for producing a poly urethane foan wherein the mixture contains a blowing agent.

## Description
FIELD OP THE INVENTION The present invention relates to improvement of the physical properties of polyurethanes. Polyols having characteristics tailored to the production ot improved polyurethanes are provided. More specifically, the present invention relates to novel modified polyols, designated hereinafter as adducts, which are useful reactants for producing a wide variety of synthetic plastic and elastic products.The adducts of the invention may be used, for example, to produce cellular products, films, coatings, and cast or molded articles, such as, but not limited to, polyurethanes. Where cellular or microporous articles are produced, significant improvements may be obtained in the load boaring characteristics, tensile strength, and stability of cell structure of the foams. In one particularly useful aspect of the invention, the adducts are employed in the production of polyurethanes, especially cellular polyurethanes. Cellular polyurethane foams constitute a broad class of polymeric materials having physical characteristics ranging from rigid to elastic rubbery structure. The polymers are produced through the interaction of a polyfunctional isocyanate with a polyfunctional chemical compound having an active hydrogen in its structure such as a polyester, polyesteramide, polyether or a mixture of two or more such materials.The active hydrogensontainin material is generally a liquid, or a solid capable of being melted at a relatively low temperature. The materials conventionally used contain hydroxyl groups as the radicals having the active hydrogen and are generally termed polyols. Despite Ute variety of physical and chemical properties obtainable by proper selection ol the polyisocyanate and the polyol as well as by controlling the. conditions under which the reaction is carried out, there are definite lImitations in selecting components for oPtimization of desirable properties in the resulting product.One of the most significant of such limitations arises from the fact that the polyol must be Sufficiently liquid at the appropriate reaction temperature to permit mixing and reaction with the polyfunctional isocyanate In producing a polyurethane resin. This requirement generally results in the use of polyols of relatively low molecular weight. However, the utility of polyols of low molecular weight is generally limited to producing rigid products. The Use of higher molecular weight components is attended by a variety of other difficulties including handling and compounding problems. For example, polyol viscosity may be excessively high. One known technique for producing polyurethanes with better propertIes incorporating higher molecular weight components while minimizing the disadvantages mentioned above, involves employing polymer polyors in place of or in conjunction with simple polyols for reaction with polyisocyanates to produce polyurethanes. However, the stability of polymer polyols generally decreases with decreasing molecular weight of the polyols used to make them, and it is difficult to avoid using relatively low molecular weight polyols for the reasons discussed above. Instability of polymer polyols may lead to breakdown of the polymer polyol dispersion during preparation and storage, resulting in coagulation. As is known in the art, it is not possible to make acceptable products with coagulated polymer polyols, because mixing and homogeneous reaction of tht reactants cannot practicably be achieved. Also, among the polymer polyols of greatest commercial significance have been those formed as reaction products of styrene, acrylonitrile and a polyoL There are several potential disadvantages to such systems. It is known that polymers containing acrylonitrile as a major component tend to become discolored during cure, probably because of the exothermic nature of the reaction during polyurethane formation.It is also known that styrene, when substituted for a major portion ot the acrylonitrile, will prevent discoloration. However, it is normally difficult to employ high styrene acrylonitrile ratios because the stability of reaction mixtures containing polymerZpolyoWPgeneralky decreases withIncreasing styrene content. The instability similarly can lead to difficulties in making the polymer polyol dispersion or in breakdown after the polymer polyol dispersion is made, resulting in coagulation. As a consequence of the above difficulties, commercial operations have often been constrained to using relatively high acrylonitriie styrene ratios and making products in which foam discoloration was not an important consideration. It would be desirable to provide improved techniques for producing polyurethane foams incorporating higher molecular weight components, while avoiding problems such as foam discoloration and coagulation of the polymer polyol dispersions. Incorporation of higher molecular weight components in the reaction mixtures would lead to higher indentation load bearing capacity hereinafter ILD , tensile strength hereinafter TES , and flexibility of the final products, the benefits of such improved properties being well known in the art.Improvements in these important foam properties in turn would permit reduction of the foam density needed to achieve a given level of foam strength e.g., ItD and TES , permitting reduction In the amount of polymer needed to produce a slab of foam having a given size, as well as reducing the unit volume weight of the product. In view of the widespread use of polyurethane foam materials in automobiles, and the current pressure to reduce the weight of automobile components wherever possible, production of polyurethane foams having a given ILD and TES at reduced weight is an important continuing goal in the polyurethane industry. THe products discussed above should be useful in other fields as well, such as in the production of slab stock for use by the furniture industry in seat cushions, mattresses and a variety of other products. The adducts of the invention and polymer polyols optionally prepared from them may be advantageously employed to improve other types of products besides polyurethane foams, including but not limited to solid polyurethane products, and polyester products. Articles with improved physical properties e.g., ILD and TES may be produced by the practice of the invention directly without the use of polyntier polyols. Additionally, when incorporated in polymer polyols the adducts are believed to act M protective colloids, preventing aggfomeratfon of polymer particles and thus adverting coagulation. Improvements in the ultimate products can be expected, since improvements in the stability of polymer polyols will produce more uniform products, with better physical properties.DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART The basic polymer polyol technology is disclosed inU.S. Reissue 28,715 and U.S. Reissue 29,118. U.S. Reissue 29,118 discloses polymer polyols comprising O a relatively high molecular weight tilm4orming polymer having radicals which are reactive with the eX C O radicals of the isocyanate used to form the polyurethane, and 2 a reactive solvent such as a polyol which is a solvent or dispersing medium for the polymer, and which also contains radicals which are reactive with the isoeyanato group. The list of reactive monomers to be polymerized in situ in the polyol reactive solvent includes Itaconic acid, maleic acid and fumaric acid.However, Reissue patent 29,118 fails to specify the production of adducts by reaction of these carboxylic acids with the polyoL For example, the patent does not discuss the benefits obtainable by incorporating half esters In polymer polyols. Halfesters comprise adducts formed by reaction between a polyol and a polycarboxylic acid or anhydride, having a substantial percentage of free carboxyl groups based on the total amount of carboxylic carbon atoms in the acid or anhydride which was used .While examples 49 and 50 disclose the use of polyesters having acid numbers of 44 and 11 respectively for producing polymer polyols, there is no reference to the importance of polyol dibasic carboxylic acid adducts having acid numbers corresponding to half esters, especially acid numbers ranging from about 12 to 7, nor is there any suggestion of using these products to produce polyurethanes directly without first incorporating them in polymer polyols.Also, the polyesters in Reissue 29,118 Examples 49 and 50 were produced by reaction of a dibasic carboxylic acid with a very low molecular weIght glycol ethylene glyeol rather than a polyol as defined In and necessary for practice under the present invention. Polyols according to the invention must have an average molecular weight of at least about 500 grams per mole, preferably at least about 1,000 grams per mole, in order to produce adducts and po1ymeryols of acceptable Quality, Reissue 28,715 contains similar disclosure seeExamples 46 and 47 . V.S. Patent 3,953,393 discloses the production of polymerpolyols which may be used to produce polyurethanes, such as polyurethane foams, by the in situ polymerization of a vinyl monomer In an unsaturated polyol In the presence of a free radical catalyst. The unsaturated polyol may be prepared by reaction of any conventional polyol with an organic compound having both ethylenic unsaturation and a hydroxyl, carboxyl or epoxy group.The organic compounds which can be used include saturated polycarboxylic acids and anhydrides such as maleic acid and anhydride, fumaric acid and anhydride, crotonic anhydride, propenyl succinic anhydride, halogenated maleic acids and anhydrides, and unsaturated epoxides such as l vinylcyclohexane 3,4 epoxide, butadiene monoxide, vinyl glycidyl ether, glycidyl methacrylate and allyl glycidyl ether. The patent discloses that where polycarboxylic acids are used, it is necessary to react any remaining free carboxylic acid groups with an alkylene oxide after forming the modified polyoL It is stated that the final acid number of the modified polyol should be less than or equal to one. Other patents of similar relevance include U.S. 3,652,639 U.S. 3,950,317 and U.S.Reissue 29,014U.S. 3,931,450 , U.S. 4,014,846 , and U.S. 4,093,573 are of similar relevance except that they indicate that neutralization of free carboxyl groups is preferred rather than necessary. U.S. 4,144,395 6 is particularly related to the production of polyether ester polyols prepared by reaction of an alkylene oxide, a polyether polyol and a polycarboxylic acid anhydride.The amount of alkylene oxide employed is such that the acid number of the productEMI5.1 is reduced to 5 or less, and preferably to 1 or less. discloses half ester adducts produced bw the reaction of a polyol with aEMI5.2 polycarboxylic acid annyoride, but also teaches that suen nalr ester adducts are merely intermediates which must be reacted with an alkylene oxide to reduce the KOH value at least to 5 or less and preferably to 1 or less.Murphy teaches against any use of a half ester adduct to produce polyurethane products, either directly by reaction with a polyisocyanate, or indirectly by incorporation In a polymer polyol followed by reaction of the adduct containing polymer polyol with a polyisocyanate. See similarly U.S. Patent 3,459,733 U.S. Patent 3,585,185 U.S. Patent 3,639,541 and U.S. Patent 3,639,542 Other patents which disclose producing adducts of a polyol and a polycarboxylic acid, which then are reacted with an epoxide to yield an adduct in which substantially all free carboxyl groups are neutralized, include Japanese Kokal 48 101494 73, Japanese Kokai 48 101498 73, BritishPatent 1,126,025, and British Patent 1,217,005. Japanese Patent 52 005887 Laid Open No. 5887 1977 , discloses production of a modified polyol by reacting a mixture of a saturated dibasic carboxylic acid and an unsaturated dibasic carboxylic acid with a polyol, in which the molar ratio of the saturated dibasic carboxylic acld to the unsaturated dibasic carboxylic acid ranges from 95 5 toS0 50, to produce a flpolyester.W The modified polyol may be used to produce a polymer polyol, which then can be used to produce a polyurethane foam. There is no discussion of acid numbers except in the Examples, which indicate that the carboxyl groups in the final products were nearly completely neutralized. Another patent, U.S. 4,148,840 which is of general relevance to the polymer polyol art, Includes a statement which refers to Japanese Patent 52 005887 column 10, lines 20 26 . Neither the meaning nor the accuracy of this statement is clear. V.S. Patent 4,198,488 discloses polymer polyols produced as reaction products of 1 an organic polyol and 2 an interpolymer of a minor amount of polymerized ethylenically unsaturated dicarboxylic acid anhydride, such as maleic anhydride, and a major amount of at least one different polymerized ethylenically unsaturated monomer. It is stated that polyurethane foams may be produced. The patent notes that acid numbers in the polymer polyols in excess of about 1.5 are undesirable. While the above discussed prior art has In general disclosed reaction products of polyols with polycarboxylic acids and anhydrlda, there appears to be no prior. art discussion of the incorporation in polymer polyols and polyurethanes of half ester adducts in which at least one of .the carboxylic carbon atoms remains unreacted. To the contrary, the prior art uniformly teaches that neutralization of reacted carboxyl groups is preferred, If not required.The prior art also has failed to disclose the utility of half ester adducts both for direct production of polymerized products I.e., by reaction with a polyisocyanate and expanding by conventional techniques to produce a polyurethane foam , or for incorporation Into useful polymer polyols which can be similarly used to produce, e.g., polyurethane foam products. U.S. Patent 2,996,551 discloses adducts produced by first reacting a polyol with a monoepoxide such as propylene oxide to produce an intermediate, and then reacting the intermediate with a polyepoxide. While the patent notes that the products can be used as active OH reactants, neither polyurethanes nor polyurethane foams are mentioned. Also, there is no disclosure of reacting a polyol with a polyepoxide in such a manner that at least one of the epoxy groups remain wireacted. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION jt has been found, according to the present invention, that improved high molecular weight elastic, plastic, cellular and microcellular products including polyurethane products, and in particular polyurethane foams, may be produced by employing and incorporating as an agent for coreaction with a polyisocyanate, the specially produced adduct of the invention. In some embodiments it may be preferable to employ an adduct which is not itself reactive with the polyisocyanate, but which nevertheless acts during the polyurethane formation reaction, as a protective colloid, preventing coagulation of reaction mixtures to Improve the properties of the product.The adducts of the invention, which will be discussed in detail below, may be combined in undiluted form directly with a polyisocyanate and optionally another polyol to produce a polyurethane. Alternatively the adducts may be used to produce improved polymer polyols which are effective in the production of polyurethanes.In other embodiments, the adducts and polymer polyols of the invention may be used in producing polymer products other than polyurethanes, such as polyesters. The invention includes adducts, methods of producing adducts, polyurethanes incorporating adducts, methods of producing polyurethanes Incorporating adducts, polymer polyols produced IncorporatIng adducts, methods of producing polymer polyols incorporating adducts, polyurethanes produced incorporating polymer polyols of theInvention, and methods of producing polyurethanes incorporating polymerpolyols of the invention.OBJECTS AND INVENTION SUMMARY It is an object of this invention to provide adducts which are useful in producing Improved high molecular weight elastic, plastic, cellular and microcellular products including polyurethane products and in particular, polyurethane foams. It b alto an object of this invention to provide methods of producing the adducts of the invention. It Is another object of this invention to provide polyurethane products including polyurethane foams, incorporating the adducts of the invention. It Is yet another object of this invention to provide methods of producing polyurethane products including polyurethane foams, incorporating the adducts of the invention. It is a further object of this invention to provide improved polymerpolyols incorporating the adducts of the invention. It is another object of this invention to produce stable polymer polyols with low aerylonitrilelstyrene ratios. It is an additional object of this invention to produce stable polymer polyols which yield polyurethane foams substantially free of discoloration. It is also an object of this invention to Improve the dispersion stability, lower the viscosity and increase the polymer content of polymerpolyols. It Is an additional object of this invention to provide methods of producing Improved polymer polyols incorporating the adducts of theInvention. It Is. still another object of this invention to provide polyurethane products including polyurethane foams IncorporatIng the Improved polymerzpolyols of the invention It is yet a further object of this invention to provide methods of producing polyurethane products including polyurethane foamsIncorporating the improved polymer polyols of the invention. These and other objects of the present invention will become more apparent upon reference to the following detailed description and the appended claims. In accordance with the present invention, adducts and improved polymer polyols, both useful in the production of synthetic products including but not limited to polyurethanes, such as polyurethane foams, are provided, as well as the synthetic products themselves. In one embodiment, the invention provides adducts formed by reaction of a polyol with a co reactant selected from the group consisting ot A a half ester coreactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between O at least one polyhydroxyhydrocarbon having a molecular weight below about 200, and 2 at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylie acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms,In which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the polycarboxylic compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction B an epoxy co reactant selected from the group consisting of diepoxides, polyepoxides having more than two epoxy groups and mixtures, in which at least one of the epoxy groups in the epoxy co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol or C a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between 1 at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms, and 2 at least one epoxy compound selected from the group consisting of diepoxides and polyepoxides having at least three epoxy groups, in which at least one of the epoxy groups of the epoxy compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction. In another embodiment, the invention provides improved polymer polyols comprising a mixture of A a mInor percentage by weight of art adduct formed by reaction of a first polyol with a co reactant selected from the group consisting of O a polycarboxylic co reactant halolng at least three carboxylic carbon atoms selected from the group consisting of polycarboxylic acids, polycarboxylic acid anhydrides and mixtures thereof, in which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol 2 a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between at least one polyhydroxyhydrocarbon having a molecular weight below about 200 and at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polyearboxylic acids having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms, h which at least one of the carboxylic carbon atoms of the polycarboxylic compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction 3 an epoxy co reactant selected from the group consisting of diepoxides, polyepoxides having more than two epoxy groups and mixtures, in which at least one of the epoxy groups in the epoxy co reactant remains unreacted after reaction with the polyol or 4 a half ester co reactant formed by 1 1 molar reaction between a at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acid anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms, and b at least one epoxy compound selected from the group consisting of diepoxides and polyepoxides having at least three epoxy groups, In which at least one of the epoxy groups of the epoxy compound remains unreacted after the 1 1 molar reaction B a second polyol and C at least one ethylenically unsaturated monomer which Is reactive with free hydroxyl groups of the first and second polyols, in which C has been polymerized in A and B by free radical addition polymerization to a substantially linear polymer having a molecular weight of at least about 5,000 to provide a liquid stable dispersion of polymerpolyoL In an additional embodiment, the invention provides improved polyurethane products including polyurethane foams, produced using the adducts and Improved polymer polyols of the InventionDETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention, adducts are produced which are effective in producing polyurethane products and particularly polyurethane foams. In one embodiment of the invention, adducts are produced by reacting A a polyol, and B at least one compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids and anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having more than two carboxylic carbon atoms and the correspondiiig anhydrides, and epoxides including diepoxides and polyepoxides having more than two epoxy groups. A wide range of polyols and the Uke can be used. Among the polyols which can be employed are one or more polyols from the following classes of compositions. Minor amounts of polyhydroxyalkanes can be present . b Hydroxyl terminated polyesters b Alkylene oxides of polyhydroxyalkanes c Trialkanolamines and alkylene oxide adducts thereof d Alcohols derived from mono and polyamines by addition ot alkylene oxides e Non reducing sugars and sugar derivatives and alkylene oxide adducts thereof f Alkylene oxide adducts of aromatic amine phenol aldehyde condensation products g Allcylene oxide adducts of phosphorus and polyphosphorus acids 01 Polyphenols and alkylene oxide adducts thereof i Polytetramethylene glycols PartIcularly preferred polyols include poly oxypropylene glycols, triols and higher functionality polyols, poly oxybutylene glycols, triols and higher functionality polyols, and poly oxypropylene oxyethylene polyols, similarly including glycols, triols and higher functionality polyols. In the latter class of polyols, the oxyethylene content of th e polyol is preferably less than 80 , most preferably less than 60 of the totaL When used, ethylene oxide can be Included in any fashion along the polyol molecule chairs, i.e., as internal blocks, terminal blocks, and or in random patterns. Limited unsaturation in the polyol used does not adversely affect the operation of the Invention, unless the polyol has so much unsaturation that it is In the form of a highly cross linked polymer or geL The polyols employed can have hydroxyl numbers whIch vary over ide range. In general, the hydroxyl numbers of the polyols employed can range from 20, and lower, to 400, and higher, preferably from . 30 to e 300, and most preferably, from . 35 to 200. The hydroxyl number is defined as the number of milligrams of potassium hydroxide required for the complete hydrolysis of the fully acetylated derivative prepared from 1 gram of polyoL The hydroxyl number can also be computed by the equation 56.1. 1000. F M.W. where OH hydroxyl number of the polyol P w functionality average number of hydroxyl groups per molecule of polyol M.W. molecular weight of the polyot The exact polyol employed depends upon the end use of the polyurethane product to be produced. For example, in the case of foamed reaction products, the hydroxyl number is selected properly to result in flexible, semiflexibile, or rigid foams. The above polyols preferably possess a hydroxy number of from 200 to 400 when employed in rigid foam formulations, from 70 to 150 for semiflexible foams, and from 20 to 70 when employed in flexible foam formulations. Such limits are not intended to be restrictive, but are merely Illustrative of preferred polyols for particular applications. The average molecular weight of the polyols used can range from 500 grams per mole up to 9,000 grams per mole or more preferably the average molecular weight rsnges from 1,000 4,000 grams per mole. Polyol average molecular weight has great influence on the character of the end products. The nexibility of polyurethane foams increases as the polyol molecular weight increases. As the polyol molecular weight decreases, more polyisocyanate Is needed to produce an acceptable foam. Compounds useful as reactants In the present Invention with molettes which are reactive with the polyol include dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acld anhydrides and diepoxides. These compounds may be aliphatic, cyclic or aromatic, and may be saturated or unsaturated.Compounds having more than two funetionalities such as tricarbexylic acids and triepoxides may also be used. Compounds having two or more functionalities reactive with the hydroxyl groups of the polyol and additionally having one or more hydroxyl groups, such as hydroxycarboxylic acids, may also be used. It is theorized that reactions occur between the polyol and the reactive compound or compounds which are combined with It. In the case of dicarboxylic acids and anhydrides this has been substantiated using infrared spectroscopy and NMR nuclear magnetic resonance .However, the potyol and co reactant may also interact to produce a protective colloid which may not strictly be a single reaction product. Carboxylic compounds which may be used include, as representative examples, maleic acid, adipic acid, succinic acid, itaconie acid, sebacic acid, phthalic acid, azelaic acid, 4 carboxyheptanedioic acid and the corresponding anhydrides. The anhydrides, in particular maleic anhydride and phthalic anhydride, are preferred. Epoxy compounds which may be used include, as representative examples, 3,4 epoxycyclohexylmethyl 3,4 epoxy cyclohexane carboxylate, 1,4 butanediol diglycidyl ether, vinyl cyclohexene dioxide, bis 3,4 epoxycyclohexyl adipat e, lim onene dioxide, and 2 3 ,4 epoxycyclohexyl 5, 5 spiro 3,4 epoxy cyclohexane m eta dioxane. Limonene dioxide and 3,4epoxycyclohexylmethyl 3,4 epoxy cyclohexane carboxylate are the preferred epoxy compounds for use. Suitable epoxy compounds are commercially available, for example, from the Union Carbide Corporation New York under the trade nameBAKELITE. Additional sources of suitable epoxy compounds Include the Vikirg Chemical Company Minneapolis . The adducts may be produced by reacting the polyol A with the polyol reactive compound. B in a molar ratio ranging from 1 1 to Xs2. The discussion below refers to an exemplary mixture having a 1 1 molar ratIo of hydroxy and carboxy groups. The compound B should be added to the polyol A in a vessel which Is continuously nushed with nitrogen and equipped with stirring means, temperature control, rcnw and heat source. The compound B should be stirred to dissolve it In the polyol at a temperature ranging from 70 to 150 C preferably at 70 to 120 C, and most preferably at about 70 C.The temperature should then be gradually increased to 160 to 180 C, preferably about 170 C. Since extended heating at such temperatures can result in reaction of all reactive functionalities of the compound B , the progress of the reaction is chemically monitored and reaction Is stopped by cooling when the desired stage of reaction is reached. Where carboxylic compounds are used, the reaction is complete when the KOH equivalent of the reaction product, as determined by the KOH titration test to be detailed below, Is reduced by about 1 3 of the original value. This indicates that a half ester has been produced, In which a substantial percentage of the carboxylic carbons of the carboxylic compound have reacted with the polyol but in which a significant percentage also remain unreacted.Where dicarboxylic acids or anhydrides are used, the KOR value should be reduced to below about 16, preferably to between 12 and 7. Acid equivalents higher than about 12 indicate that the dicarboxylic acid or anhydride remains substantially reacted acid equivalents less than about 7 indicate that the second half of the carboxylic carbons of the dicarboxylic acid or anhydride have begun to react with the polyoL Full esters having substantially no free carboxyl groups may be produced as needed in later embodiments detailed below by merely continuing the reaction until the KOH equivalent is reduced substantially to zero. Usually when a dicarboxylic anhydride is allowed to react with a polyol, reaction at 160 180 C for 2 3 hours produces a half ester. The free carboxyl group formed when the anhydride undergoes ring opening does not readily react with the polyol, due to steric hindrance. However, further heating for about 6 additional hours or longer causes the free carboxyl groups to react, yielding a fully esterified product. While there may be cxcess hydroxyl groups in the polyol which remain unreacted, substantially all of the carboxyl carbon atoms from the anhydride are then bound by esterification reaction.Specific reaction times and temperatures required for particular anhydrides to produce half and full esters vary, and the necessary parameters may be readily established by those skilled in the art on a case by case basis. Where epoxides are used as the co reactant, similar procedures may be used and the reaction is complete when a substantial percentage ot the epoxy groups of the epoxide have reacted with the polyol, but where a significant percentage remain unreacted, as determined by the pyiridinium chloride test to be further explained below. These reactions are preferably carried out at a temperature of 70 90C, most preferably about 70 C, for about 10 hours. According to another important embodiment, the adducts are produced as the reaction product of A a polyol and C an intermediate formed as the reaction product of at least one compound B as described above, with at least one low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbon D . The low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbon D is preferably a glycol such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, or 1,3 butylene glycol.Ethylene glycol and l 3,butylene glycol are the preferred low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbons. Other low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbon compounds including diols, triols, quadrols and higher functional polyhydroxyhydrocarbon compounds may also be used. The distinction between the compounds D and the polyols A lies in their respective molecular weights. Whereas the polyols A normally have average molecular weights of 500 to 9,000, the compounds D have exact chemical formulas of molecular weight generally below about 200 grams per mole. In producing the intermediate C , the compound B and the compound D are allowed to react under conditions similar to those set forth above. Preferably, this reaction is carried out at a temperature of . 80 100C, most preferably about 95 C, for about 24 hours.Mter this intermediate C has been produced and, if necessary, subjected to conventional purification steps such as filtering or stripping of superfluous reactants, the intermediate C and the polyol A are reacted to produce an adduct having a low KOH or epoxy equivalent. This reaction is preferably carried out at a temperature of . l60 lS0 C, most preferably about l8O C, for about 10 hours. The polyol and the intermediate are preferably combined in a molar ratio of 1 1. According to yet another embodiment, the adducts are produced the reaction product of A a polyol and E a half ester intermediate formed as the reaction product of l at least one polycarboxylic compound selected from the group consisting of dicarboxylic acids, dicarboxylic acld anhydrides, polycarboxylic acids having at least three carboxylic carbon atoms and polycarboxylic anhydrides having at least three carboxylIc carbon atoms, and 2 at least one epoxy compound selected from the group consisting of diepoxides and polyepoxides having at least three epoxy groups. The polycarboxylic and epoxy compounds mentioned above are suitable for use. To produce the adducts the polycarboxylic and epoxy compounds are allowed to react under conditions similar to those set forth above to produce the half ester intermediate E . These reactions are preferably carried out at a temperature of . 100 140 C preferably about 130iC for about a half hour. The intermediate E is then allowed to react with the polyol as described in the previous embodiment to produce the adduct. The times and temperatures specified above for the various reactions are exemplary but not required. Catalysts may be added to accelerate the reactions, as taught below in the Examples, permitting use of lower temperatures and shorter reaction times. Suitable catalysts are well known in the art. Preferably, the adducts produced according to the above embodiments are diluted with a polyoL An adduct in a reaction mixture for producing a product such as a polyurethane should constitute 2.5 10 by weight, preferably . 5 10 and most preferably about 10 by weight of the composition. The optimum amount in a given ease is best determined by experimentation. Rather than being combined in accordance with the above embodiments directly with a polyisocyanate to produce a polyurethane, the adducts may optionally be incorporated in a polymer polyol which t then combined with a polyisocyanate. Polymer polyols are well kriown In the art. The basle technology Is disclosed in U.S. Reissue 28,715 and U.S. Reissue 29,118.Generally, in order to produce a conventional polymer polyol, an ethylenically unsaturated monomer is polymerized in situ In an appropriate polyoL The polymerization produces a stable, dispersed polymer in the polyoL The polymer dispersion, known as a polymer polyol, can be employed as a reactant in a number of reactions e.g., polyurethaneforming reactions to introduce into the resultant product, as an integral part thereof, both the polyol and the dispersed polymer. More specifically, conventional polymer polyols may be produced by the following steps which are known in the art a Dispersing a minor amount of an ethylenically unsaturated monomer in a major amount of at least one normally liquid polyol having a molecular weight of at least about 500 and a hydroxyl number in the range of 20 to z 600 by feeding the monomer into the polyol at a regular and continuous rate, and b Polymerizing said monomer in said polyol by free radical addition polymerization in the presence of a conventional free radical catalyst to a substantially linear polymer having a molecular weight of at least about 5,00 i to provide a liquid, stable dispersion of polymer polyol having a viscosityEMI17.1 of less than about 40,000 cps at 10 polymer concentration. During this polymerization, a minor amount of graft or block polymer is inherently produced. Thus, regardless of whether or not the ethylenically unsaturated monomer itself contains radicals reactive with the isocyanato group, the reactive compositions produced always contain film forming polymer having radicals reactive with the isoeyanato group.Among ethylenically unsaturated monomers which do not have a radical reactive with the isocyanato group are styrene, methyl methacrylate and vinyl acetate however, all of these produce, after polymerization, reactive compositions that contain a Zilm forrning polymer having a minor amount of reactive radicals Introduced from the polymerization medium and the reactive compositions react with the isocyanato group. Preferably, the adduct is diluted significantly with a suitable polyol before addition and polymerization with the ethylenically unsaturated monomer to produce the desired adduct modified polymer polyol. A mixture of. 2.5 to 10 parts, and preferably s 5 to 10 parts by weight of adduct per 100 parts of the total mixture of adduct and polyol for producing the polymer polyol should be used. The optimum percentage to be used in a given case, however, is best determined by experimentation, because factors including the type and molecular weight of the polyol used, and the type and concentration of ethylenically saturated monomers to be used, affect the properties of the product polymer polyols.The adduct, polyol and ethylenieslly unsaturated monomers may be combined in any order, the Important factor being dilution of the adduct by a suitable polyol prior to addition of the polyisocyanate to produce the polyurethane. Preferably, however, the adduct is first diluted with the polyol before mixing with the ethylenically waturated monomers. Polymer polyols may be produced by polymerizing the ethylenically unssturated monomers in the selected polyol at a temperature of from t00C to 150 C in the presence of a catalytically effective amount of a conventional free radical catalyst known to be suitable for the polymerization of ethylenically unsaturated monomers. Preferably, the monomers are fed into the polyol over about three hours while maintaining the polyol at 130 140 C, and the reactants are then maintained at 140 1500C for an additional hour. These are preferred but optional reaction conditions. A polyol chosen for use in producing a polymer polyol must meet several requirements in addition to the requirements discussed above in relation to polyols in general 1 It must act as a solvent or dispersing medium for the film forming polymer produced by polymerization of the ethylenically unsaturated monomers. 2 It must not be so reactive with the film forming polymer M to reduce substantially the reactive radical content of either the solvent or the polymer or to form a gel or a hard infusible resin which would interfere with or even prevent the reaction with the polyisocyanatc. 3 It shbuld form stable solutions or dispersions with the film forming polymer which are preferably dilutable without the formation of undesirable precipitates with the components used to form the polyurethane polymer. 4 It must be a liquid, at least at the temperature used for the reaction with the polyisocyanate. 5 It must have at least two radicals which are reactive with the N C O of the polyisocyanates so as to form a reaction product with the polyisocyanate. Among the polyols that can be employed for producing polymer polyols are hydroxyl terminsted polyesters, polyhydroxyalkanes, polyphenols, polyoxyalkylene polyolsr and the corresponding mercapto derivatives. The monomers which may be used are the polymerizable monomers characterized in that they have at least one polymerizable ethylenically unsaturated group of the type, C C . The monomers can be used singly or in combination to produce homopolymer polyol or copolymer polyol reactive compositions. These monomers are well known in the art and include the hydrocarbon monomers such as butadiene, isoprene, 1,4 pentadiene, 1,6hexadiene, 1,7 octadiene, styrene, alpha methylstyrene, methylstyrene, 2,4dimethylstyrene, ethylstyrene, isopropylstyrene, butylstyrene, Phenylstyrene, eyelohexylstyrene, benzylstyrener substituted styrenes such as chlorostyrenc, 2 ,5 dichlorostyrene, brom ostyrene, fluorostyrene, trifluoromethylstyrene lodos tyrene, cyanostyrene, nitroatyrene, N,N dim ethylam inostyrene, aeetoxystyrene, methyl 4 rlnylbenzoate, phenoxystyrene, divinyl diphenyl sulfide, p vinylphenyl phenyl oxide the acrylic and substituted acrylic monomers such as acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methylacrylate, hydroxypropyl acrylate, 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate, 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, benzyl methacrylate, Isopropyl methacrylate, hydroxypropyl methacrylate, octyl m ethacrylate, methacrylonitrile, methyl alpha chloroacrylate, ethyl alpha ethoxyacrylate, methyl alpha acetaminoacrylate, butyl acrylate, 2 ethylhexyl acrylate, phenyl acrylate, phenyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile, alpha ehloroacrylonltrilc, substituted acrylamides including N,N dim ethylacrylami de, N,N dibenzylacrylatemide, and N butylacrylamide acrylamide, methacrylyl formamide, and the like the vinyl esters, vinyl ethers, vinyl ketonesr such as vinyl acetate, vinyl chloroacetate, vinyl alcohol, vinyl butyrate, isopropenyl acetate, vinyl formate, vinyl acrylate, vinyl methacrylate, vinyl methoxy acetate, vinyl benzoate, vinyl iodine, vinyl toluene, vinyl naphthalene, vinyl bromide, vinyl fluoride, vinylidene bromide, l chloro l fluoroethylene, vinylidene fluoride, vinyl methyl ether, vinyl ethyl ether, vinyl propyl ethers, vinyl butyl ethers, vinyl 2 ethylhexyl ether, vinyl phenyl ether, vinyl 2 methoxyethyl ether, methoxybutadiene, vinyl 2 butoxyethyl ether, 3,4 dihydro 1,2 pyran, 2butoxy 2 vinyloxy dimethyl ether, vinyl 2 ethyim ercaptoethyl ether, vinyl methyl ketone, vinyl ethyl ketone, vinyl phenyl ketone, vinyl ethyl sulfide, vinyl ethyl sulfone, N methyl N vinyl ac etami de, N vinylpyrrolidone, vinylImidazole, divinyl sulfide, divinyl sulfoxide, divinyl sulfone, sodium vinyl sulfontate, methyl vinyl sulfonate, N vinyl pyrrole, dimethyl fumarate, dimethyl maleate, maleic acid, crotonic acid, fumaric acid, itaconic acid, t butylaminoethyl methacrylate, dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, glycidyl acrylate, allyl alcohol, glycol monoesters ofItaconic acid, diglycol esters of itaconic acid, methyl monoester of Itaconic acid, dichlorobutadiene, vinyl pyridinet Any of the known polymerizable monomers can be used and the compounds listed above are illustrative and not restrictive of the monomers suitable for use in this Invention. Any ot the known chain transfer agents can be present If desired. Iliustrative of catalysts which can be used In producing polymerpolyols are the well known free radical types of vinyl polymerization catalysts, for example, the peroxides, persulfates, perborates, percarbonates, azo compounds, including hydrogen peroxide, dibenzoyl peroxide, acetyl peroxide, benzoyl hydroperoxide, t butyl hydroperoxide, t butyl peroxybenzoate, alphs,alpha azo 2 m ethyl butyronitrile, ipha,alpha 2 methyl heptonitril e, l,l azo l eyelohexane carbonltrile, dim ethyl alpha,alpha azo.isobutyrate, 4,4t azo 4 cyanopentanoic acid, azo bisisobutyronitrile, persuccinic acid, diisopropyl peroxy dicarbonat a mixture of catalysts may also be used. The concentration of the catalyst can vary from 0.001 to 5 percent, preferably from 0.2 to 0.5 percent however, any effective catalytic amount Is satisfactory. The polymerization can also be carried out with an inert organic solvent present. Illustrative thereof are toluene, benzene, acetonitrile, ethyl acetate, hexane, heptane, dicyclohexane, dioxane, acetone, N,Ndimethylformamide, and N,N dimethylacetamide. Acceptable polymer polyols normally have a maximum polymer particle size ranging from 1 to . 6 microns preferably, from 1 to 3 microns and most preferably, about 1 micron or less. Polymer polyols having particles of maximum diameter of less than 1 micron are considered for the purposes of this invention to be on the borderline of invisibility when examined under a microscope. Polymer polyols having particles of 1 3 microns maximum diameter are considered to be of medium size. Polymer polyols having particles of 4 6 microns maximum diameter are considered to be of large size. Polymer polyols should contain from 5 to 50 by weight of dispersed polymer. A preferable concentration is 20 to 50 by weight. Polymer polyols having in excess of about 50 by weight of dispersed polymer are ordinarily too viscous for practical purposes. The adducts and polymer polyols prepared with them can be used to produce polyurethane products, particularly polyurethane foams. Where polymer polyol Is used, upon addition of a polyisocyanate to the polymer polyol, the ethylenically unsaturated monomers and the adduct in the polymer polyol both react with the isocyanato groups and are chemically and integrally bound in the resulting polyurethane. Where an adduct Is directly used, preferably dissolved in a polyol, the hydroxyl groups of the polyol and adduct react with the isocyanato groups of the polyisocyanate and are chemically and integrally bound into the polyurethane. The adducts and polymer polyols may be used In prepolymer processes, quasi prepolymer processes and one shot processes as known to those skilled In the art. The polyurethanes may be further reacted with epoxy resins, cured with sulfur, peroxides or other curing agents, or otherwise reacted or modified as known to those skilled in the art.In using the one shot process for production of polyurethanes, it is desirable to also use a silicone oil emulsifier as described in U.S.2,834,748 and 2,917,480 The Isocyanates used to form the polyurethanes of the present invention must be polyfunctionaL Examples of such polyisocyanates are the toluene diisocyanates, hexamethylene diisocyanates, diphenylmethane diisocyanates, naphthalene diisocyanates, triphenylmethane triisocyanates, phenylene diisocyanates, dimethyldiphenylm ethane diisocyanates, triisocyanatodiphenyl ethers . such as meta toluene diisocyanate, 4,S diphenyl diisocyanate, 4,4 diphenylene methane diisocyanate, 1,5naphthalene diisocyanate, 4,4 diphenyl ether diisocyanate, pphenylene diisocyanate, ethylene diisocyanate, trim ethylene diisocyanate, cyclohexylene diisocyanate, 2 chloropropane diisocyanate, xylylene diisocyanates, A mixture of 80 2,4 tolylene diisocyanate and 20 2,6 tolylene diisocyanate is particularly preferred this mixture will be referred to hereinafter as toluene diisocyanate. Other polyisocyanates which can be used will occur to those skilled In the art. The extremely versatile nature of the Invention makes possible the production of products having a wide variety of characteristics, and can effectively be used for forming not only cellular and microcellular polyurethane products, but also films, coatings, cast or molded articles, As is well known, cellular polyurethane products may be obtained by Inducing the polyurethane reaction in the presence of a gas producing agent or blowing agent such as a fluorohydrocarbon. Alternatively, the polyurethane producing reaction may be Induced in the presence of water, which reacts with isocyanate to release carbon dioxide, an effective blowing agent.An excess of the polyisocyanate should be used to compensate for the loss of polyisocyanate due to reaction with water. Since water acts indirectly to release carbon dioxide, water will be considered as a blowing agent in this invention. By this invention,In which polyurethanes and polyurethane foams are produced using the adducts and polymer polyols discussed above, significant improvements may be obtained in the load bearing characteristics ILD of foam products as well as the tensile strength TES and stability of the foam cells. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, styrene and acrylonitrile are copolymerized in an adduct or adduct modified polymerpolyol of the invention and subsequenUy reacted with a polyisocyanate to produce a polyurethane. The polyurethane can be expanded conventionally to produce a foam. As discussed earlier, there have been difficulties in the past with using the styrene aerylonitrile systems for producing polyurethanes. In particular, high styrene acrylonitrile ratios lead to instability of the reaction mixtures used to produce polymer polyols. Production of products using low styrene acrylonitrile ratios or acrylonitrile alone results in excessive buildup of heat from the exothermic curing reaction and causes discoloration of the product. This invention alleviates these problems, as it is possible to produce polyurethane reaction mixtures at a given solids concentration and polyol molecular weight, having high styrene aerylonitrile ratios, without the attendant problems of disptrsion Instability and product discoloration.The styrene acrylonitrile ratios according to the invention are prefer atly in the range from 50 50 up to 100 0 an approximately 80 20 ratio is particulbrly preferred. The polymer dispersions obtained according to this aspect of the invention are characterized by a minute particle size, i.e., little or no tendency to exhibit coagulation or excessive grit content. Rather than using the adducts and polymer polyols of the Invention to produce polyurethanes, other types of polymers may be produced. Por example, the adducts and polymer polyols may be reacted with a polycarboxylic acid or anhydride such reactants are mentioned above , to produce a polyester. While polyurethanes and polyesters have been mentioned specifically, it is to be understood that the utility of the adducts and polymer polyols extends beyond production of these specific polymer classes, and other types of polymers may alternatively be produced. This invention is further illustrated by the following examples, without, however, being restricted thereto. All parts are by weight, mless otherwise specified. Pour standardized polyols were utilized in the Examples Polyol 1 Polypropylene oxide polyethylene oxide triol made from propylene and ethylene oxides and glycerine and having a theoretical number average molecular weight of about 4700 and a hydroxyl number of about 35.9. The alkylene oxide units are present primarily in blocks and the end units are substantially all ethylene oxide units, i.e., the ethylene oxide is used to cap the triol Based on its total weight, this triol contains about 14 wt ethylene oxide. Such a polyol is commercially available from Union Carbide under the trade name Niax ll 27 . Polyol fl Polypropylene oxide polyethylene oxide triol made from propylene and ethylene oxides and glycerine and having a theoretical number average molecular weight of about 6,000 and a hydroxyl number of about 26.1. The alkylene oxide units are present primarily in blocks and the end units are substantially all ethylene oxide units, i.e., the ethylene oxide is used to cap the trioL Based on its total weight, this triol contains about 14 wt ethylene oxide. Such a polyol is commercially available from Union Carbide under the trade name Niax 11 34 . Polyol III Polypropylene oxide polyethylene oxide polyol made from propylene oxide and ethylene oxide end an 80 20 blend by weight of sorbitol and glycerine, having a theoretical number Average molecular weight of about 10,800 and a hydroxyl numbed of about 28. The alkylene oxide units are present primarily a blocks, and the end units are substantially all ethylene oxide units, Lc, the ethylene oxide is used to cap the polyoL The polyol contains about 8 wt ethylene oxide units based on the total polyol weight., Such a polyol is commercially available from llnion Carbide under the trade name Niax 16 56 . Polvol IV Polypropylene oxide triol made from propylene oxide And glycerine and having a theoretical number average molecular weight of about 3,000 and a hydroxyl number of about 55.4. Such a polyol is commercially available from Union Carbide under the trade name Niax Lg 56 . The ILD and TES characteristics of foams in the Examples were measured using ASTM D1564 69 standard test methods. The ILD test basically involves measuring the pressure necessary to compress a foam sample of standard size to a specified percentage of one of its original dimensions.The TES test basically Involves compressing a foam sample of standard size to a solid film before the foam sets, and measuring the tensile strength of the film In carrying out the KOH titration test, the amount of unreacted carboxyl groups in a product is determined by direct titration with an alcoholic solution of one tenth normal KOH using Methylene Blue as an indicator pH . Unreacted carboxyl groups are calculated in units of milligrams of KOH per gram of the sample.A KOH equivalent ranging from 0 to about 3 indicates that most carboxyl groups of any carboxylic compounds used in the reactions have been reacted, e.g., with hydroxy moieties. A KOH equivalent of about 4 or greater more particularly 7 or greater , indicates that a significant amount of, free carboxyl groups remain unreacted, as is the case in half esters. The free epoxy content of a reaction mixture may be determined using the pyrldinium hydrochloride method. A sample Is reacted with an .xcess .of pyridinium hydrochloride and the unreacted HCI is titrated with methanolic NaOH to a pink endpoint. The epoxide content Is determined by calculation of the amount of pyridinium hydrochoride consumed during the reaction.In order to correct for inaccuracies due to the presence of any acid in the sample itself an identical sample b then reacted with pyridine instead of pyridinium hydrochloride and the acid value Is added to the calculation for epoxy content. See Crltehfleld, P.E., Organic Functional Group Analysis Vol. 8 inInternational Series of Monographs on Analytical Chemistry, MacmillanCo, New York 1963 , P. 134 and Mitchell, J., et al, Organic Analysis,Vol. 1, anterscience Publishers, New York 1953 , p. 144 . Unsaturation in an adduct or polymer polyol may be determined using the dodecyl mercaptan method. NMR could alternatively be used .Standard reagents including the following are prepared 1 25 grams ot N dodecyl mercaptan in one liter of ethanol 2 50 grams of potassium anhydride In 1 liter of ethanol and 3 a C.os to 0.01 Normal iodine solution in aqueous potassium iodide. An adduct or polymer polyol sample weighing about 6.5 grams is added to a 250 ml iodine nask containing 50 ml of ethanol. After dissolution of the sample, 25 ml of alcoholic mercaptan solution is pipetted into the nask and neutralized with potassium hydroxide the potassium anhydride solution . One additional milliliter of potassium anhydride Is then added as a catalyst. After allowing the mixture to stand for about two minutes, the mixture is acidified with 1 2 ml of facial acetic acid and diluted with an additional 25 ml of ethanol.The solution Is titrated with the standardized iodine solution to a faint yellow endpoint. A blank is run using the same procedure, without adding adduct or polymer polyol sample and with no potassium hydroxide.The mlllimoles of unsaturation per gram of the sample are calculated as follows millimoles unsaturation B A N gram. of sample W B r milliliters of iodine required to titrate blank A t mllliliters of iodine required to titrate the sample N Normality of the iodine solution. a weight of the sample GSee Kohthoff and Belcher, Volumetric Analysis,. Vol. 2, anterseience Publishers, N.Y. 1957 , pp. 389 390 .PREPARATION OF POLYURETHANE FOAMS USING POLYOLCARBOXYLIC ANHYDRIDE HALF ESTER ADDUCTSExample 1 A resin reaction vessel continuously nushed with nitrogen gas and equipped with a thermometer, stirrer, reflux condenser and heat exchange means was charged with 1,500 grams polyol 1 Niax U 27 , 49 grams maleic anhydride and p.5 milliliters of tetra isopropyl titanate catalyst.The components were kept at 180 C until the hydroxy equivalent of the charge determined by KOH titration was about 8.6 milligrams per gram about 3 hours and the Brookfield viscosity of the half ester adduct produced was 1,880 EMI27.1 A foam was made from the half ester adduct by combining 100 grams of the adduct with 1 gram of Union Carbide silicone No. 6202, 52.47 grams toluene diisocyanate, 4.5 grams water, 0.125 grams UnionCarbide Niax catalyst A 6, andC12 grams stannous octoate, and expanding the mixture into a foam by conventional techniques. Purther trials were made and the results are shown in Table 1.Trial 1 was a control trials 2 4 and 5 7 utilized maleic anhydride and succinic anhydride respectively trial 2 was described above . As shown, the ILD and TES properties of the product polyurethane foams showed substantial increases in most cases as compared with the control trial 1 . The ILD and TES ,values in trial 2 were the best obtained in this Set of trials, and the KOH value of 8.6 in trial 2 establishes that the adduct was a half ester. The KOH value in trial 5 also establishes the presence of a half ester, and good improvements in ILD and TES were also, shown. In trials 3 and 6 the free carboxyl groups in the adduct were neutralized using propylene oxide. TABLE 1 EMI28.1 SEP TRIAL SEP I SEP S SEP a SEP 4. SEP 5 SEP . SEP 0 SEP T. tb SEP Control tb SEP reactant SEP Non. SEP MA SEP 3 SEP h SEP SEP SEP tb SEP ORAMS SEP REACTANT tb SEP 100 SEP CRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP None SEP SEP o SEP SEP SEP v SEP g SEP . SEP g SEP o tb SEP dN SEP NEUTRAUZED tb SEP WITH SEP SEP SEP PO SEP SEP SEP PO SEP . tb SEP r SEP L SEP 5 SEP ol SEP SEP 1,211 SEP 1.880 SEP D SEP G SEP r SEP SEP O tb SEP ri SEP rngf SEP 0.0 SEP 8.0 SEP 0.0 SEP 0.5 SEP 7.0 SEP 0.5 tb SEP FOAM SEP DENSITY tb SEP SEP 2.0, SEP . SEP 2.3 SEP L 0 SEP 1.1 SEP 2.3, SEP 2.1 SEP 1.1 tb SEP ILD SEP lbslsq. SEP 2 SEP a SEP .n SEP 2R SEP 5 SEP o SEP g tb SEP 25 SEP 20.0 SEP C37 2 SEP 1 SEP 28.7 SEP 28.2 SEP O SEP C26.0 tb SEP J SEP INCREASE SEP , SEP 0 SEP 64.0 SEP 43.5 SEP 41.0 SEP 35.5 SEP 30.0 tb SEP 65 SEP 41.0 SEP 9 SEP s SEP commat SEP 2 SEP O tb SEP SEP SEP C42.0X SEP c47.1 tb SEP iNCREASE SEP SEP 137.8 SEP 57.3 SEP 1.95 . SEP 75.0 SEP 2.4 SEP 14.8 tb SEP SEP STRENGTH SEP e SEP O SEP e SEP Oi SEP o SEP SEP  SEP ls SEP O. tb SEP Ibslsq. SEP ineh SEP c3 SEP H SEP t SEP 543.4 950.5 SEP 9 Y SEP 9 SEP o SEP i tb SEP i SEP INCREASE SEP . SEP SEP . SEP as SEP 44.2 SEP 33.4 SEP O SEP ouzo tb SEP Zu tb SEP rnglg SEP . SEP O SEP SEP SEP SEP 1 SEP 0v SEP SEP 00 tb SEP SEP t SEP a SEP a SEP SEP o SEP 5, SEP o SEP 0 SEP c SEP e SEP zt SEP z SEP e tb SEP F SEP se SEP o SEP Q SEP S SEP x SEP u SEP ae SEP Be SEP Pc SEP g SEP SEP E tb MA Maleic AnhydrideSA Succinic Anhydride PO Propylene Oxide example 2 Similar trials were made using Niax 11 34 polyol tpolyol fl . The results of these trials are shown in Table 2.Trial 8 was a control incorporating no adduct Trials 9 11 and 12 14 utilized maleic anhydride and succinic anhydride, respectively. The ILD and TES properties of the product polyurethane foams showed substantial increases in most cases as compared with the control trial 8 . In trials 9 and 12, the KON values indicate that the adducts used were half esters. The ILD and TES values in these trials were best overall at 25 compression, but at 65 compression trial 14 with a KOH value of 0.3 demonstrated roughly equivalent improvement in ILD. The TES values for trials 9 and 12 were among the best, but the TES value in trial 11 with a KOH value of 0.3 was slightly higher than in trial 9. In trials 10 and 13 the free carboxyl groups of the adduct were neutralized using propylene oxide. TABLE 2 EMI30.1 tb SEP s SEP S SEP , SEP 10 SEP 1 SEP 12 SEP IS SEP 14 tb SEP z SEP l SEP ow SEP  SEP o SEP oo tb SEP SEP SEP wO SEP  tb SEP GRAMS SEP SEP o SEP CRt SEP OL SEP s tb SEP o SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP F LYOL SEP None SEP SEP 3.28 SEP SEP 3.33 SEP 3.33 SEP 1.88, tb SEP W SEP o SEP NEUTRAUZED tb SEP WITH SEP SEP o SEP PO SEP SEP w SEP e SEP po SEP 1 tb SEP r SEP I SEP 0 SEP z SEP SEP kept SEP A SEP oo tb SEP KOH SEP rnglg SEP o SEP 0.1 SEP 0.3 SEP 0.4 SEP 0.8 SEP 0.3 tb SEP FOAM SEP DENSITY SEP 2.1 SEP 2.1 tb SEP o SEP 1.8 SEP 2.1 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.1 tb SEP commat 4 SEP a SEP v SEP o tb SEP 26. SEP 34.8 SEP o.o SEP C33.8 tb SEP o SEP INCREASE SEP E SEP s SEP rS SEP 6 SEP eic SEP a24 SEP 5 SEP 2 SEP o tb SEP L SEP E SEP Y SEP O SEP rl SEP O SEP SEP Cj SEP 14 tb SEP a SEP 9 SEP o.o SEP 52.7 SEP 52.0 SEP zip SEP 57.2 SEP C SEP S tb SEP n SEP CUR SEP SEP 89 0 SEP 66.2 SEP 64.0 SEP 89.0 SEP 80.4 SEP 89.6 tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENGTH SEP t. SEP I SEP 4. SEP , SEP . SEP 63. SEP S SEP 6 SEP 6 tb SEP SEP Inch SEP z SEP SEP  SEP eg SEP So SEP S SEP SEP o tb SEP a SEP INCREASE SEP SEP O SEP 2.7 SEP SEP 4.5 SEP 9.1 SEP o SEP 1.0 tb SEP UNSATURATION tb SEP t SEP Z SEP z SEP SEP oo SEP 0.002 SEP 0.000 SEP oo SEP 0.000 tb t SEP SEP e SEP c SEP o SEP 9 SEP E SEP 3 SEP W SEP SEP s SEP u SEP z SEP S tb MA Maleic AnhydrideSA Succinic Anhydride PO Propylene Oxide Example 3 Further trials were made following the procedures of Example 1 using. Niax 16 56 polyol polyol tU . The results of these trials are shown In Table 3.Trial 15 was a control trials 16 18 utilized maleic anhydride. The KOH values established that the adduct in trial 16 was a half ester. The ILD and TES properties of the product polyurethane foam In trial 16 showed good increases, although they were not as significant as with polyols I and fl see Examples 1 2 . In trial 17, the free carboxyl groups in the adduct were neutralized using propylene oxide. TABLE 3 EMI32.1 SEP TRIAL tb SEP REACTANT SEP None SEP MA SEP MA SEP MA tb SEP CRAMS SEP REACTANT tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP 1 .LYOL SEP None SEP 3.27 SEP 3.2 SEP 1.13 tb SEP S tb SEP CARBOXYL SEP iEUTRAUZED tb SEP WITH SEP SEP SEP . SEP PO SEP SEP VISCOSITY SEP s SEP At . SEP 440 SEP 1,000 SEP 1.000 SEP 1,000 tb SEP KOlI SEP mgfg SEP 0.0 SEP 7.0 SEP 0.1 SEP 0.3 tb SEP FOAM SEP oo SEP w SEP 9 SEP o SEP DENSITY tb SEP SEP 2.5 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.4 SEP 2.4 tb SEP X SEP o SEP Ms SEP t SEP Qt SEP o SEP  tb SEP 25 SEP Q31.4 SEP 34.1 SEP Q3.0 SEP C9.3 tb SEP SEP ICREAS SEP SEP 10.2 SEP 5.1 SEP 25.1 tb SEP zero SEP I SEP . tb SEP SEP Q 7J SEP 79.1 SEP o SEP SEP SEP Ls SEP SEP g SEP Go tb SEP SEP INCELEASE SEP SEP s SEP i SEP 7.6 tb TENSILE SEP STREGTH SEP cj SEP ko SEP rr, tb SEP err SEP inch SEP 0 SEP SEP 69L8 SEP i80s.4 SEP i72.S SEP ,748.0 tb HI SEP I SEP SEP 16.8 SEP 11.5 SEP 8.1 tb SEP w tb SEP SEP  SEP s SEP g SEP C SEP F tb MA Maleic Anhydride PO Propylene Oxide PREPARATION OF POLYURETHANE FOAMS USING POLYOL TRICARBOXYLIC ACID ADDUCTSExample 4 A half ester adduct was made using a tricarboxylic acid, and the adduct was used to produce a polyurethane foam.Specifically, a resin reaction vessel continuously flushed with nitrogen gas and equipped with a thermometer, stirrer, reilux condenser and heat exchange means was charged with 1,500 grams polyol It Niax 11 34 , 136 grams of 4carboxyheptanedioic acid and .5 ml of tetra isopropyl titanate catalyst.The components were kept at 160 C for about 3 hours to produce a half ester adduct. A foam was made from the half ester adduct, by combining 100 grams of the adduct with one gram of Union Carbide silicone no. 6202, along with 53.7 grams of toluene diisocyanate, 4.5 grams water, 0.125 grams Union Carbide Niax catalyst A 5, andqi grams of stannous octoate, and expanding the mixture into a foam by conventional techniques.Example 5 A polymer polyol was produced using the adduct from Example 4, and the polymer polyol was used to produce a polyurethane foam.Specifically, an 85 15 blend of Niax 16 56 Niax 11 27 polyols, and an 80 20 blend of styrenelacrylonitrile monomers were prepared. An aliquot of 2.5 grams of the adduct produced in Example 4 was combined with 67.5 grams of the polyol blend. Over a period of three hours, a mixture ot 30 grams of the monomer blend and 0.6 grams azo bis butyronitrile catalyst was fed into the mixture of adduct and polyol blend. The resulting mixture was kept at about 130 140 C and stirred continuously. After feeding of the monomer blend with the catalyst was completed, the mixture was then stirred at a temperature of about 140 150 C for an additional hour. The resulting polymepolyol product had an acceptable viscosity and particle size. A foam was produced from the polymer polyol according to the techniques used in Example 4.Example 6 An adduct was produced by reaction of a polyol with the product of reaction of a tricarboxylic acid wIth a low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbon , and the edduct was used to produce a polyurethane foam. To produce the adduct, ethylene glycol was reacted with 4 earboxyheptanedioic acid. Specifically, 62.02 grams 0 mole of ethylene glycol was esterified with 204 grams Q mole of 4 carboxyheptanedioic acid under agitation at about 95 C for about 24 hours. A liquid bydroxyearboxyllc acid product was formed. An aliquot of 10.5 grams of the hydroxycarboxylic acid was added to 500 grams of Union CarbideNiax ll 27 polyol and the polyol was esterified at about 180 C for about.10 hours. The carboxyl groups of the hydroxycarboxylic acid reacted with the polyol, reducing the KOH value to below 1. An aliquot of the adduct was then used to produce a polyurethane foam by the technique In Example 4.Example 7 A polymer polyol was produced using the adduct from Example 6, and the polymer polyol was used to produce a polyurethane foam. More specifically, an 85 15 blend of Niax 16 56 Niax 11 27 polyols, and an 80 20 blend of styrene acrylonitrile monomers were prepared. An aliquot of 2.5 grams of the adduct produced in Example 6 was combined with 67.5 grams of the polyol blend. Over a period of 3 hours, a mixture of 30 grams of the monomer blend and 0.6 grams azo bis butyronitrile catalyst was ted Into the mixture of adduct and polyol blend. The resulting mixture was kept at 130 140 C and stirred continuously. After feeding of the monomer blend with catalyst was completed, the mixture was then stirred at a temperature of 140 150 C for an additional hour.The resulting polymer polyol product had an acceptable viscosity and particle size A foam was produced from the polymer polyol according to the techniques used in Example 4. SUPERIORITY OP ADDUCTS HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FREE CARBOXYLCONTENTExample 8 Trials were conducted to demonstrate the superiority of adducts having a substantial free carboxyl content i.e., half esters , as compared with adducts having negligible free carboxyl content. The results of these trials are shown in Table 4. Procedures similar to those used in Example 1 were followed to produce the adducts and polyurethane foams. The results in terms of both ILD and TES of product foams point to the superiority of a KON value acid equivalent in half esters from dicarboxylic anhydrides of about 10 see trial 22 . TABLE 4 EMI36.1 SEP L, SEP 19, SEP 20 SEP II SEP 22 tb SEP Cnni SEP tb SEP e SEP CPa SEP s SEP MA SEP MA SEP MA tb SEP GRAMS SEP o tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP Non. SEP 3.20 SEP 3.20 SEP 3.20 tb SEP CARBOXYL SEP NELITRALIZED tb SEP vJSCOSiTY SEP 1.214 SEP 2.280 SEP 3. 300 SEP 5,800 tb SEP x SEP SEP l SEP o SEP o SEP a SEP o SEP 0.0 SEP 10.5 SEP 12.2, SEP C SEP 5 tb FOAM SEP DENSITY tb SEP rU SEP 2.0 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.S SEP 2.4 tb SEP ILD SEP lbs sq. SEP Inch SEP j SEP SEP SEP 2 SEP SEP SEP o tb SEP S SEP 20.0 SEP C21.a SEP 39.4 SEP C41.S tb SEP 8 SEP INCREASE SEP SEP 9.0 SEP 97.0 SEP 108.0 tb SEP o SEP E SEP I SEP SEP SEP P tb SEP v SEP Css.s SEP 90.0 tb SEP t SEP INCREASE SEP o SEP o42.0 SEP 119.5 tb SEP ITS SEP STRENGTH SEP 5rz SEP s SEP s SEP 4.L SEP s SEP r tb SEP Z SEP inch SEP G SEP t SEP O M SEP S43A SEP C564.0 SEP , SEP C90S.. SEP 3 SEP c tb SEP u SEP INCREASE SEP SEP 3.9 SEP 00.6 SEP 77.2 tb SEP P tb SEP rng g SEP e SEP 0.090 SEP 2 tb MA Maleic Anhydride Example 9 Purther trials were conducted to demonstrate the superiority of Adducts having free carboxyl groups half esters as compared with adducts in which the carboxyl functionalities have been neutralized. The results of these trials are shown in Table 5. Trial 23 was a control.Trial .24 was a comparative control demonstrating the superiority of half esters maleic anhydride and polyol I were combined in a weight ratio of 3.26 100, the carboxyl functionalities on the adduct were not neutralized, and the adduct was combined with a polyisocyanate to produce a polyurethane foam. In trials 25, 26 and 27, respectively, the carboxyl functionalities of an identical amount of the same adduct as produced in trial 24 were neutralized with N ethyl morpholine, morpholine and diethanol amine. While the foam densities In all four trials 24 27 were roughly equivalent, the half ester produced in trial 24 demonstrated superior ILD both at 25 and 65 compression relative to the other trials.Its TES of 863.1 approximated the highest value obtained In the other three trials, that Is, 870.1 In trial 25. TABLE 5 EMI38.1 SEP TItIAL SEP 23 SEP 24 SEP 25 SEP 26 SEP 27. tb SEP Control tb SEP REACTANT SEP None SEP MA SEP MA SEP MA SEP SEP MA tb SEP GRAMS SEP REACTANT SEP ron tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL. SEP 3.28 SEP 3.26 SEP 3.26 SEP 3.26 tb SEP ii SEP o SEP c SEP E SEP s SEP diethanol tb SEP EUTRAUZED, SEP WITH SEP morpholine SEP amine tb SEP VISCOSITY SEP q 1.214 SEP 20.500 SEP 0 SEP 20.500 SEP 0 tb SEP KOIl SEP mgtg SEP 0.0 SEP 7.7 SEP 0.0 SEP 0.0 SEP 0.0 tb SEP FOAM SEP CLS SEP Ip SEP 3a SEP r tb SEP g1 SEP 2.0 SEP 2.3 SEP 1.5 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0, tb SEP ILD SEP Ibs sq. SEP Inch SEP Cu SEP .4 SEP 2 SEP 2 . tb SEP SEP Cy SEP C SEP 37.t SEP ,34.4 SEP 31.4 SEP tb SEP r S SEP INCREASE SEP SEP O SEP 72.0 SEP 0 SEP 2g.0 tb SEP H SEP P SEP OI tb SEP o SEP cY SEP ur SEP SEP 63.5 SEP 66. SEP O tb SEP o SEP 96.1 SEP g SEP O tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENGTH SEP tn, SEP o SEP o. SEP . SEP L 1.3 tb SEP SEP into SEP 1 SEP o SEP 43A SEP 863.1 SEP SEP 825.q SEP o tb SEP Y SEP INCREASE SEP SEP 59.0 SEP 1 SEP wt SEP SEP  tb SEP 6 SEP 3 tb SEP mglg SEP O SEP SEP g SEP E SEP 5 SEP 0.01 SEP sig SEP tb SEP SEP t SEP S SEP SEP o SEP F SEP e SEP E SEP 1 SEP tb SEP SEP c SEP O SEP S SEP x SEP o SEP a SEP g SEP E tb MA maleic anhydride PREPARATION OP POLYURETHANE FOAMS USING ADDUCTSPRODUCED FROM HYDROXYCARDOXYLIC INTERMEDIATES example 10 A halt ester adduct was produced by reaction of a polyol with the product of reaction of a polycarboxylic anhydride with a low molecular weight polyhydroxyhydrocarbon . To produce the adduct, ethylene glycol was first reacted with maleic anhydride. Specifically, 62.02 grams 1 mole of ethylene glycol was esterifed with 98 grams Q mole of maleic anhydride under agitation, at 95 C for 24 hours. Reaction conditions prevented the second carboxyl carbon of the maleic anhydride molecules from reacting, and a liquid hydroxycarboxylic acid product was formed. The KOH equivalent free earboxyl groups of the product was approximately 240 milligrams KOH per gram. An aliquot of 18.7 grams of the hydroxycarboxylic acid produced above was added to 500 grams of Union Carbide Niax ll 27 polyol and the polyol was esterified at 180 C until the KOH value was reduced to 0.5. .The carboxyl groups of the hydroxycarboxylic acid reacted with the polyol and the viscosity of the adduct increased to the 10,000 Thus the carboxyl groups in the hydroxyearboxylic acid were reacted with the polyol without reducing the hydroxy functionality of the polyoL Example U A series of trials were conducted using procedures similar to that used in Example 10. The results of these trials are shown in Table. 6. The proportions ot p.olyol and specially produced hydroxycarboxylic acid are expressed In relative proportions by weight In grams. Trial 28 is a control employing a polyol without modification. In trial 29 a hydroxycarboxylic acid was formed by the reaction of ethylene glycol and succinic anhydride, which was then reacted with the polyol.In trial 30, a hydroxycarboxylic acid was formed as the reaction product of ethylene glycol and maleic anhydride, and the hydroxycarboxylic acid was then reacted with the polyoL In trial 31, a hydroxycarboxylic acid was produced as the reaction product of ethylene glycol and itaconie acid, and the hydroxycarboxylic acid was reacted with the polyol. The adducts were then reacted with polyisocyanates, and conventional expanding techniques were employed to produce polyurethane foams. The properties of the product foams were then tested. The maleic anhydride ethylene glycol hydroxycarboxylic acid adduct of trial 30 produced a better foam than the itaconic acid ethylene glycol hydroxycarboxylic acid adduct of trial 31, and the itaeonic acid adduct of trial 31 produced a better foam than the succinic anhydride ethylene glycol hydroxycarboxylic cld adduct of trial 29. All three of the trials 29 31 produced better results than the modified polyol of trial 28. TABLE 6 EMI41.1 SEP TRL tb SEP 2fl SEP II SEP 31 tb SEP Control tb SEP REACsTANT SEP Nono SEP A SEP B SEP C tb SEP CRAMS SEP REACTANI tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP Non. SEP 1.11 SEP 1.1 SEP 4.00 tb SEP VISCOSITY SEP CPff SEP . SEP 1.211. SEP 1.000 SEP 10.000 SEP 4.100 tb SEP KOl SEP rng4 SEP 0.0 SEP 1.3 SEP 0.10 SEP 1.1 tb SEP FOAM SEP DEIlSITY tb SEP SEP 4 SEP EP SEP s SEP 2.1 SEP 2 SEP or. tb SEP ILD SEP Ibslsq. SEP Inch SEP o SEP 9 SEP O SEP 9 SEP 5 tb SEP 2S SEP o Sf SEP 20.0 SEP I SEP C29.0 tb SEP SEP IIlCREAS SEP b SEP 3.0 SEP o SEP 45.0 tb SEP 4.4 tb SEP Z SEP o SEP si.o SEP 60.0 SEP 40.3 tb SEP a SEP INCflEAS SEP SEP 2.4 SEP Cj SEP 12.9 tb SEP c SEP SEP o SEP num .i SEP 3 tb SEP SEP o, SEP SEP Inch SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP 0 tb SEP 60.4 tb 4rf SEP commat SEP 6h SEP 28.8 tb SEP UlISATURATION tb SEP rnglg SEP o SEP 0.00 SEP 0.00 SEP 0.00 tb A Reaction product of ethylene glycol and succinic anhydride B Reaction product of ethylene glycol and maleic anhydrideC Reaction product of ethylene glycol and itaconic acid PRODUCTION OP POLYURETHANE FOAMS USING EPOXY ADDUCTSExample 12 Trials were conducted to demonstrate the utility of adducts produced as reaction products of a polyol and a diepoxide for the preparation of polyurethane products including polyurethane foams. The results of these trials are shown, in Table 7.Trials 32 and 33 were controls, in which no modification of the polyol was carried out. Trial 32 is the control for trials 34 36 and 38 employing polyol I trial 33Is the control for trials 37 and 39 employing a polyol I III G5 85 weight ratio blend. Trials 34 and 35 employed mono epoxides trials 36 to 39 employed diepoxides. A representative preparation using a diepoldde proceeded as follows. A reaction vessel continuously flushed with nitrogen and equipped with a thermometer, renux condenser, stirrer and heat exchange means was charged with 250 grams of Niax polyol 11 27 polyol 1 , 5.7 grams of Union Carbide diepoxide ERL 4221 3,4epoxycyclohexylm ethyl 3,4 epoxycycl ohexane carboxyl ate and .125 milliliters of boron trifluoride catalyst.The mixture was heated to about 70 C C and allowed to react for about 10 hours until the epoldde content of the mixture was found to be about one half of the initial amount, indicsting that one of the epoxide radicals on the diepoxide molecules had reacted with a hydroxyl group from the polyol. The epoxy content of the initial reaction solution was 0.16 milligrams per gram, and the final oxide content was about 0.062 milligrams per gram of product.The viscosity of the final product was 7,800EMI42.1 fThe trials involving use of monoepoxides were run in substantially the nme manner, except that at the end of the reactions, e.g., about 10 hours, the free epoxide content in the reaction mixture had been reduced substantially to zero. In summary, the epoxy reactants in trials 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 respectively, were ally glycidyl ether phenyl glycidyl ether Union Carbide ERL 4221 3,4 epoxy cyclohexylmethyl 3,4 epoxy cyclohexylhexane carboxylate ERL 4221 ERL 4234 2 3,4 epoxy cyclohexyl 5,5 spiro 3,4 epoxy cycloexane m eta dioxane and ERL 4 234. The free epoxy content of the reaction mixtures was tested using the pyridinium hydrochloride test method. Trials 34 39 generally showed improvements in ILD and TES as compared to the controls. Comparison of the results in trials 34 and 35 showed that allyl glycidyl ether which in unsaturated, gave a better foam product than phenyl glycidyl ether, which .15 aromatic but contains no ethylenic unsaturation. ApparentlyIn the case of ethylenically unsaturated epoxides the unsaturated groups constitute reactive sites In addition to the epoxy group. Allyl glycidyl ether thus reacts In a somewhat analogous manner to diepoxides.In trials 37 and 39, styrene and acrylonitrile in an 80 20 weight ratio were added In an amount of 30 to the reaction mixturcs, based on total weight of the reaction mixtures, so that polymer polyols were produced.The adducts and polymer polyols were combined with polyisocyanates and expanded Into polyurethane foam according to conventional techniques. EMI44.1 tb SEP 3 SEP 32 SEP 33 SEP 34 SEP 35 SEP 18 SEP 37 SEP . SEP 31 SEP 31 tb SEP V SEP  SEP SEP t SEP O SEP , tb SEP U SEP ContNl tb r SEP ANT SEP None SEP None SEP A.0.L SEP P.O.L SEP BRL 4221 SEP ERL 4221 SEP 0 SEP A SEP g tb SEP CRAMS SEP REACTANT tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP None SEP None SEP 3.8 SEP 5.0 SEP , SEP 2.27 SEP 0.37 SEP 1.31 SEP 0.38 tb SEP . SEP c is SEP . SEP . SEP 1.211 SEP ffi SEP 1.300 SEP 1.800 SEP 7.000 SEP 1,840 SEP 1.400 SEP 1.350 tb SEP EPOXY SEP EQUIVALENT tb SEP L SEP n SEP hydrochlorIde tb SEP E SEP grainsigrarn SEP mole SEP 0.0 SEP 0.0 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP 0.05 SEP 0.08 SEP re SEP Lj SEP tb q SEP USED SEP tb SEP . SEP x SEP SEP SEP g SEP 30 SEP 30 tb SEP STYIFNEIACRYLONITRILH SEP b SEP O SEP b SEP SEP 0 SEP O SEP 80120 SEP 6 SEP w tb SEP SEP 3 SEP SEP o SEP SEP X SEP 9 SEP e SEP o SEP v SEP O SEP z tb SEP DENSITY SEP 2.0 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.2 SEP 1.1 SEP 1.6 SEP 1.88 SEP 1.13 tb SEP ILD SEP Ibslsq. SEP Inch W SEP 20. SEP . SEP b4 SEP SEP num f.7 tb SEP d SEP s SEP 26. SEP O SEP SEP I SEP I SEP s SEP H SEP 23.5 SEP C1 tb SEP O SEP INCREASE SEP SEP SEP 51.5 SEP 17.5 SEP 125.5 SEP 93.0 SEP 13.5 SEP 42.4 tb SEP o tb SEP w SEP 41.0 SEP 10.1 SEP 58.7 SEP 50.7 SEP SEP 100.0 SEP ColO SEP rip SEP a tb SEP 1 SEP INCREASE SEP SEP SEP 43.2 SEP 23.6 SEP 143.9 SEP n SEP 11.0 SEP tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENGTH SEP oi SEP zero SEP o SEP 7..4 SEP 44.666 tb . SEP SEP inch SEP SEP W SEP X SEP SEP e SEP 1 tb SEP L SEP INCREASE SEP Z SEP Z SEP SEP SEP I SEP I SEP O. SEP SEP 1 SEP 6 SEP 0 tb SEP ... SEP , SEP zwE SEP z SEP SEP S SEP U tb A.G.E. Allyl Glycidyl Ether P.G.E. Phenyl Glycidyl Ether Example 13 An adduct was produced by reaction of a polyol with the product of reaction of a polyepoxide with a polybasic carboxylic acid , and the adduct was used to produce a polyurethane foam. To produce the adduct, maleic acid was first reacted with limonene dioxide. Specifically, a 500 ml flat bottom flask continuously nushed with nitrogen gas and cquipped with a reflux condenser, thermometer and a stirrer was charged first with 58 grams of maleic acid and then with 84 grams of limonene dioxide. The initial KOH value of the maleic acid, and epoxy equivalent of the limonene dioxide were, respectively, 395.0 mg g and 1.76g g mole. The limonene dioxide was continuously fed into the flask over a period of about seventeen minutes.An exothermal reaction took place, lasting until about fifteen minutes after all of the limone dioxide was added to the flask. Due to the reaction condItions, and particularly because the highest reaction temperature was only about 130 C, the product was a half ester, in which maleic acid and limone dioxide reacted leaving an acid group and an epoxy group unreacted. The KOH and epoxy equivalent values of the half esters were 240.3 mg g and .67 g g mole, respectively. Next, a resin reaction vessel continuously nushed with nitrogen and equipped with thermometer, stirrer, reflux condenser and heat exchange means was charged with 500 grams polyol I Niax 11 27 , 18.8 grams of the half ester and 0.25 ml of tetra isopropyl titanate catalyst.The polyol was esterified by heating the vessel contents to about 180 C for about 10 hours. The viscosity of the product was about 3,500EMI45.1 The KOH and epoxy equivalents of the product were reduced, respectively, to about 2.1 mg g and 0.007 mgtrmole. A foam was made from the adduct by combining 100 grams of the adduct with LO grams Union Carbide silicone no. 6202, along with 52.4 grams of toluene diisocyanate, 4.5 grams water,0.125 grams UnionCarbide Niax catalyst Aw6, and grams stannous octoate, and expanding the mixture into a foam by conventional techniques. The product foam had a density of 1.9g cm , and ILD values at 25 and 65 compression of 25.7 and 45.3, respectively. Example 14 A polymer polyol was produced using the adduct from Example 13, and the polymer polyol was used to produce a polyurethane foam.An 85 15 blend of Niax 16 56 Niax 11 27 polyols was prepared by mixing together 230.4 grams Niax 16 56 and 40.6 grams Niax ll 27. A 70 30 blend of styrenelacrylonitrile was prepared by mixing together 88.4 grams styrene and 37.9 grams aerylonitrile. An aliquot of 21.1 grams of the adduct produced in Example 13 was combined with the polyol blend.The styrene serylonitril e and 2.6 grams of azobisbutyronitrile catalyst were mixed together and then fed into the mixture of adduct and polyol blend at a rate of about L41 ml minute. The resulting mixture was kept at about 130 C and stirred continuously. After feeding of the monomer blend with catalyst was completed, the mixture was then stirred for an additional hour at the same temperature. The resulting polymerpolyol product had a maximum particle size bordering on Invisibility order microscopic examination less than about 1 micron diameter , and a viscosity of about 2,000 cps. A foam was made from the polymer polyol by combining 100 grams of the polymer polyol with 1.0 grams Union Carbide silicone no.6202, along with 53.7 grams toluene diisocyanate, 4.5 grams water, .125 grams Union Carbide Niax catalyst A 6, and .2 grams stannous octoate, and expanding the mixture into a foam by conventional techniques. The product foam had a density of 2.0 g em3, and ILD values at 25 and 65 compression of 39.3 and 92.7, respectively. POLYMER POLYOL PREPARATION AND USE IN PRODUCINGPOLYURETHANE FOAMSExample 15 Trials were conducted to demonstrate the value of polymer polyols incorporating adducts of the invention. The results of these trials are shown In Tables 8a and 8b, which respectively summarize trials 40 44 and 45 49. In an exemplary preparation, 1,500 grams of Niax polyol 1127 polyol I , together with 49 grams maleic anhydride and 0.75 mIlliliter ot tetra lsopropyl titanate catalyst were combined and heated to 120 C for 45 mInutes to dissolve the maleic anhydride. The reaction mixture was then heated to 170 C for about 3 hours, yielding a half ester reaction product.In order to produce a polymer polyol, an 85 15 blend of Niax 16 56 Niax 11 27 polyols, and an 80 20 blend of styrene acrynolitrile monomers were prepared. An aliquot of 2.5 grams of the adduct produced above was combined with 67.5 grams of the polyol blend. Over a period of three hours, a mixture of 30 grams of the monomer blend and 0.6 grams azo bls butyroni trile catalyst was fedInto the mixture of adduct and polyol blend. The resulting mixture was kept at . 130 140 C and stirred continuously. After feeding of the monomer blend with the catalyst was completed, the mixture was then stirred at a temperature of v 140 150 C for an additional hour.The resulting polymer polyol product had a viscosity of about 9,000 cps and small particle size with some large particles. A foam was produced from the polymer polyol using conventional techniques. Additional trials were run in a similar manner, and the results are shown In Table 8. The above discussion relates to trial 44 . Trial 40 was a control employing no adducts. Trials 41 43, 44 46, and 47 49 employed 10 , 5 and 2.59s of adducts, respectively, based on the weight of the polyol used to dilute the adduct. Trials 41, 44, and 47 employed Polyol 11 27 maleic anhydride adducts. Trials 42, 45 and 48 employed polyol 11 27 maleic anhydrideethylene glycol adducts. Trials 43, 46, and 49 employed polyol 11 27 maleic anhydride 1.3 butylene glycol adducts. The latter group trials 43, 46 and 9 yielded the highest ILD percent Increase values. The polyol 11 27 maleic anhydride ethylene glycol adduct trials trials 2, 45, and 48 yielded the best Improvements in TES. TABLE 8A EMI48.1 tb E SEP 40 SEP 41 SEP 41 SEP 43 SEP 40 tb SEP f SEP SEP o. SEP rP SEP g SEP S tb SEP P SEP Tto SEP 5 SEP o tb SEP a SEP BLEND SEP USED SEP commat 53 SEP k SEP SEP X SEP 10 SOJIl SI tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP RATIO tb SEP o SEP Weight SEP 85 1S SEP tb SEP n SEP o SEP SEP SEP  SEP 2 SEP 12 SEP SEP So SEP 4 SEP SEP SEP SEP SEP D SEP 2 tb SEP GRAMS SEP REACTANTI tb 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP SEP 0.53 SEP 0.37 SEP 0.40 SEP 0.20 tb SEP SEP 1 SEP b SEP g SEP a SEP l SEP o SEP , 0 SEP rO SEP 2pw tb SEP dz SEP ra, tb SEP RATIO SEP By SEP Weight SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 tb SEP g SEP MONOMER SEP USED SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 tb SEP SEP SEP commat h SEP . SEP x tb SEP BROOK SEP FIELD SEP ViSCOSIT SEP 10900 SEP 3.440 SEP 4.900 SEP 5.000 SEP 9.000 tb PARTICLE SEP SIZE SEP Mediurn SEP Borderline SEP Borderline SEP Small. tb SEP Some SEP Large SEP of SEP Visibility SEP SEP Visibility SEP of SEP 9 tb FOAM SEP DES1TY SEP g1 , SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.9 tb SEP V tb SEP 0 SEP . SEP . SEP .0 tb SEP C SEP SEP 0 SEP SEP SEP o SEP O SEP O SEP z SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP O SEP tb SEP 8 SEP INCREASE SEP w SEP 57.6 SEP SE SEP C SEP , SEP  tb SEP E SEP 90.l SEP iss SEP C9 .3 SEP 135f0 tb SEP S SEP INCREASE SEP SEP Ft SEP A tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENGTH SEP SEP lu SEP t tb La SEP tMt Y101CtflC1C SEP D SEP ffi SEP sn SEP 3 SEP o SEP 3 SEP N SEP t SEP , SEP X SEP z SEP 700.0 SEP 706.0 SEP 843.0 SEP Q768.0 SEP 782.0 tb Z SEP r SEP p SEP O, SEP INCREASE SEP SEP 20.4 SEP 9.7 SEP 11.7 tb WW SEP 30 SEP 0 SEP j2.Dutie SEP 0l tb SEP t SEP commat SEP tb SEP 0354 tb TABLE 8B EMI49.1 SEP TRIAL SEP 45 SEP 40 SEP 47 SEP 40 tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP USED SEP 10 50111 27 SEP 10 50111 27 SEP 10 50111 27 SEP 10 50111 27 SEP 10 50,11 27 tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP RATIO tb SEP By SEP We ght SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 05115 tb SEP ADDUCT SEP 1 SEP 1 27 EG MA SEP 11 2711 SEP .3 BG MA SEP s SEP 1 271MA SEP f SEP tb SEP GRAMS SEP REACTANT tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP 0.185 SEP 0.23 SEP 0.13 SEP 0.092 SEP 0.1 SEP 15 tb SEP 0 SEP ADDUCT SEP USED SEP 5 SEP 5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.5 tb SEP STYRENEThCItYLONITItILE tb SEP RATIO SEP By SEP Weight SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 tb SEP 3 r SEP sX SEP SDD SEP USED SEP g SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 39 SEP 30 tb SEP POLYMER POLYOL SEP C tb SEP BROOK SEP FIELD SEP S SEP S SEP o SEP Se SEP s SEP 3 SEP o SEP n SEP g SEP 2.520 SEP 2.760 SEP 17.000 SEP 2.800 SEP 2.900 tb SEP 3 5 SEP n SEP f SEP SIZE SEP EO SEP Borderline SEP C r SEP  SEP 2 SEP tb SEP of SEP Visibility SEP of SEP Visibility SEP Some SEP Large SEP of SEP visibility SEP of SEP Visibility tb SEP FOAM SEP DENSITY SEP g1 SEP 1.82 SEP 1.8 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.7 SEP 1.82 tb SEP ILD SEP Ibslsq. SEP Inch SEP I SEP . SEP 2. SEP 0 i, tb SEP e SEP e SEP C45.1 SEP SEP SEP  SEP r SEP 30.3 SEP L SEP 49.1 tb SEP SEP INCREASE SEP 72.1 SEP 84.4 SEP . SEP 70.2 SEP 07.4 tb SEP 4 SEP I tb SEP 65 SEP 98.2 SEP SEP C125.0 SEP 1 SEP Cl 3.2 SEP 122. tb SEP P SEP INCREASE SEP . SEP J SEP J SEP I SEP 14.5 SEP 35.4 tb SEP oL SEP sTReNGTH SEP  SEP O SEP O SEP SEP O SEP Y C u SEP 9 SEP O SEP SEP  SEP 2 tb SEP SEP inch SEP SEP fri SEP Cb SEP S tb ihylevie SEP GlyeoI SEP SEP INCREASE SEP 24.3 SEP 0.1 SEP 2.6 SEP 0.1 SEP .2 tb i SEP Ahd tb . SEP inc SEP l.tyiCfbe SEP Clyed tb SEP J SEP O SEP SEP c SEP g tb SEP D tb SEP s SEP tb Example 16 Trials were conducted to illustrate production of polyurethane foam from polymer polyols employing 100 polystyrene and no acrylonitrile as the ethylenically unsaturated monomers. The results of these trials are shown in Table 9.Stable polystyrene dispersions are very difficult to make in polymer polyols, but acceptable products may be produced using the adducts of the Invention as demonstrated by these trials. In trials 50 53 the base polyol used consisted of a blend of 85 Niax 16 56 with 15 Niac 11 27 by weight. In trial 54, no Niax 16 56 was used and the base polyol was 100 Niax 11 27. Trial 50 was a control in which no adduct was used.In trial S1, a half ester adduct produced by reactingNiax 11 34 with maleic acid was used In trial 52, a half ester adduct produced by reacting Niax 11 34 with maleic anhydride was used in trial 53, a half ester adduct was produced by reacting Niax 1l 27 with maleic acId and in trial 54, a half ester adduct was produced by reacting Niax O27 with maleic acid The percentages of the above adducts used in the trials ranged from 25 up to 10 . In the control trial, no ethylenically unsaturated monomers were used in the other trials, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer was 100 styrene. The maximum particle size in the polymer polyol dispersions produced in trials 51 54 was in an acceptable size range of 1 5 microns. In trials 50 and 52 the Initial products in trial 50 the product is a simple polyol, and in trial 52 the product is a polymer polyol , were used to produce polyurethane foams by reaction with polyisocyanates. The ILD percent increases in trial 52 at both 25 and 65 compression demonstrated that the foam in trial 52 was superior to that in control trial 50.These trials showed that polymer polyols incorporating 100 polystyrene with no acrylonitrile may be produced according to the present invention with adducts, and additionally show that polyurethanes superior to those produced using simple polyols may be produced with these polymer polyols. TABLE 9 EMI51.1 tb TRIAL SEP 50 SEP 3 tb POLYOL SEP OR SEP POLYOL SEP BLEI D SEP USED SEP 18 SSllI 2 SEP 10 56111 27 SEP 18 56111 27 SEP 10 SOli SEP 1 17 SEP 11 17 tb POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP RATIO SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 85115 tb ADDUCT SEP USED SEP SEP 11.34 . SEP MAC SEP 11 34 4MA SEP 11 27 .MAC SEP 11 27 .MAc tb SEP . SEP ADDUCT SEP USED SEP 0 SEP b0 SEP b SEP 10 SEP 0 SEP 2.15 tb KOll SEP rnglg SEP 8.4 SEP 8.2 SEP 6.5 SEP 8.O tb u,c, SEP No SEP Yes SEP Yes SEP Yes SEP Yes tb SEP rb SEP feps SEP 1.580 SEP 2.200 SEP 2.000 SEP 1.360 tb SEP LI SEP Size. SEP MIcrons SEP 4 5 SEP 2 3 SEP 1 2 SEP 4 S tb FOAM SEP DESlTY SEP glcm3 SEP 2.27 SEP , SEP of tb IY SEP prroo tb SEP 1 SEP 3l.0 SEP 32J tb o SEP INCREASE SEP tb SEP 65 SEP O tb SEP 0 SEP INCREA,SE SEP 4.7 tb SEP O SEP W SEP X SEP IO SEP I SEP O SEP I SEP I SEP SEP 9 tb SEP O SEP W tb SEP SEP , SEP o SEP ti SEP n SEP E SEP Z SEP . SEP 8 SEP SEP 8 tb SEP F SEP O SEP O SEP a SEP iSt SEP O SEP t SEP SEP tb MA Maleic AnhydrideMAC Maleic Acid Example 17 An additional series of trials was made to demonstrate the superior polyurethane foams that may be produced using the adduct containing polymer polyols of the present invention. The results of these trials are shown in Table 10. In all of these trials, a blend of 85 polyol m with 15 polyol I by weight was used. In trials 55 and 56 no adduct was used. Trials 55, 56 and 57 are controls.Trial 55 is a control using only modified polyot Trial 56 is a control using modified polyol to produce a polymer polyol. Trial 57 is a control showing comparative results for a half ester. The ILD and TES percent increases in trials 58 62 were calculated using trial 56 as the control.In trials 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 and 62 the adducts used, respectively were a halfester adduct of polyol 11d27 with maleic anhydride ethylene glycol reacted with maleic anhydride further reacted with polyol 11 27 ethylene glycol reacted with succinic anhydride further reacted with polyol U 27 ethylene glycol reacted with maleic anhydride further reacted with polyol 11 fl ethylene glycol reacted with maleic anhydride further reacted with polyol 11 27 and ethylene glycol reacted with maleic anhydride fwther reacted with polyol 11 27. In all of these trials, 10 grams of the adduct was used per 100 grams of polymer polyol.Various styrene acrylonitrile ratios were used in trials 56 62 as shown in theTable no styrene or acrylonitrile was used in trial 55. In all of the trials 56 62, improvements were demonstrated in ILD and TES, as compared with control trial 55 which employed no polymer polyol and no adduct. As compared with control trial 56, in which a polymerpolyol was used but without any adduct, the majority of the other trials 57 62 showed improvements in ILD and TES. TABLE 10 EMI53.1 tb SEP TRIAL tb SEP r, SEP BLEND SEP IIIfl SEP liIfl SEP ll1 l SEP In, SEP Inn SEP In, SEP WI SEP WI tb SEP BLEND SEP SEP 11 SEP OSlIS SEP 85115 SEP 05115 SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP w SEP 05115 tb ADDUCT SEP USED tb SEP 1g SEP SEP o SEP 0 SEP 3 SEP t SEP None SEP Non. SEP 11 27 MA SEP ll 27 lEG MA SEP 11 27 E0A SEP 11 27 IEO MA SEP 11 2fllEC MA SEP 111 27 lEG MA tb SEP SEP ADDUCT SEP USED SEP None SEP None SEP 10.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 10.0 SEP 10.0 SEP SEP 10.0 tb sTYREN ElACRYLONITRILE tb SEP RATIO SEP None SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 80120 SEP 10010 SEP 00120 tb SEP POLYMER SEP SEP 0.0 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP 30 SEP J0 SEP 0 tb SEP VISCOSITY SEP 4 SEP 590.0 SEP 1.900 SEP 2.600 SEP 5.500 SEP 2.300 SEP 5.500 SEP 5.500 SEP 3.670 tb SEP FOAM SEP E SEP e SEP DENSITY tb SEP SEP 1.8 SEP 2.2 SEP 2.0 SEP .3 SEP 2.0 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.1 SEP 2.0 tb SEP Eir ZOy SEP n SEP b.e SEP rru tb SEP 25 SEP 21.1 SEP 26.2 SEP 40.1 SEP 126.7 SEP 4o.t, SEP 43.7 SEP 2L1 SEP 36.0 SEP tb SEP SEP INCREASE SEP r SEP L SEP Ue SEP C SEP Ih SEP c SEP r tb SEP F SEP CIOl SEP 16.0 SEP .0 SEP n SEP 4dp. SEP , tb SEP 65 SEP rJ SEP SEP 4L1 SEP J SEP 6L7 SEP 60 tb SEP n SEP INCREASE SEP SEP SEP 6.5 SEP 152.5 SEP 11.0 SEP IS.5 SEP 2. tb SEP o tb SEP TENSILE SEP STRENGTH SEP SEP C584. SEP Io .o SEP goo.o SEP 198.fl SEP SEP 5iW SEP SEP tb SEP u SEP inch SEP G SEP L o3. SEP 43 tb SEP Y SEP INCREASE SEP 5 SEP e SEP O SEP o SEP s SEP ge SEP WzN tb SEP c SEP x SEP 0 SEP c SEP c SEP . SEP U SEP g SEP o SEP SEP Z SEP o tb SEP SEP E SEP we SEP Z SEP x SEP SEP  SEP SEP 1 SEP wt tb SEP verbar SEP a SEP a SEP a SEP S SEP SEP SEP  SEP U SEP S tb SEP SEP verbar SEP SEP t SEP SEP a SEP Z SEP F SEP SEP O SEP D SEP Lz SEP commat SEP 9 SEP T SEP oz tb SA Succinc AnhydrideMA Maleic AnhydrideLG Ethylene Glycol Example 18 An additional series of trials was made to demonstrate the superior polyurethane foams that may be produced using the polymer polyols of the present invention. The results of these trials are shown in Table fl fn trials 63 65 no adduct was used.In trials 66 71, the adducts used were, respectively, Q a half ester adduct formed by the reaction of polyol 11 27 with maleic anhydride 2 an adduct formed by reaction of polyol 11 27 with an intermediate, the intermediate formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and ethyl alcohol 3 an adduct formed by reaction of polyol 11 27 with an intermediate, the intermediate being formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and ethylene glycol 4 an adduct formed by reaction of polyol 1 27 with an intermediate, the intermediate being formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol 5 an adduct formed by reaction of polyol 11 27 and an intermediate, the intermediate being formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and propylene glycol and 6 a halfester adduct formed by reaction of polyol 11 27 with maleic anhydride.Compared with trial 65, trials 66 71 generally showed increases in ILD at both 25 and 65 compression. Results in trials 68 and 69 in which the ethylene glycol maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol maleic anhydride adducts were used, respectively, gave particularly good improvements in ILD. Tensile strength TES values for trials 66 71 also generally showed improvement over the control. TABLE 11Trial 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 POLYOL I III III I 85 15 Weight Ratio ADDUCT I MA I MA ETCH I MA EG I MA PG I MA ADDUCT None None None 10 10 10 10 10 100 STYRENE ACRYL 50 50 25 75 80 20 80 20 80 20 80 20 80 20 80 20 NITRILE RATIO POLYMER CONTENT 21 32 30 30 30 30 30 30 NoneVISCOSITY mPa.s 1,960 3,450 1,900 2,600 3,300 5,800 5,200 70,000DENSITY g cm 2,0 1,6 2,2 2,0 1,5 2,1 1,65 1,9 2,1ILD lbs sq.Inch 20,2 37,9 18,1 27,7 18,6 41,1 37,1 29 22,6 25 N cm 29,3 55,0 26,2 40,13 27,0 59,6 53,8 42,0 32,8 INCREASE 53 3,0 127,5 105,3 60,0 25,2 65 32,4 105,462,2 66,2 63,1 83,4 113,8 63,9 44,5 47,0 152,7 90,1 96,0 91,5 120,9 165 92,6 64,5 INCREASE 6,5 1,5 34,2 83,1 2,8 28,5 TENSILE STRENGHT 795,6 987,0 700,0 900,0 583,4 840,0 742,3 750,0 770,6 lbs sq. Inch G 549 681 483 621 402,5 579,6 512,2 517,5 531,7N cm INCRREASE 28,5 16,6 20,0 6,0 7,1 10,0 MA Maleic Anhydride ETOH Ethil Alcohol BG 1,3 Butylene Glycol PG Propylene Glycol Example 19 A series of trials was carried out to show the inferior results obtained when polymer polyols employing 100 styrene as ethylenically unsaturated monomer no acrylonitrile are produced in the absence of adducts of the invention. The results are summarized in Table 12. The resultant polymer polyols were coagulated and could not be used to produce acceptable polyurethane foam. TABLE 12TRIAL 72 73 74 POLYOL OR POLYOL BLEND I I III I BLEND RATIO 85 15 POLYOL USED gram 500 400 400MONOMER USED gram 150 100 100MONOMER BLEND RATIO Styrene Acrylonitrilic 100 0 100 0 100 0 96 MONOMER USED 22.0 20.0 20.0CATALYST CONTENT grams 5.6 2.0 2.0TOTAL POLYMER IN PRODUCT VISCOSITY Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated PARTICLE SIZE Example 20 A series of trials was carried out to show the Inferior results obtained when polymer polyols are produced with various styrene acrylonitrile ratios and in the absence of adducts of the invention.The results are summarized in Table 13. The resultant polymer polyols were eIther coagulated, or contained some ooagulums or grits. The high viscosity paste in trial 81 could only be used after dilution, e.g., with a polyol. TABLE 13TRIAL 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 POLYOL OR POLYOL BLEND III I III I III I I III I II II BLEND RATIO 85 15 85 15 70 30 85 15 POLYOL USED grams 500 500 500 516 500 516 516MONOMER USED grams 237.7 166.9 237.7 223.37 223.39 223.37 223.37MONOMER BLEND RATIO 70 30 60 40 60 40 60 40 60 40 60 40 70 30 Styrene Acrylonitrile MOMOMER USED 32,0 24,3 32.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0CATALYST CONTENT grams 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.21 5.21 5.21 5.21TOTAL POLYMER IN PRODUCT 30.9 23.1 29.3 28.7 29.1 29.3VISCOSITY mPa .s Coagulated 4,500 Coagulated 7,000 8,000 35,000 High Viscosity Paste PARTICLE SIZE Small, Bordeline Very Small, Small, Some Coagulums of Invisibility Some Grits SomeSome Coagulums Coagulums DISAPPEARANCE OP ETHYLENIC UNSATURATION DURING ADDUCTPRODUCTIONExample 21 Example 21 shows that, under the reaction conditions used in the practice of the Invention, i.e., a maximum reaction temperature of about 150 180 C, preferably about 170 C, ethylene unsaturation disappears curing the production of adducts between polycarboxylic acids or anhydrides and polyols, even when an unsaturated dibasic acid anhydride is employed. Table 14 shows the results of the trial. Maleic anhydride 49 grams, 0.5 mole was added to polyol fl fl500 grams, 0,25 mole by stirring under nitrogen at 70iC until It was disolved and reaction began. Samples 1 5 were taken at various times while the reaction continued and while the solution temperature was increased from 70 to 170 C. The samples were tested for acid number and unsaturation three trials for unsaturation are reported In the table for each sample .The results for sample 5, the last sample taken, showed the acid number as determined by the XOH method to be approximately 10.0, and as shown in the Table, the unsaturation at that point had virtually disappeared. TABLE 14 EMI61.1 tb SEP TOTAL SEP ACID SEP NO. tb SEP uyo SEP TEMPERATURE SEP SEP UNSATURAlION SEP oo SEP KOM tb SEP cr. SEP o SEP 0C SEP f SEP 4 SEP MERCAPTAN SEP METHOD SEP EQUIVALE rfl tb SEP 1 SEP V.33 SEP Hours SEP 70 SEP 1200 SEP 0.3400 SEP 10.1 tb SEP 0.3600 tb SEP tie, tb SEP 1 SEP 17 SEP Hours SEP 10 SEP 2040 SEP 0.1120 SEP 18.0 tb SEP u tb SEP o SEP ooo SEP o SEP oor SEP ooo SEP ooo tb SEP S SEP Z SEP 5 SEP o SEP o SEP o SEP w SEP g SEP N SEP b SEP H SEP F SEP N SEP H tb SEP 0 SEP 00 SEP 000 SEP 000 tb SEP 0.0977 tb SEP 4 SEP 43 SEP flours SEP 115 SEP 3300 SEP 0.0820 SEP 12.2 tb SEP 3E tb SEP C tb SEP 5 SEP 4 SEP Hours SEP 170 SEP 5800 SEP 0.0620 SEP 10.0 tb SEP Hair SEP Ester SEP 0.05S0 tb SEP ot SEP b SEP SEP o tb SEP WO SEP o SEP wo SEP e SEP Fo tb SEP SEP 3 SEP S SEP S SEP S SEP SN tb . SEP a SEP S SEP tb EXAMPLES SHOWING THE UTILITY OF THE ADDUCTS WHEN USEDIN PROPER PROPORTIONSExample 22 A series of trials see Table 15 was conducted to compare polymer polyols prepared by combining monomer maleic anhydride directly with styrene, acrylonitrile and a polyol blend trials 82 85 with b polymer polyols prepared by first producing an adduct of polyol I reacted with an intermediate formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol , and then combining the adduct with styrene acrylonitrile and a polyol blend trials 86 88 .The polyol blend used was Niax 16 56 Niax 1l 27 in an 85 15 weight ratio. These trials showed that polymer polyols prepared with the adducts uniformly gave smaller particle size than the polymer polyols prepared with direct addition of maleic anhydride. In trial 88, the ethylenically unsaturated monomer used was 100 styrene, yet a polymer polyol with excellent particle size bordering on InvisibilIty under a microscope maximum particle size of less than about 1 micron diameter was produced. TABLE 15Trial 82 83 84 85 86 87 88REACTANT None MA MA MA Adduct Adduct Adduct Grams 100 Grams Polyol None 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47Adduct Used None None None None A A A ADDUCT USED None None None None 10 10 10 STYRENE ACRYLONITRILITE 80 20 70 30 80 20 100 0 70 30 80 20 100 0RATIO WEIGHT MOMOMER USED 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 VISCOSITY mPa.s 1,900 15,000 Coagulated 3,000 5,000 5,200 5,500 PARTICLE SIZE Medium, Small Coagulated Very large Bordeline Bordeline BordelineSome large Some Coagulated of Visibility of Visibility of Visibility FREE MOMOMER 0.91 1.06 0.91 0.81 0.96 0.96 A An Adduct of Polyol I and Maleic Anhydride 1,3 Butylene Glycol MA Maleic Anhydride Example 23 A series. of trials was carried out to demonstrate the role of an adduct. concentration of, about 5 10 In the polymer pQlyols of the invention. Where blends of polyols were used, the Niax polyols are shown as a fraction, e.g., 16 56 11 27. The weight ratio In these polyol blends is 85 15. Table 16 trials 89 96 , summarizes control trials In which monomeric ERL 4221 diepoxide and monomeric maleic anhydride were combined with polyols in an attempt to produce polymer polyols. The particle size data show that the results in these trials were poor. Table 17 trials 97 103 , summarizes trials in which adducts were first prepared and then added to the monomers and additional polyol to produce polymer polyols. The percentage of adduct used in the polymer polyols was 10 . No adduct waS used in trial 97. In trials 98 99, an adduct formed by reaction between 1l 27 polyol and one of the epoxy groups of ERL 4221 was used. In trials 100 101, an adduct formed by reaction between ll 27 polyol and an intermediate, the intermediate being formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol was used.In trials 102 and 103, respectively, 2,3 butytene glycol and ethylene glycol were substituted for the 1,3 butylene glycol used in trials 100 101. Trials 97 98 gave acceptable results trial 99 where 100 styrene as the ethylenically unsaturated monomer was used resulted in coagulation. The polymer polyols in trials 100 103 all were characterized by particle size bordering on Invisibility under the microscope. In Table 18 trIals 104 111 , the percentage of adduct used to make the polymer polyols was reduced to 5 . Trials 104 and 105 were controlt in which no adduct was used. In trials 106 111, an adduct formed by reaction between U 27 polyol and an intermediate, the lntejmediate being formed by 1 1 molar equivalent reaction between maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol, was used. The particle size of the polymer polyols in trials 106 111 where 5 of adduct was used , was very good. In trials 107 108, Niax LG 56 polyol polyol IV , a very low molecular weight polyol, was used. Nevertheless, polymer polyols of very small particle size were produced. In Table ig trials 112 117 the adduct content in the polymerpolyols was Increased to 20 . Trials 112 113 were controls In which no adduct was used. In trials 114 117, the adduct used was produced by reaction of a polyol with an intermediate, the Intermediate formed by 1 1 molar reaction between maleic anhydride and 1,3 butylene glycol. The only trial where complete coagulation was not encountered was trial 2, control trial using a blended polyol and no adduct. The trials summarized in Table 17 show that good results are obtained when approximately 10 adduct concentration Is employed In making a polymer polyoL The results In Table 18 show that a 5 adduct.content also gave good results. The trials reported In Table 19 where 20 adduct was used , gave less acceptable results and showed thatSuch a high adduct content In polymer polyols probably is not advisable.The control trials shown In Table 16 showed that adducts yield improved polymer polyols of better particle size. TABLE 16TRIAL 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 POLYOL USED 16 56 16 56 16 56 11 27 11 27 11 27 16 56 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27REACTANT ERL 4221 ERL 4221 ERL 4221 MA MA MA MA Grams 100 Grams Polyol None 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47STYRENE ACRYONITRILE 80 20 80 20 80 20 100 0 70 30 80 20 80 20 100 0RATIOMONOMER USED 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 VISCOSITY OF POLYMER mPa.s 1,900 2,300 2,000 100 15,000 100,000 Coagulated 3,000Coagulated PARTICLE SIZE Medium Coagulums Coagulums 100 Small With Large with 100 CoagulatedSome Large Coagulated Flocks Flocks Coagulated FREEE MONOMER 0.91 0.89 0.91 1.06 0.99 0.91 MA Maleic Anhydride TABLE 17TRIAL 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 POLYOL USED 16 56 16 56 11 27 16 56 16 56 16 56 16 56 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27GRAMS REACTANT 100 Grams Polyol None 0.32 0.32 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47ADDUCT USED None ERL 4221 ERL 4221 MA 1,3BG MA 1,3 BG MA 2,3 BG MA EG 11 27 Polyol 11 27 Polyol 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27 ADDUCT USED None 10 10 10 10 10 10 STYRENE ACRYLONITRILERATIO 80 20 80 20 100 0 70 30 80 20 80 20 80 20 MONOMER USED 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 VISCOSITY mPa.s 1,900 1,840 5,000 5,200 8,000 5,500 PARTICLE SIZE Medium, Bordeline 40 Bordeline Bordeline Bordeline BordelineSome Large of Visibility Coagulated of Visibility of Visibility of Visibility of Visibility FREE MONOMER 0.91 0.83 0.91 0.81 0.96 0.97 0.96 MA Maleic Anhydride 1,3 BG 1,3 Butylene Glycol 2,3 BG 2,3 Butylene GlycolEG Ethylene Glycol TABLE 18TRIAL 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 POLYOL USED 16 56 16 56 16 56 LG 56 LG 56 16 56 16 56 16 56 11 27 11 27 11 27GRAMS REACTANT 100 Grams Polyol None None 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47 0.47ADDUCT USED None None Ma 1.3 BG Ma 1.3 BG Ma 1.3 BG Ma 1.3 BG Ma 1.3 BG Ma 1.3 BG ADDUCT USED None None 5 5 5 5 5 5 STYRENE ACRYLONITRILE 80 20 80 20 80 20 80 20 70 30 70 30 80 20 100 0RATIO MONOMER USED 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 VISCOSITY mPa . s 1,900 Coagulated 2,700 3,700 5,200 1,920 1,620 1,220 PARTICLE SIZE Medium, Coagulated Borderline Very Small Very Small Borderline Borderline BorderlineSome Large of Visibility of Visibility of Visibility of Visibility FREE MONOMER 0.91 0.92 0.87 0.91 0.89 0.96 0.89 MA Male Anhydride 1,3 BG 1,3 Butylene Glycol TABLE 19TRIAL 112 113 114 115 116 117 POLYOL USED 16 56 16 56 16 56 LG 56 LG 56 16 56 11 27 11 27 11 27 11 27GRAMS REACTANT 100 Grams Polyol None None 0.94 0.94 0.94 0.94ADDUCT USED None None MA 1,3 BG MA 1,3 BG MA 1,3 BG MA 1,3 BG ADDUCT USED None None 20 20 20 20 STYRENE ACRYLONITRILERATIO 80 20 80 20 80 20 80 20 70 30 80 20MONOMER USED 30 30 30 30 30 30 VISCOSITY mPa.s 1,900 Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated PARTICLE SIZE Medium, Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated Coagulated CoagulatedSome Large FREE MONOMER 0.91 1,3 BG 1,3 Butylene Glycol MA Maleic Anhydride example 24 A series ot trials was carried out generally using techniques described in Example 23 to demonstrate the advantages, derived by employing adduct concentrations of about 10 In the invention where adducts are combined directly with polylsocyanates to produce polyurethane foams, without first producing polymer polyols. Trial 118 was a control in which no adduct was used. Trials 119, 122 and 125 employed a polyol 11 27 maleic anhydride half ester adduct.Trials 120, 123 and 126 employed an adduct produced by first reacting ethylene glycol with maleic anhydride to produce a half ester intermediate, and then reacting the free carboxyl groups of the intermediate with polyol 11 27 to produce an adduct. Trials 121, 124 and 127 employed an adduct produced similarly from an intermediate halfester in which the ethylene glycol was replaced by 1,3 butylene glycol. In trials 21, 2.5 adduct was used based on combined weight of adduct and polyol blend . Trials 122 124 and 125 127 similarly employed 5 and 10 adduct, respectively. Generally, ILD and TES Increased for the three types of adducts used as the percentage of adduct present in the adduct polyol blend was increased from 2.5 to 5 to 10 . See Tables 20A 20B . EMI71.1 SEP C tb SEP TItIAL SEP ., SEP III SEP 111 SEP 110 SEP 121 SEP ii, tb SEP Control tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP USED SEP l8 5S111 27 SEP 10 58111 2 SEP 18 56111 2 SEP 18 50111 2 SEP 10 5011 SEP 1 21 tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP RATIO tb SEP By SEP Wclght SEP 85115 SEP 85115 SEP 85 IS SEP 85115 SEP 05115 tb SEP t SEP  SEP  SEP b tb SEP Q SEP 3i SEP T SEP r SEP b SEP  SEP SEP 11 27 EG MA SEP 11 2711.3 BC MA SEP o SEP SEP b SEP c SEP w tb SEP GRAMS SEP o SEP I tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP SEP 0.013 SEP 0.008 SEP 0.011 SEP 0.020 tb SEP SEP ADDUCT SEP USED SEP SEP 2.5 SEP 8 SEP o SEP 5 tb SEP SEP VISCOSITY SEP SEP 590.0 SEP 1.880 SEP 5.500 SEP 17.000 SEP 1.880 tb SEP KOll SEP rnglg SEP 0.00 SEP 8.7 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.0 SEP 0.7 tb SEP cl SEP mmoilg SEP o SEP BR tb FOAM SEP DENSITY SEP glcrn3 SEP 2 SEP o SEP oo SEP 1.77 SEP . SEP 1.78 tb SEP ILD SEP Ibslsq. SEP Inch SEP S i SEP A tb SEP 25 SEP o SEP 21.7 SEP C22.3 SEP C23.2 SEP 3 tb SEP Ir SEP INCREASE SEP SEP 2.8 SEP 0.1 SEP 7.8 SEP 42.4 tb SEP 65 SEP 33.3 SEP SEP 30j SEP 37.3 SEP 58.4 SEP CS2.3 SEP tb SEP SEP SEP o SEP 0 SEP SEP  SEP o SEP GF SEP c4 tb SEP Lr SEP STRENGTH tb SEP 2 SEP Inch SEP 0 SEP SEP PI Y SEP 591.3 SEP 587.2 SEP VZI SEP 9cl tb SEP o SEP o SEP u SEP L3 SEP 10. r tb SEP SEP INCREASE SEP 8 SEP SEP eo SEP SEP  SEP  SEP oo tb verbar SEP ffi SEP W SEP O SEP SEP o SEP SEP a SEP tb SEP , SEP , SEP SEP t SEP E SEP t SEP SEP w SEP j SEP z SEP S tb SEP .f SEP O SEP SEP X SEP D SEP L SEP E SEP o SEP D SEP Cz SEP n SEP E SEP SEP S SEP Z SEP g SEP U SEP Z SEP sS SEP Z tb SEP O SEP O SEP D SEP w SEP D SEP O SEP Z SEP O SEP Cl tb SEP F SEP ow SEP SEP x SEP SEP . SEP tb MA Maleic AnhydrideEG Ethylene Glycol 1,3 BG 1 3 Butylene Glycol TABLE 20U EMI72.1 tb SEP 01 SEP . SEP 123 SEP 124 SEP 125 SEP 128 SEP 12 tb SEP POLYOL SEP BLEND SEP USED SEP 18 56111 27 SEP 18 58111 2 SEP 18 58111 27 SEP 18 58 l1 27 SEP 18 50111 27 tb SEP o SEP L SEP BLEND SEP RATIO tb SEP By SEP Weight SEP 85115 SEP 85 15 SEP S5115 SEP 85115 SEP S IS tb SEP ADDUCT tb SEP so SEP 1 SEP 1 27lEG MA SEP 11 2711.3 Ba MA SEP 1 SEP 1 271MA SEP I SEP 1 271EG MA SEP 11 2711 SEP .3 BQ MA tb SEP GRAMS SEP REACTANT tb SEP 100 SEP GRAMS SEP POLYOL SEP 0.018 SEP rs SEP 0.053 SEP 0.037 SEP 4 tb SEP 3 SEP ADIDUCT SEP USED SEP SEP 5 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 10 tb SEP 0 SEP VISCOSITY SEP v SEP oo SEP 17.000 SEP .1.880 SEP 5.509 SEP 17.000 tb SEP KOll SEP rnglg SEP 1.2 SEP 1.0 SEP 8.7 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.3 tb SEP a SEP rnrnollg SEP 0.00 SEP SEP dl SEP 0.00 SEP 0.03 tb SEP rb SEP glcm3 SEP 1.80 SEP O SEP I SEP L tb k SEP Inch SEP .r SEP 1Z tb SEP 32.8 SEP EPu tb SEP X SEP INCREASE SEP 50.2 SEP 43.8 SEP oso SEP SEP s tb SEP S SEP 6. SEP t . tb SEP o SEP 67.2 SEP 70. SEP C83.1 SEP SEP 67.8 SEP 71.2 tb SEP b SEP e tb SEP FOE SEP STRENGTH SEP 607.3 SEP 601.2 SEP 6001 SEP 678 tb SEP 4 SEP  SEP o SEP 2 SEP  SEP o. SEP Inch SEP G SEP . SEP Q SEP 823.1 tb SEP 0 SEP rCj SEP o SEP C1 tb SEP  SEP INCREASE SEP o SEP SEP o SEP 2.6 SEP  SEP SEP  tb SEP . SEP SEP  SEP O SEP S SEP n SEP g SEP f SEP Q SEP S SEP Q SEP Y SEP U tb MA Maleic AnhydrideEG Ethylene Glycol 1,3 BG 1 3 Butylene Glycol