# Electronic control system for internal combustion engine with stall preventive feature and method for performing stall preventive engine control.

## Abstract
An engine control system includes a stall preventive fea ture in which prevailing engine conditions are checked against patterns known to lead to engine stall. A number of crucial engine parameters and continuously monitored, as are one or a number of subsidiary conditions, such as air conditioner operation and transmission position, which may significantly increase the probability of engine stall under certain, known conditions. When these known conditions are detected, engine parameters are sampled at regular intervals for a predetermined period of time to derive a number of parameter variation curves or patterns which can then be compared to similarly derived empirical patterns which are known to lead directly to engine stall. When the current and predetermined patterns match or closely correlate, the engine control system is signalled to perform a stall preventive oper ation. The stall preventive operation consists of steps serving to increase engine output torque, decrease the load on the engine or both. For example, the fuel supply may be adjusted in accordance with the predetermined variation patterns. Alternatively, if the air conditioner is running, it may be turned off temporarily until the danger of stalling has passed. In addition, auxiliary devices capable of generating torque inde pendently of the engine may be used briefly to supplement the engine output.