# Saccharomyces cerevisiae possessing gene coding for interleukin 2 polypeptide and method for producing interleukin 2 using the yeast.

## Abstract
There is disolved a cell of Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformed with a recontinant DNA comprising a gene cod ing for a polypeptide possessing the activity of interleukin 2 and a vector DNA capable of propagating in said cell, the coding sequence of said gene being located at a position downstream of a promoter sequence.

## Claims
CLAIMS . . 1. A cell of Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformed with a recombinant DNA comprising a gene coding for a polypeptide possessing the activity of interleukin2 and a vector DNA capable of propagating in said cell, the coding sequence of said gene being located at a position downstream of a promoter sequence. 2. The cell of claim 1, wherien said gene is prepared with a messenger RNA produced by an interleukin 2 producing mammalian cell. 3. The cell of claim 2, wherein said mammalian cell is a human T lymphocyte, a transformed humanT lymphocyte or a T cell hybridoma. 4. The cell of claim 2, wherein said messenger RNA is obtainable as a sediment of 11 to 12S of sucrose density gradient centrifugation. 5. The cell of claim 2, wherein said gene has sites cleaved with restriction endonuclease in the order of Bst NI, Xba I and Bst NI from 5 terminus of the coding sequence. 6,. The cell of claim 1, wherein said gene has sites cleaved with restriction endonuclease in the order of Dde I, Hinf I, Bst NI, Xba I, Bst NI and Sau 3A from 5 terminus of the coding sequence. 7. The cell of claim l, wherein said gene has the base sequence shown in Figure 2 a . 8. The cell of claim 4, wherein the base sequence of said gene corresponds to Amino AcidSequence II in Figure 2 b . 9. The cell of claim 4, wherein the base sequence of said gene corresponds to Amino AcidSequence III in Figure 2 b . 10. A method for producing interleukin 2 which comprises culturing Saccharomyces cerevisiae in culture medium, transformed with a recombination DNA to produce interleukin 2 and recovering the produced interleukin 2, said recombinant DNA comprising a gene coded for a polypeptide which possesses the activity of interleukin 2 and a vectorDNA which is capable of replicating in said cell, and the coding sequence of said gene being located at a position downstream of a promoter sequence. 11. A method according to claim 11, wherein the Saccharomyces cerevisiae is that according to any of claims 1 to 9. 12. Saccharomyces cerevisiae FERM P 7303. 13. Saccharomyces cerevisiae FERM P 7304

## Description
SACCHAROMYCES CEREVISIAE POSSESSING GENE CODING FORINTERLEUKIN 2 POLYPEPTIDE AND METHOD FOR PRODUCINGINTERLEUKIN 2 USING THE YEASTBACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONField of the Invention The present invention relates to Saccharomyces crevisia possessing gene coding for interleukin 2 polypeptide and method for producing interleukin 2 using the yeast.Brief Description of the Prior Art Interleukin 2 hereinafter referred to as IL 2 formerly referred to as T cell growth factor, is a soluble protein generally known as lymphokine , and is produced from T cells activated with a lectin or an antigen Morgan. D.A., et al., Science, 193, 1007 1008 1976 , Gillis, S. et al., J. Immunol., 120, 2027 2033 1978 . Interleukin 2 IL 2 is capable of modulating lymphocyte reactivity and promoting the in vitro long term cultures of antigen specific effectorT lymphocytes Gillis. S. et al., Nature 268, 154156 1977 . IL 2 is also known to manifest other relevant biological activities such as enhancement of thymocyte mitogenesis Chen, B.M. et al., Cell.Immunol., 22, 211 224, 1977 , Shaw, J. et al.,J. Immunol. 120, 1967 1973, 1978 , induction of cytotoxic T cell reactivity Wagner, H. et al, Nature, 284, 278 280, 1980 and anti SRBC plaque forming cell responses Gillis, S. et al., J. Exp. Med., 149, 1960 1968, 1979 in cultures of nude mouse spleen cells. Accordingly, this lymphocyte regulatory substance is useful in potentiating humaral and cellular immune responses and in restoring immune deficient state to a normal humoral and cellular immune state. These identified immunological activities ofIL 2 strongly indicate that IL 2 is useful for medical immunotherapy against immunological disorders including neoplastic diseases, bacterial or viral infections, immune deficient diseases, autoimmune diseases etc. Pagermaster, B. et al., Adv. Immunopharm., 507, 1980 . In the pending European patent application of the same assignee as the present application EuropeanPatent Application No. 83101035.0 U.S. PatentApplication serial No. 463,496 , genes coding forIL 2 polypeptide, recombinant DNA carrying the genes, cells possessing the recombinant DNA, and methods for producing IL 2 using the cells has been disclosed. The pending European patent application also suggests that the gene coding for IL 2 polypeptide can be incorporated into cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae after the gene has been combined with a vector DNA capable of propagating in cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the genetic information of the incorporated gene can be expressed to produce IL 2.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The inventors have now succeeded in obtaining the cell of Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformed with a recombinant DNA comprising a gene coding for an IL 2 polypeptide and a vector DNA capable of propagating in the cell, the coding sequence of the gene being located at a position downstream of a promoter sequence. The transformed Saccharomyces cerevisiae could produce IL 2 expressing the genetic information of the gene incorporated in the cell.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Figure 1 shows a restriction endonuclease cleavage map of a cloned gene coded to produce a polypeptide which possesses the activity of IL 2 hereinafter referred to as IL 2 polypeptide . Figure 2 a shows the base sequence of the cloned gene. Figure 2 b shows Amino Acid Sequences I and II of the polypeptide which possess IL 2 activity. Figure 2 shows the plasmid vector pTrS 3. Figure 4 a and 4 b are flow charts showing the construction of recombinant DNAs pTIL 2 22, pTIL2 21, using pTrS 3 as a vector. Figure 5 is a flow chart showing the construction of a recombinant DNA pYIL 2 21 using paM82 as a vector. In the Figures, A , G , C and T represent deoxyadenylic acid, deoxyguanylic acid, deoxycytidylic acid and thymidylic acid, respectively.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT The cloned gene, coded for an IL 2 polypeptide, may be obtained by transcription of messenger RNA mRNA RNA is an abbreviation for ribonucleic acid corresponding to IL 2 hereinafter referred to as IL 2 mRNA and originating from a mammalian cell which is characterized by the capability of producing a polypeptide which possesses IL 2 activity, as a complementary DNA cDNA . The single stranded tDNA ss cDNA obtained can be converted into a double stranded cDNA ds cDNA . The mRNA used as a template for the preparation of cDNA can be conventionally separated from a mammalian cell capable of producing IL 2 polypeptide. The separated RNA is polyadenylated Gillis et al.,Immunological Rew., 63, 167 209 1982 , and the polyadenylated RNA can be fractionated by, for example, centrifugation on a sucrose density gradient as a sediment of 11 to 12S. Occasionally mRNA of 13S will demonstrate IL 2 mRNA activity, and in those instances, it is presumed that the mRNA is in an aggregated form of 11 to 12 S mRNA. The mammalian cells capable of producing IL 2 which are the source of mRNA of the present invention, may be T lymphocytes, such as peripheral blood mononuclear cells, tonsil cells, spleen cells or the like, which are operationally obtainable from mammals. The cells may be conventionally pretreated such as with a nylon column, antiserum complement, density gradient fractionation, multiple enzyme treatment such as a combination of neuraminidase and galactose oxidase, by xray irradiation or with trypsin to confer the cells with the IL 2 productivity or to increase the ILr2 activity. Also cloned T lymphocytes, obtained from the said mammilian cells after cultivation in the presence of T cell growth factor, may be also used as a source of mRNA and is the preferred T lymphocytes.Transformed lymphocyte cell lines such as T lymphocytes derived from leukemia or lymphoma cell line per se or from their derivatives obtained by pretreatment or mutation by the methods mentioned above, or the cloned transformed cell lines are preferred as sources of the mRNA. Evidently, cloned cells line usually contain larger amounts of IL 2 mRNA as compared to parental bulk cell lines. T cell hybridomas, obtained by fusion of the lymphocyte derived cells mentioned above and tumor cell lines, such as CEM, Molt 4F, and BW5147, are also preferred mammalian cell lines for use in this invention.In such instance the lymphocyte derived cell lines include 1 constitutive producers of IL 2 and 2 those which are producers of IL 2 only in the presence of a mitogen introduced into the culture, either in the absence or presence of other IL 2 production co stimulatory cells. In order to generate IL 2 mRNA in constitutiveIL 2 producer cells, the constitutive IL 2 producer cells are cultured under conditions commonly known in the field of cell culture. For the generation of the mRNA in cells producing IL 2 only in the presence of mitogen, cultured cells are washed extensively with culture medium and resuspended in a culture medium, such as Rosewell Park Memorial Institute 1640 hereinafter RPMI 1640 , Dulbecco Modified EagleMedium hereinafter DMEM or in Click s medium, which may or may not contain serum. These culture media may be supplemented with various additives, such as penicillin, streptomycin or other antibiotics, or with fresh L glutamine, Hepes buffer and sodium bicarbonate in a concentrations as are generally used in the field of cell culture.The preferred cell density may be from 0.5 to 4 x 106 cells ml. To induce activation of the mRNA and production of IL 2, appropriate stimulants are added. Suitable such stimulants include mitogens, neuraminidase, galactose oxidase, zinc derivatives such as zinc chloride, or lymphocyte activating substances originated from microorganisms, such as protein A, streptolysin O. The stimulated cells are recovered and washed. The co presence of macrophages or dendritic cells during the mitogen stimulation may also activate the mRNA, 6r may increase the amount of the activiated mRNA. Likewise the co presence of cell lines derived from B lymphocytes or B lymphocyte lines, such as Raji, Daudi, K562, and BALL 1 may activate the mRNA or increase the amount of activated mRNA. To propagate the mammalian cells, they are maintained in an in vitro cell culture or in histocompatibility matched animals, under normal conditions. When in vitro culture maintenace is used to prepare the source of mRNA, the cells may be grown in any of the culturing media as were previously found to foster growth of T cells. These culture media may or may not be supplemented with mammal serum, serum component or serum albumin. The culture period for the activation of the mRNA will correspond to the period necessary for the activation of cells to generate the mRNA. This period usually coincides with the time needed to start the excretion of IL 2 into the culture medium. The preferred period may be from 3 to 12 hours after addition of a stimulant, such as a mitogen. Undue prolongation of the culture period may occasionally result in the decomposition of the generated IL 2 mRNA. During the course of the activation of IL 2 producing cells, phorbol esters, such as PMA or TPA may preferably utilized in a concentration from 10 to 50 ng ml to boost the level of activation. The above described process for activation of IL 2 mRNA may be carried out at temperatures ranging from 32 to 38 0C in a humidified atmosphere and in a pH of approximately 7.0 to 7.4. The procedures to obtain and culture mammalian cells capable of producing IL 2 will now be explained. 1 Acquisition of constitutively IL 2 producing cell line. Jurkat cell line of human leumemic T cell freely available from Fred Hutchinson Cancer Institute,Seattle, United States, Salk Institute, San Diego,United States, German Cancer Centre, Heidelberg, WestGermany is suspended in Click s medium at a cell density of 1 x 106 cells ml and 8 x 103 R x ray is irradiated at irradiation rate of 150 R min. Thereafter 0.1 cells of the thus irradiated cells per 200p1 of medium are inoculated into Click s medium containing 5 FCS in 96 well flat bottom microplates Falcon 3072 and cultured for 3 weeks at 37 0C in 5 C02 incubator cloning by limiting dilution method . The grown viable cells are transferred into 24 well culture plate Nunc before the cell layer becomes confluent and is further cultures for 5 days.The grown cells are further cultured in serum and serum albumin free synthetic culture medium for about two days at an initial cell density of between 1 2 x 106 ml. The culture supernatant is harvested by centrigugation, and filtered with 0.22 millipore filter paper to clear off debris and to sterilize the supernatant, and then x ray treated mutants capable of producing 121 2 constitutively are selected and cloned by measuring the IL 2 activity present in the supernatant. 2 Acquisition of IL 2 producer cell from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Human peripheral blood is harvested and peripheral blood lymphocytes hereinafter PBL are isolated by density gradient centriguation on Ficoll Hypaque. ThePBL is inoculated in 2 ml of Click s medium containing 5 FCS at a cell density of 1 x 106 cells ml in 24 well Nunc culture plate together with 100p1 of 5pg ml of phytohemmaglutinin M Gibco pHA , and cultured for 48 hours under the conditions described above.The cells are washed and inoculated again in 1 ml ofClick s medium at a cell density of 1 x 105 cells ml together with 1 ml of a conditioned medium which has been prepared from human splenocytes stimulated by 2.5pg ml of concanavalin A hereinafter Con A for 4 hours, and the culture medium containing 50E conditioned medium is exchanged in every three days to get long term culture of human T lymphocytes from PBL.The thus prepared long term cultured human T lymphocytes are cloned by the limiting dilution method as described above, in the presence of human splenocytes derived conditioned medium and the cell clones are propagated similarly. Thereafter cloned human T lymphocytes are inoculated in 1 ml of RPMI 1640 at a cell density of 1 x 106 cells ml in 24 well Nunc culture plate in the presence of lOg ml of PHA and cultured for 24 hours at 37VC in 7.5 CO2 incubator.The supernatants of the culture liquid are harvested, centrifuged, filtered through a 0.22 millipore filter and assayed for IL 2 activity to specify the IL 2 producing human normal T lymphocytes clones. 3 Acquisition of malignant cell line derived from human lymphocytes capable of producing IL 2 in the presence of mitogen. Jurkat cell line or cloned cell lines such asJurkat 111 obtained by the limiting dilution method described above are able to produce from 10 to 4,000 units ml of 1 2 when cultured for 24 hours in a serum free synthetic medium described previously or inRPMI 1640 containing 1 2 mammalian serum in the presence of a mitogen such as lOpg ml Con A or 2.5pg ml PHA. These malignant human cell lines also produce IL 2 when cultured in the presence of zinc chloride, protein A or picibanil. 4 Acquisition of cells capable of producing I1 2 in the co presence of a mitogen and other costimulatory cells or co stimulatory soluble factors. Human malignant cell line Molt 4F and some cloned cell lines such as Jurkat J99, obtained according to the limiting dilution method, do not produce IL 2 even when cultured for 24 to 72 hours in the presence of lectins or mitogens in any concentration. However, these cells become able to produce IL 2 in significant amount 10 100p ml during culture period of 24 hours at 37 C , when cocultured with 5 lO ml interleukin 1, one of monokines, or with 50 number of K562 or Raji cells. The extraction of IL 2 mRNA from cells activated by the manner as mentioned above is carried out according to the conventional well known procedures, irrespective of the difference of cell sources. For instance, cells are partially or completely disrupted by additon of a detergent such as NP 40, SDS, Triton X and deoxycholic acid or by mechanical homogenization or freeze thawing. To prevent degradation of RgA by vX ribonuclease during extraction of mRNA, it is preferred to add RNase inhibitors such as heparin, polyvinylsulfate, bentonite, macaroid, diethylpyrocarbonate or vanadyl complex. IL 2 mRNA can be obtained from precipitated polysome in the IL 2 biosyntheis, which is precipitated with anti Th 2 antibody by extracting with a detergent. The poly A containing mRNA can be fractionated or concentrated by an conventional manner, such as by affinity chromatograph or batch absorption on oligo dT cellulose, poly U sepharose of sepharose 2B, sucrose density gradient centrifugation or by agarose gel electrophoresis. The mRNA fractions are then assayed for IL 2 mRNA activity by testing biological activities of proteins translated from the mRNA fractions or by identifying the translated protein using monoclonal antibody against the IL 2 peptide. For instance mRNA is usually translated into the corresponding protein by microinjection into frog Xenopus laevis egg Gurdon,J.B., et al., Nature, 233 , 177 182 1972 or by employing the mRNAdependent reticulolysate or wheat germ translation cell free systems. The activity of IL 2 may be ascertained by the microassay procedure principally discussed by Gillis et al Gillis. S., et al., J. Immunol., 120, 20272033 1978 . The assay monitors the IL 2 dependent cellular proliferation of a cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell lines hereinafter CTLL generated according to the methods described by Gillis et al., That is, 4 xCTLL cells are inoculated into 100p1 of RPM1 1640 medium containing 2 FCS in 96 well flat bottomed microplates together with 100p1 of the serially diluted translation products.After 20 hours incubation at 37 0C in 5 CO2 incubator, cells are pulsed for 4 hours with 0.5 pCi of 3H TdR, harvested onto glass fibre strips with the aid of an automated cell harvester and then the incorporated radioactivity is measured by liquid scintillation counting. By these assay procedures, the CTLL cells cultured in the presence of IL 2 were found to incorporate 3H TdR in a dose dependent manner resulting in the definite n calculation of the amount of IL 2 contained in test samples. IL 2 possesses the activity to promote the proliferation of T lymphocytes, which enables the measurement of IL 2 activity using an index of T cell growth activity. That is, five CTLL cells are transferred into lOOpl of DMEM containing 2 FCS in 96 well flat bottomed microplates together with 100p1 of the serially diluted translation products.After 72 to 96 hours incubation at 37 0C in a 5 CO2 incubator, the number of cells grown and activated is counted under microscopy. As an positive external control group, 100 units ml, 10 units ml of IL 2 are added and the IL 2 activity of the test sample is calculated in comparison with the number of grown viable cells in these control groups. The thus obtained IL 2 mRNA from the most active fraction is used as a template to synthesize ds cDNA and the ds cDNA is connected with a vector DNA.Synthesis of cDNA is carried out by conventional procedures. At first, ss cDNA which is complementary to mRNA is prepared in the presence of dATP, dGTP, dCTP, dTTP employing reverse transcriptase and using mRNA as a template and oligo dT as a primer. The template mRNA is then removed by alkaline treatment and dscDNA is achieved by employing reverse transcriptase orDNA polymerase and using the above synthesized ss CDNA as a template. Recombinant DNA is prepared from the ds cDNA thus obtained and a vector DNA containing replicon capable of replicating in cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiea . The recombinant DNA is thereafter incorporated into the host cells. The ds cDNA and the vector DNA capable of propagating in cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae are, prior to ligation, modified by various procedures such as exonuclease treatment, additon of chemically synthesized DNA pieces and G, C tailing to give ligatable termini to the ends of the ds cDNA and the vector DNA. Ligation of the ligatable DNAs is performed by, for example, T4 phage DNA ligase in the presence of ATP. With the recombinant DNA thus obtained, living cells are transformed to amplify the cloned cDNA or to produce IL 2 polypeptide. The ds cDNA can be combined with a vector capable of propagating in Escherichia coli or both inEscherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, by which gene coding for IL 2 polypeptide can be selected usingEscherischia coli. The selected gene is thereafter inserted into a vector capable of propagating inSaccharomyces cerevisiae, if the vector used for the selection was that capable of propagating only inEscherichia coli. Examples of vectors capable of propagatin inEscherichia coli are pJDP219, pJDP218, YRp3, YEpl3, YIP1, pYCl, pYC2, YEp213, YRpl7, YIp203 and pPGK. Transformation of the host cell with the recombinant DNA may be carried out efficiently after forming a protoplast of the host cell. Cells possessing IL 2 gene can be isolated after the transformation, by either of the following two ways. 1 In the plus minus method, partially purifiedIL 2 mRNA is obtained by sucrose density gradient centrifugation of mRNAs extracted from mitogen activated mammalian cells as 11 to 12s sediment and then 32pradiolabelled ss cDNA is synthesized using the partially purified mRNA as a template. After removal of the template mRNA by alkaline treatment, isolated cDNA is hybridized with partially purified 11 to 12s mRNA extracted from mitogen non activated mammalian cells. Thereafter nonhybridized and hybrid forming cDNA are fractionated on hydroxylapatine column chromatography. The non hybridized cDNA and hybridized cDNA are tentatively called probe A and probe B, respectively. Transformants are grown on two nitrocellulose filters in quite the same way and the DNA of the cells is fixed on the filter paper by alkaline treatment.Probe A and Probe B are respectively hybridized with the DNA on two different filter papers and thereafter autoradiography assay is carried out to select the transformants which react positively to probe A plus , but react weakly or do not at all to probe B minus Taniguchi et al., Proc,Jpn. Acad., v 155B 464 469, 1979 . 2 The second method consists of dividing, fox example, 1,000 to 10,000 transformant clones into several tens or several hundreds of clone groups.The divided clone groups are respectively cultured by conventional means to obtain plasmid DNAs. Thereafter these plasmid DNAs are converted into ss cDNAs, for example, by heat denaturation, and the ss cDNAs obtained are fixed onto nitrocellulose filter papers to achieve the hybridization of mRNA complementary to the fixed DNAs and prepared from mammalian cells including activated I1 2 mRNA. Alternatively, mRNAs containing IL 2 mRNA are hybridized with heat denaturated plasmid DNAs and the DNA mRNA hybrid is fixed onto nitrocellulose filter papers. These filter papers are then washed with low salt concentration buffer, such as lmM HEPES, or with lOmM NaCl, and mRNA adsorbed on filter paper is extracted by treatment with a solution containing 0.5mM EDTA and 0.1 SDS solution for e.g. 1 min. at 95 C. Purified mRNA is recovered by elution through oligo dT cellulose colum chromatography. Thereafter, the mRNA is translated into protein by microinjection into Xenopus laevis egg to ascertain IL 2 activity, or the mRNA is translated into a protein using the mRNA dependent reticulocyte or wheat germ in vitro cell free translation system, to analyse IL 2 activity using anti IL 2 antibody.According to these procedures, the group in which the presence of IL 2 activity was detected was further divided repeatedly into groups consisting of smaller number of transformant clones until a single clone possessing IL 2 DNA is specified. To obtain cDNA coding for IL 2 polypeptide from the IL 2 producing transformant, the recombinant DNA in the transformant is separated and cleaved with a restriction endonuclease. From the DNA fragments formed by the cleaving, the insert cDNA fraction is separated. The complete nucleotide sequence of the PstI DNA insert coding for IL 2 polypeptides from the recombinant DNA of pIL2 50A was determined by the procedure of Maxam and Gilber Meth. Enzyme. 65 499 560, 1980 and by the dideoxynucleotide chain termination method Smith, A.J.M. Meth. Enzym. 65, 560 580 1980 . The restriction endonuclease cleavage map of the cDNA insert and base sequence of the insert are shown in Figure 1, and Figure 2 2 in which the cDNA has sites cleaved with restriction endonuclease of BstNI, XbaI and BstNI in this order, respectively. The DNA sequence of the insert contains a single large open reading frame. The first ATG sequence, which usually serve as the initiation sequence in eukaryotes kazak, M. Cell, 15, 1109 1123 1978 , is found at nucleotides 48 50 from the 5 end. This ATG is followed by 152 codons before the termination triplet TGA is encountered at nucleotides 507 to 509. A stretch of A residues corresponding to the 3 poly A terminus of the mRNA is found at the end of the cDNA and this is preceeded by the hexanucleotideAATAAA position 771 776 which is usually found in most eukaryotic mRNAs Proudfoot, N.J. and Brownlee,C.G., Nature 263, 211 214, 1976 The amino acid sequence, for which the cDNA codes, could be deduced as shown in Figure 2 b Amino Acid sequence I , and the polypeptide of the amino acid sequence I consists of 153 amino acids and its molecular weight is calculated to be 17631.7 daltons. As has been reported as a common feature in most of the secretion proteins known to date Blobel, G. et al., Sym. Soc.exp. Med., 33, 9 36 1979 , the N terminal region of the deduced IL 2 polypeptide is also quite hydrophobic and this region probably serves as a signal peptide which is cleaved during the secretion process of the mature IL 2. Such cleavage occurrs either betweenSer and Ala at position 20 and 21 or between Ala andPro at position 21 and 22 respectively, forming the polypeptide having amino acid sequences II and III, since similar cleavage sites have often been found in other secretion proteins Blobel, G. et al., Symp. Soc, exp. Med. 33, 9 36, 1979 . The mature IL 2 polypeptide would then contain 133 or 132 amino acids with the calculated molecular weight being 15420.5 daltons or 15349.4 daltons.This value is then compared with the reported value for human IL 2 protein from Jurkat cells 15,000 daltons Gillis,S. et al., Rmxnlq llv., Rev., 63,S 2B, 1982 .Additionally, the DNA fragment initiating from T at position 111 to 113 in base sequence, which, therefore, codes for polypeptide initiating from Pro at position 22 Amino Acid Sequence III in Figure 2 b , was confirmed to express a polypeptide possessing IL 2 activity as shown in Example 5. It is also confirmed that the DNA fragment initiating from GCA sequence at position 107 to 110 in the base sequence, which therefore codes for a polypeptide initiating from Ala at position 21 CirDA d Sequence II in Figure 2 b expresses a possessing IL 2 activity as shown in Example 8. It has been known that genes of eukaryotes often show polymorphysm for example in human interferon genes. Taniguchi et al. Gene 10 11 15 1980 ,Ohno Taniguchi, Proc. Natl. Acad Sci USA, 77, 5305 5309, 1986 Gray et al., Nature 295 501 508 1981 . In some cases, polymorphysm is accompanied with replacement of certain amino acids of the protein products and in other cases, the structure of the protein product remains unchanged. In the case of human IL 2 cDNA, another cDNA clone pIL2 50A in which the A residue at position 503 of pIL2 50A cDNA Fig 2 is replaced by a G residue can be detected.Other cDNA clones with some base substitution compared to pIL 2 50A cDNA can also be expected. As can be understood from the above the genes of present invention include DNA having the base sequence shown in Fig 2 a , DNAs initiating from ATG sequence at position 48 to 50 and having the sequencial bases following the ATG sequence up to at least ATC sequence at position 504 506, DNAs initiating fromGCA sequence at position 108 110 and having the sequencial bases following the GCA sequence up to at least the ATC codon and DNAs initiating from CCT sequence at position 111 113 and having the sequencial bases following the CCT sequence up to at least theACT sequence. The genes of the present invention also include DNAs ending at the ACT sequence at position 504 to 506 and initiating from A at position 1, ATG sequence at position 48 to 50, CGA sequence at position 108 to 110 or CCT sequence at position 111 to 113.The genes of the present invention further include DNAs ending at TGA sequence at position 507 to 509 and initiating from A at position 1, ATG sequence at position 48 to 50, GCA sequence at position 108 to 110 or CCT sequence at position 111 to 113. The genes of the present invention furhter include DNAs ending at C at position 801 and initiating from A at position 1, ATG sequence at position 48 to 50, GCA sequence at position 108 to 110 or CCT sequence at position 111 to 113. The genes of the present invention additionally include DNAs ending with poly A and initiating from ATG codon at position 48 50, GCA sequence at position 108 110 or CCT sequence at position 111 to 113. The genes of the present invention also include those of which base sequence correspond to Amino Acid Sequence I, II andIII.Furthermore, polypeptides deficient in one or more amino acids in Amino Acid Sequence I, or polypeptides in which one or more amino acids in Amino AcidSequence I are replaced with one or more amino acids may have IL 2 activity. Therefore genes coded for such polypeptides are suitable genes for the present invention. Similarly, genes having additive connection of one or more base sequences, capable of expressing one or more amino acids to Amino AcidSequences I, II or III, are suitable in this invention so far as the additively connected amino acids do not interfere with the action of the polypeptides in expressing IL 2 activity. Modified additively connected amino acid region which interfere with the polypeptide function as IL 2, can be used in this invention so far as the additively connected region can be easily eliminated. This situation is quite the same for the additive connection of DNA to the 3 terminus of genes corresponding to Amino Acid Sequence I, II and III coding additional amino acids at C terminal of the I, II and III having Amino Acid Sequence I, II andIII respectively. Therefore use of genes coded for such polypeptides are to be considered to be included in the present invention. Recominant DNAs which direct the production ofIL 2 in living cells can be constructed by various methods. For example, the coding sequence of IL 2 cDNA can be inserted in an expression vehicle at the position downstream of the promoter sequence.Alternatively, a cDNA piece carrying a promoter sequence can be inserted upstream of the IL 2 coding sequence, after or prior to, the insertion of cDNA in the expression vehicle. Example for procedures to construct Saccharomyces cerevisiae which expresses the IL 2 cDNA and produceIL 2 polypeptide is explained more precisely below A yeast E, coli shuttle vectors pAT77 and pAM82 have been described by Miyanoshita et al. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci USA 80, 1 5. 1983 . The vector pAM82 is a derivative of pAT77 and both carrying markers of ars 1 Stinchcomb, D.T. et al, Nature 282, 39 43, 1979 t 2pm ori Broach, J.R. et al. Gene 8, 121 133 1979 and leu 2 Ratzkin, B. et al. Proc Natl.Acad Sci USA 74, 474 491 1979 and the promoter for the yeast acid phosphatase APase gene. They also carry a 3.7 kb DNA segment of pBR322 which contains an ampicillin resistance marker AP6 and the origin of replication Fig. 5 . The APase promoter is inducible by shifting a high concentration of phosphate into a low concentration in the culture media. In order to express human IL 2 cDNA, pIL2 50A is digested byPstI and after treating either by the E. coli KlenowFragment of by T4 DNA polymerase, the cDNA is ligated with pAM82 previously digested by XhoI and incubated with the E. coil Klenow Fragment to fill in the ends.Hybrid plasmids in which the cDNA coding sequence are downstream of the yeast APase promoter sequence are selected by cloning them in E.coli. The obtained plasmid, pYIL 2A, is introduced into yeast and, after induction of the APase promoter, IL 2 activity in the yeat extract is measured. The plasmid pYIL 2a contains a stretch of GC residues between the yeast promoter and the IL 2 cDNA. It is possible that such a sequence inhibits the expression of IL 2 cDNA. In order to overcome this problem following construction of a plasmid can be made Plasmid pIL2 50A is digested by PstI and the cDNA inserted is isolated. This cDNA istthen treated by T4 DNA polymerase in the presence of dATP, dGTP and dTTP so that the stretches ofC residues at the both ends of the cDNA are chewed off and subsequently treated by Nuclease S1, to remove stretches of G residues.This DNA is ligated with xhoT. DNA linker and plasmid pBR322 whose EcoRI site is cleaved and rendered flush by EcoRI and theKlenow Fragment, and the resulting plasmid, pIL2 Xho, is digested by XhoI and the cDNA inserted is isolated.The cDNA is then introduced into the single XhoI site of pAM82 and a plasmid containing the IL 2 coding sequence correctly oriented with respect to the yeastAPase promoter is cloned in E. coli. The plasmid, pYIL 2B, is introduced into yeast and, after induction of the APase promoter, IL 2 activity in the yeast extract is measured. Cells incorporating the recombinant DNA are cultured to amplify the recombinant DNA or to produceIL 2 polypeptide. The cultivation is carried out by conventional means. For instance, transformed yeast may be cultured in a medium containing source of carbon, a nitrogen source, inorganic salts and, when required, organic nutrients such as vitamin and amino acid at a temperature in the range from 200 to 370C and a pH ranging from 4 to 7 under aerobic condition. The IL 2 produced intracellulary or extracellulary is recovered by any known method, such as precipitation with ammonium sulfate, dialysis to remove salts under normal or vacuum pressure , gel filtration, chromatography, preparative flat bed isoelectric focusing, gel electropheresis, high performance liquid chromatography hereinafter HPLC , ion exchange, gel filtration and reverse phase chromatography , and affinity chromatography on dye bound carrier, on activated Sepharose 4B coupled with monoclonal antibody against said IL 2 or on lectin bound Sepharose 4F and the like. Methods of recovery, the purification of IL 2, are described in Watson et. al., J. Exp. Med., 150, 849 861 1979 , Giliis et al., J. Immunol., 124, 1954 1962, 1980 ,Mochizuki et. al., J. Immunol Methods 39, 185 201, 1980 , and Welte, K. et al., J. Exp. Med., 156, 454 464 1982 . The polypeptide thus obtained shows the same biochemical and biological behavior as has been known for Il, 2 produced by mammalian cells by mitogen stimulation, and has IL 2 activity. The molecular weight is around 15,000 dalton and IL 2 activity was completely neutralized or precipitated with monoclonal anti IL 2 antibody in the presence or absence of immunoabsorbents, such as Igsorb Enzyme Centre . In immunoelectrophoresis, the IL 2 polypeptide shows only a single precipitate against the corresponding anti IL2 antibody. The IL 2 activity remains stable after reduction with 2 mercaptoethanol, and is resistant to treatment with DNAse and RNAse as well as to heat treatment at 56 0C for 30 min. The activity is stable at a pH between pH 2 to 9.The IL 2 produced could promote the growth of monoclonal functional T cells cytotoxic T lymphocyte , enhance the thymocyte mitogenesis, give rise to the generation of anti tumor specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes from memory state in the absence of the antigen, and could be used to augment natural killer cell activity against YAC 1 and RLt1 cells. Having now generally described this invention, the same will become better understood by reference to certain specific examples which are included herein for the purpose of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. ExampleA, Preparation of gene coding for IL 2 polypeptide l 1 Human T leukemia cell line, Jurkat cells freely available in Japan, W. Germany and United States were suspended in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 vol vol FCS and were irradiated with x ray till 10,000 roentgen at a room temperature for 50 seconds using x ray irradiation apparatus Exc 150 300 4 Toshiba,Japan , and thereafter the irradiated cell was cultured for 5 days at 37 C in 5 C02 incubator at a initial cell density of 1 x 105 cells ml in the culture medium mentioned above. The mutated cells 0.2 cells well were placed in wells 10 pieces of flatbottomed microplates having 96 wells, and cultured at 370C in 5 C02 incubator for 21 days.Clones obtained from the wells showing growth were repeatedly transferred into fresh culture medium to propagate the clone sizes, and the propagated clones were cultured for 24 hours at an initial cell density of 1 x 106 cells ml in the presence of 50 pg ml of Con A and IL 2 activity was measured according to the methods described before. Consequently a human T cell line designated as Jurkat lll hereinafter J lll ATCCCRL 8129 , cloned from parent Jurkat, was selected, of which productivity of IL 2 was increased 40 times as much as that of the parent strain. The cloned cell line J lll could grow under conventional conditions and the growth rate shows almost the same with ordinary Jurkat cells. 2 Cells 1 x 105 ml of J lll were inoculated in 1,000 ml of serum free synthetic culture medium RITC 55 9 Sato, T. et al., Exp. Cell Res., 138, 127 134 1982 in roller culture bottles Falcon 3037 and cultured for 4 days at 37 C, and cells propagated were harvested by centrifugation. The harvested cells were again inoculated in the medium mentioned above which had been added with 25 pg ml of Con A to contain 4 x 106 cellsXml. In four batches of roller culture bottles Falcon , 1,000 ml of the inoculated culture medium was placed into each batch. The cultivation was continued for 6 hours with rotating. 3 Jurkat cells 1.2 x 106 thus stimulated with 25 pg ml of Con A for 6 hrs were suspended in 8,000 ml of phosphate buffer balanced with saline hereinafter PBS 1 . The cells were washed twice by centrifugation and were resuspended in 800 ml of RSB solution 10 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM NaCl, 1.5 mM MgC12 containing Ribonucleosides Vanadyl Complex 10 mM , an inhibitor of nuclease. Then a detergent NP 40 was added to contain 0.05 as final concentration, followed by gentle mixing and the cell nuclei were removed by centrifugation for five minutes at 3,000 rpm at 4 C. SDS 0.5 and EDTA 5 mM were added to the supernatant and cytoplasmic RNA was extracted by addition of equal volume of phenol. After three times extraction with phenol, RNA was precipitated with two times volume of ethanol and precipitates were collected by centrifugation, which were solubilized in 10 mM TrisHC1 of pH 7.5. The amount of RNA obtained was 196mg. Fractionation of mRNA was carried out using affinity chromatography on oligo d Cellulose P.L.Biochemicals, Type 7 . An adsorption solution was a solution of pH 7.5 containing 20 mM Tris HCl, 0.5M NaCl, 1 mM EDTA and 0.5 SDS and elution was carried out with water and 10 mM Tris HC1 pH 7.5 by turns after washing the colum with the buffer 20 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, 0.5 M NaCl, 1 mM EDTA , The resultant mRNA eluted was 3.6 mg. Next, 2.4 mg of the mRNA obtained was fractionated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation 5 to 2.5 sucrose density gradient in a solution of pH 7.5 containing 50 mM Tris HCl, lmMEDTA and 0.2 M NaCl, centrifuged at 26,000 rpm for 24 hours at 40C , and 11 to 125 fraction of mRNA was fractionated into fractions No. 12, 13, 14 in the amount of 59 pg, 46 pg and 60 pg, respectively. 4 The mRNA obtained in fraction No. 13 was microinjected into the cocyte of Cenopus laevis 50 ng mRNA egg and the culture supernatant was served for the assay of IL 2 activity. As shown in Table 1, the increase of the incorporation of 3H TdR and the increase of number of activated T lymphocytes were confirmed, clearly verifying that mRNA in this fraction contains human IL 2 mRNA. 5 Thereafter cDNA was synthesized in vitro fromNo. 13 fraction of 11 to 12S mRNA containing IL 2 mRNA and recombinant DNA was constructed with the plasmid vector PBR 322. With the recombinant DNA,Escherichia coli was transformed, and clone acquiredIL 2 cDNA clones was selected, as follows 5 1 Fifty mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.5 , 30 mMNaCl, 6 mM MgC12, 5 mM dithiothreitol hereinafter DTT , 0.5 mM of each dATP, dGTP, dCTP, dTTP dCTP contained 32p radiolabelled one , 0.7 pg oligo dT 10 10 pg mRNA and 15 unit AMV reverse transcriptidase J. W. Beard were mixed and maintained for 90 min.at 410C. After termination of the reaction, DNA was recovered as ethanol precipitates after the phenol treatment, and DNA was solubilized in a solution of pH 7.5 containing 20 mM Tris and 1 mM EDTA.Two point five pg of ss cDNA was synthesized. To remove mRNA present in this solution, the solution was made 0.33 N NaOH by additon of NaOH, allowed to stand for 15 hrs at a room temperature, then the solution was neutralized with equal volume of 1 m Tris Hcl of pH 7.5 and passed through Sephadex G 50 column.The recovered cDNA was 1.8 pg. 5 2 Fifty mM phosphate buffer pH 7.5 , 10 mM MgC12, 10 mM DTT, 0.75 mM of each dATP, dGTP, dCTP, dTTP dCTP contains K radiolabelled one 1.8 pg ss cDNA, and 8 unit of polymerase I BRL, United States were mixed and were allowed to react for 15 hours at 150C. After the termination of the reaction, DNA was recovered as ethanol precipitate, after treatments with phenol and with chloroform. 1.10 pg of ds cDNA was generated. A mixture of 50 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 0.2 M Nacl, 1 mM Zinc12 and 1.10 pg of ds cDNA was incubated for 20 min. at 37 0C, added with 0.25 unit of nuclease S1 Sankyo, Japan , and incubated further for 15 min.After the termination of the reaction, the reaction product treated twice with phenol was applied onto sephadex G 50 to get 0.55 pg of ds cDNA. 5 3 A mixture of 0.14 M potassium cabodylate, 30 mM Tris base, O.1 mM DTT, 1 mM COCi2, 0.64 mM 32p dCTP spc. act. 2.7 x 106 cpm n mol , 0.55 pg of ds cDNA and 5 unit of terminal transferase BRL were incubated for 7 min. at 370C, then applied onto sephadex G 50 colum after phenol treatment to get 0.50 pg DNA as ethanol precipitates. The recoveredDNA was found to be extended with around 50 dCMP residues at the both 3 terminus.Ten pg of pBR 322 DNA was cleaved with restriction enzyme PstI, and 3 termini of the cleaved DNA were added with dGMP chain, by the same method as that used in the addition of dCMP to ds cDNA mentioned above, except dGTP was us ed in place of dCTP. 5 4 A mixture of 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 , 0.1M NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 0.05 pg of pBR 322 elongated with dGMP residues and 0.01 pg of cDNA extended with dCMP was incubated firstly forr 2 min. at 650C, then for 120 min. at 460C, for 60 min. at 370C and finally for 60 min. at a room temperat ure. E. coli x 1776 Curtiss III, R. et al., in Molecular Cloning oRecombinant DNA, W.A. Scott R. Werner ed . Academic Press, 1977 was inoculated in 50 ml of L broth containing 100 pg ml of diaminopimelic acid, 50 pg ml of thymidine, 1 trypophan, 0.5 yeast extract, 0.58 NaCl and 0.1 glucose and cultured in shaking at 370C until the absorbance of culture liquid at 562 nn became around 0. D 0.3.After the termination of the culture, the culture liquid was left at OOC for 30min., then the bacterial cells were collected by cenrifugation followed by twice washing with 25ml of a solution containing 5 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 , 0.1 M Nail, 5 rM. MgC12 and 10 mM RbCl.Thus obtained cells were suspended in 20 ml of a solution containing 5 mM Tris Hcl pH 7.6 , 0.25 M KC1, 5 mM MgC12, 0.1 M CaC12 and 10 mM RbCl and were left at OOC for 25 min., then the cells were collected to resuspend them into 1 ml of the same solution, the recombinant DNA described above was added into 0.2 ml of the cell suspension and the suspension was left at 0 C for 60 min. Then 0.7 ml of L broth was added to culture in shaking for 30 min. at 370C.Thus obtained culture medium 0.lml was thoroughly spread on the surface of 1.5 agarose medium composed of L broth containing 100 pg ml diamonopimelic acid, 50 pg ml thymidine and 15 pg ml tetracycline, and incubated at 370C for two days. 5 5 Four hundred and thirty two colonies appeared were divided into 18 groups, each containing 24 different bacterial clones, inoculated in 200 ml ofL broth containing 100 pg ml of diaminopimelic acid, 50 pg ml of thymidine and 10 pg ml of tetracycline and cultured in shaking at 37 0C for 5 to 7 hours. Then 200 ml of fresh L broth containing chloramphenicol at a final concentration of 170 pg ml was added to culture further for an overnight. Thus amplified plasmid DNA was purified according to a conventional mean. Clones possessing IL 2 cDNA were screened by a mRNA hybridization translation assay hereinafter H T assay . H T assay here employed was carried out as follows Purified DNA 25 pg was cleaved with restriction enzyme Hind III, treated with phenol three times, treated with phenol chloroform and with chloroform, respectively, precipitated with ethanol, washed with 80 ethanol and dissolved in 40 pl of 80 formamide.The reaction mixture was heated for denaturation at 90 C for 5 min., then diluted to 1.3ml with 10 x SSC 1.5 M NaCl, 0.15 M sodium citrate . The DNA was thereafter fixed onto nitrocellulose filters, which filters were dried up at 800C for 3 hrs and incubated for 18 hrs at 37 0C in the solution containing 50 formamide, 20 mM Pepes of pH 6.5, 0.75 M NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 0.2 SDB and 250 pg of poly A mRNA from induced J lll cells to hybridize the DNA fixed on filters with IL 2 mRNA.Then the filters were washed at 65 C three times with solution consisting of 1OmM Pipes of pH 6.5, 0.15 M NaCl, 1 mM Pipes, 10 mMNaCl solution and treated with 0.5 mM EDTA, 0.1 SDS solution at 95 0C for 1 min to recover the hybridized mRNA from the filters. Thus extracted mRNA was purified on oligo dT Cellulose column according to the conventional methods and injected into Xenopus oocytes to determine the IL 2 activity of translated proteins. One out of 18 groups, each consisting of 24 clones, gave positive 48 unit ml IL 2 activity in 3H TdR incorporation assay described previously, while others being clearly negative.Then 24 single colonies belonging to the positive group were inoculated in 200 ml of L broth possessing the same composition described, cultured aerobically for 5 to 7 hrs. at 37 0C and similarly chloramphenicol containing freshL broth was further added. After amplification of plasmid DNA by an overnight culture, plasmid DNA was similarly purified according to the standard procedures. After cleavage of about Spg of each plasmidDNA with Hind III, each plasmid DNA was bound to nitrocellulose filters similarly. The filters were hybridized with IL 2 mRNA and hybridized mRNA was recovered to inject into Xenopus oocyte to determine the IL 2 activity of translated proteins. As shown in Table 2, only plasmid DNA purified from a single colony, designated as p3 16, gave the positive I.lr2 activity. Therefore this clone was identified as the clone possessing I, r2 cDNA E.coli x 1776 p3 16 AJ 11995 FERM BP 225 . Thus plasmidDNA, p3 16, was confirmed to share exactly theDNA I1 2 gene capable of forming the specific hybrid with IL 2 mRNA. The CDNA insert of plasmid p3 16 showed characteristics to be cleaved by restriction enzyme XbaI at a single site and by BstNi at two sites, at upstream and downstream of XbaI cleavage site . However the plasmid p3 16 contained a cDNA insert consisting of about 650 base pairs, which apparently corresponds to a part of IL 2 mRNA of 11 to 12S size.Therefore another cDNA library were prepared according to the procedure of Land et al. Land et al.,Nucleic Acids Res., vol 9 p2551, 1981 using IL 2 mRNA as a template. Single stranded cDNA 1.6 pug was synthesized by using 4pg of IJ, 2 mRNA elongated by dCMP residues, and ds cDNA was synthesized by using oligo dG 12 18 as the primer for DNA polymerase I Klenow fragment . The cDNA 0.6pg longer than 680 base pair DNA size marker was obtained by a sucrose gradient cenrifugation and inserted into the PstI site of pBR322 by the standard G C tailing method.After transformation of E. coli x 1776 by the recombinant DNA, approximately 2,000 colonies were screened by in situ hybridization method of GrunsteinHogness with nidetranslated p3 16 cDNA insert as the probe and the colony containing plasmid pIL 2 50A containing around 850 base pairs and the transformed clone E. coli x 1776 pIL 2 50A, AJ 11996 FERM BP 226 were identified. A restriction endonuclease cleavage maps of the cDNA insert of pIL 2 50A are shown in Fig. 1. To isolate a gene coding for IL 2 peptide from transformed E.coli x 1776 pIL 2 50A, plasmid DNA was digested with restriction enzymePstI after isolation of DNA region from the cells according to the conventional means. Thus produced smaller fragment among generated two DNA fragments was DNA gene coding for IL 2 peptide.The complete nucleotide sequence of the PstI insert from pIL 2 50A was determined by the procedure of Maxam andGilbert Maxam, A.W. et al., Enzyme. 65, 499 560, 1980 , and the whole structure is shown in Figure 2.B, Preparation of gene coding for IL 2 polypeptide 2 A plasmid which should direct the synthesis of human IL 2 in E. coli cells was constructed as follows.A plasmid pTIL2 22 was constructed from pTrS 3 Nishi T., Taniguchi T. et al., SEIKAGAKU 53, 967, 1981 , and pIL 2 50A containing the IL Z cDNA by a series of modification procedures as illustrated inFig. 4 a . A plasmid pTrS 3 include insertion of the region of Trp promoter and Shine Dalgarno hereinafter SD between EcoRi site and Clal site of pBR322. The plasmid also contains an ATG initiation codon 13 bp downstream of the SD sequence as well as a single SphI site as illustrated in Figure 3.The vector is very efficient to produce the said protein when DNA sequence corresponding to the said protein is inserted in phase just downstream of theATG codon, which is generated by SphI digestion and by subsequent treatment by T4 DNA polymerase of pTrS 3. Therefore the plasmid pTrS 3 30 pg was cleaved with a restriction enzyme Sphl in a conventional manner and after successive treatment with phenol and chloroform, ethanol precipitates were recovered, then both ends were rendered flush by the treatment of T4 DNA polymerase. Then the DNA 21.4 pg was recovered by similar successive phenol, chloroform treatment and ethanol precipitation.On the other side, 380 pg of pIL 2 50A containing an IJ, 2 cDNA was cleaved by PstI and the IL 2 cDNA insert was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. CDNA Insert 11 pg was cleaved by HqiAI, treated by T4 DNA polymerase and 10 pg of the DNA of larger site was isolated by agarose gel electrophoresis. According to the procedures a cDNA 7.2 pg coding for 132 amino acids was obtained and this DNA fragment had blunt ends Fig. 4 a .Then the thus obtained cDNA fragment ligated to a pTrS 3 vector, previously digested by SphI and treated by T4 DNA polymerase just downstream of ATG sequence. Thus ligated plasmid was then used to transform into E. coli. HB 101 according to the conventional proceures. Ligation was carried out as follows. IL 2 cDNA 0.4 pg larger fragment and 0.2 pg of pTrS 3 vector DNA were mixed with 0.8 unit of T4 DNA ligase in 66 mM Tris HCl of pH 7.5 containing 6.6 mM MgC12, 1 mM ATP and 10 mM DTT, and the mixture was allowed to react at 4 0C overnight.Among the transformants appeared on L broth agar plate containing ampicillin, colonies containing theIL 2 cDNA portion, which encodes 132 amino acids were selected by in situ colony hybridization assay. Thus selected colonies were cultured 10 m1 again to prepare plasmid DNA by lysozyme treatment and by freeze thawing. The plasmid DNAs were cleaved withPstI and XbaI, and the resulting products were analysed by agarose gel electrophoresis in order to identify pTIL 2 22 in which the cDNA was linked to theATG sequence of pTrS 3 in correct orientation. TheE. coli. HB101 containing pTIL 2 22 was cultured under the conventional conditions known for the propagation of microorganisms. The cells were grown in 10 ml of x broth 2.5 Bactotrypton, 1.owe yeast extracts, 0.1 glucose, 20 mM Mugs04, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 containing 25 pg ml streptomycin and 25 pg of ampicillin at 37 0C for an overnight. One ml of the culture suspension was inoculated into the same x broth 100 m2 and cultured at 370C . 8hen O.D. at 650 mp arrived around 1.5 2.0 3 indole acrylic acid IAA was added. Three hours after the additon of inducer, the cells were collected, washed with 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 30mM Nail and resuspended into 8 ml of the same buffer.For the efficient functioning of Trp promoter inducers such as IAA was added at a final concentration of 50 pg ml. Thus produced proteins is bacterial cells were extracted by sonication OOC 2 min. or lysozyme 8 pg digestion 0 C, 20 min followed with three successive freeze thawing.According to this procedures IL 2 was usually extracted from organisms. The extracted IL 2 activity ranged from 10.000 to 120,000 units ml. E. coli HB101 containing pTIL 2 22 AJ 12009 has been deposited in the accession number of FERM BP 245.C, Preparation of gene coding for IL 2 polypeptide 3 A plasmid which should direct the synthesis of human IL 2 in E. coli cells was constructed as follows.A plasmid pTIL2 21 was constructed from pTrS 3 Nishi T., Taniguchi T. et al., SEIKAGAKU 53, 967, 1981 , and pIL 2 50A containing the IL Z cDNA by a series of modification procedures as illustrated inFig. 4 b . A plasmid pTrS 3 include insertion of the region of Trp promoter and Shine Dalgarno hereinafter SD between EcoRI site and Clal site of pBR322. Plasmid pTrS 3 10 pg was at first cleaved with the restriction enzyme SalI and the SalI site was rendered flush by the treatment with DNA polymerase Klenow fragment or with T4 DNA polymerase. After cleavage with ClaI, a larger fragment, containing the trp promoter region, was isolated by aparose gel electrophoresis in a conventional manner to recover 3 pg of DNA. On the other side, 11 pg of pIL 2 50A insert into PstI was cleaved with HgiAl, treated with T4 DNA polymerase and a larger fragment was isolated and purified by agarose gel electrophoresis. Thus cDNA fragment coding for 132 amino acids of IL 2 was obtained in an amount of 7.2 Ug. Then 0.45 pg of the fragment containing a trp promoter described above 0.5 pg of HgiAl PstI fragment containing IL 2 cDNA and synthetic oligonucleotides 5 CGATAAGCTATGGCA 3 , and 3 TATTCGATACCGT 51 each 20 pmole , both of which were phosphorylated at 5 terminus, were ligated with 1.0 units of T4 DNA liaise in 66 mM Tris HCl of pH 7.5 containing 6.6 mM McC12, 1 inN ATP and 10 mM DTT, and the mixture was allowed to react at 4 C overnight. Thus ligated plasmid was then used to transformE. coli HB101. Among the transformants appeared on L broth agar plate containing ampicillin, the target transformants were selected as follows. The candidate transformants able to hybridize with both of IL 2 cDNA and synthetic oligonucleotides were firstly selected by colony hybridization method, then the transformants possessing the insertion of DNA fragment initiating from CCT sequence at position ill to 113 in Fig 2 a CCTACT just downstream ofATG GCA sequence were selected by PstI,XbaI cleavage. The E. coli HB 101 containing pTTL2 21a or pTTL2 21b was cultured under the conventional conditions known for the propagation of microorganisms. The cells were grown in 10 ml of x broth 2.5 Bactotrypton, 1.0 yeast extracts, 0.18 glucose, 20 mM MgS04, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 7.5 containing 25 pg ml streptomycin and 25 pg of ampicillin at 37 C for an overnight .Oml ml of the culture suspension was inoculated into the same x broth 100 ml and cultured at 370C. When O.D. at 650 mp arrived around 1.5 2.0 3 indole acrylic acid IAA was added. Three hours after the addition of inducer, the cells were collected, washed with 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5, 30 mMNaCl and resuspended into 8 mlof the same buffer.For the efficient functioning of Trp promoter inducers such as IAA was added at a final concentration of 50 pg m . Thus produced proteins in bacterial cells were extracted by sonication O C 2 min or lyzozyme 8 pg digestion 0 C, 20 min followed with three successive freeze thawing. According to this proceduL I L2 was usually extracted from organisms. The extracted IL 2 activity ranged from 10,000 to 120,000 units ml. Escherichia coli HB101 possessing pTlL2 21a AJ 12013 and Escherichia coli HB101 possessing pTIL2 21b AJ 12014 have been deposited in the assession numbers of FERM BP 248 and FERM BP 249 respectively.D. Construction of yeast capable of producing IL 2 A yeast E.coli shuttle vector pAM82 is carrying markers of arsl, 2pm ori and leu 2, and the promoter for the yeast of acid phosphatase APase gene.They also carry a 3.7 kb DNA segment of pBR322 which contains an ampicillin resistance marker Ap and the origin of replication Fig 5 . The APase promoter is inducible by shifting phosphate concentration in culture medium from high into low. Recombinant DNA pTIL2 21a 1pg previously digested by BalI and XhoI linker 10 pmoles previously phosphorylated at 5 terminus were ligated overnight at 4 C with 1 unit of T4 DNA ligase in 66mM Tris HCl of pH 7.5 containing 6.6mM MgCl2, lmM ATP and lOraM DTT. Thus ligated DNA was the incorporated into E. coli H.B101, and the transformant carrying plasmid pEI2 X16 which had XhoI site instead of Bal I site was selected. Next, lpg of pTTh2 X16 previously digested by Hpa I, and XhoI linker 10 pmoles were ligated with 1 unit of T4 DNA ligase in the same manner as described above. The ligated DNA was incorporated into E. coli and the transformant carrying plasmid pTIL2 X2 which had XhoI site instead of HpaI site was selected Plasmid pTIL2 X2 30pug was cleaved with restriction enzyme XhoI, and XhoI fragment ca 1.6 Kb containing IL 2 cDNA was isolated and purified by agarose gel electrophoresis to recover 5pg of DNA.Yeast E. coli shuttle vector pAM82 2pig was cleaved similarly by XhoI, and the cleaved pAM82 and 2pg of the XhoI fragment were mixed in 66mM Tris Hcl of pH 7.5 containing 1 unit of T4 DNA ligase 6.6mM MgC12, lmM ATP and 10inN DTT, and the mixture was held at 4 0C overnight. Thus ligated plasmid was then used for transformation into E. coli HB101. Among the transformants appeared on L broth agar plate containing ampicillin, colonies containing the IL 2 cDNA portion, which encodes 133 amino acids were selected by the colony hybridization assay mentioned before. Each of the colonies slected was cultured to obtain cells and plasmid DNA in the cells were separated. The desired zecombinant DNA should have about 7 kb XbaI fragment and about 2.5 kb XbaI fragment, and then the desired recombinant DNA was selected as that which formed about 7 kb XbaI fragment and about 2.5 Kb XbaI fragment by XbaI digestion, obtaining pYIL2 21a, pYIL2 21b, in which the cDNA was located at the position downstream of the acid phosphatase promoter in pAM82. Next, the obtained plasmids pYIL2 21a and pYIL221b were introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH22 as follows. Cells of S. cerevisiae AH22 a leu2, his4, can 1, cir were aerobically cultured in looms of YPD medium 18 yeast extract, 2 polypepton, 2 glucose pH 5.3 placed in a 500 ml shaking flask at 300C with shaking. At the middle of exponential growth phase optical density at 610 nm was 0.8 , the cells were harvested by centrifugation at 3,500 rpm for 5 min, washed once with TE buff lmM Tris HCl, pH 7.5, O.lmMEDTA and suspended in 5ml of the same buffer.A 0.5ml portion of this cell suspension was transferred to a test tube, an equal volume of 0.2M CH3 COOLi or 1.0M Cscl was added to the suspension, and thereafter the suspension was held at 30 with shaking for one hour. The cells in suspension were harvested by centrifugation at 3,500 rpm for S min, washed once with 1 M sorbitol, and suspended again in lmi ofZymolyase 5000 solution 1M sorbitol, 0.1M citrate buffer lOmM EDTA 0.4mg ml zymolyase 5000 . Protoplasts were prepared by shaking the suspension gently at 37 0C for 1 hour. Then the protoplasts were washed three times with 1M sorbitol and resuspended in 1.0 ml of lm sorbitoi 10mM Cacti lOmM Tris HCl, of pH 7.5.The plasmid DNA was added to the suspension of protoplasts to contain 20 g ml and the mixture were incubated for 5 min. at a room temperature. Then, 5ml of 40 polyethylene glycol 4000 10mM CaCl2 10mM Tris HCl, of pH 7.5 was added to the mixture. After 10 min, the protoplasts were sedimented by centrifugation and resuspended in 5ml of the 1M sorbitol 10mM CaCl lOmM Tris HCl of pH 7.5. 0.2ml aliouots were added to 10ml of regeneration agar and poured on minimal agar plates consisting of 1M sorbitol, 0.67 Difco yeast nitrogen base, 2 glucose amino acid mixture solution containing each Smg dl of L Glu, L Asp, L Ala, L Pro, L Thr, L Ser.L Trp, L Ile, L Val,L Phe, L Tyr, L Met, gly, L Gln, L Asn, L Lys, L Cys,L His and L Arg and 2 Agar, pH 5.3 and Leu transformants were selected. AH22 containing pYIL2 21a or pYIL2 21b was aerobically cultured at 30 0C in 100ml of high phosphate Burkhoider minimal medium containing 20.0g l glucose, 2.0g l asparagine, 1.5g dl KH2P04 2.0g l NH4 2SO4 0,5g l MgSO47H20, 0.33 g l CaClX 2H20, O.lmg l KI, 0.25 mg l FeS04 7H20, 0.04 mg l MnS044H20, 0.02mg l NH4 6 M070284H20, 3.0 mg l H3B03, 0.04 mg l CuS04.5H20, 0.31 mg l EnS047H20,,0.20 mg l thiamine HC1, 1O.omg 1 inositol, 0.2 mg l Ca pantothenate, 0.2 mg l pyridoxine HC1, 0.05 mg ml p aminobenzoic acid, 9. 20 mg l nicotinic acid and 2.0 t 1 biotin of pH 5.3 supplemented with histidine 20g ml . When the cell density reached to 0.4 in optical density at 610nm, a sample was taken out, centrifuged, and suspended for induction in 100 ml of low phosphate minimal medium containing 20.0g l glucose, 2.0g l asparagine, l.5g l KC1, 2.Og l NE4 2S04,0.5g 1 MgS04.7H20, 0.33g l CaCl22H2O, 0.1 mg l KI, 0.25mg l FeS047H20, 0.04mg l MnS04.4H20, 0.02mg l NH 6Mo7024.4H20, 0.6mg l H3B03, 0.04mg l CuSO4. 5H2O, 0.31mg lZnSO4.7H3O, 0.2 mg l thiamine. HC1, 10.Omg 1 inositol, 0.2 mg l Ca pantothenate, 0.2mg l pyridoxine.HCl, 0.05 mg l p amino benzoic acid, 9.2 mg l nicotinic acid and 2.0 y l biotin, of pH 5.3 . Control samples were treated similarly except that high phosphate minimal medium was used.When the density reached to 0.8 in optical density at 6lOnm, 100ml samples of the induced and noninduced cultures were centrifuged. The cells obtained were suspended in 5ml of a solution containing Zymolyase 500 lOOpg ml , 1.2M sorbitol, 50mM phosphate pH 7.2 and 14mM 2 mercaptoethanol, and the suspension were incubated for 30 min at 30 OC. The protoplasts were collected by centrifugation and lysed in 1 ml of 0.1 Triton x 100 50mM phosphate pH 7.2 and lmM phenylmethylsulphonylfluroide. The lysate was clarified by centrigugation at 11,000 rpm for 20 min.The IL 2 activity in the cleared lysate of low phosphate induced sample ranges from 1,000 to 10,000 units ml. No IL 2 activity is found in high Fhosphate induced sample. Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH22 possessing pYIL221a AJ 14613 and Sacchar w ces cerevisiae AH22 possessing pYIL2 21b AJ 14614 were deposited at the Fermantation Research Institute, Japan, on the 18th October 1983, under the accession numbersFERM P 7303 and FERM P7304 respectively. Under theBudapest Treaty, these deposits were given the accession numbers FERM BP 626 and FERM BP 627, respectively, on the 2nd October 1984. The characteristics of Saccharomyces cerevisiaeAH22,which is a known strain, are disclosed in Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 80, 1 5 1983 and in Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,75 1929 1933 1978 J andSaccharomyces cerevisiae EERM 7303 and Saccharomyces cerevisiae FERM P 7304 have the same characteristics as Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH22. Table 1 a sample Dilution Uptake of 3E TdR Amount of IL 2 cpm cpm unit mt Control 1 553 0 Medium for assay Control II x 2 590 0 Supernatant of egg . x 32 572 culture non treated Translation product x 8 14,683 32 of fraction 13 x 32 10,165 b Cell number of Amount or IL 2 Dilution Cell number of Amount of IL 2 No. well Umit m Control I x 2 O O Medium for assay x 16 0Control IT x 2 0 0 Supernatant of egg x 16 o culture non treated Translation product x 2 115 40 of fraction 13 x 16 55 The unit was calculated by comparing the amount of incorporated 3H TdR with that of standard IL 2 10 unit m2 according to probit analysis. Table 2 a Sample Dilution Uptake of 3H TdR Amount of IL 2 cpm cpm unit m2 Control I 2,010 0 Hedium for assay Control II x 2 2,120 Supernatant of x 32 2,482 0 culture liquid of non treated egg Translation product x 2 20,453 58 of mRNA x 32 20,961 b Sample Dilution Cell number of Amount of IL 2 T lymphocyte Cells well unit ml Control I 0 0 Medium for assay Control II x 2 0 0 Supernatant of x 32 culture liquid of non treated egg Translation product x 2 88 32 of mRNA x 32 42 mRNA hybridized with cDNA fron plasmid p3 16.