# Glycopeptide bioconversion products.

## Abstract
New glycopeptide antibiotics of the formula CHEM wherein W is the remaining portion of a glycopeptide antibiotic selected from actaplanin factors B1, B2, B3, C1, C2, C3, D1, D2, E1, G, K, L, M, N, O and actaplanin psi aglycone, and salts thereof, particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable salts, are useful new antibiotics are active against gram positive bacteria and increase feed efficiency utilization and enhance milk production in ruminants.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing compound of the formula 1 EMI21.1 wherein W is the remaining portion of a glycopeptide antibiotic selected from actaplanin factors A, B1, B2, 3 C1at C2al C3, D1, D2, E1, G, K, L, M, N, 0 and actaplanin pseudoaglycone, each of which has the formula 2 EMI21.2 which comprises bioconversion of the corresponding actaplanin factor of formula 2 using Actinoplanes missourieusis NRRL 15646 or NRRL 15647. 2. A process of claim 1 wherein the actaplanin factor of formula 2 is selected from actaplanin factors A, B1, B2, B3, C1a1 C3, E1, and actaplanin pseudoaglycone. 3. A compound of the formula 1 EMI22.1 wherein W is the remaining portion of a glycopeptide antibiotic selected from actaplanin factors A, B1, B2, B3 Cla C2a C31 D1, 2 El G, K, L, M, N, 0 and actaplanin pseudoaglycone, each of which has the formula 2 EMI22.2 or a salt thereof. 4. A compound of claim 3 wherein W is the remaining portion of a glycopeptide antibiotic selected from actaplanin factors B1, B2, B3, Cla, C31 1 and actaplanin pseudoaglycone. 5. The compound of claim 1 wherein W is the remaining portion of actaplanin factor B2, or the remaining portion of actaplanin factor Cla, or the remaining portion of actaplanin G, or the remaining portion of actaplanin pseudoaglycone. 6. A pharmaceutical composition which comprises a compound of claim 3 or 4, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a suitable pharmaceutical vehicle. 7. A feed composition for increasing feed utilization efficiency in animals which comprises 1 an effective amount of a compound of claim 3 or 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and 2 a standard feed ration. 8. A method for increasing feed utilization in animals which comprises administering an effective amount of a composition of claim 7 to the animal. 9. A feed composition for improving milk production in lactating ruminants comprising 1 an effective amount of a compound of claim 3 or 4, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and 2 a standard feed ration. 10. A method for improving milk production in lactating ruminatns comprising orally administering an effective amount of a composition of claim 9 to the ruminatn. 11. A compound of formula 1 as defined in claim 3 or 4 for use as an antibiotic.

## Description
GLYCOPEPTIDE BIOCONVERSION PRODUCTS This invention provides new glycopeptide antibiotics and processes for their preparation by bioconversion of the actaplanin factors using either of two new Actinoplanes missouriensis strains CUC 014 orCSV 558. The compounds produced by the bioconversion have the common formula 1 EMI1.1 wherein W is the remainder of a glycopeptide antibiotic selected from actaplanin B1, B2, B3, Cla, C2a, C3, D1, D2, E1, G, K, L, M, N, 0 and pseudo aglycone which have the common structure 2EMI1.2 The formula 1 compounds and their salts, particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable salts, are useful new antibiotics.They are active against grampositive bacteria and increase feed efficiency utiliza tion in animals and enhance milk production in ruminants. A. missouriensis strains CUC 014 and CSV 558 have been deposited and made a part of the stock culture collection of the Northern Regional Research Center,Agricultural Research, North Central Region, 1815 North University Street, Peoria, Illinois 61604, from which they are available to the public under the accession numbers NRRL 15646 CSV 558 and NRRL 15647 CUC 014 .They form the subject of our co filed Application No.544,337 Agents ref. X 6068 . The glycopeptide antibiotics prepared by the process of this invention have the following formulas and individual designations EMI2.1 No. Compound R1 RS RS la CUC CSV mannosyl glucosyl mannosyl mannosyl lb B1 CSV rhamnosyl glucosyl mannosyl mannosyl lc B2 CSV glucosyl mannosyl mannosyl ld B3 CSV mannosyl glucosyl mannosyl H le Cla CSV rhamnosyl glucosyl mannosyl H lf C2 CSV H mannosyl mannosyl lg C3 CSV glucosyl H mannosyl lh D1 CSV H mannosyl H li D2 CSV H H mannosyl 13 G CSV glucosyl mannosyl H 1k K CSV mannosyl glucosyl H mannosyl lm L CSV rhamnosyl glucosyl H mannosylIn M CSV mannosyl glucosyl H HIp N CSV rhamnosyl glucosyl H H ig O CSV glucosyl H H lr 4, CSV H H H In formula 1, R designates L ristosaminyl for each compound. We have discovered that antibiotic CUC CSV can be prepared by bioconversion of actaplanin factor A using either culture CUC 014 or culture CSV 558, and that the other actaplanin factors can be bioconverted in the same manner to give similarly modified products, i.e. the compounds of formula 1. In another aspect, this invention relates to methods of treating certain infections with, methods of increasing feed utilization efficiency with, a method of improving milk production in lactating ruminants with, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising, a formula 1 compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with a suitable carrier. New, improved antibiotics are continually in demand. In addition to antibiotics which are useful for treating human diseases, improved antibiotics are also needed in the veterinary field. Increased potency, expanded spectrum of bacterial inhibition, increased in vivo efficacy, and improved pharmaceutical properties such as greater oral absorption, higher blood or tissue concentrations, longer body half life, and more advantageous rate or route of excretion and rate or pattern of metabolism are some of the goals for improved antibiotics. The formula 1 compounds form salts, particularly acid addition salts. These acid addition salts are also useful as antibiotics and are a part of this invention. In another aspect, such salts are useful as intermediates, for example, for separating and purifying the derivatives. Representative suitable salts include those salts formed by standard reactions with both organic and inorganic acids such as, for example, sulfuric, hydrochloric, phosphoric, acetic, succinic, citric, lactic, maleic, fumaric, palmitic, cholic, pamoic, mucic, D glutamic, d camphoric, glutaric, glycolic, phthalic, tartaric, formic, lauric, stearic, salicyclic, methanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, sorbic, picric, benzoic, cinnamic, and like acids. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts are an especially preferred group of salts of this invention. In the process provided by this invention, antibiotic CUC CSV or a formula 1 compound is produced by bioconversion of the corresponding actaplanin factor using either of the A. missouriensis strains CSV 558 NRRL 15646 and CUC 014 NRRL 15647 under submerged aerobic conditions in a suitable culture medium until substantial conversion to the desired product has occurred. Actaplanin factor A is obtainable by the process described in U.S. Patent No. 4,115,552,Actaplanin factors B1, B2, B3, C1a, C31 and E1 are obtainable by the process described in U.S. Patent No.4,322,406. Actaplanin pseudo aglycone is obtainable by the process described in U.S. Patent No. 4,029,769.Actaplanin factor G is obtainable by the process of EPO specification 5507. Actaplanin factors C2a, D1, D2, K,L, M, N, and 0 can be obtained by the process described in published EPO applications Serial Number 84302779.8. As will be appreciated by those in the art, the culture media used to grow the bioconverting A.missouriensis strains can be any one of a number of media see, for example, U.S. Patent 4,322,406 for a description of the media variations useful for the parent A. missouriensis ATCC 31683 strain . When carrying out the bioconversion, the appropriate substrate can be added to the growing fermentation or can be included in the medium after sterilization, but before inoculation. The bioconversion can be followed during the fermentation by testing samples of the broth by thinlayer chromatography TLC as described in Example 1,Sect. D. Following its production under submerged aerobic fermentation conditions, antibiotic CUC CSV or the formula 1 compound can be recovered from the fermentation medium by methods recognized in the art, e.g.adsorptive and extractive procedures. Alternatively, the culture solids, including medium constituents and mycelium, can be used without extraction or separation, but preferably after removal of water, as a source of antibiotic CUC CSV or the formula 1 compound. For example, after production of antibiotic CUC CSV, the whole fermentation broth can be dried by lyophilization, by drum drying, or by azeotropic distillation and drying. The dried whole broth can then be mixed directly into feed premix. Antibiotic CUC CSV and the formula 1 compounds inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria, especially gram positive bacteria. Table I summarizes the minimal and inhibitory concentrations MIC s at which CUC CSV inhibits certain organisms, as determined by standard agar dilution assays. Table I In Vitro Activity of Bioconversion Products Organism MIC mcg ml CUC CSV B2 ProductStaphylococcus aureus NRRL B313 8 4Staphylococcus aureus V41 8 8Staphylococcus aureus X400 16 16Staphylococcus aureus S13E 8 4Staphylococcus epidermidis EPI1 16 16Staphylococcus epidermidis 222 8a 2Streptococcus pyogenes C203 1Streptococcus pneumoniae Park 1 0.5 1Streptococcus faecium ATCC 9790 4 4Streptococcus sp. group D 9960 4 4 aNot tested Antibiotic CUC CSV also inhibits the growth of anaerobic bacteria. Table II summarizes the susceptibility of various anaerobic isolates to CUC CSV. Table II Susceptibility of Anaerobic Bacterial Isolates to CUC CSV Anaerobic Bacteria MIC pg ml a Clostridium difficile 2994 1 Clostridium perfringens 81 4 Clostridium septicum 1128 4 Eubacterium aero aciens 1235 2 Peptococcus asaccharolyticus 1302 4 Peptococcus prevoti 1281 8 Peptostreptococcus anaerobius 1428 2 Peptostreptococcus intermedium 1264 4 Propionibacterium acnes 79 1 Bacteroides fragilis 111 128 Bacteroides fragilis 1877 128 Bacteroides fragilis 1936B 128 Bacteroldes etaiotaomicron 1438 128 Bacteroides melaninogenicus 1856 28 128 Bacteroides melaninogenicus 2736 16 Bacteroides vulgatis 1211 128 Bacteroides corrodens 1874 128 Fusobacterium symbiosum 1470 128 Fusobacterium necrophorum 6054A 2 aMIC s were determined by the agar dilution method endpoints were read after 24 hours incubation. CUC CSV has also shown in vivo antimicrobial activity against experimentally induced bacterial infections. When two doses of test compound were administered to experimentally infected mice, the activity observed was measured as an ED50 value effective dose in mg kg to protect 50 of the test animals see WarrenWick et al., J. Bacteriol. 81, 233 235 1961 . ED50 values observed for CUC CSV are given in Table III. Table III ED50 Values for CUC CSV in MiceInfecting Organism ED50 mg kg 2 a Staphylococcus aureus 1.59Streptococcus pyogenes 1.09Streptococcus pneumoniae 0.84 aadministered subcutaneously 1 and 4 hours post infection This invention also relates to a method of controlling bacterial infections. In carrying out the method of this invention, an effective amount of a formula 1 compound is administered parenterally or orally to an infected or susceptible warm blooded animal. The compound can also be administered by insufflation, i.e.by blowing the compound, in the form of a medicated dust, into an enclosed space or room wherein the animals or poultry are held. The animals or poultry breathe the medicated dust present in the air the medicated dust is also taken into the body through the eyes a process called intraocular injection . The dose which is effective to control the infection will vary with the severity of the infection and the age, weight, and condition of the animal. The total dose required for protection parenterally will generally, however, be in the range of from about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg and preferably will be in the range of from about 0.5 to about 50 mg kg. The dose required for oral administration will generally be in the range of from 1 to about 300 mg kg and preferably will be in the range of from about 1 to about 100 mg kg. Suitable dosage regiments can be constructed. Often the most practical way to administer the compounds is by formulation into the feed supply or drinking water. A variety of feeds, including the common dry feeds, liquid feeds, and pelleted feeds, may be used. In another aspect, this invention relates to compositions useful for the control of bacterial infections. These compositions comprise a formula 1 compound together with a suitable vehicle. Compositions may be formulated for parenteral or oral administration by methods recognized in the pharmaceutical art. Effective injectable compositions containing these compounds may be in either suspension or solution form. In the preparation of suitable formulations it will be recognized that, in general, the water solubility of the acid addition salts is greater than that of the free bases. Similarly, the bases are more soluble in dilute acids or in acidic solutions than in neutral or basic solutions. In the solution form the compound is dissolved in a physiologically acceptable vehicle. Such vehicles comprise a suitable solvent, preservatives such as benzyl alcohol, if needed, and buffers. Useful solvents include, for example, water and aqueous alcohols, glycols, and carbonate esters such as diethyl carbonate. Such aqueous solutions contain, in general, no more than 50 of the organic solvent by volume. Injectable suspension compositions require a liquid suspending medium, with or without adjuvants, as a vehicle. The suspending medium can be, for example, aqueous polyvinylpyrrolidone, inert oils such as vege table oils or highly refined mineral oils, or aqueous carboxymethylcellulose. Suitable physiologically acceptable adjuvants are necessary to keep the compound suspended in suspension compositions. The adjuvants may be chosen from among thickeners such as carboxymethylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gelatin, and the alginates. Many surfactants are also useful as suspending agents.Lecithin, alkylphenol polyethylene oxide adducts, naphthalenesulfonates, alkylbenzenesulfonates, and the polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters are useful suspending agents. Many substances which affect the hydrophilicity, density, and surface tension of the liquid suspending medium can assist in making injectable suspensions in individual cases. For example, silicone antifoams, sorbitol, and sugars can be useful suspending agents. In another embodiment, this invention relates to methods of increasing feed utilization efficiency and promoting growth rates in poultry, swine, sheep and cattle and of enhancing milk production in lactating ruminants. For increasing feed utilization efficiency and promoting growth, a formula 1 compound is administered orally in a suitable feed in an amount of from about 2 to about 200 grams per ton of total feed. For enhancing milk production in lactating ruminants, oral administration of a daily amount of from about 0.01 to about 10 mg kg of body weight or about 100 to about 1600 mg ruminant day is suggested. The methods of formulating drugs into animal feeds are well known. A preferred method is to make a concentrated drug premix which in turn is used to prepare medicated feeds. Typical premixes may contain from about 1 to about 200 grams of drug per pound of premix. Premixes may be either liquid or solid preparations. The final formulation of feeds for animals or poultry will depend upon the amount of drug to be administered. The common methods of formulating, mixing, and pelleting feeds may be used to prepare feeds containing a formula 1 compound. The following examples illustrate this invention. Example 1 Preparation of Antibiotic CUC CSV by Bioconversion of Actaplanin Factor A using Culture CUC 014 or CSV 558A. Shake Flask Fermentation of Cultures CUC 014 andCSV 558 A lyophilized pellet of Actinoplanes missouriensis strain CUC 014 NRRL 15647 or strain CSV 558 NRRL 15646 is dissolved in 1 2 ml of sterilized water.This suspension is used to inoculate an agar slant having the following composition Ingredient Amount Precooked Oatmeal 6.0Yeast 0.25 K2HPO4 a 0.1 Czapek Mineral Stocka Agarb 2.5 Deionized H20 q.s. to 100 Unadjusted pH 6.2 adjust to pH 7.3 with 5N NaOH after sterilization pH 6.7. aCzapek Mineral Stock Ingredient Amount KC1 10.0 MgSO47H2O 10.0 FeSO4 7H2O 0.2 dissolved in 2 ml of Conc. HC1 Deionized water q.s. to 100 bDifco Laboratories The inoculated slant is incubated at 300C.for about eight to ten days. The mature slant culture is scraped with the serrated edge of a sterile loop to mascerate and loosen the mycelial mat. About one fourth of the loosened mat is used to inoculate 50 ml of a vegetative medium having the following composition Ingredient Amount Glucose 2.0 Tryptonea 0.5Yeast Extract 0.5Tap H2 q.s. to 100 Before sterilization, pH 6.5 adjust to pH 7.2 with 5 NNaOH after sterilization, pH 6.9 aBacto Tryptone, Difco The inoculated vegetative medium is incubated in a 250 ml Erlenmeyer flask at 300C. for about 72 hours on a rotary shaker with a two inch throw at 250 RPM. Vegetative cultures can be initiated with agar slant cultures, with lyophilized pellets of the culture one lyophile per 50 ml of media in a 250 ml flask and with cultures preserved in liquid nitrogen 0.8 inoculum . Incubated vegetative medium 5 , volume volume is used to inoculate 50 ml of a production medium having the following composition Ingredient Amount Glucose 2.5Corn Starch 3.5Blackstrap Molasses 1.5Glycerol 1.5Yeast 2.0 K2HPO4 0.05 NH4 2SO4 0.025CaCO3 0.2Tap H2O q.s. to 100 Before sterilization pH 6.5 adjust to 6.8 after sterilization pH 6.5. The inoculated production medium is incubated in a 250 ml Erlenmeyer flask at 300C. for 72 hours on a 2 inch rotary shaker at 250 RPM.B. The Bioconversion Actaplanin factor A 100 mg was dissolved in water, sterilized by filtration, and added final conc.of 0.3 mg ml to a five day old, one liter fermentation of the convertor culture A. missouriensis CSV 558 NRRL 15646 . The fermentation was incubated an additional 48 hrs. The pH of the whole broth was adjusted to 10.5 with NaOH the broth was centrifuged, and the centrate was neutralized with HCl. C. Isolation of CUC CSV A bioconversion was carried out using the procedure of Sect. B. The broth was removed by filtration, and the mycelia were extracted with water at pH 10.5.This extract 550 ml was purified over a column packed with 100 ml of HP 20, washed with water, then eluted with a gradient of MeOH H2O to MeOH. Fractions were combined to give a lyophilized crude product 190 mg .A portion of this product 100 mg , dissolved in 5 ml ofCH3CN pyrOAc 36 64 at pH 3.6, was applied to a 300 ml glass column packed with Lichroprep RP 8 resin 25 40 pom . The column was eluted with CH3CN 0.05 pyrOAc 1 4 at pH 3.6 at a flow rate of 8 ml min. Product was detected by UV absorbance at 280 nm, by B. subtilis bioassay and by analytical HPLC. Fractions containing the desired activity were combined, adjusted to pH 6.5 with N NaOH then concentrated to remove CH3CN. The resulting aqueous solution 50 ml was applied to a 40 ml column filled with 12 ml of LPl C18 resin see U.S. Patent 4,293,482, Example 7 in water. The column was washed with water 100 ml to remove the salt, and the active material was eluted with CH3CN H2O 7 3 . The eluate was concentrated and lyophilized to give 10 mg of purified antibiotic CUC CSV.D. Assay for Antibiotic CUC CSV Whole broth adjusted to pH 10.5 is centrifuged. The supernatant is readjusted to pH 7.0.Samples thus prepared are assayed by a Bacillus subtilis plate assay and by thin layer chromatography using silica gel plates Merck, pre coated plastic sheets silica gel 60, without fluorescent indicator and an acetone water ammonia 160 40 1 solvent system. Detection was by bioautography using B. subtilis in a minimal growth medium and incubating plates at 37 C.for about 18 hours. CUC CSV has the following characteristics Elemental Analysis Call. a Found C 90 49.46 49.28 t H 98 5.63 4.35 N 7 4.49 4.55 0 41 38.80 39.82 by difference Cl l 1.62 2.00 a For C90H98N7O41C1 12H20 Ultraviolet Absorption in methanol Amax 278 nm, acid s17,000 Amax 277 nm, 361 nm, neutral E18,500, 9,000 Amax 295 nm, 340 nm, base 21,000, 14,500 Calculated on a molecular weight of 1200. The compound shows end absorption at 230 nm.Solubility soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethylformamide, acetonitrile water, and alcohol water mixtures. Mass Spectrometry Fast Atom Bombardment FAB MS indicates a molecular weight of 1968. Example 2 Preparation of CUC CSV by Bioconversion of Actaplanin Factor A with Culture CUC 014 Following the procedure of Example 1, but using culture CUC 014 NRRL 15647 instead of cultureCSV 558, actaplanin factor A is converted to antibioticCUC CSV. Example 3 Analytical HPLC System For Antibiotic CUC CSV Column 4.6 x 250 mm stainless steel Packing Shandon ODS Hypersil 5 micron Solvent CH3CN 0.05M KHzPO4 adjusted to pH 3.2 with H3PO4 21 79 Flow Rate 1.0 ml min. Detection W at 220 nm Chart speed 20 cm hr. Retention time 9.3 minutes Example 4 Preparation of A4696 B2 Conversion Product Compound 2c Using the procedure of Example 1, Actaplanin A4696 factor B2 200 mg was added to a growing cul ture of the A. missouriensis CSV 558 convertor culture.Bioconversion was followed by TLC. When bioconversion was complete, the broth was separated by filtration.The separated mycelia were extracted with water at pH 10.5 adjusted with NaOH . This extract was purified over a column packed with HP 20 resin 185 ml as described in Example 1 to give 313 mg of a lyophilized product. A portion of this product 160 mg was applied to a glass column packed with 170 ml of Fractogel TSKHW 40S resin 32 63 micron, E. Merck, Darmstadt,Germany and run at a flow rate of 3 ml min, using 3.3 L. of water, then 700 ml of MeOH H2O 1 1 . The product was in the MeOH H2O fractions these were concentrated and lyophilized and then combined with a similarly prepared product. The combined product was re chromatographed on the same resin, using the following stepwise MeOH H20 gradient 150 ml of 1 3 350 ml of 2 3 550 ml of 3 2 and 470 ml of 4 1 .Fractions were monitored by analytical HPLC, and fractions containing the desired product were combined, concentrated and lyophilized to give 20.3 mg ofA4696 B2 bioconversion product. Example 5 Preparation of A4696 C1a Conversion Product Compound le Using a procedure like that of Example 1, actaplanin factor Cla 240 mg was added to a growing culture of the A. missouriensis CSV 558 convertor culture. After bioconversion was complete, the broth was filtered, and the separated mycelia were extracted withH20 at pH 10.5 adjusted with NaOH . This extract, 650 ml was purified over a column packed with 100 ml of HP 20 resin as described in Example 1 to give 187 mg of lyophilized product. This product 185 mg was dissolved in 8 ml of MeOH H2O 7 3 , filtered. and applied to a 170 ml glass column packed with Fractogel TSK HW 40S resin. The column was run in MeOH H2O 2 3 at a flow rate of 2 ml min. Fractions were monitored by padding on B.subtilis and by analytical HPLC. Fractions containing the desired product were combined and applied to a 3b0 ml column packed with Lichroprep RP 8 resin 25 40 micron and run in CH3CN 0.05 aqueous pyrOAc 1 4 adjusted to pH 3.5. Fractions were monitored by analytical HPLC and fractions containing the product were combined, adjusted to pH 6.5 and concentrated.This aqueous solution was applied to a column packed with 60 ml of HP 20 resin, and the column was washed with H2O to remove salt. The active material was eluted with CH3CN H2O 4 1 , and the eluate was concentrated and lyophilized to give 5.9 mg of A4696 Cla conversion product.