# Medium for cloning and long term serial cultivation of human endothelial cells.

## Abstract
Vigorous growth of endothelial cells from human blood vessels in vitro is achieved using a culture medium containing a cell culture medium, animal or human serum, endothelial cell growth factor and heparin and or dextran sulfate. Cell population doubling times of 13 to 21 hours for 60 to 85 population doublings are obtained, and cloned human endothelial cell strains are established having similar proliferative capacities.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A culture medium for enhancing proliferation and increasing the lifespan of human endothelial cell cultures, comprising a cell culture medium and endothelial cell growth factor ECGF , characterised in that it also comprises heparin, dextran sulfate or a mixture thereof. 2. A culture medium according to claim 1, character ised in that it comprises from about 5 to about 30 animal or human serum and from about 70 to about 95 of a cell culture medium, said percentages being by volume based on the total volume of the culture medium. 3. A culture medium according to claim 2, character ised in that it contains from about 10 to about 200 g ml of ECGF and from about 9 to about 900 g ml of heparin. 4. A culture medium according to claim 3, character ised in that it comprises about 20 by volume fetal bovine serum and contains about 20 g g ml of ECGF and about 90 g ml heparin. 5. A culture medium according to claim 2, character ised in that it contains from about 10 to about 200 g ml of ECGF and from about 5 to about 500 gg ml of dextran sulfate. 6. A culture medium according to claim 5, character ised in that it comprises about 20 by volume fetal bovine serum and contains about 100 agIml of dextran sulfate.

## Description
MEDIUM FOR CLONING AND LONG TERM SERIAL CULTIVATION OF HUMAN ENDOTHELIAL CELLS This invention relates to in vitro cultivation of human endothelial cells, and more particularly to a novel culture medium for such cultivation, by means of which the proliferative lifespan of such cells can be greatly increased.Background of the Invention The endothelium forms the luminal surface of the vascular system, and is an integral component in such physiologic functions as wound healing, hemostasis, selective transfer of substances to and from the circulation, and synthesis of numerous metabolically active compounds. Correspondingly, endothelial involvement is prominent in pathologic conditions including atherosclerosis, diabetes, thrombosis, hemorrhagic disorders, tumor metastasis, hypersensitivity, and inflamination Levine et alBiochemical Interactions at the Endothelium, Elsevier,Amsterdam 1983 pp. 313 342 . The need for a greater understanding of endothelial function has prompted methodological improvements for culturing this cell in vitro. Bovine endothelial cells have been studied widely due to the ease with which they can be serially subcultivated Levine et al, supra Rosen et al J.CellPhysiol. 107, 123 1981 Mueller et al, Science 207, 889 1980 . Human endothelial cells, however, have more fastidious growth requirements and, despite a suggestion that fibroblast growth factor and thrombin stimulate their growth, Gospodarowicz et al, J. CellBiol. 77, 774 1978 , little progress has been made in the long term serial subcultivation of these cells Maciag et al , J. Cell Biol. 91, 420 1981 Glassberg et al, In Vitro 18, 859 1982 Johnson, J. Clin.Invest 64, 841 1980 Gimbrone, Jr., et al, J. CellBiol 60, 673 1974 Jaffe et al, J. Clin. Invest. 52, 2745 1973 Haudenschild et al, J. Ultrastruct. Res.50, 22 1975 Gordon et al, J. Cell Biol. 91, 205A 1981 . A significant advance in this field was the use of endothelial cell growth factor ECGF and fibronectin to enhance the replicative capacity of human umbilical vein endothelial HUVE cells Maciag et al., supra . These factors allowed HUVE cells to be subcultivated however, multiplication was slow 2 3 day doubling time and short lifespan 27 34 population doublings PDs . Human endothelial cells isolated from adult iliac artery and grown under the same conditions exhibited an even shorter lifespan 15 18 PDs Glassberg et al, supra . In no case have cloned strains of human endothelial cells been reported.Brief Summary of the Invention This invention is predicated on the discovery that heparin and or a dextran sulfate greatly potentiate the stimulatory effect of endothelial cell growth factor on the proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells and of endothelial cells from adult human blood vessels. It was discovered that by growing cells on a gelatin matrix in a culture medium supplemented by both endothelial cell growth factor and heparin and or a dextran sulfate, it was possible to subcultivate and clone human endothelial cells from various blood vessels on the order of from about 60 to 85 population doublings PDs with doubling times of 13 to 21 hours.Brief Description of the Figures Fig. 1 comprises graphs in which endothelial cell number per cm2 is plotted against concentration of endothelial cell growth factor in a culture medium containing 90vWg ml of heparin open circles and another containing no heparin solid dots . The graphs of the insert in Fig. 1 are based on the same data as the larger graphs, but replotted on an expanded scale for ECGF concentrations between 0 and 25AGg ml. Fig. 2 comprises three curves of growth cell number cm2 versus time for three different human umbilical vein endothelial cell lines indicated by open squares, solid squares and open circles, respectively, and Fig. 3 is a plot of cell density at subculture versus cumulative population doubling level for three separate HUVE cell lines indicated by solid squares, triangles and dots, respectively, subcultured weekly.Detailed Description of the Invention As noted above, HUVE cells have been subcultured in culture medium containing endothelial cell growth factor Maciag et al, supra , but multiplication was slow 2 3 days doubling time and short lifespan 27 34 population doublings . Even a shorter life span 15 18 PDs was observed for human endothelial cells from adult iliac artery. It was discovered, however, that if heparin and or a dextran sulfate are included in the culture medium, doubling times were substantially reduced to 13 to 21 hours, and 60 to 85 population doublings are obtained before senescence. The endothelial cell culture medium according to this invention comprises a cell culture medium, such as any of the well known media for culturing cells, animal or human serum, such as fetal bovine serum, endothelial cell growth factor and heparin and or dextran sulfate.Of the various cell growth media, Medium 199 GibcoLaboratories is particularly preferred. The composition of such medium is well known see e.g. Morgan et al, Proc.Soc. Biol. Med, 73, 1 1950 . In addition to the cell culture medium, such as Medium 199, the endothelial cell culture medium of the invention contains endothetial cell growth factor, which is available from Collaborative Research, Inc.ECGF may be prepared as described by Maciag et al, supra.The mode of preparation therein described involves preparing hypothalamic extracts by homogenization of bovine hypothalamus followed by stirring of the homogenate for a period of hours at 40C, centrifugation and recovery of the supernatant. The resulting extract is then further fractionated with streptomycin sulfate Gibco to remove soluble lipid. The supernatant is extracted with 0.5 streptomycin sulfate at pH 7.0 for at least 1 hour, after which the extract is centrifuged at 13,800 x g for 40 minutes and the supernatant is recovered and can be stored as a lyophilized powder at 40C. The resulting ECGF is an acid and heat labile protein, physically and chemically distinct from ribroblast growth factor Gospodarowicz et al, J. Biol.Chem. 253, 3736 3743 1978 , possessing a molecular weight of 75,000 Maciag et al, Prac. Natl. Acad. Sci.U.S.A., 76, 5674 5678 1979 . Heparin has a molecular weight of 6000 25,000 and is a glycosaminoglucuronan acid mucopolysaccharide that occurs in most tissues human liver, lung and mast cells are especially rich sources. Chemically it is not homogeneous, but is a family of linear polymers which differ in chain length and M.W., but have similar disaccharide units. The disaccharide units are composed of D glucuronic or L iduronic acids in 1,4 glycosidic linkage to glucosamine each unit contains two sulfate esters and one N sulfate group. Heparin is obtained commercially from a variety of animal tissues, particularly bovine lung tissue and intestinal mucosa of pigs see Kirk Othmer,Encycl. Chem. Tech. 3d 4, pp 14 15 1978 . Dextran sulfate is usually available as the sodium salt, and chemically is known as dextran sulfric acid ester sodium salt. It is prepared by boiling dextran with sulfuric acid to reduce the molecular weight and esterifying the degraded dextran with chlorosulfonic acid in pyridine. The molecular weight may vary from about 5000 to about 600,000, and the dextran may contain up to about 25 , by weight, of sulfur. It is a white powder, soluble in water and has an activity of about 17 international heparin units mg see e.g. The Merck Index 9d 1976 page 2911 . The preferred dextran sulfates for use in the endothelial cell culture media of the present invention are one having a molecular weight of about 8000, and another having a molecular weight of about 500,000. The endothelial cell culture medium of this invention will usually comprise in addition to a standard cell culture medium, such as Medium 199, from about 5 to about 30 , preferably about 20 , by volume of fetal bovine serum or other animal or human serum, said percen tages being based on the total volume of the endothelial cell culture medium. In addition, such novel culture medium will usually contain from about 10 to about 200 g ml of endothelial cell growth factor and from about 9 to about 900yLg ml of heparin, or about 5 to about 500 eg ml of dextran sulfate of MW about 8000, or about 50 to about 500 Lg ml of a dextran sulfate having a MW of about 500,000. Mixtures of heparin and dextran sulfate may also be used.Preferably, the novel endothelial cell culture medium contains on the order of about 20 Ug ml of ECGF and about 9Ojtg of heparin or lOOfig of dextran sulfate per ml. In carrying out the cultivation of human endo thelial cells using the culture medium of this invention, the endothelial cells are isolated and seeded into gelatin coated flasks containing the above described endothelial cell cultrue medium. At confluence, the cells are trypsinized and reseeded at desired cell densities. Clones are derived from secondary cultures and seeded at about 10 cells cm2. The clones are then serially propagated in the said endothelial cell culture medium. The below described specific examples, figures and tables further serve to illustrate the invention. In the case where the endothelial cells are to be obtained from human vascular tissue, they preferably are obtained from brain dead but heart beating cadaver organ, e.g. kidney donors. Under sterile conditions the abdomen of the heart beating cadaver donor is entered and the aorta, inferior vena cava IVC , kidneys and ureters are dissected out en bloc. At completion of the dissection, but prior to separation of the organs from the circulatory system and removal, the donor is given from at least about 10,000 to 20,000 units, preferably about 15,000 units intravenous aqueous heparin and from at least about 5 to about 15 mg, preferably about 10 mg phenoxybenzamine. The vessels are transected and the kidneys rapidly cooled with iced saline for preservation for future transplant.All tissue is then dissected from the renal vessels, leaving renal artery and vein and a small patch of aorta and inferior vena cava. The remaining tissue of the aorta,IVC and iliac vessels, previously discarded in the course of donor nephrectomy, is placed in labelled specimen containers on ice containing the endothelial cell culture medium of this invention, previously described.The amount of each vessel which can routinely be retrieved at this stage is as follows Vessel Diameter cm Length cm Aorta 1.5 2.5 4 6 IVC 2 3 6 8Left iliac artery 0.8 1.5 4 6Right iliac artery 0.8 1.5 4 6Left iliac vein 1 2 4 6Right iliac vein 1 2 4 6 The time elapsed from heparinization until the specimens are placed in containers usually does not exceed about 30 minutes, and tissue perfusion usually continues for most or all of that time. The vascular specimens thus obtained are stored in a cold room. Inasmuch as the surgery is usually performed at night, the specimens are available for use the morning following surgery. Endothelial cells were isolated from a variety of human blood vessels using collagenase Rosen, et al, supra , and seeded into gelatin 1 coated flasks containing Medium 199 Gibco Laboratories with 20 fetal bovine serum, 20yg ml ECGF, and 90Lzg ml heparin.At confluence, cultures were tryspinized 0.25 trypsin 0.09 EDTA and reseeded at desired cell densities. In addition to the umbilical vein, the donor vessels include the superior mesenteric, iliac, carotid, pulmonary, femoral, and splenic arteries, the thoracic and abdominal aortas, and the iliac and portal veins.Clones were derived from secondary cultures by seeding at 10 cells cm2 and isolating single cells with glass cloning rings approximately half the isolated cells grew and were serially propagated in the above described medium containing ECGF and heparin. Eleven cloned HUVE cell strains and four abdominal aorta endothelial cell strains were established. All cultures were characterized as endothelial according to morphological and functional criteria expression of FactorVIII related antigen Rosen, et al, supra and production of angiotensin converting enzyme Levine et al, supra Ryan et al Biochem J., 167, 501 1977 . Enhanced proliferation and increased lifespan of the human endothelial cell cultures resulted from the inclusion of heparin to the culture medium. Referring to Fig. 1, there is shown the effect of heparin on HUVE cell growth as a function of ECGF concentration. In the presence of heparin significant growth was observed with as little as 1 g ml ECGF with maximal growth at 25sus g ml ECGF in the absence of heparin, 100 200ssg ECGF were required for significant growth. Cultures supplemented with heparin grew to consistently higher densities than those without heparin. Heparin at concentrations as high as 900 tg ml did not support replication in the absence of ECGF, demonstrating that both factors were required for optimum growth. Fig. 2 shows growth curves for three lines ofHUVE cells cultured with 90odg ml herparin and 20yg ml ECGF these cultures achieved cell densities at confluence of 105 cells cm2 with doubling times of 17 21 hours. In contrast, cells cultured with 100g ml ECGF without heparin were reported to grow to maximum densities of 4 x 104 cells cm2 with a doubling time of 64 hours Maciag et al, supra . Fig. 3 shows cell densities at confluence throughout the lifespan of HUVE cells. Proliferative lifespan was determined by measuring harvest cell density at each subculture until proliferation ceased Rosen et al, supra . The PDs undergone at each subculture were calculated using the formula PDs log2 number of cells harvested number of cells seeded x attachment efficency , and summed to give the cumulative population doubling level CPDL . In all three lines harvest cell densities decreased with increasing CPDL as greater numbers of large nondividing cells appeared. Cultures were considered senescent when less than one PD occurred within three weeks after suboulture. By this definition, the lifespan of 12 unoloned lines and 11 clone strains of HUVE cells ranged from 42 to 85 with a median of 65 CPDLs.Endothelial cells from adult human vascular tissue exhibited shorter doubling times, and maintained higher harvest cell densities for a greater percentage of their lifespan than HUVE cells. As can be seen by reference to Table 1, lifespan of the cells, in terms of population doublings range from 45 to 66. TABLE 1 Summary of Adult Human Endothelial Cell Lines LifespanCulture Cell Type Age of Sex of Cause of populationDesignation of Origin Donor Donor Death doublings HAAE l Abdominal 20 M Head trauma 64 aorta Clones HAAE 1B 45 HAAE 1E 62 HAAE 1C 78 HAAE 1F 67 HME 2 Abdominal 51 M Brain abcess 61 aortaHIVE 2 Iliac vein 51 M Brain abcess 56HFAE 2 Femoral 51 M Brain abcess 66 arteryHPAE 2 Pulmonary 51 M Brain abcess arteryHPtVE 2 Portal vein 51 M Brain abcess N.D.HMAE 2 Superior mesentric artery 51 M Brain abcess N.D.HIAE 3 Iliac artery 32 M Head trauma Summary of Adult Human Smooth Muscle Cell LinesHTAS 2 Thoracic aorta 51 M Barin abcess N.D. HCAS 2 Carotid artery 51 M Brain abcess N.D.HAAS 1 Abdominal aorta 20 M Head tramua Not determined, frozen at early passage To confirm that heparin is responsible for stimulating proliferation, the effect of the heparin antagonist, protamine, was examined, and the results obtained are set forth in Table 2, below. TABLE 2 Effect of Protamine on Human Endothelial Cell GrowthEMI12.1 tb Additions SEP to SEP Culture SEP Mediuma SEP Harvest SEP Cell tb SEP g ml SEP Densityb tb SEP SEP SEP x SEP 104 SEP cella cm2 tb ECFG SEP Heparin SEP Protamin SEP tb 20 SEP SEP SEP 1.4 SEP SEP 0.1 SEP tb 20 SEP 90c SEP SEP SEP 5.8 SEP SEP 0.3 tb 20 SEP 90 SEP 230 SEP 1.1 SEP SEP 0.3 tb 20 SEP 900 SEP 230 SEP 6.2 SEP SEP 0.2 tb 200 SEP SEP SEP SEP 5.4 SEP SEP 0.4 SEP tb 200 SEP SEP SEP 1200 SEP 0.7 SEP SEP 0.01 tb 200 SEP 990 SEP 1200 SEP 9.7 SEP SEP 0.01 tb aECGF prepared as described previously Maciag et al, supra heparin sodium salt, Grade 1, from porcine intestine mucosa 168 U mg Sigma protamine sulfate sodium salt, Grade X, from salmon sperm Sigma l50g protamine neutralized 100 g heparin .bCell counts standard deviation, n 3 3 seven days after seeding at 5 x 103 cells cm2.cHeparin from bovine lung sodium salt, U.S.P. Upjohn . As shown in Table 2, stimulation of cell growth by heparin was completely blocked by a neutralizing dose of protamine. Growth promoting activity was reestablished by addition of a tenfold excess of heparin. At high ECGF concentrations 200N g ml significant growth stimulation was observation in the absence of added heparin. The stimulatory activity of 200yg ml ECGF was completely blocked by addition of a high dose of protamine 1200o1g ml stimulation of cell proliferation was restored by addition of excess heparin 99Ostg ml . In addition to heparin, the glycosaminoglycans, chondroiton surface, hyaluronic acid and keratin sulfate, were tested for gr6wth promoting capabilities and had no effect on endothelial cell growth.The sulphated polyasccharide, dextran sulphate, significantly stimulated proliferation, although dextran itself was inactive. The mechanism by which heparin stimulates human endothelial cell proliferation is unknown. Azizkhan et al, J. Exp. Med. 152, 931 1980 showed that heparin and dextran sulfate increased bovine capillary endothelial cell migration, but had no effect on proliferation. Other reports on the effects of heparin on various cell types have yielded conflicting results Costachel et al, Exp. Cell Res. 34, 542 1964 Young et al, Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med 159, 88 1978 Castellot, Jr. et al, J. Cell Biol. 90, 372 1981 Lippman, Epithelial Mesenchymal Interactions, 18th Hahnemann Symposium Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore 1968 pp. 208 229 . Several investigations have shown that heparin may bind reversibly or irreversibly to the cell surface Lippman, supra Kjelltn et al, Biochem.Biophys. Res Comm 74, 126 1977 Glimelius et al,Thromb. Res. 12, 773 1978 and, thus, may influence intercellular communication Roblin et al, Biochemistry 14, 347 1975 Ohnishi, et al, Exp. Cell Res. 93, 136 1975 and membrane receptor accessibility Kraemer et al, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 56 423 1974 . Morphologic changes Abro et al, Experimentia 31 1453 1975 and modifications of cellular behavior Azizkhan et al, supra Regelson, Advances in Chemotherapy,Academic Press, New York 1968 Vol. 3, pp 303 370 consistent with cell membrane heparin interactions have been reported. In vivo, the extracellular matrix of vascular tissue contains high concentrations of glycosaminoglycans Gardais et al, Comp. Biochem.Physiol. 94B 507 1973 . In vitro, heparin like molecules are secreted by endothelial cells Buonassisi,Exp. Cell Res. 76, 363 1973 such, et al, Haemostasis 8, 142 1979 Gamse et al, Biochem Biophys. Acta 544, 514 1978 and have been shown to inhibit smooth muscle cell growth Castellot et al, supra . The discovery that heparfn stimulates endothelial cell proliferation suggests that heparin like substances may play an important role in cell growth regulation in normal and injured vessels. In the past, many basic and applied studies had to be performed on endothelial cells from other animal species because existing culture techniques permitted only restricted proliferation of human endothelial cells. It is believed that the use of the culture medium of this invention for serial subcultivation can increase the yield of HUVE cells by 108 fold and of adult vessel endothelial cells by 1013 fold over previously published methods. This will permit minimal amounts of human vascular tissue to be used for the generation of large numbers of cultured endothelial cells, and thus, problems of human pathology involving the endothelium now can be approached directly employing a human endothelial cell model. In addition, this cell system should prove valuable for various clinical applications, suchas in vitro testing of vasoactive agents and the coating of artificial graft materials.