# HIGH TEMPERATURE ZEOLITE L PREPARATION

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung von Zeolith L, bei dem eine Wasser, eine Siliciumquelle und eine Aluminiumquelle umfassende, alkalische Reaktionsmischung mit einer die folgenden Molverhältnisse ausgedrückt als Oxide aufweisenden Zusammensetzung

## Description
This invention relates to the preparation of zeolite L and in particular it relates to the preparation of zeolite L with cylindrical morphology. Zeolite L has been known for some time as an adsorbant, and in US 3 216 789 is described as an aluminosilicate of the formula The preparation of zeolite L described in US 3 216 789 comprises crystallizing the zeolite from a reaction mixture comprising mole ratios British Patent 1 202 511 describes a revised zeolite L preparation using lower proportions of silica in the reaction mixture which comprises mole ratio of reactants as US 3 867 512 discloses a preparation of zeolite L from a reaction mixture having a molar composition L Wilkosz in Pr Chem 409 1974 Chemical Abstracts, vol 90 1979 57347f describes the preparation of zeolite L from a synthesis sol prepared by treating a solution containing silica, potassium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide with a second solution containing potassium aluminate, potassium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide and crystallizing for 72 hours at 20 C and 122 hours at 100 C. The zeolite L product has a G V Tsitsishvilli Crystallization temperatures of 90 C and 98 C were employed. Y Nishiimura in Nippon Kagaku Zasshi US 3 298 780 describes the preparation of zeolite UJ by a process in which an aqueous reactant solution having a composition, expressed as mole ratios of oxides, corresponding to GB 1 393 365 describes zeolite AG1 as being related to zeolite L and prepared by reacting at least one aluminium component, at least one silicon component and at least one alkali metal component, in an aqueous medium, the sole or major silicon component being a water glass having a molar ratio It was subsequently found that zeolite L may be used as a catalyst base in aromatization reactions. US 4 104 320 discloses dehydrocyclization of aliphatic compounds in the presence of hydrogen using a catalyst comprising zeolite L and a group VIII metal. European Patent Application Publication 40119 discloses a dehydrocyclization process operating at low pressure 1 to 7 bars or low H₂ hydrocarbon ratio using a catalyst comprising platinum on a potassium zeolite L. BE 888365 describes dehydrocyclization using a catalyst comprising platinum, rhenium incorporated in the form of its carbonyl and sulphur to give an atomic ratio of sulphur to platinum of 0.05 to 0.6 on a zeolitic crystalline aluminosilicate base such as zeolite L. BE 792608 discloses the treatment of zeolite L for use as catalyst in isomerization by exchange with ammonium and chromium ions. In our copending European Patent Application Publication No. 96479 there is described and claimed a new form of zeolite material similar to conventionally prepared zeolite L, but having a characteristic morphology and size, which is particularly valuable for use as a catalyst base in hydrocarbon conversions such as aromatization. This zeolite has an X ray diffraction XRD pattern obtained with CuK radiation having the following significant d Å values The positions and relative intensites of the X ray lines are found to vary only slightly for various alkali and alkaline earth metal cation forms of the materials. However, the intensity of the line at References herein to zeolite W refer to the material described as such by D W Breck in Zeolite Molecular Sieves , Wiley Interscience, 1974, also described as Zeolite KM in Zeolite Technology and Application, Recent Advances , J Scott, Noyes Data Corpn., USA, 1980, p36. The particular X ray technique and or apparatus employed, the humidity, the temperature, the orientation of the crystals in the sample and other variables, all of which are well known and understood to those skilled in the art of X ray crystallography or diffraction, may also cause some variations in the positions and intensities of the X ray lines. Thus, the X ray data given herein to identify the zeolites prepared in the invention are not to exclude those materials which, due to some variable mentioned above or otherwise known to those skilled in the art fail to show all of the tabulated X ray lines, or show a few extra ones that are permissible to the crystal system of the zeolite, or show a shift in position or slight change in intensity of some of the X ray lines. The copending European Patent Application 96479 describes the preparation of the new zeolite material as cylindrical crystallites with an aspect ratio of at least 0.5, in which an alkaline reaction mixture comprising water, a source of silicon and a source of aluminium with a composition falling within the following molar ratios expressed as oxides It has now been found that zeolite L may be obtained from crystallization gels with relatively low water contents by employing higher crystallization temperatures and shorter crystallization times, and that such high temperature process give improved yields of zeolite L. Further the zeolite L thus produced has demonstrated excellent activity as a catalyst base in aromatization. Thus in one aspect this invention provides a process for the preparation of zeolite L in which an alkaline reaction mixture comprising water, a source of silicon and a source of aluminium with a composition having the following molar ratio expressed as oxides It has been found that good yields of zeolite L may be obtained by the processes of the invention, and that products may be prepared similar to those shown in our copending European Application Publication No 96479 to provide an excellent catalyst base for hydrocarbon conversions and particularly aromatization reactions. Surprisingly, the products of the present invention have shown the capability of providing catalysts with longer lifetime than the products of our copending Application. It is a further surprising feature of the present invention that Zeolite L may be formed with relatively dry gels at high temperatures. The ratio of The dry yields i.e. the yield obtained after fully drying the product for example, by heating to 150 C for 16 hours obtained by the process of the invention are typically greater than 16 wt based on the weight of the reaction mixture , and better yields appear to be obtained with lower water contents. Yields of greater than 18 , or even greater than 20 may be obtained, and as shown in the Examples yields of greater than 24 have been achieved. Typical yields for the process of European Application Publication No 96479 are less than 16 . There are four principal components to the reaction mixture or synthesis gel and thus generally The four graphs together may be considered as the four faces of a three dimensional graph in the form of a regular tetrahedron, and the points and areas marked thereon represent the projection on those faces of points and volumes within the three dimensional graph. Thus, while a point may lie within the area designated as constituting the invention in one graph, unless it lies within the area of the invention on all four graphs it does not lie within the volume defined within the three dimensional graph as being a preferred reaction mixture of the invention. Figure 1 is a triangular graph of the content of the reaction mixture in weight percentage of oxides excluding alumina showing the relative proportions of water, silicon and potassium. Preferred reaction mixtures of the invention lie within the area marked I Figure 2 is a triangular graph of the content of the reaction mixture in weight percent of oxides excluding water showing the relative properties of aluminium, silicon and potassium. Preferred reaction mixtures of the invention lie within the area marked II Figure 3 is a triangular graph of the content of the reaction mixture in weight percent of oxides excluding silica showing the relative properties of aluminium, water and potassium. Preferred reaction mixtures of the invention lie within the area marked III Figure 4 is a triangular graph of the content of the reaction mixture in weight percent of oxides excluding potassium oxide showing the relative properties of aluminium, silicon and water. Preferred reaction mixtures of the invention lie within the area marked IV In one preferred embodiment of the invention the reaction mixture comprises the following range of molar ratios In a particularly preferred embodiment an optimum composition for a process in which the reaction mixture is heated to from 200 C to 250 C to give highly crystalline Zeolite L has been found to be substantially in the following range of mole ratios In addition to varying the proportions of the reactants in the reaction mixture it is possible to vary the reaction conditions and in particular the crystallization time and temperature. Within the reactant ratios defined for the process of the invention a lower silicon content and or lower water content to be lowered and or higher potassium content and thus the alkalinity will generally produce better yields of zeolite L at higher crystallization temperatures 225 C or higher. Thus, the desired zeolite L may be obtained with a gel containing only 70 moles of water by crystallizing at 225 C. By contrast it will generally be possible to operate at 200 C to 225 C when higher water contents within the specified range are employed. The crystallization time is critical in the present invention. The high temperatures employed are found to result in rapid formation of zeolite L, which has the advantage of reducing the normally lengthy crystallization time. There is, however, a tendency for other crystalline materials to be formed if the formed zeolite L is held at the crystallization temperature for too long. In particular there is a tendency to form crystalline materials which gives rise to lines in the XRD pattern CuK at Thus the crystallization is discontinued after the previously defined time limits before there is substantial formation of such additional crystalline materials. Thus times of less than 24 hours, and generally of 5 to 15 hours will be appropriate. The zeolites, formed in the process of the invention are preferably aluminosilicates and are described herein in terms of aluminosilicates, though other elemental substitutions are possible, for example aluminium may be substituted by gallium, boron, iron and similar di or trivalent elements capable of existing in tetrahedral coordnation, and silicon may be substituted by elements such as germanium or phosphorus. The aluminosilicates preferably have a composition expressed in terms of molar ratios of the constituent oxides in anhydrous form of The exchangeable cation M in general formula I is very preferably potassium, but it is possible for a part of M to be replaced by other cations such as alkali and alkaline earth metals for example sodium, rubidium or caesium. The ratio In general formula I the symbol x the mole ratio The aluminosilicate forms of the invention may be hydrated, typically with up to 9 moles of water per mole of Scanning electron micrographs SEM of the materials of the invention show these to have a distinct crystal morphology. The preferred products of the process of the invention appear as to be generally in the form of cylinders in scanning electron micrographs. The terms cylinder and cylindrical are used herein to describe particles having substantially the shape of a cylinder as defined in solid geometry that is, a solid bounded by a surface generated by a line moving parallel to a fixed line so as to cut a fixed plane curve and by two parallel planes bases which cut the surface. The use of these terms is not intended to exclude particles having minor surface irregularities or displaying typical crystallographic faults or dislocations. In particular, the products of the invention may show roughness on the basal planes of the cylinders, or corrugations on the lateral planes. X ray diffraction shows the products to have a high degree of crystallinity inherent to the distinctive morphology and which is believed to result from larger domains within the crystallites. The cylindrical particles of the invention are preferably substantially in the form of circular cylinders circular cross section and most preferably substantially in the form of right circular cylinders wherein the bases are normal to the cylinder axis . Particularly preferred cylindrical particles are those having an aspect ratio the length of the cylinder surface to the diameter of the cylinder of at least 0.5, and more preferably at least 0.8. Particles prepared according to the invention have been shown to have excellent properties of extending catalyst life when used as catalyst bases for aromatization catalysts. This is in contrast to other morphologies, and in particular particles with cylindrical morphology have been shown better than particles with a clam like shape. The term clam is used to describe particles having two generally convex faces joined to give the appearance of a clam shell. The products of the process of the invention are preferably characterized by at least 50 , more preferably 70 and most preferably 85 , of the crystallites being cylinders. The aspect ratio of the cylindrical crystallites is preferably from 0.8 to 1.5. A further particularly surprising feature of the invention is that large crystallites wherein the mean diameter of the cylinders is at least 0.1 micron may be prepared. The cylindrical particles preferably have a mean diameter of at least 0.5 micron, more preferably of at least 0.75 micron and most preferably at least 0.9 micron. The crystallites will generally be in the range of 0.8 to 4 micron, and within that range sizes of at least 1.0 micron and or not more than 3.0 micron are preferred. In the synthesis of the invention, the source of silicon for the reaction mixture is generally silica, and this is usually most conveniently in the form of a colloidal suspension of silica such as Ludox HS 40 available from E.I. Dupont de Nemours and Co. Ludox is a registered Trade Mark Colloidal silicon sols are preferred since they result in less contaminating phases. However other forms such as silicates may be used. The source of aluminium may be an alumina introduced into the reaction medium as, for example, The process of the invention preferably uses a reaction mixture containing potassium. This potassium is preferably introduced as potassium hydroxide. The reaction mixture may contain small quantities of other metal cations and salt forming anions as already described, but it has been found that there is an increasing tendency for other aluminosilicates to be found as the content of other ions is increased, resulting in less pure forms of the aluminosilicate of the invention. For example, sodium and rubidium ions favour erionite formation, caesium ions favour pollucite formation. Thus it is preferred for potassium hydroxide to be the source of potassium and the source of alkalinity. The product of the processes described above is predominantly a potassium form of the aluminosilicate that is, aluminosilicate where M in general formula I is K. By ion exchange of the product in the manner conventional to zeolite chemistry other cations such as Na or H can be introduced for M. Within the ranges specified hereinbefore for the composition of the reaction mixture it is possible to choose ratios of oxides and alkalinity to given particular forms of the aluminosilicate product. The The crystallization is generally carried out in a sealed autoclave and thus at autogenous pressure. Lower pressure will require longer crystallization times and will tend to decrease the aspect ratio of the crystallites. Following the preparation as described above the formed zeolite may be separated, washed and dried in the normal manner. The products of the processes of the invention described hereinbefore are preferably substantially free from contaminant crystalline and amorphous materials. However, in employing these products in catalytic applications it may be desired to combine them with additional crystalline or amorphous materials and this invention extends to such combinations. We have found that the products of the invention are excellent catalyst bases and may be used in a wide variety of catalytic reaction. The particular morphology of the crystals appears to result in a particular stable base for catalytically active metals with a surprising resistance to metal catalyst deactivation. In addition, their low acidity which makes them especially suited to catalytic applications where a low acid site strength is advantageous such as aromatization. The catalytically active metal s may be, for example, a Group VIII metal such as platinum, tin, or germanium as described in US 4 104 320, or a combination of platinum and rhenium as described in GB 2 004 764 or BE 888365. In the latter case the catalyst may for appropriate circumstances also incorporate halogen as described in US 4 165 276, silver as described in US 4 295 959 and US 4 206 040, cadmium as described in US 4 295 960 and US 4 231 897 or sulphur as described in GB 1 600 927. We have found a particularly advantageous catalyst composition to incorporate from 0.1 to 6.0 weight , preferably from 0.1 to 1.5 weight platinum or palladium, since this gives excellent results in aromatization. From 0.4 to 1.2 wt platinum is particularly preferred, especially in conjuction with the potassium form of the aluminosilicate. It may also be useful to incorporate into the catalyst one or more materials substantially inert under the conditions in which the catalyst is to be employed to act as a binder. Such binders may also act to improve the resistance of the catalyst to temperature, pressure and attrition. The products of the invention may be used in a process for the conversion of a hydrocarbon feed in which the feed is contacted with a catalyst as described above under appropriate conditions to bring about the desired conversion. They may for example be useful in reactions involving aromatization and or dehydrocyclization and or isomerization and or dehydrogenation reaction. They are particularly useful in a process for the dehydrocyclization and or isomerization of acyclic hydrocarbons in which the hydrocarbons are contacted at a temperature of from 430 C to 550 C with a catalyst comprising an aluminosilicate of the invention having at least 90 of the exchangeable cations M as alkali metal ions and incorporating at least one Group VIII metal having dehydrogenating activity, so as to convert at least part of the acyclic hydrocarbons into aromatic hydrocarbons. The process is preferably otherwise carried out in the manner described in US 4 104 320, BE 888365 or EP 40119. It has been found that use of the aluminosilicates of the invention in this way enables greatly improved catalyst lifetimes to be achieved as compared to the lifetime obtained with a conventionally prepared zeolite. The invention will now be described in more detail, though only by way of illustration, in the following Examples and Evaluations, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figures 1 to 4 are, as described hereinbefore, triangular graphs showing the preferred proportions of components of the synthesis gel. On these graphs the reaction mixtures used in the Examples in the production of aluminosilicates of the invention are shown as crosses identified by the number of Example, and those reaction mixtures used in the Comparative Examples are shown as solid circles identified by the letter of the Comparative Example. It is pointed out that the points marked for Example 3 and Comparative Example D coincide and are marked only with a cross. A synthesis gel was prepared having the following composition expressed in moles of pure oxide This gel was prepared as follows Solutions A and B were mixed for two minutes to form 173.41g of gel, and just before the gel became fully stiff it was transferred to a Teflon lined 150ml autoclave, which was transferred to an oven at 225 C. Teflon is a registered Trade Mark . The gel reached 225 C in about 4 hours. The gel was held at that temperature to bring about crystallization the total heat up and crystallization time being 8 hours. 34.5g of Zeolite L were formed 19.9 yield and this was highly crystalline with a typical Zeolite L X ray diffraction XRD pattern. Scanning electron micrographs SEM show the product to be formed solely of generally cylindrical crystals with rough lateral planes having a particle size of 0.5 to 1 microns and an aspect ratio of 1. No zeolite W or crystalline non zeolitic phases were detectable in the XRD pattern. The general procedure of Example 1 was repeated using reduced amounts of water in solution A and without additional water in solution B. The mole ratios of the reactants are given in Table 1 below together with details of the products obtained. Various reaction temperatures and times were investigated. To provide a comparison in Comparative Example A a low water synthesis was carried out at 150 C and a clam shaped Zeolite L product was obtained, which has been shown in copending European Application No. EP A 96 479 to have poor catalytic performance. Comparision Example B shows the poorer yield obtained with a process as described in the co pending Application. A synthesis gel was prepared having substantially the composition described in Example 6 of DT 1813099 equivalent to GB 1 202 511 The product was separated and dried as in Example 1. XRD and SEM showed the product to be a mixture of Zeolite W with zeolite L. No cylindrical crystallites were observed. The procedure of DT 1813099 using drying gels and lower crystallization temperatures than the present invention did not result in the highly crystalline zeolite L formed by the invention. The performance of the Zeolite L sample of the Example 3 as a catalyst base in aromatization was determined. A catalyst was prepared by impregnating the base with 0.6 wt platinum. The zeolite sample under test typically about 25g was slurried in 700ml of distilled water in a 5 litre flask. The appropriate amount of tetraammino platinum dichloride to give impregnation at a rate of 0.6wt platinum was dissolved in 300ml of distilled water. The platinum salt solution was then added to the sample slurry over an 6 hour period. The mixture was stirred for 24 hours after platinum salt addition, then the impregnated sample was dried at 110 C. The sample was then pelletized, crushed to 14 20 mesh US sieve size and loaded into a vertical tubular reactor and air substantially water free was passed over the catalyst at a rate of 25ml min of air per gram of sample. The catalyst was heated to 480 C in four hours and held at 480 C for three hours. The sample was then reduced by passing hydrogen over it at 207kPa and a rate of 75ml min per gram of sample, while the catalyst was heated to 527 C in 3 hours, held at 527 C for ten minutes and then cooled to the desired reaction temperature. The aromatization test was carried out at a temperature of 510 C and 690 KPa 100 psig pressure with a C₆ mixed feed comprising The results are given in Table 2, which shows the performance of the catalyst after 20,146 and 265 hours. On the basis of the rate of deactivation over the period investigated, it is estimated that the catalyst would give an average of 50 benzene yield over a period of 1140 hours.