# DUAL BAND PHASED ARRAY USING WIDEBAND ELEMENTS WITH DIPLEXER

## Claims
Zweiband Antennenfeld mit einer Wellenleitervorrichtung 300 , in der sich eine Breitbandöffnung befindet, einer Blende 200 , in der eine gewählte Öffnung angeordnet ist, und mit einer Zweiband Überleitungsvorrichtung 301 , die mit der Wellenleitervorrichtung gekoppelt ist, um Energie in die Wellenleitervorrichtung hinein und aus ihr heraus zu übertragen, dadurch gekennzeichnet daß

## Description
This invention is directed to waveguide array systems, in general, and to dual band, wideband, shared aperture waveguide systems, in particular. There are many known methods, devices and systems associated with waveguide systems, in general, and radar systems, in particular. For the most part, the known systems and devices are directed to single band arrays which operate on only one frequency signal at a time. These signals may be in the microwave frequency range, e.g., 3.5 GH Many of these systems include waveguide devices which are utilized with coaxial cables as the input or output means. In these types of systems, various types of transition devices are used to couple the waveguide to the cable. In most cases the radar systems include a single band device. That is, the system operates on only one frequency band. Thus, two or more array apertures are required in order to process multiple frequencies. In the past, this has caused the multi frequency systems to have multiple apertures with the attendant increases in cost, weight, size and the like. Thus, these systems have been disadvantageous for utilization in many applications. Also, in the past, attempts have been made to provide systems wherein a single aperture has been shared by multiple antenna arrays. However, these prior systems were generally of poor quality due to interference and crosscoupling. The best known example of this technique was a twin dielectric slab loaded waveguide array with each frequency band fed by a separate feeding probe as described by Mailloux et al IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Volume AP 27, No 2, March 1979 . However, the two signal bands are difficult to isolate and the impedance matching is difficult resuling in relatively high VSWR, e.g. 3 1 or greater. Prior art documents considered the most pertinent are as follows. U.S. Patent 3,825,932 is directed to a multi frequency waveguide antenna in which the waveguide radiator elements have a cut off frequency between two operating frequencies of the antenna. At the lower frequency, the waveguides are terminated to function as evanescent mode resonators giving a first passband centered on the lower frequency. At the higher frequency, the waveguides are propagating and are terminated to give a second passband centered on the higher frequency. DE 1,128,490 appears to show a transition using several transition devices. U.S. Patent 4,240,155 is directed to a diplexer and multiplexer device. The device combines a plurality of different frequency signals for transmission in a common transmission line by a series of hybrid coupler devices. U. S. Patent 3,725,824 Woodward COMPACT WAVEGUIDE COAX TRANSITION. This patent is directed to a waveguide to coaxial cable transition device using a half height waveguide, a tapered ridge waveguide section, and a 90 coaxial cable connection. U. S. Patent 3,758,886 Landry et al VERSATILE IN LINE WAVEGUIDE TO COAX TRANSITION. This patent is directed to a microwave transition device which includes a hook shaped exciter and a U shaped dielectric loading transformer. U. S. Patent 3,431,515 Brediger et al MICROWAVE TRANSITION APPARATUS. This patent is directed to a microwave transition apparatus which includes a dielectric element shaped to match the impedances of the coax line and waveguide and to provide an asymmetrical load therebetween to alter the propagating wave. U. S. Patent 4,375,052 Anderson POLARIZATION ROTA TABLE ANTENNA FEED. This patent is directed to a wave polarization rotary section which includes a ridge loaded wave guide transaction section. U. S. Patent 4,231,000 Schuegraf ANTENNA FEED SYSTEM FOR DOUBLE POLARIZATION. This patent is directed to an antenna system for double polarization in two high frequency bands and includes a polarization filter with an antenna and terminal and two directional terminals for circularly polarized waves. U. S. Patent 4,029,902 Bell, et al CONTIGUOUS CHANNEL MULTIPLEXER. This patent is directed to a multiplexer for combining a plurality of microwave signal channels for transmission over a common transmission path. U. S. Patent 3,034,076 Tomiyasu MICROWAVE DIPLEXER. This patent is directed to an apparatus for coupling or decoupling two different frequency microwave signals relative to a single antenna. U. S. Patent 3,252,113 Veltrop BROADBAND HYBRID DIPLEXER. This patent is directed to diplexer frequency branching networks. BROAD BAND IMPEDANCE MATCHING OF RECTANGULAR WAVEGUIDE PHASED ARRAYS, Chen, IEEE Trans. Antennas and Propogation, Vol AP 21, No. 3, May 1973, pp. 298 302. ANALYSIS OF A DUAL FREQUENCY ARRAY TECHNIQUE Mailloux, et al, IEEE Trans. Antennas and Prop., Vol. AP 27, No. 2, March 1979, pp. 130 136. ANALYSIS OF INTERLEAVED ARRAYS OF WAVEGUIDE ELEMENTS, Hsiao, IEEE Trans. Antennas and Prop., Vol. AP 19, No. 6, Nov. 1971, pp 729 735. No significance is implied by the order of the listing. According to the present invention there is provided a dual band antenna array comprising a waveguide device having a wideband aperture therein, an iris having a selected opening disposed therein, and a dual band transitioning device coupled to the waveguide device for transferring energy into and out of the waveguide device, the array characterised in that In a preferred embodiment, the invention utilizes an open ended waveguide array which can operate over approximately an octave bandwidth encompassing two adjacent microwave bands. The radiating element is well matched over an octave in bandwidth for the wide range of scan angles of interest. After the dual band signals are received efficiently by the wide band radiating element, the signals are separated into the two frequency channels by a diplexer. Separate feed networks are used to process the signals of the two bands. It is shown that a good match can be obtained over the desired bandwidth and scanning range. A desirable dual band transition is included to provide optimal match at both of the frequency bands by fine tuning the matching elements. A diplexer is used with the system to provide the necessary isolation between the two frequency bands. Figure 1 is a block diagram of a dual band antenna system capable of forming two simultaneously and independently steerable beams. Figures 2 and 3 are schematic representations of a radiating structure aperture. Figure 4 is a schematic representation of the system of the instant invention. Figures 5 10 are Smith charts which show the calculated impedance of the wideband waveguide of the instant invention for different values of f Figures 11 13 show different embodiments of coaxial to waveguide transitions of the instant invention. Figures 14 16 are charts which show the measured return loss of the transitions shown in Figures 11 13, respectively. Figure 17 is a block diagram of a diplexer configuration used with the instant invention. Referring to Figure 1, there is shown a block diagram representation of a dual band antenna system 100 which incorporates the teachings of this invention. This system is capable of forming two simultaneously and independently steerable beams. Typically, the system 100 includes a radiating aperture array 101 which is capable of being shared by the two adjacent frequency bands, such as S band signals and C band signals. Array 101 includes radiator and dual transitions 107. The array 101 includes a plurality of diplexers 106 connected to a plurality of C band phase shifters 102 and a plurality of S band phase shifters 103 in a conventional manner. The respective phase shifters are then connected to the C band corporate feed 104 and the S band corporate feed 105. In the S band feed, block feeding may be used to save the cost of phase shifters and drivers, without causing the grating lobe formation. Thus, only four S band phase shifters 103 are required in this embodiment. The corporate feeds are then connected to the C band beam terminal, respectively. The design concept of the present invention utilizes an ultra wide bandwidth radiating element which can operate over approximately an octave bandwith encompassing, for example, both S band and C band. In general, it is very difficult to design a well matched radiating element over an octave in bandwidth for wide scan coverage. However, an open ended rectangular waveguide element which is suitable for the present application has been designed and is shown schematically in Figure 2. This waveguide element has an inductive iris 200 loading at the aperture. In addition, an impedance matching dielectric radome sheet 201 is provided in front of the waveguide aperture. The geometry of the radiating aperture is suggested in Figure 2. The impedance characteristics of the radiating element have been determined over a frequency range of 0.6 f Typical design criteria for the aperture and dielectric radome sheet 201 for the S band C band example are set out herewith These criteria are discussed in the paper by Chen which is cited in the Information Disclosure Statement. Moreover, as noted above, empirical tuning gives matching techniques for the aperture which can improve on the aperture constructed in accordance with the calculations of Chen or Wong, et al, supra. Referring now to Figure 3, there is shown one example of the geometry of the wideband radiating array aperture of the instant invention. This example of the aperture design is given in terms of wavelength λ In element spacings, d In the waveguide dimensions, a and b are the width and heighth, respectively, of the waveguide a and b are the width and heighth, respectively, of the iris. In one embodiment of the invention, an array was constructed with the approximate waveguide dimensions This array operated with the approximate S band 3.0 4.0 GH Referring to Figure 4, there is shown a schematic representation of the system of the instant invention. In particular, the utilization of the ultra wideband element design for the dual band, phased array application is illustrated. The dual band signals can be received efficiently by the radiating element 300. A wideband coaxial to waveguide transition 301 can be used to carry the signals to a network of suitable configuration e.g. TEM so that a diplexer 302 can be constructed easily. The dual band signals are separated at the diplexer 302 and can be processed in separate bands e.g. S band and C band feed networks as indicated in Figure 4. The advantage of this dual band phased array technique includes not only good impedance characteristics but also the absence of grating lobe formation and the crosscoupling problems of the prior art. Also, this Figure represents the end on configuration which is most useful in a multi tier multi element array. The impedance characteristics of the radiating elements shown in Figure 3 have been computed and typical admittance characteristics are shown in the Smith charts reproduced in Figures 5 10. In particular, at frequency f 1.0 f It should be understood that f From the impedance curves presented in Figures 5 10, it is seen that a 2 1 VSWR circle can be drawn around the C band impedances for frequencies from 0.893 f In the low frequency band from 0.536 f The basic structure of this invention includes a rectangular waveguide to coaxial line transition see Figure 4 . To obtain a good coupling, the transition is fabricated in a form of big loop instead of a monopole. To suppress the higher order modes generated in the junction, the waveguide heighth is reduced near the probe region. To improve the impedance matching, at least one tuning button is used at some appropriate location. Three transition element configurations capable of the desired performances are shown from the side and the top in Figures 11, 12 and 13 together with the corresponding responses which are shown in Figures 14, 15 and 16. The basic configuration consists of a waveguide element 150 with an end on loop transition. A reduced height plate 151 is disposed adjacent one sidewall of element 150. A hook shaped exciter 152 is connected between input port 153 and a second sidewall of element 150. Typically, the first and second sidewalls are opposite, wider walls of the element. At least one tuning button 154 is disposed near the exciter 152 to control the operation of the system. As shown in Figure 11, the loop inductance is compensated for by the two buttons 154. These buttons are located on opposite sides of exciter probe 154 and under plate 151 near both sides of the loop. The optimal response is obtained by finding the correct combination of the size of gap 155 near the waveguide coaxial line transition and the button location In Figure 12, it is seen that the two small buttons in Figure 11 can be replaced by one larger button 156 at one side of the probe 152 and under the plate 151. This indicates that as long as the desired susceptance is obtained, the exact form of the circuit component can be varied somewhat. In Figure 13, the probe size is the same as in the two previous cases. However, the button 157 is now located at the center of the waveguide housing at some distance away from the end of probe 152 and displaced from the plate 151. An additional tuning effect is obtained by a small plate 158 near the junction area of the waveguide 150 and the coaxial line 153. The combination of this small plate 158 and the size of gap 155 gives the desired tuning effect. In determining the performance of the transition, the probe 152 dimension and the stepped plate 151 and 158 seem to have the dominant effects. The location of the button or buttons , in general, controls the fine tuning of the high frequency band. The gap 155 near the waveguide coaxial line junction controls the fine tuning of the low frequency band. For comparisons, the waveguide 150 in each configuration is 15.24 cm long, 5.58 cm wide and 1.143 cm high. The probe angle with the sidewall was 23 , the probe 152 extends 2.609 cm from the gap 155 to the end of the probe and is 0.2 inches in diameter. Gap 155 is 0.406 cm, plate 151 is 0.165 cm thick in Figures 11 and 12 and 0.203 cm thick in Figure 13. Plate 158 is 0.102 cm thick and plate 159 is 0.102 cm thick. Buttons 154 Figure 11 are 0.508 cm in diameter, 0.483 cm high, 2.662 cm from the front wall, and 2.169 cm from the respective sidewalls. Button 156 Figure 12 is 0.635 cm in diameter, 0.533 cm high, 2.807 cm from the front wall, and disposed alongside the probe 152. Button 157 Figure 13 is 0.508 cm in diameter, 0.457 cm high, 3.404 cm from the frontwall, and 2.794 cm from each side wall. Figures 14 16 show the characteristics for the measured return loss of the coaxial to waveguide transition for the respective configurations shown in Figure 11 13. In the wideband diplexer design used with this invention, several options have been considered. For example, printed diplexer circuit designs are possible. One technique is to use a 1 2 power divider and two different bandpass filters, one for 3.0 3.6 GHz band pass and the other for 5.0 5.6 GHz band pass. A second technique is to use a 1 2 power divider, one high pass filter for bands above 4.3 GHz and a low pass filter for bands below 4.3 GHz. The simplest and most effective way of constructing an effective wideband diplexer is shown in Figure 17. This diplexer consists of a pair of wideband hybrid couplers 500 and 501 and two low pass filters 502 and 503, all of conventional design. The low pass filters divide the frequencies of the signals applied to the diplexer and the hybrid couplers insure the isolation and good impedance matching. A typical low pass filter, based on conventional design can be made using a micro strip line. The operation of the preferred arrangement of Figure 17 is described. If the f Conversely, the low frequency signals will be transmitted through the two low pass filters and will be added in phase at port 3 of coupler 501 and completely cancelled at port 4. Thus, the output port for low frequency signals is at port 3 of coupler 501. Port 1 of coupler 500 is, therefore, defined as the input port, port 2 of coupler 500 is defined as the C band channel, port 3 of coupler 501 is defined as the S band channel, and port 4 of coupler 501 is defined as the isolation port or dummy load . This type of diplexer is highly useful with the system of the instant invention. Thus, there has been shown a preferred embodiment of a dual band phased array antenna with wideband waveguide elements. For purposes of explanation a preferred embodiment has been described in detail. However, it must be understood that modifications to the described embodiment can be made. Moreover, the dual band array is not limited to S band and C band operation. Typically, any pair of adjacent bands can be accomodated by appropriate scaling of the elements.