# Preparation of bis alpha keto carboxylic acids.

## Abstract
A process for preparing bis α keto carboxylic acids by reacting a dihaloalkane in a liquid solvent medium with car bon monoxide at elevated temperature and pressure in the presence of a catalytic amount of a metal carbonyl compound and an alkali or an alkaline earth metal inorganic base.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the preparation of bis a keto carboxylic acids which comprises reacting a dihaloalkane in a liquid solvent medium with carbon monoxide at elevated temperature and pressure in the presence of a catalytic amount of a metal carbonyl compound and an alkali or an alkaline earth metal inorganic base. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in which the bis a keto carboxylic acids of the general formulaEMI13.1 wherein R represents hydrogen or a monovalent alkyl radical which can be either straight chain or branched containing from 1 40 carbon atoms and n is 5 to 40, and which comprises reacting a dihaloalkane of the general formulaEMI13.2 wherein R and n are as defined above and X is the same halogen selected from either chlorine, bromine or iodine, in a liquid solvent medium, with carbon monoxide at elevated temperature and pressure in the presence of a catalytic amount of a metal carbonyl compound and an alkali or an alkaline earth metal inorganic base. 3. The process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the carbon monoxide pressure is from 300 to 3000 psig. 4. The process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the reaction is carried out at a temperature of from 300C to 1500C. 5. The process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the inorganic base is selected from LiOH, NaOH, KOH,RbOH, Ca OH 2, Ba OH 2 or Mg OH 2. 6. The process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the metal carbonyl catalyst compound is iron pentacarbonyl, dicobalt octacarbonyl, or nickel tetracarbonyl. 7. The process as claimed in Claim 6 in which the metal carbonyl is dicobalt octacarbonyl. 8. The process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the liquid solvent medium is a mixture of water and alcohol. 9. The process as claimed in Claim 8 in which the alcohol is tert butanol. 10. The process as claimed in Claim 8 in which the alcohol is isopropanol.

## Description
PREPARATION OF BIS a KETO CARBOXYLIC ACIDS The present invention relates to a process for the biscarbonylation of a functionalized dihaloalkane to form a bis a keto carboxylic acid as the predominant product. The practical value of such acids and their derivatives is that they can be used in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, amino acids and for preparing polymers. The preparation of a keto carboxylic acids and their derivatives has been the subject of a large number of investigations. According to Rodd, The Chemistry ofCarbon Compounds 1952 edition , Vol. 1, pages 227 229, the following methods of preparation are available gentle oxidation of a hydroxyacids containing a secondary hydroxyl group, or by the enzymatic deamination of a amino acids hydrolysis of an acyl cyanide hydrolysis of a oximino esters from glycidic acid esters on treatment with benzene saturated with boron trifluoride from a, frdibromocarboxylic acids by forming a piper id ine addition compound followed by hydrolysis from a keto acetals by ultraviolet irradiation in the presence of N bromosuccinimide from a bromomethylketones by boiling with selenium dioxide in absolute methanol or ethanol from carboxylic acid esters by oxidation with selenium dioxide permanganate oxidation of vinyl ketones from carboxylic acid esters by condensation with oxalic ester followed by decarboxylation from aldehydes via 5 alkylidene 2 thiooxazolid 4 ones or by reaction with methyl methoxyacetate hydrolysis of azlactones or acetamido acrylic acids hydrolysis of the reaction product of Crignard reagents on diethyl oxamic ester oxidation of a hydroxyacid esters containing two hydrogen atoms by N bromosuccinimide in carbon tetrachloride to ss bromo a keto acid esters and by the action of alkali on the dimethane sulphonates and ditoluene p sulphonates of cx , dihydroxy carboxylic acids. It has now been found that bis a keto carboxylic acids of the general formula EMI3.1 in which R represents hydrogen or a monovalent alkyl radical which can be either straight chain or branched containing from 1 to 40 carbon atoms and n is 5 to 40, can be prepared by carbonylating a dihaloalkane of the general formula EMI3.2 wherein R and n are as defined above and X is the same halogen selected from either chlorine, bromine or iodine, in a liquid solvent medium, with carbon monoxide at a pressure of from 300 to 3000 psig in the presence of a catalytic amount of a metal carbonyl compound and an alkali or an alkaline earth metal inorganic base. The terminal dihaloalkane reactants suitable for use in the present process are well known in the art as are methods for their preparation, and as defined above, are of the general formula EMI4.1 wherein R, n and X are as defined above. A few exemplary materials of this type include 1,7 dibromoheptane, 1,8 dibromooctane, 1,9 dibromononane, l,l0 dibromodecane, l,ll dibromoundecane, 1,12 dibromododecane, 1,13 dibromotridecane, 1,14 dibromotetradecane, 1,15 dibromopentadecane, 1,16 dibromohexadecane, 1,17 dibromoheptadecane, 1,18 dibromooctadecane, 1,19 dibromononadecane, 1,20 dibromoeicosane, 1,21 dibromoheneicosane, 1,22 dibromodocosane, 1,23 dibromotricosane, 1,24 dibromotetracosane, 1,25 dibromopentacosane, 1,30 dibromotriacontane, 1,40 dibromotetracontane, 1,7 dichloroheptane, 1, 8 dichiorooctane, 1,9 dichlorononane, l,l0 dichlorodecane, l,ll dichloroundecane, 1,12 dichlorododecane, 1,13 dichlorotridecane, 1,14 dichlorotetradecane, 1,15 dichloropentadecane, 1,16 dichlorohexadecane, 1,17 dichloroheptadecane, 1,18 dichlorooctadecane, 1,19 dichlorononadecane, 1,20 dichloroeicosane, 1,21 dichloroheneicosane, 1,22 dichlorodocosane, 1,23 dichlorotricosane, 1,24 dichlorotetracosane, 1,25 dichloropentacosane, 1,30 dichlorotriacontane, 1,40 dichlorotetracontane, 1,7 diiodoheptane, 1,8 diiodooctane, 1,9 diiodononane, 1,10 diiododecane, l,ll diiodoundecane, 1,12 diiodododecane, 1,13 diiodotridecane, 1,14 diiodotetradecane, 1,15 diiodopentadecane, 1,16 diiodohexadecane, 1,17 diiodoheptadecane, 1,18 diiodooctadecane, 1,19 diiodononadecane, 1,20 diiodoeicosane, 1,21 diiodoheneicosane, 1,22 diiododocosane, 1,23 diiodotricosane, 1,24 diiodotetracosane, 1,25 diiodopentacosane, 1,30 diiodotriacontane, and 1,40 diiodotetracontane. Products which can be made by the process of the presentinvention include, by way of example, 2,10 dioxo undecane l,ll dioic acid, 2,11 dioxo dodecane 1,12 dioic acid, 2,12 dioxo tridecane 1,13 dioic acid, 2,13 dioxo tetradecane 1,14 dioic acid, 2,14 dioxo pentadecane 1,15 dioic acid, 2,15 dioxo hexadecane 1,16 dioic acid, 2,16 dioxo heptadecane 1,17 dioic acid, 2,17 dioxo octadecane 1,18 dioic acid, 2,18 dioxo nonadecane 1,19 dioic acid, 2,19 dioxo eicosane 1,20 dioic acid, 2,20 dioxo heneicosane 1,21 dioic acid, 2,21 dioxo docosane 1,22 dioic acid, 2,22 dioxo tricosane 1,23 dioic acid, 2,23 dioxo tetracosane 1,24 dioic acid, 2,24 dioxo pentacosane 1,25 dioic acid, 2,25 dioxo hexacosane 1,26 dioic acid, RTI ID 7.6 2,26 dioxo heptacosane 1,27 dioic acid, 2,27 dioxo octacosane 1,28 dioic acid, 2,28 dioxo nonacosane 1,29 dioic acid, 2,33 dioxo tetratriacontane 1,34 dioic acid, and 2,43 dioxo tetratetracontane 1,44 dioic acid. The reaction is carried out in the presence of a mixture of water and alcohol as a reaction medium.Preferably, the alcohols employed for the reaction may be straight chain, branched or cyclic, and preferably contain up to 6 carbon atoms. Methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, n butanol, isobutanol, tert butanol, and tert amyl alcohol may be mentioned as examples. Cyclic ethers, such as tetrahydrofuran, also may be used. A particularly preferred solvent alcohol is tert butanol. Mixtures containing 10 to 90 by weight of water and 90 to 10 by weight of alcohol generally are used. Preferred mixtures contain 30 to 80 by weight water and 70 to 20 by weight alcohol. The reaction takes place in the presence of a basic substance suitably an alkali or an alkaline earth metal hydroxide employing a metal carbonyl compound.During the reaction, the dihaloalkane undergoes reaction with the carbon monoxide and basic substance whereby the desired bis a keto carboxylic acid is formed. Specific examples of suitable basic agents which can be used in the practice of the process include LiOH, NaOH, KOH, RbOH, Ca OH 2, Ba OH 2 and Mg OH 2.LiOH and Ca OH 2 are particularly preferred. The amount of basic agent used can vary within wide limits. In general, the molar ratio of the alkali or alkaline earth metal base to dihaloalkane reactant is preferably 10 1 to 1 1. In the process described herein, it is preferred to use metal carbonyl compounds as carbonylation catalysts. These catalysts include particularly metal carbonyls such as iron pentacarbonyl, dicobaltoctacarbonyl and nickel tetracarbonyl, or their salts such as, for example, the calcium, potassium or sodium salts thereof. Dicobalt octacarbonyl is very particularly suited. These catalysts can be added to the medium in the solid state or in the form of solutions in the solvent used for the carbonylation reaction. The molar percentage of the metal carbonyl compound to the dihaloalkane reactant is preferably from 0.1 to 25 . The concentration of the dihaloalkane reactant used in the reaction solvent is not critical and can vary within wide limits. Thus, it can be between 1 and 30 by weight, based on the weight of the solvent, however, it is possible to go outside of these limits without disadvantage. The present process is advantageously carried out by bringing the mixture consisting of the dihaloalkane reactant,the metal carbonyl catalyst and the alkali or alkaline earth metal base, suspended in the mixture of water and alcohol, into contact, under nitrogen, in a suitable pressure resistant reactor equipped with a stirrer, with a large excess of carbon monoxide amount greater than 2 moles of carbon monoxide per mole of the starting dihaloalkane reactant introduced at the desired pressure and temperature, in accordance with techniques suitable for bringing about the reaction between a liquid phase and a gas phase. The carbonylation reaction is carried out at a temperaturein the range of from about 300C. to 150 C., preferably from 50 C. to 100 C., over a period of time of from 3 to 60 hours, typically 3 to 20 hours. In general, the reaction takes place at elevated carbon monoxide pressures which may range from 300 psig to 3000 psig. Preferably, the reaction takes place at a pressure in the range of 500 psig to 1000 psig. The carbon monoxide may contain or be mixed with an inert gas, such as nitrogen. On completion of the reaction, the product mixture is filtered, resulting in the alkali or alkaline earth metal basic reagent being separated from the liquid reaction components as the main solid component.The desired bis aPketo carboxylic acid product is easily separated from the resultant reaction mixture by such means as distillation, extraction, crystalliza tion or the like. The following examples illustrate the invention. Example 1 Into Åa 300 mL autoclave were charged 10 g 38.76 mmoles of 1,7 dibromoheptane and 70 mLs of t BuOH.Next, 0.66 g 1.94 mmoles of Co2 CO 8 were added under CO, and then a mixture of 11.47 g 155 mmoles of lime and 30 mLs of H20 were added. After 860 psi CO was charged to the autoclave, the reaction mixture was heated to 900C over a period of time of approximately 1 hour and held at that temperature for 7 hours.After suction filtration, the solid was rinsed once with a 20 mL portion of a 50 50 t butanol water solution and then acidified with 150 mLs of HC1 solution containing 350 mmoles of HC1. To ascertain the yield, 17.5 of the crude solid was acidified with 100 mLs of HC1 solution containing 70 mmoles of HC1. The free acid was extracted with diethyl ether 2 x 50 mLs to give 1.78 g of 2,10 dioxo undecane 1,11 dioic acid which was 80 pure by VPC analysis of the trimethyl silyl TMS derivative. Thus, the total yield of product was 85.8 . Example 2 Into a 300 mL autoclave were charged 16.49 g 54.97 mmoles of 1,10 dibromodecane and 70 mLs of t BuOH. Next, 0.94 g 2.75 mmoles of Co2 CO 8 were added under CO, and then a mixture of 16.27 g 220 mmoles of lime and 30 mLs of H20 were added. After 860 psi CO was charged to the autoclave, the reaction mixture was heated to 900C over a period of time of approximately 1 hour and held at that temperature for 7 hours. After suction filtration, the solid was rinsed once with a 20 mL portion of a 50 50 t butanol water solution and then acidified with 150 mLs of HC1 solution containing 350 mmoles of HC1. To ascertain the yield, 9.6 of the crude solid was acidified with 100 mLs of HC1 solution containing 50 mmoles of HC1. The free acid was extracted with diethyl ether 2 x 50 mLs to give 1.45 g of 2,13 dioxo tetradecane 1,14 dioic acid which was 80 pure by VPC analysis of the trimethyl silyl TMS derivative. The total yield of product was 71 .