# Process for the production of aluminium chloride.

## Abstract
Aluminium chloride is produced by the chlorination of alumina containing a substantial proportion of alpha alumina in a fluidised bed having an expanded depth greater than 2.5 m and containing a reactive coke or active carbon the temperature of chlorination being greater than 775 C. The invention is particularly applicable to iron containing aluminous feedstocks susceptible to the formation of alpha alumina, such as bauxite and may utilise a preliminary beneficiation stage under high temperature conditions which have heretofore been avoided as encouraging alpha alumina formation.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for the production of aluminium chloride by the fluidised bed chlorination of alumina in the presence of carbon at a temperature such that the aluminium chloride formed is removed in vapour form in the stream of gases issuing from the fluidised bed and may be thereafter recovered, such process being characterised in that the alumina contains at least 0.5 by weight alpha alumina in that the carbon is coke having a surface area of at least 3 sq.m q, or active carbon, in that the temperature qf chlorination is greater than 7750C and in that the fluidised bed has an expanded bed depth greater than 2.5 m. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the fluidised bed has an expanded bed depth of from 2.75 m to 4.5 m. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the expanded fluidised bed has a height to diameter ratio of at least 4. 4. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the fluidised bed is operated with a continuous or intermittent flow of solids countercurrent to the flow of chlorine through the bed. 5. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the carbon has a surface area greater than 20 sq.m g. 6. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the temperature of chlorination of the alumina is from 8000C to 1100or. 7. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the alumina containing at least 5 by weight alpha alumina has been produced by a process involving the beneficiation of an iron containing aluminous material by the selective fluidised bed chlorination at a temperature of at least 8000C of iron values therein in the presence of a quantity of carbon in excess of the quantity required to react with any oxygen contained in the iron values present in the iron containing aluminous material or added to the fluidised bed as molecular oxygen, by introducing into the fluidised bed a chlorine containing gas having a concentration of from 20 to 85 by volume of the gases added to the bed, removing the iron chloride formed in gaseous form in the gas stream issuing from the beds to leave an alumina containing residue. 8. A process as claimed in claim 7 wherein the iron containing aluminous material is a bauxite which has been freed of water of crystallisation. 9. A process as claimed in claim 7 or 8 wherein the carbon used in the beneficiation is a coke which has a surface area of less than 50 sq.m g at the beginning of the beneficiation which surface area increases in the course of the beneficiation to at least 50 sq.m g and in that excess coke remaining after the completion of the beneficiation is used for the chlorination of the alumina residue. 10. A process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the coke is heated in the presence of water vapour before use for the chlorination of the alumina residue. 11. A process as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the alumina contains at least 5.0 by weight of alpha alumina. 12. Aluminium chloride produced by a process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11.

## Description
Process for the Production of Aluminium Chloride This invention relates to the production of aluminium chloride by the fluidised bed chlorination of alumina in the presence of carbon. It it well known in the art that alpha alumina is a difficult to chlorinate material and it has been a widespread practice in the art to avoid any appreciable content of alpha alumina in raw materials to be chlorinated to produce aluminium chloride. United States PatentNo. 4105752, assigned to the Aluminium Company of America, is an expression of this practice in that it relates to the production of aluminium chloride from alumina hydrate the alumina hydrate being calcined to remove water and in such a manner that gamma type alumina predominates in the material to be chlorinated.Gamma alumina is preferred, according toUnited States Patent No. 4105752, because of its hiqher reactivity with chlorine and this is illustrated in the patent by a comparison between Examples 2 and 3, Example2 describing the chlorination of alumina in the gamma form and containing less than 0.5 by weight alpha alumina at a temperature of 585 C with almost 100 chlorine utilisation, and Example 3 describing the process carried out under the same conditions except that the alumina contains 24 by weight alpha alumina with only 45 chlorine utilisation.United States Patent No. 4105752, therefore, is a dramatic illustration of the adverse affect which the presence of alpha alumina can have on chlorination processes for the production of aluminium chloride. According to the broadest aspect thereof the present invention relates the production of aluminium chloride by the chlorination of raw materials containing alpha alumina in a quantity greater than 0.5 and very suitably in a quantity greater than 5.0 by weight for example greater than 50 by weight. According to a further aspect thereof the present invention relates to a combination of the above mentioned aspect with a preceding beneficiation step according to which aluminous material containing iron is selectively chlorinated to remove the iron therefrom under process conditions which have hitherto been avoided as involving the production of alpha alumina but which need no longer be avoided in view of the ability to chlorinate alpha alumina according to this invention and which have the other advantages explained hereafter.This combined process provides a particularly efficient and advantagous method of a production of aluminium chloride from aluminous raw materials of the bauxitic type which have been known to be particularly prone to alpha alumina formation. The present invention provides, according to the broadest aspect thereof, a process for the production of aluminium chloride by the fluidised bed chlorination of alumina in the presence of carbon at a temperature such that the aluminium chloride formed is removed in vapour form in the stream of gases issuing from the fluidised bed and may be thereafter recovered, such process being characterised in that the alumina contains at least 0.58 alpha alumina, in that the carbon is a coke as hereafter defined, or an active carbon, in that the temperature of chlorination is greater than 7750C and in that the fluidised bed has an expanded bed depth greater than 2.5 m. According to a further aspect thereof, the present invention provides a process for the production of aluminium chloride by the fluidised bed chlorination of an iron containing aluminous material by a process involving in a first stage the beneficiation of the iron containing aluminous material by the selective fluidised bed chlorination of iron values therein in the presence of a quantity of carbon in excess of the quantity required to react with any oxygen contained in the iron values present in the iron containing aluminous material or added to the fluidised bed as molecular oxygen, by introducing into the fluidised bed a chlorine containing gas having a concentration of from 20 to 85 by volume of the aases added to the bed, said first stage being characterised by the bed temperature being at least 8000C and such that the iron chloride formed is removed in gaseous form in the qas stream issuing from the bed and, in a later stage, chlorinating the residual alumina values in a fluidised bed in the presence of carbon at a temperature such that the aluminium chloride formed is removed from the bed in gaseous form in the gas stream issuing from the bed, this later stage being characterised in that the carbon is a reactive coke as hereinafter defined, or an active carbon, in that the temperature of chlorination is greater than 7750C and in that the fluidised bed has an expanded bed depth greater than 2.5 m. This further aspect of the invention is particularly applicable to the production of aluminium chloride from an iron containing bauxitic material the residual alumina values therein containing at least 0.5 by weiqht of alpha alumina after the first beneficiation stage. Contrary to the teaching of United States PatentNo. 4105752 it is found that the present invention provides a high chlorine utilisation despite the presence of alpha alumina in the alumina from which the aluminium trichloride is to be produced. A further advantage provided by the present invention is that, due to the higher than usual temperature used for the selective chlorination of iron values from the aluminous material, the proportion of ferrous chloride entrained in residual bed material is greatly reduced. This reduces or removes the need to specially treat the residual bed material to remove entrained ferrous chloride or to reduce such ferrous chloride content to a level at which it will not unduly contaminate the aluminium chloride produced in the succeeding stage in the process.The most commonly used expedient for the removal of ferrous chloride from residual bed material has been water washing. This necessitates the use of a succeeding drying step since it is disadvantaseaus to conduct the further chlorination of the residual bed material in the presence of water. The present invention however enables the residual bed material from a preceding beneficiation step, comprising alumina and excess carbon of that used in the preceding beneficiation step, to be chlorinated directly without water washing to produce aluminium chloride. The conditions under which an alumina containing an appreciable proportion of alpha alumina may be chlorinated will now be described. For the successful implementation of the invention it is important that a deep fluidised bed be used. While the minimum practical depth has been set at greater than 2.5m it is preferable to use a bed having a depth of at least 2.75m, particularly preferably at least 3m and up to, for example, 4.5m. These dimensions refer to the actual expanded bed depth, not to the reactor enclosing the bed. Preferably, the depth of the bed is such that free chlorine does not break through the bed. The bed depth may be readily adjusted by known means to avoid chlorine breakthrough which may entail the use of a somewhat deeper bed than the minimum defined above. Preferably the expanded bed has a height to diameter.ratio of at least 2.5, particularly preferably at least 3 and, possibly, at least 4. Preferably, such a bed is operated with a feed of alumina at or near one end of the reactor and an offtake of bed solids from or near the other end of the reactor, either continuous or intermittent in each case, so that a degree of plug flow of solids throuqh the bed is attained, the solids removed from the bed having the longest residence time in the bed, subject, to a degree, to the cycling effect of fluidisation. Preferably the flow of the bed material from inlet to outlet is countercurrent to the flow of chlorine through the bed. Active carbon is usually used to enable the temperature of a reaction, which is practicable using other forms of carbon, to be lowered. In the context of the chlorination of alumina it is found that alpha alumina does not chlorinate satisfactorily in the presence of petroleum coke even at temperatures above 800or. It is a new application of active carbon to utilise it to chlorinate alpha alumina at elevated temperature although to do this satisfactorilv the specified expanded bed depth must also be used. Active carbon derived from coal. and having a surface area of, for example at least 30 m2 g may be used. It is an advantageous feature of ,this invention that, as an alternative to active carbon, a reactive form of coke having a surface area of at least 3m2 g is used, preferably obtained by heating a non caking or weakly caking coal in the substantial absence of oxygen. The caking quality of coal, is judged by its British Standard Crucible SwellingNumber British Standard 1016 Part 12 . The BritishStandard Swelling Number of the coal is preferably below 6 1 2 and, particularly preferably, from 1 2 to 3 1 2. The surface area is the total surface area judged by low temperature nitrogen absorption after degassing. In order to produce a coke having a surface area suitable for use according to this invention, fully caking coals must be avoided. Typical of fully caking coals are the ortho bituminous coals which are commonly used in the production of coke because their swelling properties give the coke particles the physical strength often required in cokes. Fully caking coals give coked products having too low a surface area for use according to this invention and bituminous char, for example, usually has a surface area well below l.0m2 g. Cokes of non coal origin, such as regular calcined petroleum coke, have a similarly unsuitable low surface area. It is found that anthracites, while they produce excellent active carbon when treated under activating conditions, produce carbon products having too low a surface area for use according to this invention when treated under non activating conditions.True lignites produce carbon having too little physical strength for fluidised bed use. Suitable coals for use in this invention are preferably selected from semi anthracites, certain semibituminous coals, carbonaceous coals, ertain para bituminous coals and lignitous coals, as defined according to Seyler s Classification, subject to suitable swelling properties. Preferably the coal has a BritishStandard Crucible Swelling number not above 61. The coal is selected to be of fluidisable size, that is at least 37 microns, but is particularly preferably at least 75 microns and up to 4000 microns in diameter, and may suitably have a weight mean average diameter of from SnO to 1200 microns, since it is preferred that the carbon product produced by treating it is used as produced without such need for treatment to alter its particle size and since the above specified sizes are suitable for carbon for fluidised bed use. The heating of the coal to produce a carbon product usable according to this invention is to be contrasted with activation, which involves heating in the presence of oxygen and, possibly, of an activating gas such as steam or carbon dioxide and involves the combustion of a substantial part of the coal. In such processes the oxygen is often supplied as air. Some oxygen may fortuitously be present during the coal treatment according to the invention but it is preferably in less than 10 by volume of the atmosphere during the heating so that the quantity of carbon combusted may be, preferably, less than 5 by weight and particularly preferably, less than 2.5 by weight. Where the coal is weakly caking, for example havinq aBritish Standard Crucible Swelling Number of from 1 to 3 1 2, it is advantageously subjected to a pre oxidation treatment to reduce the caking characteristics before the devolatilising heat treatment in the substantial absence of oxygen. Suitably, the pre oxidation treatment may be conducted in the presence. of an air atmosphere or an oxyqen atmosphere,preferably of no greater than air concentration but containing at least 10 oxygen by volume, at a temperature of at least 1500C for example from 2000C 2500 and,necessarily, no greater than 3500C for a duration,preferably, of less than 120 minutes, and, particularly preferably, of from 30 minutes to 80 minutes.This treatment is suitably conducted in a fluidised bed.The heating in the substantial absence of oxygen is preferably conducted at a temperature of less than 1000or, for example suitably less than 900or, very suitably by raising the temperature progressively, from the pre oxidation temperature where appropriate over a period of from 15 minutes to 150 minutes. This treatment is also preferably conducted in a fluidised bed.The need for pre oxidation of a weakly caking coal may be reduced or eliminated by blending such a coal with a sufficient portion of a previously devolatalised coal so as to reduce the average caking properties of the blend e.g. to a BritishStandard Swelling Number of below 1. Where an excess of carbon is used in a chlorination this recycled excess may advantageously be utilised in this manner The carbon product so produced may have a surface area of 50m2 g or more e.g. up to 100 m2 g although lower surface area carbon for example having a total surface area 9. own to below 20 or even down to 15m2 g or below is usable accordinq to this invention. The chlorination of the alumina to produce aluminium chloride is preferably conducted at a temperature above 8000C, for example up to 1100or, a particularly suitable temperature being from 8500C to 1050on. The alumina is preferably in the form of particles of at least 7 microns and up to 1000 microns in diameter and, suitably, may have a weight mean average particle diameter of 150 to 410 microns. Since selectivity of chlorination is not reauired at this stage in the process the concentration of chlorine used is not critical and it may, for example, be added to the fluidised bed as 100 chlorine or, preferably as concentrated chlorine having a concentration of from 60 to 90 v v. Lower concentrations may be used if desired. The quantity of active carbon or reactive coke is preferably at least that theoretically required to react with the oxygen content of the alumina, and of any other chlorinatable oxides present in the bed. Provided that the bed has been suitably preheated it should not prove necessary to generate heat internally so that, in this case, an excess of carbon to be combusted with oxygen added to the bed, for example as an air dilution of the chlorine, is not required although, of course, this expedient is not excluded from use. The gaseous aluminium chloride removed from the fluidised bed may be substantially pure, if the alumina in the bed is substantially pure, or may contain chlorides of other metals present as chlorinatable oxides, or already entrained, in the chloride form, in the alumina. In practice, the alumina will usually have been derived by a preliminary beneficiation, with other associated process steps, of an iron containing ore, or other naturally occurring iron containing aluminous material. As explained above, the ability according to the invention to chlorinate alpha alumina, results in a particularly advantageous combined process in which an iron containing aluminous material prone to alpha alumina formation is beneficiated to produce alumina for final chlorination to produce aluminium trichloride. Examples of such materials are bauxite and bauxitic clays. This aspect of the present invention will be described in relation to bauxite although no limitation of the scope of the invention is intended by this. Bauxite has the theoretical composition A1203 x H20 where 1 or 3 and usually contains a substantial proportion of iron oxide together with oxides of, for example, manganese, magnesium, silicon and titanium. The proportion of iron oxide may vary, for example between 5 and 30 by weight of the ore. According to normal practice the bauxite is preferably freed of water of crystallisation, by dehydration at a temperature of at least 5000C, preferably from 6000C to 10500C. The dehydrated material may, for example, contain from 7 to 40 by weight of iron oxide. The dehydration may be accomplished by the combustion of a carbonaceous fue in, for example, a rotary kiln. The dehydrated bauxite, preferably still hot as a result of the dehydration step, is fed with the requisite excess of carbon into a fluidised bed reactor where it is contacted with a suitably dilute stream of chlorine containing gas to attain the required selectivity of chlorination of the iron oxide present in it.This beneficiation step is conducted at an elevated temperature at which the iron chlorides formed, e.g. ferrous chloride, and the other chlorides of minor constituents the oxides of which are substantially equally easily chlorinated as iron oxide, e.g. manganese chloride and magnesium chloride, are substantially wholly in the vapour form and remain so so that they have little tendency to be retained in the beneficiate in contrast with the situation obtaining where a relatively low temperature is used to avoid alpha alumina formation at which lower temperature these chlorides are at or near their dew points. Preferably the temperature at this stage of the process is above 8000C, particularly preferably above 8500C, and suitably, up to about 12000C.Such a temperature may be attained and maintained by the introduction of a suitable quantity of oxygen, for example in the form of air, to achieve the combustion of a proportion of the excess carbon in the bed. Preferably the concentration of the chlorine in the bed is from 40 v v to 80 v v in the total gaseous input into the bed and, preferably, the concentration of oxygen in those gases is not allowed to rise above 10 v v. Tf required, this may entail the stepwise addition of oxygen at one or more further points up the bed so that the maximum figure of 10 v v is not exceeded at any point. The carbon used in this process stage is preferably a coke or other non active form of carbon. However, it is possible to use reactive coke prepared as above described from a non caking or weakly caking coal, preferably havina a surface area of less than 50 m2 g at least at the beqinning of the beneficiation. Sufficient excess to provide not only any quantity required for combustion to provide a heat input to the beneficiation reaction but also such quantity as may be required for the subsequent chlorination of the alumina beneficiate is suitably used. Beneficiation reaction is used to preheat the entire alumina carbon mixture for the subsequent chlorination step and has the effect also, under suitable conditions, of suitably increEasing the surface area of the carbon.Preferably the excess of chlorine, expressed as a of that required to react with the oxygen content ofthe iron oxide and other chlorinatable oxides present, is at least 15 and where it is to be used in the subsequent chlorination step at least 20 and suitably up to 50 . The gases leaving the beneficiation reactor contain a considerable quantity of chloride which it is preferred to condense these chlorides to recover them from gaseous contaminants and to revolatise and oxidise them to produce, directly, a sufficiently pure chlorine for recvcle to either stage of the process. These gases inevitably also contain a small proportion of aluminium chloride despite the excellent selectivity given by the beneficiation step. According to a novel feature of this invention the beneficiation step may be conducted in the presence of a small proportion of water vapour to further enhance the degree of selectivity. The water vapour is preferably included in the non chlorine gaseous input into the fluidised bed, for example in the stream air or of oxygen and inert gases used to dilute the chlorine and to supply oxygen for bed temperature control purposes. The quantity of water vapour is preferably as low as is found to give an appreciable enhancement of selectivity as shown by a reduction in the quantity of aluminium removed from the bed with the iron chloride.Preferably the reduction is equivalent to at least 0.5 for example from 1 to 5 or more based on the weight of alumina in the beneficiate. The quantity of water vapour is preferably at least 0.01 g, for example at least 0.02 g per g C12 fed to the bed and, for example up to 0.2 g per g C12 or even more. It is found that the quantity of aluminium chloride formed during the beneficiation step may be reduced appreciably by the controlled addition of water vapour according to this feature of the invention. However, this feature is advantageously also applicable to any process for the selective removal of iron values from an iron containing aluminous material by chlorination using dilute chlorine, i.e. chlorine having a concentratiaon not more than 852 v v, in the presence of excess carbon, in a fluidised bed whether or not the remaining alumina or the iron chlorides are further treated according to the present invention. It is possible to supply the water vapour required by this feature by allowing the requisite quantity of water to remain in the aluminous material during dehydration althouqh this is not as satisfactory method of operation as the inclusion of the water vapour in the fluidising gases. In this case the residual water vapour of the dehydrated aluminous material may be suitably at least 0.002 , for example from 0.003 to 0.1 by weight. It is desirable for aluminium chloride to be in a highly pure form. The present process lends itself to this and since the use of a high beneficiation temperature acts to lower the quantity of contaminating chlorides in the alumina without the need for an intervening purification step it thereby also lowers the quantity of contaminating metal values in the second stage of the process. The aluminium chloride produced by the chlorination of the alumina according to the invention is suitably brought into contact with metallic aluminium to purify it from iron chloride which may still be present in a small quantity.Iron chloride vapour present in the aluminium chloride vapour stream will react with the aluminium metal to give a deposit of metallic iron and generate further aluminium chloride. The aluminium chloride from which residual iron chloride has been removed may be cooled to a temperature such that any iron chloride remaining in it is in solid form and such that the aluminium chloride itself is in vapour form, which temperature is below that of the bed of reductive metal particles, for example, suitably from 20oC to 3000C, and treated to remove the solid particles e.q. hv electrostatic methods. A single stage negative polarity electrostatic precipitator may be used although the use of other types of precipitator is not excluded. The voltage drop across the precipitator plates may be from 8 to 12 kv inch. The iron chloride recovered in this manner represents material which would normally contaminate the aluminium chloride product.It inevitably contains in addition aluminium chloride in close admixture. aphis material may be treated with the iron chloride issuing from the beneficiation step to regenerate chlorine. The purified aluminium chloride so produced may be selectively condensed.The residual gases remaining after the aluminium chloride condensation step comprise the gaseous products of the chlorination reaction being CO2, Sic4, TiC14, some remaining A1C13 and any non reactive gas such as N2 added to the system as purge gas. The CO2 and N2 may eventually be passed to atmosphere after suitable cleaning. Were such cleaning by water or other liquid scrubbing agents the other constituents would be lost although operation by this means is not precluded.However it is preferable to condense as much as conveniently possible of the remaining chloride vapours for recovery for use either as intermediate chemicals for other purposes or, for treatment to regenerate chlorine from them, for recycle to the process as described above. The invention will now be illustrated by means of the following Examples 1 to 4 c in each of which bauxite ore is subjected to a beneficiation stage resulting in alpha alumina formation followed by a chlorination stage which it is attempted to chlorinate the alumina content of the beneficiate. Example 1 This Example comprises the selective chlorination of the iron values in an ore to form a beneficiate followed by chlorination of the beneficiate in the presence of an unreactive coke as reductant. The apparatus consisted of a vertical cylindrical fused silica reactor of height 3.66 m enclosed in a gas fired furnace. Gases for fluidisation and reaction entered the base of the reactor from metering equipment via a fused silica conical distributor. Products of reaction carried out in the gases passed along a horizontal cooling duct to a cyclone and then to a gas sampling point before disposal, via a caustic scrubber, to atmosphere. Provision was made to admit solids to the reactor via an inlet at the top and to remove solids from the reactor via a cooled pipe at the base. The reactor 165 mm internal diameter was charged with a mixture of 40 kg Ghanian bauxite of particle size 0.1 to 1.0 mm diameter which had been calcined at 8000C and 13 kg commercial calcined petroleum coke of particle size ..2.0 mm. The surface area of the coke, measured by nitrogen absorption, was 0.2 m2 g. The reactor charge.was fluidised by a flow of nitrogen and heated to 9500C. The nitrogen flow was then changed to a flow of a mixture of 12 1 mien chlorine, 10 1 mien air and 18 1 mien nitrogen. Samples of the solids in the reactor were taken at intervals over a 4 hour period during which period the temperature of the fluidised bed was maintained within the range 970 to 10000C. No unreacted chlorine was detected, i.e. the chlorine slip in this first part of the process was nil. The fluidising gas was then changed back to nitrogen. Analysis of the solid samples gave the following results s Table 1Reaction Ore Carbon Time Foe 203 A1203 Alpha Surface Area Min wt wt A1203 m2 g wt 96 0 16.5 70.4 o 0.2 160 1.4 87.8 180 1.4 89.3 200 0.9 89.0 220 1.0 89.8 240 1.4 88.8 50 0.1 It can be concluded from the above data that the selectivity of attack of iron values was good, giving maximum recovery of aluminium values, and the resulting beneficiate contained a considerable amount of its aluminium oxide content in the alpha form 50 wt based on totalA1203 . Beneficiated bed from a similar experiment was added to the solids remaining in the reactor to give a fluidised bed 2.7 m deep, having a temperature of 9800C with a fluidising nitrogen flow of 40 l min. The fluidising gas was changed to a mixture of 30 1 mien chlorine and 10 1 mien air, at which time the pressure drop across the fluidised bed was 147 mm of mercury. Further beneficiated bed was added to the reactor to maintain this pressure drop as the reaction proceeded, and the temperature of the fluidised bed was maintained in the range 98n 990. Gas analysis showed that chlorine slip the concentration of unreacted chlorine appearing in the product gases increased reaching values of 3 when the run was terminated. vhis degree of chlorine slip showed that under the conditions used the alpha alumina containing beneficiate did not chlorinate sufficiently readily for practical apPlication.This example is not according to the invention. Example 2 This example comprises the selective chlorination of the iron values in the same bauxite as used in Example 1, followed by chlorination of the resulting beneficiate in th presence of a reactive coal coke as reductant. The process of Example 1 was repeated using as reductant coal coke prepared as follows. Semi bituminous coal of particle size 2.0 mm was charged into a reactor similar to the chlorination reactor. The charge was fluidised with nitrogen and heated to 8000C over a 30 minute period. After maintaining the temperature at 8000C for a further 30 minutes, the coal coke was removed from the reactor and allowed to cool. The surface area measured by nitrogen absorption was 85 m2 g. As before, during the first part of the process, no chlorine slip occurred.Analysis of the samples of the reactor solids gave the following results. Table 2Reaction Ore Carbon Time Fe203 A1203 Alpha Surface Area Min wt wt A1203 m7 g wt 0 17.2 69.9 0 85 160 13.2 69.6 180 8.5 77.0 200 7.2 78.8 220 6.4 80.8 240 4.8 82.1 55 150 Again, aluminium oxide in the alpha form had been produced during beneficiation. The beneficiate was the chlorinated further. During this second part of the experiment the measured chlorine slip was 0.18 indicating an improved utilisation of chlorine compared with Example 1. For a time, the bed depth reduced to 2.1 m resultinq in 3.5 chlorine slip. This reduced to 0.1 when the bed depth was returned to 2.7 m by the addition of further beneficiate. This Example illustrates the use of a more reactive carbon reductant enabling the alpha A1203 to be successfully chlorinated. This Example is according to the invention. Example 3 This Example comprises the selective chlorination of the iron values in bauxite in the presence of reactive coal coke and water. 46 kg of the same Ghanian bauxite, sieved and calcined as in Example 1, and 15 kg of the same coal coke as used inExample 2 were charged into a reactor of 180 mm internal diameter. This charge was fluidised by a flow of nitrogen and heated to 9500C, then the fluidising gas was changed to a mixture of 14 1 mien chlorine, 12 1 mien air and 21 1 mien nitrogen. The nitrogen component was bubbled through water at 35 C and the mixture conveyed to the reactor through a heated pipe to prevent condensation of water. Samples of the solids in the reactor were again taken at intervals for a four hour period during which the bed temperature was maintained in the range 9700 to 10000C. No chlorine slip was detected. The fluidising gas was then changed back to nitrogen and the solids removed from the reactor. Analysis of the samples gave the following results Table 3 Reaction Time Ore Min Foe 203 A1203 alpha A1203 wt 8 wt wt 0 16.9 69.6 0 160 8.2 75.0 180 6.8 78.5 200 4.9 81.4 220 3.1 79.8 240 2.0 81.8 67 These figures show that the presence of water vapour during reaction improved the selectivity of iron removal.This Example is according to the invention. Example 4 This Example comprises the selective chlorination of the iron values in bauxite in the presence of coal coke of intermediate reactivity followed by chlorination of the beneficiate so formed. a. A 180 mm internal diameter reactor was charged with 46 kg Ghanian bauxite, sieved and calcined as in Example 1, and 15 kg of a coal coke prepared by devolatilising anthracite in the manner of Example 2, e.g. in the absence of the bauxite and using a stream of dry nitrogen. The devolatilised anthracite had a surface area of 7 m2 g. The charge was fluidised by a flow of nitrogen and reacted as described in Example 3 except the nitrogen was not bubbled through water. No chlorine slip was detected. Carbon recovered from the bed at the end of the four hour reaction period had a surface area of 42 m2 g. Analysis of the samples of the reactor solids gave the following results Table 4aReaction Ore Carbon Time Fe203 A1203 Alpha Surface Area Min wt wt A12O3 m2 g wt 0 17.9 69.7 0 7 150 5.8 81.4 180 2.2 86.9 210 2.1 87.1 240 1.6 85.9 71 42 The high selectivity of attack of iron can be seen from these figures resulting from using a less reactive coal coke. Again alpha A1203 was formed. Beneficiated bed from a repeat run was added to the solids remaining in the reactor to give a fluidised bed 2.6 mdeep. The fluidising gas was changed to a mixture of 35 1 mien chlorine and 12 1 mien air at which time the pressure drop across the bed was 132 mm of mercury. Further beneficiated bed was added to the reactor to maintain this pressure drop as reaction proceeded. Gas analysis showed a chlorine slip of 0.3 and it was judged that the reaction efficiency was borderline although thisExample is still according to the invention. b. The experiment of Example 4a was repeated except that the reductant was 19.5 kg of sieved anthracite which wasAllowedtQ devolatilise in the presence of bauxite as the charge was heated. This developed an area of 20 m2 gm during devolatilisation due to the presence of water in the bauxite. Carbon recovered from the bed after beneficiation had a surface area of 60 m2 g and analysis of the samples of bed solids gave the following results Table 4bReaction Ore Carbon Time Fe203 A1203 Alpha Surface Area Min wt wt A1203 m2 q wt 0 17.5 69.1 0 20 150 4.2 86.3 180 2.0 90.7 210 1.8 89.8 240 1.7 91.3 65 60 These figures show a selectivity very much the same as in Example 4a when the carbon surface area was 42 m2 g. Alpha A1203 was formed as before. During the chlorination of the beneficiate the measured chlorine slip was 0.1 showing that the higher carbon surface area caused efficient chlorination of the alumina.This Example is according to the invention. c. The beneficiation part of Example 4a was repeated using anthracite from a different source. In this experiment the surface area of the devolatilised anthracite was 1.5 m2 g and the carbon recovered from the bed had a surface area of only 7 m2 g.The beneficiate analysed 91.8 A1203 0.4 Fe203 and behaved during beneficiation as did Example 1. The alpha alumina content was 78 . It can be deduced from the foregoinq examples that this carbon would not enable the alpha alumina to be efficiently chlorinated in the second process stave. After the beneficiation stage, the fluidising gas was changed to nitrogen humidified at 550 to 600C, in the manner described in Example 3 and the bed of beneficiate was fluidising in this humidified nitrogen for four hours.Carbon recovered from the bed after this treatment was found to have a surface area of 70 m2 g. This beneficiated bed was then further chlorinated as described in Example 4a using as feed, to maintain the bed height constant during the course of the process, beneficiate containing carbon of a similar surface area from other runs. During this further chlorination the chlorine slip was no higher than 0.18. This example is as according to the invention and illustrates the use of a coal coke of intermediate reactivity in beneficiation to give an acceptable selectivity of attack of iron. Since coals are natural and variable substances a particular coal may or may not give a coke during the beneficiation stage having a sufficient reactivity to chlorinate the alumina efficiently. If not, it can be seen that a moderate degree of heat treatment of the carbon if necessary in the presence of water vapour, will achieve the necessary activation and utilising this technique anthracite can provide a satisfactory carbon for the chlorination of alpha alumina.