# Process for treating a well for starting hydrocarbon fluid production by injecting nitrogen generating liquid.

## Abstract
Production is initiated from a well which is kept from producing by the hydrostatic pressure of the liquid it contains, by injecting an aqueous liquid that contains reactants which form nitrogen gas within the well or reservoir which gas displaces enough liquid out of the well to lower the hydrosta tic pressure to less than the fluid pressure in the adjacent portion of the reservoir and cause fluid to flow from the reser voir to the well.

## Claims
C L A I Ifl S 1. A process for treating a well communicating with a hydrocarbon fluid containing formation from which production is prevented by the hydrostatic pressure of liquid contained within the well, comprising displacing sufficient liquid from the well to reduce the hydrostatic pressure to less than the reservoir fluid pressure by means of gas generated from at least one aqueous liquid solution which forms or contains a nitrogen gas forming mixture of a at least one water soluble compound which contains at least one nitrogen atom to which at least one hydrogen atom is attached and is capable of reacting within an aqueous medium to yield nitrogen gas and by products which are substantially inert to the components of the well and reservoir formation, b at least one oxidizing agent which is capable of reacting with said nitrogen containing compound to form said gas and by products, and c an aqueous liquid which is capable of dissolving or homogeneously dispersing said nitrogen containing compound, the oxidizing agent and the byproducts of the nitrogen gas producing reaction. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the well comprises at least two conduits that are in communication near the lower ends thereof, and the generated gas is collected in one of the conduits near the top thereof, and at least part of the liquid in the well is displaced from the well via the other conduit. 3. The process according to claim 2, in which the gas forming mixture is injected into one of the conduits. 4. The process according to claim 1, in which the gas forming mixture is injected into a production tubing string present in the well, at a rate such that substantially all of the nitrogen gas produced by each increment of the injected fluid is produced while that increment of the fluid is in the tubing string and substantially all of the so generated gas is accumulated at the top of the tubing string. 5. The process according to claim 1, in which the gas forming mixture is injected at least partly into the formation. 6. The process according to claim, comprising the consecutive steps of injecting into the well a slug of treating liquid injecting into the well behind the treating liquid slug at least one aqueous liquid solution which forms or contains the nitrogen gas forming mixture closing the well and allowing the generation of nitrogen gas to displace at least a portion of the treating liquid slug to tie location to be treated treating the location by the treating liquid and producing fluid from the well by outflowing gas generated by the nitrogen gas forming mixture, so that the treating liquid slug is backflowed out of the well. 7. The process according to any one of the claims 1 6, in which the nitrogen containing compound is salt of ammonia and the oxidizing agent is an alkali metal or ammonium nitrite. 8. The process according to any one of the claims 1 6, in which the nitrogen gas forming mixture consists essentially of an aqueous solution of ammonium chloride and sodium nitrite. 9. The process according to any one of the claims 1 6, in which the nitrogen gas forming mixture consists essentially of an aqueous solution of urea and sodium hypochlorite. 10. The process according to any one of the claims 1 6, in which the nitrogen gas forming mixture consists essentially of an aqueous solution of urea and sodium nitrite. 11. The process according to any one of the claims 1 10, in which the injected solution contains a buffering agent for maintaining a reaction rate controlling pH. 12. The process according to any one of the claims 1 11, in which the injection into the well of the nitrogen gas forming mixture is accompanied by an injection into the well of an aqueous liquid solution or dispersion of a foam forning surfactant. 13. The process according to any one of the claims 1 12, in which the injection into the well of the nitrogen gas forming mixture is accompanied by an injection into the well of an aqueous liquid solution or dispersion of a water thickening agent. 14. A process for treating a well communicating with a formation, as described in the specification.

## Description
STARTING H5DROCARBON FLUID PRODUCTION BY INJECTING NITROGEN GENERATING LIQUID The invention relates to treating a liquid contalning well by passing a nitrogen gas generating solution into the well to cause a gas effected displacement of liquid from the well. More particularly, it relates to kicking off or initiating production from a well which is dead due to hydrostatic pressure of the liquid it contains without the necessity of swabbing the well, or injecting nitrogen or other gas which has been co pressed at a surface location. The process according to the invention for treating a well communicating with a hydrocarbon fluid containing formation from which production is prevented by the hydrostatic pressure of liquid contained within the well, comprises displacing sufficient liquid from the well to reduce the hydrostatic pressure to less than the reservoir fluid pressure by means of gas generated from at least one aqueous liquid solution which forms or contains a nitrogen gas forming mixture of a at least one water soluble compound which contains at least one nitrogen atom to which at least one hydrogen atom is attached and is capable of reacting within an aqueous medium to yield nitrogen gas and by products which are substantially inert to the components of the well and reservoir formation, b at least one oxidizing agent which is capable of reacting with said nitrogen containing compound to form said gas and by products, and c an aqueous liquid which is capable oD dissolving or homogeneously dispersing said nitrogen containing compound, the oxidizing agent and the byproducts of the nitrogen gas producing reaction. In one embodiment of the invention the nitrogen gas forming mixture is injected into a production tubing string at a rate such that the gas is formed within and accumulated at the top of the tubing string. The gas is subsequently released to initiate the production of gas from the well and reservoir. In another embodiment of the invention, the composition of the gas forming mixture and its rate of injection can be adjusted so that at least some of the gas is armed within the pores of the reservoir formation. In still another embodiment, an aqueous solution or dispersion of a foam forming surfactant is injected, before, during or after the injection of the nitrogen gas forming mixture, so that a release of gas from the well induces foaming and a foam transporting of liquid out of the well. Water soluble amino nitrogen compounds, which contain at least one nitrogen atom to which at least one hydrogen atom is attached and are capable of reacting with an oxidizing agent to yield nitrogen gas within an aqueous medium, which are suitable for use in the present invention can comprise substantially any water soluble ammonium salts of organic or inorganic acids, amines, amides andior nitrogen linked hydrocarbon radical substituted homologues of such compounds as long as the substituted compounds react in a manner substantially equivalent to the parent compounds with respect to the production of nitrogen gas and by products which are liquid or dissolve to form aqueous liquid which are substantially inert relative to the well conduits and reservoir formation.Examples of such compounds include ammonium chloride, ammonium nitrate, ammonium acetate, ammonium formate, ethylene diamine, formamide, acetamide, urea, benzyl urea, butyl urea, hydrazine, phenylhydrazine, phenylhydrazine hydrochloride, and the like. Such ammonium salts, e.g., ammonium chloride, ammonium formate or ammonium acetate are particularly suitable Oxidizing agents suitable for use in the present process can comprise substantially any water soluble oxidizing agents capable of reacting with a water soluble nitrogen containing compound such as an ammonium salt or a urea or hydrazine compound as described above to produce nitrogen gas and the indicated types of by products.Examples of such oxidizing agents include alkali metal hypochlorites which can, of course, be formed by injecting chlorine gas into a stream of alkaline liquid being injected into the well , alkali metal or ammonium salts of nitrous acid, such as sodium or potassium or ammonium nitrite and the like. The alkalI retal or ammonium nitrites are particularly suitable for use with nitrogen containing compounds such as the ammonium salts. Aqueous liquids suitable for use in the present invention can comprise substantially any relatively soft fresh water or brine. Such aqueous liquid solutions preferably have a total dissolved salt content of from about 1 to 100 ppm, and a total hardness in terms of calcium ion equivalents of no more than about 50 ppm. Foam forming surfactants suitable for use in the present invention can comprise substantially any which are capable of being dissolved or dispersed in an aqueous liquid solution containing the nitrogen containing compound and oxidizing agent and remaining substantially inert during the nitrogen gasproducing reaction between the nitrogen containing compounds and the oxidizing agent.Examples of suitable surfactants comprise non ionic and anionic surfactants, commercially available sodium dodecylbenzene sulphonates, e.g., SIPONATE DS 10 trade name mixtures of the Siponate or similar sulphonate surfactants with sulphated polycxwalkylated alcohol surfactants, e.g., the NEODOL trade name sulphate surfactants sulphonate sulphate surfactant mixtures petroleum sulphonates BRYTON trade name sulphonates PETRONATES and PYRONATES trade names fatty acid and tall oil acid soaps, e.g., ACTYNOL HEADS trade name non ionic surfactants, e.g., TRITON X100 trade name , and the like surfactant materials which are soluble or dis persible in aqueous liquids. To increase the viscosity of the aqueous solution to an extent enhancing the effectiveness of the gas in the gaslifting liquid of the present process, water thickening agents may be added to the liquid, such agents comprising substantially any water soluble polymer or gel capable of dissolving in an aqueous liquid solution containing the nitrogen containing compound and oxidizing agent and remaining substantially inert during the nitrogen gas producing reaction between the. Examples of suitable water thickening agents include Xanthan gum polymer solutions such as marketed under the trade names PELZAN or XAFL00D hydroxyethyl cellulose, cartoetfryl cellulose, guar gum and the like thickening agents. Such thickening agents are particularly effective within a well conduit. They retard the rising velocity of gas bubbles so that more liquid is removed by the rising gas, and thus such thickening agents are particularly effective in treatments in which most of the nitrogen gas is generated within the well. The composition of the nitrogen gas forming mixture should be correlated with the pressure, temperature and volume properties of the reservoir and well components. In general, the rate of gas formation tends to increase with increasing temperature and increasing concentration of reactants. With certain reactants the amount of gas production tends to be limited where the pressure is particularly high. By means of calculations and or tests, the composition of the gas fotming mixture can be adjusted so that the volume of the liquid which contains Qr forms that mixture need to be no more than about the volume of the tubing string plus the volume of the annular space between the tubing string and the casing in order to generate an amount of gas that will displace enough liquid to reduce the hydrostatic pressure to less than the fluid pressure in the adjacent portion of the reservoir. Such a liquid can be circulated within the borehole by flowing it into the tubing string while flowing fluid out of the casing without injecting into the reservoir. Alternatively, in certain situations, it is advantageous to cause 2 significant amount of flow of gaseous fluid from the reservoir to the well. In such situations the composition of the nitrogen gas forming mixture can be adjusted relative to the ambient temperature and the pressure and temperature of the reservoir so that the rate of gas generation is slow enough to allow a signlficamt portion f the gas forming mixture to be displaced into the reservoir. The generation of gas within the reservoir tends to increase the fluid pressure adjacent to the well and, when gas is released from the well, to ensure a relatively large inflow of gaseous fluid into the well. By way of example, reference is now made to a procedure for correlating the composition of the nitrogen gas forming mixture with the reservoir properties and the selected duration of the treatment, wherein use is made of an amino nitrogen compound which is a salt oP ammonia and an oxidizing agent whic is an alkali metal or ammonium salt cf nitrcus acid as the gasgenerating reactants.Such composition has a slower reaction rate than, for example, the composition comprising urea and hypochloride as reactants, and thus can be used in place of the latter to provide a a slower reaction rate at a given temperature and concentration or b a similar rate of reaction at a higher temperature or concentration. Such reactants can also form relatively concentrated solutions which minimize the amount of water that must be injected to induce the gas generation in the selected location.In additIon, since their reaction rate increases with increasing pA, the nitrogen gasgenerating reaction rate of a solution of them can be buffered a at a relatively high pil at which the rate is relatively slow at the reservoir ter.perature by adding, for example, sodium acetate or other compatible buffer providing a near neutral or slightly alkaline solution or b at a relatively low pH at which the rate is relatively fast at the reservoir tenner ature by adding, for example, a mixture of acidic acid and sodium acetate or other compatftle buffer providing a slightly acidic solution. In addition to being useful for initiating a sustained production of gas from a dead well, such as a gas well or an oil well, the present process can also be used to displace a slug of treating liquid into a reservoir and then produce it back out of the reservoir without a need for employing swabbing equipment or gas which has been highly pressurized at a surface location. Such a treatment could comprise, injecting one or more fluids such as an oil solvent ar.d or acia, or scale dissolving liquid with which it is desired to wash the perforations and or near well zone by indenting and subsequently backi1owing. The injecting and subsequent backflowing of the treating liquid may be conducted as follows. A sequence of one or more slugs of treating liquid is arranged to precede a slug or volume of the present gas generating liquid which, if desired, may be followed by a slug or volume of inert aqueous liquid.Then, the sequence of liquids is spotted within or near the bottom of the well being treated for example, by injectIng the liquids sequentially into the well through a tubing string and or an annulus around it so that the liquid already in the well is displaced into the reservoir and continuing the injection until the frontal portion of the treatment liquid is at or near the bottom of the well. Alternatively, the sequence can be such that the liquIds are sequeftlally Includ d within a stream of fluid which is being circulated into the well through the annulus or tubing string and terminating the fluid circulation when the frontal portion of the treating liquid is at or near the bottom of the well.The wellhead is then closed so that gas generated by the gas generating liquid accumulates above the liquid within the well while it displaces the treating liquid into the reservoir. At least a portion of the so accumulated nitrogen gas is then realeased in order to initiate a backflowing of the treating liquid from the reservoir into the well. As will be apparent to those skilled in the art, where the well depth and or tubing size is sufficient to accommodate a significant portion of the nitrogen gas forming mixture, the composition of such a mixture can be adjusted so that a significant volume of pressurized gas will be formed.The injecting and producing of the treating liquid slug car. be repeated a pluraliíy of times, by closing the wellhead so that the accumulating gas injects the treating liquid slug an releEF ng gas so that the treating liquid flows back and, then again closing the wellhead so that the displacement of treating liquid slug into the reservoir is repeated. In an alternative procedure for initiating a sustained flow of production fluid from a well in which production has been prevented by the hydrostatic pressure of liquid in the well, gas generated by the gas generating mixture is allowed to collect in at least one of the upper ends of the production tubing or the annulus. In one embodiment, fluid is circulated into the top of one well conduit and out the top of the other ti a slug cf the gas generating liquid is present within at least one of the conduits. The top of the conduit containing the gas generating liquid is then closed while the top of the other is left open. As the gas is generated it initially accumulates above the liquid in the so closed conduit while displacing liquid down through the bottom of that conduit and out through the open top of the other conduit. Where the volume cf the so generated gas is sufficient and or where the gas generating liquid is injected within both of the conduits, at least some portions of the liquid are displaced by a gas lifting type action of the generated gas. Where the gas generating liquid is present within both of such conduits the tops of both may be left open. In another alternative procedure for initiating a gas flow, a composition of a gas generating liquid is correlated with the temperature and injectivity properties of the reservoir and in jected into the reservoir in a manner snch that a significant proportion of the gas is generated within the reservoir formation. Where desirable, a pair of well conduits such as a tubing string and the annulus between it and a surrounding pipe string can be utilizea torelatively rapidly circulate a slug of the treatment liquid to the bottom of the well and then displace that liquid into the reservoir formation in a way which reduces the overall time for which the gas geneating liquid is exposed to the reservoir temperature before it has entered the reservoir formation. A particularly suitable gas generating liquid for use in such a procedure is one in which the nitrogen containing reactant is an ammonium salt and oxidizing reactant is an alkali metal or ammonium nitrite.