# Method of compounding melt forming resins and mica particles.

## Abstract
A method of compounding a melt forming resin such as polypropylene with mica particles having a coating of a heat sensitive chlorinated hydrocarbon. The resin is formed into counter rotating, parallel molten streams that contact one another. The coated mica particles are introduced into this turbulence and dispensed throughout the molten resin with shear kneading.

## Claims
CLAIMS. 1. A method for compounding a melt forming resin with mica particles and a heat sensitive chlorinated hydrocarbon additive, which method comprises contacting a mass of molten resin with a blend of the mica and additive and mixing the molten resin and the blend by kneading. 2. A method in accordance with Claim 1, wherein the melt forming resin comprises polypropylene. 3. A method in accordance with Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the additive comprises chlorinated wax having 65 85 by weight chlorine. 4. A method in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the mica comprises phlogopite mica. 5. A method in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 4, 0 wherein compounding is effected at a temperature below 480 F 6. A method in accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein the mass of molten resin comprises at least two counterrotating streams of the resin that contact one another. 7. A method in accordance with Claim 6 wherein the mica blend is introduced into the turbulence between the two counter rotating streams of the resin. 8. A method according to any one of Claims 1 to 7 wherein the resin and the mica are compounded by A providing at least two streams of molten resin that are counter rotating with respect to one another and contact one another to provide a turbulence therebetween B introducing into the tubulence the blend of mica and additive, and c kneading the resin and the blend into a homogeneous or substantially homogeneous melt. 9 h method according to any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein resin has a melt index ASIA 1 1238 not greater than about 15. 10. A method according to Claim 9 wherein the resin has a melt index between 2 and 15. 11. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the mass of molten resin is contacted with the blend at an initial mixing temperature not less than about 60 F below the temperature at which chlorine containing gas would evolve from the additive. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the initial mixing temperature is between 25 and 600F below the temperature at which chlorine containing gas would evolve from the additive. 13. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the kneading is effected in a temperature range up to 250F above the temperature at which the molten resin in initially contacted with the blend. 14. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein the additive comprises a chlorinated hydrocarbon wax containing from 70 to 78 by weight of chlorine. 15. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein the additive is in the form of a coating on the mica particles. 16. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein the compounded resin, mica particles and additive are formed into pellets.

## Description
DESCRIPTION This invention relates to methods of compounding mica and melt forming resins. U.S. Patent Applications Nos. 849,287 and 849,288, each filedNovember 7, 1977 by Meyer and Newman disclose that certain chlorinated aliphatic compounds can act as coupling agents for mica and certain melt forming resins. French Patent 2,124,315 discloses a variety of techniques for compounding mica into an organiz polymeric matrix and suggests dispersing the mica particles in thermoplastic resin prior to attainment of processing conditions. The precise conditions under which such compounding is accomplished are quite critical. Chlorinated aliphatic compounds as heat sensitive chlorinated waxes herein are subject to reduction or even elimination of beneficial effects upon undesired decomposition with heat. Such decomposition is particularly acute during compounding with melt forming resin and mica particles since the mica particles act as heat sinks that are insulated by the resin during compounding and may, under conditions of high shear and mechanical heat generated thereby during intense mixing, cause compounding temperatures in excess of that which causes undesired decomposition, even though cooling is attempted. On the other hand, low temperatures during such compounding, even if attainable, can lengthen the time required for coupling agents as chlorinated waxes or other chlorinated aliphatic compounds to exhibit desired effect and consequently cause perhaps less efficient use of equipment or modification of existing equipment so as to extend periods at elevated temperature for desired properties. According to the prevent invention, there is provided a method for compounding a melt forming resin with mica particles and a heat sensitive chlorinated hydrocarbon additive which method comprises contacting a mass of molten resin with a blend of the mica and additive, the blend preferably being in the form of mica particles coated with the additive, and mixing the molten resin and the coated mica by kneading. Compounding in this manner permits temperature control not otherwise easily attainable when mica particles and melt forming resin are admixed under conditions of high shear. Such high shear can impart to the melt of resin and mica particles sufficient mechanical work as to generate temperature increase that is not easily controllable. Kneading or low shear mixing, however, permits effective mixing of the mica and molten resin in short periods when dons in accordance with this invention so that the mica particles are not at high temperature for extended periods under shear forces that cause such uncontrollable temperature increase and consequent undesired degradation of heat sensitive additives.Moreover, coipounding in accordance with this invention does not expose the mica to shear forces that undesirably break such mica thereby exposing mica surfaces without heat sensitive coupling agents.Surprisingly, mica that is coated with sensitive additives may be compounded with melt forming resins as polypropylene such that the total processing time at high temperature is as little as 15 second or less and yet provide moulding precursors, e.g. pellets, which yield noulded articles with desirable properties. Even still further, however, very high shear can even cause deterioration of melt forming resin to an extent that the filled resins are undesirably brittle even though other properties may be satisfactory. Thus, for example, the high shear used to provide a molten resin in the process of this invention has to be controlled so as to keep the melt index ASTM D1238 of the compounded resin preferably below about 15. The process thus provides for compounding of mica and melt forming resin with such heat sensitive additives as chlorinated waxes at times less than a minute, if desired, whereby moulding precursors are prepared that may be used in conventional moulding operations to yield moulded objects of highly desirable physical properties. Ir one preferred embodiment, the melt forming resin, e.g. poLvpnzpylene, is formed into at least two counter rotating, paral mo mo often atreams that contact one another to form a tubulence therebetween, and coated mica particles are intro duced into such turbulence allowing their rapid and effective dispersement through out the molten resin with low shear kneading. During compounding in accordance with this invention, it is particularly desirable that the melt forming resin receive high shear prior to mica incorporation that is sufficient to provide rapidly a molten mass of resin at desired temperatures but insufficient to cause significant change of the resin s properties. For example, it is preferred that a melt forming resin such as polypropylene having a melt index ASTM D1238 below about 6 not undergo such shear prior to mica incorporation as to raise its melt index ASTM D1238 above 15, even more preferably such that it is not above 12. Otherwise, final composites will have an undesired brittleness. On the other hand, it is preferred to provide molten resin at a temperature prior to incorporation of the mica and additive into the resin at least about 100F below that temperature at which the additive first releases chlorine containing gas. To achieve maximum benefit of the additive in as short as time as possible, however, incorporation of mica and additive into the resin should be such that the resin has an initial temperature not more than about 600F preferably, not more than about 500F below that temperature at which the additive releases chlorine containing gas. The melt forming resins that lay be advantageously compoun ded with mica and heat sensitive additives in accordance with this invention include cosmercially available materials that are designed for use in moulding a by injection, compression, stamping etc. processes.Of these commercial resins thermoplastics made fem monomers comprising olefinic hydrocarbons such as ethylene, propy lene, styrene, etc. are of special interest in that they can yield moulded, mica containing articles with high strength and resistance to heat disk ration as well as economic advantage Melt forming resins made from monomers comprising ojetinic aliphatic hydrocarbon monomers as ethylene, propylene and tne lie can be compounded especially well and particularly desirable results are achieved with melt forming resins sold as polypropylene resins e.g.Gulf Polypropylene 6420 MHP, Hercules Profax 6523 Polypropylenes Normally such resins desirably have intrinic viscosities above about 1.5 and preferably between about 2.0 2.6 for more expedient processing, although suitable modification will allow processing of resins with other viscosities. An important criterion, however, in selection of desirable melt forming resin is that is remain sufficiently molten at processing temperatures that do not degrade the efficiency of the heat sensitive additives. Moreover, the melt forming resin preferably has a melt index ASTM D1238 below about 10, more preferably between about 2 6. Other resins besides polypropylene resins include poly ethylene as well as copolymers made from monomers comprising ethy lene, propylene or other lower aliphatic hydrocarbon monomers as copolymers of ethylene and propylene. Mica fillers suitable for use in this invention are also commercially available. The mica can be generally characterized as being an aluminum silicate mineral that can be cleaved into thin sheets. Examples of commercially available mica filler includes those normally denominated as muscovite, biotite and or phlogopite micas. Mica filler comprising principally phlogopite mica as Suzorite mica marketed by Marietta Resources International consti tutes a mica that allows formation of moulded articles with particularly desirable properties, especially when compounded as herein. The mica filler comprises thin flakes of mica that are typically made by delamination of mica mineral. Mica, such as that comprising principally phlogopite mica, that is retained on a 100 meEK screen, desirably on a 60 mesh tureen is preferred and normally mica passing through a 20 mesh screen can be advantageously processed, although mica that is of other size will be suitable. Mica as that sold by Marrietta International as Suzorite 60 s and being referred to ae unclassified with respect to aspect ratio can yield aesirabit conposites. Measurement of number average aspect ratio average diameter of flakes over average thickness of such mica show them to have low aspect ratio, i.e., below 30, although higher aspect ratio rica may be employed, e.g. 20 200. The heat sensitive additive for which this invention is particularly advantageous includes chlorinated compounds desirably comprising about 45 85 bv weight chlorine and especially, chlori noted hydrocarbons as waxes marketed as Chlorez Dover Chemical , Chlorowax Diamond Shamrock , and Kioro chek Keil Chemical, a division of Ferro Chemical . Typical molecular weights weight average for such chlorinated waxes are between about 500 2000, and especially between about 1000 1500 with desirable results especially seen with waxes having between about 6 g by weight chlorine.Other chlorinated compounds that may be suitably employed include chlorinated aXphatics with as low as ss by weight chlorine and molecular weights weight average as high as several thousand e.g. 10,000 . Prior to compounding, at least a portion of the additive is preferably contacted with the mica particles to provide a coating on the particles. For example, the mica and additive in powder or other suitable form can be tumbled together preferably at elevated temperature to make the additive molten e.g., temperatures preferably between about 60 1800C to yield a coated mica. Normally, the additive and mica will be admixed in this coating process such that the additive is added between about O.1 15 preferably about 1 by weight of the combined mica and additive weight.The raw mica is desirably about 10 80 by weight of the combined weight of the resin and mica In another method of making, mica is coated by contacting intimately the mica particles and additive in liquid carrier as by dispersing powdered additive with mica and adding solvent thereto.Conventional solvents, e.g. aliphatic chlorides may be conveniently used The latter procedure is described in our eopending E uropean Patent Application Ne EMI5.1 The drawing illustrates a preferred parat s in which compounding is accomplished in accordance with this invention. The device illustrated is a twin screw extruder which is, in preferred mode, operated such that the screws are counter rotating. Such twin screw extruders are commercially available with variable screw configurations from Welding Engineer, Inc. One screw of a twin screw extruder is illustrated.The other screw not shown has flights corresponding to flights of the screw illustrated except that the flights are reversed in angle, i.e., the reverse flights are at the same but negative from normal as the flight angles of the screw shown. The screws are non intermeshing and counter rotating. The screw not shown is of similar diameter, but shorter by about the length of three diameters thereby allowing attachment of the barrel to a conventional strand die orifice. Melt forming resin such as polypropylene is added to one end of the twin screw extruder in an area of flight configuration preferably that subjects it to sufficiently high shear to cause elevated temperature, e.g. 4400F and to provide a molten mass of resin prior to addition of the mica and additive blend. By molten herein is meant with reference to resin that particles of resin are at a temperature that can or does provide their coalescence with one another. Initially, the barrel of the extruder at this area may be heated to maintain its temperature in a range above about 4000F, preferably about 4200 4600F. During extended use, however, this area is maintained by conventional means at desired processing temperature, e.g. 435 4550F. The coated mica is thereafter introduced into the molten resin through one or more ports downstream as illustrated in the drawing. Essential to the addition of blended mica and additive particulate is its reduced shear mixing with the molten melt forming resin so as to maintain temperature control. It It found thst high shear mixing as in many conventional ytru ers cau e such work on the mica particles as to cause an teiperatuN ris when compounded at very high speeds e.g. bUJ lb. hl or higher. Thie temperature rise markedly reduces the efficiency of the heat sensitive additives and in one case, e.g. Chlorez Dover Chemical with about 74 by weight chlorine causes significant deterioration, at temperatures above about 4800F. In order to obtain maximum effect of the additive in as rapid as possible time, the temperature of the resin prior to mica incorporation is carefully controlled. Additionally, the shear applied to the resin is controlled so as to insure that the melt index ASTM D1238 is preferably maintained below 15 and preferably below 12 or even 10 for most product applications.Thus, the amount of shear that is applied to the resin prior to mica incorporation is that amount which does not significantly elevate its melt index but which does provide a temperature high enough for rapid and effective incorporation of mica and additive Such temperature or initial mixing temperature is preferably in a range that is not lower than about 600F below a temperature which would cause evolution of chlorine containing gas from the additive by thermogravametric analysis. More preferably, such initial mixing temperature is not lower than about 250F below that temperature. Well known thermogravimetric analysis techniques for determination of a temperature of first evolution of chlorine containing gas i.e. outgassing of the additive may be used. For example, Chlorez 700 from DoverChemical and having about 74 by weight chlorine in the wax outgasses at about 4800F . The resin, however, prior to mica and additive incorporation may be at a temperature above the temperature at which there would be outgassing from the additive. This is because incorporation of mica into the resin first provides some cooling to the resin. Thus, for example, at especially high loadings of mica, e.g. 508 75 or more, even higher initial temperatures for the resin may be tolerated or even advantageous. For most circumstances, however, the initial temperature of the resin is desirably between about 10 600F below that temperature at which there would be outgassing of the additive. The temperature at which mica and resin mix should preferably not be allowed to reach a temperature about 250F, more preferably 150F higher than the initial mixing temperature of the resin. Additionally, such temperature should be in a range below that temperature at which chlorine containing gas evolves from the additive. Such a temperature range is accomplished by low shear kneading of the mica particles into the resin. Cooling of the extruder during mica incorporation into the resin may be used. As previously noted, it is particularly desirable that the melt index of the resin not exceed about 15 ASTMD1238 .. In other product applications, however, a higher melt index may be useful. In such a circumstance, very high shear or, in some circumstances, chemical additives e.g. peroxides may be used to provide products e.g. pellets at a melt index of 20 or higher. As mentioned, it is preferred to use twin screws that are oo ter rotating, and desirably the twin screws are non intermesh ing as are available commercially. By adding the mica into a turbulbrace created between counter rotating streams of molten resin citsted b such devices good initial mixing is obtained. Various flight changes as illustrated in the drawing during massage of the resin as well as resin and mica through the above described twin screw extruder can also be of advantage to promote mixing as will be understood by those in the art. As theSe are matters within the skill of the art, no further description is betlieved necessary. The amount of shear applied is such that its melt index ASTM D1238 is not elevated above about 15, more preferably 12. As shown in the drawing, it is advantageous to draw a vacuum from the extruder, preferably, as shown, downstream from coated mica addition. Such vacuum may be desirably, for example, in the range of above about 15 inches of Hg, more preferably about 20 inches Hg as 22 inch Hg.Such vacuum removes entrapped gases as air or volatiles developed during compounding. The extruder may be fitted at the end, for example, with a conventional strand die not shown to yield strands that are cooled and diced into composite moulding precursors, e.g. pellets. More over, the extruder may also be connected to shapingdevices that take strands or other moulding precursors and shape them into desired objects. Furthermore, if desired, the extruder may be fitted with extensions as heated pipes that provide additional time for inter action of the mica and melt forming resin Advantageously, however, as mentioned, the entire compound extrusion provides a melt residence, i.e. time that mica and melt forming resin and additive exist in melt form of less than about 30 seconds, more usually less than about 15 seconds.Although additional melt residence is provided by further moulding activities, e.g. injection moulding, pellets compounded in the manner described can provide moulded articles of excellent properties under standard shaping conditions. The mica in this invention may be replaced in part, as is understood, by other particulates, e.g. talc, glass, calcium carbonate and the like to provide desired modifications, such particulates being added with, for example, the mica or at other 50nvenient processing times. The following examples are intended to illustrate th invention in currently preferred aspects and should not therefore be interpreted as necessarily limiting the scope thereof for those in the art will recognize other readily apparent modifications with in the hereinbefore disclosed invention. Kelt index is grams per 1C minutes. EXAMPL 1 Using a Welding Engineers 2.0t Twin scres Extruder as illustrated in the drawing, equal parts by weight of Gulf Polypropy lene 6W20 MHP and coated mica are compounuea. The mica is coated with Chlorez 700 by tumbling it with heated mica to yield a coating therein. The Chlorez 700 is used at a level that would be about 1 by weight of the combined weight of mica and polypropylene. Chlorez 700 has about 74 chlorine by weight, an average molecular weight of about 1250 and a nominal formula indicating one extra chlorine for the number of carbon atoms present.The raw mica is Suzorite 60 S marketed by Marietta International. The temperature of the extruder is maintained at 4400F and the polypropylene continuously starve fed followed by continuous starve feeding of the so combined mica and additive particles. The polypropylene has a temperature of about 4400F and MHP index below 10 before combined mica and additive particle addition. The twin screws are counterrotating and non intermeshing and a vacuum of approx. 22 inches is maintained. The resin becomes molten after passage of about 8 along the extruder. The rate of addition yields 600 lb. hr. of compounded product which is sent through a strand die to provide strands about 1 4 or less which are thereafter cooled and diced into pellets. The strands exit the extruder at a temperature of about 4500F. The pellets are molded into standard test bars by injecting at 600 psi and 4280F.The properties of the test bars are as follows Properties ASTM 50 Mica PP Method Tensile Strength, PSI D638 72 4,830 Tensile Elongation D638 72 1.02 Flexural Strength, PSI D790 71 7,790 Flexural Modulus, PSI D790 71 1,275,00u Proptrtie AS ASTM 50 mica PP lethod Deflection Temperature 264 PSI F 268 66 PSI OF 303Izod Impact, Ft. lbs. in. B256 73 Notched .59 Unnotched 2.00Specific Gravity D792 70 1.375Mould Shrinkage D955 p .0016 T .0018 The elapsed time between introducing the resin and exiting of the strands from the extruder is within 15 seconds. EXAMPLE 2 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except for replacement of a section of the screws that melt the resin prior to incorporation of the mica. This section provides very high shear to the resin and imparts to the resin a melt index of above 20. The filled resin has similar properties to those listed in Example 1 but exhibits brittleness. EXAMPLE 3 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the mica is coated with a solution of Chlorez 700 in methylene chloride. Essentially comparable results are obtained. EXAMPLE 4 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the temperature of the extruder is maintained at about 450n F and the strands exit at about 4600F. Similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 5 The pellets of Example 1 are molded by injection molding at 4400F at 1100 psi into a mold maintained at 1200F to yield a crash pad retainer suitable for automotive application. The retainer is flame treated prior to its contact with a polyurethane precursor and the precursor foamed between the retainer and vinyl sheet to provide a mica and polypropylene foam vinyl laminate. EXAMPLE 6 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the chlorinated wax comprises Chlorowax 70, marketed byDiamond Shamrock. Similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 7 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the mica is introduced in equal parts by weight into two different ports, the second being downstream from the first.Essentially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 8 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the weight proportions of resin and coated mica particles are 3 2 respectively. Molded test bars show excellent properties. EXAMPLE 9 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the melt forming resin contains calcium carbonate. EXAMPLE 10 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the coated mica is added to yield pellets that comprise 5 by weight mica. EXAMPLE 11 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the weight ratio of coated mica to melt forming resin is 2 1. Prior to compounding with the resin, the additive may be, rather than coated on the mica, or in addition to being coated on the mica, dry blended with the mica as follows EXAMPLE 12 Using a Welding Engineers 2.0 Twin Screw Extruder as illustrated in the drawing, equal parts by weight of GulfPolypropylene 6420 MHP and mica with particulate additive are compounded. The mica is blended with Chlorez 700 by tumbling it at room temperature in a ribbon blender for fifteen minutes. The Chlorez 700 is used at a level that would be about 18 by weight of the combined weight of mica and polypropylene. Chlorez 700 available from Dover Chemical has about 74 chlorine by weight, an average molecular weight of about 1250 and a nominal formula indicating one extra chlorine for the number of carbon atoms present.The raw wica is Suzorite 60 S marketed by Marietta International. The temperature of the extruder is maintained at 4400F and the polypropylene continuously starve fed followed by continuous starve feeding of blended mica and additive particulate. The twin screws are counterrotating and non intermeshing and a vacuum of approx. 22 inches is maintained. The resin becomes molten after passage of about 8 along the extruder. The rate of addition yields 600 lb. hr. of compounded product which is sent through a strand die to provide strands about 1 4 or less which are thereafter cooled and diced into pellets. The strands exit the extruder at a temperature of about 4500F.The pellets are molded into standard test bars by injecting at 600 psi and 428 F. The properties of the test bars are as follows Properties Dry Mixed Mica Strength psi x 5,760 s 130 5 Tensile Elongation x N.A. s N.A. t N.A. Strength psi x 8,390 s 240 t 5Flexural Modulus psi x 1,350,000 s 20,000 P 5 264 psi OF x 276 s 1 2Heat Deflection Temperature 66 psi OF x 302 s 2 2 Notched ft. lb. in. x .39 s .00 4 IzodImpact Unnotch ft. lb. in. x 1.15 s .09 P 5N.A. Not Available x Mean s Standard deviation C Number of test samples The elapsed time between introducing the resin and exiting of the strands from the extruder is within 15 seconds. EXAMPLE 13 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the mica is blended with twice as much Chlorez 700.Essentially comparable results are obtained. EXAMPLE 14 The procedures of Example 1 are followed except that the temperature of the extruder is maintained at about 4500F and the strands exit at about 460n e. Similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 15 The pellets of Example 12 are molded by injection molding at 4400F at 1100 psi into a mold maintained at 1200F to yield a crash pad retainer suitable for automotive application. The retainer is flame treated prior to its contact with a polyurethane precursor and the precursor foamed between the retainer and vinyl sheet to provide a mica and polypropylene foam vinyl laminate. EXAMPLE 16 The procedures of Example 12 are followed except that the chlorinated wax comprises Chlorowax 70, marketed byDiamond Shamrock. Similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 17 The procedures of Example 12 are followed except that the blend of mica and additive is introduced in equal parts by weight into two different ports, the second being downstream from the first. Essentially similar results are obtained. EXAMPLE 18 The procedures of Example 12 are followed except that the weight proportion of resin and mica is 3 2 respectively.Molded test bars show excellent properties.