# INSECT RESISTANT PLANTS

## Claims
Pflanze, umfassend eine genetisch modifizierte Pflanzenzelle, die ein Insektizid Strukturgen unter der Kontrolle eines pflanzenexprimierbaren Promotors enthält, mit der Maßgabe, daß diese Zelle nicht eine Tabakpflanzenzelle ist, die den Vektor pA ocs B

## Description
The present invention is in the fields of genetic engineering, plant husbandry, and bacterial bio affecting compositions, especially those derived from the genus The crystal protein gene usually can be found on one of several large plasmids that have been found in In addition to the crystal protein, Shuttle vectors, developed by G. B. Ruvkun F. M. Ausubel 1981 Nature A shuttle vector consists of a DNA molecule, usually a plasmid, capable of being introduced into the ultimate recipient bacteria. It also includes a copy of the fragment of the recipient genome into which the foreign genetic material is to be inserted and a DNA segment coding for a selectable trait, which is also inserted into the recipient genome fragment. The selectable trait marker is conveniently inserted by transposon mutagenesis or by restriction enzymes and ligases. The shuttle vector can be introduced into the ultimate recipient cell, typically a bacterium of the family Rhizobiaceae which contains the genus After the shuttle vector is introduced into the recipient cell, possible events include a double cross over with one recombinational event on either side of the marker. This event will result in transfer of a DNA segment containing the marker to the recipient genome replacing a homologous segment lacking the insert. To select for cells that have lost the original shuttle vector, the shuttle vector must be incapable of replicating in the ultimate host cell or be incompatible with an independently selectable plasmid pre existing in the recipient cell. One common means of arranging this is to provided as the third parent another plasmid which is incompatible with the shuttle vector and which carries a different drug resistance marker. Therefore, when one selects for resistance to both drugs, the only surviving cells are those in which the marker on the shuttle vector has recombined with the recipient genome. If the shuttle vector carries an extra marker, one can then screen for and discard cells that contain plasmids resulting from a single cross over event between the shuttle vector and the recipient plasmid resulting in cointegrates in which the entire shuttle vector is integrated with the recipient plasmid. If the foreign genetic material is inserted into or adjacent to the marker that is selected for, it will also be integrated into the recipient plasmid as a result of the same double recombination. It might also be carried along when inserted into the homologous fragment at a spot not within or adjacent to the marker, but the greater the distance separating the foreign genetic material from the marker, the more likely will be a recombinational event occurring between the foreign genetic material and marker, preventing transfer of the foreign genetic material. If the shuttle vector is used to introduce a phenotypically dominant trait e.g. a novel expressible insecticide structural gene, but not an inactivated oncogenic T DNA gene one need not rely on a double homologous recombination. The cells resulting from a single cross over event resulting in cointegrate plasmids can transfer the desired trait into plant cells. One may even use a variant shuttle vector having a single uninterrupted sequence of T DNA. However, as the resulting T DNA will now contain a tandem duplication, one must be vigilant regarding a possible rare deletion of the shuttle vector by a single homologous recombination event occurring between the two homologous sequences in either the Shuttle vectors have proved useful in manipulation of Agrobacterium plasmids see D. J. Garfinkel A recently disclosed variation of the shuttle vector system for inserting changes into large DNA molecules is the suicide vector . In this system, as described by R. Simon An alternative to the use of shuttle vectors for introduction of novel DNA sequences into T DNA by means of homologous recombination involves bacterial transposons. As described in the section Agrobacterium Genes on the TIP Plasmids, transposons can jump into the T DNA of a TIP plasmid e.g. see D. J. Garfinkel Included within the gram negative bacterial family Rhizobiaceae in the genus Virulent strains of M. D. Chilton June 1983 Sci. Amer. Plant cells can be transformed by The infection of plant tissue by Plant protoplasts can be transformed by the direct uptake of TIP plasmids. M. R. Davey An alternative method to obtain DNA uptake involves the use of liposomes. The preparation of DNA containing liposomes is taught by Papahadjopoulos In US Patents 4,078,052 and 4,235,871. Preparations for the introduction of Ti DNA T DNA can be transmitted to tissue regenerated from a fusion of two protoplasts, only one of which had been transformed G. J. Wullems Differentiated plant tissues with normal morphology have been obtained from crown gall tumors. A. C. Braun H. N. Wood 1976 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA Roots resulting from transformation from A number of genes have been identified within the T DNA of the TIP plasmids. About half a dozen octopine plasmid T DNA transcripts have been mapped S. B. Gelvin Nopaline Ti plasmids encode the nopaline synthase gene Transcription from hairy root T DNA has also been detected L. Willmitzer In eukaryotes, methylation especially of cytosine residues of DNA is correlated with transcriptional inactivation genes that are relatively under methylated are transcribed into mRNA. S. B. Gelvin The Ti plasmid encodes other genes which are outside of the T DNA region and are necessary for the infection process. See M. Holsters Different octopine type Ti plasmids are nearly 100 homologous to each other when examined by DNA hybridization T. C. Currier E. W. Nester 1976 J. Bacteriol. It has been shown that a portion of the Ti M. D. Chilton M. F. Thomashow In contrast to the situation in octopine type tumors, nopaline T DNA is integrated into the host genome in one continuous fragment M. Lemmers Simpson N. S. Yadav As detailed in the section on Shuttle Vectors, technology has been developed for the introduction of altered DNA sequences into desired locations on a TIP plasmid. Transposons can be easily inserted using this technology D. J. Garfinkel Deletions can be generated in a TIP plasmid by several methods. Shuttle vectors can be used to introduce deletions constructed by standard recombinant DNA techniques Cohen Boyer, US Pat. 4,237,224 . Deletions with one predetermined end can be created by the improper excision of transposons B. P. Koekman The nopaline synthase gene has been used for insertion of DNA segments coding for drug resistance that can be used to select for transformed plant cells. In plant cells, the kanamycin resistance gene from Tn5 is not transcribed under control of its own promoter J. D. Kemp T. C. Hall A. J. de Framond Chilton One object of this invention is to confer pest resistance, specifically insect resistance, to a plant. In pursuance of this goal, other objects are to stably insert a gene coding for an insecticidal protein into the genome of the plant cell, to have this gene expressed in plant tissues, for the expression to be either regulated or constitutive, and for the plant tissues to be in a normal plant. Another object is to provide novel specialized insecticidal tissues for a plant, in particular a means for producing on a normal dicot a gall which contains within its tissue an insecticidal protein. Other objects and advantages will become evident from the following description. The invention disclosed herein provides a plant comprising a genetically modified plant cell having an insecticide structural gene introduced and expressed therein under control of a plant expressible promoter. Further, the invention provides plant tissue comprising a plant cell whose genome includes T DNA comprising an insecticide structural gene inserted in such orientation and spacing with respect to a plant expressible promoter as to be expressible in the plant cell under control of that promoter. Also provided are novel strains of bacteria containing and replicating T DNA, as defined herein, the T DNA being modified to contain an inserted insecticide structural gene in such orientation and spacing with respect to a plant expressible promoter as to be expressible in a plant cell under control of said promoter. Further, the invention provides novel plasmids having the ability to replicate in The present invention comprises an insecticide structural gene under control of a promoter expressible in plant cells, said promoter gene combination being inserted into a plant cell by any means known to the art. More specifically, in its preferred embodiment the invention disclosed herein further comprises expression in plant cells of an insecticide structural gene under control of a plant expressible promoter, after introduction via T DNA, that is to say, by inserting the insecticide structural gene into T DNA under control of a plant expressible promoter and introducing the T DNA containing the insert into a plant cell using known means. The invention is useful for genetically modifying plant tissues and whole plants by inserting useful insecticide structural genes from various bacterial species or strains. Such useful insecticide structural genes include, but are not limited to, the genes coding for insecticidal proteins as defined below, especially the crystal protein of The introduction and expression of the structural gene for an insecticidal protein can be used to protect a crop from infestation with insect larvae such as hornworm Figure 1 presents the sequence of the crystal protein gene of p123 58 10, described in Example 1. Figure 2 presents a map of restriction sites and transcripts of the T DNA of pTi15955. Figure 3 is a diagram of a construction described in Example 2 of a recombinant DNA vector carrying an insecticide structural gene under control of a plant expressible promoter. Figure 4 is a diagram of the construction described in Example 11 of a plasmid having an insecticidal protein structural gene. The following definitions are provided, in order to remove ambiguities to the intent or scope of their usage in the specification and claims. Production of a genetically modified plant expressing an insecticide structural gene introduced via T DNA combines the specific teachings of the present disclosure with a variety of techniques and expedients known in the art. In most instances, alternatives expedients exist for each stage of the overall process. The choice of expedients depends on variables such as the choice of the basic TIP or other vector systems for the introduction and stable maintenance of the expressible insecticide structural gene, the plant species to be modified and the desired regeneration strategy, and the particular insecticide structural gene to be used, all of which present alternative process steps which those of ordinary skill are able to select and use to achieve a desired result. For instance, although the starting point for obtaining an insecticide structural gene is exemplified in the present application by DNA isolated from A principal feature of the present invention in its preferred embodiment is the construction of T DNA having an inserted insecticide structural gene under control of a plant expressible promoter, or, list preferably, a T DNA promoter, as these terms have been defined, Location of the promoter insecticide structural gene combination insertion site is not critical as long as the transfer function of sequences immediately surrounding the T DNA borders are not disrupted, since these regions appear from prior art studies to be essential for insertion of the modified T DNA into the plant genome. Preferred insertion sites are those which lie in areas that are most actively transcribed, in particular the A convenient means for inserting a promoter insecticide structural gene combination into T DNA involves the use of a shuttle vector, as described Following the strategy just described, the modified T DNA can be transferred to plant cells by any technique known in the art. For example, this transfer is most conveniently accomplished either by direct infection of plants with the novel An alternative to the shuttle vector strategy involves the use of plasmids comprising T DNA or modified T DNA, into which an insecticide structural gene is inserted, said plasmids being capable of independent replication in an Although the preferred embodiment of this invention incorporates a T DNA based Regeneration of transformed cells and tissues is accomplished by resort to known techniques. An object of the regeneration step is to obtain a whole plant that grows and reproduces normally but which retains integrated T DNA. The techniques of regeneration vary somewhat according to principles known in the art, depending upon the origin of the T DNA, the nature of any modifications thereto and the species of the transformed plant. Plant cells transformed by an Ri type T DNA are readily regenerated, using techniques well known to those of ordinary skill, without undue experimentation. Plant cells transformed by Ti type T DNA can be regenrated, in some instances, by the proper manipulation of hormone levels in culture. Preferably, however, the Ti transformed tissue is most easily regenerated if the T DNA has been mutated in one or both of the The genotype of the plant tissue transformed is often chosen for the ease with which its cells can be grown and regenerated in In an alternative method for conferring insect resistance to a crop, one may infect plants within a field which is to be protected with an The following Examples utilize many techniques well known and accessible to those skilled in the arts of molecular biology and manipulation of TIPs and Textual use of the name of a restriction endonuclease in isolation, e.g. In these Examples, special symbols are used to make sequences more easily understood. Sequences that code for proteins are underlined, and codons are separated with slashes . The positions of cuts or gaps in each strand caused by restriction endonucleases or otherwise are indicated by the placement of asterisks . Plasmids, and only plasmids, are prefaced with a p , e.g., pTi15955 or pKS 4, and strain parenthetically indicate a plasmid harbored within, e.g., The first step in developing an insect resistant crop was to clone the insecticidal protein gene of The 50 megadalton MD plasmid was enriched from HD 73 using sucrose gradient centrifugation. A HD 73 library was constructed by first digesting this plasmid with Restriction enzyme analysis of p123 58 3 and p123 58 10 showed that the two plasmids were identical except for having the 6.6 kbp p123 58 10 was used to further probe the transformants from the HD 73 plasmid library. Sixteen of the 572 colonies hybridized to the insert of clone p123 58 10 and all had the characteristic 6.6 kbp Analyses on the protein produced in the We compared our DNA sequence results Fig. 1 , obtained by methods well known to those skilled in the art of DNA sequencing e.g. see A. M. Maxam W. Gilbert 198O Meth. Enzymol. This example teaches the insertion of the A The changed bases are the underlined ATC sequence in a . Note that good hybridization properties are insured because only three out of 27 base pairs are changed. p123 58 10 is digested with M13 Bt A is hybridized with the oligonucleotide primer, 5 AGATGGAGGATCCTTATGGATAACAAT3 , previously synthesized as described in Example 10.1. The oligonucleotide M13 Bt A hybrid is incubated with the Klenow fragment of M13 Bt A Note that this linker contains translational stop signals underlined in all three possible reading phases. The linkers are trimmed by digestion with The T DNA 1.6 gene is summarized as follows By removing the pKS111, which is a pRK290 clone corresponding to the T DNA clone p403 which encodes the 1.6 gene which was described in the Detailed Description, transcript 24 in Fig. 2, see also C. F. Fink 1982 M.S. thesis, University of Wisconsin Madison , is digested with pKS It is advantageous to have a kanamycin resistance pKS 4 is linearized by digestion with The recessed ends of this structure are filled in by incubation with the Klenow fragment of When these ends were blunt end ligated together, the resulting suture has the following sequence Note that the resulting structure is susceptible to the action of Alternatively to the above construction, one may convert the When grown in p11 83a has a p11 83b is introduced into pTi15955, pTiA66 equivalent to pTi15955 but having a nonfunctional pRZ102 R. A. Jorgenson This example teaches another method of inserting an expressible gene for the pCF44 Fink, pCF44A was digested with pNS5 was digested with An oligonucleotide primer having the sequence 5 AGTCTCATACTCACTCTCAATCCAAATAATCTGC p123 58 10 DNA Example 1.1 was digested with An oligonucleotide primer having the sequence 5 GAGGTAAC This linker encodes stop codons underlined in all three reading frames, and is ended by a functional pKS111 N Fink, This example teaches another method of inserting an expressible gene for the The 3.8 kbp fragment is mixed with and ligated to The An oligonucleotide primer having the sequence 5 ATACTACTCTAC To conveniently introduce the insecticide gene into the phaseolin gene, two additional changes must be made to that phaseolin gene. The first change involves addition of Note also that this 38 mer has only 6 mismatches, thus insuring good hybridization properties during priming. The oligonucleotide 5 AGGGTGCATTTGAAGCTTGAATAAGTAAGAACTAAAATGC3 , synthesized as described in Example 10.1, is hybridized to single strand circular M13 3.8Aa DNA purified from virions isolated by centrifugation of culture medium. The oligonucleotide M13 3.8Aa hybrid is incubated with DNA ligase and the Klenow fragment of MBT3 pKS111 K Fink, Regeneration in this Example involves carrot tumors incited by Ri based TIP plasmids and is effected essentially as described by M. D. Chilton Carrot disks are inoculated with about 10⁹ bacteria in 0.1ml of water. One to 1.5 cm segments of the ends of the roots obtained are cut off, placed on solid 1 1.5 agar Monier medium lacking hormones D. A. Tepfer J. C. Tem The cultured root tissue described in Example 5.1 is placed on solidified 0.8 agar Monier medium supplemented with 0.36µM 2,4 D and 0.72µM kinetin. After 4 weeks, the resulting callus tissue is placed in liquid Monier medium lacking hormones. During incubation at 22 to 25 C on a shaker 150 r.p.m. for one month, the callus disassociates into a suspension culture from which embryos differentiate, which, when placed in Petri dishes containing Monier medium lacking hormone, develop into plantlets. These plantlets are grown in culture, and after hardening by exposure to atmospheres of progressively decreasing humidity, are transferred to soil in either a greenhouse or field plot. Ti based vectors which do not have functional Regeneration in this Example involves tobacco tumors incited by a Ti based TIP plasmid and is effected essentially as described by K. A. Barton Tobacco tissue is transformed using an approach utilizing inverted stem segments first described by A. C. Braun 1956 Canc. Res. Clones are obtained from the transformed axenic tissues as described by A. Binns F. Meins 1979 Planta Transformed clones are placed onto solidified MS medium having 0.3 mg l kinetin, and cultured as described in Example 6.1. The shoots which form are rooted by putting them on a solid 1.0 agar medium containing 1 10 strength MS medium salts, 0.4 mg l thiamine, lacking sucrose and hormones, and having a pH of 7.0. Rooted plantlets are grown in culture, hardened as described in Example 5.2, and are transferred to soil in either a greenhouse or field plot. Plants are screened for retension of the transformed phenotype methods, well known to those skilled in the art, such as Southern, Northern and dot blots with appropriate probes, octopine assays, immunological see Example 7 or biological Example 8 assays for presence of crystal protein. Constructions described by T. C. Hall Anti insecticidal protein antibody was produced by methods well known to those skilled in the art of immunology. Western blots, to detect antigens after SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, were done essentially as described by R. P. Legocki D. P. S. Verma 1981 Analyt. Biochem Micro ELISA On day 1, the wells are coated with 1 1000 dilution of antibody rabbit anti insecticidal protein IgG in coating buffer. 200µl well is incubated at 37 C for 2 4 hours. The plates are covered with Saran Wrap during this incubation. Afterwards the plates are rinsed three times with phosphate buffered saline Tween PBS Tween allowing a 5 minute waiting period between each rinse step. Then 1 borine serum albumin BSA is added to rinse and, after addition to the well, left to sit for 20 minutes before discarding. Rinsing is repeated five times more with PBS Tween. The tissue is sliced up into small pieces and then homogenized with a polytron using 1gm of tissue ml phosphate buffered saline Tween 2 polyvinyl pyrrolidone 40 PBS Tween 2 PVP 40 . All samples are kept on ice before and after grinding and standard curves were obtained. One standard curve is done in tissue homogenates and one standard curve is also done in buffer to check the recovery of insecticidal protein from homogenized tissue or cells. Following centrifugation of the homogenized samples, 100µl of each sample is placed in a well and left overnight at 4 C. To avoid errors, duplicates of each sample are done. The plates are sealed during incubation. After the overnight incubation, the antigen is discarded and the wells are washed five times with PBS Tween allowing 5 minutes between each rinse. A conjugate rabbit anti insecticidal protein IgG alkaline phosphatase linked is the diluted 1 3000 in PBS Tween 2 PVP containing 0.2 BSA and 150 is added to each well followed by incubation for 3 6 hours at 37 C. After the incubation, the conjugate is discarded and the wells are rinsed five times with PBS Tween, allowing five minutes between each rinse as before. Immediately before running the assay, a 5mg tablet of p nitrophenyl phosphate obtained from Sigma and stored frozen in the dark is added per 10ml substrate and vortexed until the tablet is dissolved. 200µl of the room temperature solution is quickly added to each well. The reaction is measured at various times, e.g. t 0, 10, 20, 40, 60, 90 and 120 minutes, using a Dynatech Micro ELISA reader. When p nitrophenyl phosphate, which is colorless, is hydrolysed by alkaline phosphatase to inorganic phosphate and p nitrophenol, the latter compound gives the solution a yellow color, which can be spectrophotometrically read at 410nm. Insects were obtained from commercial sources and kept essentially as described by R. A. Bell F. G. Joachim 1976 Ann. Entomol. Soc. Amer. Triparental matings were generally accomplished as described below other variations known to those skilled in the art are also acceptable. This Example describes techniques for the synthesis and use of synthetic oligonucleotides. Other useful references can be found in the list of works cited in the section introductory to these Examples. The techniques for chemical synthesis of DNA fragments used in these Examples utilize a number of techniques well known to those skilled in the art of DNA synthesis. The modification of nucleosides is described by H. Schallor Use of synthetic oligonucleotides to reconstruct a deleted segment of a gene has been exemplified by Hall Use of synthetic oligonucleotides to link otherwise incompatble restriction site sticky ends has been exemplified by Hall General methods of directed mutagenesis have been reviewed recently by D. Shortle The sequence to be modified usually is moved into a single stranded bacteriophage vector, here one derived from M13, by standard techniques well known to those in the art. The vector DNA is generally in the double stranded replicative form RF , as the single stranded viral form cannot ordinarily be cut and spliced by restriction enzymes and ligases. After To reconstruct a complete protoxin gene, flanking DNA restriction sites were identified by Southern blots of restriction digests, a well known technique, and overlapping clones were selected from a After pBt73 16 DNA was digested with p403B and 1.6.4B 3.8.3 DNAs digested with ATCC15955 essentially as described in Example 9. A double homologous recombinant, designated RS2014, was identified having a mutated pTi15955 T DNA. This substitution deletes some In Tobacco hornworms fed on transformed tobacco callus tissue containing the plant expressible full length insecticidal protein gene were observed to display symptoms attibutable to Immunological dot blots analogous to Western blots Example 7 indicated that