# Apparatus for detecting defective nuclear reactor fuel rods.

## Abstract
The invention relates to a method and means for detecting leaks through the cladding of a nuclear fuel rod. Disposed at a predetermined location within the fuel rod jacket 40 is a leakage detector mass 50 which is capable of having detectable eddy currents induced therein through the application of an electromagnetic field, and which mass dege neratively reacts with the fuel rod coolant to detectably reduce the eddy current producing capability of the detector mass. The method of determining the leakage status of the fuel rod cladding comprises applying an electromagnetic field by means of an electric coil 72a placed adjacent the fuel rod in operative proximity to the detector mass, and sensing the level of the eddy currents induced in the detector mass upon excita tion of the coil.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A nuclear fuel rod for use in a coolant, comprising a tubular jacket containing fissile fuel and having end plugs which seal the jacket at both ends thereof, characterized in that the jacket 40 has disposed therein, in a predetermined location, a leakage detector mass 50 capable of having detectable eddy currents induced therein through the application of an electromagnetic field, said leakage detector mass comprising a material which degeneratively reacts with said coolant so as to detectably reduce the eddy current producing capability of the detector mass. 2. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 1, characterized in that said material has a rate of degenerative reaction with said coolant resulting in a substantial reduction of the eddy current producing capability of the detector mass within less than 24 hours. 3. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 1 or 2 characterized in that said material comprisn. aluminum. 4. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 3 characterized in that the alur7nur has a purity grentew than 99 percent. 5. A nuclear fuel rod according to c air w 2, or 4, characterized in that the detector mass 150 hasa irregular surface finish. 6. A nuclear fuel rod according to any one o claims 1 to 5, characterized in hat the detector mass r502 comprises sintered material. 7. A nuclear fuel rod according to any one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the detector mass 50 within the jacket 40 is disposed adjacent one of said end plugs 41, 42 . 8. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 7, characterized in that the detector mass 50 is supported on said one end plug 42 . 9. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 8, characterized in that the detector mass 50 and said one end plug 42 have interposed therebetween a layer of aluminum oxide 51 . 10. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 9, characterized in that said layer of aluminum oxide is a deposited layer formed on a surface of said one end plug 42 . 11. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, characterized in that the detector mass comprises a disc 50 or 51 . 12. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, characterized in that the detector mass comprises a ring 50 or 50 or 50 substantially coaxial with respect to said jacket 40 . 13. A nuclear fuel rod according to claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, characterized in that the detector mass comprises a cup shaped member 50 having its open end directed away from said one end plug and toward the fissile fuel 45 within the jacket. 14. A nuclear fuel rod according to any one of claims 8 to 13, characterized in that said detector mass 50 and the fissile fuel 45 within the jacket 40 have interposed therebetween a compression spring 48 seating the detector mass against said one end plug 42 . 15. A nuclear fuel rod according to any one of claims 8 to 14, characterized in that said detector mass 50 is affixed to said one end plug 42 . 16. A method of detecting a breach through the jacket of a nuclear fuel rod as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, characterized by the steps of externally applying an electromagnetic field to the fuel rod in a manner causing the field to pass through the detector mass 50 within the jacket 40 of the fuel rod, thereby to induce eddy currents in said detector mass, and sensing the level of eddy currents thus induced. 17. A method according to claim 16, characterized in that the electromagnetic field is applied by placing an electric coil 72a in close proximity to the fuel rod near said predetermined location, and exciting the electrical coil with high frequency electrical energy. 18. A method according to claim 17 for detecting a breach through the jacket of the fuel rod having the detector mass disposed adjacent said one end plug 42 , characterized in that said electric coil 72a is placed in close proximity to said one end plug in substantial axial alignment with the fuel rod. 19. A method according to claim 17 or 18, characterized in that the eddy current induced in the detector mass 50 is sensed by measuring the resultant current flow through said electric coil 72a . 20. A method according to claim 19, characterized in that the measured current flow is compared with a reference value representing current flow through the electric coil resulting from eddy currents induced in the detector mass when the latter in in a non degenerated state. 21. A method according to any one of claims 16 to 20, characterized in that said electromagnetic field is applied while the fuel rod is submersed in said coolant.

## Description
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DETECTING DEFECTIVE tECLEAR REACTOR FUEL RODS This invention relates generally to nuclear reactors, and more particularly to a method and apparatus for detecting leaks in a nuclear fuel rod for a watercooled nuclear reactor. Nuclear reactors used for power generation typically have a large number of fuel assemblies arranged, in suitable configuration, to heat water so as to produce steam for turning electricity producing generators. Each of the fuel assemblies typically contains from 49 to as many as 300 fuel rods which contain nuclear fuel. Therefore, a large nuclear reactor may contain as many as 40,000 fuel rods. Each fuel rod is basically a metal tube approximately 1 to 1i cm in diameter and typically from 2.5 to 4.5 m long. Suitable fissionable material, such as uranium oxide in the form of cylindrical fuel pellets, is stacked within the fuel rod. The upper end of the tube is void of fuel pellets and, when sealed, forms a plenum for gas. A small clearance space is provided around the fuel pellets to accommodate expansion or swelling of the fuel. Since the metal tubes of the fuel rods contain the radioactive nuclear fuel of the system, inspection methods and apparatus for verifying the integrity of the rods are of primary importance. Fission product gases and other radioactive materials leaking from a fuel rod during reactor operation can enter the reactor coolant system. Therefore, fuel rods are carefully inspected upon manufacture and periodically during operation, since initially good fuel rods may develop cracks, pinholes or other defects during their operation. In earlier fuel assembly designs, the individual fuel rods were part of an integral assembly making it very difficult for failed fuel rods to be replaced individually. Premat,urely discharging such a fuel assembly because of a failed fuel rod, on the other hand, is extremely costly.More recently, there has been increasing interest in the nuclear reactor utility industry for reconstitutable fuel assembly designs which facilitate removal and replacement of fuel rods. A key step in the fuel assembly reconstitution process is the identification of the specific fuel rod or rods in the assembly which have failed due to cracks, pinholes or other penetrations of the tube or cladding of the fuel rod. While a number of methods and devices have been utilized in the past for detecting fuel rod failures, such techniques of the prior art have generally not provided a simple, reliable, rapid and safe method for performing the rod failure inspection. The desired rod failure detection method should provide for identification of the damaged rod without requiring any significant design changes to the fuel. Any design changes required by the detection mechanism should have minimal impact on the basic fuel rod e.g. not use up a significant amount of gas plenum space and not increase the risk of fuel failure. Accordingly, any parts of the detection system required to be added internally of the fuel rod should not significantly increase the risk of introducing moisture into the rod, should not swell excessively and should not give off significant quantities of gas under irradiation. In addition, such detection system parts should not be free to vibrate or cause wear or other possible reliability or quality control problems.The fuel rod failure detection method should provide a high probability of being able to readily distinguish between a failed and unfailed rod, and should require little if any dismantling of the fuel assembly in order to test the individual fuel rods. Further, the equipment or apparatus used in the rod failure detection process should not present significant risk of damaging the fuel rods and should be capable of providing testing of an entire fuel assembly in a reasonably short time. Various leak detection methods and apparatus have been used in the past, but none has simultaneously satisfied all of the abovementioned requirements. One technique for detecting fuel rod failures creates a differential pressure between the inside of the fuel rod and the surrounding liquid bath within which the rod is immersed. The theory behind this technique is that the differential pressure will be sufficient to expel a detectable bubble of fluid or other material from the interior of the defective rod through the defect in the rod cladding and into the surrounding bath. Such emission of the bubble produces a sound or mechanical vibration of the fuel rod which is detected by appropriate sonic sensing means. Such technique can also include vibration of the fuel rod to enhance the bubble emission.Besides requiring special apparatus for effecting a differential pressure change between the fuel rods and the surrounding bath, such technique requires fairly sophisticated sensing means for detecting the bubble emission, and can result in damage to the fuel assembly itself during the vibration process.Another leak detection technique that has been proposed is to test individual fuel rods by ultrasonic probes to determine the presence of water that has entered through the leak and collected within the rod casing. This technique, however, may not be reliable for small leaks wherein a detectable amount of water has not yet penetrated the casing. Further, certain fuel assembly configurations do not physically lend themselves to the proper placement of ultrasonic probes at those positions required to conduct meaningful measurements. Other methods for detecting breaches in the cladding of fuel rods have generally required alteration of the fuel rod by introducing apparatus within the plenum or end cap of the fuel rod. Such apparatus provides a stimulus or movement in response to a defect in the fuel rod, which can be externally detected by appropriate means.Several of such detector structures provide visual indications of a leaking fuel rod, such as by causing deformations in the outer jacket or in a specially designed sQleath of the fuel rod. Such deformations are generally detected by gauges, optical instruments or the like. There have also been a number of leak detector structures which have incorporated the principle of moving a ferromagnetic object within the end cap or the plenum of the fuel rod in response to a breach in the fuel rod cladding. Movement of the ferromagnetic material within the fuel rod has generally been detected external of the fuel rod by appropriate magnetic sensors. Such devices generally are designed to cause movement of the ferromagnetic detector as a result of a pressure change within the fuel rod when a leak occurs, or as a result of decomposition of a material which normally holds the ferromagnetic material in a fixed position which indicates a secure fuel rod assembly. Such holding material is typically selected so as to disintegrate when exposed to the coolant which passes through a leak in the fuel rod cladding. An example of such a device is illustrated inU.S. Patent 3,666,625 issued May 30, 1972, and assigned toWestinghouse Electric Corporation. While such prior art structures and techniques for detecting fuel rod leaks have individually addressed various ones of the desired criteria for such structures, no single device or method has simultaneously satisfied all of the previously described criteria. In general, either the leak detection structures implanted within the fuel rods were unduly complex so as to make their operation unreliable or inaccurate when exposed to the rigors of the reactor environment, or the method required for detecting movement of the ferromagnetic material within the fuel rod required removal of the fuel rod from the fuel assembly or expensive or intricate test equipment. It is the principal object of the invention to effectively address and overcome most of the abovementioned deficiencies of prior art fuel rod leak detector structures and methods while simultaneously satisfying the above defined criteria for such structures. As will become readily apparent from the following description, the detector apparatus of this invention, which is inserted within the plenum of the fuel rod, is extremely simple, has minimal impact on the design or operation of the basic fuel rod, requires no intricate or moving parts and enables reliable rapid detection of a leaky fuel rod by a sensor placed external of the fuel rod without requiring removal of the fuel rod from its fuel assembly or from the coolant bath in which it is normally submersed. The invention provides a simple, cost effective and reliable method and apparatus for determining leaks or breaches within the external cladding or jacket of a nuclear reactor fuel rod. While the the invention in principle applies to the detection of leaks of any type of coolant it will be described herein as employed in connection with water such as currently used as a coolant with most nuclear reactors. Unlike prior art leak detection techniques, the invention does not depend on any movement of parts or materials within the fuel rod for detecting or providing an indication of a fuel rod leak.Rather, the invention depends directly upon the physical properties of the material itself that is used in the detection process properties which can be carefully selected and designed for the particular fuel rod application, with the certainty of predictable response when such material is subjected to a leaky environment within the fuel rod. The method of this invention simply requires placement or insertion of a detector mass, having particular physical characteristics, within the plenum of a fuel rod, and preferably at a location adjacent the upper end plug or cap of the rod. Such detector mass must be of a relatively low electrical resistivity, as compared to that of the surrounding medium of the fuel rod in which it is placed, and of a resistivity which enhances the production of eddy currents. The detector mass must also be highly reactive with and corrosible in the presence of the coolant i.e. water or water vapor whose leakage into the fuel rod is to be detected.When the detector mass is fixedly secured within the fuel rod, the method of detecting a leak in the fuel rod cladding merely involves directly sensing the corrosive state of the detector mass from external of the fuel rod by placing an electromagnetic field producing probe in proximity with the end of the fuel rod bearing the detector mass, and measuring the eddy current response of the detector mass. If the measured response indicates that significant eddy currents have been produced in the enclosed detector mass, the fuel rod cladding does not have leaks.If, however, the measured response indicates that no or negligible eddy currents have been produced in the enclosed detector mass, there is a high probability that the fuel rod cladding has been breached and that coolant leaking through the cladding into the fuel rod has corrosively degenerated the detector mass to a state wherein it can no longer effectively produce eddy currents in response to the applied electromagnetic field. According to one embodiment of the invention, application of the electromagnetic field to the detector mass is performed by placing an eddy current probe in the form of an electrical coil in close proximity to that end cap which is closest to the detector mass enclosed within the fuel rod. Such electrical coil may be of either a generally planar type or of cylindrical shape, and is oriented in generally coaxial alignment with the fuel rod. The electrical coil is energized with a high frequency electrical signal on the order of 1000 hertz such that the electromagnetic field produced by the coil longitudinally penetrates the end cap of the fuel rod and projects into or through the position at which the detector mass was mounted within the fuel rod plenum. The energization frequency must be high enough to cause eddy currents to be produced within the detector mass, but must not be so high so as to only produce skin effect eddy currents in the fuel rod casing. The effect of the eddy currents, if any, produced in the detector mass is reflected back through the electromagnetic field to the electric coil and determines in part the electrical current flowing through, or the impedance of, the coil.Such current flow or impedance is measured against a known value for measurements taken when the indicator mass was first placed within the fuel rod, in order to determine the seal integrity of the fuel rod cladding. Such eddy current probe measurements can be readily performed either when the fuel rod is removed from the reactor coolant or when it is still submersed within the coolant. The invention also provides a nuclear fuel rod construction applicable to the leakage measurement process of the invention. According to a preferred construction of such fuel rod of the type suitable for operative use within a coolant bath, the fuel rod includes a a closed tubular jacket defining an open end portion b an end cap closing the end portion, wherein the jacket and end cap are of relatively high electrical resistivity material c nuclear fuel placed within the jacket such that the fuel and end cap define therebetween a plenum inside the jacket d a detector mass characterized by electrical resistivity substantially lower than that of the jacket and the end cap and suitable for producing eddy currents in response to electromagnetic fields incident thereon, and being degeneratively reactive when in the presence of the coolant and e means for maintaining the detector mass during its useful life adjacent the end cap. A preferred detector mass, particularly useful for nuclear fuel rods which are inserted within a water coolant bath, comprises aluminum of relatively high purity.It will be understood, however, that it would be within the scope of the invention to select other appropriate materials and purities thereof. The material selection will depend upon the relative electrical resistivity or conductivity of the material in relation to the tubular jacket and end cap of the fuel rod, and its ability to degenera tively react with the coolant leaking into the fuel rod at the operating plenum temperature and pressure of the fuel rod. It is preferable that the material of the detector mass be selected such that substantially complete degeneration of the detector mass occurs in the presence of the coolant, within at least a 24 hour period of time.Substantial degeneration occurs, within the scope of the invention, when the detector mass no longer has the ability to effectively produce eddy currents in response to an applied incident electromagnetic wave. The particular shape of the detector mass may vary, preferred configurations and orientations being those which will enhance the production of eddy currents, such as ring shaped or cup shaped configurations coaxially located with respect to the fuel rod. The density and surface texture of the detector mass likewise may vary from a solid material to an irregular material or could even be of sintered configuration. Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is an elevational view, partially in section, of a typical fuel assembly of a nuclear reactor Fig. 2 is an enlarged sectional view, with portions thereof broken away, of one of the fuel rods of the fuel assembly of Fig. 1 Figs. 3 to 8 are enlarged sectional views of the upper portion of the fuel rod disclosed in Fig. 2, which show different embodiments of the invention having regard to the corrodible detector mass utilized Fig. 9 is a block diagram diagrammatically illustrating a sensor apparatus for. detecting the state of deterioration of the detector mass within the fuel rod and Fig. 10 is an enlarged diagrammatic view of the upper end cap of a fuel rod embodying the invention, together with an eddy current producing probe positioned to test for leaks. Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference characters designate like parts throughout the several views, and referring in particular to Fig. 1, the fuel assembly 20 illustrated therein comprises a plurality of fuel rods 22 assembled in parallel and held in spaced relationship with respect to each other by a plurality of support grids 24, 25, and 26 spaced along the fuel assembly. Only three support grids are illustrated in Fig. 1 but it will be understood that there could be more such support grids, as required to provide adequate support for the fuel rods 22. The fuel rods 22 are closely spaced by the support grids 24, 25, and 26 along their entire length, the separation between fuel rods being approximately only 0.30 to 0.50 cm.In a typical fuel assembly, the fuel rods 22 have an outside diameter of from 1 cm to 1i cm, approximately, and a length ranging from about 2.5 m to 4.5 m, and the complete assembly will typically contain from 49 to as many as 300 fuel rods. A plurality of control rods, such as control rod 30, are reciprocally movable in control rod guide tubes or thimbles 32 located at predetermined positions in each selected fuel assembly within the reactor. The control rods are used to control the fission process. The control rod guide tubes are attached to the support grids 24, 25, and 26 and are interspersed in top plan, not illustrated among the fuel rods 22 throughout the fuel assembly 20. The fuel assembly also includes a top nozzle 33 and a bottom nozzle 34 to which opposite ends of the control rod guide tubes 32 are attached, thereby forming a unitized fuel assembly which can be conveniently handled without risk of damage to the assembly components. The guide tubes 32 typically include sleeve members for welding to the upper and lower support grids 24 and 26 and to the top and bottom nozzles 33 and 34. The top nozzle 33 includes a rod cluster control assembly, generally designated with numeral 35, which has an internally threaded cylindrical member 36 and era dilly extending arms 37. A connector 38 connects each control rod 30 with the arms 37 such that movement of the rod cluster assembly will cause the control rods to move similarly within the control rod guide tubes, thereby to control the fission process, as well known in the art. Referring now to Fig. 2 illustrating a fuel rod 22, each fuel rod has a tubular outer jacket or casing 40 having its lower end 40b and its upper end 40a sealed by a lower end plug or cap 41 and an upper end plug or cap 42, respectively. Stacked within the casing 40 are cylindrical fuel pellets 45 which have an outside diameter slightly less than the inside diameter of the casing 40 so as to define a gap 46 allowing for radial swelling or expansion of the pellets 45 during operation. The uppermost fuel pellet 45 is spaced from the upper end plug or cap 42 to define a space or plenum 47 in which is disposed a spring 48 under compression between the upper end plug 42 and the uppermost fuel pellet to retain the the fuel pellets in their desired positions. Typically, the casing 40 and the upper and lower end plugs 41 and 42 are constructed of a zirconium alloy material having a relatively high electrical resistivity, the upper and lower plugs 42 and 41 are welded to the upper and lower ends 40a and 40b, respectively, of the casing 40, and the compression spring 48 made of a material which likewise has a relatively high electrical resistivity, such as 304 stainless steel. The fuel pellets 45 are made of a suitable fissionable material, typically comprising uranium oxide. The plenum 47 is often prepressurized with an inert gas, such as helium, in order to minimize the differential pressure between fluids within the fuel rod and the coolant bath surrounding it when in use. The length of the plenum 47 can vary according to design choice in a typical fuel rod having an effective internal cavity length i.e.distance between the upper and lower end plugs of 3.8 m, the plenum length will be approximately 15 cm. Referring now to Fig. 3, the fuel rod embodying the invention contains a highly conductive detector mass 50 inserted in the plenum 47 adjacent the lower surface of the upper end plug 42, which mass will give an unambiguous response to an eddy current probe but will corrode to form oxide upon exposure to a coolant, such as water leaking into the plenum following a cladding breach, after which it will not respond to the eddy current probe. In the arrangement illustrated in Fig. 3, the detector mass 50 is simply held in place against the lower surface of the upper end plug 42 by the spring 48. The detector mass 50 is selected for its low electrical resistivity, which is advantageous for eddy current detection, as hereinafter described in more detail.The material from which the detector mass 50 is made must also be highly corrodible i.e. degeneratively reactive in the presence of the coolant leaking into a failed fuel rod.In the preferred embodiment, such coolant is water which may be present in the plenum in the form of water, water vapor or steam. While the invention is not necessarily limited to the use of a detector mass material having any particular numerical electrical resistivity, the prime consideration is that the electrical resistivity of the detector mass material be as low as possible within design constraints so as to effectively produce eddy currents, and that it be substantially lower than the resistivity of the adjacent metallic portions of the fuel rod i.e. the upper end plug 42, the jacket casing 40, and the spring 48 . It is preferable that the electrical resistivity of the detector mass be 10 or more times less than that of such surrounding materials, in order to provide for reliable detection by means of eddy current probe techniques.Similarly, while the invention is not limited to the use of any particular type of metal or composition thereof for the detector mass 50 with regard to its ability to corrode in the presence of the coolant leaking into the fuel rod, such material disposed within the plenum should degenerate i.e.react and oxidize or corrode substantially completely when continuously exposed to the leaked coolant, under operating pressures and temperatures of the fuel rod, for a period of not more than 24 hours and, preferably, for not more than 1 2 or even 1 4 of that time interval. A preferred detector mass non ferromagnetic material which has been fou nd to simultaneously satisfy the requirements for relatively low electrical resistivity and the ability to rapidly corrode in the presence of water is aluminum having a relatively high purity. While the lower purity limit of the material that can be effectively used to accomplish the purposes of this invention will depend upon a number of design constraints of the fuel rod, such as operating temperature, the porosity of the material, and the physical shape of the material, the following commercially available grades of aluminum have been found to be particularly suitable for constructing the detector mass 50 Electrical Resistivity Aluminum Percent of micro ohm Type Aluminum centimeter EC 99.45 minimum 2.8 1060 99.60 minimum 2.8 1100 99.0 minimum 2.92 In contrast, the resistivity of a typical fuel rod cladding of Zircaloy is approximately 75 micro ohm centimeter. The dimensions of the detector mass are a matter of design choice. The detector mass must be sized to be compatible with the fuel rod dimensions, should be thin enough to provide rapid destructible corrosion in the presence of coolant vapor leaking into the fuel rod, and yet must be thick enough to provide a meaningful eddy current response and not be susceptible to destructive corrosion in the presence of residual gases normally found in the fuel rod. The inventor has found that unalloyedType 1100 aluminum as above described will corrode completely in a matter of 4 hours at 3150C 6000F in the presence of water, whereas the more widely used aluminum alloys do not corrode as rapidly. It has also been found that unalloyed aluminum has a relatively low electrical resistivity as indicated by the above tabulated Figures.It should be noted that the typical operating temperature attained within the plenum of a fuel rod operatively inserted in a nuclear reactor ranges from approximately 2600C to 3290C. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate the fact that a detector mass having increased surface area either as a result of holes, notches or irregularities being formed therein, or because the material itself is sintered, will increase the physical exposure of the detector mass material to the reactive coolant, thereby enhancing the corrosion process. With the proper detector mass 50 fixedly inserted within the plenum 47 of the fuel rod 22 as for example illustrated in Fig. 3 , the leak detection measurement process for the fuel rod can be readily performed. The means for performing such measurement are diagrammatically illustrated in block diagram form in Fig. 9. Referring thereto, a high frequency AC voltage source 70 is operatively connected by means of a signal flow path 71 to energize an eddy current producing probe 72. Such eddy current probe sources are well known to those skilled in the art. The eddy current producing probe 72 comprises a simple electromagnetic coil either in the flattened pancake shape as illustrated in Fig. 10, or alternatively in the shape of an extended cylindrical coil not illustrated .In general, such eddy current producing probe 72 comprises one or a plurality of coil windings 72a having a protective insulator coating 72b and connected for energization to theAC voltage source 70 by means of a pair of insulated wires 71a and 71b comprising the signal flow path 71. The leak detection process is performed by lowering or bringing the eddy current producing probe 72 into engagement or close proximity with the upper end plug 42 of a fuel rod, as diagrammatically illustrated by the dashed line 74 in Fig.9, and as pictorially illustrated in Fig. 10. As depicted in Fig. 10, the coils 72a of the eddy current producing probe 72 are generally coaxially aligned with the longitudinal axis 23 of the fuel rod 22 however, exact coaxial alignment is not necessary for effective leak detection measurement. When oriented in such position, the probe coils 72a are energized with a high frequency AC voltage from the voltage source 70, creating an electromagnetic field, one flux line of which is illustrated at 80 in Fig.10. Energization of the eddy current probe 72 is sufficiently strong so as to cause the flux path SO produced thereby to extend down through the upper end plug 42 and through that position at which tlMe detector mass 50 is, or was, mounted. If the detector ma s 50 is intact i e. has not corroded or degenerated as illustrated in F g. O, the 82, within the detector mass 50 Such eddy currants 82 produced within the detector mass 50 are readily det ctasole by measuring the electrical current passing tlrol. h .he eddy current probe.Such current measurement like eddy current detection is made by current measurement apraratus well known to those skillet in th ar ., ard diagrammaticrl ly illustrated at 76 in Fig. 9, with the signal flow path between the eddy current producing probe 72 and the current measurement functional block 76 being depicted at 75. When the above eddy current measurement process is performed on a sound i.e. non leaking fuel rod, the detector mass 50 will be present within such fuel rod in its original uncorroded state. In such state, the detector mass 50 will enhance the creation of eddy currents which will readily be detected by the current measurement apparatus 76, indicating a safe fuel rod. However, if the fuel rod had previously suffered a breach of its cladding jacket 40 such that coolant had penetrated its plenum 47, the detector mass 50 would have corroded or completely degenerated to such an extent that few, if any, eddy currents would be produced by the detector mass in response to the electromagnetic flux lines 80 from the probe 72.In such case, the current measurement apparatus 76 will indicate the absence of produced eddy currents during the measurement process, indicating a leaky fuel rod. While the invention has been described with reference to a disc shaped detector mass, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to a particular configuration or shape of the detector mass, and does not require that the detector mass be of a single material or layer. For example, an alternate configuration of the detector mass is illustrated in Fig. 4. Referring thereto, the detector mass 50 has an additional disc of A1203 designated at 51 inserted between the conductive detector mass 50 and the upper end plug 42. Such oxide material could be inserted as illustrated, to prevent possible local melting of the primary detector mass 50 during welding of the upper end plug to the cladding jacket 40. Alternatively, the oxide layer could be in the form of an anodized film deposited directly onto the upper surface of the aluminum detector mass disc 50 . Another configuration for the detector mass is illustrated at 50 in Fig. 5.Referring thereto, the detector mass 50 is configured in the shape of an inverted cup, which enhances the eddy current probe response. While the detector mass 50 as illustrated inFigs. 3, 4, and 5 is configured for ready placement within existing fuel rod assemblies so as to require no modification whatsoever to the assembly process other than for insertion of the detector mass between the spring 48 and the upper end plug 42, other configurations of the detector mass are conceivable within the scope of this invention.Several such alternatives are illustrated in Figs. 6, 7 and 8, wherein the detector mass is first secured to the upper end plug 42 prior to welding of the end plug 42 to the cladding 40. Such configurations may require slight, but minimal, modification of the upper end plug 42 as illustrated. Referring to Fig. 6, the detector mass 50 is in the form of a ring, which also enhances eddy current probe response. Fig. 7 illustrates a ring shaped detector mass 50 being secured to the upper end plug 42 by a peening operation. Fig. 8 illustrates the ring shaped detector mass 50 being secured to the upper end plug 42 by means of a spot welding operation. While specific examples and configurations of the detector mass shape and method of securing same within the fuel rod plenum have been described herein, it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that cther appropriate configurations and means of securing the mass can be envisioned by those skilled in the art. The isiven tion is not limited to any particular detector mass co. uration, material or method of securing such detector mass within the fuel rod. It will also be appreciated that while the invention has been described in its ap lic tic for measuring an eddy current response in a single fuel rod, the invention could readily be applied to smultane ously or sequentially scan a plurality of fuel rod a using appropriate probe fixturing, to further steed the process. It will also be appreciated that due to the insulated nature of the eddy current producing probe, such probe can be inserted within the coolant while the fuel rods are actually submersed therein. Further, since all of the measurements can be performed at one end of the fuel rod, which is typically exposed in a fuel assembly, time consuming removal of individual fuel rods from the fuel assembly for measurement purposes is not required. Further, since the invention requires no moving parts within the fuel rod under test to effect a proper measurement, reliability and accuracy of the process is significantly enhanced.