# Implantable parenteral hyperalimentation catheter system.

## Abstract
An implant device for introduction of nutrients or chemotherapy agents to the heart. A substantially rigid per cutaneous body 10 is firmly held to the skin by means of a flexible sleeve member 12 formed of a polytetrafluoroethylene polymer at the epidermis 14 and a polyethylene terephthalate portion 22 through the dermis 16 . A catheter 24 extends from the rigid body 10 into the right auricle of the heart or large central vein such as the superior vena cava. The catheter 24 is positioned and anchored by means of a sliding wing 48 which can provide tissue ingrowth where the wing is positioned by the surgeon. A septum closure 32 within the tubular body cavity seals off the implant interior from the environment. When not in use, a sponge 72 saturated with disinfectant is placed within the device s internal cavity 74 which is capped and thereby main tains sterility. Nutrients are supplied through an access set 55 which includes a single probe carrier 56 and a flexible carrier cap 52 which expands so as to snap fit over the tubular body 10 which extends through the skin. The septum 32 is pene trated by a short shell cannula 64 which extends from the single probe carrier 56 .

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A percutaneous implant device especially adaptable for parenteral hyperalimentation, and chemotherapy the implant device comprising a substantially rigid tubular percutaneous body of biologically compatible material which extends through the skin when implanted so as to provide means for introducing nutrients to the heart flexible subcutaneous catheter means associated with said tubular percutaneous body for providing fluid communication between the body exterior and the right auricle of the heart porous tissue ingroutth means for anchoring the device to the body, including a porous collar of polytetrafluoroethylene overlaying said tubular percutaneous body on the portion of said tubular body to be embedded within the epidermis and carrier cap means constructed and arranged to include a probe carrier for providing fluid communication from a nutrient supply tube to said catheter. 2. The device of Claim 1 wherein said tubular body includes in the interior thereof, an elastomeric septum member and means for holding said septum member in a sealing relationship therein. 3. The device in Claim 2 wherein said elastomeric septum member include a conical, centered depression on the surface opposed from said catheter and an elongated recess on the surface facing said catheter. 4. The device of Claim 3 wherein said elastomeric septum member includes a preformed slit therethrough and an elastomeric O ring surrounding said septum member such that said slit is closed due to radial pressure from said 0ring. 5. The device of Claim 1 wherein said flexible subcutaneous catheter means includes sliding wing means constructed of porous tissue ingrowth material and arranged for aiding the positioning and anchoring of said catheter within the body. 6. A parenteral hyperalimentation device comprising a substantially rigid, tubular percutaneous body of biologically compatible material which extends through a patient s skin when implanted flexible, subcutaneous catheter means associated with said tubular percutaneous body for providing fluid communication between the body exterior and a right auricle of a heart porous tissue ingrowth means for anchoring said tubular percutaneous body within said skin an elastomeric septum member occupying a portion of the tubular portion of said body, and means for holding said septum member in a sealed relationshp within the interior of said tubular percutaneous body and carrier cap means constructed and arranged for securing a nutrient supply source to said tubular body and for providing fluid communication between said nutrient supply source and said catheter. 7. The device of Claim 6 wherein said porous tissue ingrowth means includes a porous collar of polytetrafluorethylene overlaying said tubular percutaneous body on the portion of said tubular body to be embedded within the epidermis. 8. The device of Claim 7 wherein said porous tissue ingrowth means includes a porous collar of polyethylene terephthalate overlaying said tubular percutaneous body between said polytetrafluroethylene collar and said catheter. 9. The device of Claim 6 wherein said catheter means includes a sliding wing constructed of porous tissue ingrowth material and arranged for aiding the positioning and anchoring of said catheter within a patient s body. 10. The device of Claim 6 wherein said carrier cap means includes a cap constructed and arranged to snap fit over said tubular percutaneous body and a probe carrier extending through said cap, said carrier including nutrient tubing connection means and a short shell cannula for penetrating said septum member when said cap is secured to said tubular body.

## Description
IMPLANTABLE PARENTERAL HYPERALIMENTATION CATHETER SYSTEMDESCRIPTIONBackground Of the Invention 1. Field of the Invention This invention relates to the field of implantable percutaneous devices and more particularly to the field of devices used in dispensing nutrients intravenously into the heart or central venous system. 2. Description of the Prior Art Parenteral hyperalimentation hereinafter referred to as PH involves an intraveneous infusion of hypertonic solutions of dextrose, amino acids, vitamins and minerals through a venus catheter to support normal growth and development in a child and positive nitrogen balance with weight gain in a surgically stressed adult or in adults unable to digest food properly. PH is useful whenever the patient is unable to maintain an adequate oral intake for more than seven days, or has an impaired intestinal absorption detrimental to anticipated surgery or convalescence. Placement of hyperalimentation lines in the right atrium or central large veins through the subclavian vein has become a relatively common techique. Simple polyethelene catheters are not suitable for prolonged periods because of possible thrombosis.Special silicone catheters known as the Broviac Scribner or the wider bore Hickman catheters have been utilized for long term PH. Such catheters are about 90 centimeters long and are composed generally of a thin, flexible intravascular segment with a thickened extravascular segment which has a Dacron cuff in its midpoint. The extravascular Dacron portion lies in a subcutaneous tunnel cut through the skin. The Dacron cuff allows for the ingrowth of fibrous tissue. The ingrowth helps fix the catheter in place and acts as a barrier to the passage of bacteria through the subcutaneous track. The extravascular portion of the catheters are tunneled under the skin and brought out in the fourth or fifth interspace, just lateral to the sternum at a site where the patient can see and care for the catheter.Catheters of the prior art utilizes a plastic Luer cap so that the line can be heparinized and sealed between infusions. The catheters are inserted through a venotomy into the cephalic vein or jugular vein, or any other vein which allows access to the superior vena cava. Nutrients may then be supplied directly into the right auricle of the heart. The nutrients are thereby placed in a position of high blood flow and may be passed to all areas of the body which need nutrition, unlike the administration of nutrients into a remote vein or artery. It has been found that indwelling catheters are major sites of colonization of microorganisms, especially by skin flora, such as Staphylococcus epidermidis, diptheroids and Bacillus sp. Common infection pathways are through the interior of the catheter and along the exterior surfaces of the catheter itself.Brief Summary of the Invention The present invention provides an implantable device for providing nutrients or other chemical agents to the heart. A substantially rigid, tubular body of biologically compatable material extends through the skin after implantation, so as to provide a fluid passageway for accessing the heart. A flexible sleeve member surrounds the tubular percutaneous body. The sleeve length is sufficient to pass through the epidermis and dermis layers of the skin. The flexible sleeve member is formed of a biologically compatable material which has sufficient poricity to permit tissue ingrowth therein . In the preferred form, tha sleeve member which contacts the epidermis is formed of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene polymer and the remainder of the sleeve member is formed of a porous polyethelene terephthalate polymer.It is believed that the use of a polytetrafluoroethylene polymer provides better tissue ingrowth in the outermost non vascular epiphelial layer of skin. A flexible catheter member extends downwardly from the tubular body. The catheter is held in place through the tubular body by forcing the catheter over raised lips on the end of the tubular body. A flexible sliding wing is positioned over the catheter and is formed of biologically compatible material which may permit tissue ingrowth depending on the selection of the biocompatible material used to fabricate the wing.The sliding wing may be moved in either direction by the surgeon to position the catheter in place and anchor the catheter into position once the tissue has ingrown over the sliding wing. An elastomeric septum is positioned in sealing relationship in the tubular body and is compressed between a support extension within the tubular body and a pressure plate above the septum. The septum is provided with preformed openings therethrough to provide a resealable pathway for a needle. A locking ring holds the septum member and pressure plate within the tubular body. An excutaneous cavity is defined above the septum within the tubular body.Details of preferred septum constructions and alternative septum retaining rings are disclosed in commonly owned copending Ser. No. 314,569, filed October 26, 1981, and U.S.Patents 4,417,888 and 4,405,320. The implant of the invention is inserted following any of the established procedures for implanting hyperalimentation devices. Generally, the cephalic vein is isolated in a deltopectoral groove, the distal segment is ligated after an incision is made below the acromion. From that incision, a long clamp is directed down through the subcutaneous tissue to construct a subcutaneous tunnel. The tip is then exteriorized through a small incision and the catheter is drawn back into the tunnel. The catheter is then positioned in the tunnel so that the sliding wing lies in the tunnel between the two incisions and in an intercostal space. The sliding wing is easily felt for positioning, and may be seen readily through a fluoroscope. The remainder of the catheter tubing is then cut to fit the anatomy of the patient by plotting the distance the catheter must travel to follow the course of the cephalic vein to the subclavian vein and the superior vena cava and into the entrance of the right atrium, at which level one wants the tip of the catheter to lie. The incisions are then closed and the implant is held fixedly in place at the skin surface due to tissue ingrowth at the access body and to tissue ingrowth around the sliding wing positioned within the subcutaneous tunnel. The use of a polytetrafluoroethylene sleeve through the epidermis and a polyethylene terephthalate sleeve through the dermis or vascular layer of skin tissue provides excellent attachment of the device to the skin. There is no need for a subcutaneous stabilizing flange. Slight movement of the access body does not disturb the position of the catheter tip within the right auricle due to the embedment of the sliding wing within the tissue. An exterior pull on the access body may cause the catheter between the sliding wing and the access body to move slightly, but does not cause the tip of the catheter within the right auricle to move.This avoids myocardial irritability, valvular trauma, or even perforation with cardiac tamponade. Nutrients are introduced through the implant which is secured to the body through the use of the access set. The access setvincludes a rigid, single probe carrier. Tubing is connected to one side of the carrier which then leads to a source of nutrients. The nutrients typically will be supplied through the regulation of a pump or by gravity feed from the nutrient source. The other end of the carrier is attached to a short shell of 11 gauge tubing which has holes punched through its walls adjacent to its closed end and or a hole punched at the rounded tip end.The short shell is of sufficient length such that when the carrier is inserted into the excutaneous space defined by the access body, the short shell passes through the slitted septum, such that liquid can pass through the holes in the shell and into the catheter. The single probe carrier is held to the rigid tubular access body by a flexible silicone carrier cap which is constructed and arranged such that the single probe carrier is snap fitted into place within the carrier cap. The carrier cap, single probe cap tubing and short shell are then linked to the rigid tubular access body by snap fitting the carrier cap over a circumferential ridge on the rigid tubular access body such that the access set is held within position. Ambulatory patients may disconnect the access set from the device once the nutrient feeding or chemotherapy is completed, thereby giving the patient increased r bi1ity. When not in use, the device 5 internal excutaneous cavity is maintained sterile by the addition of a solution such as Betadine , a polyvinyl pyrolidone iodine solution, sold by Purdue Frederick Co. of Norwalk,Connecticut, held by a sponge in the device s cavity. The cavity is hermetically sealed from the environment by a tab cap. The unique design of the invention allows the introduction of nutrients, chemotherapy agents or other fluids directly into a large vein where the fluids are transported throughout the body. Delivery into veins with a high flow rate minimizes the burning sensation associated with chemical introduction in smaller veins.Brief Description of the Drawings The detailed description of the invention, including its preferred embodiment, is hereinafter described with specific reference being made with the drawings in which Fig. 1 is a cross sectional view of the device of the invention showing the skin line Fig. 2 is an exploded pictorial view of the device in accordance with the invention, and Fig. 3 is an enlarged partial side elevational view of the device and tab cap with portions cut away.Detailed Description of the Invention A preferred embodiment of the invention is shown in Figs. 1, 2, and 3. A rigid tubular percutaneous access body 10 and attached flexible sleeve member 12 is implanted through epidermis 14 and dermis 16. Rigid tubular body 10 is preferably made of titanium which may be coated with vapor deposited carbon or other biocompatible coatings.Alternatively, body 10 may remain uncoated. Body 10 is preferably about 0.8 of an inch long 2.0 cm with about 0.25 inches 6mm of body io extending above the skin surface. Tissue ingrowth media is affixed to the exterior of body 10 as a porous flexible sleeve member or cuff 12..Flexible sleeve member 12 serves as a tissue ingrowth media which stabilizes the implant and prevents its extrusion and minimizes bacterial penetration through the skin exit site.Flexible sleeve 12 preferably extends from 2 3 millimeters below raised lip 13 of body 10 and terminates where the catheter portion of the device begins. Flexible sleeve 12 is preferably made of a material such as the expanded polyethylene terephthalate sold under the trademark Dacron,. by E. I. DuPont de Nemours of Wilmington, Delaware. It has been found that the outer, nonvascular layer of the skin composed of epithelial tissue has different ingrowth characteristics from the underlying vascular connective tissue of the skin. Surprisingly better ingrowth has been found when a flexible sleeve portion 20, which contacts the epidermis 14, is formed of an expanded, 90 to 120 pore polytetrafluoroethylene material such as materials sold under the trademark Gore Tex, by W.L. Gore Company of Newark, Delaware orImpragraph sold under the trademark IMPRAs by Impra, Inc.of Tempe, Arizona. The polytetrafluoroethylene portion 20 of flexible sleeve member 12 is normally about 1 8 millimeters in width and preferably remains under the skin line. This compares to a typical epidermis depth of about 0.05 inches. The polytetrafluroethylene hereinafter referred to as PTFE portion 20 extends to where the polyethylene terephthalate portion 22 begins. As an alternative to the use of the polyethylene terephthalate portion 24, a porous titanium coating on body 10 may be used. Such coatings are described for related devices used in blood access applications in commonly owned U.S. Pat No.4,405,319, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Catheter 24 is preferably formed from an approximately 90 centimeter long tube with an inside diameter of approximately 0.080 inches 2 mm of a medical grade silicone elastomer. Proximal end 26 of catheter 24 is joined to rigid tubular body 10 by forcing the flexible catheter over tubular body ridges 30 formed on tubular body end. Distal end 28 of catheter is trimmed to whatever length is needed to reach the required position within the right auricle. A closure septum 32 provides an interruptable seal means between the exterior of the body and the body interior. Septum 32 is held in place within tubular access body 10 by a rigid pressure plate 34, which defines an opening 36 therethrough, and by retaining ring 37. Pressure plate 34 is preferably of a molded rigid polymer or titanium. Details of preferred septum constructions, pressure plates and retaining rings and alternatives of the same are disclosed in co pending applications assigned to the same assignee as the present invention Serial No.410,365, filed August 23, 1982, Serial No. 314,569, October 26, 1981, and U.S. Pat. No s 4,417,888 and 4,405,320, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Preferred septum closure 32 includes a preformed needle opening 38 slit through the septum and extending from near the center of the septum out to the edge thereof.The edges of septum 32 have a groove 40 therein encircling the entire body thereof. Groove 40 carries an elastomeric ring 42 which preferably has an eliptical or circular cross section. Ring 42 is in compression around septum 32 and serves to hold the slit septum together and maintain the slit surfaces together in sealed relationship by applying an inwardly directed radial force on septum 32. The septum is also preferably provided with an elongated bottom recess 44 and a generally semi spherical top recess 46 which is aligned with hole or opening 36 in pressure plate 34 when assembled within body 10. Bottom recess 44 allows for expansion of the septum when a cannula is inserted therethrough. Top recess 46 provides a cannula receiving guide. Sliding wing 48 which is preferably formed of the same material as flexible sleeve member 12 so as to provide an promote tissue ingrowth or may be formed of an elastomeric silicone is constructed and arranged as shown in Fig. 1 and 2 to slide over catheter 24. Preferably, sliding wing 48 is formed from a one half inch long 13 mm by 0.2 inch long 5 mm by 0.03 inch 0.75 mm thick sheet of polyethylene terephthalate and includes slits 4P and 50 adjacent the center such that catheter 24 may be passed through one slit and out the other slit. This arrangement allows the wing to be slid easily along catheter 24. Ene sliding wing is held to the catheter by friction but does not collapse the catheter tube itself. The carrier cap 52 is formed from a flexible, medical grade silicone elastomer, and is placed over the proximal end of body 10 which extends above epidermis 14.Body 10 preferably includes a raised circumferential lip 53. Carrier cap 52 is preferably constructed and arranged as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 such that a snap fit is accomplished between carrier cap 52 and lip 53 of body 10.Carrier cap 52 is flexible enough to deform and pass over raised lip 53 of body 10 and seal lip 54 of carrier cap 52 normally holds carrier cap 52 into the snapped position. An access set 55 includes the carrier cap 52, single probe carrier 56, shortshell 64 and access tubing 70. The single probe carrier 56 is preferably formed of a rigid polyvinylchloride polymer which should be molded without the use of silicone as a mold release. The outer circumferential edge 58 of single probe carrier 56 is sized such that it may be snap fitted past seal lip 54 of carrier cap 52 and is thereby held within the carrier cap. A proximally projecting tube 60 formed integrally with single probe carrier 56, serves as the attachment point for access tubing 70. Access tube 70 is preferably and adhesively force fitted over proximally projecting tube 60. Access tubing 70 is then connected to a nutrient source and preferably to a portable infusion pump of various makes. Single probe carrier 56 is formed with a distal bore 62 which is sized to accept an 11 gauge short shell 64. Short shell 64 is preferably formed of hypodermic grade stainless steel tubing with a closed end 66 and a 0.042 1.0 mm inch diameter opening 68 punched through both walls adjacent the closed end 66. Alternatively, short shell 64 may be formed with a hole 68 punched at its rounded end 66. The short shell 64 is of sufficient length such that when the access set 55 is snapped into place over raised lip 53 of body 10, that opening 68 passes through septum 32 such that fluids may be supplied to the catheter. A sponge 72 is inserted into the excutaneous cavity 74 in body 10 between single probe carrier 56 and retaining ring 37. Sponge 72 is preferably saturated with an antiseptic solution such as the polyvinylpyrol idone iodine sold under the trademarkBetadines for maintaining sterility within the cavity 74 of the body 10. Referring to Fig. 3, a tab cap 76 is shown including an inner lip 78 which may be an integral o ring which fits over lip 53 of body 10 and provides a hermetic seal. Tab cap 76 preferably is molded of an elastomeric plastic and includes a tab 80 which when grasped by a patient breaks the seal provided to enable the removal of cap 76. Preferably, whenever nutrients or chemotherapy agents are not being introduced through the device, tab cap 76 is placed over body 10 and disinfectant saturated sponge 72 is sealed within cavity 74 to provide a bacterial barrier and maintain sterility. In operation, the implant is inserted by a physician into the patient. PTFE portion 20 becomes securely embedded in the epidermis and the remainder of the flexible sleeve member 12 provides further tissue ingrowth to stabilize the implant. Catheter 24 is guided by the physician until it reaches the right auricle. Sliding wing 48 is then maneuvered either visually through a fluoroscope or by touch until it is embedded deep within the subcutaneous tunnel formed during the implant procedure.The portion of the catheter leading from the sliding wing to the tubular percutaneous body 10 is preferably slightly longer than necessary to travel the distance between wing 48 and body 10. Thus, when sliding wing 48 is embedded subcutaneously in tissue, an outward pull on body 10 merely tends to straighten the catheter up to sliding wing 48 and does not dislodge the distal end of catheter 24 from the right auricle. The unique design of the PH implant of the invention prevents extrusion of the device by tissue rejection due to its unique flexible sleeve member. The combined action of the polytetrafluoroethylene portion and the polyethylene terephthalate portion provides good embedment. The entire implant is stablized within the skin and inf ection is thereby minimized. In considering this invention, it should be remembered that the present disclosure is illustrative only, and that the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims.