# Portable boiler.

## Abstract
A portable boiler comprises first and second vessels 22, 24 , the second vessel 24 being disposed within the first vessel 22 , a conduit interconnecting the two vessels via a non return valve 30 , heating means 34 for the second vessel 24 , inlet means for the intake of water into the first vessel 22 and outlet means for drawing off steam from the second vessel 24 . The inlet means comprises a conduit 32 which passes through the first vessel 22 and is arranged to direct cold water over the surface of the second vessel 24 . The cold water cools the second vessel 24 , condensing the steam therein and producing a vacuum which sucks water from the first vessel 22 into the second vessel 24 via the non return valve 30 .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A portable boiler comprising first and second vessels 22, 24 , said second vessel 24 being disposed within said first vessel 22 , means interconnecting said first and second vessels via valve means 30 , heating means 34 for said second vessel 24 , inlet means for the intake of water into said first vessel 22 , and outlet means 14 for drawing off steam from said second vessel 24 , characterised in that said inlet means comprising a conduit 32 extending from a reservoir 20 , adapted to pass through said first vessel 22 and arranged to direct cold water from said reservoir 20 over the surface of said second vessel 24 . 2. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said vessels are made from stainless steel and said second vessel is provided with a detachable brass head 25 and an overload pressure release valve 40 . 3. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said valve means 30 comprises a non return valve. 4. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said outlet means 14 comprises a plurality of steam valves. 5. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said heating means 34 comprises an electric heating element located within said second vessel 24 . 6. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said second vessel 24 is provided with a probe 36 for detecting the level of water in said second vessel 24 , said probe 36 being adapted to control said heating means 34 and or to activate indicating means in response to the water level detected. 7. A portable boiler as claimed in any preceding claim characterised in that said second vessel is provided with means for priming said second vessel 24 with water.

## Description
Portable boiler The present invention relates to a portable boiler which utilises the principle of condensing steam for replenishing the boiler. It is particularly, but not exclusively, envisaged that the boiler is for use in the catering trade for making coffee and the like. Generally, boilers used in the catering trade have to be plumbed into the existing water services.These boilers are therefore fixed in one position. It is an object of the present invention to provide a self standing portable boiler which can be easily transported without disconnecting the water supply. The present invention accordingly provides a portable boiler comprising first and second vessels, said second vessel being disposed within said first vessel, means interconnecting said first and second vessels via valve means, inlet and outlet means for facilitating the intake of water and drawing off steam, and heating means, said inlet means comprising a conduit extending from a reservoir and adapted to pass through said first vessel and arranged to direct cold water over said second vessel. Preferably, said vessels are made from stainless steel and said second vessel is provided with a detachable brass head. Preferably, said valve means comprises a nonreturn ball valve. Preferably, said outlet means comprises a plurality of suitable steam valves. Preferably, said heating means comprises an electric heating element located within the ssecond vessel. Preferably, said second vessel is provided with a probe for detecting the level of water in said vessel and is adapted to cut in and cut out said heating element if the water level reaches a predetermined level. Preferably, said probe communicates with indicating means, suitably in the form of a warning light or a buzzer. Preferably also, said second vessel is provided with an overload cut out. Preferably, means are provided for priming said second vessel with cold water, suitably in the form of a conduit extending from said non return valve and through said first vessel. Preferably also, said second vessel is provided with an overload pressure release valve for safety purposes. An embodiment of the present invention will now be described by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of the portable boiler according to the present invention Figure 2 is a diagrammatic cross sectional side view of the portable boiler. Figure 3 is a plan view of the vessels. With reference to the drawings, Figure 1 shows a casing 10 which houses the boiler of the present invention. The casing 10 is provided with steam injectors 12, a removable drip tray 16, a water replenishing jug 18 and a water reservoir 20. With reference to Figures 2 and 3, the present invention provides a portable boiler comprising first and second stainless steel vessels 22 and 24 respectively.The second vessel 24 is provided with. a detachable brass head 25. The second vessel 24 is disposed eccentrically within said first vessel 22 such that a space 26 is defined between the vessels. The volume of this space 26 is at least equal to the volume of the second vessel 24. The second vessel 24 is preferably cylindrical while the first vessel 22 may be of any suitable shape according to cosmetic requirements. A conduit 28 extends from the lower part of the spacer 26 within the first vessel to the second vessel 24 via a non return ball valve 30. The first vessel 22 is provided with inlet means in the form of a conduit 32 extending from the water reservoir 20 and arranged to direct cold water over the second vessel 24. The second vessel 24 is provided with an outlet comprising steam valves 14. The second vessel 24 is also provided with heating means for heating the water in the vessel. As illustrated, the heating means comprises an electric heating element 34, however other heating means, such as bottled gas, may be used. A probe 36 is provided for detecting the level of water in the second vessel 24 and is adapted to cut in and cut out the heating element 34 if the water reaches a predetermined level. The second vessel 24 is also provided with an overload cut out 38 and an overload pressure release valve 40 for safety purposes. In use, the water in the second vessel 28 is heated such that steam can be drawn off through steam valves 14. When the water level reaches a predetermined level the probe 36 cuts out the heating element 34 and cold water is poured into the reservoir 20 which then flows through the conduit 28 and fills the first vessel 22. The cold water cools the second vessel 24 to condense the steam therein and produce a vacuum which sucks in water from the first vessel 22 through the non return valve 30. The probe 36 senses water and cuts in the heating element 34. The water is heated, comes up to working pressure and steam can be drawn off for heating milk, soups, coffee and the like. A diaphragm pressure switch 42 activates a lamp not shown to indicate that the boiler is at working pressure. When all the available water is used up, the probe 36 senses no water and cuts out the heating element.A signal is sent to a warning light or buzzer which informs the operator that the boiler requires replenishing with fresh water. This process is repeated to ensure the availability of steam. To prime the second vessel 24 with water initially, a suitable inlet not shown could be provided which extends from the first vessel 22 to the non return valve 30 located on the second vessel.