# Auxiliary control rod for nuclear reactors.

## Abstract
An auxiliary control rod for fine setting the reactivity of a nuclear reactor including closely packed zirconium oxide pellets in cladding of stainless steel. The zirconium oxide pellets prevent the collapse of the cladding. The stainless steel cladding controls the reactivity of the reactor to a sub stantially smaller extent than the main control rods which are of conventional structure and operation. With the cooperation of these fine setting control rods, the range of movement in and out of the case of the reactor of the main rods may be limited and more precise and effective control achieved. In addition, the fine setting control rods displace the coolant and limit the moderating effect of the coolant on the neutron flux. The zirconium oxide pellets being refractory ceramics, resist crumbling during CRDM stepping of the control rods.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An auxiliary control rod for fine setting the reactivity of a nuclear reactor characterized in that said rod comprises a stack of pellets of zirconium oxide enclosed in cladding of a material having an appreciable neutron capture cross section, said neutron capture cross section being substantially less than the neutron capture cross section of the main control rods. 2. A rod according to claim 1, characterized in that the cladding is composed of stainless steel. 3. A rod according to claim 2, characterized in that the stainless steel cladding has approximately the following composition in weight percent C 0.03 0.08 Mn 2.00 Si 0.75 Cr 17 19 Ni 9 11 Co 0.08 P Max 0.03 S Max 0.03 Fe Balance. 4. A rod according to claim 1, 2 or 3 characterized in that a capsule which includes the zirconium oxide pellets in the cladding contains an inert gas at pressure of about one atmosphere.

## Description
AUXILIARY CONTROL ROD FOR NUCLEAR REACTORS This invention relates to auxiliary control rods for nuclear reactors, and more especially for the control of the reactivity of pressurized water reactors PWR . In nuclear reactors in accordance with the teachings of the prior art, the reactivity is controlled by control rods which are herein referred to as main control rods whose neutron capture cross section is high. A typical such main control rod includes pellets of boron or its compounds in cladding. Such a main control rod has a neutron capture cross section of about 0.34 inverse centimeter cm 1 . The control of reactivity with main control rods of this type presents the difficulty that a small movement of the control rod in or out of the nuclear core produces a large change in reactivity. The proper setting of these control rods is not readily achieved. Attempts have been made to overcome this disadvantage by introducing shim into the coolant. This has not proven entirely satisfactory.The proposal has been made to fine set the reactivity by providing auxiliary control rods, each rod consisting of a tube or shell of a material having an appreciable neutron absorption cross section but a cross section which is small compared to that of the main rods. Typically the fine setting control rods can be composed of stainless steel tubes. Typically stainless steel has a neutron capture cross section of about .02 cm However, the pressure of the coolant in a PWR is about 2250 pounds per square inch and the temperature is about 6000F. In this environment a tube of reasonable thickness would collapse. Movement in the core or removal from the core of such a collapsed auxiliary control rod might be restricted or prevented entirely and the operation of the reactor would be degraded. It is an object of this invention to overcome the disadvantages of the prior art and to provide a finesetting auxiliary control rod for a nuclear reactor which shall not collapse under the pressure of the coolant of the reactor. Accordingly, the present invention resides in an auxiliary control rod for fine setting the reactivity of a nuclear reactor characterized in that said rod comprises a stack of pellets of zirconium oxide enclosed in cladding of a material having an appreciable neutron capture crosssection, said neutron capture cross section being substantially less than the neutron capture cross section of the main control rods. Desirably, the cladding is composed of stainless steel. The zirconium oxide has a very low neutron capture cross section for thermal neutrons. The neutron capture of the fine setting may be determined by the thickness of the cladding and is as stated about 0.02 cm Neither the zirconium oxide pellets nor the stainless steel expand axially appreciably in neutron flux. The fine setting control rods have the additional advantage that they displace the coolant and reduce its moderating effect.This feature is desirable in the earlier part during about the first 10 months of each refueling cycle. In order that the invention can be more clearly understood a convenient embodiment thereof will now be described, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing in which Figure 1 is a view in side elevation, partly in section, of a fine setting auxiliary control rod and Fig. 2 is a view in side elevation of a pellet of the control rod shown in Fig. 1 To aid those skilled in the art to practice this invention the drawing shows dimensions of a typical finesetting control rod. It is not intended that the presentation of these dimensions should in any way restrict the scope of this invention. Referring to the drawings, a fine setting auxiliary control rod 11 includes a closely packed stack of zirconium oxide pellets 13 enclosed in cladding 15 of stainless steel. While other compositions of stainless steel may serve the purposes of this invention, the stainless steel used in the practice of this invention is AISI 304. This alloy has the following typical composition in weight percent C 0.03 0.08 Mn 2.00 Si 0.75 Cr 17 19 Ni 9 11 Co 0 08 P Max 0.03 S Max 0.03 Fe BalanceThe cladding 15 is closed at one by an end plug 17 and at opposite end by a mid plug 19. The end plug 17 has a stem 21 extending from a shoulder. The cladding 15 is welded pressure tight at the shoulder. The mid plug 19 is tapered at the end which abuts the pellets 13. The cladding 15 is welded pressure tight to the mid plug. The taper 23 facilitates the seating of the cladding preparatory to the welding operation. The mid plug 19 has an axial opening 25 which terminates in an axial hole 27 of small diameter.Once the capsule of the pellets 13, the cladding 15, the end plug 17 and the mid plug 19 are formed into a pressuretight structure, the interior of the capsule is exhausted and back filled with helium or other inert gas at about 1 atmosphere pressure. Reaction of the zirconium or zirconium oxide with oxygen or water vapor in the capsule is precluded by replacement of these components by inert gas. The mid plug 19 also terminates in a taper 29 at the opposite end. The control rod 11 includes a shell or tube 31 typically of 304NISI stainless steel. The tube 31 is welded between the taper 29 and to another end plug 33 at the opposite end. This end plug 33 has an extension 35 which carries a threaded tip 37 that engages a threaded sleeve not shown of the spider not shown which drives the control rod 11. Typically for a fuel assembly having 19 by 19 receptacles for fuel rods, main control rods, fine setting control rods 11 and coolant displacement rods 18, auxiliary control rods 11 typically are carried by the spider for movement in and out of thimbles in each fuel assembly. The end plug 33 terminates in a stem 39 extending from a shoulder. The tube 31 is welded to this shoulder at one end and to the taper 29 at the opposite end. The tube 31 is vented to admit the coolant in which it is immersed so that the pressure of the coolant across the wall of the tube is equalized. During operation the auxiliary control rods 11 are moved inwardly and outwardly of the core by the control rod drive mechanism CRDM as the position of the main control rods changes, to fine set the control. The movement is in steps typically each of .625 inch. The pellets 13 support the cladding 15. Irradiation by neutron flux does not affect the cladding nor does it affect the pellets. Formation of unsupported gaps in the cladding or strain on the cladding by expanding pellets is precluded.The pellets are high strength ceramics and are packed closely. They do not crumble under the impacts of CRDM stepping.