# Unitary armed suture mounting board.

## Abstract
The invention provides an element for holding a needled suture comprising a suture strand having at least one end attached to a needle and having a first portion of said suture strand remote from the end attached to said needle and a second portion of said suture strand intermediate between said first portion and the end attached to said needle, said element comprising a unitary piece of soft, flexible polymeric foam and said element further comprising a , a first retaining means for retaining said needle b a second retaining means remote from said first retaining means for retaining said first portion of said suture strand and c securing means remote from said first and second retaining means for frictionally engaging said second portion of said suture strand when said strand is ex tended relatively tautly from said first retaining means to said securing means to said second retaining means. The invention also provides a suture package which uti lizes the above described element.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An element for holding a needled suture comprising a suture strand having at least one end attached to a needle and having a first portion of said suture strand remote from the end attached to said needle and a second portion of said suture strand intermediate said first portion and the end attached to said needle, said element comprising a unitary piece of soft, flexible polymeric foam and said element further comprising a a first retaining means for retaining said needle, b a second retaining means remote from said first retaining means for retaining said first portion of said suture strand, and c securing means remote from said first and second retaining means for frictionally engaging said second portion of said suture strand when said strand is extended relatively tautly from said first retaining means to said securing means to said second retaining means. 2. The element of Claim 1 wherein said first retaining means comprises said soft, flexible polymeric foam, whereby the point of said needle is inserted in said foam. 3. The element of claim 1,2,or 3 wherein said second retaining means comprises a slit in said foam. 4. The element of Claim 1 or 2 wherein said securing means comprises a slit in said foam. 5. The element of any one of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the suture is a double armed suture. 6. A suture package comprising a rear panel bonded to a front panel, containing a needled suture mounted on the element of any one of claims 1 to 5. 7. The suture package of Claim 6 in sterile condition.

## Description
UNITARY ARMED SUTURE MOUNTING BOARDThe invention relates to a board for mounting armed sutures, and more particularly, to a package utilizing the same.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPackages for surgical sutures are designed and constructed according to the nature of the suture and its intended use. The ideal package holds and protects the suture during handling and storage, and still allows the suture to be readily removed with a minimum of handling that could impair the suture.Very fine sutures, such as those that are intended for use in ophthalmic surgery, have special requirements owing to the very fine size of the needles and small diameter of the suture strands, often as small or smaller than a human hair. For instance, while it is desirable to hold the suture firmly in place in the package to prevent entangling of the strand, it is also necessary to be able to remove the suture without damage to the needle or without fraying or weakening the strand.The present invention is directed to a suture mounting board and to a package utilizing the same that is particularly adapted for use with very fine size sutures.BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe invention provides an element for holding a needl ed suture comprising a suture strand having at least one end attached to a needle and having a first portion of said suture strand remote from the end attached to said needle and a second portion of said suture strand intermediate said first portion and the end attached to said needle, said element comprising a unitary piece of soft, flexible polymeric foam and said element further comprising a a first retaining means for retaining said needle b a second retaining means remote from said first retaining means for retaining said first portion of said suture strand and c securing means remote from said first and second retaining means for frictionally engaging said second portion of said suture strand when said strand is extended relatively tautly from said first retaining means to said securing means to said second retaining means.The invention also provides a suture package which utilizes the above described element.THE PRIOR ARTIn Mandel et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,120,395, there is disclosed a package for double armed sutures, particularly ophthalmic sutures, comprising a one piece folded packet having needle mounting means and suture loop retaining means which are readily accessible when the package is opened. Both the needle mounting means and the loop retaining means can be pieces of soft polymeric foam having slits therein.Thyen, in U.S. Patent No. 4,135,623, shows a package for double armed sutures.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFig. 1 is a perspective drawing of a suture package illustrating a preferred embodiment of the invention Fig. 2 is an exploded view of the package of Fig. 1 Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the suture mounting element shown in Fig. 1, shown with a different length suture,Fig. 4 is a view similar to Fig. 3 wherein a still different length suture is shown mounted thereon Fig. 5 is a perspective view of an alternative suture mounting element that embodies the principles of the invention Fig. 6 is a perspective view of the mounting element shown in Fig. 5, with a different length suture mounted thereon andFig. 7 shows a double armed suture folded in half, ready to be mounted on a mounting board in accordance with the principles of the invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONAs used herein, the term suture means elongated, threadlike strands suitable for suturing, ligating, or other surgical procedures, with or without needles attached. A single armed suture is a suture having a needle affixed to one end, and the term double armed suture refers to a suture having needles attached to both ends. The term suture strand refers specifically to the elongated thread like portion of the suture.Referring now to the drawings, Figs. 1 and 2 show a suture package embodying the principles of the invention. The package 10 contains a rear panel 12 bonded to a front panel 14, which is preferably made of clear plastic. The rear panel 12 may be made of a material such as spunbonded polyolefin that is pervious to sterilizing gas, to facilitate sterilization of the package. The front panel 14 has a blister 16 molded in it which, together with the rear panel 12, defines a suitable storage compartment. Within the suture storage compartment there is a mounting board 18 made from a single piece of soft, flexible, polymeric foam, such as polyethylene foam, which, in an alternative embodiment shown in Figs. S and 6 , may be bonded to a paperboard backing 20, which acts as a stiffening element.Mounted on the mounting board 18 is a double armed suture 22 comprising a strand 24 and two needles 26a, 26b.The suture 22 is mounted on the mounting board 18 in the following manner The points of the two needles 26 a, 26b are inserted in the foam at one end of the mounting board 18, as is shown in the Figures. The doubled suture strand 24 is held relatively tautly so that the strand 24 is held under slight tension from the mounted needles 26a, 26b, and the tautly held strand 24 is pressed into a round slit 30a that is cut in the foam board 18. The strand 24 is then held under slight tension from the slit 30a, and the end 42 of the doubled strand 24 is inserted in a slit 32a at the same end 28 of the board 18 at which the needles 26a, 26b are inserted, but on the the opposite side. By mounting the suture 22 in this manner, it is held firmly in a protected manner so that it is easy for the surgeon to remove the suture 22 from the board 18.The invention is particularly useful for packaging and storing very fine sutures such as those that are used in ophthalmic surgery because such fine sutures are held firmly in place, and do not tend to float , until the surgeon is ready to use them. In Figs. 3 and 4 there are shown sutures 34, 36 having different lengths than the suture 22 shown in Figs. 1 and 2, and which are mounted on the mounting board 18 in accordance with the invention.In Figs. 5 and 6 there is shown an alternative embodiment of the invention in which the mounting board 18 is adhered to a paperboard backing 20, which acts as a stiffening member. The embodiment of Figs. 5 and 6 also illustrates several other alternative structural features of the invention. For instance, in this embodiment, in Fig. 5, the suture strand 24 is wrapped around the end 38 of the board 18 that is remote from the end 28 in which the needles 26a, 26b are inserted. The strand 24 is maintained in place around said end 38 by friction resulting from the slight tension under which the strand 24 is held as it extends from the point of attachment of the needles 26a, 26b to the slit 40 in which the far end 42 of the doubled strand 24 is inserted. In order to accommodate different length sutures in a manner similar to that shown in Figs. 3 and 4, the alternative slits may be cut out, as is shown in Figs. 5 and 6 at 44a, 44b. This is specifically illustrated in Fig. 6 in which a shorter suture is shown mounted. Also, the needles are inserted in slits 46a,46b, rather than being inserted in the foam.The invention is useful for packaging both single armed and double armed sutures, although its use with very fine, double armed sutures is preferred.The invention has the virtue of simplicity of design and operation. It also has the advantage of visually presenting the suture to the surgeon before the package is opened, so the surgeon can make sure that the correct size and length suture is contained therein before the sterile package is opened.