# An improved process for preparing sulfonamides.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to a convenient and eco nomical process for preparing sulfonamide derivatives in which an organometallic compound is reacted, in sequence, with sulfur dioxide, chlorine or bromine and ammonia.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A process for preparing a sulfonamide ofFormula 1 Rl S02 NH2 1 in which R1 is C1 C10 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 6 membered heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen atoms and the remainder carbon atoms which comprises a contacting an organometallic compound of the formula R1 M in which M is an alkali metal or M1X, in which M1is Cd, Zn or Mg and X is halogen, with sulfur dioxide to give an organo sulfinate metal salt b treating the organosulfinate metal salt with chlorine or bromine to afford a sulfonyl halide derivative and c treating the sulfonyl halide with ammonia. 2. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in whichM is an alkali metal. 3. A process as claimed in Claim 2 in which the alkali metal is lithium. 4. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in whichM is M1X. 5. A process as claimed in Claim 4 in whichM1X is magnesium bromide. 6. A process as claimed in Claim 1 in whichR1 is n butyl, p acetylphenyl , 5 pyrimidinyl, or phenyl. 7. A process for preparing a sulfonyl halide of Formula 2 R1 SO2 X 2 in which R1 is C1 C10 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 6 membered heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen atoms and the remainder carbon atoms andX is chlorine or bromine which comprises treating an organosulfinate metal salt of the formula R1 SO2 M 1 1 in which M is an alkali metal or M1X, in which M1 is Cd,Zn or Mg and X is halogen, with chlorine or bromine. 8. A process as claimed in Claim 7 in whichM is an alkali metal. 9. A process as claimed in Claim 7 in whichM is M1X. 10. A compound of Formula 1 whenever prepared by a process according to Claim 1. 11. A compound of Formula 2 whenever prepared by a process according to claim 7.

## Description
AN IMPROVED PROCESS FOR PREPARING SULFONAMIDES One skilled in the art frequently deals with highly reactive, volatile and corrosive reagents such as the sulfonyl halides and the halogens such as chlorine and bromine. To alleviate the potential hazards involved in working with reagents of these types, it is desirable to avoid as much human manipulation as possible. In particular, one pot, in situ generation and utilization of intermediate products is preferred. Further, for commercial large scale producticn those skilled in the art continually search for techniques involving minimal manipulation using cheap, readily available starting materials. The present invention, therefore provides a convenient one pot synthesis of a sulfonamide employing readily available starting materials and advantageous synthetic techniques suitable for industrial scale preparations. In particular, this invention provides an economical and convenient process for preparing a sulfonamide of Formula 1 R1 SO2 NH2 1 in which R1 is C1 C10 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 6 membered heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen atoms and the remainder carbon atoms, such process comprising a contacting an organometallic compound of the formula R1 N in which M is an alkali metal or M1X, in which M1 is Cd, Zn or Mg and X is halogen, with sulfur dioxide to give an organo sulfinate metal salt b treating the organosulfinate metal salt of step a with chlorine or bromine to afford a sulfonyl halide derivative and c treating the sulfonyl halide with ammonia. Further, there is provided a process for preparing a sulfonyl halide of Formula 2 R1 SO2 X 2 in which R1 is C1 Cl0 alkyl, phenyl, substituted phenyl or a 6 membered heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen atoms and the remainder carbon atoms andX is chlorine or bromine which comprises treating an organosulfinate metal salt of the formula R1 SO2 M 1 1.in which M is an alkali metal or M1X, in which M1 is Cd,Zn or Mg and X is halogen, with chlorine or bromine. The term C1 C10 alkyl, as used herein, represents a straight or branched alkyl chain having from one to ten carbon atoms. Typical C1 C10 alkyl groups include groups such as methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, sec butyl, t butyl, n pentyl, sec hexyl, n heptyl, isooctyl, n nonyl, or n decyl. Substituted phenyl refers to a phenyl ring bearing one, two or three substituents which are inert to the reaction conditions used in the process. Suit able substituents may include, for example, C1 C4 alkyl, C1 C4 alkoxy, an ethylene ketal substituent, nitro, or amino. The term 6 membered heteroaromatic ring containing one or two nitrogen atoms and the remainder carbon atoms includes pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine and pyridazine. The first step of the present process comprises the sulfonation of an organometallic compoundR1 M as defined above with sulfur dioxide in a suitable solvent under dry conditions to provide an organosulfinate metal salt. The organometallic compound employed may possess a metal halide substituent but will preferably possess an alkali metal substitutent.When an organcmetallic halide is employed typical metals are zinc, cadmium and especially magnesium.Suitable halogen substituents in the organometallic halide include chlorine and especially bromine.Typical alkali metals suitable for use in the present process are lithium, sodium and potassium. Lithium is preferred. Sulfur dioxide may be added to the reaction mixture as a gas if used at ambient temperature and pressure, or as a liquid if it is cooled to a temperature below approximately 10 C. At least one equivalent of sulfur dioxide must be added to the reaction mixture although typically an excess is employed, for example up to 10 equivalents or more.Generally the sulfur dioxide is added to the reaction mixture until no further reaction is apparent. Any excess sulfur dioxide must be removed before the sub sequent addition of the halogenating agent. This usually is conducted by passing an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon through the reaction vessel for a short period of time. The sulfonation of the organometallic starting material is carried out in a suitable solvent and under dry conditions. Suitable solvents may include ethers such as tetrahydrofuran and diethyl ether, as well as most hydrocarbon solvents. Typical hydrocarbon solvents may be the aromatic hydrocarbons, such as benzene, toluene and the xylenes, in addition to the aliphatic hydrocarbons, such as pentane, hexane, 2,3 dimethylbutane, or heptane. Of these, tetrahydrofuran is the solvent of choice. The solvent should be water free and the reaction vessel void of any residual water. This may be accomplished by heating the vessel to drive off any water and allowing it to cool in an anhydrous atmosphere. During the reaction, use of an inert atmosphere is preferred. Generally an inert gas such as nitrogen or argon is passed through the reaction vessel. The sulfonation step is typically complete after about 1 to 30 minutes when conducted at a temperature in the range of from about 1100C to 400C. The organosulfinate metal salt thus formed is used directly without isolation in the following halogenation procedure. The second step of the process involves halogenating the organosulfinate metal salt with chlorine or bromine to give the sulfonyl halide derivative. Dry conditions should be maintained throughout this step of the process. Typically one equivalent of gaseous bromine, or especially chlorine, is bubbled below the surface of the reaction mixture, although amounts in excess of one equivalent appear to do no harm. The reaction is conducted at a temperature in the range of from about 1100C to 1000C, more preferably from about 500C to 250C. While use of the same solvent in this step as employed in the prior sulfonation step is preferred, the halogenation reaction also may be conducted in a halogenated hydrocarbon solvent. Examples of such solvents may include dichloromethane, chloroform, or 1,2 dibromoethane. The reaction is complete when no exothermic reaction is apparent upon the continued addition of the gaseous halogenating agent. As with the sulfonation step described above, excess reagent must be removed before the last step of the process, typically by passing an inert gas through the reaction vessel. The product thus formed is used in situ in the final step of the process of the invention. The final step of the present process involves treating the obtained sulfonyl halide with ammonia to provide the desired sulfonamide derivative. For this step the inert atmosphere is not necessary and preferably is not employed. The ammonia may be gaseous or may be used in a liquid form such as aqueous ammonium hydroxide or ammonia in acetone. Typically at least one equivalent, and preferably an excess, of ammonia is employed. The reaction usually is complete after about 1 minute to 2 hours when conducted at a temperature in the range of from 100C to about 1000C. The sulfonamide then may be isolated by either collecting the precipitated solid by filtration or evaporating the reaction mixture to dryness.The product then may be purified further if desired by either crystallization from common solvents or purification over solid supports such as silica gel or alumina, or by other means known to those skilled in the art. The compounds prepared by the process of the present invention are useful for a variety of purposes.For example, U.S. Patent No. 3,320,312 discloses various phenylsulfonyl cycloalkylureas having hypoglycemic properties prepared from the corresponding benzenesulfonamide and isocyanate analogs. Certain of the sulfonamide derivatives prepared by the present process can be converted also to the corresponding sulfonyl isocyanate and reacted with an appropriate amine to prepare compounds having an agrichemical utility. The sulfonyl isocyanate generally is prepared by reacting the sulfonamide with phosgene in the presence of n butyl isocyanate at reflux in a solvent such as chlorobenzene.See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 4,169,719 directed to N heterocyclicaminocarbonyl arylsulfonamides as herbicides. The present process may be used also to prepare dinitrosulfanilamide herbicides as exemplified in U.S. Patent No. 3,367,949 The organometallic compounds employed as starting materials for the present process either are commercially available or readily prepared by known procedures. The starting materials having an alkali metal substituent are typically prepared by reacting an organohalide with an alkylmetal reagent according to the following scheme RlX R2M R1M R2X in which R1 is as defined above, M is an alkali metal, X is halogen and R2 is C1 C6 alkyl. Preferred halogen atoms are bromine and chlorine and the preferred alkali metal reagent is nbutyllithium. This reaction is conducted in a suitable solvent at low temperatures in the presence of an inert atmosphere. Suitable solvents should be water free and may include ethers such as diethyl ether or especially tetrahydrofuran. The inert atmosphere generally is obtained by passing either nitrogen or argon through the reaction vessel. Generally one equivalent of organohalide is combined with one or more equivalents of an alkyl metal reagent. The reaction substantially is complete after about 10 minutes to 24 hours when conducted at a temperature in the range of from about 1000C to OOC. Preferably, the organometallic compound prepared is used directly in the present process without isolation. The organometallic halide starting materials are prepared also by procedures well known to those skilled in the art or by methods analogous to such prior art procedures. Generally, an organohalide is treated with a suitable metal according to the following scheme R1X M1 RlMlX in which R1 and X are as defined above and M1 is zinc, cadmium or especially magnesium. Typically this reaction is conducted by combining about one equivalent of organohalide with from one equivalent to a slight excess of metal in a suitable solvent under inert dry conditions. Suitable solvents should be water free and may include the ethers such as diethyl ether and especially tetrahydrofuran. Inert atmosphere typically is provided by either nitrogen or argon. The reaction usually is initiated by grinding the metal in a suitable solvent in the reaction flask and adding a small amount of an initiating agent such as iodine or 1,2 dibromoethane. Generally the solution is allowed to reflux without the aid of external heat by the mere dropwise addition of the organohalide in a suitable solvent to the stirred reaction mixture.After addition of the organohalide is complete, the solution usually is refluxed for about 30 to 90 minutes by the application of an external heat source. The organometallic halide may be used directly without further purification in the first step of the process of the present invention. The preparation of the cadmium reagents in which M1 above is cadmium are usually prepared by transmetallation of a Grignard reagent with cadmium chloride according to well known procedures. The following non limiting examples are provided to further illustrate the invention. Example 1 Benzenesul fonamide A 100 ml 3 neck round bottom flask which had been dried at 1000C under vacuum and fitted with a condenser, thermometer and mechanical stirrer, was charged with 1.07 g 44.0 mmol of magnesium turnings and 6 ml of tetrahydrofuran. A small amount of a solution of 6.58 g bromobenzene 99 , 41.5 mmol and 34 ml tetrahydrofuran was added to the flask. The reaction was initiated by breaking a few of the magnesium turnings followed by the addition of a small iodine crystal and the application of heat. The remainder of the bromobenzene solution was added over 30 minutes while a minimal amount of additional heat was required to maintain reflux. Following the addition of the bromobenzene solution, the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for an additional 45 minutes.The solution was cooled to 0 50C whereupon 2.1 ml sulfur dioxide 47.0 mmol was added dropwise, from an addition funnel topped by a dry ice filled cold finger condenser, to the Grignard mixture. The reaction mixture was cooled to about 50C during which time a dynamic nitrogen purge was used. Chlorine gas was bubbled gently below the reaction mixture surface until the vigorous exothermic reaction subsided. The reaction mixture was cooled to about 90C and the chlorine gas was removed. A solution of 5.36 g 28 ammonia in water and 20 ml acetone was added dropwise to the reaction mixture over about 30 minutes. The precipitated solid was filtered and washed with acetone. The combined mother liquor and washes were concentrated under vacuum, slurried in water and acidified with 12 N HC1.The solid slurry was chilled, filtered, washed with water and hexane, and the resulting solid was dried in a vacuum oven to obtain 3.24 g of benzenesulfonamide. The proton NMR was identical to that of an authentic sample. mp 150 1520C uncorr. . The infrared spectrum also was consistent with the structure of benzenefulfonamide. Example 2 5 Pyrimidinesulfonamide A 100 ml three neck round bottom flask air dried at 1150C was charged with 5.13 g of 5 bromopyrimidine 99.2 , 32.0 mmol and 60 ml of tetrahydrofuran dried over molecular sieves . The solution was cooled to a temperature in the range of about 95 to 1000C whereupon 21.0 ml of 1.6 M n butyllithium in hexanes 33.6 mmol was added over 25 minutes such that the temperature did not exceed 920C. The mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 90 to 1000C and sulfur dioxide was bubbled gently below the reaction mixture surface until the reaction had ceased. The source of the gas for the subsurface addition was changed briefly to nitrogen and while maintaining the temperature below 300C chlorine gas was added until the exothermic reaction stopped.The reaction mixture was warmed to 0 50C, the excess chlorine gas was removed and 20 ml of 28 ammonia in water was added to the mixture. The mixture was cooled to 20C and the precipitated solid was collected by filtration. The solids were washed with hexanes and oven dried to obtain 7.96 g of solid containing 5 pyrimidinesulfonamide as determined by NMR assay. Example 3 E Acetylbenzenesulfonamide A 100 ml three neck round bottom flask was charged with 10.01 g of p bromoacetophenone, ethylene ketal 41.2 mmol and 50 ml of tetrahydrofuran. The solution was cooled to 690C, and 29 ml of n butyllithium solution 1.431 molar 41 mmol was added to the reaction mixture so that the temperature of the mixture remained below 610C. The mixture was stirred for one hour at 700C whereupon 5 ml of liquid sulfur dioxide 110 mmol was added slowly until no exothermic reaction was apparent. Nitrogen was bubbled below the reaction mixture surface for 30 minutes followed by the addition of chlorine gas for about 5 minutes. A subsurface nitrogen purge was maintained while the reaction mixture was allowed to warm gradually to ambient temperature.The mixture was chilled to 50 150C and was slowly charged with 10 ml of a solution of 28 ammonia in water and 22 ml of acetone so that the temperature remained below 150C. To the solution was added 41 ml of deionized water and an additional 28 ammonia until a pH of 9 was obtained. The mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure to remove most of the organic solvents. To the residue was added toluene and acetone. The mixture was heated at reflux for 2 hours, cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filtrate was evaporated to provide 5.30 g of solid residue. To 4.28 g of this residue was added 15 ml of methanol, 5 ml of water and 0.33 g of 98 sulfuric acid. The mixture was stirred overnight and cooled. The mixture was filtered and the solids were washed with a cold 50 aqueous acetone solution.The solid was dried in a vacuum oven overnight to obtain 1.35 g of solid containing g acetylbenzenesulfonamide as determined byHPLC assay. Example 4 n Butyl sulfonamide A 100 ml three neck round bottom flask was charged with 30.0 ml of 1.6 N n butyllithium 48.0 mmol and 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran freshly distilled from sodium benzophenone . The mixture was cooled to 500C and sulfur dioxide was bubbled gently below the surface of the reaction mixture until the exothermic reaction subsided. The temperature was maintained below 300C. The mixture was purged briefly with nitrogen and then chlorine until all solids dissolved. The solution was warmed to OOC, the excess chlorine gas was removed by a nitrogen purge, and 8.4 g of 28 ammonia in water was added such that the temperature remained below 200C. The mixture was stirred overnight and allowed to warm to room temperature with ambient warming. The mixture was cooled to 0 50C and stirred for 3 hours. The precipitated solids were collected by filtration and washed with hexanes. This material was oven dried to obtain 7.68 g of solid containing n butylsulfonamide as shown by NMR.