# COLOR CATHODE RAY TUBE AND COMPONENT THEREOF AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURING SAME

## Abstract
A tensed color selection electrode assembly is utilized in screening a pattern of phosphor areas upon the target surface of the faceplate of a color cathode ray tube and is thereafter incorporated as a component of the tube. The faceplate is formed of a material having a predetermined temperature coefficient of expansion and has registration affording means thereon. The initial assembly includes a severable mount formed of a material having a temperature coefficient of expansion greater than that of the faceplate and has a central opening of a predetermined expanse. A planar metal foil having a predetermined pattern of aper tures and formed of a material having a temperature coefficient of expansion not greater than that of the mount is secured to the mount. First and second frames, each having an overall span less than the mount opening and each having a central aperture dimensioned to enclose the target surface, are formed of a material having a temperature coefficient of expansion approximating that of the faceplate. Each frame further includes a pair of spaced apart sealing lands with one sealing land of each frame disposed in a confronting relation. Devitrifying frit disposed between the confronting sealing lands bond the frames and a peripheral portion of the foil in sandwich fashion to maintain the foil in tension. Indexing means associated with the other sealing land of the first frame co operate with the registration affording means on the faceplate to permit repeated precise registrations between the foil and the faceplate to facilitate screening of the phosphor pattern as well as to facilitate mating of the electrode assembly to the faceplate. Finally, the invention contemplates a method of utilizing the elec trode assembly for screening a phosphor pattern as well as methods of making a color cathode ray tube having such an electrode assembly.