# PROCESSES FOR PREPARING HYDROXYAROMATIC OLIGOMERS CONTAINING TRIAZINE GROUPS AND FOR PREPARING EPOXY RESINS FROM THE OLIGOMERS

## Claims
Verfahren zum Herstellen hydroxyaromatischer Triazingruppen enthaltende Oligomere durch Umsetzen

## Description
The present invention is directed to novel processes for preparation of hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups and for preparing epoxy resins from the oligomers. Epoxy resins containing triazine groups are known from Japan Kokai Tokkyo Koho 81 26,925 dated March 16, 1981. However, the preparation of said resins involves the use of the difficult to obtain intermediate 2,4,6 trichloro 1,3,5 triazine. Furthermore, coupling of 2,4,6 trichloro 1,3,5 triazine with a diphenol through the chloride groups is difficult and leads to a relatively uncontrollable product mix. US A 2,864,805 refers to epoxide resins prepared by reacting a cyanuric acid, a diphenol and epichlorhydrin in the presence of an organic nitrogen based catalyst and an organic solvent to produce a polychlorohydrin which is dehydrochlorinated to the epoxy resin. DE A 11 90 194 describes a method for producing high molecular polytriazines by polymerizing di or polyfunctional cyanic acid esters of the formula R O CN ₂ ₅ wherein R is an aromatic group or an aromatic group bond by bridging units, at temperatures between 0 C and 200 C in the presence of acids, bases, salts or phosphorous compounds as polymerization catalysts. US A 4,142,048, corresponding to FR A 2,303,006 refers to the production of tris 2 hydroxylaryl esters of cyanuric acid, which are useful as crosslinking agents and UV absorbers. The monotriazine 2 hydroxy aromatic compound is isolated from the cyanation reaction after some time sufficient that some type of autocyclotrimerization occurs. It is the object of the present invention to provide hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups which can be easily epoxidized by well known methods. This object is attained by a process to form hydroxy aromatic oligomers containing triazine groups by reacting I II trimerizing the product resulting from I in the presence of metal salts or carboxylic acids as trimerization catalyst at a temperature of from 70 C to 350 C for a period of from 15 to 120 minutes to complete the trimerization reaction and to form hydroxy aromatic oligomers containing triazine groups. The invention includes a process for preparing epoxy resins by epoxidizing a hydroxyaromatic material in a conventional manner by reaction with an epihalohydrin with subsequent dehydrohalogenation with a basic acting material and finally revocering the resultant glycidyl ether product, which uses the trimerized hydroxyaromatic oligomers from the claimed process as hydroxyaromatic material. Epichlorhydrin as epihalohydrin and alkali metal hydroxide as basic acting material are the preferred materials. The process of the present invention provides hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups using an easily prepared mixed cyanate of a polyphenol. In the process, the polyphenol, such as a bisphenol is used as compound having an average of more than one aromatic hydroxyl group per molecule and cyanogen bromide is used as cyanogen halide. Preferably 4,4 isopropylidenediphenol Bisphenol A is reacted with less than a stoichiometric equivalent of a cyanogen chloride or bromide in the presence of a suitable base, such as triethylamine. This provides a mixture of monocyanate, dicyanate and, optionally, unreacted polyphenol. Trimerization of this mixture provides hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing the triazine group. The oligomers and unreacted polyphenol, if any, are then epoxidized using methods well known in the art. A further benefit of the process of this invention is excellent control over the molecular weight degree of polymerization of the hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups and thus the resulting molecular weight and therefore physical properties of the finished epoxy resin product. This is accomplished by varying the polycyanate content of the polyphenol cyanate mixture used in the trimerization step of the process. A higher polycyanate content leads to higher molecular weight hydroxyaromatic oligomers through the presence of a greater number of bridged triazine groups. Conversely, a lower polycyanate content leads to lower molecular weight hydroxyaromatic oligomers. Unreacted polyphenol, which is preferably present, is converted to the corresponding polyglycidyl ether during the epoxidation of the hydroxyaromatic oligomers. This improves overall processability of the epoxy resin. If desired, extra polyphenol can be added prior to epoxidation to increase polyphenol polyglycidyl ether content of the finished epoxy resin product. Likewise, extra polycyanate may be added to the polyphenol cyanate mixture prior to trimerization. Suitable materials having an average of more than one aromatic hydroxyl group per molecule which can be employed in the present invention include, for example, those represented by the formulas wherein A is a divalent hydrocarbon group having from 1 to 12, preferably from 1 to 6 O , each A is a divalent hydrocarbon group having from 1 to 3, preferably 1, carbon atoms each R is independently hydrogen, halogen, preferably chlorine or bromine, a hydrocarbyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a hydroxyl group each R is independently hydrogen or a hydrocarbyl group having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a halogen, preferably chlorine or bromine m has a value from zero to 2 m has a value from 1 to 100 n has a value of zero or 1 and n has a value from 1.01 to 6 except 1.2 dihydroxybenzene or its derivatives substituted with radicals R as defined above as the aromatic hydroxyl containing compound Particularly suitable aromatic hydroxyl containing compounds include, for example, 2 tert butyl hydroquinone, 2,4 dimethyl resorcinol, 2,5 di tert butyl hydroquinone, tetramethyl hydroquinone, 2,4,6 trimethyl resorcinol, 4 chlororesorcinol, 4 tert butyl pyrocatechol, 1,1 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl ethane 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl pentane bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 2,2 dihydroxydiphenyl, 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethyl 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 3,3 ,5,5 tetrachloro 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 3,3 ,5,5 tetrachloro 2,2 dihydroxydiphenyl, 2,2 ,6,6 tetrachloro 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl, 4,4 bis 3 hydroxy phenoxy diphenyl, 4,4 bis 4 hydroxy phenoxy diphenyl, 2,2 dihydroxy 1,1 binaphthyl, and other dihydroxydiphenyls 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl ether, 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethyl 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl ether, 3,3 ,5,5 tetrachloro 4,4 hydroxydiphenyl ether, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenoxy diphenyl ether, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenyl isopropyl diphenyl ether, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenoxy benzene, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenoxy diphenyl ether, 4,4 bis 4 4 hydroxyphenoxy phenyl sulfone diphenyl ether, and other dihydroxydiphenyl ethers 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone, 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethyl 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone, 3,3 5,5 tetrachloro 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl sulfone, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenyl isopropyl diphenyl sulfone, 4,4 bis 4 hydroxy phenoxy diphenyl sulfone, 4,4 bis 3 hydroxy phenoxy diphenyl sulfone, 4,4 bis 4 4 hydroxyphenyl isopropyl phenoxy diphenyl sulfone, 4,4 bis 4 4 hydroxy diphenoxy diphenyl sulfone, and other diphenyl sulfones 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl methane, 4,4 bis p hydroxyphenyl diphenyl methane, 2,2 bis p hydroxyphenyl propane, 3,3 ,5,5 tetramethyl 2,2 bis p hydroxyphenyl propane, 3,3 ,5,5, tetrachloro 2,2 bis p hydroxyphenyl propane, 1,1 bis p hydroxyphenyl cyclohexane, bis 2 hydroxy 1 naphthyl methane, 1,2 bis p hydroxyphenyl 1,1,2,2 tetramethyl ethane, 4,4 dihydroxybenzophenone, 4,4 bis 4 hydroxy phenoxy benzophenone, 1,4 bis p hydroxyphenyl isopropyl benzene, phloroglucinol, pyrogallol, 2,2 ,5,5 tetrahydroxy diphenyl sulfone, other dihydroxydiphenyl alkanes, and mixtures thereof. Suitable cyanogen halides which can be employed herein include, for example, cyanogen chloride, cyanogen bromide, and mixtures thereof. If desired, the method reported in Organic Syntheses, Vol. 61, page 35 37 1983 , published by John Wiley Sons, may be used to generate the required amount of cyanogen halide in situ, although this is less preferred than using neat cyanogen halide. Suitable basic materials which can be employed herein as component I C include both inorganic bases and tertiary amines, such as, for example, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, triethylamine, and mixtures thereof. The tertiary amines are most preferred as the basic material. Suitable trimerization catalysts which can be employed herein include, for example, metal salts of carboxylic acids, such as, lead octoate, zinc stearate, zinc acetylacetonate, at concentrations of 0.001 to 5 percent. Most preferred catalysts are cobalt naphthenate, cobalt octoate, or mixtures thereof. The epoxidation step, can be accomplished by employing the known methods described in Suitable curing agents and or catalysts for the epoxy resins are described in the aforementioned The step I reaction is usually conducted at a temperature of from 40 C to 60 C, preferably from 20 C to 25 C for from 10 minutes 600 s to 120 minutes 7200 s , preferably from 10 minutes 600 s to 60 minutes 3600 s . If desired, the reaction of step I can be conducted in the presence of an inert solvent reaction medium. Suitable such solvents include, for example, water, chlorinated hydrocarbons, ketones, and mixtures thereof. The reaction of step II is usually conducted at a temperature of from 70 C to 350 C, preferably from 70 C to 200 C for a period of from 15 minutes 900 s to 120 minutes 7200 s , preferably from 30 minutes 1800 s to 75 minutes 4500 s . The reaction is preferably performed in the presence of a suitable trimerization catalyst. The epoxy resins of the present invention can be used to prepare, castings, coatings, laminates, or encapsulations, and are especially suited for use in high temperature environments. The following examples are illustrative of the invention, but are not to be construed as to limiting the scope thereof in any manner. Cyanogen bromide 1.10 moles, 116.52 grams was added to a reactor containing stirred acetone 350 milliliter under a nitrogen atmosphere. The cyanogen bromide acetone solution was cooled to 5 C, then bisphenol A 1.00 mole, 228.30 grams dissolved in chilled acetone 650 milliliters was added to the reactor. The stirred solution was allowed to equilibrate at 5 C, then triethylamine 1.00 mole, 101.19 grams was added to the reactor over a 74 minute 4200 s period and so as to maintain the reaction temperature at 5 C. After completion of the triethylamine addition, the reactor was maintained at 5 C for an additional 20 minutes 1200 s , followed by addition of the reaction product to chilled water 1 gallon with agitation. After 1.5 hours 5400 s , the water and product mixture was subjected to multiple extractions with methylene chloride. The combined methylene chloride extracts were sequentially washed with dilute hydrochloric acid 5 percent , water, hydrochloric acid, water and then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The dry methylene chloride extract was filtered and solvent removed by rotary evaporation under vacuum. The resultant diphenol cyanate mixture was recovered 232.0 grams as a transparent, viscous liquid. Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated the presence of the nitrile functionality as well as unreacted hydroxyl functionality. Liquid chromatographic analysis demonstrated the presence of 24.5 area percent bisphenol A, 54.1 area percent bisphenol A monocyanate, and 21.4 area percent bisphenol A dicyanate. A portion 200 grams of the diphenol cyanate mixture from A above and 6.0 percent cobalt naphthenate 0.10 percent by weight, 0.20 gram were thoroughly mixed and placed in a glass tray. The tray was then placed in a forced air, convection type oven and maintained for 1.0 hour 3600 s at 177 C. The hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups were recovered in quantitative yield as a transparent, brittle solid at room temperature 25 C . The oligomers had a greenish colored cast due to the catalyst. At the 177 C temperature, the oligomers were still totally fluid. Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated essentially complete disappearance of the cyanate functionality, appearance of the triazine functionality, and the presence of unreacted hydroxyl functionality. The oligomers were analyzed by gel permeation chromatography using polystyrene standards. The average molecular weight was 13.589 and the polydispersity ratio was 257. A portion 177.31 grams of the hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups from B above, epichlorohydrin 3.50 moles, 323.86 grams , isopropanol 35 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 174.39 grams , and water 8 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 28.16 grams were added to a reactor and stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere at 75 C until a solution was formed. At this time, the reactor was cooled to 50 C and dropwise addition of a sodium hydroxide 1.56 moles, 50.4 grams solution in water 201.6 grams commenced and was completed over the next 45 minutes 2700 s . During this sodium hydroxide addition, the reaction temperature was allowed to increase to 60 C and was then held at this temperature. Fifteen minutes 900 s after the addition of sodium hydroxide solution, a second solution of sodium hydroxide 0.56 mole, 22.4 grams in water 89.6 grams was added dropwise to the reactor over the next 20 minutes 1200 s . Fifteen minutes 900 s later, the reactor was cooled to 40 C then an initial water wash 400 grams was added to the reactor. The reactor contents were transferred to a separatory funnel containing additional epichlorohydrin 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a second water wash 600 grams . Epichlorohydrin 300 grams was added to the separatory funnel then the water wash layer was separated and discarded. The organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a final water wash 800 grams . Epichlorohydrin 500 grams was added to the separatory funnel, then the water wash layer was separated and discarded. The recovered organic layer was stripped of solvents by rotary evaporation at 100 C for 30 minutes 1800 s under vacuum. The epoxy resin was recovered 209.1 grams as a transparent, light amber colored, tacky solid at room temperature 25 C . Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated substantially complete disappearance of hydroxyl functionality, appearance of epoxide functionality and presence of triazine functionality. Epoxide titration revealed the presence of 16.85 percent by weight epoxide. Direct epoxidation of the diphenol cyanate mixture of Example 1A was attempted as a potential route to epoxy resins containing triazine groups Diphenol cyanate mixture 202.64 grams prepared using methods identical to that of Example 1A, epichlorohydrin 4.00 moles, 370.12 grams , isopropanol 35 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 199.3 grams and water 8 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 32.18 grams were added to a reactor and stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere with heating to 60 C. Dropwise addition of a sodium hydroxide 1.44 moles, 57.6 grams solution in water 230.4 grams commenced and was completed over the next 45 minutes 2700 s . During the sodium hydroxide addition, the reaction temperature was maintained at 60 C. Fifteen minutes 900 s after the addition of the sodium hydroxide solution, a second solution of sodium hydroxide 0.64 mole, 25.6 grams in water 102.4 grams was added dropwise to the reactor over the next 20 minutes 1200 s . Fifteen minutes 900 s later, the reactor was cooled to 30 C then an initial water wash 400 grams was added to the reactor. The reactor contents were transfered to a separatory funnel containing additional epichlorohydrin 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a second water wash 800 grams . Epichlorohydrin 400 grams was added to the separatory funnel then the water wash layer was separated and discarded. The organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a third water wash 800 grams . The water layer was separated and discarded. The recovered organic layer was stripped of solvents by rotary evaporation at 100 C for 30 minutes 1800 s under vacuum. The product was recovered 247.70 grams as a transparent oil at room temperature 25 C . Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated complete disappearance of the cyanate functionality and appearance of epoxide functionality. Epoxide titration revealed the presence of 16.55 percent by weight epoxide. Curing of the epoxy resin was not attempted since no cyanate groups were present to form triazine groups. Cyanogen bromide 1.10 moles, 116.52 grams was added to a reactor containing stirred acetone 350 milliliter under a nitrogen atmosphere. The cyanogen bromide acetone solution was cooled to 5 C, then bisphenol A 1.00 mole, 228.30 grams dissolved in chilled acetone 650 milliliters was added to the reactor. The stirred solution was allowed to equilibrate at 5 C, then triethylamine 1.00 mole, 101.19 grams was added to the reactor over a 45 minute 2700 s period and so as to maintain the reaction temperature at 2 to 5 C. After completion of the triethylamine addition, the reactor was maintained at 2 to 0 C for an additional 20 minutes 1200 s , followed by addition of the reaction product to chilled water 1 gallon with agitation. After 15 minutes 900 s , the water and product mixture was subjected to multiple extractions with methylene chloride. The combined methylene chloride extracts were sequentially washed with dilute hydrochloric acid 5 percent , water, hydrochloric acid, water and then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The dry methylene chloride extract was filtered and solvent removed by rotary evaporation under vacuum. The diphenol cyanate mixture was recovered 257.7 grams as a transparent, viscous liquid. Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated the presence of the cyanate functionality as well as unreacted hydroxyl functionality. Liquid chromatographic analysis demonstrated the presence of 32.08 area percent bisphenol A, 46.69 area percent bisphenol A monocyanate, and 21.23 area percent bisphenol A dicyanate. The diphenol cyanate mixture 257.7 grams from A above and 6.0 percent cobalt naphthenate 0.10 percent by weight, 0.26 gram were thoroughly mixed and placed in a glass tray. The tray was then placed in a forced air, convection type oven and maintained for 1.25 hours 4500 s at 177 C. The hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups were recovered in quantitative yield as a transparent, brittle solid at room temperature 25 C . The oligomers had a greenish colored cast due to the catalyst. At the 177 C temperature, the oligomers were still totally fluid. Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated complete disappearance of the cyanate functionality, appearance of the triazine functionality, and the presence of unreacted hydroxyl functionality. A portion 215.31 grams of the hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups from B above, epichlorohydrin 4.25 moles, 393.25 grams , isopropanol 35 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 211.75 grams , and water 8 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 34.20 grams were added to a reactor and stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere at 75 C until a solution was formed. At this time, the reactor was cooled to 50 C and dropwise addition of a sodium hydroxide 1.53 moles, 61.2 grams solution in water 244.8 grams commenced and was completed over the next 45 minutes 2700 s . During this sodium hydroxide addition, the reaction temperature was allowed to increase to 60 C and was then held at this temperature. Fifteen minutes 900 s after the addition of sodium hydroxide solution, a second solution of sodium hydroxide 0.68 mole, 27.2 grams in water 108.8 grams was added dropwise to the reactor over the next 20 minutes 1200 s . Fifteen minutes 900 s later, the reactor was cooled to 40 C then an initial water wash 400 grams was added to the reactor. The reactor contents were transferred to a separatory funnel containing additional epichlorohydrin 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a second water wash 200 grams . The organic layer was separated then added back into the separatory funnel along with a third water wash 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a final water wash 1000 grams . Epichlorohydrin 200 grams was added to the separatory funnel, then the water wash layer was separated and discarded. The recovered organic layer was stripped of solvents by rotary evaporation at 100 C for 30 minutes 1800 s under vacuum. The epoxy resin was recovered 287.8 grams as a transparent, light amber colored, solid at room temperature 25 C . Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated substantially complete disappearance of hydroxyl functionality, appearance of epoxide functionality and presence of triazine functionality. Epoxide titration revealed the presence of 15.70 percent by weight epoxide. Cyanogen bromide 0.55 moles, 58.26 grams was added to a reactor containing stirred acetone 175 milliliters under a nitrogen atmosphere. The cyanogen bromide acetone solution was cooled to 5 C, then bisphenol A 1.00 mole, 228.30 grams dissolved in chilled acetone 650 milliliters was added to the reactor. The stirred solution was allowed to equilibrate at 5 C, then triethylamine 0.50 mole, 50.60 grams was added to the reactor over a 25 minute 1500 s period and so as to maintain the reaction temperature at 2 to 5 C. After completion of the triethylamine addition, the reactor was maintained at 2 to 0 C for an additional 20 minutes 1200 s , followed by addition of the reaction product to chilled water 1 gallon with agitation. After 15 minutes 900 s , the water and product mixture was subjected to multiple extractions with methylene chloride. The combined methylene chloride extracts were sequentially washed with dilute hydrochloric acid 5 percent , water, hydrochloric acid, water and then dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The dry methylene chloride extract was filtered and solvent removed by rotary evaporation under vacuum. The diphenol cyanate mixture was recovered 229.7 grams as a white colored solid at room temperature 25 C . Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated the presence of the nitrile functionality as well as unreacted hydroxyl functionality. Liquid chromatographic analysis demonstrated the presence of 55.82 area percent bisphenol A, 37.89 area percent bisphenol A monocyanate, and 6.29 area percent bisphenol A dicyanate. The diphenol cyanate mixture 229.7 grams from A above and 6.0 percent cobalt naphthenate 0.10 percent by weight, 0.23 gram were thoroughly mixed and placed in a glass tray. The tray was then placed in a forced air, convection type oven and maintained for 1.25 hour 4500 s at 177 C. The hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups were recovered in quantitative yield as a transparent, brittle solid at room temperature 25 C . The oligomers had a greenish colored cast due to the catalyst. At the 177 C temperature, the oligomers were still totally fluid. Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated complete disappearance of the cyanate functionality, appearance of the triazine functionality, and the presence of unreacted hydroxyl functionality. The oligomers were analyzed by gel permeation chromatography using polystyrene standards. The average molecular weight was 3,748 and the polydispersity ratio was 1.40. A portion 215.00 grams of the hydroxyaromatic oligomers containing triazine groups from B above, epichlorohydrin 6.865 moles, 635.22 grams , isopropanol 35 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 342.04 grams , and water 8 percent by weight of epichlorohydrin used, 55.24 grams were added to a reactor and stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere at 60 C until a solution was formed. At this time, the reactor was cooled to 50 C and dropwise addition of a sodium hydroxide 2.4714 moles, 98.86 grams solution in water 395.42 grams commenced and was completed over the next 45 minutes 2700 s . During this sodium hydroxide addition, the reaction temperature was allowed to increase to 60 C and was then held at this temperature. Fifteen minutes 900 s after the addition of sodium hydroxide solution, a second solution of sodium hydroxide 1.0984 mole, 43.94 grams in water 175.76 grams was added dropwise to the reactor over the next 20 minutes 1200 s . Fifteen minutes 900 s later, the reactor was cooled to 40 C then an initial water wash 400 grams was added to the reactor. The reactor contents were transferred to a separatory funnel containing additional epichlorohydrin 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel along with a second water wash 200 grams . The organic layer was separated then added back into the separatory funnel along with a third water wash 200 grams . The water wash layer was separated and discarded while the organic layer was added back into the separatory funnel with a final water wash 1000 grams . Epichlorohydrin 200 grams was added to the separatory funnel, then the water wash layer was separated and discarded. The recovered organic layer was stripped of solvents by rotary evaporation at 100 C for 30 minutes 1800 s under vacuum. The epoxy resin was recovered 272.4 grams as a transparent, light yellow colored liquid at room temperature 25 C . Infrared spectrophotometric analysis demonstrated substantially complete disappearance of hydroxyl functionality, appearance of epoxide functionality and presence of triazine functionality. Epoxide titration revealed the presence of 21.55 percent by weight epoxide. A portion of the epoxy resin prepared above 265.00 grams was heated to 75 C then methylenedianiline 65.74 grams was added and thoroughly mixed in. This solution was used to prepare a clear, unfilled 3.175 mm 1 8 inch casting for heat distortion temperature 1820 kPa 264 psi , tensile and flexural strength, flexural modulus, percent elongation, average Barcol hardness 934 1 scale and unnotched Izod impact strength determinations. The casting was cured for 2 hours 7200 s at 75 C followed by post curing of 2 hours 7200 s at 125 C, 2 hours 7200 s at 175 C, then 2 hours 7200 s at 200 C. Mechanical properties of tensile 8 and flexural 5 test pieces were determined using an Instron machine with standard test methods ASTM D 638 and D 790 . Heat distortion temperature of clear casting test pieces 2 was determined using an Aminco Plastic Deflection Tester American Instrument Co. with standard test methods ASTM D 648 modified . Nine 63.5 by 12.7 by 3.125 mm 2.5 by 0.5 by 0.125 inch test pieces were prepared from the clear, unfilled casting and tested for unnotched Izod impact using a TMI Impact Tester No. 43 1 with standard test methods ASTM D 256 . The results are reported in Table I. A sample 7.60 milligrams of the clear, unfilled casting described above was analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry DSC under a nitrogen atmosphere using a scan rate of 10 C per minute. A pair of glass transition temperatures Tg were observed at 165 C and 310 C while the onset to endothermic decomposition occurred at 380 C. A sample 14.98 milligrams of the clear, unfilled casting described above was analyzed by thermogravimetric analysis TGA using a nitrogen flow rate of 80 cubic centimeters per minute and a rate of temperature increase of 10 C per minute. The weight of the sample as a function of temperature is reported in Table II. Dynamic mechanical spectrometry DMS was completed using a sample of the clear, unfilled casting described above. The sample dimensions were 44.8 millimeters in length, 3.6 millimeters in thickness and 13.0 millimeters in width. The sample was loaded and run with a strain of 0.05 percent and a frequency of one hertz in a nitrogen atmosphere from 160 to 400 C using a Rheometrics model 605 mechanical spectrometer. The DMS analysis revealed a drop in storage modulus at 150 C indicating a glass transition, an increase in storage modulus after 190 C as expected for the rubbery state followed by a second drop in storage modulus at 290 C indicating a second glass transition.