# METHOD OF FABRICATION A SEMICONDUCTOR LASER

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Halbleiterlasers, umfassend die folgenden Schritte

## Description
The present invention relates to a method of fabricating a semiconductor laser by dry etching a compound semiconductor using a plasma etching apparatus. A III V Group compound semiconductor such as gallium arsenide, indium phosphide, or gallium aluminum arsenide is used as a base material of a semiconductor laser. When a substrate of such a compound semiconductor is used, a semiconductor device can be manufactured such as a field effect transistor or an integrated device thereof having a better performance than that of a semiconductor device having a silicon substrate. Furthermore, by using such compound semiconductors, an optoelectric circuit has been developed with a new concept in which an electrical integrated circuit and a light emitting receiving element circuit are integrally formed. In order to improve the productivity and the reproducibility in the manufacture of semiconductor devices including such compound semiconductor devices, a dry etching method has recently been used in a manufacturing process thereof. Particularly, a reactive ion etching method using a parallel flat plate electrode type device has been suggested as a dry etching process. In this method, a plasma generating gas containing halogen is introduced to a vacuum pressure of 10 ² to 10 ¹ Torr 1.33 13.3 Pa in a vacuum chamber having an electrode cathode to which high frequency power is applied and a ground electrode anode opposite thereto. A material to be etched is placed on the cathode. When the plasma generating gas is introduced, the high frequency power is applied to the cathode, thereby generating a glow discharge. Then, the cathode is negatively self biased by a mobility difference between electrons and ions, and a dark space is formed thereon. A cathode breakdown voltage Vdc is also generated by this self bias. Reactive ions generated by the glow discharge from the plasma generating gas are accelerated by the cathode breakdown voltage, thereby bombarding the material to be etched. Atoms sputtered by this bombardment react with the reactive ions to generate highly volatile molecules, and the molecules are discharged from the vacuum chamber. Thus, the etching is performed. In this etching method, the material can be an isotropically etched. Under optimal conditions, a pattern width of about 0.5 to 1 µm can be obtained. Therefore, a high density and high performance semiconductor device can be obtained with this method in comparison to a wet etching method in which an undercut easily occurs and it is difficult to obtain micropatterning. However, although the dry etching method is effective in manufacturing a semiconductor device as described above, it has the problems to be described below when this method is used to etch a compound semiconductor unlike a single semiconductor material such as silicon, or metallic material such as aluminum. So, the dry etching method has not been used practically to etch compound semiconductors. In a compound semiconductor, since this material consists of a plurality of different types of atoms, conditions for simultaneously etching those plurality of different types of atoms must be selected. Further, etching mechanism of the compound semiconductors is very complicated and is not known to a satisfactory extent. In a manufacturing process of a semiconductor laser, in order to form an end face of a resonator or a mesa structure, an etching depth of about 5 µm is required. In comparison to a prior art technique which needs an etching dept of 1 µm or less, an etching rate and an etching selectivity with respect to a mask must be several times those of the prior art. Therefore, the prior art technique and the conditions thereof cannot be adopted. The use of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ as an etching gas for GaAs also is known Proc. Int. Symp. Gallium Arsenide and related compounds 1980 , Inst. Phys. Cont. Sev. No. 36, Chap. 5, pp. 267 273 . CCℓ₂F₂ or Cℓ2 gas is known as a reactive ion etching gas for GaAs. However, the present inventors confirmed by experiment that a GaAℓAs crystal surface, the protection layer and the GaAℓAs layer could be etched using Cℓ₂ gas. However, such a protection layer adds another requirement for device design, and has an etching rate too low under anisotropic etching conditions. Therefore, such a protection layer cannot be used in a device manufacturing process. The present inventors experimentally confirmed that when GaAℓAs was etched by using CCℓ₄ gas, an etching rate was too low and reproducibility was very poor. The present inventors also experimentally confirmed that when a GaAℓAs layer was etched using a gas mixture of Cℓ₂ and CCℓ₄, it was etched at an etching rate which was suitable for a device manufacturing process. Despite this, the present inventors found that proper etching could not be achieved by using the above mentioned gas mixture for the following reasons. According to the invention there is provided a method of a compound semiconductor comprising the steps of This invention can be more fully understood from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which The present inventors discovered that factors important for etching semiconductor materials such as III V Group compound semiconductors, particularly those comprising elements such as aluminum which are easily oxidized, are whether or not native oxide formed on a surface of a compound semiconductor can be etched by reactive ions generated from a plasma gas, and whether or not H₂O molecules and O₂ in an etching atmosphere can be effectively removed. According to these discoveries, the present inventors have considered various plasma generating gases and found that BCℓ₃ could be satisfactority used as a plasma generating gas to some extent. This is because the native oxide can be effectively removed by a plasma from BCℓ₃, and boron ions dissociated from the BCℓ₃ react with H₂O molecules to form boron hydroxide and with O₂ to form boron trioxide. These reaction products can be effectively evacuated. In fact, it has been reported that O₂ contained in a plasma atmosphere in an amount up to 1 can be evacuated to an extent to be negligible after a plasma is generated. Therefore, a reaction between a component of a compound semiconductor such as aluminum, which is easily oxidized, and O₂ can be decreased, and adsorption of H₂O by aluminum chloride formed by a reaction between chlorine ions dissociated from the BCℓ₃ and aluminum can also be decreased, thereby considerably improving the reproducibility. In addition, when the BCℓ₃ is used, no polymer is formed on a surface of a workpiece which is subjected to etching as with CCℓ₄, thereby improving the reproducibility of an etching pattern and simplifying treatment steps after etching. Furthermore, when BCℓ₃ is used, since bombardment of ions dissociated therefrom on the workpiece is weaker than that of CCℓ₄, an etching rate etching selectivity ratio of a compound semiconductor with respect to a mask material such as a photoresist is increased. In this manner, it is expected that the BCℓ₃ can be effectively used as a plasma generating gas for reactive ion etching. However, when the BCℓ₃ is used in etching, an etching rate with respect to a compound semiconductor is as low as about 0.01 µm per minute. Therefore, when deep etching is performed, the etching time is undesirably prolonged. The present inventors have made studies into the cause of this low etching rate by BCℓ₃ and found that the BCℓ₃ was dissociated with low efficiency into chlorine ions and chlorine radicals as an effective etchant of a compound semiconductor, and that the disadvantages could be overcome without losing the above mentioned advantages by adding chlorine gas to the BCℓ₃, thus achieving the present invention. The present invention will be described in more detail with reference to Fig. 1 hereafter. Fig. 1 schematically shows an example of an etching apparatus used for performing a dry etching method of the present invention. This apparatus comprises a vacuum chamber 1 made of, for example, stainless steel. The vacuum chamber 1 has inlet ports 2 and 3 for a plasma generating gas. The vacuum chamber 1 has an observation window 21 at a side opposite to the inlet ports 2 and 3. A flat plate anode 4 which consists of a portion of a wall of the vacuum chamber 1 and a flat plate cathode 5 which is arranged parallel and opposite thereto are disposed in the vacuum chamber 1. A plasma generation region 6 is defined between the anode 4 and the cathode 5. The anode 4 is insulated from the chamber 1 by insulators 8 and 9 made of, e.g., Teflon and is grounded through a lead 10. The cathode 5 is supported by a supporting plate 7 so as to form a space 13 therebetween. A lead 14 connected to the cathode 5 extends from the space 13 through a vacuum seal 22 and is connected to a high frequency power source 16 through an impedance matching circuit 15. In order to radiate heat generated during etching, water cooling pipes 17 and 18 are respectively disposed on and below the anode 4 and the cathode 5. Futhermore, the vacuum chamber 1 comprises an outlet port 19 having a relatively large diameter. A conductance valve 20 is arranged at the outlet port 19, for controlling the pressure in the vacuum chamber 1. An evacuating means not shown such as a diffusion pump, Roots pump, or rotary pump is arranged at a downstream side of the conductance valve 20. In operation, a plurality of workpieces 23 having at least one III V group compound semiconductor crystal layer are arranged on the cathode 5. Examples of such III V Group compound semiconductor to be etched include GaAs, GaAℓAs, GaAℓAsP, InAℓGaP and the like. The dry etching method of the present invention is suitable for etching the III V Group compound semiconductor containing an element such as aluminum which is easily oxidized. The pressure in the vacuum chamber 1 is reduced by the evacuating means. The pressure reduced by this preevacuation is preferebly low. For example, after reducing the pressure in the vacuum chamber from 1 to 0.000006 Torr or less from 133 to 8 x 10 ⁴ Pa , BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ gases are respectively introduced from the inlet ports 2 and 3. The pressure of the introduced plasma generating gas is controlled by the conductance valve 20. When anisotropic etching is performed, the total pressure of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ in the vacuum chamber 1 is preferably set to be 0.15 Torr or less 20 Pa or less , and particularly preferable to be 0.04 to 0.08 Torr 5.3 to 10.7 Pa . In order to achieve anisotropic etching, the proportion of the Cℓ₂ gas in the introduced plasma generating gas is set to be 40 by volume or less of the total volume of the plasma gas, and particularly preferable to be 20 by volume or less. This proportion can be easily achieved by controlling the flow rate of the BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂. High frequency electric power is applied to the anode 4 and the cathode 5, while they are cooled by the water cooling pipes 17 and 18. Then, glow discharge occurs between the anode 4 and the cathode 5 i.e., in the plasma generation region 6 , thereby generating a plasma from the introduced plasma generating gas. An exposed compound semiconductor crystal layer of the workpiece 23 to be etched is etched by the thus generated plasma. An electric power density of the high frequency electric power applied for generating a plasma is preferably set to be 0.1 W cm² to 1 W cm², and particularly preferable to be 0.3 W cm² to 0.6 W cm². Fig. 2 shows the relationship between an etching time and an etching depth, etching rate, when GaAs is etched by the dry etching method of the present invention. The etching conditions were as follows. The high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm², the flow rate of the BCℓ₃ introduced into the vacuum chamber 1 was 40 standard cubic centimeters SCCM , and the flow rate of the introduced Cℓ₂ was 8 SCCM. Under these conditions, when the total pressure of the BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ gases was set at 0.15 Torr 20 Pa , the result indicated by the line Fig. 3 shows the result when Ga Fig. 4 shows the relationship between an etching time and an etching depth when a GaAs compound semiconductor is etched using dichlorodifluoromethane as a plasma generating gas. A high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm². In Fig. 4, line Fig. 5 shows the change in an etching rate when the flow rate of chlorine gas is changed under conditions wherein the high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm², the flow rate of BCℓ₃ in the vacuum chamber was 40 SCCM, and the total gas pressure was 0.06 Torr 8 Pa . Line Fig. 6 shows a relationship between a partial pressure ratio of Cℓ₂ to CCℓ₄ when a compound semiconductor was etched by using a mixture of Cℓ₂ and CCℓ₄. Conditions were as shown in Fig. 5. When the mixture of CCℓ₄ and Cℓ₂ was used, conditions for anisotropically etching GaAs and GaAℓAs at substantially the same etching rate are limited to a partial pressure ratio of Cℓ₂ and CCℓ₄ of less than 0.2. Even if the etching conditions were varied by a small amount, the etching rates of both the compound semiconductors became considerably different, resulting in these conditions being inconvenient for practical use. Fig. 7 shows a change in an etching rate corresponding to a change in the total pressure of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ under conditions wherein the high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm², the flow rate of the BCℓ₃ introduced into the vacuum chamber was 40 SCCM, and the flow rate of the Cℓ₂ introduced thereinto was 8 SCCM. Line Fig. 8 shows a ratio of an etching depth with respect to the distance of a workpiece from the cathode center i.e., etching depth etching depth of the workpiece at the cathode center 1.38 µm when a GaAs substrate workpiece arranged on the cathode having a diameter of 11 cm was etched. The GaAs substrate was etched under the conditions wherein the high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm², the introduction flow rate of the BCℓ₃ in the vacuum chamber was 8 SCCM, the total gas pressure was 0.06 Torr 8 Pa , the distance between the anode and the cathode was 6 cm, and the etching time was 2 minutes. The uniformity of the etching depth was 5 on the entire surface of the cathode and was 2 within 6 cm regions from the cathode center. Therefore, considerably good etching uniformity can be obtained. For the purpose of comparison, Fig. 9 shows the resulting uniformity under the same conditions as those of Fig. 8 when dichlorodifluoromethane was used as a plasma generating gas. When Fig. 8 is compared with Fig. 9, the dry etching method of the present invention using a mixture of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ as a plasma generating gas shows better uniformity than that using dichlorodifluoromethane as a plasma generating gas. When dichlorodifluoromethane was used, an etching depth depended greatly upon the distance from the cathode center of the workpiece. Fig. 10 shows the etching depth when GaAs and GaAℓAs were respectively etched five times under conditions wherein the high frequency electric power density was 0.42 W cm², the flow rate of BCℓ₃ introduced into the vacuum chamber was 40 SCCM, that of Cℓ₂ was 8 SCCM, the total gas pressure in the vacuum chamber was 0.06 Torr 8 Pa , and the etching time was 2 minutes. Line Next, Table 1 shown below shows an etching rate etching selectivity of a compound semiconductor and a mask material when a compound semiconductor was selectively etched when masked by AZ 1350 AZ positive working photoresist available from Shiplay Company or a silicon oxide film. For the purpose of comparison, the result using a gas mixture of CCℓ₄ and Cℓ₂ is also shown. A plurality of GaAℓAs layers are formed on a GaAs substrate so as to form a semiconductor laser, light emitting diode, a photodiode or an integrated element thereof. In this case, the reactive ion etching method of the present invention can be effectively used. For example, in the case of a semiconductor laser, an end face of a resonator is conventionally formed by manual cleaving, and this process provides a considerably low productivity. However, when the reactive ion etching method of the present invention is used, a monolithic end face can be formed, thereby providing high productivity and high industrial value. Furthermore, in integrated elements including semiconductor lasers, the cleaving process cannot be adopted for forming the end face thereof. However, if the reactive ion etching method of the present invention is used, such integrated elements can easily be realized. On the other hand, the process for forming a mesa structure of a buried type laser or an inner stripe groove formed in a current blocking layer of an inner stripe type laser is important for lasing the laser in the transverser mode and for obtaining a beam which has high roundness. Currently, this process is performed by wet etching. However, it is difficult to control a 1 to 2 µm region by wet etching, resulting in poor reproducibility. In contrast, when formation of a mesa structure or groove is performed by using the reactive ion etching method of the present invention, control of a 1 to 2 µm region can be easily performed. In addition, since the method of the present invention is anisotropic etching, it can be effectively used to manufacture a device. Furthermore, the method of the present invention can be effectively adopted in a process for forming a substrate and a process for forming holes of a ballast type light emitting diode. An example in which the dry etching method of the present invention is adopted for manufacturing a buried type semiconductor laser will now be described with reference to Figs. 11A to 11D and 12. As shown in Fig. 11A, an n type Ga₀.₆₅Aℓ₀.₃₅As layer cladding layer 32, an n type Ga₀.₈Aℓ₀.₂As layer optical guiding layer 33, a Ga₀.₉₅Aℓ₀.₀₅As layer active layer 34, a p type Ga₀.₈Aℓ₀.₂As layer optical guiding layer 35, a p type Ga₀.₆₅Aℓ₀.₃₅As layer cladding layer 36, a p type GaAs layer 37 and a p type Ga₀.₄Aℓ₀.₆As layer 38 are sequentially stacked on an n type GaAs substrate 31. The thickness of this multilayer on the substrate 31 is about 5 µm. Then, as shown in Fig. 11B, a resist film is coated on a surface of the thus formed GaAℓAs multilayer. The resist film is patterned to form a stripe shaped resist pattern 39. The GaAℓAs multilayer is selectively etched using the resist pattern 39 as a mask and the parallel plate type dry etching apparatus shown in Fig. 1. In this case, etching is performed under conditions wherein a gas mixture of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ having a volume ratio of Cℓ₂ BCℓ₃ 20 is used, the etching pressure and the high frequency electric power density are respectively controlled to be 0.06 Torr 8 Pa and 0.42 W cm², thereby etching the GaAℓAs multilayer down to the GaAs substrate 31, as shown in Fig. 11C. As shown in Fig. 11D, the resist pattern 39 is removed. Buried layers 40 are selectively formed on the substrate 31 using the p type Ga₀.₄Aℓ₀.₆As layer 38 as a selective crystal growth mask. Thereafter, the p type Ga₀.₄Aℓ₀.₆As layer 38 is removed. Insulation layers 41 are formed on the buried layers 40. Then, an electrode 42 is formed on the GaAs layer 37, and another electrode 43 is formed on a lower surface of the GaAs substrate 31 by vacuum deposition. Then, as shown in Fig. 12, a photoresist mask 44 is formed on the electrode 42 so as to cover a portion of a mesa region and the buried layers 40 and to have an end thereof perpendicular to a mesa stripe. Thereafter, the electrode 42 is etched by reactive ion etching using a reactive gas mainly consisting of Cℓ₂. Subsequently, the GaAℓAs multilayer and the buried layers 40 are etched dawn to the GaAs substrate 31 by using a gas mixture of BCℓ₃ and Cℓ₂ gases under the same conditions as described above. In this case, under the above conditions, since anisotropic etching is performed, an end face of the resonator can be formed, thereby forming a plurality of buried type semiconductor lasers on a single substrate in a monolithic manner. According to the present invention, differences in etched shapes due to differences in a crystal mixture ratio of Aℓ can be prevented. The side surface of the mesa structure and the end face of the resonator become flat, and no side etching occurs. Under the above conditions, the etching selection ratio of the resist, GaAs and GaAℓAs are as shown in Table 1, and this etching selection ratio can be satisfactorily adopted in deep etching to about 5 µm. As described above, according to the present invention, a compound semiconductor including Aℓ as a component element can be anisotropically etched by reactive ion etching to a depth of about 5 µm with a practical etching rate. In this case, the etching rate and the reproducibility of the etching shape are considerable, and no polymer is formed on an etched surface. Furthermore, a selection ratio with respect to a mask is greatly increased over that of a conventional method. Therefore, when this etching process is introduced into a manufacturing process of a compound semiconductor device, the productivity, reproducibility and ease of circuit design are satisfactorily improved over those of a conventional wet etching or dry etching method, and so the industrial value thereof is considerable.