# Equipment for simulating walking and running on the spot.

## Abstract
The equipment comprises a support structure 2 having an inclined upper plane 6 which can support a user A performing walking or running movements up the plane 6 itself. The surface of the plane 6 is substantially smooth so as to allow the feet of the user A to slide freely whereby the movements are performed without the user A advancing relative to the support structure 2 . Support members 8 are provided which can be grasped by the user A so that he can maintain his erect posture while performing the movements.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Equipment for a user to simulate walking and running on the spot, characterised in that it comprises a support structure 2 with an inclined upper plane 6 which can support a user performing walking or running movements up the plane 6 , and in that the surface of the plane 6 is substantially smooth so as to allow the feet of the user A to slide freely whereby the movements occur without the user A advancing relative to the support structure 2 . 2. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that the support structure 2 has associated adjustment members 4 for selectively varying the orientation of the inclined plane 6 . 3. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that it includes support elements 8 which can be grasped by the user A so that he can maintain his erect position while performing the movements. 4. Equipment according to Claim 3, characterised in that the support elements 8 and the support structure 2 have complementary parts 7, 9, 10, 11 which are mutually engageable in different coupling positions, each of which corresponds to a different assembled position of the support elements 8 on the support structure 2 . 5. Equipment according to Claim 4, characterised in that it includes a support handhold 8 of generally arcuate form, having pillars slidably engaged in the support structure 2 , and in that locking means 9, 10 are provided for selectively adjusting the pos ition of engagement of the pillars. 6. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that the support structure is constituted by a shaped body 2 , and in that the inclined plane is defined by one 6 of the faces of this shaped body 2 . 7. Equipment according to Claim 6, characterised in that the shaped body 2 has a generally wedged shape. 8. Equipment according to Claim 6, characterised in that the shaped body 2 has bearing members 4, 5 , at least some 4 of which are selectively adjustable in height to alter the resting attitude of the shaped body 2 and the orientation of the inclined plane 6 . 9. Equipment according to Claim 5, characterised in that the shaped body 2 is pressed from metal or moulded from plastics material. 10. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that, when the equipment is on a support surface P , the inclined plane 6 is inclined at an overall angle of about 200 to this support surface P . 11. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that the plane 6 has an end portion at its lower end which is inclined in the opposite direction to the general inclination of the plane 6 itself. 12. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that the inclined plane 6 has a concave overall longitudinal profile, with its concavity facing upwardly. 13. Equipment according to Claim 1, characterised in that it includes a covering 6a having predetermined surface lip properties, which is applied to the inclined plane in order to impart these predetermined slip properties to the plane 6 .

## Description
Equipment for simulating walking and running on the spot The present invention relates to equipment for a user to simulate walking and running on the spot. Equipment of this type is normally costituted by moving belts endless belts and are used in gymnasia and sports centres. They are also frequently used in the medical field, in sports medicine centres and in centres for the rehabilitation of patients suffering from motor disorders and injuries to the lower limbs. Such equipment is normally motorised and is thus very expensive. In addition to this, it often causes a certain sense of insecurity in the user, who must constantly adapt his movements to the speed of movement of the motor driven belt. The present invention relates to equipment of the type specified above, characterised in that it comprises a support structure with an inclined upper plane which can support a user performing walking or running movements up the plane, and in that the surface of the plane is substantially smooth so as to allow the user s feet to slide freely whereby the movements occur without the user advancing relative to the support structure. By virtue of this characteristic, equipment is provided which can be used effectively and conveniently, both in terms of its functional capacity and in terms of economy, for simulating walking and running on the spot. Further characteristics and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description which follows, purely by way of non limiting example, with reference to the appended drawings, in which Figure 1 is a perspective view of equipment according to the invention, and Figure 2 is a side elevational view showing schematically the manner of use of the equipment ofFigure 1. In the drawings, equipment for simulating walking or running on the spot is generally indicated 1. The equipment being dealt with may be used either as gymnastic apparatus, for example home gymnastic apparatus, or as apparatus for the rehabilitation of patients with motor difficulties. The equipment 1 cQmprises a support structure 2 constituted by a shaped part body of metal or, preferably, moulded plastics material. The body 2 has a generally wedged shape and normally has a shell or box structure. At the corners of its lower face 3, which is rectangular and open, the body 2 has two pairs of feet 4, 5 which enable it to rest firmly on a support surface such as a floor. More particularly, the feet 5 at that side of the face defining the thin end of the wedge shape are fixed. The feet 4 on the opposite side, however, are screw feet whose height can be varied selectively. Thus, the attitude at which the body 2 rests on the ground, and consequently the inclination of the upper side of the structure, can be adjusted by turning the feet 4. The outer face of this upper side, indicated 6 in the drawings, defines an inclined plane and upper end or top of which is located above the feet 4. The face 6, the surface of which is smooth, has a generally concave profile with the concavity facing upwardly, and has a longitudinal profile in the form of an arc of a circle or a longitudinal profile defining an arc of a curve whose radii of curvature vary from the top of the inclined plane towards the lower end of the plane in correspondence with the feet 5. Different longitudinal profiles may be used according to the specific application to walking or running. Taken as a whole, the face 6, that is the plane 0 Figure 2 which can be considered as ideally connecting the top and the lower end of the face, preferably has an overall inclination of about 200 to the surface P supporting the equipment. The curvature of the face 6 and the attitude of the support structure 2 are normally selected so that the portion of the face 6 adjacent the feet 5 has an inclination opposite the general inclination of the face 6 itself. In other words, the portion of the face 6 adjacent the feet 5 is slightly inclined towards the top region supported by the feet 4. The upper side of the body 2, the outer surface of which defines the face 6, is substantially rigid, although it has a certain degree of resilient flexibility to forces exerted thereon during use of the equipment. Two bushes 7 are mounted in the body 2 at the upper end of the inclined face 6 and define two vertical axis apertures which allow a handhold or handlebar 8 to be fixed to the body for supporting the user. The handhold 8 is constituted essentially by a tubular metal element bent into a U shape, the straight limbs of which are slidably engaged in the bushes 7 integral with the body 2. The straight limbs defining the pillars of the handhold 8 are slidable vertically in the bushes 7 and are locked in the assembled position by means of pins 9 which engage holes 10 in the sides of the bushes 7.Each pillar of the handhold 8 is normally provided with several holes 11 for receiving the pins 9. The locking position of the handhold 8 in the body 2 can thus be adjusted selectively and adapted to the stature and preference of the user. It is also possible, of course, to use handholds 8 which, instead of being constituted by a single rigid piece, comprise several elements which can be fixed together in different positions depending on the requirements of the user. The equipment according to the invention is used in the manner shown schematically in Figure 2. This drawing illustrates in broken outline the silhouette of a user A who, having got onto the equipment 1, performs walking or running movements up the inclined plane defined by the upper face 6 of the body 2, holding himself in an erect position with the aid of the handhold 8. The movements performed by the user do not cause him to advance relative to the structure 2 since the user s feet slide freely on the smooth surface of the face 6. Preferably, the user wears socks, light footwear or overshoes, which facilitate the sliding of the feet on the inclined plane defined by the face 6, while avoiding direct contact with the surface of the plane. Possibly, a coating layer indicated 6a may be applied to the face 6 to facilitate the sliding of the user s feet or to render this more easily controllable. The generally arcuate shape of the face 6 reproduces the approximately circular path described by the user s feet. The lowermost portion of the face 6, which has an inclination opposite the general inclination of the face itself, serves to brake the sliding movement of the user s feet and acts to some extent as a rest surface, so that the user does not have to exert excessive force with his arms to maintain his erect posture by resting on the handhold 8. As described above, the overall inclination of the face 6 may be varied and adjusted at will by means of the feet 4. It should be noted that, as already described above, the handhold 8 illustrated here is only one of the possible configurations of support elements which can be used in the equipment of the invention. For example, particularly during use for motor rehabilitation, it is possible to use support elements extending in the form of handrails at the sides of the shaped body 2 or a handhold shaped as a handlebar, the height and inclination of which may be adjusted selectively by the user. Finally, it must be noted that the use of support elements in the equipment according to the invention, although preferred, is not strictly necessary. The user may in fact provide himself with equipment constituted solely by the part or body 2 adjacent a wall or piece of furniture and may rest on this wall or furniture during his simulation of walking or running on the equipment. Naturally, the scope of the present invention also extends to embodiments which allow equal utility to be achieved by using the same innovative concept and particularly to embodiments in which the part or body 2, instead of being constituted by a pressed metal or moulded plastics shell, is formed in a different manner, for example from shaped metal elements connected together by welding.