# Improved process for melt cutting ethylene polymers.

## Abstract
An improved process for melt cutting ethylene polymers is provided wherein the improvement comprises adding to the melt cutter water a small amount of non ionic or anionic surfactants thereby significantly increasing the agglomeration temperature of the ethylene polymer. This allows for an increase in melt cutting capacity and productivity.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. An improved process for melt cutting ethylene polymers, which process comprises extruding molten thermoplastic polymer through one or more orifices into water and cutting the extruded strand as it undergoes solidification, wherein the improvement comprises adding to the water from about 1 to about 1000 wam by Weight cefat least one surfactant selected from the group consisting of non ionic and anionic surfactants that will increase by at least 10 C the agglomeration temperature of an ethylene polymer that has an agglomeration temperature of from about 500C. to about 60 C., said surfactant having a hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB range of from about 10 to about 45. 2. The process of Claim 1 wherein said surfactant is anionic surfactant. 3. The process of Claim 1 wherein said surfactant is non ionic surfactant. 4. The process of Claim 3 wherein said nonionic surfactant is selected from the group consisting of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide homo and copolymers. 5. The process of Claim 4 wherein the ELD range of said non ionic surfactant is from about 20 to about 35. 6. The process of Claim 5 wherein said nonionic surfactant is selected from the group consisting o ethylene oxide and propylene oxide copolymers, oxyethylated straight chain alcohols and octyl phenoxy polyethoxy ethanol. 7. The process of Claim 6 wherein said nonionic surfactant iS selected from the group consIsting of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide copolymers. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein said non ionic surfactant is selected from the group consisting of alpha hydro omega hydroxy poly oxyethylene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymers. 9. The process of Claim 7 wherein said nonionic surfactant is selected from the group consisting of Pluronic F 98, Pluronic F 108, Pluronic P 104, 11Plurafac A 38 and Pluronic F 38. 10. The process of Claims 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9 wherein said surfactant is present in an amount of from about 1 to about 100 ppm based upon the weight of the water.

## Description
TITLE Improved Process For Melt Cutting Ethylene Polymers BACKGROUND OF THE IFIENTION Field Of The Invention This invention relates to melt cutting and more specifically it relates to an improved process for the melt cutting of ethylene polymers. Description Of The Prior Art The use of surfactants is wide spread in many applications. For example, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide copolymer surfactants are disclosed in U.S.P.3,422,049, and 3,432,483, as aiding the preparation of dispersions of polymers with particle sizes of below 10 microns to not greater than 25 microns and in U.S.P. 4,007,247 for the preparation of fibrils, i.e., short fibers having diameters less than 25 microns and preferably less than 10 microns. All three of these patents disclose water dispersion processes for polymer particle size reduction using high temperatures and pressures as well as high speed agitation and surfactants. U.S.P. 3,528,841 deals with reducing the tackiness of polymer pellets by applying a small particle size less than 10 microns polyolefin powder dispersed in water on the surface of the soft, sticky polymer to reduce its tackiness. In the alternative, the polyolefin powder coating can also be applied to the polymer by tumbling or by airveying. The purpose of applying this coating is to facilitate getting the product through the drying and purge steps of the production process and to supply a fre flowing product to the trade. Chemical Abstracts digest 37 153195p, Vol. 87, 1977 p. 48, entitled Agglomeration prevention during steam stripping of solvents from rubber solutions involves the use of a 1000 3000 molecular weight ethylene oxide propylene oxide copolymer as a surfactant in a water hydrocarbon solvent dispersion. Thus, a 20 solids butadiene rubber solution in hexane was steamstriped in a 0.005 weight percent solution of the above surfactant in water.This mixture forms a dispersion oil in water at about 5 to 6 solids arc establishes the particle size of the rubber crumbs average diameter 3 7mm . The surfactant s function is to make the to incompatible phases, namely, hexane and water ir.to one compatible phase. Steam stripping is used to obtain a single liquid water phase, ending up with an 88 solids slurry. The process involves forming a particle size in dispersion form from a solution of the rubber in a hydrocarbon solvent. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION According to the present invention there is provided an improved process for melt cutting ethylene polymers, which process comprises extruding the molten thermoplastic polymer through one cr more orifices into water and cutting the extruded strand as it undergoes solidificatIon, wherein the Improvement comprises adding to the water from about 1 to aoout 1000 ppm by weight of at least one surfactant selected from the group consisting of non ionic and anionic surfactants that will increase by at least lO2C the agglomeration temperature of an ethylene polymer that has an agglomeration temperature of from about 500C. to about 600C., said surfactant having a hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB range of from about 10 to about 45. Detailed Description Of The Invention Surprisingly it was found that the addition of small quantities of a non ionic surfactant to the melt cutter water significantly increased the agglomeration temperature of soft ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers.In the context of the present invention, the term agglomeration temperature means the agglomeration temperature of extruded, hot, cut pellets in water.Agglomeration temperature is determined by the process described below under Laboratory Testing Procedure .This increase in the agglomeration temperature results in an increase in melt cutting capacity and productivity. Surfactants that are contemplated for use by the present invention are non ionic and anionic surfactants that will increase by at least 100C the agglomeration temperature of an ethylene polymer that has an agglomeration temperature of from about 500C to about 60 C. Suitable surfactants have a hydrophilic lipophilic balance hub range of from about 10 to about 50. Non ionic surfactants are preferred and the preferred class of non ionic surfactants are homo and copolymers of olefin oxides wherein the olefin moiety contains up to 3 carbon atoms, such as ethylene and propylene oxide homo and copolymers. The preferred HLB range is from about 20 to about 35. A high molecular weight Pluronic polyol, an a hydro omega hydroxy poly oxyethvlene poly oxypropylene poly oxyethylene block copolymer with anHLB range of about 10 to about 35 is the most preferred surfactant. Other non ionic surfactants, however, such as oxyethylated straight chain alcohols, octyl phenoxy polyethoxy ethanol, ethylene oxide polymers and a reverse Pluronic 25R 8 poly oxypropylene poly oxy ethylene poly oxycropylene block copolymer also significantly raised the agglomeration temperature of ethylene polymers in water. At essentially equivalent EL3 values the higher molecular weight polymers appear to be most effective. The range of concentration for the melt cutter additive surfactant of the present invention is from about 1 to about 1000 parts per million ppm based upon the weight of the melt cutter water. The preferred range for the more effective surfactants is from about 1 to about 100 ppm. Although the increased agglomeration temperature obtained by the process of the present invention was discussed in terms of ethylene vinyl acetate EVA copolymers it is to be understood that the present invention applies to other soft ethvlene polymers as well where tackiness and agglomeration are of concern. It is very important in the manufacture of polymers used in adhesives that the concentration of additives used in processing these polymers be as low as possible so as not to result in an adverse effect on critical adhesive properties. As illustrated below in the examples, surfactants of the present invention show no adverse affect on adhesion in the critical adhesion to aluminum test at concentrations of 20 ppm, as well as even up to 2000 ppm in some instances. Illustrative examples of commercially availabie surfactants are Pluronic F 98, Pluronic F 108, Plurafac A 38, Pluronic F 38, Pluronic 25R 8, Sipon L 22, Carbowax 20M, Pluronic P 104, Triton X 100. The following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating the present invention. All parts and percentages are by weight unless otherwise specified. Laboratory Testing Procedure These tests were made using a 10 1 water polymer ratio. Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer pellets were agitated in ambient temperature water using mild paddle type agitation that will assure the movement of pellets in the water. The temperature of the water was gradually increased until significant agglomeration had occurred. In the case of untreated Elvax 210, the first indication of tackiness occurred at approximately 50 C. 3 to 5 pellets agglomeration around the thermometer and agitator shaft . The second indicator was larger agglomerates 1 4 to 1 2 form ing at a temperature of 540C.The third and final indicator was significant agglomeration large clump 1 to 2 in diameter occurring at a temperature of 58 C. This is the temperature considered as the agglomeration temperature of Elvaxe 210. In this study, the various melt cutter additives were dissolved in the water prior to adding the ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer pellets. Example 1 This example demonstrates the effect of Carbowax 20M, a very slightly crosslinked ethylene oxide copolymer for further characterization see TableI , as a melt cutter additive in laboratory tests to increase the agglomeration temperature of soft polymer grades of EVA e.g., Elvaxe 40, 4q VA, 57 M.I. , Elvax , 150 33 VA, 431.I. and Elvax 210 282 VA, 400 M. I. . These tests were merely scouting tests without full attention being paid to the adequacy of agitation required to assure submersion of the pellets in the surfactant containing water. Accordingly the results are merely a rough indication of the effect of the surfactant.The tests involved the addition of 2500 ppm of Carbowax 20M based on the weight of the water agitated with a magnetic stirrer. mo agglomeration occurred at 700C. for Elvaxt 40 and and 150. Pellets of Elvax 210 were about 60 agglomerated at 700C. Additional tests were run using Elvax 40 at 1250 and 500 ppm based on the water, and these tests showed no agglomeration up to 700C. Example 2 This example demonstrates the effect of Pluronic F 98 and F 108, ethylene oxide propylene oxide ethvlene oxide block copolymers for further characterization seeTable I , as melt ctter additives in laboratory tests to increase the agglomeration temperature of soft polymer grades of EVA such as, Elvaxe 210 .Following the same procedure described under Laboratory Testing Procedure, the following results were obtained Melt Cutter Agglomeration Melt Cutter Additive Temperature Additive ppm based on H2O C. Control 0 58 Pluronic 0.5 65 F 98 n 1.0 71 2.0 87 10.0 94 Pluronic F 108 0.5 65 1.0 70 2.0 88 10.0 94 Examples 3 6 and Comparative Examples 1 9 These examples represent the evaluation of samples from various classes of surfactants e.g., nonionic, anionic, and cationic in the laboratory melt cutting study on Elvax 40, 150 and 210. The results are shown in TablesI and II. TABLE IEFFECT OF MELT CUTTER ADDITIVES ON AGGLOMERATION TEMPERATURE OF ELVAX 210EMI7.1 tb SEP Surface tb SEP Tension tb Exam SEP Melt Cutter SEP Chemical SEP Dynes Cm. tb ples SEP Additive SEP Composition SEP 0.1 3 , SEP 25 C. SEP tb SEP No SEP Additive tb SEP Cl SEP Control SEP SEP tb SEP 3 SEP Pluronic SEP F 108 SEP SEP alpha SEP SEP hydro omega SEP 41.2 tb SEP 4 SEP Pluronic SEP F 98 SEP hydroxy poly oxyethylene SEP 43.0 tb SEP 5 SEP Pluronic SEP F 38 SEP poly oxypropylene SEP poly SEP 52.2 SEP tb SEP 6 SEP Pluronic SEP P 104 SEP oxyethylene SEP block SEP 33.1 tb SEP 7 SEP Pluronic SEP L 121 2 SEP copolymer SEP SEP 39.6 tb SEP C2 SEP Pluronic SEP L 43 SEP SEP 47.3 tb SEP 8 SEP Plurafac SEP A 3 SEP SEP Oxyethylated tb SEP Straight SEP Chain tb SEP Alcohol SEP 43.6 tb SEP 9 SEP Triton X 100 SEP Octylphenoxy SEP polyethoxy tb SEP ethanol SEP 31.0 tb SEP 10 SEP Carbowax SEP 2 SEP OM SEP Very SEP slightly SEP crosslinked SEP tb SEP ethylene SEP oxide SEP polymer SEP 52.0 SEP commat tb SEP 50 SEP by SEP wt. SEP tb SEP 11 SEP Pluronic SEP 25R 8 SEP a SEP hydro omega hydroxy SEP tb SEP poly oxypropylene SEP poly tb SEP oxyethylene SEP poly oxy tb SEP propylene SEP block SEP copolymer SEP 46.1 tb SEP C3 SEP Polyox WSRN 10 tb SEP C4 SEP Polyox WSRN 750 SEP More SEP highly SEP crosslinked SEP tb SEP C5 SEP Polyox WSR 205 SEP ethylene SEP oxide SEP copolymer tb SEP C6 SEP Polyox WSR 1105 tb SEP 12 SEP Sipon SEP L 22 SEP Ammonium SEP Salt SEP of SEP Lauryl tb SEP Sulfate tb SEP C7 SEP Atlas SEP G 263 SEP n cetyl n ethyl SEP morpho tb SEP lineum tb TABLE I cont d. EFFECT OF MELT CUTTER ADDITIVES ON AGGLOMERATION TEMPERATURE OF RTI ID 8.1 ELVAX 210 950C Agglomerz tion Tempera Surfactant HLB Average ture 1 ppmExamples Type Factor Mol. Wt. Based on Water C1 Agglomerates 58 C. 3 Nonionic 27.0 14,000 13 4 Nonionic 27.5 13,500 13 5 Nonionic 30.5 5,000 30 6 Nonionic 13.0 5,850 30 7 Nonionic 0.5 4,400 75 C. commat 1000 ppm C2 Nonionic 13.5 1,850 670C. commat 1000 ppm 8 Nonionic 20 1,420 38 9 Nonionic 13.5 628 295 10 Nonionic 20 14,000 440 20,000 11 Nonionic 30.3 9,000 465 C3 Nonionic 20 100,000 62 C. commat 1000 ppm C4 Nonionic 20 300,000 6300. commat 1000 ppm C5 Nonionic 20 600,000 630C. commat 1000 ppm C6 Nonionic 20 900,000 630C. commat 1000 ppm 12 Anionic 31 875 C7 Cationic 30 660C. commat 1000 ppm TABLE I cont d. EFFECT OF MELT CUTTER ADDITIVES ON AGGLOMERATION TEMPERATURE OF ELVAX 210 Agglomeration Temperature C at Indicated Surfactant Level ppm 4 Ex. O 0.3 1.0 2.0 2.5 5 10 20Cl 58 3 58 63 70 88 94 4 58 65 71 87 94 5 58 62 68 6 58 67 90 C2 53 7 58 I n s o l u b l e i n W a t e r 8 58 65 68 91 9 58 10 58 63 11 58 63 12 58 61 C3 58 60 60 62 62 C4 58 62 63 63 63 C5 58 63 63 63 63 C6 58 63 63 63 63 C7 58 63 TABLE I cont d. EFFECT OF MELT CUTTER ADDITIVES ON AGGLOMERATION TEMPERATURE OF ELVAX 210 Agglomeration Temperature C at Syndicated Surfactant Level ppm 4 Ex. 30 40 50 100 200 300 500 1000 CI 3 4 5 97 6 97 97 97C2 65 67 67 7 I n s o l u b l e i n W a t e r 8 9 65 69 97 10 77 84 97 11 67 70 79 97 12 61 67 97C3 60C4 60CS 61 CE 64 C7 63 65 66 1 except where indicated otherwise 2 limited solubility in water 3 wt. concentration 4 based on water TABLE II Effect Of Melt Cutter Additives On Agglomeration Temperature Of Elvax 40 and 150 Agolomeration Te erature C at indicated surfactant level ppm 1 Ex. Additive 0 0.5 1.0 2.0 2.5 5 10 20 C8 None 45 C9 None 55 13 Pluronic F 98 45 14 55 85 85 15 Pluronic F 108 45 16 55 90 92 TABLE II cont d, Effect Of Melt Cutter Additives On Agglomeration Agglomeration Temperature C at indicated surfactant level ppm Ex. 30 40 50 100 200 300 500 1000C8 C9 13 85 14 15 96 16 95 1 based on water Examples 17 22 The effect of the concentration of Pluronic F 98 in the melt cutter water on the adhesive properties of Elvaxt 40 to aluminum foil was studied. The results summarized in Table III show that up to and including 2,000 ppmof additive based on the water had little or no effect cn adhesion properties. Example 23 and Comparative example 10 The use of 20 ppm Pluronic F 98 as a melt cutter additive was evaluated on a commercial scale in a continuous melt cutter process for making one of the slower cutting grades of polymer, Elvaxe 210. This resulted in nearly a 50 increase in melt cutting rates. This product, as well as a control product of Elvax 210, was evaluated for color, odor, gel content, and adhesion to aluminum foil, both as is and after aging. The results were summarized in Table IV. Pluronic F 98 melt cutter additive had no adverse effect on any of the above properties. ESCA electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis a.o.H c.v.m determination of the above Elvax 210 processed using 20 ppm Pluronic F 9 8 based on the melt cutter water show 0.12 ppm surfactant on the polymer pellets on an 805 confidence level or 0.34 ppm based on 95 confidence level. Examples 24 27 and Comparative Examples 11 14 These examples show the effect of nonionic melt cutter additives on the agglomeration temperature of four soft ethylene terpolymer resins. The tests were run according to the Laboratory Testing Procedure described above. The data, summarized in Table V, show for the first three polymers that the addition of a nonionic surfactant Pluronic F 98 , at a concentration of 20 parts per million ppm based on the water, significantly increased their agglomeration temperature. For the fourth polymer, E MA MAME, 50 ppm Pluronico F 108 based on the water, significantly increased the agglomera tion temperature of this terpolymer. TABLE III EFFECT OF CONCENTRATION OF PLURONIC F 98 ON ADHESIVE PROPERTIES OF FLVAXx 40 Peel Strength Data lbs. inch Melt Heat Seal, 5 Mil Aluminum 2 Cutter 2480F. 3500F. Additive Std. Std. Ex. ppm Peel Deviation Peel Deviation C10 0 3.45 0.17 6.1 1.06 17 5 2.75 0.53 3.85 0.23 18 10 2,9 0.60 4.5 0.86 19 20 3.58 0.36 4.83 0.33 20 200 3.1 0.16 4.38 0.21 21 2,000 3.65 0.10 4,68 0.31 22 20,000 0.75 0.31 1.48 0.13 1 Based on melt cutter water. 2 Heat Seal Conditions Pressure 20 psi Dwell Time 6 seconds each side. TABLE IV Example C 10 23 20 ppm No Additive Pluronic11 F 98Pellet Appearance Normal NormalPeel Strength 1 , 1bs. in. Initial Sealing Temp. 1200C. .47 Sealing Temp. 177 C. 3.8 5.3 Aged 1 Week Sealing Temp. 1200C .43 .73 Sealing Temp. 177 C. 4.0 3.6 1 Sealed to aluminum foil 6 seconds, 20 psi. TABLE V EFFECT OF PLURONIC F 98 F 108 MELT CUTTER ADDITIVES ON THE AGGLOMERATION TEMPERATURE OF BTHYLEXE POLYMERS Melt Cutter Additive Compo elt ppm based Agg.Ex. Polymer sition Index on water Temp. C Cll E VA COt3 61 29 10 35 0 52 24 E VA CO 3 61 29 10 35 20 F 98 93C12 E VA MAA 4 74 25 1 500 0 62 25 E VA MAA 4 74 25 1 500 20 F 98 92C13 E MA CO 1 64.2 22.7 81 0 60 13.1 26 E MA CO 1 64.2 22.7 81 20 F 98 95 13.1C14 E MA MAME 2 43 53 4 9 0 61 27 E MA MAME 2 43 53 4 9 50 F 108 97 1 Ethylene methyl acrylate carbon monoxide copolymer. 2 Ethylene methyl acrylate monoethylester of maleic acid copolymer. 3 Ethylene vinyl acetate carbon monoxide copolymer. 4 Ethylene vinyl acetate methacrylic acid copolymer. Agglomeration temperatures or various Elvax grades are indicated on Table VI below. TABLE VI Agglomeration Temperature of Elvaxt Grades Agglomeration Elvax Melt Index Vinyl Acetate Temperature CC 40 57 40 45 150 43 33 55 210 402 28 58 250 25 28 67 260 6 28 64 265 3 28 76 310 402 25 59 350 19.1 25 65 360 2 25 72 410 502 18 63 420 150 18 72 460 2.5 18 81