# Light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cycle scale.

## Abstract
Light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale features a light source 19 for directing a beam of light to a mirror wheel 22 located substantially at the focus of a strip like concave mirror 23 and which is adapted to deflect the beam through a variety of angles into the concave mirror to generate a moving scanning beam traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain. A beam divider 27 is arranged to intercept the scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part of the scanning beam to a cyclical scale generator 14 which features a light conducting rod 11 with a photoelectric detector 12 at at least one end thereof and a cycle scale 14 which extends substantially parallel to the light conducting rod and which modulates the light fraction passed from the divided off part of the scanning beam to the photoelectric detector to modulate the output signal therefrom. The cycle scale can conveniently comprise a bar pattern placed in front of the light conducting rod or a series of spaced apart inclined mirrors 16 at the rear side surface of the light conducting rod. In an alternative embodiment the light conducting rod is replaced with a number of diodes.

## Claims
We claim 1. Light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator 14, 15, 11 and comprising light source means 1.9, 20, 21 for directing a beam of light to a light deflecting arrangement 22 located substantially at the focus of a concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror 23 for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning beam 26 traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27 arranged to intercept said scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical scale generator 14, 15, 11 and wherein the cyclical scale generator 14, 15, 11 includes a light conducting rod 11 with photoelectric detector means 12 arranged to receive light incident on the surface of the light conducting rod and passing through at least one of the ends of the light conducting rod and a cycle scale 14 which extends substanti ally parallel to the light conducting rod and which modul ates the light fraction passed from the divided off part 13 of said scanning beam to the photoelectric detector means 12 to modulate the output signal therefrom. 2. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 1 and in which said light deflecting arrangement comprises a mirror wheel 22, 3. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with either of the preceding claims and in which said concave mirror 23 is of strip like form. 4. Light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 3 and in which said light conducting rod 11 is disposed parallel to said concave mirror strip 23. 5. Light curtain generating apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and in which said concave mirror 23 has a shape.chosen from one of the class of shapes comprising spherically concave, parabolically concave, circularly concave and hyperbolically concave. 6. Light curtain generating apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and incorporating a photoelectric light receiving arrangement for detecting said scanning beam 26. 7. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 6 and incorporating a retro reflector for reflecting saidx scanning beam to said photoelectric light receiving arrangement. 8. Light curtain generating apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims and incorporating a strip like light outlet window 24 for said scanning beam in the image space of said concave mirror. 9. Light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 8 and in which said strip like light outlet window 24 is substantially.,paralael to,said light conducting rod 1 and disposed after said beam dividing means 27. 10. Light curtain,generating apparatus in accordance with any one of the preceding claims and in which,said cycle scale 14 is constructed in the manner of a bar pattern arranged directly in front of the light conducting rod 1 1 parallel to itsaxis and whichalternately allows and blocks the passage of the divided off part 13 of said scanning beam to the light conducting rod 11 as this beam sweeps over the bar pattern. 11. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 10 and in which a cylindrical lens screen 15 is arranged between the bar pattern 14 and the light con ducting rod 11 with the axis of the cylindrical lenses of said cylindrical lens screen extending at right angles to the axis of the light conducting rod. 12. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 1 and in which the light conducting rod carries inclined mirrors 16 at regular intervals on its surface diametrically opp9site to the light entry surface, tbe inclined mirrors 16 being adapted to reflect light incident thereon in radial planes of the light conducting rod at angles of total reflection into the interior of the light conducting rod. 13. Light curtain generating apparatus according to claim 12 and in which the regions between the individual inclined mirrors 16 are constructed to absorb light 14. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with either of claims 12 and 13 and in which the light conducting rod is arranged in a region of said divided off part of the scanning beam at which it has a diameter such that it embraces as large a part as possible of the diameter of the light conducting rod. 15. Light curtain generating apparatus.,in.accordance with claim 14 and in which a cylindrical lens 17 is positioned in front of said light conducting rod. 16. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 12 and in which, on arranging the light conducting rod 11 in the region of a fine scanning beam, a light scattering element 18 is arranged in front of the light conducting rod 11 . 17. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 16 and in which a cylindrical lens 17 is interposed between said light scattering element and said light conducting rod 11 . 18. Light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with claim 16 and in which said light scattering element 18 is a cylindrical lens screen disposed with the axes of the cylindrical lenses extending parallel to the light conducting rod. 19. Light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator 31, 11 and comprising light source means 19, 20, 21 for directing a beam of light to a light deflecting arrangement 22 located substantially at the focus of a concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning beam 26 traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27 arranged to intercept said scanning. beam and to divide off and direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical scale generator 31, 11 and wherein said cyclical scale generator 31, 11 comprises a series of individual photo electric detectors 31 arranged spaced apart in a line along which said divided off part 13 of said scanning beam sweeps whereby the signals generated from the individual photo electric detectors 31 define a cyclical scale representative of the instantaneous position of said scanning beam. 20. Light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator 14, 15, 11 and comprising a transmitter part 19, 20, 21, 22 incorporating light source means 19, 20, 21 for directing a beam of light to a light de flecting arrangement 22 located substantially at the focus of a concave mirror 23 and adapted to deflect said beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning beam 26 traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means 27 arranged to intercept said scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part 13 of said scanning beam to the cyclical scale generator 14, 15, ii said cyclical scale generator 14, 15, 11 being optically decoupled from said light transmitter there being further provided a light receiving arrangement for detecting said scanning beam, 21. A cyclical scale generator for use in light curtain gener ating apparatus in accordance with any one of the previous claims.

## Description
The invention relates to light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator,Light curtain generating apparatus is customarily used to direct a beam of light which is continuously and periodically displaced sideways substantially parallel to itself through a region or at a surface to light receiving apparatus for the purpose of monitoring the region or surface. The light receiving arrangement conveniently provides a signal when any irregularity is determined such as an obstruction of the region or the presence of a hole or other imperfection in the surface. It is frequently necessary to establish not only that such an obstruction or imperfect.ion is prasent in the monitored region but also to establish its position.For this purpose it is necessary to know the position of the scanning beam at the time the obstruction or imperfection is detected and this is conveniently achieved by means of a cyclical scale generator which produces signals in synchrony with the movement of the scanning beam from which the instantaneous position of the scanning beam can be readily derived.In a typical arrangement the light curtain generating apparatus comprises a transmitter part which genex.ate from a light source a light bead in a scanning plane, a light deflecting arrangement which is usually constructeia as a mirror wheel and a strip like concave mirror with the surface of. the mirror wheel on which the light bead fa lls located substantially at the focus of the concave mirror T,e scanning beam generated in the image space of ths concave mirror is directed through a corresponding strip Like light outlet window and a cyclical scale extends along the light outlet window and is scanned by a part of the scanning beam. The scanning beam then passes via a scanning plane or a retroreflector to a photoelectric light receiving arrangement which detects and convert into a corresponding electrical signal the light reaching the scanning plane or reflected from the retroreflector.The arrangement is completed by a further photoelectric detector which receives light from the cycle scale.It is however customary in known arrangements to return the light beam formed from that part of the scanning beam Which falls on the cycle scale by autocollimation or quasiautocollimation back via the mirror wheel and then to reflect it out of the transmitted beam by a beam divider or deflecting mirror and then to pass it to the associated photoelectric detector. The cyclical scale generator is thus optically coupled via the scanning wheel with the light transmitter which places restrictions on the optical arrangement and givesrise to other disadvantages.The principal object of the present invention is thus to provide a light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale of the kind generally described above in which the light beam from the cycle scale need not be passed back via the mirror wheel but can instead, if required without the aid of the strip l.ike concave mirror, be received by a simply constructed photodetector.For accomplishing this object there is provided in accordance with a first aspect of the invention light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator and comprising light source means for directing beam of light to a light deflecting arrangement located substantially at the focus of a concave mirror and adapted to deflect said beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning.beam traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means arranged to intercepts said scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part of said scanning beam to the cyclical scale generator and wherein the cyclical scale generator includes a light conducting rod with photoelectric detector means arranged to receive light incident on the surface of the light conducting rod ad passing through at least one of the ends of the light conducting rod and a cycle scale which extends substantially parallel to the light conducting rod and which modulates the light fraction passed from the divided off part of said scanning beam to the photoelectric detector means to modulate the output signal herefrom.Thus, in accordance with the invention a light conducting rod is used for the first time for forming a cyclical signal. The practical embodiment can advantageously feature an arrangement in which said cycle scale is constructed in the manner of a bar pattern arranged directly in front of the light conducting rod parallel to its axis and which alternately allows and blocks the passage of the divided off part of said scanning beam to the light conducting rod as this beam sweeps over the bar pattern.Thus light only reaches the light conducting rod in the rhythm of the pitch division of the bar pattern so that a corresponding well marked cycle or pulse signal appears from the photoelectric detector means. If the light conducting rod only has a photoelectric detector at one of its endfaces the other opposite end face is usefully made reflecting.A particularly compact arrangement is achieved if the concave is of strip like form mirror and, depending on the precise application, the shape of the concave mirror can be usefully chosen from one of the class of shapes comprising spherically concave, parabolically concave, circularly concave and hyperbolically concave. The light deflecting arrangement is conveniently a mirror wheel.A strip like light outlet window form said scanning beam is conveniently incorporated in the image space of the concave mirror and is usefully disposed after said beam dividing means and parallel to the light conducting rod.A further embodiment is characterized in that the light conducting rod carries inclined mirrors at regular intervals on its surface directly opposite to the light entry surface with the inclined mirrors being adapted to reflect light incident thereon and received through radial planes of the light conducting rod at angles of total reflection into the interior of the light conducting rod. In this arrangement the provision of the small mirrors at the internal surface of the light conducting rod ensures that of the light rays which enter in radial planes, oly that part which falls on the small mirrors undergoes total reflection to reach the photoelectric detector meansAccording to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale generator and comprising light source means for directing a beam of light to a light deflecting arrangement located substantially at the focus of a concave mirror and adapted to deflect said beam through a variety of angles onto said concave mirror for reflection thereat whereby to generate a moving scanning beam traversing the image space of the concave mirror and forming said light curtain, beam dividing means arranged to intercept said scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part of said scanning beam to the. cyclical scale generator and wherein said cyclical scale generator comprises a series of individual photoelectric detectors arranged spaced apart in a line along which said divided off part of said scanning beam sweeps whereby the signals generated from the individual photoelectric detectors define a cyclical scale representative of the instanta neous position of said scanning beam.Further objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the subsequent specific description and the claims.The invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in which are shown Fig. 1 a schematic side view of light curtain generating apparatus in accordance with the present teaching showing a first embodiment in which the cyclical scale generator incorporates a light conducting rod,Fig. 2 is a view similar to that of Fig. 1 but showing merely the detail of an alternative cyclical scale generator,Fig. 3 a view on the line III III of Fig. 1,Fig. 4 a view on the line VI VI of Fig. 1 andFig. 5 a view on the line V V of Fig. 2. Turning firstly to Fig 1 there can be seen light curtain generating apparatus incorporating a cyclical scale. A light source 19 produces a lightly convergent light beam via a condensor system 20 and a front objective 21. The lightly convergent light beam impinges on a light deflecting arrangement in the form of a mirror wheel 22. The mirror wheel 22 is tilted relative to the incident light beam in the manner which can be seen from Fig. 1 so that the incident light beam is reflected onto a strip like spherically concave mirror 23 arranged alongside the objective 21.The strip like concave mirror which extends out of the plane of the drawing of Fig. 1 has a length corresponding to the width of the scanning region in the image plane of the concave mirror and the mirror wheel is operative to deflect the incident beam through a variety of angles onto the concave mirror so that the scanning beam is continuously and periodically displaced parallel to itself in the image space of the concave mirror The scanning beam passes through a light exit window 24 and forms a sharp light bead 26 on a scanning plane 25 so that during rotation of the mirror wheel the light bead executes a continuous and periodic scanning movement along a line at right angles to the plane of the drawing. The light outlet window 24 is likewise of strip like construction in the direction at right angles to the plane df the drawing.In front of the window 24 but after the concave mirror 23 there is located a somewhat tilted strip like beam divider 27 arranged to intercept the scanning beam and to divide off and direct a part 13 of the scanning beam to a cyclical scale generator.The beam divider is so treated that only a small fraction, for example 4 ,of the incident light is deflected into the beam 13. The beam divider can conveniently be a normal beam divider with the reflective coating on the rear side 27 removed and the front side of which 27 has been treated in known manner to divide off the required fraction of the incident light. As can be seen from Figs. 1, 3 and 4 the cyclical scale generator comprises an elongate pattern 14 which can be realized for example as a sheet metal part with webs which are impermeable to light and light permeable spaces arranged therebetween. The bar pattern thus forms a grid with vertically directed bars.Behind the bar pattern or grid 14 there is located a screen of cylindrical lenses 15 with the axes of .thecylindrical lenses extending at right angles the longitudinal direction of the bar pattern 14. The screen of cylindrical lenses is followed by a light conducting rod.X1 the taxis of which likewise extends parallel to the longitudinal direction of the bar pattern 14.Photoelectric detector means in the form of a photoelectric detector 12 is provided at .one endface of the light conducting rod and is connected to an electronic processing circuit 29 which is only schematicaily illustrated Fig. 4 . The opposite endface.ofsthe light conduct,ing rod its provided with a reflecting mirror coating 28 so that light reaching this end face is reflected back to the photoelectric detector at the other endface.of th light conducting rod.The electronic processing circuit 29 evaluates the received pulsed signal from the photoelectric detector and thus makes it possible to determine the location of a fault determined by the scanning apparatus within a scanning cycle of the light curtain generating apparatus. As a result of the described arrangement the light passing through the spaces of the bar pattern 14 will be strongly scattered in the sideways direction so that to a large degree it entersthe light conducting rod 11 at angles which will result in total internal reflection inside the light conducting rod 11 and will result in a significant 1ight fraction of the divided off part of the scanning beam or reaching the photoelectric detector If, in contrast,the light bead projected from the beam divider onto the bar pattern 14 falls on a web of the bar pattern 14 then no light reaches the photoelectric detector 12.It is thus essential that the light bead developed from the divided off part of said scanning beam has a width which is not greater than the width of the webs of the bar pattern The bar pattern thus forms a cycle scale which modulates the light fraction passed from the divided off part said scanning beam to the photoelectric detector to modulate the output signal therefrom. In the embodiment of Figs 2 and 5 pairs of individual mirrors 16 are arranged inclined to one another in triangular fashion and spaced apart at regular intervals along the inner surface of the light conducting rod 11 which lies opposite to the light entry surface 11 .TheXaperture angle of each pair of mirrors is approximately 1200 and ensures that the light which impinges radially or through radial planes of the light conducting rod onto the mirrors 16 is reflected at angles of total reflection into the interior of the light conducting rod as is indicated in Fig. 5.If, in contrast,the light falls on the dead zones or regions 30 between the individual mirrors 16 then it is only partially reflected in the radial direction and cannot propagate to the photoelectric detector In order to improve the sharpness of the output pulses from the photoelectric detector 12 it can be advantageous to make the regions 30 between the individual mirrors light absorbing or at least light transmitting.In order to ensure troublefree conduction of the light despite the arrangement of the individual mirrors 16 the incident light should, in the manner shown in Fig. 2 as far as possible impinge convergently pnto the arrangement of the mirrors16. In order to achieve this even when a sharp light bead is generated by the bead 13 a light scattering element 18 can be arranged in front of the light conducting rod, The light scattering should however be restricted to directions at right angles to the axis of the light conducting rod.A cylindrical lens screen with the axes of the cylindrical lenses extending parallel to the axis of the light conducting rod lii is suitable for this purpose. The so fanned. out light can, in accordance with Fig. 2, first of all enter a cylindrical lens 17 arranged parallel to the light conducting rod 11 .This cylindrical lens 17 allows the light to impinge on a relatively large part of the diameter of the light conducting rod. Because of the preferably round construction of the light conducting rod 11 the light is then once more refracted on entering the light conducting rod and impinges convergently on the individual mirrors 16. In a considerably simplified embodiment the cyclical scale generator can simply take form of diodes 31 arranged at defined intervals as shown schematically in Fig. 4 in place of the light conducting rod. However for cost reasons this embodiment is only considered when a relative coarse cyclical scale is required and thus only relative few diodes are needed. For finer divisions of the cyclical scale the embodiment utilizing light conducting rods is preferred on cost grounds.The cyclical scale generator can also be used to monitpr the power of the light source which is preferably a laser.It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the present teaching.