# Halo phenoxypyridyl methyl esters, process for their preparation and their use as insecticides.

## Abstract
Compounds of formula

## Claims
1. Compounds of formula EMI32.1 wherein W is halo, X is hydrogen, cyano or ethynyl, Y is hydrogen, or alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio or alkylsulphonyl containing up to four carbon atoms, trifluoromethyl, 3,4 methylenedioxy, chloro, fluoro or bromo, n is one or two, and Z is hydrogen, chloro or fluoro. 2. Compounds according to claim 1 wherein W is halo, X is hydrogen or cyano, Y is hydrogen, fluoro or chloro, n is one and Z is hydrogen. 3. Compounds according to claim 2 wherein Y is hydrogen. 4. Compounds according to claim 3 wherein W is chloro. 5. A compound according to claim 1 selected from the group of compounds consisting of 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, RS l cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate, 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS, cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl 1RS,cis 3 Z 2 bromo 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, and RS l cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate. 6. An insecticidal composition comprising an insecticidally effective amount of a compound according to claim 1. 7. An insecticidal composition for combating flying insect pests comprising a knock down effective amount of a compound according to claim 1. 8. A method of combating insect pests at a locus which comprises treating the locus with an insecticidally effective amount of a composition according to claim 6. 9. A process for preparing a compound according to claim l which comprises reacting a compound of formula EMI33.1 with a compound of formula EMI33.2 wherein W, X, Y n and Z have any of the meanings given in claim 1 and wherein either i Q represents the hydroxy group and the reaction is carried out in the presence of a dehydrating agent or ii Q is halo and the reaction is carried out in the presence of a base.

## Description
HALOBENZYL ESTERS This invention relates to novel pyrethroid compounds characterised by good residual insecticidal activity in some cases combined with an unexpected rapid knock down effect on flying insect pests eg. houseflies and mosquitos. UK Patent No. 1572149 discloses phenoxypyridylmethyl esters of dihalovinylcyclopropane carboxylic acids, and in particular discloses compounds of formula EMI1.1 wherein X is hydrogen, cyano or ethynyl. We have now discovered that ccmpounds wherein one of the chloro substituents is replaced by trifluoromethyl have surprising better activity than these known compounds. Accordingly, the present invention provides compounds including single isomers thereof and mixtures of these isomers, including racemates of formula EMI1.2 wherein W is halo, preferably chloro, X is hydrogen, ethynyl or cyano, and is preferably cyano, and Y n represents hydrogen or 1 or 2 substituents selected from alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkylsulphonyl all of up to four carbon atoms , trifluoromethyl or 3,4 methylenedioxy, or chloro, bromo and fluoro, and Z represents hydrogen, chloro or fluoro. Preferably the compounds of formula I are those wherein X is hydrogen or cyano and Y is hydrogen, fluoro or chloro, n is one and Z is hydrogen. More preferably X is hydrogen or cyano and Y and Z are both hydrogen. When Y is not hydrogen it is preferably in the 4 position. Examples of compounds according to the invention include those according to formula I as set out in Table I below wherein the values of W, X Y n n and Z are given for each compound. TABLE IEMI3.1 tb COMPOUND SEP W SEP X SEP Yn SEP Z tb SEP NO tb SEP 1 SEP Cl SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 2 SEP Cl SEP CN SEP H SEP H tb SEP 3 SEP Cl SEP H SEP 4 F SEP H tb SEP 4 SEP F SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 5 SEP Cl SEP H SEP 4 Cl SEP H tb SEP 6 SEP Br SEP H SEP H SEP H tb SEP 7 SEP Br SEP CN SEP H SEP H tb SEP 8 SEP F SEP CN SEP H SEP H tb SEP 9 SEP Cl SEP CN SEP 4 Cl SEP H tb 10 SEP Br SEP H SEP 4 F SEP H tb SEP 11 SEP Cl SEP CN SEP 4 F SEP H tb 12 SEP Cl SEP CN SEP H SEP 5 F tb SEP 13 SEP Cl SEP C CH SEP SEP H SEP H tb It will be appreciated that the compounds of formula I may exist in different isomeric forms.Isomerism arises from the possibility of E and Z substitution patterns in the 3 alkenyl substituent on the cyclopropane ring, thusEMI4.1 and from the presence of two chiral centres on the cyclopropane ring at the 1 and 3 positions , plus the possibility in compounds where X is not hydrogen of a further chiral centre at the carbon in the alcohol moiety. Thus each of these chiral centres may be in the R or S configuration. In the case of the cyclopropane ring this imposes either a cis or trans configuration or the disposition of the hydrogen atoms at the 1 and 3positions.For convenience the isomerism or isomer content of products according to the invention is indicated herein by indication of the absolute stereochemistry of the 1position in combination with with the designation cis or trans to identify the particular isomer involved, for example lR,cis for a single isomer, 1RS,cis for a racemic mixture of cis isomers, etc. Because some compounds of the invention may comprise a mixture of isomers, individual embodiments as described hereinafter are designated as Products , as follows Product I 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3, 3 trifluoroprop l en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product II RS l cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS,trans 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2, 2 dimethylcyclo propane carboxylate. Product III Mixture of Product II and Product IV 1 1 .Product IV RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS1cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product V 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl 1RS,trans 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate.Product VI 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3, 3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product VII Mixture of 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 E 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,trans 3 E 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, Product XI, and 6 phenoxypyri 2 ylmethyl 1RS,trans 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate 3 6 22 61 .Product VIII 6 4 chlorophenoxy pyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product IX 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 bromo 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product X RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 bromo 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate. Product XI 6 phenoxypyrid 1 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product XII RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl 1RS, cis 3 Z 2,3,3,3 tetrafluoroprop 1 en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product XIII RS 1 cyano 1 6 4 chlorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl rnethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate.Product XIV 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 bromo 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product XV RS 1 cyano 1 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl methyl 1RS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate.Product XVI A mixture of S l cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl 1R,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate and R l cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate 85 12 .Product XVII The mixture of isomers named in Product XVI in the ratio 3 47. Product XVIII A mixture of S l cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate, R l cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, R 1 cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl IR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoropr l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate, and S l cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3, 3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate 2 2 23 23 . Product XIX The mixture of isomers named in Product XVIII in the ratio 93 93 7 7.Product XX RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate. The compounds.of the invention according to Formula I are esters and may be prepared by conventional esterification processes, of which the following are examples. a An acid of formula EMI7.1 where Q represents the hydroxy group and W has any of the meanings given hereinabove, may be reacted directly with an alcohol of formula EMI8.1 wherein X, Y n and Z have any of the meanings given herein above, the reaction preferably taking place in the presence of an acid catalyst, for example, dry hydrogen chloride, or a dehydrating agent., for example, a carbodiimide such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. b An acid halide of formula II where Q represents a halogen atom, preferably a chlorine atom, and W has any of the meanings given hereinabove, may be reacted with an alcohol of formula III, the reaction preferably taking place in the presence or a base, for example, pyridine, trialkylamine alkali metal hydroxide or carbonate, or alkali metal alkoxide. c An acid cf formula II where Q represents the hydroxy group and W has any of the meanings given hereinabove, or preferably, an alkali metal salt thereof, may be reacted with halide of formula EMI8.2 where Ol represents a halogen atom, preferably the bromine er ehlorine atom, and X, Y n and Z have any of the meanings given hereinabove or with the quaternary ammonium salts derived from such halides with tertiary amines, for example pyridine, or trialkylamines such as triethylamine. d A lower alkyl ester of formula II where Q represents a lower alkoxy group containing up to six carbon atoms, preferably the methoxy or ethoxy group, and W has any of the meanings given hereinabove, is heated with an alcohol of formula III to effect a transesterification reaction.Preferably the process is performed in the presence of a suitable catalyst, for example, an alkali metal alkoxide, such as sodium methoxide, or an alkylated titanium derivative, such as tetramethyl titanate. All of these conventional processes for the preparation of esters may be carried out using solvents and diluents for the various reactants where appropriate, and may be accelerated or lead to higher yields of product when performed at elevated temperatures or in the presence of appropriate catalysts, for example phase transfer catalysts. The preparation of individual isomers may be carried out iii the same manner but commencing from the corresponding individual isomers of compounds of formula II.These may be obtained by conventidnal isomer separation techniques from mixtures of ns mers. Thus cis and trans isomers may be separated by fractional crystallisation of the carboxylic acids or salts thereof 1 whilst the various optically active species may be obtained by fractional crystallisation of salts of the acids with optically active amines, followed by regeneration of the optically pure acid. The optically pure isomeric form of the acid or its equivalent acid chloride or ester may then be reacted with the appropriate alcohol to produce a compound of formula I in the form of an individually pure isomer thereof. The preparation of the compounds of formula II whereinQ is hydroxy, alkoxy or halo, and W is as defined hereinabove, useful as intermediates in the preparation of the compounds of the invention, is fully described inBritish Patent Specification 2,000,764 and in US patent No 4,183,948. The compounds of formulae TII are disclosed in USPatent No 4,256,890. The compounds of formula IV may be prepared by reducing the compounds of formula EMI10.1 known from US Patent 4,256,890 with eg. hydrogen over a copper or palladium catalyst to yield the corresponding compounds of formula EMI10.2 which are then halogenated with eg. N halosuccinimide. The compounds of formula I may be used to combat and control infestations of insect pests and also other invertebrate pests, in particular, acarine pests. The insect and acarine pests which may be combatted and controlled by the use of the invention comppunds include those pests associated with agriculture which term includes the growing of crops for food and fibre products, horticulture and animal husbandry , forestry, the storage of products of vegetable origin, such as fruit, grain and timber, and also those pests associated with the transmission of diseases of man and animals. In order to apply the compounds to the locus of the pests they are usually formulated into compositions which include in addition to the insecticidally active ingredient or ingredients of formula I suitable inert diluent or carrier materials, and or surface active agents. The compositions may also comprise another pesticidal material, for example another insecticide or acaricide, or a fungicide, or may also comprise a insecticide synergist, such as for example dodecyl imidazole, safroxan, or piperonyl butoxide. The compositions may be in the form of dusting powders wherein the active ingredient is mixed with a solid diluent or carrier, for example kaolin, bentonite, kieselguhr, or talc, or they may be in the form of granules, wherein the active ingredient is absorbed in a porous granular material for example pumice. Alternatively the compositions may be in the form of liquid preparations to be used as dips or sprays, which are generally aqueous dispersions or emulsions of the active ingredient in the presence of one or more known wetting agents, dispersing agents or emulsifying agents surface active agents . Wetting agents, dispersing agents and emulsifying agents may be of the cationic, anionic or non ionic type.Suitable agents of the cationic type include, for example, quaternary ammonium compounds, for example cetyltriethyl ammonium bromide. Suitable agents of the anionic type include, for example, soaps, salts of aliphatic monoesters or sulphuric acid, for example sodium lauryl sulphate, salts of sulphonated aromatic compounds, for example sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate, sodium, calcium or ammonium lignosulphonate, or butylnaphthalene sulphonate, and a mixture of the sodi.um salts of diisopropyl and triisopropylnaphthalene sulphonates. Suitable agents of the nonionic type include, for example, the condensation products of ethylene oxide with fatty alcohols such as oleyl alcohol or cetyl alcohol, or with alkyl phenols such as octyl phenol, nonyl phenol and octyl cresol.Other non ionic agents are the partial esters derived from long chain fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, the condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide, and the lecithins. The compositions may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in a suitable solvent, for example, a ketonic solvent such as diacetone alcohol, or an aromatic solvent such as trimethylbenzene and adding the mixture so obtained to water which may contain one or more known wetting, dispersing or emulsifying agents. Other suitable organic solvents are dimethyl formamide, ethylene dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, propylene glycol and other glycols, diacetone alcohol, toluene, kerosene, white oil, methylnaphthalene, xylenes and trichloroethylene, N methyl2 pyrrolidone and tetrahydro furfuryl alcohol THFA . The compositions to be used as sprays may also be in the form of aerosols wherein the formulation is held in a container under pressure in the presence of a propellant such as fluorotrichloromethane or dichlorodifluoromethane. The compositions which are to be used in the form of aqueous dispersions or emulsions are generally supplied in the form of a concentrate containing a high proportion of the active ingredient or ingredients, the said concentrate to be diluted with water before use. These concentrates are often required to withstand storage for prolonged periods and after such storage, to be capable of dilution wit water to form aqueous preparations which remain homogenous for a sufficient time to enable them to be applied by conventional spray equipment. The concentrates may contain 10 85 by weight of the active ingredient or ingredients. When diluted to form aqueous preparations such preparations may contain varying amounts of the active ingredient depending upon the purpose for which they are to be used. For agricultural or horticultural purposes, an aqueous preparation containing between 0.0001 and 0.18 by weight of the active ingredient is particularly useful. In use the compositions are applied to the pests, to the locus of the pests, to the habitat of the pests, or to growing plants liable to infestation by the pests, by any of the known means of applying pesticidal compositions, for example, by dusting or spraying. The compositions of the invention are very toxic to wide varieties of insect and other invertebrate pests, including, for example, the following Aphis fabae aphids Megoura viceae aphids Musca domestica houseflies Blattella germanica cockroaches Aedes aegypti mosquitos Plutella xylostella diamond back month, larvae Tetranychus cinnabarinus carmine spider mite Tetranychus urticae red spider mites Panonychus ulmi citrus rust mite Diabrotica spp. rootworms Heliothis virescens tobacco budworms Chilo partellus stem borers The compounds of formula I and compositions comprising them have shown themselves to be particularly useful in controlling foliar feeding pests of plants, and public health pests such as flies and mosquitos. The compounds may also be used to combat pests which inhabit the soil, for example Diabrotica spp.They may also be useful in combatting insect and acarine pests which infest domestic animals, such as Lucilia sericata, and ixodid ticks such asBoophilus spp., Ixodes spp., Amblyomma spp., Rhipicechalus spp., and Dermaceutor spp. They are expected to be effective in combatting both susceptible and resistant strains of these pests in their adult, larval and intermediate stages of growth, and may be applied to the infested host animal by topical, oral or parenteral administration. In particular, the invention compounds have useful knock down properties which make them of value as ingredient in aerosol and like sprays designed for use against flying insect pests such as houseflies, mosquitos and the like. In such sprays they may be used on their own or in conjunction with other insecticidal components.However, unlike other knock down agents such as tetramethrin and allethrin the invention compounds combine good knock down properties with a lethal effect at the same concentration. In the following examples, which further illustrate the invention, the novel compounds produced were examined by infra red and nuclear magnetic spectroscopy, and gave spectra consistent with th indicated structures of the compounds. EXAMPLE 1 This Example illustrates the preparation of 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3,3 trifluoropropl en l yl 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate. A solution of 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethanol 0.71g in toluene 10 ml was added at the ambient temperature ca. 20 C to a stirred mixture of lRS,cis l chlorocarbonyl 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethyl cyclopropane 0.97g , pyridine 0.3g and toluene 10 ml and the mixture stirred for a further 3 hours, after which it was allowed to stand for 3 days. The mixture was then diluted with water and extracted with diethyl ether. The ethereal extracts were dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate and concentrated by evaporation of the solvent under reduced pressure and the residual oil purified by column chromatography using a silica gel column and a 3 v v solution of methanol in chloroform as eluent. There was thus obtained 6 phenoxypyrid 2 ylmethyl lRS,cis 3 z 2 chloro 3t3t3 trifluoroprop l en l yl 2 num 2 dimeth cyclopropane 1.18g as a colourless oil.NMR CDCl3 1.3 m,6H 2.0 2.4 m,2H 5.05 s, 2H 6.6 7.7 m,9H Infra red 1734, 1600, 1583, 1496, 1455, 1300, 1280, liquid film 1205, 1144 cm 1 EXAMPLE 2 This Example illustrates the preparation of RS 1cyano 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product XV a Preparation of RS 1 cyano 1 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl methanol.A solution of potassium cyanide 0.2Sg in water 5cm3 was added to a vigorously strirred mixture of 2 formyl 6 4fluorophenoxy pyridine 1.25g and glacial acetic acid 10cm3 at the ambient temperature and the mixture stirred for 5 hers and then kept for 18 hours without stirring.Care was taken to remove any hydrogen cyanide vapours vented from the mixture by the use of a trap containing sodium hypochlorite. The mixture was extracted with chloroform 3 x 25cm3 and the combined extracts dried over anhydrous magnesium sulphate and concentrated by removal of chloroform under reduced pressure. The oily residue was purified by column chromatography to remove unreacted starting material and give RS l cyano 1 6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl methanol 1.15g . NMR CDC13 f 2.2 3.2 broad,lH 5.41 s,lH 6.85 7.95 m,7H Infra red 3600 3100, 1600, 1590, 1580, 1490, 1010, liquid film 830, 805cm 1 b Preparation of Product XVA mixture of RS l cyano 1 E6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl methanol 200mg , lRS,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3trifluoroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid 250mg , 4 dimethylaminopyridine 5mg , dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 210mg and dry dichloromethane Scm3 was strirred at the ambient temperature for 2 hours.After removal of the solid precipitate by filtration, this filtrate was concentrated by evaporation of the solvent and the residual oil purified by column chromatography to yield RS l cyano l E6 4 fluorophenoxy pyrid 2 yl methyl 1RS, cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate 260mg as a viscous oil. EXAMPLE 3 By the procedure of either Example 1 or Example 2 b the other Products were obtained by reaction of the appropriate alcohols with either the acid or acid chloride.The following table sets out the n.m.r. and infra red data for the various Products obtained. EMI17.1 tb PRODUCT SEP METHOD SEP OF SEP NMR SEP CDC13 SEP INFRA SEP RED SEP cm 1 SEP tb SEP EXAMPLE SEP LIQUID SEP FILM tb II SEP 1 SEP 1.2 1.4 m,6H SEP 1750, SEP 1600, tb SEP 1.85 d,lH SEP 1580, SEP 1498, tb SEP 2.45 m,1H SEP 1286, SEP 1228, tb SEP 6.1 SEP d,lH SEP 1200, SEP 1150 tb SEP 6.30 SEP s,lH tb SEP 6.85 7.8 m,8H SEP tb III SEP 1 SEP 1.15 1.4 m,6H SEP 1745, SEP 1596, tb SEP 1.75 2.5 m,2H SEP 1578, SEP 1494, tb SEP 6.1 d,0.5H SEP 1448, SEP 1276, tb SEP 6.2 6.25 m,1H SEP 1200, SEP 1130 tb SEP 6.7 7.8 m,8.5H tb IV SEP 1 SEP 1.2 1.4 m,6H SEP 1750, SEP 1600, tb SEP 2.0 2.4 m, SEP 2H SEP 1580, SEP 149 tb SEP 6.3 d,1R SEP 1452, SEP 1280, tb SEP 6.75 7.9 m,9H SEP 1200, SEP 1135, SEP tb SEP 1080 tb V SEP 1 SEP 1.25 s,3H SEP 1736, SEP 1600, tb SEP 1.34 s,3H SEP 1582, SEP 1496, tb SEP 1.86 d,1H SEP 1454, SEP 1286, tb SEP 2.4 m,1H SEP 1226, SEP 1170 tb SEP 5.16 s,2H tb SEP 6.2 d,1H tb SEP 6.7 7.8 SEP m. tb EMI18.1 tb SEP PRODUCT SEP METHOD SEP OF SEP NMR SEP CDCl3 SEP INFRA SEP RED SEP cm 1 SEP tb SEP EXAMPLE SEP LIQUID SEP FILM tb SEP VI SEP 1 SEP 1.28 d,6H SEP 3000 3850, tb SEP 2.1 2.25 m,2H SEP 1735, SEP 1600, tb SEP 5.09 s,2H SEP 1580, SEP 840 tb SEP 6.06 7. SEP 78 m, SEP 7H SEP tb SEP VII SEP 1 SEP 1.22 s SEP 3100 2900, tb SEP 1.28 s SEP 68 SEP 1740, SEP 1600, tb SEP 1.31 s SEP 1580, SEP 1500, tb SEP 1.7 2.8 m,2H SEP 1455, SEP 1355, tb SEP 5.13 q,2H SEP 870, SEP 850, tb SEP 5.5 d,1H SEP 735, SEP 700 tb SEP 6.6 7.8 m, SEP 7H SEP tb SEP VIII SEP 1 SEP 1.28 d,6H SEP 1735, SEP 1600, tb SEP 2.02 2.3 q,2H SEP 1595, SEP 1580, tb SEP 5.08 s,2H SEP 1490, SEP 835 tb SEP 6.7 7.8 m,8H tb IX SEP 1 SEP 1.29 d,6H SEP 2930, SEP 2915, tb SEP 2.05 2.3 m,2H SEP 1735, SEP 1595, tb SEP 5.11 s,2H SEP 1580, SEP 1490, tb SEP 6.7 d,1H SEP 710, SEP 690 tb SEP 6.95 7.75 m,8H tb SEP X SEP 1 SEP 1.27 d,6H SEP 3070 2950, tb SEP 1.8 2.3 m,2H SEP 1740, SEP 1595, tb SEP 6.28 d,1H SEP 1580, SEP 1445, tb SEP 6.9 d,1H SEP 760, SEP 695 tb SEP 7.0 7.8 m,8H SEP tb EMI19.1 tb PRODUCT SEP METHOD SEP OF SEP NMR SEP CDCl3 SEP INFRA SEP RED SEP cm 1 SEP tb SEP EXAMPLE SEP LIQUID SEP FILM tb XI SEP 1 SEP 1.27 s,6H SEP 2950, SEP 1 730, tb SEP 1.94 2.29 m,2H SEP 1600, SEP 1580, tb SEP 5.11 s,2H SEP 1490, SEP 1450, tb SEP 5.8 SEP SEP SEP 850, SEP 780, tb SEP 5.9 SEP 700 tb SEP 6.3 SEP tb SEP 6.63 7.75 m,8H SEP tb XII SEP 1 SEP 1.30 d,6H SEP 3080, SEP 2950, tb SEP 1.9 2.25 SEP m, SEP 2H SEP 1740, SEP 1600, tb SEP 5.8 SEP SEP d, SEP 1H SEP SEP 1580, SEP 1490, tb SEP 6.1 SEP 850, SEP 770, tb SEP 6.28 d,1H SEP 700 tb SEP 6.9 7.5 m, SEP 7H SEP tb SEP 7.65 7.85 t,1H tb XIII SEP 1 SEP 1.31 d,6H SEP 2950 2 , tb SEP 2.0 2.3 q,2H SEP 1745, SEP 1595, tb SEP 6.28 d,1H SEP 1580, SEP 1490, tb SEP 6.7 7.4 m,7H SEP 1445, SEP 1200, tb SEP 7.7 7.9 t,1H SEP 840, SEP 820, tb SEP 740 tb XIV SEP 2 b SEP 1.29 d,6H SEP 3050, SEP 2950, tb SEP 2.0 2.3 m,2H SEP 1730, SEP 1600, tb SEP 5.08 s,2H SEP 1580, SEP 1500, tb SEP 6.7 d,1H SEP 835, SEP 790, tb SEP 6.98 m,6H SEP 705 tb SEP 7. SEP 6 7.8 t, SEP 1H SEP tb EXAMPLE 4 This Example illustrates the preparation of RS 1cyano l 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl 1R,cis 3 Z 2 chloro3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product XX and its resolution into ProductsXVI and XVII. Product XX 3.0g was obtained by reaction of lR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluOroprop l en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylic acid 1.88g and RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methanol 1.75g under the conditions of Example 2 b above. Separation of the two isomers was optimised using an analytical h.p.l.c. apparatus comprising a Partisil 5 column dimensions 125 x 4.9mm with, as mobile phase, a n hexane diethyl.ether mixture 84 16 by volume , and a flow rate of Icm3min l. The two isomers had retention times of 56.5min and 68.5min respectively. Separation of larger quantities was acheived using a Waters PreparativeLiquid. Chromatography System 500 employing a PrepPak cartridge, the same mobile phase as above, and a flow rate of 200cm2min l. The whole sample ca. 3.0g was injected and the main peaks recycled for a total of four passes, shaving the front of the first peak and the tail of the second peak each time.Two fractions were collected, a faster moving 0.96g and slower moving 1.02g . The purity was checked by gas liquid chromatography. The faster moving fraction was shown to be a mixture of 3 parts of S l cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl lR,cis 3 Z 2 chloro 3, 3 ,3 trifluoroprop 1 en l yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate and 47 parts of R l cyano 1 6 phenoxypyridin 2 yl methyl lR,cis 3 z 2 chloro 3,3,3 trifluoroprop 1 en 1 yl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate Product XVII , and the slower moving fraction was shown to be an 84 12 mixture of these isomers Product XVI . EMI21.1 tb PRODUCT SEP NMR SEP CDCl3 SEP INFRA SEP RED SEP cm 1 tb SEP main SEP component SEP Liquid SEP film tb XVI SEP 1.21 s,3H SEP 3100, SEP 3000, tb SEP 1.32 s,3H SEP 1740, SEP 1600, tb SEP 2.0 2.36 m,2H SEP 1580, SEP 1500, tb SEP 6.31 SEP s,1H SEP 1450, SEP 7 tb SEP 6.7 7.5 SEP m,8H tb SEP 7.7 7.84 SEP t,1H tb XVII SEP 1.31 d, SEP 6H SEP 3100, SEP 2980, tb SEP 2.0 2.32 m,2H SEP 2960, SEP 1740, tb SEP 6.26 SEP s,lH SEP 1600, SEP 1580, tb SEP 6.7 7.5 SEP m,8H SEP 1500, SEP 145 tb SEP 7.66 7.84 SEP t,1H SEP 700 tb EXAMPLE 5 By the preparation of h.p.l.c. techniques described in the previous Example Product IV was separated into two fractions, identified as Products XIX, and XVII, by n.m.r.spectroscopy.EMI22.1 tb SEP PRODUCT SEP NMR SEP CDC13 SEP tb SEP main SEP component tb SEP XVIII SEP 1.32 d,6H SEP tb SEP 2.0 2.26 m,2H tb SEP 6.26 s,1H tb SEP 6.7 7.52 m,8H tb SEP 7.64 7.84 t,1H tb SEP XIX SEP 1.21 s,3H tb SEP 1.32 SEP s,3H tb SEP 1.99 2.34 SEP m,2H tb SEP 6.2S s,lH SEP tb 6.7 7.5 SEP m.8H tb SEP 7.64 7.84 t,1H tb EXAMPLE 6 This Example illustrates the insecticidal properties of Product of this invention. The activity of the Product was determined using a variety of insect pests. The Product was used in the form of liquid preparations containing 500, 100, or 10 parts per million ppm by weight of the Product. The preparations were made by dissolving the Product in a mixture of solvents consisting of 4 parts by volume of acetone and 1 part by volume of diacetone alcohol. The solutions were then diluted with water containing 0.01 by weight of a wetting agent sold under the trade name LISSAPOL NX until the liquid preparations contained the required concentration of the Product. Lissapol is a RegisteredTrade Mark. The test procedure adopted with regard to each pest was basicaily the same and comprised supporting a number of the pests on a medium which was usually a host plant or a foodstuff on which the pests feed, and treating either or both the pests and the medium with the preparations. The mortality of the pests was then assessed at periods usually varying from one to three days after the treatment.Details are given in Table II. The results of the tests are given in Table III for each of the Products at the rate in parts per million given in the second column as a grading of mortality designated as A, B, C or N wherein A indicates 100t mortality of at an application rate of 10pom, B indicates 100 mortality at 100ppm, C indicates 100 mortality at 500ppm and N represents less than 100 mortality at 500ppm. In Table III the pest organism used is designated by a letter code and the pest species, the support medium or food, and the type and duration of test is given in TableII. TABLE IICODE LETTERS TEST SPECIES SUPPORT TYPE OF DURATION Table III MEDIUM FOOD TEST days TU Tetranychus urticae French bean Contact 3 red spider mites adult leafAF Aphis fabae Broad bean Contact 2MV Myzus persicae leaf aphids PX Plutella xylostella Cabbage leaf Contact 6 Diamond back moth, larvae CP Chilo partellus Oil seed rape Residual 3 maize stem bore leafHV Heliothis viriscens Cotton leaf Residual 3 tobacco budworm .DB Diabrotica balteata Filter paper Residual 3 rootworm larvae maize seedBG Blattella germanica Plastic pot Residual 3 cockroach nymphs MD Musca domestica Cotton wool Contact 1 houseflies adults sugar Contact test indicates that both pests and medium were treated and residual indicates that the medium was treated before infestation with the pests. TABLE IIIEMI25.1 tb PRODUCT SEP TU SEP AF SEP MV SEP MD SEP BG SEP HV SEP CP SEP PX SEP DB tb SEP I SEP A SEP A SEP SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP SEP SEP tb SEP II SEP B SEP A SEP SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP SEP A SEP A tb SEP III SEP C SEP A SEP SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A tb SEP IV SEP A SEP A SEP SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A tb SEP V SEP C SEP A SEP SEP C SEP C SEP B SEP SEP SEP A tb SEP VI SEP A SEP A SEP SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP SEP SEP A tb SEP VII SEP A SEP A SEP SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP SEP SEP B tb SEP VIII SEP A SEP SEP SEP B SEP N SEP B SEP SEP SEP C tb SEP IX SEP N SEP SEP A SEP SEP B SEP C SEP SEP A SEP SEP A tb SEP X SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP SEP A tb SEP XI SEP B SEP SEP A SEP B SEP C SEP A SEP SEP SEP A tb SEP XII SEP B SEP SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP SEP A tb SEP XIII SEP B SEP SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP SEP A tb SEP XIV SEP N SEP SEP A SEP B SEP B SEP B SEP A SEP SEP A tb SEP XV SEP B SEP SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP SEP A SEP tb SEP XVI SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP SEP tb SEP XVII SEP B SEP SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP A SEP SEP tb SEP XVIII SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP SEP tb SEP XIX SEP A SEP SEP A SEP A SEP B SEP A SEP A SEP SEP SEP tb SEP Prior tb Art tb Compound SEP C SEP A SEP SEP B SEP C SEP B SEP A SEP SEP B tb 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl cis trans 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate EXAMPLE 7 This Example illustrates properties of Products of the invention against the larval stage of the rootwormDiabrotica balteata. The Product under test was dissolved in acetone and the solution successively diluted with acetone until the required concentrations were obtained.l.Oml of the solution thus obtained is applied to a filter paper 9cm diameter which is air dried to allow the solvent to evaporate and then placed in a petri dish.l.Oml of water is added and 10 early second instar larvalDiabrotica balteata are placed on the filter paper together with a germinating maize seed. A lid is placed on the dish which is stored at 25 C and 60 relative humidity for 72 hours after which time the mortality of the larvae is assessed. The results of this test were subjected to probit analysis to determine the concentration of active ingredient in parts per million ppm required to give 50 mortality of the larvae LC50 . This is set out in TableIV below. In this test the known compound cyano 6 phenoxy 2 pyridylmethyl 3 2, 2 dichiorovinyl 2, 2 dimethyl cyclopropane carboxylate was inactive at a concentration of 50 ppm.EMI26.1 tb PRODUCT SEP LC50 SEP ppm tb SEP III SEP 0.15 tb SEP II SEP 0.35 tb SEP V SEP 0.05 tb EXAMPLE 8 The toxicity by direct contact spraying of the invention compounds relative to the known compound permethrin 3 phenoxybenzyl cis trans 3 2,2 dichloro vinyl 2, 2 dimethylcyclopropane carboxylate was determined for adult houseflies Musca domestica and mosquitos Aedes aegypti . The results are set out in the following table.EMI27.1 tb SEP Relative SEP efficacy SEP with SEP respect SEP to tb PRODUCT SEP permethrin tb SEP Houseflies SEP Mosquitos tb SEP I SEP 0.6 SEP 4.1 tb SEP IV SEP 15.6 SEP 14.6 tb SEP III SEP 4.8 SEP 13.4 tb SEP II SEP 2.5 SEP 17.7 tb EXAMPLE 9 The knock down effect of the Products was demonstrated by use of the Kearns and March test. Twenty 4 6 day old female houseflies Musca domestica , or twenty 2 6 day old mosquitos Aedes aegypti , were released into as Kearns andMarch chamber of capacity 0.055cm3. The Product under test was diluted with acetone to the appropriate concentration ppm and 0.4cm3 sprayed into the chamber via two nozzles.The test was replicated and the KT50 and KTgo values at various rates of active ingredients are determined by probit analysis from observations of the number of insects knocked down after various times. The results are given in the following tables.A. Musca domestica 125ppm EMI28.1 tb PRODUCT SEP KT50 SEP KT90 SEP PRODUCT SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP I SEP 1.7 SEP 2.8 SEP IX SEP 3.0 SEP 4.5 tb SEP II SEP 2.3 SEP 3.1 SEP X SEP 3.8 SEP 6.1 tb SEP III SEP 2.4 SEP 4.7 SEP XI SEP 3.1 SEP 6.0 tb SEP IV SEP 1.9 SEP 4.2 SEP XII SEP 1.8 SEP 3.1 tb SEP V SEP 6.8 SEP 10 SEP XIII SEP 5.5 SEP 8.2 tb SEP VI SEP 3.2 SEP 5.3 SEP XIV SEP SEP 3.7 SEP 6.3 tb SEP VII SEP 3.9 SEP 7.1 SEP XV SEP 2.8 SEP 4.5 tb SEP VIII SEP 7.1 SEP 10 tb B.Aedes aegypti 50ppm EMI28.2 tb Product SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP I SEP 2.1 SEP 3.5 tb SEP II SEP 3.3 SEP 7.0 tb SEP III SEP 3.4 SEP 6.1 tb SEP IV SEP 3.7 SEP 5.9 tb SEP V SEP 2.7 SEP 6.9 tb C. Musca domestica 1000, 500, 100, 25ppm EMI29.1 tb PRODUCT SEP I SEP II SEP IV tb Rate ppm SEP KT50 SEP KT90 SEP KT50 SEP KT90 SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP 1000 SEP 1.4 SEP 2.4 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.6 SEP 1.7 SEP 2.7 tb SEP 500 SEP 1.5 SEP 2.5 SEP 2.0 SEP 3.0 SEP 1.5 SEP 2.7 tb SEP 100 SEP 2.5 SEP 4.6 SEP 2.4 SEP 3.8 SEP 2.6 SEP 3.8 tb SEP 25 SEP 4.6 SEP 10 SEP 3.3 SEP 6.0 SEP 2.6 SEP 4.8 tb D.Aedes Aegypt 100, 25, 10, 5ppm EMI29.2 tb PRODUCT SEP I SEP II SEP IV tb Rate ppm SEP KT50 SEP KT90 SEP KT50 SEP KT90 SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP 100 SEP 1.5 SEP 3.0 SEP 6.4 SEP 10 SEP 1.8 SEP 4.3 tb SEP 25 SEP 2.4 SEP 3.8 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 3.9 SEP 6.8 tb SEP 10 SEP 2.7 SEP 4.0 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 5.8 SEP 9.0 tb SEP 5 SEP 3.3 SEP 6.4 SEP 10 SEP 10 SEP 5.2 SEP 9.0 tb EXAMPLE 10 The knock down effect was also demonstrated against cockroaches by the following test. Ten adult male Blatella germanica were placed in an open ended plastic container of dimensions 10 x 7cm and contained therein by fabric mesh netting 2mm mesh . TheProduct under test was diluted with water containing 0.1 by weight of a wetting agent sold under the name of Synperonic NX which is a condensate of nonyl phenol with ethylene oxide until the desired concentration of.Product was obtained. The preparation 2.Ocm3 was then sprayed over the container and the KT50 and KT 90 values calculated from observations of the number of cockroaches knocked down at various times. The test was replicated and the results are given in the following tables. A. Blatella germanica 1000pm EMI30.1 tb Product SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP I SEP 7.4 SEP 13.5 tb SEP II SEP 14 SEP 28 tb SEP III SEP 8.3 SEP 20 tb SEP IV SEP 5.3 SEP 11.2 tb SEP Tetramethrin SEP 30 SEP 30 tb Tetramethrin is a recommended knock down agent for incorporation in insecticidal formulations. B. Blatella germanica 500ppm EMI31.1 tb Product SEP KT50 SEP KT90 tb SEP I SEP 19 SEP 38 tb SEP II SEP 14 SEP 28 tb SEP III SEP 7.7 SEP 14.5 tb SEP IV SEP 7.2 SEP 20 tb Prior SEP art SEP 9.6 SEP 26 tb Compound SEP tb RS 1 cyano 1 6 phenoxypyrid 2 yl methyl 1RS, cis lRS,trans 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclo propane carboxylate.