# LUBRICATING AGENTS FOR PROCESSING SYNTHETIC YARNS AND METHOD OF PROCESSING SYNTHETIC YARNS THEREWITH

## Claims
1. Schmiermittel zur Verarbeitung von synthetischen Garnen, wobei das Schmiermittel als Basisöl ein Schmiermittel aus den folgenden drei Komponenten aufweist

## Description
This invention relates to lubricating agents for processing synthetic yarns spin finish for synthetic yarns and a method of processing synthetic textured yarns and a method of processing synthetic textured yarns by using such lubricating agents, and more particularly to lubricating agents which exhibit significantly improved ability to prevent deposit on heaters used in the heating processes hereinafter abbreviated as heater deposit resistance as well as lubricity, cohesion of yarn and antistatic capability. In the field of production and manufacture of thermoplastic synthetic fibers, there have recently been improvements in productivity due to semi automation and shortening of processes. Production of partially oriented yarns hereinafter abbreviated as POY and successive or simultaneous draw false twisting for the production of textured yarn are now being proposed. Faster execution of these processes is also attempted and this trend is presently growing at a fast rate. With the acceleration in these processes, there arise new requirements for the lubricants to be used in such processes. As the yarn speed increases, so does the contact pressure on the yarns which run against various machine parts such as rollers, guides, heaters for heat treatments and disks, so the lubricating agent must provide high levels of lubricity, cohesion of yarn and anti static properties to raw yarns for false twisting and in particular to those for drawing false twisting. Moreover, when there is an increase in the amount of yarn that passes through a heater for heat treatment per unit time or in the torsional strain on the yarn, the centrifugal force will also increase and this will cause all kinds of materials to scatter around. Since the heaters for heat treatments must be made longer and their surface temperature must be raised in order to supply sufficient heat to the filaments for setting crimps, this tends to enhance the thermal degradation of the materials that fall off. Where such thermally degraded components such as tar are accumulated on the surfaces of these heaters, there arise such ill effects as fuzz, breakage of filaments and spotty crimps. For this reason, lubricants are now required which are capable of preventing materials from falling off and are superior in heater deposit resistance. Lubricating agents containing various compounds have already been proposed for application in the spinning process for smooth execution of the subsequent false twisting process. As explained above, however, it has already become impossible with the conventional lubricants to satisfy fully the conditions for the false twisting process which are becoming ever severer. What is actually happening is that, for example, the operation of the apparatus is stopped now and then so that the surfaces of the heaters may be cleaned. This not only causes a loss in thermal efficiency, but is also a retrograde movement away from automation, because manpower must be expended for the cleaning work, resulting in reduction in production efficiency. Now that the speed of false twisting processes is increasing rapidly, it is indispensable that a lubricant used for this process should satisfy the requirements regarding heater deposit resistance, lubricity, cohesion of yarn and anti static capability as a whole. In order to improve the heat resistance of a feed yarn in heat treatment processes, it used to be considered important to improve the heat resistance of the lubricant itself and studies were made of various lubricants which would not themselves undergo thermal degradation leading to deposit on the heaters. Examples of such lubricants are shown below, but they are unsatisfactory for one reason or another. The common lubricating agents which are the principal components of most lubricants are mineral oils and esters of aliphatic acids, but these are unsatisfactory with regard to fuming characteristics and generation of tar. Esters with quaternary carbon introduced into their molecules Japanese Patent Tokukai Sho 50 53695 and esters of polyoxyalkylenated bisphenol and aliphatic acid Japanese Patent Tokko Sho 53 13239 lack the ability to reduce generation of tar. Polydimethylsiloxane and its end modified products cause significant generation of static electricity and lack scouring ability and compatibility with other components of the lubricants Japanese Patent Tokko Sho 58 12391, Tokukai Sho 55 67075 . As for modified silicones such as methylphenyl polysiloxane and polyepoxysiloxane, they themselves generate insoluble, thermally degraded sludge on the surfaces of the heaters if they are used at too high a level in excess of 10 weight as components of a lubricant Japanese Patent Tokukai Sho 49 30621 and Tokukai Sho 51 67415 . Even with polyether type compounds which are considered to be the most useful lubricating agents among known compounds Japanese Patent Tokukai Sho 56 31077 , the problem of heater deposit occurs as explained above under the severe changes in various conditions related to the increase in the rate of the false twisting process. It has also been pointed out that the degree of deposit may increase even more, depending on the type and amount of emulsifier or anti static agent added. A mixture of siloxane polyalkylene copolymer with an organic lubricant is described in US A 3234252 as a general lubricant for metals etc and as an antistatic agent for organic textiles. GB A 1371956 describes a mixture of A an alkylmethyl siloxane fluid, B a polyalkylene glycol or a copolymer of an alkylmethylsiloxane and a polyalkylene glycol, C mica, D carboxymethyl or carboxyethyl cellulose, E lecithin and F water, used as a lubricant in tyre moulding. As for constituents other than lubricating agents, addition of a small amount of antioxidant can produce some favorable effects Japanese Patent Tokko Sho 48 17517 and Tokukai Sho 53 19500 but it is not suitable under conditions of high speed texturing process. Examples whereby a small amount of polydimethylsiloxane, methylphenyl polysiloxane or polyepoxysiloxane less than about 10 weight is added do not shown reduction in generation of tar Japanese Patent Tokko Sho 54 5 5 and Tokukai Sho 55 137273 and these additives are generally water insoluble even if a large amount of water is used . Moreover, since these compounds should be emulsified in water as components of the lubricant, the added emulsifier itself tends to become a source of heater deposit. Components other than lubricating agents such as polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane, are typified by polyethylene oxide modified polysiloxane which does not have sufficient heater deposit resistance as a lubricant for raw yarns for false twisting Japanese Patent Tokko Sho 44 27518 . As for the use of a polyether compound in combination with linear organic polysiloxane with kinetic viscosity in excess of 1.5 x 10 ⁵m² S 15cst Japanese Patent Tokukai Sho 48 5309 , heater deposit resistance has been found to be too low, for example, in the case, of methyl polyethylene oxide polysiloxane. As for the use of a large amount over 35 weight of polyalkylene oxide modified silicone in combination with a polyalkylene oxide having affinity Japanese Patent Sho 50 59551 , the idea is to reduce the amount of modified silicone dropping from filaments onto the heaters so that improvement would be made regarding the generation of white sludge on heaters. However, an increased speed of false twisting or drawing false twisting results in an increase in the centrifugal force on the yarn as described above, so it is extremely difficult to prevent by a physical means the lubricant constituents from being exuded and from being ejected from the fiber surfaces. As for the method of using polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane in combination with a reactive silicone compound in the ratio former latter of 5 to 400 100 in weight Japanese Patent Tokukai Sho 52 96297 , the modified polysiloxane itself generates thermally degraded insoluble sludges on the heater surfaces if more than 10 weight of it is used as component of the lubricant. It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved lubricating agent which does not involve the aforementioned disadvantages of the conventional lubricants and can respond to the aforementioned requirements regarding fast manufacturing processes, as well as a processing method using such a lubricating agent. In particular it is intended to provide a lubricating agent capable of exhibiting overall high levels of heater deposit resistance, lubricity, cohesion of yarn and anti static capability when used for fast manufacturing of simultaneous or successive draw false twist face manufacturing of thermoplastic synthetic yarns such as polyester, polyamide, etc, as well as a processing method for synthetic yarns using such an agent. As described above, most of the present methods of improving the heater deposit resistance in heat treatment processes approach the problem by attempting to improve the tar generation resistance of the lubricant itself. The present inventors, however, studied the reason why the problem of heater deposit remained unsolved even with the polyether compounds, where the rate of generation of tar was reduced as compared to other base components. They discovered that the sludge which accumulates on the heaters for heat treatment contains, in addition to degradation products, large quantities of oligomers, some polymers and their thermal degradation products, generated from the travelling yarns themselves. They thus came to the conclusion that only those lubricating agents capable of concurrently and significantly reducing the generation of tar by thermal degradation of the lubricant itself and the amount of substances falling off the yarn, such as oligomers and polymers as well as substances tar degraded from them, can be used industrially for fast false twisting and draw false twisting. As a result of further investigation, the present invention was completed by the discovery that lubricating agents containing specified amounts of antistatic agent and lubricating agent to which is added a specified small amount of polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane having specified molecular structure and molecular weight and modified in a specified manner can significantly reduce the amount of heater sludge of the aforementioned type. The present invention relates both to a lubricating agent capable of fast processing of synthetic yarns and to a method of processing synthetic yarns by using such a lubricating agent as explained below. Thus, in one aspect, the present invention relates to a lubricating agent for processing synthetic yarns, said lubricating agent comprising as a base oil thereof a lubricant comprising the following 3 constituents In another aspect, the present invention relates to a method of processing synthetic yarns, in which a lubricating agent for processing having as base oil a lubricating agent of which the principal component is a polyether compound derived from alkylene oxide with 2 to 4 carbon atoms and comprising 0.05 to 10 weight of polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane of average molecular weight of over 2500 shown by the aforementioned formula I and 0.5 to 8 weight of anionic surface active agent is deposited on partially oriented yarns of polyester or polyamide wound up at 2000 to 4500 m min. In other words, a small amount of polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane shown by the aforementioned formula I and satisfying the following 5 conditions is added as an indispensable component of the lubricating agent according to the present invention The objectives of the present invention are not satisfactory achieved if any of the aforementioned conditions on the formula I is not fulfilled. If the molecular weight is less than 2500, for example, the effect is diminished probably because the compound itself cannot withstand the severe conditions of heat treatment in the false twisting process and smokes or evaporates off, failing to form a stable oil membrane. If m is greater than 10 or n is less than 19, the properties of the lubricant come to resemble those of a polyether, so that the amount of oligomers falling off the travelling filaments increases and the effects obtainable would be no different from the situation where the compound of formula I were not added. If n exceeds 100, not only does heater deposit resistance become weaker but the lubricant itself begins to form a varnish like substance probably because its properties approach those of polydimethyl siloxane. If a and b fail to satisfy the aforementioned conditions, satisfactory results cannot be obtained probably because stable and uniform oil membranes are not formed on the fiber surfaces due either to the lubricant s own properties or to the lowering of its compatibility with the other components of the lubricating agent. Compounds which can be described by the general formula I can be synthesized easily, for example, by the method of hydrosilylation reaction between the following compounds i and ii In the present invention, surface active agents are included to suppress the generation of static charge on slipping yarns and to cause the generated static electricity to leak away quickly. Anionic surface active agents, especially one or two kinds of sulfonates, sulfates, phosphates or carboxylates, may be used. They include salts of alkali metals and organic acids such as alkane sulfonate and alkylbenzene sulfonate as examples of sulfonates salts of alkali metals and organic acids such as higher alcohol sulfates or polyoxyalkylene alkylether sulfate as examples of sulfates salts of alkali metals and organic acids such as phosphates of various natural and synthetic alcohols and their addition products with alkylene oxide as examples of phosphates and aliphatic monocarboxylates and dicarboxylates as examples of carboxylates. Of these, salts of sodium, potassium or alkanolamines having alkyl groups or alkenyl groups with 8 to 18 carbon atoms within the molecule as lipophilic group are preferable. The polyether compounds which are the principal components of lubricants serving as the base oil according to the present invention, must provide cohesion of the yarn bundle during fiber manufacturing processes, must show excellent lubricating effects under severe conditions of false twist texturing and must themselves produce hardly any degraded substances generated by heating. There are no particular restrictions as to their chemical structure but the molecular weight must be greater than 700. If the average molecular weight is less than 700, fuming characteristics, cohesion of yarn and lubricating ability tend to deteriorate in false twist or draw false twist texturing process. They can be those obtainable in the presence of a catalyst by ring opening block or random addition polymerization of cyclic ether monomers such as EO, PO, butylene oxide or tetrahydrofuran to alcohols such as saturated atcohols with 1 to 18 carbon atoms, oleyl alcohol, synthetic alcohols with 10 to 15 carbon atoms, reductive alcohols and hexadecanol, diols with 2 to 12 carbon atoms, polyhydric alcohols such as glycerol and trimethylol propane, alkylphenol, etc. , carboxylic acids capric acid, adipic acid, trimelitic acid, etc. , amines laurylamine, ethylene diamine, triethanolamine, etc. , thioethers or mercaptan like compounds thioglycol, triethylene glycol dimercaptan, etc , as well as those obtained by replacing the end hydroxyl group of the above by an ether of silyl group or those obtained through condensation of the end hydroxyl group of two or these molecules by replacing by a formal or silyl group. The polyether component of the lubricant can comprise a combination of such polyethers with an ester compound and or a mineral oil. There is no particular limitation as to such ester compounds and or mineral oils as long as they are practically effective for lubrication and reduction of frictional resistance. From the point of view of the degree of effectiveness and heater deposit resistance, mono or di esters of aliphatic alcohols and monohydric aliphatic acids, mono or di esters of polyoxy ethylene propylene aliphatic alcohols and monohydric or dihydric aliphatic acids and refined mineral oil with a Redwood viscosity of 4.8 to 43.9 mPas at 30 C are preferable. In short, the lubricating agent according to the present invention is made by adding A polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane and B anionic surface active agent in specific proportions to a lubricant having as its principal component C a polyether compound and the desired synergistic effects can be exhibited by mixing these three components at specific ratios, that is, A must be 0.05 to 10 weight , B must be 0.5 to 8 weight and C must be the remaining 82 to 99.45 . If A is less than 0.05 weight , its effects cannot be satisfactorily manifested while the amount of the deposit on the heater and that of the oligomer and polygomer scum generated from the yarn increase. If it exceeds 10 weight , on the other hand, it generates thermally degraded insoluble sludge, becoming itself a cause of heater contamination. If B is less than 0.5 weight , various electrical problems will arise, while the amount of tar on the heater increases if it exceeds 8 weight . The lubricating agent of the present invention may generally be applied to synthetic fibers inclusive of polypropylene and polyacrylonitrile but their effectiveness is particularly distinctive if they are applied at the rate of 0.25 to 0.7 weight to POY of polyester or polyamide being wound up at the speed of 2000 to 4500 m min and it is subsequently subjected to false twist or draw false twist texturing. As explained above, the lubricating agents of the present invention contain the aforementioned three components at specific ratios and it is by their synergistic effects that superior over all stability in connection with fast production and manufacturing hitherto unobtainable by the conventionally available lubricating agents and, in particular, excellent heater deposit resistance, can be obtained. The principal reason for such remarkable effectiveness is that the present invention, unlike the previous efforts which aimed only to reduce the amount of tar generated by the lubricating agents themselves, has succeeded not only in reducing the amount of deposited yarn oligomers and polymers which are constituents of tar on the heater but also in preventing heat degradation of those deposited on the heater. In what follows, test and comparison examples will be described in order to explain more clearly the present invention, but they are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. In the following, the composition of the lubricating agent will be described in units of weight unless specifically noted to be otherwise. Lubricating agents for test experiments Nos. 1 to 5 and comparison experiments Nos. 1 to 10 shown in Table 1 were individually prepared. POY was produced by using each of these lubricating agents and, in all cases, by the following method, and such POY was used for draw false twist texturing. Evaluation was made regarding the following four points cross yarn on POY cake, static charge on sliding yarn, fuzz on yarn and deposit on heaters. The results of evaluation are also shown in Table 1, which clearly shows that no cross yarn on POY cake is observed, nor heater deposit or occurrence of electrostatic trouble during the draw false texturing of POY if lubricating agents of the present invention are used, and that superior false twisted yarns without fuzz can be obtained. The superior capabilities of the lubricating agents of the invention are thus fully demonstrated. Immediately after melt spinning of polyethylene terephthalate, a 10 emulsion of lubricating agent was applied to the yarn by the kiss roll method and a 12 kg cake of 127.8 decitex, 36 filament POY was obtained by winding at the rate of 3300 m min. The amount of lubricating agent deposited on the POY was 0.4 to 0.5 weight . Twisting system Three axis friction spindle with solid ceramic disk Speed of yarn 400 m min Draw ratio 1.518 Heater on twist side 2m in length with surface temperature of 210 C Heater on untwisting side none. Intended number of twists 3200 T m. It was observed whether any filament was slipping off in a straight line on the side surface of the POY cake. Such an occurrence can cause the filament to break when a POY is unwound in a drawtexturing processing. The electrostatic voltage of the yarn was measured by a static electrometer made by Kasuga Denki Kabushiki Kaisha immediately after passing through the twisting spindle and the delivery rollers and the results were evaluated according to the following standards Appearance of fuzz was examined by observation on the side surface of a cheese 12 kg roll of false twisted yarn obtained after operation for 20 days and the results were evaluated according to the following standards After a continuous operation for 20 days under the aforementioned conditions of draw false twist texturing, a magnifier was used to observe whether or not tar, scum, sludge, etc. had been generated in the yarn path on the surface of the heater. Evaluation was made according to the following standards In Table 1, A 1 is one of the following three kinds of polyalkylene oxide modified polysiloxane where X is CH₃, C₈H₁₇ or COCH₃, the repetition of the polydimethylsiloxane part and the polyalkylene oxide modified siloxane part and that of EO and PO are both random repetitions Lubricating agents for test experiments Nos. 6 to 11 and comparison experiments Nos. 11 to 14 shown in Table 2 were individually prepared. POY was produced by using each of these lubricating agents and, in all cases, by the following method, and such POY was used for draw false twist texturing. Evaluation was made regarding the following five points POY cross yarn, static charge on sliding yarn, fuzz on yarn, heater deposit and amount of polyester oligomers in heater deposit shown in Table 2 . The results of evaluation are also shown in Table 2 which clearly shows that no POY cross yarn, heater deposit at the time of POY draw false twist texturing, or occurrence of electrostatic trouble are observed if lubricating agent of the present invention are used and that superior false twisted yarn is obtained. If comparison experiment No. 14 is considered as a representative example of a composition causing heater deposit, it comprises 96 weight of polyether type lubricant and 4 weight of anionic surface active agent and, as is clear from the Table, heater deposit is observed with this example while a large amount of fuzz is seen on the yarn, probably because the yarn slides over such contaminant. This heater deposit was collected and quantitatively analyzed by separation of constituents and by infrared absorption spectrum as well as by measurement of melting points similarly for oligomers for Table 2 . It was found as a result that it contained 60 weight of cyclic oligomers of polyesters, 5 weight of polymers, 5 weight of constituents of the lubricating agent and 30 weight of heat degraded substances tar derived from the lubricating agent, oligomers and polymers. It will be seen that a large amount of oligomers was present. Immediately after melt spinning of polyethylene terephthalate, a 10 emulsion of lubricating agent was applied to the yarn by the kiss roll method and a 12 kg cake of 84 decitex, 36 filament POY was obtained by winding at the rate of 3500 m min. The amount of lubricating agent deposited on the POY was 0.30 to 0.35 weight . Twisting system Three axis friction spindle hard urethane rubber disk Speed of yarn 800 m min Draw ratio 1.518 Heater on twist side 2m in length with surface temperature of 220 C Heater on untwisting side None Intended number of twists 3450 T m. In Table 2, indicates that measurement was not possible because there were hardly any contaminants Each of the lubricating agents described in Table 3 was used, testing by the following method in all cases as in test experiments Nos. 1 to 5. The results are shown in Table 3, which clearly indicates the superior characteristics of the lubricating agents according to the present invention. Immediately after melt spinning of polyamide 6,6 nylon , a 13 emulsion of lubricating agent was applied to the yarn by the guide oiling method and a 8 kg cake of 40 decitex, 7 filament POY was obtained by winding at the rate of 4000 m min. The amount of lubricating agent deposited on the POY was 0.45 to 0.55 weight . Twisting system Three axis friction spindle hard urethane rubber disk Speed of yarn 1100 m min Draw ratio 1.200 Heater on twist side 2.5 m in length with surface temperature of 230 C Heater on untwisting side None Intended number of twists 3000 T m. In Table 3, was 97.97