# LIVING POLYMERS AND PROCESS FOR THEIR PREPARATION

## Claims
Verfahren umfassend das Polymerisieren des aus der aus

## Description
This invention relates to a process for polymerizing polar α olefinic monomers to living polymers and to the living polymers produced by such a process. European Patent Application No. 82303405.3 Publication No. 0 068 887 discloses processes for polymerizing the polar α olefinic monomer selected from the group consisting of and mixtures thereof By living polymer is meant a polymer of the invention which contains an active terminal group and is capable of polymerizing further in the presence of monomer s and co catalyst. The polymers produced by the process of the above Application are living polymers of the formula each of a and b is independently selected from 0 or a number in the range 1 to about 100,000, provided, however, a b is at least 3 Q is the divalent radical selected from the group consisting of and mixtures thereof and all remaining symbols are as defined above. The present invention provides an improvement in the aforesaid processes and polymers. More specifically, the present invention resides in the unexpected discovery of additional chemical compounds which can be used in the aforesaid processes. Use of these additional chemical compounds provides polymers which are not preparable by means of the aforesaid processes. The invention herein resides in the process comprising polymerizing the monomer selected from the group consisting of and mixtures thereof by contacting the one or more monomers under polymerizing conditions with By living polymer is meant a polymer of the invention which contains at least one active terminal group and is capable of polymerizing further in the presence of monomer s and co catalyst. It will be understood by one skilled in the art that the last four members of the aforesaid group from which the activating substituent Z is selected are the respective ketene imine or enol forms of the previous four members of the group. The mixtures of such members which are operable herein include, but are not limited to, the corresponding cyano imine or keto enol mixtures. The polymers produced by the process of the invention are living polymers of the formula wherein Z is selected from the group consisting of each of a and b is independently selected from 0 or a number in the range 1 to about 100,000, provided, however, a b is at least 3 Q is the divalent radical selected from the group consisting of all remaining symbols are as defined above, said polymer further characterized in that According to the present invention, one embodiment of the process comprises polymerizing the monomer selected from the group consisting of and mixtures thereof by contacting the one or more monomers under polymerizing conditions with The polymers produced by the process of the invention include living polymers of the formula It is readily apparent, that the five members of the group defining Z are the same as the first five members of the aforesaid group defining Z and are cyano or keto forms of Z. Similarly, the third member of the group defining Z is also the keto form of the aforesaid activating substituent Z¹. Moreover, the five members of the group defining Z³ are the same as the keto and cyano members of the aforesaid group defining the activating diradical Z². It also is apparent that Q is a living polymer unit provided by the starting monomers of the process of the invention, as originally depicted above, or such unit in its enol or imine form. The living polymers contain terminal groups M R¹ ₃ at their living ends or, when polymerization is initiated by bifunctional initiators of the formula R¹ ₂M Z¹ ₂ or In the description of the further characterization of the invention, any reference to symbols as defined above means not only as defined above in the further characterization but also as defined anywhere hereinabove. This caveat applies particularly to the definitions of R, R¹, R², R³, Z and Z . The living polymer of the invention can be a homopolymer or a copolymer, depending on the monomer or monomers selected for use in the process of the invention. Moreover, as will be discussed more fully hereinafter, the living polymer can be linear or branched and, depending on the selection of X, R Monomers which are suitable for use in the practice of this invention are, in general, known compounds and include, but are not limited to, the following methyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate As indicated above in the definition of R in the formulas for the monomer, substituents that are unreactive under polymerizing conditions include those having oxygen , nitrogen , or silicon containing groups which are devoid of reactive hydrogen atoms. Groups such as OSi R¹ ₃ and CONH₂ are nonreactive under such conditions and, therefore, can be tolerated. On the other hand, groups such as CO₂H and OH are reactive under polymerizing conditions. In order for monomers containing such groups on the R substituent to be useful in the invention process, the groups must be chemically protected, i.e. deactivated. Monomers containing such deactivated groups are useful in the preparation of polymers which, upon treatment to remove the protective group, have functional sites along the polymer chain. Monomers which contain sufficiently sterically hindered amine and alcohol groups that remain inert under reaction conditions may be used directly without deactivation. The functional sites can impart special properties to the polymer products, including curability and photosensitivity. The definition of R in the monomer formulas also includes substituents which are reactive under polymerizing conditions and of the formula CH₂ C Y² C O Z wherein Y² and Z are as defined above. These reactive substituents provide additional centers for initiation of polymerization, leading to the growth of polymeric branches. The reactive substituents are derived from meth acrylates or meth acrylamides which are themselves operable monomers in the present invention. These substituents can react with initiators of the invention to provide new initiating sites from which polymeric branches can grow in the presence of monomer s and cocatalyst. Initiators which are useful in the invention process include, but are not limited to, the following Examples of initiators which can initiate more than one polymer chain include trimethyl α,α α tris trimethylsily 1,3,5 benzenetriacetate, dimethyl α,α bis trimethylsilyl 1,3 benzenediacetate, 1,6 dimethoxy 1,5 hexadiene 1,6 diylbis oxy bis trimethylsilane , and bis 1 methoxy 2 methyl 1 propenyl oxy methylsilane. The initiators used in the invention are either known compounds or can be prepared by known methods from known starting materials. Of the initiators listed above, trimethylsilyl nitrile and ethyl trimethylsilyl acetate are commercially available. Initiators of the aforesaid formula R¹ ₃MZ wherein Z is or the corresponding ketene imine or enol isomeric forms wherein X is defined as above can be prepared from nitriles R² R³ CHCN, esters, ketones, or substituted amides R² R³ CHC O X wherein X is as defined above by reaction with, for example, Initiators of the aforesaid formula wherein R² or R³ is CH₃ also can be prepared from the monomers using appropriate procedures. For example, CH₂ C R³ C O X can be reacted with R¹ ₃MH wherein R¹ is as defined above to produce R¹ ₃MZ wherein Z is Similarly, initiators of the formulas R¹ ₂M Z¹ ₂ or O M R¹ ₂Z¹ ² wherein R¹, M and Z¹ are as defined above are either known compounds or can be prepared by the above methods employing, for example dihalides of the formula R¹ ₂MCl₂ in place of halides R¹ ₃MCl in the reaction with lithium containing intermediates as described above or dihydrides R¹ ₂HM O MH R¹ ₂ in place of R¹ ₃MH in the reaction with the monomers CH₂ C R³ C O X . As already stated above, initiators for use in the invention process include, but are not limited to, the following The immediately above initiators are either known compounds or can be prepared by known methods from known starting materials. Initiators of the aforesaid formula R¹ ₂M Z¹ ₂ can be prepared from nitriles R² R³ CHCN, esters, ketones, or substituted amides R² R³ CHC O X wherein X is as defined above by reaction with, for example, Initiators of the aforesaid formula O M R¹ ₂Z¹ ₂ wherein, in Z¹, R² or R³ is CH₃ also can be prepared from the monomers using appropriate procedures. For example, CH₂ C R³ C O X can be reacted with the dihydride R¹ ₂HM O MH R¹ ₂ wherein R¹ is as defined above. Useful initiators of the invention include those wherein the activating substituent Z, Z¹, Z⁴ or Z⁵ also contains one or more reactive initiating substituents, resulting in branched polymers. Such initiators can be prepared in situ by reacting a monomeric compound containing at least one reactive substituent with a simple initiator R¹ ₃MZ, R¹ ₃MZ⁴ or R¹ ₃MZ⁵, or precursor thereof, containing at least one initiating site. It is to be understood that the useful initiators include nitriles, esters, amides, and ketones, and their corresponding ketene imine and enol forms, all of which are active in the polymerization process of this invention. Moreover, the initiators wherein the activating moiety Z, Z¹, Z⁴ or Z⁵ contains R, R , R , R¹, R², and or R³ can also have, like the monomer, one or more functional substituents attached to an aforesaid R group, provided such substituents do not interfere with polymerization. Functional substituents which are useful include, but are not limited to, Such substituents, either directly or after treatment, for example, hydrolysis, provide functional sites along or at the end of polymer chains suitable for cross linking, chain extension, chain branching, or for modifying properties such as water sorption, UV absorption, and the like. In the practice of this invention, as described below, an initiator moiety forms one end of a polymer chain or branch and hence said polymers can be terminally or centrally functionalized by appropriate initiator selection and polymer treatment. The co catalysts used in the invention process are either known compounds or can be prepared by known methods from known compounds. Suitable, that is, effective, co catalysts which are useful in the invention process include zinc iodide, bromide, and chloride, mono and dialkylaluminum halides, dialkylaluminum oxides, tris dimethylamino sulfonium difluorotrimethylsilicate, tris dimethylamino sulfonium cyanide, tetraphenylarsonium cyanide, tris dimethylamino sulfonium azide, tetraethylammonium azide, boron trifluoride etherate, alkali metal fluorides, alkali metal cyanides, alkali metal azides, tris dimethylamino sulfonium difluorotriphenylstannate, tetrabutylammonium fluoride, tetramethylammonium fluoride, and tetraethylammonium cyanide. Preferred co catalysts include sources of fluoride ions, especially tris dimethylamino sulfonium difluorotrimethyl silicate and tetrabutylammonium fluoride tetraalkylammonium cyanides zinc bromide, and zinc chloride. Most preferred co catalysts are sources of bifluoride ions, such as, for example, those described in European Patent Application No. 84302261.7, Publication No. 0 121 439 , particularly tris dimethylamino sulfonium bifluoride, bifluorides of the alkali metals, especially potassium, ammonium bifluoride, tetraalkylammonium bifluorides and tetraarylphosphonium bifluorides. The process of the invention is carried out at about 100 C to about 150 C, preferably 0 C to 50 C, most preferably at ambient temperature. A solvent is desirable but not essential. Suitable solvents are aprotic liquids in which the monomer, initiator and co catalyst are sufficiently soluble for reaction to occur that is, the materials are dissolved at the concentrations employed. Suitable solvents include ethyl acetate, propionitrile, toluene, xylene, bromobenzene, dimethoxyethane, diethoxyethane, diethylether, tetramethylene sulfone, N,N dimethylformamide, N,N dimethylacetamide, N methylpyrrolidone, anisole, 2 butoxyethoxytrimethylsilane, cellosolve acetate, crown ethers such as 18 crown 6. acetonitrile, and tetrahydrofuran. Acetonitrile and tetrahydrofuran are preferred solvents when a co catalyst wherein the active species is an anion is used. When the co catalyst employed is a zinc compound, suitable solvents are limited to hydrocarbons and chlorinated hydrocarbons, preferably dichloromethane or 1,2 dichloroethane. The monomers used in the process of the invention are generally liquids and can be polymerized without a solvent, although a solvent is beneficial in controlling temperature during exothermic polymerization. When a solvent is used, the monomer may be dissolved or dispersed therein at concentrations of at least 1 wt , preferably at least 10 wt . The initiator is employed at a concentration such that the monomer initiator molar ratio is greater than 1, preferably greater than 5. The co catalyst is normally present in such an amount that the molar ratio of initiator to co catalyst is in the range 0.1 to 10,000, preferably 10 to 100. In the polymerization process of the invention, it is preferable to charge the initiator, co catalyst, and solvent, if used, to the polymerization vessel before adding the monomer s , especially if polymers of narrow molecular weight distribution are desired. In selected cases, such as the polymerization of methyl methacrylate initiated by trimethylsilyl nitrile using a relatively low concentration of cyanide or fluoride ions as the co catalyst, polymerization takes place after an induction period of several minutes. In such cases, all materials, including the monomer s , may be charged together or independently, and mixed in place. Such an initiator co catalyst system is preferred to obtain relatively monodisperse polymers. By a monodisperse polymer is meant one having a narrow molecular weight distribution. that is, Although, as indicated above, it is preferable to charge all necessary initiator, co catalyst and solvent to the polymerization vessel before adding monomer s , subsequent polymerization rate being controlled by monomer addition, further additions of co catalyst may sometimes be necessary to sustain polymerization. The final non living polymeric product obtained by means of the process of the invention is formed by exposing the living polymer to an active hydrogen source, such as moisture or an alcohol, for example, methanol. The living polymers of the invention will remain living for substantial periods provided they are protected from active hydrogen sources such as water or alcohols. Solutions of living polymers in inert solvents, such as hydrocarbons, are especially useful for preserving and conveying the living polymers. Films and fibers of the living polymers may be cast or spun from such solutions, or the polymer may be isolated from solution and further processed, for example, pelletized or granulated. It is to be understood that the final non living polymeric product does not include the enol or imine species of Q in the aforesaid formula for the living polymer of the invention. For example. a living polymer prepared by polymerizing methyl methacrylate using 1 methoxy 2 methyl 1 propenyl oxy methylsilane as the initiator contains, at its living end, the enolic grouping The process of the invention is useful for preparing homopolymers or copolymers of the monomers described above. In either case, the polymers obtained are living polymers which may be of high or low molecular weight and having a broad or narrow molecular weight distribution The polymerization process of the present invention involves a living mechanism having several similarities with anionic polymerization. For example, initiation and polymerization may be represented by conventional equations wherein the initiator moiety, such as R¹ ₃M, is located at one end of the polymer chain or branch which remains living even when the monomer supply is consumed the activating substituent, such as Z, Z¹, Z⁴ or Z⁵, is located at the other end of the polymer chain or branch. The terminal initiator moiety, unless chemically deactivated, is capable of initiating further polymerization with the same or different monomer, with resultant chain lengthening. Copolymers with specific monomer sequences, or block polymers, can thus be prepared. Although the present process resembles anionic polymerization, there are significant differences which have commercial significance. These differences include the ability to copolymerize methacrylate and acrylate monomers, or combinations of acrylate monomers, for example, ethyl and sorbyl acrylates, to relatively monodisperse copolymers. Such copolymers are difficult or impossible to obtain by known processes such as anionic polymerization or free radical polymerization. Moreover, whereas anionic polymerization processes which provide relatively monodisperse polymers are carried out at low temperatures, usually well below 10 C, which require expensive refrigeration equipment for commercial operation, the polymerization process of the invention is operable over a wide temperature range, from about 100 C to about 150 C. It is conveniently operable with many commercially important monomers at about ambient temperatures. The process of this invention can also be used to prepare polymers containing one or more specifically located functional groups which are unreactive under polymerizing conditions but are useful for subsequent preparation of block copolymers or crosslinked polymers. The functional groups may be introduced by using either a monomer or an initiator, or both, containing a protected functional substituent, or by chemically deactivating capping the living end of the polymer chain or branch with a functionalized capping agent. If the capping agent contains more than one capping site, then more than one polymer chain can be joined together or coupled to give doubled or star branched polymers, similar to the doubled or star branched polymers obtained when the initiator contains more than one initiating site, or the monomer contains more than one reactive site capable of reacting with initiators, as described previously. Even if the capping agent contains only one capping site, the agent may also contain other functional groups which provide reactive terminal sites to the polymer, useful for subsequent preparation of block copolymers or cross linked polymers, or for otherwise modifying polymer properties. Examples of capping agents containing one or more capping sites include 4 dimethoxymethylbenzyl bromide, 4 chloromethylstyrene, In the following examples of specific embodiments of this invention, parts and percentages are by weight and temperatures are in degrees Celsius unless otherwise specified. The polydispersity D of the polymer products of the examples is defined by D To convert the silylphosphonate terminal groups to phosphonic acid groups, the product was stirred at reflux for 1 h with 15 ml of methylene chloride, 6 ml of methanol, and 1 ml of 1 To a solution, in 20 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran, of bis 1 methoxy 2 methyl 1 propenyl oxy methylsilane 1.23 g, 5 mmol , prepared by the reaction of methyldichlorosilane with the lithium enolate of methyl isobutyrate bp 54.8 0.5 57.2 0.7 mm , and 20 µL of 1 Gel permeation chromatography shows To a stirred solution of 1.49 g 1.75 ml, 5 mmol of tris trimethylsilyl phosphite and 0.31 ml of 1 The following constituents can be blended together to form a lacquer paint Portion 1 can be charged into a mixing vessel and mixed for 10 minutes, portion 2 can be added and mixed for 10 minutes and then portion 3 can be added and mixed for 20 minutes to form a lacquer paint. The reduced lacquer can be sprayed onto phosphatized steel panels primed with an alkyd resin primer and coated with a sealer. Three coats may be sprayed onto the panels and the panels baked at about 165 for 30 minutes to provide a finish of about 2.2 mils thickness. The resulting finish is expected to be smooth, glossy, water resistant, gasoline resistant, chip resistant and weatherable, with excellent distinctness of image, useful as a high quality automotive coating. An aqua metallic air drying enamel was prepared from the following The above composition was sprayed onto a steel panel primed with an alkyd resin primer and allowed to cure at ambient temperature. After about a week, the finish was hard and resistant to solvents and scratches. The best mode presently contemplated for carrying out the invention is demonstrated and or represented by Examples 1, 2 and 5 to 7. The invention process provides useful and well known polymers containing functional substituents, for example, homopolymers and copolymers of acrylate and or methacrylate monomers, such polymers heretofore being made usually by anionic polymerization techniques. The invention process also provides a means for making certain commercially desirable, relatively monodisperse copolymers of methacrylate and acrylate comonomers, such copolymers being difficult or impossible to obtain by known processes such as anionic polymerization or free radical polymerization. The invention process also provides living polymer which may be cast or spun, for example, into a film or fiber, from solution or dispersion in or using an aprotic solvent or isolated, processed, and then further polymerized. The solutions or dispersions may also be formulated with clear or opaque pigments and other ingredients which can be converted into protective coatings and finishes for manufactured articles, such as metal, glass and wood. Various types of finishes can be made which take advantage of the properties of the polymers disclosed herein. These include solvent based and water based finishes, powder coatings, electrocoating compositions including anodic and cathodic, coatings to be applied by spraying or other techniques, coatings which contain cross linkers including, but not limited to, melamine resins and isocyanate resins, and coatings which can be cured by a variety of techniques including heat, various types of radiant energy, exposure to air, and various vapors, such as moisture or amines. After the living polymers disclosed herein have been quenched, such as by reaction with water or alcohols, the need to avoid moisture may no longer exist, and aqueous coating compositions can be made therefrom.