# METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PRODUCING FOLDED OPTICAL PATH DEVICES

## Claims
System zur Befestigung optischer Elemente 36 mit Hilfe von Klebstoff 48 in Haltemitteln 40 zur Halterung der optischen Elemente in einer vorbestimmten relativen Ausrichtung, wobei die optischen Elemente auf einer Ausrichtungsplattform 32 mit Mitteln 56 zur Durchführung der erforderlichen Relativausrichtung der optischen Elemente angeordnet sind und wobei die Haltemittel über der Ausrichtungsplattform befestigt sind, wobei Rahmenteile der Haltemittel benachbart zu den optischen Elementen angeordnet sind,

## Description
This invention relates in general to an apparatus and method for assembling optical path folding devices. More particularly, the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for manufacturing low cost, precision optical devices which utilize single or multiple bounces. In the prior art, various assemblies have been utilized to mount and align optical mirrors for use in single or multiple bounce optical path folding devices. FIG. 1 shows one prior art system utilized to mount and align mirrors. In this system, the assembly 10 is formed from two identical subassemblies 12 which are joined together by appropriate means along the overlapping portions of frame members 14. A mirror holding member 16 is pivotably mounted to support 18 as shown. A mirror 20 is bonded to each mirror holding member 16 by means of a suitable adhesive 22. In such a prior art system, each mirror 20 may be pivoted in order to achieve accurate optical alignment. The prior art system of FIG. 1 suffers from two major drawbacks. The system is mechanically complex and its production cost is not appropriate for use in low cost optical systems. The second drawback is in the time consuming and therefore costly alignment procedures required to achieve accurate optical alignment of the mirrors 20. FIG. 2 shows another prior art system known as replication. Replication is typically used in precision optic devices where repeatability and large production quantities are required. In this system, a reflective coating 26 is bonded via an adhesive to a precision machined surface 28 on holding structure 30. The reflective coating 26 is very thin and of a uniform thickness. The quality of the surface 28 reflects the quality of the mirrored surface obtained after the reflective coating 26 is bonded to surface 28. Therefore, the surface 28 to which the coating 26 is bonded must be accurately machined to assure optical alignment of the completed assembly. The main drawback of replication is that the process is costly and time consuming. GB A 497 504 discloses a system for cementing mirrors to a pair of perforated backing plates which are held at rightangles to each other by a yoke. The mirrors are placed on the faces of an accurately made prism which may have a layer of oil or grease to prevent the mirrors from slipping down the faces. Cement is applied to the backing plates and the plates are laid one on each of the mirrors. The yoke is secured to the prism by means of a spring bolt, and pressure is applied to the backing plates by blade springs on a pivoted arm. The cement is exposed to the atmosphere through the perforations in the backing plates. From one aspect the present invention relates to a system for mounting optical elements by means of adhesive in holding means for retaining said optical elements in a predetermined relative alignment, wherein said optical elements are placed on an alignment platform having means for defining the required relative alignment of the optical elements, and wherein said holding means is mounted over said alignment platform with frame members of said holding means adjacent to said optical elements. From this aspect the invention is characterised in that said means for defining the required relative alignment of the optical elements comprises a plurality of recesses, one for each of said optical elements, each of said recesses having a plurality of precisely machined surfaces, so that, when said optical elements are placed in their respective recesses, they have the exact required relative positional relationship, in that, when said holding means is mounted over said alignment platform, said frame members are spaced from said optical elements, in that a hole passes through each of said frame members opposite to its respective optical element, whereby the space between said holes is briged by said adhesive injected through each of said holes, thereby joining together, each of said frame members and its respective optical element. From another aspect the invention consists in a method of connecting a plurality of optical elements to a holding frame, said method comprising the steps of FIG. 1A is a side view of a prior art system used to mount and align mirrors. FIG. 1B is a front view of the prior art system of FIG. 1A. FIG. 2A is a side view of the prior art replication system used to produce precision optic devices. FIG. 2B is an enlarged view of a portion of FIG. 2A. FIG. 3 is a pictorial view of the present system for producing aligned optical systems. FIG. 4 is a section view of FIG. 3 taken along the lines 4 4. FIG. 5 is a side view, with portion broken away, of the assembled mirror holding structure produced by the present system. The present invention provides a system for mounting optical mirrors on a holding unit. The mirrors are mounted in the exact position required for use in a using optical system, such as a folded mirror system used in some facsimile equipment or a camera like scanner for digitizing images from a sheet of paper. The assembled holding unit is designed to be installed within the using optical system. FIGS. 3 and 4 show the preferred embodiment of the alignment assembly system of the present invention. FIG. 5 shows a completely assembled and aligned holding unit ready for installation in the using optical system. The key element of the alignment assembly system is alignment platform 32. Alignment platform 32 may be fabricated from steel or another suitable material which is not susceptible to warping. Cavities 56 in platform 32 are positioned to support a pair of mirrors 36 in correct alignment with each other in accordance with the requirements of the using optical system in which the assembled holding unit will be installed. Those skilled in the art will therefore appreciate that the positions of the mirrors 36 will vary depending on the using optical system the completed holding unit will be installed in. The mirrors 36 are placed in the cavities 56 with their reflective surfaces 38 facing inward as shown. The mirrors 36 are supported in their aligned positions by the surfaces 34 of cavities 56. No additional means are utilized to hold the mirrors 36 on the platform 32. The surfaces 34 of cavities 56 are precisely machined so that the mirrors 36 are supported at the exact optical alignment required by the optical system in which they will be used. After the mirrors 36 are positioned on platform 32, a mirror holding structure 40 is positioned over the platform 32. The holding structure 40, after having the mirrors 36 mounted to it, will provide an optically aligned mirror subsystem which can then be installed in a using device as part or all of its optical system. In the preferred embodiment, the holding structure 40 is fabricated from extruded aluminum. However, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the holding structure may alternatively be fabricated from sheet metal or other suitable materials. In the preferred embodiment, the holding structure 40 is longitudinally aligned with the alignment platform 32 via a bar shaped member 58 on the surface 52 of platform 32 which mates with a slot 60 in the base 50 of holding unit 40. The holding structure 40 is thus positioned on the platform 32 with slot 60 and bar 58 slidably mated. In such a position, the holding structure 40 is longitudinally fixed with respect to the platform 32, but may be slid back and forth in the orthogonal direction. Screw 62 provides a stop against which the holding unit 40 may be slid in order to achieve equal spacing between the backs 46 of mirrors 36 and the adjacent sides of holding structure 40. In practice, screw 62 need only be adjusted the first time a set of mirrors 36 is mounted to a holding structure 40. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternate mechanisms may be utilized to longitudinally align the holding structure with respect to platform 32 and to achieve equal spacing. With the holding structure 40 positioned over the platform 32 as shown in FIGS. 3 and 4, clamp 42 is engaged to securely hold the holding structure 40 at the required longitudinal alignment and spacing. Next, a suitable adhesive 48 is injected through holes 44 which pass through the holding structure 40. A sufficient quantity of adhesive 48 is injected to bridge the gaps between the surfaces 46 of mirrors 36 and the opposed surface of holding structure 40. In the preferred embodiment, a urethane adhesive is utilized. The adhesive 48 is then allowed to cure, after which the clamp 42 is loosened and the completed holding structure 54 FIG. 5 is removed from the platform 32. As shown in FIG. 5, the mirrors 36 are permanently mounted to the completed holding structure 54 in the precise optical alignment required by the using optical system. Therefore, no further adjustment of the mirrors 36 is required in order for them to be in alignment. The completed holding structure 54 is now ready for installation in the using device. It should be appreciated that the holding structure 40 need not be precisely machined since it does not effect the alignment of the mirrors. Instead, the holding structure indirectly supports the mirrors 36 which are in alignment due to the adhesive 48 filling the gaps between the prealigned mirrors 36 and the holding structure 40. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that if the clamping surface 52 of platform 32 is used as the reference surface for machining the remainder of the platform 32, then the surface 50 of holding structure 40 will be precisely located with respect to the mirror surfaces 38. This will allow the surface 50 of the holding structure 40 to be used for mounting other components in the optical path of the using system. Although the preferred embodiment has only considered a system for assembling a holding system employing two mirrors 36, those skilled in the art will appreciate tht the system may readily be modified to facilitate the mounting and alignment of a single mirror or more than two mirrors at various positions required for optical alignment in the using system. Further, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the system may be used to mount both optical and nonoptical elements in addition to mirrors. Having shown and described the preferred embodiment of the present invention, those skilled in the art will realize that various omissions, substitutions and changes in forms and details may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. It is the intention, therefore, for the invention to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the following claims.