# ALPHA AMINOBORONIC ACID PEPTIDES

## Claims
Verbindung der Formel

## Description
This invention relates generally to enzyme inhibitors, and particularly to a new class of peptide inhibitors of proteolytic enzymes. Proteases are enzymes which cleave proteins at single, specific peptide bonds. Cuypers, et al., Lienhard, in Koehler, et al., Lindquist, et al., Aberrant proteolysis has been associated with disease states in man and experimental animals, notably emphysema. Barrett, in Emphysema is defined by the American Thoracic Society as an anatomic alteration of the lung characterized by an abnormal enlargement of the air spaces distal to the terminal nonrespiratory bronchiole, accompanied by destructive changes of the alveolar walls. In all forms of emphysema the elastic fibers of alveolar walls are disrupted. Considerable evidence has been accumulated for the role of proteolysis in disruption of elastin fibers. Furthermore, this aberrant proteolysis has been ascribed to a leukocyte serine protease, neutrophil elastase. Neutrophil elastase is readily accessible to lung tissue, since neutrophils are sequestered in lung capillaries and connective tissue in response to lung irritants. Janoff, in In a continuing search for therapeutic agents useful for treatment of emphysema, several groups have prepared and tested inhibitors of neutrophil elastase. Powers, et al., Other inhibitors of elastase which are reported in the chemical and medical literature include certain aza peptides, disclosed by Powers, et al., Accordingly, new classes of potent inhibitors of serine and other proteases, characterized by long lasting inhibitory capacity and low mammalian toxicity, are potentially valuable therapeutic agents for treatment of mammalian proteolytic disease states, notably emphysema. The present invention provides compounds of the formula or a physiologically acceptable salt thereof, wherein and Y¹ and Y² are derived from pinacol, i.e. the compound H Phe Gly boroleu pinacol and the process for its preparation is within the scope of this invention. The invention also provides compositions comprising one or more of the foregoing compounds, and methods of using such compositions in treatment of aberrant proteolysis and emphysema in mammals. FIG. 1 illustrates plasma levels of elastase inhibitory capacity in hamsters at various times following intraperitoneal administration of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval pinacol at 100, 200 and 400 mg kg dosage levels. FIG. 2 illustrates plasma levels of elastase inhibitory capacity in hamsters at various times following intraperitoneal administration of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala pinacol at 200 mg kg. FIG. 3 illustrates plasma levels of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Borophe pinacol in hamsters following intraperitoneal administration at 200 mg kg. The compounds of the present invention are peptide derivatives of α aminoboronic acids, and are characterised by unusual potency as inhibitors of certain proteolytic enzymes, notably neutrophil elastase. Each of the compounds of the invention comprises one or more amino acids coupled to an acid terminal α aminoboronic acid, which can optionally be linked to a boron terminal protecting group Y¹ Y² , as illustrated by the foregoing formula. The nature of the B terminal protecting group Y¹ Y² can vary widely within the scope of the present invention. Suitable values for Y¹ Y² include moieties derived from compounds, principally diols, having at least two hydroxy groups separated by at least two connecting atoms in a chain or ring. Contemplated compounds within the foregoing description include, for example, pinacol, perfluoropinacol, pinanediol, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, catechol, 1,2 cyclohexanediol, 1,3 propanediol, 2,3 butanediol, glycerol, diethanolamine and other amino alcohols, and other equivalents apparent to those skilled in the art. As used throughout the specification, the following abbreviations for amino acid residues or amino acids apply Where prefixed by D , the foregoing abbreviations indicate an amino acid of D configuration. N terminal protecting group, as used herein, refers to various amino terminal protecting groups conveniently employed in peptide synthesis. Examples of suitable groups include acyl protecting groups, for example, formyl, acetyl Ac , benzoyl Bz , trifluoroacetyl, succinyl Suc and methoxysuccinyl MeOSuc aromatic urethane protecting groups, for example, benzyloxycarbonyl Z and aliphatic urethane protecting groups, for example, tert butyloxycarbonyl Boc or adamantyloxycarbonyl. Gross and Mienhofer, eds., The following represent preferred N terminal protecting groups R¹ Compounds of the invention having side chain amino groups, for example, where A¹, A² or A³ are Lys or Arg, can optionally comprise suitable N terminal protecting groups attached to the side chains similarly, amino acid residues having acidic or hydroxy side chains can be protected in the form of benzyl or other suitable esters or ethers. As noted previously, R² refers to an alkyl group of one to six carbons, which can be straight or branched chain. Further, R² can comprise a phenyl substituent, or optionally, one or more in chain bivalent moieties selected from the group consisting of O , CO , S , NH , CONH , CH CH , or SO₂ . Examples of preferred values for R² include methyl, isopropyl, isobutyl, and benzyl. Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds of the present invention include acid addition salts, for example, hydrochloric, acetic, trifluoroacetic, succinic, citric, or other suitable acid addition salts. Abbreviations and terms prefixed by boro indicate amino acids wherein the terminal carboxyl group CO₂H has been replaced by a boronic functionality B OH ₂ or Thus, borovaline refers to the boronic acid analogue of valine, borophenylalanine or borophe refers to the boronic acid analogue of phenylalanine, etc. In naming compounds of the invention, the protective group Y¹ Y² is simply identified by the name of the compound from which the group is derived, for example, pinacol or diethanolamine. Contemplated classes of compounds within the scope of the present invention include the following. A first class includes compounds wherein A¹ is Ala, Pro, Gly, Val, Leu or Ile. A second class includes compounds wherein A¹ is Phe or Tyr. A third class includes compounds wherein A¹ is Lys or Arg, and a fourth class includes compounds wherein A¹ is Ser or Thr. Finally, a fifth class includes compounds wherein A¹ is Asp, Glu, Asn or Gln. The foregoing principal classes include sub classes corresponding to preferred values of R², and these subclasses are further subtended into groups defined by preferred values for N terminal protecting group R¹. Obvious equivalents of the foregoing compounds include compounds comprising less common or modified amino acids, for example, norleucine, hydroxyproline, or other derivatives capable of incorporation into the α aminoboronic acid peptides of the present invention. Specific compounds within the scope of the invention, named in accordance with the conventions described above, include the following examples On the basis of superior capacity to inhibit neutrophil elastase, the compounds of the invention wherein A¹ is Pro and A² and A³ are each Ala are preferred. Of these compounds, those in which the aminoboronic acid residue is borovaline, borophenylalanine, boroisoleucine, or boroalanine are most preferred. Starting materials employed in synthesis of the compounds of the invention include N protected peptides, which can be purchased from chemical suppliers, or prepared by methods well known to those skilled in the art. In addition, esters of α aminoboronic acids in amine salt or free amine form are required, which can be prepared according to the following procedure, which is a modification of the procedures disclosed by Matteson, et al., Preparation of the α aminoboronic acid peptides of the present invention is illustrated by the following synthetic scheme, in which a pinacol ester of an α aminoboronic acid is employed as a starting reagent. To prepare the peptides of the present invention, an N protected peptide is first treated with isobutyl chloroformate, to generate a mixed peptide isobutyric acid anhydride By product salts of the coupling reaction are removed by filtration, and the pinacol or other ester peptide can be further purified by chromatography on silica gel using a suitable solvent, for example, chloroform, 1 3 methanol in chloroform, or a mixture of methanol and methylene chloride. Product peptide esters Pinacol or other ester peptides Peptides The α aminoboronic acid peptides of the present invention represent a novel class of potent, reversible inhibitors of metallo, acid, and serine proteases. Examples of the serine proteases inhibited by compounds within the scope of the invention include leukocyte neutrophil elastase, a proteolytic enzyme implicated in the pathogenesis of emphysema chymotrypsin, a digestive enzyme pancreatic elastase and cathepsin G, a chymotrypsin like protease also associated with leukocytes. Inhibition of thermolysin, a metalloprotease, and pepsin, an acid protease, has also been demonstrated for compounds within the scope of the present invention. As noted previously, a number of compounds have been prepared and tested for the ability to inhibit neutrophil elastase, in a continuing effort to develop therapeutic agents useful in treatment of emphysema in mammals. The most potent peptide inhibitors reported in the literature are certain chloromethyl ketone peptide analogues, disclosed by Powers, et al., The compounds of the invention can be administered intravenously, intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, or subcutaneously to a mammal, following dispersal or solution in a pharmaceutically suitable diluent or vehicle. The compounds of the invention have been shown to possess longer lasting inhibitory activity after administration, which is a desirable property in view of the short time spans of inhibitory activity of compounds reported in the literature. Additional uses for compounds of the invention include analysis of commercial reagent enzymes for active site concentration. For example, chymotrypsin is supplied as a standard reagent for use in clinical quantitation of chymotrypsin activity in pancreatic juices and feces. Such assays are diagnostic for gastrointestinal and pancreatic disorders. Pancreatic elastase is also supplied commercially as a reagent for quantitation of α₁ antitrypsin in plasma. Plasma α₁ antitrypsin increases in concentration during the course of several inflammatory diseases, and α₁ antitrypsin deficiencies are associated with increased incidence of lung disease. Compounds of the present invention can be used to enhance the accuracy and reproducibility of this assay by titrametric standardization of the commercial elastase supplied as a reagent. Finally, protease activity in certain protein extracts during purification of particular proteins is a recurring problem which can complicate and compromise the results of protein isolation procedures. Certain proteases present in such extracts can be inhibited during purification steps by compounds of the invention, which bind tightly to various proteolytic enzymes. The examples which follow illustrate particular embodiments of the invention. In the examples, cold tetrahydrofuran refers to tetrahydrofuran chilled in a dry ice bath for 5 15 minutes. All percentages reported are by weight unless otherwise indicated, and all melting points are uncorrected. All temperatures are reported in degrees Celsius. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance ¹H NMR chemical shifts are reported in δ units, parts per million downfield from internal tetramethylsilane standard. Various abbreviations employed in the examples include TLC, for thin layer chromatography MS, for mass spectrometry FAB, for fast atom bombardment and CI, for chemical ionization. N hydroxysuccinamide ester of Z Phe OH 4.5 g, 11.4 mmoles was dissolved in 5 mL of dioxane and was added to a solution consisting of H GlyAla OH 1.85 g. 12.6 mmoles and triethylamine 2.64 mL, 18.9 mmoles in 5 mL of H₂O. The ensuing reaction was complete after 3 hours. After standing at 4 for 3 days, the resulting solution was diluted with 100 mL of 0.2 N HCl, and the resulting solid was extracted into ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with 0.2 N HCl and then with saturated aqueous NaCl containing 0.2 N HCl. A solid was obtained after evaporating the organic phase. This was recrystallized from methanol ethyl acetate 1 1, V V to yield a first crop 0.93 g, 2.2 mmoles, mp 171.5 173 and a second crop 2.75 g, 6.4 mmoles, mp 171.5 172.5 . First and second crops ¹H NMR 90 MHz, C₂D₆SO δ 1.3 d. 3H , 2.9 m, 2H , 3.8 m, 2H , 4.0 4.6 m, 2H , 4.9 s, 2H , 7.3 s, 10H . Z PheGlyAla OH 0.653 g, 1.53 mmoles and N methylmorpholine 0.168 mL, 1.53 mmoles were dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL and were allowed to react with isobutyl chloroformate 0.199 mL, 1.53 mmoles for 5 minutes at 20 . Cold tetrahydrofuran 10 mL and triethylamine 0.213 mL, 1.53 mmoles were added and the resulting mixture was added to H Boroleu pinacol trifluoroacetate 0.50 g, 1.53 mmoles , dissolved in cold tetrahydrofuran 10 mL . This reaction mixture was stirred for approximately 1 hour at 20 and then for about 1 2 hours at 23 . At this point, the reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated. The remaining residue was dissolved in CHCl₃ and then applied to a 2 cm column containing 5 g of silica gel, previously equilibrated with CHCl₃. The column was sequentially eluted with CHCl₃, 1 methanol CHCl₃ and 2 methanol CHCl₃ V V . Fractions containing desired product, as determined by ¹H NMR spectroscopy, were pooled and evaporated. Product was crystallized from CHCl₃ hexane dissolved in CHCl₃ and hexane added to the cloud point , isolated, and washed with hexane to yield a solid 0.28 g 0.45 mmole, mp 97 98.5 . Thin layer chromatography TLC in methanol CHCl₃ V V, 1 9 on silica gel indicated a single spot, Rf. 0.48. ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.875 m, 6H , 1.21 s, 12H , 1.38 m, 5H , 1.675 hept, J 7Hz, 1H , 2.85 3.03 m, 2H , 3.1 3.25 m, 1H , 3.7 3.95 m, 2H , 4.4 m, 1H , 4.63 br., 1H , 5.02 q, J 12Hz, 2H , 7.1 7.35 br., 13H . Anal. Calcd. for C₃₃H₄₇N₄O₇B C 63.65 , H 7.62 , N 9.00 , and B 1.74 . Found C 63.96 , H 7.70 , N 9.12 , and B 1.58 . Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol 0.210 g, 0.337 mmoles was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL and diethanolamine 0.053 g, 0.506 mmoles dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 0.88 mL was added. After the resulting mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature, a white precipitate formed which was isolated by filtration and washed with tetrahydrofuran to yield a diethanolamine derivative 0.128 g as an amorphous product. The filtrate was concentrated to yield additional product 0.053 g . After removal of a 20 mg sample, the remaining diethanolamine derivative was dissolved in a mixture of methanol 3 mL and 1.0 N HCl 2 mL . The solution was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Ethyl acetate 50 mL was added and the resulting organic phase was washed with 0.2 N HCl and saturated aqueous NaCl. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous Na₂SO₄, filtered, and evaporated to yield a residue 0.082 g . It was triturated with hexane to yield a white powder 0.072 g, 0.13 mmole . TLC in butanol acetic acid water V V, 4 1 1 on silica gel indicated a single spot, Rf. 0.38. ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.75 0.95 br., 6H , 1.2 1.45 br., 5H , 1.5 1.65 br., 1H , 1.85 2.1 br., 1H , 2.7 3.05 br., 2H , 3.1 3.2 br., 1H , 3.6 4.1 br., 2H , 4.4 4.7 br., 2H , 4.9 5.1 br., 2H , 7.1 7.35 br., 13H MS FAB m z thioglycerol 613. Anal. Calcd. for C₂₇H₃₇N₄O₇B C 60.00 , H 6.91 , N 10.37 , and B 2.00 . Found C 60.17 , H 6.90 , N 10.45 , and B 2.01 . A mixed anhydride of Boc Ala OH was prepared by reacting Boc Ala OH 10 g, 52.8 mmoles with N methylmorpholine 5.80 mL, 52.8 mmoles and isobutyl chloroformate 6.8 mL, 52.05 mmoles for 5 minutes in 50 mL of tetrahydrofuran at 20 . The reaction mixture and additional N methylmorpholine 5.8 mL were added to H Pro OBzl HCl dissolved in 50 mL of cold CHCl₃. After this mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 20 and 2 hours at 23 , it was filtered and the filtrate evaporated. The residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and was washed sequentially with 0.2 N HCl, 5 NaHCO₃, and saturated aqueous NaCl. The solvent was evaporated to yield Boc AlaPro OBzl as an oil 14.1 g . H AlaPro OBzl HCl was prepared by dissolving Boc AlaPro OBzl 14 g, 37.5 mmoles in 100 mL of ethyl acetate and bubbling anhydrous HCl through the resulting solution for 30 minutes at 0 . This mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 23 and solvent was evaporated to yield solid 14.9 g H AlaPro OBzl HCl. Boc Ala OH 11.5 g, 48.4 mmoles was coupled to H AlaPro OBzl HCl 14.9, 47.8 mmoles by procedures substantially similar to those described above for the preparation of Boc AlaPro OBzl, yielding a foam, 22 g. This product crystallized from ethyl acetate to yield Boc AlaAlaPro OBzl 7.8 g, mp 120 121 in the first crop and 11.1 g mp 111 117 in a second crop. First crop Anal. Calcd. for C₂₃H₃₃N₃O₆ mp 120 121 C 61.71 , H 7.45 , N 9.39 . Found C 61.74 , H 7.56 , and N 9.46 . MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OBzl was prepared by reacting Boc AlaAlaPro OBzl 11.5 g with trifluoroacetic acid for 15 minutes at 23 . Trifluoroacetic acid was evaporated, and the resulting residue was treated with anhydrous HCl as described for the preparation of H AlaPro OBzl HCl. Solvent was evaporated, and the residue was triturated with ether to yield H AlaAla Pro OBzl HCl as a white solid 9.9 g . H AlaAlaPro OBzl HCl 3.78 g, 9.86 mmoles and the N hydroxy succinamide ester of methyl succinate, MeOSuc OSu 2.26 g, 9.86 mmoles were dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL . A suspension of NaHCO₃ 1.66 g, 19.7 mmoles in 2.5 mL of H₂0 was added and the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Solvent was evaporated and the remaining residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and was washed with 0.2 N HCl and 5 NaHC0₃ both solutions were prepared in saturated NaCl and with saturated aqueous NaCl. After drying the organic phase over anhydrous Na₂SO₄, filtering, and concentrating by evaporation, 3.4 g of crystals mp 122 123 were obtained. Anal. Calcd. for C₂₃H₃₁N₃O₇ C 59.84 , H 6.78 , N 9.11 . Found C 59.80 , H 6.68 , and N 9.12 . MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OH was prepared by hydrogenation of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OBzl in the presence of a palladium catalyst. The benzyl ester 4.5 g, 9.7 mmoles was dissolved in 100 mL of methanol and was hydrogenated for 1 hour in the presence of 0.5 g of 10 Pd C in a Parr apparatus. Catalyst was removed and solvent evaporated to yield a foam 3.4 g , which was crystallized from ethyl acetate to yield 2.8 g 7.3 mmoles, mp 144 146 of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OH, ¹H NMR 90 MHz, C₂D₆SO δ 1.17 d, 6H , 1.6 2.3 m, 4H , 2.5 m DMSO, 4H , 3.3 3.8 s, m, 5H , 4.0 4.6 m, 3H , 7.83 8.17 m, 2H . Anal. Calcd. for C₁₇H₂₅N₃O₇ C 51.73 , H 6.80 , N 11.63 . Found C 51.72 , H 6.92 , and N 11.13 . MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OH 4.10 g, 11.05 mmoles was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 35 mL , activated, and coupled to H Boroval pinacol trifluoroacetate 3.46 g, 11.05 mmoles dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL by a procedure substantially similar to that described for Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol Example 2. After filtration and evaporation of the reaction mixture, the resulting residue was dissolved in CHCl₃ and applied to a 3 cm column containing 30 g of silica gel previously equilibrated with CHCl₃. Product was eluted with CHCl₃ and triturated with hexane to yield a white powder 3.56 g, 6.44 mmoles . Anal. Calcd. for C₂₆H₄₅N₄O₈B C 56.51 , H 8.23 , N 10.14 , and B 1.96 . Found C 56.27 , H 8.21 , N 9.97 , and B 2.15 . Material prepared in a substantially similar experiment E30833 8 gave ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.85 0.95 br., 6H , 1.20 1.24 br., 12H , 1.25 1.28 br., 3H , 1.33 1.38 br., 3H , 1.8 m, 1H , 1.95 2.075 br., 2H , 2.2 2.3 br., 2H , 2.5 2.55 br., 2H , 2.65 2.75 br., 2H , 2.9 t, J 6Hz, 1H , 3.69 s, 3H , 4.65 4.85 br., 2H MS FAB m z 1 553. MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval pinacol 0.25 g, 0.452 mmoles was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 3.8 mL , containing diethanolamine 0.190 g, 1.81 mmoles , and the resulting solution was stirred overnight. A diethanolamine derivative 0.224 g was precipitated by adding ether ca. 50 mL , isolated by filtration and washed with ether. The diethanolamine derivative and a polymeric cation exchange resin having pendant SO₃H groups in the protonated form BioRad AG 50 X8 0.4 g were placed in a flask and cold H₂O 2 mL was added. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to about 23 and stirred for 20 minutes. During this time, the solution pH changed from 7.5 8.0 to 4 5. Resin was removed and washed with two 5 mL portions of H₂O. The combined aqueous phase was lyophilized to yield a fluffy white solid 0.125 g, 0.27 mmole . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CD₃0D δ 0.90 1.0 br., 6H , 1.3 1.375 br., 6H , 1.80 m, 1H , 1.95 2.1 br., 2H , 2.12 2.2 br., 1H , 2.24 2.33 br., 2H , 2.5 2.55 br., 2H , 2.6 2.65 br., 2H , 3.66 s, 3H , 3.8 m, 1H , 4.3 4.35 br., 2H , 4.55 4.65 br., 4H MS FAB m z thioglycerol H 543. Anal. Calcd. for C₂₀H₃₅N₄O₈B C 51.06 , H 7.51 , N 11.91 , and B 2.30 . Found C 51.24 , H 7.36 , N 11.81 , and B 2.15 . MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OH 1.03, 2.78 mmoles was coupled to H Borophe pinacol trifluoroacetate 1.00 g, 2.78 mmoles by a procedure substantially similar to that described for preparation of Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol Example 1 . Product was chromatographed on a 2 cm column containing 7.5 g of silica gel using CHCl₃ as a solvent. Fractions containing desired product were pooled and triturated with hexane, yielding white solid 0.65 g, 1.1 mmoles . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ 1.15 1.35 br., 18H , 1.95 2.8 br., 10H , 2.90 3.15 br., 2H , 3.45 3.75 br., 2H , 3.68 s, 3H , 7.1 7.3 br., 5H . Anal. Calcd. for C₃₀H₄₅N₄O₈B C 59.99 , H 7.57 , N 9.33 , and B 1.80 . Found C 59.92 , H 7.77 , N 9.28 , and B 1.61 MS FAB m z 1 601. MeOSuC AlaAlaPro Borophe pinacol 0.787 g, 1.31 mmoles was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 3 mL and diethanolamine 0.207 g. 1.96 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 4.2 mL was added. After 2 hours, the pinacol derivative could not be detected by thin layer chromatography TLC . Solvent was evaporated and the partially crystalline residue was extracted with hot ethyl acetate to yield a solid 0.29 g, 0.5 mmole, mp 184 185 , E 30833 39 . α 25 D 81.6 2.O , C 1 in ethanol. Anal. Calcd. for C₂₈H₄₁N₅O₈B E30833 28, prepared by a similar procedure C 57.33 , H 7.06 , N 11.94 , and B 1.84 . Found C 57.06 , H 7.21 . N 11.77 , and B 1.83 . An additional crop of crystals was obtained from ethyl acetate 0.04 g, 0.07 mmole, mp 187.5 188.5 . The residue from the foregoing crystallization procedures was triturated with ether to yield a white amorphous solid 0.29 g, 0.5 mmole, 2 E30833 39 . α 25 D 92.8 2.0 . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CD₃0D δ 1.25 1.4 br., 6H , 2.45 2.65 br., 4H , 2.65 2.8 br., 4H , 2.7 2.85 br., 3H , 2.85 3.05 br., 2H , 3.65 s,3H , 3.8 4.0 br., 4H , 7.10 7.31 br., 5H . Anal. Calcd. for C₂₈H₄₁N₅O₈B C 57.33 , H 7.06 , N 11.94 , and B 1.84 . Found C 57.32 , H 7.15 , N 11.79 , and B 1.61 . MS FAB m z 1 587. MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Borophe diethanolamine 0.20 g, 0.34 mmole Example 6 was placed in a flask with approximately a twofold excess 0.4 g of a polystyrene substituted sulfonic acid resin in the protonated form Bio Rad AG 50 X8 , and 2 mL of cold water were added. The resulting mixture was allowed to stir for 10 minutes while coming to room temperature. Resin was removed and washed with two 5 mL portions of H₂O. The combined aqueous fractions were lyophilized to yield a white powder. The foregoing procedure yielded 0.135 g 0.26 mmole of the free boronic acid. Material prepared by a substantially similar synthesis yielded the following observations ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.25 1.38 br., 6H , 1.9 2.3 br., 4H , 2.48 2.55 br., 2H , 2.55 2.7 br., 2H , 2.82 2.91 br., 2H , 3.65 s, 3H , 3.80 m, 1H , 4.35 m, 1H , 4.58 m, 1H , 7.15 7.3 br., 5H . Anal. Calcd. for C₂₄H₃₈N₄O₈B C 55.60 , H 6.82 , N 10.81 , B 2.09 . Found C 55.84 , H 6.76 , N 10.72 , B 2.07 MeOSuc AlaAlaPro OH 3.25 g, 8.77 mmoles was coupled to H Boroala pinacol trifluoroacetate 2.50 g, 8.77 mmoles by a procedure substantially similar to that described for Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol Example 1 . Product was purified by chromatography on silica gel, using CHCl₃ as a solvent, to yield a solid 2.2 g . A principal fraction 1.3 g was triturated with hexane to yield 1.03 g 1.96 mmoles of a white solid ¹H NMR 90 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.8 1.4 br., 21H , 1.8 2.3 br., 4H 2.4 3.0 br., 5H , 3.5 3.8 br., 2H , 3.65 s, 3H , 4.4 4.9 br., 3H . Anal. Calcd. for C₂₄H₄₁N₄O₈B C 54.95 . H 7.81 , N 10.68 , and B 2.06 . Found C 55.06 , H 8.04 , N 9.64 , and B 2.00 . C 54.73 , H 8.12 and N 10.58 . MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala pinacol 0.866 g. 1.65 mmoles was reacted with with diethanolamine 0.260 g, 2.48 mmoles in tetrahydofuran 5.2 mL for 4 days at 23 . A white precipitate formed, which was isolated and washed with tetrahydrofuran, yielding a crystalline solid 0.35 g, 0.68 mmole, mp 172.5 175 . ¹H NMR 80 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.0 1.56 br., 9H , 1.7 2.4 br., 4H , 2.4 3.5 br., 9H , 3.7 s, 3H , 3.5 4.1 br., 6H , 4.25 5.0 br., 3H Anal. Calcd. for C₂₂H₃₈N₅O₈B C 51.66 , H 7.50 , N 13.70 , and B 2.11 . Found C 51.54 , H 7.56 , N 13.62 , and B 2.17 . Filtrate from the foregoing isolation was evaporated and triturated with ether to yield 0.270 g 0.53 mmole of an amorphous white solid. The ¹H NMR spectrum obtained corresponded to that expected for the desired product. Biological activity, measured as capacity for inhibition of pancreatic elastase, was at least 5 fold greater for the crystalline sample, suggesting that two diastereomeric forms had been separated or partially separated, and that the crystalline sample was principally the L diastereomer. MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala diethanolamine 0.20 g, 0.381 mmole was dissolved in cold water 2 mL and the previously described cationic exchange resin 0.45 g was added. After allowing this mixture to warm to about 23 , the resin was removed and washed with water 2 x 5 mL . The aqueous fractions were lyophilized to yield product 0.15 g, 0.34 mmole . ¹H NMR 80 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.03 d, J 7Hz, 3H , 1.2 1.5 br., 6H , 1.8 2.3 br., 4H , 2.4 3.01 br., 5H , 3.7 s, 3H , 4.3 5.0 br., 3H . The sample was triturated with hexane to yield an analytical sample. Anal. Calcd. for C₁₈H₃₁N₄O₈B C 48.87 , H 7.08 , N 12.67 and B 2.44 . Found C 49.00 , H 6.96 , N 12.50 and B 2.41 . N hydroxysuccinamide ester of Boc Phe OH 10.0 g. 27.6 mmoles was dissolved in 1,2 dimethoxyethane 375 mL and a solution of H Pro OH 4.76 g, 41.4 mmoles and NaHCO₃ 4.83 g, 82.6 mmoles in 175 mL of H₂O was added. The resulting mixture was stirred overnight at about 23 , and then evaporated to dryness. The resulting residue was dissolved in 100 mL of H₂O and filtered. Filtrate was acidified with HCl and product was extracted into CHCl₃. The CHCl₃ extract was dried over Na₂SO₄ and solvent was evaporated, yielding an oil. The oil was triturated with hexane to provide an amorphous white solid 8.7 g, 23 mmoles . ¹H NMR 90 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.37 s, 9H , 1.5 2.3 m, 4H , 2.9 3.3 m, 2H , 3.3 3.8 m, 2H , 4.43 4.80 m, 2H , 5.6 m, 1H and 7.27 s, 5H . Boc PhePro OH 4.02 g, 11.1 mmoles was activated in tetrahydrofuran 25 mL and coupled to H Borophe pinacol trifluoroacetate 4.00 g, 11.1 mmoles dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL , using a procedure substantially similar to that described for synthesis of Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol Example 1 . Chromatography of the resulting mixture on silica gel provided an oil 4.9 g . The oil 3.6 g was triturated with hexane to yield the desired product 0.86 g, 1.45 mmoles, mp 81.5 83.5 C . ¹H NMR 90 MHZ in CDCl₃ δ 1.2 s, 12H , 1.35 s, 9H 1.5 2.5 br, 4H , 2.5 3.7 br., 7H , 4.3 4.8 br, 2H , 4.9 5.3 br, 1H , 6.7 7.5 s, br, 11H . Anal. Calcd. for C₃₃H₄₆N₃O₆B C 66.99 , H 7.85 , N 7.10 , and B 1.83 . Found C 66.74 , H 8.16 N 7.15 , and B 1.79 . Boc PheGlyLeu OH was prepared by coupling the N hydroxysuccinamide ester of Boc Phe OH 14.1 g, 39.0 mmoles to H Gly Leu OH 8.1 g, 42.9 mmoles using a procedure substantially similar to that described for preparation of Boc PhePro OH Example 11 . Product was crystallized from ethyl acetate 14.4 g . H PheGlyLeu OH trifluoroacetate was prepared by treating Boc PheGlyLeu OH with trifluoroacetic acid for 5 min at about 23 , followed by evaporation and drying H PheGlyLeu OH trifluoroacetate 10.3 g, 23.0 mmoles , N hydroxysuccinamide ester of methoxysuccinate 5.27 g, 23.0 mmoles , and triethylamine 8.0 mL, 57.5 mmoles were dissolved in N,N dimethylformamide 15 mL and allowed to react at 0 C. The resulting reaction mixture was diluted with N,N dimethylformamide 10 mL and was stirred at 23 for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated to about 5 mL by evaporation, diluted with 75 mL of 5 NaHC0₃, and extracted with ethyl acetate. The resulting aqueous phase was acidified with HCl. Product was extracted into ethyl acetate and washed sequentially with 0.2N HCl and saturated aqueous NaCl adjusted to 0.2N HCl. After drying over Na₂SO₄, filtering, and concentrating, crystals 5.73 g, 12.39 mmoles, mp 167.5 169 were obtained. In a substantially similar experiment, the following analysis was obtained for MeOSuc PheGlyLeu OH mp 167.5 168.5 . MeOSuc PheGlyLeu OH 0.897 g, 2.0 mmoles was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL containing N methylmorpholine 0.22 mL, 2.0 mmoles and was allowed to react with isobutyl chloroformate 0.26 mL, 2.0 mmoles for 5 minutes at 20 Cold tetrahydrofuran 10 mL and triethylamine 0.28 mL, 2.0 mmoles were added and the resulting mixture was immediately added to a solution of H Boroleu pinacol trifluoroacetate 0.65 g, 2.0 mmoles in 10 mL of cold tetrahydrofuran. After stirring for approximately 1 hour at 20 and 2 hours at 23 , the resulting mixture was filtered, and the filtrate evaporated to dryness. The remaining residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate and then washed sequentially with 0.2 N HCl, 5 NaHCO₃, and saturated aqueous NaCl. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous Na₂SO₄, filtered and evaporated to yield 450 mg of material. TLC in methanol chloroform V V, 1 9 indicated three spots, Rfs 0.62, 0.54, 0.50, on silica gel plates. This material was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL and pinacol 0.13 g 0.71 mmole was added. The resulting solution was stirred overnight, but no significant change in TLC results was observed. Solvent was evaporated and the remaining residue was applied to a 2 cm column containing 10 g of silica gel and equilibrated with CHCl₃. The column was stepwise eluted, first with CHCl₃ and then CHCl₃ containing 2 methanol. Three fractions 0.21 g, 0.33 mmole were collected which showed predominantly one spot at Rf 0.50 by TLC. ¹H NMR 90 MHZ in CDCl₃ δ 0.90 m, 12H , 1.17 s, 9H , 1.27 2.1 br., 8H , 2.1 3.5 br., 8H , 3.60 s, 3H , 3.9 m, 2H , 4.6 m, 2H , and 6.8 7.9 br., 10H . Boc Ala OH 0.664 g, 3.51 mmoles was coupled to H Boroala pinacol trifluoroacetate 1.00 g, 3.51 mmoles by a procedure substantially similar to that described for preparation of Z PheGlyAla Boroleu pinacol Example 1 . Crude product was chromatographed on a 2 cm column containing 7.5 g of silica gel, using CHCl₃ as solvent. Product 0.86 g was crystallized from CHCl₃ hexane, 0.70 g, 2.05 mmoles, mp 122.5 124 . TLC in methanol CHCl₃ V V, 1 9 indicated a single spot Rf 0.49 ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.15 1.18 d, d, J 4.5, 8Hz, 3H , 1.24 s, 12H , 1.38 d, d, J 6,1Hz, 3H , 1.45 s, 9H , 2.95 m, 1H , 4.25 m, 1H , 5.15 br., 1H Anal. Calcd. for C₁₆H₃₁N₂O₅B C 56.14 , H 9.15 , N 8.19 , and B 3.16 . Found C 55.90 , H 9.12 , N 7.97 , and B 3.21 . Boc Ala Boroala pinacol 0.430 g, 1.26 mmoles was dissolved in 4 mL of tetrahydrofuran, and then treated with diethanolamine 0.198 g, 1.88 mmoles dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 4 mL . After about 3 hours, the pinacol starting material could not be detected by TLC. Solvent was evaporated and the residue was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexane, providing 0.18 g 0.55 mmoles, mp 174 174.5 ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 1.23 d, J 9Hz, 3H , 1.34 d, J 8Hz, 3H , 1.44 s, 9H , 2.7 2.8 br., 2H , 3.0 3.15 br., 2H , 3.35 m, 1H , 3.8 4.03 br., 4H , 4.05 m, 1H . Anal. Calcd. for C₁₄H₂₈N₃O₅B C 51.07 , H 8.59 , N 12.76 , and B 3.28 . Found C, 51.06 , H 8.32 , N 12.76 and B 3.64 . A solution of Boc Gly OH 0.350 g, 2 mmoles in methylene chloride 20 mL was treated with N methylmorpholine 0.202 g, 0.219 mL, 2 mmoles , and then cooled in an ice acetone bath at 15 . Isobutyl chloroformate 0.273 g, 0.262 mL, 2 mmoles was added and the resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 5 minutes. A solution of H Boroleu pinacol trifluoroacetate 0.654 g, 2 mmoles in 10 mL of methylene chloride containing triethylamine 0.202 g, 0.278 mL, 2 mmoles was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to about 23 . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1.5 hrs., diluted with 100 mL of methylene chloride and then washed with 20 mL of 10 HCl, followed by 20 mL of a saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. Drying the solution over Na₂SO₄ and concentrating gave a liquid 0.70 g which was chromatographed on silica gel using 9 1 methylene chloride methanol V V as eluent to provide a solid product 0.474 g, 1.28 mmoles , 67 70 , ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.91 br., 6H , 1.23 s. 12H , 1.41 t, J 7Hz, 2H , 1.45 s, 9H , 1.61 hept, J 7Hz, 1H , 2.98 br., 1H , 3.84 d. J 6Hz, 2H , 5.8 br., 1H , 6.86 br., 1H . Anal. Calcd. for C₁₈H₃₅N₂O₅B C 58.38 , H 9.53 , N 7.57 , B 2.92 . Found C 58.39 , H 9.44 , N 7.03 , B 3.08 . A solution of Boc Gly Boroleu pinacol 0.240 g, 0.65 mmole in isopropanol 10 mL was treated with diethanolamine 0.071 g, 0.70 mmole . The reaction mixture was allowed to stand for 5 days, evaporated and dissolved in warm ether. A solid 0.02 g , mp 214 216 was obtained on cooling to about 23 . The remaining solution was treated with additional diethanolamine 71 mg, 0.7 mmole in isopropanol 0.7 mL and stirred for 48 hours, yielding a white solid 150 mg, 0.42 mmole , mp 215 219 . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.85 d, J 6Hz, 3H , 0.90 d, J 6Hz, 3H , 1.45 s, 9H , 1.4 1.6 br., 3H , 2.7 2.8 br., 2H , 3.03 3.15 br., 2H , 3.38 m, 1H , 3.65 3.80 br., 2H , 3.83 3.9 br., 2H , 3.93 4.02 br., 2H , 5.2 br., 1H , 6.23 br., 1H , 6.85 br., 1H . Anal. Calcd. for C₁₆H₃₂N₃O₅B C 53.79 , H 9.03 , N 11.76 , B 3.03 . Found C 53.87 , H 9.25 N 11.69 , B 3.09 . Boc Phe OH 25.0 g, 94.0 mmoles was coupled to H Gly OCH₃ HCl 12.0 g, 94.0 mmoles using a mixed anhydride procedure substantially similiar to that described by A solution of 16.8 g 50 mmole of Boc PheGly OMe in 250 mL of methanol was treated with 120 mL of 0.5 N aqueous sodium hydroxide. The resulting solution was stirred for 2 hrs, stripped to a volume of about 100 mL, and extracted with CH₃Cl. CH₃Cl was removed, and the resulting solution was acidified to pH 5 with 57 mL of 1 N HCl. A sticky solid precipitate resulted, which solidified to provide a white powder which was filtered, water washed, and vacuum dried, yielding 15.01 g 46.6 mmoles of crude product. A portion, recrystallized from ethyl acetate hexane, melted at 164.6 165.6 , α 25 D 9.4 , C 1.03 acetone. A solution of Boc PheGly OH 0.645 g, 2 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL was treated with N methylmorpholine 0.202 g, 0.220 mL, 2 moles , cooled to 15 , and then treated with isobutylchloroformate 0.273 g, 0.26 mL, 2 mmoles . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min. at 15 and treated with triethylamine 0.202 g, 0.279 mL, 2 mmoles , followed by a solution of H Boroleu pinacol trifluoroacetate 0.652 g, 2 mmoles in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was warmed to about 23 and stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was then diluted with 100 mL of methylene chloride, washed with 25 mL of 5 HCl, followed by 25 mL of saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. Drying the resulting solution over sodium sulfate, followed by concentrating under reduced pressure, provided a crude product 1.24 g , which was chromatographed on silica gel using 9 1 methylene chloride methanol V V , yielding a pure product 0.911 g, 1.76 mmoles . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.88 0.93 br., 6H , 1.22 s, 12H , 1.38 two peaks, 9H , 1.4 1.45 br., 2H , 1.7 hept, J 7Hz, 1H , 2.75 3.45 br., 3H , 3.9 4.15 br., 2H , 4.20 m, 1H , 7.15 7.35 br., 5H . Anal Calcd. for C₂₇H₄₄N₃O₆B C 62.67 , H 8.57 , N 8.12 , B 2.09 . Found C 62.51 , H 8.81 , N 7.69 , B 2.37 . MS CI m z 517. A solution of Boc PheGly Boroleu pinacol 0.178 g, 0.344 mmole in ether 5 mL was treated with diethanolamine 0.070 g, 0.7 mmole . The resulting solution was stirred for 48 hours during this period, crystals formed which were filtered from solution 0.20 g, 0.4 mmole , mp 169 176 . ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.83 d, J 6Hz, 3H , 0.90 d, J 6Hz, 3H , 1.35 1.4 br., 9H , 1.35 1.45 br., 1H , 1.53 1.65 br., 2H , 2.7 2.8 br., 2H , 2.9 3.2 br., 4H , 3.3 3.4 br., 1H , 3.6 3.78 br., 2H , 3.8 4.0 br., 4H , 4.35 m, 1H , 7.1 7.35 br., 5H . Anal. Calcd. for C₂₅H₄₀N₄O₆B C 59.60 , H 8.01 , N 11.13 , B 2.15 . Found C 59.36 , H 8.29 , N 10.98 , B 2.05 . A solution of Boc PheGly Boroleu pinacol 0.240 g, 0.464 mmole was dissolved in 2 mL of trifluoroacetic acid and stirred for 15 minutes. The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure, providing an oil. ¹H NMR 360 MHz, CDCl₃ δ 0.83 0.88 br., 6H , 1.25 1.3 br., 2H , 1.26 s, 9H , 1.55 hept., J 7Hz, 1H , 2.75 t, J 9Hz, 1H , 3.1 3.2 br., 2H , 3.88 m, 1H , 4.26 d, d, J 16, 8Hz , 4.35 m, 1H , 7.15 7.4 br., 5H . MS FAB m z CF₃COO 418. This compound was prepared by catalytic hydrogenation of Z PheGlyGlu OBzl Boroval pinacol, prepared substantially according to the procedure of Example 5. Z pheGlyGlu OBzl Boroval pinacol 0.60 g, 0.79 mmol was dissolved in 10 ml absolute ethanol, to which 0.50 mL glacial acetic acid and 0.40 g of 10 Pd on carbon were added. Hydrogen was bubbled through the foregoing mixture for 4 hours at approximately 23 . The resulting reaction mixture was permitted to stand under a blanket of N₂ overnight. Catalyst was removed by filtration, and solvent was evaporated, yielding an oil which was triturated with ether to provide a solid 0.20 9. Anal. Calcd. for C₂₈H₄₅N₄O₉B C 56.75 , H 7.67 N 9.46 , B 1.82 . Found C 56.47 , H 7.59 , N 9.69 , B 1.95 . H pheGlyGlu Boroval pinacol CH₃COOH, prepared substantially by the procedure described in Example 5, 0.10 g, 0.17 mmol was dissolved in 2.0 mL THF and 0.038 g 0.17 mmol N hydroxysuccinimide ester of methoxysuccinate, 0.028 g 0.337 mmol sodium bicarbonate, and 0.5 mL water were added. After 15 minutes, 0.014 g 0.17 mmol additional NaHCO₃ were added and the resulting reaction mixture stirred 1.5 hour at approximately 23 . The reaction mixture was then diluted to 50 mL with 0.2 N HCl in saturated NaCl and product extracted into ethyl acetate. The resulting organic layer was dried over Na₂SO₄, filtered, and solvent evaporated, yielding 70 mg of crude product. This material was dissolved in chloroform and slowly evaporated to dryness to provide a crystalline product, which was isolated and washed with ether to yield 0.040 g of the desired product, m.p. 152 153 . Anal. Calcd. for C₃₁N₄₇N₄O₁₀B C 57.58 , H 7.34 , N 8.67 , B 1.67 . Found C 57.47 , H 7.22 , N 8.51 , B 1.61 . The following compounds were prepared by procedures substantially similar to the indicated examples. Neutrophil elastase was prepared by the procedure described by Baugh, et al., A more extensive evaluation of the kinetic constants for interaction of human neutrophil elastase with MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval OH were determined by methods substantially similar to those disclosed by Schloss, et al., As determined herein, K K Values of K Additional peptide inhibitors were evaluated by a procedure similar to that described above. Stock solutions of inhibitors 1.00 mM were prepared in dimethylsulfoxide and compounds were diluted to 0.10 mM with 0.10 mM sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, yielding the free boronic acid. After incubation for one hour at about 23 , inhibitors were added to assay solutions 2.00 mL consisting of 0.020 M MeOSuc AlaAlaProVal Porcine pancreatic elastase 9.8 U mg. was obtained from commercial sources. The enzyme was assayed in 2.00 mL of 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, containing 0.5 M NaCl, 10 dimethylsulfoxide, and 0.020 M MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Val Pancreatic elastase, obtained from commercial sources, was standardized by titration with varying concentrations of the above inhibitor. In these experiments, MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala diethanolamine was incubated with pancreatic elastase 1.25 µg , in 0.200 mL of 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, containing 0.50 M NaCl and 10 dimethylsulfoxide, for 5 minutes at room temperature. An aliquot 0.100 mL was removed and assayed by the procedure described in Example 36, above. Results are set forth in Table 5, below The activity observed in mixtures without inhibitor was 0.0170 min ¹. A plot of activity vs. concentration of A preparation of partially purified human Cathepsin G was obtained by the procedure of Baugh, et al., Leukocyte granules are a major source for the preparation of leukocyte elastase and cathepsin G chymotrysin like activity . Specific substrates have been prepared for each enzyme, namely MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Val Enzyme preparations were assayed in 2.00 mL of 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, containing 0.50 M NaCl, 10 dimethylsulfoxide and 0.0020 M Suc AlaAlaPro Phe Bovine α chymotrypsin, obtained from commercial sources, was used to prepare stock solutions. Assay mixtures contained, in a volume of 2.00 mL, 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5 0.50 M NaCl 10 dimethylsulfoxide 2.0 x 10 ⁴ M Suc AlaAlaPro Phe In these experiments, α chymotrypsin, obtained from commercial sources, was standardized by titration with various concentrations of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Borophe diethanolamine. In each case, enzyme was incubated with inhibitor for 5 minutes at 23 , in 0.01 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, containing 0.50 M NaCl and 10 dimethylsulfoxide. Aliquots were then removed and assayed for enzyme activity. Results are set forth in Tables 8 and 9, below As indicated in Table 7, assays were linear except for those measured at the 75 nM and 100 nM levels, in which slow activation was observed in assay cuvettes. A plot of activity versus inhibitor concentration for the remaining points is described by y 0.882 nM ¹X 96.15. The intercept on the x axis is 109 nM. The measured level of active enzyme is 2.72 µg mL, compared with the initial level of 3.0 µg mL, indicating 91 purity by this criteria. Activity of the control sample, above, was 0.0261 min ¹. All assays were linear, except for some slow activation observed at 500 nM and 400 nM levels of inhibitor. A plot of activity versus inhibitor concentration was linear level and is described by y 0.173 nM ¹X 100. The graph intercepted the x axis at 578 nM. The level of active enzyme thus calculated using a molecular weight of 25,000 is 14.4 µg mL activity 96 . Pepsin activity was assayed by a procedure substantially similar to that described by Rich, et al., Assay solutions, in a volume of 2.00 mL, contained 2.0 x 10 ⁴ M substrate in 0.040 M sodium formate buffer, pH 4.0, and 0.050 mL of inhibitor solutions in dimethylsulfoxide. Assays were initiated by addition of 0.020 mL of pepsin 0.10 mg mL , and hydrolysis of substrate was monitored by measuring the increase in absorbance at 310 nm on a spectrophotometer. The results are set forth in Table 10, below The metalloenzyme thermolysin was assayed by a procedure substantially similar to that described by Feder et al., Standardized pancreatic elastase was employed to titrate plasma samples containing MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval OH by procedures substantially similar to those detailed in Example 37, above, for MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala OH. Plasma, 5 µL, containing various concentrations of inhibitor, or a dilution thereof, was incubated with 10 µL of a stock solution of 1.15 x 10 ⁵ M pancreatic elastase, in a final volume of 0.40 mL 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5, containing 0.5 M NaCl at 25 . After 5 minutes incubation, 1.60 mL additional buffer and 20 µL of a 0.20 M MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Val pNA solution in dimethylsulfoxide was added and the increase in absorbance at 405 nm monitored. Levels of inhibitor were determined from a standard curve of activity vs. inhibitor concentration. The standard curve was prepared by enzyme assays conducted using samples containing various concentrations of inhibitor in normal saline. A similar standard curve was prepared by incubating varying concentrations of inhibitor in hamster plasma to establish the validity of the assay. The results of these experiments are set forth in Table 12, below For the samples containing inhibitor in saline, a plot of activity vs. concentration was linear for the range of 0 20 µM, and is described by the line y 1.65 µM ¹ x 100.5. The x intercept thus determined was 60.9 µM. For a 1 1 complex of inhibitor and enzyme a value of 23 µM is predicted. This deviation is believed to be due to the fact that the inhibitor employed was an unresolved mixture of diastereomers. For samples containing inhibitor in plasma, a plot of activity vs. concentration was linear for the range of 0 20 µM, and is described by the line y 1.65 µM ¹ x 65.2. The approximate 35 inhibition observed in plasma samples containing no inhibitor is attributable to plasma elastase inhibitors and is referred to as normal elastase inhibitory capacity EIC . The stability of inhibitory capacity provided by MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval OH in plasma was determined by incubating samples of plasma containing inhibitor at 4 for 24 hours, followed by assays for inhibitory capacity conducted as above. In a related experiment, MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval pinacol was incubated with plasma samples for 24 hours at 23 , with no detectable lobs of inhibitory capacity. It should be noted that the pinacol protected form of the foregoing compound is hydrolyzed to the free acid within 20 minutes in plasma. The results of the experiments involving MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval OH are set forth in Table 13, below FIG. 1 illustrates results of experiments in which hamsters, 50 days old, weighing 80 90 g, were administered MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval pinacol in 1.0 mL saline at intraperitoneal dosage levels of 400, 200 and 100 mg kg. At the indicated time intervals, blood samples 50 100 µL were withdrawn by cardiac puncture from animals lightly anesthetized with ether, and elastase inhibitor levels determined. Normal plasma EIC is 14 µM. As indicated in FIG. 1, a 200 mg kg dose elevated plasma EIC approximately 20 fold after one hour In other experiments, variations in the level of plasma EIC elevation have been observed, but in each case, at least 10 fold elevation was attained. Subcutaneous administration of this compound at 130 150 mg kg resulted in an approximate 10 fold elevation in EIC after one hour which decreased to about 4 fold after 2 hours. For intramuscular injection at 200 mg kg, a 10 fold elevation in EIC was observed after 30 minutes, which decreased to 6 fold after one hour. FIG. 2 illustrates results of a related series of experiments, in which hamsters 73 days old, weighing 100 120 g were administered MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala pinacol at a dosage level of 200 mg kg. Plasma samples were withdrawn at various time intervals and assayed for inhibitory capacity as described previously, except that the inhibitor employed in construction of a standard curve was incubated in 0.10 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5, for one hour prior to assay to convert the pinacol derivative to the free form. The line describing the standard curve is y 2.29 µM ¹ x 104. Levels of inhibitory capacity were determined by reference to the linear region 0 20 µM inhibitor of the standard curve. Results are depicted in FIG. 2. FIG. 3 depicts the results of experiments in which plasma levels of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Borophe pinacol were determined at various times following administration to hamsters weighing 110 125 g, at a dosage level of 200 mg kg. Plasma levels were determined by a procedure similar to that described for FIG. 2, above, except chymotrypsin was employed in the assay. Plasma or an appropriate dilution 5 µL was added to a solution consisting of 175 µL 0.10 M Hepes buffer, pH 7.5. containing 0.50 M NaCl and 30 µL chymotrypsin 4.0 µM in 1.0 mM HCl. After incubation for 5 minutes at about 23 , a 40 µL aliquot was assayed by the procedure described previously for chymotrypsin Example 39 . Plasma concentrations of the test compound were determined from a standard curve of percent activity vs. concentration of MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Borophe pinacol in a 5 µL sample. As previously described for MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroala pinacol, the standard curve was prepared by first incubating the inhibitor, in pinacol form, in 0.10 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.5. The standard curve is described by the line y 1.99 µM ¹ x 96.2, and the region from 0 25 µM was used to determine plasma concentrations. To evaluate the potential for CNS toxicity of the compounds of the invention, male CF₁ mice were fasted overnight and then administered MeOSuc AlaAlaPro Boroval pinacol in saline, intravenously at dosage levels of 180 mg kg, 90 mg kg, 45 mg kg, and 0 mg kg. Five mice were included in each dosage group. The test mice were observed continuously for 90 minutes following administration of the test compound, and again at 18 and 24 hours after administration. No mortality, behavioral changes, or other symptoms of acute toxicity were observed during the test period.