# A METHOD FOR VISUALIZATION OF IN PLANE FLUID FLOW BY PROTON NMR IMAGING

## Claims
Verfahren zum Abbilden einer Kernspinströmung in einem vorbestimmten Objektbereich, der in einem homogenen Magnetfeld angeordnet ist, wobei die Strömung in dem Bereich eine Geschwindigkeitskomponente in der Richtung eines Auslese Magnetfeldgradienten hat, enthaltend

## Description
This invention relates to methods and apparatus utilizing nuclear magnetic resonance NMR techniques for imaging fluid flow. The invention has particular applicability, but is not limited, to the measurement of blood flow in medical diagnostic studies. By way of background, the nuclear magnetic resonance phenomenon occurs in atomic nuclei having an odd number of protons and or neutrons. Due to the spin of the protons and the neutrons, each such nucleus exhibits a magnetic moment, such that, when a sample composed of such nuclei is paced in a static, homogeneous magnetic field, B The orientation of magnetization M, normally directed along the magnetic field B RF pulses may be selective or nonselective. Selective pulses are typically modulated to have a predetermined frequency content so as to excite nuclear spins situated in preselected regions of the sample having precession frequencies as predicted by the Larmor equation. The selective pulses are applied in the presence of localizing magnetic field gradients. Nonselective pulses generally affect all of the nuclear spins situated within the field of the RF pulse transmitter coil and are typically applied in the absence of localizing magnetic field gradients. There are two exponential time constants associated with longitudinal and transverse magnetizations. The time constants characterize the rate of return to equilibrium of these magnetization components following the application of perturbing RF pulses. The first time constant is referred to as the spin lattice relaxation time T₁ and is the constant for the longitudinal magnetization to return to its equilibrium value. Spin spin relaxation time T₂ is the constant for the transverse magnetization to return to its equilibrium value in a perfectly homogeneous field B There remains to be considered the use of magnetic field gradients to encode spatial information used to reconstruct images, for example into NMR signals. Typically, three such gradients are necessary The G The NMR phenomenon has been utilized by structural chemists to study in vitro the molecular structure of organic molecules. More recently, NMR has been developed into an imaging modality utilized to obtain transaxial images of anatomical features of live human subjects, for example. Such images depicting nuclear spin distribution typically protons associated with water in tissue spin lattice T₁ , and or spin spin T₂ relaxation constants are of medical diagnostic value in determining the state of health of tissue in the region examined. NMR techniques have also been extended to in vivo spectroscopy of such elements as phosphorus and carbon, for example, providing researchers with the tools for the first time to study chemical processes in a living organism. Equally important is the use of NMR as a non invasive modality to study the direction and velocity of blood flows. Blood flow studies typically rely on NMR signals produced by protons associated with water molecules contained in blood fluid. It is with the flow measurement application of NMR that the present invention is concerned. Document Journal of Physics E, vol. 11, no. 4, April 1978 J.R. Singer NMR diffusion and flow measurements and an introduction to spin phase graphing pages 281 291, describes a method using a Carr Purcell spin echo technique to graphically identify in plan flow. Most conventional flow imaging techniques are either based on time of flight principles, phase encoding, or modulation of the free precession frequency due to flow along a gradient during the free precession interval. These techniques are described respectively by I. R. Young, et al, Am. J. Roentgenol. Vol. 137, p. 895 1981 P. R. Moran, Mag. Res. Img., Vol. 1, pp. 197 203 1982 and H. A. Lent, et al, Second Annual Meeting of The Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, San Francisco, August 16 19, 1983, Abstract page 211 in Book of Abstracts. Semi quantitative flow studies have also been conducted by making use of the standard spin echo sequence in which the signal intensity in the presence of fluid flow is reduced due to a combination of dephasing effects occurring during the interpulse interval i.e., the time between the 90 It is one object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for reconstructing pure flow images in which contributions from stationary nuclear spins are removed by cancellation. It is another object of the invention to provide a method and apparatus for reconstructing flow images which is compatible with conventional multiple echo proton image reconstruction techniques. In accordance with the invention a method and an apparatus, as claimed, are provided for imaging nuclear spin flow in a predetermined object region. The region is positioned in a homogeneous magnetic field and is oriented relative to a read out magnetic field gradient such that the flow has a velocity component in the direction thereof. The nuclear spins in the predetermined region are excited to resonance and then subjected to a phase encoding gradient having a plurality of programmable amplitude duration products. A plurality of each of odd and even numbered spin echo signals is produced in the preferred embodiment by irradiating the object region with an equal plurality of inverting RF pulses. The odd ones of the spin echo signals have reduced amplitudes relative to the even ones of the spin echo signals due to the dephasing effects induced by flow in the presence of the read out gradient. The odd and even echo signals are sampled and Fourier analyzed to yield, respectively, odd and even image pixel data arrays. The corresponding image pixel values in each of the arrays is then combined to eliminate image contributions due to stationary nuclear spins, leaving substantially only difference signal contributions due to flowing nuclear spins in the predetermined region. The obtained difference signals can be displayed to yield an image emphasizing flowing nuclear spins. The features of the invention believed to be novel are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention itself, however, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which FIGURE 1a depicts an NMR sample 100 situated in a static homogeneous magnetic field B FIGURE 2 depicts a two dimensional spin warp imaging sequence which is a special case of the NMR imaging method known as Fourier transform NMR. Referring now to FIG. 2, it will be observed that in interval 1 indicated along the horizontal axis a positive G At the end of interval 1, the excited nuclear spins precess at the same frequency but are out of phase with one another, due to the dephasing effect of the G The effect of the G Spatial information is encoded in the direction of the X axis by the application of read out magnetic field gradient G FIGURE 3 depicts a train of four spin echo signals substantially identical to those described with reference to FIG. 3. The spin echoes are shown as having exponentially decaying amplitudes lying along a line defined by Such a train of spin echo signals is typically observed for a slice 105 having substantially stationary nuclear spins. In the absence of flow, there is complete re focussing of the nuclear spins such that the phase angle relative to the initial phase of the signal is zero. The primary factor operating to reduce spin echo signal amplitude is due to the decay in the amplitude of the transverse magnetization due to transverse T₂ relaxation. In the ensuing description, the spin echoes occurring at times 2 τ , 6 τ , 10 τ , etc., will be referred to as odd spin echoes while spin echo signals occurring at time 4 τ , 8 τ , 12 τ , etc., will be referred to as the even spin echo signals. In accordance with the invention, slice 105 is carefully selected to contain within the plane thereof the portion of vessel 108 in which flow is to be studied. As indicated previously, the direction of the vessel is selected so as to generally coincide with the direction of the read out gradient. The X axis has been selected by way of example as being the direction in which the G The method of the invention will now be described with initial reference to FIG. 1b which depicts an assembly of nuclear spins 110 flowing with a velocity v x in the X axis direction in vessel 108. Slice 105 is subjected to the NMR pulse sequence depicted in FIG. 2 in which the direction of the G However, their amplitudes are much reduced, due to fluid flow in the presence of the G The phase accumulation for the odd spin echo signals will now be described with reference to FIG. 6 which depicts the 90 The 180 Similarly, the accumulated phase angle during intervals t 3τ and t 4τ can be expressed as It will be noted from Equation 5 and FIG. 6 that at t 4 τ , that is, the time of occurrence of the first even spin echo signal, the accumulated phase angle is equal to zero. This is in agreement with the observed spin echo signals and described with reference to FIGS. 3 and 4 in which the even spin echoes have been attenuated by T₂ decay only, unaffected by fluid flow. The increase in accumulated phase in the presence of the G In accordance with the present invention, a pure flow image is generated by adding and subtracting suitably intensity weighted images reconstructed from odd and even spin echo signals. A flow enhanced image could be obtained by summing image pixel data derived from even spin echo signals and subtracting image pixel data obtained from odd spin echoes. However, exact cancellation of the stationary proton signals cannot be achieved in this manner because subsequent odd and even spin echo signals do not have equal amplitudes as is evident from FIG. 4. It is initially beneficial to consider intensity weighted images obtained utilizing spin echo signal data from stationary protons. For the stationary protons the image pixel values obtained from the four successive spin echo signals both odd and even are determined by a decaying exponential FIG. 3 . In this case, the spin echo signals map out the T₂ decay curve where T By contrast, if flow is present, complete refocussing occurs only for the even echoes appearing at T From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that in accordance with the invention, a method is provided for reconstructing pure flow images in which contributions from stationary nuclear spins are removed by cancellation. The method for reconstructing the flow images is compatible with conventional multiple echo proton image reconstruction techniques. While this invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments and examples, other modifications and variations will occur to those skilled in the art in view of the above teachings. Accordingly, it should be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than is specifically described.