# APPARATUS FOR EXPANDING ILLUMINATED PICTURE ELEMENTS IN CRT DISPLAYS

## Claims
Einrichtung zum Vergrößern leuchtender Bildelemente auf einer Video Anzeigevorrichtung mit

## Description
The present invention relates generally to CRT displays, and more particularly to the expansion of illuminated picture elements therein in order to increase writing speed and eliminate flicker resulting from line pair destruction by higher priority symbols. Lines written on a CRT display comprise discrete picture elements. Each picture element is either illuminated or not. A line is written, picture element by picture element, from left to right. The entire set of lines written on a CRT display, denoted a frame, comprises two fields. The first field comprises the odd numbered lines which are written from the top to the bottom of the CRT display. The second field comprises the even numbered lines which are also written, after the entire first field has been written, from the top to the bottom of the CRT display. Each of the two fields may be written in one sixtieth of a second, providing a frame in one thirtieth of a second. The picture information written on the CRT display is read from an image memory. The image memory comprises a number of addresses, each of which contains a 1 or a 0 bit. A one to one correspondence exists between the addresses in the image memory and the picture elements in the CRT display. A 1 read from an address in the image memory produces illumination of the corresponding picture element in the CRT display. A 0 read from an address in the image memory engenders no illumination of the corresponding picture element in the CRT display. When a field is written in a relatively slow time, such as one thirtieth of a second, illuminated picture elements on a given line create a flicker which is disconcerting to a viewer. Flickering, it has been found, can be eliminated by duplicating the illuminated picture elements on an adjacent line. For example, referring to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, a line 12 written in one sixtieth of a second on a CRT display comprises illuminated picture elements 13, 14 and 15. A viewer perceives the illuminated picture elements 13, 14 and 15 to flicker. The phenomenon is remedied by duplicating the illuminated picture elements 13, 14, and 15 with, respectively, illuminated picture elements 16, 17, and 18 on an adjacent line 19. When the line 12 is written in one field and thereafter the adjacent replica line 19 is written in another field, the viewer does not experience flickering of the picture elements 13, 14, and 15. Moving symbols in CRT displays possess various priority levels. Such symbols are surrounded by a mask, an invisible rectangle, which erases symbols of lower priority. In this fashion, higher priority symbols are precluded from merging with lower priority ones. However, the obliteration of a portion of a lower priority symbol by a higher priority one can produce flickering, by destroying duplicated illuminated picture elements. Referring to Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings, a lower priority symbol 20 comprises illuminated picture elements 21 and 22 on a line 23 in one field, and illuminated picture elements 24 and 25 on an adjacent line 26 in the other field. As indicated above, the illuminated picture elements 24 and 25 duplicate, respectively, the illuminated picture elements 21 and 22 to prevent flickering. A higher priority symbol 28 comprises an illuminated picture element 29 on a line 30 in one field, and a duplicate illuminated picture element 31 on an adjacent line 32, in the other field. A mask 34 extends three lines above, and surrounds the higher priority symbol 28. Referring now to Figure 3, the higher priority symbol 28 may move upwards such that the mask 34 erases the duplicate illuminated picture elements 24 and 25. With the elimination of the duplicate illuminated picture elements 24 and 25, the remaining illuminated picture elements 21 and 22 flicker. Thus, there is a need for apparatus, utilised with a CRT display wherein lines are written relatively slowly, for preventing disconcerting flickering on the display resulting from the erasure of duplicate illuminated picture elements by higher priority symbols. The present invention is defined in the appended claims and a preferred embodiment, the address reading means comprises a first shift register, having two compartments, for loading in parallel with video bit signals from addresses corresponding to picture elements P By expanding illuminated picture elements, the present invention increases writing speed and eliminates disconcerting flickering. The invention will now be described in greater detail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Identical numerals in different figures of drawings represent similar elements. The present invention is concerned with apparatus for expanding illuminated picture elements in a CRT display wherein lines are written relatively slowly. Such expansion increases writing speed and prevents flickering resulting from the erasure of interlaced illuminated picture elements by the mask of a higher priority symbol. An image memory contains a number of addresses which are designated by As indicated in the description of the prior art, to prevent flickering, an illuminated picture element must be duplicated below on the next line of the CRT display. When picture information is written into the addresses in the image memory in the alternating fashion described above, a duplicate illuminated picture element would appear on the CRT display one line below the original illuminated picture element. To prevent flickering resulting from an erasure, by the mask of a higher priority symbol, each illuminated picture element on the CRT display is duplicated on the vacant line immediately therebelow. In this fashion, each illuminated picture element always possesses at least one flicker eliminating duplicate. For example, referring to Figure 4, a higher priority symbol 40, comprising a written into memory and illuminated picture element 41 and duplicate illuminated picture elements 42, 43 and 44, is surrounded by a black mask 45. The black mask 45 comprises picture elements 46a through 46f on a line 46, picture elements 47a through 47f on a line 47, picture elements 48a through 48f on a line 48, picture elements 49a through 49d on a line 49, picture elements 50a through 50d on a line 50, picture elements 51a through 51f on a line 51, and picture elements 52a through 52e on a line 52. A lower priority symbol 53 comprises written into memory and illuminated picture element 54 and its respective duplicates 55, 56 and 57 generated by the invention. Symbols on the CRT display, comprising picture elements corresponding to the selected addresses in the image memory, can occupy any of the interlacing lines comprising the picture. Accordingly, vertical movement of symbols entails one line at a time but is not restricted to such. Thus, referring to Figure 5, if the higher priority symbol 40 moves upward, its second motion results in the picture elements 46e and 46d of the black mask 45 intersecting, respectively, the duplicate illuminated picture elements 56 and 57 in Figure 4. Were it not for pel expansion about the element 54, the picture elements 56 and 57 would produce flickering. This flickering is eliminated by the duplicate illuminated picture elements 56 and 57. Referring again to Figure 4, the illuminated picture element 54 is further expanded into adjacent illuminated picture elements 55 and 57. Such horizontal expansions do not affect flickering, but serve to double the speed of picture generation. Vertical expansions using pels 56 and 57 serve to avoid flicker and to double the writing speed for a net speed increase of 2 horizontally by 2 vertically equals 4 overall. Accordingly, referring to Figure 5, to prevent flickering each illuminated picture element 80 is expanded below in an illuminated picture element 81, and to double writing speed, the illuminated picture element 80 is expanded to the right in an illuminated picture element 82, and expanded below and to the right in an illuminated picture element 83. This is accomplished by considering each picture element as the CRT display beam scans from left to right and from top to bottom. Denoting the current picture element with which the CRT beam generator is aligned as P In this fashion, by illuminating the picture element P This expansion procedure can be described mathematically. The currently aligned picture element P where B Referring to Figure 7, the above expansion procedure can be implemented as follows. A coordinator 90, coupled to a CRT display 91, generates, coordinates and aligns the beam generator of the CRT display with picture elements corresponding to the generated coordinates. The coordinator 90 is also coupled to an address reader 92 which in turn is coupled to an image memory 93. The address reader 92, in response to a signal from the coordinator 90 representing the coordinate of the picture element with which the beam generator is currently aligned, reads from the image memory 93 the video bit signals in the four addresses associated with the currently aligned picture element. That is, denoting as before, the currently aligned picture element as P of the four video bit signals. A digital to analogue converter 95 receives the digital sum signal from the OR gate 94 and converts it to an analogue signal. The beam generator of the CRT display receives the analogue signal produced by the digital to analogue converter 95. In response to an analogue signal corresponding to a digitial signal of ONE, a beam is generated which illuminates the picture element P Referring to Figure 8, in a preferred embodiment of the invention, the address reader 92 comprises shift registers and delays. A shift register 100 is loaded in parallel, with the video bit signal B