# A platform support means.

## Abstract
The present invention relates to support platforms used to support typewriters, computer keyboads or the like. Par ticularly the invention relates to such platforms which are height and inclination adjustable. To this end the platform means has a pair of parallel side boards 2 forming two op posite sides of a support frame 1 and having upright mutu ally facing surfaces with a platform 5 extending between the surfaces. The platform 5 carries support rollers 6, 7 engaging in runway grooves 8 formed in the two mutually facing surfaces, which grooves 8 consist of a plurality of substantially horizontal flights 9 arranged one above the other. Each flight 9 , other than the lowermost, has a riser 10 whereby it opens onto the flight 9 immediately below it.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A platform mounting means characterised by comprising a pair of parallel side boards 2 forming two opposite sides of a stationary platform support frame 1 , and having upright, mutuallyfacing surfaces, a platform 5 extending between said surfaces, two runway grooves 8 located in each of said surfaces, and two platform support rollers 6,7 freely rotatably borne at each side of said platform 5 and respectively projecting into said runway grooves 8 at the related side of said platform so as to run freely therealong, said runway grooves 8 each consisting of a plurality of substantially horizontal flights 9 arranged one above the other and each, other than the lowermost, having a riser 10 whereby it opens to the substantially horizontal flight 9 immediately below it. 2. A platform mounting means according to claim 1, wherein said risers 10 are disposed adjacent the front of said flights 9 . 3. A platform mounting means according to claim 2, wherein said risers 10 form a continuous upwardly and backwardly inclined track. 4. A platform mounting means according to claim 2, wherein said risers 10 are in the form of a series of upwardly and backwardly directed steps. 5. A platform mounting means according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said flights 9 are inclined upwardly towards said risers 10 . 6. A platform mounting means according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the lower surface of each flight 9 adjacent the risers 10 includes an upstanding retaining nipple 14 . 7 A platform mounting means according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the said runway grooves 8 are formed directly into said side boards 2 . 8. A platform mounting means according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said runway grooves a are preformed into an element 13 adapted for attachment to said side boards 2 .

## Description
A PLATFORM SUPPORT MEANS This invention relates to platforms of the kind used for the support of computer keyboards, type writing machines, word processor keyboards and the like. The invention is not confined to platforms of the kind used for mounting keyboards, it is applicable to any platform required to be adjustable as to elevation or tilt to suit a specific user of the platform. Thus, the invention is applicable to such things as foot rest platform used by typists and others. Even so the invention will be described herein mainly in terms of adjustable platforms for the support of keyboard instruments of one kind or another. The object of the invention is to provide mounting means for a platform which while being simple and inexpensive, enable the user of the platform or the instrument mounted thereon to adjust the platform, as to elevation and tilt to suit his convenience, quickly and easily. The invention provides platform mounting means characterised by comprising a pair of parallel side boards forming two opposite sides of a stationary platform support frame, and having upright, mutually facing surfaces, a platform extending between said surfaces, two runway grooves located in each of said surfaces, and two platform support rollers freely rotatably borne at each side of said platform and respectively projecting into said runway grooves. at the related side of said platform so as to run freely therealong, said runway groves each consisting of a plurality of substantially horizontal flights arranged one above the other and each, other than the lowermost, having a riser whereby it opens to the substantially horizontal flight immediately below it. Preferred embodiments of the invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of a platform according to the invention, Figure 2 is an enlarged perspective view of a side board inFigure 1, and Figure 3 is a side elevation of a bracket according to the invention. Referring to Figures 1 and 2 a stationarily supported, platform support frame 1, according to a first embodiment comprises a pair of side boards 2, cross bar 3 and rear member 4. A platform 5, upon which the keyboard is mounted in conventional manner, is located between sideboards 2 being furnished with freely rotatable front mounting rollers 6 and rear rollers 7. These rollers project into runway grooves 8 formed in the mutually facing surfaces of side boards 2. Each of the runway grooves consists of a plurality of horizontal flights 9 arranged one above the other, and each other than the lowermost opening to the horizontal flight directly below it by way of vertical risers 10. If the four rollers 6 and 7 are respectively disposed within the lowermost flights 9, then the platform is horizontal and at its lowermost elevation. If the platform is to be tilted so that its back is a little higher than its front, the platform is first drawn frontwardly and rear rollers may then be elevated by way. of the lowermost riser and moved into the second lowermost flight or some higher flight while the front rollers are allowed to remain in the lowermost flight. If the platform is to be elevated from the bottom flight level, and remain horizontal, all four rollers are equally elevated into a higher flight. During normal usage of the platform there is virtually no substantial tendency on the part of the platform for it to move forwardly and thus inadvertently descend to a lower level then that required. However, if desired, means may be included as safeguard against unwanted movement of the platform relative to the support frame. Such means may consisit of a magnet 11 on the frame and a magnetisable plate 12 on he platform 5. Alternatively, the blinds ends of the flights 9 may be shallowly notched to receive the rollers. Referring now to Figure 3, runway grooves 8 rather than being formed in the side boards 2, may be preformed in moulded plastic elements 13 which are adapted to be subsequently attached to, or recessed into the side boards 2. In this case the flights 9 are inclined upwardly from their blind ends. Also the open end of the flights include an upstanding retaining nipple 14, restraining the platform 5 from moving relative to support frame 1. The risers 10 are disposed in a continuous inclined track 15, allowing multiple flight adjustments.