# LAUNDRY COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Waschmittelzubereitung enthaltend Waschmitteltensid, Builder und andere übliche Waschmittelbestandteile und Ton Gewebeweichmacher,

## Description
The present invention relates to means of softening fabrics, wherein water soluble quaternary ammonium salts are used to provide fabric softness and anti static benefits. Detergent compositions in spray dried form containing said salts and a smectite clay softener are disclosed. The use of softeners to treat fabrics subsequent to a washing operation is a well known laundering practice. Fabric softeners are, in the main, water insoluble cationic materials that are incompatible with anionic detersive surfactants used in most fabric washing compositions. For that reason, the softening operation is generally carried out in the laundry rinse bath after the surfactant has been removed from the washing machine. This entails additional work for the user. Formulators of fabric laundering compositions have long sought means whereby the fabric washing and softening could be done concurrently. Methods employing clay softeners, mixtures of clays and various amine materials and the like, are described in the following patent applications The prior art also describes the use of various cationic materials in sheet form. See U.S. Patent 4 220 562. The present invention employs a water soluble quaternary ammonium salt in an otherwise conventional spray dried detergent composition matrix, and clay, to provide cleaning and softening concurrently through the wash. The quaternary ammonium salts used herein provide improved softening and anti static benefits, especially when applied to polyester fabrics and or when the compositions herein are used at relatively high laundering temperatures 60 C, and above . The detergent compositions preferably, spray dried herein may be described succinctly as containing conventional detergent ingredients such as detersive surfactants including anionics , detergency builders, optical brighteners, detersive enzymes, fabric bleaches, and the like, all at rather conventional levels, as well as clay fabric softeners preferably, smectite clays , said compositions being characterized in that they contain at least 0.1 preferably 1.0 to 15 of a water soluble di C₆ ₁₀ alkyl quaternary ammonium salt. The compositions are formulated to contain not more than 3 preferably not more than 1 2 of a nonionic detersive surfactant. The ingredients and means for preparing the compositions are disclosed more fully hereinafter. All weights and proportions are by weight, unless otherwise specified. As noted hereinafter, the detergent compositions of this invention comprise, in major part, conventional ingredients that are quite familiar to formulators of granular detergent compositions. One of the major advantages of the water soluble quaternary ammonium salts used herein is that they are entirely compatible with such conventional detergent ingredients, used at conventional concentrations with the exception of the nonionic detersive surfactants . The water soluble quaternaries employed herein are the di C₆ ₁₀ materials, such as the dimethyl di C₆ C₁₀ ammonium bromides, chlorides and methylsulfates. An article appearing in SEIFEN ÖLE FETTE WACHSE Nr 10 2. Juniheft 19 June, 1975, beginning at page 273, describes such materials and discloses that they are commercially available under the Trademark BARDAC . The article describes the antimicrobial properties of these quaternaries and mentions page 275 their use with anionic and nonionic detergents. However, this article does not disclose the use of these quaternaries in compositions of the present type, with restricted amounts of nonionic surfactants, nor with softener clays, to soften fabrics in the manner of the present invention. The compounds preferred for use herein at preferred 1 5 levels are the di octyl dimethyl , didecyl dimethyl , octyl decyl dimethyl and dihexyldimethyl ammonium salts, e.g., chlorides and bromides, or mixtures thereof. Ethyl, propyl or butyl may be substituted for methyl, so long as the compounds are water soluble. Methyl is preferred. The quaternaries are used in combination with a smectite clay softener, most preferably, at a weight ratio of quaternary clay in the range of 1 100 to 100 1, preferably 0.5 1 to 1 1. Detersive surfactants useful herein include well known synthetic anionic, amphoteric and zwitterionic surfactants. Typical of these are the alkyl benzene sulfonates, alkyl and alkylether sulfates, paraffin sulfonates, olefin sulfonates, amine oxides, α sulfonates of fatty acids and of fatty acid esters, and the like, which are well known from the detergency art. In general, such detersive surfactants contain an alkyl group in the C₉ C₁₈ range the anionic detersive surfactants can be used in the form of their sodium, potassium or triethanolammonium salts. U.S. Patents 4 111 855 and 3 995 669 contain detailed listings of such typical detersive surfactants. C₁₁ C₁₆ alkyl benzene sulfonates, C₁₂ C₁₈ paraffin sulfonates and alkyl sulfates are especially preferred in the compositions of the present type. Also useful herein as the surfactant are the water soluble soaps, e.g. the common sodium and potassium coconut or tallow soaps well known in the art. It is to be understood that the use of typical alkoxylated nonionic surfactants e.g. the C₉ C₁₈ alkyl alcohols and alkyl phenols with 5 to 20 ethoxyl groups should be limited in the practice of this invention to levels of not more than about 3 , preferably not more than 2 , most preferably 0 1 , of the compositions. Such alkoxylates interfere with the softening properties of the compositions. However, a limited amount as stated may be used to disperse optical brightener in the compositions, and to reduce dustiness, according to the desires of the formulator. The surfactant component other than alkoxylated nonionic can comprise as little as 1 of the compositions herein, but preferably the compositions will contain 5 to 40 , preferably 6 to 30 , of surfactant. Mixtures of the anionics, such as the alkyl benzene sulfonates, alkyl sulfates and paraffin sulfonates are preferred for through the wash cleansing of a broad spectrum of soils and stains from fabric. The laundry compositions herein also preferably contain enzymes to enhance their through the wash cleaning performance on a variety of soils and stains. Amylase and protease enzymes suitable for use in detergents are well known in the art and in commercially available liquid and granular detergents. Commercial detersive enzymes preferably a mixture of amylase and protease are typically used at levels of 0.001 to 2 , and higher, in the present compositions. Moreover, the compositions herein can contain, in addition to ingredients already mentioned, various other optional ingredients typically used in commercial products to provide aesthetic or additional product performance benefits. Typical ingredients include pH regulants, perfumes, dyes, bleaches, optical brighteners, soil suspending agents, hydrotropes and gel control agents, freeze thaw stabilizers, bactericides preservatives, suds control agents, bleach activators and the like. In a through the wash mode, the compositions are typically used at a concentration of at least 500 ppm, preferably 0.10 to 1.5 , in an aqueous laundry bath at pH 7 11 to launder fabrics. The laundering can be carried out over the range from 5 C to the boil, with excellent results. The following examples are typical of the preferred composition of this invention, but are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. An aqueous crutcher mix comprising the following ingredients is prepared and spray dried in standard fashion percentages listed relate to percent ingredients in the complete formulation after spray drying . The composition of Example I is free flowing and provides excellent cleaning and through the wash fabric softening. The composition of Example I may be modified by adding 1.0 tetraacetyl ethylenediamine TAED as a perborate bleach activator. A nil P spray dried detergent formulation is as follows The composition of Example II is prepared by spray drying an aqueous crutcher mix. In use, the composition gives excellent cleaning and through the wash fabric softening performance.