# Radar receiving circuits.

## Abstract
A lightweight monopulse radar receiver is provided with means 1, 1 for modulating the azimuth and elevation difference signals Δx, Δy and adding the modulated differ ence signals to the azimuth sum εx and elevation sum εy signals respectively. The resulting signals εx Δx, εy Δy are downconverted and detected separately to give azimuth and elevation error signals. Any channel mismatch in gain or phase does not affect the azimuth and elevation error signals because all the azimuth or elevation information is contained in the modulated summed azimuth or elevation signal. Consequently the construction is simplified and ex cessive multiplexing of signals is avoided.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A radar receiver comprising antenna signal feed means for generating azimuth sum sox , azimuth difference Ax , elevation sum Ey and elevation difference Ey signals in response to a detected target, characterised by modulating means 1,1 for modulating said azimuth and elevation difference signals, first summing means 2 for summing the modulated azimuth difference signal with the azimuth sum signal to generate a modulated azimuth sum signal x Qx , second summing means 2 for summing the modulated elevation difference signal with the elevation sum signal to generate a modulated elevation sum signal 8y Py coherent detector means 5 arranged to be fed with said modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals so as to compare the relative phase or amplitude of each said difference signal Ax,by with that of its associated azimuth or elevation sum signal t x,Ey and demodulator means Fig. 2 coupled to said coherent detector means and arranged to generate output signals representative of the azimuth and elevation of the target respectively. 2. A radar receiver as claimed in Claim 1 wherein said modulating means 1,1 periodically phase shifts said azimuth and elevation difference signals bxgy by 1800 3. A radar receiver as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein said antenna signal feed means is a mode coupler. 4. A radar receiver as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein said coherent detector means comprises one or more phase locked loops 5 arranged to filter onto the modulation frequency from said modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals axt x,Eythy . 5. A radar receiver as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein said modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals x Ax,Sy y are multiplexed and fed alternately to a common coherent detector means 5 . 6. A radar receiver as. claimed in Claim 5 wherein said modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals are down converted before being multiplexed. 7. A radar receiver as claimed in any preceding Claim wherein the relative amplitudes of the sum x, y and difference signals bx,Dy are indicative of the target bearing. 8. A radar receiver as claimed in any of Claim 1 to 6 wherein the relative phases of said sum Ex, y and difference bx,ssy signals are indicative of the target bearing. 9. A continuous wave C.W. radar system incorporating a radar receiver as claimed in any preceding Claim. 10. A monopulse radar system incorporating a radar receiver as claimed in any of Claims 1 to 8.

## Description
Radar receiving circuits The present invention relates to multi channel radar receiving circuit arrangements, and is particularly but not exclusively concerned with monopulse receivers.Multi channel radar receivers process three or more sum and difference signals from a receiving antenna to derive two signals which represent the deviation of a target from the antenna boresight in the azimuth and elevation directions respectively. It is normally necessary to preserve the relative amplitudes and phases of the sum and difference signals throughout the radar receiver in order to correctly derive the required azimuth and elevation information.In general, this has been achieved either by time multiplexing the various sum and difference signals, thereby subjecting them to the same channel distortions but reducing their power and increasing the noise figure of the receiver, or by providing accurately matched individual channels for the signals prior to the amplification stages of the receiver, thereby increasing the weight of the receiver and creating a need for frequent re alignment of the channels. A further disadvantage of radar receivers which individually multiplex the various sum and difference signals is that the phase and frequency of the or each sum signal have to be stored whilst the corresponding difference signal is being processed. Approximation and other errors are inevitably introduced as a result. The problems outlined above become more acute when the antenna signals are fed to the receiver via a mode coupler rather than a conventional four horn static split feed. Use of a mode coupler enables the size of the antenna to be reduced, but since a mode coupler generates four signals amely azimuth sum Ex and difference Ax, and elevation sum Sy and difference A y whereas a four horn static split feed generates three, the associated multiplexing loss is increased from 4.7 dB to 6dB. Four channel receivers fed by mode couplers have not been used because of the problems of channel matching and excessive weight referred to above. An object of the present invention is to provide a radar receiver with a low noise figure in which accurate channel matching is not required. A further object of the invention is to provide a lightweight radar receiver suitable for use with a mode coupler. According to the present invention, a radar receiver comprises antenna signal feed means for generating an azimuth sum signal, an azimuth difference signal, an elevation sum signal and an elevation difference signal in response to a detected target, modulating means for modulating said difference signals, first summing means for summing the modulated azimuth difference signal and the azimuth sum signal to generate a modulated azimuth sum signal, second summing means for summing the modulated elevation difference signal and the elevation sum signal to generate a modulated elevation sum signal, coherent detector means fed with said modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals for measuring the relative phase or amplitude of each said difference signal with respect to its associated azimuth or elevation sum signal and demodulator means to generate output signals representative of the azimuth and elevation of the target respectively. The antenna signal feed means may be a mode coupler. Alternatively the antenna signal feed means may comprise a static split feed system and a power divider such as a hybrid coupler arramged to split the single sum signal from the static split feed system into an azimuth sum signal and an elevation sum signal. The radar receiver may be of the phase comparison type in which the phase of each difference signal from said feed means with respect to its associated sum signal indicates the position of the target , or of the amplitude comparison type in which the amplitude of each differennce signal relative to its associated sum signal indicates the position of the target. Said coherent detector means may comprise one or more phase locked loops each of which filters out the modulation frequency. The modulated azimuth and elevation sum signals are suitably multiplexed and fed alternately to a common coherent detector means. The modulated sum signals may be multiplexed prior to downconversion, subsequent to downconversion, or at any intermediate stage in a multiple frequency conversion system. The radar receiver of the invention may be used in conjunction either with a C.W. radar transmitter or with a pulsed radar transmitter. In the latter case the modulated elevation sum signal and the modulated azimuth sum signal may be multiplexed, one of these signals being delayed by a delay line for the duration of the other multiplexed pulse before being fed to the multiplexer. The advantages of the invention will become clearer on consideration of Figures 1 to 5 of the accompanying drawings, of which Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram illustrating by way of example one radar receiver in accordance with the invention and suitable for use in a C.W. radar system Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram illustrating the demodulating circuitry of the receiver of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a timing diagram for the demodulating circuitry of Figure 2 Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram illustrating another radar receiver in accordance with the invention and suitable for use in a C.W. radar system, and Figure 5 is a schematic block diagram illustrating a radar receiver in accordance with the invention suitable for use in a pulsed radar system. Similar parts are designated by common reference numerals throughout the drawings. The amplitude comparison monopulse radar receiver shown in Figure 1 is provided with four microwave inputs x, ax, sy and Ey fed from a mode coupler not shown which respectively feed azimuth sum, azimuth difference, elevation difference and elevation sum signals from the antenna not shown to the receiver. The azimuth signals are processed by a first channel comprising P.I.N.modulator 1 which acts as a 1800 phase shifter and is switched at low frequency , hybrid coupler 2 and downconverter 3 which incorporates a local oscillator and mixer , and the elevation signals are processed by a second, similar channel comprising P.I.N. modulator 1 , hybrid coupler 2 and downconverter 3 . The channels are combined in a multiplexer 4 and the resulting multiplexed signal is processed in a coherent detector 5. The multiplexed output from coherent detector 5 alternately represents the amplitude difference between a theL x and bx signals and b the y and hy signals and is demultiplexed by multiplexer 6 to give separate normalised azimuth and elevation error signalsA x andAy . These error signals indicate the deviation from the antenna boresight of the detected target and can be used to steer the antenna towards the target by means of standard servo control arrangements not shown . P.I.N. modulators 1 and 1 , multiplexer 4 and multiplexer 6 are switched by a common switching control at frequencies 2fM, fM and fM respectively. The operation of the receiver is as follows.The phase of the azimuth difference signal a x waveform 10 is periodically shifted typically at a frequency of 5kHy by 1800 by P.I.N. Modulation 1 and is summed with the azimuth sum signal rx waveform 9 by hybrid coupler 2. The resulting modulated azimuth sum signal waveform 12 is downconverted typically from 17.3 GHz to 34 MHz by downconverter 3. The down converted modulated azimuth sum signal is multiplexed with a similar downconverted modulated elevation sum signal in multiplexer 4, which outputs oe period of each signal alternately to coherent detector 5.It will be appreciated that the information on the target azimuth is contained in the amplitude of theA x signal relative to that of the signal and that information on the target elevation is contained in the amplitude of theA y signal relative to the y signal. This information is initially at micro wave frequency and is preserved at radio frequency when waveform 12 is downconverted by downconverter 3. It will be apparent that any phase or gain mismatch between the azimuth and elevation channels will not affect this information, since each signal will be affected in precisely the same way as its associatedb signal. Multiplexer 4 introduces a 3dB decrease in power which may affect the signal to noise ratio of the receiver.However any increase in noise figure potentially 3dB is much less than the potential 6dB increase in noise figure which could result from multiplexing all fourt and nsignals. If necessary the downconverted signals may be amplified before being multiplexed. Coherent detector 5 is fed from a gain controlled amplifier 19 and initially splits the incoming signal into two paths which are subsequently recombined as the inputs to a phase sensitive detector 22. The first path comprises a limiting amplifier 14, a double balanced mixer 15 and a quadrature hybrid coupler 17. Limiting amplifier 14 clips the incoming signal and feeds it to mixer 15 which generates an output proportional to the difference between its input frequencies. This output is fed to a voltage controlled oscillator 16 which feeds the other input of the mixer 15 via a hybrid coupler 17.The output signal of the oscillator 16 which has a constant amplitude locks on to the input signal from amplifier 14, with the result that the output signal from the voltage controlled oscillator has the same frequency as, but is advanced in phase by 900 relative to, the signal from limiting amplifier 14. The output from hybrid coupler 17 to detector 22 is further advanced in phase by 900. The filter action of the phase locked loop ensures that this output is unmodulated. The other path from amplifier 19 to detector 22 consists simply of a delay line 18, which shifts the phase of the d signals to compensate for the phase shift intro duced by limited amplifier 14. As a result, the phasesensitive detector 22 is fed at this input with moduiated signals which are 1800 out of phase with a constant amplitude signal of the same frequency which is fed to the other input.The output of phase sensitive detector22 consists of alternate x and y error envelopes, each of which is made up of two components, namely 1 a D.C. level whose magnitude is dependent upon the magnitude of the appropriate x or y sum signal and 2 a 5kHz error envelope whose amplitude is proportional to the product of the appropriate x orAy signal and the cosine either 1 or l of the phase difference between the correspondinghand input signals. The D.C. level controls the fast acting A.G.C.loop which in turn normalises the 5kHz error envelope to the appropriate x or y sum signal amplitude. Thus demodulator 6 generates azimuth and elevation error signals A x and ssy which are normalised relative to the amplitudes of the S x and of my signals respectively. Figure 2 shows in more detail the demodulator 6 andFigure 3 shows the corresponding timing diagram, waveform a Figure 3 b eing the waveform of the output fr dm detector 22. Waveform a is fed to an inverting amplifier 13 which has a voltage gain of 10 and includes a 30kHz low pass fjlter. The amplified signal is then fed to four sample and hold switching circuits 21b, 21c, 21d and 21e.These are switched in accordance with timing signals b , c , d and e respectively from switching control 8, so that circuits 21 b , c , d and e store levels i ux , 5 Ax , S ay and S by respectively, The pairs of h and a levels are added in inverting amplifiers 29 and 29 which have voltage gains of 5 and include 100 Hz low pass filters to give azimuth and elevation error signals and By respectively which are normalised with respect to the corresponding x and y signals. It will be appreciated the receiver of Figure 1 may be adapted for use in a phase comparison monopulse system by suitably adapting coherent detector 5. Thus the amplitudes of both inputs to phase sensitive detector 25 could be held constant and arranged to be approximately 900 out of phase. The output of detector 22 would then be sensitive to the relative phases of the E and h signals. c In the receiver of Figure 1 it is necessary that the amplitude of the modulated difference signal should be less than that of the sum signal. If necessary switchable attenuators not shown may be provided to ensure that this condition applies. Figure 4 shows in a simplified form a similar receiver to that shown in Figure 1. However multiplexing losses are avoided by processing the x and y signals separately throughout. As in Figure 1 P.I.N. modulators 1 and 1 periodically phase shift the A signals at a frequency fM of the order of 5 kHz and feed signals through downconverters 3, 3 to A.G.C. amplifiers 19, 19 to coherent detectors 5, 5 which operate in a similar way to that shown in Figure 1. The receiver shown in Figure 5 is suitable for use in a pulsed radar system. P.I.N. attenuators 23 and 23 prevent the a signals from becoming larger than the signals which could occur if a target was detected at a large angle off boresight , and causing the phaselocked loop in coherent detector 5 to lock onto the A signals rather than the signals. Delay line 28 brings the y y signal pulses into synchronism with the x ax signal pulses. These pulses are then multiplexed as in Figure 1 and downconverted in two stages via mixers 24 and 26 and filters 25 and 27 before being demultiplexed and demodulated. It will be apparent that the f hsignals could alternatively be multiplexed at any stage within the downconversion chain prior to detection.