# ADDRESSING LIQUID CRYSTAL DISPLAYS

## Claims
Adressiermatrix für eine ferro elektrische Flüssigkristallanzeige, bei der die Adressiermatrix eine Anordnung von Reihen und Spalten von Feldeffekttransistoren 11 , die auf einem gemeinsamen Substrat angeordnet sind, wobei ein Transistor für jedes Pixel der Anzeige vorgesehen ist, um jedes Pixel zwischen ersten und zweiten stabilen optischen Zuständen umzuschalten, Reihenleiter 12 , von denen jeweils einer für jede Transistorreihe vorgesehen und mit den Transistor Gate Elektroden dieser Reihe gekoppelt ist, Spaltenleiter 13 , von denen jeweils einer für jede Transistorspalte vorgesehen und mit den Transistor Source Elektroden dieser Spalte gekoppelt ist, Meßverstärker 51 , von denen jeweils einer einem jeweiligen Spaltenleiter zugeordnet ist, Reihen Logikeinrichtungen 14 zur selektiven Adressierung der Reihen durch das Anlegen eines Impulses über einen Reihenleiter an dessen Transistor Gate Elektroden dieser Reihe zur Freigabe diese Transistoren, und Spalten Logikeinrichtungen 15 zum Anlegen von Anzeigedatensignalen parallel an die Spaltenleiter und synchron mit jedem Reihenimpuls, einschließt, um jedes Pixel dieser Reihe in den einen oder den anderen stabilen Zustand anzusteuern,

## Description
This invention relates to the addressing of matrix array type ferro electric liquid crystal display devices. Hitherto dynamic scattering mode liquid crystal display devices have been operated using a d.c. drive or an a.c. one, whereas field effect mode liquid crystal devices have generally been operated using an a.c. drive in order to avoid performance impairment problems associated with electrolytic degradation of the liquid crystal layer. Such devices have employed liquid crystals that do not exhibit ferro electricity, and the material interacts with an applied electric field by way of an induced dipole. As a result they are not sensitive to the polarity of the applied field, but respond to the applied RMS voltage averaged over approximately one response time at that voltage. There may also be frequency dependence as in the case of so called two frequency materials, but this only affects the type of response produced by the applied field. In contrast to this a ferro electric liquid crystal exhibits a permanent electric dipole, and it is this permanent dipole which will interact with an applied electric field. Ferro electric liquid crystals are of interest in display applications because they are expected to show a greater coupling with an applied field than that typical of a liquid crystal that relies on coupling with an induced dipole, and hence ferro electric liquid crystals are expected to show a faster response. A ferro electric liquid crystal display mode is described for instance by N.A. Clark et al in a paper entitled Ferro electric Liquid Crystal Electro Optics Using the Surface Stabilized Structure appearing in Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 1983 Volume 94 pages 213 to 234. A matrix liquid crystal display is described in specification No. GB A 2,069,739. In the arrangement a rectangular array of liquid crystal cells or pixels is addressed via row and column conditions. Means are provided for periodically sensing and refreshing the state of each pixel. Two properties of ferro electrics set the problems of matrix addressing such devices apart from the addressing of non ferro electric devices. First they are polarity sensitive, and second their response times exhibit a relatively weak dependence upon applied voltage. The response time of a ferro electric is typically proportional to the inverse square of applied voltage, or even worse, proportional to the inverse single power of voltage whereas a non ferro electric smectic A, which in certain other respects is a comparable device exhibiting long term storage capability, exhibits a response time that is typically proportional to the inverse fifth power of voltage. The use of ferro electric displays is therefore restricted by difficulties in addressing the display. If such a display is addressed via a conventional X Y matrix then interference analogous to cross talk prevents the minimum response time from being achieved. Application of a signal to a row or column of a display can cause changes in the state of pixels other than the particular one being addressed. The object of the present invention is to minimise or to overcome this disadvantage. According to the invention there is provided an address matrix for a ferro electric liquid crystal display, the address matrix including an array of rows and columns of field effect transistors 11 disposed on a common silicon substrate, there being one transistor for each pixel of the display whereby that pixel may be switched between first and second stable optical conditions, row conductors 12 one for each transistor row and coupled to the transistor gates of that row, column conductors 13 one for each transistor column and coupled to the transistor sources of that column, sense amplifiers 51 one associated with each said column conductor, row logic means 14 for addressing the rows selectively by the application of a pulse via a row conductor to its transistor gates of that row whereby those transistors are enabled, and column logic means 15 for applying display data signals in parallel to the column conductors and in synchronism with each row pulse so as to drive each pixel of that row to one or other of its stable conditions, characterised in that the arrangement is such that during a first portion of each said row address pulse the state of each pixel is read by the corresponding sense amplifier 51 and that pixel is refreshed to its current condition, that during a second portion of each said row address pulse data is written only into those pixels whose state is to be changed, and that new display data is periodically written into the display once every n rows where n is greater than unity, the new data for a pixel overriding the data from the corresponding sense amplifier. The arrangement overcomes the crosstalk problems experienced with prior art devices by providing gating means whereby voltages are applied selectively only to those pixels of the display that are to be accessed. This in turn allows increase in both the operational speed and the complexity of the display. Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Referring to Figure 1, the address matrix of the display comprises a plurality of field effect transistors 11, one for each pixel of the display, disposed in a rectangular array of rows and columns. Electrical interconnection of the transistors 11 is provided by row conductors 12 providing a common connection to the gate electrodes of each transistor row, and column conductors 13 providing a common connection to the sources of each transistor column. Selection of a particular pair of row and column conductors to drive a corresponding transitor 11 at the cross point of those conductors is effected by row and column address logic circuits 14 and 15 respectively. As can be seen from Figure 2, each cell or pixel of the display includes a back electrode 21 coupled to the drain of the transistor 11, and a transparent front electrode 22 supported on a transparent, e.g. glass, cover plate 23. A ferro electric liquid crystal material 24 is disposed between the two electrodes. The back electrode 21 is supported on a silicon dioxide layer 25 disposed on the surface of a silicon substrate 26 in which the transistors 11 Figure 1 are formed. The gate of the transistor is formed in the silica layer 25. Typically the cell is operated by applying a steady voltage V to the front electrode and driving the back electrode to a voltage 2V or to zero volts to switch the cell between its two stable conditions, i.e. the back electrode is taken to a voltage V above or below the front electrode voltage. The pulse sequences involved in addressing the matrix are shown in Figures 3 and 4. The front electrode of each cell is maintained at a steady voltage V relative to the display substrate which may be earthed. The cell rows are addressed in sequence by the application of a rectangular gate pulse to the corresponding row conductor thus switching all the transistors of that row on. At the same time data signals are fed in parallel to the column conductors in the form of a logic ONE or ZERO according to the desired state of the particular cell to be addressed. In the following time slot a gate pulse is applied to the next row of cells and the sequence is repeated. After the cell has been addressed, and until the next addressing cycle, data written in to each cell is stored in the form of a charge on the back electrode. As both the cell and the transistor have a small resistive leakage this charge slowly leaks away so that the potential of the back electrode drifts towards that of the front electrode. This process is slow compared with the time needed for writing data and displays having up to 1000 lines can be addressed in this way without difficulty. Application of a steady voltage to any liquid crystal can be undesirable due to electrochemical degradation of the material. As the ferro electric material has in effect a memory it is not necessary to drive a cell continuously. An address matrix which does not require the application of a steady voltage to the cells of the display is shown in Figure 5. In this arrangement the cells are arranged in rows and columns as before but each column conductor 13 is accessed via a sense amplifier 51. This provides for self refreshing of the display. An address sequence for use with the arrangement of Figure 5 and which does not require the application of a continuous voltage to the cells of the display is shown in Figures 6 and 7. In this sequence the duration of the address pulse V