# ENZYME RESISTANT IMMUNOMODULATORY PEPTIDES

## Claims
Ein Peptid mit der Formel

## Description
This invention relates generally to new immunomodulatory peptides and particularly to such peptides which have improved resistance to enzymatic degradation in the body. US A 4,190,646 and US A 4,261,886 disclose various pentapeptides having activity similar to the long chain polypeptide known as thymopoietin described in US A 4,002,740 and US A 4,077,949. The biological activity of certain of these peptides is described in an article by M.E. Weksler, et al., J. Exp. Med. 148 996 1006 1978 . EP A 0 025,897 and US A 4,361,673 also disclose various peptides asserted to have activity similar to thymopoietin. Thymopoietin III, also known as splenin , is a similar peptide isolated from bovine spleen. Audhya, et al., Biochemistry, Reference is made to the above described patents, patent application, and articles for a discussion of other background material and the biological processes involved in the present invention. Although these known peptides are useful for their immunomodulatory activity, they have been found to be rapidly destroyed by enzymes both The present invention provides peptides and peptide compositions which are more resistant than the prior art peptides to enzymatic degradation in the body and hence are more therapeutically useful materials. The present invention relates to novel peptides having the following formula W is PRO, dehydro PRO, or D is H or 1 or 2 substituents which increase or do not substantially decrease the acidity of the phenol proton Whenever R is other than H, V may occur in D or L form. Both D and L forms of Z are also included within the present invention. If A and B are different, optical isomers are possible for this value of W both the D and L isomer are included in the present invention, although the L isomer is preferred. Also provided by the present invention are therapeutic compositions containing the subject peptides and methods for treatment of humans and animals by administration of these peptides and the compositions. It has been surprisingly found that the subject peptides possess thymopoietin like or splenin like activity and, because of the presence of the W group at position 2, are resistant to attack by endo and exopeptidases and trypsin like enzymes in serum. As indicated above, this invention is concerned with new peptides having thymopoietin like or splenin like activity, therapeutic compositions containing these peptides, and methods for use thereof. In its broadest scope, the present invention provides peptides having the following formula Preferred peptides of the present invention are those of formula I wherein R is acyl NH and W is PRO or AIB. More preferred peptides are those of formula I wherein R V is acyl ARG, W is PRO or AIB, X is ASP or GLU, Y is GLY or an L amino acid as previously defined, Z is TYR or D substituted TYR, and R¹ is OH or NH₂. Still more preferred peptides are those of formula I wherein R V is acetyl ARG, W is PRO or AIB, X is ASP or GLU, Y is GLY or an L amino acid as previously defined, Z is TYR or D substituted TYR, and R¹ is NH₂. The most preferred peptide is N acetyl ARG PRO ASP VAL TYR NH₂. As used herein the term C₁ C₆ alkyl includes branched and straight chain saturated hydrocarbons having from one to six carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, pentyl and hexyl. The term acyl includes formyl and C₁ C₆ alkyl carbonyl radicals such as acetyl , propionyl and succinoyl. Representative D substituents which increase the acidity of the phenol porton of the Z amino acid residue are, for example, 3 chloro and 3 nitro. Those skilled in the peptide art would recognize that other electron withdrawing groups, especially at the 3 position of the phenyl ring of Z, would increase the acidity of the phenol proton, as would groups which stablize the phenoxide ion resulting from donation of the phenol proton. As acids which are able to form salts with these peptides there may be mentioned inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, perchloric acid, nitric acid, thiocyanic acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid and organic acids such as formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, lactic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, anthranilic acid, cinnamic acid, napthalenesulfonic acid and sulfanilic acid. As bases which are able to form salts with these peptides are included inorganic bases such as sodium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide and organic bases such as mono , di and tri alkyl and aryl amines e.g. triethylamine, diisopropylamine, methylamine and dimethylamine and optionally substituted ethanolamines e.g. ethanolamine and diethanolamine. Throughout this disclosure, the amino acid components of the peptides and certain materials used in their preparation are identified by abbreviations for convenience. These abbreviations are as follows The term dehydroPRO includes 2,3 dehydroPRO, 3,4 dehydroPRO, and 4,5 dehydroPRO 3,4 dehydroPRO is preferred. It will be understood that, when an amino acid is referred to in a peptide sequence, this designates an amino acid residue lacking a hydrogen atom from its α amino group and a hydroxyl group from its α carboxyl group. The peptides of the invention may generally be prepared following known techniques. Conveniently, the peptides may be prepared following the solid phase synthetic technique initially described by Merrifield in Journal of the American Chemical Society, 85, 2149 2154 1963 . Such methods are also disclosed in certain of the prior art patents referred to above. Other techniques may be found, for example, in M. Bodansky, et al., The peptides of this invention wherein X is ASP or D ASP, have been found to exhibit biological activity similar to thymopoietin, as disclosed in the above referenced United States patents and articles, while those wherein X is GLU or D GLU have been found to exhibit biological activity similar to splenin. The compounds of the invention were tested following the induction assay procedure set out in Scheid, et al., J. Exp. Med. 147 1727 1743 1978 and also following a receptor assay procedure designed to measure displacement of radiolabelled thymopoeitin from a receptor site by the test peptides. A positive result on the induction assay indicates the ability of the test peptide to mimic the ability of thymopoeitin or splenin to induce precursor cells to immunocompetent T cells or T cells and B cells, respectively. A positive result on the receptor assay indicates the ability of the test peptide to bind to the thymopoeitin receptor site and thus to mimic thymopoeitin activity. The subject peptides are positive in the induction assay, while those in which X is ASP or D ASP are also positive in the receptor assay. The peptides of the invention wherein X is ASP or D ASP are characterized by their ability to induce the selective differentiation of Thy 1 T cells but not Lyb 2 B cells . Thy 1 is a differentiation alloantigen present on T cells but not B cells, whereas Lyb 2 is a differentiation alloantigen present on B cells but not T cells. Studies of these peptides in the induction assay As noted above, it has been found that the prior art peptide fragments of thymopoeitin and splenin and their analogs suffer from very rapid enzymatic breakdown in the animal or human to whom they are administered. It has been determined that the half life of thymopentin thymopoeitin fragment 32 36 in serum is approximately one minute. Splenopentin the corresponding fragment of splenin is also highly susceptible to enzymatic degradation. The subject peptides, however, exhibit a substantially increased resistance to enzymatic degradation, up to 1000 fold better than thymopentin. This substantially increased stability of the subject peptides is evidenced against isolated enzymes of animal origin e.g. leucine aminopeptidase of both cytosol and microsomal origin and carboxypeptidase A, B, and C and against human serum. Illustrative stability data are shown in the following Tables. Prior to the making of the present invention, it was completely unexpected that one would be able to prepare peptides which would have equivalent or increased thymopoeitin like or splenin like activity while also having substantially increased resistance to enzymatic degradation. In fact, the present Applicants have found that many substitutions in the 2 position destroy or significantly diminish activity, while many other substitutions on the 2 positions retain activity but fail to confer enzyme resistance. Only the 2 position substitutions described herein provide peptides which simultaneously possess equivalent or enhanced biological activity and substantially increased resistance to enzymatic degradation, when compared to for example thymopoeitin. Because of these characteristics of the subject peptides, they are therapeutically useful in the treatment of humans and animals since they have the capability for inducing the differentiation of lymphopoietic stem cell originating in the haemopoietic tissues into thymus derived cells T cells which are capable of involvement in the immune response of the body. As a result, the subject peptides are considered to have multiple therapeutic uses. Primarily, since the compounds have the capability of carrying out certain of the indicated functions of the thymus, they have application in various thymic function and immunity areas. One such application is in the treatment of DiGeorge Syndrome, a condition in which there is a congenital absence of thymus. Injection of one of the subject peptides will overcome this deficiency. Because of the resistance of the subject peptides to enzymatic degradation, they are more therapeutically effective than prior art peptides having thymopoietin like activity. Additionally, the subject peptides are considered useful in assisting the collective immunity of the body, in that they will increase or assist in therapeutic stimulation of cellular immunity and thereby are useful in the treatment of diseases involving chronic infection, such as fungal or mycoplasma infections, tuberculosis, leprosy and acute and chronic and viral infections. The subject compounds are generally considered to be useful in any area in which cellular immunity is an issue and particularly where there are deficiencies in immunity such as in the DiGeorge syndrome mentioned above. Thus, where there is an excess of antibody production due to unbalanced T cells and B cells, the subject peptides can correct this condition by stimulating T cell production. Thus, they are expected to be of therapeutic use in certain autoimmune diseases in which damaging antibodies are produced, such as systemic lupus erythematosis and rheumatoid arthritis. In their broadest application, the subject compounds are useful for regulating the immune system of a subject, human or animal, in need of such regulation. As used herein, the term regulate means that the subject compounds cause the immune system to return from an abnormal, diseased state to a normal, balanced state. While this regulation may well find great application in the correction of immunological deficiencies e.g. DiGeorge syndrome , it is also applicable to correct conditions of excess immunological activity e.g. autoimmune diseases . The present invention therefore includes compounds and pharmaceutical compositions for use in regulating the immune system of a subject in need of such regulation by administering to said subject an immunoregulatorally effective amount of one of the subject compounds. The present invention provides compounds and pharmaceutical compositions for use in the treatment of conditions resulting from relative or absolute T cell deficiencies in a subject human or animal having such a condition by administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of formula I . The invention also provides compounds and pharmaceutical compositions for use in the treatment of conditions resulting from relative or absolute deficiencies of the thymus of a subject by administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a peptide of formula I . As used herein, the term therapeutically effective amount means an amount which is effective to treat conditions resulting from T cell deficiencies or deficiencies of the thymus, respectively. The invention also provides compounds and pharmaceutical compositions for use in inducing lymphopoietic stem cells of a subject to develop the characteristics of thymus derived lymphocytes by administering to the subject an effective inducing amount of a peptide of formula I . To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention, a peptide of formula I or a base or acid addition salt thereof is combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. This carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration, e.g. sublingual, rectal, nasal, oral, or parenteral. In preparing the compositions in oral dosage form, any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed, such as water, oils, alcohols, flavoring agents, preservatives and coloring agents in the case or oral liquid preparation e.g. suspensions, elixirs, and solutions or carriers such as starches, sugars, diluents, granulating agents, lubricants, binders and disintegrating agents in the case of oral solid preparations e.g. powders, capsules, and tablets . Controlled release forms may also be used. Because of their ease in administration, tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit form, in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If desired, tablets may be sugar coated or enteric coated by standard techniques. For parenteral products, the carrier will usually comprise sterile water, although other ingredients to aid solubility or for preservation purposes for example may be included. Injectable suspensions may also be prepared, in which case appropriate liquid carriers or suspending agents may be employed. The subject peptides are generally active when administered in amounts above about 10 µg kg of body weight. For treatment of DiGeorge Syndrome, the peptides may be administered at a rate of 10 to 100 µg kg body weight. Generally, the same range of dosage amounts may be used in treatment of the other diseases or conditions mentioned. The following examples are presented to illustrate the invention without intending specifically limiting the invention thereto. In the examples and throughout the specification, parts are by weight unless otherwise indicated. The peptide was synthesized by the solid phase method. The synthesis was begun with 4.16 g p methylbenzhydrylamine resin, substitution level 0.39 mmol per gram, and the following amino acid derivatives were coupled stepwise with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide hydroxybenzotriazole HoBT BOC BrZ Tyr, BOC Val, BOC β Bzl Asp, BOC Pro, and AOC N The peptide was cleaved from the resin with 60 ml liquid HF containing 6 ml m cresol at O C for 75 minutes. The HF was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was washed with ethyl acetate and ether, then the peptide extracted from the resin with 100 ml 5 percent acetic acid. The lyophilized extract weighed 1.042 g. A 475 mg portion of the crude peptide was purified by chromatography on a 2.6 x 100 cm column of SP Sephadex eluted with 0.05 M ammonium acetate pH 5 at 50 ml per hour. Fractions 98 122 10 ml each were combined and lyophilized to yield 462 mg product, greater than 99 percent pure. R Asp, 0.99 Pro, 1.00 Val, 1.00 Tyr, 0.99 Arg, 1.01 70 percent peptide. The peptide was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with BOC Tyr OBzlCl₂ resin ester 2536 138, 0.32 meg g, 3.2 g . The following standard routines were used One coupling each was required for BOC The resin was cleaved in HF anisole 30 ml 6 ml for 60 min at O C. The cleaved resin residue was quenched with Et₂O, filtered and the solids extracted with 100 ml 8 percent HOAc for 30 min. After filtering, the filtrate was lyophilized to give 3219 69HF, 1.23 g. The crude peptide was purified on Sephadex DEAE 2.6 x 90 cm column, 3 L 0.2 The peptide was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with BOC Tyr BzlCl₂ resin ester 0.32 meg g, 3.2 g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Val, twice with BOC The resin was cleaved in HF anisole 30 ml 7 ml for 1 h at O C. The resin residue was quenched with Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 percent NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered and the extract lyophilized to give 0.88 g 3219 72HF, as a colorless brittle foam. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 90 cm column, 0.33 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method starting with BOC Tyr BzlCl₂ resin ester 0.32 meg g, 4.7g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Val, BOC The resin was washed, air dried and cleaved with HF anisole 30 ml 5 ml for 1 h at O C. The resin residue was quenched with Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 NH₄OH 100 ml and lyophilized to give 1.54g of crude peptide. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 85 cm column, 0.1 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with BOC Tyr BzlCl₂ resin ester 0.32 meg g, 2.4 g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Ile 1 2 H₂O, BOC After deprotection, the resin was acylated with Ac₂O 1.8 ml and DMAP 0.3 g in DMF 15 ml for 2 h. The resin was washed, air dried and cleaved in HF anisole 30 ml 4 ml for 1 h at O C. The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 percent NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered and the extract lyophilized to give 2.1 g 3219 87 HF as a colorless solid. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 85 cm column, 0.1 The title compound was prepared as follows Into 100 ml methylene chloride and 50 ml saturated sodium bicarbonate solution was added 9.40 g β Bzl Asp Val Tyr OBzl trifluoroacetate. A small amount of dimethylformamide was added to dissolve the peptide. The layers were separated and the organic layer extracted with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, then reduced in volume to about 50 ml by rotary evaporation. This solution was added to 2.80g N t butyloxycarbonyl Proline. The solution was chilled to 5 C and 2.70 g dicylohexylcarbodiimide in 15 ml methylene chloride was added. The mixture was stirred at 5 C for one hour, then let stand at 15 C for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was reduced to a small volume by rotary evaporation. Ethyl acetate, 150 ml, was added to the residue and the mixture filtered. The filtrate was extracted with water, 10 per cent citric acid solution, and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. After drying, solvent removal left 10.97 g of a glass. The product was crystallized from ethyl acetate hexane yielding 8.85 g, m.p. 74 76 . Recrystallization from ethyl acetate pet. ether with only slight warming gave 7.73 g m.p. 75 78 . TLC, silica gel 60 R To 2.31 g BOC Pro β Bzl Asp Val TyrOBzl was added 20 ml 4.0 N HCL in dioxane. After stirring one hour most of the solvent was removed by rotary evaporation. Addition of ether to the residue produced a solid which was filtered and washed with ether. The salt was combined with 1.20 g N t butyloxycarbonyl N A 0.87 g portion of the protected pentapeptide was treated with 20 ml of 50 percent trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride for 30 minutes. Solvent removal and addition of ether to the residue produced a solid. The product was dissolved in 10 ml dimethylformamide, 0.15 ml diisopropylethylamine was added, followed by 0.5 ml acetic anhydride and 0.1 g 4 dimethylamino pyridine, and the mixture stirred 45 minutes. Most of the solvent was evaporated. To the residue was added 0.5 N sodium bicarbonate solution a creamy suspension resulted. Ethyl acetate was added and the organic layer extracted with water, 10 percent citric acid solution, and saturated sodium chloride solution. Solvent removal gave a gum weighing 0.69 g. This material was deprotected without purification. Solvent was removed by rotary evaporation. Addition of ether to the residue produced a solid which was filtered and washed with ether. The salt was combined with 1.20 g N t butyloxycarbonyl N A 0.87 g portion of the protected pentapeptide was treated with 20 ml of 50 percent trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride for 30 minutes. Solvent removal and addition of ether to the residue produced a solid. The product was dissolved in 10 ml dimethylformamide, 0.15 ml diisopropylethylamine was added, followed by 0.5 ml acetic anhydride and 0.1 g 4 dimethylamino pyridine, and the mixture stirred 45 minutes. Most of the solvent was evaporated. To the residue was added 0.5 N sodium bicarbonate solution a creamy suspension resulted. Ethyl acetate was added and the organic layer extracted with water, 10 percent citric acid solution, and saturated sodium chloride solution. Solvent removal gave a gum weighing 0.69 g. This material was deprotected without purification. The 0.69 g protected peptide was placed in a Teflon reaction vessel. M cresol, 3 ml, and 30 ml HF were added and the mixture stirred at 0 C for one hour. The HF was removed with vacuum. The peptide was precipitated with ethyl acetate ether and washed with this solvent. The peptide was dissolved in 3 percent acetic acid and lyophilized. The product weighed 276 mg. The peptide was purified by chromatography on a 1.6 x 60 cm column of DEAE Sephadex eluted with 0.10 N ammonium bicarbonate pH 8.0, collecting 120 drop fractions. The major component eluted with peak centered at fraction 82. The later half of the peak contained an impurity as shown by HPLC. Fractions 77 82 were combined and lyophilized. The product weighed 65 mg. Asp, 1.01 Pro, 0.99 Val, 0.99 Tyr, 1.01 Arg, 1.02 100 percent peptide. The peptide was synthesized by the solid phase method on a Beckman 990B Automatic Peptide Synthesizer. Fifty percent trifluoroacetic acid methylene chloride was used for deprotection, 5 percent diisopropylethylamine in CH₂Cl₂ for neutralization, and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 1 hydroxybenzotriazole for coupling. The following starting materials were used 2.00 g BOC Cl₂Bzl Tyr resin ester, 0.32 meq g, 0.51 g BOC Phe, 2 x 0.62 g BOC β Bzl Asp, 0.42 g BOC Pro, and 0.85 g AOC Ng tosyl Arg. After incorporation of Arg the resin was deprotected, neutralized, and reacted with 5 ml acetic anhydride in 20 ml dimethylformamide for 20 minutes. The resin was washed and dried the weight was 2.73 g. The peptide resin was treated with 30 ml HF and 3 ml m cresol at 0 C for 50 minutes. After evaporating the HF, the product was washed with ethyl acetate and ether. The peptide was extracted with 100 ml 5 percent acetic acid. The filtered solution was lyophilized yielding 798 mg crude product. A 389 mg portion of the crude peptide was purified by chromatography on a 1.6 x 60 cm column of DEAE Sephadex eluted with 0.10 N NH₄HCO₃ pH 8.0. Fractions of 150 drops each were collected. Fractions 75 86 were combined and lyophilized. The product weighed 171 mg. HPLC showed only a trace of impurity, rt 8.2 min with 12.5 percent CH₃CN 0.01 Asp, 0.96 Pro, 1.00 Tyr, 1.01 Phe, 1.01 Arg, 1.02 100 percent peptide. The peptide was synthesized by the solid phase method. The resin was deprotected with 50 percent trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride, neutralized with 5 percent diisopropylethylamine in methylene chloride, and coupled with dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 1 hydroxybenzotriazole except for Gln which was incorporated via its p nitrophenyl ester. The following starting materials were used 2.00 g N t butyloxycarbonyl 0 dichlorobenzyl Tyrosine resin ester, 0.32 mequiv. g, 0.94 g N t butyloxycarbonyl Glutamine p nitrophenyl ester, 0.62 g N t butyloxycarbonyl β benzyl Aspartic acid, 0.41g N t butyloxycarbonyl Proline, and 0.85 g N The peptide was purified by chromatography on a 2.6 x 90 cm column of DEAE Sephadex eluted with 1.2L 0.10M ammonium bicarbnate pH 8.0, then 0.20M pH 8 buffer. The fractions of the major peak λ 278 nm which were clean by HPLC were combined and lyophilized. The product weighed 388 mg. Asp, 0.99 Glx, 0.99 Pro, 1.03 Tyr, 0.98 Arg, 1.01 100 percent peptide. The title compound was prepared as follows Chloromethylated polymer 0.88 meq g 1.13 g 1 mmol and anhydrous KF 0.17 g 3 mmol were added to a solution of Boc D Tyr 2BrZ 0.74 g 1.5 mmol in 4 ml of DMF in a round bottom flask equipped with an overhead stirrer. The reaction mixture was stirred at 50 C for 24 hours. The resin was filtered and washed with DMF 3 x 25 ml , 50 percent DMF H₂O 3 x 25 ml , 50 percent EtOH H₂O 3 x 25 ml and EtOH 3 x 25 ml . The substitution of Boc D Tyr 2BrZ on the resin was 0.35 mmol per gram of resin based on amino acid analysis. Aoc Arg Tos Pro Asp OBzl Val D Tyr 2BrZ O C H₂ Resin was synthesized manually by solid phase methodology. The amino acid derivatives and DCC were used in three fold excess with one equivalent of HOBt added for the following couplings Aoc Arg Tos , Boc Pro, Boc Asp OBzl and Boc Val. In addition to the DCC HOBt couplings, symmetrical anhydride couplings had to be performed to insure complete reaction for Boc Val and Boc Asp OBzl . The anhydrides were formed prior to coupling by the addition of 1.5 eq DCC to 3 eq of the amino acid derivative at O C for 1 hour. DCC was filtered off before addition to the resin peptide. The following synthesis program was employed The Aoc group of Arg was removed with 50 percent TA CH₂Cl₂ prior to acetylation. TFA Arg Tos Pro Asp OBzl Val D Tyr 2BrZ O CH₂ R 1 mmol was stirred in a round bottomed flask with acetic anhydride 1.02 g 10 mmol for two hours at room temperature in 1 1 DMF pyridine solution. The acetylated peptide resin was transferred to a sintered glass funnel and washed with DMF. The product was dried Ac Arg Tos Pro Asp OBzl Val D Tyr 2BrZ O CH₂ Resin 1.17 g was cleaved with 12 ml of HF in the presence of 10 percent anisole at 0 C for 1 hour. The peptide resin was transferred into a sintered glass funnel and washed with ether thoroughly. The peptide was extracted with 10 percent HOAc H₂O 5 x 10 ml and then with H₂O and lyophilized to give 210 mg of peptide. The crude Ac Arg Pro Asp Val D Tyr was chromatographed on a Sephadex SPC 25 column 2.5 cm x 100 cm equilibrated with 0.05 M NH₄OAc pH 4.5 . The flow rate was 61 ml hr and fractions of 12 ml tube were collected. The UV monitor was set at λ 277 nm. The desired product eluted between tubes 23 28. The fractions were pooled and lyophilized to yield 140 mg of peptide 25 percent peptide . Since repeated lyophilization of the purified Ac Arg Pro Asp Val D Tyr failed to increase the peptide content, a Sephadex G 10 column 2.5 cm x 100 cm was used to desalt the peptide. The column was equilibrated in H₂O and was run with a flow rate of 30 ml hr. Fractions of 10 ml tube were collected with the UV monitor set at 207 nm for detection of the product. The peptide eluted between fractions 21 37. These fractions were pooled and lyophilized to yield 130 mg of a very hygroscopic material 33 percent peptide . R Acid hydrolysis Asp, 0.99 Pro, 0.98 Val, 1.03 Tyr, 0.97 Arg, 1.02. The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with Boc Tyr BzlCl₂ resin ester 6.50 g, 0.32 meq g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once each with Boc Val, BOC Bzl The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 10 HOAc 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give the product as a colorless solid. The crude peptide was purified on QAE Sephadex 2.6x88cm column, 41, 0.05 to 0.3 The title compound was prepared as follows To 4.00 g TFA β Bzl Asp Val Tyr OBzl containing 15 percent excess TFA was added 40 ml methylene chloride and 40 ml saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The mixture was stirred vigorously, then the layers separated. The organic layer was extracted with bicarbonate solution, then dried. Solvent removal left a white solid. This material was dissolved in 45 ml 8 1 CH₂Cl₂ DMF. To the solution was added 1.08 g N t butyloxycarbonyl D Proline Peninsula and 0.1 g 1 hydroxybenzotriazole. The solution was chilled in an ice bath and 1.03 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide was added. The mixture was stirred in the ice bath for 90 minutes and 90 minutes at ambient temperature. The precipitate was filtered. The filtrate was extracted with 10 percent citric acid solution, water and saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. Solvent removal left a glass which was crystallized from ethyl acetatehexane. The product weighed 3.33 g, m.p. 82 88 C d . To 3.31 g of the above protected tetrapeptide was added 40 ml 50 percent trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride. After stirring 30 min, the solvent was evaporated and ether added to the residue. The solid product was dissolved in ethyl acetate with addition of a small amount of methanol. The solution was extracted twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The solid from removal of the solvent from the organic layer was dissolved in 10 ml DMF and added to a solution of 2.77 g tribenzyloxycarbonyl arginine Bachem in 5 ml DMF. The solution was chilled in an ice bath and 0.66 g 1 hydroxybenzotriazole was added, followed by 0.89 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours. Most of the solvent was removed with vacuum. Ethyl acetate was added to the residue and the insolubles filtered. The filtrate was extracted with 10 percent citric acid solution and twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. Drying and solvent removal produced a thick oil product. This material was chromatographed on silica gel 60 with a gradient of 3 10 percent methanol in methylene chloride. A colorless glass product was obtained weighing 4.14 g. A 1.66 g portion of the protected pentapeptide was hydrogenated with 1 ml formic acid in 29 ml methanol over 0.5 g palladium black. After 4 hours of vigorous stirring, the catalyst was filtered and the solvent removed from the filtrate by rotary evaporation. The residue was dissolved in 5 percent aqueous acetic acid and lyophilized. The product weighed 889 mg. The peptide was purified by chromatography on a 2.6 x 95 cm column of DEAE Sephadex. Some material that did not dissolve in 0.25M NH₄HCO₃ pH 8.0 was filtered and the filtrate loaded unto the column. The column was eluted with this buffer at 100 ml hour, collecting 10 ml fractions. The major component was collected in fractions 142 156. The lyophilized product weighs 634 mg. Asp, 0.99 Pro, 0.98 Val, 1.01 Tyr, 1.00 Arg, 1.03 94 percent peptide. The title compound was prepared as follows The title compound was prepared, by the solid phase method, starting with BOC Tyr BzlCl₂ resin ester 0.32 meq g, 3.2 g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Ala, BOC The resin was cleaved with HF anisole 40 ml 10 ml for 1 h at O C. The resin residue was quenched with Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted in 100 ml 10 percent HOAc for 1 h, filtered and the filtrate lyophilized to give crude product 1.08 g. The crude peptide was purified on a DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 90 cm column, 0.1 The title product was prepared as follows The free amine was obtained from 2.10 g β Bzl Asp Val TyrOBzl trifluoroacetate by neutralization with aqueous base and extraction into ethyl acetate. Solvent removal gave 1.90g solid which was dissolved in 25ml methylene chloride with the addition of 0.49g 1 hydroxybenzotriazole in 5ml DMF. The solution was chilled to 5 and 0.65g N t butyloxycarbonyl α aminoisobutyric acid was added, followed by 0.66g dicylohexylcarbodiimide. The mixture was stirred at 5 C thirty minutes, then let stand at ambient temperature 16 hours. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate extracted with water, then diluted with methylene chloride and extracted twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. After drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate, solvent removal left an oil which was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 60 eluted first with 1 percent methanol in methylene chloride, then 5 percent MeOH CH₂Cl₂. The major product, a colorless glass, weighed 1.75 g. To 1.75 g BOC Aib β Bzl Asp Val TyrOBzl was added 25 ml 4.5N HCl in dioxane and the solution was stirred 50 minutes. The volume was reduced by rotary evaporation and ether was added to the residue. The precipitate was filtered and washed with ether. The free amine was obtained from the salt by neutralization with aqueous base and extraction into methylene chloride. Solvent removal left 1.36g colorless glass. The tetrapeptide was dissolved in 10ml methylene chloride and added to a solution of 1.27g N The 1.75g protected pentapeptide was hydrogenated with 0.28 MPa 40 psi hydrogen over 10 percent palladium on carbon, using 9 1 methanol 1N aqueous acetic acid as the solvent. After shaking 18 hours on a Parr apparatus, the mixture was filtered, and the catalyst was washed with water. The methanol was removed from the filtrate with reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with 5 percent acetic acid and lyophilized. The product weighed 687 mg. The peptide was purified by chromatography on a 2.6 x 90 cm column of SP Sephadex eluted with 0.10 N ammonium acetate pH 5. Some material that was insoluble in this buffer was filtered before loading the solution onto the column. The major component eluted in fractions 70 92 10ml each . The HPLC pure fractions, 78 92, were combined and lyophilized yielding 725 mg of the title compound. Asp, 0.99 Val, 1.01 Tyr, 1.00 Arg, 1.02 Aib, 1.01 57.7 percent peptide. The title compound was prepared as follows A 500 ml 3 necked round bottomed flask was fitted with a gas inlet tube and a dry ice cooled cold finger condenser with drying tube. The flask was charged with Boc Val Tyr OBzl 6.95 g, 14.8 mmol and Et₂O 250 ml . Methylamine To a stirred solution of 4.5 To a stirred solution of product B1 2.28 g, 6.91 mmol and Boc Bzl To a stirred solution of 4.5 To a stirred solution of product C1 2.31 g, 4.32 mmol and Boc Pro hydroxysuccinimide ester 1.35g, 4.32 mmol in DMF 10 ml was added NMM 0.55 ml . This solution was stirred 22 h and then quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCO₃. The solids were collected, washed with H₂O, 10 citric acid and H₂O. The light yellow solid was air dried and recrystallized from EtOAc to give product C 2.32 g, 77 . To a stirred solution of 4.5 M HCl. dioxane 5 ml was added product C 2.02 g, 2.90 mmol . A precipitate formed after about 10 min. After 1 h, the slurry was evaporated at reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in H₂O and lyophilized to give HCl Pro Bzl To a stirred solution of product D1 1.73 g, 2.74 mmol , BOC To a stirred solution of 4.5 M HCl in dioxane 5 ml was added product D2 1.92 g . After 1 h, the pasty reaction mixture was evaporated at reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in H₂O and lyophilized to give product D, 1.64 g, 92 . To a stirred solution of product D 1.61 g, 1.93 mmol and N acetoxy succinimide 0.33 g in DMF 5 ml was added DIEA 0.71 ml . After 3 h, the mixture was evaporated under reduced pressure. After treating the residue with H₂O and decanting, the resulting solid was dissolved in 50 aqueous HOAc 100 ml . After purging the solution with N₂, 0.5 g 10 Pd C was added and the mixture subjected to hydrogenation on a Parr apparatus 500 ml vessel, P The crude acetylated pentapeptide was initially purified on Sephadex SPC 25 2.6 x 85 cm column, 0.05 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with p methylbenzhydrylamine resin U.S. Biochemical 31578, 4.0 g, 0.25 meg g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Val, BOC Bzl The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 0.3 NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colorless solid, 378 mg. The crude peptide was first purified on SPC25 Sephadex 2.6x83cm column, 0.03 The lyophilate was re chromatographed on DEAE Sephedex 2.6 x 89 cm column, 0.03 The title peptide was synthesized by the solid phase method on a Beckman 990B Automatic Peptide Synthesizer. The synthesis was started with 4.00 g p methylbenzhydrylamine resin, substitution level 0.25 mmol per gram. Fifty per cent trifluoroacetic acid in methylene chloride was used in the deprotection step, 5 percent diisopropylethylamine in CH₂Cl₂ in the neutralization step, and DCC HOBt in the coupling step. The following amino acid derivatives were sequencially coupled to the resin BOC Tyr BrZ , BOC Val, BOC Asp β Bzl , BOC Pro, and BOC D Arg N The peptide was cleaved from the resin with 50 ml HF containing 5 ml m cresol at 0 C for one hour. After vacuum removal of the HF, the residue was washed with ethyl acetate and ether. The peptide was extracted with 100 ml 5 percent aqueous acetic acid. The extract was lyophilized, yielding 658 mg crude peptide. The peptide was purified by chromatographing twice on ion exchange resin. The first elution was on a 2.6x100 cm column of DEAE Sephadex with 0.05 M NH₄HCO₃ pH 8.0. Fractions 57 66 10 ml each were combined and lyophilized. The 572 mg product was loaded onto 2.6x90 cm column of SP Sephadex and eluted with 0.02 M NH₄OAc pH 4.6. Fractions of 7.5 ml were collected. The major peak was divided into three cuts fractions 190 215, 216 240, and 241 285. The lyophilized yield and purity HPLC of these cuts were 48 mg 98.8 percent , 107 mg 98.4 percent , 232 mg 97.3 percent . Asp, 0.99 Pro, 1.02 Val, 1.03 Tyr, 0.96 Arg, 1.01 80.5 percent peptide The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with p methylbenzhydrylamine resin U.S. Biochemical 31578, 6.83 g, 0.3 meq g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Val, BOC Bzl The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colorless solid, 425 mg. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6x85cm column, 0.03 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method as described in Example XVIII. The remaining resin was washed, air dried and cleaved in HF anisole 30ml 8ml for 1 h at O C. The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 10 HOAc 100 ml filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colorless solid, 385 mg. The crude peptide was purified on CM Sephadex 2.6x80cm column, 21 0.10 Fractions 62 99 were pooled and lyophilized to give the title compound, 435 ml, 50 yield. The title compound was prepared as follows 3,4 dehydro Pro 200 mg 1.76 mmoles was dissolved in dioxane H₂O 8 ml 2 1 . To this solution, 1 N NaOH 1.8 ml and di t butyldicarbonate 436 mg 2 mmoles were added at O C with stirring. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature overnight. Dioxane was removed and to the remaining water phase, ethyl acetate 20 ml was added. The mixture was cooled in an ice bath, acidified to pH 2.0 with 0.5 N HCl and transferred into separation funnel. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted twice with EtOAc 2 x 20 ml . The combined organic phase was dried over Na₂SO₄ and filtered. The solvent was removed and the remaining residue was dried and used without further purification. The peptide was synthesized on a p methyl benzhydrylamine resin 2 g resin substitution of 0.25 mmoles of NH₂ of g resin by solid phase method. The incorporation of BOC Tyr Bzl , BOC Val, BOC 3,4 dehydro Pro and Aoc Arg Tos was carried out via DCC coupling. The coupling was monitored by qualitative ninhydrin test. The acetylation of arginine was carried out with 50 percent acetic anhydride pyridine 15 ml and DMAP 15 mg . The peptidyl resin was then washed thoroughly with DMF and CH₂Cl₂ and dried. The dried peptidyl resin 2 g was cleaved with HF anisole 20 ml 9 1 at O C for 1 h. The peptide resin mixture was washed with ether 3 x 20 ml . After lyophilization, the peptide was applied onto a Sephadex SPC 25 column 50 cm x 0.9 cm and equilibrated with 0.02 M NH₄OAc pH 4.6. The flow rate was 80 ml hr and fractions of 12 ml were collected. The product was eluted between tubes 22 39, which were pooled and lyophilized. The lyophilized material was purified again on Sephadex SPC 25 column 60 cm x 2.5 cm equilibrated with 0.02 M NH₄OAc pH 4.5 6.8 under the same condition as described above. The peptide was eluted between tubes 55 75, which were pooled and lyophilized to give 80 mg of the title product. Asp, 1.04 Val, 1.00 Tyr, 0.85, Arg, 0.96 3,4 dehydro Pro, 1.08 Peptide content 72 percent hygroscopic material 3,4 dehydro Pro eluted next to Asp residue in the Analysis and has a very low KF value. The title compound was prepared as follows To a solution of HCl Pro Asp OBzl Val Tyr NH₂ 0.5 g 0.7 mmoles in DMF 15 ml , DIEA 0.14 ml 0.7 mmoles and Z Arg Z,Z ONp 0.7 g 1 mmoles were added at 0 C with stirring. The mixture was stirred at room temperature over weekend. The solvent was removed on rotavapor. The residue was triturated with ether and filtered. The solid was recrystallized from CH₃OH and CH₂Cl₂ ether pet ether mixture to give 0.59 g of product Rf 0.78 n BuOH HOAc H₂O 3 1 1 Silica Gel 200 microns ¹H NMR DMSO d₆ indicated the presence of Z Arg Z,Z moeity. Z Arg Z,Z Pro Asp OBzl Val Tyr NH₂ 0.5 g was hydrogenated with Pd black 0.5 g and ammonium formate 0.5 g in CH₃OH 40 ml overnight. The catalyst was filtered and the filtrate was removed on rotary evaporator. The residue was dissolved in H₂O and lyophilized. The crude peptide was then placed on a Sephadex DEAE column 60 cm x 2.5 cm and eluted with 0.01 M NH₄HCO₃ pH 7.9. The flow rate was 90 ml hr and fractions of 10 ml were collected. The peptide was eluted between tubes 17 29, which were pooled and lyophilized to give 290 mg of the title product. Arg, 1.01 Pro, 1.01 Asp, 1.00 Val, 1.01 Tyr, 0.97 Peptide Content 71 percent The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with Boc BrZ Tyr benzyl ester resin 4.56 g, 0.44 meq g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once each with Boc Val, Boc Bzl After deprotection, the resin peptide was acylated once with 10 Ac₂O in 1 1 DMF CH₂Cl₂ 20 ml and DMAP 300 mg for 60 min. The resin was washed, air dried and cleaved in HF anisole 30 ml 8 ml for 60 min at O C. The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colored solid, 600 mg. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 86 cm column, 0.15 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with Boc Bzl In sequence, the resin was coupled once with Boc Cle via procedure 1, Z₃ Arg ONp via procedure 3, recoupling once with Aoc The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 1 NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, adjusted to pH 6 with HOAc and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colorless solid, 720 mg. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6 x 85 cm column, 0.12 The title compound was prepared by the solid phase method, starting with p methylbenzhydrylamine resin U.S. Biochemical 31578, 4.2 g, 0.25 meq g . The following standard routines were used In sequence, the resin was coupled once with BOC Gly, BOC Tyr BrZ , BOC Val, BOC Bzl The resin residue was quenched in Et₂O and filtered. The solids were extracted with 0.3 NH₄OH 100 ml for 1 h, filtered, and the extract lyophilized to give crude peptide as a colorless solid, 720 mg. The crude peptide was purified on DEAE Sephadex 2.6x89cm column, 0.03 Following peptide preparation methods similar to those employed in Examples I XXIV, there were prepared the following Prothymocytes Thy 1 and pro Lyb 2 cells were co enriched from B6 lyb 2.1 congenic mouse spleen by BSA density gradient centrifugation Pathocyte 5, Miles Laboratories, lot 35, 1 ml of 35 29 26 23 18 12 . The 26 23 and 23 28 interface layers were combined, and Thy 1 and Lyb 2 cells removed by reaction with monoclonal Thy 1.2 and Lyb 2.1 antibodies and adherence to plates coated with affinity purified rabbit anti mouse F ab ₂. The washed non adherent cells were used for both assays. This starting population contains 30 40 prothymocytes and 30 40 pro Lyb 2 cells known to represent separate committed precursor populations . Five x 10⁶ cells 0.5 ml RPMI 1640 were incubated in 5 ml plastic tubes with equal volumes of inducer in serial dilution in RPMI 1640 in a humidified 5 CO₂ atmosphere for 3 hrs. The cells were then assayed separately for Thy 1 and Lyb 2.1 expression with monoclonal antibodies in optimal concentration by the Protein A SRBC method of Scheid and Triglia, Immunogenet., Membrane glycoproteins were prepared by a modification of the technique of Hedo, Wheat germ agglutinin or ricinus communis agglutinin I was used for purification of the receptor protein. All lectin beads were stored at 4 C with their corresponding monosaccharide inhibitors 300 mM . For each purification 2 ml of lectin agarose was packed into a 1 cm diameter column and washed at room temperature with 25 ml of 0.15 M NaCl, 50 mM Hepes, 0.1 percent Triton X 1 and 0.01 percent SDS, pH 7.8. The columns were washed with 200 ml of 0.15 M NaCl, 50 mM Hepes and 0.1 percent Triton X 100, pH 7.8, followed by a final wash of this buffer containing 10 mM MgSO₄. PMSF 1 mM was added to all the buffer systems. Solubilized membrane proteins 10 mg were recycled five times through individual columns. The column was then washed with 100 ml of 0.15 M NaCl, 50 mM Hepes, 10 mM MgSO and 0.1 percent Triton X 100, pH 7.8, at 4 C. Monosaccharide inhibitors, at a concentration of 400 mM in 3 ml washing buffer, were used for individual column elutions N acetyl glucosamine for wheat germ agglutinin and β methyl D galactoside for ricinus communis agglutinin I. The monosaccharides were applied to the column, which was stopped for 30 40 min to permit equilibration and then eluted further. The protein eluate was dialyzed against 500 ml of 50 mM Hepes, 10 mM MgSO₄ and 0.1 percent Triton X 100, pH 7.8, at 4 C. The iodinated peptide was dissolved in water and treated with 2 pyridinethiol 1 oxide 10 1 moles for 5 h at room temperature to remove the protecting groups. The labelled peptide was purified on a Biogel P 10 column. Three radioactive peaks were obtained, the first two of which were immunoactive with rabbit anti thymopoietin antibody. The first peak was then applied to a 1 x 60 cm column of DEAE Sephadex A 25 that had been equilibrated with 50 mM Tris buffer, pH 7.0. The iodination mixture was eluted with this buffer using a linear gradient of increasing ionic strength from the equilibration concentration up to 1.0 M. The radioactivity of each fraction was determined using an LKB 1280 Ultra gamma spectrometer. Fractions with peak radioactivity from each purification scheme were analyzed for binding with excess anti thymopoietin antibody. Fractions from peak II fractions 35 45 of the DEAE Sephedex A 25 column showed the highest specific binding and were used subsequently in the radioreceptor assay. Iodinated thymopoietin retained biological activity as determined by assessing its effect in a neuromuscular assay Goldstein, Nature, The radioactivity in the precipitate in the presence of 1 mg ml nonradioactive thymopoietin was taken to represent nonspecific binding. TCA was added to the supernatant final concentration 5 percent and precipitable radioactivity was measured. At all times this exceeded 95 percent, indicating minimal release of free ¹²⁵I from the tracer. For comparison, other peptides such as insulin, glucagon, growth hormone, somatostatin, β endorphin, FTS, ACTH, CRF, and ubiquitin caused no detectable displacement. The above Examples have been provided to illustrate the subject invention but not to limit its scope, which scope is set out only in the appended claims.