# Synergistic herbicidal composition.

## Abstract
Synergistic herbicidal activity is demonstrated by composi tion comprising the following two components a an herbicidally effective amount of N phosphonomethyl glycine and agriculturally acceptable salts thereof and b an an herbicidally effective amount of an aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester of the formula

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A synergistic herbicidal composition comprising a mixture a an herbi cidally effective amount of N phosphonomethylglycine or an agriculturally acceptable salt thereof and b an herbicidally effective amount of an aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester of the formula EMI10.1 wherein A is CH or nitrogen, Y is hydrogen or chlorine,Z is selected from a member of the group consisting ofEMI10.2 and R is hydrogen or a straight or branched chain lower alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 characterised in that the weight ratio of N phosphonomethylglycine or salt thereof aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester is from 0.01 1 to 50 1, preferably 0.05 1 to 32 1, and in particular 0.1 1 to 20 1. 3. A composition as claimed in claim 2 characterised in that said weight ratio is from 1 1 to 10 1. 4. A composition as claimed in claim 3 characterised in that said weight ratio is from 8 1 to 5 1, in particular 4 1 to 5 1. 5. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 charac tcriscd in that the agriculturally acceptable salt of N phosphonomethylglycine is the sulfonium salt and the aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester is 2 4 5trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, ethyl ester. 6. A composition as claimed in claim 5 characterised in that the weight ratio of the first to the second component is from 4 1 to 8 1. 7. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4 characterised in that the agriculturally acceptable salt of N phosphonomethylglycine is the sulfonium salt and the aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester is 2 4 5 tri fluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenoxyj pentanoic acid, methyl ester. 8. A composition as claimed in claim 7 characterised in that the weight ratio of the first to the second component is from 2 1 to 16 1, in particular from 8 1 to 4 1. 9. A method of controlling undesirable vegetation which comprises applying to the locus where control is desired an herbicidally effective amount of a synergistic herbicidal composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8.

## Description
SYNERGISTIC HERBICIDAL COMPOSITIONS Background of the Invention The protection of crops frcm weeds and other vegetation which inhibit crop growth by consuming valuable acreage or soil nutrients is a constantly recurring problem in agriculture. Tb help combat this problem, researchers in the field of synthetic chemistry have produced an extensive variety of chemicals and chemical formulations effective in the control of such unwanted growth. Chemical herbicides of many types have been disclosed in the literature and a large number are in commercial use. In many cases, active herbicides have been shown to be more effective in combination than when applied individx y. The result is often termed wsynergism, since the oombination demonstrates a potency or activity level exceeding that which might be expected fran a mere addition of the individual potencies of the components. The present invention resides in the discovery that two classes of compounds already known individually for their herbicidal potency display this synergistic effect when applied in combination. Prior Art The two classes of herbicides forming the combination which is the subject of the present invention are both known in the art of chemical herbicides for their activity independent of each other. One herbicide compound, which has been found to be biodegradable, yet which is effective as a herbicide and plant growth regulator when employed at lower rates, is N phosphonomethylglycine and various salts thereof. The N phosphonomethylglycine and agriculturally effective salts have been approved for use by the U.S. Government, and, as a consequence, this herbicide has become oommercially successful. me N phosphonomethylglycine and certain salts are effective and approved post emergence herbicides in the field. The present commercial compound is the isopropylamine salt of N phosphonomethylqlycine and derivatives thereof. The N phosphonomethylqlycines, and certain soluble salts thereof, can be made in a number of different ways. One such method, as described in U.S. Patent 3,160,632 Toy et al., December 8, 1964 is to react N phosphinomethylglycine glycinemethylenephosphinic acid with mercuric chloride in a water solvent at reflux temperature, and subsequently separating the reaction products. Other methods include the phosphonanethylation of qlycine and the reaction of ethyl glycinate with formaldehyde and diethylphosphite. The latter method is described in U.S.Patent No. 3,799,758 Franz, March 26, 1974 . In addition, there is a whole series of patents, relating to N phosphonomethylqlycines, their salts, and derivatives thereof, described as being useful herbicides and plant growth regulators. Such additional patents relating to the N phos phonanethylglycines, methods of application, methods of preparation, salts, and derivatives, include U.S. Patent 3,868,407, U.S. Patent 4,197,254, and U.S. Patent 4,199,354, among others. U.S. Patents 4,315,765 and 4,376,644 disclose sulfoniun salts of N phcsphononethylglycine as effective herbicides. These are especially preferred for use in this invention. The second class of capoonds used in conjunction with the phos phonomethylglycines to form the synergistic herbicidal compositions of the invention are known as aryloxypbenoxy pentanoic acid esters. Representative ones of these compounds are disclosed in U.S.Patent Spplication Serial Nos. 299, 413 and 379,609, as well as U.S.Patents 4,163,661, 4,134,751, and German Patent 2,812,571, among others.The aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid esters are known to have particularly good herbicidal activity against grasses when used in a post emergent treatment method. Description of the Invention It has now been discovered that synerqism in the control of undesired vegetation is exhibited by herbicidal compositions cortrising the following to ccTponents a N phosphonamethylglycine and agriculturally acceptable salts thereof and b an aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester of the formulaEMI3.1 wherein A is CH or nitrogen, Y is hydrogen or chlorine, Z is selected from a member of the group consisting ofEMI3.2 and R is hydrogen or a straight or branched chain lower alkyl group having from 1 to 4 carbon atones. The preferred N phosphonomethylglcyine compounds for use in the practice of the invention include the isooropyl salt of N phosohonamethyl glcyine, and the trialkylsulfonium salts of N phosphonomethylglycine as disclosed in U.S. Patent 4,315,765, assigned to the Stauffer Chemical Company. The preferred aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid esters for use in the practice of the invention include those compounds described and claimed in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos. 379,609, filed May 19, 1982, and 486,730 and 486,750, both filed April 20, 1983. The Dst preferred esters are 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 3 chloro 2 pyridyloxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, ethyl ester, 2 4 5 trifluoro methyl 3 chloro 2 pyridyloxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, methyl ester, 2 4 5 trifluoramethyl 2 phenoxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, ethyl ester, and 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 phenoxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, butyl ester. A herbicide , as the term is used herein, is a compound which controls or modifies the growth of plants. The term herbicidally effective amount is used to indicate any quantity of such a compound which is capable of producing such an effect. Controlling or modifying effects include all deviations from natural development, for example, killing, retardation, defoliation, desiccation, regulation, stunting, tillering, leaf burn, dwarfing and the like. The term plants is used to include germinating seeds, emerqing seedlings, and established vegetation, including roots and above ground portions. The term synergismt is employed in its traditional sense and describes the result obtained when the herbicidal effect of a composition containing two or more active herbicidal compounds is greater than the sum of the herbicidal effects of the ccWFc nds when used alone. In the oompositions of this invention, the N phosphonamethyl glycine aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid ester weight ratio lies within the following approximate limits, in order of increasing preference 0.01 1 to 50 1 0.05 1 to 32 1 0.1 1 to 20 1 and 1 1 to 10 1. hpplication rates will depend upon the weeds to be controlled and the degree of control desired. In general, the compositions of this invention are most efficiently employed at a rate of 0.01 to 50 pounds per acre 0.011 to 56 kilograms per hectare of the active ingredients, preferably 0.1 to 25 pounds per acre 0.11 to 28 kilograms per hectare . Herbicidal aampositions illustrative of those embodied in the instant application were prepared and evaluated for synergistic herbicidal effect. The results are shown in the following extles. SAMPLE 1 Berbicidal Activity Tests This example offers herbicidal activity test data to show the synergistic effectiveness of the canpounds of the invention. The effect is observed by comparing the extent of weed control in test flats treated with the herbicide aambinations of the invention against that occurring in similar control flats of the aampounds individually. The soil used in these tests was a sandy loan soil fran the Livermore, Ca. area. Also added to the soil was 17 17 17 fertilizer N P2O5 K2O on a weight basis , amounting to 50 ppn by weight with respect to the soil, and 100 ppm Captan, a soil fungicide. The treated soil was then placed in plastic tubs which were 6 inches in diameter and 5 inches deep. The soil was leveled. The test weeds were as follows COMMON NAME SCIENTIFIC NAME A. johnsongrass Sorghum halepense B. bermudagrass Cynodon dactylon C. purple nutsedge Cyperus rotundus Sufficient rhizomes, stolons or tubers were planted to produce several plants per tub. The tubs were then placed in a qreenhouse maintained at 70 to 800F 21 to 270C and the plants were watered daily by a sprinkler. A stock solution of the technical herbicides is prepared by weighing the desired amount of the technical and dissolving in 20 q of acetone containing 1 Tween 209 polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate , and then adding 20 g of water to the resulting solution. Stock solutions of the formulated herbicides are prepared by weighing the desired amount of each herbicide and then adding enough water until 40 q of solution is obtained. Various rates, either alone or in canbinations, were achieved by measuring and dispensing appropriate amounts of the stock solution in 2 ounce bottles and adding enough water until 40 ml of the spray solution is obtained. Chemical application is made at 25 gallon acre, five to six weeks after planting. Approximately 28 days after treatment, the degree of weed control was estimated and recorded as percentage control compared to the growth of the same species in an untreated check flat of the same age.The rating scale ranges from 0 to 100 , where 0 equals no effect with plant growth equal to the untreated control, and 100 equals complete kill. The results of these tests are listed in Table I below. Synergism is determined on the basis of Limpel s formula Limpel et al., 1962, Weed Control by Dimethylchloroterephthalate Alone and in Certain Combina tions, Proc. NEWCC, Viol. 16, pp. 48 53 XY E X Y 100 where X observed percent injury when one of the herbi cides is used alone, and Y observed percent injury when the other herbicide is used alone. A single asterisk is used to indicate the tests where the results show synergism, i.e., where the observed result exceeds the expected result. TABLE I HERBICIDE TEST RESULTSCompound Application Rate Purple Number Rate lb X Johnsongrass Bermudagrass Rate lb s Nubsedge 1 1 8 1 8 80 75 3 8 1,8 35 2 3 16 1 16 75 65 1 2 1 2 50 1 1 8 1 8 93 98 3 8 1 8 50 3 3 16 1 16 90 93 1 2 1 2 70 1 1,8 1,8 100 95 3 8 1 8 55 4 3 16 1 16 95 90 1 2 1 2 85 1 1 8 1,8 80 99 3 8 1,8 30 5 3 16 1 16 80 75 1 2 1 2 80 1 1 8 15 0 3 8 35 3 16 75 10 1 2 65 1 4 100 40 1 95 1 2 100 90 2 1 4 93 100 1 0 3 1 4 95 100 1 0 4 1 4 100 100 1 0 5 1 4 95 98 1 0 1. sulfonitin salt of N phosphonomethylglycine.2. 2 4 5 trifluomnethyl 2 phenoxy phenoxyl pentanoic acid, ethyl ester 3. 2 4 5 trifluarcrmethyl 3 chloro 2 Wridyloxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, ethyl ester 4. 2 4 5 trifluoromethyl 2 pyridyloxy phenoxy pentanoic acid, methyl ester 5. 2 4 5 tflfluoranethyl 2phenoxy pehnoxy pentanoic acid, ethyl esterAll ratinqs are an average of to replications. It is seen from the Table above that syneraistic activity exists between N phosphonomethylglycine tyFe herbicides and the aryloxyphenoxy pentanoic acid esters as described herein. The compositions of the present invention are useful as herbicides in controlling the growth of undesirable vegetation by preenergence or post emergence application to the locus where control is desired, including pre plant and postplant soil incorporation as well as surface application. The compositions are generally embodied in formulations suitable for convenient application. In general, such formulations will contain inert or occasionally active ingredients or diluent carriers in addition to the active oompound. Examples of such ingredients or carriers are water, organic solvents, dust carriers, granular carriers, surface active agents, oil and water, water in oil emulsions, wetting agents, dispersing agents, and emulsifying agents.The herbicidal formulations generally take the form of dusts, wettable powders, granules, solutions, or emulsifiable concentrates. Dusts are free flowing powder oompositions containing the herbi cidal compound inpregnated on a particulate carrier. The particle si of the carrier is usually in the range of from about 30 to 50 microns. Exams ples of suitable carriers are talc, bentonite, diatoeaceous earth, and pyrophyllite. Anticaning and antistatic agents can be added, if desired.The conposition generally contains up to 50 of active ingredient. Wettable powders are finely divided oompositions comprising a particulate carrier impregnated with the herbicidal ccrpound and additionally containing one or more surface active agents. The surface active agent pranotes rapid dispersion of the powder in aqueous medium to form stable, sprayable suspensions. A wide variety of surface active agents can be used, for example, long chain fatty aloobols and alkali metal salts of the sulfated fatty alcohols salts of sulfonic acid esters of lons chain fatty acids and polyhydric alcohols, in which the alcohol groups are free, omega substituted polyethylene glycols of relatively long chain length. A list of surface active agents suitable for use in agriculture formulations can be found in Pesticide Formulations by Wade VanValkenburg, Marcel Decker, Inc., N.Y., 1972 at pages 79 84. Granules comprise the herbicidal composition impreqnated on a particulate inert carrier having a particle size of about 1 to about 2 millimeters in diameter. The granules can be made by spraying a solution of the active ingredient in a volatile solvent onto the granular carrier.Suitable carriers in preparation of granules include clay, vermiculite, sawdust, granular carbon, and the like. The herbicidal compositions can also be applied to the soil in the form of a solution in a suitable solvent. Solvents frequently used in herbicidal formulations include kerosene, fuel oil, xylene, petroleum fractions with boiling ranges above xylene, and aranatic petroleum fractions rich in methylated naphthalenes. Emulsifiable concentrates consist of an oil solution of the herbicide along with an emulsifyinq agent. Prior to use the concentrate is diluted with water to form a suspended emulsion of soil droplets. The emulsifiers used are usually a mixture of anionic and nonionic surfactants. Other additives such as spreading agents and stickers can be included in the emulsifiable concentrate. The formulations described above, employing phytotoxic or herbicidally effective amounts of the compositions described herein, are applied to the loci where control is desired in any conventional manner.The loci referred to above include soil, seeds, seedlings, and the actual plants, as well as flooded fields. Dusts and liquid compositions can be applied by the use of powder dusters, boan and hand sprayers and spray dusters. The compositions can also be applied frcm airplanes as dusts or sprays because they are effective in very low dosages. In order to modify or control growth of germinating seeds or emerging seedlings, as a typical example, the dust and liquid compositions are applied to the soil according to conventional methods and are distributed in the soil to a depth of at least one half inch below the soil surface. It is not necessary that the phytotoxic compositions be admixed with the soil particles.Instead, these compositions can be applied merely by sprayin3 or sprinkling the surface of the soil. The phytotoxic compositions of this invention can also be applied by addition to irrigation water supplied to the field to be treated. This method of application permits the penetration of the compositions into the soil as the water is absorbed therein. Dust eampo sitions, granular compositions or liquid formulations applied to the surface of the soil can be distributed below the surface of the soil by conventional means such as discing, dragging or mixing operations. The amount of a conposition of the present invention which con stitutes a phytotoxic or herbicidally effective amount depends upon the nature of the seeds or plants to be controlled. The rate of application of active ingredient varies from about 0.01 to about 50 pounds per acre, preferably about 0.1 to about 25 pounds per acre with the actual amount used depending on the overall oost and the desired result. It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that compcsitions exhibiting lower herbicidal activity will require a higher dosage rate for the same degree of control than mare active compounds.