# APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING PROFILING.

## Abstract
An apparatus for controlling profiling is improved so that it is possible to easily vary a reference displacement quantity during machining. A profiling calculation means 2 calculates a profiling rate and a profiling direction on the basis of a displacement quantity detected by a tracer head 1 and the output of an adding means 4 . A driving means 3 moves the tracer head 1 and a model relative to each other on the basis of the results of the calculation carried out by the calculation means 2 . The adding means 4 adds together a reference displacement quantity stored in memory 5 and a correction set by a correction setting means 6 and inputs the result of the addition to the profiling calculation means 2 .

## Claims
CLAIM Tracer control equipment by which a tracer head, which is fed together with a cutter for cutting a workpiece, is driven on the surface of a model relative thereto so that a displacement detected by the tracer head tracing the model surface may become equal to a reference displacement, characterized by the provision of a memory having stored therein the reference displacement, correction setting means for setting a correction for the reference displacement, adding means for adding together the correction set by the correction setting means and the reference displacement stored in the memory, trace calculating means for calculating the tracing speed and tracing direction of the tracer head relative to the model which make the result of addition by the adding means and the displacement detected by the tracer head rqual to each other, and drive means for driving the model and the tracer head relative to each other in accordance with the result of calculation by the trace calculating means.

## Description
S P E C I F I C A T I O P TRACER CONTROL EQUIPMENT TECHNICAL FIELD The present invention relates to improvement in or relating to tracer control equipment, and more particularly to tracer control equipment which permits an easy modification of a reference displacement during tracing. BACKGROUND ART In tracer control equipment of the type that performs tracer control through computing the tracing direction and the tracing speed on the basis of a displacement which is detected by a tracer head tracing the surface of a model, it is customary to employ different reference displacements for rough and finish machining, thereby reducing the cutting time and raising the cutting accuracy. Incidentally, the conventional tracer control equipment carries out such a change of the reference displacement, for example, in the following manner. That is, reference displacements for rough and finish machining are prestored in a memory and selectively used therefor. But this priot art example has the defect of involving such a cumbersome operation that when it is desired to change the reference displacement according to the cutting state during tracing, it is necessary to stop the tracing and to rewrite the reference displacement stored in the memory. DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION The present invention is intended to overcome the abovesaid derect, and has for its object allowing ease in changing the reference displacement. The present invention has an arrangement shown in Fig. 1. Trace calculating means 2 claculates such a tracing speed and a tracing direction that a displacement detected by a tracer head 1 tracing the surface of a model and a reference displacement provided from adding means 4 may become equal to each other, and drive means 3 moves the tracer head 1 and the model relative to each other on the basis of the result of calculation by the trace calculating means 2. The adding means 4 adds together a reference displacement stored in a memory 5 and a correction set by correction setting means 6, and applies the added output to the tracecalculating means 2. Accordingly, the reference displacement can easily be changed. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a diagram showing the arrangement of the present invention Fig. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the present invention and Fig. 3 is a flowchart showing the operation of a processing unit 18. BEST MODE FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVEVTION For facilitating a better understanding of the present invention, its embodiment will be described in detail. Fig. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment of the present invention. Reference numeral 7 indicates a tracer head, 8 a stylus, 9 a displacement calculation circuit, 10 an indexing circuit, 11 an adder, 12 and 13 velocity component calculating circuits, 14 a distribution circuit, 15 a gate circuit, 16X, 16Y and 16Z amplifiers, 17X, 17Y and 17Z motors, 18 a processing unit formed by a microprocessor or the like, 19 an data output port, 20 a D A converter, 21 a control program memory, 22 a data memory, 23 a data input port, 24 a keyboard and 25 a correction setting circuit. The displacement calculation circuit 9 produces a composite displacement,EMI3.1 based on displacements and Ez of the stylus 8 in the X , Y and Z aixs directions detected by the tracer head 7, and the indexing circuit 10 yields displacement direction signals sina and cosa. The adder 11 obtains a difference ssE between the composite displacementE from the displacement calculation circuit 9 and a reference displacement Eo provided via the D A converter 20, and provides the difference to the velocity component calculating circuits 12 and 13.Based on the abovesaid difference Ac, the velocity component calculating circuits 12 and 13 produce a normal velocity VN and a tangential velocity VT, respectively, and based on these velocities and the displacement direction signals sina and cosa, the distribution circuit 14 yields a velocity command signal. The velocity sommand signal is applied to the amplifier which is selected by the gate circuit 15, and the amplified output drives the corresponding motor, bodily feeding a cutter not shown and the stylus 8 Since the abovedescribed operation is well known, no further detailed description thereof will be given. The tracing operation ifi carried out in the manner described above. In the case where it is desired to change the reference displacement according to the cutting state during tracing, this embodiment changes the reference displacement following the flowchart shown in Fig. 3.A description will be given, with reference to Fig. 3, of the operation of this embodiment. The data memory 22 has prestored therein n reference displacements eN N 1,2, ...n , and when commanded to start tracing, the processing unit 18 sets in an execution area of the data memory 22 the reference displacement N specified by a control program stored in the control program memory 21 In this case, let it be assumed that the reference displacement cl has been specified. and then it reads thereinto via the data input port 23 a correction heN set in the correction setting circuit 25 In this case, let it be assumed that a correction BE, has been set. The correction setting circuit 25 is one that is able to set an arbitrary correction by dialling, for instance.Next, the processing unit 18 adds together the reference displacement EI1set in the execution area of the data memory 22 and the correctionAE1 read out of the correction setting circuit 25, and provides the result of addition, EO cl sl to the adder 11 via the data output port 19 and the D A converter 20. Next, the processing unit 18 judges whether a new reference displacement eN has been specified by the control program. When judging that no new reference displacement has been specified, the processing unit 18 reads thereinto, a certain period of time after outputting the abovesaid result of addition, c0 c1 hel the correction set in the correction setting circuit 25 In this case, let it be assumed that a correction Acl has been set. and comtutes and outputs c0 eel he1 When judging that a new reference displacement CN has been specified In this case, let it be assumed that the reference displacement E2 has been specified. , the processing unit 18 sets the newly specified reference displacement s2 in the execution area of the data memory 22, thereafter performing the same processing as described above. As described above, this embodiment adds together the reference displacement stored in the data memory 22 and the correction set in the correction setting circuit 25 and provides the result of addition, as a reference displacement signal, to the adder 11, and hence it permits an easy change of the reference displacement according to the cutting state. As has been described in the foregoing, since the present invention is provided with a memory having stored therein a reference displacement, correction setting circuit for setting a correction and adding means for adding together the reference displacement stored in the memory and the correction set by the correction setting means, the invention possesses the advantage of facilitating a change of the reference displacement according to the cutting state.