# IMPROVED POLY ARYL ETHER S

## Claims
1. Poly arylenether , der wiederkehrende Einheiten der folgenden Formel

## Description
This invention relates to poly aryl ether s which contain bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 oxyphenyl sulfone as a structural unit. The preparation and properties of poly aryl ether s, such as polysulfones are known in the art. R. N. Johnson, Polysulfones in the U.S. Patent No. 4,175,175 to Johnson et al., discloses the preparation of polyarylene polyethers from dihydric phenols and dihalobenzenoid compounds. The dihydric phenols include benzophenone, aromatic sulfones and aromatic ethers, all of which may be optionally alkyl substituted. U.S. Patent No. 4,008,203 to Jones discloses polysulfones that may contain aromatic ether linkages. These polymers are prepared by sulfonylation of aromatic ethers and aromatic thioethers with aromatic sulfonyl chlorides. None of the above references specify the preparation or properties of a poly arly ether prepared from monomers which include bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfone. This invention relates to poly aryl ether s containing recurring units of the following formula The polymers of this invention may be characterized as poly aryl ether s. They are generally prepared by reacting a dihydroxyphenol with an activated dihalo substituted aromatic compound. The essential feature of this invention is the requirement that at least 20 by weight of the polymer must be composed of the monomer Specifically, the poly arly ether s of this invention contain recurring units of the following formula and from 0 weight percent to 80 weight percent of repeating units II having the formula wherein Y is selected from alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, chlorine or bromine, each z, independently, has a value of from 0 to 4 inclusive, n has a value of 0 or 1, and R₁ is a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radical, particularly an alkylene or alkylidene radical having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms methylene, ethylene, propylene, butylene, pentylene, hexylene ethylidene, propylidene, butylidene, pentylidene, hexylidene or a cycloalkylidene or cycloalkylene radical having up to and including 9 carbon atoms, O, CO, SO₂, S or a direct bond, with the proviso that when R₁ is SO₂ then repeating unit II is not the same as repeating unit I , E is the residuum of a benzenoid compound having an inert electron withdrawing group in at least one of the positions ortho and para to the valence bonds both of said residua are valently bonded to the ether oxygens through aromatic carbon atoms. Suitable bisphenol compounds which give repeating units II having the formula described above, in addition to 2,2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane Bisphenol A and bis 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfone, include bis 4 hydroxyphenyl methane, 2,2 bis 4 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl propane, 4,4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl heptane, 2,2 bis 3,5 dichloro 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, 2,2 bis 3,5 dibromo 4 hydroxyphenyl propane, and bis 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl methane. Other bisphenol compounds are also available and are disclosed in U.S. Patents 2,999,835, 3,028,365 and 3,334,154. As herein used the E term defined as being the residuum of the dihydric phenol of course refers to the residue of the dihydric phenol after the removal of the two aromatic hydroxyl groups. Thus as is readily seen these poly aryl ether s contain recurring groups of the residuum of the dihydric phenol and the residuum of the benzeonid compound bonded through aromatic ether oxygen atom. Any dihalobenzenoid or dinitrobenzenoid compound or mixtures thereof can be employed in this invention which compound or compounds has the two halogens or nitro groups bonded to benzene rings having an electron withdrawing group in at least one of the positions ortho and para to the halogen or nitro group. The dihalobenzenoid or dinitrobenzenoid compound can be either mononuclear where the halogens or nitro groups are attached to the same benzenoid rings or polynuclear where they are attached to different benzenoid rings, as long as there is an activating electron withdrawing group in the ortho or para position of that benzenoid nucleus. Fluorine, chlorine and nitro substituted benzenoid reactants are preferred the fluorine and nitro compounds for fast reactivity and the chlorine compounds for their inexpensiveness. An electron withdrawing group can be employed as the activator group in these compounds. It should be, of course, inert under the reaction conditions, but otherwise its structure is not critical. Preferred are the strong activating groups such a the sulfone group Exemplary of suitable benzenoid compounds are the 4,4 dihalo substituted aromatic sulfones or benzophenones such as 4,4 dichlorodiphenyl sulfone, The polymers of this invention are formed by the reaction of the specified dihydric phenols with the specific dihalo substituted aromatic compounds in an anhydrous dipolar aprotic solvent in the presence of a strong base. Specifically the polymers are prepared by the substantially equimolar one step reaction of a double alkali metal salt of dihydric phenol with a dihalobenzenoid compound in the presence of specific liquid organic sulfoxide or sulfone solvents under substantially anhydrous conditions. Catalysts are not necessary for this reaction. The polymers may also be prepared in a two step process in which a dihydric phenol is first converted Additionally, the polymers may be prepared by the procedure described in, for example, U.S. Patent 4,176,222 in which a substantially equimolar mixture of at least one bisphenol and at least one dihalobenzenoid are heated at a temperature of from about 100 C to about 400 C with a mixture of sodium carbonate or bicarbonate and a second alkali metal carbonate or bicarbonate having a higher atomic number than that of sodium. Further, the polymers may be prepared by the procedure described in Canadian Patent 847,963 wherein the bisphenol and dihalobenzenoid compound are heated in the presence of potassium carbonate using a high boiling solvent such as diphenylsulfone. The polymerization reaction is performed under substantially anhydrous conditions so as to avoid side reactions that can be caused by the presence of water. Procedures for removing water from such a system are well known in the art and include treatment with a dehydrating agent such as a mineral salt that will take up the water or azeotropic techniques that will remove water from the reaction medium as an azeotrope. Alternatively the water can be sparged from the reaction media using an inert gas sparge e.g., nitrogen . U.S. Patent No. 4,339,568 describes azeotroping techniques that are useful in the practice of this invention to ensure that the reaction medium remains substantially anhydrous. An organic solvent is chosen as an azeotroping co solvent with the dipolar aprotic solvent. This azeotroping co solvent is one which is inert to the polymerizing reactants, but will form an azeotrope with water. The azeotroping co solvent is added to the reaction medium and is then continuously removed from the reaction medium by volatilizing the solvent as an azeotrope with water. Examples of suitable azeotroping co solvents include aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene and ethylbenzene and haloaromatics such as chlorobenzene and o dichlorobenzene. The dipolar aprotic solvents useful in the process of the instant invention are well known in the art. Exemplary of such solvents are dimethylsulfoxide DMS , dimethylformamide DMF , N methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP It is generally desirable to add a chain stopper to the reaction mixture when the desired degree of polymerization has been achieved. These chain stoppers are molecules which have only one site that is reactive in the polymerization reaction such that the chain stopper molecule becomes the terminal unit of the polymer. Examples of such chain stoppers include activated mono halo aromatic compounds, such as monochlorodiphenyl sulfone and monochlorobenzophenone, and simple The procedures described in U.S. Patent No. 4,339,568 and U.S. Patent No. 4,175,175 are especially useful in the practice of the instant invention to produce the polymers of the instant invention. The poly aryl ether s of the instant invention exhibit many improved properties including higher glass transition temperatures, increased flame resistance and greater gas permeability. The polymers of the instant invention also exhibit improved compatibility with other thermoplastic polymers in polymer alloys, i.e. the polymers of the instant invention may be advantageously alloyed with styrenic polymers, polycarbonates made from bisphenol A and other polyester carbonates, aromatic polyesters, polyarylates, poly ether imide s, and the like. A 500 milliliter flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer, a distillate trap, a thermocouple and a condenser was charged with 45.96 grams 0.15 moles of bis 3,5 dimethyl 4 hydroxyphenyl sulfone, 43.08 grams 0.15 moles of 4,4 dichlorodiphenyl sulfone, 21.86 grams 0.155 moles of potassium carbonate, 182.20 grams of sulfolane and 50 milliliters of chlorobenzene. The reaction mixture was heated under nitrogen to 225 C. In the process of heating, chlorobenzene was distilled along with water formed in the reaction. After 12 hours at 225 C, the reaction mixture was cooled and the polymer isolated by coagulation in water. The polymer was washed with water and then dried in a vacuum oven at 100 C. The polymer had a reduced viscosity of 0.64 dl g as measured in N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 0.2g 100 ml and exhibited excellent physical and mechanical properties. The following physical properties were determined 1 secant modulus according to ASTM D 638 tensile strength according to ASTM D 638 elongation at break according to ASTM D 638 and pendulum impact strength. Also, the glass transition temperature of the polymer was measured by resilience minimum as described in O. Olabisi et al, Polymer Polymer Miscibility, Academic press, New York, 1979, p. 126. The results are shown in the following Table.