# Novel applications of scleroglucane in the treatment of oil wells and oil drilling installations.

## Abstract
The invention relates to the use of polymers designated scleroglucane in particular as acid gelling agent, facturing fluid, agent for conveying propping agent or sand, comple tion fluid, pipe cleaning fluid, viscosifying agent, foam stabilizing agent. This is a remarkable set of properties.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Use of scleroglucan polymers as a visqueous solution for the treatment of gas or oil wells or of pipes conveying the fluids of oil industry., in order to maintain or modify the flow and drainage features of the fluids which are produced by said wells, injected into said wells, or conveyed by said pipes, wherein a useful amount of a visqueous solution of scleroglucan polymers is introduced into the said fluids as produced, injected or conveyed, said useful amount being determined with taking into account the strongly non newtonian feature of the scleroglucans rheology. 2. Use of claim 1 wherein the scleroglucan concentration is higher than 0.06 by weight. 3. Use of claim 1 wherein said solution is recovered after the well or pipe treatment. 4. Use of claim 3 wherein said solution is broken before being recovered. 5. Use of claim 1 wherein a useful amount of scleroglucan polymers as a visqueous solution is used as fluid for fracturing of subterranean formations suspending fluid for solid particles or air or gas bubbles acid gelling agent completion fluid namely viscosifying agent or fluid loss additive cleanout agent for pipes. 6. Use of claim 5 as fluid for fracturation. 7. Use of claim 5 as propping agent transportation fluid or fluid for sand injection. 8. Use of claim 5 as foam stabilizer. 9. Use of claim 5 as acid gelling agent, for an acid concentration up to 35 by weight and for a temperature up to 140OF when a 28 by weight acid is used. 10. Use of claim 5 as viscosifying agent and fluid loss additives in brines, namely in CaCl21CaBr2, KCl, NaCl and or ZnBr2 brines up to the saturation point. 11. Use of claim 1, wherein the scleroglucan polymers concentration lies between 0.24 to 1.2 by weight.

## Description
The present invention relates to uses of a known polymer, designated scleroglucane, in a sector for which numerous specific properties must be combined for on site implementation to be successful that of oil drilling. Scleroglucane belongs to a broader family designated polyglucosylglucanes . More precisely, the invention relates to the application of scleroglucanes in viscous solution for the operations of treatment of oil wells or pipelines, to maintain or provoke changes in natural characteristics of the drainage or flow mechanisms of the fluids produced by said wells or conveyed in said pipelines, after which said scleroglucane solution is recovered after treatment of the well or pipelines. The term scleroglucane designates a class of neutral polysaccharides composed of a straight chain of y3 D glucopyranosyl moeities with 1 ,3 bond comprisinq a ss D qlucopyranossl fixed inEMI1.1 tb 1 SEP 6 SEP tb position substantially every three moeities along the principal chain. AccompanyingFigure 1 shows the structural moeities of the scleroglucane. In fact, the number of side chains as well as the length of these side chains may vary to a certain extent as a function of the fungus used for the culture. For the structure of this class of products, reference may usefully be made toJOHNSON, Chem. Ind. 1965 820 and to SANDFORD,Adv. Carbohydr Chem. Biochem. 36 1979 , 265 313. Applications of these polymers have been discovered heretofore in the domain of paints U.S.Patent 3 447 940 , as source of gentobiosis U.S. 3 423 288 , in medicine U.S. 3 415 929 U.S. 3 421 920 and in the domain of enhanced oil recovery U.S. 4 347 146 U.S. 3 372 749 . Crude oil is recovered by injecting into the rock via a so called injection well a viscous solution, containing polymers for example, in order to displace the crude oil and recover it via a so called production well. It has now been discovered according to the invention that this class of polymers could very advantageously be used in quite different domains in the oil industry, which opens up a highly promising field of application. All the tests which are reported in the present specification have been made on samples of scleroglucane prepared by Ceca S.A., Velizy,France. This product is in the form of a white powder obtained by precipitation of the culture broth by alcohol after filtration to eliminate the mycelium. Rheology of the scleroglucane The rheological curve of the scleroglucane presents a Newtonian plateau with low shear rate then a region in which a power law clearly describes the rheological behaviour , this is followed by the starting point of a secondNewtonian plateau with high shear rate. The viscosity of the first plateau is very high in relationship with the concentration and elastic properties of the solution appear as will be specified hereinbelow. Consequently, the scleroglucane may be used as foam stabilizing agent. A remarkable stability of the properties of the scleroglucane as a function of the pH, up to values equal to 13, was firstly noted. AccompanyingFig. 2 shows the curve of the viscosity as a function of the shear rate, with the pH as parameter. The lines are identical up to about pH 12, where a sudden transition occurs. This transition is not reversible. This behaviour opens up the possibility of application of the scleroglucane as acid gelling agent. In this domain, xanthane is used at present, but with a double limitation 15 for acid and 140 150OF for temperature. AccompanyingFig. 13 shows the structure of xanthane gum. The scleroglucane, in the same application, makes it possible to render the acid viscous up to a concentration of 35 by weight when it is hydrochloric acid, in a temperature range going up to 1400F for a concentration of acid of 28 by weight. The acids such as hydrofluoric acid may also be rendered viscous by the scleroglucane. The scleroglucane will be used in this application at a rate of 1.2 to 12 g l, and preferably 2.4 4.8 g l. Table II hereinbelow gives reports of tests establishing the properties of the scleroglucane as acid gelling agents. Accompanying Fig. 3 shows the influence of the concentration of scleroglucane polymer, at 800F, on the viscosity curves, as a function of the shear rate. The lower the concentration of polymer, the more the Newtonian plateau appears for a high shear rate. Table I hereinbelow shows the variation of the slope n of the viscosity curve in the region of the power law, as a function of the concentration of scleroglucane polymer. The power law mentioned hereinabove makes it possible to characterize the fluid used according to the following formula t K nIn this expression, C and respectively represent the shear stress and he shear gradient. The scleroglucane may be used as agent for the transportation of propping agent the more n is low, the better are the properties of conveyance of solid particles . The scleroglucane may also be used for the injection of calibrated sand to form a natural filter use as gravel pack , the gel then being broken. An independence of the viscosity as a function of the temperature has also been noted.Accompanying Figs. 4 and 5 demonstrate this independence for two concentrations of polymer.This independence is checked from about 60 F to 2 7 OOF cf. accompanying Fig. 6 . At this latter temperature, a clear diminution of the viscosity is observed. At a temperature of about 86 F, a diminution of about 50 of the viscosity is observed cf. Fig. 6 . By way of comparison, a solution of guar gum cross linked wioth sodium borate presents a limit of use at 200 F. Taking the foregoing into account, the scleroglucane may advantageously be used as fracturing fluid. The scleroglucane also presents absolute independence of the viscosity as a function of salinity. In particular, the viscosity curve is not modified when sea water or a 1 KC1 solution is used. Furthermore, the presence of divalent cations has no influence on the behaviour of the scleroglucane solutions. Scleroglucane is the only fracturing fluid which does not need to be cross linked, is resistant to temperature and to salts, and presents good propping or consolidation agent conveying properties. The drilling and completion fluids used by the oil companies contain salts such as potassium, calcium, sodium chloride, zinc, calcium bromide, etc..., alone or in mixture, to increase their densities without having to introduce solid particles which might damage the rocks. The polymers generally used for rendering these fluids viscous are cellulosic derivatives such as hydroxyethylcellulose at concentrations which may go up to 60 g l and even 120 g l from 6 to 12 by weight . The scleroglucane renders viscous solutions of these salts up to saturation thereof, the concentration of polymer lying in a range of 0.6 to 12 g l 0.24 to 1.2 by weight and preferably 2.4 to 7.2 g l and the same properties of particle transportation and of filtration monitoring are then obtained.Better, it is unnecessary to modify the pH of these brines to obtain a good hydration of the scleroglucane, which is not the case of cellulosic derivatives. In fact, these brines have an acid pH which inhibits the hydration of the cellulosic derivatives. Two processes for obtaining the desired properties may be used either increase the concentration of polymer, or increase the pH of the solution to allow a good hydration of the polymer. However, in that case, an increase of the pH brings about a precipitation of the metal hydroxides, which damages the rocks treated. It has therefore been discovered that the scleroglucane might be used at low concentrations in very concentrated brines without losing its properties of viscosity, of particle conveyance, of filtration monitoring, and without risk of damaging the rocks. The basic polymer, for the fracturing fluids, is at present a hydroxypropylated guar gum. Accompanying Fig. 7 shows the influence of the concentration of guar gum G on the viscosity curve. The same viscosity for theNewtonian plateau is obtained at more than 9.6 g l 1 instead of only 2.4 g l 0.2 for the scleroglucane S . At the concentration of 2.4 g l, the scleroglucane presents a viscosity at the Newtonian plateau 1000 times greater than that of the hydroxypropylated guar gum. Moreover, the coefficient n is only 0.13 for the scleroglucane instead of 0.65 for the hydroxypropylated guar gum, at 80OF. The propping agent conveying properties of the scleroglucane are therefore much greater than those of the hydroxypropylated guar gum, even at high shear rates. Fig. 8 shows the influence of the temperature on the viscosity curve of the hydroxypropylated guar gum G and of the scleroglucane S .Viscoelasticity and suspension Table III hereinbelow shows the properties of viscoelasticity of the scleroglucane.These properties are quite remarkable. The scleroglucane is more elastic than the hydropropylated guar gum and xanthane. As to the properties of particle suspension in a scleroglucane solution, they have been determined on a solution at 4.8 g l 0.5 by weight of scleroglucane. The propping agent chosen for these tests was 40 60 bauxite at a concentration of 360 g l. The bauxite was mixed with the polymer solution in a Waring mixer for 2 minutes, then the whole was poured in a column of circular section of diameter 50 mm and 2 m in height. After 2 hrs., no sedimentation is observed. After 60 hrs. only 20 of sedimentation of the bauxite is observed. Other tests were carried out to compare scleroglucane, hydroxypropylated guar gum and a solution of hydroxypropylated guar gum cross linked with a titanium salt. At the concentration of 4 g l, with 300 g l of 40 60 bauxite, the propping agent immediately sediments in the guar gum solution, whilst no sedimentation of bauxite is observed in the scleroglucane solution nor in the cross linked solution. These remarkable suspending and transportation properties may also be advantageously used fot cleaning out debris products of oxidation, deposits, water, etc... which may be found in a pipeline for conveying oil or gas, or another fluid of the oil industry. For use as fracturing gel, for propping, or for injection of sand gravel pack , it is necessary to break the polymer solution in order to reduce its viscosity and to clean the well. The guar gum and its derivatives are generally broken by oxidizing agents such as persulfates, but leave solid residues which reduce the permeability of the fracture and therefore the productivity of the well. Table IV hereinbelow shows the results of the tests carried out on the scleroglucane. The fracturing agent used is ammonium persulfate. A decisive advantage of the scleroglucane is that it leaves no solid residue when broken. It is also possible to break the scleroglucane solution simply by raising the pH up to a value higher than 12 cf. Table V hereinbelow .Filtration through a rock Table VI hereinbelow gives the data concerning the filtrate and relative to the scleroglucane solutions. A comparison is given inTable VII with the filtrate properties of guar gum solutions. The filtration tests are carried out in accordance with standard API RP 39 StandardProcedures for evaluation of hydraulic fracturing2 fluids under a differential pressure of 70 kg cm. The volume of liquid filtered through the core sample is measured after 1, 4, 9, 16, 25 and 36 minutes, and is plotted on a curve as a function of the square root of the time. The slope of the straight line obtained makes it possible to have access to coefficient Cw coefficient of loss of fluid and the ordinate at the origin makes it possible to have access to the coefficient S SPURT . Other tests have been made to determine the aptitude of the scleroglucane solutions to develop their viscosity The tests were carried out at different pH s cf. Table VIII and the highest speed of hydration was observed in acid medium. It will therefore be advantageous to add an acid buffer in the scleroglucane solution in order to attain a high viscosity very quickly. Furthermore, even with very intense stirring, during mixing, the scleroglucane solutions do not tend to foam, contrarily to the other conventional polymers. It is also interesting to compare the scleroglucane with xanthane gum which is an anionic polysacaharide obtained by bacterial fermentation.As indicated hereinabove, accompanying Fig. 13 shows the structure of xanthane gum. A xanthane gum produced by the firm Kelco was used for the tests reported in the present specification. The properties of this gum are known and are as follows a viscosity which is relatively stable as a function of the salinity, the pH, the temperature and the shear stresses, and exceptional qualities of suspension. The properties of xanthane gum in this domain are recalled in accompanying Figs. 9 to 11 and compared with those of scleroglucane in accompanying Fig. 12 CS scleroglucane XA xanthane . It is observed that the scleroglucane presents a higher viscosity and a better value of the coefficient n , and therefore offers suspension properties even greater than those, which were already exceptional, of xanthane gum. Moreover, the rheology of the scleroglucane is less dependent on the temperature and the pH. The scleroglucane is also less sensitive to ions both concerning the nature of the ions and the concentration thereof than the xanthane gum. Furthermore, a shear test ras made of a scleroglucane solution under 1000 s for 3 hours, without any degradation due to the shear being observed. On reading the properties set forth hereinabove, it is therefore observed that the scleroglucane presents properties which render it suitable for use as basic fluid for treating oil wells and installations, which was not suggested by its heretofore known properties. A particularly surprizing aspect lies in the fact that the scleroglucane presents a very remarkable set of properties of which certain are superior to those of the best agents known. Thanks to all these advantageous properties of the scleroglucane, the concept and implementation of the treatments of oil wells or installations are considerably simplified. In fact, since the properties of the scleroglucane solutions do not vary with the temperature up to 275 OF , the pH, the salinity of the water or the shear mode and history , the concept of the treatments, whether they be operations of pipeline cleaning, of gravel pack or of injection of viscous solutions, acid or not, containing propping agents or not, to stimulate the wells, will be considerably simplified. In addition, the operator will be sure of having the exact property expected, which was not always the case with the other types of solutions of polymer, cross linked or not. Another important improvement, due to the use of this polymer, concerns implementation. This is also extremely simple as it is no longer necessary to check and adjust the pH, the salinity and the temperature of the mixing water precisely.Moreover, this product disperses easily and hydrates rapidly, which enables it to be used for discontinuous operations, i.e. the polymer solution is prepared and stored before use, or continuous operations, i.e. the solution is prepared at the same time as it is used. The fact that the scleroglucane solutions hydrate rapidly and have properties superior or at least equal to the conventional cross linked fluids therefore gives them a very clear operational advantage even over the continuous systems with rapid hydration speed systems based on guar gum, hydroxypropylated or not, cross linked wbth borax and applicable up to temperatures of 212 F . As to the systems cross linked by metal complexes application at high temperature , they must be necessarily mixed discontinuously and their implementation is delicate quality of the water, hydration time, monitoring of the viscosity of the solution, monitoring of the injection of the cross linking agent during the treatment,... . Moreover, all these cross linked polymer solutions are extremely sensitive to shear. As the scleroglucane solutions conserve the same properties up to a temperature of 275 OF and as the temperature of the rocks to be treated may very advantageously be lowered by injection of a certain sacrificial volume of water or polymer solution such as guar gum, hydroxypropylated or not, the scleroglucane solutions may also very advantageously replace the polymer systems, cross linked with metal ions for applications at high temperature. TABLE IEMI9.1 tb Concentration SEP of SEP T SEP Slope SEP n SEP of SEP the tb polymer SEP viscosity SEP curve tb SEP g l tb SEP 0.6 SEP 0.43 tb SEP 1.2 SEP 1 SEP 0.20 tb SEP 1.8 SEP µ SEP 0.13 tb SEP 2.4 SEP 1 SEP 0.13 tb SEP 3.6 SEP 0.10 tb SEP 4.8 SEP 0.15 tb TABLE IIAcid gelling properties of scleroglucane viscosity in cPs EMI10.1 tb Time SEP Concentration SEP of SEP polymer tb min SEP g l tb Solvent water tb with SEP 1 SEP SEP KCL tb 2.4 SEP 3.6 SEP 4.8 SEP 3.6 tb 5 SEP 19.8 SEP 27 SEP 33 SEP 28.8 tb 10 SEP 21 SEP 28.2 SEP 36 SEP 30.6 tb 15 SEP 22.2 SEP 30 SEP 38.4 SEP 32.1 tb 30 SEP 24 SEP 33 SEP 48 SEP 33.6 tb 60 SEP 24.1 SEP 33.0 SEP 47.9 SEP 33.6 tb Measurement with FANN 35 viscosimeter RI BI FO.2.combination shear rate 170 s l The acid used is hydrochloric acid 25 by weight , Temperature 800F. TABLE III 1 VISCOELASTIC PROPERTIES OF SCLEROGLUCANE AND OF HYDROXYPROPYLATED GUAR GUMEMI11.1 tb Concen tb tration tb of SEP 0.6 SEP 1.2 SEP 1.8 tb polymer tb g l tb Fre SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.0065 tb quency tb w SEP Hz tb tb degrees SEP 72.6 SEP 66.6 SEP 72.8 SEP 38.5 SEP 42.8 tb tb mPa.s SEP 125 SEP 77 SEP 1 SEP 820 SEP 260 SEP 4 SEP 450 tb G SEP Pa SEP 1.6 SEP 29 SEP 23 SEP 285 SEP 196 tb tb mPa.s SEP 131 SEP 84 SEP 1 SEP 910 SEP 415 SEP 6 SEP 550 tb SEP s SEP 7.3 SEP 0.45 SEP 7.2 SEP 0.9 SEP 18.0 tb SEP I SEP SCLEROGLUCANE SEP I tb Notes T 800F 1 KCl pH 5.6 angle of loss complex viscosity dynamic viscosity G modulus of elasticity A relaxation time TABLE III 2 followViscoelastic properties of scleroglucane and of hydroxypropylated guar gumEMI12.1 tb Concen tb tration tb of SEP 2.4 SEP 3.6 tb polymer tb Fre tb quency SEP 0 SEP 0065 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.14 tb w SEP Hz tb tb degrees SEP 42.0 SEP 16.7 SEP 46.9 SEP 16.9 tb tb mPa.s SEP 13 SEP 100 SEP 650 SEP 25 SEP 500 SEP 9 SEP 900 tb G Pa SEP 515 SEP 1900 SEP 970 SEP 5 SEP 300 tb tb mPa.s SEP 16 SEP 900 SEP 2250 SEP 34 SEP 900 SEP 3 SEP 400 tb SEP s SEP 18.2 SEP 1.1 SEP 16.7 SEP 0.6 tb SEP S SEP C SEP L SEP E SEP R SEP O SEP G SEP L SEP U SEP C SEP A SEP N SEP E tb Notes T 800F 1 KCl pH 5.6 angle of loss complex viscosity dynamic viscosity G modulus of elasticity relaxation time TABLE III 3 endViscoelastic properties of scleroglucane and of hydroxypropylated guar gumEMI13.1 tb Concen tb tration tb of SEP 4.8 SEP 4.8 tb polymer tb g l tb Fre tb quency SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.14 SEP 0.0065 SEP 0.14 tb w SEP Hz tb tb degrees SEP 43.2 SEP 20.9 SEP 86.4 SEP 80.6 tb tb mPa.s SEP 43 SEP 100 SEP 3 SEP 100 SEP 435 SEP 350 tb G SEP Pa SEP 1 SEP 870 SEP 7 SEP 120 SEP 2.0 SEP 51 tb tb mPa.s SEP 62 SEP 900 SEP 8 SEP 670 SEP 440 SEP 355 tb SEP s SEP SEP 17.8 SEP 1.0 SEP 2.8 SEP 0.2 tb SEP SCLEROGLUCANE SEP GUAR SEP GUM tb Notes T 800F 1 KCl pH 5.6 angle of loss complex viscosity dynamic viscosity G modulus of elasticity A relaxation time TABLE IVFRACTURING OF SCLEROGLUCANE SOLUTIONS BY OXIDIZING AGENT viscosity in cPs EMI14.1 tb h Fonce ntration SEP SEP T tb 1 SEP SEP of SEP oxi SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I tb I SEP SEP dizinglo.0l21 SEP 0.1210.241 SEP 0.481 SEP 0.61 SEP 1.21 tb ITime SEP SEP agent1 SEP I SEP g SEP I SEP 1 tb SEP 1 11 SEP I SEP I SEP 1 SEP I SEP I tb I SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP l SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I tb 1 SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I tb I SEP 0 SEP 1 SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 60 SEP 160 SEP 160 tb SEP I SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP I tb 1 SEP 3 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 157 SEP 157 SEP 1 tb I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP I tb 1 SEP 4 SEP 1 SEP SEP SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP I SEP I tb SEP I SEP I SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP 1 SEP I tb 1 SEP 7 SEP 1 SEP i SEP i SEP 60 SEP SEP 54 SEP 113.81 SEP 4.81 tb SEP I SEP I SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP I tb 1 SEP 24 SEP SEP 60 SEP 1 SEP 55.81 SEP 39 SEP l SEP 14.41 SEP 1 tb SEP I SEP 1 SEP I SEP I SEP I SEP 1 tb 1 SEP 48 SEP 1 SEP 58 SEP 1 SEP 54 SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP 4.81 SEP 4.21 tb SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP I tb I SEP 120 SEP 1 SEP 57 SEP 1 SEP 50.41 SEP 1 SEP 1 SEP 1 tb I SEP SEP I SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP 1 SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP SEP I SEP tb NotesConcentration of polymer 4.8 g lSolvent 1 KCL solutionT 150 FMeasurements in FANN viscosimeter, RI BI FO.2 combinationShear rate 170 s 1 TABLE VFRACTURING OF A SOLUTION OF SCLEROGLUCANE BY A BASEEMI15.1 tb pH SEP Viscosity tb SEP cP tb 5.5 SEP 43.2 tb 10 SEP 43.2 tb 11 SEP 43.2 tb 11.5 SEP 43.2 tb 12 SEP 37.2 tb 12.5 SEP 33.6 tb 12.8 SEP 27 tb 13 SEP 12.6 tb NotesConcentration of polymer 3.6 g lSolvent l KCl solutionT 80 FMeasurements with FANN 35 viscosimeter, RI BI FO.2 combinationShear rate 170 s l TABLE VIFILTRATION of SOLUTIONS of SCLEROGLUCANE Concentration in polymer 4.8 g lEMI16.1 tb Permeability SEP T SEP Silica SEP S SEP Cw SEP x SEP 1000 tb flour tb mD SEP F SEP g l SEP l mê tb 10.7 SEP 200 SEP 0.42 SEP 25 SEP 8.1 tb 10.7 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 16 SEP 1.5 tb 23 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 30 SEP 3.9 tb 10.9 SEP 220 SEP 1.8 SEP 18 SEP 2.3 tb Concentration of polymer 3.6 g lEMI16.2 tb Permeability SEP T SEP Silica SEP S SEP Cw SEP x SEP 1000 tb flour tb mD SEP F SEP g l SEP 1 mê tb 11.5 SEP 200 SEP 0.42 SEP 18 SEP 8.1 tb 11.6 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 16 SEP 4.2 tb 17.5 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 26 SEP 5.0 tb 11.5 SEP 220 SEP 1.8 SEP 18 SEP 2.7 tb Concentration of polymer 2.4 g lEMI16.3 tb Permeability SEP T SEP Silica SEP S SEP Cw SEP x SEP 1000 tb flour tb mD SEP F SEP g l SEP l mê tb 11.7 SEP 200 SEP 0.42 SEP 32 SEP 8.5 tb 11.7 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 14 SEP 7.6 tb 23.3 SEP 200 SEP 1.8 SEP 33 SEP 9.2 tb 11.5 SEP 220 SEP 1.8 SEP 25 SEP 10.8 tb Cw Coefficient of loss of fluidS Ordinate at the origin SPURT TABLE VII FILTRATION. Comparison with guar gum EMI17.1 tb Permea SEP T SEP Polymer SEP Concen SEP Silica SEP S SEP Cw SEP x tb bility SEP tration SEP flour SEP 1000 tb mD SEP F SEP g l SEP g l SEP 1 Mê tb 10.7 SEP 200 SEP sclero SEP 4.8 SEP 1.8 SEP 16 SEP 1.5 tb glucane tb 5 10 SEP 200 SEP hydroxy SEP 4.8 SEP 2.4 SEP 7 SEP 2.7 tb propylated tb guar SEP gum tb 11.7 SEP 200 SEP sclero SEP 2.4 SEP 0.42 SEP 32 SEP 8.5 tb glucane tb 11.7 SEP 200 SEP sclero SEP 2.4 SEP 1.8 SEP 14 SEP 7.6 tb glucane tb 5 10 SEP 150 SEP hydroxy SEP 2.4 SEP 1.2 SEP 6 SEP 4.8 tb propylated tb guar SEP gum tb Note Solvent 1 KCl solutionCw coefficient of loss of fluidS SPURT ordinate at the origin TABLE VIIIDEVELOPMENT OF THE VISCOSITY OF A SOLUTION OF SCLEROGLUCANE AT 3.6 g71 Hydration 3 mins. inWaring mixer at 6 000 r.p.m. e 79 0F Measurement with FANN 35 viscosimeter, RI BI F0.2 combination 1 Shear rate 170 s a 1 KCl pH 5.6Time Viscosity min cPs 5 28.8 70.6 10 30.6 75 15 32.1 78.7 30 33.6 82.3 60 36.6 89.7 24 h 40.8 100 b sea water pH 9Time Viscosity min cPs 5 27.6 67.6 10 29.4 72 15 30 73.5 30 33 80.9 60 36 88 I Hydration 1 min. in Waring mixer at 6 000 r.p.m. 79 F Measurement with FANN 35 viscosimeter, RI BI FO.2 combination Shear rate 170 s 1 water l KCl pH 5.6 Time Viscosity min cPs 3 3 18 44 5 5 19.8 68.5 1 10 22.8 56 15 24.6 60.3 30 27.6 67.6 60 33.6 82.3 24 h 40.8 100 c hydration 3 mins. in Waring mixer at 6 000 r.p.m. I 79 0F Measurement with FANN 135 viscosimeter RI BI FO.2 combinationShear rate 170 water l KCl pH 2 Time Viscosity min cPs 5 36 78 10 40.2 88 15 43.8 95 30 45.6 100 60 46 100