# HIGH SPATIAL RESOLUTION SPECTROSCOPIC NMR IMAGING OF CHEMICALLY SHIFTED NUCLEI

## Claims
Verfahren zum Erhalten eines MR Bildes mit hoher räumlicher Auflösung von einer Probe Sample , die erste und zweite Kerne mit chemischer Verschiebung enthalten, wobei das Verfahren enthält

## Description
This invention relates to nuclear magnetic resonance NMR imaging and, more particularly, to methods and apparatus enabling high spatial resolution spectroscopic NMR imaging with selected nuclei of a sample containing nuclei having chemically shifted NMR frequencies. As is well known, the nuclear magnetic resonance phenomenon is exhibited by atomic nuclei with an odd number of either protons or neutrons. Such nuclei possess spin, which endows them with a small magnetic field. When placed in an externally applied static main magnetic field B Nuclei of the same isotope can exhibit minute variations in their NMR frequencies, which are referred to as chemical shifts, because of differences in their chemical environments which cause differences in their magnetic field environments. Chemical shifts result from alterations of the magnetic field around nuclei as a result of the shielding currents that are associated with the distribution of electrons around adjacent atoms. The degree of shielding is characteristic of the environment of the nucleus, and thus the chemical shift spectrum of a given molecule is unique and can be used for identification. In conventional NMR spectroscopy, the chemical structure of the sample is studied by observing the chemically shifted signals returned from an NMR experiment. Because the resonant frequency and the absolute chemical shift are dependent upon the strength of the field, the chemical shift is expressed as a fractional shift in parts per million ppm of the resonant frequency relative to an arbitrary reference compound. Since the Larmor frequency is proportional to the magnetic field, if the magnetic field varies spatially in a sample, then so does the resonant frequency of the nuclei. In NMR imaging, one or more magnetic field gradients are applied to the sample to spatially encode the emitted NMR signals. By applying an RE excitation pulse having a narrow range of frequency components to the sample in the presence of gradients, the nuclei in a selected region, e.g., a planar slice, or at a selected point, of the sample can be selectively excited and their NMR response signals detected. The data collected from different regions or points the sample can be processed in a well known manner to construct an image. NMR imaging in the past has typically been performed in rather low magnetic fields and chemical shifts have not been a significant problem. In magnetic fields below about 0.7 T Tesla , chemical shifts are difficult to observe because of the natural linewidths of the resonances and the low sensitivity of nuclei other than hydrogen ¹H . It is desirable, however, to perform NMR imaging in higher magnetic fields, in excess of 1 T for example, because of the improved signal to noise ratios realized recent advances in magnet technology permit the use of higher magnetic fields, of the order of 1 1.5 T, in medical and biological NMR imaging. As the magnetic field increases, the chemical shift increases proportionately and becomes a greater problem. Chemical shift can produce the same effect as a spatial variation in the NMR signal. This results in chemical shift artifacts which are manifested, for example, as ghosts in two dimensional Fourier transform 2DFT imaging. Ghost artifacts may appear as a faint ring or ghost at one side of an image, and such ghosts both obliterate some of the spatial information present and reduce spatial resolution. In proton imaging of the body, the chemical shift observed is principally between the hydrogens attached to oxygen in water and the hydrogens attached to carbon in CH₂ lipid fat tissue this chemical shift is on the order of 3 ppm. Comments on proton spectra obtained from biological tissues containing water and aliphatic lipids are given in Radiology vol. 149, no.1 October 1983, pages 197 201. The effect of the chemical shift is to produce two superimposed images one image is the water image and the other image is the lipid image, which is shifted along the axis on which the projection was made by an amount corresponding to the chemical shift. At magnetic field strengths on the order of B It is desirable to provide NMR imaging methods that permit separation of superimposed chemically shifted images, such as those of an aqueous proton image and a lipid proton image, into distinct images so as to remove chemical shift artifacts and improve the spatial resolution in the images. Separate resolved images are also desirable for other reasons. For example, an image constructed from lipid protons alone may be useful for looking at fat or atherosclerotic lesions or plaques in blood vessels, as well as for the evaluation of heart disease. One approach which may be useful for separating the images is resolved spectroscopy, which employs selective slice excitation, pulse gradient encoding in both x and y directions to avoid blurring out the spectroscopic information by having a gradient on when the free induction decay FID is collected , and finally a Fourier transformation from the time domain to the frequency domain for each point of the imaging plane, i.e., at each pixel of the display. For an image array comprising N by N pixels, this approach requires N² projections. For example, a 256 by 256 array would require 65,536 projections to produce two resolved images. The amount of time required for this number of projections would be unreasonable, making a resolved spectroscopy approach impractical. In accordance with the invention, as claimed, method and apparatus for NMR imaging are provided that enable superimposed images, produced by chemically shifted nuclei, to be resolved and separated into distinct chemical shift artifact free images having high spatial resolution. Two independent NMR images are formed as projections along first and second lines that extend in different directions. Each NMR image comprises first and second image components respectively produced by first and second chemically shifted nuclei in the sampled region. The NMR images are registered by registering the first image components, for example, and are combined to eliminate the first image component and to produce a composite image containing the second image component. Once a resolved image containing only the second image component has been obtained, the resolved image may then be combined with one or both of the NMR images to produce another resolved image containing only the first image component. Stated somewhat differently, the data corresponding to NMR images taken along different projections are registered, combined and processed to produce a resolved image due to only one of a pair of chemically shifted nuclei. In effect, the invention converts the problem of providing resolved images from each nuclei species to one of data processing, and for an N by N image array requires only 2N projections to produce two separate chemical shift artifact free images, which is smaller by a factor of N 2 from that required using resolved spectroscopy techniques. Accordingly, a 256 by 256 image array requires only 512 projections, which represents a significant advantage in data collection time and data processing. Accordingly, it is one object of the present invention to provide NMR imaging methods, and apparatus that enable superimposed chemically shifted images to be separated and resolved into distinct high spatial resolution images that are free from chemical shift artifacts, while avoiding the disadvantages of approaches such as incurred with resolved spectroscopy techniques. This and other objects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description, when read in conjunction with the drawings. My invention is particularly well adapted for use with NMR proton imaging for resolving and separating water and lipid images to produce separate chemical shift artifact free water and lipid images having high spatial resolution, and will be described in that environment. However, as will be appreciated, this is illustrative of only one utility of the invention. Prior to describing the invention, it will be helpful to review briefly some of the basics of NMR imaging. Figure 1 illustrates an NMR sample 10, which may by cylindrically shaped, for example. Sample 10 is positioned in a static homogeneous main magnetic field B The gradients G NMR images of selected planar slices 11 of the sample may be formed in a number of well known ways using conventional NMR imaging apparatus for applying to the sample imaging sequences comprising RF magnetic field pulses directed orthogonal to the B To illustrate the effects of chemical shift, data NMR signals collected with a projection on the x axis have a frequency, ω, obtained from the Fourier transformation of the free induction decay FID response, given by Figures 2a and 2b illustrate 64 MHz proton spectra 14 and 16 recorded from a human head and thigh, respectively, in a magnetic field of 1.5 T. The two peaks 14a and 14b or 16a and 16b of each spectra correspond to water and lipid protons, respectively, and the figures show that the chemical shift between the water peaks 14a and 16a and the lipid peaks 14b or 16b is on the order of 3.5 ppm, or about 220 Hz. at a 64 MHz. center frequency. The relative intensities of the water and lipid peaks vary with the tissue studied and with the individual. There is not much fat in the brain, except around the surface, which is why the lipid peak 14b in the head response 14 Figure 2a is smaller than the lipid peak 16b in the response 16 Figure 2b for the thigh. While the lipid in the nerve sheath in the brain apparently has too short a relaxation time to be observed in typical in vivo measurement, the lipid peak 14b in the head response 14 is still, however, sufficient to generate a ghost artifact at the periphery of an NMR head image, which serves to obliterate some of the spatial information present. Figures 3a and 3b illustrate diagrammatically the effects of chemical shift artifacts on NMR images. Figure 3a represents a spin warp image 18 of a cross section through a human head formed from projections on the x axis, by spatial frequency encoding in the x axis direction and pulse gradient phase encoding in the y axis direction. As shown, the NMR image comprises two superimposed images or image components 20 and 22 that are offset from one another. The solid line image 20 in the Figure represents a water proton image, and the dotted line image 22 represents a lipid proton image that is offset from the water image 20 by the amount of the chemical shift between the water and lipid protons. As shown, and as indicated in equation 10, the chemical shift causes the images 20 and 22 to be offset in the direction of the axis along which the projections were made, i.e., the x axis. The lipid image 22 constitutes a chemical shift artifact, and in an actual NMR image 18 would appear as a shadow or a ghost at the periphery of the water image 20. The intensity of the lipid image 22 is, of course, related to the density of the lipid protons in the imaging plane and, in general, would be greater for an NMR image of a thigh than for an NMR image of a head, as illustrated e.g. by the relative intensities of the water and lipid peaks in Figures 2a and 2b. Figure 3b illustrates diagrammatically an NMR image 18 of the same cross section of the head as Figure 3a, except that image 1B is formed from projections on the y axis, by spatial frequency encoding in the y axis direction and pulse gradient phase encoding in the x axis direction. As shown in Figure 3b, the water image 20 and lipid image 22 are offset in the y axis direction, along the axis on which the projections were taken. The invention affords an NMR imaging method that takes advantage of the chemical shift artifact to enable the water images 20 and 20 and lipid images 22 and 22 to be separated from one another into two distinct artifact free images having high spatial resolution. This is accomplished by forming two independent NMR images of the same imaging plane using different projection directions, i.e., along lines that extend in different directions. The NMR images may be formed using conventional NMR imaging apparatus and are preferably formed using two dimensional Fourier transform spin warp imaging methods, and any of the well known 2DFT imaging sequences may be employed for this purpose. Preferably, the projection directions are orthogonal, along the x and y axis, for example, since, as will be described hereinafter, this simplifies the data processing and affords the maximum degree of independence between the two images. For an N by N image array comprising N² pixels, the two images require only 2N projections. For example, a 256 by 256 array requires only 512 projections to form the two images. As noted above, each of the two NMR images 18 and 18 will comprise two image components, a water component 20 or 20 and a lipid component 22 or 22 , that are offset from one another along the axis on which the projections are taken by the amount of the chemical shift. If the two NMR images are designated I To separate the water and lipid components, the I After registering a particular component of the two images, the images 18 and 18 may be subtracted as indicated above to eliminate that component. This results in a composite image which is either totally aqueous or totally lipid. However, it contains the desired component plus a negative ghost of the desired component offset in both the x and y directions by the amount of the chemical shift. Figure 4 illustrates diagrammatically a composite image 30 containing offset lipid image components 32 and 32 produced by registering the water component of the I If S Figure 5 illustrates diagrammatically the application of the foregoing process to the composite image of Figure 4 to produce a resolved lipid image. For each of illustration, the image array 40 is assumed to comprise an array of 6 by 6 pixels, although in practice much larger pixel arrays, 256 by 256, for example, are employed, and the chemical shift, δ, is assumed to be exactly one pixel in each direction x and y although exact integer pixal shifts are neither generally encountered nor necessary for the resolution process. This illustrative example corresponds to the I Referring to Figure 5, and with the foregoing assumptions, it is seen that the composite image of Figure 4 may be represented as an I As shown in Figure 5, the pixels in the first row, i 1, and in the first column, j 1, contain only values of the lipid image I Once a resolved lipid image is obtained, a resolved water image may be obtained by subtracting the resolved lipid image, properly offset, from either I Although the foregoing process has been described in the context of registering, subtracting and deconvolving images , in actual practice NMR images are constructed by processing in a well known manner the NMR signals received from a sample in the computer of the NMR imaging system to produce arrays of numbers that represent the intensity of the NMR image at each pixel in the NMR display. Accordingly, the registering, subtracting and deconvolving process of the invention may be implemented as a rather straightforward data processing routine by a computer program that operates on the arrays of numbers that represent the intensities of the NMR images in each pixel. By adjusting the chemical shift to be an integral number of pixels, as described, for example, in connection with Figure 5, it will be appreciated that the computer program required to implement the process becomes quite simple. If the chemical shift does not constitute an integral number of pixels, it merely becomes necessary to employ an interpolation process for deriving the required values for the pixels of the resolved image. The deconvolution process may also be implemented in hardware as a recursive filter. As noted earlier, the method of the invention may be analogized to solving two simultaneous equations in two unknowns. In order to resolve and separate two independent image components from an image, it is necessary to have two independent NMR images containing such components. The images may be produced by any of a variety of conventional NMR imaging sequences that enable independent images to be constructed from projections onto different lines, and, as noted above, it is preferable that the projection directions be orthogonal. Independent images cannot be constructed from projections onto the same line using inverted gradients, for example, since this merely produces two mirror images which are not independent. Two dimensional Fourier transform 2DFT imaging techniques conveniently allow independent images to be constructed from projections onto different lines. In constructing the images, it is desirable to interleave the projections by first taking a projection in one direction and then a projection in the other direction so as to minimize problems due to patient motion and machine instability. From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that the invention provides methods of NMR imaging that conveniently enable images due to chemically shifted nuclei to be separated and resolved so as to afford artifact free images having high spatial resolution. It can now be seen that the method can be extended to species with more than two dominant peaks by iteration. Furthermore, while a preferred embodiment of the invention has been shown and described, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and variations may be made in this embodiment without departing from the principles of the invention, the scope of which is defined by the appending claims.