# Benzopyran 4 on derivatives and their production.

## Abstract
Novel benzopyran 4 on derivatives of the formula

## Claims
What is claimed is 1. A compound of the formulaEMI16.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen or hydroxy and R2 is lower alkyl. 2. The compound according to claim 1, wherein R2 is methyl. 3. The compound according to claim 1, which is 7 1 hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one. 4. The compound according to claim 1, which is 7 1 hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one. 5. A method for producing a compound of the formulaEMI16.2 wherein R1 is hydrogen or hydroxy and R2 is lower alkyl, which comprises reacting a compound of the formula EMI17.1 wherein R1 is as defined hereinbefor, with a compound of the formulaEMI17.2 wherein X is halogen, R is hydrogen or lower alkyl and Rê is as defined hereinbefore, if necessary followed by hydrolysis. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the product is produced by reacting the compound of the formula II with the compound of the formula III wherein R is lower alkyl, and hydrolyzing. 7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the product is the compound of the formula I wherein R2 is methyl. 8. The method according to claim 5, wherein the product is 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one. 9. The method according to claim 5, wherein the product is 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxy phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one.

## Description
Benzopyran 4 on Derivatives and Their Production This invention relates to novel benzopyran 4 on derivatives and their production. More particularly, it relates to 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one derivatives hereinafter referred to as compounds fi of the formulaEMI1.1 wherein R1 is hydrogen or hydroxy and R2 is lower alkyl and production theirof. The compounds 1I are produced, for example, by reacting, in accordance with the reaction schema given below, a hydroxy compound tII with a 2 haloalkanecarboxylic acid or an ester thereof IIIJ, if necessary followed by hydrolysis.EMI2.1 In the above formulas, X is halogen, RÚ is hydrogen or hydroxy, R2 is lower alkyl and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl. The starting compound II is produced, for example, by the method of E. M.. Gaydou et al. Bull.Soc. Chim. Fr., 1978, II 43 or the method of S. A.Kagal et al. Tetrahedron Letters, 1962, 593 . The starting compound III is, for example, 2 chloropropionic acid, 2 bromobutyric acid, 2 iodovaleric acid, 2 bromocaproic acid, methyl 2 chloropropionate, methyl 2 bromobutyrate, ethyl 2 chloropropionate, ethyl 2 bromovalerate, propyl 2 chloropropionate, propyl 2 bromocaproate, butyl 2 chloropropionate, butyl 2 bromopropionate or methyl 2 iodoheptanoate. Generally, the reaction in accordance with the present invention is advantageously carried out in the presence of an innert solvent. As such solvent, there may be used any solvent which will not interfere with said reaction Such solvent may suitably be selected, for instance, from among alcohols e.g. methanol, ethanol, propanol, isopropyl alcohol, butanol , ketones e.g. acetone, methyl isobutyl ketone, cyclohexanone , ethers e.g. tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, diethyl ether, isopropyl ether , halogenated hydrocarbons e.g.dichloromethane, dichloroethane, chloroform , petroleum ether, toluene, xylene, dimethylformamide, pyridine, aldehyde collidine, water, and mixed solvents composed of two or more of these. The above condensation reaction is advantageously carried out in the presence of a deacidifying agent, such as an alkali metal hydrogen carbonate e.g. sodium hydrogen carbonate, potassium hydrogen carbonate , an alkali metal hydroxide e.g. sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide , an alkali metal carbonate e.g. sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate , sodium amide, sodium hydride, an alkali metal e.g. sodium, potassium , a sodium alcoholate e.g. sodium methylate, sodium ethylate , or an organic base e.g. pyridine, aldehyde collidine, dimethylaniline, triethylamine . The hydrolysis of a 7 hydroxy a lower alkyl acetic acid ester benzopyran 4 one derivative obtained by using a 2 haloalkanecarboxylic acid ester as the starting compound III is carried out in the conventional manner. Thus, the hydrolysis is conducted in the presence of a catalyst usable in generally known hydrolysis reactions. Said catalyst is, for instance, an inorganic acid e.g. sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid , an organic acid e.g. toluenesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, strongly acidic ion exchange resin e.g. Amberlite IR 120 , or a mixture thereof. Referring to the above formula III , the halogen represented by X includes chlorine, bromine, iodine, fluorine, etc., whereas the lower alkyl represented by R includes those containing 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl,isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, secondary butyl and tertiary butyl. The reaction temperature, solvent and other reaction conditions may be selected in an adequate manner depending on each specific case. The thus produced compounds II can be isolated from the reaction mixture and purified by conventional methods of treatment e.g.extraction, recrystallization, chromatography . The compounds IJ directly act on the bone and thereby produce excellent bone resorption inhibiting activity. Therefore, they are suited for use as osteoporosis treating agents. Osteoporosis is a disease condition or illness wherein the quantitative loss of bones has progressed beyond a certain limit to thereby present some symptoms or risk manifestations. Among its main clinical manifestations are kyphosis, low back pain, and fractures of femoral neck, lower end of the radius, ribs, upper end of the humerus, etc. While the pothogenic factors are variegated, including endocrine disorder and nutritional disorder. There are therapeutic agents such as estrogen, calcitonin, vitamin D and calcium preparations. However, these drugs were either limited in applications or only indefinitely effective, so that none was found to be fully satisfactory. The compounds li provide a remedy of more general nature against osteoporosis. Test Example 1 Bone resorption inhibiting activity of 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one hereinafter referred to as compound A in rat fetal long bone culture. Determination of bone resorption was performed by the method of Raisz J. Clin. Invest. 44, 103 116 1965 . Thus, a Sprague Dawley rat on the 19th day of pregnancy was subcutaneously injected with 50 pCi of 45Ca isotope of calcium, CaC12 solution , and was laparotomized on the following day. The embryos were aseptically taken out, the forelimbs radius and ulna were cut off from the trunk under a binocular dissecting microscope, and the connective tissue and cartilage were removed as much as possible to prepare bone samples.Each bone sample was preincubated at 370C for 24 hours in 0.6 ml of the medium containing 2 mg ml of bovine serum albumin in BGJb medium FittonJackson modification GIBCO Laboratories, Grand Island,NY 14072 U.S.A. . Then, the sample was further incubated for 3 days in the same medium as above in which 10 g ml of compound A had been incorporated. Then, the radioactivity of 45Ca in the medium and that of 45Ca in the bone were measured and the percentage of 45Ca released from the bone into the medium was celculated by the following formula. Percentage of 45Ca released from bone into medium Count of 45Ca in medium Count of 45Ca in medium Count of 45Ca in bone x 100 As control, the bones of the embryos from the same litter were similarly incubated in the absence of compound A for 3 days. The mean standard deviation for tha six bones per group are shown in Table 1. It is apparent that compound A suppressed bone resorption. Table 1 Concentration of 45Ca compound A releasedControl group 0 23.6 3.9Test group 10 pg ml 18.5 2.2 A significant difference from the control group p O. 05 Test Example 2Potentiating effect of 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one hereinafter referred to as compound B on the bone resorption inhibiting action of calcitonin in rat fetal lonq bone culture The bone samples prepared in the same manner asTest Example 1 were preincubated for 24 hours in the same medium as that prepared in Test Example 1 which contains bovine serum albumin in BGJb medium FittonJackson modification . Then, in the concomitant presence of PTH parathyroid hormone, a bone resorption stimulant , calcitonin and compound B, the samples were further incubated for 3 days and the percentage of 45Ca released into the medium was calculated by means of the same formula as that in Test Example 1. The results are shown in Table 2. As control experiments, the same determina tion was made for a control I group using the medium supplemented with PTH alone and a control II group using the medium supplemented with PTH and calcitonin.It is apparent from Table 2 that compound B potentiated the inhibitory action of calcitonin onPTH stimulated bone resorption. Table 2 Concentration Concentration 458a of calcitonin of compound B releasedControl I group 0 0 39.7 1.5Control II group 3 mU ml 0 35. 4.9Test group 3 mU ml 25 pg ml 31.2 3.4 Test Example 3Acute toxicity Five week old ICR mice and 5 week old SpragueDawley rats were used in groups of 10 males and 10 females, and suspensions of compound A or compound B in olive oil were administered orally f2,500, 5,000 and 10,000 mg kg of each compound or subcutaneously 1,250, 2,500 and 5,000 mg kg . The animals were kept under observation for 14 days. None of the groups showed deaths, nor toxic symptoms, which might be attributable to compound A or B, with the result that LD 50 could not be calculated. When the compounds I are used for the treatment of osteoporosis, it is orally administered in a usual daily dose of about 10 to 500 mg for an adult human, in such dosage forms as tablets, powders, granules, capsules, liquids, etc. or parenterally administered as, for example, injections at a dose level of about 1 to 100 mg per injection for an adult human. Reference Example 1 Tablets I 7 1 Hydroxycarbonylethyl 200 g oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one II Lactose 15 g III Starch 45 g IV Carboxymethylcellulose 10 g calcium V Magnesium stearate 1 g The above components I through V were admixed to prepare 1000 uncoated tablets with a diameter of 8.5 mm. Reference Example 2 Capsules I 7 1 Hydroxycarbonylethyl 200 g oxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one II Lactose 40 g III Starch 50 g IV Hydroxypropylcellulose 7 g V Magnesium stearate 3 g The above components I through V were admixed and filled into 1000 No. 1 capsules. Example 1 1 A mixture of 40 g of 7 hydroxy 3 phenyl 4H lbenzopyran 4 one, 46 g of ethyl 2 bromopropionate, 250 ml of dimethylformamide and 46.5 g of potassium carbonate was stirred well with heating at 800C for 2 hours and poured into 270 ml of ice water. The resulting crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethyl acetate ethanol to give 103 g of 7 l ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl4H l benzopyran 4 one as white crystals. m.p. 165 1660C. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C20H18O5 C, 71.00 H, 5.36 Found C, 71.19 H, 5.41 Example 1 2 A mixture of 20 g of 7 l ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one, 200 ml of dioxane, 70 ml of hydrochloric acid and 150 ml of water was refluxed for 4 hours and poured into ice water. The resulting crystalline precipitate was collected by filtration and recrystallized from ethanol to give 17.1 g of 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one as white crystals. m.p. 223 C. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C18H1405 C, 69.67 H, 4.55 Found C, 69.68 H, 4.52 Example 2 1 A mixture of 4.0 g of 7 hydroxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one, 3.42 g of ethyl 2 bromopropionate, 60 ml of dimethylformamide and 4.3 g of potassium carbonate was stirred well with heating at 800C for 2 hours, poured intd ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and concentrated and the residue was recrystallized from dichloroethane to give 3.0 g of 7 l ethoxy carbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one as white crystals. m.p. 172 1730C. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C20H18O6 C, 67.79 H, 5.12 Found C, 67.72 H, 5.18 In the same manner as above, the following compounds were obtained. 7 1 Ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 3 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one. m.p. 193 1940C. Elemental analysis Calcd. for C20H18O6 C, 67.79 H, 5.12 Found C, 67.61 H, 5.28 7 1 Ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 2 hydroxyphenyl 4H 1 benzopyran 4 one. m.p. 154 156 C. N M R D M S O d6 1.25 3H, t, CH3 , 1.60 3H, d, CH3 , 4.20 2H, q, CH2 , 5.25 1H, q, CH , 6.8 7.4 6H, m, aromatic H , 8.05 1H, d, C5 H , 8.25 1H, s, C2 H , 9.30 1H, bs, OH Example 2 2 A mixture of 3.0 g of 7 1 ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 3 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one, 90 ml of dioxane, 120 ml of water and 15 ml of hydrochloric acid was ref fluxed for 2.5 hours, poured into ice water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and concentrated and the residue was recrystallized from ethyl acetate dichloroethane to give 2.5 g of 7 l hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 3hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one as white crystals.m.p. 218 219 C. Elemental anlaysis Calcd. for C18H1406 1 4H2O C, 65.34 H, 4.72 Found C, 65.31 H, 4.54 Using 7 1 ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one and following the same procedure as above, 7 1 hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one was obtained as white crystals. m.p. 201 2020C. N M R DMSO d6 1.57 3H, d, CH3 , 5.07 1H, q, CH , 6.83 2H, d, aromatic H , 6.95 7.20 2H, m, C6 C8 H , 8.04 1H, d, C5 H , 8.31 1H, s, C2 H Using 7 1 ethoxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 2 hydroxy phenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one and following the same procedure as above, the following compound was obtained. 7 1 Hydroxycarbonylethyl oxy 3 2 hydroxyphenyl 4H l benzopyran 4 one. m.p. 180 1820C. N M R DMSO d6 1.55 3H, d, CH3 5.10 1H, q, CH , 6.6 7.4 6H, m aromatic H , 8. 0 5 1 H , d , C5 H , 8 . 20 1H, s, C2 H , 9.3 1H, bs, OH