# Urine drainage bag.

## Abstract
A urine drainage bag has front and rear walls and an internal flap valve, and is characterized in that one of the walls is welded in a face to face manner to flat flanges of both an outlet unit and combined handle and inlet spout unit.

## Claims
What we claim is 1. A method of manufacturing a urine drainage bag which includes the steps of a placing a handle and inlet spout unit in a welding machine so that respective flat surfaces thereof are uppermost b placing first and second layers of plastics material over the units, the first layer being intended to form one wall of a completed bag and the second layer being intended to form part of an internal flap valve c welding in one step the first and second layers to the flat surface of the handle and inlet spout unit and the first layer only to the flat surface of the outlet unit d placing two more layers upon the assembly so produced, the third layer being intended to form part of the flap valve and the fourth layer being intended to form the other wall of the bag and e making as a second welding step in the same welding machine, a complete peripheral weld to join together the periphery of the first and fourth layers. 2. A method according to Claim 1 in which the spout of the combined handle and spout unit is attached in a separate step after the welding operations are completed to a length of inlet tubing. 3. A method according to Claim 1 in which the outlet unit is of the kind wherein a tube is bent up and plugged onto a fixed plug in order to close the outlet. 4. A method according to Claim 2 in which the outlet unit is of the kind wherein a tube is bent up and plugged onto a fixed plug in order to close the outlet. 5. A urine drainage bag comprising front and rear walls and an internal flap valve and an outlet unit and a combined handle and inlet spout unit, each having a flat flange welded in a face to face manner to one of said walls. 6. The urine bag of Claim 5 wherein only one welding step is utilized to connect the outlet unit and the combined handle and inlet spout unit to one of the bag walls, and in which this weld is made entirely independently of a weld which closes the outer periphery of the bag.

## Description
URINE DRAINAGE BAG This invention relates to a urine drainage bag and method of making same. There have been numerous prior designs of drainage bags and problems have arisen in making an effective and durable seal where the inlet tube and outlet tap are connected to the bag. For example in bags such as are shown in BritishPatent No. 1 382 014 Kendall Co. and U.S. PatentNo. 4 023 607 Jeusen it is difficult to seal the inlet and or the outlet tube to the superposed bag walls. One suggestion that has been made is to weld or otherwise attach a connection having a flat flange to the face of a bag wall see U.S.Patents Nos. 3 650 272 Ericson and 3 568 965Clark , rather than attempting to fix a tube between the superposed marginal edge regions of the two bag walls. An aim of the present invention is to simplify and improve the manufacture of drainage bags so as to reduce the number of manufacturing steps needed and to reduce the number of bags produced which have to be rejected upon test because of leakage problems.It is also an aim of the invention to produce a bag which is versatile and to which inlet and outlet tubes can readily be attached after rather than during the welding steps of the manufacture. According to the present invention, there is provided a method of manufacturing a urine drainage bag which includes the steps of a placing a handle and inlet spout unit and an outlet unit in a welding machine so that respective flat surfaces thereof are uppermost b placing first and second layers of plastics material over the units, the first layer being intended to form one wall of a completed bag and the second layer being intended to form part of an internal flap valve c welding in one step the first and second layers to the flat surface of the handle and inlet spout unit and the first layer only to the flat surface of the .outlet unit d placing two more layers upon the assembly so produced, the third layer being intended to form part of the flap valve and the fourth layer being intended to form the other wall of the bag and e making as a second welding step in the same welding machine, a complete peripheral weld to Join together the periphery of the first and fourth layers According to a preferred method in accordance with the invention, the spout of the combined handle and spout unit is attached in a separate step after the welding operations are completed to a length of inlet tubing. A further advantageous but optional feature of the invention is that the outlet unit is of the kind wherein a tube is bent up and plugged onto a fixed plug in order to close the outlet. Such valves are known per se see British Patent 1 024 661 and Published U.K. specification 2 058 011 but its use in this context is particularly effective in that a flat flange surface can readily be welded to one bag wall in the manner aforesaid. Also according to the invention, there is provided a urine drainage bag having front and rear walls and an internal flap valve, characterized in that one of the walls is welded in a face to face manner to flat flanges of both an outlet unit and a combined handle and inlet spout unit. Further according to the invention, there is provided a bag made by a method as broadly defined above. An important advantage of the design particularly disclosed and illustrated herein is that it can be employed equally well with urine bags made of PVC based plastics materials and polyolyfine based plastics material. For the former, a radio frequency welding procedure would preferably be employed, whereas for the latter, a heat sealing procedure is preferred. Another important advantage is that only one welding step is utilized to connect the outlet unit and the combined handle and inlet spout to one of the bag walls, and that this weld is made entirely independently of the weld which closes the outer periphery of the bag. In consequence, it is less difficult to ensure that both of these welds are made in a manner which is liquid tight and, as a consequence, the incidence of unsatisfactory bags which are rejected upon test due to leakage is reduced. The inlet spout forming part of the combined handle and inlet unit may readily be connected as a separate operation to an inlet tube, which means that the material of the tube does not have to be compatible from the point of view of plastics welding with the material of the inlet spout. Also, fabricating the handle and the inlet spout unit as a single integral piece of plastics material is highly advantageous in that is can be cheaply and easily produced and can be formed of a shape such that it can be hung up in a number of different ways and includes a clip for guiding and holding an inlet tube. A preferred material for the combined handle and inlet spout unit is high density polythene. Alternatively, a rigid PVC material may be used. Because the inlet tube is not made integral with the bag, in contrast to current commercial designs on the market, the machine manufacturing the bags can be designed to run very fast. This is because the free length of tube usually around 1 meter or 3 or 4 feet long when it is integral with the bag, represents a serious handling problem during high speed manufacture. The design according to the present disclosure is well able to tolerate a manufacturing rate of over 1500 and up to 200 or more bags an hour. In addition, it is advantageous to attach the inlet tube separately later, either by hand or by machine, because there is a saving of tube material in the event that a bag is found to be faulty and is scrapped. Under the conventional method with an integral inlet tube, the tube material had to be reclaimed in this event. The invention will be better understood from the following non limiting description of an example thereof given with reference to the accompanying drawings in which FIG. 1 is a front view of one example of urine drainage bag according to the invention, and FIG. 2 is a vertical central cross section taken on the line A A of FIG. 1. The illustrated urine drainage bag 10 includes first and second walls 10, 12 between which are disposed layers 16 and 18 of plastics material which together form an internal flap valve of conventional kind. The 4 layers 12, 14, 16 and 18 are welded together around the periphery of a weld 20 to define the bag. The bag also includes an integral handle and spout unit 22 and an outlet unit 24. The unit 22 has a flat surface 26 to which, during manufacture, the bag wall 12 and the layer 16 are welded in a single welding operation. For this purpose, the combined handle and spout unit is placed within a plastics welding machine with the surface 26 upwardly, and the layers 12 and 16 are laid thereover in the relative positioning illustrated in FIGS, 1 and 2. In manufacture, in the same welding step, the outlet unit 24 which has a spout 30 and a flange 32, is laid within the welding machine with the flat flange surface facing upwardly. It will be seen that as the layer 16 does not extend down to the bottom of the bag, in the same welding operation just described above the flange 32 of the outlet unit is welded to the bag wall 12.Prior to or simultaneous with this welding operation, a hole 38 is punched or otherwise made in the bag wall 12 and a hole 36 is made through the bag wall 12 and the layer 16. These holes are to allow ingress of urine to the interior of the bag, in the case of holes 36 and exit of urine in the case of. hole 38. The combined handle and spout unit 22 has a tube clip portion 40 and holes 42, as well as a handle 44. The holes 42 are to permit the bag to be hun up from µsuitably spaced hooks. The clip or tab 40 is useful to support and guide an inlet tube not shown connected in use to the spout 46. According to an advantageous but not essential feature of the invention, a series of bar welds 48 may be located across the bag in the region of the internal flap valve, these welds welding all 4 layers. The purpose of this is to provide an obstruction which guides urine entering the bag to be distributed across its width before it falls to the lower part of the bag. It will be realized that the urine in passing to the lower region of the bag passes through the spaces 50 between the welds. The illustrated outlet tap is one which has a flexible tube which can be bent as shown at 52, there being a flexible strip 54 integral with the flange 32, the strip 54 carrying at its end a plug 56 which can be inserted in the open end of the tube 30 to close it off. Other designs of tap, for example the one disclosed and claimed inBritish Patent Application No. 2 101 274. The method of making a urine bag as illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2 includes the steps of a placing the handle and inlet spout unit 22 and the outlet unit 24 in a welding machine so that the respective flat surfaces 26 and the rear surface of flange 32 as illustrated are uppermost, b placing first and second layers 12 and 16 of plastics material over the two units mentioned, c welding in one welding operation the layers 12 and 16 to the flat surface 26 and to the rear surface of the flange 32, d placing a plastics layer 18 and the bag wall 14 upon the assembly so produced, and e making, as a second welding step in the same welding machine, a complete peripheral weld 20 to join together the periphery of the bag walls 12 and 14, that is to say the periphery of the first and fourth layers. In this operation the internal flap valve layers 16 and 18 are joined together around their top and side margins.