# PRODUCTION OF POLYETHER POLYAMIDE BLOCK COPOLYMERS AND PREPOLYMERS

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Polyether Präpolymers der allgemeinen Formel

## Description
The present invention relates to a method of producing a polyether polyamide block copolymer of high impact resistance, and more particularly to a method of producing an impact resistant polyether polyamide block copolymer by anionic polymerization of caprolactam in the presence of a prepolymer comprising a polyoxyalkylene as a main ingredient. Methods of producing a polyether polyamide block copolymer containing a polyoxyalkylene polymer moiety and a polylactam polymer moiety by means of anionic polymerization in the presence of an anionic polymerization catalyst are described in, for example, Japanese Patent Publication No. 40,120 79 and U.S. Patents 3,862,262, 4,031,164, 4,034,015 and 4,223,112 these patents indicate that said block copolymer can be used for textile fibers, foams, furnitures and automotive parts because of its excellent properties. However, one of the main disadvantages of the polyether polyamide block copolymer obtained by the method of the patents shown above is that the copolymer is colored yellow, and because of this defect, colorless products cannot be obtained, and even when it is desirable to give certain colors to products, only dull colors are obtained. German Patent Application OLS No. 1,909,577 describes that anionic polymerization of a lactam can be effected using as an activator an ester of a lactam N carboxylic acid and a di or polyol compound represented by the formula wherein R is an aliphatic group having 2 to 12 carbon atoms, and m is an integer of 4 to 12, and X and Y are each a hydrogen atom or a residual group of The synthesis of the activator is effected in the presence of triethylamine as dehydrochlorinating agent. However, the object of said patent is to produce a polyamide by homopolymerization of a lactam, but not to produce a block copolymer of a polyoxyalkylene and a polyamide, as in the case of the present invention. In order to overcome the defects of the prior art methods, the inventors have conducted intensive research on a method of obtaining a colorless polyether polyamide block copolymer of excellent qualities, and have finally achieved the present invention. The present invention provides a method of producing a highly impact resistant and substantially colorless polyether polyamide block copolymer by copolymerizing, in the presence of an anionic polymerization catalyst, a lactam and a polyether prepolymer which is prepared by reacting a polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups with an N chlorocarbonyl lactam. The polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups employed in the method of the present invention is a polyether diol having a number average molecular weight of 1000 to 3000 represented by the formula wherein R¹ is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residual group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms, and n is the number of units R¹ O. R¹ is a hydrocarbon residual group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms, preferably 2 to 4 carbon atoms, and exemplary groups are Two or more of these groups may be present in the molecule. Particularly preferred polyoxyalkylenes are polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, and polytetramethylene glycol. The polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups can be obtained by the alkaline ring opening or cationic ring opening polymerization of a cyclic ether using a diol or other catalyst as a starting material. Exemplary cyclic ethers are ethylene oxide, propylene oxide, isobutylene oxide, oxetane, tetrahydrofuran, and epichlorohydrin. The polyoxyalkylene employed in the present invention preferably has a number average molecular weight of 1000 to 3000. When the number average molecular weight is less than 300, sufficient mechanical properties, particularly high impact strength, are not obtained in the finally resulting polyether polyamide block copolymer. On the other hand, when the number average molecular weight exceeds 20,000, the concentration of the terminal hydroxy groups of in the polyoxyalkylene is so low that the anionic block polymerization fails to go to completion. The N chlorocarbonyl lactam used in the present invention is represented by the formula wherein R² is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residual group having 3 to 12 carbon atoms. Preferred examples are N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam and N chlorocarbonyl pyrrolidinone. The N chlorocarbonyl lactam is usually prepared by reacting a lactim ether and phosgene in the presence of a tertiary amine, followed by treatment with hydrogen chloride gas see The prepolymer of the present invention is mainly a polyether prepolymer represented by the formula wherein R¹ is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residual group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms, R² is an aliphatic hydrocarbon residual group having 3 to 12 carbon atoms, and n is the number of units R¹ O. Said polyether prepolymer can be manufactured by reacting a polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups and having a number average molecular weight of 1000 to 3000 with an N chlorocarbonyl lactam in the absence of an amine. The reaction for obtaining the polyether prepolymer according to the present invention, i.e., the reaction of a polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups with an N chlorocarbonyl lactam, takes place by the following scheme The amount of the N chlorocarbonyl lactam used in this reaction is preferably 0.6 to 1.5 equivalents, particularly preferably 0.8 to 1.3 equivalents, to the hydroxy group in the polyoxyalkylene. If the N chlorocarbonyl lactam is less than 0.6 equivalent to the hydroxy group in the polyoxyalkylene, the yield of the intended polyether prepolymer becomes undesirably low, and if the amount of the N chlorocarbonyl lactam is greater than 1.5 equivalents, an undesirably large quantity of the N chlorocarbonyl lactam remains unreacted in the reaction system. If the amount of the N chlorocarbonyl lactam is less than one equivalent to the hydroxy group in the polyoxyalkylene, a secondary reaction, in addition to the reaction shown above, will take place as shown below. as well as an addition reaction of In the above reaction schemes, n is the number of units R¹ O. The prepolymers produced by these secondary reactions can also be used to manufacture a polyetherpolyamide block copolymer by anionic block copolymerization with a lactam. The reaction of the polyoxyalkylene having two terminal hydroxy groups with the N chlorocarbonyl lactam is generally carried out at 0 to 200 At temperatures lower than 0 The reaction for obtaining the polyether prepolymer shown above can be conducted in the presence or absence of a solvent and in the absence of a dehydrochlorinating agent. Exemplary solvents used in this reaction are methylene chloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, cyclohexanone, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl cellosolve, diglyme, benzene, toluene, xylene, and carbon disulfide. As dehydrochlorinating agents, tertiary amines such as triethylamine, pyridine, dimethylaniline and diethylaniline₁ must not be used. It is the least expensive to conduct this reaction in the absence of both the solvent and dehydrochlorinating agent. In a molten state, the polyether prepolymer thus obtained is often a liquid having substantially the same viscosity as the polyoxyalkylene, which is used as one of the starting materials. The polyether prepolymer according to the present invention is mixed with a lactam and an anionic polymerization catalyst, and subjected to the anionic block polymerization process. Materials having an active functional group other than the polyether prepolymer can also be used in this process. For example, compounds which are known as activators for anionic copolymerization of lactams, such as acyl lactam compounds, isocyanate compounds, acid halide compounds, and N alkoxycarbonyl lactam compounds can be used to obtain molded products having various physical properties. A specific method of copolymerizing the thus synthesized polyether prepolymer and the lactam is as follows This polymerization reaction is completed very quickly within about one hour. In the block copolymerization according to the present invention, the amount of the polyether prepolymer is 2 to 90 wt , preferably 10 to 80 wt , based on the total amount of the polyether prepolymer, lactam and anionic polymerization catalyst. When the amount of the polyether prepolymer is less than 2 wt , the obtained polyether polyamide block copolymer does not have sufficient impact resistance, and when the amount of the prepolymer exceeds 90 wt , the strength of the copolymer decreases to an undesirably low level. The lactam used in the present invention is a lactam having 5 to 13 ring members such as pyrrolidinone, caprolactam, capryl lactam, enantholactam and laurolactam, among which caprolactam is the most preferred. The amount of the lactam is 5 to 97 , preferably 15 to 89.7 wt , based on the total amount of the polyether prepolymer, lactam and anionic polymerization catalyst. The anionic polymerization catalyst employed in the method of the present invention can be any of catalysts that are generally used for anionic polymerization of lactams. They include all elemental alkali metals or alkaline earth metals or hydrides, halohydrides, alkoxides, oxides, hydroxides, amides and carbonates thereof and alkyl metals, alkyl metal halides, lactam metals, and lactam metal halides. Exemplary compounds are sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, lithium oxide, ethylmagnesium bromide, phenylmagnesium bromide, calcium fluorohydride, strontium carbonate, barium hydroxide, methylsodium, butyllithium, phenylpotassium, diphenylbarium, sodium amide, diethylmagnesium, magnesium methoxide, caprolactam magnesium bromide, caprolactam sodium, and caprolactam magnesium iodide. The amount of the anionic polymerization catalyst is 0.1 to 10 wt , preferably 0.3 to 6 wt , based on the total amount of the polyether prepolymer, lactam and anionic polymerization catalyst. When the catalyst is less than 0.1 wt , the anionic block copolymerization fails to go to completion, and when the catalyst exceeds 10 wt , the obtained polyether polyamide block copolymer has an undesirably low strength. The polyether polyamide block copolymer synthesized using the polyether prepolymer according to the present invention has, as already mentioned, high impact resistance and heat resistant properties, and a block copolymer produced with a larger amount of the polyether prepolymer can also be used as an elastomer. Thus, the block copolymer according to the present invention is applicable to many end uses, e.g., fibers, foams, automotive parts and electrical components. The copolymer can be made into the usual forms for molding resins e.g., pellets , and subsequently molded into various shapes by injection molding, extrusion molding or other molding methods. It can also be formed into large sized products, such as furniture and automotive parts, by polymerizing the starting materials directly in a mold. The copolymer can also be put to various uses after modification by pigments, dyes, fibers, flame retardants, fillers, plasticizers, stabilizers or other additives. The present invention is now described in detail by reference to the following examples, which should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the present invention. The measurement of physical properties in the Examples and Comparative Examples was made in accordance with ASTM D2240 Shore hardness , JIS K7110 Izod impact strength and JIS K 7203 flexural modulus . The degree of color staining yellow index was measured in accordance with JIS K7103. Further, GPC gas permeation chromatograph analysis was made with an apparatus of WATERS CO., using an RI detector. The column assembly was composed of Microstyragel columns 10⁴, 10³, 500 and 10² Å connected in series, and the measurement was made at a flow rate of 2 ml min using THF tetrahydrofuran as a carrier. One hundred grams of polyethylene glycol Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd., number average molecular weight 3,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 12 g were charged in a nitrogen purged round flask capacity 200 ml equipped with a stirrer, and allowed to react for 8 hours at 80 C. The reaction was further carried out at 100 C for an additional 5 hours while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. A polyether prepolymer was thus obtained in a yield of 107 g. This polyether prepolymer was analyzed with a 90 MHz proton nuclear magnetic resonance apparatus Hitachi, Ltd., Model R 40 in deutero chloroform with tetramethylsilane as the reference material. As a result, the following protons were observed H c, d, e, f, g, h protons were in substantial agreement with the corresponding peaks of the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of N ethoxycarbonyl caprolactam. H a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h protons are identified in the following formula The number of the terminal oxycarbonyl caprolactams in the polyether prepolymer as calculated from the integration of this nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum was 1.9 per molecule, which was in good agreement with the theoretical value of 2 per molecule. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium iodide 1.0 g and ε caprolactam for its amount, see Table 1 was blended with the polyether prepolymer synthesized above for its amount, see Table 1 at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a heated mold for the specific temperature, see Table 1 . A resin sheet was obtained in each experiment after a certain setting time for specific setting times, see Table 1 . Various properties of the resin sheet are indicated in Table 1. One hundred grams of polypropylene glycol Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd., number average molecular weight 2,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 18 g were charged into a nitrogen purged 200 ml round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 70 C for 12 hours, and for an additional 5 hours at 100 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. A polyether prepolymer was thus obtained in a yield of 110 g. The obtained polyether prepolymer 30 g was washed three times with a two phase methylene chloride and water solvent at a temperature lower than 10 C, and the methylene chloride layer was separated. After the methylene chloride was distrilled off, the residue was vacuum dried at 70 C for 48 hours to obtain a sample for analysis. The sample was analyzed for the nitrogen content, which was found to be 1.2 wt theoretical value 1.2 wt . This sample was analyzed with a 90 MHz proton nuclear magnetic resonance apparatus Hitachi, Ltd., Model R 40 in deutero chloroform with tetramethylsilane as the reference material. As a result, the following protons were observed H d, e, f, g, h, i, j protons were in substantial agreement with the corresponding peaks of the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of N isopropoxy carbonyl caprolactam. H a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j protons are identified in the following formula The number of the terminal oxycarbonyl caprolactams in this polyether prepolymer as calculated from the integration of this nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum was 2.0 per molecule theoretical value 2.0 per molecule . The molecular weight distribution of the polyether prepolymer was determined by GPC. As a result, a chromatogram having two peaks one large and the other small was obtained. The larger peak indicates a molecular weight distribution which was substantially the same as that of the starting polypropylene glycol. The smaller peak corresponded to a molecular weight about twice that of the larger peak and was presumably the peak for a dimerized prepolymer. The smaller peak was about 10 in size of the larger peak. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium iodide 1.0 g and ε caprolactam for its amount, see Table 2 was blended with the polyether prepolymer synthesized above for its amount, see Table 1 at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a heated mold for the specific temperature, see Table 1 . A resin sheet was obtained in each experiment after a certain time for specific setting times, see Table 1 . Various properties of the resin sheet are indicated in Table 1. One hundred grams of polytetramethylene glycol Sanyo Chemical Industries, Ltd., number average molecular weight 3,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 12 g were charged in a nitrogen purged 200 ml round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 70 C for 10 hours, and for an additional 5 hours at 100 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. A polyether prepolymer was thus obtained in a yield of 108 g. The obtained polyether prepolymer 30 g was washed three times with a two phase methylene chloride and water solvent at a temperature lower than 10 C, and the methylene chloride layer was separated. After the methylene chloride was distilled off, the residue was vacuum dried at 70 C for 48 hours to obtain a sample for analysis. The sample was analyzed for the nitrogen content, which was found to be 0.82 wt theoretical value 0.85 wt . This sample was analyzed with a 90 MHz proton nuclear magnetic resonance apparatus Hitachi, Ltd., Model R 40 in deutero chloroform with tetramethylsilane as the reference material. As a result, the following protons were observed H e, f, g, h, i, j protons were in substantial agreement with the corresponding peaks of the nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of N ethoxycarbonyl caprolactam. H a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j protons are identified in the following formula The molecular weight distribution of the polyether prepolymer was determined by GPC. As a result, a chromatogram having two peaks one large and the other small was obtained. The larger peak indicates a molecular weight distribution which was substantially the same as that of the starting polytetramethylene glycol. The smaller peak corresponded to a molecular weight about twice that of the larger peak and was presumably the peak for a dimerized prepolymer. The smaller peak was about 10 in size of the larger peak. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium iodide 1.0 g and ε caprolactam for its amount, see Table 1 was blended with the polyether prepolymer synthesized above for its amount, see Table 1 at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a heated mold for the specific temperature, see Table 1 . A resin sheet was obtained in each experiment after a certain time for specific setting time, see Table 1 . Various properties of the resin sheet are indicated in Table 1. Five hundred grams of polypropylene glycol number average molecular weight 2,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 70 g were charged into a nitrogen purged 1 liter round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 80 C for 7 hours, and for an additional 5 hours at 100 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. A liquid polyether prepolymer was thus obtained in a yield of 545 g. A mixed solution of phenylmagnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 33.5 g was blended with the polyether prepolymer 15 g synthesized above at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 140 C. A resin sheet was obtained after a setting time of 60 seconds. This resin sheet had an unstained white color, and had the following properties A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 41 g was blended well with the polyether prepolymer synthesized in Example 4 7.5 g at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured in a mold heated to 150 C. A white resin sheet was obtained after a setting time of 100 seconds. The physical properties of this resin sheet are as follows A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 48 g was blended well with the polyether prepolymer synthesized in Example 6 0.5 g at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 140 C. No polymerization was effected even after one hour. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 2.5 g was blended well with the polyether prepolymer synthesized in Example 6 46 g at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 140 C. The mixture became turbid, but did not set. Fifty grams of polypropylene glycol number average molecular weight 1,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam for its amount, see Table 2 were charged into a 100 ml round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 90 C for 5 hours, and for an additional 3 hours at 110 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column to obtain a polyether prepolymer. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 33.5 g was blended with the polyether prepolymer 15 g shown in Table 2 at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 140 C to effect polymerization. The setting time and the characteristics of the polyether polyamide block copolymer obtained are indicated in Table 2. Three hundred grams of polytetramethylene glycol number average molecular weight 3,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 35 g were charged into a nitrogen purged 500 ml round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 70 C for 10 hours, and for an additional 5 hours at 100 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. A liquid polyether prepolymer 315 g was obtained. A mixed solution of phenylmagnesium bromide 1.5 g and ε caprolactam 38.5 g was blended with the polyether prepolymer synthesized above 10 g at 80 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 150 C. A white resin sheet was obtained after a setting time of 5 minutes. The physical properties of this resin sheet are as follows Fifty grams of polypropylene glycol number average molecular weight 2,000 and N chlorocarbonyl caprolactam 61 g were charged into a nitrogen purged 100 ml round flask equipped with a stirrer. The reaction was allowed to proceed at 90 C for 5 hours, and for an additional 3 hours at 110 C, while reducing the pressure with a vacuum pump connected to an alkali stripping column. An anionic polymerization catalyst for its name and amount, see Table 3 was added to the flask, and the reaction was carried out for 3 hours at 70 C to obtain a polyether prepolymer. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1 g and ε caprolactam 34 g was blended with the thus obtained polyether prepolymer 15 g at 80 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 150 C to effect polymerization. The setting time and the characteristics of the polyether polyamide block copolymer obtained are shown in Table 3. A mixed solution of caprolactam magnesium bromide 1 g and ε caprolactam 24 g was blended well with the polyether prepolymer synthesized in Example 6 25 g at 70 C, and the resulting mixture was poured into a mold heated to 140 C. A semi transparent white resin sheet was obtained after a setting time of 70 seconds. The Shore hardness of this resin sheet was 29. Notched Izod impact strength could not be measured because the resin did not break.