# Method of making a manganese compound.

## Abstract
This specification is directed to a method of making a compound of the formulation M Mn

## Claims
I claim 1. A method of mdking a compound of the for mulation M Mnx0y where M is bismuth or lead. characterized by the steps of forming a solution by mixing Mn N03 2 with a nitrate of M maintaining said solution at a relatively constant temperature adding NaOH to said solution, whereby Mn OH 2 and a hydroxide of M torm a suspension agitating said suspension passing oxygen through said suspension while said suspension is being agitated, whereby said Mn OH 2 and said hydroxide of M can react to form M MnxOy, filtering said suspension to recover said MMnxOy washing said recovered M MnxOy with water and drying said washed M MnxOy. 2. The method of Claim 1. wherein said filteredM MnxOy is washed with a dilute acid before being dried.

## Description
MI THOD O MAKING A COMPOUND Technical Field This application is directed to a method ot making a compound, and more particularly to a method of making a compound of the formulation M Mnxoy where M is bismuth or lead. The compound has use in the manufacture of rechargeable manganese dioxide containing cells. BACKGROUND ART AND PRIOR ART STATEMENT No search was conducted on the subject matter of this specification in the U.S. Patent and TrademarkOffice or in any other search facility. I am unaware of any prior art more relevant to the subject matter of this specification than that which will be set forth below. Ford Motor Company, the assignee of this application. is also the assignee of two patent applications which deal with modified electrode materials for a rechargeable manganese dioxide cell. These applications are Rechargeable Manganese Dioxide Electrode Hatetial I, filed August 8. 1983. Serial No. 521.473 and Rechargeable Manganese Oxide Electrode Materials , filed August 8, 1983. Serial No. 521.474. These two applications arp hereby incorporated by reference. Briefly, the first application is directed to an improved manganese dioxide electrode material. the material being one which may be cycled between discharged and charged states at higher utilization of reactant and for substantially greater number of cycles than previously known manganese dioxide electrode materials. The improved manganese dioxide electrode material is characterized in that a heavy metal selected from the group consisting of bismuth. lead, and mixtures of bismuth and lead is included in the electrode material by means of a chemical reaction. The second application is directed to improved manganese oxide electrode materials. The manganese oxide electrode materials may be cycled between discharged and charged states at higher utilization of reactant and for a substantially greater number of cycles than previously known manganese dioxide electrode materials. The manganese oxide electrode materials are characterized in that a heavy metal selected from the group consisting of bismuth, lead. and mixtures of bismuth and lead is included in the electrode material without initial reaction of the electrode components The method taught in application Serial No. 521.473 for chemically incorporating bismuth, lead, and mixtures of bismuth and lead into the manganese dioxide electrode material was a very cumbersome and expensive method. The purpose of this specification is to disclose and claim a relatively simple manner of making the improved manganese dioxide electrode material having a heavy metal selected from the group consisting of bismuth, lead, and mixtures of bismuth and lead chemically included therein. The method illustrated in the application SerialNo. 521.473 for the manufacture of the compound BiMn 0 was as follows. xy The precursor N 1 n Oy x0yZH2O was prepared according to the procedure given by Wadsley in JACS. Vol.72, 1781 1950 . as follows. Solution A formed of 110 grams NaOH in 500 ml H20 was cooled in an ice bath before being added slowly into a solution B of 60gMn N03 2.6 H20 in 400 ml of water that was held at 3 C. The Mn OH 2 that precipitated out was slowly oxidized by passing oxygen through a fritted glass tube into the solution still held at 3 5 C for five hours with ayitation followed by standing overnight. The solid was suction filtered and was washed 10 times with distilled water, lt was dried over a warm plate at approximately 500C for one day. The product was analyzed by lCP AES and found to contain 48t Mn and t .St Na.An x ray diffraction pattern showed that the major components are Na.Mn .Mn12O28. 8H20. Na4Mn1402.,. Yi1 and a minor amount of Hausmanite. The surface area was and determined by Krypton adsorption as 50 m ig. The complex oxide. BiMnxOy.ZH20, was prepared by an ion exchange method. This is the heavy metal bismuth containing manganese dioxide material to be used as the improved manganese dioxide electrode material. One gram of the precursor, as prepared above.was shaken in 10 ml of solution containing 14.6gBi N03 2,5H20 about five times of the stoichiometric amount required for 16 hours. After exchange, the solid was filtered and repeatedly washed with distilled water It was dried again at temperatures slightly above 500C. It is in this manner that the bismuth containing manganate compound was formed in order to make the rechargeable nlangdnese dioxide electrode material which is described in that application in greater detail. It is readily apparent that the above described method of making a heavy mtal manganese dioxide compound was a very cumbersome and expensive one. It is a primary object of this invention to provide a relatively simple and efficient method of making a heavy metal manganese dioxide compound which can be used as the electrode material in a rechargeable cell. DlSCLOSU E OF TilE INVENTION This invention is directed to a method of making a compound of the formulation M MnxOy where M is bismuth or lead and, more particularly, to a method of making a compound of the formulation M Mn 0 where M xy is bismuth or lead which has particular utility for use as a heavy metal containinlg manganese oxide as a cathode material for alkaline rechargeable batteries. in accordance with the broad principles of the method of this invention, thetmethod of making a compound of the formulation M Mn 0 where M is bismuth or lead xy is characterized by having the following steps. A solution is formed by mixing Mn N03 , with a nitrate ofM. After formation of the solution. it is maintained at a relatively constant temperature. Na Oil is added to solution whereby Mn OH 2 and a hydroxide of M form a suspension. The suspension is agitated. Oxygen is passed through the suspension while the suspension is being agitated, whereby Mn OH 2 and the hydroxide of M can react to form M Mn O in which Mn is oxidized to xy its higher valence state, 4 .Thereafter the suspension is filtered to recover the M MnxOy. The recovered material is washed with water and dried in an air oven to produce the desired formulation M MnxOy where M is bismuth or lead. Another embodiment of the method of my invention teaches that after the recovered M MnxOy is washed with water. it is washed with dilute acid to. remove anyNa remaining after washing as well as other nonreactive material. This processing produces a finished material which has slightly better characteristics when the material is used as a cathode material for alkaline rechargeable batteries in that it can be discharged and recharged to a slightly greater extent than its nonacid washed form. BEST MODE AND INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY The novel features that are considered characteristic of the method of my invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. The invention itself. however, both as to its organization and its method of operation. together with additional objects and advantages thereof. will best be understood from the following description ot specific examples. The following description is what I consider to be preferred embodiments of the method of my invention.The following description also sets forth what 1 now contemplate to be the best mode of carrying out the method of my invention. The description is not intended to be a limitation upon the broader principles of this method.Example 1Method of Making Bismuth Form of the Desired Compound 39.9 grams of Mn N03 2 solution 49.58 Mn N03 2 by weight was mixed with 57 grams of 0.15 molar Bi NO3 3 solution sp. gr. 1.05 and diluted with 70 ml of water to make up solution A Mn Mi mole ratio 13.4 . This solution was placed in a constanttemperature bath maintained at 20C. 70 ml of 5.5 molarNaOH solution was chilled in an ice bath and then was added slowly into solution A with constant stirring. The resoluted suspension WdS oxidized with oxygen dispersed through a fritted glass candle for 22 hours. The slurry was then filtered and washed repeatedly with distilled water.About half of the filtered cake was taken out at this point and dried in an oven at 540C for one day to give a sample BiMnxOy. The remaining part of the filtered cake was further washed with a dilute acid of pH 1 2 for three times, followed by a water rinse and drying at 540C for one day to give another sample of BiMn O xy MnfBi mole ratio 14.6, with total recovery of bismuth Each of the two so formed materials were used to form alkaline rechargeable batteries in the same manner.The compound to be tested was first milled in a micromill. A weighed mixture of the compound and graphite powder at weight ratio of 1 2 was milled again for two minutes to ensure homogeneous mixing. The mixture was pressed at a pressure of about 10 tons into pellets of 1 1.2 cm diameter and 0.2 0.3 mm thickness.The pellet was weighed usually 0.02 0.04 grams and placed between a cathode gold disc current collector and a suitable separator material. The pellet was held in place by a screwed down Teflon plug. Platinum wire was used as a counterelectrode. About 20 ml of 9M KOH solution was used as the electrolyte. An HgO Hg reference electrode was connected to the cell through a thin polyethylene tube. The cell was discharged and charged at constant current of 1 ma 0.02 grams of the total weight of the pellet. The cell voltage versus HgO Hg electrode and current were continuously recorded with a recorder. The discharge and charge was cycled between preset cell charge and discharge voltages of 0.5 and minus 0.5V versus the HgO Hg reference electrode. The acid washed BiMnxOy material had excellent rechargeable characteristics in that after 60 cycles it was still capable of approximately b discharging and recharging of its total electrical capacity 2e per Mn . which is substantially beyond known rechargeable materials which fall to 10 15 of total capacity after a mere 15 or 20 discharges and recharges.The nonacid washed BiMnyOy material was not quite as good as the acid washed material in that its total discharge and recharge capacity at 60 cycles was approximately 45 48 .Example 2 The same procedure as set forth in Example 1 was carried out, except that the Mn Hi mole ratio in the starting salt solution was changed to 21.4 as compared to a ratio of 13.4 in the first example. The Mn Bi mole ratio in the final product was 17.1, again total recover of bismuth. This material also demonstrated excellent rechargeable characteristics when used as a cathode material for an alkaline rechargeable battery. Example 3 The same procedure as set forth in Example 1 was carried out again, except that the Mn Di mole ratio in the starting salt solution was changed to 10.7. Part of the filtered cake material was dried at 450C and part war. dried at 58 C. The Mn Bi mole ratio in this product was 8.7. Both of these materials worked well as a cathode material for an alkaline rechargeable battery. In both cases, the materials had better than 6 of their capacity useable in both discharge and recharge thereof after approximately 30 cycles.Example 4 The same procedure as set forth in Example 1 was again carried out, except that the Mn Bi mole ratio in the starting solution was 14.9 and the precipitation and oxidation by oxygen of the BiMnXOy compound was carried out in a bath maintained at 230C instead of 20C.Also, part of the curry was oxidized for only five hours in order to oxidize the manganese to a higher valence state and the other part was oxidized for a period of 23 hours. The carrying out of the precipitation at the higher temperature and the reduced time for oxidizing the manganese to its higher valence state did not appear to have any effect on the RiMnxOy compound when it was used as a rechargeable electrode material in the alkaline rechargeable battery. In fact, this material had almost 50 of its rechargeable capabilities after 60 cycles.Example 5 The same procedure as set forth in Example 4 was repeated. except that tlie Mn Bi mole ratio in the starting solution was 16.e dfld the addition of sodium hydros ide solution was slowed down to 2 ml min. versus 10 ml min. in the other examples . The Mn Bi mole ratio in the final product was l .5. Once again the resulting 3iMn 0 compound worked extremely well as a recharge xy able cathode material for an alkaline battery. It had a rechargeability of about 458 of its total capacity at 60 cycles.Example 6 3.84 grams of Pb NO3 2 were dissolved in 135 ml of distilled water. To this solution, 28.5 grams ofMn NO3 2 solution 49.5 Wt. t was added. The coprecipitation oxidation occurred at near OOC. The remaining procedures that were carried thereon were as set forth inExample 1 for filtration, washing, and drying of the PbMn 0 compound which was produced. The PbMn O xy xy material Mn Pb mole ratio 7.4 proved to be an acceptable material for use as a cathode material for alkaline rechargeable batteries. After 30 cycles the material had better than 30 of its discharge recharge capabilities remaining. Example 7 The same procedure as set forth for Example 6 was repeated, except that the coprecipitation oxidation was carried out at 250C. Once again the resulting PbMnxoy material was suitable for use as a cathode material for an alkaline rechargeable battery. The results from the following examples clearly illustrate the following. 1. The HiMn 0 and PbMn 0 compounds xy xy prepared by the method of my invention are better than the conventional electrolyte MnO2 in utilization, rechargeability. and cycle life when used as a cathode material for an alkaline rechargeable battery. They also surpass the compounds prepared by the previous two step method which was illustrated in the previously mentioned patent applications. 2. The compounds prepared by my method are, in general. the same composition and crystalline structure as those compounds prepared by the two step method.However, the compounds prepared by my method are more finely divided and less crystalline. 3. Removal of sodium and other forms of manganese oxides such as MnOOH. by washing with dilute acid.appear to be beneficial for the B Oy compound preparations. 4. The BiMNxOy and MbMnxOy compounds prepared by my method in which the coprecipitation oxidation is carried out at 250C are the same as those carried out near 00C The variation of the ratio of Mn Bi by a factor of 2, about 50t above and 50 below the stoicio metric value for the Na Birnessite formula of Mn Na 3.5. or Mn Bi 10.5 and Mn Pb 7. resulted in only minor differences in electrochemical activity of the so produced material. it is thus readily apparent that the method of my invention for preparing a BiMnyoy compound and the PbMnxOy compound is easier, more reliable, and relatively inexpensive to carry out than the procedures formerly required the two step method. While particular embodiments of the method of my invention have been illustrated and described. it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention, and it is intended to cover in the appended claims all such moditications and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.