# Automobile door handle assembly.

## Abstract
An automobile door handle assembly comprises a pivotable handle 2 held at its normal inoperative position substantially within a recess 1a formed in an escutcheon 1 fixedly attached to door panel 7 of an automobile or formed directly in said door panel 7 . The handle 2 is formed at its inner edge with a bulged out or thickened portion 2 generally directed inwardly of the recess 1a and downward ly, for preventing possible physical hurt or damage to the operator s finger nails 6 or finger tip s by accidental entry into gap ℓ existing between the inner edge 2 of the handle 2 and the confronting wall of the recess 1a .

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A door handle assembly comprieing a door panel or an escutcheon, said panel or escutcheon being formed to provide a handle containing space or recess accommod ating a pivotable handle so as te be substantially contained therein in its normal position corresponding to door closure and adapted part to emerge therefrom in a pulled out position corresponding to door opening, characterised in that said handle is furmed at its inside edge with a bulged out or thickened portion for the prevention of physical hurt and or damage to operator s finger end s as a result oi possible entry into any gap present or arising between the inside eRge of the handle and the confronting part of the escutcheon or door panel. 2. A door handle assembly of claim I, where in the said bulged out or thickened portion of the handle is directed generally downwards and inwards of the space or recess.

## Description
AUTOMOBILE DOOR HANDLE ASSEMBLY This invention relates to automobile door handle assemblies. Conventionally automobile doors are opened and closed by manipulating a door.handle. Arrangements are Known in which the handle, when actuated by an operator pulling it towards him, swings outwards and upwards so as partially to emerge from a surrounding casing, and by this action the door lock is brought into its releasea or unlocked condition, ready for opening the door. With continued pulling of the raised door handle, the door is caused to swig open. Upon opening of the door, the operator pressure on the door handle is released. The door handle then automatically returns to an initial position within the casing, under the action of a return spring. It is not unusual, during the return movement of the handle for the tip of one or more of the user s fingers, or his finger nails to be squeezed in the gap which has been created between the inside edge of the handle and the inside wall surface of tbe casing normally housing the latter hereinafter referrea to as an eacutcheon or a corresponding part of the door panel, thereby hurting or damaging the finger s . It is, therefore, an object or the present invention to provide an improved automobile door handle assembly the construction of which is effective to preventing physical hurt or damage being causea to the ope rator s fingers end auring dooropening manipuiation, the inside edge of the door handle being designea in its cross sectional configuration, so as positively to prevent an operator finger end s from entering into the gap as above discussed. With this object in view, the present invention provides a door handle assembly comprising a door panel or an escutcheon, said panel or escutcheon being formed to provide a handle containing space or recess accommodating a plvotable handle so as to be substantially contained therein in its normal position corresponding to door closure and adapted partially to emerge therefrom in a pulled out position corresponding to door opening, characterised in that said handle is formed at its inside edge with a bulged out or thickened portion for the prevention of physical hurt and or damage to operator a finger end 8 as a result of possible entry into any gap present or arising between the inside edge of the handle and the confronting part of the escutcheon or door panel. The invention will be described further, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawing, in which Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective view illustrating a preferred embodiment of the door handle assembly of the present invention Fig. 2 is an enlarged sectional elevation lllu trating the construction of a conventional door oi the kind with which the invention is concerned, and Fig. 3 is an enlarged sectional elevation illustrating the handle assembly, according to the invention, of Fig. 1, in such a way that it may be compared withFig. 2, and the inventive features thereof may be perceived. As will be understood, in the accompanying drawing a preferred embodiment of the handle assembly of the invention Figs. 1 and 3 will be described in comparison with a prior known or conventional automobile door handle assembly Fig. 2 . In the figures, the reference numeral 1 indicates an escutcheon which, in the installed condition of the assembly, is attached to an automobile door panel 7 of which only a part is shown. The escutcheon 1 is shaped to provide a recessed open space or recess Ia opening towards the exterior of the vehicle The reference numeral 2 indicates a handle which in its normal position is contained substantially wholly within the open space or recess la. Two arms 3 are formed integrally with the handle 2 and are pivotably mounted by two pivot pins 4 respectivelg on the upstanding limbs of a stationary U shaped mounting bracket Ib which is formed integrally with the escutcheon 1 and has its limbs projecting upwarde therefrom.A respective return coil spring 5 is mounted on each of the pivot pins 4. When an operator has manually raised the handle 2 by applying a turning pressure thereto in the clockwise direction as indicated in Figs. 2 and 3, and then releases his hand therefrom or relaxes the pressure, the handle 2 will return automatically to the illustrated normal position under the action of the springs 5 and thus moveo baclc into the space or recess 1a. In the conventional arrangement shown in Fig. 2, a small gapXarisee between the inside edge 2 of handle 2 and the confronting inside wall surface 10 of the escutcheon 1. According to experience, it has been found that an operator e finger nail, aa indicated at 6 , nay sometimes be subjected to squeezing between the stationary wall surf ace 1c and the moving handle edge 1 when manipulating the handle 2 ior opening and closing the door, and this oan quite frequently lead to physical injury. For avoiding this disadvantage oi the conventional construction, the handle 2 is formed, in accordance with this invention, and as shown specifically inFig. 3, with a bulged out or thickened end portion 2a at its maid. side edge 2 when considered in cross section. By the provision of such bulged out or thickened end portion 2a on the handle 2, the possibility of entry of the operator s iinger nail o or the tip o of his finger s into the gap is effectively prev ented. It is most preferable for the bulged out or thickened portion 2a to extend in a downwardly inclined and inwardly inclined direction as shown.In this way, particularly effective safety for the user s finger end s can be positively achieved. If desired, the door panel 7per so can be shaped in a manner corresponding to the illustrated escutcheon, in which case the hand 2 will, of course, be mounted so as to be accommodated in a handle accommodated space or recess formed directly in the door panel, without the uee of an intervening escutcheon. This possibility has not been illu traced, since its form will readily be appreoiated by those skilled in the art.