# SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY WITH STACKED STRUCTURE

## Claims
Halbleiterspeicher umfassend

## Description
The present invention relates to a semiconductor memory. Two types of random access memory cell have been used for dynamic operation. The first is a three transistor memory cell shown in Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, in which three transistors T₁, T₂ and T₃ together form one cell for storing one bit of data. Such a conventional 3 transistors memory cell is known from US A 4084 108. The first part of claim 1, illustrated in Fig. 4, is known from said US A 4084 108 patent specification. Transistor T₁ has a write function its gate receiving a write address W . Transistor T₃ has a read out function its gate receiving a read address R and transistor T₂ has an amplification function. Data are stored in the form of electric charge at the diffusion layer capacitance of transistor T₁ and the gate capacitance of transistor T₂. This charge can be maintained by periodic refreshing. The characteristic feature of this cell is that non destructive read out of data is possible the input terminal for data input being shown at Din and the output terminal for data output being shown at Dout. The cell itself provides an amplification function. However, the most crucial problem with this cell is that the cell area is relatively large because of the three transistor cell construction. Therefore, this type of cell has few commercial applications for products having a memory capacity greater than 4K bits. In place of the cell of the kind described above, the one transistor one capacitor memory cell shown in Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings has been used for MOS DRAM having a large memory capacity. This structure is disclosed in e.g. US A 3387286. A transistor T has the function of write read out address and the data is stored in a capacitor C. Periodic refreshing is necessary in the same way as in the cell shown in Figure 1. Since the structure of this cell is very simple it can be said that the cell is suitable for large scale integration. However, since read out of the data is destructive read out and since the cell itself does not have an amplification function, the charge storing capacitance of capacitor C must be kept above a predetermined value in order to obtain stable operation. The main factors that determine the lower limit of charge storing capacitance are as follows Due to these three limitations, reduction of the area of the charge storing capacitance portion has not kept pace with the progress in the technology of processing involving very fine etching in the production of IC s hence, miniaturization has become a serious problem. US A 4084108 shows a 3 transistor bit dynamic memory device wherein the gates of the reading and data storage transistors are overlapping. However, the amount of overlay is relatively small so large scale integration is not possible with this arrangement. It is further known to increase the integration density of circuits utilizing MOS FETs by providing an assembly in which at least one transistor is stacked above another one. Examples of such three dimensional structures are known from EP A 0 096 734 and DE A 3043 913. The present invention therefore seeks to provide a memory strucutr which eliminates, or at least ameliorates, the problems of the conventional memory cell structure described above,and which may therefore be suitable for very large scale integration. Therefore according to the present invention there is provided a semiconductor memory comprising It is important that a memory cell structure suitable for very large scale integration satisfies two requirements The present invention therefore utilizes the three transistor structure, with its advantages non destructive read out and amplification function, but at least a part of the first transistor is stacked on the third transistor. This reduces the area occupied by the device and so permits miniaturization. The present invention is particularly useful in a dynamic random access memory. Embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail, by way of example, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which Figure 3 shows a section of a memory cell structure in accordance with the present invention. In the drawing, three transistors T₁, T₂, T₃ are formed on a semiconductor substrate 1 of a first conductivity type. A gate electrode 13, an insulating film 14 and semiconductor regions 10, 12 of a second conductive type together form a first transistor T₁, with a write address function. A gate electrode 9, an insulating film 7 and semiconductor regions 2, 3 of the second conductive type together form a third transistor T₃ with a read out address function. A gate electrode 12, an insulating film 8 and semiconductor regions 3, 4 of the second conductive type together form a second transistor T₂ having an amplification function. Also shown in Figure 3 are insulating films 15 to 19 and interconnections 20 and 21. Data are stored in the form of electric charge at the gate capacitance and at the junction capacitance of region 12 which is the semiconductor region of the second conductive type source or drain of transistor T₁ and is the gate electrode of transistor T₂. The device has a three dimensional structure in which the write address transistor T₁ is stacked on the read out address transistor T₃ via an insulating film 16. Since a three dimensional structure is employed, the planar area of the cell may be significantly reduced, and a small cell having a planar area of, for example, about 18 µm², can be realized by 1.3 µm technology. This area is smaller than that of a one transistor one capacitor type memory cell. This is because a device according to the present invention may occupy only the area necessary for two transistors, and this is less than the area necessary for one transistor and one capacitor. Thus there is a reduction on cell area which is equal to the difference between the area of a capacitor and the area of a transistor. The greater the density of large scale integration, the greater this effect becomes because the capacitance C cannot be reduced in proportion to the increase in the density as described earlier. Furthermore, another great advantage of the device is that since the transistor T₁ may be formed as a thin film of semiconductor material on the insulating film 16, the holding characteristics of the memory data can be improved. As described already, the principle of operation of this cell is that the level of the potential of the region 12 is made to correspond to 1 and 0 of the data, and this logic state is detected read out by conduction and cut off of the transistor T₂. Since the region 12 bearing the data is formed on the insulating film 16, the effect of junction leakage and the generation of minority carrier due to α particles can be significantly reduced, and stored data is less likely to be destroyed. The reduction of junction leakage may be achieved by decreasing the junction area, and the reduced generation of minority carriers due to α particles is due to the fact that the thickness of the thin film of semiconductor may be made sufficiently less than the range of the α particles. As a result, this memory cell structure makes it possible to scale down the cell as a whole, including the data storage portion, thereby keeping pace with the progress in the technology of fine etching. The device is therefore readily applicable to very large scale integration in the foreseeable future. Figure 4 shows a circuit equivalent to the structure shown in Figure 3. As described already, the first transistor T₁ is formed as a thin film of semi conductor material 41 10, 11, 12 on the insulating film 16 . This is different from the memory cell shown in Figure 1 in that the data input output lines are put together in a single line in order to make possible very large scale integration. Figures 5A and 5B show the production steps of the memory cell structure in accordance with the present invention. In Figures 5A and 5B, three transistors are formed on a semiconductor substrate 51, which is a silicon wafer having a resistivity of 10 Ohms.cm and a P type 100 plane. A region for isolation of a thick oxide film 52 is formed on the substrate 51 by local oxidation of silicon LOCOS , and a gate oxide film 53 is then formed in an active region. The oxide film of the region for isolation is e.g. 500 nm thick while the gate oxide film is e.g. 20 nm thick. Boron B ions are implanted through the gate oxide film 53 in order to control a gate threshold voltage, and then a polycrystalline silicon film is deposited by chemical vapour deposition CVD . The polycrystalline silicon film is subsequently patterned to form two gate electrodes 541 and 542. Boron ion implantation is carried out at an acceleration energy of e.g. 60 KeV in a dose of e.g. 1.5 x 10¹² ions cm². This provides a threshold voltage of about 1 V. The polycrystalline silicon film is e.g. 310 nm thick, while the gate length after patterning is e.g. 1.3 µm. Next, arsenic As ions are implanted using the gate electrodes 541 and 542 as a mask, thereby forming n type dopant diffusion regions 551, 552 and 553 that serve as the source and drain regions of transistors the second and third transistors . Ion implantation is carried out at an acceleration energy of e.g. 80 KeV in a dose of e.g. 5 x 10¹⁵ ions cm². A phosphosilicate glass film 56 is then deposited by CVD to form an insulating film. After contact holes are etched on the n type dopant diffusion region 551 and on the gate electrode 542, a polycrystalline silicon film is again deposited by CVD. The phosphosilicate glass film is e.g. 0.4 µm thick, and the polycrystalline silicon film is e.g. 0.2 µm thick. The polycrystalline silicon film is irradiated with laser light, and the film as a whole is crystallized using the contact portion with the n type dopant diffusion layer 551 as the seed, and is patterned to form a single crystal silicon thin film 57 that connects the n type dopant diffusion region 551 to the gate electrode 542. The silicon on sapphire SOS or silicon on insulator SOI techniques may be used as the method of forming the single crystal on the insulating film. This is disclosed in e.g. US A 3484662. After a gate oxide film 58 is formed on the surface of the single crystal silicon thin film 57 by thermal oxidation, boron B ions are implanted to control the threshold voltage of a transistor the first transistor to be formed in the silicon thin film 57. The gate oxide film is e.g. 20 nm thick. Ion implantation is carried out at an acceleration energy of e.g. 60 KeV at a dosage of e.g. 1.5 x 10¹² ions cm². This provides a threshold voltage of about 1 V. Thereafter, a polycrystalline silicon film is deposited by CVD, and is patterned to form a gate electrode 59. Arsenic As ions are implanted using the gate electrode 59 as the mask to form an n type dopant diffusion regions 571 and 572 that serve as the source and drain of the first transistor. The polycrystalline silicon film is e.g. 310 nm thick, and the gate length after patterning is e.g. 1.3 µm. Arsenic ion implantation is carried out at an implantation energy of e.g. 80 KeV at a dosage of e.g. 5 x 10¹⁵ ions cm². Finally, high temperature annealing is carried out in an N₂ ambient atmosphere to activate the ions that have been introduced by ion implantation. Thereafter, an insulating film consisting of phosphosilicate glass 60, contact holes and Aℓ interconnections 61 are formed to complete the production process. High temperature annealing in the N₂ ambient atmosphere is carried out at e.g. 950 C for 30 minutes. As a result, the junction depth of the n type dopant diffusion regions is about 0.25 µm and is greater than the thickness 0.2 µm of the single crystal silicon film 57, so that the junction area contributing to junction leakage of the n type dopant diffusion region 572 may be significantly reduced. When a memory cell of this embodiment with a 1.3 µm gate is produced, the production steps for which are as described above, is integrated in 1K bit array and is subjected to an operation test, it has been confirmed that the operating voltage is within the range of from 2.5 V to 7.0 V, the production yield is high and the operation of the array stable. When the data holding time is evaluated, excellent refresh characteristics such as shown in Figure 6 can be obtained. Figure 6 is a histogram of the data holding time. The operation conditions for a data holding time of at least 10 ¹ second are a power source voltage of 5 V and an ambient temperature of 25 C, the characteristics being favourably comparable to those of prior art cells. As described above, the present invention enables the fabrication of a random access memory cell structure having a cell area smaller than that of a one transistor one capacitor type memory cell, which is free, in principle, from any problem when further miniaturising the memory cell as a whole with the future progress of technology for fine etching, and which is suitable for very large scale integration. A 16M bit memory chip will become available if technology of a 0.5 µm level can be employed.