# Flame retardant moulding compositions comprising blends of polyarylate and polyester.

## Abstract
A flame retardant moulding composition comprises a blend of a polyarylate, a polyester and a flame retarding amount of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate, or mixtures thereof.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A flame retardant moulding composition comprising a blend of a a polyarylate derived from at least one dihydric phenol and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid, b a polyester derived from an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic diol, or mixtures thereof, and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid, and c an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate, or mixtures thereof. 2. A composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the antimonate is sodium antimonate. J .composition as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the dihydric phenol is of the formula EMI19.1 wherein Y is selected from alkyl groups of 1 to.4 carbon atoms, chlorine or bromine, each z, independently, has.a value of from O to 4, inclusive, and R is a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radical, selected from alkylene radicals having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms, and cycloalkylene or cycloalkylidene radicals having up to and including 9 carbon atoms. 4. A composition as claimed in claim 3 wherein each z is C and R is an alkylidene radical of 3 carbon atoms. 5. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the aromatic dicarboxylic acid is a mixture of isophthalic and terephthalic acids. 6. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the polyester has repeating units of the general formula EMI20.1 wherein n is an integer of from 2 to 4. 7. A composition as claimed in claim 6 wherein the polyester is poly ethylene terephthalate . 8. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the polyester has recurring units of the following formula EMI20.2 wherein the cyclohexane ring is selected from the cis and trans isomer thereof, and R is an aryl radical containing 6 to 20 carbon atoms and which is the decarboxylated residue derivec from an aromatic dicarboxylic acid. 9. A composition as claimed in claim 8 wherein the polyester has repeating units of the formula EMI21.1 10. A composition as claimed in any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the polyester is a copolyester having repeating units of the following formula EMI21.2 wherein the cyclohexane ring is selected from the cis and trans isomers thereof, R is an aryl radical containing 6 to 20 carbon atoms and which is the dicarboxylated residue derived from an aromatic dicarboxylic acid, nazis an integer of 2 to 4, x units comprise from about 10 to 90 percent by weight and the y units comprise from about 10 to about 90 percent by weight. 11. A composition as claimed in claim 10 wherein the copolyester has repeating units of the following formula EMI21.3 12. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims which contains from 10 to 90 weight percent of a , from 90 to 10 weight percent of b , and from 0.2 to 7 weight percent of c . 13. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims which contains a halogen containing flame retardant additive. 14. A composition as claimed in claim 13 wherein the flame retardant additive i s decabromodiphenyl ether. 15. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims which contains an impact modifier which is a graft copolymer of a vinyl aromatic, an acrylate, an unsaturated nitrile, or mixtures thereof, grafted onto an unsaturated elastomeric backbone and having a tensile modulus of less than about 100,000 psi. 16. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims wherein the polyarylate is a polyfarylate carbonate . 17. A composition as claimed in any of the preceding claims which includes up to 50 wt. of another polymer compatible with the polyarylate and polyester blend. 18. A composition as claimed in claim 17 wherein the polymer is polycarbonate. 19. A composition as claimed in claim 17 wherein the polymer is ABS. 20. A composition as claimed in claim 17 wherein the polymer is impact modified poly methyl methacrylate . 21. A composition as claimed in claim 17 wherein the polymer is a polyamide. 22. A composition as claimed in claim 21 wherein the polyamide is nylon 6. 23. A composition as claimed in claim 21 wherein the polyamide is nylon 6,6.

## Description
FLAME RETARDANT MOULDING COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING POLYARYLATE AND POLYESTER This invention is directed to a flame retardant moulding composition comprising a blend of a polyarylate, a polyester, and a flame retarding amount of an alkali earth metal antimonate, or mixtures thereof. Blends of polyarylates and polyesters are known in the art. For example, Japanese patent application No. 54159 describes blends of a polyarylate and polyethylene terephthalate. U.S.Patent 3,946,091 describes blends of an aromatic copolyester and polyethylene terephthalate.Further, U.S. Patent 4,259,458 describes blends of a polyarylate, an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic polyester and select thermoplastic polymers. These blends are suitable in a number of moulding applications, many of which require that the moulded article be flame retardant. U.S. Patent 4,259,458 discloses that flame retardant additives ,particularly decabromodiphenyl ether and triarylphosphates such as triphenyl phosphate may be used to flame retard blends of polyarylate, polyester and a thermoplastic polymer. Flame retardant systems for many polymers are based on the combination of a halogen source, such as, for example, decabromodiphenyl oxide and antimony trioxide. When a blend of polyarylate and polyester contains a high level of polyester, a halogen source alone will not adequately flame retardant the blend so that the antimony trioxide is necessary. However, the use of antimony trioxide in blends of polyarylate and polyester causes thermal degradation of these polymers. Further, the addition of an alkaline earth metal antimonate to polyarylate would result in an unstable product due to the high temperatures 3250C necessary to process the polyarylate. Blends of polyarylate and polyester exhibit lower processing temperatures than polyarylate alone. They are amorphous as moulded, and exhibit higher heat distortion temperatures under load than the crystalline, unblended polyesters. Polyesters such as poly ethylene terephthalate or poly butylene terephthalate are crystalline as moulded and have a low heat distortion temperature, under load. Therefore, it is unexpectedthat blends of polyarylate and polyester containing an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate will be uniquely different than either unblended polyarylate or polyester containing an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate. It has now been found that the addition of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate, or mixtures thereof, to a blend of a polyarylate and polyester will flame retard the blend and will not degrade the blend when it is processed, at the high temperatures which are needed for processing. The flame retardant moulding composition of this invention comprises a a polyarylate derived from at least one dihydric phenol and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid, b a polyester derived from an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic diol, or mixtures polyarylate, polyester and sodium antimonate and when used, the halogen source, in powder or granular form in an extruder and extruding the mixture into strands, chopping the strands into pellets and moulding the pellets into the desired article. Examples thereof, and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid, and c an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal antimonate. or mixtures thereof. The composition may additionally include a halogen containing flame retardant. The alkali or alkaline earth metal antimonates include sodium. potassium, cesium, etc.antimonates. sodium antimonate is preferred. The polyarylates of this invention are derived from at least one dihydric phenol and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid. A particularly desirable dihydric phenol is of the following formula EMI3.1 wherein Y is selected from alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms. chlorine or bromine, each z.independently. has a value of from 0 to 4, inclusive, and R is a divalent saturated or unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radical.particularly alkylene and alkylidene radicals having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms. and cycloalkylene radicals having up to and including 9 carbon atoms. The preferred dihydric phenol is bisphenol A. The dihydric phenols may be used individually or in combination. The aromatic dicarboxylic acids that may be used in this invention include terephthalic acid, isophthalic acid, any of the naphthalene dicarboxylic acids and mixtures thereof. as well as alkyl substituted homologs of these dicarboxylic acids. wherein the alkyl group contains from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms. and acids containing other inert substituents. such as halides. alkyl or aryl ethers. and the like. Preferably, mixtures of isophthalic and terephthalic acids are used.The isophthalic acid to terephthalic acid ratio in the mixture is from about 20 80 to about 1CO O, while the most preferred acid ratio is from about 25 75 to about 56 50. Also. from about 0.5 to about 20 percent of aliphatic diacids containing from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms, such as adipic acid, sebacic acid, and the like may be additionally used in the polymerization reaction. The polyarylates of the present invention can be prepared by any of the well known prior art polyester forming reactions. such as the reaction of the acid chlorides of the aromatic dicarboxylic acids with the dihydric phenols the reaction of the diaryl ethers of the aromatic dicarboxylic acids with the dihydric phenols or the reaction of the aromatic diacids with diester derivatives of the dihydric phenol. These processes are described in.for example. U.S. Patents 3,317,464 3,94B,856 3.780,148 3,824,213 and 3,133,898. Preferably, the polyarylates used in this invention are prepared by the process described inU.S. Patent 4,321,355. This patent describes an improved process for preparing a polyarylate having a reduced viscosity of from about 0.5 to greater than 1.0 dl gm, which process comprises the following steps a reacting an acid anhydride derived from an acid containing from 2 to 8 carbon atoms with at least one dihydric phenol to form the corresponding diester and b reacting said diester with at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid at a temperature sufficient to form the polyarylate, wherein the improvement comprises removing residual acid anhydride, after formation of the dihydric phenol diester, so that its concentration is less than about 1500 parts per million. The polyarylates herein also include poly arylate carbonate . The arylate carbonate molar ratio can be from 100 0 to 25 75. The polyesters which are suitable for use herein are derived from an aliphatic or cycloaliphatic diol. or mixtures thereof , containing from 2 to about 10 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic dicarboxylic acid. The polyesters which are derived from an aliphatic diol and an aromatic dicarboxylic acid have repeating units of the following general formula EMI5.1 wherein n is an integer of from 2 to 4. The preferred polyester is poly ethylene terephthalate . Also contemplated herein are the above polyesters with minor amounts, e.g., from 0.5 to about 2 percent by weight. of units derived from aliphatic acid and or aliphatic polyols, to form copolyesters. The aliphatic polyols include glycols, such as poly ethylene glycol . these can be made following the teachings of, for example.U.S. Patents 2,465,319 and 3,047,539. The polyesters which are derived from a cycloaliphatic diol and an aromatic dicarboxylic acid are prepared by condensing either the cis or trans isomer or mixtures thereof of, for example a l.4 cyclohex anedimethanol with an aromatic dicarboxylic acid so as to produce a polyester having recurring units of the following formula EMI6.1 wherein the cyclohexane ring is selected from the cis and trans isomers thereof and R represents an aryl radical containing 6 to 20 carbon atoms and which is the decarboxylated residue derived from an aromatic dicarboxylic acid. Examples of aromatic dicarboxylic acids indicated by R in formula II . are isophthalic or terephthalic acid, 1.2 di p carboxyphenyl ethane 4.40 dicarboxydiphnyi ether. etc., and mixtures of these. All of these acids contain at least one aromatic nucleus. Fused rings can also be present, such as in 1,4 or 1,5 naphthalenedicarboxylic acids. The preferred dicarboxylic acids are terephthalic acid or a mixture of terephthalic and isophthalic acids. A preferred polyester may be derived from the reaction of either cis or trans isomer or a mixture thereof of 1.4 cyclohexanedimethanol with a mixture of isophthalic and terephthalic acids.These polyesters have repeating units of the formula EMI7.1 Another preferred polyester is a copolyester derived from a cyclohexane dimethanol. an alkylene glycol and an aromatic dicarboxylic acid. Th esrcopolyesters are prepared by condensing either the cis or trans isomer or mixtures thereof of, for example. 1.4 cyclohexanedimethanol and an alkylene glycol with an aromatic dicarboxylic acid so as to produce a copolyester having repeating units of the following formula EMI7.2 wherein the cyclohexane ring is selected from the cis and trans isomers thereof, R is as previously defined, n is an integer of 2 to 4. the x units comprise from about 10 to 90 percent by weight and the y units comprise from about 10 to about 90 percent by weight. The preferred copolyester may be derived from the reaction of either the cis or trans isomer or mixtures thereof of i.4 cyclohexanedimethanol and ethylene glycol with terephthalic acid in a molar ratio of 1 2 3. These copolyesters have repeating units of the following formula EMI8.1 wherein x and y are as previously defined. The polyester as described herein are either commercially available or can be produced by methods well known in the art, such as those set forth in, for example. U.S. Patent 2,901,466. The polyesters used herein have an intrinsic viscosity of from about 0.4 to about 2.0 dl g. as measured in a 60 40 phenol tetrachloroethane mixture or similar solvent at 23 30iC. The compositions of this invention may additionally have admixed therewith a halogen containing flame retardant additive.preferably in an amount of from 0.01 to about 15 parts per one hundred parts polymer. Representative but not limiting examples of a halogen containing flame retardant additive include hexabromobenzene, decabromodiphenyl, decachiorodiphenyl. decabromodiphenyl ether. decachlorodiphenyl ether, 2,2 3,3 .5,5 tetrabromo 4,4 dihydroxydiphenyl propane, 2.2 3,3 ,5.5 tetrachlorQ 4,8 dihydroxy diphenyl propane, brominated polystyrene.tetrabromo bis A polycarbonate. poly 2,6 dibromophenylene oxide . an adduct of cyclohexane and hcxachlorocyelopentadiene chloran , etc., and mixtures thereof. In the composition of this invention the polyarylate is used in amounts of from 10 to about 90, preferably from about 20 to about 75 weight percent, the polyester in amounts of from about 10 to about 90, preferably from about 25 to about 80 weight percent, and the alkali metal antimonate from about 0.2 to about 7.0, preferably from about 1 to about 5 weight percent. Other additives may be included in the composition of this invention. These additives include plasticizers pigments reinforcing agents, such as glass fibers thermal stabilizers ultraviolet light stabilizers, processing aids.impact modifiers and the like. The impact modifiers which are particularly suitable for use herein are described in U.S. Patent 4,231,922. These impact modifiers are a graft copolymer of a vinyl aromatic, an acrylate, an unsaturated nitrile, or mixtures thereof. grafted onto an unsaturated elastomeric backbone and having a tensile modulus as measured by ASTM D 638, except that the test piece is compression molded to a 20 mil thickness of less than about 100,000 psi, and preferably from about 15,000 to less than about 100,000 psi. The unsaturated elastomeric backbone may be polybutadiene, poly butadiene co styrene , poly butadiene co acrylonitrile . or poly isoprene . In each of the polymers there is sufficient butadiene to give the polymer a rubbery character. The constituents which are grafted onto the unsaturated elastometic backbone are selected from a vinyl aromatic, such as styrene, Q methyl6tyrene, alkylstyrene, or mixtures thereof an acrylate such as the acrylic ester monomers, such as methyl methacrylate, or mixtures thereof an unsaturated nitrile such as acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, or mixtures thereof. it will be understood that the vinyl aromatic, acrylate and acrylonitrile ay be used individually or in any combinations in grafting onto the unsaturated elastomeric backbone. These impact modifiers are free flowing powders and are cominonly available as impact modifiers for poly vinyl chloride as described in, for example. V. Shakaypal, in Developments in PVCTechnology , edited byJ. H. L. Hensen and A. Whelan, Applied Science Publishers Ltd., New York, 1973. The grafted constituents of the impact modifier comprise from about 20 to about 60 percent by weight of said constituents such that their tensile modulus does not exceed about 100.000 psi, and is preferably. between about 15,000 to less than about 100.000 psi. The composition may also include up to 50 weight percent of another polymer compatible with the polyarylate and polyester blend such as a polycarbonate. a styrenic polymer such as ABS, impact poly methyl methacrylate , a polyamide, such as nylon 6. nylon 6,6, and the like. The compositions of this invention are prepared by any conventional mixing methods. For example1 a preferred method comprises mixing the polyarylate, polyester and sodium antimonate and when used, the halogen source, in powder or granular form in an extruder and extruding the mixture into strands, chopping the strands into pellets and moulding the pellets into the desired article. Examples The following examples serve to give specific illustrations of the practice of this invention but they arse not intended in any way to limit the scope of this invention. Control A 60 weight percent of a polyarylate prepared fromBisphenol A and a mixture of SO mole percent of terephthalic acid chloride and 50 mole percent of isophthalic acid chloride by conventional methods having a reduced viscosity of 0.66 dl g as measured in p chlorophenol at 490C, 40 weight percent of a poly ethylene terephthalate having an intrinsic viscosity of 0.64 as measured in 60 40 phenol tetrachloroethane at 23 C were blended in a 1 inch laboratory extruder at 275 C. The pelletized mixtures were tested for melt flow stability at 275 C in a Tinius Olsen melt index apparatus at 44 psi.The melt flow results demonstrate the melt flow at 2750C after 10 minutes preheat . The melt flow stability test is determined by the comparison of the melt flow after 10 minutes MF10 compared to the melt flow after 30 minute preheat MF30 . The melt flow ratio MF30 MF10 is used as the basis for melt flow stability comparisons. The results are shown in Table I. Control B 9B weight percent of the blend of Control A was blended with 2 weight percent of antimony trioxide by the procedure and under the conditions described in Control A. The blend was tested as described in Control A. The results are shown in Table I. Example 1 98 weight percent of the blend of Control A was blended with 2,weight percent of sodium antimonate by the procedure and under the conditions described in Control A. The blend was tested as described in Control A. The results are shown in Table I. Control C 92 weight percent of the blend of Control A was blended with t weight percent of decabromodiphenyl oxide and 2 weight percent of antimony trioxide by the procedure and under the conditions described in Control A. The blend was tested as described in Control A. The results are shown in Table I. Example 2 92 weight percent of the blend of Control A was blended with 6 weight percent of decabromodiphenyl oxide and 2 weight percent of sodium antimonate by the procedure and under the conditions described in Control A. The blend was tested as described in Control A. The results are shown in Table I. The results listed in Table I clearly show that the substitution of sodium antimonate for antimony trioxide yields lower values for MF10 melt flow.This demonstrates a lower level of degradation chain scission when sodium antimonate is utilized as compared with antimony trioxide. The melt flow ratio MF30 MFlo is also lower for sodium antimonate samples than with corresponding blends with antimony trioxide, also demonstrating improved stability. TABLE IEMI14.1 tb SEP Melt SEP Melt SEP Flow tb SEP Description SEP of SEP the SEP Composition SEP Flow SEP Ratio tb Example SEP Ingredients SEP Wt. SEP SEP MF10 SEP MF30 MF10 tb Control SEP A SEP PA SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 100 SEP 3.8 SEP 1.1 tb SEP PET SEP 40 tb Control SEP B SEP PA SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 96 SEP 14.6 SEP 2.2 tb SEP PET SEP 4O J SEP tb SEP Sb203 SEP 2 tb l SEP PA SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 98 SEP 8.3 SEP 1.4 tb SEP PET SEP 40 tb SEP Na SEP antimonate SEP 2 tb Control SEP C SEP PA SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 92 SEP 19.3 SEP 2.9 tb SEP PET SEP 40 tb SEP DBDPO SEP 6 tb SEP Sb2O3 SEP 2 tb 2 SEP PA SEP 60 SEP SEP SEP 92 SEP 9.3 SEP 1.4 tb SEP PET SEP 40 tb SEP DBDPO SEP 6 tb SEP Na SEP antimonate SEP 2 tb PA polyarylatePET polyethylene terephthalateSb2O3 antimony trioxideDBDPO decabromodiphenyl oxide Control L 56.6 weight percent of the polyarylate of Control A was blended with 27.4 weight percent of the polyethylene terephthalate of Control A, 10 weight percent of KM 6ll a styrene acrylate butadiene terpolymer having a tensile modulus of 46,300 psi and sold by Rohm and Haas Company and 6 weight percent of decabromodiphenyl oxide by the procedure and under the conditions described in Control A. The blends were then injection moulded in a 1 1 4 ounce screw injection moulding machine at 2750C into ASTM test bars. The test specimens were measured for the following properties tensile strength and modulus according to ASTM D 638 elongation at break according to ASTM D 638 notched izod impact strength according to ASTM D 256 heat distortion temperature measured at 264 psi on a 1 8 inch bar according to ASTM D 648. In addition, the samples were subjected to the UL 94 Burning Test forClassifying Materials.The UL 94 ratings of V O, V l, or V 2 are determined as designated below 94 V O No single flaming combustion after removal of the igniting flame shall exceed 10 seconds and none of the specimens shall drip flaming particles which ignite absorbent surgical cotton placed 12 inches below the specimen. Total flame out time for all five specimens 10 ignitions cannot exceed 50 seconds. 94 V l No single flame combustion after removal of the igniting flame shall exceed 30 seconds and none of the specimens shall drip flaming particles which ignite absorbent surgical cotton placed 12 inches below the specimen. Total flame out time for all five specimens 10 ignitions cannot exceed 250 seconds. 94 V 2 No single flaming combustion after removal of the igniting flame shall exceed 30 seconds. The specimens drip flaming particles which burn only briefly, some of which ignite absorbent surgical cotton 12 inches below the specimen. Total flame out time for all five specimens 10 ignitions cannot exceed 250 seconds. Further, the blends were tested for melt flow stability as described in Control A. The results are. shown in Table II. Control E 55 weight percent of the polyarylate of Control A was blended with 27 weight percent of the polyethylene terephthalate of Control A, 10 weight percent of XM 611 ofControl D, 6 weight percent of decabromodiphenyl oxide and 2 weight percent of antimony trioxide by the procedure described in Control A. The blends were moulded into test bars and tested as described in Control D. The results are shown in Table II. Example 3 55 weight percent of the polyarylate of Control A was blended with 27 weight percent of the polyethylene terephthalate of Control A, 10 weight percent of KM 611 ofControl D, 6 weight percent of decabromodiphenyl oxide and 2 weight percent of sodium antimonate by the procedure described in Control A. The blends were moulded into test bars and tested as described in Control D. The results are shown in Table II. TABLE IINotchedIzod Heat MeltTensile Tensile Impact Distortion Melt FlowDescription of the Composition Modulus Strength Elongation ft lbs Temp. Flow Ratio UL 9 mple Ingredients Wt. psi psi in of notch C MF10 MF30 MF10 Rati trol D PA 56.6 321,000 8,880 98 11.6 104 2.1 1.1 V 2 PET 27.4KM 611 10DBDPO 6 trol E PA 55 327,000 8,550 30 0.4 102 7.1 3.2 V O PET 27KM 611 10DBDPO 6Sb2O3 2 PA 55 310,000 8,520 78 2.3 103 3.6 1.5 V O PET 27KM 611 10DBDPO 6Na antimonate 2 Table IT shows that the formulation containing antimony trioxide exhibits a higher melt flow indicating degradation during processing and a poorer melt flow stability than the same formulation with Na antimonate or the control formulation without an antimony compound. The Na antimonate based formulation gave an equivalent flame retardant rating as the antimony trioxide based formulation. The mechanical property data shows a severe drop in notched toughness for the antimony trioxide based formulation. A drop in notched toughness also occurs with Na antimonate and is believed due to the loss in toughness with inorganic particulate incorporation. Overall, the property balance of the polyarylate polyethylene terephthalate formulation based on Na antimonate is superior to that based on antimony trioxide.