# Coating composition.

## Abstract
A coating composition for imparting improved salt spray resistance to a part comprising a phosphate ion and chromate ions or molybdate ion in an aqueous solution, and b particulate of a leachable chromate pigment, and the coatings and coated parts formed therewith.

## Claims
Claims 1. A coating composition for providing a part with improved salt spray resistance, which comprises leachable chromate pigments in an aqueous acid solution of chromate ions or phosphate ions and ions of the group of chromate ions or molybdate ions. 2. The coating compositions of claim 1 wherein said leachable chromate pigment comprises about 1 to about 20E by weight of said composition based on weight of chromate, phosphate or molybdate compounds in solution. 3. The coating composition of claim 2 wherein said leachable chromate pigment is about 1 to about 10t by weight of said composition. 4. The coating composition of claim 1 wherein said leachable chromate pigments are selected from the group consisting of strontium chromate, zinc yellow, zinc tetroxy chromate, zinc potassium chromate and zinc chromate. 5. The coating composition of claim 1 including particulates of member selected from the group consisting of fumed silica, fumed alumina and colloidal alumina. 6. The coating composition of claim 1 including metal particles. 7. The coating composition of claim 6 wherein said metal particles are aluminum. B. The coating composition of claim 7 wherein the ratio of aluminum particles to other solids is from about 1.5 to 1 to about 5 to 1 grams per liter of the solution in which it initially is dispersed. 9. The coating composition of claim 1 including particles selected from the group consisting of graphite, refractory metal oxides, refractory carbides, nitrides, silicides and borides, and metal nitrides, silicides and borides. 10. The coating composition of claim 1 including particulate of polyvinylidene fluoride. off.. A corrosion resistant coating comprising at least one layer of substantially water insoluble material which is the reaction product formed by reacting and curing an aqueous acidic solution of phosphate ions and ions of the group of chromate ions or molybdate ions, said layer having a leachable chromate pigment dispersed therein. 12. The coating of claim 11 wherein said leachable chromate pigment comprises about 1 to about 20 by weight of said acidic solution based on weight of chromate, phosphate or molybdate compounds therein. 13. The coating of claim 12 wherein said leachable chromate pigment is about 1 to about 10 by weight of said acidic solution. 14. The coating of claim 11 wherein said leachable chromate pigments are selected from the group consisting of strontium chromate, zinc yellow, zinc tetroxy chromate, zinc potassium chromate and zinc chromate. 15. The coating of claim 11 including particulates of member selected from the group consisting of fumed silica, fumed alumina and colloidal alumina being dispersed therein. 16. The coating of claim 11 including metal particles dispersed therein. 17. The coating of claim 16 wherein said metal particles are aluminum. 18. The coating of claim 11 including particulate cf polyvinylidene fluoride. 19. The coating of claim 11 including a protective top coating. 20. A coated article which comprises a metal or metalloid substrate having a coating cured thereon of a composition according to any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10. 21. A method of coating a metal or metalloid part for imparting corrosion resistant property thereto, said method including the steps of a applying to a surface of said part a coating of the composition of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10, and b drying and curing said coating to thereby adhere the coating to the part and retain the leachable chromate pigments therein.

## Description
COATING COMPOSITIONS The present invention relates to coating compositions for coating metal parts so as to improve their corrosion resistance to atmospheric and other environmental conditions to which they are exposed. The invention further relates to coating compositions which will fortl a primer coating so as to improve the adhesion between a metal part and a top coating. The invention also relates to the metal parts coated with such compositions and to a method for coating metal parts. More particularly, the invention relates to aqueous coating compositions containing a dissolved chromium compound or phosphate and chromium or molybdenum compound and particles of leachable chromate pigments. Coating compositions are known which consists essentially of a slurry of solid inorganic particulate material in an aqueous acidic solution containing substantial amounts of dissolved metal, chromate, chromate or molybdate and phosphate. After application of such coating to a substrate, it is heated to a temperature of about 5000F until the coating is water insoluble. Such coatings usually incorporate therein metal powders, such as aluminum powder, as the solid particulate material so as to provide a sacrificial corrosive protection.That is, where, for example, the substrate for the coating is ferrous metal, the aluminum powder in the coating, by way of electrode chemical reactions which ensue in a salt spray or other corrosive atmosphere, generally sacrifices itself to the end that there is little or no corrosion of the ferrous metal substrate. It has further been established, that this property of the sacrificiality of the coating in providing the increased corrosion protection is greatly enhanced by so processing the coating as to render it electrically conductive. Usually, the aluminum filled coatings are made sacrificial and galvanically active by either coat worming burnishing the coating surface, or by heat treating to a temperature of about 10000F for ninety minutes. Other heat treatments can be used.The goal being to produce an electrically conductive aluminum coating that is sacrificial, i.e. will corrode and protect the adjacent base metal areas from corrosion. Sacrificial, burnished or heat treated coatings of this type are commonly used on jet engine compressor hardware.In other applications burnished or heat treated coatings may be used in salt environments and or in elevated temperatures. In salt environments, particularly when coupled with elevated temperatures, the galvanic activity of the coatings produce white corrosion products or gelatenous masses of aluminum hydroxide and other products. In many applications these white products or white rust are as undesirable as normal rust. Accordingly it is an objective of the present invention to provide a means for eliminating all white corrosion products without interferring with the sacrificial action of the coating or adversely affecting any of the other coating characterisites. It is a further object of the invention to provide a coating for metal parts which has improved humidity resistance and salt spray resistance. It is a yet still further object of the invention to provide an improved coating composition which can be applied to parts by spraying1 dipping or other methods of operation. According to the present invention, there is now provided a means for improving salt spray resistance of water insoluble coatings formed from an aqueous acid binder solution which comprises ions Of at least one of the group which is phosphate, chromate, dichromate, and molybdate through the use of leachable chromate pigments. Broadly, one embodiment of the present invention is directed to an aqueous acidic. coating composition for application, and curing on a metal substrate. Accordingly, there is prepared an adherent, water insoluble corrosion resistant coating on the substrate, which comprises an intimate mixture in an aqueous liquid medium of a substantial amounts of phosphate ion and ions selected from the group consisting of chromate and molybdate and b particles of a leachable chromate pigment. The phosphate can be introduced into the solution in the form of phosphoric acid, in the form of phosphates of the metal or metals to be included as the metal cation, or as is preferred, it can be added in both forms. It will be understood that the term phosphate is intended to comprehend not only the PO4 ion, but also the HPO4 and H2PO ions. It is known that phosphate and chromate phosphate coatings are useful to protect metal surfaces. It is also known to,incorporate in such coatings metal powders. For instance, Kirk and Othmer, Eds., Encylcopedia of ChemicalTechnology, 2nd ed. vol. 18, Interscience Publishers, a division of John Wiley Sons, Inc., 1969 pages 292 303 , describes phosphate and chromate coatings. The United States patent literature describes coating solutions or dispersions for protective coating of metals, which compositions are suitable for use as components of the compositions of the invention. Such suitable compositions are disclosed by Allen No. 3,248,251 Brt mbaugh No. 3,869,293 Collins No.3,248,249 Wydra No. 3,857,717 Boies No. 3,081,146 Romig No. 2,245,609 Helwig No. 3,967,984 Bennetch No 3,443,977 Hirst No. 3,562,011 and others. These disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. Other illustrative patents or literature showing corrosion inhibiting and protective coating compositions of phosphates, mixtures of phosphates and chromates and or molybdates are known Xo one skilled in the art and further examples need not be supplied. According to the present invention there is provided a coating composition which has enhanced salt spray resistance, that can be applied to different varieties of substrates and which can be applied by any of the methods of spraying, dipping, brushing, etc. The coating composition comprises a an aqueous acid coating solution comprising phosphate ions and ions of the group of chromate ions and or molybdate ion, and b about 1 to about 20 by weight of particulates of a leachable chromate pigment based on weight of other solids in the solution, preferably, 1 to 10 by weight of leachable chromate pigment based on weight of other solids. When the amount of leachable pigment is below this range the beneficial effect of the presence is hardly noticed. Utilizing a larger amount is costly and causes difficulty in uniformly applying the composition. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention, a coating is formed by employing a chromate phosphate solution in which the leachable chromate pigments are dispersed therein and this solution is heat cured to a substantially water insoluble state whereby the leachable chromate pigments are bonded therein. The combination of compounds in said above mentioned solution a is such as will provide at least 0.1 mole per liter of dissolved phosphate preferably 0.5 mole per liter , and at least 0.2 mole per liter of a compound from the group consisting of chromate and molybdate. In the phosphate solution it is not necessary that a metal ion be added. When the phosphate and or chromate or molybdate ion is furnished to the solution by addition of a metal salt, as is often done, metal ion is inherently supplied to the solution. Hence, any of the known phosphates, chromates dichromates or molybdates can be used as the source of metal ion.Additionally., as is known, metal ion can be supplied in a form such as metal oxide, hydroxide, carbonate, etc. which will dissolve in acid, i.e. phosphoric acid, chromic acid or molybdic acid, to produce the metal phosphate, chromate or molybdate, and therefore the metal ion plus water and or gas which is evolved. The following metal compounds will illustrate those which can be added to generate the metal ion within the solution, by an acid base reaction, in accordance with the above magnesium oxide magnesium hydroxide zinc oxide zinc hydroxide aluminum hydroxide lithium oxide lithium carbonate and calcium hydroxide. Metal compounds which may be added to generate the metal ion in solution are various oxides, hydroxide or carbonates of magnesium, zinc, aluminum or others.Such procedures and sources for the metal ions are known and reference may be made to the cited 251 Allen patent, for instance, column 7, lines 26 57, which is incorporated herein by reference. The pH of the aqueous binder used herein is preferably, but not necessarily, in the range of about 0 to about 3.0, preferably in the range of about 1.5 to about 2.5. If it is desired to prepare coating compositions which are especially well suited for dip spin, or application by dipping, the compositions may, optionally, contain certain amorphous silicas and a non ionic surfactant, which causes the composition to be thixotropic. Such suitable additives and the resulting compositions are described in copending application Serial No. 06 441,754, filed November 15, 1982, which is incorporated herein by reference Likewise, the compositions of the invention may be made thixotropic by incorporation of certain aluminas as disclosed in copending application Serial No. 06 485,748, filed April 18, 1983, which is incorporated herein by reference. The compositions of this invention may, therefore, incorporate an acid stable, non colloidal amorphous silica and a non ionic surfactant. Preferred is fumed silica, silica gel and precipitated silica. The viscosity generally ranges from about 600 to 45,000 cp. The pH will generally range from about 0.5 to 3.0. there the composition comprises a dispersible hydrated alumina having a boehmite type crystal lattice, the viscosity is generally in the range of about 800 to about 50,000 cp. The pH generally ranges from about 1.5 tQ about 3.0. It is a noteworthy aspect that by virtue of the ingredients of the compositions of the invention, the compounds which cause thixotropy in accordance with the two above referred to patent applications can be used in a smaller amount and still cause the necessary thixotropy. For instance, an amount of silica of 0.1 to 3 percent by weight based on total solids may be used. In conjunction therewith, an acid stable non ionic surfactant in an amount of 0.005 to 0.1 percent by weight based on total solids may be used. Likewise, when it is desired to use a fumed alumina, less than 0.258 by weight such as 0.1t by weight may be used.It is understood, however, that the parameters of the ingredients disclosed in the above referred to patent applications are quite applicable herein, but that these ingredients are usable in smaller proportions or in the lower ranges disclosed therein by virtue of the effect of the small size pigment particles added in accordance with this invention. On the coatings of the invention at any stage prior to and including after rendering the coating sacrificial , there may be applied one or moxe layers of a coating of the invention, or of a conventional coating. Such top coatings are disclosed in the art. Such top coatings can be one of the above described binders without the aluminum , may have surfactants or other modifiers of the surface tension, including a fluorocarbon surfactant, cellosolve acetate, fumed silica, hypophosphites or other additives. The top coatings may also be those which are commonly applied by plasma spraying or electrodepositing. Among the suitable leachable chromate pigments are strontium chromate and the zinc chromates. The zinc chromates include zinc yellow, zinc tetroxy chromate, zinc potassium chromate, zinc chromate, and the like. It has been found, that addition of leachable strontium chromate and or zinc chromates to the coatings eliminates all white corrosion. products without interfering with the sacrificial action of the coating or adversely affecting any of the other coating characterisitics.Additionally, the presence of the leachable chromates provides humiaity resistance and improved salt spray resistance Surprisingly, despite the fact that the acid binder when cured forms an insoluble state, the chromate pigments remain leachable Also, upon leaching, the integrity of the coating film is not destroyed. In addition, the present invention relates to a coated metal substrate, and the preparation of such a substrate exhibiting the above described adherent and corrosion resistant coatings. The metal substrates contemplated by the present invention are exemplified by the metal substrates to which a phosphate chromate acid solution may or can be applied for enhancing corrosion resistance of such substrate metals. For example, such metal substrates include aluminum and aluminum alloys, steel, stainless steel, ferrous, zinc, cadmium, powder metal parts and the like. It is noteworthy that in accordance with the invention, a greater latitude is provided in the type of chromaWe phosphate compositions which can be used. For instance, with respect to the Allen Patent No. 3,248,251, it is not necessary that the acid binder be confined to the various concentrations and other molar relationships disclosed by that patent. The present invention, therefore, allows for the use of a large number of and a great variety of acid binder solutions for making the coating compositions. It is preferred to maintain the chromateiphosphate ratio constant so as to improve formability. It is also preferable to have the metal ion concentrations low to improve curing at lower temperatures. In the composition the preferred metal ion is magnesium, however, zinc and aluminum ions as well as other ions can also be utilized. Before starting the treatment of the present invention it is, in most cases, advisable to remove foreign matter from the metal surface by thoroughly cleaning and degreasing.Degreasing may be accomplished with known agents, for instance, with agents containing sodium metasilicate, caustic soda, carbon tetrachloride, trichloroethylene, and the like.Commercial alkaline cleaning compositions which combine washing and mild abrasive treatments can be employed for cleaning, e.g.an aqueous trisodium phosphate sodium hydroxide cleaning solution. In addition to cleaning, the substrate may undergo cleaning plus etching or grit blasting. After the coating composition has been prepared and thoroughly mixed, it can be applied to a surface by using a spray, dip, dip spin, knife or flow coating technique depending upon the viscosity of the dispersion, solution or slurry.After the primer compcsition has been applied to a substrate by any of the above techniques, it is fused into a continuous adherent film by heat ng. Curing temperatures range between about 3500F and about BOOOFr preferably between about 4500F and about 750OF, for example, 5000F to 52O0F for a period of from about a few seconds to about 2 hours, preferably for a pericd from about a few seconds to about 2 hours for examples containing resin primers. Metal filled coatings are usually cured for 30 to 60 minutes at 600 to 7000F.Generally, the higher the cure temperature, the shorter the residence period of the coating composition at that temperature. In accordance with the invention, the coating composition 0 the invention comprises, in addition to the acid binder which comprises phosphate ions and ions of the group of chromate or mlybdate ions, metal particles dispersed therein.Most preferabl the metal is aluminum and its alloys. However, any combinaticn of metals may be utilized depending upon the requirements. Ideally, the metal particles is present in a ratio of 1.5 to 1 to about 5 to 1 grams per liter of solution to other solids in the solution. For other metals, the ratio will vary with the density of the powder. A range of 1.5 to 15 to 1 is typical. Therefore, in accordance with the invention, there is provided the liquid acid solution which contains the chromate or phosphate ions , the leachable chromate pigments and the particulate metallic material, which preferably is aluminum. A preferred manner of forming the first layer of the coatings of the invention is to admix the particulate metal material and teachable pigments under vigorous mixing conditions into the acid solution. The secuence of addition of the components Df the phosphate solutions is not critical either, as is disclosed in the prior art, for instance, the Allen Patent No. 3,248,251. However, it is critical that the leachable pigments are not dissolved in the binder so that it is preferable to add the pigments to te binder after it is prepared and tooled. It is understood that other particulate materials may be added to the binder prior to mixing in amounts depending on the specific characteristics desired for the layer such as graphite, refractory metal oxides, refractory or metal carbides, nitrides, silicides or borides and resins for example, polyvinylidene fluoride . The following examples illustrate the preparation of the coatings of the invention and are not to be considered limitations thereof. EXAMPLE 1 A coating composition of the present inventiqn was prepared as follows A. Preparation of Binder. A binder having the following ingredients was prepared Water deionized 780 ml Magnesium oxide 74 g Chromic acid 90 g Phosphoric acid 85 373 g The magnesium oxide and chromic acid were admixed with water and then the phosphoric acid was added. B. Preparation of Coating. Binder of Part A 100 ml Atomized aluminum powder 82 g Average particle size FSSS 5.5 pm Strontium chromate 10 g The ingredients were admixed and the resulting composition was spray applied to degreased, grit blasted steel 0 and cured at 600 F for 40 minutes. The coating applied and cured in the manner listed will show improved resistance to C atmospheric corrosion. When thermally treated at 1000 F or burnished to produce surface conductivity, the addition of the strontium chromate does not interfere with these processes.Additionally, after either of these treatments and exposure to salt spray, no white sacrificial by products are produced. Example 2 A coating composition of the type disclosed by Wydra U.S. Patent No. 3,857,717 was prepared as follows Water deionized 295 ml Phosphoric acid 85 87 g Phosphorous acid 42 g Chromic acid 62 g Aluminum powder 300 g Atomized 5.5 pm av. particle size Strontium chromate 30 g The phosphoric acid, phosphorous acid and chromic acid were admixed with water. To the mixture was added with stirring the aluminum powder. The mixture was cooled and the strontIum chromate was added. The resulting composition was sprayed on a clean C muffle and dried at 250 F for 30 minutes. After cooling to room temperature the muffler was coated with a conventional silicone alliyd black high temperature coating. The coating 0 combination was then cured at 450 P for 15 minutes. Upon exposure to use temperature 1000 OF for two hours followed by salt fog, the coating remained black and free from red rust and white sacrificial products after 336 hours of testing perASTM B117 in the salt fog cabinet. EXAMPLE 3 A coating composition of the invention was prepared by mixing the following ingredients Magnesium oxide 58.2 g Chromic acid 286.0 g Phosphoric acid 85e 856.3 g Magnesium carbonate 180.8. g Water 2,108.0 ml Spherical aluminum powder 3,103.5 g particle size average 3.3 pm To 620 g of the mixture, 428 g of a premixed 10 boehmite dispersion was added by stirring.The dispersion was prepared as follows Water 447.0 ml Hypophosphorous acid to 3.6 g Dispersible boehmite alumina 45.0 g Strontium chromate 80.0 g The resulting coating composition has the following characteristics pH before dispersion addition 1.6 Viscosity before dispersion addition 1285 cp pH after dispersion addition 2.2 Viscosity after dispersion addition 2450 cp Steel parts such as screws and fasteners were coated with the composition using the dip spin method. The coating 0 0 was dried at 175 F and then cured at 650 F. To make the coating electrically conductive, the cured parts were burnished in a blaster using aluminum oxide grit or glass beads at low pressure .The coated parts had excellent resistance to standard salt spray and corrosion tests and no white corrosion products were visible after 336 hours of salt spray testing. Example 4 A coating composition was prepared by mixing the following ingredients Water deionized 380 ml Copper chromite black spinel pigment 100 g Fumed silica Cabosil M 5 12 g The mixture was blended for 5 minutes, then the following were added 10 Nonionic surfactant in deionized water 10 ml Strontium chromate 9g The composition was spray applied over an aluminum powder filled chromate phosphate composition and cured at 7000F fcr 10 minutes The black coating eliminated white corrosicn products. Example 5 A coating composition was prepared as follows utilizing the binder of Example 1 Binder from Example 1 100 ml Distilled water 100 ml Aluminum powder, 160 g 325 mesh, average particle size 5 pm Strontium chromate 10 g Nonionic surfactant Triton X 100 1 ml The resulting coating was applied over carbon steel panels that have been degreased. After spray application, the coating was cured at 5500F for 15 minutes. After cooling, the coating was topcoated with an electrostatically applied epoxy powder coating and cured. This system provides extended salt spray resistance if. the topcoat is damaged. Substitution of zinc chromate at levels of 10 g and 20 g in the above formulation produced comparable results. If desired, other particulate materials may be added to the composition prior to mixing, i.e., graphite 5 10 microns , refractory metal oxides, refractory carbides, nitrides, silicides and borides. Example 6 A coating composition was prepared as follows A. Preparation of Binder. Magnesium dichromate, six hydrate 348 g Phosphoric acid 98 g Magnesium dihydrogen phosphate 292 g trihydrate Water to 1000cc The above mentioned ingredients were mixed with rapid stirring. B. Preparation of coating composition. To the resulting binder of part A the following pigments were added. Alloy of 70 by weight aluminum and 450 g 30 magnesium 325 mesh Aluminum powder, 5 10 pm atomized 450 g Finally, 65 grams of strontium chromate was added with stirring. The composition was suitable for coating steel parts, based on the Brumbaugh patent 3,869,293 . With the strontium chromate addition, the coating retains its sacrificial nature but does not form white sacrificial by products Example 7 A primer coating composition was prepared as follows A. Preparation of Binder. Water deionized 800 ml Magnesium oxide 10 g Chromic acid 57 g Phosphoric acid 100 X Fumed silica 33 g The ingredients were admixed with stirring and diluted with water to 1 liter. B. Preparation of Resin Dispersion. Water 900 ml Nonionic surfactant Triton X 100 2.5 ml De foamer 1 ml Polyvinylidene fluoride Kynar 301F 150 The ingredients were admixed with stirring to form a uniform dispersion. C. Preparation of Przaer Binder of Part A 500 ml Dispersion of Part B 500 ml Strontium chromate 15 g The binder of Part A was mixed with the dispersion of par B and then the strontium chromate was added. The resulting primer was applied over freshly passivated hot dip galvanized stock, cured to a peak metal temperature of 5000F, Good adherence was provided when a top coating of polyvinylidene fluoride was sprayed on and the laminate cured. Example 8 A coil coating primer composition for coil aluminum was prepared as follows A. Preparation of Binder. Water deionized 600 ml Magnesium oxide 20 g Chromic acid 114 g Phosphoric acid 85g 200 Thl Fumed silica Aerosil 200 33 g The ingredients were admixed and diluted to 1 liter with deionized water to form the binder portion of the primer. B. Preparation of Resin Dispersion. Water deionized 900 ml Polyvinylidene fluoride Kynar 310F 150 g Nonionic surfactant Igepal 630 2.5 nl Defoamer Troykyd 999 1.0 ml The ingredients were admixed and diluted with water to 1 liter. The binder of Part A was mixed with the dispersion of Part B and then 30 g of zinc yellow was added to produce a primer coating composition. The composition when applied to a zinc diecasting substrate had a dried film thickness of 0 0.2 0.25 mil. After curing at 500 F for 15 minutes it was topcoated with a polyvinylidene fluoride slurry topcoat and cured. Example 9 A coating composition of the invention of the type disclosed by Allen U.S. Patent No. 3,248,251 is prepared by mixing the following components MgCr4 . 7H20 266 g H3PO4 98 g Mg H2PO4 2 . 3H20 272 H20 to 1000cc. Cool to room temperature Aluminum powder spherical, 5 10 mp 600 g To the prepared composition was added 65 g of zinc chromate. The composition may be coated on ordinary steel stock SAE 1010 steel by spraying, drying at 800F and then curing at about 2650F for 15 minutes. However, any other suitable substrate may be used in place of the steel, i.e., nickel, chromium, stainless steel, etc. Similarly, there may be prepared a composition wherein magnesium chromate is replaced by any one of the following chromate containing compounds Chromic acid H2Cr04 or Cr03 Magnesium dichromate MgCr2O7 Zinc chromate ZnCrO4 Zinc dichromate ZnCr2 7 Calcium dichromate CaCr207 Lithium dichromate Li2Cr2o7 Magnesium dichromate plus sodium dichronate These chromates dichromates are dissolved during the binder manufacturing step. Example 10 Following the procedure of Example 9, a coating composition is prepared as follows. MgO 7.25 g Chromic acid 9.2 g Phosphoric acid 85 22 ml Water 80 ml The ingredients are mixed and 0.78 of strontium chromate is added with mixing to form the coating composition. Steel parts such as tool bits, screws, bolts, and fasteners are spray coated with the conposition after suitable surface preparation. The coatings are dried in a drying cycle at l750F followed by a curing step at 6500F for 30 minutes. Although the present invention has been described with reference to the most preferred embodiments therein set forth, it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and the numerous changes in the details of the compositions may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, the scope of the invention should not be limited by the foregoing specification, but rather only by the scope of the claims appended hereto and the functional equivalents.