# Compressor with piston and cylinder piston, both performing orbital movements.

## Abstract
A compressor comprises a housing 51 having at least two axially spaced walls and rotatable in relation to the hous ing 51 piston 300 and cylinder piston 250 journaled on eccentric portions 165, 185 of two oppositely rotatable shafts. The piston 300 and cylinder piston 250 form move able 306, 271 walls, and axially spaced walls of the housing 51 form stationary walls of at least two compression cham bers 450 . Circulated fluid is drawn into the compression chambers through intake ports 133 or intake valves and is discharged through discharge valves 129 .

## Claims
I CLAIM 1. A rotary compressor comprising a cylinder piston 250 comprising a body 253 and spaced walls 254, 255 with opposing parallel surfaces 256, 257 , said spaced walls 254, 255 extending from one end of said body 253 and forming a U shaped opening said cylinder piston 250 further having two side faces 251, 252 a piston 300 positioned within said U shaped opening of said cylinder piston 250 and having spaced faces 301, 302 adjoining said opposing parallel surfaces 256, 257 of said spaced walls 254, 255 of said cylinder piston 250 said piston 300 further having two spaced side faces 303, 304 two spaced housing walls 75, 125 adjoining said side faces 251, 252 of said cylinder piston 250 and said spaced side faces 303, 304 of said piston 300 a rotatable cylinder piston shaft 160 comprising an eccentric portion 165 journaled in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 a rotatable piston shaft 180 comprising an eccentric portion 185 journaled in said piston 300 gearing means 161, 181 interconnecting said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 so said shafts 160, 180 follow coordinated rotations in opposite directions and said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 follow coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions with and around said eccentric portions 165, 185 of said shafts 16Q, 180 said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 forming moveable surfaces 256, 257, 271, 306 , and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 forming stationary surfaces 76, 126 of a compression chamber 450 located between said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 and varying in volume upon said coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions of said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 intake means leading to saie compression chamber 450 and discharge means leading from said compression chamber 450 . 2. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 are journaled in bearings 88, 89, 138, 139 located in said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 3. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said gearing means comprise gears 161, 181 having equal number of teeth so said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 interconnected by said gears 161, 181 rotate with equal rotational speeds in opposite directions. 4. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said eccentric portion 165j of said cylinder piston shaft 160 is journaled in bearing 264 located in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 , and wherein said eccentric portion 185 of said piston shaft 180 is journaled in bearing 309 located in said piston 300 . 5. The compressor of Claim 4 wherein said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 are crankshafts and wherein said eccentric portions 165, 185 of said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 are cranks, and wherein said bearings 264, 309 located in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 and in said piston 300 are split in halve s 256, 267, 310, 311 to allow for assembly in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 and in said piston 300 and around said cranks of said crankshafts. 6. The compressor of Claim 4 wherein said cylinderpiston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 are eccentric shafts and wherein said eccentric portions 165, 185 of said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 are eccentrics, and wherein said bearings 264, 309 located in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 and in said piston 300 are one piece bearings, 7. The oompressor of Claim 1 which further comprises a balancing means, wherein said balancing means comprise cylinder piston 250 balancing means comprising said cylinder piston 250 balancing portion located in a part of said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 remote from said spaced walls 254, 255 , said balancing portion making the center of gravity of said cylinderpiston 250 located on or close to the axis Y1 Y1 of said bearing 264 mounted in said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 and wherein said balancing means comprise piston 300 balancing means, said piston 300 balancing means being such design of said piston 300 so said piston 300 has its center of gravity located on or close to the axis Y2 Y2 of said bearing 309 mounted in said piston 3C0 and wherein said balancing means further comprise cylinder piston shaft 160 and piston shaft 180 balancing means, said last mentioned means comprising balancing elements 164, 184 secured to said shafts 160, 180 and making the centers of gravity of said shafts 160, 180 assembled wit said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 3to located on or close to the axes X1 X1, X2 X2 of said cylinderpiston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 . 8. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 are sealingly engaged in forming said compression chamber 450 . 9. The compressor of Claim 8 wherein said sealing engagement between said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 results from use of sealing means comprising sealing elements 298, 348 located with springs 299, 349 in grooves in said cylinder piston 250 and in said pistbn 300 and forming sealing path around said compression chamber 450 . 10. The compressor of Claim 8 wherein said sealing engagement between said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 results from a combination of suitable running clearances between said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 and between said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , suitable finish of coacting surfaces 251, 252, 256, 257 of said cylinder piston 250 , coacting surfaces 301, 302, 303, 304 of said piston 300 and coacting surfaces 76, 126 of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , and use of lubricant of suitable viscosity to lubricate said coacting surfaces 251, 252, 256, 257, 301, 302, 303, 304, 76, 126 of said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 11. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said intake means leading to said compression chamber 450 comprise at least one intake port 79 or 133 located in one said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , said intake port 79 or 133 being sequentially opened and closed by said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 to allow for required flow of incoming charge into said compression chamber 450 . 12. The compressor of Claim 11 wherein said intake port 79 or 133 is opened by said cylinderpiston 250 and said piston 300 when said compression chamber 450 is at about its minimum volume, and wherein said intake port 79 or 133 is closed by said cylinder piston 250 when said compression chamber 450 is at about its maximum volume. 13. The compressor of Claim 11 wherein said intake port 79 or 133 comprises a portion 141 of said spaced housing wall 75 or 125 extending into a midportion of said intake port 79 or 133 , and wherein said portion 141 of said spaced housing wall 75 or 125 extending into said mid portion of said intake port 79 or 133 delays the opening of said port 79 or 133 by said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 . 14. The compressor of Claim 11 wherein said intake port 79 or 133 has portions 142 extending from said port 79 or 133 into said spaced housing walls 75, 125 and delaying the closing of said port 79 or 133 by said cylinder piston 250 . 15. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said intake means leading to said compression chamber 450 comprise at least one intake valve 81 located in at least one 75 of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 16. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said discharge means leading from said compression chamber 450 comprise at least one discharge valve 83 or 129 located in at least one of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 17. The compressor of Claim 1 which further comprises lubricating means, said lubricating means comprising a lubricant reservoir containing suitable lubricant lubricating said coacting surfaces 251, 252, 256, 257, 301, 302, 303, 304, 76, 126 of said cylinderpiston 250 , said piston 300 , said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , further lubricating said gears 161, 181 interconnecting said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 , and said bearings 88, 264, 138, 89, 309, 139 of said cylinder piston shaft 160 and said piston shaft 180 . 18. The compressor of Claim 1 which further comprises a cooling means, said cooling means comprising a plurality of passageways 90, 140 located in said spaced housing walls 75, 125 in which suitable coolant is circulated. 19. The compressor of Claim 1 wherein said cylinder piston 250 further comprises a connecting wall 258 connecting said spaced walls 254, 255 of said cylinder piston 250 at their ends remote from said body 253 of said cylinder piston 250 , and wherein said spaced walls 254, 255 and said connecting wall 258 of said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 form moveable surfaces 256, 257, 259, 305 , and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 form stationary surfaces 76, 126 of a second compression chamber 451 located between said piston 300 and said connecting wall 258 of said cylinder piston 250 and varying in volume upon said coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions of said cylinder piston 2503 and said piston 300 , and wherein said second compression chamber 451 has intake means leading to, and discharge means leading from said second compression chamber 451 20. The compressor of Claim 19 wherein saId cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 are sealingly engaged in forming said second compression chamber 451 . 21. The compressor of Claim 20 wherein said sealing engagement between said cylinder piston 250 , saidpiston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 forming said second compression chamber 451 results from use of sealing means comprising sealing elements 298, 316, 317, 318, 319, 348 located with springs 299, 349 in grooves in said cylinder piston 250 and in said piston 300 and forming sealing path around said second compression chamber 451 . 22. The compressor of Claim 20 wherein said sealing engagement between said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 forming said second compression chamber 451 results from a combination of suitable running clearances between said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 and between said cylinder piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , suitable finish of coacting surf aces 251, 252, 256, 257 of said cylinder piston 250 , coacting surfaces 301, 30 2, 303., 304 of said piston 300 and coacting surfaces 76, 12 6 of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , and use 6f lubricant of suitable viscosity to lubricate said coacting surfaces 251, 252, 256, 257, 301, 302, 303, 304, 76, 126 of said cylinde piston 250 , said piston 300 and said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 23. The compressor of Claim 19 wherein said intake means leading to said second compression chamber 451 comprise at least one intake port 87 or 135 located in at least one of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 , said intake port 87 or 135 being sequentially opened and closed by said cylinder piston 250 and said piston 300 to allow for required flow of incoming charge into said second compression chamber 451 . 24. The compressor of Claim 19 wherein said intake means leading to said second compression chamber 451 comprise at least one intake valve 89 located in at least one 75 of said spaced housing walls 75, 125 . 25. The compressor of Claim 19 wherein said discharge means leading from said second compression chamber 451 comprise at least one discharge valve 131 located in at least one 125 of said spaced housing walls 75,125

## Description
ROTARY COMPRESSOR This invention relates particularly to a rotary compressor capable of compressing air and a variety of gases, mixtures, vapors and refrigerants. The rotary compressor of this invention has a stationary housing and piston and cylinder piston elements rotatable in relation to the housing and journaled on eccentric portions of two oppositely rotatable shafts. The piston and cylinder piston elements form moveable walls and axially spaced stationary walls of the housing form stationary walls of at least one compression chamber. Fluid can be drawn into the compression chamber through intake ports or intake valves, and is discharged through discharge valves. Reciprocating piston compressors are well known in the art. They possess, however, inherent disadvantages of having reciprocating motion of a piston causing high stresses in certain components, vibration, noise, and limiting their speeds. Due to speed limitations, the reciprocating compressors are relatively bulky and heavy machines. Further, they must be equipped with suction valves complicating their design, lowering efficiency and causing other numerous disadvantages. Various types of rotary compressors have been proposed to replace the reciprocating piston compressor in order to overcome some of its disadvantages, and to realize new advantages. However, such efforts have not been fully successful and the reciprocating piston compressor continues to be in widespread use today. Summary of the Invention The rotary compressor of this invention comprises generally an outer housing within which one or more rotatable piston and cylinder piston elements are re received The housing comprises at least two axially spaced walls, and the piston and cylinder piston are operatively positioned between and adjacent to them.The piston and cylinder piston are journaled on eccentric portions of two shafts. The shafts can be journaled in axially spaced walls of the housing and are interconnected by gearing means to transmit power from a drive shaft to a driven shaft and to coordinate their movements in such a way so the shafts rotate in coordinated rotations in opposite directions and with equal rotational speeds. The piston and cylinder piston follow coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions with and about the eccentric portions of their shafts and form moveable walls of at least one compression chamber, whereas the stationary walls of the compression chamber are formed by the axially spaced walls of the housing. Intake charge of fluid compressed by one version of the compressor of this invention can be drawn into the compression chamber or chambers through suitable intake port or ports sequentially opened and closed by the cylinder piston and piston elements. In another version, the intake charge can be drawn into compression chamber or chambers through suitable intake valve or valves. The compressed fluid is discharged from the compression chamber through suitable discharge valve or valves. Internal leakage between the piston and cylinderpiston, and between the piston and cylinder piston and adjacent space walls of the housing can be controlled through use of a sealing system comprising sealing elements received within grooves of the piston and cylinder piston and sealingly engaged with co working surfaces of the cylinder piston and axially spaced walls of the housing, or can be controlled through hydrodynamic sealing between co working elements without use of any sealing elements, but as a result of suitable running clearances between co working elements, suitable surface finish and use of lubricant of suitable viscosity as a sealing medium. The same lubricant can be used to lubricate bearings and gear transmission. Statement of the Invention The rotary compressor of this invention comprises generally a cylinder piston comprising a body and spaced walls with opposing parallel surfaces extending from one end of the body and forming a U shaped opening the cylinder piston further having two side faces a piston positioned within the U shaped opening of the cylinder piston and having spaced faces adjoining the opposing parallel surfaces of the spaced walls the piston further having two spaced side faces two axially spaced housing walls adjoining side faces of the cylinder piston and spaced side faces of the piston a rotatable cylinder piston shaft comprising an eccentric portion journaled in the body of the cylinderpiston a rotatable piston shaft comprising an eccentric portion journaled in the piston gearing means interconnecting the cylinder piston shaft and the piston shaft so both shafts follow coordinated rotations in opposite directions and the cylinder piston and the piston follow coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions with and around the eccentric portions of the shafts the cylinder piston and the piston forming moveable walls, and the axially spaced walls of the housing forming stationary walls of a variable volume compression chamber intake means leading to the compression chamber and discharge means leading from the compression chamber. Brief Description of the Drawings Fig. 1 is a longitudinal partial sectional view through a rotary compressor of this invention having one compression chamber and intake system with intake ports, taken along lines 1 1 in Figs. 2 and 3 Fig. 2 is a transverse partial sectional view taken along line 2 2 of Fig. 1 and showing a piston and cylinder piston journaled on eccentric portions of their shafts Fig. 3 is a vertical sectional view taken along line 3 3 of Fig. 1 and showing a compression chamber with intake and discharge systems Fig. 4 is a perspective view of two shafts with gears and balancing elements Fig. 5 is a perspective view of the cylinderpiston with its bearing and elements sealing the compression chamber and intake port assembled Fig. 6 is a perspective fragmentary view of the elements sealing the intake port exploded Fig. 7 is a perspective view of the piston with its bearing exploded and with elements sealing the compression chamber assembled Figs. 8 through 12 show several suitable shapes of the intake ports Fig. 13 is a tical sectional view taken along line corresponding to 3 3 of Fig. 1 showing the compression chamber of a compressor having intake and discharge valves Fig. 14 is a perspective view of the cylinderpiston without a system for sealing intake ports Fig. 15 is a longitudinal partial sectional view through a rotary compressor of this invention having two compression chambers Figs. 16 and 17 are vertical sectional views taken along lines 16 16 and 17 17 of Fig. 15 and showing two compression chambers with intake systems having intake ports Fig. 18 is a perspective view of the cylinderpiston of two compression chambers compressor having a system for sealing of the intake ports Fig. 19 is a perspective view of the piston of two compression chambers compressor Figs. 20 and 21 are vertical sectional views taken along lines corresponding to 16 16 and 17 17 ofFig. 15, showing two compression chambers of a compressor with intake systems having intake valves Fig. 22 is a perspective view of the cylinderpiston of a two compression chambers compressor without systems for sealing intake ports Figs. 23 through 28 are transverse partial sectional views taken along line 2 2 of Fig. 1 showing the compressor having one compression chamber and intake system with intake ports undergoing one full cycle of operation Figs. 29 thorough 32 are transverse partial sectional views taken along line 2 2 of Fig. 1 and showing one compression chamber compressor having intake valves undergoing the full cycle of operation Figs. 33 through 40 are transverse partial sectional views taken along line 33 33 of Fig. 15 and showing two compression chambers compressor with intake ports undergoing full cycle of operation and Figs. 41 through 44 are transverse partial sectional iews taken along line 33 33 of Fig. 15 and showing two compression chambers compressor with intake valves ndergoing full cycle of operation. Detailed Description of the Invention Referring first to Figs. 1, 2 and 3 of the drawings, a rotary compressor of this invention having one compression chamber and intake ports is indicated by numeral 50. Compressor 50 comprises housing 51 within which piston 300 and cylinder piston 250 forming moveable walls of compression chamber 450 are journaled on eccentric portions 165 and 185 of rotatable shafts 160 and 180. Housing 51 comprises axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125 having surfaces 76 and 126 interconnected by peripheral wall 150 with inside surface 151 to forum cavity 52. Spaced walls 75 and 125 form stationary walls of compression chamber 450 and portions of surfaces 76 and 126 of spaced walls 75 and 125 define stationary surfaces of compression chamber 450, while other portions of surfaces 76 and 126 and surface 151 of peripheral wall 150 define stationary surfaces of chamber 454 located around cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 and within cavity 52. Gear transmission cover 55 forms with surface 77 of spaced wall 5 gear cavity 54, and counterbalance cover 57 forms with surface 127 of spaced wall 125 counterbalance cavity 56.Elements 55, 75, 150, 125 and 57 are fastened by suitable fastening means, as for example bolts 59. In the embodiment illustrated spaced walls 75 and 125 are spaced axially along axes Xl Xl and X2 X2 of shafts 160 and 180 by peripheral wall 50 positioned between and secured to spaced walls 75 and 125.However, any suitable spacing means, different from those described, can be used to axially space walls 75 and 125 as required for operation of cylinderpiston 250 and piston 300. Internal structures of spaced walls 75 and 125 are best shown in Figs. 1 and 3. Wall 75 has intake channel 78 communicating with compression chamber 450 through suitable intake port 79, and discharge channel 82 connected with compression chamber 450 by suitable discharge valve or valves 83. Wall 125 has intake channel 132 communicating with compression chamber 450 through suitable intake port 133, and discharge channel 128 connected with compression chamber 450 by suitable discharge valve or valves 129. Intake port 133 and discharge valves 129 are also shown in Fig. 2. In the embodiment illustrated, the intake and discharge systems are shown in both axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125. However, any suitable combination of the intake and discharge systems in one or both spaced walls can be used. Spaced walls 75 and 125 may have cooling chambers or passageways 90 and 140 to circulate suitable coolant.Chambers or passageways 90 and 140 may have cooling ribs on their internal surfaces to increase heat exchange surface area. Cylinder piston 250 with its elements sealing compression chamber 450 and intake port 133 and bearing 264 assembled is best shown in view of Fig. 5. The term cylinder piston refers to an element operating as both a cylinder and a piston, although the configuration of this element is not at all geometrically cylindrical. Cylinder piston 250 comprises body 253 and spaced walls 254 and 255 extending from one end of body 253.Spaced walls 254 and 255 have opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 and form a U shaped opening for a piston.Bearing 264 is mounted in passageway 261 of body 253. At the end of cylinder piston 250 body 253 remote from spaced walls 254 and 255 balancing elements 270 may be received in passageways 263. The purpose of balancing elements 270 is to balance the mases of spaced walls 254 and 255 to make the center of gravity of cylinder piston 250 located on for close to axisY1 Y1 common for bearing 264 and eccentric portion 165 of shaft 160. However, balancing of cylinder piston 250 can be realized without use of separate balancing elements 270 when a sufficiently large portion of body 253 remote from spaced walls 254 and 255 acts as balancing element two balance cylinder piston 250. Body 253 at the end adjacent to spaced walls 254 and 255 has surface 271 connecting two side faces 251 and 252, and further connecting opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 of spaced walls 254 and 255. Surfaces 256, 257 and 271 form three of four moveable surfaces of compression chamber 450. Figure 7 shows piston 300 with its sealing elements assembled and bearing 309 exploded Piston 300 has spaced side faces 303 and 304 interconnected by passageway 307 in which bearing 309 is mounted after assembly. Piston 300 has also pair of spaced faces 301 and 302 and pair of end faces 305 and 306. End face 306 connects spaced side faces 303 and 304 and spaced faces 301 and 302 and forms fourth moveable surface of compression chamber 450, changing the volume of compression chamber 450 during the operation of the compressor. Due to its symmetrical shape piston 300 can be readily balanced to have its center of gravity located on or close to the axis Y2 Y2 which is common for bearing 309 and eccentric portion 185 ofshaft 180. Fig. 4 shows from the backside of the compressor shafts 160 and 180 assembled with their gears and balancing elements. Gears 161 and 181 and balancing elements 164 and 184 can be secured to shafts 16 0 and 180 by means such as suitable keys, splines, or any other suitable means. Gear 161 may have some material removed at 162 opposite portion 163 of gear 161 may be heavier and together with balancing element 164 may balance eccentric portion 165 and cylinder piston 250 journaled thereon. Similarly, gear 181 may have suitable amount of material removed at 182 opposite portion 183 of gear 181 may balance, with balancing element 184 eccentric portion 185 and piston 300 j ournaled thereon. Different balancing systems than above described can be used, however, to balance shafts 160 and 180.For example, a balancing system not utilizing gears but only balancing elements similar to balances 164 and 184 and suitably secured to shafts 160 and 180 can be used to balance one or both of shafts 160 and 180. Balanced shafts 160 and 180 have their centers of gravity located on or close to axes Xl Xl and X2 X2, as required for balanced operation of a rotary compressor of this invention. Eccentric portions 165 and 185 can be cranks when shafts 160 and 180 are crankshafts, or they can be eccentrics when shafts 160 and 180 are eccentric shafts. Eccentric portions 165 and 175 have axes Y1 Y1 and Y2 Y2 eccentric from and parallel to axes Xl Xl andX2 X2 of shafts 160 and 180. Assembled rotary compressor of the embodiment illustrated is best seen in Figs. 1 through 3. Cylinder piston 250 is journaled on eccentric portion 165 of shaft 160 piston 300 is journaled on eccentric portion 185 of shaft 180 and is slidably positioned between spaced walls 254 and 255 of cylinderpiston 250, forming the U shaped opening for piston 300. Shafts 160 and 180 are journaled in bearings 88, 89, 138 and 139 supported in their housings 86, 87, 136 and 137 in axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125. Bearings 85 and 138 journal shaft 160, and bearings 89 and 139 journal shaft 180. Shafts 160 and 180 are spaced as required for meshing of gears 161 and 181 and operation of cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 and are otating around axes Xl Xl and X2 X2. This is best seen in views of Figs. 1 and 3. Shafts 160 and 18.0 may be additionally journaled in bearings 62 and 63 supported in their housings 60 and 61 in gear transmission cover 55, Also, any suitable journaling system for journaling of shafts 160 and 180 and different from above described can be used. For example, shafts 160 and 180 can be journaled in bearings suitably located in gear transmission cover 55 and in counterbalance cover 57 without being journaled in spaced walls 75 and 125, or any other suitable combination of bearings in elements 55, 75, 125 and 57, or in elements similar to covers 55 and 57 and suitalbe for supporting required bearings can be used. Elements journaling shafts 160 and 180 should be aligned by suitable means, as for example suitable dowel pins. Bearing 309 of piston 300 is best seen exploded in view of Fig. 7. For assembly around eccentric portion 185 and between arms 186 and 187 of shaft 180 when shaft 180 is a crankshaft and within passageway 307 of piston 300, bearing 309 is split in to halves 310 and 311 having flanges 312 and 313. Flanges 312 and 313 may operatively position halves 310 and 311 against step 308 im passageway 307. Any other suitable means to position halves 310 and 311, different from above described, can be used instead of flanges 312 and 313. Halves 310 and 311 should be secured to piston 300 by suitable securing means, not shown.Bearing 264 of cylinder piston 250, split in halves 265 and 267 having flange portions 266 and 268 best visible in view of Fig. 14 , can be mounted in passageway 261 in body 253 and around eccentric portion 165 of shaft 160 and between arms 166 and 167 of shaft 160 in a similar manner. When shafts 160 and 180 are eccentric shafts having eccentrics 165 and 185 then suitable one piece bearings can be used to journal cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 on eccentrics 165 and 185. Shafts 160 and 180 are interconnected by gears 161 and 181 to transmit power from a drive shaft to a driven shaft and to coordinate their rotations and rotate in coordinated rotations in opposite directions with equal speeds. Cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 follow coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions with and around eccentric portions 165 and 185 of shafts 160 and 180. Spaced faces 301 and 302 of piston 300 are disposed adjacent to opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 of spaced walls 254 and 255 of cylinder piston 250. Side face 251 of cylinder piston 250 and spaced side face 304 of piston 300 are adjacent to surface 76 of wall 75. Likewise, side face 252 of cylinder piston 250 and spaced side face 303 of piston 300 are disposed adjacent to surface 126 of wall 125.Surfaces 256, 257 and 271 of cylinder piston 250 and end face 306 of piston 300 form moveable surfaces of compression chamber 450. Movement of surface 306 of piston 300 with respect to surfaces 256, 257 and 271 of cylinder piston 250 changes the volume of variable volume compression chamber 450. Stationary surfaces of compression chamber. 450 are formed by surfaces 76 and 126 of axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125. For efficient operation of the rotary compressor embodying this invention, its compression chamber should be sealed. One solution is to introduce suitable sealing elements between co working surfaces defining compression chamber 450. Such sealing system can comprise cylinder piston sealing elements 298 located with their springs 299 in suitable grooves in side faces 251 and 252 and along edges of surfaces 271, 256 and 257 of cylinder piston 250, and forming a part of compression chamber 450 sealing system. This is best shown in view of Fig. .5 springs 299 are shown in Figs.1 and 3. Another portion of compression chamber 450 sealing system is formed by sealing elements 348 located with their springs 349 in suitable grooves in piston 300 around edges of end face 306 and in corners between spaced side faces 303 and 304 and spaced faces 301 and 302. This is best seen in Fig. 7 springs 349 are shown in Figs. 1 and 2. When fully assembled, sealing elements 298 are forced away from the bottom of the grooves in side faces 251 and 252 of cylind y piston 250 by springs 299 into sealing engagement with surfaces 76 and 126 of spaced housing walls 75 and 125, and piston 300 sealing elements 348 are forced by springs 349 away from the bottom of their gooves into sealing engagement with surfaces 256 and 257 of walls 254 and 255 of cylinder piston 250 and with surfaces 76 and 126 of spaced housing walls 75 and 125 to form a closed sealing path around compression chamber 450. Another way to seal compression chamber 450 is to sealingly engage all moveable and stationary elements forming compression chamber 450 without any sealing elements. Such sealing engagement between spaced sides 301 and 302 of piston 300 disposed adjacent to opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 of walls 254 and 255 of cylinder piston 250 between side face 251 of cylinder piston 250 and spaced side face 304 of piston 300 adjacent to surface 76 of wall 75, and between side face 252 of cylinder piston 250 and spaced side face 303 of piston 300 adjacent to surface 126 of spaced wall 125 can result from a combination of suitable clearances between these elements, suitable finish of their coacting surfaces, use of lubricant of suitable viscosity and suitable rotational speed of the compressor. However, any suitable sealing system different from systems above described can be used to seal compression chamber 450 without departing from the spirit of this invention. Also, a combination of a sealing system comprising sealing elements between some of coacting surfaces with the system without sealing elements between other coacting surfaces forming compression chamber 450 can be used to seal compression chamber 450. In some instances, housing 51 can be made as a pressure tight vessel, and an interior of housing 51 can be pressurized to a certain pressure to minimize leakage from compression chamber 450 into cavity 52 regardless of the type of sealing system used to seal the compression chamber. Intake ports 79 and 133 can be sealed by suitable sealing plates 290 and 282 located in flanges 291 and 276 of wall 255 of cylinder piston 250. Plate 282 can be forced by springs 280 and 281, located in grooves 278 and 279 of flange 276 from its seat 277 against surface 126 of wall 125 to seal port 133 periodically during the operation of the compressor.Plate 282 with its springs exploded is best seen inFig. 6 assembled plate 282 is best seen in Fig. 5.Second plate 290 sealing intake port 79 and located in flange 291 of cylinu er. piston 250 is best seen in Fig. 3. However, the compressor of this invention can operate without sealing of intake ports 79 and 133 in certain applications, and in some applications intake channels 78 and 132 can be connected with cavity 52 in any desired way. It should be understood that sealing elements are located in their grooves with suitable clearances and tightness to prevent undesirable leakage between sealing elements and grooves in cylinder piston 250 and piston 300. Intake ports may be of any shape suitable for desired operating characteristics of the compressor.Several possible port configurations are described in connection with intake port 133 of compression chamber 450. Positioning of any version of port 133 inwall 125 is such that axis Z Z lies in one plane with surface 257 of spaced wall 255 of cylinder piston 250 when compression chamber 450 is at its minimum or maximum volume. The description is equally applicable to any intake port of any compressor according to the invention. The intake port of the shape as illustrated in Fig.8 opens when compression chamber 450 starts to increase its volume, and closes when the chamber reaches its maximum volume. In the port having the shape as illustrated inFig. 9, portion 141 of axially spaced wall 125 extending into port 133 allows for delayed opening of the port. This allows, when required, for decompression of the remaining compressed fluid in the compression chamber and for port opening after pressure equalization between the intake channel and compression chamber. For example, Fig. 24 shows intake port 133 of compression chamber 450 partially open, while the intake port featuring the shape as seen in Fig. 9 would still be closed. The intake port as seen in Fig. 10 allows for opening of the port at the same time as illustrated in Fig. 8, but for delayed port closing. Portions of 142 of port 133 extending into spaced wall 125 deeper than in the port of Fig. 8 and enlarging the throughflow area of the port remain open after compression chamber 450 has reached its maximum volume. This allows for prolonged opening during which an additional amount of incoming charge may be forced into the compression chamber at the expense of the kinetic energy of the intake fluid flowing through the port at certain velocities. Thus, higher volumetric efficiencies could be realized than those possible with intake port as shown in Fig. 8. Fig. 11 shows the intake port 133 which is a combination of shapes illustrated in Figs. 9 and 10.This allows for delay in both opening and closing of the port, thus improving the timing of the intake of the compressor. Fig. 12 shows the intake port having two separate port openings 143 and 144, divided by a bridge section 145. Operation of this type of intake port is similar to operation of the port as illustrated in Fig. 11, but the opening time is still further delayed. Also, the presence of bridge 145 may be beneficial in guiding sealing elements of the compression chamber passing over the port during the operation of the compressor. The compressor having one compression chamber with intake valves instead of intake ports is best illustrated in Fig. 13. In this version intake of fresh charge of compressible fluid takes place through intake channel 80 connected with compression chamber 450 by intake valves 81. Compressed fluid is discharged through discharge valves 129 into channel 128, as in the compressor having intake ports and shown in view of Fig. 3. Fig. 14 shows cylinder piston 250 with its bearing 264 exploded. Cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 14 is shown without systems sealing intake ports, and can be used in compressors having intake valves, or in compressors having intake ports, but wherein the sealing of such intake ports is not required. The two compression chamber compressors according to the invention are shown in Figs. 15 through 22. The two compression chamber compressor having intake system with intake ports is best shown in Figs.15, 16 and 17. In addition to features described in connection with the one chamber compressor as shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3 , housing 51 of the two compression chamber compressor comprises additional intake and discharge systems located in walls 75 and 125 and serving second compression chamber 451. This is best shown inFigs. 15 and 17. Intake channel 86 is connected with compression chamber 451 by port 87 and is located in wall 75, and intake channel 132 with intake port 135 is located in wall 125. Discharge system of chamber 451 comprises discharge valves 85 and discharge channel 84 located in housing wall 75, and discharge valves 131 with discharge channel 130 located in spaced housing wall 125. Cylinder piston 250 of the two compression chamber compressor is best seen in Fig. 18. Cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 18 comprises body 253 and spaced walls 254 and 255 extending from one end of body 253 and connected at their ends remote from body 253 by connecting wall 258. Spaced walls 254 and 255 have opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 body 253 has surface 271, and connecting wall 258 has surface 259 opposing surface 271 of body 253. Surfaces 256, 257, 259 and 271 define an opening in cylinder piston 250 in which piston 300 operates adjacent to surfaces 256 and 257 and between surfaces 259 and 271. Cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 18 comprises also systems for sealing intake ports. System of wall 255 of cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 5 is identical with sealing system of wall 255 of Fig. 18, of such system applies here. System of sealing intake ports 87 and 135 of compression chamber 451 consists of plates 287 and 288, located with their springs in flanges 285 and 286 of wall 254 of cylinder piston 250. This is best seen in Figs. 17 and 18. Balancing of cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 18 is similar to balancing of cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 5, and spaced walls 254 and 255 with connecting wall 258 are balanced by suitable balances 270 or sufficiently heavy balancing portion of body 253 remote from spaced walls 254 and 255. Piston 300 as shown in Fig. 19, is similar to the piston of Fig. 7, and the description of piston 300 ofFig. 7 and its balancing applies here. Assembled two compression chamber compressor having intake system with intake ports is best seen inFigs. 15, 16 and 17 and in Figs. 33 through 40. The description of the assembled one compression chamber compressor applies here with the following additions. Piston 300 of Fig. 19 is slidably positioned between spaced walls 254 and 255 of cylinder piston 250 of Fig. 18. Spaced faces 301 and 302 of piston 300 are disposed adjacent to opposing parallel surfaces 256 and 257 of spaced walls 254 and 255 of cylinderpiston 250. Side face 251 of cylinder piston 250 and spaced side face 304 of piston 300 are adjacent to surface 76 of wall 75, and side face 252 of cylinderpiston 250 and spaced side face 303 of piston 300 are adjacent to surface 126 of spaced wall 125. Surfaces 256, 257 and 271 of cylinder piston 250, and end face 306 of piston 300 form moveable surfaces of compression chamber 450, while surface 259 of connecting wall 258, and surfaces 256 and 257 of spaced walls 254 and 255 of cylinder piston 250, together with end face 305 of piston 300 form moveable surfaces of second compression chamber 451.Stationary surfaces of compression chambers 450 and 451 are formed by surfaces 76 and 126 of axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125. Movement of surface 306 of piston 300 with respect to surfaces 256, 257 and 271 of cylinder piston 250 changes volume of compression chamber 450, while movement of surface 305 of piston 300 with respect to surfaces 256, 257 and 259 of cylinderpiston 250 changes volume of compression chamber 451.This is best illustrated in Figs. 33 through 40. The two compression chamber compressor having intake valves is best seen in Figs. 20 and 21, showing both compression chambers 450 and 451 with their intake and discharge systems. Compression chamber 450 has intake valves 81 connected with intake channel 80, and discharge valves 129 leading into discharge channel 128.Compression chamber 451 has intake valves 89 connected with intake channel 88, and discharge valves 131 leading to discharge channel 130. The intake and discharge valves of any version of the compressor of this invention can be any suitable intake or discharge valves, preferably compressor type intake or discharge valves, and are not described here in more detail because their design and operation is well known to those skilled in the art Cylinder piston 250 shown in Fig. 22 is identical with cylinder piston shown in Fig 18, but it does not have systems for sealing intake ports, and can be used in two compression chamber compressors having intake valves or intake ports but wherein the sealing of such intake ports is not required. Sealing of compression chambers 450 and 451 of two compression chamber compressors can be accomplished by the hydrodynamic sealing, as described previously, or by use of suitable sealing elements. When sealing elements are used, system sealing chamber 450 can be identical with system sealing chamber 451. This is best visible in Fig. 18, wherein systems of sealing elements sealing chambers 450 and 451 are identical with system sealing chamber 450 of one compression chamber compressor version. Sealing elements, sealing chambers 450 and 451 and located in piston300 are best seen in Fig. 19.Sealing elements 348 located around edges of end face 305 are similar to elements located around edges of end face 306, as described in one compression chamber compressor version. However, both sealing paths, located close to end faces 305 and 306 in two compression chambers compressor version are connected by corner seals 316, 317, 318 and 319, sealing corners of compression chambers 450 and 451. Corner seals 316, 317, 318 and 319 are best seen in Fig. 19. A compressor of this invention having any desired number of compression chambers can be build by assembling desired number of cylinder piston assemblies along suitable shafts having desired number of eccentric portions. More than two axially spaced stationary walls must then be used such walls may have suitable bearings for journaling shafts between their eccentric portions, and any desired combination of the intake and discharge systems can be incorporated in the design of such axially spaced housing walls. It is understood that intake channels of the compressor of this invention can be connected to an appropriate source of compressible fluid, and discharge channels can be connected to an appropriate receiver of compressed fluid. Flow of the intake charge is illustrated in Figs. 3, 13, 16, 17, 20 and 21 by clear arrows, and the discharge flow is illustrated in these figures by dotted arrows. Bearings of the rotary compressor of this invention can be lubricated by any suitable lubricant which can be delivered to the bearings by suitable delivery lines located in stationary elements or in rotating shafts in accordance with the recognized parctice. The lubricant can be the same as lubricating gears 161 and 181 and coacting surfaces of cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 with their seals and surfaces 76 and 126 of axially spaced housing walls 75 and 125. Lubricant from a suitable reservoir not shown can be distributed to lubricate bearings and other coacting surfaces by any suitable splash, gravity or pump feed lubricating system.This compressor can also be built as an unlubricated or so called oil less machine by using suitable selflubricating materials for bearings and coacting surfaces. The rotary compressor of this invention can be constructed of any suitable materials dependent upon the particular use desired, and can be powered by any suitable prime mover. The Operation of the Invention During the operation of the rotary compressor of this invention, cylinder piston 250.and piston 300 follow coordinated planetary movements in opposite directions with and around eccentric portions 165 and 185 of shafts 160 and 180. Movement of piston 300 in relation to cylinder piston 250 results in changing volumes of compression chambers 450 and 451. Intake ports are opened and closed by cylinder piston 250, and intake and discharge valves are opened and closed as required for intake and discharge of fluid circulated through the compressor. The operation of four versions of the compressor ofthis invention is now described in view of the drawings showing several representative positions of the piston and cylinder piston elements 1.The operation of the compressor having one compression chamber with intake ports and discharge valves Fig. 23 shows compression chamber 450 at its minimum volume it represents the end of the discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke Fig. 24 shows the intake in progress intake port 133 is partially open Fig. 25 shows the intake in progress with intake port 133 fully open Fig. 26 shows the intake still in progress but with intake port 133 partially closed Fig. 27 shows intake port 133 fully closed it represents the end of the intake and the beginning of the compression stroke Fig. 28 shows compression in progress in compression chamber 450 discharge will take place through discharge valves 129 and 83 when pressure in compression chamber 450 will reach desired level and when discharge valves open.Full cycle of operation will be completed when cylinder piston 250 and piston 300 will again reach positions as illustrated in Fig. 23. 2. The operation of the compressor having one compression chamber and intake and discharge valves Fig. 29 shows compression chamber 450 at its minimum volume it represents the end of the discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke when valve 79 opens Fig. 30 shows the intake stroke in progress Fig. 31 shows compression chamber 450 at its maximum volume it represents the end of the intake and the beginning of the compression stroke Fig. 32 shows theg compression stroke in progress in compression chamber 450 discharge will begin when the pressure in chamber 450 will reach desired level and when discharge valves 129 will open. The operation of the two compression chamber version of the compressor of this invention is described in shorter form, and some of the details of the operation of one compression chamber compressor may be applied here by the reader 3. The operation of compressor having two compression chambers with intake ports and discharge valves Fig. 3.3 shows compression chamber 450 at the end of the discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke and compression chamber 451 at the end of the intake and the beginning of the compression stroke Fig. 34 chamber 450 intake in progress through intake ports, chamber 451 compression in progress Fig. 35 chamber 450 intake in progress, chamber 451 compression in progress Fig. 36 chamber 450 intake in progress, chamber 451 compression in progress with the discharge taking place when pressure in chamber 451 reaches desired level Fig. 37 chamber 450 the end of the intake stroke and the beginning of the compression stroke, chamber 451 the end of the discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke Fig. 38 chamber 450 compression in progress, chamber 451 intake in progress through intake ports Fig. 39 chamber 450 compression in progress with discharge taking place after the pressure in compression chamber 450 reaches desired level, chamber 451 intake in progress 4. The operation of the compressor of this invention having two compression chambers and intake and discharge valves Fig. 41 chamber 450 end of compression and discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke, chamber 451 the end of the intake and the beginning of the compression stroke Fig. 42 chamber. 450 the intake in progress, chamber 451 the compression in progress . Fig. 43 chamber 450 the end of the intake and the beginning of the compression stroke, chamber 451 the end of the compression and discharge and the beginning of the intake stroke and Fig. 44 chamber 450 the compression and discharge after pressure in chamber 450 reaches desired level in progress, chamber 451 the intake stroke in progress. While in the foregoing specification this invention has been described in relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof, and many details have been set forth for purpose of illustration, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention.S OS A Tt