# Dibenzopyran derivatives.

## Abstract
Dibenzopyran derivatives which possess antihypoxia activity are 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyloxy aminopropanols having the general formula Also included are pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of these compounds.

## Claims
I claim 1. A compound having the formula EMI27.1 where X is oxygen or dialkyl in which each alkyl group contains one to seven carbons R is hydrogen or alkyl containing one to seven carbons and A ns primary, secondary or tertiary amino. 2. A compound having the formula EMI27.2 where X is oxygen or dimethyl R is hydrogen or methyl and A is primary, secondary or tertiary amino. 3. A compound having the formula EMI28.1 where X is oxygen or dimethyl R is hydrogen or methyl, andEMI28.2 where R1 and R2 may independently be hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl,C3 C7 cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, C7 C9 aralkyl, aryloxyalkyl, C, CÓ alkanol, or where R1 and R2 taken together comprise a cyclic or heterocyclic ring containing 0 3 heteroatoms and 2 7 carbon atoms. 4. A compound having the formula EMI28.3 where X is oxygen or dimethyl R is hydrogen or methyl and A is amino, methylamino, dimethylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, n propylamino, isopropylamino, cyclopropylamino, t butylamino, ethanolamlno, cyclopentylamino, pyrrolidino, piperidino, analino, benzylamino, imidazo, 1 phenoxy 2propylamino, 3 amino 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl, or 2 hydroxy 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy propylamino. 5. The compound in accordance with claim 4 where X oxygen. 6. An acid addition salt of the compound according to claim 1. 7. The compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo oH dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 piperidinyl 2 propanol hydrochloride. 8. The compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopropylamino 2 propanol. 9. The compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 methylethyl amino 2 propanol. 10. The compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1,1 dimethylethyl amino 2 propanol. 11. The compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetraydro 6 oxo 6H diben zo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 lH imidazol l yl 2 propanol hydrochloride. 12. A process for preparing a dibenzopyran having the general formula EMI30.1 where X is oxygen or dialkyl in which each alkyl group contains one to seven carbons K is hydrogen or alkyl containing one to seven carbons and A is primary, secondary or tertiary amino comprising reacting a phenolic pyran having the general formula EMI30.2 where X and R are as defined above with an alkali metal hydroxide and an excess of an epihalohydrin in an inert solvent and then reacting the resulting epoxide with ammonia or a primary or secondary amine. CLAIMS FOR THE CONTRACTING STATE AUSTRIA 1. A process for preparing a dibenzopyran having the general formula EMI31.1 where X is oxygen or dialkyl in which each alkyl group contains one to seven carbons R is hydrogen or alkyl containing one to seven carbons and A is primary, secondary or tertiary a. .ino comprising reacting a phenolic pyran having the general formula EMI31.2 where X and R are as defined above with an alkali metal hydroxide and an excess of an epihalohydrin in an inert solvent and then reacting the resulting epoxide with ammonia or a primary or secondary amine and optionally converting the obtained compound into a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. 2. The process of claim 1 for the production of a compound having the formula EMI32.1 where X is oxygen or dimethyl R is hydrogen or methyl and A is primary, secondary or tertiary amino. 3. The process of claim 1 for the production of a compound having the formula EMI32.2 where X is oxygen or dimethyl R is hydrogen or methyl, andEMI32.3 where R1 and R2 may independently be hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, C7 Cg aralkyl, aryloxyalkyl, C2 C6 alkanol, or where R1 and R2 taken together comprise a cyclic or heterocyclic ring containing 0 3 heteroatoms and 2 7 carbon atoms. 4. The process of claim 1 for the production of a compound having the formula EMI33.1 where X is oxygen or direthyl R is hydrogen or methyl and A is amino, methylamino, dimethylanino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, n propylamino, isopropylaminc, cyclopropylamino, t butylamino, ethanolamino, cyclopentylamino, pyrrolidino, piperidino, analino, benzylamino, imidazo, 1 phen oxy 2 propylamino, 3 amino 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl, or 2 hydroxy 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy propylamino 5. The process of claim 1 for the production of a compound in ac cordance with claim 4 where X is oxygen. 6. The process of claim 1 for the production of an acid addition salt of the compound according to claim 1. 7. The process of claim 1 for the production of the compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 piperidinyl 2 propanol hydrochloride. 8. The process of claim 1 for the production of the compound 3 17,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d7pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopropylamino 2 propanol. 9. The process of claim 1 for the production of the compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 methylethyl amino 2 propanol. 10. The process of claim 1 for the production of the compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1 ,1 dimethylethyl amino 2 propanol. 11. The process of claim 1 for the production of the compound 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1H imidazol 1 yl 2 propanol hydrochloride.

## Description
Dibenzopyran Derivatives IR 2700 Background of ne Invention This invention relates generally to dibenzopyran derivatives and more specifically to certain 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6H dibenzo b,d pyranylosyarlnopropanols. The compounds of this invention possess useful antihypoxia activity, that is they protect warm blooded animals from the effects of oxygen deprivation. Brief Summary or te Invention In accordance with this invention, there are provided 7.8.9.10 tetrahydro 6H dibenzo b.d. pyranyloxyaminopropanols having the following general structure 1 EMI2.1 where X is oxygen or dialkyl in which each alkyl group contains one to seven carbons C1 C7 R is hydrogen or alkyl containing one to seven carbons C1 C7 and A is primary, secondary or tertiary amino. This invention also includes acid addition salts of these compounds and the method of preparing the compounds. Detailed Descristion The compounds of the invention can be conveniently prepared from 3 hydroxy and l hydroxy 3 methyl 7 ,8,9,l0 tetrahydro 6H dibenzo b,d, pyrone and pyrans which are known compounds. The pyrone and pyran starting materials can be prepared as described in R Adams and B. R. Baker,J. Am. Chem. Soc., 62, 2405 1940 . Thus, condensing orcinol or resorcinol, with ethyl cyclohexanone 2 carboxylate in the presence of phosphorus oxychloride, gives the corresponding pyrones, which are converted to the 6,6 dimethyl pyrans formula 2 upon treatment with methyl magnesium iodide. Treatment of these phenolic pyrans 2 with an alkali hydroxide such as sodium or potassium hydroxide, and an excess of an epihalohydrin, such as epichlorohydrin in a suitable inert solvent, gives the corresponding epoxides 3 , where X and R are as described for 1 .EMI3.1 The compounds of general formula 1, where A is primary secondary or tertiary amino, are prepared from the epoxides formula 3 by treatment with a solution of ammonia or the corresponding primary or secondary amine in a suitable Solvent e.g. methanol, chloroform, tetrahydrofuran . EMI3.2 The compounds of the invention also include acid addition salts which are pharmaceutically acceptable. Acid addition salts include those derived from both organic and inorganic acids such as, for example, acetic acid, maleic acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, succinamic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, lactic acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydriodic acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, and the like. Amines which can be reacted to form the compounds of the invention include A H whereEMI4.1 and where R1 and R2 may independently be hydrogen, C1 C7 alkyl, C3 C7 cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, C7 C9 aralkyl, aryloxyalkyl, C2 C6 alkanol, or where R1 and R2 taken together comprise a cyclic or heterocyclic ring containing 0 3 heteroatoms and 2 7 carbon atoms. The following specific examples are provided to illustrate the preparation of the epoxides 3 and their conversion to the compounds of general formula 1 by treatment with a variety of amines, including ammonia, methylamine, dimethylamine, ethylamine, diethylamine, n propylamine, isopropylamine, cyclopropylamine, butyl amine, ethanolamine, cyclopentylamine, pyrrolidine, piperidine, aniline, benzylamine, imidazole, l phenoxy 2 propylamine, and 3 amino 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran. Preparation of IntermediatesProcedure l Presaration of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 1 1 propoxy 2, 3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran To a stirred solution of NaOH 4.0g, 0.im in dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO 250 ml and water 250 nl , was added 7,8,9,10 tetahydro 1 hydroxy 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 20.0 g, 0.087 m and the mixture stirred for 5 minutes, then treated with epichlorohydrin 50 ml . After 5 hours the mixture was cooled in an ice bath for 30 minutes and the precipitated solid collected by filtration, washed with water and dried to give 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 1 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran as a white solid, mp. 164 1650C.An analytical sample recrystallized from methanol melted at 165 166 C.Procedure 2 Presaration of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b.d pyran To a stirred solution of NaOH 2.0 g, 0.05 m in DMSO 125 ml and water 125 ml was added 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 hydroxy 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.046 m . When a solution was obtained, the mixture was treated with epichlorohydrin 35 ml and stirred for 56 hours. A white solid precipitated which was collected by filtration to give 12.1 g of a mixture consisting of ca. 90 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 2 propanol. The pure epoxide was obtained by chromatography onSiO2 and crystallization from methanol chloroform to give 8.0 g of white solid, mp. 120 121 C.Procedure 3Preparation of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 1 1 pro poxv 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzo b,dlpyran To a stirred solution of NaOH 2.4 g, 0.06 m in DMSO 125 ml and water 125 ml was added 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 1 hydroxy 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 13.1 g, 0.054 m in DMSO 125 ml and water 125 ml and then epichlorohydrin 34.8 g, 0.376 m and the mixture stirred for 5 hours, treated with water 0.5L and extracted with ether 3 x 300 ml . The combined ether extracts ere dried over . gSO4 and evaporated to give 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 1 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzo b,d pyran as a pale yellow oil, 14.0 g. This material was of sufficient purity to use as is for further chemical processing. Procedure 4Preparation of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 dimethyl 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzo b,d pyran To a stirred solution of NaOH 4.0 g, 0.1 m DMSO 250 ml and water 250 ml was added 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 dimethyl 3 hydroxy 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 21.3 g, 0.0926 m and then epichlorohydrin 60 g, 0.648 m and the mixture stirred for 5 hours, treated with water 1 L and extracted ,ith ether 3 x 500 ml . The combined extracts were dried over MgSO4 and evaporated to give 7,8, 9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 dimethyl 3 l propoxy 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzo b,d pyran as a pale yellow oil, 23.2 g. This material was of sufficient purity to use as is for further chemical processing. Example 1Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b.d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 methylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride. To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 11.6 gt, 0.0426 m in methanol 250 ml was added isopropyl amine 25 ml and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled and the solvent evaporated. The residue was issolved in chloroform 200 ml and 5 HCl 250 ml , the layers separated and the aqueous phase extracted with 2 x ce ml chloroform. The combined chloroform extracts were backwashed i th 100 ml HCl and the combined aqueous acid layers were basified to pM 11 with NaOH, and extracted with chloroform 3 x 200 ml .These extracts were dried and evaporated to a white solid 11.8 g. This was dissolved in methanol isopropanol, acidified with HCl gas and the salt allowed to crystallize. The white solid was collected by filtration, recrystallized a second time and vacuum dried to give 9.5 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 methyl ethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 205 2060C. DYamDle 2Preparation of 3 7,8 9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 5 oxo 6H di benzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1 methylethyl amino 2 propanol hvdrochloride A solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 1 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,djpyran 12 g, 0.042 m in methanol 250 ml was treated with iscpropylamine 25 ml and the mixture stirred and heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled, and the solvent evaporated to an oil that solidified on standing. This was dissolved in methanol 50 ml and isopropanol 50 ml , acidified with MCI gas and the salt allowed to crystallize.The white solid was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 8.4 g of 3 7,8,9,l0 tetrahydro 3 me hyl 6 oXo 6H dibenzo b,dpyranyl 1 oxy i l methylethyl a mino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 259 2600C. Example 3Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1,1 dimethylethyl amino 2propanol hydrochloride A solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 1 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 9.4 g, 0.033 m in methanol 250 ml was treated with t butylamine and the mixture stirred and heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled, and the solvent evaporated to an off white solid. This material was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and ammoniated methanol to give a white solid, 11.5 g. This was dissolved in methanol 150 ml and isopropanol and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 12.0 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahy dro 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H dibenzoEb,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1,1 di methylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 304 305 C. Example 4Preparation or 3 7.8.9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 6 oxo 6H di benzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1 methyl 2 phenoxy ethyi amino 2 propanol hvdrochloride. To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 methyl 1 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 11.8 g, 0.041 m in methanol 250 ml was added l methyl 2 phenoxy crylamine 15 g. 0.1 m nd the mixture refluxed for 5 hours, cooled, and the solvent evaporated. The residue was dissolved in chloroform 2 x 50 ml and the combined chloroform extracts dried and evaporated to a foamy solid residue.This was recrystallized twice from a mixture of ethanol, chloroform, and ether and vacuum dried to give 9.1 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 niethyl 6 oxo 6M dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy l l methyl 2 phenoxy ethyl amino l propanol hydrochloride as a white solid, mp. 202 230C. Example 5Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 dimethvl 6H di benzo bdlpyranyl 3 oxy l methylethyl amino 2 prosanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 di methyl 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6H diDenzo b,d pyran in methanol 500 ml was added isopropylamine 50 ml and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled and the solvent evaporated to a solid residue. This was dissolved in isopropanol 50 ml and ether 350 ml and acidified with HCl gas. On cooling, a white solid crystallized, which was recrystallized twice and vacuum dried to give 9.1 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6,6 dimethyl 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy l l methylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, nip 184 1860C. Example 6Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6H di benzo b,dapyranvl l oxv 1 1 methvlethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 tri methyl 1 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 14 g, 0.046 m in methanol 250 ml was added isopropylamine 30 ml and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled, and the solvent evaporated. The residue was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and ammoniated methanol, to give a yellow oil.This was dissolved in isopropanol 200 ml and ether 300 ml , acidified with MC1 gas. Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 8.7 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1 methylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp 180 1820C.Example 7Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6H dibenzo b.d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1,1 dimethylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 tri methyl 1 l propoxy 2,3 oside 6H diben2Otb,d pyran 18 g, 0.06 m in methanol 250 ml was added t butylamine 30 ml and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour, cooled, and the solvent evaporated to an oil. The oil was dissolved in isopropanol 100 ml and ether 300 ml , hot filtered, and acidified with HC1 gas.Upon addition of ether 100 ml and cooling, a solid crystallized which was collected by filtration, recrystallized as above and dried under vacuum to give 6.0 g of 3 7,8,9,l0 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6M diben zo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 1,1 dimethylethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride as a white solid, mp. 158 l600C. Example 8Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6M di benzolb,dlpyranyl l oxy l methylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 tri methyl 1 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6H dibenzotb,d3pyran 12.4 g, 0.04 m in methanol 500 ml was added methylamine 50 ml and the mixture stirred to 250C for 4 hours, then 500C for 1 hour. The mixture was allowed to cool and the solvent evaporated to an oil, 14.2 g. This was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 MPLC on silica gel, eluting with ammoniated methanol and chloroform to give an oil, 9.8 g. This was dissolved in isopropanol 50 ml and ether 200 ml and acidified with HC1 gas. Upon standing, a white solid crystallized, which was collected, recrystallized and vacuum dried to give 5.4 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3,6,6 trimethyl 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 1 oxy 1 methylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, flip. 187 188 C.Example 9 PreDaration of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 5H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 piperidinyl 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 l pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m is methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 mi under an atmosphere or nitrogen was added piperidine 3.46 g, 0.04 m and the mixture stirred 18 hours. The solvent was evaporated a residue, 13.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on aPrep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give an oil.This was dissolved in isopropanol 100 ml and methanol 100 ml and acidified with MCI gas. Upon standing, a white solId crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 4.0 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6M dibenzo b,dipyranyl 3 oxy l l piperidinyl 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 226 2270C. Example 10Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 ethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added monoethylamine 25 mls and the mixture stirred 48 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on aPrep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give a solid residue. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 150 ml and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 10.6 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy l ethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 193 1940C. Example 11 Prenaration of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 5 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 methylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 l propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenso b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added monomethylamine 25 mi and the mixture stirred 18 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.6 g, which was purified by chromatography on aPrep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol, to give a white solid. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 200 ml and isopropanol 203 ml , acidified with Mcl gas.Upon standIng, a white solid c stallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to qive 6.9 q of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H diben zo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 methylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 218 2190C. Example 12Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 dimethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added dimethylamine 25 ml and the mixture stirred curs. The solvent was evaporated to an oily residue, 14.2 c This was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC n silica gel, eluting with chloroform d 5 ammoniated methanol, to give a white solid. This was dissolved in isopropanol 100 ml and methanol 100 ml and acidified with 1 gas.Upon standing, a solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 6.4g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6 dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 dimethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 25 2060C.Example 13Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 ox l propyfamino 2 ropano hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 ro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added n propylamine 2.4 g 0.041 m and the mixture was stirred for 72 hours. The solvent was evaporated to an oily residue, 13.1 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol, to give 6.1 g of a white solid. This was dissolved in methanol 100 ml and isopropanol 100 ml and acidified with HC1 gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 4.2 g of 3 7,8,9,10tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzotb,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 propylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 203 2040C. Example 14Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzolb,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 diethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzotb,dpyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added diethylamine 2.9 g, 0.04 m and the mixture stirred 24 hours. The reaction was recharged with diethylamine 2.9 g, 0.04 m and heated to 350C for 24 hours. The solvent was evaporated to give an oil, 13.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol, to give an oil, 10.6 g. This was dissolved in methanol 100 ml and isopropanol 100 mlj and acidified with HC1 gas. Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 8.2 grams o 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy l diethylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 149 1500C. Example 15Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranvl 3 oxy l l methvl 2 henoxyethyl amino 2 nropanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added l methyl72 phenylethylamine 6.0 g, 0.04 m and the mixture stirred for 96 hours. The solvent was evaporated to an oily residue, 14.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give 4.4 g of the pure amine base. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 100 ml and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected b filtration and vacuum dried to give 4.0 c of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 methyl 2 phenoxyethyl a mino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 178 1790C. Example 16Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 pyrrolidinyl 2 pronanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added pyrrolidine 3.4 g, 0.05 m and the mixture stirred 18 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on aPrep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give the pure amine base as an oil.This was dissolved in methanol 50 ml and isopropanol 50 ml and acidified with HC1 gas. Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 7.3 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H di benzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1 pyrrolidinyl 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 195 1960C. Example 17Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzol pyranyl 3 oxy 1 phenylmethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 i pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added benzylamine 4.3 , 0.04 m and the mixture stirred 48 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.1 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol, to give the pure free base as an oil.This was dissolved in methanol 100 ml and isopropanol 100 ml and acidified with HCl gas. Upon standing, a white soic crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 5.7 g 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 2 oxy 1 phenylmethyl amino 2 propanol hydro chloride, nip. 222 223 C. Example 18 Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopropylamino 2 propanol hvdrochloriae To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran i0.D g, 0.036 mi in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmos phere of nitrogen was added cyclopropylamine 5.7 g, 0.10 m and the mixture stirred for 18 hours.The solvent was evaporated to an oily residue, 12.6 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammonia methanol, to give the pure amine base as a solid, 6. . This was dissolved methanol 150 ml and isopropanol 150 ml and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 5.7 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibe zo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopro pylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 185 1860C. Example 19Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tevrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzotbdl pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1,1 dimethylethyl amino 2 propanol dro chloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, C.936 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added t butylamine 5.2 g, 0.072 m and the mixture stirred for 18 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a solid residue, 13.5 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give the pure amine as a solid. This was dissolved in methanol 150 ml and isopropanol 150 ml and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 10.6 g 3 7,8,9,10 tetra hydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1,1 dimethyl ethyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 286 2870C. Example 20Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 2 hydroxyethyl amino 2 propanol To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 l pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.035 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added ethanolamine 4.2 g, 0.072 m and the mixture stirred for 48 hours. The solvent was evaporates to a residue, 13.4 g, which was purified by chrotnatography on a Prep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with toluene and ammoniated isopropanol to give the pure amine as an il, g. This was dissolved in hot absolute ethanol 75 ml and upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 5.2 g of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 2 hydroxy ethyl amino 2 propanol, nip. 79 800C. Example 21Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 phenylamino 9 pronanol hvdrochloride Tc a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 1.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 mi and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added aniline 6.2 g, 0.074 m and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour. The solvent was evap orated to a residue, 13.4 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol, to give the amine base as an oil. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 100 ml and ethylacetate 100 ml and acidified with HC1 gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 3.1 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy l phenyl amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 173 1740C.Example 22Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopentylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,l0 tetrahydro 3 l pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzotb,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added cyclopentylamine 6.3 , 0.074 m and the mixture heated to reflux for 1 hour. The solvent was evaporated to an oily residue, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 3 ammoniated methanol to give the pure amine base as a solid. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 200 ml and acidified with HC1 gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 3.4 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H diben zo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 cyclopentylamino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 224 2250C. Example 23Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1H imidazol 1 yl 2 propanol hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 pro poxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.C36 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 mi sunder an atmosphere of nitrogen was added imidazole 2.7 g, 0.04 m and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500HPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 5 ammoniated methanol to give the pure amine base as a solid, 6.3 g. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 100 ml and ethylacetate 100 ml and acidified with HCL gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 3.4 g of 3 7,8,9,10tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 1H imi dazol l yl 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp. 171 1720C. ExamPle 24Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzoUb,d3 pyranyl 3 oxy 1 6 oxo 6H dibenzotb,d3pyranyl 3 amino 2 propanol To a stirred solution of 3 amino 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 4.77 g, 0.0226 m in methanol 1.5 L at reflux, was added 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 l propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 5.8 g, 0.021 m and the mixture stirred for 5 days, then allowed to cool slowly to ambient temperature. A yellow solid crystallized which was collected by filtration to give 4.8 g crude product. This was dissolved in ethyleneglycol monomethylether 400 ml at reflux, decolorized with charcoal, hot filtered and the solvent volume reduced to 200 ml.Upon standing, a yellow solid crystallized, which was collected by filtration, washed with methanol and vacuum dried to give 3.0 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetra hydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzolb,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 ó oXo 6H di benzo b,dlpyranyl 3 amino 2 propanol, nip. 209 2100C. Example 25Preparation of 3 7,8,9,10 Tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b.d pyranyl 3 oxy l amino 2 propanol hydrochloride. To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyran 10.0 g, 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added anhydrous ammonia 25 mls and the mixture stirred 24 hrs. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.2 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 MPLC, on silica gel, eluting with chloroform and 10 ammoniated methanol, to give 4.2g of an oil. This was dissolved in absolute ethanol 100 ml and acidified with HCl gas.Upon standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 2.4 g of 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6M dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 1 amino 2 propanol hydrochloride, mp 249 250 C.Example 26Preparation of N,N di 3 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 2 hydroxy nropyliamine hydrochloride To a stirred solution of 7,8,9,10 tetrahydro 3 1 propoxy 2,3 oxide 6 oxo 6H dibenz b,d pyran 10.0 , 0.036 m in methanol 250 ml and chloroform 50 ml under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added anhydrous ammonia 25 ml and the mixture stirred 24 hrs. The solvent was evaporated to a residue, 13.2 g, which was purified by chromatography on a Prep 500 HPLC, on silica gel eluting with chloroform and 10 ammoniatec methanol, to give 2.3 of an oil.. This was dissolved i a mixture of methanol 25 ml , water 10 ml and anhydrous ether 20 ml , and acidified with zC as. on standing, a white solid crystallized which was collected by filtration and vacuum dried to give 1.2 g of N,N di 3 7,8,9, 10 tetrahydro 6 oxo 6H dibenzo b,d pyranyl 3 oxy 2 hydroxy propyl amine hydrochloride, mp 218 2190C. The compounds of this invention possess useful antihypoxia activity, that is, they extend the lifetime of animals exposed to a hypoxic environment. This activity is conveniently measured in mice. Groups of mice are tested at various times after the intraperitoneal administration of graded doses of the test compound. The animals survival time in a hypoxic environment 96 nitrogen and 4 oxygen is recorded. .A statistical comparison Wilcoxon rank sum is made between coincident vehicle treated animals and the experimental group. The dose response, time course and minimum active dose MAD for a compound are obtained.Other modes of administration can also be used.