# DATA COMPARISON CIRCUIT CONSTRUCTED WITH SMALLER NUMBER OF TRANSISTORS

## Claims
Data Vergleichsschaltung mit ersten und zweiten Potentialklemmen 24, 25 , ersten und zweiten Ausgangsknoten NO1, NO2 , wenigstens einem ersten Reihenschaltkreis, der zwischen die erste Potentialklemme 24 und den ersten Ausgangsknoten NO1 geschaltet ist, und ersten und zweiten Transistoren Q30 , Q31 vom ersten Leitertyp, die in Reihe geschaltet sind, wenigstens einem zweiten Reihenschaltkreis, der zwischen die zweite Potentialklemme 25 und dem zweiten Ausgangsknoten NO2 geschaltet ist, und dritten und vierten Transistoren Q32 , Q33 vom zweiten Leitertyp, die in Reihe geschaltet sind, ersten Mitteln zum Leiten eines ersten Digital Signals A auf die Steuerelektroden der ersten und dritten Transistoren, zweiten Mitteln zum Leiten eines zweiten Digital Signals B zum Steuern der Elektroden der zweiten und vierten Transistoren auf diese dritten Mitteln 22, 23 zum Vorladen der ersten und zweiten Ausgangsknoten auf zueinander unterschiedlich logische Pegel, und vierte Mittel 34 zum Detektieren einer Veränderung des Pegels von wenigstens einem der ersten und zweiten Ausgangsknoten.

## Description
The present invention relates to a data comparison circuit comparing two binary coded digital signals, and more particularly to a circuit detecting whether or not two binary coded digital signals are coincident with each other. In a digital circuit, a data comparison circuit is often employed to detect the coincidence between first and second binary coded digital signals. Since both of the signals to be compared have binary coded data, the detection of the coincidence is achieved by comparing every corresponding bit. For this purpose, the comparison circuit in the prior art includes a plurality of exclusive OR called hereinafter EX OR circuits receiving the comparing bit data and one logic circuit such as a NOR circuit, for example. The NOR circuit has a plurality of input terminals supplied with the outputs of the respective EX OR circuits. When the logic level of each bit data of the first binary coded digital signal is equal to the corresponding bit data of the second binary coded digital signal, each of the EX OR circuits takes the output of a low level. The NOR circuit thereby produces an output signal of a high level. On the other hand, if at least one of the bit data of the first signal is different in level from the corresponding bit data of the second signal, at least one EX OR circuit produces a high level output. As a result, the output signal of the NOR circuit takes a low level. As well known in the art, one EX OR circuit constituted by the so called complementary MOS transistors includes five P channel transistors and five N channel transistors. Assuming that each of the first and second digital signals has ten bits, ten EX OR circuits are necessary, resulting in that one hundred transistors are required. In addition, the NOR circuit has ten input terminals, and requires ten P channel transistors and ten N channel transistors. As a result, the data comparison circuit in the prior art requires one hundred and twenty transistors in total. This means that considerable power is consumed in the comparison circuit and that the area occupied by the comparison circuit is large on a semiconductor integrated circuit chip. Moreover, a wiring pattern for interconnecting the respective transistors is very complicated. Stray capacitance is thus large. As a result, the operation speed of the circuit is low. It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to provide a data comparison circuit constructed with a smaller number of transistors. Another object of the present invention is to provide a data comparison circuit whose operation speed is fast and whose power consumption is small. This object is achieved by a data comparison circuit comprising first and second potential terminals, first and second output nodes, at least one first series circuit connected between the first potential terminal and said first output node and including first and second transistors of first conductivity type connected in series, at least one second series circuit connected between said second potential terminal and said second output node and including third and fourth transistors of second conductivity type connected in series, first means for supplying a first digital signal to control electrodes of said first and third transistors, second means for supplying a second digital signal to control electrodes of said second and fourth transistors, third means for precharging said first and second output nodes to different logic levels from each other, and fourth means for detecting a change in the level of at least one of said first and second output nodes. When any one bit data of the first digital signal is equal in logic level to the corresponding bit data of the second digital signal, the first and second transistors of the corresponding first series circuit and or the third and fourth transistors of the corresponding second series circuit are made conductive to change the logic level at the first output node and or the second output node. The detecting means detects this change in level at the output node s and produces an output signal. When every bit data of the first digital signal is not equal in logic level to every corresponding bit data of the second digital signal, none of the first and second transistors of all the first series circuits and none of the third and fourth transistors of all the second series circuit are made conductive. Accordingly, both of the logic levels at the first and second output nodes do not change. Thus, no change at the output nodes is detected only when all the bit data of the first signal are different from all the corresponding bit data of the second signal, respectively. This means that the circuit according to the present invention is usable as a detection circuit for detecting the coincidence between the respective bit data of the first and second digital signals, by inverting every bit of the first or second signal before comparison. In this case, no change at the output nodes is detected only when all the bits of the first and second signals are equal to each other. The detecting means may be constituted by one NOR circuit having two input terminals and one inverter circuit. The first output node is connected to one of the input terminals of the NOR circuit, and the second output end is connected through the inverter to the other of the input terminals of the NOR circuit. As well known in the art, the NOR circuit having two input terminals needs two transistors of the first conductivity type and two transistors of the second conductivity type, and the inverter circuit uses two transistors of different conductivity type. Each of two charging means can be constituted by one transistor. Accordingly, the circuit according to the present invention can be constructed by forty eight transistors if each of the first and second digital signals has ten bit data. In the case where the circuit according to the present invention is applied to the data coincidence detection circuit, ten inverter circuit are further necessary to invert one of two digital signals to be compared, and hence sixty eight transistors are required. The number of transistors in the circuit according to the present invention is about half that of the prior art circuit. Since the transistors are small in number, the wiring pattern is simplified and the stray capacitances are reduced. Therefore, the circuit according to the present invention compares two digital signals at a high speed and with a small power consumption. The above and other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, a digital data comparison circuit according to the prior art will be described in order to facilitate the understanding of the features and advnatages of the present invention. The circuit shown in Fig. 1 compares two digital data signals A and B which consist of When the respective pairs of bits data a₁, b₁ to a₁, b This prior art circuit thus compares two digital data signals A and B, but requires As well known in the art and shown in Figs. 2A and 2B, in a complementary logic circuit technique, one EX OR circuit is constituted by five P channel insulated gate transistors Q₁ to Q₅ and five N channel insulated gate transistors Q₆ to Q₁₀, and the NOR circuit having Referring to Fig. 3, there is shown a digital data comparison circuit according to an embodiment of the present invention. This circuit is formed as an integrated circuit device and constituted by complementary insulated gate field effect transistors including a first channel type or a first conductivity type P channel type, for example MOS Metal Oxide Semiconductor transistors and a second channel type or a second conductivity type N channel type MOS transistors. A first digital signal A consisting of A P channel MOS transistor Q₃₄ is connected between the first potential terminal 24 and the second output node N₀₂, and an N channel MOS transistor Q₃₅ is connected between the second potential terminal 25 and the first output node N₀₁. The gates of the transistors Q₃₄ and Q₃₅ are connected to first and second precharge terminals 22 and 23, respectively, which are in turn supplied with first and second precharge signals P and The circuit operation of the comparison circuit shown in Fig. 3 will be described with reference to Fig. 4. For the purpose of presetting initial logic levels at the respective circuit nodes, a controller not shown clamps all the input terminals 20 1 to 20 m and 21 1 to 21 m to a low level. The inverters 32 1 to 32 m thereby produce a high level at their outputs, respectively. Accordingly, the transistors Q₃₀ ₁ to Q In order to compare the binary coded digital signals A and B, the precharge terminals P and As shown in the situation 1 in Fig. 4, the first digital signal A is supplied in which only the third bit data a₃ is 0 i.e., the low level and the remaining bit data are 1 the high level . The P channel transistor Q₃₀ ₃ and the N channel transistors Q₃₂ ₁ to Q If both of the third bit data a₃ and b₃ of the signals A and B are 0 as shown in the situation 2 is Fig. 4, the inverter 32 3 does not turn the transistor Q₃₁ ₃ ON, and Q₃₁ ₃ is maintained in the OFF state. The signal B has the m th bit data bm of 0 , however. Therefore, the transistor Q Thus, when any one of the bit data of the first signal A is different in the logic level from the corresponding bit data of the second signal B, at least one pair of the P channel transistors Q₃₀ and Q₃₁ and or at least one pair of the N channel transistors Q₃₂ and Q₃₃ are turned ON to change the logic levels at the output node N₀₁ and or N₀₂. The output signal Y thus changes to the low level. When only the third bit data a₃ and b₃ of the signals A and B are 0 as shown in the situation 3 in Fig. 4, the P channel transistors Q₃₀ ₃, Q₃₁ ₁, Q₃₁ ₂, and Q₃₁ ₄ to Q The gates cf the transistors Q₃₄ and Q₃₅ may be connected to the terminals 25 and 24, respectively, to maintain them in the ON state. In this case, the current capacity of the transistor Q₃₄ should be smaller than the series connected transistors Q₃₂ and Q₃₄ to change the level at the node N₀₂. Similarly, the current capacity of the transistor Q₃₅ should be smaller than the series connected transistors Q₃₀ and Q₃₁ to change the level at the node N₀₁. Fig. 5 shows an output section according to another embodiment of the present invention, in which the first output node N₀₁ is connected through an inverter 40 to the first input end of an NAND circuit 45 and the second output node N₀₂ is connected to the second input end of the NAND circuit 45. The inverter 40 includes a P channel MOS transistor Q₅₀ and an N channel MOS transistor Q₅₁ connected in series between the power potential terminals 24 and 25. The NOR circuit includes two p channel MOS transistors Q₅₂ and Q₅₃ connected in parallel between the terminal 24 and the output terminal 26 and two N channel MOS transistors Q₅₄ and Q₅₅ connected in series between the output terminal 26 and the potential terminal 25. In the initial condition, the levels at the nodes N₀₁ and N₀₂ are the low level and the high level, respectively, and therefore, the output signal Y takes the low level. When each bit data of the signal A is not equal in the logic level to the corresponding bit data of the signal B, at least one of the P channel transistors Q₅₂ and Q₅₃ is turned ON and at least one of the N channel transistors Q₅₄ and Q₅₅ is turned OFF. As a result, the output signal Y takes the high level. When the data of the respective bits of the signal A are equal in the logic level to those of the corresponding ones of the signal B, the output signal Y maintains to take the low level. As described above in detail, the digital data comparison circuit according to the present invention detects the coincidence between the respective bit data of two signals A and B, and is constituted by a smaller number of transistors. The number of the transistors required is 4 x m 2 x m 8 in a total, where