# Data storage medium.

## Abstract
A data storage medium is provided which is suitable for production or replication by moulding, casting, embossing or a similar process against a tool. The data storage medium has a surface or a surface region which is strongly absorbent of at least a predetermined band of wavelengths of electro magnetic radiation. The surface or surface region includes a layer of a heat sensitive or radiation sensitive material which has a textured surface pattern the pitch of which is smaller than the shortest wavelength of the predetermined band of wavelengths, and the depth peak to trough of which is at least 100 nm. The surface pattern is free from undercutting, and can comprise an array of protuberances or one or more sets of grooves which may be intersecting . The textured surface is of high opacity or absorbance at least at, and just below, the surface which in use is to be exposed to writing radiation. A filled plastics material, e.g. PVC filled with carbon black, may be used. Alternatively, a layer of a dye polymer may be used. A tool for use in producing such a data storage medium, and methods of using the tool, are also disclosed. The data storage medium may be prepared in blank form for use as the consumer desires, or it may be pre recorded in part or in entirety.

## Claims
Claims 1. A data storage medium having a surface or a surface region which is strongly absorbent of at least a predetermined band of wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation, whereby the surface or surface region can be written upon by such radiation, the said surface or surface region including a layer of radiation or heat sensitive material, characterised in that i said layer of radiation or heat sensitive material has a textured surface pattern the pitch of which is smaller than the shortest wavelength within said predetermined band of wavelengths, ii the depth peak to trough of said textured surface pattern is at least 100 rim iii the textured surface pattern is free from undercutting so as to be suitable for production or replication by moulding, casting, embossing or similar process against a tool and iv at least the surface which in use is to be exposed to writing radiation has a high opacity or absorbance at the predetermined band of wavelengths. 2. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein said textured surface pattern extends over substantially one entire surface of the data storage medium. 3. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, wherein said textured surface pattern is present in one or more selected surface regions of the data storage medium. 4. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the heat sensitive material is a plastics material. 5 A data storage medium as claimed in claim 4, wherein the plastics material or at least the surface thereof which is to be exposed to writing is opaque or highly absorbant at said predetermined band of wavelengths. 6 A data storage medium as claimed in claim 5, wherein the plastics material is inherently transparent but is rendered opaque or absorbant by the incorporation therein, at least in the region of said surface, of an opaque or absorbant filler. 7. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 6, wherein said filler is carbon black. 8. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 5, wherein said plastics material is poly vinyl chloride . 9. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 6, wherein said filler is a pigment or a dyestuff. 10. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 5, wherein at least said surface region of the plastics material is constituted by a polymeric dyestuff dye polymer . 11. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 9, wherein said filler is an organic polymeric material. 12. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 11, wherein the plastics material is one which undergoes a volume change when degraded from the polymeric state to monomeric species. 13. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 12, wherein the plastics material is or includes poly methylstyrene , polyformaldehyde, polymethacrylic acid or a polymethacrylic ester. 14. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 12, wherein the plastics material is a or includes polycarbonate, a polyester or polylvinyl chloride 15. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 14, wherein the medium comprises a substrate formed from a plastics material and, overlying said substrate, a relatively thin layer of the same or a different plastics material, said relatively thin layer constituting the heat sensitive or radiation sensitive material. 16. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the textured surface pattern is formed in that surface of said relatively thin layer remote from said substrate. 17. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the textured surface pattern is formed at that surface of said relatively thin layer adjacent to said substrate. 18. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 17, wherein the substrate and the relatively thin layer are contiguous, and wherein the relatively thin layer conforms to the textured surface pattern so that said pattern is apparent at the surface remote from said substrate. 19. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claimed, wherein the textured surface pattern is a simple, regularly repeating pattern. 20. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises an array of protuberances. 21. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises an arrangement of grooves. 22. A data storage medium as claimed in any claim 21, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises an array of parallel grooves. 23. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 22, wherein the parallel grooves are of square cross section. 24. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 22, wherein the parallel grooves are of triangular crosssection. 25. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 22, wherein the parallel grooves are of sinusoidal crosssection. 26. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 22, wherein the parallel grooves are of saw toothed form. 27. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 26, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises an array of concentric grooves. 28 A uata storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 27, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises an array of radial grooves. 29. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 28, wherein the textured surface pattern comprises one or more spiral grooves. 30. A data storage medium as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 29, wherein the textured surface pattern includes two sets of superimposed grooves. 31. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 30, wherein the two sets of grooves each consist of an array of parallel grooves, the textured surface pattern being in the form of a crossed grating. 32. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 31, wherein the two sets of grooves intersect orthogonally. 33. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 25, wherein the grooves have a configuration which is substantially a single sine wave. 34. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claim wherein the pitch of the textured surface pattern is less than 300 rim. 35. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the depth of the textured surface pattern is at least 200 rim. 36. A data storage medium as claimed in claim 35, wherein the depth of the textured surface pattern is about 400 rim. 37. A data storage medium as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the medium is in the form of a disk, rectangle or tape. 38. A method of manufacturing a data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, the method including producing said textured surface pattern by plastics moulding, casting, embossing or similar process against a tool. 39. A method according to claim 38, wherein the textured surface pattern is generated by the steps of a depositing a thin film of a resist onto a smooth surfaced substrate b exposing the resist in a pattern corresponding to that desired in the data storage medium c developing the resist d generating a negative replica of the resist surface by coating said resist surface with a thin electrically conductive layer and thereafter electroplating onto that layer a further layer of metal thick enough to be durable e stripping the resist from the metal layers and f forming a plastics replica from the patterned surface of said metal layers by moulding, casting, embossing or stamping a plastics material against said patterned surface. 40. A method according to claim 39, wherein the exposure pattern for the resist is generated by a laser interference technique. 41. A method according to claim 40, wherein the resist coated substrate is moved by rotation and or translation underneath the laser interference pattern in order to generate the desired exposure. 42. A method according to claim 39, wherein the desired exposure pattern for the resist is generated by forming diffraction patterns on the surface of the resist with a diffraction grating. 43. A method according to claim 39, wherein the resist is an electron beam resist, and wherein the desired pattern is generated by electron beam writing. 44 36. A tool for use in producing a data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, by a method according to claim 38, the tool having a surface which is a negative image of said textured surface pattern. 45. A pre recorded data carrying medium formed by selective irradiation of a data storage medium as claimed in claim 1, the pattern or patterns of irradiation being such as to permit the stored data to be regenerated in visual form.

## Description
n DATA STORAGE MEDIUM This invention relates to a data storage medium, a method of manufacturing a data storage medium, and a tool for use in the method. One class of data storage techniques comprises selectively irradiating the surface of a storage medium, the medium being such that, when irradiated at sufficient intensity and duration, its properties are altered in some manner which is readily detectable. In this way data can be written onto and read from the storage medium. The writing irradiation may be electromagnetic or particulate. The advantage of electromagnetic writing radiation is that the writing recording operation need not be carried out in vacuum, while that of particulate writing radiation is that for any specified resolution, or data packing density, the depth of focus is much greater than for electromagnetic writing radiation. When electromagnetic writing radiation is used, one of the difficulties frequently encountered is that the proportion of the incident energy absorbed by the data recording and storage medium may be small, and the energy required to alter detectably its properties may be large. Either or both of these restrictions may increase the energy required to write a detectable data spot on the data storage medium, which can increase the cost of the radiator or slow down the writing speed, or both. Strongly absorbent surfaces have been prepared by producing a surface which is rough on a microscopic scale and in which the depth of the texture is large compared with its pitch. Such a surface is described by Spiller et al in Applied Optics Vol. l9, No.17, 1 Sept., 1980 pp 3022 3026. however, the methods so far known for the production of such surfaces, such as implantation and etching, are inherently expensive. Furthermore, surfaces madt by etching techniques cannot easily be replicated because etch pits tend to include undercut areas and are often relatively deep. According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a data storage medium having a surface or a surface region which is strongly absorbent of at least a predetermined band of wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation, whereby the surface or surface region can be written upon by such radiation, the said surface or surface region including a layer of heat or radiation sensitive material, characterised in that i said layer of radiation or heat sensitive material has a textured surface pattern the pitch of which is smaller than the shortest wavelength within said predetermined band of wavelengths ii the depth peak to trough of said textured surface pattern is at least 100 nm iii the textured surface pattern is free from undercutting so as to be suitable for production or replication by moulding, casting, embossing or similar process against a tool and iv at least the surface which in use is to be exposed to writing radiation has a high opacity or absorbance at the predetermined band of wavelengths. In some embodiments of the invention, the entire surface of the data storage medium is formed with a textured surface pattern as defined above. In other embodiments, this structure is present only in one or more selected surface regions of the data storage medium. For convenience, the term heat sensitive will be used hereinafter to denote materials which are sensitive to heat or to radiation. The heat sensitive material is preferably a plastics material. Given that the textured surface pattern is free from undercutting, the use of plastics materials helps in simplifying the production and replication processes required to manufacture the data storage media of this invention. A wide range of plastics may be used as the heat sensitive material plastics which undergo a volume chance when degraded from their polymeric state to monomeric species are suitable. Examples are poly methyistyrefle , polyforalehyde, polymethacrylic acid and polymethacrylic esters, e.g. poly methylmethacrylate . Other suitable plastics materials include polycarbonates, polyesters and poly vinyl chloride . Techniques suitable for the production and replication of plastics materials incorporating the required textured surface pattern include injection moulding, compression moulding, casting and embossing. The plastics material, or at least the surface thereof which is to be exposed to writing, may be opaque or highly absorbant over the predetermined band of wavelengths. Alternatively, the plastics material may be inherently transparent but rendered opaque or absorbant by the incorporation therein, at least in the region of said surface, of an opaque or absorbant filler. The filler may be a pigment or a dyestuff, or an organic polymeric material. At least the said surface region of the plastics material may be constituted by a polymeric dyestuff dye polymer . The data storage medium may comprise a substrate formed from a plastics material and, overlying said substrate, a relatively thin layer of the same or a different plastics material, said relatively thin layer constituting the heat sensitive or radiation sensitive material. The textured surface pattern may be formed in that surface of said relatively thin layer remote from said substrate. Alternatively, the textured surface pattern may be formed at that surface of said relatively thin layer adjacent to said substrate. Preferably, the substrate and the relatively thin layer are contiguous, and the relatively thin layer conforms to the textured surface pattern so that the textured surface pattern is apparent at the surface remote from said substrate. A variety of different patterns may be used as the textured surface pattern. Simple, regularly repeating patterns are preferred. Usually, the pattern will cons sot of an arrangement of grooves or of an array of protuberances. Where the pattern comprises grooves, these may be arranged concentrically, radially, in parallel or as a single spiral or as concentric spirals.The textured surface pattern may include two sets of superimposed grooves if there are two superimposed sets of parallel grooves, the surface pattern will take the form of a crossed grating. With such a crossed grating, the two sets of grooves can conveniently intersect orthogonally, but this is by no means an essential requirement. Other multi set configurations include ta a set of concentric grooves with a superimposed set of radial grooves b a single spiral groove with a superimposed set of radial grooves and c two adjacent but non intersecting arrays of parallel grooves. Where the pattern comprises an array of protuberances, the pattern can be considered as sets of intersecting grooves. The textured surface pattern will therefore be described hereinafter by reference to grooves, which grooves may be of square or triangular cross 0ction or of saw toothed form. In general, however, the grooves are preferably of sinusoidal form.Particularly preferred are patterns made of parallel grooves of sinusoidal form either extending in one direction only i.e. single sine wave form or intersecting orthogonally i.e. crossed sine wave form . Insofar as patterns or gratings of single sine wave form are concerned, tests show that reflectivity from such a pattern using radiation with a polarisation perpendicular to the grooves is low, typically less than 10 , i.e., suitable for writing data. However, with radiation polarised parallel to the grooves, reflectivity is high at least 30 as is suitable for reading data. The pitch of the grooves must be smaller than the shortest wavelengths within the predetermined band of wavelengths in order to achieve effective writing on the oata storage medium. iXreferablb, the pitch of tht structure is less than half Whe wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation which is to be used for writing. This radiation will usually be within the ultraviolet, visible or infrared regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The depth of the grooves should be at least 100 nm, and is preferably at least 200 nm. Where the textured surface pattern consists of a single set of grooves, good results have been obtained where the groove depth is about 400 nm and the pitch of the grooves is within the range 200 300 rim. For the avoidance of doubt, all references herein to the depth of a groove relate to the peak to trough depth. Thus if the groove is sinusoidal in form, the depth equals twice the amplitude of the sine wave. The surface which is to be exposed to writing radiation has a high opacity the opacity being determined within the predetermined band of wavelengths .This can be achieved by using an opaque polymeric material as the heat sensitive layer or in some embodiments as both the substrate and the heat sensitive layer . If the polymeric material is not inherently opaque, it may be made opaque by incorporation of a suitable filler. Thus by way of example, a suitable material is a polymeric material e.g. poly vinyl chloride which contains carbon black as the filler material. It will be appreciated that it is not essential for the whole of the data storage medium to be opaque at the predetermined band of wavelengths it may, however, be convenient for the whole of the medium to be formed of a single material in such a case there is no need for the medium as a whole to be fully opaque. It is sufficient for the opaque region to extend a small distance downwardly from the exposed surface. Data storage media in accordance with the present invention are higl absorptive of incident electromagnetic radiation within the predeterinined band of wavelengths. The absorption of radiation at the textured surface pattern on the data storage medium causes an observable change in the heat sensitive material. Thus selective irradiation of the textured surface pattern may result in local heating at the positions of incident radiation, thereby causing local changes in the heat sensitive material which serves to distinguish the regions where radiation was incident from those regions where there was no incident radiation.The detectable change in the heat sensitive material can be caused by local blistering or ablation of the material, for example by degradation of a polymer to monomeric species, or by melting the plastic or any other method of altering the physical state of the plastic. Such structural changes cause localised changes in the optical properties of the material. Such alterations may be permanent, so that the data storage medium is a nwrite once medium, or they may be reversible, so that the medium can be written upon, read, erased and re written.For example, when the heat sensitive material is a dye polymer, an image can be formed by the techniques described herein and, after the image has been used, it may be erased by slow localised heating of the medium.Such heating should not be such as to degrade extensively the textured surface pattern. This is possible particularly in those embodiments where the textured surface pattern is located at the interface between a plastics substrate and a thin dye polymer layer the step of image formation will destroy on a local scale the conformity between opposite surfaces of the dye polymer layer, without damaging the texture located at the substrate interface. Subsequent gentle heating will erase the image by allowing the dye polymer to recover its initial form in whch its upper surface remote from the substrate conforms to the textured surface pattern at th. substrate interface. The medium thus regenerated can then be re used to store a further image. The reading of information stored on a data storage medium of this invention will be effected by a technique appropriate to the nature of the changes in properties undergone by the heat sensitive material on writing. Where the heat sensitive material undergoes blistering or ablation as a result of absorption of incident radiation, reading can be performed by observing changes in reflectivity of the medium using a wavelength and or intensity of electromagnetic radiation which itself is not significantly absorbed by the data storage medium. Changes in optical transmissivity may be used instead of changes in reflectivity. According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of manufacturing a data storage medium as defined hereinabove, the method including producing said textured surface pattern by plastics moulding, casting, embossing or similar process against a tool. According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a tool for use in producing a data storage medium according to the first aspect of the invention by a method according to the second aspect of the invention, the tool having a surface which is a negative image of said textured surface pattern. Methods of producing the pattern on the tool according to the third aspect of the invention are described hereinafter, by way of example. According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a pre recorded data carrying medium formed by selective irradiation of a data storage medium of the invention, the pattern or patterns of irradiation being such as to permit the stored data to be regenerated in visual form. The present invention enables a strong absorbent data storage medium to be produced ctea ly nc easily by plastics moulding, casting, embossing or similar process employing a tool, and using mass produ ion techniques. Preferred forms of the present invention may provide economically a data storage medium having a strongly absorbtive surface of low thermal capacity. In some examples there can be provided such a surface the properties of which can be altered by the absorption of only a small quantity of energy. One technique for manufacturing a data storage medium in accordance with the present invention is as follows, starting with the production of the tool 1 A thin film of resist is deposited onto a smooth surface, 2 The resist is exposed in a suitable pattern as already described. 3 The resist is developed. 4 A negative replica of the resist surface is produced by first forming a thin electrically conducting layer on the resist and by electroplating onto that layer a further layer of metal thick enough to be durable. 5 The electroplated metal layer from the resist may then be stripped from the resist, although this is not essential. 6 Forming an electroplated positive metal replica to act as a master from the negative metal replica which constitutes the replicating tool . 7 Forming a plastics replica from either the positive or directly from the negative metal replica. The plastics material used for this purpose will be opaque or of high opacity at least in the region which, in use will constitute the surface exposed to writing radiation i.e that part of the material which will contact the surface of the negative replica.This plastics replica provides a strongly absorbtive surface, ready for writing, and constitutes the data storage medium, which may function for example as a digital or analogue information storage medium. Step f can be repeated in a mass production process. thin the scope of the above process many variations are possible Step 1 . The resist may be for example photoresist or electron beam resist. It may be deposited for example by spinning, dipping, spraying or any other suitable technique. The surface on which it is deposited may be flat or curved e.g. cylindrical, conical, spherical or other suitable shape. Steps 2 3 . The pattern must satisfy the requirements set forth above in relation to the textured surface pattern of the data storage medium. The pitch need not be uniform. The pattern may be imaged onto the resist by any one of a variety of methods, including writing with an electron beam, or by the production of interference fringes either as pattern of parallel bars 0 or as two patterns of bars at an angle possibly 90 to each other. Laser interference is a valuable technique for generating an array of intersecting grooves or a set of concentric grooves. For example, two laser beams may be focussed in one dimension to form an interference pattern in the form of a series of spots.The resist coated substrate may be moved e.g. by rotation or translation or by a combination of rotation and translation beneath this interference pattern to generate the desired exposure. Electron beam recording is another valuable technique which can be used with either the single spot recording or multiple spot recording techniques. Another recording technique of use in this invention involves recording harmonic fringes generated by a diffraction grating. The diffraction grating itself may have circular, spiral or straight line rulings, and is illuminated with collimated light. This produces images in the form of harmonics of the grating at set distances from the grating, and these images result in exposure of the photoresist. Step 4 . An alternative first stage is to produce a negative first stage replica using the techniques common in replication of ruled spectroscopic gratings e.g. first applying a very thin coat of a release agent such as mannitol to the original, and casting a layer of a thermosetting plastics against it. This technique causes minimum damage to the original, so that several first generation replicas may be obtained. Step 7 . The product replica may be formed from the metal tool by any one of a number of processes including casting, injection or compression moulding or embossing, the last two using such details of technique as are well known in the arts of gramaphone record or videodisc manufacture. Instead of using a resist which is exposed and developed in order to generate the desired textured surface pattern, steps 1 3 above can be replaced by a mechanical cutting or an optical cutting step which generates directly the desired textured surface pattern in a plastics or metal substrate. Mechanical cutting may be formed using an a piezo electrically driven stylus.Optical cutting can be achieved using Wlasers and appropriate optics or multiple spot techniques. Radial gratings may be produced by modulating the laser beam with such a technique. Cutting may also be effected directly using an electron beam. In use the finished absorbent surface on the data storage medium is written by irradiating any desired area, typically with radiation from a laser which may be a diode laser. Sufficient energy density may be applied to alter permanently the surface. This alteration is evident as a change in the reflectivity or transmissivity of the surface and may be detected by any suitable electro optic device. Where the textured surface pattern comprises a crossed grating arrangement, the absorption of incident radiation when tb e data storage medium undergoes the writing recording process results in a degradation of the heat sensitive generally plastics material. This results in destruction of the local structure at points of incident radiation, which in turn causes a local change in the absorption characteristics of the material.In some embodiments, degradation of the underlying plastics material giving reduced absorption coincides with an increase in reflectivity. In other embodiments, the resultant reduced absorption corresponds to a change in transmissivity of the material. Thus in the first case the data storage medium can be read by measuring its reflectivity, while in the second case the data storage medium can be read by measuring transmissivity. However by placing a reflective surface behind the data recording medium, data can be read in reflection. Where the textured surface pattern consists of non intersecting grooves, the surface absorbs incident radiation of a given polarisation only. The effect of absorbing such incident radiation is the same as described above in relation to a crossed grating type of structure. In order to read information carried on such a data storage medium, two techniques are available. In the first, radiation of the same type as used for writing information on the data storage medium, but of considerably reduced intensity, is used to read the information. In the second, the information on a data storage medium is read using a beam which is orthogonally polarised with respect to the beam which is used to write information on the data storage medium. Because of the nature of the textured surface pattern, the read beam will not be absorbed.As an example, in the embodiments of the second type as described in the preceding paragraph, a recorded spot on the data storage medium would be seen as a spot of reduced reflectivity in the read beam. In a different set of embodiments, the upper heat sensitive surface may be adjacent to a layer of even more heat sensitive material and, at lower power density than is n at3 tc inter permanently tnt absorbent surface, a spot on the adjacent layer is heated by conduction. Tne adjacent heat sensitive layer may be of any form, for example it may be a low Curie point material so thatCurie point writing may be used. The reasons for the high absorption of incident electromagnetic writing radiation by data storage media in accordance with the present invention are not completely understood. However one explanation is that the structuring of the surface in the form of protruberances creates a gradient in refractive index between air and the substrate. This results in a reduced reflectivity at the air material interface Theoretical calculations of this have been made by Clapham s liutley Nature Vol. 244 No 5414 pp 281 282 August 3rd 1973 .Reduction in the reflectivity of a metal surface by providing a surface structure has been demonstrated byWilson liutley Optica Acta Viol.29 No.7 p. 1004, 1982 . There now follows a more specific description of how a suitably patterned data storage medium may be produced, with reference to Figure 1. A flat, circular glass plate 1 is coated by spinning with a uniform coat of Shipley Resist Microposit 14503. The resist is exposed to two beams of light derived via a beam splitter and mirrors from the same laser. The beam splitter, lenses and mirrors are not shown as this method of setting up an interference field is well known to those skilled in the art. The wavelength and the angle between the two beams, which are illustrated by their bounding rays 3, 3 for one beam and 4, 4 for the other beam, are chosen to give fringes having a pitch in the region of 300 rim. The length of exposure is adjusted to give a depth of groove, after development, of at least 100 nm and preferably of about 200 nm. After exposure, the plate and resist, 1 and 2 are rotated through 900 about t rxi F F and again exposed. Tb resist is then developed. After development a very thin film of silver is deposited chemically on the resist. Nickel is then electro plated onto the silver to a sufficient thickness to be robust. The nickel is then peeled off and placed as the tool in an embossing press. Thin sheets of opaquePVC or of opaque poly methylmethacrylate PMMA the opacity may be achieved by use of a plastics material filled with, e.g., carbon black are placed in the press, heated, pressed, cooled and withdrawn. The resultant opaque plastics disks constitute blank data storage media which can be written upon by the eventual user. However, it is to be understood that there can also be mass produced a data storage medium which is written upon either wholly or partially. This can be done by producing a patterned blank as described, writing upon the blank, and then employing the written upon medium as the substrate from which to produce a tool for the subsequent mass production of opaque plastics disks.