# Modular shelving system.

## Abstract
A modular shelving system comprises a plurality of tubes 1 connected together in the desired manner by end and intermediate connectors 5 and 8 . Each connector 5, 8 com prises three mutually perpendicular tubes 5a, 5b and 5c 8a, 8b and 8c . Strengthening flanges 21, 24 on the connectors 5, 8 serve to support horizontal panels 22 whilst vertical panels 16 are held by supports 10 engaged with flanges 23 of the connectors 5, 8 . The system is mounted on adjust able feet 14 and is strengthened by a variety of strengtheners 6, 9, 3 and can be secured to a wall by means of 3a, 4 . A tube 1a is suspended by means of support brackets 2 in a plane below a plane in which lie tubes 1 with which the support brackets 2 are engaged. The system is formed of very simple components but is yet strong and versatile.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. A modular shelving system comprising a plurality of tubes 1 of differing lengths, connectors 5, 8 for joining the tubes 13 together, means 14, 15, 6, 9, 3, 4 for adjustably supporting and steadying an assembly of the tubes 1 and connectors 5, 8 , supports 10 which are attached to the connectors 5, 8 , in use and which can support and hold vertical panels 16 , and bracket supports 21, 24 on said connectors 5, 8 for supporting horizontal panels 22 in use, the tubes 1 being capable of having components 2 fitted thereto to hold another tube la to serve as a support rail or rack. 2. A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein each connector 5,8 has a portion 5a, 8a which extends vertically in use and which can accommodate tubes 1 from above and below, and other portions 5b, 5 and 8b 8c for accommodating other tubes 7 , said other portions 5b, 5c and Sb, 8c being co planar and disposed at right angles to the first mentioned portion 5a, 8a , said portions being strengthened by the bracket supports 21, 24 and by a strengthening member 23 which is engageable with one of the supports iso for the vertical panels 16 . 3. A system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said adjustable supporting means 74, 15 comprises a foot which is engageable in one of the connectors 5, 8 and which comprises a tubular body 12 which axially accommodates a bolt 13 upon whose free end a foot pad 14 is arranged 4, A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the foot pad 74 is replaced by a wheel 15 . 5. A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said steadying means includes a strip 3, 6 provided with a pair of studs 7 which can be engaged in the connectors 5, 8 . 6. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the strip 3 has an extension providing a fixing bracket 3a . 7. A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said steadying means includes a strengthener 9 having ends 9g shaped to mate with the tubes 1 . 8. A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each support 10 comprises a tubular body 25 having a pair of diametrically opposed housings 26 for holding the vertical panels 16 , and each support 10 further has a pair of parallel lips 29 which embrace a part 23 of one of the connectors 5, 8 in use. 9, A system as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each component 2 for holding the support rail or rack comprises a pair of mutually perpendicular sleeves 2a, 2b connected together by means of at last one bracket 2c that serve to separate the sleeves 2n and 2b whereby the tube la which serves as the support rail or rack is spaced from a plane in which the tubes 1 to which the compoents 2 are fitted lie whereby sufficient room is allowed for hangers to be placed on the support rail or rack without difficult.

## Description
TITLE MOnTn AR SHET,VTNCr SYSTEMq FIELD TO WHICH THE INVENTION RELATES This invention relates to a modular shelving system and more particularly to a kit of parts which can be erected to form a shelving system.DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION A very simple, easy to erect, and sturdy modular shelving system comprises basically a plurality of tubes having different lengths but a common diameter, a plurality of connectors for connecting the tubes together so as to produce a shelving structure. A wide variety of different shapes of shelving structure can be produced and the versatility of the shelving unit can be increased by the provision of various different accessory parts.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS Fig. 1 is a plan vie of one embodiment of a modular shelving system according to the present invention in an erected condition, Fig. 2 is a partial section on the line C C of Fig. 1, Fig. 3 is a sectional view in the direction of arrow A A in Fig, 1 , Fig. 4 is an elevational view of an adjustable leg with a foot pad for adjustably supporting the modular shelving system, Fig. 5 is a view of an adjustable leg with a castor wheel, for supporting the modular shelving system, Fig. Ó is a sectional view of a connector and a vertical panel support forming part of the modular shelving system of Fig. 1, Fig. 7 is a section one the line B B of Fig. 6, and Fig. 8 is a front elevational view of the modular shelving system of Fig. 1. Referring now to the drawings, the modular shelving system comprises plurality of tubes 7 which are of differing lengths but of the same external diameter, and a plurality of end connectors 5 and intermediate connectors 8 for joining the tubes Is together to form a shelving structure. The end connectors 5 are used exclusively for making corners of the structure. Each end connector 5 comprises three sleeves 5a, 5b, and 5c which are of different lengths The sleeves 5W and 5c are arranged with their axes co planar and 900 apart to define an L, whilst the sleeve 5a is longer than the other two sleeves 5b and 5c a nd extends with its axis perpendicular to the plane of the L. As can be seen from Fig. 1, the sleeve 5a is joined to the sleeve 5c at a location adjacent the external corner of theL shape. The sleeve 5a is open at both ends but its closed by a centre partition 20.The sleeves 5b and 5c have their mutually adjacent ends closed so that the same length of tube 1 can be inserted therein. Each end connector 5 further includes an integral planar flange 21 which is disposed in the plane in which the axes of the sleeves 5b and 5c lie and which serves as a strengthener between the sleeves 5b and 5c and also as a support for a horizontal shelving panel 22 see Fig. 1 . Each end connector 5 further includes a further integral planar flange 23 which is disposed in a plane in which the longitudinal axes of the sleeves 5b and 5a lie. This flange 23 serves to increase the strength of the joint between the sleeve 5a and the remainder of the connector 5 and also serves to locate a support 10 for vertical panels 16 see particularly Figs. 6 and 7 . The support 10 will be described hereinafter in greater detail. Each intermediate connector is, like each end connector 5, a moulded component and comprises three sleeves 8a, 8b and 8c. Sleeve 8a is the longest sleeve and, like the sleeve 5a previously described, is open at both ends but closed by a central partition so that the same length of tube 1 can be inserted into each end.The sleeves 8b and 8c are arranged in the form of aT with the plane of the T being perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the sleeve 8a. The sleeve Sa is joined to the sleeve 8c centrally of the ends of the sleeve 8c and on the opposite side thereof to the sleeve Sb. Sleeve Sb is closed at its end adjacent the sleeve 8c. The sleeve 8c is open at both ends but closed by an intermediate partition not shown . The arrangement is such that the same length of tube 1 can be inserted into the three sleeves Sa to Sc, this being the same length of tube which can be inserted into the sleeves 5a to 5c, Each intermediate connector 8 has a pair of co planar flanges 24 extending on diametrically opposite sides of the sleeve 8b and being integrally joined there with as well as with the portions of the sleeve 8c on opposite sides of the sleeve 8b. The flanges 24 extend in the plane in which the longitudinal axes of the sleeves 8b and 8c lie.Although it is not shown in the drawings, each intermediate connector 8 has a flange which is integrally joined with the sleeve 8a and with the sleeve 8b and which is similar to the flange 23 of the end connector 25. This unreferenced flange of the intermediate connector 8 serves to locate a vertical panel support. 10.. Each vertical panel support 10 comprises a cylindri cal body 25 of circular cross section having diametrically opposed integral housings 26 defining outwardly opening rectangular slots 27 which are open at an end thereof remote from a connector 5 or 8 in use. Each slot 27 is closed at its end opposite to its open end by an integral stop 28. A pair of integral, parallel lips 29 extend from the lower of the two stops 28 away from the slots 27 in a direction parallel to the axis of the cylindrical body 25. The cylindrical body 25 has an internal diameter of a size to fit over the tubes 1. In use, the cylindrical body 25 is slipped over one of the tubes 1 and moved until it is in abutment with, ibr example, the sleeve 5D of a connector 5 see Fig. 6 . Before abutting against the sleeve 54 the cylindrical body 25 is orientated so that the space between the parallel lips 29 is aligned with the flange 23. Thus, when the cylindrical body 25 is engaged with the sleeve 5b, the lips 29 embrace the flange 23 and hold the support 10 in an orientation in which one housing 26 lies vertically above the other. In this location, it canbe seen that a respective corner of the vertical panel 16 can be located in the appropriate slot 27 so that the vertical panel 16 can be held in the required position. The horizontal shelving panels 22 are supported upon the flanges 21 and 24 as can be seen from Fig. 1. The shelving structure is supported on a surface by means of adjustable feet. Referring now to Fig. 4, one type of foot comprises a body 12 with which a bolt 13 is engaged in screw threaded fashion. The end of the bolt 13 from the body 12 carries a foot pad 13. The top of the body 12 is provided with a groove 11 which engages a tongue not shown fitted into each of those connectors which are at the bottom of the structure see Fig. 8 .In Fig. 5, the foot is similar to that described with reference to Fig. 4 except that the foot pad 14 is replaced by a castor wheel 15. Castor wheels are preferably only used in those shelving systems which are not excessively top heavy. Referring now to Figs. 1 and 2, the rigidity of the system is improved by the provision of strengtheners 9 having hooked ends 9a of a size to fit over any desired pair of tubes 1 on opposite sides of the structure.Strengthening can be further improved by the provision of a further type of strengthener Ó which comprises simply a strip having a pair of studs 7 at opposite ends thereof. The studs 7 fit into the unused upper ends of the sleeves 8a or 5a of the connectors at the top of the structure. A still further kind of strengthener 3 is shown in Fig. 1. Strengthener 3 is similar to strengthener Ó except that it is extended in one direction beyond the studs and bent upwardly to provide an apertured flange 3a. A fastening screw or the like can be passed through the aperture in the flange 3a to secure the structure to a wall.Additional securing to the wall can be effected at any desired location by means of fastening brackets 4 which have a central arcuate portion of a size to fit over the tubes 1 and apertured ends to enable fixing screws to be passed therethrough for wall mounting. Blanking plugs 17 see particularly Fig. 8 are provided for closing otherwise open endsof the connector sleeves. The modular shelving system further induces support brackets 2. Each support bracket 2 comprises a sleeve 2a which is open at both ends, a sleeve 2b which has its longitudinal axis extending at right angles to the axis of the sleeve 2a, and flanges Zc ioining the sleeves via and 2b. The sleeve 2b is closed at one end and open at the other and the arrangement is such that the base of the closed end of the sleeve 2b and the generatrix of the other sleeve 2b both lie in the same plane. A tube la forming a support rail or rack is engaged in the sleeves 2b of two of the support brackets 2, the length of such support rail or rack being equal to the width of any one of the spaces defined within the system. It will be apparent that horizontal panels 22 can be located anywhere in the system on appropriate flanges 21 and 24 and that vertical panel supports 10 can also be provided anywhere in the system either in association with connectors 5 or with connectors Ba As will be appreciated from the foregoing description, the modular shelving system described above can be easily assembled due to the simplicityzof its component parts. However, the simplicity of the component parts in no way detracts from the sturdiness of the resultant structure or in its versatility to be assembled in a large number of different arrangements.