# Biocidal amine salts.

## Abstract
We provide amine salts of the general formula

## Claims
Claims 1. Amine salts of the general formulaEMI17.1 wherein R1 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group containing from 6 to 20 carbon atoms R2 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms R3 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms andHX represents an acid of formulaEMI17.2 in which R represents a straight chain or branched alkyl group containing from 5 to 20 carbon atoms , orEMI17.3 in which n is from 1 to 5 1. 2. Amine salts as claimed in claim 1 in whichHX represents an acid of formulaEMI17.4 in which Ra represents an alkyl group containing 4 to 18 carbon atoms ,EMI18.1 in which Rb and Rc, which may be the same or different, each represents an alkyl group, the groups Rb and R containing in total from 4 to 18 carbon atoms , c orEMI18.2 in which Rd, Re and Rf, which may be the same or different, each represents an alkyl group . 3. Amine salts as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein R1 represents an alkyl group containing from 8 to 20 carbon atoms and R2 represents an alkyl group containing 1 to 20 carbon atoms. 4. Amine salts as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein R2 and R3 each represents a methyl group. 5. Amine salts as claimed in claim 4 whereinR1 represents a group of formula C12H25 or C14H29. 6. Amine salts as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein HX is 3,5,5 trimethylhexanoic acid or an acid of formula VI in which Rd, Re andRf together contain from 7 to 9 carbon atoms. 7. Biocidal compositions comprising an organic solvent and, as active ingredient, at least one amine salt as claimed in any one of the preceding claims. 8. A method of protecting a cellulosic material from biological degradation which comprises treating the said material with a composition as claimed in claim 7. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the cellulosic material is wood.

## Description
Biocidal amine salts This invention relates to new amine salts and to their use in non aqueous biocidal compositions. Light organic solvent preservatives LOSP s are of major importance in the wood preservation industry LOSP systems generally contain a fungicide in a light organic solvent such as white spirit.They are particularly useful in the treatment of joinery components because, unlike water based systems, LOSP s do not cause the dimensional distortion of profiled timber and they integrate well with the factory production line processing common in large joinery manufacturers. Currently used fungicides in LOSP formulations are coming under increasing technical, economic and environmental pressures and therefore there is a pressing need to develop alternative fungicides for use in such formulations. For water borne use, water soluble alkyl ammonium compounds have attracted much attention.Water soluble amine salts and water soluble quaternary ammonium salts have both been described as antifungals but water soluble quaternary ammonium salts have generally proved preferable to water soluble amine salts for water borne use However, for the reasons stated above, water borne formulations are not universally applicable and there is a continuing need for new organic solvent borne formulations. U.S. Patent Specification 3565927 describes a class of microbiocidally active quaternary ammonium compounds which are soluble in organic solvents and are derived from quaternary ammonium compounds wherein there is at least one C8 22 alkyl group attached to the quaternary nitrogen and an anion derived from a branched chain aliphatic acid containing at least seven carbon atoms. We have now found that certain amine salts soluble in organic solvents have improved biocidal properties as compared with analogous quaternary ammonium salts. Furthermore, the amine salts in question are considerably easier to prepare than analogous quaternary ammonium salts. According to one feature of the present invention there are provided amine salts of the general formulaEMI2.1 wherein R1 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group containing from 6 to 20 carbon atoms R2 represents an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms R3 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms andHX represents an acid of formulaEMI2.2 in which R represents a straight chain or branched alkyl group containing from 5 to 20 carbon atoms , orEMI2.3 in which n is from 1 to 5 1. The aliphatic hydrocarbyl groups referred to above may be saturated or unsaturated but will preferably be alkyl groups Thus, for example, the present invention includes within its scope amine salts of the general formulaEMI3.1 in which R4 represents an alkyl group containing from 8 to 20 carbon atoms R5 represents an alkyl group containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms R6 represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group containing from 1 to 3 carbon atoms and HX is as hereinbefore defined . According to a further feature of the present invention there are provided biocidal compositions comprising an organic solvent and, as active ingredient, at least one amine salt of formula I as hereinbefore defined. The compositions according to the invention are particularly useful as antifungal agents but may also be useful in combatting algae, bacteria and certain wood destroying insects. An advantage of the compositions of the present invention is that they enable the use of antifungal compositions based on metal salts which can be environmentally disadvantageous and which may have undesirable colour characteristics for particular applications to be avoided. The active ingredient of the compositions of the invention may consist of a single salt but will often consist of a mixture of salts. Thus, the active ingredient may consist of a mixture of salts formed between a single acid and a blend of amines or may consist of a mixture of salts formed between a single amine and a blend of acids or may consist of a mixture of salts formed between a blend of amines and a blend of acids. The acid component of amine salts according to the invention is selected so as to render the salt soluble in the organic solvent employed. Acids of formula II include aliphatic monocarboxylic acids derivable from mineral, vegetable or animal sources such as, for example, straight chain carboxylic acids of formula II in which R contains from 6 to 20, preferably 11 to 20, carbon atoms, e.g. lauric acid, palmitic acid and stearic acid. Formula II also includes primary and secondary saturated acyclic carboxylic acids obtainable synthetically from olefins, for example by the togo process.For reasons of commercial availability, such acids will generally be mixtures of isomeric and homologous primary and secondary saturated acyclic carboxylic acids, a major proportion of which contain branched chains. In general, the primary acids will be of the formulaEMI4.1 where Ra represents an alkyl group containing from 4 to 18 carbon atoms. The secondary acids will in general be of the formulaEMI4.2 where Rb and Rc, which may be the same or different, each represents an alkyl group, the groups Rb and Rc containing in total from 4 to 18 carbon atoms. In formula V, Rb and Rc may, for example, be individually selected from methyl, ethyl, npropyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, sec butyl, t butyl, n pentyl, isopentyl and neo pentyl groups. An example of a primary acyclic carboxylic acid is 3,5,5 trimethylhexanoic acid. A preferred acid for use in the present invention is that which is industrially available as iso nonanoic acid produced by Hoechst which is a mixture of Cg acids containing a major proportion of 3,5,5 trimethylhexanoic acid. Formula II further includes tertiary saturated acyclic acids. Such acids can be represented by the general formulaEMI5.1 in which Rd, Re and Rfr which may the same or different, each represents an alkyl group. The tertiary acids will preferably contain a total of from 7 to 18 carbon atoms, i.e. Rd,Re and Rf will in total contain from 5 to 16 carbon atoms. Rd, Re and Rf may, for example, be independently selected from methyl, ethyl, n propyl, isopropyl, n butyl, isobutyl, t butyl, n pentyl or n hexyl groups. Examples of tertiary acids include 2 ethyl 2 methylhexanoic acid and 4 ethyl 2,2 dimethyloctanoic acid. Tertiary acids are obtainable synthetically from olefins, for example by the Koch process.The composition of the acids produced by the Koch process depends upon the composition of the oleo in starting material the product will normally be a mixture of isomeric and homologous tertiary acids. Typical industrial products, preferred for use in the present invention, include the Versatics produced by Shell Chemicals for example Versatic 10 which is a mixture of isomeric tertiary acids of the above formula in which Rd, Re and Rf together contain about 8 carbon atoms and Versatic 911, in which Rd, Re and Rf together contain from 7 to 9 carbon atoms. Acids of formula III are the major components of naphthenic acids, derived from petroleum. They occur naturally in crude oil and are prepared by alkali washing of certain petroleum fractions In formula I, h and R3 preferably each represents a methyl group. More preferably, in compositions according to the invention the active ingredient will be derived from a blend of amines the major proportion of which is a blend of amines of formulaeEMI6.1 Such amines are commercially available, examples being ADMA 246 Ethyl Corporation and Armeen DMMCD Akzo Chemise Suitable solvents for use in the compositions of the present invention include hydrocarbon solvents such as petroleum derived and coal derived solvents, for example white spirit, paraffin, gas oil, xylene and naphtha.Other solvents which may be employed include chlorinated hydrocarbons, for example methylene dichloride. In general, the solvent will be chosen so as to have a boiling point within the range 140 2700C. Solvents with lower boiling points may have too low a flashpoint. Solvents with higher boiling points may have too slow a drying rate. However, liquefied hydrocarbon gases, e.g. butane, are alternative solvents which may be used. If desired, the compositions according to the invention may be emulsified in water. The compositions according to the invention may if desired contain additional ingredients, for example water repellants e.g. paraffin wax, hydrocarbon resins, long chain fatty acid esters such as lauryl stearate , resins serving to improve compatibility with paint for example alkyd resins , unsaturated oils e.g. linseed oils and other fungicides and or insecticides, for example pentachlorophenol, bis tri n butyltin oxide, lindane, dieldrin and synthetic pyrethroids. The compositions according to the invention have particular applicability in wood treatment, for example as wood preservatives, but their use is not limited to wood preservation and they may also be used to protect other types of cellulosic material for example hessian, cotton, rope and cordage. Accordingly, a further feature of the present invention provides a method of protecting a cellulosic material from biological degradation which comprises treating the said material with a composition according to the invention as hereinbefore described. For the treatment of wood, the compositions according to the invention may be applied by any known method, for example dipping, spraying, deluging, brushing and techniques involving vacuum and or pressure impregnation. Where the material to be treated is other than wood, the compositions according to the invention may be employed by any of the known methods for treating such materials. The compositions according to the invention will advantageously contain from 0.1 to 10 by weight, preferably 0.5 to 5 by weight, of amine salt. The amine salts used in the compositions according to the invention may be prepared by conventional techniques. Thus, for example, amine salts may be prepared by direct reaction of the appropriate amine with the appropriate acid in stoichiometric amounts.The reaction can if desired be carried out prior to formulation of the preservative composition.In this case the calculated weights of acid and amine are first mixed together in a suitable vessel.If the reactants are solids at normal temperatures then they will require heating until molten to facilitate mixing. The temperature of the reaction mixture rises during mixing but not sufficiently to require special precautions. When mixing is complete the acid and amine will have all reacted to produce the salt which requires no further processing prior to adding to the other components of the preservative composition. The amine salt thus prepared may be used immediately or safely stored at room temperatures for long periods prior to use without any danger of deterioration. Alternatively, since both starting materials i.e. amine and acid will be soluble in the organic solvent used in the preservative composition, the amine salts may if desired be formed in situ by adding the appropriate amine and acid in the required proportions to the said solvent together with any other ingredients of the compositions. The following examples illustrate the preparation of amine salts of formula I and demonstrate their antifungal properties Example 1EMI9.1 The following two materials were reacted together a ADMA 246 alkyl dimethyl amine in which the alkyl group R4 is a mixture of 40 C12H25, 50 14 29 and 10 C1OH21 and C16H33 having a combining weight of 234.3 obtainable from Ethyl Corporation .b Versatic 10 an acid which is a synthetic product composed of a mixture of branched isomers of C10 monocarboxylic acids mainly tertiary in nature having a combining weight of 175.3g obtainable from Shell Chemicals .Method To 234.3g of the above amine a was added 175.3g of the acid b in a vessel fited with mechanical stirring. The temperature of the mixture was found to rise by about 300C during the addition of the acid. Stirring was continued until the temperature was seen to fall which was taken as an indication that reaction was complete. The result was a clear viscous amber coloured liquid with a mild odour.It was found to be readily soluble in hydrocarbon solvents but insoluble in water.Example 2EMI9.2 The following two materials were reacted together c ARMEEN DMMCD Alkyl dimethyl amine in which the alkyl group R4 is a mixture of 67 C12H25, 28 C14H29, 1 C10H21 and 48 C16H33 having an average combining weight of 230 obtainable from Akzo Chemie .d Versatic 10 as described in Example 1. Method To 230g of the above amine c was added 175.3g of the acid d in a vessel as described in Example 1. A temperture rise of about 300C was noted during the addition. The result was a clear amber coloured viscous liquid with a mild odour. It was found to be readily soluble in hydrocarbon solvents but insoluble in water.Example 3EMI10.1 234.3g of the alkyl dimethyl amine a described in Example 1 was reacted with 200.3g of pure lauric acid. The acid was added to the amine as in Example 1 but this time the acid required heating prior to addition because it has a melting point above room temperature. Once again reaction was accompanied by the evolution of heat and the result was a clear amber liquid which became a pastey solid on cooling to room temperature. It was found to be readily soluble in hydrocarbon solvents but insoluble in water. The above Examples 1, 2 and 3 demonstrate the ease with which hydrocarbon solvent soluble amine salts can be prepared. The ease of manufacture offers considerable advantages compared with the preparation of oil soluble salts of quaternary ammonium compounds. Since these latter compounds are obtained by necessity in the form of either their hydroxides, halogen salts or other water soluble salts in aqueous solution, considerable processing is required to obtain them in the form of their anhydrous oil soluble salts. This processing would for example require the mixing of an aqueous solution of the quaternary ammonium salt with an aqueous solution of a suitable acid in the form of a water soluble salt. Next the water insoluble quaternary ammonium salt formed would have to be separated from the water possibly by solvent extraction followed by removal of the solvent and any remaining water.Compared with the preparation of amine salts, the production of quaternary ammonium salts involves considerable time and expense and would also require sophisticated manufacturing facilities.Example 4 The amine salt prepared in Example 1 was formulated into an antifungal composition by dissolving 0.5 by weight in white spirit.The products of Examples 2 and 3 were formulated into antifungal compositions in analogous manner.Example 5Influence of carboxylic acids on tertiary amine activity Agar Inhibition Concentration AIC tests were conducted in order to define any potential benefits arising from forming a tertiary amine salt for use in an organic solvent as opposed to using the free tertiary amine. The results given below in Table 1 are for the prevention of growth of Chaetomium qlobosum wood destroying fungus.The test method used involves mixing a known concentration of active ingredient, contained in a known volume of suitable organic solvent, with a predetermined volume of malt agar. The agar is poured into sterile petri dishes and, after setting, it is seeded with a freshly prepared spore suspension of Chaetomium globosum. The plates are then incubated for three days at 240C, after which time they are examined for indications of fungal growth. TABLE 1EMI12.1 tb SEP Chemical SEP Threshold SEP ppm tb Acid SEP only tb Versatic SEP acid SEP 10 SEP 96 112 tb Tertiary SEP Amine SEP only tb Adma SEP 246 SEP 80 96 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP 80 96 tb Tertiary SEP Amine SEP carboxylate tb Adma SEP 246 SEP versatate SEP 48 64 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP versatate SEP 64 80 tb The results in Table 1 suggest that there is an advantage to be gained in using amine salt in place of a free amine for LOSP formulations.Example 6Fungicidal activity of selected amine carboxylates Agar Inhibition Concentration tests were conducted in order to establish the influence of the anion on the fungicidal activity of the formed amine salt. The results are shown in Table 2. TABLE 2EMI13.1 tb Tertiary SEP Amine SEP Carboxylates SEP Threshold SEP ppm tb Adma SEP 246 SEP versatate SEP 64 80 tb Adma SEP 246 SEP naphthenate SEP 112 128 tb Armeen SEP DMNCD SEP Isononanoate SEP 96 112 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Decanoate SEP 112 128 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Laurate SEP 112 128 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Neoisoate SEP 1 2 SEP 112 128 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Neoisoate SEP 2 1 SEP 128 SEP tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Naphthenate SEP 7128 SEP tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Octanoate SEP 128 SEP tb The neoisoate salts in Table 2 are formed from mixtures of versatic and isononanoic acids in the ratios indicated.Example 7Effect of the cation on fungicidal activity Agar Inhibition Concentration tests were conducted in order to compare the performance of selected amine carboxylates against selected quaternary ammonium carboxylates. The results are shown inTable 3. Adma 246, Armeen DMMCD and DAMA 10 are tertiary amines. The benzalkonium and Bardac 2050 salts are quaternary ammonium salts. TABLE 3EMI14.1 tb Carboxylic SEP Salt SEP Threshold SEP ppm tb Adma SEP 246 SEP versatate SEP 64 80 tb Benzalkonium SEP versatate SEP 80 96 tb Bardac SEP 2050 SEP versatate SEP 112 128 tb DAMA SEP 10 SEP versatate SEP 64 128 SEP tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Isononanoate SEP 96 112 tb Benzalkonium SEP Isononanoate SEP 112 128 tb Bardac SEP 2050 SEP Isononanoate SEP SEP 128 tb DAMA SEP 10 SEP Isononanoate SEP 80 128 SEP tb isolated fungal growth through this range to maximum concentrations tested. Table 3 demonstrates that the tertiary amine salts tested appear to have a greater fungicidal activity than the corresponding quaternary amine salts.Example 8Wood block screening tests Selected amine carboxylates were formulated into antifungal compositions. The oil soluble carboxylic acid salts previously described were tested in organic solvents against a wood destroying fungus, brown rot type Basidiomycete Coniophora puteana FPRL llE. Two sets of pine sapwood specimens were treated with one or other of the selected active ingredients in organic solvent one set of specimens was exposed to the fungus in an unweathered unleached condition whilst the second set was exposed only after being subjected to a two weeks period of cold water leaching. Toxic thresholds from these tests, based on weight change determinations, are shown in Table 4. The results in Table 4 demonstrate that amine salts according to the invention can have a high level of fungicidal activity against wood destroying fungi. TABLE 4 Toxic thresholds of selected oil soluble amine carboxylate salts after exposure of treated pine sapwood specimens to Coniophora puteana FPRL llEEMI15.1 tb Tertiary SEP Amine SEP Carboxylates SEP Toxic SEP Threshold SEP kgm SEP m SEP tb SEP Unleached SEP Leached tb Series SEP 1 tb Adma SEP 246 SEP versatate SEP 4 SEP 2.21 SEP SEP 2.26 SEP tb Adma SEP 246 SEP laurate SEP 3.17 4.64 SEP 4.65 6.76 tb Series SEP 2 tb Armeen SEP DNMCD SEP versatate SEP 2.36 3.78 SEP 3.64 4.83 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Neoisoate SEP 2 1 SEP 3.80 5.15 SEP 3.78 5.11 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Naphthenate SEP 3.84 4.79 SEP 5.19 SEP tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Isononanoate SEP 2.20 3.12 SEP SEP 3.99 tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Laurate SEP SEP 4.35 SEP SEP 4.54 SEP tb Armeen SEP DMMCD SEP Neoisoate SEP 1 2 SEP 2 SEP 3.96 SEP 4.18 SEP tb Note Series 1 active ingredient dissolved in white spiritSeries 2 active ingredient dissolved in acetone. Example 9Physical Permanence In order to demonstrate the resistance of the amine salts described to removal by natural weathering from wood impregnated with solutions containing them, the following experiment was conducted Pinus sylvestris stakes 20mm x 20mm x 380mm containing majority sapwood were treated with solutions in white spirit of a Adma 246 versatate prepared as described in Example 1. b Adma 246 laurate prepared as in Example 3.c Adma 246 naphthenate prepared by the methods described. Once the solvent had evaporated from the stakes a number were analysed for amine salt content.A further number were exposed to natural weathering out of doors for a period of 12 months before being analysed for amine salt content. It was found that the exposed stakes treated with Adma 246 versatate contained an average 93.6 of the amount of amine salt found in the stakes analysed prior to exposure. This meant that only 6.4 of the salt was lost during 12 months exposure. Similarly it was found that the stakes treated with Adma 246 laurate lost 21.3 of the salt and those treated with Adma 246 naphthenate lost 26.0 .