# Synthesis of boroxarophenanthrenes.

## Abstract
The invention provides an improved method of making boroxarophenanthrenes from BC13 and O phenylphenols. The improvement being the addition of BC13 to a liquid hydrocarbon slurry of O phenylphenol maintained at a temperature of from about 0 DEG C to about 80 DEG C.

## Claims
1. A process for synthesizing a boroxarophen anthrene, which comprises the steps of reacting gaseous BC13 with 0 phenylphenol, heating the product so formed in the presence of an aluminum halide and converting the product thus obtained to the boroxarophenanthrene, characterized in that the BCl3 is added to a liquid hydrocarbon slurry of O phenylphenol maintained at a temperature of from about 0 C to about SO oC. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the product thus obtained is converted to the boroxarophenanthrene by reaction with water. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the liquid hydrocarbon is hexane. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the aluminum halide is aluminum chloride. 5, The process according to any preceedlng claim wherein from 1.0 to 2.0 moles of BC13 per mole of 0 phenylphenol is used. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein 1.1 to 1.5 moles of BC13 per mole of 0 phenylphenol is used. 7. The process according tb any preceeding claim wherein the tempe rature during said improvement is from 20 C to 40 C. 8. The process according to any proceeding claim wherein the time of reaction during the improvement ranges from 15 minutes to 1 hour.

## Description
SYT4THESIS OF BOROXAROPHENANTHRENES The invention relates to the synthesis of boroxarophenanthrenes. Specifically, it relates to the preparation of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene by reaction of BC13 with o phenylphenol in a liquid hydrocarbon slurry at from about 0 to about 800C room temperature. The product is useful as an antioxidant seeU.S. 3,287,270 or 3,320,165 or as an antifatigue agent for lubricants. It is well known that lubricating oil fractions are subject to deterioration from fatigue and oxidation under conditions of use such as in modern internal combustion engines. Oxidation products are formed in the oil which products are acidic in nature and exert an oxidatlve effect on metal parts with which the oil comes in contact. Furthermore, these oxidation products produce formations of varnish and sludge on the engine surfaces. This tends to lower the operating efficiency of the engine. The proper lubrication of engine parts is further hampered due to the detrimental effect of oxidation on the viscosity of the oil.Similarly, it is known that the oxidation of fuels, particularly during storage, causes gum formation and layer deposits which tend to cause operating malfunctions. In order to overcome, insofar as possible, these undesirable effects, additives known as antioxidants are normally added to the lubricants and fuels. For example, phenolic or amine compounds are commonly employed as such additives. Modern technology, however, requires lubricants and fuels possessing increased resistance to oxidation. It has been found that certain 10,9 boroxarophenanthrenes are effective in improving the oxidation and fatigue properties of lubricants. However, the presently known method of making them is time consuming and expensive. The known method is exemplified in U.S.3,287,270. Another reference of interest to this invention is U.S. 3,437,596 which, like U.Sç 3,287,270, discloses the addition of a phenyiphenol to a mixture ofBC13 and methylene while maintaining the mixture at from 500C tp 700C. The invention provides an improve process for synthesizing certain boroxarophenanthrenes by reactingBCl3 with o phenylphenol, warming and removing the chloride formed and the excess BCl3 and solvent, heating the product thus formed in the presence of aluminum halide and treating with water, the improvement whereby the BOl3 is added to a slurry of o phenylphenol maintained at from about OOC to about 800C, preferably at from about 200C to about 4000. These 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene compounds may be represented by the general formulaEMI2.1 where R represents hydroxy, hydrocarbylamino, hydrocarbylthio, hydrocarbyl, oxy hydrocabl, halogen, halogenated hydrocarbyl, halogenated oxy hydrocarbyl groups or, in the case of the anhydride, an oxy 10,9 boroxarophen anthrene group, R represents the same or different hydrocarby1, halogen or halogenated hydrocarbyl groups or hydrogen, and n is an integer from 1 to 4, preferably 1 or 2. As used herein, by the term hydrocarbyl is meant groups composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms such as aliphatic, aryl, aliphatic aryl, both alkaryl and aralkyl, and cycloaliphatic groups, containing from 1 to 30 carbon atoms. Suitable substituents for R include the abovementioned hydroxy group as well as alkyl groups, both straight chain and branched chain, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, tert butyl, octyl, dodecyl, hexadecyl, octadecyl, tetracosyl triacontyl and the like aryl groups such as phenyl, naphthyl, and the like aliphatic aryl groups including tolyl, amylphenyl, phenyloctyl, and the like cycloaliphatic groups such as cyclohexyl oxy hydrocarbyl groups such as any of the aforementioned hydrocarbyl groups attached to an oxygen atom, e.g., alkoxy, aryloxy groups, and the like halogens such as chlorine, bromine, iodine halognated hydrocarbyl and halogenated oxy hydrocarbyl groups additionally containing one or more halogen atoms. TheR substituents may be selected from any of the hydrocarbyl, halogen, and halogenated hydrocarbyl groups hereinabove described as suitable for R. Hydrocarbyl, oxy hydrocarbyl, halogenated hydrocarbyl and halogenated oxy hydrocarbyl groups containing from 1 to about 30, particularly from 1 to about 18 carbon atoms are preferred substituents. Some examples of The 1 the 10,9 boroxaro henanthrene compounds used in accordance with the present invention are 10 hydroxy 10, 4 9 boroxarophenanthrene, di octadecyl 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, the anhydride of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, 10 tert butoxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, 10 methoxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, 10 chloro 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, 10 phenyl 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, the 1,17 trlhydroperfluoro heptyl ester of 10 hydroxy 1 0,9 boroxarophenanthrene, the 2,2 difluoro dodecyl ester of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthr ene, 1,3 dibromo 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene, and 1,3,7 tribromo 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene. The 10,9 boroxarophenthrene compounds of the present invention possess surprisingly effective antioxidant properties, and indeed, they are superior in antioxidant properties to several widely used, commercial antioxidants. While organo boron compounds have been employed heretofore as antioxidants, these prior art materials were of the borate type. Such borates were hydrolytically unstable and exhibited only moderate antioxidant properties. The 10, 9 boroxarophenanthrene compounds of this invention are not borates. For example, 1 0 hydroxy 1 0, 9 boroxarophen anthrene, a preferred compound of this invention, may be described as internal ester of 2 2 hydroxy phenol phenylboronic acid wherein the ring system containing the boron possesses an unusual degree of stability due to its aromaticity. The anhydride of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene is hydrolytically stable. The boroxarophenanthrenes of this invention, as the art knows, possess surprisingly effective antioxidant properties, as well as antifatigue properties, when added to lubricants. Their preparation is well documented, as for example, in an article byDewar and Dietz in J. Chem. Soc. London , 1344 1960 and in U.S. 3,287,270. U.S. 3,287,270 discloses a series of steps necessary to the preparation of the compounds of the invention, as exemplified by 10 hydroxy 10,9boroxarophenanthrene. Briefly, orthophenylphenol 1 is reacted with excess boron trichloride. The product 3 from this reaction is then heated in the presence of aluminum chloride to give 10 chloro 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene 4 . This chloro compound is then treated with water to give the desired 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene 5 . while the patent exemplifies the use of aluminum chloride, it is contemplated that aluminum halides in general will be useful also. These will partIcularly include aluminum bromide, but will also include the fluoride and iodide. Although the present invention is not limited to any particular theory, it is believed that the above reactions may be represented as follows EMI6.1 The process is an effective means for preparing the phenanthrenes, but it does have its disadvantages. These are solved by the present process. To obtain those boroxarophenanthrenes substituted with an R group, an R1 substituted 0 phenyiphenol is employed as the starting material compound 1 . Typical R groups include hydrocarbyl, hologen and halogenated hydrocarbyl groups. To obtain those boroxarophenanthrenes wherein R is other than hydroxy, compound 4 may be reacted with an alcohol or phenol to yield the oxy hyÅaroxycarbyl group, with a hydrocarbylamine to give the hydrocarbyl amino group, with a hydrocarbyl mercaptan to obtain the hydrocarbyl thio group or a grignard reagent to obtain the hydrocarbyl group. These will be selected so that the group attached to the boron atom will be the R group as defined above or will be an entity terminating in such R group, and the reactions to form such R groups will be carried out at from 5 C to about 60 C. Equivalent amounts of these reactants and compound 4 are preferred, but an excess of such reactants to form the R group may be used. In the prior art process, the addition of the boron trichloride to the pheflylphenol must be carried out at 700C or lower, obviously requiring costly cooling equipment. The yields reported by Dewar andDietz were of the order of 40 although using their method, I have obtained yields of up to about 57 . Furthermore, in the prior art synthesis, phenol must be added very slowly to a BCl3 methylene chloride solution so as to miniz.ize formation of the diaryl chloroborate, thus wasting mole of the phenylphenol upon cyclization. I have found tbt these problems can be overcome merely by modifying the BCl3 phenylphenol reaction step. In essence, gaseous boron trichloride is added to a liquid hydrocarbon slurry of the phenylphenol at the specified temperature. The preferred liquid hydrocarbons are those in winch the phenylphenol has low solubility. These include naphtha, pentane, hexane, heptane and the like. Alkanes of moderate boiling points are especialiy preferred because the work up after reaction is made easier. Specifically, the phenylphenol may be slurried in hexane to the extent of from about 1 g. of phenol per 1 ml. of hexane to t g. of phenol to 100 ml ofhexane and the boron trichloride is sparged into the slurry at room temperature. From 1.0 to 2.0 moles, preferably 1.1 to 1.5 moles, of boron trichloride per mole of the phenylphenol are added at a rate that will enable the temperature to be at from about 0 to8O0C, preferably about 20 to 40 C. The preferred time of reaction will vary from about 15 minutes te about 1 hour. Optimum results, however, seem to be obtained the less the time of addition. Except for this improved step, the remainder of the process remains much as it is in thé art, as exemplified by U.S. 3,278,270. Having described the invention generally, the following Examples will serve as specific illustrations.They are illustrations only, and it will be understood that the only limitations imposed on the scope off the invention will be found in the claims appended hereto. EXAMPLE 1 The following description is of the synthesis of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxarophenanthrene by the prior method of Dewar and Dietz, referenced hereinabove. Boron trichloride 117 g., 1 mol was condensed into a 1 liter reaction flask containing methylene chloride 225 ml. at 700C in 20 minutes. To this solution was added dropwise in 1 hour a solution of o hydroxybiphenyl 127.5 g., 0.75 mol in methylene chloride 200 ml. , keeping the temperature at 7O0C during the addition. The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The methylene chloride solvent was removed at reduced pressure 30 35 C, 1 mm. Hg , and replaced with hexane 200 ml. . Anhydrous aluminum chloride 2 g. was added, and the mixture was heated at reflux 55 to 6O0C for 20 hours, filtered and stripped of solvent at reduced pressure. The oily residue was taken up in ether 5 0 ml. and treated, with stirring, with 100 ml. water. After separation of excess water, the ether solution was dried and evaporated to give 83 g. 56r1ó yield of crude 1 0 bydroxy 1 0, 9 boroxarophenanthrene of about 90 purity, melting 185 1900C. Recrystallization from benzene gave 52.9 g. 36 yield of white crystals melting at 214215oC. EXTLE 2 The following example demdnstrated the improvement in yield afforded by adding gaseous BCl3 to a hexane suspension of o hydroxybiphenyl in the first step of the redaction, Gaseous boron trichloride 59.0 g., 0.5 mol was bubbled into a stirred slurry of 2 hydroxybiphenyl 63.8 g. 0.375 mol suspended In hexane 250 ml. in 23 minutes. During the addition, the temperature of the reaction mixture rose from 25oC to 360C. After addition of the BCl3 was complete, 1.0 g. of anhydrous aluminum chloride was added, and the mixture was refluxed for 6 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and 200 ml. of ethyl ether and 50 ml. of water were added, and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. After removal of excess water and drying, the solvent was filtered and then evaporated to give 62.5 g. 85 yield of crude 10 hydroxy IO,9 boroxaro phenanthrene, m.p. 188 191OC, which was found by ultraviolet adsorption to be of 90 purity. Thin Iayer chromatography showed 2 hydroxy biphenyl to be the only impurity. Upon recrystallization from benzene, 47 grams 6470 yield of white crystalline pure material were obtained, m.p 214.5 215 C. Dewar and Dietz, op. cit. reports m.p of 205 206.5 C. EXAMPLE 3 The preparation described in Example 2 was repeated, except that the amount of boron trichloride was 70 g. 0.60 mol . The crude yield of 10 hydroxy 10,9 boroxaro phenanthrene was 58.0 grams 79 yield of material of 92 purity. while Examples 1 and 2 report obtaining the pure product, this was only for characterization and was not otherwise necessary. In other words, the crude product is acceptable for use as a lubricant additive. The base fluids for which the compounds of this invention find utility include gasoline, petroleum products of both lubricating and fuel viscosities, and synthetic fluids. Of the latter class may be included synthetic ester lubricants, such as those formed from monohydric alcohols and dicarboxylic acids, glycols o r glycerols with monocarboxylic acids, and per.taerythrltols with carboxylic acids, including alcohols having from about 4 to about 20 carbons, and carboxylic acids having from 2 to about 18 carbon atoms.Many synthetic esters may have mixed alcohols or carboxylic acids. Commonly may be included 2 ethylhexyl sebacate, trimethylolpropane trioctanoate, and especially pentaerythritol esters of valeric acid, isovaleric acid, caproic acid, caprylic acid, pelargonic acid, capric acid, and the like. Of special interest is mixed pentaerythritol ester of an equimolar proportion of commercial valeric acid containing isovaleric acid and pelargonic acid. Other synthetic fluids include liquid polyolefins, alkylene oxide fluids, silicone fluids, polyacetals, and simple hydrocarbons of stable fluid viscosities.