# Production of para diisopropylbenzene and use of same in the production of hydroquinone.

## Abstract
A process is disclosed whereby cumene and or benzene is brought into contact with propylene in the presence of a ZSM 12 catalyst to selectively produce para diisopropylbenzene. The para diisopropylbenzene product may then be oxidized to the corresponding dihydroperoxide followed by rearrangement to produce hydroquinone and acetone.

## Claims
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS 1. A process for the selective production of para diisopropylbenzene by propylation of cumene, said process comprising a contacting mixture of cumene and propylene with aZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions. 2. A process for the selective production of para diisopropylbenzene, said process comprising the step of i contacting mixtures of benzene and propylene with aZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions to selectively produce cumene and ii contacting mixtures of said cumene of step i and propylene with a ZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions. 3. A process for the selective production of para diisopropylbenzene by propylation of benzene with said process comprising contacting a mixture of benzene and propylene with aZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions, wherein the molar ratio of propylene to benzene is at least 2. 4. The process of any preceding Claim, wherein said propylation conditions comprise a temperature of between 100 C and 300 C, and pressure of between 105 N mê and 6 X 106 N mê. 5. The process of Claim 4 wherein said temperature is between 150C and 2500C. 6. The process of Claim 1 or Claim 2 wherein the molar ratio of cumene to propylene is within the range of 12 to 1. 7. The process of any one of Claims 1, 2 and 6 wherein said cumene propylene mixture is contacted with said catalyst as a continuous stream at a weight hourly space velocity of 0.05 to 100. 8. The process of Claim 7 wherein said weight hourly space velocity is between 5 and 40. 9. The process of any preceding Claim wherein the diisopropylbenzene produced combines at least 80 of the para isomer. 10. A method of selectively producing hydroquinone comprising the steps of producing para diisopropylbenzene by a process as claimed in any preceding Claim oxidizing said para diisopropylbenzene to the corresponding dihydroperoxide and rearranging said dihydroperoxide to produce hydroquinone and acetone.

## Description
PRODUCTION OF PARA DIISOPROPYLBENZENE AND USE OF SAME IN THE PRODUCTION OF HYDROQUINONE This invention relates to a process for the selective production of para diisopropylbenzene by catalytic propylation of cumene and or benzene and to the conversion of the resultant para diisopropylbenzene to hydroquinone. Both para diisopropylbenzene and hydroquinone have a number of commercial uses para diisopropylbenzene as a solvent and chemical intermediate and hydroquinone in photographic developers, medicines, dye intermediates, anti oxidants, inhibiters and stabilizers. Alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons utilizing crystalline zeolite catalysts has heretofore been described. For example, U.S.Pat. No. 2,904,607 to Mattox refers to alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons with an olefin in the presence of a crystalline metallic aluminosilicate having uniform pore openings of about 6 to 15 Angstrom unit. U.S. Pat. No. 3,251,897 describes alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons in the presence of X or Y type crystalline zeolites, specifically such type zeolites wherein the cation is rare earth and or hydrogen. U.S. Pat. No. 3,751,504 and U.S. Pat. No.3,751,506 describe vapor phase alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons with olefins in the presence of a ZSM 5 type of zeolite catalyst. U.S. Pat. No. 3,755,483 discloses vapor phase alkylation of aromatic hydrocarbons in the presence of a ZSM 12 zeolite catalyst.The reaction is carried out at temperatures between the critical temperature of the aromatic compound and 4820C 9000F . The critical temperature and pressure of benzene are 288.90C 5520F and 48.6 atm. 4.9x106 N m2 . Harper et al have described the catalytic alkylation of benzene with propylene over a crystalline zeolite PetrochemicalPreprints, American Chemical Society, Vol. 22, No. 3, p. 1084, 1977 . Extensive kinetic and catalyst aging studies were conducted with a rare earth exchanged Y type zeolite REY catalyst. U.S. Pat. Nb. 4,393,262 describes a process whereby benzene is brought in contact with ZSM 12 to selectively produce isopropylbenzene i.e. cumene . This process may be carried out in the liquid or the vapor phase at temperatures of from 100 C to 3000C and pressure ranging from 105 Vm2 to 6x106 N m2. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process for the selective propylation of cumene to produce para diisopropylbenzene, said process comprising contacting a mixture of cumene and propylene with a ZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions. In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a process for the selective production of para diisopropylbenzene, said process comprising the steps of i contacting mixtures of benzene and propylene with a ZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions to selectively produce cumene and ii contacting mixtures of said cumene of step i and propylene with a ZSM 12 catalyst under propylation conditions. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a process for the propylation of benzene with selective production of para diisopropylbenzene, said process comprising contacting mixtures of benzene and propylene with a ZSM 12 catalyst under sufficient propylation conditions wherein the molar ratio of propylene to benzene is at least 2. Conveniently, the resultant para diisopropylbenzene is oxidized to the corresponding dihydroferoxide and the dihydroperoxide is rearranged to produce hydroquinone and acetone. The crystalline zeolite utilized herein is ZSM 12, the characteristics and synthesis of which are described in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,832,449 and EP B 18089. When prepared in the presence of organic cations, ZSM 12 is substantially catalytically inactive, possibly because the intracrystalline free space is occupied by organic cations from the forming solution. It may be activated by heating in an inert atmosphere at 54O0C for one hour, for example, followed by base exchange with ammonium salts followed by calcination at 54O0C in air. The presence of organic cations in the forming solution may not be absolutely essential to the formation of the zeolite. More generally, it is desirable to activate this type of catalyst by base exchange with ammonium salts followed by calcination in air at 54O0C for from 15 minutes to 24 hours. When synthesized in the alkali metal form, the zeolite is conveniently converted to the hydrogen form, generally by intermediate formation of the ammonium form as a result of ammonium ion exchange and calcination of the ammonium form to yield the hydrogen form. In addition to the hydrogen form, other forms of the zeolite wherein the original alkali metal has been reduced to less than about 1.5 percent by weight may be used. Thus, the original alkali metal of the zeolite may be replaced by ion exchange with other suitable ions of Groups IB to VIII of the Periodic Table, including, by way of example, nickel, copper, zinc, palladium, calcium or rare earth metals. In practicing the desired alkylation process, it may be desirable to incorporate the above described crystalline zeolite in another material resistant to the temperature and other conditions employed in the process. Such matrix materials include synthetic or naturally occurring substances as well as inorganic materials such as clay, silica and or metal oxides. The latter may be either naturally occurring or in the form of gelatinous precipitates or gels including mixtures of silica and metal oxides. Naturally occurring clays which can be composited with the zeolite include those of the montmorillonite and kaolin families, which families include the sub bentonites and the kaolins commonly known as Dixie, McNamee Georgia and Florida clays or others in which the main mineral constituent is halloysite, kaolinite, dickite, nacrite or anauxite.Such clays can be used in the raw state as originally mined or initially subjected to calcination, acid treatment or chemical modification. In addition to the foregoing materials, the zeolite employed herein may be composited with a porous matrix material, such as alumina, silica alumina, silica magnesia, silica zirconia, silica thoria, silica beryllia, silica titania as well as ternary compositions, such as silica alumina thoria, silica alumina z irconi a, silica alumina magnesia and silica magnesia zirconia. The matrix may be in the form of a cogel. The relative proportions of zeolite component and inorganic oxide gel matrix on an anhydrous basis may vary widely with the zeolite content ranging from between 1 to 99 percent by weight and more usually in the range of 5 to 80 percent by weight of the dry composite. A second optional component of the ZSM 12 catalyst comprises a minor proportion, e.g., from 0.05 to 50 by weight of the catalyst composite, of a difficultly reducible oxide. Oxides of this type can include oxides of phosphorus as well as those oxides of the metals of Groups IA, IIA, IIIA, IVA, VA, VIA, VIIA, VIIIA,IB, IIB, IIIB, IVB, or VB of the Periodic Chart of the Elements Fisher Scientic Company, Catalog No. 5 702 10 which serve to enhance the para selectivity properties of the catalysts modified therewith. The difficultly reducible oxides most commonly employed to modify the selectivity properties of the catalyst herein are oxides of phosphorus and magnesium. Thus, the catalyst can be treated with phosphorus and or magnesium compounds in the manner described in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,894,104 4,049,573 4,086,287 and 4,128,592. Phosphorus, for example, can be incorporated into the catalyst at least in part in the form of phosphorus oxide in an amount of from 0.25 to 25 by weight of the catalyst composition, preferably from 0.7 to 15 by weight. Such incorporation can be readily effected by contacting the zeolite composite with a solution of an appropriate phosphorus compound, followed by drying and calcining to convert phosphorus in the zeolite to its oxide form.Preferred phosphorus containing compounds include diphenyl phosphine chloride, trimethylphosphite and phosphorus trichloride, phosphoric acid, phenyl phosphine oxychloride, trimethylphosphate, diphenyl phosphinous acid, diphenyl phosphinic acid, diethylchlorothiophosphate, methyl acid phosphate and other alcohol P205 reaction products. Particularly preferred are ammonium phosphates, including ammonium hydrogen phosphate, NH4 2HP04, and ammonium dihydrogen phosphate, NH4H2P04. Calcination is generally conducted in the presence of oxygen at a temperature of at least about 150 C. However, higher temperatures, i.e., up to 5000C or higher are preferred. Such heating is generally carried out for 3 5 hours but may be extended to 24 hours or longer. Magnesium oxide is another preferred difficultly reducible oxide which can be incorporated with the zeolite composite in a manner similar to that employed with phosphorus. Magnesium can comprise from 0.25 to 25 by weight preferably from 1 to 15 by weight present at least in part as magnesium oxide. As with phosphorus, magnesium oxide incorporation is effected by contacting the zeolite composite with an appropriate magnesium compound followed by drying and calcining to convert magnesium in the zeolite to its oxide form. Preferred magnesium containing compounds include magnesium nitrate and magnesium acetate. Calcination times and temperatures are generally the same as recited hereinbefore for calcination of the phosphorus containing catalyst. In addition to treatment of the zeolite to incorporate phosphorus and or magnesium oxides, the zeolite may also be modified in a substantially similar manner to incorporate thereon a variety of other oxide materials to enhance para selectivity. Such oxide materials include oxides of boron U.S. 4,067,920 antimony U.S.3,979,472 beryllium U.S. 4,260,843 Group VIIA metals U.S.4,275,256 alkaline earth metals U.S. 4,288,647 Group IB metals U.S. 4,276,438 Group IVB metals U.S. 4,278,827 Group VIA metals U.S. 4,259,537 Group IA elements U.S. 4,329,533 cadmium U.S. 4,384,155 iron and or cobalt U.S. 4,380,685 Group IIIB metals U.S. 4,276,437 Group IVA metals U.S. 4,302,620 Group VA metals U.S. 4,302,621 and Group IIIA elements U.S. 4,302,622 . Cumene may be produced by the propylation of benzene in the presence of the ZSM 12 catalyst by contact of the benzene with propylene at a temperature between 1000C and 3000C, preferably between 1500C and 2500C. The reaction generally takes place at atmospheric pressure, but the pressure may be within the range of 105 N m2 to 6 X 106 N m2 1 atm to 60 atm . The molar ratio of benzene to propylene is preferably within the range of 12 1 to 1 1. The reaction may be suitably accomplished utilizing a feed weight hourly space velocity WHSV of between 0.5 and 100, preferably between 5 and 40. Propylation of cumene to produce para diisopropylbenzene may be carried out under conditions analogous to those for producing cumene. More particularly, para diisopropylbenzene may be produced by the propylation of cumene in the presence of the above described catalyst by contact of the cumene with propylene at a temperature between 100C and 3000C, and preferably between 1500C and 2500C.The reaction generally takes place at atmospheric pressure, but the pressure may be within the range of 105 N mê to 6 X 106 N mê 1 atm to 60 atm . The molar ratio of cumene to propylene is preferably within the range of 12 1 to 1 1. The reaction may be suitably accomplished utilizing a feed weight hourly space velocity WHSV of between 0.5 and 100, preferably between 5 and 40. By means of the present process, it is possible to obtain a diisopropylbenzene product having, e.g., at least 80 of the para isomer and, e.g., less than 1 percent of the ortho isomer. The process of this invention may be conducted with the organic reactants in either the gaseous or the liquid phase or both. It may be carried out as a batch type, semi continuous or continuous operation utilizing a fixed, fluidized or moving bed catalyst system. The Examples which follow will serve to illustrate the process of this invention. When Alpha Value is mentioned in these Examples, it is noted that the Alpha Value is an approximate indication of the catalytic cracking activity of the catalyst compared to a standard catalyst and it gives the relative rate constant rate or normal hexane conversion per volume of catalyst per unit time . It is based on the activity of the highly active silica alumina cracking catalyst taken as an Alpha Value of 1 Rate Constant 0.016 sec 1 . The Alpha Test is described in U.S. Patent 3,354,078 and in The Journal of Catalysis, Vol. IV, pp. 522 529 August 1965 . In the Examples which follow, the catalytic, vapor phase alkylation unit was constructed entirely of 316 or 321 stainless steel. The reactor dimensions were 1 1 4 inch 3.2 cm outside diameter, 5 8 inch 1.6 cm inside diameter and 21 5 8 inches 55 cm long and rated to operate at 5000 psig 34576kPa at 6500F 3430C . It was fitted with a metal, spiral insert in the top section which functioned as a preheater. The catalyst section contained a 1 8 inch 0.3 cm centered thermowell. A three zone furnace with independent controls was used to obtain the desired temperature. Six or nine grams, 12 18 cc s, of the catalyst was centered in the middle zone with low surface area quartz chips to prevent void spaces. Standard equipment such as pumps, temperature, pressure and flow control devices, feed and storage tanks were selected and designed to operate continuously and unattended for at least 24 hour periods. The propylene was stored in the liquid phase in a Jergeson gauge. Accurate metering to the reactor was supplied by two Isco pumps which could be operated individually or together. This provided flexibility to operate continuously for 24 hours and permit uninterrupted flow while the pump cylinders were refilled. Automatic detector and shut off devices were installed in the event of a power failure. The entire unit was located in a large hood. The liquid product was condensed with water cooling. The remaining gas was collected in a dry gas collecting tower with a mercury seal float. Liquid and gaseous compositions were analyzed by standard chromatography techniques. A 1 8 x 12 0.3 x 366 cm column containing 60 80 mesh silica gel, was used for the gas analysis. A 150 4572 cm x 0.01 0.03 cm outside diameterPerkin Elmer, OS 138 polyphenyl ether capillary column was used for analysis of the liquid product. In order to determine the ortho meta para ratio of diisopropylbenzene DIPB product, a 50 meter, Chrompac fused silica column coated with CP Wax CB was used for the liquid product. Each of the ZSM 12 catalysts of the Examples which follow were intimately mixed with 35 wt. alumina binder, then pressed into wafers, crushed and screened to a uniform particle size of 14 20 mesh. EXAMPLE 1 The ZSM 12 catalyst employed in this Example was a hydrogen form of ZSM 12 i.e. HZSM 12 having a silica to alumina ratio of 213 and an Alpha Value of 39. The zeolite was calcined in s in the absence of binder, NH4 ion exchanged then compounded with alumina and extruded, followed by drying and final calcination. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 1 wherein CU stand for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. The ratio of para meta DIPB isomers produced ranged from 76 23 at 1750C to 47 53 at 2500C. Table 1Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Temperature, C 175 200 225 250 175 200 225 250CU C3H6WHSV 6.8 .87 7.6 .87 7.7 .87 6.71 .87 14.3 .85 14.5 .85 14.9 .85 13.8 .85 mole 2.7 1 3.1 1 3.1 1 2.7 1 5.9 1 6.0 1 6.2 1 5.7 1Conversion, wt CU 18 26 29 36 8 13 15 19C3H6 68 70 82 89 51 65 79 85Selectivity, Benzene 2.2 1.2 1.3 3.3 .9 .7 1.7 4.8DIPB para 69.6 68.6 62.3 42.6 72.1 71.7 63.0 47.4 meta 21.0 23.1 31.3 47.8 22.9 23.9 32.0 44.0 ortho 1.4 .9 .4 .3 1.4 .8 .4 .3Total 92.0 92.6 94.0 90.7 96.4 96.4 95.4 91.7NPRBZ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Other 5.8 6.2 4.7 6.0 2.7 2.9 2.9 3.5DIPB para 75.7 74.1 66.3 47.0 75.4 74.3 66.0 51.7 meta 22.8 29.4 33.3 52.7 23.1 24.8 33.6 48.0 ortho 1.5 1.0 .4 .3 1.5 .8 .4 .3 EXAMPLE 2 The HZSM 12 catalyst of this Example was essentially equivalent to that of Example 1 except that it was prepared in a slightly different manner. More particularly, the same zeolite asExample 1 was processed by the sequence of extruding, calcining, NH4 exchange, drying and final calcination. The composition of the catalyst was the same as the composition of the catalyst ofExample 1. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 2, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 2Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4 5 6Temp., C 150 200 250 300 250 300CU C3H6WHSV 7.28 .9 7.2 .9 7.2 .9 7.2 .9 13.9 1.7 13.9 1.7Mole 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.8 1 2.8 1Conversion, wt CU 13.4 17.2 26.9 40.7 16.6 33.9C3H6 27.5 48.0 76.7 47.0 45.3 50.8Selectivity, wt Benzene 11.0 1.5 4.3 25.4 3.8 17.9DIPB para 67.4 74.2 49.1 20.0 66.2 27.5 meta 18.6 20.7 41.1 40.8 25.3 45.6 ortho .9 .5 .2 .2 .15 .1Total 86.9 95.4 90.4 61.0 91.7 73.2NPRBZ 0 0 .06 .68 0 .36Other 2.1 3.1 5.2 12.9 4.5 8.55DIPB para 77.6 77.7 54.3 32.8 72.2 37.5 meta 21.4 21.7 45.4 66.9 27.6 62.3 ortho 1.0 .6 .3 .3 .2 .2 EXAMPLE 3 The ZSM 12 catalyst employed in this Example was an HZSM 12 catalyst having a silica to alumina ratio of 180.The hydrogen form of the zeolite was prepared by calcination, NH4 ion exchange and final calcination. The catalyst was steamed for 7 hours at 10000F 538 C , 100 percent steam and atmospheric pressure. The catalyst had an Alpha Value of 30. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 3, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 3Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4 5 6Temp., C 150 200 250 300 250 300CU C3H6WHSV 7.1 .85 7.1 .85 7.1 .85 7.1 .85 14.4 1.65 14.4 1.65Mole 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 3.1 1 3.1 1Conversion, wt CU 7.8 7.2 10.7 33.1 15.7 30.2C3H6 40.0 47.3 63.9 53.2 73.3 50.4Selectivity, wt Benzene 3.0 1.3 3.2 27.6 1.6 14.9DIPB para 66.4 76.0 61.5 20.7 69.1 31.5 meta 20.0 16.8 26.4 36.3 24.6 45.2 ortho 3.9 .9 .3 .3 .2 .3Total 90.3 93.7 88.2 57.3 93.3 77.0NPRBZ .01 .01 .01 0 0 0Other 6.7 5.0 8.6 14.8 4.5 8.1DIPB para 73.5 81.1 69.7 36.2 73.5 40.9 meta 22.1 17.9 29.9 63.3 26.2 58.8 ortho 4.4 1.0 .4 .5 .3 .3 EXAMPLE 4 The ZSM 12 catalyst of this Example was a magnesium modified catalyst i.e. Mg ZSM 12 prepared by impregnating the unsteamed catalyst of Example 3 with aqueous magnesium nitrate. This impregnated catalyst was filtered, dried and calcined in air in a shallow dish in a furnace by slowly increasing the temperature from 30 5000C over 1.5 hours and standing overnight at 5000C. The resulting Mg ZSM 12 contained 2.3 weight percent of Mg. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 4, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 4Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4 5Temp., C 150 200 250 300 300CU C3H6WHSV 7.2 .85 7.2 .85 7.2 .85 7.2 .85 7.2 .85Mole 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1Conversion, wt CU 4.4 4.2 10.4 23.6 29.2C3H6 8.3 9.0 68.7 42.0 46.6Selectivity, wt Benzene 7.6 2.6 2.9 23.1 10.2DIPB para 70.9 77.5 68.3 28.2 35.3 meta 16.4 16.1 23.4 37.5 36.5 ortho .65 .48 .29 .35 .45Total 88.0 94.1 92.0 66.1 72.3NPRBZ .69 .38 .13 0 0Other 3.7 2.9 5.0 10.8 17.5DIPB para 80.7 82.4 74.3 42.7 48.8 meta 18.6 17.1 25.4 56.8 50.5 ortho .7 .5 .3 .5 .6 EXAMPLE 5 The ZSM 12 catalyst of this Example was a catalyst modified with both phosphorous and magnesium i.e. P Mg ZSM 12 prepared by first treating the unsteamed catalyst of Example 3 with magnesium in accordance with the general procedure of Example 4 and then by treating with phosphorous. The phosphorous treating procedure was essentially equivalent to the magnesium treating procedure except that the catalyst was impregnated with aqueous diammonium acid phosphate DAAP . The resulting P Mg ZSM 12 catalyst contained 5.4 weight percent P and 0.2 weight percent Mg. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 5, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 5Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4Temp., C 150 200 250 300CU C3H6WHSV 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4Mole 3 1 3 1 3 1 3 1Conversion, wt CU tra tr tr 4.0C3H6 28 29 27 15Selectivity, wt Benzene 34.5 15.2 7.1 19.0DIPB para 23.8 52.6 66.1 54.4 meta 15.5 8.7 11.1 14.7 ortho 0 0 0 .3Total 39.3 61.3 77.2 69.4NPRBZ 3.1 2.8 .05 .02Other 23.1 20.7 15.6 11.6DIPB para 60.5 85.8 85.7 78.3 meta 39.5 14.2 14.3 21.2 ortho 0 0 0 .5 a Trace amounts detected. EXAMPLE 6 The ZSM 12 catalyst of this Example was a phosphorous modified catalyst i.e. P ZSM 12 prepared by impregnating the unsteamed catalyst of Example 3 with aqueous diammonium acid phosphate. This impregnated catalyst was filtered, dried and calcined in air in a shallow dish in a furnace by slowly increasing the temperature from 30 5000C over 1.5 hours and standing overnight at 5000C. The resulting P ZSM 12 contained 2.69 weight percent of P. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 6, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 6Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at atmospheric pressure Run No. 1 2 3 4 5 6Temp., C 150 200 200 250 250 300CU C3H6WHSV 7.3 .83 7.3 .83 7.3 .85 7.3 .83 7.3 .85 7.3 .85Mole 3.1 1 3.1 1 3.0 1 3.1 1 3.0 1 3.0 1Conversion, wt CU .9 1.3 5.8 5.6 10.8 23.0C3H6 19.2 12.7 59.1 23.5 96.9 35.4Selectivity, wt Benzene 0 19.0 .5 4.7 3.0 23.0DIPB para 71.8 57.9 74.8 72.0 61.9 26.7 meta 21.6 13.1 19.5 19.6 29.6 34.2 ortho 3.2 0 1.3 .5 .5 .3Total 96.6 71.0 955.6 92.1 92.0 61.2NPRBZ 0 1.21 .15 .31 .10 .57Other 3.4 8.8 3.7 2.9 4.9 15.2DIPB para 74.3 81.5 78.3 78.1 67.3 43.6 meta 22.4 18.55 20.4 21.3 32.2 55.9 ortho 3.3 0 1.3 .6 .5 .5 calcined before use EXAMPLE 7 The ZSM 12 catalyst of this Example was prepared in the same manner as the catalyst of Example 3 except that it was steamed for 3 hours instead of 7 hours. The Alpha Value of this catalyst was not determined. Conditions of reaction and a summary of analytical results are shown in Table 7, wherein CU stands for cumene, NPRBZ stands for n propylbenzene and Other represents primarily propylene oligomers. Table 7Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce Diisopropylbenzene at 500 psig 3549kPa Run No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Temperature, C 150 150 150 200 200 200 250 250CU C3H6WHSV 7.1 .84 7.1 .84 7.1 .84 7.1 .84 7.4 .83 13.8 .83 13.3 .83 7.3 .83 mole 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 3.1 1 5.8 1 5.8 1 3.1 1Conversion, wt CU 11.1 10.5 8.2 17.9 9.1 11.0 19.1 32.2C3H6 96.5 71.8 46.8 88.8 100 97 99 99Selectivity, wt Benzene .5 1.5 .5 .5 .1 .2 4.9 6.1DIPB para 66.4 61.9 60.3 65.8 68.9 71.8 57.3 42.5 meta 18.1 17.8 17.5 16.9 18.4 18.1 27.6 32.8 ortho 2.7 2.8 2.6 1.5 1.3 1.4 .5 .6Total 87.2 82.5 80.4 84.2 88.6 91.3 85.4 77.9NPRBZ .18 .80 .88 .23 .84 .49 .16 .12Other 12.1 15.2 18.2 15.1 10.5 18.10 9.5 15.8DIPB para 76.2 75.1 74.9 78.2 77.7 78.7 67.1 54.5 meta 20.8 21.5 21.8 20.0 20.8 19.8 32.3 44.7 ortho 3.0 3.4 3.3 1.8 1.5 1.5 0.6 .8 Calcine 18 hrs. before making run. With regard to the foregoing Examples, it is noted that the runs set forth in Example 7 were carried out at a pressure of 500 psig 3549kPa . The remainder were made at atmospheric pressure.The temperature range varied from 150 3000C. The weight hourly space velocity varied from about 8 15 and the molar cumene propylene feed ratio varied from about 3 1 to 6 1. In order to demonstrate the effect of pressure, data fromTables 1, 2 and 7 are summarized in Table 8. This data corresponds to the catalysts of Examples 1, 2 and 7, which are each similar but not identical acid forms of ZSM 12 i.e. HZSIl2 . Table 8Alkylation of Cumene with Propylene to Produce DiisopropylbenzeneEffect of PressureTable No. 7 2 7 2 1 7 2 1Run No. 1 1 4 2 2 8 3 4Temperature, C 150 150 200 200 200 250 250 250 Pressure, psig kPa 500 3549 0 101 500 3549 0 101 0 101 500 3549 0 101 0 101 CU C3H6WHSV 7.1 .8 7.2 .9 7.2 .9 7.2 .9 7.6 .87 7.2 .9 7.2 .9 6.7 .87 mole 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 3.1 1 2.9 1 2.9 1 2.7 1Conversion, wt CU 11.1 13.4 17.9 17.2 26 32.2 26.9 36C3H6 96.5 27.5 88.8 48.0 70 99 76.7 89Selectivity, wt Benzene 5 11.0 .5 1.5 1.2 6.1 4.3 3.3DIPB para 66.4 67.4 65.8 74.2 68.6 42.5 49.1 42.6 meta 18.1 18.6 16.9 20.7 23.1 34.8 41.1 47.8 ortho 2.7 .9 1.5 .5 .9 .6 .2 .3Total 87.2 86.9 84.2 955.4 92.6 77.9 90.0 90.7NPRBZ .18 0 .23 0 0 .12 .06 0Other 12.1 2.1 15.1 3.1 6.2 15.8 5.2 6.0DIPB para 76.2 77.6 78.2 77.7 74.1 54.5 54.3 47.0 meta 20.8 21.4 20.0 21.7 29.4 44.7 45.4 45.4 52.7 ortho 3.0 1.0 1.8 .6 1.0 .8 .3 .3 At 500 psig 3549kPa , Table 7, the reaction was primarily in liquid solid heterogeneous phases. By contrast, at 0 psig 101 kPa it was a heterogeneous gas solid reaction, Tables 1 and 2.Examination of the data indicates that a cumene conversions were similar at 0 and 500 psig 101 and 3549 kPa , b propylene conversion was significantly higher at 500 psig 3349kPa , c the selectivity to DIPB was highest at 0 psig lOlkPa , d less n propylbenzene was made at 0 psig lOlkPa , e signficantly less by products were made at 0 psig lOlkPa , and f less ortho DIPB was made at 0 psig lOlkPa . In summary, better overall performance was observed at 0 psig lOlkPa compared with 500 psig 3549kPa . The para meta ratio ofDIPB was not influenced by pressure. Data from the foregoing Examples also demonstrates the effect of temperature. Runs were made in the 150 300 C temperature range.As expected, conversion increased significantly with increases in temperature. Propylene is relatively reactive over the catalyst.Undesired by products which consume this starting material are formed at the higher temperatures. By using higher cumene propylene feed ratios or a multiple bed reactor to achieve this effect , more efficient propylene use could be realized. One of the primary effects of temperature is to change the para meta isomer ratio of the DIPB product. At lower temperatures, 150 2000C, the para isomer is favored, p m is about 78 20. At 250 and 3000C, the p m ratios are 33 38 67 62. Data from the foregoing Examples also demonstrates the effect of impregnations with aqueous solutions of magnesium or phosphorous salts followed by calcination. A catalyst was prepared which contained 2.3 magnesium, present as the oxide, on ZSM 12 and tested for preparation of DIPB. Results are summarized in Table 4.Relatively high amounts of para isomer in the DIP8 product 81 82 were observed. Similar results were observed with phosphorus 82 p DIPB , Table 6, and a combination of Mg and P 86 p DIPB , Table 5. Excellent selectivity to total DIPB was also observed with P ZSM,12 and Mg ZSM 12. As expected, cumene conversion was reduced by impregnation with Mg or P. Perhaps other impregnation reagents with metal cations larger in size than Mg or P could achieve higher para selectivity, e.g., to produce 90 or more para isomer in the DIPB product at practical conversions. Data from the foregoing Examples also demonstrates the effect of steaming of the ZSM 12 catalyst. One sample of HZSM 12, Table 3, was steamed for 7 hours to an alpha 30. Tables 1 and 2 relate to unmodified catalysts with a higher silica alumina ratio 213 180 .Except for somewhat lower cumene conversion, similar performance was observed for these three catalysts in all categories. Data from the foregoing Examples also demonstrates how the selection of a particular ZSM 12 catalyst can effect the relative yield of diisopropylbenzene. The para diisopropylbenzene product of the foregoing Examples may be oxidized, e.g., with air, to the corresponding dihydroperoxide and rearranged by an acid catalyst to hydroquinone and acetone. The meta isomer is converted to resorcinol and acetone by an analogous process.