# Conveyor and control therefor.

## Abstract
A conveyor using rollers 12 with sleeves 13 thereon as the conveying surface and driven by a drive unit 18 compos ed of a drive gear 110 mounted on a drive shaft 90 and driv ing a number of pinion gears 114 each of which is connected to a roller 12 through a flexible shaft 20. A sprocket wheel 92 is fixed to the drive shaft 90. A number of modules 10 con taining rollers 12 and sleeves 13, and a drive unit 18 as just described are mounted together to form a conveyor system.

## Claims
CLAIMS 1. Transfer mechanism 10 for transporting articles, comprising a plurality of parallel rollers 12 disposed in a planar array, means 14 for supporting said rollers for rotation, and means 24 for driving said rollers, characterized in that a sleeve 13 is loosely mounted on each roller 12, and drive transmitting means 18 are interposed between said drive means 24 and said rollers 12, said drive transmitting means 18 comprising a drive gear 110, a plurality of pinion gears 114 disposed around the periphery of, and driven by, said drive gear 110, a flexible coupling 20 connecting each of said rollers 12 with one of said pinion gears 114 whereby rotation of said pinion gears 114 causes rotation of said rollers 12, and means 92 for driving said drive gear 110. 2. A transfer mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein said supporting means comprises nylon bearings 34 spaced apart a distance sufficient to prevent a bowing of said rollers 12 when a downward force is applied to the same. 3. A transfer mechanism as claimed in claim 2, wherein each of said bearings 34 comprises an elongated strip with a plurality of spaced apart transverse roller supporting openings 60 surrounding said rollers 12, said openings defining bearing surfaces 62 on which said rollers rotate. 4. A transfer mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein said bearings 34 further comprise a pair of mounting means 40 on the other longitudinal edge, said mounting means 40 each comprising a transverse circular opening 42, a slot opening downwardly and crossing said circular opening, a pair of depending resilient legs 44, 46 disposed on either side of said circular opening 42 and on either side of said slot, the inside upper surface 54 of said slot being convex, said supporting means further comprising a bearing support 30, said bearing support 30 comprising a flat upwardly extending member having at least two pins 48 extending transversely therethrough, each of said pins 48 being of a diameter slightly larger than the smallest distance between each pair of said resilient legs 44, 46, said legs 44, 46 being clamped over said pin 48, the top of said upwardly extending member being flat and contacting said convex surface 54 to provide a small clearance on either side of the point of said contact and the thickness of said upwardly extending member being such that a small clearance is left between the same and the sides of said slot when said legs 44, 46 are clamped on said pin 48, said clearances thereby providing for self alignment of said bearings 34. 5. A transfer mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for driving said drive gear includes a drive shaft 90 and a sprocket wheel 92 fixed to said drive shaft 90 and operatively connected to a prime mover 24, and said drive gear 110 is fixed to said drive shaft 90. 6. A transfer mechanism as claimed in claim 1, comprising up to ten rollers 12 and up to ten pinion gears 114. 7. A conveyor system comprising a plurality of transfer mechanisms 10 according to claim 1, wherein the last roller 12 of each said mechanism 10 is spaced from the first roller 12 of the next succeeding said mechanism 10 at a distance equal to the distance between rollers in each said mechanism. 8. A conveyor system as claimed in claim 7, wherein at least one drive transmitting means 18 is adapted to drive said rollers in either a forward direction or a reverse direction responsive to a predetermined load condition. 9. A conveyor comprising a plurality of spaced apart rollers 12 disposed in a planar array and forming a conveyor surface of given length, characterized in that a sleeve 13 is fitted over each said roller 12, and a plurality of drive elements 18 for said rollers is disposed to one side of said rollers 12 in a linear array which intersects the plane of the conveyor surface, the projection of said linear array on said plane being within said given length. 10. The conveyor of claim 9, wherein said linear array is curvilinear. 11. The conveyor of claim 10, wherein said curvilinear array is a circular array.

## Description
CONVEYOR AND CONTROL THEREFOR This invention relates to transfer mechanisms and more particularly this invention relates to a transfer mechanism for transporting containers and drive means therefor comprising a plurality of parallel rollers disposed in a planar array and forming a conveyor, means for supporting the rollers for rotation, and means for driving the rollers. Transfer or conveying mechanisms have a long history in various industries which rely on the transport of articles from one location to another during processing. There are many such constructions which are used with varying degrees of success. Most of these constructions rely on the use of an endless conveyor means in the form of an endless chain having individual links hingedly connected together. One such conveyor construction is disclosed in U.S. Patent No.3,491,873 in conjunction with a guide rail and a sanitary construction for use in the food, dairy, brewing, and soft drink industries. Other types of chain conveyors are also commonly used. While conveyor systems utilizing chains are useful and efficient for some applications, they suffer certain disadvantages when used for other applications. For instance, when changing direction on a conveyor line, it is often necessary to locate a portion of a conveyor next to a portion of another conveyor and provide guide rails to shift the moving containers from one conveyor to another, whether the articles are to proceed in the same direction or another direction, a so called dead plate is required between conveyor sections. There is a disadvantage inherent in the use of a dead plate in that articles can be pushed up on to a dead plate but then, if there are no articles immediately following them to push them further on, they can remain on the dead plate without transferring to the next conveyor section.Furthermore, if the articles are of an unstable type, there is the possibility of falling over when being pushed on to, or off of, the dead plate. Probably the most significant disadvantage of conveyors that use chains to support the articles being conveyed is that the chains have a high friction when sliding under articles that have been stopped by reason of machinery stoppage or simply backing up of articles on the conveyor.The most successful conveyor construction for avoiding this problem is that which is based on the use of a plurality of rollers instead of a flat top chain. These conveyors are particularly useful for small or inherently unstable articles because they are usually constructed in such a way that when the articles stop for one reason or another, the rollers stop, with slippage being provided at the rollers or by a slipping belt or pulley. Also, when the articles are moving, since the rollers are also moving in the same relative direction, there is no relative movement between the surface of the roller and the article. One prior art construction of the roller type utilizes a drive system wherein a drive shaft is located below the rollers and elastomeric belts are used to transfer the rotational movement from the drive shaft to a series of roller shafts upon which the individual rollers are mounted.Thus, a number of belts equal to the number of rollers is necessary. Furthermore, for changing direction of the articles being conveyed, a complex system of rollers facing in different directions is necessary whereby an article being conveyed cannot change its direction by more than 450 and a directional change greater than that requires step wise movement. Also, due to the construction of these conveyors, it is not possible to utilize rollers of a small diameter, thereby limiting roller type conveyors to use only where fairly large articles are being conveyed. Another prior art construction also relies on a drive shaft located beneath the rollers and elastomeric belts connecting the rollers and the drive shaft. But this construction also utilizes slippable pulleys mounted on the drive shaft with the elastomeric belts then mounted on the pulleys. With the foregoing background of the invention in mind, and as the following description of the invention proceeds, it will be appreciated that the present invention provides a transfer mechanism for transporting articles which is free of the aforementioned and other such disadvantages, and provides a drive means for such a transfer mechanism. One of the advantages of the present invention is the provision of a transfer mechanism for transporting articles which eliminates the use of a dead plate in a conveyor system. Another advantage is that there is a small contact area between the conveyor surface and the package. Still further, damage to vulnerable packaging material is minimized. Due to the fact that the conveyor system comprises a plurality of transfer mechanisms of the roller type wherein each such mechanism in the conveyor system includes a separate drive system, flexibility in the movement of articles is thereby obtained. Another advantage of the present invention is the provision of a conveyor system utilizing rollers of a small diameter. In accordance with the foregoing advantages, the invention resides in the use of a planar array of a plurality of rollers driven by a plurality of drive elements located to one side of the rollers, each roller having a loose fitting sleeve thereover. The drive elements are in a linear array the projection of which intersects the plane of the top of the sleeves within the length of the conveyor surface defined by the rollers. The linear array of drive elements is preferably curvilinear or circular. Consistent with the foregoing description, in one aspect, the present invention is a transfer mechanism for transporting containers comprising a plurality of rollers with sleeves thereon forming a conveyor, means for supporting the rollers for rotation, and means for driving the rollers. An important aspect of the invention is the just mentioned driving means which comprises a drive gear, a plurality of pinion gears which are the drive elements disposed around the periphery of, and driven by, the drive gear, a flexible coupling connecting each of the rollers with one of the pinion gears for driving the rollers and means for driving the drive gear. Adjustable torque clutch means between the drive gear and the means for driving the drive gear may be used. When the adjustable torque clutch means is used, the sleeves can be omitted and the rollers per se form the conveyor surface.Thus, it will be appreciated that while the pinion gears are disposed in a circular array around the drive gear, the motion of the pinion gears is transferred by means of the flexible couplings to the rollers which are disposed in a linear array. The optional adjustable torque clutch means provides that a stoppage of one or more rollers due to a predetermined force exerted thereon, will cause the driving means to stop. Thus, the adjustable torque clutch means can be set to stop the driving means if there is a backup of articles on the rollers. The flexible coupling is preferably a flexible shaft, but could be a rigid shaft with one or more universal joints. In one embodiment, using the torque clutch means, the driving means for the rollers comprises a drive gear fixed to a drive shaft, a sprocket wheel rotatably mounted on the drive shaft, and a pair of thrust washers fixed against radial movement on the drive shaft on either side of the sprocket wheel, at least one of the thrust washers being axially moveable on said drive shaft, and being biased against the sprocket wheel. The thrust washer is preferably biased against the sprocket wheel by an adjustable spring.The sprocket wheel is driven by a chain or a cog belt which, in turn, is driven by a motor. By adjusting the spring pressure which biases the thrust washers against the sprocket wheel, the torque of the drive means is adjusted.Thus, when a predetermined pressure causes one or more rollers to stop, that stoppage is transmitted through the flexible shaft to the pinion gear and thence to the drive gear which causes the drive shaft to stop. The sprocket wheel then free wheels on the drive shaft and slips against the thrust washers until the stoppage is cleared. When the torque clutch means is not desired, the metal sprocket is replaced by a plastic sprocket fixed to the drive shaft and the thrust washers and spring are eliminated. The plastic sprocket is preferably cycloidal. Another aspect of the present invention is a conveyor system comprising a plurality of the aforedescribed transfer mechanisms placed side by side, that is, with the last roller of each such mechanism being next to the first roller of each succeeding such mechanism. Thus, considering a preferred embodiment wherein each transfer mechanism comprises ten rollers with the associated driving means, a complete conveyor system would have a separate driving means for each ten rollers throughout the length of the system. A single prime mover, preferably a motor, can drive a number of individual driving means, such number being dependent on the size of the motor and other load factors and could be from eight or ten to several hundred.The motor could have a sprocket wheel mounted on its shaft with the chain or cog belt connected to the sprocket wheel, although any drive train known in the art could be interposed between the motor and the chain or cog belt. A particular advantage of the instant invention resides in the fact that each group of up to ten rollers is driven by a single driving means. Thus, differences in speed, direction, or the like can easily be built into a conveyor line by suitably changing gear ratios, sprocket wheel sizes, or direction of drive of any particular driving means. The foregoing advantages will be described, and other advantages of the instant invention will become apparent, from the following description of preferred and illustrative embodiments making reference to the annexed drawings wherein Figure 1 is a top plan view of a transfer mechanism according to the present invention Figure 2 is a side elevational view of the transfer mechanism of Figure 1 Figure 3 is a top plan view showing diagrammatically a conveyor system comprising a plurality of transfer mechanisms as shown in Figure 1 Figure 4 is a front elevational view of one form of a support bearing for the rollers of the transfer mechanism Figure 5 is a front elevational view of another form of a support bearing for the rollers of the transfer mechanism Figure 6 is a cross sectional view of the support bearing of Figure 4 taken on the line 6 6 of Figure 4 Figure 7 is a cross sectional view of the support bearing of Figure 5 taken on the line 7 7 of Figure 5 Figure 8 is an enlarged elevational view of the mounting means of the support bearings of Figures 4 and 5 Figure 9 is a perspective view of the inventive drive unit Figure 10 is a side elevational view, in cross section, of the drive unit of Figure 9 Figure 11 is a diagrammatic top plan view of part of a conveyor system showing a right angle turn Figure 12 is a diagrammatic top plan view of part of a conveyor system showing a right angle transfer Figure 13 is a diagrammatic top plan view of a storage, or accumulation, table utilizing the transfer mechanism of the instant invention Figure 14 is a side elevational view, in cross section, of an alternate embodiment of the drive unit of Figure 10 Figure 15 is a side elevational view, in cross section, of another alternate embodiment of the drive unit of Figure 10 and Figure 16 is a cross sectional view of the roller and sleeve and Figure 17 is a side elevational view, in cross section, of the preferred embodiment of the drive unit omitting the torque clutch means. Referring first to Figures 1 and 2, the instant transfer mechanism, generally designated by the numeral 10, comprises a planar array of rollers 12 mounted for rotation on support means 14 and 16 and connected to a driving means generally designated by the numeral 18 by means of flexible shafts 20 or other suitable flexible connecting means such as flexible or universal shafts. While there is no particular limitation as to how many rollers 12 can be driven by a drive unit 18, it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that there are practical limitations based on the size of the rollers 12, the sizes of the respective gears in drive unit 18 which will be described in more detail hereinbelow, and by the size of the prime mover.For practical considerations, the instant invention is most useful with rollers ranging from about 5 mm to about 2.5 cm in diameter with the flexible shafts 20 and the various gears being proportionally sized. In the most useful embodiment, for conveying articles having bases as small as 1.5 cm and with no upper limit on size except as may be dictated by practical considerations, the rollers are about 6.5mm in diameter and based on about an 8 mm pitch, that is, about 1.5 mm clearance between rollers. In this most preferred embodiment, it has been found that ten rollers per transfer mechanism are most convenient. For convenience of description, the transfer mechanism 10 will hereafter be referred to as a module 10.It is preferred that the longitudinal dimension L1 of drive unit 18 is within the bounds of the longitudinal dimension L2 of the planar array of rollers 12 driven thereby. Figure 3 illustrates a conveyor system 22 comprising a plurality of modules 10 aligned side by side and driven by a single motor 24 as the prime mover through a chain 26. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art, a cog belt or other suitable means could be used instead of chain 26. In addition, while chain 26 is shown directly connected to motor 24 through sprocket wheel 28, one skilled in the art will realize that motor 24 could be located remote from the conveyor system and adapted to drive the chain 26 through the intermediary use of a drive shaft or other known linkage or transmission system. Depending on the load factors already mentioned, it can easily be determined how many modules 10 can be driven by a single motor 24.Such a conveyor system could be straight, curved, could include turns or changes of direction, could be level, or could be inclined upwardly or downwardly and would, of course, have suitable.guide rails 29 of a conventional type, such as those in U.S. Patent No. 3,491,873. This conveyor is useful, as already mentioned, in bottling and packaging plants to convey containers from one location to another.It can be used in conjunction with warmers, de palletizers, pasturizers, bottle cleaner load tables, accumulator tables, or the like. It can handle aluminium cans, glass or plastic bottles, boxes, and a variety of other containers. The bottles can be glass bottles or plastic covered bottles such as the so called Plastishield and can have stippled bottoms or even a petaloid base. While Figure 1 shows the mechanism with rollers 12, it is preferred that the rollers have sleeves 13 over them with a slight clearance 15 between the inside wall of sleeve 13 and the outside surface of roller 12 as shown in Figures 2 and 16. As will be seen from Figure 2, support means 14 comprises support member 30 and bearing member 34. When sleeves 13 are not used, bearing members 34 are used at the roller ends and bearing members 32 are used as intermediate support members. Referring to Figure 4, bearing member 32 is shown as being an elongated strip having a plurality of openings 36 in which rollers 12 rest and are supported for rotational movement. Bearing members 32 are fabricated of any suitable material such as nylon which provides a suitable bearing surface 38 for rollers 12. Each bearing member 32 is of a size sufficient to support ten rollers 12.On the lower longitudinal edge of bearing member 32 are a pair of mounting means 40 which can be seen more clearly inFigures 6 and 8. Each mounting means 40 comprises a circular opening 42 which is open at the bottom and has a pair of depending legs 44 and 46 on either side thereof. Support member 30, made of any suitable material such as stainless steel, has holes bored therethrough t suitable spaced apart positions and pins 48 inserted in the holes.Legs 44 and 46, which are resilient due to the nature of the material of which bearing member 32 is made, are clamped over pin 48 on either side thereof as shown in Figure 8.Furthermore, as can be seen in Figure 6, there are front legs 44 and 46 and rear legs corresponding to the front legs with a slot 50 therebetween. One of the rear legs, 46 is shown in Figure 6. Slot 50 is slightly wider than the thickness of support means 30 to provide a small clearance 52 between support member 30 and the walls defining slot 50.Also, as will be seen in Figure 6, the upper surface of slot 50 is slightly convex as indicated by the numeral 54, thereby providing clearances 56 and 58 above support member 30. These clearances 52, 56, and 58 allow for self alignment of bearing member 32 when rollers 12 are placed thereon, thereby eliminating the need for precise tolerances in manufacture and installation of the conveyor.The spacing between each of the support means 16 can easily be determined by one skilled in the art, this being determined by load considerations. The support means are sufficiently spaced apart to prevent a downward bowing of rollers 12 when a heavy load is placed thereon. In addition, as will be seen from Figure 3, each support member 30 is of a length sufficient to support a plurality of bearing members 32. Thus, if a conveyor system is assembled made up of eight modules, each support member 30 would hold eight bearing members 32. Comparing Figures 4 and 5, it will be seen that the difference between bearing member 32 and bearing member 34 is that bearing member 32 has holes 36 which are open at the top and provide bearing surfaces 38 while bearing member 34 provides openings 60 defining bearing surfaces 62. Openings 60 are circular openings and are closed at the top. When only rollers 12 are used, bearing member 34 is used at the ends of rollers 12 while bearing members 32 are used intermediate the ends of rollers 12, leaving the upper surface of the rollers unimpeded. When sleeves 13 are used, bearing members 32 are used at all support positions with the sleeves extending between bearing members 32 as shown inFigure 2. Comparing Figures 6 and 7, it will be noted that the self aligning mounting on support member 30 is the same for both bearing member 32 and bearing member 34, the only difference being the open holes 36 in bearing member 32 and the closed holes 60 in bearing member 34. Figure 8 is equally applicable to bearing member 34 as it is to bearing member 32. As is clearly seen in Figures 1 and 2, the end of roller 12 which is connected to drive means 18 by flexible shaft 20 extends through bearing member 34. But, there may be a situation wherein it is desired that the opposite end of roller 12 not extend through its respective bearing member 34. In that case, stop plate 66 may be provided to prevent rollers 12 from sliding axially through the bearing members. Attention is now directed to Figure 9 which depicts drive unit 18 and a portion of rollers 12 with their respective flexible shafts 20. The near end of each roller 12 has an axial hole drilled therein and is then formed into a square using a conventional forming tool. The crimped squared end is denoted 68. The resulting square opening receives the end of flexible shaft 20, the other end of which is connected in a similar manner to the respective pinion shaft in drive unit 18. It will be seen that drive unit 18 includes a plate 70 having a circular array of holes aligned with the pinion shafts through which flexible shafts 20 pass. Reference is now had to Figure 10 from which the details of the drive unit can be ascertained. In addition to mounting plate 70, there are provided mounting plates 72, 74, and 76 suitably spaced apart by spacers 78, 80, and 82 and joined by any suitable fastening means such as nut and bolt assembly 84. If desired, a suitable housing not shown can be provided. Bushing 86 is provided between mounting plates 70 and 72 and bushing 88 is provided between mounting plates 74 and 76. Bushings 86 and 88 together constitute bearings in which drive shaft 90 rotates. At one end of drive shaft 90 is mounted sprocket wheel 92. Sprocket wheel 92 is a standard sprocket wheel which is available commercially. It is mounted on drive shaft 90 in such a way that, absent other means not yet described, it would free wheel on drive shaft 90 without turning the drive shaft. A pair of holes are drilled through drive shaft 90 on either side of sprocket wheel 92 and pins 94 and 96 are inserted therethrough over which thrust washers 98 and 100 are inserted. Thrust washers 98 and 100 have keyways which seat on pins 94 and 96.Thus, thrust washers 98 and 100 are mounted on drive shaft 90 in such a way that they are fixed against relative rotation. But, at least one of thrust washers 98 and 100 is axially movable on drive shaft 90.Thrust washer 100 is seated between sprocket wheel 92 and spacer or bearing 102. Thrust washer 98 is biased against sprocket wheel 92 by spring 104 which bears against washer 106 which, in turn, is secured to drive shaft 90 by means of bolt 108. The torque can be adjusted by tightening or loosening bolt 108 as shown in phantom in Figure 10. Also, spring 104 can be replaced by a spring of greater or lesser force. Thrust washers 98 and 100 are fabricated of any suitable material having a low starting friction which is close to its running friction. By starting friction is meant that coefficient of friction, relative to the material of sprocket wheel 92, which enables sprocket wheel 92 to cause the thrust washers to begin to turn when a given force is applied in pressing the thrust washers against the sprocket wheel. This would be the frictional force required to overcome the various inertial forces. Running friction is that friction required to maintain the thrust washers turning when applied against the sprocket wheel once motion has begun. A suitable material, for example, is a self lubricating, or sintered, bronze. Drive gear 110 is affixed to drive shaft 90 by means of key 112. Disposed in a circular array around drive gear 110 are a plurality of pinion gears 114 which are fixed to pinion shafts 116 in a conventional manner such as by press fitting the gears 114 over a knurled portion of the shafts 116. Pinion gears 114 mesh with drive gear 110. Pinion shafts 116 ride in bushings 118 which are mounted between plates 74 and 76 and, thereby provide bearings for pinion shafts 116. One end of pinion shaft 116 is bored and squared in the same manner as the ends of rollers 12 to receive an end of flexible drive shaft 20 which is a commercially available item. The drive gear 110, pinion gears 114, and bushings 86, 88, and 118, are fabricated of any suitable material such as nylon.The actual dimensions of the thrust washers as well as the other components of drive unit 18 are dictated by roller size and load factors, all of which are easily ascertainable by one skilled in the art. In the embodiment of Figure 14, guide sleeve 109 is mounted on drive shaft 90 near thrust washer 98 and sleeve 107 is substituted for washer 106. The spring 104 seats on sleeves 107 and 109. As with previous embodiments, once the predetermined torque is set by screwing bolt 108 in or out, the unit is preadjusted and no further adjustment is necessary. Figure 15 shows an embodiment in which a roller section can be instantly started or stopped responsive to any condition. A pneumatic cylinder 101 and piston 103 are substituted for spring 104. Piston 103 is hollow to rotatably receive drive shaft 90, with the end face of piston 103 butting against thrust washer 98. The cylinder is controlled in any conventional manner as by a solenoid or pneumatic sensors not shown . It will be appreciated that when the piston is forced outwardly by pneumatic pressure, the thrust washers bear against the sprocket wheel to thereby turn the rollers, and vice versa. Figure 17 shows the preferred embodiment without the torque clutch means. Sprocket 92 is fixed to shaft 90 in a conventional manner to provide a positive drive. In the event of a severe overload, sleeves 13 will slip on shafts 12. Now, turning to Figure 11, there is shown a conveyor line in an installation wherein a 90Q turn is required.Starting at the upstream end of the conveyor line, there are a plurality of conveyor systems 22 each comprising a plurality of modules 10 meeting another plurality of conveyor systems 22 composed of a plurality of conveyor modules 10 going in a direction 900 from the direction of the first plurality of conveyor systems. At the corner, the rollers 12 are successively shortened in a step wise fashion so that the two sets of conveyor systems meet in what approximates a mitre joint. Packages moving along the first series of conveyor systems, denoted by the numeral 120, to the second series of conveyor systems, denoted by the numeral 124, will automatically turn by 900 when they reach the joint. There is no need for a dead plate or any other inactive spot as in prior art conveyor systems, nor is there a need for a series of rollers turned in different directions to provide a gradual turn.Guide rails 126 can be provided in the usual manner, a guide rail such as that described in U.S. Patent No. 3,491,873 being quite suitable. Another application of the instant invention is shown in Figure 12 wherein a first series of conveyor systems denoted as 128 butts up against a second series of conveyor systems denoted by the numeral 130. Articles traveling on conveyor 128 will pass from the rollers thereof onto the rollers of conveyor 130 and immediately change their direction by 90 . Again, there is no need for a dead plate or other inactive spot. It should be noted that the direction of movement is not necessarily from conveyor 128 to 130 but could be from conveyor 130 to conveyor 128. In still another application as shown in Figure 13, a collection or accumulation table 136 comprised of a plurality of modules 10, or a plurality of systems 22 is provided butting up against a conveyor 138 which could be a conventional belt conveyor or could be a conveyor constructed according to the present invention. The conventional conveyor depicted is the same as that shown inU.S. Patent No. 3,927,757. By providing suitable guide rails 140, articles which are backed up on conveyor 138 for one reason or another can be guided on to accumulation table 136 for temporary storage until the blockage is cleared whereupon the articles would then be conveyed back on to conveyor 138 without use of dead plates in either direction. Suitable sensing and control means are provided to activate the drives of modules 10 in one direction or the other to collect or discharge the stored articles. A particular advantage of the instant construction over prior art accumulation tables which utilize a chain belt is that the packages can easily slide along the rollers as well as passing from one roller to another whereas the friction of a standard chain belt will not allow this. In this instance, skewing of the packages is an advantage. In principal 136 could be a conveyor instead of a collection table.