# A method for stabilizing aliphatic higher aldehyde compounds

## Claims
Verfahren zur Stabilisierung eines höheren aliphatischen Aldehyds, wobei man das Aldehyd mit einem Stabilisator vermischt, bei dem es sich um eine Kombination aus einem Benzophenon und einem tertiären Amin ausgewählt aus der Gruppe bestehend aus Triethylamin, Pyridin, Chinolin, Nikotinsäureamid und Tocopherolnikotinat handelt, und wobei die Menge des Stabilisators 0,01 bis 10 Gew. , bezogen auf den Aldehyd, beträgt.

## Description
The present invention relates to a method for stabilizing an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound or, more particularly, to a method for stabilizing an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound during prolonged storage by remarkably reducing the formation of oxidation products of the aldehyde such as carboxylic acids and trimers of the aldehyde. As is well known, aliphatic higher aldehyde compounds are usually unstable when prolongedly stored under atmospheric conditions. The reactions mainly responsible to the instability of the aldehyde compounds are, for example, 1 the autoxidation of the aldehyde to form a corresponding carboxylic acid according to the reaction equation in which R has the same meaning as defined above. It is conventionally practiced to add an antioxidant to an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound with an object to increase the stability thereof in storage. This method of adding an antioxidant is, however, not quite effective to reduce the rate of the carboxylic acid formation since the reaction of the above given equation I proceeds autocatalytically by the carboxylic acid per se or is accelerated by ultraviolet light. The method of the antioxidant addition is much less effective when the reaction of the trimer formation is concerned. The above described problem of the instability of aliphatic higher aldehyde compounds is particularly important in the newly developed method of pest or noxious insect control by use of a sex pheromone compound, which sometimes belongs to a class of aliphatic higher aldehyde compounds such as Z 11 hexadecenal, Z 9 tetradecenal and the like, since the method of pest control with a sex pheromone is usually performed by keeping a dispenser filled with the sex pheromone compound in the open field from which the sex pheromone is sustainedly released or emitted into the air to attract the insects a particular sex. When the aldehyde compound as the sex pheromone is oxidized under the influence of ultraviolet or converted to the trimer, the activity of the sex pheromone is naturally lost correspondingly. Despite the above described demand in the modem pest control techology, no effective method is known in the prior art for the stabilization of aliphatic higher aldehyde compounds. An object of the present invention is to provide a novel method for the stabilization of an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound on prolonged storage by reducing the rate of oxidation thereof into a carboxylic acid and the rate or trimer formation. Particularly, the object of the present invention is to provide a method for the stabilization of an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound having from 10 to 20 carbon atoms in a molecule. More particularly, the object of the present invention is to provide a method for the stabilization of Z 11 hexadecenal and Z 9 tetradecenal having an activity as a sex pheromone of some noxious insects. Thus, the method of the present invention for the stabilization of an aliphatic higher aldehyde compound comprises admixing the aldehyde compound with a stabilizer compound which is a combination of a benzophenone compound and of a tertiary amine compound selected from the group consisting of triethylamine, pyridine, quinoline, nicotinic acid amine and tocopherol nicotinate, the amount of the stabilizer compound being in the range from 0.01 to 10 by weight of the aldehyde compound. It is sometimes synergistically effective to add an antioxidant to the aldehyde compound in combination with the above mentioned stabilizer compound. The stabilizer compounds which is used in the inventive method is a combination of a benzophenone compound and of a tertiary amine compound. The addition of a tertiary amine compound to the aldehyde compound is effective to reduce the rate of the trimer formation since the trimer formation is accelerated by the presence of a carboxylic acid, which may be the product of the oxidation reaction of the aldehyde, or a mineral acid. The tertiary amine compounds used in the inventive method are selected from the group comprising triethylamine, pyridine, quinoline, nicotinic acid amide, tocopherol nicotinate. It should be noted that primary amine compounds and secondary amine compounds also have an activity as an acid acceptor or a neutralizing agent of acid but these amine compounds cannot be used in place of the tertiary amine compounds in the inventive method since the primary and secondary amines may react with the aldehyde compound to produce a different impurity compound or to be lost by such a reaction. The compounds belonging to the other classes of the stabilizer compounds are mostly known as an ultraviolet absorber. Therefore, the compound dissolved in the aldehyde compound effectively absorbs the ultraviolet light to reduce the energy of light otherwise transferred to the aldehyde compound so that the photo induced oxidation of the aldehyde compound can be prevented. The benzophenone compounds are exemplified by 2,4 dihydroxybenzophenone, 2 hydroxy 4 octyloxy benzophenone. The combined use of a tertiary amine compound and an ultraviolet absorber compound is sometimes effective synergistically. The amount of the above described stabilizer compound added to the aliphatic higher aldehyde compound is in the range from 0.01 to 10 by weight based on the aldehyde compound because an amount thereof smaller than 0.01 by weight is almost ineffective while an amount in excess of 10 by weight has no particular additional advantage in respect of the stabilization. It is optional that the above described stabilizer compound is added to the aldehyde compound in combination with a conventional antioxidant. Suitable antioxidants are exemplified by p hydroxy anisole, butyl hydroxy anisole, ditert butyl p cresol, di tert butyl resorcine, hydroquinone, di tert butyl hydroquinone, tocopherol and the like. When an antioxidant is used in combination with the stabilizer compound, the amount of the antioxidant should be in the range from 0.01 to 5 by weight based on the aldehyde compound. In particular, it is preferable that the total amount of the stabilizer compound and the antioxidant does not exceed 10 by weight. In the following, the inventive method is described in more detail by way of an example, in which the effectiveness of the inventive method is demonstrated by the determination of the amounts of the carboxylic acid and the trimer formed by the reactions expressed by the reaction equations I and II given before or by the determination of the residual amount of the aldehyde compound left unchanged by the oxidation reaction or the trimer formation. Z 11 Hexadecenal was admixed with one or two of the stabilizer compounds shown in the Table below in amounts also shown in the same table per 30 g of the aldehyde compound together with or without an antioxidant. A capillary tube of a high density polyethylene having an inner diameter of 0.8 mm, an outer diameter of 1.6 mm and a length of 200 mm was filled with one of the thus prepared mixtures and kept standing for 8 days with the ends sealed. After lapse of 8 days, the mixture in the capillary tube was taken out and subjected to the gas chromatographic analysis to determine the residual content of the Z 11 hexadecenal in by the internal standard method. The results were as shown in the table. Experiments No. 9 and No. 13 were undertaken for comparative purpose with the aldehyde compound as such and the aldehyde compound admixed with an antioxidant alone, respectively.