# COMPOSITION FOR CELL CULTIVATION, PRODUCTION AND USE THEREOF

## Claims
Zubereitung für die Zellkultivierung, enthaltend einen einem Säuger Serum entstammenden Wachstumsfaktor, wobei die Zubereitung

## Description
This invention relates to a composition for cell cultivation, production and use thereof. For the cultivation of animal cells or animal tissues, it is deemed to be essential to add an animal serum, as a cell growth factor, to the basal medium. With the advances in recent years in cytology and immunology as well as in large scale animal cell culture techniques, the demand for serum is markedly increasing. In using sera, strict checking is required for the species and age of animals as well as the presence or absence of contaminant microorganisms, cytotoxic substances, antibodies, growth inhibiting substances and so forth. The cost and labor for this end are considerable and, moreover, the number or quantity of serum lots which can meet the requirements is limited in many cases. Among various sera, fetal bovine serum and neonatal bovine serum are in increasing demand because of their superiority to other sera with respect to the cell growth promoting effect and the content of undesired substances, among others. However, the sources of said sera are limited and, therefore, their prices are surging up. Sometimes they are hardly available. These are the current problems. Under these circumstances, the present inventors conducted intensive studies and have now to create a composition for cell cultivation of the present invention which has excellent cell growth promoting effect and is less in contents of useless or harmful substances. The composition is produced, with ease and at low cost, by using, as the starting material, not only fetal or neonatal bovine serum but also adult bovine serum or serum of some other animal species readily available for large quantity blood collection, such as horse, sheep or swine. Thus, the present invention provides a mammalian serum originated growth factor containing composition for cell cultivation, the composition 1 being soluble at a concentration of not less than 55 saturation and insoluble at a concentration of not higher than 70 saturation of inorganic salt solution in terms of ammonium sulfate solution and 2 being substantially free of active microorganisms and harmful substances. The invention also provides a method of producing the composition as defined above, which comprises subjecting a mammalian serum to treatments comprising a step of contacting the serum with an inactivating agent of C₂ ₄ alkenyl oxide or dialdehyde and a step of salting out the serum at a lower limit concentration of not less than 55 saturation and at an upper limit concentration of not higher than 70 saturation of inorganic salt in terms of ammonium sulfate and desalting to obtain a fraction containing cell growth factor. The invention further provides a medium for cell cultivation which contains said composition together with a basal medium, and a cultivation composition which contains the medium and cells. The mammalian serum to be used in the practice of the invention may be derived from any species, although bovine, equine, ovine and swine sera, among others, are used with advantage for reasons of ready availability and so forth. The mammals may be at the age of fetuses, newborns, youngs or adults. That sera of adult animals can also be used is a characteristic feature of the method of the invention. The step of inactivating contamined microorganisms in accordance with the invention is conducted for the purpose of inactivating animal derived microorganisms as well as microorganisms possibly coming into the blood or serum at the time of or after blood collection. Since such microorganisms are generally viruses, mycoplasmas and the like, the treatment is preferably carried out by adding an inactivating agent highly capable of inactivating viruses, mycoplasmas and so on but poorly capable of affecting cell growth promoting substances in serum. Effective inactivating agents are C₂ ₄ alkenyl oxides such as ethylene oxide and propylene oxide and dialdehydes such as glyoxal and glutaraldehyde and, among them, ethylene oxide, in particular liquid form of ethylene oxide, is especially advantageous from the viewpoints of inactivating capacity and influence on growth promoting substances, among others. When liquid ethylene oxide is used, it is added in an amount of 0.1 5 percent by volume, preferably 1 3 percent by volume and the serum is allowed to stand at 0 to 30 C, preferably 5 C to room temperature, for 1 7 days, preferably 2 5 days, during which inactivation is effected. The above conditions are also applicable to the cases where other inactivating agents are used. Generally, no particular treatment is required for the removal of the inactivating agent added for the purpose of inactivating contamined microorganisms. Said agent is eliminated during standing or during some other procedure. If desired, however, a positive measure for removal, such as dialysis, may be taken. The step of salting out and desalting in accordance with the invention is carried out, for instance, in the following manner In the practice of the invention, the salting out is performed in the conventional manner. Thus, the raw material serum or the serum from the above mentioned step of inactivating contaminant microorganisms is dissolved or suspended in a solvent e.g. water, ethanol, aqueous ethanol , and a salt is added thereto until a predetermined lower limit concentration is reached. The resulting precipitate is removed. To the supernatant, there is further added a salt to a predetermined upper limit concentration and the resulting precipitate is collected. This is the desired fraction. More detailedly, when ammonium sulfate is used as the salt, the salting out is preferably conducted by using said salt at a lower limit concentration of not less than 40 saturation, preferably not less than 50 saturation, most preferably 55 saturation, and at an upper limit concentration of not higher than 80 saturation, most preferably 70 saturation. When other salts are used, the salting out can be effected at predetermined concentrations corresponding to the above mentioned ammonium sulfate concentrations. The precipitate can be separated from the supernatant advantageously by centrifugation, for instance. The precipitate thus obtained is dissolved in physiological saline, for instance, and desalted by dialysis or ultrafiltration, for instance. The dialysis can be carried out in the conventional manner using a membrane dialyzer, for instance. The ultrafiltration can be effected by filtration under pressure using an ultrafiltration membrane permeable to substances not higher than 1,000 in molecular weight, for instance. The thus obtained composition for cell cultivation is adjusted generally to a concentration of 20 80 mg ml with physiological saline or the like, followed by bacterial filtration using a membrane filter or the like and, as necessary, further by freezing or lyophilization. Thereafter, the composition can be stored. In producing the composition for cell cultivation in accordance with the present invention, the step of inactivating contaminant microorganisms and the step of salting out and desalting are conducted either in that order or in the reversed order. The composition of the present invention contains a salting out fraction corresponding to the ammonium sulfate concentration range of 40 80 saturation, and is soluble at the concentration of not less than 40 saturation, preferably not less than 55 saturation, and is insoluble at the concentration of not higher than 80 saturation, preferably not higher than 70 saturation of inorganic salt solution in terms of ammonium sulfate solution. The composition of the present invention is free of harmful substances such as cytotoxic substances, growth inhibiting substances, free of useless substances which is contained in mammalian serum such as immunoglobulin, and contains proteins in the molecular weight range of 60,000 80,000, mostly albumin. As compared with bovine serum albumin in the prior art, the composition has good cell growth promoting effect in a greater number of cell species, especially animal cell species. Furthermore, the composition of the invention can also be used for passaging the animal cells in tissue culture. The composition for cell cultivation of the present invention is highly sterile, namely free of filtrable microorganisms, the contamination with which has been a matter of concern in the prior art of serum preparation, and can be handled in safety. Said composition is at least comparable in cell growth promoting effect to various known animal sera, such as fetal or neonatal bovine serum, and bovine serum albumin, and can be used advantageously in culturing various cells, especially animal cells such as myelomas, hybridomas, monolayer cells and other animal cells. In such use, said composition can be added to a basal medium in a concentration of 1 10 mg ml either alone or in admixture with growth promoting trace substances such as insulin. Most of monolayer or attached cultured cells can grow to a sufficient extent in a basal medium plus said composition alone. With most of myeloma cells, a satisfactory extent of cell proliferation can be achieved when said composition is used in admixture with growth promoting trace substances. Animal cell subculture using a medium containing the composition is also possible. The basal medium to which the composition is added is single medium or a mixed medium containing 2 to 4, preferably 2 of basal media, for example Iscove F12, Iscove Serumless Medium, F12 Serumless Medium, or alpha MEM Serumless Medium. The ratios V V , for example, of two basal media are in the range of 1 1 1 15. By using the medium of the present invention containing the composition for cell cultivation of the present invention together with a basal medium, an excellent cell proliferation promoting effect is attained in not only a stationary culture, but also a roller bottle culture. In the accompanying drawings, Fig. 1 shows the cell proliferation promoting activity of Iscove F12 mixed medium as described in Example 6 as a function of the mixing ratio Fig. 2 shows the effect of the composition of the invention as produced in Example 7 in stationary culture and in jar fermenter culture and o indicating the results of jar fermenter culture using Isove F12 and DME F12, respectively and and indicating the results of stationary culture using Iscove F12 and DME F12, respectively . The following examples further illustrate the present invention. It is to be noted however that they are by no means limitative of the scope of this invention. Calf serum was fractionated using ammonium sulfate and each fraction was examined for cell growth promoting effect. Thus, the salting out was performed in the conventional manner and salted out fractions corresponding to the stepwise ammonium sulfate concentration ranges of 0 52 , 52 57 , 57 62 , 62 67 , 67 72 and 72 80 saturation were collected. Bach precipitate fraction was dissolved in physiological saline and dialyzed against physiological saline. After bacterial filtration using a membrane filter Mirex GV, 0.22 µm Millipore , each dialyzate was added to a 1 1 mixture of DME medium Nippon Suisan and F12 medium Flow hereinafter referred to as DME F12 , together with four growth promoting substances, namely 10 µg ml insulin Sigma , 20 µg ml transferrin Green Cross , 2 µM ethanolamine Wako Pure Chemical and 2.5 x 10 ⁶ M sodium selenate Wako Pure Chemical . The mixed additive consisting of the above growth promoting substances at the respective indicated concentrations is hereinafter referred to as ITES Murakami et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA When added alone, the salted out fraction at 57 72 ammonium sulfate saturation gave a median proliferation rate in NGE 41 cells, and those at 57 62 and 62 67 saturation each gave a medium proliferation rate in I 63 cells. When added together with ITES, those at 57 62 and 62 67 saturation gave considerably high cell proliferation rates in NGE 41 cells whereas, in I 63 cells, those at 57 62 , 62 67 and 67 72 saturation gave fairly high proliferation rates. These high cell proliferation rates, though yet inferior to those attainable with fetal bovine serum, indicate that the fractions mentioned above can be used to satisfaction. The fractions were superior in cell proliferation rate to bovine serum albumin hitherto in use. When a calf serum showing cytotoxicity was subjected to salting out with ammonium sulfate, the cytotoxicity was eliminated. With the purpose of discovering further serum sources, neonatal bovine serum, calf serum and adult bovine serum as well as equine and ovine sera were also made subjects of investigation. For each serum species, in the same manner as in Example 1, the serum before salting out and an ammonium sulfate salted out fraction were added either alone or in combination with ITES and examined for growth promoting effect in each cell line. The results thus obtained are summarized in Table 2. Based on the results of Example 1, fetal bovine serum, neonatal bovine serum, calf serum, adult bovine serum, equine serum and ovine serum were each fractionated by 45 80 or 57 70 ammonium sulfate saturation and each fraction salted out was dialyzed against physiological saline and then filtered for removal of bacteria. For each serum species, the serum before salting out and the ammonium sulfate salted out fraction were added to DME F12 medium at a concentration, as protein, of 5 mg ml for myelomas or to MEM medium Nissui Seiyaku at a concentration of 3 mg ml for monolayer cells , in each case either alone or in combination with ITES, and examined for cell growth promoting effect in each cell line as expressed in terms of cell proliferation rate. The cell lines used as myelomas were IgE producing human myeloma NGE 41 and mouse myeloma MPC11 purchased from Dainippon Pharmaceutical and the cells used as monolayer cells were monkey kidney derived Vero cells purchased from Flow and swine kidney derived PS cells gift from Kyoto University, Institute for Virus Research . With the myelomas, incubation and cell proliferation ratio measurement were conducted in the same manner as in Example 1. With the monolayer cells, each medium prepared was distributed in 1 ml well portions into the wells of a 24 well multidish and then a suspension of Vero cells or PS cells 5 x 10⁵ to 1.5 x 10⁶ cells ml was distributed in 0.1 ml portions thereinto. After 5 days of incubation in a 5 CO₂ incubator at 37 C, the supernatant was discarded, 0.25 trypsin was newly added in 1 ml portions and the cells were scraped off from the multidish to give a cell suspension, which was then subjected to cell counting using a Coulter counter. For the myeloma cell lines, other sera than ovine serum, when added alone after salting out, each gave a reduced cell proliferation rate as compared with the rate before salting out. However, when added in combination with ITES, each serum fraction gave a cell proliferation rate comparable to or rather higher than the cell proliferation rate obtained with the corresponing serum before salting out. In the case of ovine serum, the single addition of the serum before salting out and the ammonium sulfate salted out fraction resulted in little difference in cell proliferation rate. Combined addition of the ammonium sulfate salted out fraction with ITES increased the cell proliferation rate to a considerable extent and, in some kinds of cells, good cell proliferation rates were obtained. On the other hand, for the monolayer cells, the use of the ammonium sulfate salted out fractions of sera other than fetal bovine serum gave cell proliferation rate values comparable to or slightly higher than the values obtained with the sera before salting out. In particular, the addition of the ammonium sulfate salted out fractions in combination with ITES gave good cell proliferation rates. Like in Example 1, a bovine serum showing cytotoxicity was freed of toxic substances by salting out with ammonium sulfate. As compared with bovine serum albumin, higher cell proliferation rates were obtained, in both the cell lines, with the ammonium sulfate salted out fractions. The differences were significant in particular when the fractions were added together with ITES. Thus, also in the monolayer cells, good cell growth promoting effect was attained by adding various salted out serum fractions in combination with ITES. It is a matter of concern that animal sera are sometimes contaminated with microorganisms, mainly animal derived viruses and mycoplasmas. If such contaminated sera are used as cell growth promoting substances, cells are possibly infected with the contamined microorganisms, in particular filtrable microorganisms, whereby serious obstacles such as cell growth inhibition and death of cells will be encountered. However, it is impossible to sterilize sera by heating. For the time being, there is no alternative but to sterilize sera by bacterial filtration. Filtrable microorganisms such as viruses cannot be removed by such method, however. To cope with this situation, an inactivating agent was searched which could inactivate microorganisms occurring in serum completely but would not inhibit cell growth promoting substances contained in serum. Mycoplasma, vaccinia virus and Japanese encephalitis virus were separately suspended, as contamined microorganisms, in microorganism free, normal calf serum having good cell growth promoting effect. The concentrations of microorganisms were 10⁷ PFU ml for mycoplasma, 10⁸ ICID₅₀ ml for vaccinia virus and 10⁶ TCID₅₀ ml for Japanese encephalitis virus. Following addition of each of the inactivating agents given in Table 3 to each microorganism suspension in serum, inactivation treatment was performed under varied conditions. After inactivation treatment, each serum was dialyzed against physiological saline overnight to thereby remove the inactivating agent, and then the remaining microorganisms in each serum were counted and compared with the count of microorganisms remaining in the serum treated in the same manner without adding the inactivating agents. Furthermore, these inactivating agents were examined for their effect on cell growth promoting substances. Thus, each inactivating agent was added to normal calf serum, followed by inactivation treatment under the same conditions as mentioned above. Part of the serum was dialyzed against physiological saline overnight and the dialyzate was used as the serum before salting out. The remaining serum portion was salted out by 57 80 ammonium sulfate saturation and then dialyzed against physiological saline overnight and the dialyzate was used as the ammonium sulfate salted out fraction. Each serum material was added to DME F12 medium to a concentration of 5 mg ml as protein, either alone or in combination with ITES, followed by incubation of NGE 41 cells by the procedure of Example 1. The cell proliferation rates thus obtained were compared. The results obtained in the above are shown in Table 3. To 1 liter of adult bovine serum, there was added dropwise 15 ml of liquid ethylene oxide with adequate stirring. After addition, the mixture was allowed to stand at 5 C for 5 days. Thereto was added portionwise 350 g of ammonium sulfate. After dissolution of the ammonium sulfate, the solution was allowed to stand at 5 C overnight. The resulting precipitate was removed by centrifugation 9,000 xg, 20 minutes . To the supernatant thus obtained, there was added portionwise 140 g of ammonium sulfate. After dissolution of the ammonium sulfate, the solution was allowed to stand as it was at 5 C overnight. The precipitate formed was collected by centrifugation 9,000 xg, minutes and dissolved in about 100 ml of physiological saline. The solution was placed in a dialyzing membrane Visking and dialyzed against 15 liters of physiological saline at 5 C overnight. The dialyzing fluid was then replaced with fresh 15 liters of physiological saline and the dialysis was further continued at 5 C overnight. The dialyzate was taken out and adjusted to a protein content of 60 mg ml with physiological saline and filtered for removal of bacteria through a membrane filter 0.22 µm, Millipore to give 500 ml of a composition for animal cell culture. To 300 ml of a basal medium composed of DME F12 1 1 , there was added the above composition for cell culture to a concentration of 3 mg ml as protein, followed by further addition of 3 mg of insulin, 6 mg of transferrin, 36.6 µg of ethanolamine and 1.4 µg of sodium selenate and the subsequent bacterial filtration through a membrane filter Millipore . There was thus obtained a medium for cell cultivation. A swine serum fraction obtained by salting out with ammonium sulfate was examined for cell growth promoting activity. The results obtained are shown in Table 4. Thus, 7.5 ml of liquid ethylene oxide was added dropwise to 1 liter of swine serum with good stirring. The mixture was allowed to stand at 25 C for 2 days. To each of 3 lots A, B, C obtained in this manner, there was added portionwise 350 g of ammonium sulfate. The resultant solution was allowed to stand at 5 C overnight. The resultant precipitate was removed by centrifugation 9000 xg, 20 minutes . To the supernatant obtained was further added portionwise 140 g of ammonium sulfate. After dissolution of the ammonium sulfate, the solution was allowed to stand at 5 C overnight. The resultant precipitate was collected by centrifugation 9000xg, 20 minutes and then dissolved in about 100 ml of physiological saline. This solution was placed in a dialyzing membrane Visking and dialyzed against 15 liters of physiological saline at 5 C overnight. The dialyzing fluid was then exchanged for fresh 15 liters of physiological saline and the dialysis was further conducted at 5 C overnight. The dialyzate was taken out and the protein concentration was adjusted to 60 mg ml with physiological saline. The dialyzate was filtered through a membrane filter 0.22 µm Millipore for removal of bacteria. Thus was obtained 500 ml of a composition for cell cultivation. The above composition was added, in an amount of 2 mg ml, to Iscove F12 basal medium, together with ITES and, following the procedure of Example 1, the cell growth promoting effect was investigated in a total of 6 myeloma and hybridoma cell lines. As controls for comparison with respect to cell growth promoting activity, there were used fetal bovine serum and ammonium sulfate fractions from calf serum and adult bovine serum. No difference in cell growth promotion was noted among the 3 lots of swine serum derived ammonium sulfate fraction, and said lots were comparable or rather superior in cell growth promoting activity to ammonium sulfate salted out fractions from calf and adult bovine sera. Generally, the growth of cells largely depends on the basal medium and the kind of proliferation promoting additive. Therefore, basal media were also searched for with which the composition of the invention could produce its cell growth promoting effect to the full. In the medium search, 14 media were used, namely Serumless Medium GIBCO liquid Neuman Tytell formulation and the following 13 basal media Iscove Boehringer Mannheim Yamanouchi powder made ready for use The cells used were I 63 mouse hybridoma , CEA mouse hybridoma and HL15 10 human hybridoma . The results obtained are shown in Table 5. For CEA For I 63 As for the single media, good cell growth was noted with Iscove in I 63 and with F12 in CEA, while the cell proliferation was poor with any of other media in these cell lines. In HL15 10, all the single media failed to achieve good proliferation. The same phenomena were encountered also with bovine serum albumin used as a control. Even with fetal bovine serum, which is said to be capable of promoting good proliferation, only a fairly limited number of media could attain good proliferation in all the abode three cell lines equally. With regard to the mixed media, on the other hand, Iscove or Serumless Medium containing mixed media allowed good proliferation of I 63 and HL15 10. In CEA, not a few mixed media afforded good proliferation. Among others, Iscove and Serumless Medium produced mixture effect with a number of other media. Taking into consideration the cell proliferation, generality in usability and other factors, it was synthetically judged that combined use of basal media can produce much better effect than the single use thereof. Preferrable mixed media are, for example, Iscove F12, Iscove Serumless Medium, F12 Serumless Medium, and alpha MEM Serumless Medium. In the next place, the effect of the mixing ratio between two media was studied for the combination of Iscove and F12. Thus, Iscove Boehringer Mannheim Yamanouchi and F12 Nissui were mixed in the ratios of 1 0, 1 1, 1 1, 1 3, 1 4, 1 7, 1 15 and 0 1, and, following addition of 2 mg ml of the composition of the invention as obtained in Example 4 and ITES, cultivation was performed in these mixed media. After three subcultures, the cells were counted. The cell lines used were NGE 44 derived from the above mentioned NGE 41 by adaptation to a medium containing said composition , CEA mouse hybridoma and I 63 mouse hybridoma . The results obtained are illustrated in Fig. 1. In all the cell lines used, the mixed media each brought about fairly good cell proliferation as compared with the single medium Iscove or F12. In the Iscove to F12 mixing ratio of 1 1 to 1 7, the cell proliferation was good, and it was concluded that the mixing ratio between the media in preparing mixed media supplemented with the composition according to the invention can be selected within a fairly wide range. The applicability of the composition of the invention to roller bottle culture was investigated in connection with the kind of basal medium. As the media, there were used Iscove F12 1 1 and DME F12 1 1 , each supplemented with the composition obtained in Example 4 2 mg ml and ITES. I 63 cells were cultured in a 1 liter jar fermenter Mitsuwa Rika model KMJ 2 . In a control run, a suspension of the same cells was distributed in about 6 ml portions into 25 cm² tissue culture flasks Falcon and stationary culture was conducted. The results thus obtained are shown in Fig. 2. As is evident from Fig. 2, the composition according to the invention exhibited excellent cell proliferation promoting effect in both the roller bottle culture and stationary culture. In roller bottle culture, the Iscove F12 mixed medium gave excellent results, with the final number of cells amounting to 80 x 10⁴ cells.