# IMPROVEMENTS IN FIBRE REINFORCED MOULDED PLASTICS ARTICLES

## Claims
Verfahren zur Herstellung eines geformten Gegenstands aus einer Faserstofflage faserverstärkten synthetischen Kunststoffmaterials mit 20 Gew. bis 60 Gew. einzelner, diskreter Fasern, deren Elastizitätsmodul größer als 10000 Megapascal und deren Länge zwischen 7 und 50 mm ist und mit 40 Gew. bis 80 Gew. unverfestigtem partikelförmigem thermoplastischem Material mit einer Partikelgröße unter etwa 1.5 mm, beinhaltend mehrere Schritte, und zwar zunächst das Aufheizen der Faserstofflage zur Entfernung von Restfeuchtigkeit daraus und dann, zur Verbindung der Faser und Kunststoffkomponenten miteinander zu einer selbsttragenden durchlässigen Materialbahn bei im wesentlicher Erhaltung der Partikelform des Kunststoffmaterials, die Durchführung heißer Luft durch die Materialbahn in einem Durchluftofen zur im wesentlichen gleichmäßigen und homogenen Erhitzung ihrer Komponenten auf eine Temperatur, bei der die Viskosität des die Partikelkomponente bildenden Thermoplasten gering genug ist, um die Materialbahn zu einem geformten Gegenstand zu verformen das Einsetzen dieser erhitzten durchlässigen Materialbahn in eine Preßform und die Durchführung einer Preßverformung bei dieser Materialbahn bei festgelegtem Druck zur Bildung eines geformten faserverstärkten Kunststoffgegenstands.

## Description
This invention relates to a method of moulding articles of fibre reinforced plastics material. Heretofore, fibre reinforced plastics articles have been moulded from consolidated rigid sheets embodying glass fibre mat formed from very long glass fibre strands i.e. fibre bundles of perhaps 200 centimetres or more in length which extend in a random serpentine manner throughout the sheet. For the satisfactory moulding of such sheets, they must be homogeneously pre heated. This requires both time and accurate temperature control if overheating and degradation of the sheet surfaces is not to occur whilst the core portions of the sheets are brought up to the required moulding temperature. Such materials do not lend themselves easily to deep draw moulding. According to the present invention a process for making a shaped article from a web of fibre reinforced synthetic plastics material comprising from 20 to 60 by weight of single discrete fibres having a modulus of elasticity higher than 10000 Mega Pascals, and between 7 and 50 millimetres long, and from 40 to 80 by weight of unconsolidated particulate thermoplastics material, the particulate thermoplastic material having a particle size of less than about 1.5 millimetres comprising the steps of heating said web first so as to remove residual moisture therefrom and then so as to bond the fibrous and plastics components together into a self sustaining permeable sheet while substantially maintaining the particulate form of the plastics material, passing heated air through said sheet in a through air heating oven so as to cause substantially uniform and homogeneous heating of the components thereof to a temperature at which the viscosity of the thermoplastic constituting the particulate component is sufficiently low to permit the sheet to be moulded into a shaped article placing said heated permeable sheet in a compression mould and subjecting said sheet to compression moulding at a predetermined pressure so as to form a shaped fibre reinforced plastics article. After through air heating, the structure may simply be moulded into an impermeable article. Alternatively, it may be subjected to limited compression in the mould so as to remain permeable. Or it may be fully compressed in the mould so as to cause the molten thermoplastics material to wet the fibres. The mould is then slightly opened so as to allow the material to expand as a result of the resilience of the fibres and become permeable as described and claims in European Patent Application No. 85300034.7 Publication No. 0 148 763 . When glass fibres are used and are received in the form of chopped strand bundles, the bundles are broken down into single fibres before the structure is formed. The high modulus of elasticity is to be taken as meaning a modulus of elasticity substantially higher than that of a consolidated sheet which could be formed from the structure. The fibres falling into this category include glass, carbon and ceramic fibres and fibres such as the aramid fibres sold under the trade names Kevlar and Nomex and will generally include any fibre having a modulus higher than 10,000 Mega Pascals. A process for producing a structure of the kind above described is disclosed in co pending European patent Application No. 85300031.3 Publication No. 0 148 760 . A convenient process according to the invention includes heating the sheet in an oven in which the sheet is located between open supports through which hot air is passed. The invention will now be further described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which Referring first to Figure 1, this shows an uncompacted fibrous structure 1 comprising fibres 2 interspersed with particulate plastics material 3, the fibres and plastics particles being bonded together so as to form a coherent but permeable structure. Figure 2 shows an oven for heating a permeable structure 1 of the kind shown in Figure 1. The oven consists of an upper part 4 and a lower part 5, the parts 4 and 5 including plenum chambers 6 and 7 respectively. The lower wall 8 of the part 4 and the upper wall 9 of the part 5 consist of grilles which facilitate the substantially unrestricted passage of air. In order to heat the structure 1, hot air is introduced into the plenum chamber 7, passes through the grill 9, the structure 1 and the grill 8 and is then vented through the duct 11 from the plenum chamber 6. After heating as described to, say, 200 Referring now to Figure 3, this shows a mould having an upper part 13 and a complementary lower part 12 between which the structure 1 has been moulded. The mould may be used to fully consolidate the structure so that the resulting moulding is solid and impermeable. Or the moulding may be partially compacted so as to remain porous. Alternatively, a porous article can be achieved by partly or fully compacting and consolidating the article and then opening the mould slightly so as to allow the resilience of the glass fibre content to expand the moulding to the desired thickness. Suitable thermoplastics include polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, acrylonitrylstrene, butadiene, polyethylene terephthalate, and polyvinyl chloride, both plasticised and unplasticised. It is anticipated that any thermoplastics material may be used which is not chemically attacked by water and which can be sufficiently softened by heat without being chemically decomposed. A sheet of lightly bonded unconsolidated permeable material comprising 33 single glass fibres 13 millimetres long and 11 microns in diameter, 67 polypropylene powder together with a proprietary antioxidant, and having a substance of 3,000 grams per square metre was placed in a through drying oven manufactured by Honeycomb Engineering Co. Hot air at 230 A further example utilised material containing 50 glass 13 millimetres long, 11 microns diameter as before , 50 polypropylene powder antioxidant. The heating time was about 4 seconds with the pressure drop being the same as in the previous examples. This ability to heat a porous unconsolidated web has a number of significant advantages