# Fluid flow diverter disc valve.

## Abstract
A longitudinally extending housing 21 is provided with a generally cylindrical side wall 22 closed by opposed end walls 23,24 . The housing side wall is ported, to connect with supply and return lines 17,18 from a source of pressurized fluid 15 , and also to connect with the input and discharge lines 19,20 of a process loop. The housing contains a longitudinally extending rotary axle 33 which forms a part of a valve rotator assembly 42 adapted to be angularly positioned between a normal fluid flow position and a reverse flow position. The valve rotator assembly includes a plurality of segmental arcuate pie shaped portless discs 43 46 mounted for rotation with the axle. The discs extend radially outwardly from the axle, and transversely to the axis 34 defined thereby, and terminate closely adjacent the housing side wall. The discs are disposed alternately adja cent opposite ends of the axle, but spaced from their adjacent housing side wall. Axially aligned alternate disc edges are joined by radial longitudinally extending partitions 52,53 to form a plurality of alternately axially oppositely facing rotary chambers I IV adapted to communicate with the housing ports. Each chamber is delineated by a disc and two partitions, as well as the housing side wall, with the end of the chamber opposite the disc being open into the housing chamber. The two pair of diametrically opposed discs 43,45 44,46 from a pair of axially spaced transverse planes 50,51 which are disposed adjacent but spaced from their respective housing end walls 24,23 . The housing ports are confined between the planes. Due to the open chamber ends, diametrically opposed chambers are always connected through their said open ends via the housing chamber. Two diametrically opposed chambers II,IV are of generally equal arcuate extent and size, while the other diametrically opposed chambers I,III are of differing arcuate extend and size with one chamber III being of substantially lesser arcuate extent than the other I . Fluid flowing through the housing between ports is always directed across the disc faces parallel to the spaced planes, and flows through the housing generally diametrically. The entire perimeter of the valve rotator assembly is sealed to the circumferential housing side wall by seals 60,61 extending along the arcuate disc edges. In a second embodiment, longitudinal seals 62 are additionally disposed along the outer longitu dinal edges of the partitions.