# PESTICIDAL COMPOSITIONS

## Claims
Verwendung von Kreosot zum Stabilisieren von Verbindungen der Formel I in einer Zusammensetzung zur Behandlung von Bauholz, das ganz oder teilweise in den Boden eingegraben werden soll, oder von Eisenbahnschwellen, wobei die Zusammensetzung Kreosot und eine Verbindung der Formel I

## Description
It is known to use pesticides of the pyrethroid class to protect timber from attack by insects and other pests see Japanese Patent Application No. 52 66603 1975 Sumitomo Chemical Abstracts , vol. 93, No. 1, July 1980, page 223, No 22 16u Record of the 1980 Annual Convention of the British Wood Preserving Association, page 54 64 . However, pyrethroids are relatively expensive pesticides and this can be disadvantageous when a high volume, low cost material such as wood is being treated. Furthermore, pyrethroids are known to be short lived when exposed to damp soil see for example the Record of the 1980 Annual Convention of the British Wood Preserving Association, page 61 , possibly by the degradation of the pyrethroids by soil microorganisms. The most commonly used timber protecting pesticides, in many cases, are thus still relatively toxic but cheap compounds such as lindane gamma hexachlorocyclohexane . It has also been known for many years to use creosote to protect timber. Creosote has the advantage of being cheap, but wood treatment with creosote is unpleasant to handle, being oily and smelly. In addition, the creosote has to be applied to the timber in such quantities that it may later bleed out of the timber again and cause a fire hazard. One solution which has been adopted is to pretreat the timber with CCA a mixture of copper, chromium and arsenic compounds before treatment with creosote. However, CCA is fairly toxic, and a two stage treatment process adds to the cost of the treated timber. It is not possible to mix CCA with creosote to give a single step process, as the mixture is not stable. Indeed, the problem of instability is encountered with many such mixtures. It has now suprisingly been found that mixtures of certain halogenated pyrethroid insecticides and creosote are relatively stable and have a relatively prolonged protective action even when the timber is exposed to damp soil or water. It was now found that pyrethroids are surprisingly stable in contact with the ground when applied to the timber in a composition comprising creosote and a compound of formula I Wherein Z and Z are the same or different and each is halo, halo phenyl or haloalkyl Structural formula I is intended to encompass all the geometric and optical isomers. More particularly the acid moiety of the ester may be selected from ,the cis isomer, the trans isomer, the cis isomer, the trans isomer and the cis, trans isomer, the stereochemistry referring to that of the cyclopropane ring. Moreover, when X is cyano the alcohol moiety of the ester may be selected from the isomer, the isomer or the isomer. Particularly useful esters are those wherein Z and Z¹ are both selected from chloro and bromo. The preferred pyrethroids of this invention are 3 phenoxybenzyl cis,trans 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl cyclopropane 1 carboxylate permethrin , α cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl cis 2,2 dimethyl 3 2,2 dibromovinyl cycloproprane 1 carboxylate deltamethrin , and S α cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 1R, 3R 3 2,2 dichlorovinyl 2,2 dimethylcyclopropane 1 carboxylate alphamethrin, FASTAC , and α cyano 3 phenoxybenzyl 2,2 dimethyl 3 2 chloro 2 trifluoromethylvinyl cyclopropane 1 carboxylate cyhalothrin . Permethrin is particularly preferred. Conveniently, the ratio of permethrin to creosote is within the range 0.001 99.999 to 99.99 0.01. Preferably the said ratio is between 0.01 99.99 and 5.0 95.0, most preferably between 0.1 99.90 and 0.5 99.50. Corresponding ratios of other compounds of Formula I may be derived by comparing their insecticidal potencies with that of permethrin. Other insecticides, fungicides, preservatives, dyes, solvents and diluents may be added as desired, in which case the overall content of the pyrethroid is preferably about 0.01 to 1 , conveniently 0.1 to 0.5 . A composition to be used in accordance with the invention may be applied to timber to be protected by simply painting the composition onto the timber, or the timber may be sprayed or dipped into a bath of the composition. It is particularly preferred for the composition to be applied to the timber under high pressure. Instances where it is desirable to protect timber from attack by pests will be well known to the man skilled in the art, but particularly important applications include stakes or poles which are to be sunk partially or wholly into the ground eg fence posts and telegraph posts , marine structures such as pilings or piers, and railway sleepers. Compositions to be used in accordance with the invention have been found to offer three main advantages. Firstly, the presence of the compound of formula I enables the quantity of creosote applied to the timber to be reduced. The treated timber is therefore less oily and smelly, more pleasant to handle and less likely to bleed creosote in a way which may represent a fire hazard. Secondly, it has been found that the creosote stabilises the compound of the formula I , when the treated timber is buried partially or wholly in the ground, thereby prolonging the period of effective protection afforded by the compound of formula I . Thirdly, whereas known methods have necessitated two successive treatments, for example CCA and then creosote, which is time consuming and expensive, the present invention enables a single treatment step to be employed to provide effective protection against termites in the ground or wood boring crustaceans or molluscs in the sea . It has been found that effective protection can be given to timber in accordance with the invention against the following arthropod and fungal pests wood boring beetles such as pinhole borers e.g. The invention will now be illustrated by way of example. Blocks of Scots pine wood It can be seen that a considerable amount of permethrin is lost when it is used alone, but not when creosote is present, the apparent increase in the latter being caused by variations in the initial loading across the surface of the block. Example 1 was repeated, using cypermethrin or deltamethrin instead of permethrin and analysing the blocks after 3 months. The results are given in table 2 The method of Example 1 and 2 was repeated, except that the wood was exposed to sea water instead of to the soil. The results are given in Table 3 To demonstrate that, as stated above, many combinations of pyrethroids and biocidal agents such as fungicides are unstable when mixed, mixtures of permethrin, deltamethrin, tributyl tin oxide TBTO , tributyl tin phosphate TBTP , tributyl tin benzoate TBTB and copper naphthenate CuNap all known fungicides were made up in oil solution stored at room temperature, 35 For comparison, the use of a composition in accordance with the invention yielded the following stability data Table 4B